

\\\u\«
u\v
Hi
(urn iiiiu
S3 1
as
/
si'i
3*
IS
P
Nil
>1
sSC
'><Z r isr<
■■■■■ -■
_*S
Z/7/3
4fi
D£AL£QS
~li]indoU
r-J
KafrJ
;..v-®»
4vvv
/
You wouldn’t drink stagnant water —why breathe dead air ?
Keep the air around you fresh—keep it alive.
is 9 so a&icta
are a Hot Weather Necessity.
THEY DISPEL SUMMER LASSITUDE.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET MAILED FREE.
Australian General Electric 0 ltd.
“Mazda House,” Corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Sydney.
’Phone: City 3510. Box 3517 G.P.O.
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
’Phone: Central 36115. Box 638 G.P.O.
BRISBANE—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), corner
Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA —Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88 Currie Street.
PERTH—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” 894 Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2278,
Thursday, October 11, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application,
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
42S George Street, Sydney.
SB RhtiS
Mm
SSHm mgJa
MANGhOvITc.
LONG EXPERIENCE and EXACT SCIENCE
combine to produce
MANCROVITE LEATHER BELTING.
Every process in the manufacture of Mangrovite Belting, from
the selection of the raw hides to the final inspection and test-
ing of the finished belt, is carried out with a view to service.
Results prove the soundness of our policy.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd.. 573-85
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann. 5 Bedford Row. Christchurch.
lEGtSTERI»
TRACE MAKE
Guaranteed,
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
'ls
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previ
»l.»niV(v
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
fin VnrV H+r ~ '
ji y
ONOTO INK-
Best
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
SEE THE LANE COVE RIVER,
SYDNEY’S MOST BEAUTIFUL WATERWAY.
TIME-TABLE '(Abridged).
Steamers leave No. 8 Jetty, Circular Quay, as follows: —
Monday to Saturday: At about 30-45-minute intervals.
Sunday: 8.45 a.m., and hourly to 12.45 p.m. ; 1.30 p.m., and half-hourly to 4.30 p.m.; 5.15 p.m.,
and at about 30-minute intervals thereafter.
Holidays: At about 30-minute intervals.
Leaflet and full time-tables obtainable at Circular Quay, or Telephone 86276. Also at
Government Tourist Bureau, Martin Place.
Single Fare: —Adults od. Children 2d. Sydney Ferries, Limited.
THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
STEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
%
/
*
w
%
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60/"
For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
makes it dust and damp proof.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
412 George Street, Strand Corner
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
£
2rt K-v'y
m
m Jf
fr'.y t
t M
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price 1/-
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
rs
The Red Page
As an Eminent American Sees Us
Charles Franklin Timing's Human Aus-
tralasia (Macmillan’s) recalls James
Anthony Froude’s “Oceana”-in style and in
that cultured urbanity which enables a visi-
tor from overseas to state distasteful truths
without giving offence. Unlike the hurried
tourist who visits Australia bent on produc-
ing the most sensational possible account of
his adventures in the briefest space of time,
Professor Thwing is nearly always beyond
criticism as regards his facts. This _ can
hardly be said, however, of his conclusions.
On the subject of gambling he remarks; —
The Australian lives in an atmosphere of peril.
The weather makes or unmakes him. .. .Whether a
forthcoming season shall spell bankruptcy or pros-
perity he knows not. To avoid the one, to promote
the other, the Australian is powerless. He lives in
an atmosphere of danger... .He bets on the weather.
The atmosphere of luck is thus created. The trans-
fer of the interest to the racing stable is easy, some
would say natural, even inevitable.
The out-back Australian, the man who
takes the real chances with the weather, is
rarely a racecourse punter. Often he never
patronises the great metropolitan meetings
where the odds are laid in thousands over
every race. Our most persistent gamesters
are working-men on the basic wage, mem-
bers of the great army which subsists by
counting and otherwise handling : other
people’s money, and tradesmen great and
small —most of them men who have never
taken a real chance in all their cloistered
lives. A likelier explanation than Dr.
Thwing’s is that an enormous number of
city Australians can find nothing more
stirring to do than gamble. They turn to
“the ponies” as an idle old gentleman, with-
out intellectual resources, does to his club
card-room. It is not a question of prolong-
ing the excitement but of mitigating the
boredom.
The most marked characteristic of our
religious life this writer finds to be indif-
ferentism, and in support he quotes Arch-
deacon Davies, of Sydney: “There is com-
plete agreement that in all the churches only
a small proportion of the nominal adherents
are in any sense active members.” The cli-
mate, the materialism of a new land, even
the trade-union movement are blamed; but
in one guarded phrase Dr. Thwing gets per-
haps to the heart of the trouble: Australia’s
clerics “are distinguished rather for their
activity than for their scholarship.”
Other chapters deal with Australia’s litera-
ture, education, the newspapers and the
Australian as a human product; but the
most suggestive are those on the White Aus-
tralia doctrine. Being a White American
the writer’s sympathies are with the aspira-
tion to keep the race pure; but being a man
of sense he fails to see how it is to be done
at our present rate of population-increase.
Every big national problem is related to it:
If Australia and New Zealand are to be kept white
communities, it is the white man who is necessarily
made the menial. The black man, the yellow man,
the brown man, upon whom such tasks are usually
imposed, are not at hand to perform them. The
white man is at once the agent and the victim of
his own so-called superior civilisation. Machinery
may relieve him somewhat, at times a great deal, in
performing such duties. But at the best there
is a large amount of humble work still to be done
by his own white hands. Against such things he
is, on the whole, inclined to rebel. Rebellion
springs from and results in industrial unrest.
And again:
Australia recognises that she could not, by herself,
keep out the Japanese. But let it be supposed that
a day should dawn, as. it may, when, in order to
retain her friendship with Japan, the British Gov-
ernment should decline to confirm and to promote
Australia’s white policy. Is it not in the range of
possibility that the British might be willing to
sacrifice Australia and her white policy for the sake
of friendship with Japan?
This is the kind of thought which English-
men never express and which most Austra-
lians hardly dare to entertain. Yet what is
more likely, not to say inevitable, than that
such a situation will arise as unemploy-
ment and taxation increase in the U.K.,
while Australia continues to discourage
British immigration, except as regards a few
picked classes, and to shirk its defence obli-
gations? There has always been a Little
England party in the United Kingdom, and
it has grown vastly with post-war poverty;
with the slump in towns like Northampton,
which, as a cable recently noted, has “lost
much of its export trade in boots to Aus-
tralia and South ''Africa, which were for-
merly good customers, but are now making
their own boots” ; and with resentment on
the part of the dispossessed at the thought
that they should still be providing sea de-
fence for dominions which were able to pay
their soldiers six times more than the
Tommies drew. At least two of the implica-
tions of a White Australia are, therefore,
that (1) we must cheerfully do the work
we are refusing to let the colored races do for
us, and stop whining about “regions which
are not habitable by white men”; (2) we
must begin at once to build up a fleet against
the day when nothing' but an Australian
navy, manned by Australians, may stand
between the Commonwealth and annihilation.
Viewing our position from the outside, and
unaffected consequently by the catchwords
of the professional loyalist, Dr. Thwing is
able to see that, though, as he puts it, Brit-
ish bloods “seem thicker than other bloods,”
yet we are reaching a stage when the
United Kingdom will call on us to make a
big and continuous effort, militarily as well
as industrially, or take tbe consequences. In
proportion as the truth is salutary this book
should do good, and it is particularly com-
mended to the notice of those who argue that
a good Empire man in Australia is one
who believes that the R.N. should be given
the privilege of defending our shores and
trade for all time.
J.B.D.
Melodies Unheard
There will always be a difference of opinion
as to the exquisite in words and suggestion.
To very many readers the thing which one
writer will label with a superlative has little
or no melody. Ears differ as much as stouls,
though there is a wonderful consensus of
opinion with regard to a few often-quoted
passages in English poetry. When Kipling
tells ns, in one of his stories, that there are
many wonderful lines in our language, but
only two pieces of sheer magic, the state-
ment is worth while as Kipling’s opinion. It
can be no more than that. His quotations
are: —•
A savage place ! as holy and enchanted
As e’er beneath the waning moon was haunted
By woman wailing for her demon-lover!
and
The same that oft-times hath
Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in fairy lands forlorn.
To the two examples given, wonderful as they
are, many of us would add a dozen, ior, rather,
add a varying number, adding them and sub-
tracting them according to mood. Much be-
sides is magical, but must be taken in larger
draughts. For instance, there is hardly a
line of the “Ode on a Grecian Urn” which
does not hold the true dew of the Greek
morning, but each line and phrase is so de-
pendent on the movement of the whole that
you can hardly make an effective quotation.
An anthology of single lines would be a
strangely ineffective thing; so many lines de-
pend upon their context that their whole spirit
is lost in removing them from it. I cannot
read “This is the month and this the happy
morn” without a sudden leap of the pulses,
nor the opening of the ode which follows
It is the winter wild
While the Heaven-born child
without a real stirring of emotion; yet I
should be very hard put to it to explain
that emotion. In each case it links up with
the whole of the song which follows, with
the memory of a thousand readings of it and
strange green and golden places into which
those readings led me.
It is sometimes almost impossible to
account for the emotional effect of a few
words which, on their face value, are hardly
musical at all. Why should I feel all that
delicate glitter and buoyancy of an almost
ethereal world when I read Roderic Quinn’s
line, “I took my boat on a starry night”?
Why should I be so strangely moved when
I read George Macdonald’s lines
They all were waiting for a king
To slay their foes and lift them high ;
Thou earnest a little baby-thing
That made a woman cry.
There can be no doubt at all about the
reason for my liking a line like Milton’s
All the while sonorous metal blowing martial sounds.
The blare of all the brazen instruments of
Hell is in the metallic clamor of the words.
There can be no need of explanation of the
passionate delight in the music of
"If Allegro” and “II Penseroso,” where word
and picture follow one another in an exqui-
site sequence; but I cannot exactly account
for the utter charm of
He touched the tender stops of various quills,
With eager thought warbling his Doric lay.
Or take an example from Stevenson; —
In the Highlands, in the country places
Where the old, plain men have rosy faces
And the young, fair maidens quiet eyes.
Except on some theory of unheard melodies,
it is difficult to account for the tender charm
of the lines. When John Davidson sings
Far in the glowing Orient land
On many a mountain’s happy head
Dawn lightly laid her rosy hand
the rich vowels and liquids carry the music,
though few of us ever realised till we read
it what a magnificent word “Orient” could
be; but when Wordsworth writes
In his hand
The thing became a trumpet, whence he blew
Soul-animating strains,
how is it that a whole sonnet is suddenly
lifted up to an ecstatic height?
To realise the extent to which such
selection is a matter of taste we must look
back to the 18th century and remember
that Englishmen, with Shakspeare, Milton
and the 17th-century song-writers at their
hand, considered Alexander Pope exquisite.
Similarly, there are countless excellent read-
ers to-day who fail to detect a certain arti-
ficial insincerity in many of the clattering
lines _of Edgar Allan Poe —an artificiality
that is only once or twice wholly missing
from his most admired lines, The same
kind of thing is readily and rather unfairly
discounted in Campbell. Take, for instance-;
By each gun the lighted brand
In a bold, determined hand;
And the- prince of all the land
Led them on.
Compare that with
Then methought the air grew denser, perfumed from
an unseen censer
Swung by Seraphim whose footfalls tinkled on the
tufted floor.
Poe has just as consciously put in the “Sera-
phim” and “tufted” to make a noise as
Campbell put in the “lighted brand” and
the “led them on” —he knew that the Danes
were stock still, and that the Prince didn’t
lead his gunners anywhere. Yet, as there
is a certain ear that cannot get away from
the booming upnoar of Campbell, so there
is another sort of ear that is ravished by
the strumming of Poe; and far below these
there is, of course, the barbaric ear which
can find a sort of music in the recurring
jangle of “How We Beat the Favorite.” j§ut
the unheard melodies seem to hold the
future as the edges of thoughts grow finer
and the colors of dreams more delicate. It
may be —and is—better to say a thing than
merely to suggest it. Half the crime of
modern literature lies in the practice of
merely suggesting things that could perfectly
well be said; but beyond this there are
many things which allow of no possible ex-
pression except the suggestion which poetry
may convey.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Musical Generation in Embryo
One interested in musical evolution is
bound to be struck by the average Australian
music-lover’s and professional music-maker’s
paradoxical attitude toward the musical wel-
fare of his country. On one hand we hear a
never-dying lament over the loss of the
N.S.W. State .Symphony Orchestra and the
String Quartette, while from the same
sources comes hardly a word of regret for or
(Continued on page S.)


vce
Purchase Cricket Requisites with
the Assurance of Satisfaction
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Cricket Requisites must combine the elements
of durability and economy. d o make an
exhaustive comparison of values in Cricketing
Needs would be something of a task. To buy
your requirements at Anthony Horderns is
pleasant and easy —and to undertake the
former would inevitably lead you to doing
the latter.
*
Tbi
%. r.
.■"MV
kY
iv
yS*
111
HIGH-GRADE CRICKET BATS.
GUNN AND MOORE’S—
Special Star Bat Price 57/6
Autograph Bat, extra specially
selected Price 507-
Autograph Bat, especially selected 457-
Cannon Treble Spring .. . Price 357-
Autograph, size 6 Price 37/6
Cannon, size 6 . . . . Price « 26/6
YJTJART SURRIDGE’S—
Special “Hordernian” .. . Price 25/-
Nott’s Driver Price 367-
Oval Driver Price 22/6
Atlas Driver Price 25/6
Standard Driver Price 28/6
Kent Driver . Price 347-
Rapid Driver . Price 37/6
Rapid Driver, specially selected 42/6
Rapid Driver, extra Special. Price 50/-
With Specially Bound Blades.
Prices 22/6, 27/6
College Price 27/6
Standard Driver, size 6. . . Price 22/6
Standard Driver, size 5. . . Price 21/-
SHAW AND SHREWSBURY’S—
Empire Match Price 32/6
Rattler Match Price 30/-
Australian Match Price 38/6
Autograph Price 50/-
BUSSEY’S—
Demon Driver .. . Price 42/-
GARDINER’S—
Special Match Bats Price 55/-
MacLaren Bats Price 50/-
Hercules Price 40/-
NICOLE’S—
Patent Automatic rubber-covered
AYRE’S—
Macartney Bats Price 50/-
SPALDING’S— 37/6, 40/-, 50/-, 55/-
DUKE AND SON’S—
The Warren Bardsley Autograph
Bat Price 52/6
RUSSELL’S—
XXX Regno Price 55/-
XX Regno Price 50/-
X Regno Price 42/6
Imported Cane and Rubber
Handle, full size, Practice Bats
Prices: 18/6, 19/6
CLAPSHAW AND CLEAVE’S—
All Cane—
BATS RE-HANDLED— Price . . 19/6 ea.
BATS OILED AND FACED—
Price
3/6 ea.
CRICKET BALLS, LEG GUARDS, STUMPS AND GLOVES.
CRICKET BALLS.
Duke’s Renowned Cricket Balls—
Match No. 4 Price 16/-
Picked Stamped P.K.D Price 16/9
Wisden’s Match Price 15/-
English 6-seam Leather Price 12/6
Special Crown 6-seam Leather Price 10/6
Prince I Price 9/-
Triumph 6-seam Leather Price 8/-
Superior Practice 6-seam Leather. . . Price 6/-
Boys’ 4foz., Leather _ Price 5/-
Stokes’ Australian-made “Special Victor’’
Leather Match Ball (Guaranteed) Price 15/-
Leather Balls Re-covered Price 8/-
LEG GUARDS.
White Canvas Batting Leg Guards—
Pull Size, Extra Strong .. Prices: 11/6 13/6 pair
Extra Large Price 15/6 pair
Boys’ Price 9/6 pair
Tan Leather-
Boys’ Price 11/6 pair
Men’s Prices: 14/6, 18/6 pair
Ventilated Price 16/6 pair
Abdominal Pads, Dr. Shepherd’s Pattern.
Price 6/6
Abdominal Pads, Aluminium Price 9/9
Abdominal Pads, Blocked Leather.... Price 12/6
Dr. Shepherd’s Aluminium Combined Pad
Price 18/6
LEG GUARDS — Continued.
Chrome Price 25/- pair
Half Skeleton Price 20/- pair
Chrome Skeleton ; Price 29/6 pair
White Cape Prices: 22/6, 25/-, 27/6 pair
White Cape, Extra Large .. Prices: 30/-, 32/6 pair
White Cape Skeleton .. . . Price 39/6 pair
STUMPS.
Solid Brass Top, Iron shod, extra heavy Top,
with Bails. Set of 6 Price 15/6
Revolving Brass Top, Iron Shod, with Bails.
Set of 6 Price 17/6
Brass Top, Iron Shod, full size. Set of 6.
Price 13/6
Full size (plain). Set of 6 . . Prices, 4/9, 6/-, 8/6
BATTING AND WICKET-KEEPING
GLOVES.
Batting Gloves, Tan and Wlhite, padded.
Price 10/- pair
Batting Gloves, Black Spiked Gloves, as
used by Ist Grade Teams Price 10/6 pair
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Cricket Mats (for Double Wickets), Extra
Heavy, First-class Quality, imported, in
two pieces, each piece 9|yds. (194 x 2
yards), with bound ends, strong metal eye-
lets. with spikes complete, Green, best
quality, Leather Bound, weight 1401 b.
patting Tubular Rubber Backs.
Price 13/6 pair
Batting Gloves, Surrey Shield .. Price 6/6 pair
Tan Leather Giant Gauntlets, with
Thumb Stalls, Black Rubber Palms.
This is a Glove we can thoroughly
recommend Prices: 27/6, 30/- pail*
Special Tan Chrome Finish Wicket-
keeping Gauntlets, Para Rubber
Palms, with Thumb Stalls, extra large
sizes Price 32/6 pair
Special White Snobuck Gauntlets,
extra large, Rubber Faced, as used by
ist Grade Clubs Price 35/- pair
Tan Leather English Gauntlets —
Plain Prices: 30/- 35/- pair
Rubber Faced fTices: 35/-, 37/6 pair
Tan Gauntlets, Rubber Palms —
Prices: 19/6, 24/- pair
Tan Gauntlets, Plain Palms —
Prices: 15/6, 20/-, 27/6 pair
Boys’ Gauntlets Prices: 10/-, 12/6 pair
Inner Gloves Price 4/3 pair
Cricket Mats, Heavy Second Quality, im-
ported, in two pieces, each piece 9|yds.
(19-J x 2 yards), bound ends, strong metal
eyelets, with spikes complete, Green,
Leather Bound Price £lO
Cricket Kit Bags, heavy Navy Canvas,
Leather ends Prices: 31/-, 33/6
Price £ll/10/- -W*™.,-™- XT£3 „ T
CARRIAGE PAID ON CRICKET MATS TO NEAREST RAILWAY STATION OR PORT IN N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


Kelvinator
COLDER THAN ICE
Pays For Itself
Sc
5C
<3
<P.
K-
★
*
~-4
*s
<l!LUftl
V®
How Electricity has Solved
Another Big Problem for the
Modern Home.
YOU are an exceptional house-
holder if you have not at some
time expressed yourself in some
such manner as this: “How I wish I
could forever do away with the use
of ice in my ice-chest.’’ You did not
mean that you wanted to part with
the good effects of refrigeration—but
only with those countless troubles
and worries that are inseparable from
the iceman’s methods.
Electricity has won its crowning household triumph
—Automatic Refrigeration. Over the same wires
that bring electricity to light your home, to heat
your flat-iron, your toaster, your range, now comes
energy to Cool Your Ice-chest. It seems little short
of marvellous—yet it is only the application to
the home of a principle made use of commer-
cially for years—Mechanical Refrigeration.
Kelvinafor —The Electric Cold Producer—working
on the familiar cold storage principle, produces
a fresh, dry, crisp, clean cold that circulates
through your refrigerator like a mountain breeze
—successfully preserving foods and delicacies in a
way that ice cannot approach.
In addition to all this Kelvinator freezes small
cubes of pure ice from your favorite drinking water
in quantities sufficient to meet ordinary table
requirements.
T^^JpfN
Of B(XiS£HOLD Enoneeot«^
Good Housekeeping Institute
Oft* mo
2117
exeeping
Australasian Factory Distributors—
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents New South Wales—
HOSKINS & HOSKINS, LTD.,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The “Heart” of Kelvinator.
The “heart” of Kelvinator, like the heart of the human
body, pumps the refrigerating fluid round and round
its circuit. This unit, embodying a small electric motor
and compressor, is placed in the basement out of sight
and out of mind. The only thing you see of Kelvinator
is a frost-covered metal tank in the ice compartment
of your ice-chest.
Preserves Food Far
Longer Than Ice.
With Kelvinator in the house you can go
away for several days, leaving the Ice-chest
full of perishable food, and on your return
find your meats and vegetables perfectly
fresh and edible.
In a test, Kelvinator has kept milk sweet
two weeks! Ripe tomatoes were perfect at
the end of six weeks. Butter fresh after six
months. Oranges sound at the end of a
year ! Eggs good at the end of two years!
Kelvinator fits right into the Ice-chest you
now have.
Agents Wanted in Other Australian States
and New Zealand.


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN’S SHOPS.
tt- n
Vs
%1n
m
c
-n
7, >
!h-
-■-
-i
i. -//
m
Sports Trousers
for every occasion
To be correctly attired is as essential in the
field of sport as in a more formal sphere of
social intercourse. David Jones’ provide
Sports Clothing that is perfectly correct in
style and cut, with that regard for comfort
that one feels at one’s very best when attired
in such clothing.
Cream Flannel. Price 37/6
Cream Serge. Price ... ... ... ... 37/6
Cream Wool Gabardine. Price 37/6
Cream Cotton Gabardine, exceptional
value. Price ... ... ... ... ... 18/6
Navy or Khaki Drill Shorts. Price ... 8/6
Grey All-wool Flannel. Price 30/-
DAVID JONES’
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
protest against the lack of systematised and
highly-developed school music. , ,
Let no one surmise .that I belittle the lo
of symphony orchestra or chamber music
in the musical life of a nation. -Lhat sub-
ject has been so thoroughly expounded tha.
it needs no further championing. V\ h.V sing
additional praises about the beauty or flowers
in full bloom? On the other hand, it still re-
mains a curious and most puzzling tact that
a young country which during its brier his-
tory has made such remarkable strides in
musical culture should still be paying so
little attention to the quality and the proper
nursing of the seeds that are to produce this
garden in full bloom. It almost reminds one
of the builder Avho is more concerned with
the architectural lines of the chimney on
his new home than with the proper laying
of the foundation and the flooring, school
music, too, is a foundation. On that rests
the existence of a musical generation. I
mean a truly musical generation. As yet
hardly any land can boast of it; for school
music in its advanced and organised form, as
applied in a feAA’ European countries, in parts
of England, and in some centres of the
United States and Canada, is still a new
branch of pedagogy. Nowhere as yet has
its effect been fully demonstrated to the
point where it may claim as its product an
entire musical generation. That millennium
is yet to come.
On the other hand we are amazed at the
unbelievable changes it has brought about
in the musical life of communities among
whom it has been applied with lo\ r e and
thoroughness. In those cities Ave find school
orchestras, school oratorio societies, school
string quartettes developing as keen and
clean a competitive spirit as that which
moves into action the school football, hockey
and tennis teams in Australia. The mean-
ing of this inoculation of the child with the
serum of good music can readily be appreci-
ated even by those blessed with little imagi-
nation. Aside from the vital and beneficial
social, spiritual and intellectual after-effects,
it also serves as an ever-potent antidote
against the ravages of jazz and ragtime
fevers that haAm caused the major part of
the population to be reduced to an almost
exclusive and banal pork-and-beans musical
diet.
In the Conservatorium of Music in Sydney
there is a studio with “No. 4” on its door.
In that room teaches a modest little lady,
Miss Mary Cochran. If you ever enter that
sanctuary, for that it is, you will find this
gentle spirit surrounded by her lovable
kiddies. " Every tot in that chamber is lov-
able and loA T ing. (At least they are all lov-
able Avhile in that studio.) They radiate
good cheer, and by the grace of the gods dis-
pense their love on a fifty-fifty basis —half
to the teacher, the other half to the fairies
whom their nimble fingers call forth from
the fairy box locked with the black-and-white
keys of ivory and ebony. If the famous
Rabbi Akhiba could see this inspiring scene
he would immediately retract his old adage:
“There is nothing new under the sun.” This
is neAV, very neAV. In our age the Avorld has
been enriched by a few music teachers who
are not bent on turning out second editions
of Melba, Caruso, Paderewski and Paganini,
but dedicate their lives to the teaching of
infants. They seek no glory, no publicity,
but are satisfied merely to bask in the love
of their unspoiled, genuinely-affectionate little
pupils. They have invented a new game for
our children —the game that is played in the
Land of Magic called “the Staff,” and popu-
lated by tiny black dots, each hiding a sing-
ing fairy Avithin. And the game the little
ones with bobbed hair and trustful eyes are
set to play at consists in liberating the im-
prisoned fairies so they may hear their songs.
When you speak of the loss of the sym-
phony orchestra to this cultured woman in
No. 4, she smiles gently. That smile has but
one meaning: “Wait until Australia will be
populated by such fortunate citizens as my
children. Wait until such as they form the
government and the backbone of the music-
loving masses. Then the State Symphony
Orchestra as well as all other civic. State
and National musical problems will solve
themselves.” The little lady is right. She is
not worrying about the chimney; she is too
busy laying the real foundation for the Aus-
tralian Valhalla of Music.
LASZLO SCHWARTZ.
Fairy-tales or Science?
“Novels are sweets,” said Thackeray. “All
people Avith healthy literary appetites love
them —almost all Avomen —a vast number of
clever, hard-headed men.” Modern novels
rather resemble those delusive confections
known to the trade as hypocrites or hum-
bugs —chocolate-coated, but filled with some
hot stuff, or else containing a hard nut that
no mortal can crack.
Everyone is familiar Avith the query, “Can
you teil me the name of a decent novel?”
If the questioner belongs to “that choice
public who Avill have good Avriting for light
reading.” it is never easy to ans Aver the in-
quiry offhand. But if the adjective “decent”
is to" be taken not in its slang but in its dic-
tionary sense of “seemly,” the task becomes
infinitely more difficult. Whatever, if any,
grain of truth may eventually be found in
the theories of Prof. Freud and his friends,
there is no doubt that they have had a deplor-
able effect on current fiction. It is a pity
there is to-day no scientist of the authority
and crystal style of Huxley to let a little
cold air into the heated atmosphere of hypo-
thesis for the benefit of the gasping layman.
For it must be remembered that the teachings
of these foreign gentlemen are by no means
proved scientific truths. Even the primitives
of the cult, Freud and Jung (who, as Stephen
Paget remarks, begin to sound so like Mutt
and Jeff), no longer see eye to eye. In the
meantime infant genius might cut its teeth
upon the relatively innocuous theory of Ein-
stein. From the unit to the universe Avould
be a refreshing change, and at least a more
spacious conception; and infant genius is
as likely to understand and expound intelli-
gently the one as the other.
Not long since English novelists were
pttied for having to consider so carefully the
young person. Time is fast removing
this disability. The modern maiden writes
novels herself, and can pen quite calmly the
portentous gibberish of the psycho-analysts.
“The seeming wise affeict the jargon of art, thej
terminology of science.” The trouble just now
seems to be that they have got them mixed.
The late James Payn, a novelist of some repu-
tation in his day, once gave this sensible bit
of advice to young authors: “Don’t seek the
bubble reputation in dirty waters. There are
plenty of honest women and honorable men
in the world, if you have eyes to see them
and hand to draw them.” Some enterprising
publisher really ought to have that printed
in gold for circulation among his clients
especially the ladies. Or if Payn be con-
sidered of too remote a Victorian antiquity,
he might select for illumination this striking
sentence from Bernard Shaw’s ‘Man and
Superman’: “Our moral sense! And is not
that a passion? Is the Devil to have all
the passions as well as all the good tunes?
If it were not a passion, if it were not the
mightiest of the passions, all the other pas-
sions would sweep it away like a leaf before
a hurricane.” A budding writer, selecting
this mightiest of the passions to adorn his
tale, would certainly command all the charm
of novelty. Surely the first object of reading
a novel at all is recreation. “Art is a means
of escape, a deliverance,” says that brilliant
critic, A. B. Walkley. “The world as con-
templation, as representation, delivers us from
the world as reality, the world as will.
Whether we are listening to a Beethoven
quartet, or gazing at the Giottos in the
church at Assisi, or reading, with Gray, the
eternal romances of Marivaux and Crebillon,
we are seeking refuge from to-day.” Though
it is probable that most of us have only fled
to the first of Mr. Walkley’s cities of refuge,
his principle is sound—what we are all look-
ing for is a way of escape from the pressure
of circumstance into a far-off land- —the en-
chanted realm of music, art and literature.
But who wants to find sanctuary in a jungle
of Avild beasts or be plunged headlong into a
Slough of Despond? Putting aside —and
gladly—the psycho-analytical novel, there are
the vast number of books deliberately gloomy
in subject and dismal in treatment. (Of
course, the tivo classes sometimes merge into
one another.) Dipsomania, hysteria, suicide
and insanity are among the more cheerful
incidents of these latter. “Here,” says a re-
viewer in London Punch of a typical work
of this sort, “there are two beautiful young
heroines, presented one after another to mon-
opolise your attention, the first mentally
afflicted, the second dumb and eccentric.” It
is a matter for congratulation that these
queer characters Avith their pathological
puzzles are strictly confined between the
covers of the books, and are not encountered
in ordinary life. They are like nothing
human; they are presented in a light that
never was on sea or land; and they only
serve to demonstrate once more that fiction
is stranger than truth.
There is a book of which we are all just
a trifle weary, Mr. A. S. M. Hutchinson’s “If
Winter Comes.” It is universally agreed
that this novel is remarkable for some clever
character-drawing, a fairly interesting story,
and the fact that it is essentially a clean
book- —the point to be noted. Mark Sabre,
though a Simple Simon, is conceded to be the
perfect knight, “Avho would have been in-
stantly admitted to the Round Table by King
Arthur on presentation of his card.” The
staggering statistics of the daily increasing
sales of this work seem to shovv that here is
unquestionably a sample of Avhat the public
wants. A novel is surely published with the
view of attracting readers. Putting it on
this lowest ground, one not unimportant for
either author or publisher, if Mr. Hutchin-
son’s mild household cheese can so effectively
bait the trap, AA'hy let loose the gorgonzola?
A little more honesty on the part of indi-
vidual readers would perhaps hasten reform.
Ready-made opinions are handy, like ready-
made clothes; and cant is catching. People
are surprisingly timid in matters of taste.
A, who has a reputation for brains, recom-
mends the novel “Molten Lava” to B. B,
in his heart, thinks the book both dull and
unpleasant, but, anxious to be in the move-
ment, eulogises it warmly to C, who forthwith
puts it on his library-list. If there was a
little more dare-to-be-a-Daniel about B, and
he had the courage to express his convictions,
he would be doing the State some service.
Especially as it is highly probable that the
great A, Avhose prestige has overawed him,
never got further than the publisher’s adver-
tisements on the cover, which often have a
hypnotic effect.
A consoling factor in the general outlook
is that often remarked historical phenomenon
of the swing of the pendulum. The Revolu-
tion is succeeded by the Restoration, and it
is a platitude that the fashion-plate of to-day
is the freak of to-morrow. It is quite within
the bounds of possibility that an era of
euphemism lies in the not remote future.
Not infrequently we are all inclined to be
tempted to toast that day.
C. E. LEWERS.
John Morley, the Man
It was in 1885 that I first became acquainted
with “Honest John” (the title was bestowed
bv the public on Morley long before Burns got
it) : he came then to Bury from Blackburn
to condole with my father on the death of
my grandfather, who had been attended in
his last illness by John Morley’s father, Dr.
Jonathan Morley, whose practice as a “family
physician dispensing his own medicine” was
unique in Lancashire.
In politics Morley, as I was to learn
afterwards,' was absolutely conscientious,
and .one of the few whose ambition was
all for the State and not for personal
aggrandisement. He and Gladstone will
always be remembered as men whose motives
were above suspicion, even if their policies
were not always popular. Morley, for in-
stance, looked on the Boer War as a crime.
In view of South Africa and Ireland he was
wont to smile grimly when in 1914 England
talked so glibly about “the rights of small
nations.” A great and thoughtful writer,
he was at one time a hard-working
journalist of the old and “highly-respectable”
school, and used to say that he had always
a secret longing to edit the Manchester Guar-
dian. Always he wanted to express himself,
and held it a wrong that one should express
anybody else. Hearing that a protege of
his was speaking on the Liberal side at the
Oxford Union, and at the same time con-
tributing Conservative articles to a small
Lancashire paper, he went to Oxford and
told the undergraduate that he was ‘‘not only
abusing but destroying” liis powers. “If
you write what you do not believe, you will
destroy the power of writing anything worth
reading,” lie said, “and you may mislead
credulous people.” Before Morley left Ox-
ford the undergraduate had promised never
again to write political articles which were
against his conscientious beliefs. That
undergraduate was Gordon He wart, now
Lord Chief Justice of England. When
Hewart left Oxford, at 20 years of age, it
was through John Morley’s influence with
Prof. Stuart, M.P., that he was able to begin
immediate work as a leader-writer on the
London Star, at that time a red-hot Radical
paper under the editorship of Ernest Parke —
who got nine months’ hard labor for telling
the truth about a certain young peer.
'Hewart, in the intervals of leader-writing
and doing London correspondence for the
Manchester Guardian, read for the Bar;
and again John Morley used his influence
with a former political colleague—Lord
James of Hereford, at one time Sir Henry
James, Q.C., Liberal (and afterwards
Unionist) member for Bury. Thus as
soon as Gordon Hewart was “called.” briefs
came rapidly.
John Morley was charitable to all men,
though he never had any time for “organ-
ised” charity. “When charity is organised,”
he said, “it ceases to be charity.” In the
days when Prebendary Carlile’s Church
Army Labor Tents used to stand on the
present site of Australia House, in Ald-
wycli, hundreds of half-starved men would
stand hour after hour in long queues, waiting
their turn to chop bundles of fire-wood,
iii order to earn a bed and a basin of
soup. This was the kind of “charity” which
made Morley mad, and he and W. T. Stead
would frequently visit these queues with
their overcoat pockets heavy with shillings
for distribution. Nor did his kindly thought
for others stop at human beings. One night,
walking down Whitehall to the House of
Commons, he came across a tiny kitten which
had been locked out and was mewing patheti-
cally. Morley, who was a good six feet,
stooped down and picked up the little mite.
The tall, stately figure then proceeded, with
the kitten on his shoulder, straight to the
House of Commons, through the lobby, and,
passing the staring policemen, proceeded
straight to the kitchen and demanded milk.
That night Morley made a fighting speech
on Workmen’s Compensation, and, later, did
not forget to take the kitten home.
T. R. H.
A Satchel of Books
Crime and Criminals, by “Reformer” (Cole’s,
Sydney). Most of these earnest papers Were written
for the Sunday Times, and, in the Words of the
Minister at the head of the department in N. S.
Wales, their “practical strain gives them great
value.” Above all things almost, the writer wants
to see the prisoners given more occupation. Apropos
that there is a suggestion worth thinking over:
Why not run a coal-mine, paying the prisoner “the
ruling hewing rate, less the damage he has done
and the cost of his maintenance” ? The struggle
to provide prisoners with occupation under present
conditions would be humorous if it ""eye not so
pegs y ° 0 f various sizes were purposely
”p” e d and he had to sort them into small paper-
bags. The following morning the warders would
remix the pegs and hand them into the cell. To this
employment he was doomed day. alter day.
San P fu°till thing going! The booklet is well worth
read j n g
Rool ' n , Nook b y Ben Travers (John Lane),
Travers comes first noAv among English Avriters of
riotous farce. In this new book he is much more
than merely boisterous: he mixes hisi audacities with
sure character-drawing, and, though the plot is merely
B&Scft sermon, \*t & S
top-hamper of ingenious and ridiculous situations.
. . „ T , , T - „
who favsV L a mamwi
worker of Rockhampton (Q.), ‘thinks for himself;
an d that is a great deal. That he very often thinks
\A T rong is unfortunate; and it does not help matters
that he writ e s without method and is a poor propa-
g,f S in mS .if JSV’K £
the public as consumer pays such price, then it fol-
lows that the public at large has legally bought
ancl paid for (although it has not got delivery of)
all P lanti machinery factory buildings, land, etc..
used in the course of production and distribution.
j n o ther words, everybody has produced everything
a nd therefore everything is everybody’s. Exactly
how much further that takes John O’Rockie on the
road to social bliss isn’t clear. It didn’t take
Russia very far. Incidental to his great discovery
the au th o r drops upon many queer things: for in-
stance, the people being unable to buy back all
they produce, producers “look abroad to other coun-
tries for , a market which may absorb their goods.
This leads to rivalry, jealousy, hatreds, tariff wars and
} nev j tab j y to military wars.” “By increasing pur-
chasing power, so that the home market is able to
absorb all its own goods, we tend to eliminate
competition, and so to eliminate war.” So appa-
tea, and Australia
wears all its own wool, and Newfoundland eats all
its own cod. It is really all indescribably foolish,
International Aspects of Unemployment, by AVat-
son Kirkconnell (Allen and Unwin). The author
is a young Canadian graduate who has been travcl-
hng extensively in Europe, and he thinks that the
views of one brought up in a country of hard work,
where emphasis is still placed on duties more than
0 n rights, on service more than on leisure,” might
be “at least of interest and perhaps of value.”
The analysis is pedantic in manner, but thought-
ful and sane - The author traces the rapid rise of
modern i ndus trial civilisation. It was built upon
the new mechanical means of transport and communi-
cation, on the accumulation of capital and the devel-
opment of credit. The war burst in upon this and
destroyed most of it. Can we build a new civni
sation ; or must we resto re the foundations of the
o j ( j ? jq r . Kirkconnell thinks that “reconstruction
0 f assured fundamentals is the inexorable first
necessity”; the experience of Russia does not
encourage the world to try any radically new plan,
StftjS! Wgiig
there is ail obstacle here: “Since the war there lias
been a marked decline in the productiveness of human
labor. In Britain it has been due to deliberate
policy whose consequences are most vicious. If three
men are engaged to do the work of two, the wages
of the third man unnecessarily raise the cost of
production, and therefore the price of the product,
The cost of living rises....and foreign orders are
lost to the country, thus throwing all three men out
of employment.” In Australia, of course, there is
another factor: the peri’ous position we occupy is
for the time being masked by a borrowing policy
which temporarily has exactly the same effect as
an enormous increase. in production. Unfortunately
it is a purely artificial stimulation, and the morn-
ing comes when both the headache has to be borne
and the bill has to be paid.


m
m
i is
n
i
■ ...
i
u
■
m
I
■
&
' mk
: ■
Hn
Bm£3E
■
1 ': I
■ ■ Him
m
■
■HM
—K
I ■
; j. ■:• • ■■, v* : i-
§®llf
■
■m
, .
sm m I
■ ■
..
H
*
muaßm
■ ■ ■
Road 'round the
World
IT criss-crosses every conti-
nent, and every section of
it differs. Yet “United
States” Royal Cords suit
every condition admirably.
Royal Cords are the embodi-
ment of all the known satisfac-
tory features that always
ensure a comfortable journey
wherever you may wish to go.
Always specify Royal Cords,
because they are Good Tyres.
TRADE
Wmm
MARE.
satniaoog any
sauii.saxvxcaaiiNn
■
DISTRIBUTORS:—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA) LTD.,
53 York Street, Sydney,
76 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
517 Collins Street, Melbourne,
349-55 Queen Street, Brisbane.
F. W. HERITAGE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Hobart.
NORTHERN MOTORS PTY., LTD., Launceston.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD., 894 Hay Street, Perth.


The PERFECTUM IRON
Is strong and compact. It is the hand-
somest, handiest, most practical and
most durable of all ELECTRIC IRONS.
miT-iTzizzzzzz:
• '
; fv ;
§
h
0.
m
■
m
-■ ■ :
3
■
m
Si*
:
m
mm
“ |
V
•••'.
! ■
i
Electric
27/6
n
Weight 61b,
There is no comparison between the Perfectum Iron and any other Electric
Iron on the market —The Perfectum is different in principle, different in
construction —economical in operation—efficient in performance.
The Perfectum Iron has been approved by the Fire Underwriters’ Associa-
tion, which is an assurance of perfect safety.
THE SPECIAL FEATURE of the Perfectum Iron is a self-contained Pilot
light, placed in the front of the cover. With Electric Irons it is imperative
to install a Pilot light on your wall block —this costs money. The Pilot
light must be burning while the iron is in circuit —this also costs money. With
the Perfectum Iron the same current that heats the iron supplies the light
in the Pilot —therefore SAVE MONEY by using the PERFECTUM IRON.
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
Edward & Mary Sts.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth & Morphett Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St.
NEWCASTLE:
53 King St.
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron St.


Join
the 7,000,000 Motorists
who are now using
isjMaab
PRODUCTS
by equipping your car with one
or all of these useful Accessories.
Ez£
n<
K'y
' y
m
Stewart Patented
Magnetic Speedometer,
Price £4/10/-
Stewart Vacuum Tank,
Price £5
Stewart Rear-vision
Mirror, Price 30/-
Every article of Stewart car equipment is built to fill a motoring
need, whether it be to eliminate an inconvenience or to make for
greater pleasure.
From your Stewart Speedometer you may tell at a glance the exact
speed at which you are travelling, what distance you have made
since morning, and the total mileage your car has covered. It will
enable you to keep an accurate check on the consumption of fuel,
durability of tyres, etc.
The Vacuum Feed System will ensure an even, constant supply of
petrol to the carburetter, and enable you to take the hills with
perfect ease.
In your Stewart Rear-vision Mirror you will get a clear sight of any
overtaking car, and the Red Hand of the Stewart Stop Signal will
tell the chap behind when you intend to stop.
The Stewart Warning Signal will give out a
distinct note of warning and clear the track for
you.
While the Stewart Bumper is attractively finished
and an ornament to any car, it is not built
for beauty alone —it is built for protection.
Made of extra high quality spring steel that
enables it to withstand the most severe shocks
without damage to either car or bumper.
Stewart Stop Signal,
Price £l/17/6.
Stewart Bumper,
Price £5/15/-
Stewart Warning Signal,
Price £2/5/-
For sale by leading Wholesale and Retail Accessory Dealers throughout Australia, including the following Interstate Service Stations:-
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Melbourne, Vic.;
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., Brisbane, Q.; CORNELL, LTD., Adelaide, S.A.;
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Perth, W.A.


-L
! Cuticura Quickly Relieves
Irritated Skins
Bathe with Cuticura Soap and hot
water to free the pores of impurities,
dry lightly, and apply Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal. Cuticura
Talcum is ideal for powdering and
perfuming.
Soapls., Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S.W.”
INK' Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Williams’
HOLDER TOP
Shaving Stick
THIS original holder
device has been imi-
tated but never equalled.
Re-Loads for the hand-
some, non-corrosive
metal box are easily in-
serted.
The big, thick, quick
lather has likewise never
been equalled. It is
lather for the skin as
well as for the beard.
Sold by all Chemists
and good Shops
everywhere.
12
Missing Friends.
TTARRY EDGELL, formerly of Teddington. Letter
A ' L awaits you G.P.0., Sydney.
T AMES RENWICK. —For the purpose of distribution
J of the Estate of Donald Renwick, deceased, infor-
mation is required by the undersigned as to the present
whereabouts (if alive) of JAMES RENWICK, pros-
pector and horsetrainer, who left Cooktown for New
Guinea about 1898. Not since heard of.
If deceased, information concerning his death is
required. Any person giving reliable information
will be rewarded.
H. J. STEWART, Solicitor,
Kempsey, New South Wales.
©
<sr
«
l
m
r.
■«P
v,»v
I
©
4
nursery pomade.
Ensure your kiddies being free
from NITS, SCURF and all other
SCALP TROUBLES. 1/- from
your Chemist, or direct from
DUERDIM & SAINSBURY PTY. LTD.
349 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Limb for Comfort.
To those who unfortunately need an Artificial Limb, comfort is of paramount
importance. Denyers’ Artificial Limbs are designed and fitted so as to give
this necessary comfort to the very finest degree—and this, combined with
serviceably eommonsense construction, makes them
Efficiency Personified.
Don t be handicapped by the lack of one of these fine limbs any longer!
Write us at once and get our free advice on your own individual need.
DENYERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Edgeworth
TOBACCO
DOES NOT BITE THE TONGUE.
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
MHO)
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
JMich.. U.S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co* Detroit, Mich..U.SJL
Cable Address - KERMATH
-y*.
■ftlll#
I ©
iajy
41 INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO £5OO AND
ZVL on any excess TO £lOOO
Cheque Accounts opened for Individuals, 5/rms. Companies or Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in I\T.S. W.
i
v'V-5
a
V'-®!
HI I! II
1
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6dL
Box prices:—
30 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free. i
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)!
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, l/«. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/.. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, Ac.
CATALOGUES FREE.
\ v
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents—Anril
Fools; Who Is Who;
lei on Parle Frangais;
Who's to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage
1/6
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Praise.
I offer thanks for all the joys I’ve tasted,
For all the bridges burned, the tall ships
sunk,
For opportunities clasped close or wasted,
For bitter draughts and sweet that I have
drunk.
I offer thanks for enemies who’ve driven
Me lighting through the heat of turbulent
years,
For passionate sius (of which my soul is
shriven),
For kisses, treacheries, insults, miseries,
tears.
I offer thanks for youth and all the splendid
High pageantry of living, heart aflame ;
For peace enduring and for follies ended,
For hate and loyalty and the sweetest
shame.
I offer thanks for women who have cheered
me,
For men as trusty as the heart of God,
For squirming rancors that have cursed and
feared me,
For flowery paths and muddy ways I’ve
trod.
I offer thanks for all the joys I’ve tasted,
For opportunities clasped close or wasted,
For all the tall ships sunk, the bridges
burned,
For all temptations cuddled, toyed with,
spurned,
For hope and anguish, dreams and faults and
I offer thanks for Life!
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.
The Dark Old Trees.
At evening when the chilly light begins,
The dark trees huddle close, like shivering
crones,
And crowd the smouldering west, and wag
their chins,
Warming against the red their stiff, old
bones.
Writing their dreadful symbols in the sky,
With twisted lingers in the dusk they loom!
On running feet, with hate, I pass them by—
Figures of age and death, dark shapes of
doom !
victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.
What Profits It?
Says he, “As a youth,
Evermore I found
Most things to my taste;
And it seemed, in truth,
Time was made to waste.
“Good it was to love,
Good to be of those
Who in joyance sang,
Good to rhyme and rove,
Letting care go hang.
“Better times than mine
Man has never known
Under star or sun—
Nights made red with wine,
Noons of rolling fun.
“Pleasure’s silver call
Evermore I heard.
When youth’s skies were wide.
Now the world is small
Walled on every side.”
Now that aches and woes,
Pains and ills are his.
Gay no more but grave,
To his cost he knows
Time was made to save.
Yet, when all is still,
This he thinks as well:
Death will come some day,
Save time as he will,
Spend it as he may.
Then he seeks some street,
Tavern, place of mirth,
Where he joyed of old —
There, alas, to meet
Naught but spectres cold!
So, though moments pour
Spendthrift from our hands,
Or, as prized things, pass,
Time laughs evermore
As he turns his glass.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Vignette.
The street is grey,
Prisoned in narrow walls in a shadowless
light.
Dull and pallid the day
And, level, the stretching lines run cold and
gleaming.
The windy night
Over the hilltops is already dreaming;
Empty and lorn the street
For all the crashing chime of Sabbath bells.
But afar in the hills
The sun on the ridges shouts to the city-
weary,
And from his palette spills
Purples and greens and browns in a careless
riot,
And across the grey dreary
Calls to the climb through the blue day to
the crest’s quiet,
The blowing of clean wind
And the great cloud-galleons sailing on the
river of the sky.
MAORILAND.
QUENTIN POPE.


L
Sjgjjiip


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44.—N0. 2278.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1923,
Pkice 6d.
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
JOHN BULL: “My sons, outside I still talk of my strength. The time has come when, inside these doors, I 'must show you my wounds
and talk to you of my years.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of ihe
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ant address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.: 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to\ the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column
dll contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
ohd not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed-. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood 'hat
I he copy is to I be destroyed if not acceptable. . '
tonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from tlie
“British-Australasian” seller at the entrance
to Australia House, London. Also from Messrs.
Gordon and Golch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.OJt; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet
Street, Condon. E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Nexus
Agency, Benoni; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Coi, 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Hotaling’s News Agency, 203 West ilst
Street, New York City; Washington: Liberty News
Co., Seattle, California; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
—IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co,, 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo'.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Somarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus , E.C.h.
U.S.A.: — J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: f/oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz., or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1923.
A GENERATION AHEAD.
The French Premier Poincare owes his
success in the Ruhr to his habit of looking
ahead and applying commonsense to what he
sees there. From the ending of the war French
statesmanship has worked for one thing—the
safety of France 10, 20, 100 years hence.
It is our Commonwealth’s weakness, and
may yet be its downfall, that the defence
question is not being approached on such
lines by any of the political parties. De-
fence is a thing to either sneer at, as Prus-
sianism, or exploit as a text for Imperialistic
rhodomontade about the Grand Old Flag.
It serves as an inspiration on the one hand
for the cant of humanitarianism, and on the
other for the cant of “loyalism.” On one
point nationalists and internationalists are,
however, in agreement —that whatever may
be said on this issue the less done the
better. The result is that Australia, after
two decades of Federation, is not only as
weak on sea and on land as it was when
the States came together; it is without any
settled naval or military policy. And in
the interval the Pacific has assumed a stra-
tegic importance which it never held before,
and an under-fed Aisatic nation which is in-
creasing its population by 750,000 every year
has emerged as a first-class Power. Clearly, the
situation is one which requires to be met
with something a good deal more concrete
than phrases.
The Labor theory is as simple as it is
senseless. Labor believes that the Common-
wealth should edify the envious inhabitants
of the very much poorer Asiatic countries
into leaving us alone by proclaiming a policy
of complete pacifism and acting thereon. The
idea is that the colored workers will put
loyalty to class before loyalty to country or
loyalty to their own interests and the in-
terests of their families. The press even of
Asiatic countries within the Empire, writ-
ten to express the views of men who served
beside Australians in the late war, ior who
are in constant business association with
Australians, does not support this view. A
recent Colombo Council report in the Times
oe Ceylon was packed with expressions of
resentment against the exclusion of Cinga-
lese from this country under the Alien Im-
migration Act; and, failing the possibility of
more satisfactory reprisals, a coaling boy-
cott was suggested against ships plying to
and from Australia. The no-defence policy
of the present-day Australian Labor party
assumes that far prouder and more war-
like colored races than the gentle Cingalese,
seafaring and colonising oolored races, in-
habiting lands that have ceased to produce
sufficient for their support, will permanently
take the various implications of our White
Australia doctrine lying down. We are able
to maintain that doctrine now because the
R.N. is behind it. We shall have no hope
of maintaining it inside at least two genera-
tions without the co-operation of the R.N. ;
and, failing a continuous boom in immigra-
tion and natural population increase, we
shall not be strong enough to stand alone
even then.
* * # •
A school which believes in hastening
slowly in a. slightly different direction finds
expression for its views through the Age.
The Melbourne daily last week assembled
all the stock arguments in favor of continu-
ing to temporise:—
The “one big navy” advocates “start with the
assumption that Australia has always meanly de-
pended on the British taxpayer to protect her from
foreign aggression. That is not true. This country
has always done its best according to its means.”
Australia made great sacrifices during the World
War.
Australia is one of Britain’s “two richest and
most profitable customers.”
We are “not industrialised sufficiently to be able
to build ships and aeroplanes, make guns, mountings
and general munitions.”
It “would be distinctly unwise to embark on a
defensive policy burdensome enough to hamper our
industrial progress, for that is essential to defensive
strength.”
“We want to defend ourselves as far as is humanly
possible in the case of a continent occupied by
fewer than six millions of people, and we repudiate
any position of mean-spirited dependence.”
It is contended, accordingly, that Australia
should have nothing to do with the Singa-
pore base scheme, but should have a base of
its own “at the fine, deep harbor of Albany” ;
that, “as long as the country is reasonably
secure, the smaller our defence forces the
better” ; and that “only those who are dead
to Australia’s national pride and aspira-
tions would allow those forces to be con-
trolled from a common Imperial centre.” In
the essentials this policy is as impractical
and as insincere as that of Labor. A base
will not be built at Albany for generations
bo come, because it will be as long as that
before the trade which is the life-blood of Aus-
tralia will be threatened in southern Austra-
lian waters. At present the vital spot is in
the vicinity of Singapore. Australia is more
than reasonably secure: it is secure —but
only because it is “meanly depending on the
British taxpayer.” What humbug it is to
pretend that without the ships for which
Britain has paid, and wdiich Britain main-
tains, we could keep this continent inviolate
for a month! And if a fleet is good enough
to keep us secure, how nonsensical to postu-
late that it would be a matter for national
shame to become an integral part of it! No
sacrifice of national identity is involved.
The most Australian institution that Aus-
tralia has yet produced, and incomparably
the most creditable to it, was the A.1.F.,
which from the beginning of the war to
the end, while officered increasingly by Aus-
tralians, was “controlled from a common
Imperial centre.” To demand that the
R.A.N. shall be trained with a view, in future
wars, to the re-assertion of the “one big
navy” principle, which was the principle it
fought under in the last war, is not flag-
wagging Imperialism; it is hard business.
The R.A.N. will be able to make its pres-
ence felt in any war of the future under
that arrangement: as an independent unit,
controlled from the top of Collins-street, it
would be of as much value to the common
cause and to Australia as the A.I.F. would
have been had it acted as an independent
force in France and Palestine.
* * * *
There might be force in the claim made
by both wings of the Wait-a-While party—
namely, that we have no present facilities
for the construction of a great navy—-if
there had been a suggestion from any quar-
ter that Australia should at once begin
building a great navy. Thanks to Britain,
this generation is relieved of any urgent
necessity of the sort. The French are
facing the expense involved in their tremen-
dous effort in the interests of Frenchmen yet
unborn; and for a similar reason Australia
should undertake the infinitely smaller
effort which is represented by getting straight
down to work on that navy which, unless
begun in earnest now, will not be available
in 10 or 20 years’ time, when the life of the
nation may depend on its existence. The
British are not looking to Australia for big
things in naval construction. They are a
remarkably patient lot. But they are look-
ing for evidence of goodwill, for a departure
in however small a degree from our dis-
creditable old tradition of letting them pay
for the Flag we wave. We will not con-
vince them of our 'bona fides by explaining,
like Labor-leader Charlton, that we do not
need to be defended, as no one is likely to
attack us ; nor by protesting, like the Age,
that further defence expenditure is unjusti-
fied, since we are “already reasonably
secure.” What they are waiting for is a
promise of the initiation of a defence policy
that looks where all such policies should —-
well into the future —and it is to be hoped
for the sake of our self-respect that Prime
Minister Bruce will give it to them.
BIG AND LITTLE DICTATORS.
It having been reported by a Royal Commis-
sioner that Peecival E. Deane was guiltless
of receiving a present from W. E. Davies,
who made a fortune out of his sugar trans-
actions with the Hughes Government,
the enterprising young man has resumed
duty as secretary of the Prime Minister’s
Department. When the present Priminister
became curious about the alleged present,
Deane “voluntarily requested to be relieved
of his duties pending the issue of the in-
quiry.” The Public Service Commissioner
rose to the occasion and allowed him to take
his “recreation leave.” By a happy chance
this didn’t run out until the finding had
been communicated to the newspapers, so
the exonerated official hasn’t suffered the
loss of a day’s salary. There is no ques-
tion of condemning the late Priminister’s
protegd to pay the cost of the proceedings,
which is considerable. In a country so ad-
dicted to civil servants that it pays men
£l5OO p.a. to run purely ornamental loffices,
mere bureaucratic excrescences (there is no
Prime Minister’s department in Britain),
such things are not done. Yet had Deane
been perfectly frank when the Public
Accounts Committee was investigating the
Davies transactions it wouldn’t have been
necessary to commission the expensive Mit-
chell, K.C., or to engage a barrister to
appear on behalf of the Crown. Sum-
moned to testify before the Accounts
Committee, he made no mention of
having received £lOOO from Davies. “The
Committee was inquiring about sugar,
and the receipt of the cheque had nothing
to do with sugar,” is how he explains an
omission which might be considered odd.
* * * *
The affair dates back to the spacious days
of 1920, when Australia was still ruled on
the dictatorial plan. Hughes was the cen-
tral or solar dictator, and round him re-
volved a number of little dictators, all his
creations, and with something of his arro-
gance and self-sufficiency. Having discour-
aged sugar production in Queensland by
underpaying the grower, the Commonwealth
Government was obliged to purchase heavily
in the Java market. The man in charge of
the Sugar Department (there were all sorts
of departments in those days) was an elderly
colonel named Oldekshaw, who had received
his appointment from the Prime Minister
on the strength of an assurance that he
“knew a little about sugar,” Hughes him-
self knowing no more than that it is a sub-
stance you melt in your tea. Oldershaw
did all his foreign buying through the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. There were
over 70 transactions, and the C.S.R. handled
them all. On a sudden this system was set
aside, three contracts —1000 tons at £72 12s.
6d., 5000 at £63 10s. and 10,000 at £s4
being given to Davies, a motor-car
agent in a small way of business,
whose Java principal was “a half-
caste, or something like that.” The
change came about in this fashion. Older-
shaw, nominally subordinate to the Minister
of Customs, was really responsible to the
Priminister. "You are my man,” said
Hughes, “never mind about the others,” the
others being Watt and Massy Greene.
Hughes was in the habit of discussing
affairs of State with Deane, then merely his
private secretary; “Mr. Deane was very
closely associated with me in the business of
the department.” Deane and Davies were
lifelong friends. In May, 1920, Davies in-
formed his principal, the “half-caste or some-
thing like that,” that he was in touch with
“an influential Government official” who
could assist him in placing offers before
the Prime Minister. lie places his first
offer before the Prime Minister (having in
the meantime carried a letter of introduction
from Deane to Oldershaw, who refused to
do business with him), and the supreme dic-
tator accepts it; also, the acceptance is
initialled by Deane, who denies having exer-
cised any influence. Other interesting docu-
ments were produced at the inquiry, notably
a letter from Davies to the Prime Minister
with radical alterations in Deane’s hand-
writing, and a copy of another to his Eura-
sian “regretting to say that Mr. Deane is
now dratted into anotner department, which
leaves the Sugar Board now in control of
all buying.” But papers equally pertinent
have disappeared from the file and cannot
be found. On the evidence of his partner in
the motor-car business Davies’s profit on the
three contracts exceeded £30,000. The part-
ner and a relative got £lOOO apiece, and
there were other disbursements on a lavish
scale. Deane the owner of the £30,000-od<J
trusted so much that he cabled him £lOOO
from Java, intending that it should be in-
vested on his (Davies’s) behalf in a
Siamese tin-mine. The investment, it
seems, had been discussed beforehand,
but not the amount thereof. Deane
banked the £lOOO, but handed it back to
Davies when the latter returned from Java,
and Davies carried the cheque in his pocket
for several days before paying it into his
account. He bought 600 shares in the
Siamese tin-mine, and as far as he can
remember they cost him 2s. a share. He
also drew £4OOO out of the bank and'
“placed it in my solicitors’ strongroom,”
wflere it remained for nearly two years.
* * * *
The Royal Commissioner is satisfied that
everything was in order, and that ends the
matter as far as Deane is concerned. But
The Bulletin will be surprised if the public
likes the smell of it all. It will be equally
surprised if the public relishes having to
pay thumping damages to the Limerick S. S.
Co. for the commandeering of two steamers,
which the British Admiralty wanted for the
transport of war wheat, and which the
Commonwealth Government requisitioned for
the private purposes of Scott Fell, now a
“Nationalist” M.L.A., and certain Broken
Hill companies. In that case, Cullen, C.J.,
put it t<o the jury that “serious misconduct”
had been charged against Mr. Hughes, then
Prime Minister, and Admiral Clarkson, the
Shipping Controller :
The charge was that Commonwealth officials,
for whose conduct the Commonwealth itself must
take the responsibility, under a pretence of requisi-
tioning these ships for naval or military purposes,
were really carrying out a secret and wholly unlaw-
ful bargain for Scott Fell and the Broken Hill
companies—that the Prime Minister prostituted his
high office for the purpose of serving the ends of
private parties here at a time when the attention
of British statesmen all over the world had to be
devoted day by day to the ever changing emergen-
cies and exigencies arising through the war.
The jury replied by awarding the plaintiff
company £19,480 against the Commonwealth
and Scott Fell, together, of course, with
all the costs, and they will be enormous.
From this bad business, as from the Davies
affair, the country should take increased
determination to tolerate no repetition of the
dictatorial system—to have no more of
Hughes and his methods of government.
AUSTRALIA—AND CARTHAGE.
When Rome and Carthage reared challeng-
ing walls on either side of the Mediter-
ranean, their peoples not only differed in
race and temper, but the two cities repre-
sented distinct human ideas. Carthage
grew out of a trading port of the Phoeni-
cians till it far outshone the parent Tyre;
Rome, on its own tradition, rose out of a
fortress of outlaws, who held their freedom
only by the sword, into a city of freemen.
The central notion of Carthage was exploita-
tion. It stood at the most convenient point
to collect the wealth of Africa and Western
Europe, to gather the spoil of the less-known
lands, and trade it on at a profit with the
wealthier Orient. It built palaces for the
comfort of its millionaire merchants and
fleets for their protection, but it had no
feeling for the African soil on which it
stood. The whole city was merely shop
and hotel; it had no roots in harvest and
herd, in village life and open field; no sweat
of true labor had hallowed the land that
fed it, no blood had been shed to save its
walls. But the central idea of Rome was
a home, a shelter to be relied upon—a place
where strong and wise fathers should breed
strong and wise sons to make the home hills
ever safer against the hate. of all the jeal-
ous world. When two such ideas clashed
it was inevitable that the wealthy exploit-
ers should have some successes in the early
struggles, .but that the home-builders should
completely triumph at the last. Despite the
genius of Hannibal and the enormous riches
of Carthage, there was an essential strength
in Rome that could not be overcome.
In Australia there are two great politi-
cal parties which follow the ancient lines
of cleavage. The alleged parties in our
Parliaments do not follow those lines. There
are Romans and Carthaginians in the Labor
ranks as well as among the Nationalists;
you can follow the conflicting ideas through
any daily newspaper, through all the con-
fusion of progress and the jig-saw puzzle
of party warfare. We have not deliberately
planted ourselves between the Indian and
Pacific oceans with the intention of opening
a shop; but a glance at the map shows very
clearly that the settlement of Australia has
really been quite secondary to the possibili-
ties of exploiting markets. Not an issue of
a newspaper appears without reference to
our chances of capturing trade with this
country or with that; never is a comment
made upon the defence of our continent that
does not' first of all take into account the
safety of our trade routes. Yet in the midst
of all this purely Carthaginian chatter there
appears an article on the splendor of our
pioneers, another on the possibilities of rural
towns, a third on the beauty of some valley
in our mountains. The Roman spirit is
striving with the Carthaginian; and the per-
son who allows the morning paper to do his
thinking for him has a vague idea that the
two notions will mix very well. It is true
that in our primary industries the narrow-
ing- of the world has allowed them to mix
to an extent that would have been impos-
sible to the ancient world. Thus the pioneer
farmer builds his house in the bush, plants
his tree at the gate, makes his orchard and
vineyard for his family’s use, and dreams of
his great-grandson walking in honor and
freedom on that home soil; yet he exploits
his fields in the interests of far-off people,
imagining that he is exploiting those people
in the interests of his fields. A Roman
farmer thought first of feeding Rome; a
Carthaginian farmer —for there were such
people—thought of tearing something out of
the soil by cheap labor to enrich himself.
The Australian farmer largely mixes the two
ideas. But there is no mixture of the ideas
in great areas where sheep and cattle graze.
Often the homestead is a mere temporary
boarding-house, the run itself a machine
for turning out beef to be eaten on the
other side of the world, and wool to be worn
by strangers who are not even friendly.
There the Carthaginian spirit has full scope.
The grazier who has no desire that his run
should be his family’s permanent home is as
much an exploiter as the trader who ex-
changed glass beads for African ivory. It
is not a question of praise or blame for
this. He may be a perfectly worthy person,
and his credit, which we call his wealth,
may be put to the noblest human uses; but
the fact remains that such use of Australian
soil is mere exploitation, and can, in the
eternal nature of things, be of little perma-
nent value to the nation.
Out of all the modern confusion due to
the rapid occupation of new territories, at
least one principle clearly defines itself. To
produce something for Australian use on
Australian soil is far more important in
the task of nation-building than any exploita-
tion of markets or overseas trade. Nation-
hood means a great deal more than that.
It implies a vast aggregation of homes—safe
homes —in which the nobler thoughts and the
aspirations of the race may be fostered. To
let other people do our finer work for us in
workshops far across the world is little
better than employing colored aliens to do
the work on our own doorsteps. To be con
tent to exploit markets with our raw mat-
erials and accept in trade for them the things
of beauty and finer use that others have
made from those raw materials is thoroughly
Carthaginian. No sane person would argue
that it is as fine a thing to rear 20 bullocks
and with their price pay for a picture
painted in Paris or Dresden as it is to paint
the picture itself on the Darling Downs; yet
that is what we have been doing and what
so many of our Carthaginians in press and
politics' urge us to do more largely. The
first note in the Roman scheme of
things is defence; and the first note
in serious defence is a self-contained
nation which does its owu work and
realises that to supply its own needs is its


national task. We may judge our national
wealth by any standard we like; but we are
not rich in any national sense while we
continue to be hewers of wood and drawers
of water for distant peoples. Our Cartha-
ginians are content that we should get our
moving-pictures and magazines from
America, our books from England, our toys
from Japan, our clothing from any place
that will make it cheap. Even the designs
of our houses they will accept from Switzer-
land. The notion that the Australian is a
rough, careless person is fostered as an
excuse for this; but there are Australian
stalwarts with the early Roman ideal who
resent the imputation. Australian artists,
scientists and inventors are famous in Lon-
don ; yet we cannot make a carpet nor pro-
duce a line teacup. With a trail of blood
beside which the temple shambles of old
Jerusalem was a mere pink spot, we send
our beef and mutton to feed Europe. The
Australian becomes a slaughterman w’ho
might be a designer in bronze or a worker
in marble. So far the Carthaginians are
victorious all along the line. Will the
Roman spirit awake that may turn our trad-
ing outpost into a citadel of civilisation?
C. O. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pacifism Put to the Test.
There are useful lessons to be learned from
the collapse of the great German strike—
for such it was —against the French occupa-
tion of the Ruhr. This, above all, that the
nation which adopts pacifism as a working
principle—as Australians are urged to adopt
it by a noisy section of the Labor party,
which would make it the basis of our foreign
policy and a substitute for our army and
navy—commits self-slaughter. The Ruhr
business has been described by Huent Labor
editors, and by chattering Morels and
Ramsay Macdonalds, as “the crime of
French imperialism against a prostrate de-
mocracy.” Crime or not, it made hash of
their contention that desirable and defence-
less countries are secured against invasion
by the fraternal affection of a class-conscious
proletariat. When Foch gave the signal for
the advance into unoccupied Germany, the
French trade unionists forgot their class-
consciousness altogether. From first to last
the whole French nation has stood behind
the Generalissimo and the Prime Minister.
Elsewhere nobody lifted a finger to prevent
the occupation, although there was much
heroic ranting on distant soap-boxes and
fury spurted from innumerable fountain-
pens. One of the pacifist theories having
thus been shattered, the professional men of
peace advanced another. The French, in
marching into the Ruhr, had marched to an
economic Sedan. In the contest between
militarism and “moral force” the latter must
triumph. German tenacity would vanquish
the Gallic will-to-conquer ; passiye resistance
prevail over “predatory imperialism.” Im-
poverished by the Great War, and unable to
wring contributions from a population which,
instructed and nourished by the German Gov-
ernment, unanimously refused to work, the
French would have to retire, baffled and
almost bankrupt, in a few months. That
was the argument, and the English Free-
trade newspapers, along with their Austra-
lian imitators, joined in it full cry. Some
of the Little England journals have pursued
Poincare, the man who is trying to make
Germany pay its debts, with the malignity
they formerly reserved for Lord Roberts,
the man who urged his heedless country to
prepare for the war that he foresaw. In
1923, as in 1914, their pro-German policy
has crashed. The French are still in the
Ruhr, and will remain there until the Boche
discharges his obligations or makes an honest
attempt to do so ; it is the German Govern-
ment which, in its own significant phrase,
has “broken off the fight.” France set out
to prove, Labor and Freetrade editors not-
withstanding, that Germany was loafing on
the reparations job, and lying withal. By
carrying on without the Ruhr output for the
best part of a year and maintaining millions
of Germans in idleness (for the Ruhr stop-
page affected districts much more populous),
the beaten Government has given the show
away. Incidentally, it has revealed (1) the
pathetic futility of passive resistance against
a foreign invader who knows what he wants
and refuses to leave till lie has got it, and
(2) the shocking nil trustworthiness of the
Freetrade journalists who have had the loan
of the Australian cable services since the
Ruhr affair started. Lloyd George above
all.
o
Natural Drawbacks as well as Natural
Resources.
The great natural resources of this country
and its great natural drawbacks become so
much mixed at times that there is difficulty
in telling one lot from the other. The exported
bullock is a resource which has had to be
propped up with a bounty out of the Fed-
eral Treasury. The sugar industry is pro-
vided with a steady market by Government
purchase, and, however much the growers
may grumble at the price, it looks as though
the industry would be in a bad way
without it. Wheat production is again rest-
ing on a Federal Government guarantee, in
addition to the subsidy that the States have
a steady habit of paying through .the carriage
of grain by rail at below cost. And the other
day representatives of four fruit-growing
States waited on the Acting-Prime Minister
to say that the export fruit industry has
also struck the national drawback, and to
ask for a grant out of the revenue of £lO
per ton on all fruit used for canning. Fail-
ing this, one speaker said, “the industry
would be utterly destroyed.” One paper
summed up the situation thus:—
During the last 10 years the fruit production of
the Commonwealth has more than doubled.... Land
is twice as expensive. Labor is dearer. Every com-
modity used on the fruit farm is more costly. Years
ago the orchardist was able to hire competent workers
for 6s. to Bs. a day. Under the recent (award of
the Federal Arbitration Court even a boy of 15
years must be paid 50s. a week, while a youth over
18 must receive 795. 6d. per week.... The cost of
all essentials has advanced beyond reason. Blue-
stone, which, before the war, was obtainable at
225. 6d. per cwt., now costs 102 s. 6d. per cwt.
Arsenate of lead, which nine years ago could be
obtained for 4 jd. a lb., now costs lOd. Lime sul-
phur has advanced in price from lOd. a lb. to Is.
3d. Bed oil, which formerly could be bought for
19s. lid. per 81-gallon case, is now cheap at 4s.
6d. per gpllon. Railway freights have advanced
75 per cent., while sea freight to London has risen
from 2s. 3d. per case to 4s. 6d.
To put the matter shortly, the Australian
has been beguiled a great deal too much with
the idea that it is his Heaven-sent destiny
to grow surplus “raw materials” to be sold
a long way off, and to bring his finished
goods from a vast distance. The beguilers
include importers who live on the business,
Freetrade cranks, land jobbers, politicians
who found in borrowing and land, “settle-
ment” and railway-building a line of activity
suited to their meagre intelligence, and other
dubious characters. The orehardist is about
the most pathetic of their victims. Unless
his great surplus fetches about twice as
much, as used to suffice, he is working for
nothing. The foreign buyer, impoverished
by war, finds a difficulty in paying even the
old figure. In fact, he often does without
fruit, awaiting a reduction below the old
figure. Things may be bad with the wheat-
grower, but he can change over to sheep or
cotton or flax without destroying his capital,
should he chance to be blessed with any.
The fruit-grower can’t do these variations
without hacking down something which re-
presents years of toil, and perhaps thou-
sands of pounds of money. It is evidently
necessary to do something for him, and in
any case he is a valuable lesson in the
matter of the Freetrade superstition and the
folly of trying to live by being a Gibeonite
for an unreliable foreign master. If Aus-
tralia devotes itself to raising a splendid
crop of factories, so that it can practically
dispense with the importer, its new indus-
trial population should by-and-bye give the
fruit-man a new lease of life. There is
plenty of room on the land for growers of
things for our own needs, especially timber,
flax, cotton (which looks a promising export
line also) and tobacco; but the promiscuous
throwing of agriculturists on the land to
depend upon an export trade requires a rest.
•
Tasmania’s Mental Defectives.
About the newest branch of education :
The first annual report of Tasmania’s Psycho-
logical Clinic (Dr. Morris Miller, director) gives
the results of the official examination of 310 young-
sters who were alleged by teachers and others to
show signs of sub-normal intelligence. The classi-
fication table reads thus:—
Idiots .. .. • .. 3
Imbeciles .. .. . . 21
Feeble-minded .. .. 93
Border-line . . .. .. 62
Normal, inferior .. .. 47
Normal, average .. .. 11
Diagnosis deferred . . .. 73
Total 310
The Director explains that the large number of
“deferred” cases (73) is accounted for by the fact
that the clinic has not had sufficient time to apply
the extensive tests required in some cases of alleged
abnormality. But, generally speaking, “diagnosis
deferred” indicates a doubtful case, and the placing
of a child in that list by the official examiners is
an intimation to the educational authority that every
chance must be given such child to develop into
normality. Says Dr. Miller : “There is a possibility
of advance —it may be just a bare possibility—but
it is there, and the child should be given the right
sort of pedagogical, social and home environment m
order to try out his apparent latent mentality and
bring it to fruition.”
The examination of 80 boys at the State Farm and
Boys’ Training School showed only two of' normal
average intelligence, though 15 were diagnosed as
“inferior normal.” Among the 80 was one imbecile,
21 definitely feeble-minded, 22 on the border-line and
19 “deferred for further diagnosis.”
The clinic has made a start, though only a modest
one, to classify the child population of the State,
defectives and non-defectives, in accordance with
their family history. Excluding the cases in which
the family history was reported to be either satis-
factory or negative, the inheritance of 123 cases is
thus tabulated (a few of the children come under
more than one heading, both parents being defectives:
Family History Defectives Non-Defectives
Shows (66). (57).
Insanity . . .. 12 18
Neuropathy . . 10 5
Probable feeble-minded 10 4
Sex immorality ..13 10
Probable syphilis 7 1
Epilepsy . . 11 4
Paralysis .. 2 1
Tuberculosis . . 9 11
Alcoholism . . . . 8 12
Criminality . . 5 2
Goitre . . . . 2 2
Deaf-mutism .. 2
Blindness . . 1
As the clinic has been operating only one year
the tabulated records are neither voluminous nor
comprehensive, but so far as the work has gone it
looks like becoming an extremely valuable aid to
school-teachers and others. It is proposed to extend
the methods of examination, applying them to
superior children as well as normal and sub-normal
and mentally defective. This, of course, will enable
the community to give its finest brains the best
possible chance of becoming useful, at the same
time indicating to teachers where there is a danger
of overstrain.
The Tasmanian Mental Deficiency Act gives the
authorities full power to provide for the segregation
of mental defectives in special schools. This applies
only to children; adults not already in a keeper’s
hands, if asked to line up tor examination as
mental defectives, would probably wreck the whole
clinic with a bludgeon or a lawsuit.
Dr. Morris Miller expresses the opinion that
when all the children of the State are put through
the tests, the percentage of mental defectives will
be not more than 0.5. The actual figures already
obtained from the examination of 7300 school child-
ren show a percentage of feeble-minded of 0.75. But
as returns from Schools in less-crowded centres began
to come in (city schools were examined first) it
was noticed that the percentage of “dopey” cases
decreased.
It is claimed that the work of the clinic has
already proved of great assistance to school-teachers
and others, and it seems probable that its usefulness
as an educational auxiliary will rapidly increase.
At any' rate, the Speck’s experiment will be watched
with interest by educational authorities in the larger
Australian centres, and it is not improbable that
some of the mainland legislatures will decide to
follow the little State’s lead with a comprehensive
Mental Deficiency Act.
The Heroics of Prohibition.
“The Bulletin's gibes against Prohibition cut
no ice. Prohibition may be a crazy experiment, but
it is a mighty big experiment. America has shown
the whole world that it has the courage to tackle
a big problem in a big way.”—W. A. Lloyd from
Washington ( D.C. ).
This is the sort of plea for tolerance of a
drastic, compulsory change in social custom
and individual liberty that is now being
worked hard by that type of fanatic which
mistakes magnitude for magnificence, size for
splendor and arrogance for altruism. In a
similar strain the London Spectator, which
lost its ancient reputation for sound reason
during the war epoch and has never regained
it, “whole-heartedly” applauds the senti-
ment. “Whether we approve of Prohibition
or not,” it says, “we must, at least, admire
the courage and self-denial which inspired
the Americans to embark on so noble an
enterprise/’ Where, one may ask, is the
nobility, courage and self-denial in, say, 51
per cent, of a given people who disapprove
of the use of alcohol interdicting its manu-
facture, sale or consumption by the other
49 per cent.? If you allow a small margin
for those moderate drinkers who voted for
it, there is still a far cry to national heroism.
The truth is that simple prohibition of any-
thing not wholly bad is merely the zealot’s
short cut to the imposition of his will on
everybody else and an evasion of the real
problem—its administration. It is, therefore,
the resources of incompetence and indolence.
Nothing is easier than to decree general, un-
qualified abstention from anything, leaving
it to a harassed administration to grapple
with the blundering problem thus set in the
“big way.” It is characteristic of this
brand of reformer that he is found claiming
tolerance for his revolution as a “courage-
ous thing,” while loudly calling upon every-
body else (including other nations) to do
the work he has shirked. Thus we discover
him forcing the U.S. Administration to a
gross breach of international comity in for-
bidding foreign ships to bring their own
supplies of liquor into American waters, even
under the customary protective seals; and
then demanding as a condition of relaxation
that the U.S. shall have rights of search,
confiscation, etc., on foreign ships over 12
miles of the high seas. Similarly, there is
a noisy demand that Canada shall em-
ploy its police and other organisations
to enforce the U.S. laws along its thousands
of miles of border. As specimens of self-
denial these take beating. A very distin-
guished British authority on dietetics has
expressed the opinion that more of the evils
that afflict human health, particularly in the
latter part of life, arise from preventable
errors in diet, notably in excessive consump-
tion of animal food, than from the abuse of
alcohol. That generalisation is supported
by a large body of medical experience; but
whether it is strictly accurate or not does
not at present concern us. If you add to
that consideration another closely related
one, the needless barbarities in the slaughter
of animals, in shearing their fleeces, brand-
ing with hot irons, castration, mutilation
and starvation, you get a collective problem
that puts alcoholism in the shade. The re-
former capable of dealing with it adequately
has yet to appear. Of course the short
“big” wny is to prohibit by legislation the
consumption of animal food, the wearing of
woollen clothing and the use of leather goods
in one swoop, and leave the subject at that.
If, as a bid for sudden greatness, we per-
suade enough vegetarians and Chidleyites
to carry it, would any hero’s laurel wreath
or martyr’s crown await us? Our reward
would be more likely to be the hearty curses
of the people charged with the duty of en-
forcement. If the prohibitionists in America
or elsewhere possessed the courage, nobility
and self-denial claimed for them, they would
have tackled the real problem of supervising
and regulating the manufacture and sale of
liquor, not in the “big way,” but in the
fashion that involves earnest and thorough
consideration of the subject, in all its rami-
fications, and honest devotion to the rights,
liberties and duties of all concerned. But
that is the thorny path of genuine courage.
♦
Rotten Conventions.
“It seems that some strong action is necessary if
certain members of the legal profession members
who are a disgrace to it—are to be restrained from
putting unjustifiably suggestive and insulting ques-
tions to innocent witnesses.” — Minister of Justice.
Ley, of X. S. Wales.
Ever since Dickens created Buzetjz, and
thereby presented as a public scandal what,
had previously been accepted as a respectable
convention, Ministers and others in authority
have been talking as Mr. Ley did last week.
Unfortunately, they do nothing more. The
mud-slinging advocate helps to defeat the
ends of justice as effectively as, say, the pro-
fessional witness-squarer. Many an essential
witness is bought out of court by bribes
from the other side, but fully as many are
frightened out by the knowledge that a foren-
sic thug will drop on them with a series
of reputation-blasting questions and sugges-
tions if they enter the box. In theory the
powers of Bar Councils and Law Institutes are
limited. In practice, however, those bodies are
in a position to exercise as rigid a control
over their members as the B.M.A. does over the
doctors. The habit of “putting unjustifiably
suggestive and insulting questions to inno-
cent witnesses” persists in all our courts, be-
cause none of those in high places—neither
Ministers nor Judges nor Bar Council nor
Law Institute —are prepared to do more than
periodically deplore it. Not long ago the
daily papers disclosed a clear case of black-
mail on the part of a solicitor. No one
moved. The Court, which is remarkably sen-
sitive respecting tiie conduct of its officers
in transactions involving trifling irregulari-
ties of procedure, was blind to this mon-
strous irregularity: the Law Institute, which
talks with somewhat tiresome iteration of
“this honorable profession,” was dumb. Unoffi-
cially a remarkable defence was advanced.
It was contended that there are two varieties
of blackmail —legal and the other sort—and
that “lawyer’s blackmail,” if not exactly
commendable, is, anyhow, a practice in which
solicitors may engage and remain honorable
gentlemen. An analogous convention in an-
other sphere was disclosed by the inaction
of the A.J.C. over the Polycrates case. The
A.J.C. is ruthless in its resolution to main-
tain the highest traditions of the turf when
it comes to a jockey weighing-out in a pair
of unclean boots. But when a. syndicate
“arranges” to pay a third of its Tatt.’s win-
nings to a racing stable before a classic event,
and, on the stable’s horse being successful,
does pay to the tune of £6OO, the A..T.C.
accepts the occurrence as perfectly normal
and in no sense detrimental to the best in-
terests of racing. Every other week small
restaurants are raided in some of our big
cities for offences against the liquor laws, of
which the great hotels, which remain un-
raided, are at least equally guilty. Every
other week small clubs are raided for offences
against the gaming laws, of which the lead-
ing clubs, which remain unraided, are equally
guilty. . The convention appears to be that if
an institution or individual is only illegal or
blackguardly on a sufficiently large and auda-
cious scale, the authorities will take no
action. This is no doubt profitable to a
few malefactors in influential places while
it lasts; but. the only people to whom it can
bring gratification in the long run are our
revolutionaries.
Scott Fell—What Next ?
The action brought by the Limerick Steam-
ship Co. against the Commonwealth and
W. Scott Fell, M.L.A., which respited in
a Sydney jury giving the plaintiffs a ver-
dict for £19,480 damages last Friday, was
the culmination of a series of suspicious cir-
cumstances surrounding mysterious war-
fortunes, war-gifts and t*e like. It was not
the business of R. Long-Innes. K.C., to
charge corruption against anybody, and he
said so. But tlm meaning of his opening and
the essence of bis whole case was, as Chief
Justice Cullen dazedly remarked more than
once, that W. M. Hughes and Admiral
Clarkson, of the Shipping Board, were
“really carrying out a secret and wholly un-
lawful bargain for Scott Fell and the
Broken Hill cos.”; that ships were requisi-
tioned despite the protests of the British
Government, which at the time needed every
ton of shipping it could lay hands on to
save the United Kingdom from starvation
and the Empire from defeat; and that one
of the results had been to transform Scott
Fell, who recently had been bankrupt, into
a rich man. Although the allegation of
counsel for the plaintiff company was, in
the Chief Justice’s phrase, that “the then
Prime Minister had prostituted his high
office to the serving of the ends of private
parties at a time when the whole attention
of British statesmen had to be devoted to
the ever-changing emergencies and exigen-
cies of the war,” Mr. Hughes did not go
into the witness-box. It is now the duty
of the authorities to see that he explains
himself in another place, and that the others
do likewise. At this moment a boy is await-
ing his trial on a charge of having offered
Speaker Levy, of the N. S. Wales Assembly,
a monetary consideration for a Parliamen-
tary billet. It is highly desirable that
Speakers would be shielded from financial
temptations, even where the tempter is not
in the position to offer more than the pro-
ceeds of the sale of an old bicycle for the
furtherance of his abominable designs. But
it is ten thousand times more urgent that,
when a civil jury has, in effect, made serious
imputations against an ex-Prime Minister, an
M. and a high Government official, they
should be given an opportunity to clear
themselves, before another tribunal. By
leaving this case where it stands Australia
will establish the intolerable principle that,
providing the mishandling of property with-
in their control is alleged on a tre-
mendous scale, and amongst citizens hold-
ing high positions of public trust, no action
shall be deemed necessary. If the right thing-
is done, those implicated will be able, no
doubt, to bring out points in their favor
which Avere inadmissible in the civil case.
Action will in a sense free our whole
governmental system from a shadow under
which it has already labored too long ; it will
satisfy the public that it has one institution
on which it can rely—that there is not in
Australia one law for profiteers and another
for paupers, and that our most influential
legislators are on the same footing as the
humblest laymen before the courts.
•
The Undemocratic Jury System.
“.Solomon Malaprop” resumes the subject:
I fully agree with The Bulletin’s protest
(27/9/’23) against the long and absurd list of exemp-
tions from jury service, which tends to restrict the
selection of jurymen to the intellectual dregs of
humanity. I bold there should be practically no
exemptions save by reason of age and physical or
mental incapacity, though I would make conviction
for certain varieties of crime carry with it removal
from both the jury list and the electoral roll—not
exemption, but expulsion. Yet even with all improve-
ments I am not sure that the system will ever be
all that it is cracked up to be. I know, of course,
that it is the palladium of British liberty and ail
that, just as an Englishman’s house is his castle, and
Britons never shall be slaves. Some pedants have
sunk into such speechless admiration of 12 men in
a box that they wouldn’t even send foreign invaders
lout of the country unless they were tried and con-
victed in orthodox fashion.
A jury is a fairly good institution except when it
is most wanted. When any lawless combine such
as the Communists or the Mafia or the Ku Klux lilan
dominates a district or a country, then because crimi-
nals are far more than usual, juries convict far less
than usual. In fact, they provide for their own
safety by convicting nobody - a t all. They tell the
worst type of malefactor that he has a free hand,
and bid him go ahead. It is really an advantage to-
the criminal to be detected, run in and tried, for,
being solemnly and officially whitewashed, he can’t
be tried again when the law regains its normal
punch—at least, it would be an unthinkable insult
to the palladium if he was. This especially applies
in the case of the foolish English jury of 12 with
its unanimous verdict, for in the event of a convic-
tion every man of the dozen is the marked man
who voted that Ned Kelly should be hanged. With
the Scottish jury of 15 and a majority verdict, a
juror can at least swear that he Avas one of the
minority which Avas over-ruled.
In peaceful times the great essential is to have
one bought or terrorised man on the jury, or one
man who is bound by the regulations of some league
or institution to which he and the accused belong.
This ensures nothing better than a disagreement, but
after a certain number of disagreements the law
grows tired. One rather notorious personage in
N. was tried off and on during a long and


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
FUNDS EXCEED " " " * £875,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT and PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, J.P., Governing Director.
Representatives wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
stormy career, and scored a disagreement every time.
It being difficult to buy eight men out of 15, the
Scottish system was never so helpful to squarers.
Jury-squaring is a recognised industry. Judge-
squaring isn’t. Jury-packing of a sort goes on
openly. It is called “exercising the right of chal-
lenge.” Though juries, especially if squared, are
excellent devices for promoting crime by keeping the
guilty outside gaol so that they may pursue then
unlawful avocations, they aren’t supposed to accom-
plish much by way of getting the innocent inside.
Still, all Judge great achievements in
the way of getting convictions without evidence or
against evidence were done with juries.
Juries begin to be avoided in civil cases, except
by people who want to dodge justice very badly
indeed. An idea is growing that the case tried with a
jury is apt to be more long-winded and consequently
more costly than one tried without that encumbrance.
For one thing, a judge, sitting alone, may make
it clear to Stryver, K.C., that he fully appreciates
the point, so that several hours’ further elaboration
is superfluous. But his Honor may be reluctant to
abbreviate Stryver when he knows it is possible that
the jury hasn’t yet got even a reasonable glimmer-
ing of the point, and may not get one till the day
after to-morrow.
A matter which doesn’t advertise the jury system
much is that the loser, if anything of importance is
involved and if he has the funds wherewith to ruin
the winner, generally rushes his case to another court
where there is no jury. And when the court without
a jury has taken away the plaintiff’s £2OOO verdict
which the jury gave him, and ordered him to pay
two lots of double-barrelled costs, he is apt tio say
in haste that the palladium is a false light on the
shore, put there to lure ships to destruction, and is
no good whatsoever.
Some philosophical heavy-weight (Professor Dicey
maybe), in defence of the jury’s knack of turning
criminals loose to depredate some more, laid it down
that it is better that 99 of the worst characters
should go free than that one innocent person should
suffer. But many innocent persons suffer through the
99 being turned loose, and if the 100th had been
hanged by mistake he would at least have the satis-
faction of knowing that he was bound to die sooner
or later in any case.
Drink and Efficiency.
The weirdest argument in favor of Prohibi-
tion to date was supplied to a Sydney gather-
ing last week by the always unaccountable
Professor Griffith Taylor :
The real “yellow peril,’’ in his opinion, was that
alcohol-drinking countries would be faced in the
future with the keen competition of abstemious
Mohammedan and Eastern races, who would be more
fitted flor the struggle.
After 75 years of prohibitionist effort, the
State of Maine (U.S.) has achieved no-
thing remarkable save the name of being one
of the most backward States of the Union.
In this respect Maine is symbolic. Incom-
petence and a lack of initiative, courage and
energy follow the water-waggon everywhere.
During the period over which the inhabitants
of Maine were struggling, and in many
cases, no doubt, succeeding, in cutting down
their drink bill, the inhabitants of Britain
were achieving unexampled wealth and in-
dustrial efficiency on an annual consumption
of beer and spirits which constituted a re-
cord. Their chief competitors in the race
for power when the World M ar were
respectively Germany, the. U.S. and France
—all hard-drinking countries. Turkey then,
as. now, was notorious for laziness, corrup-
tion, inefficiency, ignorance and insolvency,
and for being the stronghold of the world’s
greatest teetotal sect. The investigator who
makes his way round a map of the world,
with reference to the alcoholic proclivities
of the inhabitants, will find, as an almost
invariable rule, that the drinking nations
are the leaders in war, thought, art, com-
merce, manufacturing and shipping ; that the
non-drinking people are poor and despised
and possessed of an apparently ineradicable
tendency to be bossed by foreign alcoholists;
and that, where it is not so, they have risen
to such importance as is theirs by slavishly
imitating the methods and assimilating the
culture of the beer- and whisky-oonsuming
countries. The phenomenon is found, in
little, in almost every community. The
work that counts in literature, in art, in the
drama, in industry, commerce, etc., does not,
for some reason, seem to be accomplished on
milk and water. Arguing from all the avail-
able evidence, the present supremacy of the
drinking races will only be menaced when a
majority of the whites adopt water as their
national beverage, and a majority of the
colored races take to wine.
“F.C.P.A.” : There is another way of look-
ing at the N.S.W. Public Service Super-
annuation Fund, which, according to a
writer in The Bulletin (4/10/’23), is
already, “though only a little more than
four years old, rotten and insolvent.” Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph, evidently inspired by
some political head who has become awed by
the “tremendous burden” of the State under
the scheme —the liability of the State was
fully appreciated when Parliament passed
the Act —also talks of the “unsoundness of
the Fund,” and suggests that the National-
ist Government, “despairing of continuance
on the present lines,” is considering how it
can gracefully repudiate the scheme. Apart
from such repudiation, the Fund is neither
unsound nor insolvent. It was established
on sound actuarial foundations by expert
actuaries: contributions, by the State and
public servants, were calculated with the
thoroughness with which a conservative life
office adjusts its premium rates to its risks.
The founders made full allowance for the
“expectancy” in respect of deaths, resigna-
tions, break-downs and so on, and assumed
that invested funds would earn 34 p.c. p.a.
The fact that the State is now a debtor to
the Fund to the extent of 24 millions-odd has
probably prompted the talk of insolvency.
That account has been created mostly by
the Superannuation Board’s method of
equating the State’s liability in respect of
the concession granted to old officers of allow-
ing them to contribute for pension rights as
at age 30. The annual liability of the State
under these concessions is, moreover, “rapidly
diminishing,” as the latest report of the
Auditor-General puts it. Besides the
aggregate estimated liability of the State,
the Fund’s accounts showed £2,147,235 of
State and municipal securities and £43,751
of cash assets. Liabilities, apart from those
accrued under actuarial calculations,
amounted to only £8246. During the 12
months to June 30 last, investments, not
including the amounts owing by the State,
increased £365,967, against payments to pub-
lic servants totalling less than £61,000.
«.
Sense scored a victory over sensationalism
in Queensland on Saturday, when Continu-
ance won by the length of a street from
Prohibition, with State Control nowhere. The
Prohibitionist spellbinders relied largely on
tall talk about bankrupt businesses and
starving families. What they failed to show
was that there would be less injurious drink-
ing, and, consequently, fewer domestic and
economic tragedies, under Prohibition. _ For
the purposes of home- and business-ruining,
sly-grog, whose free sale oould not possibly
THE OVERCROWDED FOWLYARD.
JOHN BULL: “Now, I wonder if, instead of going backwards and forwards to get worms for
this mob, it wouldn't pay me better to cart a few of 'em across and let them
get worms for themselves!"
be prevented in a rambling, sea-washed,
underpopulated State like Queensland, is far
more lethal than alcohol which has been
passed officially as sound. Another factor
was the recent amendment to the Liquor
Act, reducing hotel hours —they are now 8
a.m. to 8 p.m. Indeed, the most conspicuous
lesson of the verdict is that the assault upon
liberty which Prohibition represents can
best be met by keeping liquor-trade reform
consistently abreast of public feeling.
The N.S.W. Nationalist Conference met at
Sydney in a helpful mood. It resolved
(1) That the Government devote early attention
to the development of hydro-electric enterprises.. .
(2) That the Government immediately hasten on
with immense water conservation schemes through-
out the country , ~ ,
(3) That.... every encouragement should he
given t'o private landholders and municipal bodies
to create storages, put down bores, and construct
dams and channels, and that there should be no
hesitation in providing the required money, repay-
able over long periods.
(4) That. .. .specially-created trusts be em-
powered to borrow for the construction of local
water storages
(5) That the time has arrived for the extension
of water-conservation works....
(6) That the Government be urged to push on
with the Burrinjuek hydro-electric power and water
scheme.
Then it dashed off 15 resolutions about rail-
ways, five of which read
(1) That a reduction of fares be brought about
by the institution of the zone system.
(2) That freights on agricultural machinery be
reduced. , ,
(3) That railway and tramway fares be reduced
as promised during last State election.
(4) That the age entitling children to half-rate
concessions on Government transportation systems be
increased from 12 to 14 years.
(5) That all children be allowed to travel free
up to the age of seven years.
The list suggests two characters —old
Pharaoh demanding bricks without straw,
and baby Pharaoh bellowing for the moon.
“Lungy” : “Wog’s” remarks (B. 20/9/’23)
regarding the published statements of Dr.
Camac Wilkinson and other lesser medical
lights on the subject of Spahlinger’s con-
sumption cure are timely. Like myself,
“Wog” has bitter reason to know what he is
talking about. The white-ants got him in
the lungs; in my case the spine also was
attacked, German poison gas being respon-
sible for the initial trouble. After five years’
“treatment,” I have reluctantly concluded
that the average medical practitioner knows
as good as nothing about T.B. Sanatorium
treatment is in many respects farcical. There
is the deadly institutional atmosphere, the
petty cliques, and the monotonously sicken-
ing topics of conversation. Fat is a fetich 1 ;
so long as a patient “puts on weight” every-
thing is considered O.K. The tragic fact
that about 70 per cent, of cases suffer a re-
lapse after leaving sanatoria is the most
damning indictment of that form of treat-
ment. Personally, I have no reason to
become ecstatic over Dr. Camac Wilkin-
son’s methods. Nor can I see that Dr.
Wilkinson has substantial grounds on which
to criticise Dr. Spahlinger; much less
have the coterie of Sydney doctors who have
taken it on themselves to condemn his dis-
covery with bell, book and candle. I prefer
to accept the opinions of Dr. Leonard Wil-
liams, the Harley-street lung-specialist (“I
have nothing but praise for the man,” he
wrote, referring to Spahlinger and his dis-
covery), Sir James Barr, and a dozen others
equally eminent in the profession. These
men have investigated Spahlinger’s treat-
ment at first-hand, and their verdict amounts
to an assurance that Spahlinger has done
what every other doctor has failed to do
has definitely cured cases of tuberculosis.
His success advertised itself, as was inevit-
able ; and his asking for a sum of money
before giving his formula to the world can
hardlv be condemned, seeing that he has im-
poverished himself and his parents in per-
fecting his discovery. The cash is merely
required to enable him to carry on, and the
fact of his refusing tempting offers from
British and American syndicates is sufficient
answer to the charge of commercialism.
• —
“Machete” on the gentle art of sweepmail:
“Ex-Bettor” asks (B. 27/9/’23) why people who
draw horses in Tatt.’s sweeps pay owners or trainers
a portion of the prize, when they are under no moral
or legal obligation to submit to what is practically
blackmail. I can assure him that little is left to
chance, or to the ticket-holder’s mere promise. I
know of two cases in which the owner’s agent stipu-
lated for and got a written contract to divide, plus an
order on Tattersall’s to pay the blackmailer’s share
of the prize, if any, to him. Both cases were sc
alike as to suggest a settled practice. Tatt.’s,
apparently, get a good many requests for division
among partners in a ticket, and naturally cannot be
'Wpected to distinguish between the straight and
the crook. There was a time, many years ago, when
it was fondly hoped that Tatt.’s decision not to pub-
lish the names and addresses of drawers of horses
until after the race was run would stop the black-
mailers. But it hasn’t; the information still leaks
out somehow. The only way to foil the blackmailer
will be to draw the sweep after the race has been
run. Meanwhile there are dishonest owners who go a
great deal further than anything “Ex-Bettor” has
indicated. I have a friend whose mother drew a
Sydney horse in a Tatt.’s sweep on one of the
big suburban handicaps. The owner came down
like a wolf on the fold with a demand that the old
lady first of all put up the cash for the final
acceptance fees, jockey’s fees, shoeing charges, etc. —
nearly £3O in all. Of course, he also required a
heavy slice of the sweep money in case of a win.
When his impudent demand was refused he scratched
his horse. Another owner, in very similar circum-
stances, recently stood, watch in hand, up to a
minute before scratching time, waiting for a stubborn
ticket-holder to come up to the mark. There being
no appearance of the person who was to be bled,
the boot was put in and the horse withdrawn.
«
The madness of tlie party system was well
illustrated in the N.S.W-. Assembly the other
night. The Government had brought in a
bill repairing a defect in a 20-year-old
measure dealing with “ancient lights.” The
presumption of law is that, if a building put
up on the boundary of another man’s land
has had a window overlooking that land for
20 years, the owner of the land has sold or
given the right to the free and unimpeded
use of that window for ever. So if A, B and
C own three blocks of land in a row, and
A and C have put up buildings with win-
dows looking out on to B’s land, B will pre-
sently find his land valueless —he will have
lost the right to put up a building because
it would block the other people’s light and
air. Some years ago the law, which N. S.
Wales took' over with a large quantity of
other musty rubbish in 178 S, was altered;
and the doctrine of “ancient lights” was
knocked on the head. But Parliament didn’t
apparently realise that there were the same
“ancient air” rights; and when the Govern-
ment last week proceeded to repair the over-
sight, there was a wild howl from the Labor
Opposition. It patently didn’t know any-
thing about the matter —had no idea that
it was barracking for something musty and
hopelessly archaic; something that the Fat
man had invented for his own benefit long
prior to 1788. It only knew that, the Gov-
ernment having said “Yes,” its job was to
yell "No”; and it sent up a vague yell
accordingly. Of course the second reading
was carried; presumably the bigger crowd
voted “Yes” just as the smaller crowd yelled
“No” without regard for the merits of the
matter.
Fifth Divvy” : The cabled news that
General Smitii-Dorrien has retired from the
army and means to reply to Lord French
for attacking him in connection with his
(Smith-Dorrien’s) “mistake” in standing
at Le Cateau in 1914. recalls that the foun-
dations of Germany’s ruin were laid by such
apparent idiocies. French himself gained
his only notable success by a gross strategical
blunder. When the Germans were rushing
on Paris the Kaiser and his staff had a
right to expect that the British would be
attending to their proper job of guarding
the Channel ports. But French— luckily
for France—had jettisoned his text-books,
and the first intimation the Germans had of
it was the discovery that he was blocking
them. Simultaneously General Gallieni
was helping to save France by another mis-
take. According to the war-rules of 1914,
the commander of a fortress had to wait to
be attacked : the idea of emerging and giving
battle was held to be a heresy. Gallieni
organised his taxi-cab transport system, fell
on the astounded Germans, and there and
then saved the situation. Napoleon won
his most notable victories by a similar dis-
regard of military dogma. It is significant
that there was no warmer applauder of
Smith-Dorrien’s effort at Le Cateau than
French —when the feat was performed. It
was only when he got amongst his books
that he became conventional and realised
the enormity of his colleague’s conduct.
»
“D.H.R.”; The cutting down of the living
allowances of dependants of dead Diggers
as a set-off to the increase in old-age pen-
sions (B. 4/10/’23) hardly surprises me.
How would the politicians pay for all the
commissions they get themselves and their
friends appointed on if they didn’t save the
money somehow? As for the old-age pen-
sioners, their numbers run into thousands,
and they are pretty handy at election time.
But the total of dead-soldier dependants is
admittedly only 200 or so; of what use would
that number be to a politician, even if they
were all packed into one electorate? And the
politician won’t feel the gnawings in the old
folks’ stomachs or the occasional shivers that
pass over their frames in winter because
they’re short of a couple o’ bobs’ worth of
coal or a few clothes, owina to the boy who
used to put his wages in having given
his life to save his country. If the
Diggers outside Parliament were to forget
the political creeds that divide them and con-
centrate on this, they might at the next
elections make things quite unpleasant for
the Minister responsible for this meanness.
There are more than 200 of them.


-
v.
s.«
a
ssi
s
Tl'i /Australia
“In S YDNE Y Us ‘ The A ustralia / ”
This great hostelry has no rival—it is unique in its social
atmosphere, its luxury of appointment and excellence of
cuisine. In every department its reputation is one to be
envied —nor could it be otherwise with an hotel whose
one aim is the comfort and pleasure of its guests.
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 12/6; Luncheon or Dinner from
4/-; Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
“THE AUSTRALIAThe Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sundered on other subjects, N.S.W. Labor
and Nationalist conferences are beautifully
unanimous as to the failure of contortional
misrepresentation. Like the last A.L.P.
Congress that considered the nostrum (the
recent one had no time for anything but the
ballot-rigging business), the Gnash delegates
have declared against it. This is an instruc-
tion to the State Government to conduct the
fufieral obsequies, but owing to fears that
Bruxner’s group may turn nasty the Fullers
hesitate. Still, the present system has done
little for the Cockies, and can’t do much.
Their success has been inconsiderable in the
P.R. States, N. S. Wales and Tasmania;
considerable in Westralia and Victoria, which
have preferential voting and single electo-
rates. In these States, and in the Common-
wealth, where similar conditions obtain, they
have won to a strong position in the popular
Chamber, and an equal-in-all-things status
in the Government.
From a man in the Gallery:—
Vie. Premier Lawson has added to his other
troubles a small squad of Cocky dissentients who
threaten to give the composite Cabinet some sleep-
less nights. Their leader is the party secretary,
Dunstan, who gives the impression that a small
revolution is simmering under his hat. Meanwhile,
Lawson is wondering how far Allan’s section can
be depended upon in time of trouble. Last week the
attendance of Farmers was very sparse. On two
days Allan’s support amounted to one, the other
four or five being ostensibly absent at rural shows.
At one stage they gave Prendergast a chance to em-
barrass the Government by an adverse vote, and they
were certainly responsible for the Premier being
compelled to accept a second-reading debate on
Murphy’s Fair Rents Bill, which Lawson had pre-
viously considered futile. The head of the Govern-
ment is now hinting darkly at a dissolution to
straighten out the tangle, but this won’t frighten
the disgruntled Cockies, who, under the existing
electoral scheme, are more likely to benefit by an
early election than either of the parties. Pren-
dergast’s men don’t want to face their masters. They
would prefer to wait until Lawson gives them two or
three extra metropolitan seats to scramble for.
This is “government by the people.” Par-
liament consists of parties whose members
are to all intents and purposes chosen by
party machines; and the machines consist
of men who, for the most part, choose them-
selves. As for the policies of the parties,
they are mostly determined by “conferences,”
largely consisting of members who also choose
themselves. The Nationalists in N. S. Wales
have just been holding such a conference,
which came to certain decisions regarding
prohibition. And after the decisions had been
announced it was also cheerfully announced
that they had been arrived at “on the voices,’
and that a large number of the “voices” had
come from the back of the hall and belonged
to people who didn’t represent anybody, and
were supposed to be merely listeners.
Bruce having had no time to deal with the
control of the Commonwealth Bank before
he went off to England, Deputy-Governor
Kell is having a long innings as Acting-Gov-
ernor, and his salary has just been advanced
from the Deputy’s £2500 to the Chief’s
£4OOO. It isn’t doing the bank any good to
have its future left suspended for so long.
A dozen or so officers within the bank think
they have some kind of chance to get on
the promised Board, and the result is that
the team is more or less divided —every man
may be doing the best work he can, but he
isnT anxious to see the other fellow a con-
spicuous success. The uncertainty should
be ended at the earliest possible moment.
Prophets in England say that the first
Labor Ministry will arrive in 1926 or 1927.
Labor made its appearance as a party in
1906, with 41 members. By 1911 it still had
only 42. The election of 1919 gave it a lift,
and it numbered 80 at the time of the disso-
lution last year; the subsequent election
made it the second strongest party and the
GOOD OLD UNCLE.
“Dr. Page’s efforts to float a loan in Australia having been only a partial success, the Common-
wealth has been forced to raise £7,000,000 on the London market.”
UNCLE COHEN: “Ah, my poy, in difficulties, arc you? Never mind, your Uncle Cohen
will come to the rescue —for a consideration, of course .”
official Opposition, with 142 members. When
its turn comes there will arrive with it the
question of prohibition, not so much of pubs
as of peers of the hereditary land-owning
variety, with of without compensation ; and
as the House of Lords has lost its veto some
large things may happen. One of them is
pretty certain to be a notification to Aus-
tralia that it mustn’t trust to Britain any
longer for defence, being better able to pay
for the article itself.
“Town planners” are urging that Sydney,
being now the third white city, and also the
fastest-growing city, in the Empire, should
abolish its trams and have only swift and
agile motor-’buses. Certainly the lumber-
ing trams, which must keep their track, are
a nuisance in narrow streets; but we had
better pay for them before we talk of dis-
mantling them. Another objection is that
to displace electricity, brewed out of our
own coal, and depend on imported oil. mostly
bought from an alien a long way off, would
be taking a large risk. When Australia
makes good, cheap and plentiful motor-spirit
out of its own vegetables, thereby saving the
cost of imports, furnishing employment and
developing its magnificent natural resources,
the position will change.
“Old Banker” makes a protest: —
Our banks’ policy is to invest liquid assets to an
excessive degree in London, and therefore outside
Australia. In fact and truth, Australian fixed deposits
are used to develop British trade and manufacture
and enable them to compete in Australia against
ouraelves. Why cannot we have the proceeds
of our export trade to create and develop Australian
manufactures? Why should money be so dear here
when there are unknown millions lent out on the
London Stock Exchange and to big London softgoods
firms at low rates.? Why are not 30 of the 50
millions held in London of Australia’s own
money not returned hither and lent out to
home borrowers? It can be done and ought to be.
We should reduce our public debt there and break
down our over-importing foolishness here.
Two inventions which ought to revolution-
ise the world have been announced almost
simultaneously. Constantinesco, a Greek,
has, by brain exercise rather than muscle, de-
vised a locomotive that is said to haul a load
at one-third the cost of the existing contrap-
tion and give better speed. And an Italian
named Carachristi has discovered, just by
intelligence and thinking hard about the mat-
ter and not by humping heavy loads around,
that petrol spirit and other valuable pro-
ducts can be extracted from coal, and a resi-
due left which is vastly better for heating
purposes than the original coal. Yet every
brawny voice-producer at Macdonell Plouse
is prepared to swear that labor is the sole
source of wealth, and he doesn’t even ask
that it should be skilled labor —in fact, there
is rather a preference for the coal-humping
variety.
The N.S.W. Nationalist Conference, with
its eye on the Country party, turned down
the New State movement with a bang.
“There is a lot of cant about the New
Staters,” said the delegate who did most of
the talking. There may be; but there is a
lot more about “Nationalist” delegates who
oppose the New State movement and at the
same time call upon the State Treasury to
subsidise industries in country towns, in
order to save those towns from extinction.
l “The octopus is sucking' the lifeblood out of
; us,” these muddled delegates say in effect:
: “but it is a kind octopus, and if we stay m
! its tentacles and speak nicely to it, perhaps
it may hand us back a pint or two or our
blood.”
N. S. Wales had 940 fewer pubs in 1921
than in 1890, and only about one-third as
. many in proportion to population. Ihe sur-
vivors, too, close five hours earlier than they
did. Since 1921 the good work has been
accelerated. Broken Hill lost 18 pubs and
four wineshops in one recent act —at least
they will close at the end of the financial
year. Bourke mislaid seven. All these
things happen without any sensational pro-
hibition law, without any outbreak of _sly-
groggeries, without any wholesale poisoning,
and without converting thousands of decent
citizens into law-breakers. Prohibition is
mad enough to think it can make people
sober by violence; the present law does it
without the people suspecting it.
A curse from “Yarrum” :
Potatoes .are being retailed in Sydney at 2 id. per
lb., or at the rate of £23 6s. Bd. per ton; yet a
friend of mine at Mudgee sent a ton to market and
got a net return of £ t 3s. lOd. And they were
excellent spuds.
And if it had been dirt sent from Mudgee it
couldn’t have been retailed for much less,
because (1) Centralisation means high rents
and unnecessary haulage; (2) wasteful ex-
penditure of millions on unnecessary railway
lines means that every spud lias to help pay
a preposterous interest bill; (3) the over-
manning of the railways means that every
spud has also to carry a preposterous load
of wages. These things act and re-act on
one another, making living dear for the man
who handles the spuds, so that lie has to
heap on Ins charges. And the man who is
responsible for it all —and especially tor
making spud-growing and other sorts ot
farming unprofitable—is the loan-mongering,
vote-hunting politician who talks most ot
“settling people on the land.’
Canberra is credited with having started
a mild land boom at Queanbeyan, where some
soil has changed hands at £4O per foot front-
age. A land boom isn’t like a manufacturing
boom, for it produces nothing. It is of no
use to tenants, who merely have to pay more
rent and taxes. But it is a good thing tor
big landlords; and big landlords are plenti-
ful in that part of N. S. Wales. When
Wellington and Ottawa were selected the
people got capable advisers without local
interests, so as to cut out any suspicion ot
jobbery. But Canberra is in a category by
itself. There is no boom in the Federal area
itself, which at latest advices was yielding
less than in 1919; but, the I ederal city
being located in a corner of the area, the
adjacent region of N. S. Wales ought to
make a bit.
Prendergast, who draws an allowance of
£2OO p.a. for acting as Opposition-leader in
the Vic. Assembly, objected to £lOO being
set apart for legal assistance to "unofficial
leader Richardson and other members of the
Uppah Chambah. Lawson replied that the
£lOO would con e out of the customary £5OOO
p.a. appropriation for the exes, of the Cham-
ber. When Sargood was unofficial leader he
used to fee a member of a big firm of solici-
tors to read all bills and instruct him re-
garding the main points. It must have cost
the Yardstick all he occasionally earned as
a Minister to pay the fees; but he never
made a song about it.
Victoria has had 67 years of responsible
government, and it is only now that Parlia-
ment is making provision for evidence being-
taken on oath before select committees.
Probably the oath won’t make witnesses any
more truthful, but one clause in the bill
will be welcome. Witnesses will be free
henceforth from the fear of prosecution for
slander.
Some of the Vic. Cockies won’t easily forgive
Allan, Old, Goudie, Wettenhall and Crockett
for joining Lawson and co. The baptism of
fire to which the old-new team was subjected
in the Assembly included this from Dunstan;
“Members have been asked to bury the
hatchet, but it has been buried already—in
the skull of the Farmers’ Union party.”
Abbott didn’t even wait for Parliament to
meet. He wired to Allan that Lawson had
out-generalled him, and then manceuvred him
into a fourth-rate job (the Lands). Allan
retorted that he could have had the Trea-
surership, but left a better man (McPher-
son) to hold that post while he took the one
he wanted.
The Irish Free State Government has short
ways for safeguarding Liberty. Its Public
Safety Bill provides that persons interned
may stay that way till further notice. Any-
body whose freedom is supposed to be danger-
ous" or detrimental to the community may
be run in, and kept in for six months. At
the end of that time, should the law be re-
newed, he may apparently be re-arrested and
started afresh on his half-yearly career. Rob-
bers and incendiaries who carry arms are to
be flogged, and rebels come under this pro-
vision. The Home Rule Ministry is out for
peace at any price, the other fellow paying
the price. *
A MODERN MARTYR,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A white-whiskered old gentleman named Edward
Bowen has been a regular occupant of the public
gallery during - the last two sessions of the N.S.W.
Assembly. Always the first to arrive and the last to
leave, he has never missed a sitting.”
Men take their pleasures in no end of ways,
In clubs and pubs, the Gardens or the Zoo,
At races, concerts, lectures, sports and plays,
Or anything they find worth listening to.
But, Edward 8., there’s no denying you
Have struck a plan the lagging hours to speed
Night after night that’s positively new.
Your resolution staggers me to read
About-—it does indeed !
Do you move envy in the Hansard chap,
Or press reporters struggling to commit
To paper all this cataract of yap,
This dreary flow of verbiage infinite,
While up aloft, intent and rapt, you sit
Absorbing every period and word
Quite unconstrained and for sheer love of it ?
Or does your zeal appear to him absurd
And you a “queer old bird”?
Grosses and medal';, also O.B.E’s.
For valor .and for merit men have won
In stacks, and University degrees
Honoris causa. But you take the bun
For sheer endurance, Bowen ; what you’ve done
Deserves a decoration, that I’ll swear.
Bruxner and Ley and Stuart-Robertson,
Murphy and AVearne and AVeaver bray and blare —
You never turn a hair.
Do you enjoy the rough-house and the row,
Like Billingsgate or Limehouse with the lid
Lifted? Or have you (tell me) taken a vow
As good old Simeon Stylites did,
He who dire inconveniences amid
Roosted upon a pillar or a pole
To earn a martyr’s crown? Weil, God forbid
I should discourage you, if that’s your goal.
Sit tight, heroic soul!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


W//,
"■m
pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
Serving Industry
Throughout the Commonwealth.
Pioneer Leather Belting is in use in thousands of factories throughout the
Commonwealth.
Manufactured by us from raw hide to finished belt, it is distributed throughout
Australia by our agents in all other States.
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. & K. E. Madder Pty.,
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
S. AUSTRALIA: John McKell, Timp-
son Street, Port Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Eliza-
beth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety ’use
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people:—
Written Toße- Re-
l’iofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1913.. 79,206 10 p.c.=35,000 44,206 331,480
1914.. 76,716 10 „ ~35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
1915.. 68,282 10 „ ~ 40,000 28,282 371,478
1916. .102,037 10 „ ~40,000 62,037 433,515
1917. .105.833 10 ~ ~43,334 62,499 496,014
1918. .112,102 12 „ ~65,334 46,768 542,782
Internal reserves disclosed, £90,000 .. 632,782
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. 512,782
1919. .104,149 10p.e.= 72,000 32,149 544,931
Premiums on new shares . . £27,280 572,211
1920. .143,975 12)p.c.=101,790 ( 32,185 604,396
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO 1
1921. .104,561 10p.c.= 87,720 ) „
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO ( 0)841
1922. . 123,772 10 p.c.= 87,720 1 7 „„
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ) Z0)U0)i tKU,z«y
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650 746,939
1923. .161,006124p.c.-109 650 - , 7 )
Provident Fund, .£15,000 \ ’ *
Reserves capitalised, . . £109,650 673,645
A profit considerably larger than disclosed
for any other year, even during the period of
war prices, is not the only outstanding fea-
ture of the latest accounts. Five years ago
the directors brought to light £90,000 of
internal reserves; now they lay another
milestone in the co.’s very prosperous career
with this entry in the revenue account:
“Transfer from amounts standing to the
credit of internal provisions at June 30, 191 J/,
£109,650.” That is more than the average
disclosed profit for 18 months in the five-
year period prior to the war, and, taken into
consideration with the previous disclosure of
£90,000, emphasises the extent to which the
business had been fortified against every
contingency. In a dozen years to 1914 about
£300,000 of visibile reserves accumulated
after paying 10 p.c. divs., except in two
ears, when a point less was distributed.
Shareholders are now told that practically
£200,000 more was put into various stock-
ings over an unspecified period ending 1914.
In other words, everything has worked out
so well for the big concern that the direc-
tors are now in the position to admit that
the profits shown for many years did not
reveal all the earnings. There has been good
reason to suspect that quite a tidy amount
of the exceptional earnings of the war period
were also stuffed away; perhaps the more
recent provisions for contingencies are now
regarded as ample to take the place of most
of those tucked out of sight prior to the
Commonwealth Government becoming inter-
ested in income-tax.
The £90,000 brought to light in 1918
bought bonus scrip for shareholders, and the
whole of the latest £109,650 has been put to
the same use: the latter gives a one-in-eight
issue. At June 30 there were 146,200 £lO
shares paid to £6; the bonus issue puts out
18,275 more similarly paid. The register
now tots up only £13,150 short of a million,
and there are visible reserves of £673,645.
Only 16 years ago paid capital was £190,000,
and while surplus profits have added £229,650
shareholders have put in £567,200 with new
issues at par. Taking into consideration the
comparatively limited, though prosperous,
field which S. Axis, and the West Darling has
offered, the growth of Elder, Smith’s has
been phenomenal. More astonishing are the
balance-sheet figures:—
1915. 1920. 1922. 1923.
£ £ £ £
Deposits, etc. 1,636,756 2,201,305 1/885,526 2,118,705
(J t li e r lia-
bilities . . 55/998 65,587 20,664 50,008
Property pre-
mises, plant,
etc. .. 139,984 278,598 333,551 352,882
Government
stock & cash 674,468 1,456,515 1,099,862 1,472,268
Advances,
etc. . . 1,646,959 2,016,536 2,028,170 2,099,389
Other assets 22,821 62,630 136,449 127,539
At June 30 total visible funds, prior to
extracting the final div. and bonus, amounted
to £1,726,285, and on the other side were
Government securities and cash for no less
than £1,472,268. Thus, except for about a
quarter-million, outside funds were financing
all trading operations. Put another way:
all except £696,445 of total outside liabili-
ties amounting to £2,168,713 were covered by
gilt-edged securities and cash. There are
very few cos. which have command of so
much cheap money in excess of their trading
requirements; in other words, Elder, Smith’s
is in the fortunate position of being able to
largely extend operations without calling on
shareholders for another bean. Interests
have not been restricted to S. Aus., of
course; there are branches in all mainland
capitals and at Broken Hill. The metal
business has been as good as dead for
several years, but Elder, Smith’s has shown
a point to Dalgety’s, which closed down its
ore-buying department, by becoming Aus-
tralian agents for the British Metal Corp.,
the influential concern which, under the
auspices of the British Government, was
formed to develop and handle Empire mineral
resources. In other branches turnover has
expanded rapidly in recent years. A lew
months ago the eo. purchased premises in
Melbourne. The property account at June
30 stood at £296.858, which was £107,416
less than the original cost of premises.
Barnet Glass Berber Co., Ltd.: —
, Dividends. *
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. Bp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1913.. 11,015 4081 121 p.c. = 2,812 4,122 10,153
April,
1914.. 8,790 3467 12£ „„ 2,344 2,979 13,132
Co. reconstructed ; £22,500 in new Deficit.
June, shares issued for goodwill .. 9,368
1915.. 19,603 4200 8 p.c. = 7,782 7,62.1 1,747
Reserves.
1916.. 45,099 4200 15£ „ „ 14,248 26,651 24,904
1917.. 26,284 4200 101 .. „ 12,800 9,284 34,188
1918.. 48,153 4200 13 „ „ 17,687 26,266 60,454
Provision for taxes, £7500 .. 52,954
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £73,750 . . 20,796
Additional goodwill item, £3958 .. 24,751
1919.. 32,686 6,114 8 p.c. = 14.526 12,046 12,708
10 p.c.
1920.. 41,716 14,615 10 „ „ 22,125 4,976 7,732
Pref. Ord. Total.
1921.. 5,633 4 p.c. 4 p.c. 16,167 18,266
Loss.
1922.. 93.719 Nil Nil Nil 111,985
Capital written off, £89,736 .. 22,249
Profit.
1923.. 26,136 10 p.c. Nil 19,589 6,547 15,702
The writing-down of stocks and the subse-
quent reduction of capital had not, by June
30 last, restored the Barnet Glass Co.'s posi-
tion to a satisfactory basis. The past year
showed only enough profit to pay portion
of the current and outstanding divs. on the
8 p.c. cum. prefs. ; and the ordinaries, for
the second year running, get nothing. In
view of the results disclosed by the Dunlop
and Perdriau cos., something more than
"keen competition in some selling lines”
must have accounted for the slender profit
margin from Barnet Glass operations for
the 12 months. Presumably, when the direc-
tors recommended the writing-off of 6s. per
ordinary share (£89,736) towards the end
of last year, full allowance was then made
for ascertained losses, and for those which
might reasonably have been expected from
uncompleted contracts, as well as from the
depreciation of stocks of manufactured and
raw materials. The heavy reduction of capi-
tal was expected to have placed the co. on
solid foundations again; instead, no less
than £150,903 flowed out to earn gross profits
of £177,039. and the £26,136 net profit meant
less than 6J p.c. on written-down capital. The
co. appears to have had troubles other than
those which the directors swept away by
cancelling scrip and extinguishing reserves.
However, from the chair, Speaker W. A.
Watt announces that the Board “feels that
the prospects justify the hope of more satis-
factory and profitable operations in the near
future.”
The Barnet Glass people were misled by
the abnormal conditions of the war-period.
In 1914 paid capital was made up of 52.500
8 p.c. £1 cum. prefs. and 22,500 £1 ordi-
naries. The business was developing nicely,
and to coax in capital to provide for expan-
sion ordinary capital was doubled in a re-
construction which put out £22.500 of scrip
for goodwill. Then 52,500 new ordinaries
were offered at par and were fully sub-
scribed. The “prosperity” of the next four
war-years—the phenomenal expansion of the
industry, accompanied by unexpected sur-
pluses from manufacturing and trading in
rising markets —resulted in fat divs. being
distributed on capital which had been ex-
panded rapidly by new cash subscriptions.
Even then there were apparently large mar-
gins of accumulated “profit,” and almost
every penny of them was converted into scrip
in 1918. In the six years 1915-20 the dis-
closed net profits averaged £35,590 p.a. But
the co. was so hard hit during the slump,
and by the general depression and competi-
tion and other troubles, that for the past
three years a loss of £61.950 has been re-
corded. Consequently, the average net pro-
fit for nine years has been less than
£17,000 p.a. For the past three years the
8 p.c. cum. prefs. have had only 14 p.c. (10
p.c. is in arrears), the ordinaries have re-
ceived only 4 p.c., capital amounting to
nearly £16,000 more than the £73,750 of
bonus scrip issued in 1918 has been can-
celled, and reserves of only £6798 remain
to set against £22,500 of goodwill. How
very different would have been the co.’s posi-
tion had the directors proceeded along con-
servative lines, distributed, say, 10 p.c.,
or even a bit more, on capital subscribed in
cash, and held all apparent surpluses for
contingencies! Instead of the recent jolt-
ing and the re-arrangement of capital, the
co.’s financial position would have remained
on a thoroughly sound basis, all necessary re-
adjustments could have been made by a few
simple book entries, and satisfactory divs.
would have continued to flow.
Paid capital is now £403,252, compared
with £492,983 12 months ago. In works
and plant, etc-., £265,428 has been invested,
and at June 30 stocks, book debts and odds
and ends totted up £336,250. Consequently
outside liabilities were large: bank account
was overdrawn £145,293, and £60,915 was
owing otherwise. However, liquid assets
(including stocks) were £130,000 larger than
all debts. Further details are given in the
following comparisons
1920. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Liabilities . . £229.962 £379,725 £246,388 £206,208
Freeholds .. 65,715 88,317 96,437 91,370
Plant, etc. . . 102.337 147.388 162,948 174,053
Book debts .. 122,745 107,578 107,960 97,560
Stock.. .. 312,595 490,843 246,355 225,580
Cash, etc. .. 15,013 18,932 13,686 13,110
The balance-sheet position at June 30 was
much easier than it had been for several
years, though the co. was still depending on
outsiders to finance a large portion of its
stocks and customers’ accounts. The
199,190 profs., by the way, have the backing
of assets with a book value of £387,550;
nearly 395. per £1 share.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1914 ~ £323,847 £280,000 £11,158 £188,682
1915 . . 231,373 30,000 18,636 371,419
1916 ... 386.979 210,000 17,294 531,204
1917 . . ' 240,000 32,245 751,499
1918 .. r 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reeoi
Special . .60,000 .. .. 721,470
Rctunud to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 ... 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 . . 258.443
Other writino-s-up and adjustments
making reserves .. . . .. 390.091
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 .. £344.113 15 p.c. = £120,000 £614,204
192° • • 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 . , 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 .. 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
Only in two other years, when metals were
at peak war-prices, have P». H. South profits
been larger, and as much was distributed in
divs. during the past 13 months as in anv
other year. Two divs. for £160,000 ( 20 p.c.)
were really from 1922 earnings, though the
warrants went out two and five months after
the closing of that year’s accounts. The re-
maining 15 p.c. was handed out during the
past financial year, and £60,000 (7$ p.c.)
more was paid on August 10. The profits
in the table are larger than those claimed
by the directors, net additions to various
reserves having been tacked to the £322,781
they disclose. Considerably more than half
the profits for the past two years have been
won from retreating old slimes dumps for
their lead contents. During the 24 months
ended June 284,592 tons dump slimes were
handled for 53,080 tons marketable concen-
trates containing 23,963 tons lead, 8395 tons
zinc and 1,578,5570 z. silver. The manage-
ment has gone to some trouble in the pub-
lished accounts to make more or less arbi-
trary divisions of income and profits, so that
the fat returns, following closely on the
famous award by Justice Edmunds, which
was expected by some to cripple Broken Hill,
may not be misunderstood :
Gross
, Marketed——— r Profits
1922. 1923. 1922. 1923.
Products of
other years .. £54,752 £61,373 £54,752 £61,3/ 3
Metals fro m
crudes . . 372,476 496,307 84,666 117,227
Metals f r o m
slimes . . 216,624 276,063 152,245 204,305
£643,852 £833,743 £291,663 £382,905
Interest and divs. from investments increased
last year’s gross profits to £406,582, and
charges on the other side were : administra-
tion exes., etc., £11,637; debenture interest
and costs, £7442; income-tax provision,
£34,000; and depreciation, £30,722; total,
£83,801.
The outstanding feature of the period was
the high price ruling for lead : the average
of £25 17s. Id. was £2 13s. Id. better than
for 1922. Zinc at £33 7s. 4d. was also up
£7 Is. 7d.; hut silver at 2s. 11.6 d. was down
4d. per oz. The figures are a big advance on
the old-time average of about 2s. for silver,
£l2 to £l3 for lead and about £24 for zinc.
Heavy labor costs did not, therefore, press
too hard on the big show. Ore extraction
was more expensive last year, but treatment
charges eased, and less was spent on develop-
ment. Here are comparisons for the past
three years:—
1921. 1922. 1923.
C r udes
raised .. 37,007 tons 164,955 tons 203,659 tons
Extraction . , 365. 6.1 d. 225. 11.3 d. 255. 11.3 d.
Development.. 10.6 d. 3s. 6.0 d. 2 s. 10.Od.
Treatment . . 13s. 10.3 d. Bs.- 5.6 d. Bs. 0.3 d.
51s. 3d. 345. 10.9 d. 365. 9.6 d.
Total costs per ton of leady concentrates,
including treatment of current slimes, was
£lO 7s. 3d., the concentrates going 66.3 p.c.
lead. 7.1 p.c. zinc and 24.40 z. silver. How
much the dump . slimes meant to the co.
is revealed by the disclosure that costs were
£2 Is. lOd. per ton leady concentrates pro-
ducecl, the product carrying 46 p.c. lead,
-o-hoz. silver and 15.4 p.c. zinc. The old
slime dumps will be exhausted next month,
excepting 120,000 tons oxidised material,
lor which no profitable treatment process has
so far been evolved. However, the last
penny extractable has not been taken out of
this old material re-treated; about 425,000
tons of the de-leaded residue goes approxi-
mately 4 p.c. lead, 2oz. silver and 18.2 p.c.
zinc, and are to go through the zinc flotation
plant at the rate of about 3000 tons a week,
and 4 00 tons zinc concentrates are expected
weekly. "Substantial profits will accrue
from this work,” the directors add.
In mining and treating crudes, general-
manager \\ ainwriglit and liis crew can still
measure a long and profitable career for the
South mine, provided the metal markets hold
and working costs become no heavier. More
than 84 million tons ore are definitely in
sight, and there are good bodies, proved by
diamond drill outside the known areas, which
have not been opened up. Government Geolo-
gist Andrews in his report told the South
that it "may expect” between on*' and two
million tons more. The problem for the
future is to raise larger tonnages; last year
an average of about 4000 tons weekly was
hauled. The management is out to increase
output to 0000 tons, and has already achieved
5000 tons. Larger tonnages should effect
materia] reductions in costs throughout.
• • • • • «
During the past year considerable funds
have been spent on additions to, and re-
organisation of. surface equipment. Plant
account was £51,215 larger on the year, and
£OO,OOO to £70,000 more is to go in the same
way. But notwithstanding all the expendi-
ture and the distribution during the year of
£280,000 of divs., the surplus of liquid assets
over and above the debenture debt and all
other liabilities was £25,827 stronger:—
Assets other than mine 1921. 1922. 1923.
and plant . . £783,662 £1,063,652 £1,091,197
Liabilities .. .. 207,561 198,687 200,405
Excess assets . . £576,101 £864,965 £890,792
Allowing for all the expenditure contem-
plated on new plant, the whole of the paid
capital was represented by assets other than
the South mine and its equipment. Some-
holdings were in associated cos.: £200,000
in the Port Pirie Smelters; £150,000 in
Electrolytic Zinc; £50,000 in the British
mine, which may be taken off the co.’sTTands
at a premium if the B. 11. North purchases
the British on the terms now under consider-
ation. The liquid surplus is a better guide
to the South’s actual position than the re-
serves shown in the introductory table. They
were made up as follows: —
1921. 1922. 1923.
Special reserve . . £311,034 £286,742 £264,879
General reserve . . 33,927 37,509 88,732
Debenture reserve . . 79.051 94,370 108,434
P. &L. balance .. 7,411 167,425 128,048
Total .. ..£431,423 £586,046 £590,093
Depreciation reserve. . 136,996 194,362 246,947
New plant reserve .. 62,400 {
Development account 21,671} 101,bil
£568,419 £864,479 £938,711
Incidentally, on September 5 the South re-
ceived its first div. (£6000) on its holding
of ordinaries in Electrolytic Zinc, and the
British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty.,
in which £12,500 of 74 p.c. debentures and
£20,000 of shares are held, is reported to
have become "firmly established,” and is
expected to become a div.-payer soon.
TV ilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., wool, hide, Skin
and tallow merchants (Sydney) :
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918. . £27,181 8 p.c. = £20.800 £6,381 £6,381
1919.. 44,357 8 ~ „ 20,800 23,557 29,938
1920.. 148,665 13 „ „ 41,900 ( 71 7 „.
Reserves capitalistd, £35,000 } 'V'’ o
Loss.
1921.. 31,367 Nil 70.336
Profits.
1922.. 66,132 124 p.c. = 50,000 16,132- 86,468
1923.. 75,070 124 „ „ 50,000 25,070 111,538
This co. amalgamated two old firms six
years ago, and it did magnificently in the
unprecedented boom in the hides and leather
markets which followed. For the first two
years it averaged 13f p.c. p.a. on £260,000
of paid capital: in the third year 42 p.c. was
earned on £350,000, and 13 p.c. was paid
in divs. and 10 p.c. in bonus scrip. Share-
holders also put up £105,000 more in cash,
and paid capital has remained at £400,000
ever since. Losses were made during the
period of slump, but they wiped out only a
small portion of the exceptional gleanings.
The recovery was so good that for the past
two years there have been surplus profits of
£41,202 over and above 124 p.c. p.a. divs. to
shareholders. Ou capital to begin with and
on new cash subscriptions, that rate of div.
gives 13.7 p.c. After making the handsome
distributions to shareholders, in the six years
£111,538 of visible reserves have accumu-
lated, equal to nearly 28 p.c. on capital (in-
cluding the bonus additions). These reserves
should, of course, make good divs. easier in
future, because total funds have to earn only
8] p.c. net to show a 124 p.c. return on capi-
tal ; bat the history of the co. sufficiently in-
dicates that the business is one liable to vio-
lent fluctuations, although an effort has been


The “Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR SEPTEMBER.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office.
THE REVIEWS INCLUDE:
Australia Hotel
Australian Benefit Life
Australian Gas Light
Automatic Engineering
Ballarat Banking Co.
Broken Hill Proprietary
C.A.S.E., Ltd.
Colonial Provident Life
Dennys, Lascelles
Equitable Life of Q’land
Geo. Farmer
Goodlet and Smith
Hackett Bros.
Huir.e Pipe
New Carpet Loom Co.
New Zealand Insurance
Perpetual Trustee
Pitt, Son and Badgery
Q’land Woollen Manufac.
Registrations, New
Sargents, Ltd.
Southern Cross Glass
Southern Union Gen- Ins.
Standard Insurance
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at ffm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from ffm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
# * • »
As a. light, lasting economical conduit, Pioneer
Wood Pipe has no equal. It is cheap to buy, handle,
transport and install, and wonderfully satisfactory in
service. It never rusts nor pits, but preserves the
purity of the water and the volume of flow through-
out its long life. Another factor that increases its
durability is its immunity from electrolysis, frost
and bursting pressures. Write for our illustrated
book for full information.—The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World. — Advt.
*> * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
The Clarence River District (N.S.W.) hales as
the dawn of a new era the commencement of the
Nymboida harnessing, which will supply cheap
electric power. All the concrete for this important
installation has been mixed by Australian-made
concrete mixers, known as the “Multimix,” manu-
factored and supplied by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough Mouse, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne; and 21 Morphett
Street Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “lioristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.—Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Work at the Federal Capital is being Expedited by Labor-saving Machines.
the keystone traction
EXCAVATOR
is a Light General Utility Steam
Shovel suitable for all kinds of earth-
work. Being a great labor-saver it
is indispensable for cheap Road
Construction.
mmmm
So satisfactory has the Keystone
Traction Excavator proved, the
Commonwealth Government has
ordered another for use at Canberra.
The first one has been in constant
use for years.
AGENTS FOR KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, Parramatta Road, SYDNEY.
POSTAL ADDRESS: 10 GEORGE STREET, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
made to eliminate risks by confining the
business as much as possible to agency
work. Reserves are labelled as nomi-
nal in the table because at the beginning
an unspecified amount of scrip was issued
against goodwill. The extent of that intan-
gible asset has never been disclosed, but
accumulations of profit have covered the
item many times over, and it now represents
only a trifle of the assets. In the flush
years something probably also went into
inner reserves: in addition to the £111,538
shown in the introductory table £35,805 has
accumulated in a reserve for depreciation
and renewals, or more than 10 p.c. of the
book value of all fixed assets, including good-
will. Some of that pile may not be required
for the specific purposes for which it was
accumulated.
In the following comparisons of balance-
sheet figures fixed assets are shown less the
depreciation and renewals reserve:—
1918. 1921 1922 1923
Paid capital. . £260,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 206,140 203,915 93,115 77,911
Fixed assets.. 257,009 299,935 299,835 310,655
Stocks.. .. 185,913 191,411 207,456 214,941
Book debts . . 51,624 179,618 103,402 102,944
Cash . . . . 561 13,439 6,871 1,513
The co.’s position at June 30 was snug: all
outside liabilities were covered more than
four times over by stock and book debts.
Beyond giving a general view of the co.’s
affairs the published accounts are not infor-
mative : P. and L. results are confined to
one entry, and the directors’ report is re-
stricted to a statement that “the business
has shown satisfactory expansion during
the year.”
* * * *
After almost two months’ silence North
Broken liill directors have told shareholders
how they propose to pay “the equivalent,
of about 235. Od. per share” for the British
mine. The British is in 525,000 £1 shares.
The North and South cos. and the Zinc
Corp. each put £50,000 in the float which
wrested the old British Co. from the Eng-
lish control which had been a thorn in the
sides of the other cos. in their smelting and
metal-selling activities. North, for pur-
poses of liquidating its neighbor, is to sur-
render its £50,000 of British scrip at par.
It apparently also holds options over the
South and Zinc holdings at 21s. cash, and
so will pay £105,000 for those 100,000
shares. To settle with the British register
of 375,000 shares remaining, the proposal
is to allot 100,000 North shares and pay
£140,025 cash. The cash represents 7s. 6d.
per British share, and the scrip 165., taking
Norths as worth the 60s. at which they were
quoted when the proposals were first made,
the two payments making to a penny the
235. 6d. originally announced. Since then
the market for Norths has declined to 585.,
so on latest quotations the cash and shares
are worth not much more than par to the
British holder. And when the 100,000 new
Norths are on the market values may go
lower. Even so—and, of course, market
values are not a reliable guide—the Brit-
ish holder will probably do much better
with his cash and North holding than he
could expect from his British interests.
Altogether the North pays its original
£50,000 and £245,025 other cash, and expands
its share-register by 100,000 shares (from
£600,000 to £700,000). And what does it
get in return? For a start the British shows
a surplus of assets apart from mine, plant
and machinery over all outside liabilities of
£200,000 or so. Next come known ore re-
serves of approximately 824,000 tons, most of
it low-grade: the average is about 13 p.c.
lead, 11.0 p.c. zinc and 7oz. silver. Then
there is the plant and equipment. Whether
it will prove a payable deal for the North
depends entirely on the metal markets of
the future, and that is the unknown factor.
If the market continues high, the British
low-grade ores will prove a good investment
for North at the price paid for them. If
the market is not favorable, then North will
have squandered almost £300,000 of its cash
and allotted 100,000 shares on acquiring a
more or less has-been proposition which it
did not need from any mining point of view.
The North is a big, wealthy show with excel-
lent prospects, and its shareholders should
learn a lot more about the motives prompting
the deal before agreeing. Behind all the
published announcements is the suspicion
that the latest proposal is the final act in a
little play which has been staged behind
closed doors in Collins-street, and that it is
not only for North’s health that it has been
selected to carry the baby. This year’s
North’s accounts, by the way, are about a
month late in making their apearance. How-
ever, the meeting is fixed for October 30, and
the accounts and the British proposition will
both be considered on that date.
=!=*•*■*
Lucknow Amalgamated Gold Mines, N.L.,
will shortly be registered in Melbourne. The
new co. will pronably represent the final
cast of the dice so far as the old Lucknow
field is concerned. It will be a fusion of the
interests of the present decrepit Lucknow
Mines and the Lucknow Brown Vein, N.L.,
a Victorian concern with Alec and Duncan
Marshall as leading lights. For a start the
southerners absorbed the 26,000 forfeited
shares for the call-clue value. Then the
amalgamation process commences. Lucknow
Mines holders will have the proposal put to
them in due course, and indications are that
they will grasp the opportunity. They will
get 150,000 shares in a live co. of 400,000
2s. shares instead of their lately worthless
paper. The Melbourne crowd will absorb
125,000 contribs. paid to 25., the under-
writers will get 25,000 paids, and the other
100,000 paids will go to the vendors. At
present it isn’t clear who they are. The
Darcy shaft and the new main shaft will be
the avenues of preliminary exploration. The
Darcy is 1500 ft. down and cost the last Eng-
lish co. about £3O a foot. It is probably the
best-timbered shaft in N. S. YVales, the very
best hardwood having been used. A back
joint was struck at 1500 ft. with a slaty for-
mation which averaged to an ounce by assay,
the stone being highly mineralised. The
English co., however, cried peccavi after the
death of manager Skidmore in 1910,
and his hopes in the Darcy were
buried with him. Owing bo its freak
gold deposits worked between 1892-99,
Melbourne folk are more inclined to
back Eucknow than any other gold-reeling
spot in N. S. Wales, on the principle that
something was sure to have been overlooked
in the palmy days. The field was at its
zenith in 1895, in which year the Wentworth
Proprietary produced £234,388 of gold and
the Aladdin’s Lamp £89,037. Some pockets
showed dazzling richness; but they gener-
ally took a lot of finding.
* * * *
Dilatory methods of the Crown South float
constitute a sad commentary on the running
of gold specs, in Sydney. On August 15 a
prospectus was issued by the Options Co.
setting forth the terms on which the show
would be passed over to a co. of 200,000
shares of 2s. 6d. The document made an
emphatic statement that the whole of the
125,000 contribs. had been underwritten.
The underwriting agreement provided that
holders of the 1000 option shares would re-
ceive £2 a share in cash and 25 fully-paid
and 25 contributing shares in the float.
Under this guarantee buyers went into the
market and forced option shares, on which
£3 had been paid, as high as £6 ss. Just
then a break occurred in the Crown market
in Pitt-street, and apparently the under-
writers of Crown South were left with the
whole issue. Their policy since has been
forgetfulness and drift. No effort has been
made to register the South Co., or to close
the books for payment of the £2 div. Con-
sequently the market has died, and those who
paid £3 a share are in the soup, together
with the adventurous spirits' who success-
fully bid £U ss. for scrip. “■Underwriting”
appears to have developed into a gamble
with a double-headed penny.
& £
The glittering forecasts of Earle Her-
man’s office concerning Carter’s Hill
(N.S.W.) e-old prospects have been dispelled
by the failure of the five-head battery
to produce much beyond 3d. calls. One
trouble seems to be that the gold is a
shallow deposit in calcite, which slimes so
excessively that adequate recoveries are
hopeless with an ordinary scratch plant.
Anywhere below 50ft. values diminish when
the real quartz formations make • their
appearance.
* * * *
Helped by a favorable report from A. P.
Penman, Bribbaree (N.S.W.) gold was
floated successfully in Sydney last week.
The new co. is in 80,000 shares of ss. each;
there are 50,000 contribs. paid to 25., and
30,000 paids along with £l5OO in cash go to
the vendors. .As 124 tons have been crushed
for 2520 z. with the 5-head battery on the
property, and as the shaft and bottom level
have reached; 130 ft., the proposition has
more to recommend it than some shows which
gain the title of “mines” before the surface
has been properly scratched. The average
width of reef is 20in., and Penman describes
the stone as being of the free-milling variety,
with almost entire absence of mineral; and
the gold is finely disseminated. The property
is on the line from Stockinbingal to Forbes,
and in new country so far as gold is con-
cerned. However, Wyalong is only 40 miles
west, Grenfell 30 miles north-west, and
Young 30 miles south-east.
* * * *
Sampling on the Mutooroo’s Mighty Atom
option at Laverton (W.A.) has given more
than ounce values in some costeens. But a
tidal wave of such reports would be neces-
sary to lift prices to the late 12s. mark.
Dick Osborne surely will advise the elimina-
tion of rich stuff as too erratic to be re-
corded. A tired feeling also existed in Mel-
bourne ’Change when the Speck reportd lOoz.
assays from a Oft. lode at the Eingarooma
United. A bulk lot forwarded to Adelaide
went 2,1 oz. The vital question is what will
be the average value to be fed to the pro-
posed 10-lid. battery. Three reefs are expected
to junction in the claim at 150 ft., and the
programme is to hunt them out as soon as
possible. Considering the manner in which
most Tas. gold-reefs have behaved, it will
probably pay to learn more of the Ringa-
rooma lodes before committing the co. to
heavy outlay on a mill.
Westralian Mines Minister Scaddan re-
cently got a few points from Dr. Pitchford
about combating miners’ phthisis, and he now
talks of sending a mines inspector to
S’Afriea to study conditions on the Rand.
Mararoa’s new option is at Reedy’s Find,
on the Murchison field (W.A.). The show
has a big lode, which, it is claimed, can be
profitably treated with plant on the spot.
Production so far has been insignificant.
Silver-lead is all the talk in Queensland
at present; following on the Chillagoe find,
it seems as though Cloncurry might partly
regain its former prosperity from the new
discovery on Lagoon Creek, West Leich-
hardt. 64 miles north-west of Duchess, and
134 miles from Cloncurry. Thirty-two men
are at work, and leases have been pegged in
all directions. Promising prospects have
been got for about five miles over a width
of a mile. There are four or perhaps more
distinct lode channels, the most important
being Mount Isa, two and a half chains
across. The footwall portion is 16ft. of car-
bonate ore, of which approximately one-third
is actual ore, assays going up to 2500 z. silver
per ton. About a hundred tons sent to
Chillagoe smelters have averaged 60 p.c. lead
and 50oz. silver per ton. The ore occurs
in sedimentary rocks in narrow bands, strik
ing north and south, and dipping westerly
about 50deg., the veins varying from half
an inch to 2ft. wide, with an average of Sin.
The lot is high-grade, and practically all will
pay for smelting. Government Geologist
Saint Smith has had a look, and considers
the find worth a thorough trial.
* * * *
The Waratah, Croydon (N.Q.), should
soon finish a fair-sized crushing, and a 2-Joz.
return is expected. Three small crushings
will follow. The battery has so far run well.
Now that the water in the No. 10 Golden
Gate has been beaten, a monkey-shaft is to
go down to ascertain whether the reef lives
on the eastern side of the break.
A large area in the vicinity of the old
Ortona copper-field, about 58 miles from I’or-
sayth (N.Q.), has been tried lately for
gold, and prospects of up to Toz. have been
sighted. Several men are on the find.
Maldon (Yic.) is anxiously awaiting de-
velopments in the Grand Junction, where
plant is up and ore-getting in progress. So
far the show has been one of small things.
Work at the 130 ft. and 225 ft. levels brought
to light small parcels of 9dwt. stone, with
the reef running up to 4ft. At the bottom
level there is more stone but less gold. That
has been the experience almost everywhere
at Maldon. Manager Baxter expects to get
better values by driving north, but from
Oswalds to the South German the field for
the last 20 years has lived on hopes of the
kind without anything materialising.
* * * *
Austral Malay is out with a comprehen-
sive prospectus and boring charts relating
to its Burmese tin-dredging venture, the
Tliabawleik. The 100.000 £1 contrib. shares
were promptly snapped up when the float was
mooted, so the prospectus is circulated merely
to tell backers what they have got for their
money. Austral Malay takes 60,000 fully-
paids and £35,000 cash ; but it pays £35,000
(£25,000 cash and 10,000 fully-paids) to
vendors Wightman and Co., of Rangoon, and
is rewarding its prospectors and officers who
helped to secure the property by dividing
7500 more of its fully-paids. A. W. Free-
man, NT. F. G. Burrows and E. N. Mulli-
gan certify to 651 acres of an average depth
of 15.6 ft. containing 16,400,000 c. yd. averag-
ing 1.461 b. It is proposed to equip with a
dredge similar to that operating on Ulu Yam.
With a 100,000 c. yd. output a month, a life
of 14 years is estimated, and on Freeman’s
calculations a recovery of ljlb. per yd.
should give from £45,000 profit per annum
with tin at £lBO, to £60,0-00 with tin at £220.
* * * *
Another tin-dredging venture fully-sub-
scribed before a prospectus reached Sydney
is Malcolm Newman’s Malim Nawar, regis-
tered in Malaya to tackle 324 acres 19 miles
south of Ipoh. The co. is a limited liability
concern of 100,000 £1 shares: 26,416 fully-
paids go to vendors and the whole of the
balance (73,584) are issued as contribs. Of
the cash put in the vendors also take
£10.584 for purchase and promoters’ con-
sideration and investigation costs. Newsman
records 280 acres 50ft. deep containing
22,000,000 yd., with outside additions taking
the total to 30 millions. Sampling has given
an average of 0.821 b. per yd., but Newman
stresses the Malayan experience that boring
is no more than a rough guide to prospective
recoveries; he quotes instances of produc-
tion giving values half as large again as
those disclosed by boring and others as low'
as 26 p.c. of the sampling. He puts em-
phasis on “the extreme friability of the
ground, as it is my considered opinion that
this feature outweighs the difference in
boring values between this and many ‘pound
ground’ propositions. Given the yardage
necessary for a long life, I would as soon
have a fib. proposition capable of being
treated at the rate of 120,000 yd. per month
as a lib. show with a maximum output of
80,000 yd.” A 120,000 yd. dredge is to be
installed and equipped to burn Malayan slack
coal. With tin at £lBO a monthly profit of
£2562 is expected, £2954 at £2OO, and £4208
ai; £250.
Melbourne-owned Lampeh (Southern
Siam) expects to have its Thompson suc-
tion-cutter plant in full working order in
December. C. J. Rowe, who one-time worked
a suction dredge for Petaling, at- Ipoh
(F.M.S.) —incidentally, that plant was
bought second-hand from the Westernport
(Vie.) naval base, and was converted into
a tin-winner—has been put in charge.
Thompsons expect the new plant to treat
100,000 c. yd. per month at a cost of 3d.
per yd., and if the anticipated yield of
materialises, Lampeh should soon give a good
account of itself. The completed plant will
run into about £45,000.


PASSING IT ON.
The temper of the House has forced the Lawson Government to take over a private member’s Fair Rents Bill and place it on the list of Vic. Government measures, although the Premier stated that the measure could not effect any improvement in housing conditions.”
LAWSON: “Let me see now who can I blame it on to?”


British-made Sports Coat
of Fawn Donegal Tweed, 63/-
A strong, serviceable coat, tailored on loose-fitting,
comfortable lines, ideal for golf, motoring, travel-
ling, general sports or lounge wear.
Made with three-button front, three
outside pockets, half-belt and vent at
back. Finished with leather buttons.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest and waist
measurements.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 George Street, Sydney.
«r
/
i
Wk
\ ll'r.
m
Tnierdiorygeable
Spark Plu-
g scientific construction ensures fault-
less sparking, hence easier starting, in-
stant “pick-up” and better engine per-
formance in every way. Easily taken
apart for thorough cleaning. The most
strictly economical plug manufactured.
From Garages, Accessory Houses and Stores.
GATTINO & CO., LTD., SOLE AGENTS,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Artilleur”: The corpse-factory yarn re-
called by “Smike” (B. 27/9/’23) was cur-
rent some months before the discovery of
the shell-shocked cook-house at Bellicourt;
it reached our waggon-lines by the Continen-
tal Daily Mail. The horrible details were
supplied by an “eye-witness”—a parson—
and his story of the organised traffic in stiffs
■ —“a dozen to the wire-bound bundle” —was
featured as a “scoop” and fantastically
elaborated. Soldiers, it is true, refused
to swallow the slander, for they had
plenty of evidence of Fritz’s respect for his
own dead and his enemies’ dead, too. A.
few instances of the latter that I recall were
the headstones on the well-kept graves of
Australian airmen in the Favreul Cemetery;
the well-fenced and flower-grown resting-
place of “Australien Tim Lawler” on the
Arras-road, near Bapaume; and Fritz’s de-
cency in sandbagging the Australian me-
morials on Pozieres Ridge, to protect them
from shellfire, when he resurged across the
old Somme battlefields in 1918. Diggers will
recall many a decent streak in the Hun. As
for the Bellicourt Tunnel cookshop, which
present writer saw soon after its capture, it
was an army kitchen and no more. What
impressed one most was the stiff luck of the
Hun “babbler” and his offsiders who got
their pass for Kingdom Come in a possie
that should have been as safe as a base
bull-ring.
“Percy Pawnticket”: Governor Bridges’s
recollections of Australians in the Boer War
(B. ,4/10/ ! 23) remind me of the doings of
one trooper in the Bushmen’s ranks. He
was the black sheep of a far-spread N.S.W.
squatting clan. At the right moment he
notified each member of his family worth
notifying that it was his intention to join
up, but that he would need a horse. Never
was an appeal more successful. Each rela-
tive approached was in such a frantic hurry
to get the appellant out of the country that
horses poured upon him from all quarters.
Things had been going hard with the prodi-
gal for some years before this; but his dis-
posal of superfluous horseflesh enabled him
to have a really first-class jamboree before
he departed to lend a hand in hammering
Paul.
“Sturt”: The rush for denominational
schools continues in Adelaide —which, how-
ever. still prefers to call them “colleges.” St.
Peter’s and Prince Alfred have long repre-
3en t e d the two
strongest sects in
S.A., Anglican and
Methodist. Chris-
tian Brothers has
done good work
more quietly for
the li.C. Now a
Presbyterian Col-
lege is going
strong, and the
Congreg aitional
body lias also just
announced itself
as in the competi-
tion. The later-
established schools
are all in suburban
mansions of the
last generation,
which are found
too much trouble
to keep up in pri-
va t e ownership.
“Scotch” is the old
Barr Smith home
at Torrens P'ark,
with the Fowler
mansion for girls.
The E. T. Smith
place at Marryat-
ville and the Law
Smith home at
Glenelg have been
acquired for girls,
R.C. and Anglican
respectively. The
C o li g r e gationals
have just bought
General D-ean’s
former residence at
Kensington; the
headmaster is to
be J. A. Haslam,
son-in-law and for-
mer colleague of
Frederick Chappie
at Prince Alfred's.
“Logoff”: If “Ex-Bettor” ever has the
luck to draw a horse in one of Tatt.’s
sweeps his artless idea that the owner will
be satisfied with the bare promise of a “cut”
may sustain a rude shock. I know a case
where, though the owner was a Sydneyite
and the drawer of the horse was in Melbourne,
negotiations were complete and the agree-
ment was presented for signature within 24
hours of the receipt of the ticket. There
was no reference to the Tasmanian firm. I
signed that agreement. The other goat was
the horse.
THOROUGH.
“I adore large women —my mother was a perfect Diana.
"So you take after pa!”
"Take after pa? — Oh, dear no. When pa is finished there is
nothing left.”
“Harold Hardupp”: Apropos of the busted
currency of the Fatherland, when the mark
was at 300 to the £, and again when a much
lower price was reached, many bundles of
the rubbish w T ere sold to hopeful Australian
speculators. One man attended a Sydney
fancy-dress ball the other night with his
bad investment sewn all over his clothes —he
represented “The Good-for-Nothing.”
‘Tleredot”: Bill Hacker, who owns a block
some way out from Hay, decided that what
he wanted was a wife. A friend having
obligingly furnished him with a matrimonial
agent’s address, this arrived there a few
days later: —
Dere Sir, —I enclose Os. to pay for a replie as
too me wantin a wife fit for a farmers wife I want
one that done go to danses male good bred an
passtrie mak all her own clothes an drive a team
in plough an grow vegetabls mak jam rare pigs
an no a bit about sheep. I will pay er fair up
from the city.
It may seem hardly credible, but Bill’s Eden
is, still Eveless —anyway, so far as that
agency is concerned.
* * * *
“Hamer”: One parson I know has got
into trouble. The order was issued that
prayers were to be offered up for the success
of the Prohibition vote in Queensland. He
is a man who has some doubts about human
infallibility, but he has none whatever about
divine omniscience; wherefore he prayed for
the success of the vote “if in Thy Divine
wisdom Thou hast judged it well.” Two
pairs of the church’s stiffest lips bailed him
up. “You shouldn’t have qualified it,” the
poor man was told. “We want Prohibition,
and that’s all about it.” If God doesn’t
know His business, these good souls were
quite prepared to teach Him.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Apropos messages from girl-
packers wrapped up in every-day commodi-
ties. Some years ago an old bushman in
W.A. bought a few bottles of Bovril to see
him through a convalescence. Inside the
wrapping of one was a miniature photo of
a girl with her name and address at the
back. Whiskers wrote her, describing his
lonely, womanless life, and cautiously asked
if she knew of any method of making him
happy. The reply was short and to the
point: “Yes, buy more Bovril.”
“Doubting Thomas”: I thought it was an
exploded idea that piercing the ear-lobes was
good for the sight. Enterprising jewellers
appear to have revived it, however, for re-
cently I saw a notice in the wfindow of a con-
siderable firm extolling the skill of its “opera-
tor,” and promising “splendid soothing effects
on the eyes.” Is fashion going backwards
in the matter of woman’s ornaments? The
4in. ear-“drop” is already plentiful; and I
met the other day a lady with a small but
vividly-colored serpent encircling her left
upper arm. It was beautifully tattooed, and
I’ll confess it looked more becoming than
some of the jewellery I’ve seen.
“Bill Bowyang”:
Sergeant Cluney
and a trooper were
called to the O.C.’s
tent at dawn and
ordered to saddle
their camels and
get a sniper who
was located in a
clump of shrubbery
in the rugged hilts
near Beersheba
This sniper had
been constituting
himself an annoys
an c e for several
days, and had
finally perforated
two Cameliers so
seriously that they
were on their way
to the 14th A.G.li.
in Cairo. While
the punitive ex-
pedition was cau-
tiously reconnoit-
ring a bullet whiz-
zed close to the
trooper’s head, and
he fell off his
camel. The ser-
geant was a Boer
War veteran, and
his keen eye soon
located the sniper
amongst the
branches of a date-
palm. With the
utmost coolness he
took careful aim
and—missed. The
trooper, who had
crawled behind a
boulder with teeth
chattering and
hand shaking,
pulled the trigger
of his rifle, and
the sniper fell to
the ground dead.
Disgustedly, the
veteran of two wars contemplated the feat.
“No flamin’ wonder you got him,” he growled.
“You aimed all over the blasted tree.” P.S.
—Have I got to mention that I was the
trooper ?
* * * *
“Railhead”: “O. McKay M.’s” par. (B.
13/9/’23) on Asiatic oath-taking in our law
courts reminds me. When Hindu scrub-
fallers on N.S.W. Northern Rivers, who re-
gard a day at court as a glorious picnic,
began to plunge into litigation with one an-
other, the officials procured copies of the
Koran and of the Vedas to swear them on.
Perjury remained rampant, and then some
Orientalist sage in Sydney prescribed a
remedy. It consisted of some half-dozen
strips of bamboo, on each of which are in-
scribed in beautifully-executed Sanscrit let-
tering what are alleged to be the 10 curses
of Buddha against various kinds of evil-
does —perjurers included. A set of these
slips was procured some years ago, and, with
heavy insurance on it, was sent up to Lis-
more. It remains in the courthouse to this
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT.
HER HUSBAND : “I’ve made up my mind to
stay at home to-night.”
HIS WIFE : “Well, you'd better guess again
I’ve made up my face to go out!”
day, but I never heard of it being used. In
case someone may point out the fact, I know
that in every courthouse there has been
placed a card on which is printed in Eng-
lish the ritual oaths of dilferent Oriental
religions. But this is pretty much of a
dead-letter, too.
(Continued on page 19.)
SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are friends on all the doorsteps glad to see you
back again ;
There are smiles among the cockies and the crops
upon the plain ;
There is laughter in the grey streets, sodden now
from winter rain ;
There’s a casting off of blankets —paper ones in the
Domain.
“Welcome, doubly welcome, cobber,’’ sings a wreck
in the Domain,
As he dusts his seedy clobber and revives his grin
again.
There’s a lot of whispered blessing this old wtorld is
glad to hear
From the kiddies on the milk rounds as their big
warm friend comes near—
Poor, hard-driven little beggars, clashing tins from
year to year
In the dreary early mornings, earning kicks and
father’s beer.
Little, wistful, trembling wretches, lisping low an
earnest blessing
tor the warmth that Summer fetches , which is joy
beyond confessing.
There are thousands keenly waiting for the sunlight
on the sea,
lor the gifts of cooling breakers and the shady
picnic tree ;
For excursions up the river, sunny girls, infectious
glee
And the sound of careless motors, honking, braying
merrily.
For paradings on the beaches and long moonlit nights
together
How the naked archer reaches for his bow to shoot
the weather l
OUT OF THE MOUTH OF BABIES.
GERTIE'S YOUNG MAN ( feeling hungry, and thinking to get tho
strength of things on the quiet ): “Had your dinner yet ,
Johnny?”
JOHNNY: “No; muver says toe'll have it the moment you've gone.”
Welcome, doubly welcome, Summer, come to warm
our hearts again,
From the drear of Winter dawnings and the dank of
winter rain !
There’s remuneration for you where new grins the
faces strain ;
And we’ll pay your rent with laughter now October
comes again.
So good morning, hearty fellow; there are lots of
friends to meet you;
And the hearts your warmth will mellow heat a
rataplan to greet you.
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


Old Bill Sitet-'HmsjHc
wi-tb 4k« Crow mouTs^at®*-.
to gro fc*awc,lc to
rxz-st".
Ir> due course, 4Kct-J'^wvU/
Avrives ,
"Wiiia. 2x wosrryro^
jpyofc>Lz.»T> dic.ir,
However , -jfyr SUrvxV<z/
ayn,d inno kxe^iriS,
k>cjt liSkstivogf ov«.ir som<z rrjonfks,
it jorov<z.S «>v.k>sol K«^&-rt-k>m^kirj^.
TTk«.irj
4b<t CV-owS xvtajizwz.
vdaad &*<&y loawtz. *\tasir<zxl.
4kmW ovatir, s<e<z.
jpassVbilitiVs work, & £>c-k(Z.m«r..
Old SiJls i'oo.stizr
g\ V<2:-s Soytkz. "t y-OL»iol<z /
l>uat £j/<z.K>tu a2ly Ah< sty sc»cce«dl "tea Ua.«:tir» owra jfsstinrrx. •
THE CUNNINGS CROW.
“A boundary-rider near Hay, being short of a broody hen, put some eggs under a crow. The experiment being successful, he tried again, and has now
11 chickens hatched out and 50 more are on the way.”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged.. .. £246 12 10
M. Finnerty, South Forest, Tas. .. 10 6
£2l7 3 4
Contributions should be addressed to Tit;'
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
rs*
e. *
it*
It is a sign of keen judgment
when a smoker offers you a
333.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
2ofwlt3
“8.V.E.”: No doubt about the deadliness
of the bayonet. After the stunt at
Bullecourt our squad ’buried scores of
bayoneted Diggers and Fritzes; the death-
wound was almost always in the throat,
stomach or chest, with an occasional smashed
skull to show where the rifle butt had been
swung over. The Boche skewer and our
own broad-bladed one, when shoved in and
turned in or near any vital spot, would
finish most men ; in any case the blood-lust
that goes with bayonet fighting generally
led to a disabling wound being followed by
the coup de grace. The French concave-
grooved blade was really worse than ours.
When pushed in and turned the hollow
groove allows the air to enter the hole ; on
withdrawal the peculiar shape permits it to
close and leave the air behind. If I go to
any more wars I hope bayonets are barred.
* * * »
“Cartot” : The bottle may be a more bar-
barous weapon than the Dago’s knife in a
street brawl (B. 27/9/’23), but I know of
HIS BRUTAL CANDOR.
"What did you say to the last girl who sat here?"
“My dear, there never will be a ‘last one' —not with my consent."
an implement that is worse than either —the
knuckle-duster. It is always used upon the
face, and often means horrible and perma-
nent mutilation. There was a time when
the infernal device was used only by garrot-
ters and such like, but nowadays it is be-
coming a recognised part of the “pushite’s”
equipment, and the moment a brawl starts
it is in evidence. Small and quickly slipped
on over the fingers, it can easily be thrown
away when arrest threatens. The mere pos-
session of a knuckle-duster should be punish-
able with gaol; if any Government requires
evidence to support an amendment of the law
in this direction, police-constables and hos-
pital casualty-surgeons could supply it.
“F.F.F.”: All the conjectures that have
appeared about the origin of the word “tank,”
as applied to the newest development in
modern warfare, are wide of the mark, accord-
WHERE THE FLAPPER. FLAPPED.
INGRATIATING STEWARD: "Tea, sir—fresh made, sir?"
IRASCIBLE AMERICAN : "Take it away. Bring something more mature. Far too much ‘fresh
maid’ about this ship!"
ing to an article in a recent Strand. Over
40 years ago Thomas Tank Burall, manager
of the Thetford Engineering Works, con-
ceived the idea of “pattens” for the wheels
of traction-engines; caterpillar wheels were
the direct outcome of this invention. The in-
ventor was always known to his friends as
“Tank,” and long before the war the name
was fastened on to traction-engines with
steam steering-gear and caterpillar wheels.
Wh°n the military engine was evolved it was
naturally described as. a war tank.
“F.A.”: I know of no less inviting spot
than White Island, on the outer waters of
the Bay of Plenty, Maoriland. A white
cloud forms over the summit of the cone-
shaped speck and disappears again every few
minutes. The
crater is at sea-
level, and its green-
ish-blue contents
are separated from
the waters of the
bay by a narrow
strip of dirty sand.
There are cliffs of
sulphurous deposit,
an d occasionally
from crevasses in
the formation come
puffs of yellow
smoke and tongues
of blue flame to
give the visitor the
impression that
Tophet is near at
hand. I wars sur-
prised to find a
hut on the shivery
cone, and learned
from Henare that
it had been erected
by a Yankee syndi-
cate which set out
from Tauranga a
few years before to
bag the sulphur
and ship it to the
mainland. The en-
terprise lasted for
about two hours
after sunset on the
first day of occu-
pation ; then the
mountain shook
the dust from its
coat to such pur-
pose that the
Yanks “beat it. ’
and didn’t think it
healthy enough ever
to return.
“Green Seas”: Further to “Beamish’s”
par. on the Baron Blantyre (B. 4/10/’23),
there is often a solid reason for sailors'
superstitions about “hoodoo” ships. When the
Union S. S. Co.’s Penguin, which ploughed the
stormy seas to and from the west coast of
M.L., ran ashore in a fog and became a total
wreck, hundreds of sailormen shook their
heads and said, “I told you so.” The belief
that the Penguin would come to grief arose
because Pelorus Jack —the queer fish that
used to meet and escort boats through the
Pelorus Sound —would never stay with this
vessel; wherefore, many seamen —even some
passengers—began to avoid the boat. Actu-
ally the Penguin was a shallow craft whose
stern used to kick out of the water in only a
moderate sea, causing her to jig about in a
most erratic way. It was this jigging that
put the boat off her course in the fog, and
led to her destruction: probably Pelorus
Jack had got a bump from the same cause
which he never forgot.
“The Saint”: I would have no more
scruples than “Ex-Bettor” (B. 27/9/’23)
about “putting one over” on the owner who
had demanded and been promised a cut from
the proceeds of a Tatt.’s ticket. But it
isn’t so easy as it may look. I once had
the experience of receiving a solicitor’s letter
requiring me to pay up as promised. After
taking legal advice, and learning that the
State had the power to confiscate the lot,
and, moreover, might do so if proceedings
were instituted, I decided to disgorge.
* * * *
“F.A.”: Touching the bottle as a weapon
of attack (B. 27/9/’23). The “tough” Aus-
tralian would seem to have a strong pen-
chant for projectiles which rotate axially
during flight. Boomerangs, pennies, bottles
and sling sticks all come under this head-
ing, although the last fell into disuse locally
when the renowned Battlebridge push broke
up. This organisation, so named from a
bridge which crossed a stormwater channel
near Leichhardt, Sydney, was armed with
short sticks, to the ends of which were at-
tached water-worn “gibbers,” kept in place
by strips of leather. They were carried in
the inside coat-pocket, and could be used
either at close quarters or, when wielded by
experts, to “drop” an enemy 50 yards off. But,
really, the “strottle,” as the beer-container is
called in the vernacular, is not a popular
weapon in Sydney “tough” society ; it is far
more so in Melbourne. During a perform-
ance of “Bulldog Drummond” there, when
the hero “shot” a dead marine at the villain,
a gallery voice remarked that Drummond
“ought to get round with the mob fer a bit
and learn ’ow ter whiz a strottle.”
“Spare Corp”: It struck two Diggers that
the Sydney Eight Hours procession was a
good place to give their A.I.F. uniform an
airing—two only. Of course, returned
badges were plentiful; but Bill’s old khaki has
either been scrapped, or has gone into pants
for Bill, junior—and they have probably
been scrapped, too. In 1919 there were
many uniforms amongst the marchers, but
every subsequent year has seen a marked de-
crease. At the present rate there will be
none in 1924.
* * * *
“H + P”: Next year will mark the jubilee
of quite a number of N.S.W. trade unions.
When the gold diggings began to peter out,
shortage of labor ceased to ensure high
wages, and the rapid arrival of immigrants
made matters worse. Then it was that
unions were brought into existence. Over
50 years ago there were few. The stone-
masons are an old one ; they had combined
in the ’forties, but let their union almost
peter out till 1851; then they became very
active, and in 1853 did an unheard-of thing
—won a rise to 15s. per day without a
strike. The carpenters were then getting
11s. a day: the stonemasons’ success em-
boldened them, and they squeezed out 155.,
too. The United Laborers’ Union came in
1861. the Progressive Carpenters in 1865,
the Bakers in 1869, the Seamen in 1870.
Of course there were earlier combinations;
but they did not persist. The earliest of
which any record can be found was among
the coopers in 1824; they were committed
for conspiracy, but apparently were never
tried. Strikes of compositors (printers)
and seamen followed within the next few
years. The first real miners’ strike was in
1855; but the A. A. Co. won. That led
to steady canvass, which by 1861 resulted
in the lodges feeling strong enough to decide
on making Newcastle a union field —-the first
recorded Australian attempt to blot out the
non-unionist. The employers’ counterblast
was a notice of a 20 p.c. reduction in wages;
and the strike that followed was the longest
and bitterest the country had known —-it
lasted for the unprecedented period of six
weeks! The first Labor League came at
the end of 1856: masons, carpenters, plas-
terers and bricklayers attended the meet-
ings, and that was the start of the eight-
hour movement.
“Sierra” takes a snap : —•
The westerly gale was whirling up clouds of dust
and making things unpleasant. A crumpled news-
paper, thrown into an empty waste-paper receptacle,
rustled and bobbed and fluttered against the wire
mesh. A stout, red-faced man sidled out from the
opposite pub, steadied himself against the doorpost,
and blinkingly regarded the captive paper. After a
moment’s earnest scrutiny he gave a chirrupy whistle
and commenced babbling “Pretty Jioey! Scratch
Cocky! Cocky wantim head scratch?” Watching his
chance when the pavement appeared steady he edged
across on his friendly mission. Suddenly he paused,
cast a hasty, furtive glance around, drew his pipe
from his pocket and solemnly knocked the ashes out
into the receptacle.
“Loa Tauna” : A contrast in circumnaviga-
tors lately delighted the shellbacks of Papua.
First came into Moresby the tiny yawl
Islander, only 34ft. overall, with master,
builder and owner Harry Pidgeon in charge
of a crew consisting of himself. On her heels,
colors flying, crew at their stations, and
white-clothed, brass-bound officers on the
bridge, arrived the super-yacht Ohio, owned
by multi-millionaire Scripps, of Cleveland,
Ohio (U.S.A.). Pidgeon made little of hav-
ing crossed the Pacific Ocean in his cockle-
shell, whereas Scripps was quite elated about
his achievement. Pidgeon built the Islander
in a yard on the beach at Los Angeles, and
rigged it with his own hands. Having had
little or no nautical training, he read up
some works on navigation, practised with a
sextant on the Californian coast till he could
shoot sights properly, and, after a prelimi-
nary trip to Honolulu and back, determined
MORE HIS STYLE.
"Well, yes. I am thinking of having my
portrait painted, but I don't know that
you are quite big enough, y'know.”
"Why, then, there's a scene-painter on the
top floor."
to make his lonely way around the globe.
Starting from home in November, 1921, he
crossed from the American coast to Taiohae,
Marquesas Group, in 42 days, doing 2800
miles of open sea .on his first leg of the
journey around the world. Thence he called
in at the Taumatus, Tahiti, Pango Pango
(American Samoa), Fiji, New Hebrides and
Papua, resting and photographing as he
rambled along. He left Thursday Island on
July 1, bound for South Africa via Mauri-
tius. The final stage will be across the
Atlantic to Panama, and home through the
Canal.
BROUILLARD D’AMOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I CiUinot now rememfier
When first it. was I met you
(In April or December?),
Anti yet 1 can’t forget you.
You had a nose tip-tilted,
Red lips that called me sweetly,
And all my rigors wilted
And then collapsed completely.
So straight our troth we plighted—
Sure, Fate’s own hand was in it.
Our destinies united
Before the seventh minute.
I was a royal lover,
You said (the ice grown thinner);
And I could not discover
That you were a beginner.
We loved each other madly
(Formula consecrated) :
We parted not quite gladly,
Delight still unabated.
You had in dainty measure
Curves, whimsies, tricks and dimples;
And these all made for pleasure,
Since love feeds still on simples.
In April or December—
And now I can’t forget you,
Though 1 can’t quite remember
When first it was I met .you !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL
Bath.s-de-i.uxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection ot Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
T. B.
LIGHT
“The drink of good taste'
Imagine how appetising and
refreshing it would be with
luncheon or dinner to-day !
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
S. J. MITCHELL, who presides over the
Insolvency Court at Adelaide. Tie has
just returned from a trip to England.
By the death of “Jack” Whear Roberts
The Bulletin lost one of the oldest and
most trusted of its “Wild Cat” contributors
at the week-end: intermittently, for over
30 years, he had been giving this paper the
benefit of his unrivalled knowledge of
Australian mines. Coming from Bendigo,
lie, like so many other bright Bendigonians,
found work on the press, and made such bril-
liant progress that he was editor of the
Standard when that boom-time evening
paper sparkled for a few years in Melbourne.
As a shorthand-writer his speed and accuracy
were uncanny, and for a while he did Han-
sard work. But mining lured him, and for
most of the last 30 .years he had pursued
the fortune that always seemed only a little
way ahead. He was connected with a few
successes—he had much to do with Cobar
and Lloyd’s at different times—but he spent
most of his energies upon propositions whose
very difficulties fascinated him.
W. V. McCall, the new town clerk of
Melbourne, got most of his training for the
£l5OO-a-year-job on the council’s own staff.
He was town clerk of Flemington when that
municipality and North Melbourne amal-
gamated with the city 16 or 17 years ago,
and he was taken over as a good asset. An-
other home-grown product is Cattanach, who
was town clerk of Essendon when McCall
was at Flemington. He is now chairman of
the Water Commission at £2OOO p.a.
“Ilomfrey Beale” : Whatever the late Sena-
tor Milieu's shortcomings as Repatriation
Minister, I found him prompt, just and ap-
proachable—-by letter, at any rate. When
I returned from the big scrap I went into
business, failed, and eventually was driven
to apply to tbe Sydney Repat. for employ-
ment and the usual interim sustenance. The
know-alls who handled my case said I was
eligible for employment, but not for susten-
ance, as I had had an aggregate of six
months’ employment since my return,
although I had only employed myself. They
even refused to let me see Colonel Farr. As
a last hope I wrote to the Minister stating
my_ case in full. A few days later I got
notice to attend the Repat. and see Colonel
Farr. I found the know-alls’ attitude quite
changed; I was even addressed as mister
before being ushered into the Presence. My
own letter had been returned to Repat., and
on it Mi lien had written: “You are requested
to treat this matter as an appeal.—E. D.
Millen.” Result: £l5 4s. Sd. back pay.
State Treasurer McPherson has his little
streak of humor. The day after Deany
pitched into him for letting his proprietary
co. exercise its legal right to compete openly
tor State tenders, the news came through
that the £9,000,000 conversion loan in Lon-
don had been subscribed nearly twice over
(£17,653,000). “What a good job Deanv didn’t
speak a week sooner!” the Treasurer said
when he read it. A day or two later a well-
known State official asked McPherson if he
could ride down with him in a motor-car as
far as Scott’s. “Certainly,” was the reply ;
“it might do me good to be seen with some-
body respectable.”
Hobart’s P.M., E. W. Turner, occupied a
few minutes of his own time recently in trying
to. save his country. It seemed a very patri-
otic thing to do; but as, incidentally, lie
suggested that a preliminary examination
for M s.P. might improve matters, an ava-
lanche fell upon him. John Hope, who led
the furious onslaught in the House of
Dodery, has been a landmark in the public
life of the Speck for half a century. He is
Chairman of Committees, and was Acting-
President while Tetley Gant was away.
Road trusts, boards of advice and the like
were bis early specialties; then he graduated
to the Council in 1900, and has been glued
to his seat ever since. An honest Scot, who
ignores aspirates and such trivialities, and
lias not made much money out of either
politics or farming, he is, despite octoge-
narian eccentricities, so hrmly established
in the esteem of Coekydom that only death
is likely to oust him from his seat.
“Cobba-Cobba” : Qqne where the good Mo-
hammedans go, old Nobby Bux, the dark-
skinned but white-hearted Afghan storekeeper
whom all N, Queensland knew. Years before
the Einasleigh copper-field began to boom, he
and a mate, Abdool Hoosian, did a big hawking
business with a camel team along the cattle-
stations and mining settlements between
Townsville and the Etheridge, and later they
started stores at Einasleigh and Kidston. In
the early clays of the Ividston rush, owing to
wet weather holding up supplies, provisions
for a time were very scarce, but through it
all Bux saw to it that all were equally pro-
vided for, and the miners never forgot that
he did not make a shortage the excuse to
raise prices. No man coming to the field
was ever refused a start—Bux could always
find a pick, shovel and dish, along with suffi-
cient tucker to give the newcomer a chance
to make good, and his reputation for fair
dealing stood by him when business competi-
tors arrived on the field.
W. T. Conder, who is still in the thirties,
has thrown up his troublesome £750-a-year
job at Pentridge (Vic.), and gone to the
J.CAv. firm. Eighteen months of the
Coburg prison just about sickened him of it
though he had been after the billet for years.’
He transformed the gloomy old place in many
ways, and the Ministry backed him up with
moral support and coin ; but Cabinet, or some
of it, isn’t so sure now that untrained out-
siders are the right sort to boss the police
and penal departments.
Nine members of the Vic. Parliament fol-
lowed their fathers’ tracks thither. They
are the recently-elected D. McLeod and G. M.
Davis, F. G. Clarke, W. L. E. Clarke and
R. H. S. Abbott, in the Upper House; and
A. F. Cameron, W. IT. Everard, M. E. Wet-
tenhall and A. A. Billson, in the Lower.
There passed out the other day the last
two pioneers of the Gladstone (Q.) district
—David Stirrat, of Mt. Alma, and W. W.
Watt, of Rodd’s Bay. Both were Scotch-
men. Stirrat arrived in Sydney in 1853, and
began as an indentor, but selected Mt. Alma
in 1803. Watt went to Gladstone in 1804,
and was successively laborer, book-keeper,
butcher and grazier. A founder of the Glad-
stone meatworks, he was chairman of the
co. for 17 years. Stirrat was 90 at the end
and Watt two years older.
“Rienzi” : A Labor member got off a neat
quip at the expense of John Murray when
he was Premier of Vic. Yawn, on being
pressed for the
Government’s atti-
tude over some
project or other,
let loose remarks
tio this effect;
“The Government
is grateful to lion,
members for bring-
in g the matter
under its atten-
tion, and whilst it
considers the time
is not opportune,
it has decided to
give the question
its earnest con-
sideration at an
early date, and if
the decision i s
favorable, to ap-
point a Select Gom-
mi 11 e e.” “Urn—
sounds like the thin
edge of a hedge,”
commented the
Laborite.
JOHN ALLAN,
leader of the Vic.
Country party ,
and, since the
fusion with the
Liberal party,
Minister of Lands
and Immigration.
W hen Victoria heard the personnel of the
Cost of Living Commission, it was as much
surprised as Wellington was when Derby
told him the names of his Ministry and
caused it to be nicknamed the “Who? Who?”
team. H. J. Baker, the chairman, was a
Treasury clerk, who was pitchforked into the
job of sec. to the State Wheat Commission.
Iteseigh something in the Vic. Producers’
Co-op., and Mrs. Gleneross (formerly Eleanor
Cameron) has been _ the spruiker for the
Housewives’ Association. Nobody expects
much from the inquiry, except, perhaps, a
few purple patches for the dailies.
The portrait of the late Premier A. H.
Peake, painted by G. A. J. Webb and unveiled
the other day, is the ninth in oils to be
placed on the walls of the S. Aus. Assembly
Chamber. Five are of Speakers —Kingston,
Hawker, Ross, Bray and Coles. There is
also a portrait of Fred Holder, first Federal
Speaker. This was painted for the Com-
monwealth Parliament Gallery, but, not be-
ing uniform with the others in Queen’s Hall,
it was rejected, and Bonython, the Adver-
tiser’s wealthy knight, bought it and pre-
sented it to S. Aus., where Plolder was twice
Premier. The other two are those of
Governor Gawler (1838-41) and Robert
Torrens, the framer of the Real Property
Act.
Patrick O’Brien, who came from Ireland
60 years ago, died at Gunnedah iN.S.W. I
recently when two years short of his century.
■He was jthe youngest of four brothers who
tallied 354 years among them. The eldest,
James, lived to 105.
Passed out at 75, Henry Charles Cleeve,
one of Bananaland’s pioneer bankers. Born
in Sydney, he was first' an auctioneer; and
after many years with the Bank of N.S.W.
and the Q.N. he went back to the rostrum.
His father, J. K. Cleeve, was among the Ma
State s early squatters.
, at South Grafton
un.s.W.), George Brown, who was born 95
ago at M ilberforce, on the Hawkes-
bury. His life had been made up of drov-
ing, bush carpentering and hotelkeeping. ll<>
did much droving for Andrew Towns and
Thomas Cook, two stock-breeding and pas-
toral identities of the early days, and for his
uncle, ‘ Joey” Brown, of Attunga station, one
of the fathers of the Australian turf and
owner of the famous imported horse Scratch.
He remembered clearly the Myall Creek mas-
sacre of natives, when Fleming, the alleged
instigator, established an alibi by riding to
Sydney without drawing rein, except to
change horses, in three days. With several
others he was once marooned in a loft during
a big Hawkesbury flood, and had to subsist
tor days on pumpkins. Instead of being
grateful to the lowly vegetable, he would
never look a pumpkin in the face after that.
-M Darenberg—he preferred to have it
spe L t ., “d’Arenberg”-—just dead in Adelaide
at 73, was a brilliant young Irishman who
came to Australia a half-century back,
largely because Kelly, Professor of Classics
at the University there, was his brother-in-
law. lie married a daughter of the head-
master of St. Peter’s College, and settled
down as a barrister, law lecturer and ’Var-
sity coach.
Justice Chapman, who gets the job of
chairman of the M.L. War Pensions Appeal
Board, confesses to 74 years and notched a
knighthood a few months ago. He really
retired from the Bench in 1921, when he
acted as Compiler of Statutes, but owing
to a shortage of labor in that particular line
took up judicial work again. Chapman is
the son of a one-time Attorney-General of
Vic., an old Melbourne Grammar boy and a
great authority on colonial history.
It is to be hoped that Melbourne’s new
town clerk, W. V. McCall, will have better
luck than his predecessor, George Ellery,
whose retirement was compelled by sickness.
Ellery, a very able man, was handicapped
by a constitution not so strong as that of the
average town councillor, and the Melbourne
job found his weakness out in seven years or
less. Yet he was only 43 when he came from
Adelaide, where he had t.c.'d for 16 years.
After his experience of the rigors of Mel-
bourne he probably regrets that he ever left
Adelaide at all. McCall, the new man, is a
Victorian, who has lived in Melbourne all
his life, so is in no danger of being deceived
by the climate, at any rate.
“F.A.” introduces a Sergeant Whatsisname:
His guttural speech stood in the way of at least
one old permanent man’s advancement in the war
years. Born in London of German parents, over
50 years ago, Fred Schmidt was sent to Germany
upon the death of his parents and remained there
until he was 15, when he ran away and returned to
England. He enlisted at 16 as a trumpeter in the
R.F.A. and served with that arm throughout the
Boer War. Transferred to India, for 12 years he
served the guns that talk to the fractious tribes of
the north-west frontier. In ’l3 he came to Aus-
tralia as one of a' group of instructors requisitioned
by the Commonwealth Government. When the big
row began, he enlisted with the First Brigade cf
Field Artillery, sailed as sarn-major of the Third
Battery, landed on Gallipoli with the first rush, and
was wounded at Ilelles. He was returned to Aus-
tralia, but was soon facing the enemy again in
France as brigade sarn-major. He looked on while
younger men, often trained by himself, climbed high
in the service, but he never relaxed: he smiled
through it all even when he had to be rescued from
sentries who had received a response in guttural
broken English to their pertinent inquiries.
Charles Irwin, the Adelaide sharebroker
and sportsman who died the other day, sur-
prised his friends by leaving an estate of
£115,000.
Captain H. TYRER, m urine superin tendent
for the A.U.S.N. Co., who has just in-
troduced moving-picture shows on that
co.’s boats.
1 lie new Collector of Customs and
Kevenue in Samoa is F. G. Matthews, who-
has spent donkeys’ years attending to Maori-
land Premiers and other Ministers as sec-
retary. He was with Hick Seddon on the
Oswestry Grange when the big democrat died
just after leaving Sydney. Later he shep-
herded Hall-Jones, Joe Ward, Macdonald,
Allan, and latterly Parr, and all the time
contrived to be popular among press rounds-
men.
ALL THE LUCK!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. D. R. Hall intends to continue liis campaign
against the Norman Lindsay pictures. Despite the
action of the British Customs authorities in passing
them, it had yet to be' considered, in his opinion,
whether they could be legally shown in England.”
It was a gracious day in Spring, marred only by the
fact
That on a soap-box in a park a small man raved
and cursed.
“Improper!” “Shameless!” “Lewd!" “Impure!”
“With vile suggestions packed!”
Such were the words he flung at those who
hearkened, with lips pursed,
Shocked eyes upturned, and small flat hats, and
gamps and baggy trousers;
brief, a Sabbath gathering of cheerful Sydney
wowsers.
“What is his game?” I asked of one whose mien be-
spoke “the Press.”
“And who is he that talks so loud on such a
peaceful day?”
“His name is Hall,” the writer said. “I fancy you
can guess
His congregation’s origin.” “But tell me, press-
man, pray,
Why all these loud, abusive shouts, these red-hot
moral strictures ?”
“He’s giving ads,” the scribe replied, “to Norman
Lindsay’s pictures.”
“And I will warrant he is paid a good round sum
per annum!”
So in my innocence I cried. The pressman shook
his head.
“These windy groans,” he smiled, “these yells that
shatter one’s tympanum,
Are all provided free of charge—though it is often
said
That ev’ry wowser meeting from which females are
borne fainting,
Exclaiming ‘Save us from the Nood!’ sells yet another
painting.”
I wandered on. The sound of snufflebusting died
away;
The shouts of “Filth!” and “Muck!” were lost
upon the clean Spring breeze ;
And as I walked I mused on the strange loves the
Fates display.
Not only do they give some men rare gifts, they
add to these
A herd of foes who, by strange cries and language
incandescent,
Induce the crowd to realise the gifted ones are
present.
n.s.tv.
10-2-4.


0i
a
Navy Cu t
Tobacco
In airligkl lins
W.D. & H.O.WILLS
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 8 Bolton Street.
a
S!QMQOQ®C®iaQjIiaOG.»£(QQQQD:
“KING GEORGE IY’WHISKY
99
Acknowledged to be
by the
&
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
'IKIIINJGI
jw;m: i islkTy;
/
Let me make you a
genuine “Wieneke” Saddle.
Send for my new illus-
trated book.
JACK WIENEKE,
371 George
Street, Sydney;
or 432 Q„een
Street,
Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“R.S.”: I can tell “Paul C.” (B.
23/8/’23) of some more bullocks that were worked
without blasphemy. A man hauling for a sawmill
on the Musselboro Creek (Tas.) usually took a
sheepdog with him to round up his oxen, and, when
hauling, if there was a stump or tree on the offside,
he would sendi the tyke over to push the clamp-
bullocks off. The dog soon became efficient. Once,
when there was a man short, Bullocky had to do
his own felling and cutting. Then he would hook
the bullocks on to a log, and send them in charge of
the dog down to the mill, about three-quarters of a
mile. At every angle the dog would push the clamp-
bullocks off my obstacle —and without any bad lan-
guage. On their arrival at the mill the tailer-out
would “come-hither” the bullocks round on to the
skids, drop the log, and hook up the shoe —and away
the dog would go back with his team. I have seen
him do this for three days at a time. Later on,
after rabbit-poison had been laid, the dog thought
he would go and gather up the poisoned rabbits ; but
he didn't make a success of ft, as next morning he
was picked up himself.
“Carisbrook, Jim.”: Jaeky was pretty new
to station life, and when the boss asked him to get
a crupper from the storekeeper he looked puzzled.
“What name crap?” he asked. The boss pointed to
one on a saddled horse, and off Jacky went. “Boss
bin wantit crap,” he informed the storekeeper.
“What?” “Crup!” repeated Jacky; then “Baal
savee? —bridle belong yarraman tail!”
* * * *
“Venturino”: The wire-haired fox-terrier
is a little marvel of gameness and endurance. A
farmer on Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) had one given him,
and, after a late sitting at the pub, he started, semi-
sozzled, on the six-mile drive home, with the pup in
the cart, chained to the top rail of the tailboard. The
terrier jumped out and, with not much chain to spare,
trotted behind the vehicle. When they reached
home poor little Nip was forgotten by his new
master, who unharnessed the prad and let down the
shafts, thus raising the back of the cart. Next
morning, in a bitter frost, the cocky found the pup
hanging to the tailboard, with only the tips of his hind
toes touching the ground. On being liberated the
game little chap coughed and sneezed for a while,
then had a good drink and a heavy feed, and for a
great part of the day slept in the sun. Before dark
he was running round the yard as fit as a fiddle.
* * * • #
“Billy Brolga”: Re droughts killing gum-
trees (“Pick,” B. 16/8/’23). On the coast of
Bananaland in the great parch of 1902, numbers
of fairly-large, healthy-looking blue-gums died, appa-
rently of thirst. But nowhere do I remember them
being killed out in clumps; those dying were gener-
ally isolated trees on hilly country. Other causes
than lack of moisture may have contributed to the
death of “Pick’s” gums, as in one particular
locality where, owing to the nature of the ground,
the effect of the drought was not so severe as
elsewhere, I remember a healthy-looking blue-gum,
about 2ft. 6in. in diameter, dying towards the
close of the drought, while all other timber in the
vicinity survived. In that year a small ridge of
scrub-box —one of the hardest timbers to destroy—
died right out.
* # * »
“T.A.C.”: Near Hampton (N.S.W.) is a
one-armed teamster who ekes out a livelihood by
dirawing timber to the
Lithgow mills. The
loss of an arm doesn’t
handicap. him as much
as might be expected,
but the other one is
called upon to do a
lot. of overtime. * A
horse helps hjm to load
his own waggon; a
wire-rope is fastened
around the log, and
the neddy hauls it
aboard. This old man
can harness his horses
as quickly as a two-
armed person, and he
shoes his own team.
He caii also use a long-
handled shovel, and
has been known to load
a tip-dra.v with gravel
in fairly quick time.
He manages to mani-
pulate the banjo by
resting the handle end
of it against his stomach.
* * * *
“Billy Brolga”: Old George Smith, the
blower, said to me the other evening: “I see some
teller’s been writin’ in The Bulleteen about some
cove carryin* three bags uv wheat. I bet he never
eard of Tom Jones. Tom was th’ strongest bloke
you ever came acrost. He could carry dam’ near
anythink. He could carry a flamin’ bull! It’s
true,” he added with as I looked sur-
prised. “I’ll tell yer how he done it.” And between
puffs of his pipe he gave me the story. “You see
Tom reckoned it was only a case of doin’ things a
little every day; so he figured out that if he got
hold uv a young calf as soon as it was born, an’
carried it round th’ yard three times every morning,
he wouldn’t notice th’ weight as it grew up an’ got
heavier each day. An’ that’s jus’ what he done. He
got a young bull calf as soon as it was dropped, and
every day he carried it three times round th’ yard
on his shoulders, never missin’ a day, not even Sun-
days. An’ when! th’ bull was seven years old and
weighed 18cwt., Tom could carry it jus’ as easy as
you or me would carry a blanky calf. And that,”
said old George, “is gospel truth, an’ yer can put it
in The Bulleteen an’ see what them blokes will
have ter.say about it.”
* * * *
“C.M.”: If “Vanikoro” (B. 30/8/’23) is
mot mistaken about his red and blue pigeon from
Lord Howe, I know of another bird from that island
which has for long been extinct. It is the Notornis
alba. It, too, could not fly, and fell an easy prey
to the crews of Lieut. Ball’s ship, the Supply, and
subsequent vessels, till almost every one was eaten.
Various journals of those days describe the killing
and eating of this little bird —-which, however, was
white, with a red bill, and of the size of an ordinary
fowl. The only specimen known is now in Vienna.
It is certain that many of the birds would have
escaped their pursuers and found their way to parts
of Lord Howe inaccessible to man; but they in
their turn would be exterminated by the cats and
pigs set ashore from time to time.
PUTTING THEM OFF THE SCENT.
HOME MISSION WORKER: “Your neighbors seem curious about
me. Do they ask you who I am?”
THE VISITED LADY: “Yes, they do, missj but I just tell them
you're my dressmaker.”
“Ringer”: Here’s another case of a dingo
being owned (“Monaro,” B. 9/8/’23). An old dogger
three years ago found a nest of dingo pups, and
decided to keep a yellow bitch. He still has her,
and for the past 18 months she has helped him to
make good money at’ £1 a scalp. His method is to
make a camp in dingo-infested country, lay baits
and set traps, and at dark start his pet howling.
She is soon answered, and the result in the morning
is usually a couple of scalps. She follows her
master just like an ordinary tyke, but is very shy
with strangers.
“Keystring”: “Birre Gurra’s” youngster
whose life wasn’t lost when dragged by a bolting
horse (B. 30/8/’23) recalls the experience of Dick
Holt, a horse-pug at Baryulgil (N.S.W.). He threw
a catching rope on to a wild, station-bred draught
colt he intended to break in. As soon as the rope
became taut Dick found his arm securely hitched.
In his efforts to get closer to the horse, and thus
cause a slackening of the rope, he so frightened the
animal that it jumped the yard rails. Realising
his plight, Holt did his best to jump them too,
and half succeeded, the horse doing the rest to help
him over. We looked on helplessly as the brute
careered away with Richard in tow. After going
about 60yds. the maddened prad, with its head half-
turned, and apparently more concerned about what
was behind than where it was going, ran slap into
a tree. This impact knocked him on to his haunches
and caused a momentary slackness in the rope. Dur-
ing that instant Dick, who had kept his block, freed
himself. In another second the horse was gone
again. Three months later Holt, though carrying
a permanently crippled arm, was back at his old
job.
“Spadger” : It’s not everyone who responds
to the spirit of the wanderlust. A chap I know
had to go to Sydney as a witness in a court case.
His fare and expenses were paid and he was given
a tenner as well. He arrived in Sydney on Tuesday
morning, gave his evidence that day, and left by
the evening train for home. A pal asked why he
didn’t stay and see the sights of the city while he
had the chance. “Had to get home,” he explained.
“I had some meat in pickle and it would have
gone bad if I hadn’t been there to turn it.”
‘Pat Bushie” : If “Yarrum’s” explanation
(B. 6/9/’23) of the introduction of the Murray cod
to N.S.W. rivers is correct, then that 102-pounder
I caught last Christmas must have been the origi-
nal cod that was carted overland and let loose!
‘ Larrapinta”: Here are two cases re-
called by “Jimmy Possum’s” cocky who stuck head
down in a post-hole (B. 13/9/’23). A Binghi to
the north of Eucla (W.A.) speared a wombat
through the rump, and just managed to grasp the
spear handle as the animal dived down its burrow.
He was dragged down the hole after it for a few
feet, and then by some means got stuck fast. As
the burrow was excavated under a shelf of lime-
stone, he was unable
to dig himself free,
although he tore his
fingers to the bone i u
his frantic efforts to
do so. Three days
later, a nig. coming in
from out back went off
the track to see what
had attracted a big
flock of crows, and
dragged his mate out.
A few hours more
would have finished
him. A little later an
abo. at Eyre’s Sand-
patch, in the same
locality, wounded a
doe wombat, but in this
instance was able to
grab a hind-leg, and
was dragged down
about 6ft. While he
was killing the animal
with the old shear-
blade he carried as a
knife, his gin startled
up a buck wombat, who
rushed down the same
hole, and, finding the
way blocked, tore the
unfortunate n i g.’s
rear elevation with
its claws, cutting the
flesh to ribbons, and
actually emasculating
him before his gin
could kill the ’bat
with the spear which
wounded the first one.
Poor Binghi had nearly
bled to death before
Mr. Graham, the oper-
ator from the tele-
graph station, was
able to attend to his injuries, but he eventually
recovered.
» -. * * »
“A.-ETH.” : Yes, biltong (B. 23/8/’23) can
te and is made in Australia, and to prove it there
goes with this *par. a sample made at Enfield
(Sydney) from the recipe used in S’Africa. The
farmer in that country preserves about 3ewt. each
year, doing it in the late autumn and winter
months. The recipe is as follows. For 81b. of
meat, make a brine lof lib. salt, lib. sugar and
small piece of saltpetre; boil down in two quarts
of water, and when all is dissolved pour into a dish ;
when cold lay the strips of meat in and leave
for three-quarters of an hour, then drain and hang
up to dry in a shady place. Dust on some black-
pepper tlo keep flies away. In four weeks it is
ready to use. (The sample piece was dried in a
TROUBLES NEVER COVE SINGLY.
MRS. TOMKINS : “Yes, ’e 'teas playin' soldiers,
and 'e took the sarsepan for an 'elmet,
an' it's stuck on 'is 'ead, an' I’m talcin'
'im to the ’orspital.”
MRS. BROWN : "It’s a had job for 'ini, pore
child!”
MRS. TOMKINS : “ It’s a truss one fer me.
There was me breakfist inside it.”
room through which a current of air was passing,
and hung for six weeks.) The best way to eat
biltong is to scrape it finely and spread on bread
and butter. If used for boiling' or stewing, it
must be soaked. Before using wipe with a damp
cloth to remove any dust.
(Continued on page 21/.)
A SONG OF YANOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The watercourses wind and curve,
Like ribbons interlacing
The green and gold of orange groves,
And field and farm embracing.
They skirt the base of mountain peaks,
Huge, lazy giants sleeping;
Where once a barren desert burned
The water’s creeping, creeping.
Round many a rocky spur and point
They twist beside the valley ;
And through the belts of cypress pine
Where mating wongas dally.
The wattle blooms beside the road
Where ewes and lambs are drowsing;
And in the pastures deep and green
The sleek red cows are browsing.
A startled hare, with ears erect,
Has darted from its cover;
And, skimming closely to the grass,
Shrill-noted, flies a plover.
An ibis flying overhead
In search of new dominion
Drops softly from the shining blue
To rest a weary pinon.
A scent of blossom fills the air,
The grass is soft and springing,
When through October’s mellow days
The land is filled with singing.
Old waggon tracks are deep and wide
On sections not completed,
Where sturdy gum-trees wait the axe
Like some great race defeated.
A sheep-yard fence leans in and out,
Decayed beyond repairing;
And where the shepherds boiled their quarts
Electric lights a re glaring.
THE DIFFICULTIES ONE MEETS ON THE LAND.
IRATE COCKY : “Where yer taking her? Screw her tail, damyer,
and twist her round to the bail!”
Gone is the hut where bushmen camped
Who followed up the shearing;
And seldom does a swagman pass—•
The type is disappearing.
But homes and homes, set straight and neat
As chessmen in their places,
Stand hedged around with flowering shrubs—
Green mantles fringed with laces.
A smooth white road is leading south
To peaceful sandy beaches —-
A placid haven ’mid the gums
Along the river reaches.
Some tiny clouds come from the west
By gentle breezes driven,
Like fleets of souls blown tranquilly
Across the sky to Heaven.
x.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.
“Bill Bowyang” : Culbo Charlie, happening
to meet Barragoo Billy, remarked, “By cripe,
Killy, you lookin’ all right; where you been long
time now?” “Oh, since I left the station I been
all over the place shearin’,” said William. “What!
you shearer, now?” said Charlie, “By cripe, you
make it plenty money, eh?” “Oh, yes,” drawled
Billy, “but we make more next year; we going
on strike for 30s. a hundred.” Charlie considered
this with a speculative look in his eye, then
burst forth: “By cripe, Billy, I go on pluriy strike
—I wantem, 30s. a hundred too.” “Why, what
you do now, Charlie?” asked Billy. “Oh, I breakin’
in horses,” announced Charles.


m
%
0
■yf
A
:4C'
•j/i
r M
‘si
iV
;>V
rX
%
m
vtf.
*s
&■
Jtv:
'%/(+•
•>4.
A
V'/i?
m
Pa
•♦4*3
‘r:?
♦V
?•«
3K
,m
>’»>,
4?.
>•#
'J*
4
&
i
ry
‘ < >
i * i
i i
11
==7V-^~I
• 1 "T.- *. V- :’■.<■%)ZZXi \ . '•' '.*'' ' I
■ &•#.&■*{■ -‘S? I
' »V, *s*A>u •*• • >Xv- I’V;*/ if,: * I
- V‘ l
lyii *•*!> I
Si'
V'-VAy.
iV 'sfc
W:.i-:. w.w
by leaps
y and l .
bounds
Ext£>e
HE FIRST BATTERY to be used for Starting, Lighting and
Ignition is now being manufactured at the rate of many
thousands daily. Used originally on one make of Car, it is
now standard on a great number, and new makes are rapidly
being added to the list.
Most racing men use Exide Batteries in preference to magnetos
for ignition.
Used originally in U.S.A. and Great Britain, Exide Batteries are
now in universal use.
The merit of the Battery itself is the reason.
Australasian Distributors :
QUEENSLAND Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Ply., Ltd.,
Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .... Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


Carlton Hotel Ltd
Bed and Breakfast
or
Inclusive Tariff.
Courtesy, Comfort and Home-
like Atmosphere.
Perfection of Service.
Cable and Radio and Telegraph
Address:
“Hocar,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141 (10 lines).
Under the Management of
J. LEVY.
m
Ma
jy
of.
il must* he
abbots
LAGER
BeerWiiiioui a Pival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT 5- HOPS ONLY
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
mz
W/A
m
m
wmm
-%=5
%'4mA
r
W. W. GREENER, l
CUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTV. (
LTD.,
405*7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
“J.8.H.”: Re “Mag” (B. 23/8/’23) on
kangaroo-shooters’ tallies. I think Harry Richardson,
of Milo (Q. ), holds the record, for inside four years he
shot and sold over 32,000 skins. I know a man, Tom
Mahony, who went to offside for him (to cook and
peg out the skins), and, like several others, he said
that he could not keep up to Richardson. Dolf Wil-
liams shot and sold 16,000 ’roo skins on Narromine
station (N.S.W.) in two years. That was in the
earlj" ’nineties.
GOOD STUFF.
BILL: “’Op it, Fred; you can’t get no more
out uv it!”
FRED ( reluctantly ): “Aw, I was just listenin’
to the last sizzle!”
“Ves K.”: In my hut a pair of swallows
are building two nests on the door lintel —one each
side of the 4in. x 2in. stud—an incident unique
in my observations. There are three possibilities:
(1) the two-roomed cottage is being built by the
enterprising matron for a maternity home, (2) Mr.
Swallow is contemplating polygamy, or (3) Mrs.
Swallow is preparing a spare room for a lady
friend not yet arrived who is about to collect the
baby bonus. I’m awaiting developments with interest.
“Spadger”: The sawmill was working at
top speed to get an order through to time, when a
horseman, riding by, stopped, called out something
and started on again. “What—was—that?” yelled
the foreman. A lengthy but indistinguishable shout
from the mounted one followed. “Can’t —hear —
you,” bellowed the foreman. The horseman was
seen to become frantic ; he waved his hat, pointed to
the sky and swept the horizon with his arm, roar-
YOU COULD TELL HE WASN’T A GENTLEMAN.
THE WENCH: “Don’ you speak to me. Mother won’t, let me talk
to anyone.”
THE PIRATE: “ What’s the matter with yer — small-pox or sum’-
thin’!”
ing his message with all the force of his lungs at
the same time. The foreman groaned and stopped
the engine and the shrieking saw came to rest. Then
he strode out to the road. “What is the matter?”
he demanded. The horseman, looking as though he
wished a Japanese earthquake wlould arrive and
obliterate him, replied “I only said it was a fine
day.”
“Hamer”; A new use for crows has been
found by a boundary-rider on a station near Hay
(N.S.W.). Being short of a broody hen he hit
the idea of emptying their eggs out of the crows’
nests and replacing them by hens’ eggs, colored to
deceive the birds. He has 11 chickens hatched out
by this method, and 50 more eggs are being nursed
under the bosoms of deceived birds. Even a hawk
was pressed into the curious incubator service, but
it hatched out only one chick. Dreadful suspicions
must be haunting the minds of male members of
the crow family in the Hay district.
“Leo Lear”: “Jim Carew” and “Paul C.”
(B. 30/8/’23) are not quite correct re kingfishers and
their nesting-places. The beautiful blue and orange
azure kingfisher keeps close to the waterways, and
nests usually in a high, dry bank. Our old laugh-
ing friend, when a northern resident, frequently scoops
out a hole in an aerial termites’ nest; and his
cousins, the smaller sacred and forest kingfishers, also
intrude on a white-ant mound. The insects must
draw the line at eating eggs and birds,: though they
chew a hole in most other things in the northern
landscape. After the birds have gone they re-
plaster their house-fronts. The rowdy roller-bird is
also an invader of aerial termite mounds for nesting
purposes : and the rare white-tailed kingfisher of the
Far North and the beautiful parrakeet of coastal
Bananaland break into the ground mounds of the
white-ants to earn their £5 bonus. I have also
found snakes, lizards and goannas sleeping it out in
these compartments. So white-ants are considerable
benefactors to our wild life, whatever they may be
to householders and industrial unions.
“Mag”: There is, or was, a death-adder
in a Bundaberg (Q.) shop window 2ft. 6in. long,
but one brought from Fraser’s Island to Maryborough
(Q.) the other day stretched the tape to 2ft. 8Jin.
The body is as thick as a man’s wrist, while the
malevolent diamond-shaped head is almost as broad
as the palm of a big man’s hand.
* * * *
“A.W.L.” : “Carisbrook Jun.’s” Westralian
crocodile-catcher (B. 16/8/’23) may be an adept,
but he seems to require a battalion to assist him.
Compare him with Harry Cahill, of Innisfail (N.Q.).
Cahill used to leave town in an auxiliary cutter
with one black boy as crew. After visiting the
creeks down the coast, he would return in a couple
of days with a fair-sized saurian, not only safely
caught, but boxed. We could understand how he
caught the brute, but could never make out how
he managed to put it in the long wooden receptacle.
Built the box around it, I suppose.
“Parama”: Tell “Lobje” (B. 20/9/’23)
that since writing my par. re pearl-breeding (B.
26/4/’23) I’ve seen a believer in the thing while
on a visit to Sydney. He was satisfied that about
half a dozen pearls he carried with him in a black
silk-lined box had not only increased in size but
had added to their number four minute seed-pearls
no bigger than pinheads. He told me that he’d
had his “pearl stud” for a little over a year, and
he had great hopes of
eventually doing some-
thing with the idea.
Now I’m trying the
thing for myself. I
started it at the time
1 wrote my original
par. on the subject, and
after reading “Lob-
je’s” par. I was in-
clined to investigate,
but I’ve decided to
leave them alone until
their year is up. If
“Lobje” has ever ex-
perimented in this
direction I’d like to
know if he weighed the
pearls before putting
them away with the
rice. I have been un-
able to find a single
case in which the
actual weight of the
pearls was known be-
fore they were shut
away to “breed,”
though their size nas
been said to have in-
creased as well as their
number when they
were examined after
having been left for a
more or less lengthy period. It seems to me that
if there really is anything in the idea, then there
must be something wrong with the accepted theory
of the formation of pearls in shellfish.
“Salmon Gum”: The indignation of “Co-
bug’s” mate when a tree fell on him (B. 23/8/’23)
recalls an incident in one of the big Boulder mines
(W.A.). Several men were sinking in the main
shaft when a darky fell from the plat 100 ft. or so
above and lobbed with a thud on a heap of loose
mullock. After the first shock of horror, the
sinkers howled with laughter as Sambo sat up and
anxiously felt Jiimself all over. “What yer laffin’
at?” he inquired peevishly. “A man might ha’
hurt himself!”
* * * *
“A.W.L.”: “J.II.S.’s” 10ft. sawfish, with
the 6ft. saw, caught at Baffle Creek (C.Q,), was a
tidy specimen ; but what about the big fellow caught
up near Thirsty Island? His saw now resides in
the Hotel Metropole on the island, and tapes just
about 7ft.
“Bad Australian” : The bushman who de-
pends on hobbling, side-lining in its various combi-
nations, or the loose chain on the leg to enable
him to corner his neddy just when he wants him,
■oecasionally strikes a
prad that beats him at
every point. But if
colts were handled with
the lasso, the horse-
catching probl e.m
wouldn’t worry this
country any more.
After a colt has been
caught a few times
with the lariat, when-
ever the rope or bridle
is swung overhead he
pulls up instantly and
stands stock still, fac-
ing his would-be cap-
tor. The rest is easy.
When using the lasso
on a colt, don’t yank
him right off his fee-;
or choke him down.
Check him gently but
firmly; and it is
astonishing how soon
he tumbles to the
scheme. I spent about
14 years among the Argentine gauchos, and never
saw any difficulty experienced in catching a “lazo”-
broken horse or mule.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: Two trappers at Yeppoon
(C.Q.) the other day captured an absolutely pure
white wallaby. It is a female, and evidently not
an albino, for its eyes are brown —the only bit of
color it possesses.
“Dupont”: “Valamac’s” account (B.
13/9/’23) of turkey-shooting off a galloping horse
reminds me of an incident I witnessed 10 years
ago while driving across the Wimmera plains near
Blackheath (Vic.). In a paddock near the road
we noticed a wedgetail eagle dining on a dead
sheep, while a horseman carrying a gun rode slowly
towards him. When within about 80 yards the
eagle rose and the rider dashed after him at full
gallop. His forward flight being too slow, the
bird tried to save himself by rising higher. Drop-
ping the reins on the horse’s neck as he passed
under his moving target, the shooter let fly and
scored a dead centre hit, his quarry dropping just
behind the horse. Like “Valamac’s” man this dare-
dmil reckoned his performance dead easy, pro-
yided that you got your gun swinging with the
stride of your horse. The next and only other
ime I met this individual was during the “Battle
of the Wazzir,” in Cairo, early in 1915, when he
was in charge of a patrol of troopers from the Bth
Light Horse. In answer to my inquiry, one of his
troopers told me that the lieutenant’s name was
M ilfred Robinson, and volunteered the information
tnat “Robbie could ride and shoot some.” I
reckoned he could, too.
* * X *
“Jim Carew”: Talking of animals chang-
ing color, last Christmas I noticed a particularly
cheeky cock-sparrow, who was residing with a wife
in the thatch of our barn. I put out a dish of
wheat for the birds every morning, and he was
always one of the first to hop in for his cut. About
February I noticed that he was beginning to go grey,
and since then he has become practically snow-white.
He is still as cheeky and as quarrelsome as ever,
and his peculiar appearance seems to make him a
great favorite with the ladies.
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides) : As a rule
native races possess good teeth and keep them —as
long as they live on their native food. But put them
on “store” tucker, i.e., salmon, rice, sugar, etc., for
any length of time, and almost always they develop
dental trouble. On Tanna I have found the biggest
percentage of decayed teeth among the repatriated
boys from Queensland. I have travelled in tnost
of the world’s queer corners and have found that
Black Brother’s teeth remain sound as long as he
keeps to the menu of his father, although they may
wear down with age.
# * * *
“P.N.D.”: Re “Stellsby” (B. 16/8/’23)
and his white niggers. Working on the Moorlands
coal-mine, near Tailem Bend (S.A.), is an American
nigger who, when I first bumped into him, at Pin-
naroo, in 1912, wore a skin of a very deep brown. (I
saw him stripped.) Our next meeting was at Tailem
Bend Hotel last Boxing Day, when he took delight
in shedding most of his clothes and exposing his bulky
form to the thirsty crowd. My surprise was great
when I found that the whole of his body and legs
had become the color of the Priminister’s spats; but
the parts exposed to the air—his face and hands—
were still of the original dusky hue, except his
Angers, which are slowly assuming a whitewashed
appearance. He told me that nine years ago a
tiny white spot appeared on his left leg—that was
the start of it —-and now he is nine-tenths white and
one-tenth about the color of the coal he helps to
mine. He hau not shed his original hide—it has
just .slowly changed its hue. He said that nine doctors
IF ’ERBERT MERELY WANTED BEER.
(Scene: Any Sydney hotel ; any 5.50 p.m.)
STOUT ONE: “ There’s room over there,
’Erbert—unless yer got a fancy bar-
maid.”
had examined him, but not one of them could
account for the change. He is a hard-working, well-
educated chap, is proud of the transformation, and
reckons his skin would be useful to some politicians.
“Splinter”: I’d like to hear some of the
Abo. Council on this question. Can any more
grass be grown on 100 acres of hilly country than
on 100 acres of flat country, assuming, for the
sake of argument, that the soil in both cases is of
the same quality? I think neither area would
grow more than the other. Grass grows upright
(at least it does in this district), and you can put
no more uprights on 100 acres of hilly country
than you can on a flat of similar area. That’s my
opinion, but I appear to be very much on my own
up this way.
* # * *
“D.F.”: Tasmanian soil produced its first
potatoes 131 years ago; but they weren’t grown in
the Speck. When William Bligh called in at Adventure
Bay in 1792 on his second voyage to the South
Seas to look for bread-fruit plants, Nathaniel Port-
lock, the master of the Assistant, Bligh’s companion
vessel, carried on board some soil in which he
planted 10 potatoes. They took very kindly to life
on the ocean wave.
TOO LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The expedition conducted by the American
Museum of Natural History has discovered in the
plains of Mongolia 25 fossilised eggs of dinosaurs,
estimated to be 10,000,000 years old. There are
indications that these giant prehistoric reptifps
made nests similar to those of the domestic fowls of
to-day.”— Cable.
I have come to grief on a poultry farm,
For I couldn’t make things meet;
’Twas little I knew of the ways of chooks
And less of the price of wheat,
And least of all of the Great Egg Game
That’s played in Sussex Street.
There’s many a Digger can tell to-day
The same old tale of woe,
But I’ll bet our bundle we wouldn’t have dropped
And fooled away our dough
Had we lived in the mesozoic days
Ten million years ago.
’Twas at Campbclltown they dumped me down,
And I tackled the job with zest;
Worn to a shadow and stiff as a crutch
I’m giving the Leghorns best,
And I curse my luck that I wasn’t born
When the dino. built her nest.
No chicken-bouses they needed then,
Nor even a fenced-in yard,
There was no shell-grit to worry about,
No whitewashed roosts or tarred,
And a lizard a couple of chains in length
Was an easy bird to guard.
They’d never have broken a chap for feed ;
Through forests and swamps and sloughs
They ranged—while the poultry farmer lay
And watched on the mountain brows —
To eat their fill of the herbage lush
And gorge on the waving boughs.
They made their neats for all to see
Where it covered a rood of glen;
No salesmen glib came round to yap
Of incubators then,
And nobody bothered to pencil dates
On the eggs of the dino. hen.
Now the fossil eggs are exposed to view,
Ten thousand centuries hid ;
And no man knows when the freshness went
That storage cool amid;
No modern man, that is—belike
Primeval actors did.
Oh, a poultry run is a poor old prop
Too near to the city’s doors.
Far luckier they who were pensioned off
From palaeolithic wars
Out on the wide Mongolian plains
With a flock of dinosaurs.
I have lived ten million years too late,
I’ll take my oath to that.
It makes me wild when I think of the game
They set the Digger at.
I wish that I had a dino.’s egg
To throw at the darned Repat.!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“Bill Bowyang” : I think I can tell “Ned
Kelly” (B. 13/9/’23) who was the biggest binghi on
record. About 1892 there was among the ICal-
kadoon tribe, in the vicinity of the Seymour River
(N.Q.), an old abo. named Bungee Charlie, and his
height was 7ft. lin. I know, because there is be-
fore me as I write this par. a photo of Bungee
Charlie standing with his back against a blue-gum,
and a tape tacked, to the tree proves that the
measurement is correct. This dusky giant was a
wonderful spear-thrower. Drovers, prospectors and
others who knew him have told me that his most
popular feat was to place a cardboard match-box
on a post, retire 30yds., and then pierce the box
with an 8ft. spear.


Lowe’s
famous £5 Suits
to Order
Big Shipment
of English Worsteds
just to hand
Cut out this Coupon
and you’ll get the biggest
surprise of your life
Messrs. Lowe's, Ltd.,
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me complete folder of patterns for suits
to order from £5 to £lO/10/-; also, self-measurement
form, tape, etc.
NAME
ADDRESS v..‘
F.N.
STORES ALL OVER TOWN.
WHEN you have said, “It’s a
Stetson” you have summed up
all that could possibly be said about
hat style and hat service.
Stetson
P. B. Sheather Co., Ltd,
Sydney and Melbourne
Sole Australasian Representatives
HARRINGTONS
Same Day Service!
i i'i)
\(tlv y
Developing'
& Printing'
FEATURES:
QUALITY AND FINISH
PERMANENCY
SPEED
WHEN LEAVING YOUR ORDERS WITH YOUR
LOCAL DEALER INSIST THAT THE PRINT
BEARS THIS IMPRESS ON THE BACK
WHICH CARRIES OUR
GUARANTEE.
HEAD OFFICE
386 GEORGE STREET,
Near
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
16 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
Representatives Everywhere.
life
m
%
\ iife
i
M!
fig
TjfW
Flavour
QNE judges a Cigar-
ette chiefly by its
flavour. The flavour of
Prince Charming
CIGARETTES, made
from 16 growths of finest
Virginia leaf —is guaran-
teed, and so is the
Quality.
10&929&16
also in so* in vacuum tins & in 100 s
inboxes. On sale everywhere.
CIGARETTES
Manufactured by Moustafa Ltd., 165 Piccadilly, London, W. /. England


CIMRLB
Vintage 19||
CMPM
HE PLUS DLTRfI
■f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
FINEST DIAMOND & PLATINUM RINGS.
The Company has a comprehensive selection op Diamond and Gem-set
Rings in the newest ideas. Inspection is invited.
Goods forwarded on
APPROVAL.
Diamond Octagon
Cluster Ring,
mounted in
Platinum,
£67 10 0
Fancy Single-stone
Diamond Ring,
mounted in
Platinum,
£155 0 0
Other designs in
Single-stone Dia-
mond Rings from
£l6 10 0
Full Particulars sent
on application.
Diamond Two-stone
Ring, mounted in
Platinum,
£lis 0 0
WILLIAM FARMER &C° L TD
Jewellers,Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
LET
%
<A
o
0
o
POLISH
YOUR
FLOOR!
The New Floor Polish with the Reputa-
tion of the World-known “NUGGET”
POLISH CO. behind it.
12
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
On Ladies’ Day Randwick looked like a
chicken with its feathers blown the wrong
way, for, in spite of the Summer Girl’s em-
phatic decision for organdie and lace frock-
ing, the Spring wind slipped in a layer of
ice. It was horribly cold in the stands and
at the corners. As usual, the Chosen, with
his bag, had the best of it, and basked in a
golden glow. The lightweight crinoline hat
threatened to do an aeroplane act from
every second head, but the brave fair went
her way between tote and stand a colorful
sea of billows or classically draped straight
lines. One girl flew flowing pink muslin over
silver tissue, and with it wore a blue poke
bonnet —the whole like something from an
Austin Dobson poem. One wearer of a
magnificently-beaded cape—the design looked
as though woven rather than embroidered —
drew all eyes. So did Mrs. Willie Anderson
in green georgette, the shade of an opening
Spring leaf; the gown was made with a
pleated cape effect and worn with a spread-
ing ivory crin. Mrs. W. Owen wore blue
tailorings and amethyst headgear, and
cousin Jill Rich sported Oriental colorings
and a brown hat. Any of Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s
frocking that escaped from a heavy cloth
race-coat was black and gold; the Waley
lady and Mrs. Spencer Brunton added to
the handsome upholstery of the official stand ;
tall Mrs. A. E. Hughes swung heavy head-
ings on peacock-blue georgettes ; surgeon Dan
Kelly’s slim wife was in soft cigar-brown,
and Mrs. Tommy Marks wore a pink lining
in her black satin hat and otherwise was
mostly black satin coat.
The swish event of Saturday’s race meet-
ing was Mrs. Alfred Turnbull’s lunch-party.
Seventy-two guests dived into the festive
nosebag in the big outside pavilion and drew
therefrom champagne and sandwiches with
the last word in delicious fillings. Black
was the dominating color of the final day’s
dressing; and midwinter furs had another
chance, for still a cold Presbyterian wind
swept dourly over Randwick. One -of the
most striking black frockers was Dr. Vivers’s
fair wife, whose rich crepe was a classic
swathe showing here and there a glint of
jade. A leafy black leghorn and a necklet
of jade completed the satisfying effect. Mrs.
Bertie Watson and Mrs. Roy Buckland were
other two who added good looks and sweet
frocking to the official stand.
There was a welter of small parties—
luncheon, tea and dinner —throughout Race
Week, but only three private dances of
size: the Macarthur Onslow flutter last
week, the Arthur Allens’ party, and
the ball given by the Sam Hordern
couple at Babworth House. This last
was an affair de luxe, from the hot-house
blooms used in the decorations to the won-
derful supper. Social Sydney drew on its
gladdest raiment for the occasion, and a
feature of the gathering was the collection
of unusually good-looking young matrons.
At least four beauties were among them:
Mrs.' Pitt Rivers, Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar,
Mrs. Willie Anderson and Mrs. Pat Levy.
Merioola, the Arthur Allen home, was the
scene of the most picturesque party of the
race 'season. The long drive leading to the
hous& was outlined in Chinese lanterns of
gorgeous tints, and these flamed red and
orange and green in every nook of the
grounds till the scene was one of faery. The
ballroom, with one side latticed from the
Spring night, was wreathed in green and
banked with azaleas and Watsonias, and the
reception-rooms were a horticultural show,
with delphiniums, arum-lilies and Iceland
poppies holding pride of place. There were
about 180 guests, and Mrs. Allen hostessed
in graceful black-satin frocking; daughters
Margaret and Marcia helped in the big greet-
ing, the first in buttercup taffetas of early-
Victorian build, while pink and silver en-
hanced Marcia’s good looks. Lady Forbes
Robertson brought frocking of an orange
sheen to the party, and daughter Jean
fluffed out in ivory-tinted georgettes. Mrs.
Venour Nathan’s thinness hid behind flaring
petticoats of grey-embroidered taffetas; Mrs.
George Vivers looked like the Greek muse
in classic black drapings; and another strik-
ing frocker was Mrs. Alf Turnbull in flame
georgettes. Pretty Lois Greene (her mother
was a Griffiths) bloomed with a daisy-like
freshness; the Naval Commander Addisons
were there, she in Persian blues: Ann Jamie-
son’s slimness carried billowy skirts of stiff
blue silks, and Gordon Brady announced his
engagement to dark-haired Verna Johnson,
of Melbourne, who was supported through
the congratulations by pale mauve frocking
of impeccable cut.
The Ball of a Thousand Lanterns for the
Havilah Homes drew a full catch of Society
to the Town Hall on Thursday, but
more of . good old general public might have
squeezed into the net without discomfort to
anybody. The hall was a blaze of light, lan-
terns veiled in the yellow and green of Sinn
Fein swung from every available niche, and
around the galleries were signs in Chinese
characters which probably signified “Wash-
ing done here!” There were very few fancy
costumes, but some of the competing head-
dresses made up-to-date coifling as simple as
a song about home and mother. Mrs. Bertie
Watson, in a silver frock looped with roses,
made the entry of the evening when she
parachuted into the hall clinging to a large
umbrella of roses from which streamers of
mauve and green dangled, at the end of
each riband a hooped and muslined pompa-
dour. A bouquet of Columbines handed out
cotillion favors, deriving much moral sup-
port from flaring black tulle frocks and pow-
dered wigs. Artist Ethel Stephens had a
hand in designing the pretty favors, and
Mrs. Friend, Mrs. Murray Campbell and
Mrs. Stuart Osborne had helped in the good
work. Mrs. Tom Watson ran aloft a flash-
ing red danger-signal enclosed in a storm
lantern, and carried off the prize for the
best head-dress. Mrs. Murray Campbell and
Rose Merivale secretaried the ball, as they
have done the series of Cinderellas for the
Homes during the last two seasons; Mrs.
Campbell was in blue and gold brocade, Miss
Merivale in stiff black silks made in the
pompadour style. Mrs. Richard Meares
struck a luscious note in tangerine velvet.
Knoxes, Macarthur Onslows and Osbornes
shed lustre on the gathering ; Haidee Carson
was a pretty thing in delft blues; and week-
old deb. Lois Greene billowed in white moire
silks.
When Professor Dettmann lately returned
to his native State as headmaster of
Sydney Grammar School, he brought a wife
wh o doesn’t
shine only by
reflected glory.
She was some-
th in g of a
Uni. high-light
herself when,
as Nell Fod-
der, she was
secretary of the
Sydney Under-
grads’ Associa-
tion, besides
being on every
committee
those Halls of
Learning
owned. Maori-
landers are
very proud of
the popular
and clever
young woman,
who is a native
of Remuera.
There are four little Dettmanns. One girleen,
aged four and a half, already threatens to
give all-comers a run for the poet laureate-
ship of Australia.
The setting of the Olympic Ball was one
of dignity and beauty. Is'ever has the Town
Hall slipped into disguise more fitting to its
architecture. The stage might have been
the entrance to the Parthenon—gleaming
white pillars, behind which cool, shadowy
distances were suggested by the black velvet
of curtains. Above this darned the inspir-
ing scroll: “Bring back the laurel wreath
of Victory to Australia.’’ The balcony
was a dazzling white frieze, key patterned
in gold, hung about with laurel wreaths, and
each balcony pillar had become a white Doric
column. The lights filtered through an
Athenian mist of gold and green. The
pageant, the star turn of the evening, and
a glittersome sight, was led by Annette Kel-
lerman’s set, “ ’Neath the Coral Sea.” The
Queen of the Divers led off in a skin-fitting
covering that flashed as though the silver-
trout catch of Maoriland had gone to its
make-up; the wondrous garment ended in a
sort of mermaid’s tail, the head-dress was a
militant-looking seahorse in green and silver,
and a train of kiddies dressed as silver sea-
urchins and balls of seaweed and anemones
gambolled in her wake. Apollo Serveto-
polus, in purple and gold, followed by the
Nine Muses, supplied a blissful demonstra-
tion of “Put Me Among the Girls!” There
was a traffic-arresting automobile set, and
some Mack Sennett girls that would bring
joy to Manly beach. White City champion
Mrs. Barney Utz went as Suzanne Lenglen ;
and Mrs. Ken Slessor made an intriguing
poster for a city battery. The Mayoral
Gilpin lady, the Naval Craufurd couple, and
the Rickards and Braddon knights and their
ladies helped with the judging; and the only-
ant in Miss Summerbelle’s honey (she not
only organised the flutter, but composed the
Classic March for the Pageant) was the
rather sparse population of the big hall.
But that was owing to the clutter of Race
Week attractions.
The ball to replenish the coffers of the
Hospice for the Dying at Darlinghurst was
one of the most successful of race-time fes-
tivities. The Town Hall was crowded with
enthusiasts for the Cause, and the committee,
who had worked untiringly for weeks past,
smiled complacency from a rosebud bower
on the dais. Some genius had thought of
scattering a few of those full-length cane
chairs which are associated with whisky
pegs and India, but nobody reached that
stage of dolce far niente, to the disappoint-
ment of the evening papers. The Lieut. -
Governor Cullens arrived about 9 o’clock,
and once they were enthroned a wonderful
pageant, headed by Josephine Marks in the
trappings of Delilah, began its serpentine
career about the big floor, while judges Theo
Cowan, D. H. Souter, and Gayfield Shaw kept
their judgment cool, though their eyes were
dazzled by a kaleidoscopic traffic that had
stepped from the opera and drama of two
centuries. Olive Casey, who had helped sec-
retary the big flutter, mingled flame and silver
in classic frocking that enhanced her pretty
coloring. Mrs. William Macleod subdued her
native brilliance with black frocking en-
crusted with beaten silver, and Mrs. Leahy,
who helped her run the treasury, was an-
other wearer of handsome black. A kiddies’
carnival set, arranged bv president Mrs. W.
E. Ward, won a special prize; Kathleen
Ttefle as a lager poster put prohibition
back another century or so; graceful Mrs.
Feakes came with her naval captain ; Mrs.
Lachlan Beaton’s agate eyes smiled over
autumn tones, and Ruby Adams wore tulle
with a difference. Eileen O’Brien’s golden
head shone above silver swathings; and Ken
Slessbr’s girlish wife was an intriguing
poster.
The dance at the Rose Bay Golf Club on
Saturday night wasn’t the success it started
out to be. To begin with, there is room for
about 400 dancers on the floor, and between
700 and 800 dropped in. The jolliest part
of the proceedings was found in the dinner-
parties before the dance opened.
Gordon Brady, whose engagement to
Verna Johnson, of Melbourne, was an-
nounced at the Arthur Allens’ dance, had a
brilliant fighting record in the World War.
He joined up with an Irish regiment in the
very early days (both his father and mother
are Irish), was wounded twice, and collected
a D. 5.0., M-C., several “mentions” and his
majority before he was 23. He went on the
land in Queensland for a while on his re-
turn, and then came to the Sydney office of
Gilchrist, Watt and Co., of which his
brother-in-law. Ernest Watt, is a director.
That real estate may be only the prosaic-
gateway to the matrimonial domain is proved
by the Maedougall sisters of Elizabeth Bay.
They have been running a swaggah flat-
letting business for the last two years or so.
Now Dora Maedougall has become engaged
to Keith Davison, of Übindal station, Bina-
long; while sister Kitty is flying the usual
pennant for Major Wisdom, D.S.O. and
M.C., of Glen Innes.
Tennis-girl Sanie Carr gave up a trip to
Europe to marry Leslie Macleod, of Cannon-
bar station, Mio'wera. The rest of the bride’s
family (they are the Harry Carrs, of Edge-
cliff) sailed during the week.
And there was a Faithfull-Maple Brown
knot-tying in Goulburn early in the week.
Jazz and the pop of champagne corks were
the accompaniment of the dinner-party staged
by Maorilander Knight during the week to
the glory of Ballymena. The Derby winner
wasn’t among those present, though the blue
ribbon he had plucked was added to his
owner’s racing colors, black and white,
which were used in the table decorations.
The balcony of the Wentworth housed the
party, which, besides inter-State racing folk,
included a host of Maorilanders, among
whom were Reids of Canterbury, Fenwicks
of Southland and the George Rhodes couple.
The Carlton drawing-rooms surged with
femininity on Friday afternoon, in response
to the invitation of Dame Alice Cfii s fi°l m
and the executive of the Country Women’s
Association. The idea was to snare the
well-to-do country woman who was in town
for the races, and the wide-flung net drew
a big haul. Dame Alice spoke of the sea-
side camps at Narrabeen for the Outback
woman and her kiddies, over which the asso-
ciation is busying itself at the moment. Her
words drew an immediate golden response,
for, headed by Mrs. Guthrie Harris, 21
women immediately dropped a guinea apiece
in the hat, to the open delight of secretary
Mrs. Marie Irvine.
The girl in the flat opposite says that the
Artists’ Ball, like a world-famed soap, was
99 per cent pure; the other 1 per cent, con-
sisted mostly of “spots” in the Sun.
The “Shore” Grammar School blossomed
into its annual fete on Saturday, and _ old
boys with their wives and sisters arrived
by* limousine (there was a string of these)
or the more roomy tram. Literally hundreds
of flappers turned out in brand-new . muslin
or linen and Spring millinery, which got
its first baptism of dust from the upper play-
ground, where the stalls were arranged.
There was every kind of side-show, includ-
ing even an exhibition of the plans of the
North Shore bridge. In the refreshment line
there was everything from a penny ice-cream
cone to a real tea, so Smith minor had no
excuse for not treating the girl of his fancy.
Mrs. Walter Swinson is the chief mover
in a fete which will enliven the gardens of
Kouara, Turramurra, on Saturday week.
The stalls are to be arranged each side of
the curving drive, and the atmosphere will
as closely as possible resemble that of a
market day in a small town of Southern
France. There’s to be a dancing tent, and
besides the jazz band there will be "wire-
lessed” one-steps and Chicagoes. Mollie
FitzSimons will lead a gay Pierrot enter-
tainment, and in the evening the grounds
will be brilliant with illuminations.
Greet your old sweetheart, Maggie Moore!
Who hasn’t seen this wonderful woman, and
who in the old
days didn’t
have what the
modern young
thing calls a
“crush” o n
her? A pretty
girl she was
when she
starred iin
‘Struck Oil,”
and a charm-
ing woman
she is now in
“The Limit.”
She has been
a s s o c i a ted
with almost
every drama-
tic success
Australia has
known. Her
kindness to
the girls on
tour is pro-
verbial in the profession, her voice retains
its musical lilt, and from being one of Aus-
tralia’s prettiest comedy actresses, Maggie
has become one of its greatest character
exponents.
Annette Barton left by the Moldavia for
Colombo, where she is to be married to Boy
Bruce Williams, youngest son of ex-Justice
Hartley Williams, formerly of Victoria, now
of London. The bride’s late father, Henry
Francis Barton, and Mrs. Barton (now of
Woolwich) belonged to a well-known
Gladesville family, and are connections of
“Banjo” Paterson.
Marjory, the eldest daughter of the Arch-
bishop of Sydney, is having a wonderful time
abroad. Her uncle, managing-director
Wright, of the Manchester engineering firm
of Nares and Co., is taking her now' for a
tour through India.
A testimonial concert is to be given Mrs.
Trefle in recognition of her work on behalf
of young Australian singers and musicians.
The first meeting on the matter was held
lately, with Mrs. J. C. Williamson as presi-
dent.
A Brisbane postscript:—
His Ex. opened the loan-paintings exhibition
arranged by the Authors and Artists in the United
Service Club rooms. Some interesting things were
on view, including a few samples of modern German
art, several water-colors lent by Sir Matthew (the
only works by Australians in the show), miniatures
by Bessie Gibson, a Rembrandt, a Bore, a Joshua
Reynolds, and, from E. Colclough, a group of Bel-
gian, American, Japanese, Italian and Dutch paint-
ings. Michael Rogers, who has just been answered
in the affirmative by Girl-Guide Margaret Prior,
was with his Ex.
Sir Matthew gave a dinner at Government House
to Parson Merrington and his wife, who are going
to Maoriland. Also present: the Cumbrae Stewarts,
Mrs. Macnaughton and the Robertson girls.
His Ex., accompanied by Margaret Prior and
Michael Rogers, went to Mrs. Gilbert Wilson’s
students’ concert in the Elite. The graceful singer,
whose mother was a Carandini, wore black satin
beaute and georgette with iridescent jewelled net ;
and among those who partook of the musical menu
were the Bruches, pretty Mrs. Harry Mills, the A.
D. Grahams, Cecil Pauls, Cowlishaws and' Robert-
sons. Before the concert the pupils bestowed a
gold wristlet-watch upon Mrs. Wilson.
The South Brisbane City Orchestra, which scored
the Magpie Cup as one of their wins, went to
Lismore to scoop up the Beale Cup this time. Now
it is talking of storming Ballarat.
Seventeen hundred voices were let loose under
Leonard Francis’s baton at the Exhibition grounds
when the combined choirs gave a concert in aid
of the Sick Children’s Hospital, and about 20,000
people each paid a bob to hear them. The Black-
stone (Ipswich) Cambrian Choir, the South Brisbane
City Orchestra and the Sampson Orchestral Society
were among those who lent hand and voice.
Kuranda, in the North, had a queer sight lately.
A fashionable pair from Sydney spent their honey-
moon at the favorite resort on the banks of the
Barron. The stream there is wide and dotted with
trees, and the ’groom, who had gone for a swim
one morning, was located some hours later in the
branches of one of them. A fresh had come down
and he was in a precarious position. Frantic appeals
at last lured him to leave his perch and strike out
for terra firma. He swam as if possessed of seven
devils, and reached the bank in safety. The bride
sobbingly embraced him, and for a time it was im-
possible to point out tlo him that he was stark
naked.


ffardij Bros
Limited
'-Jewellers
Fine Art Statuary.
V
*■/
Hardy Brothers wish to
draw attention to their
collection of Fine Art
Statuary, comprising
beautiful specimens in
hand-carved Ivory,
Castellina and Carrara
Marbles, Bronzes,
Bronze and Marble
combined. The display
will amply repay a
visit of inspection.
Full particulars, together
with photographs, will gladly
be forwarded by mail to
those who are unable to pay
a personal visit of inspec-
tion. Inquiries are invited.
HARDY_BROS. ltd.
c Jewellers <fc> Silver.w ///7V
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
298-300 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
r:
-t?
10
/. a
fA
.fc^V
IIP I '®
v
i
Murdoch’s “Manly
99
Suit
5319
“ Pay Less to
Dress Better
For young men.
A faultlessly-tailored, Ready-for-Service Suit
that would cost half as much again but for
Murdoch’s policy—“ Direct from Mill to Wearer”
(saving all middlemen’s profits).
Made from specially-selected All-Wool Australian Tweeds
in dark shades. Coat is smartly cut with two-button front,
one jigger button, medium Roll Lapels. Coat, Vest and Trousers
complete. Fit youths 14 to 17 years 53/9
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
The sizes are finely-
graded, ensuring
comfortable, easy-
fitting to any figure.
When ordering state
height, waist, chest
and inside leg
measures, also
weight, and address
your letter to
DESK R.
(. Regd. Trade-mark).
The British General. Electric Company,
Limited, have pleasure in announcing that
with the advent of Wireless Telephony and
the early introduction of Broadcasting in
Australia on a comprehensive scale by Messrs.
Farmer and Company, Limited, arrangements
have now been completed whereby supplies
3 Receiving
GECoPHONE
Sets will be available for distribution through-
out the whole of New South Wales in ample
time to enable discriminating “Listeners In”
to obtain the best possible results from
Messrs. Farmer’s Broadcasting Service.
of our well-known I
The best brains of the Wireless Engineering
Department and Research Laboratories of
our principals, The General Electric Com-
pany, Limited, of England, have been concen-
trated for some time on the production of
Receiving Sets which conform with the
Government’s Regulations and which will be
minutely adapted for the perfect reception of
the comprehensive programme to be broad-
casted by the House of Farmer’s.
This accumulated knowledge and experience
has resulted in the production of tmssMssm\
Receiving Sets —manufactured in the Com-
pany’s Telephone Works at Coventry, Eng-
land, which cover an area of nine acres and
are equipped with the finest and most up-to-
date machinery in the world.
Simplicity in design is the keynote of all
Receiving Sets, which results in
a complete absence of any technical complica-
tion, so that they can be installed and operated
with the utmost ease. The various types of
Receiving Sets are contained
in handsome polished mahogany cases, and
of such an appearance that they are an
ornament to any room.
Advice and Further Particulars Gladly Given.
British Genera! Electric
Company Limited,
154-6 Clarence Street, Sydney.


wm
>• «
mm;
Box 497, G.P.O.
Stetson Hats
for Spring wear.
The " Stetson ” hats are world-
renowned for their tone of smart
di.-ainction, as well as for their lasting
quality. Farmer's feature a wide range
of these hats, in exclusive shapes and
colourings, for Spring and Summer.
FARMER’ S
Carriage Paid.
m
Praised by Miss MAMIE WATSON
“My Lafaye Pearls have been a revelation to me—in
and quality. When placed beside the rea. pearls it is
sible to tell the difference.”
beauty
impos-
The glory of Lafaye Pearls never pales, their
iridescent beauty never dies. Their lovely radiance is
perpetual. To back up our claim we give a 10 years
guarantee.
NECKLETS Identical in
£5OO string- of Real Pearls.
appearance with a
From £2 2 0
for 16in. length.
Mounted as Rings, Brooches, Ear-rings,
Studs, etc. H-om £1 1 °
Send us £2/2/- and we shall despatch a Lafaye
Necklet which you may compare with the natural
pearls. If vnu are then dissatisfied m any way,
return our Necklet within seven days and your money
will he refunded.
Lafaye,
Scientific Pearl Aulivoriij, avnvifV
“First Promenade/’ City House, 16 ’• Vitt Stree , ‘ ,' MELBOIIKMi
Also at 2nd Floor, Block Arcade (Collins Street entrance), i
Bate of “Tecla,” 7 Old Bond Street, BONBON
The Only Firm of Artificial Pearl Specialists in Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
Flemington, at the meeting that falls a
month before the Cup comes due, is not the
haunt of smartness, nor the resort of society’s
chosen dignitaries; nevertheless, the races on
Saturday attracted a few important faces.
Like a half- or quarter-built stand at the
end of the members’ drive, all noticeable per-
sons struck a sombre note. Mrs. Clarke, of
high political circles, was clothed as blackly
as a crow, and Mrs. Pitt Rivers repeated the
note of gloom. The few glad-rags one saw*
were mostly associated with a world with
more knowledge of racing matters under its
hat than one would imagine from the mil-
linery itself. A very decided note of fashion,
though, was sounded by many shoes. They
were as open as the day. Sandal shoes are
apparently coming into passing vogue for
Henley and the Cup.
Half .the Western District woolocrac-y, all
best-bibbed and tuckered, overflowed the
Toorak Anglican church to hear Lorie
Staughton vow herself away to Cautiey
Shaw, llallarat’s Bishop Maxwell Gurnble-
ton was there to help link up the two Terang
squatting clans. When Arthur Staughton
led his daughter to the altar, silken embroi-
dered net clamped in front with orange
flowers curtained her upstanding form, and
a veil of old lace, given by her grand-aunt,
Mrs. Alec Murphy, flowed trainwise in the
rear from a silver wreath backing a rival
circlet of blossom. Forget-me-nots lurked
among the white azaleas sheafed on one
arm. Two small sisters, Prudence and
Deborah, in silver sheathings veiled with
blue, and with floral wreaths binding their
youthful brows, held the backwash of lace
out of harm’s way; and a trio of older maids,
sister Elizabeth, Mary Mann and Mary Bos-
tock, wore shimmering silver clouded with
blue silk organdie bordered with lace and
fur, and were topped off with black hats
that had sweet-peas under the brims and
blue ribbons above. And each had a posy
anchored to a walking-stick. Naval-Lieut.
Young, Roy Cox and Bill Armstrong looked
after the immaculately-groomed Cautiey.
The after-slnvoo was at No. 9 Darling-street.
Here Mrs. Arthur Staughton was a vision
in black lace with one red rose held captive
by the lacey swathe on her big black hat.
Mrs. Oliphant Shaw, who came from Eng-
land to bestow a blessing on the contracting-
pair, did it in midnight blue georgette, with
winged sleeves, and sported a blue feather
athwart her wide-brimmed black hat. After
the honeymoon the newly-weds will trek to
Rhodesia, where the bridegroom has
a farm. Shaw pere, who transferred from
the Western District to England when his
son was a small boy, has just sold to a wool-
growing syndicate Wooriwyte, the Terang
squattage he shared with a brother.
The pig-tailed school-girl now claims a
powder-puff and lip-stick. Dad snorts indig-
nation, but mum, like Lorna Pounds in
“Rockets,” insists that the child must have
what the others have. However, a right-
minded headmistress, feeling that some one
simply must protect rose-white youth from
itself, has roused flapper circles to fury with
the edict that no girl attending her seminary
shall include a puff or lip-stick in her school
outfit. Furthermore, any girl who shows up
with a whitened face or cherried lips will
be ordered to sponge off the false coatings.
The other day one of our best-known matrons
narrowly missed getting tangled up in a
street brawl for objecting to two passing
females who, after a survey of her flapper
chick’s blooming complexion, likened the
young thing to the daughters of Jezebel.
When taken to task by the irate mother the
pair jeeringly proposed settling the argu-
ment by testing the girl’s rosy cheeks at
the nearest drinking fountain.
Girl Guide and Free Kindergarten enthu-
siasts joined forces at the Palace Theatre
in a benefit matinee. The Irvine lady, who
is very keen on the Kindergarten movement,
Avas penned Avith her younger daughter,
Nancy, Mrs. T. a’Beckett (president of the
Free Kindergarten) and the Chauvel lady,
Avhile the Best dame, in the opposite box,
looked after Irene Vanbrugh and Janet
Eccles, who ivere there for half-time. There
was a kindergarten orchestra, which sat in
pale blue suits under the lively baton of a
small girl, with a groAvn-up at the piano:
the Mermaid Repertories repeated one of
their last season successes, Harold Chapin’s
“Columbine,” with Mrs. Apperly in the
name-part; a couple of ballets by Jennie
Brenan’s cleverest juvenile pupils were joy-
ous items, and a diminutive pair who song-
and-danced were called back three times.
Giri Guides vended sweets and posies, and
Ella Guthrie, a sister of Senator Frank, was
in command of a flower stall which looked
like a Spring rhapsody. The Bertie Austin,
Baynes Dickson and Jack Moffatt matrons
joined with her in the good work. Mrs.
Henry Higgings, with the wife of Trinity
College warden Behan and Mrs. F. Lang-
lands, controlled the sweet sector, and among
their young brigands were the Best girls, a
brace of Winter Irvings, Mary Leader, Shir-
ley Bayles and Mary Robertson. James
Martin "did his bit as lion, sec., Mary Emmer-
ton helped as ticket sec., and W. B. Ogilvy
held the purse, which is said to be well
filled by the enterprise. Hugh Ward came
in for three cheers for lending the theatre.
Dr. Kent Hughes’s daughter Margaret is
engaged to Harold Inge, only son of the
11. .1. luges, of St. Kilda. The Kent
Hughes son and heir, Wilfrid, a Rhodes
scholar and Anzac major, now flies his medi-
cal brass plate in the Woodside-crescent
region of Toorak.
The Dickens Recital in the Temperance
Hall drew a full house the other night, despite
*a cyclonic rainstorm. The society side-
tracked Dickens for one interval to pul on
an original and well-constructed sketch. “In
Moscow,” by a local damsel, E. P. Addison,
in which the authoress, as the Countess
heroine, showed herself a better playwright
than mummer. The Dickens scenes were
delightful, more especially the one in which
Mrs. Nickleby flirts early-Victorianly with
the polite lunatic on other side of the
wall. Between whiles Veronica Cox lifted
a true soprano, and the society’s orchestra
earned much commendation.
The building fund of St. George’s Inter-
mediate Hospital at Kew wall get a financial
lift from the dance benefit which crowded
the Glenferrie Jazz Palace the other night.
The Wang Wang Amateur Orchestra volun-
teered its services, and a squad of joyous
damsels swelled the takings by vending paper-
caps and .other jazzy baubles. Several old-
country dances made the star feature of the
evening, and proved a howling success. Mrs,
Ernest Robinson, who was chief conspirator
in the movement, was satined in peacock-
blue, and breathed defiance at superstition
with an odd white sleeve worked with pea-
cock’s feathers. Mrs. Blatchley, whose hus-
band was hospital chairman, veiled pink
hangings with grey circled midway with
flowers, and Sisters Halligan, Fisher and
McCallum, as the hospital staff representa-
tives, smiled appreciatively on the affair.
Mrs. 11. A. Dodd, wife of the chairman of
the appeal, was in black.
The alliance of ’Varsity and Government
House is unusual, but Acting-Gov. Irvine’s
elder daughter Beatrice provides a charm-
ing example.
This well-liked
damsel, who
is of a scien-
tific turn, has
had her abun-
dance of grey
matter shaped
at the Mel-
bourne Uni.;
but she has not
become too
“highbrow” to
enjoy the
social side of
things. As a
matter of
fact, she de-
riVe s a s
much fun
from society
frivols as any
other pretty
girl does. On
Tuesday. Oct.
16, S’William will hand his bright offspring
over to 11. Morrison, of Tasmania, at the
Collins-street kirk, after which the healths
of the contracting pair will be drunk with
the usual pomp and circumstance at vice-
regal Stonington. The photo of the bride-
to-be is by Rembrandt.
“At Mont Park Mental Hospital,” to quote
Alfred Fussell, Acting-Director of Education,
“there are two to three hundred soldiers suf-
fering from shell-shock and kindred ills,
which have rendered them unlit to resume
the daily duties of citizenship. They are
well cared for in the hospital, yet it is pos-
sible to bring a little sunshine into their
darkened lives by occasional entertainments
and visits, and the provision of tobacco,
cigarettes and other comforts. Many of the
patients are from other States, and have no
relatives or friends here.” Fussell commends
these war victims to the teachers and children
of Victoria. He will not appeal in vain.
Fate dealt Robert Chisholm a nasty knock
last week, when his father passed out here
a few days after the J.C.W. star had under-
gone an operation in Sydney. Bobby and
dad were the closest of pals.
Gibson Young, who leaves for London
shortly, has for 18 months seen to the enter-
tainment of the prisoners at Pentridge with
community singing and the like, and at a
farewell concert there the other day they
presented him with a gold-mounted conduc-
tor’s baton .of finely-polished fiddleback, and
an elaborate memoir on art paper, bound
in blue plush, both done by the prisoners.
The scrolling, engraving and lettering of the
memoir were works of rare beauty and ori-
ginality. Which was as it should be —if the
story is true that the gentleman responsible
for it has the reputation of being the most
skilled forger in the Commonwealth.
Lord Leverhulme, England’s soap king, is
to put in six months under the Southern
Cross, presumably to cast an inspecting eye
over his interests on this side. One of his
right-hand men, General Selden Long, who
was Director of Transport and Supplies dur-
ing the first two years of the Big War, has
a sister living in Melbourne —the wife of
Dr. J. W. O. O’Brien, of Hawksburn.
Monteath supplies this photo of Doris
Manners-Sutton. who has lately issued her
first novel, “A Marked Soul,” through pub-
lisher McCubbin, and is now collecting the
material for an early volume Of verse. The
little lady has
been ha r-
nessed to a pen
for some time,
and many Aus-
tralian papers
have found
room for her.
A flavor of
romance clings
to her novel,
since the pro-
logue is based
on an episode
in the career
of her grand-
mother. JLadv
Margaret
Manners - Sut-
ton, in Hobart
in 1840. Cap-
tain Kerr, a
handsome lad
in the Irish
Fusiliers, who
was: in the retinue of Governor Arthur, cap-
tured the fair vision’s heart and eloped in
a manner that set the local swains seething
with envy. It was a great affair, and through
it the couple leapt into history. The bride,
of course, was one of the Manners-Suttons,
whose present head is the Earl of Chichester.
If the setting of “King John,” at the Play-
house isn’t altogether confirmed by history,
Allan Wilkie has closely consulted the
Tailor and Cutter of the period for his
trappings as John. A long navy blue robe
with a heavy train in pursuit seems to go
well with a face which is decked out with
pink whiskers. A jewelled girdle and gold
hat, designed to keep the intellect moist in
wet weather, are other features of the royal
outfit. The King of France, with silver arms
and legs emerging from a rich pinny of
view rose, is another fine representative of
the time when life seemed all one fancy-dress
ball. The standards of the nobles, who appear
to have their armor painted on them, add
much picturesqueness, though they are hardly
noticed beside the mauve and old-gold con-
fection in which Freda Hunter-Watts, as the
gloomy Constance, looks so very beautiful.
By the way, the rumor of Allan Wilkie’s un-
dertaking has reached the elite of Science
and Society. Edmund Jowett and Dr. Stan-
ley were among the earnest listeners on
Saturday night.
The colleagues of Stella Ross, the gifted
young treasuress of the King’s Theatre, are
blinking in the flashes from her left hand.
Ironfounder F. 11. Robison, of South Mel-
bourne. has decided to beckon her from the
cash-box and meet her in a church at an
early date.
Anglican Bishop Cranswick, Roman
Catholic ditto Phelan and Sootchbyterian
meenister Marshall joined with Orangemen,
Hibernians. Rechabites, , Boozers, Liberals,
Tories, Red-raggers and ordinary tolk, a thou-
sand in all, in packing the theatre in Sale
the other day to welcome home from a health
trip to Sydney ex-Mayor Tom Cullinan and
present him with a wallet of a hundred
pounds and an illuminated address. It was
good to see the whole populace depart for
once from its don’t-know-the-other-fellow
style to honor a man who had spent himself
in the service of his town and” had always
ploughed a straight furrow, irrespective of
class and creed. Australia could do with a
lot more of that sort of thing.
Flight-Lieutenant 1)e la Rue, who is
the son of the lat° H. F. De la
Rue, of Killara (Sydney), climbed into
his heavily-ribboned birdman’s kit to keep
his appointment with an attractive Kew
girl, Clara Stone, at the Collins-street kirk
the other day. His seconds were Lieuts.
McNamara, V.C., and F. W. Lukes. A veil
of fine old lace misted the bride’s white
crbpe panellings, which sported a bugled
glitter, and ran away into trained effect at
the side from an anchorage of paste and
silver. A posy of forget-me-nots peeped
bluely from a fragrant mass of pink hya-
cinths cradled on one arm. As maids of
honor, the bridegroom’s sister Yvonne and
the T. A. Pattersons’ daughter Mary smiled
beguilingly above full-skirted frocks of shot-
blue silk, with tulle berthes, inlaid with silken
bands. Their heads were bandaged with
blue and silver, and mid-Victorian bouquets
in fuchsia tints occupied their right hands.
After the wedding march Mr. and Mrs. W.
Stone staged a cheerio at the Oriental —she
in black hangings with steel and jet beading,
and surmounted by a black-and-white fea-
thered hat. The bride was tailored in brown
and amber like an autumn leaf when she set
out for the ’moon.
The Princess Theatre was swallow-tailed
and bare-shouldered to the back pews on
Saturday night to welcome “Pretty Peggy,"
who has replaced “Rockets.” The dress side
of the show has some delicious color har-
monies and picturesque effects, and the race
and charity-bazaar scenes should prove a
fruitful inspiration for Cup season frocks.
Lorna Pounds scores heavily in her silken
edition of a coster girl with an embroidered
orange shawl topping a grey georgette skirt;
and Toots, with her bobbed locks pinioned
back, opens intriguingly as Lady Babbie,
with a few yards of pale-blue silk swathed
round her slimness from diamond shoulder-
straps to a monster bow over a back under-
skirt of silver lace. She has another success
in almond-green crepe with graduated bands
of white hooping the full skirt behind the
front panelling, and she ends up in a deli-
cate cobweb of silver brocaded with gold.
Ruby Norton flashes into the race scene
looking for a moment like the black queen
in “Alice” with satin farthingaled in three
tiers above a tube skirt; but the illusion
fades when the eyes travel to the big black
bat and lace fichu accompaniments. The
star of the grand ballet is a beauty sheeted
in silver, with green gems studding the
upper deck, and topped with a silvery um-
brella hat.
The Jimmy Dyers, who have been survey-
ing the beauties of the ’Arbor, hurried back
to Melbourne for the song recital which Mrs.
Jimmy, as honorary representative of the
Vic. end of the British Musical Society, is
staging in her Toorak homestead, Kinnoul,
this (Thursday) evening. The Dyers will
shortly pack for an English trip, and the
musical gang are wondering how on earth
they are going to get on without them. The
pair not only do their bit as social enter-
tainers, but 'are always ready to help prop
up any musical cause or budding genius,
financially and otherwise.
A line or two from Adelaide: —-
Tlie Forsters have had a hectic week here —lunches,
meetings, civic receptions, the unveiling of war
memorials, races, opera, and a vast reception at
Government House. His Ex.’s hosts have included
the Returned Soldiers’ League, the Commonwealth
Club and the Adelaide Club, but there was a dinner
at Government House for both of them, and for
Lady Forster a smaller feminine dinner while
her lord was dining out. Her Ex. found time to
see something of all her pet charities (among them
the School for Mothers and the Mothers’ Union)
and she tea-ed with the National Council of Women,
lunched with the Victoria League, and was the
speaker at the Red Cross Society’s annual meeting.
'l’lie Government House reception was the biggest
show of its kind this village has had, and included
more of the younger set than usual. Lady Forster
was in black-net and lace that veiled satin and
shimmered with emerald sequins. Our own Lady
Bridges was iu mauve—a delightful frock that
drippeu iridescent beads from the shoulders and
waist and trailed a narrow train. The older and
middle generation showed the smartest frocking—
notably a slim dress of delphinium blue satin whose
draperies were lined with rose georgette.
Mrs. Ramsay I Smith was hostess at an “American”
tea at Belair the other day, when Scotch music and
Scotch dancing were among the side-shows, and well-
stocked work, cake and produce stalls helped to
rake iu the bawbees for the local Anglican church
and its parish hall.
For its mayoral ball, Glenelg* bedizened its Town
Hall with many splashes of yellow. The hostess
(Mrs. Swift Patterson) was in yellow too —apricot
charmeuse veiled with yellow lace. Her daughter
was frocked in white with a girdle of green and
silver leaves. Among the revellers were the Whit-
more Carrs, Doris Coles (smart in mauve georgette),
the A. F. Stokes, the J. B. Dawsons and Mrs. J.
G. Hope.
Frank Downer, who vice-presidents the local branch
of the St. George Society, bade his fellow members
to tea with him the other afternoon, and d
most of them green with envy over a garden massed
with everything that looks and smells of Spring at
a time when most suburban plots are still trying to
recover from a drenching winter. Lady Bridges was
among his guests (in black moire, with ermine at
wrists and neck and topped by a small black hat),
and his sisters, Mrs. Schomburgk and Mrs. Warren,
helped him to do the honors.
The Moulden dame, who had left here bound for
Japan, had the bad luck to fall ill! at Hong Kong,
and is homeward bound in the Tango Maru.
Y. Emma has been working for the past 40 years
with a yearly liability of £l6OO for rent hanging
over her. The lease has just run out, and the
Public Trustee of N.S.W., acting for the Feather-
stone estate, has arranged to sell outright for
about £40,000. Emma has already raised* and paid
over about half.


Don’t Endure Fiery SKIN-DISEASE.
Let ZAM-BUK Soothe and Heal.
Actual skin disease, which begins with
just noticeable irritation, unpleasant itch-
ing or unsightly patches, is too serious to
experiment upon with crude, fatty oint-
ments. Such treatment may easily
aggravate any minor eruption or soreness
into a serious ulcer, or an attack of fiery
eczema, itch or poisoned sores.
When any itching or soreness suggests
that you have contracted skin disease,
treat it from the first with Zam-Buk, the
real skin healer.
Don’t experiment with fatty salves
and “dressings,’’ which are always liable
to do your skin more harm than good.
Zam-Buk contains no animal fat, but
only the purest and most curative herbal
extracts which Nature herself provides for
the healing and regeneration of the human
skin.
These refined herbal extracts are
readily absorbed by the tiny pores, and
they extend their germicidal curative
action far below the surface, soothing and
purifying the whole tissue, quickly uproot-
ing the most deep-seated disease.
Zam-Buk has proved successful in thousands of cases
of eczema, ringworm, ulcers, abscesses, heat sores,
poisoned wounds, sore feet, piles, cuts, burns, scalds, etc.
SPRING ROILS AND SORES.
Mr. A. Laport, 27 Pyrmont Street,
Sydney, writes: “I suffered great
pain and disfigurement through a
rapid succession of boils. No
sooner would I get rid of one crop
of these festered growths than
another would appear. I tried poul-
ticing and other methods of treat-
ment, but could never find a cure
until I tried Zam-Buk.
“Zam-Buk was mild in its action
and it brought almost instant re-
lief. It ended the throbbing pains
and brought the boils quickly to a
head, after which the cores and bad
matter all came away. Further
dressings of the balm healed up the
cavities rapidly, and all trace of
the troublesome boils disappeared.”
Try also Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap, 1/- per cake, or 2/10
per box of three.
1/6 and 3/6 per box of all Chemists and Stores .
CONTAINS
FAT
ANIMAL
OIL
NO
OR
m
n 0«
d* u 2
A NV
NE*2=
1
M
i
!
%!
H
fe
w
ft
*
£
s
-
LE
SC
LEGS
AT
BAD
AT
CHAPPED
HAM
BAC
ADS
SORE
*
roa
CP/CAETEPS
IJ#£QUALL£D
X.
PLAYERS
=*
FOOTBALL
TS
IS
cycL
f
GENERALLY
SPORTSMEN
T\o^
fva
ffOCA
)
i
sSNN
iS
''X
The Box it Pays
to Keep Handy!
ACTUAL SHIRT MAKERS.
GREAT SHIRT-SELLING CAMPAIGN
SHIRTS DIRECT FROM FACTORY TO THE PUBLIC.
THE KING OF SHIRTS
Only Obtainable from The Leviathan,
This famous Shirting Material has
the appearance of Wool Taffeta,
and features smart stripes in black,
blue, brown and helio. Fitted with
Leviathan Special Slit Sleeves, sleeve
lifts, and reinforced
inlay fronts. Sizes
1 4in to 1 Bin
10/6
&
m
m
y
The Acme of Perfection
“Duratex”
JOSr.
Only Obtainable from The Leviathan
A distinctive material which features
rich, blue, black and helio, or cream
silky stripes on cream grounds.
Very smart for all
occasions. Sizes
1 to 18in. . . .
9/6
ORDER
BY
POST.
Famous Leviathan BLUE SHIRTS
Two Collars—a Stiff and a Soft—to Match, Given with Every Shirt.
10/6 Absolutely Fast Colors.
PARTICULARLY SMART.
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE.
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.


\ Jfc
■
>?■
H
:V
m
;
H
s :
m
■ I
V
V
-• ■
K
■ ■
a
K...
■
* i
i I ;:
K
..., •
- *
m
Mr. Hart’s 18.2-h.p.
ESSEX ascending
Wiseman’s Ferry Hill.
ESSEX
V' r -A'-' _ :((/: _
Wins Petrol Consumption Section of Brisbane-Sydney Contest.
The splendid performance of Mr. Hart’s heavily-laden Essex car, in
winning the petrol-consumption section of the Brisbane-Sydney
contest, again proves the low cost of Essex upkeep, which, together
with its unexcelled road performance and long life, make it the most
outstanding motor-car value obtainable.
The uniformly large petrol mileage of the Essex cars competing,
which show the consistency of Essex economy, were as follows:
32.94 m.p.g. 32.00 m.p.g. 25.63 m.p.g.
Mr. R. H. Bently’s 30-h.p. Hudson Super-Six was also well to the
fore in every section, and its petrol mileage of 23.4 m.p.g. was the
best of all the large cars competing.
The Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN, LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
5


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR.
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sale Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Condition told at the A.J.C. Spring meet-
ing, as it always does. No horse was in better
shape than Rivoli and none was more successful —
a close second in the Spring Stakes to David, he
downed the old fellow in the Randwick Plate, and
collected the Craven Plate in between. A lot of the
credit for his victories is due to the trainer,
Andrews, who is quite evidently a master of his
craft. Another horse in perfect trim for the job
assigned to him was Sir Andrew, who had received
a real old-fashioned Jimmy Wilson preparation. But
Sir Andrew lacks the robustness of Repartee’s muscu-
lar son, and- went off after his gruelling race in the
Msiropolitan. Others that exhibited open and visible
evidence of competent training were Dighton (two
wins and a second), Wildun (a win and a second),
Clan Robert (both hurdle races) and Note. But
dozens of horses raced during the round (and a ton
of public money went on some of them) were pal-
pably short of work. The wretched showing made
by two-thirds of the Metropolitan field suggested
doubts as to the modern theory that sprints, half-
pace gallops and a race or two with the colors up
will get a horse ready for the most arduous long-
distance event.
Another factor in Rivoli’s dual triumph was P.
Brown’s beautiful riding. It is a case in which
there is a perfect understanding between horse and
jockey, the long youth being able to get every ounce
out of his mount without punishing him with the
whip. His task was lightened in the Craven Plate
by the foolish tactics of the boy on Harvest King,
who threw away a great winning chance by letting
the black horse have his head, instead of pulling
him behind King Carnival, when the pair were
many lengths ahead of the others. And in the Rand-
wick Plate Brown contrived to show that Toohey,
good jockey as he is on most horses, doesn’t ride
David particularly well. After Harvest King had
made them travel for a mile and a half (the two
miles were run in 3min. 25sec.), Toohey drove David
to the front,, and tried to win from the four-furlong
post. It was too severe a question to ask of the
game old chap, who looked a bit jaded after his
tremendous exertions in the Metropolitan, and Rivoli
had his neck in front after an exhilarating struggle
all the way up the straight, with Rapine only half
a neck away third. A magnificent finish to one of
the finest races ever seen at Randwick.
Heroic, a chestnut colt in the Corteen-Godby
stable, was the smartest two-year-old produced at
the meeting. Backed down to sto 4 in the Breeders’
Plate, he came home alone in lmin ljsec. and
could have made it a minute had it been necessary.
He is by imported Valais —Chersonese, but the old
hands won’t have him as a Derby possibility next
year—“too inbred,” they say. Comptroller’s third
in the Metropolitan and first in the Waverley (time
2min. 59!fsec. for 14 furlongs), drew attention to his
Melbourne Cup chance —his weight, penalty included,
is only Ist. But he was “all out” at the finish of
the Waverley, and a stronger boy might have get
El Dorado home. This beautifully-bred four-year-old
(he is by All Black —Auraria’s Daughter) has been
withdrawn from the Cup, perhaps with the idea tha;
he requires more time to mature. As a three-year-
old carrying 91b. overweight he ran a fair race
in the last Sydney Cup, beating more than beat
him, and may be worth bearing in mind for the next.
A station horse called Mumblebone won both steeple-
chases, which were the depressing exhibitions custo-
mary at this time of year —depressing, at least, to
those who don’t care for broad farce with tragic
possibilities.
It was a great round for the tribe of Dynamite-
odds. There were 25 races, and seven absolute favor-
ites got home, but most of them were too short for
the average punter to profit by their success.
Ballymena (Derby), Sir Maitland, Mumblebone and
Periwoo were skinners for most bookmakers, nor
did any of the fraternity lose on Claro (Epsom) or
Sir Andrew (Metrop.)—a highly profitable combina-
tion for those who compiled a libretto on the double.
There is no reason why the A.J.C. shouldn’t open a
totalisator double on races like the Epsom and Met-
ropolitan, and the Doncaster and Sydney Cup—it
could be done at previous meetings, and would save
the public from being plundered by such harpies as
kept The Hawk and Rapine at 20 to 1 for two of
the hardest races in the world to win. Also, the
need for straightout machines at all registered
courses is urgent.
“0.K.” : Not many stay-at-home Victorians
can have pinned their faith to Sir Andrew for the
Metropolitan. John Wren has been associated with
the Sir Andrew stable, and it has had too many
mysteries and not enough wins to keep punters
warmly interested in its fortunes. This apart from
the fact that the gee’s Victorian form had been
nothing to write home about. Victorian racegoers
have an old-established prejudice against the Jimmy
Wilson white-and-black. The colors are identified
with eleventh-hour surprises and hole-and-corner
tactics. Every owner has a right to be as secretive
as he pleases, but the Wilson policy so often was
secrecy for secrecy’s sake. Look for a Wilsonian
stall in the birdcage, and you found it not until
you reached the uttermost end of the earth, far from
the madding crowd. Always in the inner paddock,
if there was one, and away; in its remotest corner.
So much of this desire to dodge the public gaze
was such futility in a general way that punters
came at last to hold Wilson’s mysteries in less re-
spect than they deserved. Popularity is never thrust
upon a stable that carefully shuns it.
* * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A neat trick set
two Randwick bookmakers lamenting. In one case
ticket No. 810 was issued for a bet of £l5 to £5
( £2O), and ticket No. 819 for 15s. to ss. (205.),
both on Rahiri in the Grantham Stakes ; and the bookie
was induced to pay out £2O on each ticket. That was
in the Leger; a similar trick, also with numbers con-
taining the “6” and “9,” came off in the Paddock.
The “9” was cut out of the cardboard with a sharp
knife and twisted round to make a “6.” Either
the sharper saw the man who held 816 put his fiver
on, and so worked things as to get the third ticket
after him; or the two men operated together. By
watching the issue of the tickets, they might easily
secure the numbers they wanted. The bookies are now
asking for “some means of protection.” A simple
suggestion is that the figures 6 and 9 should be
printed with a small mark at the side (-6 and -9)
to prevent any possibility of transposition.
* * * *
Flemington October meeting has ere now
revealed a coming Cup winner in the Stand Handicap
result, but the splendid struggle between The Tyrant,
Comique and Sister Olive was
much too close for anyone to form
a strong fancy front it. Certainly
The Tyrant, although lucky to
win by a head, was the most
promising of the lot as a Caul-
fielid Cup proposition, for he stayed
out the 10 furlongs like an honest
sticker, is capable of further im-
provement, and looks as sound as
ever, whereas beautiful Sister
Olive favors her white-stockinged
leg as though it might go at any
time under severe pressure.
Whittier made the impression of
the afternoon. His way of win-
ning the October Stakes (in better
time than The Tyrant had estab-
lished) was most convincing. If
Easingwold, at even weights, can
win this Caulfield Cup from last
year’s victor, there is indeed noth-
ing in w.f.a. form. Nor did Maid
of the Mist, who finished second,
well ahead of Easingwold, strike
one as performing like a Mel-
bourne Cup horse. Heir Apparent,
on the other hand, ran quite as
he ought to run to have a big
show over two miles, a month
later, with 131 b. off his back.
The two lots of two-year-olds
seen at Flemington may have in-
cluded at least one early top-
notcher. There was not much to
choose, all things considered, be-
tween the three placed ones, all of
them touts’ selections, in the colts’
division: but among the fillies the
runaway victory of Flying Wynne
—a record-breaker —bore out all
that was said of her speed before
the sprint. The big daughter of
Blankney 11. was always a warm
first favorite, and she won by four
lengths from Versine, the second
favorite, in the dangerous E. E.
Clarke stable.
Guineas Day at Caulfield, and
the Wednesday following, will not
improbably put a quite new face
on Cup affairs, which at time of writing have very
little face to speak of, apart from that command-
ing feature, Whittier. The Guineas is not the good
thing for The Monk it looked previous to the A.J.C.
meeting. The Toorak Handicap is pretty much a
question—at the moment unanswerable—of what is
going for it. And the quality of Backwood is un-
proven.
“Fax” : Apparently The Tyrant is to have
a go for Caulfield Cup, pa matter what else the
stable may be represented by. If Backwood is on
the same job the case will be as it was in 1919
when Stuart Brunton, owner of The Tyrant, started
Chrome against Lucknow, owned by Clarke and
Robinson, of London. Backwood is the English horse
that Clark in England shares with Baillieu in Mel-
bourne. Chrome finished third to his two stable-
companions, and The Tyrant, son of Polycrates, will
find many backers for win and place. Assuming
that trainer Bradfield, ever one of the best at teach-
ing them bow to stay, has put twio furlongs on to
T.T.’s stamina since he ran in the Carnival Handi-
cap at last Melbourne Cup meeting* The Tyranit
is surely one of the best-treated animals in the
race. He was giving The Epicure eight pounds
when he finished two heads behind him over a
10-furlongs course. In the Caulfield Cup the Sydney
horse was handicapped to give him a stone. A very
pretty 5-year-old, and a game one when he’s well,
is The Tyrant.
“Nirnshi”: Last season Speciality’s impost
when he won the Metropolitan was 21b. more tnan
that of Rostrum, the Epsom hero, while King Ingoda,
in the Melbourne Cup, also carried 21b. mor e than
the Caulfield victor, Whittier. This year the differ-
ence between the winners of the first two big events
was a mere pound and down, in the second case,
instead of up. I can’t suggest any better way of
spotting the Cup winner than to wait till Blank
wins the Caulfield and then back something with
a pound less at Flemington.
r * * *
“W.0.W.”: The luck of Jack Kaufman,
a Hobart civil servant, should surely become prover-
bial. Passing along- Augusta-road a few weeks ago
he noticed something thrown from a passing tram
On approaching, and kicking the object lightly, he
discovered a home-made bomb. The kick had dis-
connected the fuse, and thereby, it seems probable,
saved his life. The first constable on the scene
jocularly advised him, as people always will when one
has been miraculously saved from accident, to take
a ticket in Tatt.’s. The youth-had previously been
in the habit of sharing his tickets with a pal but
he decided, on the strength of the bomb that hadn’t
killed him, to have a go on his own. His ticket
drew Sir Andrew for the Metropolitan. Still trusting
in his star, he refused a handsome offer for a half
share, and the next day drew ,£4BOO first money.
All Hobart is now looking anxiously in the roadway
for stray bombs thrown by some tram-riding lunatic.
* * * *
“15-30” : One or two of our leading tennis
players might follow Tilden’s habit of adopting an
especially promising kid for practice. Tilden saw
the quality of Vincent Richards as a schoolboy, and
coached the prodigy until he was able to lick his
master in a battle at Rhode Island. Tilden has
now two other juveniles under his wing, Sandy
Meiner and Donald Strachan. That instruction in
strokes and tactics can do wonders for likely
youngsters is shown in the case of the Dunlop
brethren, who have been taught by their dad
(Brookes s old partner), and are now unquestion-
ably the star juveniles of their State.
* * * *
“Linesman”: If I have done the Wimble-
don tennis crowd an injustice, as “J.H.” asserts (B
4/10/’23), I can only declare in defence that my
par. was founded on comments in London papers.
That Suzanne Lenglen made no complaint proves
nothing; Gerald Patterson was equally silent last
year when he was roasted for playing as “a huge
person of aboriginal appearance” might be expected
to play. This delicate compliment appeared in a
journal which shows by its photographic familiarity
with the aristocracy that it hopes to be mistaken
for an organ of good form.
“Wilfrido”: The M.L. open golf cham-
pionship, played this year at Wanganui, resulted in
Arthur Brooks, the Lower Hutt professional, retain-
ENTENUATENG CIRCUMSTANCES.
THE GENT. WHO STOPPED THE BALL: “’Ere, wot’s the
blinkin’ game, mate?”
THE SPORTSMAN: “ Pardon! I make de golluf a kind of
cricket, and when I slap her wit’ se bat, ze ball
she miss-cue and skid!”
mg the title he gained at the last meeting, Ham,
who so well in Australia, being beaten into
sixth place. Brooks owes his success to an ideal
temperament and to a superb fourth round. He
went out in 45, and, in the teeth of a gale, came in
with 34, six strokes under bogey for the half. Goss
defeated Arthur Duncan 1 up in the final of the
amateur championship. A returned soldier who lost
an eye during the war, he displayed great form
throughout, but found Duncan a hard nut to crack.
* * * *
A crowd of 8000 and the superiority of
Mosman’ s eight were features of Sydney’s first
Henley-on-the-Leichhardt-Canal. Mosman easily de-
feated Balmain for the Referee Challenge Cup.
Stroke C. B. Callaghan has visions of his crow
annexing the “eights” on the Yarra and conquering
ad-comers on the Seine, but South Australia won’t
have it that Mosman is in the same class! as the
Murray Bridge boat.
Baynes, the Queensland sculler, has settled
the controversy as to whether his shell or Bull’s
should be seen_ on the Seine next year by announc-
ing that he will be unable to go. This is a pity,
for Baynes, as his race with the American Hoover
proved, is a very good man. However, Bull is a
cool and resourceful young fellow who will do Aus-
tralia no discredit if included in the Olvmpic team
—and, at the moment, there is no rival in sight, i
“C.W.C.”: “K.E.” (B. 27/9/’23) is wrong
in placing Bill' Leverett in the Albert Park champion
four of 1887-89. As I coached the crew in those
years I ought to know. In ’B7 it consisted of Sam
Goudie (stroke), Alex. Chamley (3), Dave Gowdie
(2), Harry Oxlade (bow) and Hobson (cox.). In
1888-89 W. Watson rowed No. 2.
* * * *
In an uninteresting 20-rounder at Syd-
ney Stadium, Butcher, the Victorian from Westralia,
got a decision over Demsky, the Russian from
Queensland, who has been fighting , in M.L. since
1921. Butcher won 10 rounds, Demsky 3, and the
rest were even. Demsky has all the essentials except
intuition ; in that respect he is a C 3 pug.
* * * *
Ilughie Dwyer has added his name to the
long list of Australian boxers who have miserably
failed in America. He was outpointed by Joe
Welling, now a third-rater, in a 10-round bout, and
is reported to have fought like a novice. Welling
boxed Hughie Mehegan at Sydney a good many years
ago and is a long way past his prime. Dwyer’s
defeat makes it very evident that until Australian
boxers adopt a more aggressive style of milling, and
learn the art of knocking a man out with a punch,
they will have to keep away from the U.S.A. If
they must go abroad they should try Britain, where,
judging by the fact that Beckett collected £4OOO
the ether day for taking one clout from Carpentier,
mugs are still as numerous as the siands on the
seashore.
* * * *
It didn’t take Jack Gregory long to strike
form. For Manly v. Balmain the long ’un banged
up 100 (17 fourers) in 92min. and then took 6
wickets for 4 runs. And he would most likely have
skittled the other four if the Balmain captain hadn’t
appealed on the score of the light. Another who has
started the season well is the stocky Ironmonger,
who collected eight wickets cheaply for St. Kilda v.
Oollingwood. Ironmonger figured in Sydney grade
cricket for a part of last season; Sin fact, he has
played the game with distinction in three States.
“Winkle”: There would have been many changes
in Melbourne’s first-grade clubs this season had
not the Association, leaving the 12 months,’ resi-
dential qualification untouched, cast out the old
provision under which a transfer c(mld be granted
in special cases (they were always i“special”) after
three months’ residence. St. Itilda is the chief
sufferer, and must wait another year for ex-Sydney-
sider H. Love, from Carlton; stylist Fred Yeomans,
from Northcote; and Clive Fergie, from Melbourne—-
all first-class men. They have, however, secured
Bill Caddy, from North; and his brother Stan has
gone to Prahran. Richmond have the Victorian and
Oollingwood all-rounder, Les Keating, coaching them ;
but they, too, must wait a year before he can
assist them on the field. In the meantime he re-
mains with the Magpies.
Another huge crowd packed itself into the
M. 0. Ground to watch Fitzroy and South Melbourne
decide who was to meet Essendon in the final. Play
was fast and willing, and but for umpire Alick
Mutch might have been riotous. The Maroons found
their feet first, and, playing surely and with better
system, compiled 28 points to South’s 4 in the first
term. Thenceforward the Red-and-Whites strove
strenuously, more swiftly and more conceitedly, but
could never quite make up the leeway, and ultimately
went down by 12 points—43 to ’Roy’s 55. ’Roy owe
their victory mainly to their solid defenders, Molan,
Collins and McCracken, but they gave away a host of
free-kicks, and if they repeat that caper next Satur-
day the ’Dons will win the pennant.
“Xox” : Whenever a football match in
Melbourne is invested witjj more than the usual
degree of violence, the experts of the press solemnly
avow that the game is degenerating. If this is the
case, the game has been in process of degeneration
ever since it was founded, for never a season goes
by without numerous acts of ruffianism on and off
the playing field. AVhy is it that the Australian
code of football attracts a higher percentage of bad
sportsmen and imbecile followers than any other
pastime? Among the crowds who attend Melbourne
matches, partisanship gets to the verge of idiotic
prejudice. You will hear men normally decent and
intelligent abuse the umpire roundly for a fancied
error of judgment, and urjje their favorites on to
misbehavior. Knowing the capacity of the Melbourne
barracker for cowardly reprisal, the savants of the
dailies urge that the umpire be empowered to order
a player off the field if he indulges in push tactics.
Seeing that the umpire has been half killed for
alleged favoritism to one side or t’other, what would
be his fate if he suspended one of the gods of the
game at a critical juncture? If he got away from
the ground alive he would have to go about for
the next month in armorplate.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The most annoyed man I have
seen lately in Adelaide was one who had his leg
gently pulled in a tram-car discussion. He had
turned out to be the one Soccer enthusiast among
a lot keen for Australian rules ; but they gave him
a good hearing while he talked of the coming of
the Chinese team and the science it had shown. At
last upspoke a previously silent elderly stranger,
with all the air of a student humbly seeking for
knowledge. “When did this Chinese game come in?”
“What Chinese game?” said the enthusiast fiercely.
“Why, Soccer,” he said innocently. “It fs a China-
man’s game, isn’t it?”
* * * *
The football season in Adelaide had rather
a tame finish. Norwood, unbeaten nearly all the
winter, went stale near the end, and lost two
matches badly. But their position as minor premiers
was not affected, and when the finals came on they
ran out comfortable winners without having to chal-
lenge. The result was just the same last year.
“Q.” : Touching that ban on football teams
visiting The Bluff (B. 27/9/’23), heroic attempts
are being made on the oyster-eating record. The
Manawatu club had a go at it recently, but retired ex-
hausted after it had scoffed 127 dozen in two days.
As far as massed formations are concerned, that is
only the third-best to date. The individual record
is held by a Maori —27 dozen.
* * * *
Melbourne gets Stuart, one of Adelaide’s
two or three best tennis players, who shaped so well
last March that he received a formal, though pre-
liminary, inquiry whether he could go abroad if
picked in the Davis Cup team. His business, which
is motoring, compelled him to decline, and it is the
same cause which will now make him a Victorian
resident.
WAKE UP, ENGLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Joe Beckett, the heavyweight champion of Eng-
land, was knocKed out by Georges Carpentier m
one round.’’
Wake, England ! Or there won’t be left a leaf
In that Olympian wreath of rare renown
You won and wore for years on beer and beef.
Did storied pugs turn in their graves with grief
When Beckett at a single punch went down?
One tap—no more —annihilated him,
And from a Frenchman’s fist! Hearts well may
break
And patriotic eyes with tears be dim.
A Dago and a Yank the Channel swim,
Then this —to set the bitter cup a-brim!
England, awake!
Racquets by myriads your children wield
From morn to dewy eve. Yet never a man
Emerges but the victor’s palm must yield
To Tilden and to Johnston in the field,
Never a damsel to extend Suzanne.
Lost cricket. ashes how shall you regain
When long Jack Gregory returns to make
A century for Manly v. Balmain
And, like a devastating hurricane,
Six wickets in a twinkling to obtain ?
England, awake!
Will Lipton build a Shamrock by-and-bye
That from Valkyries through the foam shall fly ?
Will Irish’s Papyrus lift the stake
From Zev and heels unto his rival show ?
Doubtful, albeit we’ll trust it may be so.
But when John Bull squares up to Jean Crapaud
With gloves and gets his gruel in a blow,
Without a shadow of a quid pro quo,
You well may rub your eyes and cry “Heigh-ho!
Am I awake?”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Pure o'
SHELL
Sr SiS
* < ! i J ' *"“"
v-v-K'ViVs'ry
T»
.-; .*i
M
r^;''VV>V
VVii
:vV v » , ‘;
m
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LIMITED
ALL STATES SI N.Z
Mil
!
LOOK FOR THE
Shell Disc
FIE next time you ask for Shell —the
aromatic, non-pinking Spirit—look
for the new Shell Circular Sign which
will be found only at garages where
guaranteed pure Shell is obtainable.
This warning is for your protection, as
other brands of motor spirit are being
sold from some kerbside pumps as
Shell.
The new guarantee sign is attached
to the pump itself except in districts
where local by-laws prohibit signs on
kerbside pumps. In these districts the
sign is fixed on the wall of the garage.
If the Shell Guarantee Sign is
not on the pump nor garage wall,
demand your Shell in Tins.
lone life
In buying a motor car, consider what the cost will be when
divided over a period of years.
What is the car’s reputation for satisfactory service after
the first year? After the second? And after the third
—and fourth ?
These considerations, in the final analysis, are the true basis
of economy in motoring.
And it is this attribute to which Dodge Brothers Motor Car
owes its chief claim upon the unalterable loyalty of its owners.
Dodbb Brothers,Detroit
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Austral Motors Ltd., Brisbane.
•85./01/IX
THE INKY WAY.
“Najezda” : Touching the question of the “imported”
experts on Melbourne Herald's staff (B. 13/9/’23),
it is only fair to say that three of them have been in
the country some years, and transferred from that bar-
racker for Australian industry, the Age. Anyhow,
why squeal? We have sent a good many more men
than that to join in the London scramble. Frank
Fox and Harrison Owen, for example—-and they have
been welcomed regardless of their nationality.
Fred Martin, who has locked up his last forme,
was in his time owner of the Horsham Times, direc-
tor of the Country Press Co.-op., Ltd., founder of the
Warracknabeal Herald, and supervisor of the
Ballarat Star, but latterly lived in retirement at
Upper Hawthorn. He took to printer’s ink after
trying his hand at bank-clerking. Of his two sons,
Frank, of Hobart, has gone in for medicine, and
Russell for the law.
“Tren”: In the intervals of the wordy war that
rages between Evening Sun and Melbourne Herald,
each paper seizes on new devices to catch the eye
of the fickle public. The Fink ’Un's latest stunt
was to print on the front page a bright red disc
setting forth plainly to which edition that particu-
lar impression belonged—a device designed to pro-
tect the hurrying customer from the dishonest
vendor. But to the Sun it was a chance for the
quip that it had drawn “first blood” —the “red
spot on a contemporary paper.”
“F.A.”: The patriarch Adcock, who edits the Aus-
tralian Journal, a Melbourne fiction magazine, is
probably the oldest journalist in action in these
parts. He is well up in the seventies, but rne
outdoor life of his early days is standing to him
and he looks like seeing a century out. He was
identified with the beginnings of white settlement in
the N. Territory; once, when returning from Darwin
as a bov aboard a lugger, he was wrecked on the
Barrier Reef, and had the pleasure of reading liis
own obituary notice in Melbourne a month later.
Farmer Whvte, editor of Sydney Telegraph, left
Australia for' Japan in the relief ship which the
Commonwealth Government packed with goods to
succor the earthquake sufferers. The distribution
seen to —and in that matter he will represent the
Associated press —he will attend to the Telegraph s
own affairs. Till the chief’s return—in December
probably—Tom Courtney will be acting-editor. And
then probably Farmer TV hvte may ask for a le-
allotment of jobs. An editor these days can write
little or nothing; and Whyte would prefer to use
his pen.
“S.T.S.”: Years ago it was a convention for no
novelist ever to mention another. The realists
lately have perceived that you can hardly describe
modern life without recognising novels, and they
have discreet praise for the leading men; they
have not taken the obvious opportunity for abuse
till now. But here is Claude Washburn, an Ameri-
can, in “The Lonely Warrior,” saying, apropos of
nothing, that his hero “would no more have read
the editorials in the daily papers than he would have
read the latest novel by Harold Bell Wright.
Novels will brighten up considerably if the personal
touch is to come in this way.
“Peter” : R. J. Cassidy (“Gilrooney”), who has several
novels and a book of verse to his credit, is perpetrat-
ing a sequel to “Chander of Corralinga,” an entertain-
ing yarn of a hard-case bushman. That story ends in
a situation suggestive of the conclusion of Stockton s
“The Lady and the Tiger.” Chandler twists the
barrel of a revolver containing three live cartridges
and as many blanks until he doesn’t know which
is which ; then he puts the weapon to his head and
pulls the trigger. The reader has no idea whether
he struck a blank or a bullet. Cassidy says he pur-
posely left the situation open so that he could write
a sequel if there was any demand for one. There
was; so Chandler’s adventures will be “continued
in our next.”
“T.R.H.”: I absolutely disagree with “Jacky Roo”
(B. 27/9/’23) that “too often Australian editors are
callous brutes” who do not trouble to return MSS.
promptly, or even to return it undefaeed. I have
quite a lot of copy which has been returned very
promptly indeed, and it is scrupulously clean, there
are no pencil marks on it, either necessary or un-
necessary. After 20 years as a journalist- 11 of
them in London —I have found Australian editors the
most courteous in the world. You can generally see
an Australian editor if you happen to he at the
office when he is there. In London it takes a week
to see an editor, and in New York —especially on
the Hearst papers —you are liable to find that nobody
knows at the moment who is the editor.
“Sturt”: Yates, M.H.R., has been his own counsel
in a libel action against a woman politician in
Adelaide, and the Register, which printed her let-
ter. Defending Premier Barwell against an attack
by Yates, the lady suggested that the latter had once
been escorted lout of Port Pirie by the police. At
the trial her counsel argued that this meant merelj'
that Yates was a fearless orator who had to be de-
fended by law-and-order against the disorderly; also
he contended that £25 was quite enough, anyway, as
damages, instead of the £lOOO claimed. Judge
Parsons remarked that (1) Yates is a keen critic,
and must expect keen criticism; (2) he won hrs
election soon after the libel appeared, so it had not
hurt him much; (3) a bit of the letter was really
libellous, and worth £5O. As for the Register
but then Skipper, counsel for the paper, claimed that
one can’t have two libel actions for a single libel,
and that the verdict against the lady finished the
affair. The Court adjourned to consider the point.
“Wingella” : Whose fault is it. that so many immi-
grants don’t know what sort of a country they are
coming to? Not the London Magazine's, for it fur-
nishes realistic things like these about the Australian
bush: —
“One of the principal features of the bush skin
industry is the rabbit. But you don’t catch him by
a trap or a bullet, or your skin industry would not
pay I have driven through a flock of rabbits for
half a mile, and they have simply made way for
the horse and sulky to pass. They move over the
ground like a dark shadow at noon. The trapper,
when after their skins, digs a hole in the vicinity
of their haunts and fills ..it with water in which is
placed arsenic. Next morning he will find the ground
for quite a large area carpeted with dead rabbits. ’
“A wolf is occasionally caught.” “Another
bush industry is timber-getting. . You can secure
a contract for this work, usually paid for at about
3s 6d per ton. A ton of timber is little to get, though
it sounds a lot. You have to blast the trees and
then set to with axe and saw, and in a very short
time you have several tons of timber.’
Possibly the weird narratives about timber-getting
and the occurrence of wolves don’t work much harm :
but the arsenical method of catching bunny isn’t
calculated to do our big frozen-rabbit trade any good ;
and the story on that account called for a roar from
Australia House.
RENASCENTUR!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the season of the year
When poets rub their eyes
And notice that the Spring is here—
That it is certain to appear
They never realise,
But annually raise a cheer
Of metrical surprise.
The tamest taken unawares
Plunge wildly into rhyme ;
They form their brains in hollow squares,
They rout the muses from their lairs,
Battalions at a time,
To help them up Parnassus’ stairs —
A somewhat awkward climb.
Primordial, they roam the earth
Waving their vernal flag;
Incited to irrev’rent mirth,
We watch this rhythmical rebirth—
Who humps a mundane swag
Can’t possibly assess the worth
Of their poetic jag!
VICTORIA.
HILDA ELLIOTT.


THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
m
ve
» AfU
pen
WOLFFS
0
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN’* HB
/wto/ r ypor&/
BRITISH
MADE
m
/
m
mu
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
X
Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing 1 Machinery
Stone Breakers, Elevators, Screens.
SEND FOB OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 888 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Some of the
Masterpieces
from the famous
Red Boxes.
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
Passion-fruit Chocolate Creams
Reception Chocolate Creams
Creme de Menthe Chocolates
Coffee Cream Chocolates
Walnut Maple Chocolates
Bi 11 er - sweet Chocolates
Centennial Chocolates
Chocolate Nougat
Chocolate Raisins
Every piece a Masterpiece
of the Confectionery Art.
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
162-166 Pitt Street , Sydney,
and •Cr George & King Streets.
'
ASUSS
On
Furlough
cAn officer of the
"GREYS”on furlough
in the days of George
in. Much admired
and much in love!
appreciative of all the
good things in life .
VV/HAT zest it adds to any occasion if one can
take from its familiar case a "GREYS” Cigarette
—satisfying, fragrant—a cigarette to have with one
on furlough or midst the stress of business—it soothes,
it comforts. Always appreciated by smokers and
those who love the fragrance of good tobacco
7Ae
GREYS
Silk Cut Virginia
GREYS, 20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/.
Manufactured by MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Limited
This reduced reproduction shorn
the famous pale green packet of
20 "GREYS”
Good Watches at Low Prices
The Great
Low-Priced Watch
More men use the Ingersoll Yankee
than any other watch. Sturdy, reli-
able, good looking.
This Yankee
Tells Time in the Dark
The famous Ingersoll Yankee
equipped for telling time in the dark.
Convenient under the pillow at night.
-
■
Ingersoll
Waterbury
The 12-size, jeweled Ingersoll. En-
amel dial. Also comes with Radiolite
figures and hands and “silver” dial.
H
X XAVE you a good
watch ?
If not, go see the Inger-
soll line of timekeepers at
any store that carries In-
gersolls.
Ingersolls keep good time
—and that after all is the
real purpose of a watch.
They are good-looking,
but not fancy—unless you
would call a Reliance in a
beautifully engraved gold-
filled case “fancy.”
About half the models are
Radiolitesthat tell time in
the dark. You can choose
to fit your own needs and
pocket book. Be sure the
name INGERSOLL is
on the dial.
Australian Agents—
B. SINGER & CO.,
91a York Street, City.
4?
Reliance
A real 7-jeweled watch. Same solid
bridge construction as used in expen-
sive watches. Also comes in gold-
filled case.


WEBLEY SCOTT British-made
Single-Barrel Semi-Hammerless
EJECTOR GUN.
Nitro-proved
Choke Bore
Walnut Stock
Detachable fore-end.
Built like a
Webley Revolver.
Procurable from all
Dealers anywhere.
A “ Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof ‘Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in us&.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON g SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
m
m I
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane,
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SVHNEV SHOWS Eon COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cabaret Girl”
Criterion “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife”
Royal “Quarantine”
Grand Opera House “The O’Brien Girl”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
•M E1.i. 1 a If \ I SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow”
Royal “Sally”
King’s “Mis’ Nell o’ New Orleans”
The Playhouse Shakspearean Productions
Princess’s “Pretty Peggy”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Pretty Peggy,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
with Charles Austin and the Pounds Sisters
atop of the bill, was expeicted to be thinly
disguised revue, and the expectation was not
disappointed last Saturday night. But the
orthodox glass causeway leading from the
stage, over the orchestra, to the back of the
auditorium, was conspicuously missing; nor
was the profusion of girl so profuse as in
“Rockets”; nor did each scene in its turn
seem to shriek defiance at its predecessor.- A
pretence of story—healthy, crazy fiction,
mostly devised by Austin aforesaid to suit
the personalities of the principals—runs
through the entertainment like an intermit-
tent fever, providing Austin and Lorna
Pounds in particular with scope for the ex-
pression of feelin’ ’earts, touclnn’ sentiments
and much else that makes human nature so
admirable on the stage. What serves for
plot to “Pretty Peggy” is the glorious con-
ception of a bloated young capitalist (Arthur
Lucas) being so narked by Lady Betty’s
complaint of his inability to keep himself in
peanuts by his own labor, that he invites a
newspaper retailer to change places with
him until he (the millionaire) has made
good, which arrangement leaves Peggy, the
pore Flower Girl (Lorna Pounds), to wait
for her bloke’s real identity to return to him.
Meanwhile the gifted Lorna lapses into
rank vaudeville, and reveals a capital talent
for mimicry of other artists, including Oscar
Asche and Irene Vanbrugh.
* * * *
Although there is a less crowded costli-
ness in "Pretty Peggy” than in “Rockets,”
the present Hugh Ward show is really un-
rivalled in one’s recollections of revue,
except by the show l it has displaced. There
are some beautiful moments in it, and as an
entertainment it is a good time-killer. More-
over, it leaves the audience with a strength-
ened regard for the Pounds girls (Toots is
Lady Betty), and Austin, and even Wee
Georgie Harris, who impersonates small
men, rather than small boys, on this occa-
sion. The charm of unconventionality in
both Lorna and Toots is more than ever
marked. They have a distinction of style,
an unaffected gracefulness and a restraint
which suggests bright futures for both as
actresses of opposite types. Meanwhile
Toots is mainly a songstress and dancer
only, and Lorna’s comedy is mostly of Cock-
ney character. But with her versatile voice
and slumbering fires of emotional power
anything may come of her. Ivy Moore,
Connie Milne, Bert Barton and others have
SHAKSPEARE, AT MELBOURNE
PLAYHOUSE.
Shylock Allan Wilkie bemoans to Tubal
Walter Plinge the loss of his daughter
and. ducats.
made passing appearances, and the topical
horsey interest, which goes for something
considerable in “Pretty Peggy,” is assisted
by plump John Kirby as the scowling vil-
lain of the piece.
s= ft ft *
Though “King John” is largely a proces-
sion of heralds and fighting speeches, inter-
rupted by sounds of battle off-stage, it has
a sufficient measure of human interest to
nalliate the effect of a history lesson de-
livered in the upper register. For Allan
Wilkie the part of John is rich in opportuni-
ties, and it is due to the actor’s picturesque
reading that the tyrant becomes as shifty
and many--sided as a Turk at a Peace Con-
ference. The various changes from bellicose
bawling to snaky intrigue are astutely pre-
sented, the defiance of the Pope’s Legate
(William Lockhart) being his top-note of
hollow heroics, just as the appeal to Plubert
(Augustus Neville) to deal with his incon-
venient nephew, Arthur, is in his oiliest
undertone of murderous suggestion. One
misses from Wilkie’s version the grisly tit-
bit of the bastard Philip appearing with the
head of the Austrian Archduke, whom he had
previously plastered with insults; but, per-
haps, the royal witling has already suffered
enough in the heavy hands of Hamilton
Henry. Leslie Manners is refreshingly
forceful as Philip,
and Ronald Henry
is stringent in
playing the less
comely Robert
Faulconbridge with-
out a redeeming
feature. The King
of France stands up
stiffly on the long
legs of Claude
Saunders, who cor-
roborates a shaky
eyeball with a
timorous tremolo
w h e n Cardinal
Randolph gets into
an excommunica-
tive temper. Irene
Webb stops at no-
thing in the wav
of threatening dis-
course as the un-
pleasant Queen
E 1 i n o a\ Also,
Freda Hunter-
Watts tries to im-
provise a tone of
earthquaking bit-
terness as tbe de-
feated Constance,
but the creation of
disappointed ma-
trons is not her
metier. Her voice
belongs to the
Rosalind - Julief
school of elocu-
tion. Next Satur-
“The Cabaret Girl,”
at Sydney Her
Majesty's.
Field Fisher as
Feloosi, the vaude-
ville agent.
day Wilkie will be seen at Melbourne Play-
house as Henry V.
At Melbourne King’s the art of Irene Van-
brugh will continue until further orders to
enjoy a picnic in “Nell o’ New Orleans,”
where every air is heavy with the sighs
of a sentimental past, and music from for-
gotten mandolins, and murmurs of old
memories that gush forth in the midst ot
merriment —in a Claude Melnotte way of
speaking.
* * ft ft
“Sally,” at Melbourne Royal, should meet
the wants of these racing times, when some
people are expected to be easily delighted,
and any sort of musical comedy distracts a
drowsy punter’s thoughts from the grief he
failed to drown. “Sally” weakens on acquaint-
ance, of course, and Josie Melville falls a
few inches short of what one pictures Nellie
Stewart, say, at the same age. But after
the first act, where a wire-drawn interview
between Sally and the alleged novel writer
is sentimentality spread as thin as can be,
and Hugh Steyne is unnecessarily dragged
in to drink champagne in a pigeon house,
the show gets a more picturesque move on,
and the popular Cinderella dope appears to
turn the audience’s head.
ft ft ft ft
The popularity of “Katinka” is wearing
well enough through a second week at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, and now the season is near
its latter end. On Saturday this week comes
“The Merry Widow,” for six nights only,
with Howett Worster as the Prince who wants
the widow Moncrieff almost as badly as his
battered kingdom needs her dollars. vVor-
ster stays for “The Beggar’s Opera,” which
comes on the 20th.
Amy Castles, smiling and well-furnished,
gave two concerts at Melbourne Town Hall
last week, and was to sing again. None of
her numbers is better suited to the dramatic
Castles soprano of these times than Meyer-
beer’s “Star of the North” aria, wherein the
stately effect includes a double flute accom-
paniment. This, all the same, gives only
limited joy to moderately musical audiences
compared with “One Fine Day,” or the inevi-
table encores. Eileen Castles warbled sweetly
as a sophisticated Micaela and Juliet, cheer-
fully lamenting the loneliness of the Last
Rose of Summer; and Albert Torzillo was a
soulful artist on the harp.
A Melbourne showman in a new mood
A commendable desire to escape some of his own
mannerisms has led T. W. Sturgess to paint some
fresh and charming landscapes which he is now exhib-
iting at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Certainly No.
60 shows the artist in a new mood of unpretentious
gravity, quietly depicting the grey bushland under
a heavy winter sky. The simplicity and unforced
etteets of “The Two Stacks” are also agreeable, and
one finds high merit in “Evening Cioud, Light and
Smoke Haze,” because-there is no attempt to make
the color the feature of the achievement. Elsewhere
we have sundry recognisable variations of familiar
themes. The little shack in the twilight with the grazing
cows ; the darker nocturnes with a shy moon turning
the world to poetry; and these Sturgessque after-
noons with the hull of a steamer or a tug imprisoned
in a pale lemon haze on a sea of glass—they are
all there, appealing to the heart and pocket. Some
admittedly miss enchantment by a hair's breadth, but
Sturgess is too sincere bo regard these things as
the terminus of his ambition. He is revealing signs
of a finer development.
I, . v
Violence in various forms lightens the dull
patches of “Mr. Barnes of New_ York,”
screened at Melbourne Majestic this week.
There' is also another timely exposure of
the lives of the rich which warns the poor
about the sin .of harboring money. The film
is called “The Shams of Society,” and every
woman will sympathise with the meek hero-
ine whom a brutal husband deprives of pin-
money. Hoyt’s are agonising the simple-
minded with a close-up of Jackie Coogan
mourning over a dying musician. “Outcast,”
staged here by Kathlene Macdonell and
Charles Waldron, takes a turn on Hoyt’s
sheet, with Elsie Ferguson as the morbid
Miriam. At Hoyt’s Gaiety “Tue Hove
Letter” shows the kind .of company Gladys
Walton has to keep to earn her large salary.
“Only a Shop Girl” has come to the Britan-
nia to again catalogue the Things that Cash
Cannot Buy. Any male venturing into the
Melba is almost certain to drop into an ocean
of palpitating female. The beauteous Valen-
tino is there in “The Conquering Bower.”
* * ft
“The O’Brien Girl” is in her fourth week
of whirl and radiance at Sydney Opera
House. Mamie Watson is good to look
upon, as has already been observed, and the
feet of the dancers in general twinkle
merrily, and the flow of fun is. like ruby
wine gurgling out of a decanter in an elec-
trically-worked advertisement.
The last nights of “The Cabaret Girl”
are announced at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
The damosel has been a cheering circum-
stance in a world that is only too apt to
look slate-colored, especially after a run of
losers at Randwick.
& l!: #
At Sydney Cri. Gertrude Elliott is still
converting a brassy Yank, millionaire from
a mere buyer of wives into a doting hus-
band by means of a bedroom scene that
would have earned any of the comic drama-
tists of the Restoration mn extra prod from
Jeremy Collier. But if the plot of “Blue-
beard’s Eighth Wife” is sheer nightmare, the
leading lady’s frocking is an ecstatic dream.
ft ft ft ft
‘‘Quarantine” is drawing to a close at
Sydney Theatre Royal, Lawrence Grossmith
and his delightful fellow passengers on the
giddy old s.s. Angostura being due for pra-
tique after a few more nights. Oscar Asche
succeeds—not the Oscar of a glittering
Oriental pantomime this time, or the mass-
ive mouther of deep-chested Shakspearean
music, but the interpreter of Pinero’s
clever and gripping drama “Iris.”
'!• v ❖
Kate Howard, formerly of “Possum Pad-
dock,” is running “The Limit,” a play of her
own fashioning, at Sydney Palace. Allegedly
a sassiety comedy, it makes a poor start in
a Surry Plills lodging-house, wherein Ken
Halloway, an artist of company-promoter
appearance, marries his landlady’s niece. The
lass, a factory Lizzie, has somehow collected
a fortune and unloaded part of it to keep a
sneak-thief brother of Halloway’s out of gaol.
Hence Halloway’s affection. After the
hitch-up an old flame of the canvas-messer
appears in the approved fashion and puts the
acid on him for money to settle up her card
debts. By a brilliant brain-wave on the part of
the authoress, the wife overhears the incrimi-
nating conversation, and in a little flare-up
—the wife displaying a ladylike restraint in
not smashing any of the furniture—her in-
tention of leaving him foreve-r-r is sob-
bingly declared. The last act is set aside
for repairs and the delivery of a dirty left
to the “man about town” who had made
repeated attempts on the victimised wife’s
loyalty and bank balance. It is all rather
wooden and jerky; the situations are thin
and the humor obvious. As Bedelia
McVicars, the lodging-house landlady, Maggie
Moore, wearing her richest brogue, is the
life of the play.
* * * *
Long Tack Sam and his Asiatic brethren
still linger at Sydney Tivoli. Samuel is a
prodigy at producing bowls of goldfish and
plates of nuts from his spacious garments,
besides being a voluble patterer in pidgin
English. And the rest of his troupe are en-
tertainers worth meeting. There is a cheer-
less void left by the Bailey-Cowan exodus
that even the Baptist-picnic joyfulness of
Morris and Kumming fail to fill. The St.
Leon Trio are back again for the umpteenth
time, still pegging away stoically at the limb-
twisting, muscle-bursting trade. Carvet and
Verena remain dancers of no mean reputa-
tion, and Ethel Newman has brightened up
considerably. Ada Reeve is billed to arrive
on Saturday with a demijohn of new songs
with a head on them.
The Westminster Glee Singers are back
in Sydney after a successful concert torn.
Manager Leo de Chateau promises a fare-
well season in Sydney commencing in the
Town Hall on October 27, with Wednesday
and Saturday matinees.
“BLUEBEARD'S EIGHTH WIFE” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Maryuis de Montferrat (Aubrey Mather).
Captain Frank Iluriey is disposing of
his camera impressions of Black Brother in
Judge Murray’s land at Sydney Lyceum. They
are an admirable collection, even if some of
the close-ups of bloodthirsty-looking fuzzy-
tops are going to cause a falling-off in appli-
cants for missionary jobs. “Gimme,” at the
same tabernacle, is an orgy of lessons in
spendthriftery. Old friend “Snowy” Baker
is filling a hero’s part at the Globe in “His
Bast Race.” True to local traditions, horse-
flesh is the dominant prop, although
“Snowy,” who stunts to win a widow’s
heart, indulges also in a little high diving
and sky-riding. A fortnight at the Picca-
dilly hasn’t faded Nazimova’s camellias nor
reduced Valentino’s heartburnings, so the pair
will carry on yet awhile. At Hoyt’s “The
Voice from the Minaret” beckons the flap-
pers from near and far to come and worship
at the feet of Norma Talmadge. The Crys-
tal Palace still employs a bogus Chaplin
outside and the real stuff on the calico sheet
within.
De Tisne, running a season of plays at
Adelaide King’s, seems to be a person of
ideas. He was referred to last week as tak-
ing the small part of a tailor in “The Pri-
vate Secretary” unaccountably as a French-
man ; another visit two nights later found
him playing it as a .Tew! The latest find is
a new-to-Australia play, “Pal o’ Mine,” which
would have a better chance if it were not
very nearly “Turn to the Right” all over
again. “The Beggar’s Opera,” at the Royal,
is having a success of curiosity. True, some
of the rawest bits have been left out, but
Adelaide does not care much to hear girls
called by old Saxon terms. Kitty Reidy,
as Polly, is like a rosebud on a dunghill,
and Howett Worster acts almost as well as
he sings. The mounting and production are
careful and brainy. The most exciting movie
in sight is “Westbound,” at West’s, with
trains and cars going at top speed, and a
bush fire thrown in. The Pav. shows Sher-
lock Holmes, oddly treated as a Cambridge
undergraduate, and the York relies on mother
and sob-stuff. Wondergraph is very Ameri-
can, with President Harding’s funeral as the
most valuable contribution. The variety
theatres are both good, especially on the
acrobatic side, with the three Nitos at the
P. of Wales, and sundry juvenile Wonders
at the Majestic, where also Les Warton
scores as of old.
* * ft *
From an Adelaide critic:—
The Camera Club is the exhibitor of the moment
in the Society of Arts’ Gallery. New features are
the absence of an individious picking of “the best
dozen,” and (more regrettably) the absence of the
champion picture from each previous year—valuable
for purposes of comparison. Wilkinson and Williams,
as usual, show splendid work, but the first awards
go to men less known, Steward in portraiture and
Hutchinson in landscape. Victoria and Westralia
have lent some good pictures to a show which is
more photographic than most others have been,
exhibitors not now taking so much pains to make
their work look as though produced by some other
medium.
W. M. Whitney, a Bulletin poet, shows himself
at Preece’s Gallery a painter also. His water-colors
cover a wide range: Sydney Harbor, the Blue Moun-
tains and Tasmania, and are finding ready accept-
ance in Adelaide.


12
C>l
er>
<9
8365.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Solid Gold, double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever
movement, £35.
Other Styles, £2O, £25, £3O.
849.
A. Saunders’ fine white double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamond, £3O.
870.
A. Saunders’ Single double-cut Diamond knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
869.
A. Saunders’, fine Diamond Scroll and Bar
Brooch, loot. Gold, £5,
810.
A. Saunders’
cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
set Platinum,
double-
duster
Gold,
£5O.
A. SAUNDERS’ EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
8135.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Button Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£2O.
inn.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£35.
Smaller, £2O,
£25, £3O.
8211.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Ear-rings,
15ct. Gold, Platinum
set, £l5.
8142.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster King. 18ct.
Gold, real Platinum
set, £2O.
Smaller, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
11124.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£lO, £l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O.
8127.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring',
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£25,
8370.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Initial Wristlet,
Pearls, 9ct. Gold, £2/5/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
Plain Gold, 25/-
8147.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£2O.
IN OUR OPTICAL DEPARTMENT.
Eyesight Examinations, Optical Repairs, Oculists’ and Hospital Prescription
Work, the manufacture of high-grade Spectacle Wear, Binoculars, Telescopes,
Magnifying and Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers and
Microscopes, etc.
8194.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet King,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2,
18ct. Gold,
•£2/10/-
8344.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Dress Albert, £2/17/6.
loot. Gold and Platinum, £7/10/-
CATALOGUE FORWARDED FREE ON REQUEST.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
KINDLY MENTION NAME AND NUMBER
OF ARTICLE WHEN ORDERING.
ASAUMDERS
8199.
A. Saunders.
Gent/s Solid Gold
Bloodstone Ring,
35/-
15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
JEWELLER OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ex
uAf evouey
8369.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £O,
£7/10/-, £lO.
854.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Brood),
15ct. Gold, £l5.
884.
A. Saunders’ fine Pearl-set Bar Brooch,
loot. Gold, £5.
842.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Geld Golf-stick Brooch, £2.
loot. Gold, £3.
89.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, Platinum set,
£25,
The Latest Continental Car.
The ELITE is the last word in a high-grade Continental
Car. Beautiful Streamline Body, Seven-Seater type,
roomy and comfortable, ideal for private family use
or hire. Equipped with Bosch H.T. Magneto (Water-
proof Cap), Horizontal Zenith Carburetter.
BOSCH ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND STARTING
AND LAMPS.
ELITE CARS are complete to the last detail.
I
■
s*s
4
ELITE
Cylinder
Chassis.
Wheel base, lift. 4in.,
track 4ft. 9sin. wide.
Complete with all acces-
sories, 6 wire or artillery
wheels, fitted with Per-
driau Cord Tyres.
Price £750.
6
Cylinder
Chassis.
WHEEL BASE,
6 Cylinder, 12ft. 21in.,
track sft. wide.
Complete as above.
Price £B5O.
u
LITE
n
MOTOR CARS.
1923 Model.
4 Cylinder Car, 18/40 h.p.
6 Cylinder Car, 27/55 h.p.
H\
•■ ■ '
Four-cylinder Chassis.
Sole Agents for Australasias
ELITE
Cylinder
Car
Complete as illustrated.
Trimmed with best-
quality English Leather,
Price £975.
AGENTS
WANTED
IN
ALL STATES.
SEND FOR CATALOGS,
FREEMAN & CO. PTY. LTD. —46-52 Russell Street, Melbourne.
. WTTiT)Iy.


WHEN A MAN
PACKS-
TME FIRST THING
HE MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS^
v\
fcSr
VS
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
leach fheTHag'pie —■
is noe / ucfz r
a6out the house ’
Grand
Bq>MEIMMGM°UTa
Just see how quickly it will help her pick up ditty after ditty.
You yourself will get hours of solid enjoyment out of it.
CHOOSE THE LARGE GRAND—with 48 reed* CHOOSE THE MINIATURE GRAND—with 24
—and it cost* you 12/6; 6d. extraif posted reeds—and it costs you 7/6; 6d. ex.if posted
Both possess clear, ringing tones, and both are faultlessly finished
parts
(gAND
ALBERT'S SYSTEM
••and hied
Reeds
J. ALBERT § SON
Depl 18 “ Boomerang House”
137-139 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at
294-298 Little Collins St., Melbourne
Wholesale Prices on Application
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Boom only—European Plan.
Dining Sen-ice ii la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
ATIOW
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
L.T. PIVER. PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de luxe
Concerning an overworked character:—
“Sally," the show that gave Josie Melville her
rise in stage life, reduces the idea of Cinderella to
the humblest slocial level yet reached. I remember
other Cinderellas, beginning- with “The Lady Slavey.”
The late John F. Sheridan bought the Australian
lights from English George Dance, and arranged
alterations or interpolations to suit himself, but
these did not include any lowering of the heroine
in the social scale. The Slavey was the youngest
daughter of an impecunious Irish major, and she
married a millionaire and saved the family from
the Bankruptcy Court, while her elder sisters were
apeing- gentility in vain. Six years later came
“The Catch of the Season,” in which Duke Higgin-
sou played the name part and Fanny Dango was the
despised step-daughter who secured the matrimonial
plum. But, then, hers was not a very menial posi-
tion, seeing that her unsympathetic stepmother
was Lady Crystal on the hill.' The next Variety of
Cinderella in musicali comedy was Irene, in the show
bearing her name. Irene) who came and went in
quite recent years, was (a/ girl from a dressmaker's
or a bonnet-shop, and her dollar-laden lover foisted
her upon the wealthiest: Noo Yoick society in much
the same way as the (O’Brien Girl is foisted by
her lady friend. Now j comes Sally, the washer-
up, of fiouhdling-home extraction, who owes her rise
in l(fe to .the instantaneous adoration of a ’Murkan
millionaire’s son. Theiij meeting at the hotel where
Sally scrubs the dishes strikes me as a travesty
of the situation in “Peg o’ My Heart,” where Peg
scores a ( cte-h-tete with the young lord and im-
presses hiih as being | “charming." The reminder
is the more forcible because the exuberantly senti-
mental young man iu this ease has much the same
faulty enunciation and gentle sing-song as the
admirer of Peg had. But I wander from the ques-
tion. Can poor Cinderella plumb a lower depth
than that of kitchen drudge from a foundling home,
with a bogus foreign accent on the tip of her culti-
vated tongue?
“Nella” : The Shakspeare Summer Festival
at Stratford-on-Avon ran this year from
July 21 to September 1. During that period
there were six night- and three day-perform-
ances each week, in the Memorial Theatre.
The season’s offerings panned out this way:
“Midsummer Night’s Dream.” eight perform-
ances ; “Merry Wives,” six; “Much Ado,”
six; “Henry the Fourth” (Part 1), six;
"Macbeth,” five; “Richard the Third.” four;
“Taming of the Shrew,” five; and “Measure
for Measure,” three. But there were also
two performances of “mime plays” ; one each
of Drinkwater’s “Mary Stuart,” Shaw’s “Get-
ting Married” and “Heart-break House”;
and the “Electra” of Euripides (in Eng-
lish) ; and as many as six presentations of
“She Stoops to Conquer.” From Euripides
to Shaw is a tolerably catholic selection for
a purely Shakspearean outbreak. It recalls
the old* query, "Why drag in Shakspeare?”
This dramatic gallimaufry seems to strengthen
Allan Wilkie’s claim to be the only mum-
mer extant (or defunct) who has given up-
wards of 800 consecutive performances of
unsophisticated Bard.
“Cyrano”: By producing “Tutankhamen”
the Auckland Amateur Operatic Society gave
a lift to native effort. The “book” is by
L. P. Leary, an Auckland lawyer, who has
attracted notice by the sprightliness of his
extravaganzas, and Eric Waters, a pianist,
wrote the music; costumes, scenery and
dancing were also local products. The plot
turns on an American tourist’s secret visit
to Tutankhamen’s tomb. There, in a vision,
the life of Tut.’s court is recreated, with the
tourist involved in its intrigues. The piece
ran prosperously for 10 nights, and some
have been heard to say (let me whisper it)
that they enjoyed it more than they did
“Cairo.”
“Fax” : It is commonly supposed that the
J.C.W. people introduced Rosina Buckman
to the Australian operatic stage. She was
really discovered by the ill-starred John
Wren-Rupert Clarke firm. Her debut as a
prima donna was at Melb. Royal as Ann
Chute in “The Lily of Killarney,” after
which they tried her as prima donna in
“Maritana.” In between her engagements
for English ballad opera by John Wren, and
for grand opera by J.C.W:., Rosina appeared
in musical comedy. She was lllyrine in
“The Lady Dandies,” Flo Young and Fan
Dango being also in the cast. All these
things happened in 1908-10 Since then
most of the lady’s time has been devoted to
acquiring plumpness that has incapacitated
her for heroine characters in opera.
“R. 8.,” from Africa :
The Steele-Pavne Bell ringers are about to start in
the old melodious business again. They gave it a
miss in baulk during- the bad times, and went poultry-
farming in the Transvaal. Stanley Steele remains
to look after the white-leghorn industry, and Dorothy
Gardiner and Cuthbert Rose are to rejoin the tin-
tinnabulators —they have been teaching elocution in
Johannesburg. Mrs. Steele is now a white-haired
lady, and very nice she looks.
“Abbot IV’: “Orb” (B. 27/9/’23) writes,
of having seen “Robin Hood” with Charles
Kenningham and Alma Gillette in the lead-
ing roles. In Sydney, I presume—in the
Melbourne production in 1902 the Allan-a-
Dale was Florence Young, and Robin’s songs
were sung by George Cycling, an American,
in a tenor from which the glory had departed.
Carrie Moore was Maid Marian, and baritone
Harold Thorley had a couple of taking num-
bers. There were other good things, but
the opera had only a brief run.
“First Old Man”: Dunedin was ever an
uncertain proposition as a show town. A
play may go like hot cakes in every other
Maoriland city, but when it reaches the
A SAVER.
“And what did you think of my song?”
“Well — er—I have heard Melba sing it as
well — I — er — mean also.”
southern capital the odds are it will feel a
draught. Oscar Asche took “Cairo” there.
It had played all through the Dominion to
fine business, but Dunedin spent the first
two nights debating whether it should be in
the boom, or stick to pitchers, and “high-
class vaudeville.” It finally decided to follow
the crowd, but even then was varra creetic-al.
“E.T.”: England’s latest theatrical knight
is George Dance, whose name has appeared
on many Australian playbills as author. A
prolific writer of pantomime “ books” in his
early days, he developed into a musical-
comedy purveyor, and made pots of money
out of his “Lady Slavey,” “The Chinese
Honeymoon,” “The Gay Parisienne” (Aus-
tralia saw Ada Reeve in that) and othersong-
and-dance frivolities. A more ambitious
work was a Savoy opera, “The Nautch Girl,”
which he wrote with Edward Solomon as
composer. But Dance’s title was not be-
stowed on account of these performances.
He it was who weighed in with £30,000 last
year to keep the Old Vic. going as a Shaks-
pearean house.
HER MEASURE.
BELLA: “The manager says he is going to
let me appear soon in a small part.”
STELLA: "Of a costume?”
“Caesar’s Ghost” : A notable hostile demon-
stration occurred in Brisbane Opera House
when Brian Darley’s Dramatic Co. was
appearing there during the 1890 maritime
strike. Darley was first assailed, but the
jeers turned to cheers when he passionately
addressed the audience. “I am Brian Darley,”
he declaimed, “and this has never happened
to me before.” The hisses were transferred
to F. W. Montague, a versatile character,
who was not only a good actor, hut an accom-
plished singer and musician, and only after
an assurance that the target of the mob’s
invective would be sacked was the perform-
ance allowed to proceed. But Montague
carried on very coolly, in circumstances that
would have broken the hearts of most actors,
till the rag came down. Stranded in a
North Queensland town he had worked his
passage south as a steward on a Howard-
Smith boat, and that was what all the
trouble was about. He was a man well up
in years, and the offence, such as it was,
ruined him professionally. In these matters
the mob never forgets or forgives.
“Hamfat”: Larry Foley, the great old-
time pug, made several appearances with
Rignold as Charles, the wrestler, in “As Yon
Like It.” Rignold had an idea of casting
Larry for the bruiser’s part in “Honest
Hearts and Willing Hands,” but another
showman of the period conceived the notion
of importing John L. Sullivan to play in
that sentimental production. John L.—a
fine figure of a man, but the worst actor of
his day—came out, drank two or three lakes
of Australian beer, refused to fight Joe God-
dard, and frosted completely. There is a
story, probably apocryphal, of Foley’s first
appearance in “As You Like It,” when his
fame was at its height. The gods, who loved
him, enjoyed the preliminary bouts, in which
Charles was successful, but when a light-
weight Orlando put him down they yelled
disapproval. Derisive cries of “Whatcher
givin’ us, Larry?” so worked upon Foley’s
feelings that he forgot his part. Then, to
the immense satisfaction of Waterloo and
Surry ’llls, Charles outed the unsuspecting
Orlando with one on the point.
“Perchlime”: “Santander” (B. 13/9/’23)
recalls five minutes of impure joy. In my
apprenticeship days in England I assisted
in the fit-up for a swaggah amateur perform-
ance, and was detailed to work the curtain
on the night of nights. The heroine, half-
facing the audience, was kneeling at the
hero’s feet when the amateur s.-m. gave the
signal to lower the curtain. This I did.
Ordered to raise it again in response to en-
cores, I was conscious of an increased weight.
Then there were roars of laughter from the
front and piercing shrieks from the stage
and vile language from the producer. I had
rolled the lady’s skirts round the heavy
curtain-pole.
“Orb” his recollection :
Before the cinema blew suburban dramatic shows
to the moon, we were doing “The Girl Who
Emptied Tea-leaves in the Sink” at the Fitzroy
(Vic.) Skating Rink. Every artist had to find his
(or her) wardrobe, and the salary was ss. per night—-
if it came in. A rather seedy heavy played the
polished villain, a Spanish nobleman. At rehearsal
his costume was a frayed frock-coat, a dingy straw
hat, very sunburnt concertina trousers, and a pair
of sandshoes, and I wondered how he would dress
the part. But he was quite all right at night. In
the last act he had to attend a reception in levSe
dress, and he swanked on with the doggiest air. His
frock was pinned back to make it a claw-hammer,
showing a scarlet lining of shiny paper; his medals
were bits of tea-paper and the capsule of a pickle-
bottle ; he carried a couple of sheets of notepaper
folded to look like gloves; the ribbon of his order
was a strip of bordering paper from a poster, pinned
across an expanse of white shirt-front made of card-
board ; and his moustache was burnt-corked and
greased till he looked like a dinkum hidalgo. He
got the reception of the evening. When we were
dressing to go home Clarence Topper missed the lid
of his tobacco-tin. After a search he found it
figuring as a glittering decoration on Don Jose de
Silva’s manly bosom.
“Philm Up” : Opinions of English novelists
regarding movie producers who have filmed
their stories were sought recently in London.
The writers don’t mince matters. Says
Jeffry Farnol; “After my experience with
one of my own films my opinion is abso-
lutely unprintable.” But the hit of the
occasion is made by 11. G. Wells. “The
kinema people,” he remarks, “seem to me to
be utterly damned fools, beneath the level of
a decent man’s discussion.”
“Norbell” : Oscar Asche is to do Pinero’s
“Iris” at Sydney Royal. The first Austra-
lian production occurred at the same theatre
on August 2, 1902, with Brough as Mal-
donado.
“Wilfrido” : Moiseiwitsch received from a
small M.L. boy what is probably the most
dubious compliment in his career. At one of
the larger towns the pianist was invited to
the home of a local magnifico, who was de-
lighted when Moisey tried his new imported
grand. “Well, now, didn’t you like that?”
asked the host of his small son. “My oath!”
replied the youngster. “It was just like be-
ing at the pitchers.”
“O. Blin”: When Dan Barry arrived at
Gqmleaf with the intention of producing a
masterpiece specially written for him by
Queen Victoria, he was informed that the
population was strongly Home Rule, and
that he had better try something more palat-
able to the surroundings. Dan ruminated
for a time, and then hired the bellman to
gather up the multitude for an announce-
ment extraordinary before O’Brady’s pub.
Here collected the populace, and a tragedian
festooned with green ribbon spoke in this
strain :
Ladies and Gentlemen, —I have found that the
grand costumes and properties for Queen Victoria's
famous tragedy, “The Bride of Balmoral,” have been
delayed en route. I have come to beg your indul-
gence for a change of programme, namely, “Ireland,
My Own,” written by Charles Stewart l’arnell. 1
may say that this remarkable play, for the London
rights of which my friend Henry Irving offered
£lO,OOO, was handed to me by my beloved friend
Charles Stewart Parnell as some slight recompense,
he said, for my magnificent efforts in the cause of
Irish freedom.
Here Dan broke down, and retired weeping
to O’Brady’s bar-parlor. That night there
was a bumper house; in fact, Dan, as Par-
nell, in a hurriedly-adapted mixture of
“Arrah-na-Pogue” and “East Lynne,” had
to borrow a hay-waggon to remove the
bouquets.
“Philm Up” : A pitcher founded on Tenny-
son’s “Becket” was recently being prepared
in an English studio. The directors had some
difficulty in finding a suitable actor for the
leading r6le; but a pushing theatrical agent,
hearing of their dilemma, ’phoned that he
was sending along “the very man for the
Becket part.” With visions of a perfect
archiepiscopal type the film people opened
the door to —a pugilist with a cauliflower
ear.
“First Old Man”: I played in a piece that
put up a record. It was a three-act comedy
called “Uncle’s Ghost.” There was no “ghost,”
but a lot of “uncle.” We opened—-and closed —
at Cowgoat Flat to many relatives of the
Wood family and about 50 Oowgoaters. The
audience was very restive during the first
two acts, and the third started amidst cat-
calls and derisive applause. About a quarter-
way through the house rose to its hobnailed
boots and began to tramp out. The noise
it made on the wooden flooring, to say no-
thing of its loud ironic clamoring for police
assistance, quite drowned our attempts to
act. So the rag came down, and nobody on
earth has seen the last act of “Uncle’s
Ghost” performed. Nor ever will.
“The Deacon”: A catastrophe similar to
that described by “Santander” (B. 13/9/’23)
occurred years ago in a Sydney variety
house. On that occasion the resourceful
lady kicked the offending bifurcations into
the wings, and carried on. A genius of the
period described it as a “lapsus lingerie.”
“Lond”: About the oddest show seen in
London lately is “The Tempest,” as played
by the Italian Marionettes, now at the Scala.
It was found at first quaint but over-long.
Cut down to half an hour, with the comic
business strongly accented, it is going much
better.
FIFTY-FIFTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the main hall everything was carried out with the
utmost good taste and decorum ; but iu the basement
a second, or overflow, dance appeared to he in pro-
gress. Towards 10.30 p.m. it was noticed that a
number of dancers —male and female —were showing
signs of over-indulgence in liquor. The floor was
also littered with scraps of foodstuffs.” —Police report
on Sydney Artists’ Ball.
Within its walls the citizen could watch
While Virtue took the floor with Gravity,
Or he might wander where a reek of “Scotch”
Betrayed the presence of Depravity.
It’s a phenomenon one finds in ev’rj' class and nation —
Here smugness mixed with soda straight; there
“drunks” and degradation.
The ultra-righteous always sniff out sin,
And fiercely their discovery proclaim.
“Why ‘fiercely’ ?” you may ask. “Long-distance gin
And subterranean beer, though things of shame,
Should not affect his gaiety whose thirst is quenched
with water,
Nor that of his teetotal wife or their blue-ribbon
daughter!”
The answer is the Good must ever go
Where, Vice, cavorts in vinous disarray
And vulgar persons bread and pickles throw
To while a boring supper-dance away.
Nor are the low content to let dim Town Hall base-
ments hide them ;
They like to see their betters dance, if only to deride
them.
All Life is really but an Artists’ Ball:
Virtue is everywhere as well as Vice.
Some the World’s monstrous villainies appal;
Others esteem its goodness beyond price.
For anyone who looks can see, through any door or
casement,
Fan- Virtue’s hall-mark in the hall, debasement in the
basement.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


The Sunshine Reaper and Binder.
6ft. and Bft.
Manufactured in Australia
for Australian conditions.
el i
E
I 1U ;
*His
■
A‘A-£ fefei A* 4a ~
V-, ;
*>
Af
mm
■ •...*
§r«pA
&?*
JIPmSiSL
.fffiillii
yj
*fp-
AVMoIMAHOnH
A*-* A
Ki
wm
imp
•t
Hundreds of these machines are in use throughout the Commonwealth, and have demonstrated that Australian-made
Binders, as well as other Australian-made Implements, are the best for Australian conditions.
Write to any of the following addresses for art catalogues and prices of Sunshine Binders, Harvesters, Headers, Seeding Machinery,
Tillage Implements, Orchard Implements, etc. Easy extended terms or liberal discount for cash.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD. , Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
607 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches and Agencies.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cor. York and St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON.
Ruwolt Road-making Equipments
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
m #
m
AA ■AA
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus Marsh
Road—Capacity 90 tons per day.
Some users of our Crushers and Plants Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (Sou* Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; j. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St. Albans Quarrying Co. (4); E. J.
Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool.
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS —SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO :
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161.
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


7s
m
M
m/A
m
1
@
\
I
1
1
I
5V
i
i ri
rt!
J 'li! I! I
ft'i»#
M
I', ill*
I ’ all
, ••‘ |l
28
I
'//.
s
I
I
UK
I
1
1
X
X
*
|gg% :
S
9*
*♦>
X^N
tlvv
'\\\V\ .
x_\
i~ —l !
'Wo.
«• >
i
1
life
w
W
n
□
k
n
m?
An interesting endorsement
of the lasting strength of the
WOLSELEY
Being an extract from Motor Commerce, dated 21st July, 1923.
AN ABYSSINIAN VETERAN.
Wolseley Motors Limited have received a very interesting
communication from C. F. Rey, who has just returned from
an adventurous journey through Abyssinia. Whilst at Addis
Ababa, the Prince Regent lent him a motor-car, which, to
ms surprise, he found was the original Wolseley driven to
Addis Ababa from the coast in 1907 by Captain Bentley, and
presented to King Menelik.
, * In spite,” writes Mr. Rey, “of the villainous roads (they
are roads’ merely by courtesy) and the ill-treatment of an
evil-looking Syrian chauffeur, the car was running quite well,
though patched and mended in a dozen places. We crashed
into holes and bumped over piles of stones quite happily, but
how the car can still go is a marvel and a mystery to me.”
An account of a very weird drive in this car is being
given by Mr. Rey in his forthcoming book on **Unconquered
Abyssinia—As It Is To-day.”
Such endurance, coupled with the many unique and
improved features of the post-war WOLSELEY, form a
convincing argument why you should choose this peerless
British Car.
NEW REDUCED PRICES
Now in Operation:
10-h.p. Single-seater de Luxe £430
10-h.p. Four-seater de Luxe £525
14- Four-seater £625
15- Five-seater £745
Full particulars will be forwarded to any address promptly
on request, or a trial and demonstration may be arranged
at any time.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Olympia Motors, Ltd., 126 Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
H. C. Richards, Richards’ Building, Currie Street, ADELAIDE
impson Motor Co., Ltd., Petrie’s Bight, BRISBANE.


Missing Friends.
ANY person or persons knowing the
whereabouts of the next-of-kin of the
late CHARLES WELLS, Carpenter, who
died at Rum, Greymouth district, New Zea-
land on 12th July, 1922, are requested to
communicate immediately with the District
Public Trustee, Greymouth, New Zealand.
For Sale.
COOERWULL
WOOLLEN MILLS.
BY ORDER of the EXECUTORS OF THE WILL OF
THE! LATE J. L. BROWN, SEN.
PER PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED).
TENDERS are invited and will be received at the
Office of the Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney, up to 12
o’clock noon on the 15th NOVEMBER, 1923, for the
purchase of the long-establis'hed and well-known
Cooerwull Woollen Mills,
Bowenfels, N.S.W.,
practically as a going concern,
subject to an Agreement with the Managing Partner,
Mr. J. H. Gale, which said Agreement expires on
the 31st December, 1923.
The Assets are as follows: —
1. About 17 Acres of Freehold Land, Torrens Title,
situated close to Bowenfels and Lithgow Railway Sta-
tions, with Mill Buildings, Manager’s Residence and
Workmen’s Cottages thereon.
2. Extensive Plant in first-class order and condi-
tion.
3. Stock on hand as at 31st December, 1923, and
work in progress at that date.
4. Goodwill.
The business, which is a highly profitable one, and
well worthy of the consideration of Manufacturer;
and Investors, will be sold free of .all liabilities.
Valuations and Schedules of the Plant and Build-
ings, copy Partnership Agreement, and information
relative to Profits, etc., may be inspected at the Offices
of the Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), Sydney ;
Bank of Victoria, Limited, Melbourne; National Bank
of Australasia, Limited, Adelaide; and Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, Brisbane.
TERMS.
A cash deposit equal to 20% of the purchase money
to be paid to the Vendors on the signing of the Con-
tract, and the balance on Completion.
The accepted tenderer must sign the form of Con-
tract prepared by the Vendors’ Solicitors (copy of
which is attached to the Schedules above mentioned)
within seven days> of the acceptance of the tender.
Tenders, which must be enclosed in a Sealed En-
velope endorsed “Tenders for Purchase of Cooerwull
Woollen Mills,” should be forwarded to the under-
signed, and must be accompanied by a certified cheque
for an amount equal to 10% of the purchase money,
which in the case of the successful tenderer will be
treated as a payment on account of the deposit.
The highest or any Tender will not necessarily be
accepted.
For further particulars and appointments to inspect,
apply—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TO CHARLES EDWARD BUSH, for-
merly of Svdney, N.S.W., nephew of
DUNCAN McGREGOR, deceased, and all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
13th day of September, 1923, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you
are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the 31st day ot
March, 1924, your claim to the estate of
Duncan McGregor, deceased, who died at
Mangarata, in New Zealand, on the 30th
day of April, 1922, intestate, failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto, disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 19th day of
September, 1923.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JOHN BUCHANAN, formerly of
Gisborne, New Zealand, son of
CHARLES BUCHANAN, deceased, and to
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
18th day of September, 1923, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed, on or before the 30th day of June,
1924, your claim to the trust estate of
Charles Buchanan, deceased, who died at
Gisborne, in New Zealand, on the 25th day
of February, 1923, failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those en-
titled thereto, disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 19th day of
September, 1923’
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
RE ARTHUR HENRY PALMER DECEASED.
PURSUANT to the provisions of “The Trustees
and Executors Act of 1897” NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all creditors and other persons having
any claims or demands upon or against the estate
of the abovenamed ARTHUR HENRY PALMER late
Master Tailor deceased who died on or about the
of Charters Towers in the State of Queensland
fifth day of September 1923 at Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and Probate of whose will is
how about to be applied for to the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Townsville by MARY PALMER of
Charters Towers aforesaid but at present of Sydney
aforesaid Widow and QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES
LIMITED the Executors named in the said Will
ARE HEREBY REQUIRED to send in in writing
particulars of their debts or claims to the said
Mary Palmer and Queensland Trustees Limited
addressed to them at the office of the said QUEENS-
LAND TRUSTEES LIMITED 395 Queen Street Bris-
bane in the State of Queensland on or before Monday
the third day of December 1923. AND NOTICE
IS HEREBY FURTHER GIVEN that after the expi-
ration of the last-mentioned date the said Executors
Will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which they shall then
have had notice AND THAT they will not be liable
tor the assets or any part thereof so distributed to
any person of whose debts or claims they shall not
have had notice at the time of such distribution.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of September 1923.
MARSLAND & MARSLAND,
Solicitors for the said Executors,
Loudon Bank Chambers, Charters Towers.
Town Agents: Wilson, Ryan & Grose,
Solicitors, Townsville.
Amusement*.
g YD N K Y’S Clll E I' TIIEATKES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE CABARET GIRL.
CRITERION:
BLUEBEARD’S EIGHTH WIFE.
ROYA.L: QUARANTINE.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, GEORGE MARLOW.
Sole Direction
HUGH J. WARD THEATRES PTY., LTD.,
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. and Sat. 2.15.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF COMEDIANS in
The Musical Comedy Success,
THE O’BRIEN GIRL.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
C. WIEEIAiUSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SALLY.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD presents Brilliant London Musical
Comedy Success,
PRETTY PEGGY.
Plans at Glen’s.
OYT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
JACKIE COOGAN in
DADDY.
ELSIE FERGUSON in
OUTCAST.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
THE THIRD ALARM.
AN EMARY JOHNSON PRODUCTION.
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
▼
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
K
:2«
POST FREE
UnER
m
Amusements.
ING'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
MIS’ NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
Tlll<: ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPKAKEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
MELBOURNE SEASON: THE PLAYHOUSE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
“BETTER THAN TATTS”
£4OOO for !/-
KATOOMBA THOUSAND
No. 3.
GIGANTIC ART UNION
!n aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL,
Blue Mountains A., H. & I. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund, and Katoomba
School of Arts Building- Fund.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1,850
2nd Prize, 6-Cylinder Buick ... £525
3rd Prize, Beale Player Piano .. £275
Total Prizes value £4,000.
(Values guaranteed.)
Drawn immediately subscribed
or not later than December 7th, 1923.
Results published "Daily Telegraph,” Dec.
Bth, 1923; other States, Dec. 15th or before.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
SIX TICKETS FOR 6/-.
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can
win Prizes value £4,000.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches). Hairdressers and Tobaccon-
ists in City, Suburbs and Country, also
Messrs. Prouds Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba. N.S.W.
Have you
read this new
and very
much talked
of book?
Eleanor Gray
tells you
how
to always look
your best
"T "Y T AS there ever a woman in the
V/\/ world who couldn’t recall some-
▼ » time, somewhere, a sombre hour
spent alone in front of her mirror wishing
she were different.”
So begins this intimate interesting book
that cleverly deals with every woman’s
problem of making the very most of her
natural attractiveness.
A Practical Style Authority
Miss Gray is a practical style authority;
she has studied the problems of thousands
of women. She knows and understands the
different types and just how each type
should express personality and beauty in
clothes. Her new book “You” gives ad-
vice and suggestions how to attain that
lovely picture every real woman wants to
make of herself —and do it without in
any way increasing the money you now
spend for dress.
Miss Gray discusses the important subject
of proportions in her new book and shows
the necessity of wearing a corset especially
proportioned to your figure needs. She
advises a Gossard Corset because Gossards
are the only corsets designed unerringly
for different figure types. Their front-
lacing comfort, their light scientific bon-
ing, their graceful, natural lines are worth
more to the woman who really cares about
her health and appearance than can be
put into shillings and pence. And yet they
are among the most reasonably priced
articles of clothing to be had today. Do
you realize you can buy a genuine, trade-
marked Gossard Corset for as little cost
as the ordinary corset?
Gossard Brassieres
And Miss Gray recommends your particular
attention to the new Gossard Longerlyne
Brassieres. They are differently designed
for those many women who need special
support at the diaphragm as well as added
length to their brassieres to prevent them
slipping up over the lower tops of the
modern corsets.
Go to the Best Store You Know
You can buy Gossard Corsets and Bras-
sieres at good stores everywhere. The
best store you know is sure to sell them
and render you a fitting service that will
assure you satisfaction.
Use the Coupon Below
While it is on your mind, send for your
copy of “You”. Use the coupon; and
remember that you can depend upon Miss
Gray’s personal advice to help you look
your best. If you have the slightest diffi-
culty in finding the exactly-right Gossard,
Miss Gray will be glad to see that you are
supplied with the model you should have.
She may be addressed in the care ol
TheCanadianH. W. Gossard Co.
114 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N. S. IV.
FRONT
LACING
No. 3
USE THIS COUPON
MISS ELEANOR GRAY, c/o The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co*, 114 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please Isena me your free book "YOU” and tell me what style coiaet to L>uy. I am in height, weigh pounds,
waist inches, bust inches, hips inches.
Name.
.Address.
.State of.


/
Can You
draw 7
Would you like to be able to make
bold, free sketches of people and scenes
that surround you every day?
Would you like to properly develop
your talent for black-and-white work?
Would you be surprised to know that
anyone who can write can draw, if
they only know the right way?
THE WESTON METHOD
will enable you to learn without drud-
gery. It will become a source of great
pleasure; and, above all, it teaches to
draw —NOT to copy.
Send three stamps to cover postage,
and we will forward Mr. Weston’s
interesting booklet, “There’s Money in
the Pen,” which tells all about the
course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
262 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sffie £Per/ec£
©IFIFSSII ffi&SITIS
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,- BEST.
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
!%!5o Ie ALEX Cowan £> Sons, L™
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
SB,*.
Jhcyfast
long®
The worlds most famous
batteries for bells, buzz-
ers and gas engines.
Insist upon
(Columbia)
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
THE
RIDING
TROUSERS
Made of Staunch
Khaki and Olive
Shade Riding Drill
13/9 3 Pr*. 40/.
Wears like iron—washes
well Fadeless The
best investment for
Horsemen. Write to
Desk “5.8.” stating size.
Branches
at
Townsville
Toowoomba
PIKE
Brothers
LTD.
BRISBANE
X
ARTISTS in Oils, Water Colors,
Etchings and Black and White.
£lOO Competition. Copy of Conditions:
mailed free. Write The Manly Daily,
18 Sydney Road, Manly.
Missing: Friends.
GUS 3010.
WRITE TO DAD. ANXIOUS.
What Would YOU Do?
m
Hard Times—Men out of
Work-—Many Robberies.
One call never tell whether it will
be his or her turn hext. An armed
hian bigger and stronger than your-
self—what could you do? Yet there
is a way in which you could in-
stantly render him helpless, whether
he be armed with a knife, a club
or a gun. With Ju-Jitsu the
weakest man or frailest woman
r”smnden™ rr (° tter '"'"-/l ! 1 "' ld ,' e of h ~!n'Sir a The'^JnpaiS”jiljitsu"<ff
st ucks ’ BreakB and
ls „ y ? Ur Great Opportunity to learn this wonderful and invincible
system of Japanese Self-defence. Seize it now.
a fe, write to-day (enclosing six Id. stamps) for FREE
Illustrated Booklet of Particulars of our Home Training- Course
JU-JITSU CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL,
PO. Box 15, MOSMAN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
flos r,,r y
1
; wo*
. t \ &
cit^
1
m
'‘JpHE Suede shoes Mi-
lady wears retain their
freshness and daintiness much
longer when she Uses Bostock’s
Dry Suede Gleaner. It keeps
them soft; does net lay the nap.
In all popular colours^
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES Ltd.,
Box 91, Hay market, SYDNEY
JUOUjCM, I
■awaa E
gostocK'e
DRY SUEDE CLEANER
All Price?
Reduce' 3 ’
m
No.
809
Plain,
7/6
Silver-
nounted,
12/6
3Hk
Corsiccinßrugere
All Tobacconists, or P.O. Box 2939 Sydney;
954 Melbourne; 155 Adelaide.
Usable Power
Right from
the Start.
Lack of maximum efficiency—and its
resultant effect on production profits—
can usually be traced to leakages such as
friction, hot bearings, etc.
Take the starting of any section of a
large plant. Every second absorbed in
getting a “working” start is not only
using both current and labor without any
return whatever—but really recording a
loss.
uTSr
*
m.
BUB
BALL BEARINGS
cut out friction, avoid over-heating of journals, and mean an easy start with
power practically immediately productive.
SIvF Ball Bearings stand for all-round efficiency and economy, combining
both features of higher safe running speeds with an 80 to 90 per cent,
saving of lubricant and the consequent saving of labor.
Write, asking for fuller particulars.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
157 Waymouth Street.
B.R. 17/23
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.). Ltd., 37 King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York
Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
T.P.: The Argus was right—“more than
£30,000” certainly was raised by Vic. State-school
pupils for soldiers’ funds. The exact amount
15/8/’l4 to 31/12/’2O was £422,470 15s. Sd
Query: A fortnight for pars; a month for suggestions
for drawings. But it’s difficult to lay down hard and
fast rules... . R.N.S.: Wake your pen, and put some
life into your work... . V.L.: “Martyr” just misses.
It goes rather heavily.... Leznem: “Trap” is very
well done; but we can’t swallow the conclusion....
A.C.W.: Comb your brains. You got everything in
a tangle....Britomarte: But what does it mean?
Even poetry ought to at any rate convey the idea
that it means something G.D.0.: Words, words,
words.... J.8.A.: The verse doesn’t make any appeal
to u5....5.E. (Toowoomba): A very unconvincing
little yarn... .T.D. (Landsborough): No sort of
alteration could make them bearable R.W.C.: The
“Daisy” has had many a hard doing in verse, but
your demand that it should get up and hop about is
close to the limit... .J.P.D.: Mere waste of ink....
C.P.N.: They don’t get anywhere near. .. .G.A. (M.L.) :
The verses are poor; and the sketches are a mere
building up of commonplaces C.11.W.: There isn’t
enough in “Spiker”. . . .W.E.L.: Not much of a yarn
in it. . . .C.F.R.: You needn’t worry about spoiling
‘the inspiration.” It is not a sonnet; as verse it
is poor; and the passion wouldn’t warm a frog'....
Marcus: Hilda’s face is a remarkable collection of
features if it is like all those things.... Eleanor M.:
No revision could make it worth while... .Sydney C.:
Afraid those ladies know all you can tell them....
E.J.R.: Sorry; it must go back J.S. (Cremorne):
Seems a pretty tame business Ned: You haven’t
put any grip into your yarn Lai M.: No use
C.C.: None of them get past a first reading Wil-
liam W.: Very nigged stuff....C.S. (Kogarah) : The
verses don’t strike us... .G.L.M.: No use whatever.
Fred A.: The “Humpy” yarn is a very dull one.
.... Pollyanthus: They don't even resemble verse....
A.H.D.: Misses; but you may find the target pres-
ently.... Thomas C.: Hardly enough in the “Tank.”
....El Dorado: Only a prospect... .Edwin W.: A
too-obviously manufactured yarn R.T.K.: They ar e
too stiff and heavy for sonnets Milano: Put more
head-work into it.... Kat: The day-dream part is
hauntingly sweet: —
Now a day-dream has me beside a shady pool
And gorgeous birds are singing very sweet.
O er the moss I hear loving footsteps softlv beat—
Ah, tis the girlie of my heart coining home from
school.
111 secretly hide in this bower green and cool,
And when she comes lay redolent garlands at her
ieet.
Now, the little wistful lady on that sylvan afternoon
Was watching for a boy with laughing big blue
eves ;
lor him her dainty little head was planning a
surprise, *
As she came down the mossy aisle, whistling a tune :
till a gleeful boy rushed from a grot to his bloom
And made the red-rimmed cavity of her mouth to
his eager lips rise.
. ...1.M.D.: Poor album verse.... IV. W. (Hobart):
As good as the average “In Memoriam” verses....
J.H.C.G.: No use C.R.A.: You’re a bit late—if
ue printed it we are afraid that it might encourage
you to write and tell us what Captain Cook is doing
at Botany Bay Yanga: Not for u 5.... Jack C.:
On the sample, the stuff wouldn’t suit this market.
Trixie D.: They flutter too feebly Mena W •
Not quite enough in it... .S.D.C.: Poor stuff, poorly
told D.P.M.: No yarn there E.T.W.: Rather
a sorrowful attempt at mirth Hilda E.: One of
your lines gets it: “Peerless and inexplicably obscure.”
Still, we’re glad to know something is written with
pagan ink.” We were afraid it might be a Mormon
typewriter.... Naipa: Not the goods we hanker
. after....Ltndsa.y L.: Rather a weak parody
VV.h.C.: Might be worse, but we wish you would
make it better.... Augustus W.: That’s the style.
Sing in the federation of the world: -
O Law of Nature and beauty gift,
Why is it so that times fly swift?
Why is youth so short and age so long?
Oh, why made Nature things so wrong?
Why do we worry, and why do we fret
lor all good things we cannot get?
It is the heart of Men, and Human Mind
Lome have a heart like a beast of savage’ kind.
Human Nature destroys and kills,
it. makes slaves whenever it wills;
Civilisation is as Savages have done —
Strong and treacherous, then they won.
The law of Nations—they are the beast
When many are starving while they feast;
There will be-one Law and one Nation in this World •
Then we will decorate the Earth with all its gold.’
... .D.C.F.: Doesn’t get near enough to say how-
d’ye-do to the accountant J.J.L.: Poor stuff
H. 8.5.: Your ear must be in a shocking state to
choose Skiddaw” as a rhyme for “bore,” when any
other word would have done as well. P.S. Any
other words would have done as well nearly ail
through.... Septimus G.: No use in that shape....
Gnullo (M.L.) : Nudum bonum... . P.G.8.: If you
talked in that artificial language to a mate he
would throw the hash at you Derwentside: “Dry-
den” was on the border-line; and your bad habit
of jambing the typewritten lines together pushed
it over... .T.M.: Thanks; personal pars are always
m demand. .. .M.P.S.: The Red Page has no use
for mere re-hashes of Encyclopaedia articles—there
is far too much original matter knocking at that
d00r... .0.C.T.: Vivid; but afraid it is too techni-
cal for the general reader. And, really, do bosses
do that sort of thing in Australia? .K.B. (S.A.) :
It sounds magnificent; but what does it mean? For
a start, what is the “challenge” you take up?....
L.Q.S.: You wander over the subject like a lost
dog Sammo: The easy writing that makes darned
hard reading Victor D.: But you don’t think
the law of averages has just been discovered, do you ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.: Your idea of perspective wants roasting....
Cyrano: Not a hope. .. .A.P.C.: You’re not going to
honi soit here. .. .L. 0.: Fourteen and a half and never
had a lesson! But why pick on us? G.8.R.:
Dropsical lady gone overboard; so has the agitated
gent with the deformed foot. .-. .T.G.S.: You certainly
can show Nature a few points.. . .W.M.: Some pro-
mise, but drawing falls down badly in spots....
A.T.: Sorry; not up to the mark A.K.: A sketch
in blue ink is bad; a sketch in faint pencil is bad
too; but a sketch in blue ink and faint pencil !
. ...M.L.L.: Try drawing with a pen instead of a
mallee root.


An Air of Distinction
(By “Phlox.”)
UXTE gods, she’s handsome! What a
stunner!”
These were among the explana-
tions uttered by the staff of Goodby and
Sons when Mabel Mackay, the new clerk,
made her first appearance in the office All
eyes were riveted on her. And when Miss
Mackay took her seat at the desk lately
vacated by Miss Johnson, who had left to
get married, more than one of the staff specu-
lated as to how long it would be before Miss
Mackay vacated it for the altar.
As is usual in firms where there is a large
staff of women, some of the girls generously
admired Miss Mackay; others envied her.
But there were others who could not quite
make up their minds about her. She cer-
tainly was attractive, they argued, and on
the whole distinctive-looking. But, as
Myra Black remarked, she hadn’t a feature
to her face. Her complexion was good, and
her hair always well groomed; otherwise
she had no beauty to boast about. Before
long, however, even the girls who criticised
iier began to admire and to like her. There
was something irresistible about her. Mr.
Clarence Goodby, a son of the firm, evidently
thought so. From the first he was attracted
by her, but whether he liked her as a friend
or something more the staff was unable to
say.
Mr. Clarence, as he was known to them,
was one of those gentle, kindly jfoung men
whose sole wish seemed to be to give plea-
sure to others. Mabel was, of course, flat-
tered by and enjoyed his attentions. She
was not a girl who made many friends, and
in her lonely bed-sittingroom at the board-
ing-house she loved to dwell on what the
good-looking son of the firm had said to her
at the firm’s concert the other evening, or
at the dance the girls had organised for the
Girls’ Realm Guild Fund. She knew that he
admired her, but no word of love had been
spoken between them. She must look her
best at the firm’s annual dance, now 7 only
three weeks off.
* * * *
Goodby and Sons’ dance was always one
of the smartest of the season. Not only the
employees but the principals and their waves
and friends attended. Among others Mabel
wms introduced to a Miss Jackson, the
daughter of a university professor, and was
chatting with her when Mr. Clarence Good-
by came to claim her for a dance. Mabel
hadn’t a partner for that dance, and as her
eyes followed the pair she thought how well
they looked together. What beautiful fea-
tures and pretty eyes Miss Jackson had. A
tinge of jealousy crossed her mind, but she
quickly checked it. Mabel had the next
dance with Mr. Clarence, and thoroughly
enjoyed it.
Later in the evening Mabel found herself
again beside Miss Jackson. “Don’t you
think Mr. Clarence Goodby is handsome?”
she asked Mabel.
“Yes, and good, too,” implied Mabel.
“We're engaged, you know.”
“I hadn’t known ; but I must congratulate
you.”
“Oh, w 7 e’re not formally engaged, though
he really proposed to me when I was 15
and he 18. But there’s nothing of the lover
about him, and he’s dreadfully shy. Mother
alw r ays says that, when he does marry he
will do the deed suddenly and quietly.”
“May I take you in to supper, Miss
Mackay?” asked Mr. Clarence, bowing low.
Mabel took the proffered arm. Mary
Jackson looked astonished, and watched the
pair out of sight, wdien she was claimed
by Professor Doyle’s son.
After supper Clarence asked Mabel to
walk with him in the palm court, and later
when they rejoined the others, Mabel’s face
was rosy red. At the conclusion of the ball
Mr. John Goodby, the head of the firm, an-
nounced his son’s engagement to Miss Mac-
kay, and also intimated that the marriage
w 7 ould take place shortly.
« * * *
To the first “at home” that Mabel gave
as wife of Clarence Goodby, she invited all
the girls of the firm, who heartily congratu-
lated her on her good fortune in having such
a beautiful home. They wandered about
admiring this and that. And, of course, they
wanted to see all her pretty frocks.
“What a sweet dressing-table set!” re-
marked Molly Wardlaw.
“I designed and made it myself,” said
Mabel.
“How nice this cream smells.. What is it?”
“Oh, that’s Mercolized Wax —a really
lovely face-cream.”
“Ah-ha, is that what makes your com-
plexion so good?”
“It must be, because I’ve never used any
other cream. I would advise you to use it,
too.”
“I will.” “And I.” “And I,” echoed the
others.
“What’s your powder?”
“Barri-agar—just as good as the cream.”
“And what’s in this tin so cunningly en-
closed in a pretty little receptacle?”
“That’s Stallax —an excellent shampoo for
the hair. I never use anything else. And
if you’ll take a married woman’s advice,
girls, you’ll use these preparations, too, for
a good complexion and good hair give one
an air of distinction.”—Advt. [3
/lah to see these Fiberloid Patterns
FIBERLOID is justlike the finest
ivory and it does not crack, chip,
dent or tarnish, even with years
of use. These beautiful Fiberloid
Toilet Articles are within the
reach of all.
A complete set may be obtained
and handsomely monogramed, a
gift intimate and lasting, or each
separate article purchased piece by
piece. Sold at all prominent stores.
Write our representative for free booklet
«Beautiful Fiberloid” describing all articles.
The Fiberloid Corporation
New York, U. S. A.
Representative
Henry Greenberg, 127 York St., Sydney
RUPTURE i
| A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street, Melbourne
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DKINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
N In 3 sir.es of all Chemists /ss£•/
ZKVv and Stores.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK 6
SLOUGH. BUCKS.
ENG.
'v" w, 'Y
\
nnu
□□c
Easily Recognized as a Car
of Supremacy
THE beautiful sloping body lines of the Paige Motor Car
—the powerful engine with its many records for endur-
ance and speed behind it make it possible to single this
remarkable car out from among a crowd of other fine cats.
A motor car with the individuality of a masterpiece created
by master engineers after years of endeavor.
Motorists the world over are purchasing Paige 6-70 as the
“dream-come-true” in perfect motor cat construction.
Standard equipment of all Paige Models includes: 6 cord tyres,
tubes, rims. Spares mounted one each side with lock and tyre
cover. Motometer. Double bar spring bumpers front and rear. Lug-
gage carrier. Combination back and stop light. Automatic wind-
screen cleaner. Aluminium kick plates. Petrol gauge on dash. Eight
day Waltham clock. Electric cigar lighter. Green glass sunshade.
Rear view mirror. Snubbers front and rear. Power tyre pump.
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.,
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO. #
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
24
\o/-
o
y&t
R
&
o r V
< \4 r (i'* sa


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
HbroliTi
W eather board
Build your new home walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and ltoof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 33 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House, 11
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan's Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
S' «
Pigs
Calves
Sheep
Cattle
With each class of stock this golden rule
holds good. It is a certain producer of top
market results in every instance.
CONSIGN YOUR FATS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
KINGSLEY PRIVATE HOTEL
Mrs. GREAVES, Proprietress.
The most exclusive in Brisbane. Accommodation
for 200 Guests. Newly Furnished throughout.
Room and Breakfast, or Inclusive Terms, can be
arranged. Moderate Tariff. Every Convenience.
Adjoining Queensland Club and Botanical
Gardens, GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Insects are
Unpleasant
Company—
they are not particular
whether they tease the
cat, torment the baby, or
bite father.
Insects are not fussy about their
habits or their place of abode.
They revel in filth, and, for the
good of mankind, such dissemi-
nators of disease should be
mercilessly destroyed; and the
easiest and surest way is by the
use of
Kruses
Insecticide
The beauty about this remarkable
destructor of noxious insects is
that it is quite harmless to poultry
and domestic pets, but with Fleas,
Flies, Ants, Bugs, Cockroaches,
Mosquitoes, Moths, etc., one puff
means sudden death.
One tin of the genuine Kruse’s
Insecticide, intelligently used, will
keep a house free from Insects
for months. It is the most
economical and effective exter-
minator of insect pests obtainable.
Insist on getting the original and
genuine Kruse’s It never fails.
Sole Proprietors:
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., L.TD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
PACKARD
purchase of a New Packard
Single Six is a sound investment
which returns high dividends of
satisfaction and comfort; such ease
and elegance are only found in
cars of the highest class. This latest
model is of the world famous
Packard quality in its most note-
worthy form and at a price so mod-
erate as to be astonishing.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK, PACKARD, LTD.,
Distributors: 26], 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring City 3338 for demonstration. Write or call for catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty., Ltd., The Universal Motors Pty., Eyes & Crowle, Ltd.,
Russell St., Melbourne. Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane'. 75 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
The Australasian Auto Import Co., Ltd., Auckland.
THE AAA REALLY SAVES
69i
Automatic Petrol Saver Co.,
Commerce Buddings, Ash-*treat, Sydney.
Used by Winners
Brisbane to Sydney Tests,
1921 and 1922.
<
:
t?
ANZORA
) VIOLA
g?
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis 8 Co. Ltd
Melbourne . Baldwin & Slattery.
Sydney .... Jones & Joseph.
Adelaide .. .Arthur Glover.
Brisbane .. .E. Darragh & Co.
Perth Norton G. Hill Pty.
Every man
should use
ANZORA for his hair, because
it is the only preparation that will
effectually keep the hair neat and
in position throughout the day.
Just rub a little into the scalp each
morning and brush the hair well.
Gently yet firmly refuse proffered
substitutes. There is nothing “as
good as” ANZORA.
Anzora Cream is suitable for greasy
scalps & Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers,
Stores, or from any of our Agents.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Manufactured by the
ANZORA PERFUMERY CO. Ltd.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Schnorrer”: Uncle Sam apparently
stands one sort of middleman that N.S.W.
has long ceased to tolerate. A recent cable
announced that “pullers” in Chicago have
gone on strike. The “puller” is a variety
of the tailoring-shop “tour’ who was once
so much in evidence in Sydney that the call-
ing was prohibited. In America the “puller”
takes possible customers by the arm and
drags them into the shop to. look at the
goods; but that the job isn’t all plain sail-
ing is shown by the strike being for “more
adequate police protection.”
* * * *
“Noah”: Local steamers, even with the
assistance of the Commonwealth subsidy, are
finding it increasingly difficult to trade pro-
fitably to Rabaul, the Solomons and other
islands. They must be manned on the
ample scale laid down by the Navigation
Act, and copra is an expensive commodity to
bring back when the Sydney Harbor Trust
regulations do not permit it to be landed on
the wharves like ordinary cargo. A few
weeks ago a Sydney steamer and a foreigner
were in Rabaul at the same time. The
former was carrying 4000 tons of copra as
against ttie latter’s 10,000 tons; nevertheless
the Sydney boat was compelled by law to
carry a crew 50 per cent, larger than the
other.
* # * *
“Kip” : I know of no more striking testi-
mony to the utility of New Guinea timbers
than a certain motor-boat which has just
been completed at Samarai. Local woods
were employed throughout: tamanou, a light
wood with a handsome grain, served for
the planking, and the hardwood is mostly
bendora, a borer-resisting timber which the
Germans thought so much of that they sent
it to the naval yards of the Fatherland.
The owner of the dandy little 18ft. craft
has imported a 33.-h.p. motor-car engine
from Sydney, and is confident that he will
rattle up the China Strait at 25 knots. The
craft would delight the heart of any harbor
motor-boat enthusiast.
* * * *
“Kowsara” : One of the Chinese crew of the
steamer St. Albans struck a bit of hard luck
at Townsville. Successful in passing the Cus-
toms searchers, he was nearing the end of
the long pier, when a couple of panting Cus-
toms officers overhauled and grabbed him.
It turned out that a shed watchman had
noticed something peculiar in the Chink’s
walk, and apprised the sleuths. Thev
found a tin of opium fastened under each
foot. Townsville seems to be a sinister port
for this steamer on her trip south. Not long
since a £16,000 parcel of poppy-drug dropped
overboard at Cape Cleveland was responsible
for getting two local residents 12 months’
goal, in addition to the confiscation of their
motor-launch.
* * * *
“ Si . erra ” : An Australian writing from the
U.S.A. about prohibition (B, 20/9/’23)
says: “America has shown the whole world
that it has the courage of its opinion, and
is game to tackle a big problem in a big
way. But the problem was not tackled in
a big way. Prohibition was forced on the
people by the jugglery and trickery of those
in. power. As for the average American’s
opinion, if he has any apart from that pre-
scribed by authority, he mostly keeps it to
himself. The American exploit falls far
short of that of the last of the Kussian
Czars, who put 140,000,000 subjects dry
with a famous stroke of his pen. The much-
lepressed moujik retaliated when the oppor-
tunity came; the inarticulate Tank may
yet do likewise.
* * * #
“Bouragi”; “Moresby’s” 'Statement (B.
16/i)/ 2,6) that native laborers in Papua are
herded into stores when paid off, and have
all sorts of rubbish passed on to them reads
strangely in these enlightened times. In
the bad old days of Papua, as some people
like to call them, the paying-off official had
to go to the store with the boys and super-
intend their trade purchases. ©f course,
tins duty was shirked sometimes. I recall
a long-ago case in which, among the
ai tides unloaded on simple Brown Brother
were pink parasols and corkscrews, some 30
or 40 darkies participating in the issue. For
what purpose the firm acquired the articles
Heaven only knows. Certainly Samarai
ladies of those days were not afraid of sun-
shine, and a corkscrew was a superfluity in
a country where bottles were beheaded.
* * *
“F.A.”: The law may shortly be called
upon to decide a question of interest to
importers of stud stock. A bull valued at
a thousand guineas died while undergoing
quarantine at the Sydney depot. The terms
of sale set out that the purchase money
was to be paid over upon the animal’s arri-
val m Sydney, provided the animal was in
sound condition, and as he appeared to be
® Purchaser paid over the money.
Within the quarantine period, however tlie
desStp r tL d K Ve i S . trange symptoms,'and,
despite the best veterinary attention, passed
to the pastures of Paradise. An autopsy
showed that the cause of death was acute
is wbertf ° f f, 16 II J. er> alld the P. oint at issue
. ®thei the disease was imported or
acquired m quarantine. 1
* * * *
11. Penfold-Hyland hears from America:
he Australian public is perpetually being invited
o believe that America is bone-dry. Of course it
s on eV6 u Paper ’ Seeing that ever - v householder
use 7m », 6 200 gallolls of ™ne fear for
the , hon ! e - Cer tainly the beverage is not
wine, when the exemption was authorised
y Congress it was stipulated, as a concession to
certain rabid Prohibitionists, that it should be
labelled ‘Fruit Juice,” but it doesn’t lose any
of the properties of wine on that account. An-
other thing, equally misleading, that the Pussyfoot
is trying to circulate in Australia is that cranes
which might be used for wine will always make
excellent raisins. The best comment on this is a
paragraph from the Californian Grape. Grower
(1/7/' 23) recording that in California last Febru-
ary the Raisin Association was in the doldrums,
though many raisins and table grapes have for two
years past gone into home wine-making.” In
other words, the raisin industry in America has been
saved from disaster by borne wine-making. If
we are to profit by America’s experience of Pro-
hibition, our wine industry will get an impetus
rather than a set-back.


Edison asii
will
you
\
Hear the Hew Edison Re-create Destinn’s voice
as she sings of the splendors of love in VISSI
D’ARTE. that wonderful TOSCA number. Every
beauty of a lovely living voice is given you—every
tender inflection, every warm, accent, every
tremulous siveeiness, every least pulsation of
feeling. That isn’t a phonograph singing — it’s
the voice of life — it’s music!
• e««* u °- r
,Ut
VvV*' 5 *** I '''®'
6 o tw^*H
V9^
All the words in the dictionary could
not convey to you the wonder of The
New Edison, so the great inventor asks
you to hear it personally.
Listening, you will realise the miracle
of his achievement; you will realise
that the day of reproduced music is
gone, for here is Re-Created music—
exactly as it was originally produced.
And to confirm your judgment, we
will tell you of the success of the five
thousand public tests of direct com-
parison between instrument and living
artist.
NEW
EDISON
Interesting Catalogues from Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney,
or The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney; Wills & Paton, Pty., Ltd., 238 Collins Street, Melbourne;
South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., 7 Rundle Street, Adelaide; W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Wills & Co., 7 Quadrant, Launceston; Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street, Perth;
OR YOUR NEAREST EDISON DEALER.
(
M&k
m
Q
ft
n
Z II
JLZj
IDEAIy
Hot Water as available as cold water;
hot baths always ready; hot water for
domestic use all day long; this luxury is
now a necessity demanded by house-
holders, tourists, travellers and students.
Thanks to the
Dd&iC
boilers
hot water supp*
hot water can be made available at an
extremely small upkeep for coke. Ideal
Boilers raise 50 gallons of really hot
water from 91b. of coke—a hot bath for
a penny.
They require little attention, fit snugly
into any kitchen scheme, and are giving
satisfaction and saving money in hundreds
of homes, hotels, hospitals, colleges,
clubs, cafes and sporting clubs. Write or
call for booklet and list of users.
Jf
IDEAL
2
John Danks c,SonP^W
324-330 P iii Si. Syclrvey*
391 "403 Bourke Si. Melbourne


COUGH
mtiim
CROC
*' h cough n '*
RLME.DY
Croup. Wboupmc C«D"1
BRO!
SORE THI
INFLUE
WO OTHCO AFftCTK
THROAT and
•4>rn t»U«n «(fcr tttiag
MADEinAUS
Chamber'Ll
lo tvt ol (lx cliiUH «%>W
him
SMALL
CHMl&RLfiltfS UMITEDI
* l tail
Free from ell narcotics
or injurious substances.
Baby’s development
may be retarded by un-
suitable medicines. Cough
medicines containing
narcotics are dangerous.
This medicine can be given
with safety to the youngest
and most delicate child.
PHAMBERIAINS
u cou6h Remedy u
D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
THE STORM KING
LANTERN
350 Candle-
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— Lux Light Co.
of Victoria, 495 Collins St., Melbourne
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
«\r i r< »
IV.L.U.
SPARKING
PLUGS.
For perfect ignition and long
service.
A type for every Engine.
Smith, Sons U Rees
Limited,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES for STATION OWNERS.
Model F 2898. Government approved
Model for country service. 1000-ohm
Ringer. 5-Bar Generator, Long-dis-
tance Transmitter and Receiver.
Supplied from Australian stocks,
KELLOGG
APPARATUS
of quality and 25 years’ experience. Approved
by all Governments.
If you are not on the Government circuits
why not construct your own private line? We
will furnish you with guaranteed apparatus
and full information and estimates.
Will give continuous and uninterrupted ser-
vice. Non-breakable. Withstands hard and
severe usage.
KELLOGG RADIO EQUIPMENT
has been pronounced as the most efficient and the most attractive apparatus ever
put into a wireless receiving set.
USE IS THE TEST.
Good results are onlv obtained with good equipment. Variable Vernier Condensers, Vario-
meters, Vario-couplers, Head ’Phones, Plugs, Jacks, Fixed Condensers, Choke Coils, Tube Sockets,
Dials, Cords, Transformers for Audio Frequency, Terminals, etc.
Send for Booklet and Price List to the agent in your State.
Victoria:
JAMES CHAMBERS & CO., Pty., Ltd.,
374 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.:
burgin EI/ECTRIC CO.,
352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland :
AMICO LTD.,
Amico House,
Queen Street. Brisbane.
S.A.:
NEWTON MCLAREN LTD.,
Leigh Street, Adelaide.
W.A.:
C. P. KNAPTON,
935 Hay Street, Perth.
A
THEY COME AS A BOON S A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK.THE OWL $ THE WAVEJILEY PEN.
COMET
ShEtp
IETTER1 ET TER
SLOW
as#
m
w»fi
Save
Your Sheep
GETTING is recognised and recommended
by many leading pastoralists as the surest
and most economical method of combating
the sheep fly. For several years the
“COMET” Sheep Jetter
has been recognised as Australia’s perfect Jet-
ting Plant—correctly designed, and specially
fitted for using heavy arsenical solutions. Treat-
ment with the “ Comet ” Jetter will give your
sheep the greatest protection from the blowfly
—and obviate any necessity for crutching. Do
not wait for the fly to start your losses. Write
to us now for full particulars of “ Comet ” Sheep
Jetters.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Works and Offices : Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Office : 255 a George Street.
Also at
Rockhampton,
Brisbane and Townsville.
SW.I6
m
n
The Perfect Pencil
Sheer merit made the
KOH-I-NOOR the premier
pencil over 30 years
ago. It still retains
that proud
position.
V
&
V
%
From all
Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Agent for Australia : J. MACDOUGALL,
G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
Factory Cztcho - Slovakia
“A.R.W.”: A Red Page article (27/9/’23)
assumes that “hooch” is American slang. I
fancy the word is a corruption of “thuit,”
Highland Gaelic for “tumble down.”
“Cicerone”: I remember one battalion
order issued in Blighty which ran as fol-
lows :—•.
Attention is drawn to the fact that certain men
are making- unnecessary noise in their company
lines after Lights Out. This practice must cease,
as companies must have undisturbed sleep. The
same applies to church parades.
Robert Pollard, for many years yard-
master at the Sydney railway station—-a
combination of Babel and Bedlam —is living
in retirement near Sherwood, one of the
sleepiest stations on the isolated little rail-
way from Urunga to Grafton (N.S.W.).
He gets all the excitement he needs by wan-
dering up to the station to see the train
dawdle in and out every day.
“Chris”: The celebrated Maori war-canoe
Matahioturoa, which has belonged to the Nga-
tiruru liapu of the Aturaroa tribe since the
early ’sixties, and was recently the subject
of litigation, is being presented to the Wan-
ganui Museum. The craft, reputedly the
second-largest of its kind, saw considerable
war service, and still bears bullet-marks.
Its full complement was 60 paddlers.
“Old Quill” : Pope Cooper (8.27/9/’23) was
not the first Australian Judge to go on strike.
’Way back in the ’forties the late N.S.W.
Judge Cheeke’s salary was struck off the
estimates, and when he heard of it his ’Onor
announced that he wouldn’t go ahead. The
Crown Prosecutor bounced about a bit and
got a guarantee from the Treasury that the
salary would be paid ; whereupon the Judge
adjusted his wig and cleared the slate.
“Yacko”: “D.F.” (B. 13/9/’23) refers to
the plans of Dampier’s shipmate, Captain
Welbe, for settling Australia. But even
Welbe was not the first to whom the idea
occurred. In 1624, 95 years sooner, Sir
William Courteen, a London merchant, soli-
cited James I.’s sanction to colonise Terra
Australis. Though under some obligations
to Courteen, his Majesty refused the re-
quest, but a couple of years later Courteen
was granted the right to settle the island
of Barbados.
“T. 0.1.”: Concerning St. Mark’s, at
Darling Point, Sydney, (B. 20/9/’23). The
temporary tabernacle erected by the three
Toms (Smart, Smith and Mort) was opened
in 1847. The first minister was “an impetu-
ous Irishman” named Russell, who quarrelled
with his : bishop and w-as suspended. Follow-
ing him came the Rev. Henry Cary, M.A., a
classical scholar and translator of Dante.
He remained until 1850. left the church, was
called to the Bar, became a D.C. Judge, and
died in 1870, 10 months after his retirement
from the Bench. The next incumbent was
Fairfowl Macarthur, son of Hannibal Haw-
kins Macarthur, of the Vineyard (now
Subiaco), Parramatta River, and a cousin
of John, the Father of the Fleece.
“The Deacon”: “Chant Pagan” mentions
(B. 27/9/’23) a controversy in Maoriland
as to whether it is a hundred years since the
first Maori was baptised. It ought to be
more than that unless the pioneer mission-
aries were too busily engaged in secular mat-
ters to worry about making converts. The
first batch arrived as early as 1814. Parson
Marsden, who, prior to getting religion, had
been a blacksmith, was in charge of the gos-
pellers, but the mission appears to have had
a commercial side, for it is recorded that the
leader lost no time in purchasing 200 acres
of rich land for 12 axes. In 1819 five others,
described as “missionaries and artisans,” got
13,000 acres for 48 axes. The trade in pre-
served Maori heads for home museums ap-
pears to have been a profitable one, too.
“R. 8.,” from the land of dop and biltong;
Why don’t Australian manufacturers exploit the
South African market more? Australian productions
certainly find their- way into the various ports, but
not a quarter of what the country has the capacity
to absorb. The other day a Johannesburg firm used
half a page of a daily paper to announce the start-
ling fact that it had got some Australian footware
in stock. Said a S’African merchant to me: “What-
ever Australia turns out is first rate.” He named
currants, bacon and cheese, and other things in tins
and bottles ; he compared Australian wheat and flour
favorably with the Canadian, and praised Australian
apples. T?ig sellers in this country are lemons and
one or two “patent” foods; and Maoriland tops the
cough-cure business. An Australian water-pipe co.
has captured South Africa, and J. Wright and Sons
have built up a large business in concrete at Durban.
Why Australian boot and tweed manufacturers don’t
get busier .over here beats me.
“F.A.”: Trial Bay, the North Coast
(N.S.W.) penitentiary where various Hun in-
ternees whiled away the war-period, did not,
as is generally supposed, gets its name from
any legal process. It was on September 12,
1816, during the construction of the Mac-
quarie lighthouse at South Head, Sydney,
that about a dozen convicts employed on the
work seized the locally-owned craft Trial
and piloted her out of the harbor. The
excursionists were never seen again, but two
years later John Oxley, carrying out an ex-
ploration survey, dropped across a heap of
wreckage on the rocks south of the Macleay
River, and was able to identify it as being
portion of the missing boat. He then gave
the ill-fated vessel’s name to the indentation
near by. No traces of the escapees were
ever found ; the surveyor concluded they had
either gone to Davy Jones or been murdered
by the blacks.
Kawau Island mansion, Auckland, which
Hori Grey purchased over 70 years ago, has
changed hands, the new owner being L. G.
Reeves, of Auckland, who intends to use it
as a marine holiday-resort. The grounds
were planted by Grey with one of the finest
collections of trees in the world. The pro-
perty has changed hands frequently and at
various prices, one owper being Mrs. Buxton,
of Melbourne, who paid £28,000 for it. Many
distinguished visitors came to old Hori dur-
ing his sojourn there. One was the Maori
King Tawhiao, who looked him up to get
a hint as to the procedure when one royal
person called on another in England. The
old statesman, knowing Tawhiao’s powers
of suction, prevailed upon him to become a
total abstainer, and as an inducement pro-
mised to mount the water-cart himself. The
Maori king agreed, and while in England
kept his royal word.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 31.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
liIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq, ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and S 3
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital ... .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. ■ £14,118,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYJVYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Jenolaa Caves
for an Enjoyable Holiday.
Three Days:
£4/11/6
Four Days:
£5/15/6
Five Days:
£ 6/15/6
Six hours’ delightful
journey by train and
automobile through
gorgeous mountain
scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout, accommo-
dation of Caves House
• —replete with every
modern comfort, danc-
ing and entertainments
at night and daily in-
spections of the far-
famed caves.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House (opp. G.P.0.),
SYDNEY.
Shipping:. Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN COMINENI.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA (13,500 tons) NOV. 8
MAIvURA (8100 tons) DEC- 6
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part ot the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (8000 tons) . . . . OCT. 25
MAUNGANUI (7500 tons) NOV. 22.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE —ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
HH
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Ik to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, I’HI Id* & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
Passages arranged to England, America,
Japan, China, India, Ceylon, Honolulu, etc.,
by our Tourist Traffic Department.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS.
1. To JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent steamers MARELLA and MONTORO.
Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. SYDNEY to JAPAN, CHINA, and RETURN to SYDNEY,
via SINGAPORE, JAVA, QUEENSLAND PORTS. Sailings
every two weeks.
9 weeks’ trip, lst-class throughout, £129/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
1
Wm.
■
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £92 to England, and from £62 to
South Africa.
P. & O. via THE CAPE SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying one class passengers only. Fares
from £37 to £45 to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
XHEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
fm
Directors
- £6,000,000
- 3,800,000
- 6,000,000
£15.800.000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Ealkiner, Esq.
Tne Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.1..C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E C.
385 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
" Cabin remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bur.da-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
DO THE GRAND WINTER TOUR TO CAIRNS.
Huddart ParkerLi^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY WEDNESDAY at
10 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Friday, 7 p.in.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon bn Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Ulackheatli Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOE
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
PmidentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,826,924
£3,000,000
£50,000,000
£7.500,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPFRLEY. F.S.S.. General Manager.


Quality Pipes
Men who know and appreciate
pipe perfection choose the
famous Sbß) pipes. Made from
Genuine French Briar they en-
sure a sweet smoke always.
Choose the pipe
'with a pedigree.
There is a shape to suit every
preference at all stores and
tobacconists.
All
shapes
now
9
Shape
No.
4230
Make your selection now and
ensure smoke satisfaction.
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney .
m :
m
T**’ 1 ?
;
-
inm
“Invincible”
Multivane
Mine-ventilating Fan.
Now is the time to think
about Ventilation.
NOW that summer is approaching and the hot, dry
days are with us again, have you thought about
General Ventilation? In every Office, Work-
shop, Factory, Machine-room or Store there is a need
for an “INVINCIBLE” Ventilating Fan.
For efficiency and power economy “INVINCIBLE” Fans
are equal to the world’s best products. They are
designed and wholly manufactured in Australia, at the
“INVINCIBLE” Fan Works.
Volumetric efficiency, sturdy construction and durability
are foremost features of “INVINCIBLE” fan service.
THERE IS AN “INVINCIBLE” FAN FOR
EVERY PURPOSE.
■invinflMp
We can offer “INVINCIBLE” Fans
of many types suitable for General
Ventilation, Induced Draft, Forge
Blowing, Dust Removal, Refuse Col-
lection, Elevating and Conveying,
Shavings Exhaust, Air Drying, Air
Heating, Air Washing and Condition-
ing.
Our “INVINCIBLE” service offers
you expert assistance and advice in
selecting the most suitable fan and
best method of adapting same for your
particular requirements.
Submit your problem to us for our
immediate attention.
Write our nearest office for special
catalogue detailing the above lines, and
ask for our 128-page General Engineer-
ing Catalogue, post free.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers,
Brisbane; 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
MELBOURNE PTY., LTD., 495-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne-
Darling Buildings, Franklin Street, Adelaide; corner Collins and
Elizabeth Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. \V. Gardam
Perth, W.A. ’
INVINCIBLE FANS.
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
“.4 marvel at the price."
82. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
height, about 2ilb
(Postage—N.S.W., i/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26-
“Simple and extra strong in construction .”
810. Winchester Single-shot Itille, 1004 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy rouDd steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37iin.; open front sight; weight about 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/0; other States, 3/2.)
47/6
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS,
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
Bi. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same ‘care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
25/-
-V “
Remarlcably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
832. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham.
nierless Ilifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight about 71b., muzzle
velocity, 2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing
from point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched
bullets (70 grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds:
freight paid *
£l2lO.
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
shortT long, or long rifle cartridge?.; weight, ahout^oinn^.
£5/10/
“A cheap and reliable weapon
B 4 Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
rnnnd barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges case-bardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight,
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/0; other States, 3/2.)
42/6
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
828. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length o£ barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight si[lb
Freight" paid,
£.9
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
818. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/2032-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
817. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,
s 05 00
r o
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
New Edition Illustrated Shooting Catalogue free on request.
fid,
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE,


Men! There’s Comfort
in a Rexona Shave.
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort and hygiene
in shaving, and tempers the skin against wind and bad weather.
It will be found the most economical Shaving Stick on
the market, but care should be exercised not to dip the stick
in the water, but wet the face and apply the Shaving Soap dry.
A few applications with the shaving brush will quickly produce
a thick, creamy lather, which lasts, and thoroughly softens the
beard, leaving the skin in a healthy and hygienic condition
after the shave.
Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for shaving, for
after going over the face with the razor and removing the
beard, the skin needs a protection from the germs carried by
the dust which everyone has to face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is the highest standard of Shaving
Soap that it is possible to produce, and a good Shaving Soap
means everything to a shave, for if the beard is properly
lathered a shave is a delight, but if the beard is not properly
lathered, but is stiff and harsh, it is not only severe on the
user, but hard on the razor.
REXONA—
The Triangular
Stick, 1/6. i
UheZfrianquLir Stick
/
7 .(
mi/JM
k.u
?C-'XO!'!A
...!.~ XOma'i
55Z
JNA
X C' M a
b
s
C4/B0
se
T
Reports are favorable about
REX HAM PATE
On every side you hear it proclaimed that Rex Ham
Pate is the thrifty housewives’ great stand-by in
helping to solve the sandwich problem—whether for
the children’s or the worker’s daily lunches or for
picnics where appetites need little coaxing.
Rex Ham Pate is all Ham— prepared in the exclusive
Rex way that gives it the most delectable flavor.
Try Rex Ham Pate by itself if you will. Add sliced
Tomato, Cucumber, beetroot, Chopped Olive,
Lettuce, Horseradish, Anchovy Sauce or Mayonnaise,
if you desire a change.
The young folks will soon show their appreciation—
and you’ll get lots of praise from them for “those
different sandwiches” which are eaten with zest.
FOODS.
GIVE REX HAM PATE
A TRY-OUT TODAY.
SOLD BY ALL
LEADING GROCERS
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F. J. 89
Towards the Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS we rode onward towards tile dawn
The world seemed born anew;
The air was cool, the earth was cool,
The saltbush dripped with dew.
Across the plain, red mile on mile.
We took the homeward road ;
Before us stretched far mulga hills
With crests that dimly glow’ed.
Like some young sleeper, done with sleep,
Dawn oped her radiant eyes;
Lights green, pale green, then gold, then red,
Shot up across the skies.
Fast-footed fled the fears of night,
Dark shadows and dim mists;
Dew-jewels gleamed on every bush —
Pearls, rubies, amethysts.
Such quiet dwelt on every side,
Such peace around, above,
That deep within our hearts we felt
The world was ruled by Love.
So kind was all, so kind, so sweet.
That Love seemed loved indeed!
“Not here,” W 6 said, “but far from here,
Dwell strife and hate and greed.”
Wg. looked ai;ohnd oh bhsli and tree,
Tall hill and spacious plain,
And thought of towns, where ceaseless tearS
The long, hard pavements stain.
As we rode on, wild life awoke,
And stir and song began;
Across our path flew feathered things,
Furred things, upstarting, ran.
Such sweet bird-melodies arose
That, heart and soul in thrall
With all around, we felt in truth
That Love was loved of all.
“Not here,” we said in happy tones,
“Life lives and wars on life ;
Not here, not here but far away,
Dwell hate and greed and strife.”
Uplifted so, we galloped on,
Like men by wine made drunk
Across Out track, jaws dripping blood,
A ibah, lank dingo slunk.
Uplifted so, down mile on miie
With glowing hearts we sped....
An eagle-hawk above us hung
With stirless wings outspread.
From warring mart and striving street
And cruel slum withdrawn,
These things we saw, as down red miles
We galloped towards the dawn.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.
The Tank of the Carp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
G ! Gong ! Gong ■'
W “To do one good act, prove one
scientific fact, Heaven bless this
our purpose !”
Go ng! Gong! Gong!
* * * *
The matins were over. With heavy heart
and rheumatic joints Father Fuchu rose
to his feet, made obeisance to the green-
black ebony Joss in its corner niche, and
backed out of the room.
They were holy men of the Fuchau monas-
tery. They were also dirty. But as proof
that even the unclean can live close to God
and do good for and by their fellow men, they
existed, perched in their crazy temple on the
mountain-side, 11000 feet above the valley
which gave them of food and of drink.
To the dwellers in the valley the Fuchau
monks were an enigma. Pious men, learned
men, certain of their acts were so paradoxi-
cal that should a man’s gaze by chance wan-
der to the temple up the dizzy mountain-side
he bowed his head quickly and hurried on.
To these mundane folk the tank of the carp
was at once an enigma and a bogey. The
open tank itself was remarkable; the mon-
ster carp which filled it, till it seemed there
was not room for one more, were at once
remarkable and loathsome. A nest of carp
8000 feet up a mountain-side! And such
carp! Brought to the surface by the slight-
est sound vibrations touching the water, their
sucking, slobbering, snuffling noise as they
poked their hungry noses above the surface
made the flesh creep. A man tumbling in
among them would be torn to pieces in an
instant. Sometimes men did go to feed those
carp, so rumor said. But for the valley folk
it was only rumor, and never would be
proved.
To Father Fuchu, however, gazing into the
now quiescent water, the legend was a
frightful truth which filled him with terrible
misgivings. In his bones he felt, to-day more
than ever, that it was because of this truth
his brother had never returned from the
proselytising mission on which he had set
out a year ago that day. To do one good act
and prove one scientific fact a monk went
forth from the mountain monastery each
year. Proof of his task’s successful fulfil-
ment assured him, on his return, great honor
among his brethren. Failure assured to him
only the carp tank and an agonising end.
Watching the tank’s fearsome occupants as
they lazily propelled their slimy bodies over
and across one another, Father Fuchu under-
stood why his brother had never returned.
Failing in his mission, weakness of the flesh
had driven him deliberately to cheat the
hungry carp of their banquet.
And now Father Fuchu’s own turn had
come. On the morrow he must set out on
the mission which would bring to his grey
hairs honor or oblivion.
* * * *
In the valley streets Father Fuchu was an
anachronism. Among the people he was yet
not of the people. While men haggled and
bargained in the market-place over the price
of a dried fish, his thoughts mingled with the
mists floating upward to the pigmy-seeming
temple clinging to the mountain-side. Come
to do one good act, he saw on every hand
scope for a thousand acts of charity and
goodwill until he knew not where to begin.
And. after all, was it good to interfere in
the bickerings and squabbles of these people ’l
Watching closely, it appeared to Father
Fuchu that half the simple joys of their
simple lives were derived from these very
wranglings. Clearly it would not be a good
act to interfere in the domestic relations of
the people.
Haunting the lower quarter one night, a
butt for the jokes of the ungodly, Father
Fuchu literally collided with the one good
act which he was charged to perform.
Thrown through the door of a low opium-
den, a man bumped violently against him,
sending both sprawling into the roadway.
Even as they fell, the reveller’s curses
still hot upon his lips, Father Fuchu knew
that the first part of his mission had ended.
Cooking into the stranger’s eyes as they sat
in the dirt of the road, Father Fuchu could
hardly believe the truth of his own gaze.
Could this bloody-eyed, drug-distorted blas-
phemer, who sat calling down imprecations
upon the heads even of his own ancestors, be
the holy man who had set out little more
than a year ago to perform the one good act
which was to bring honor upon himself and
his brother priests ? Could this vile habitue
of the town’s festering by-ways be his. own
brother? Could one _so high in Heaven’s
estate, in so short a time fall so low? With
heavy heart Father Fuchu knew it to be so.
Relieved of the necessity of further search
for the good act he was to do, with ample
time remaining for the proving of his one
Scientific fact, Father Fuchu no longer wan-
dered the streets, a target for the rude gibes
df the irreligious. An enigma in his temple,
lie becaine it greater enigma than ever when
he took up his abode' ill the chop-house which
had belched his brother into his arms _on
that memorable night. Received at first
with distrust, he was soon accepted With
relish. Possessed of an eye for the main
chance, the proprietor was not slow to per-
ceive Father Fuchu’s value as an advertise-
ment for his house. Passing other houses,
men came from the farthest ends of the tow r n
to enjoy the twofold luxury of a pipe and
the priest who sat unblinking and motion-
less except for the twirling fingers with
which he rolled opium pellets to feed the
hungry pipe of an emaciated, blear-eyed
wreck stretched on a couch by his side.
Withering in the den’s foul atmosphere, his
very bowels rebelling at the iniquities he
witnessed, Father Fuchu gave no sign as
he sat day after day and night after night,
watching his erring brother while he slept,
feeding his hungry pipe when awake. Watch-
ing his Sphinx-like face, none could suspect
the storm which inwardly consumed him.
To Father FuchU Only one thing mattered—
he must not again lose this brother of his.
Undoubtedly sent to him by Heaven that
he might perform his one good act, he must
hold him at all hazards, even to the extent
of having his own soul singed by the fires
with which he played.
While men marvelled and conjectured at
the relationship between the chop-house
mendicant and the holy priest, Father Fuchu
laid his plans with infinite patience. Brood-
ing by day and dreaming by night, three
hundred and a score of days passed before
he realised that little more than one month
remained for the proving of his scientific
fact and his return to the monastery on the
mountain. The realisation startled him.
For long, during the intervals when his
brother slept, he had haunted the Society
of the Learned Men, and listened to their
dissertations, but never once had subject
been broached on which he knew more than
they. To the old priest seated in the corner,
with closed eyes and nodding head,
the wise men gave no heed. An in-
terloper from the streets, they ignored
his presence, until one night a sub-
ject was mentioned which galvanised him
into life. Nodding in his customary corner,
with eyes closed and fancy on the wing,
Father Fuchu suddenly sat bolt upright. For
a second time Heaven was kind. At the
speaker’s words his heart leaped, and it was
with difficulty he curbed his tongue. “If
any man present has proof that fish hear,
let him speak.”
As the old, rheumatic priest hobbled up
to the table, a silence fell upon the room.
The interloping mummy was come to life.
Resting his withered hands upon the table’s
edge and scrutinising the faces about him,
Father Fuchu spoke: “That fish do hear
I have proof. If the Learned Men will
accompany me up the mountain-side I will
show them.” Returning to his corner,
Father Fuchu’s nodding head belied the
alert ears and brain which hung upon every
word as the Learned Men wrangled the pros
and cons, of the proposed expedition. While
for them the journey meant merely the prov-
ing or otherwise of a dry, inconsequential
theory, it was for him pregnant with vital
possibilities.
It w r as a strange procession which made
its way the following day up the narrow
and tortuous path leading to the mountain
monastery. Under the weight of a sedan-
chair, Father Fuchu’s one condition for the
divulging of his secret, old men who should
themselves have reclined in chairs puffed
and sweated, vehemently discussing at each
halt the foolishness and incongruity of ripe
and learned men carrying on their shoulders
a debauched and very dirty semi-imbecile up
a path fit only for the feet of goats. It
was undignified. But Father Fuchu was
adamant. Unable to stand or to walk, the
man must be carried to the mountain sanc-
tuary, a living proof of the holy Father’s
one good act.
Within the monastery gates, Father Fuchu
was another man. While the searchers
after knowledge silently gathered round the
fearsome tank, with the assistance of his
brother-priests he made his preparations.
With the forward handles of his chair rest-
ing on the tank’s edge and the hind handles
slightly raised, the paralytic was given pride
of place, looking down as from a grand-
stand upon the placid surface of the water,
to avoid which he had bartered his soul.
Beside a big log suspended under a frame
a dozen feet from the tank a priest stood,
club in hand. While the watchers still mar-
velled, at a sign from Father Fuchu he
struck once, sharply, upon the log. Quicker
than the lightning’s flash the sound vibra-
tions of the dull boom were communicated
through the air to the placid surface of the
water, which in the next instant .was ruffled
and churned by the bodies of the innumer-
(Continued on next page.)


2
<r
% t
yp,
Ml IV
- -
< ~Tr»* -J
The Joy of Life
Happy, sturdy little
adventurers romping gaily
through life’s springtime
without a care in the
world. Good tempered
and healthy, they are
brimful of wholesome fun
and mischief which rarely
takes the form of naughti-
ness.
Are your children like
this?
They ought to be, and
they can be. When child-
ren are sulky, disobedient
or naughty they are not
merely unhappy they
are unwell. Something
has upset the working of
their delicate internal
organs. Probably they
have eaten something that
has disagreed with them,
and impurities are collect-
ing in their blood. Often
their disposition is only
seen in their behaviour
and is mistaken for wilful-
ness, with the result that
the sensitive little bodies
do not receive the sympa-
thetic treatment they need
so much. Keep your child-
ren healthy, their blood
pure and their organs
functioning properly, and
they will be the j oiliest
little souls imaginable.
Kruschen Salts will do
this; they are easiest, best
and cheapest medium for
health and happiness in
children. A tiny dose is
sufficient just enough
Kruschen to cover a three-
penny-bit dissolved in the
breakfast cup of tea or
cocoa, or mixed with the
porridge. The youngsters
can’t possibly taste it that
way —they never need
know that they are taking
salts at all—but the effect
on their health, their tem-
per, their entire disposi-
tion, is wonderful. And
the cost is only half-a-
farth 'g a day for each
child.
Kruschen children are
always healthy, light-
hearted and care free,
finding life full of joy for
themselves and giving joy
to those around them. Let
your children join the
happy ranks of the army
of Kruschen kiddies. Get
a bottle to-day.
T asteless
in Tea, Cocoa, Milk or
Porridge—give each
child just a pinch—
enough to cover a
threepenny piece.
fr u ss s
The adult dose of a sixpenceful
every morning is found in practice
to be just the right amount for a
most invigorating daily tonic. The
medicinal dose for persons suffer-
ing from pains of Rheumatism and
Gout or habitual Constipation, with
inactive liver, etc., is half to one
teaspoonful in a tumbler of hot
water before breakfast. Every
chemist sells Kruschen Salts—each
bottle contains 96 morning “six-
pencefuls”—enough to last three
months. Get a bottle to-day.
Australia: Trade Supplies may be obtained from H. & W. Grear,
119-123 York Street, Sydney. And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. . . .....
New Zealand Trade Suplies are stocked bv Fairbairn, Wright
& Co., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
able, loathsome carp, each fighting to get his
snuffling, slobbering nose first to the surface.
Mingling with the awed shouts of the
Learned Men clustered round the tank an-
other sound, a piercing scream, suddenly
split the air as a heavy body struck the
water, sending it in flying sheets to drench
the inquisitive visitors.
In a minute it was over. Looking from
the empty chair, at the rear handles of which
Father Fuchu stood, to the now placid sur-
face of the water, the Learned Men chat-
tered excitedly among themselves and hur-
ried away. Passing out the gate they turned
and bowed their heads as the vesper gong
struck upon their ears: —
Gong! Gong! Gong!
“To do one good act, prove one scientific
fact, Heaven bless this our purpose.”
Gong! Gong! Gong!
Rising slowly to his feet, Father Fuchu
made reverent obeisance to his Joss, and
passed wearily out of the room.
G. L. THOMAS.
Into the Depths.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IRI was not yet 19. Her dash of white
blood did little to set her apart from
her fellows. Tema, her mother, shrewd,
bland, a mountain of comfortable flesh, kept
a kava shop in one of Suva’s native streets.
Iri’s childhood had passed in the iron-
roofed, white-washed house with the sign in
crooked black letters, “Vale ni yaqona
[kava saloon], over its narrow doorway.
There was a jargon always of many
tongues in the street —continual babel, alter-
cation, vituperation and high-pitched, far-
carrying abuse. From this environment Iri,
with other native children, had gone to
school. She could read and write and speak
passable if queerly-accented English. A.
smattering, too, of alien tongues ; her quick
and receptive mind was eternally curious of
the many Asiatic types who helped to form
the shifting backgrounds of her days. Now
she served in the kava saloon, thronged
always with lounging Fijians and fuller-
fleshed Samoans, frequent Indians and {occa-
sional Chinese.
One moonlight night “Snowy” Martin,
stoker on what he was wont to refer to as
“th’ blarstgd tub,” blundered into her scheme
of things.
Three of them had gone ashore from the
tramp steamer lying squat and unbeautiful
by Suva wharf. There had been drinks and
more drinks, and, later, confusion. Out of
it emerged the dim impression of a motor-
jaunt and a couple of Samoan girls who
giggled and clung in mock terror when the
chr rollicked over the uneven road. White
frangipanni blossom had been in the dark
hair of one of them—the cloying fragrance
of it persisted in Snowy’s memory, though
of the girl there remained to him but the
vaguest picture of liquid eyes in a round face.
The quarrel after that—he had no idea
what trifle had begun it. But words had led
to blows- —the fist of big Peter crashing
viciously against his jaw had been the last,
most poignant impression of all. Darkness
then.
It was good daylight when he woke with
an aching head to the realisation of unknown
surroundings. He found himself lying half
against the narrow doorway of the kava
saloon. A ring of intrigued spectators gazed
down at him. He blinked foolishly at the
dark faces, and then frowned at the sing-
song rise and fall of the unknown tongue in
which he was evidently being discussed.
“Where the hell am I?” he asked, and
gaped up at his interested auditors.
There was a girl in the doorway—slender
and tall, young and dusky-skinned, with a
bush of black hair framing her vivid face.
She wore a white chemise slipped low across
her breast. That and a voluminous scarlet
sulu was her morning raiment. She looked
still drowsy from the night.
He saw her eyes flicker upon him. All at
once she was on her knees at his side; and
he felt soft fingers flutter over his aching
head.
“Oh, the big bump!” she said with childish
sympathy.
“Where am I?” he asked again, relieved
that she spoke English. “I come off the
Lenore-—’er that’s lyin’ over by the wharf.”
He jerked a vague thumb.
The blackest little boy Snowy had ever
encountered asserted himself.
“Sitima, Lenore go long time,” he piped
up importantly. “Go very early-—sitima.”
“Hell!” said Snowy. Unsteadily he rose;
stood lurching a moment as a sudden agony
stabbed through his head, and then again
everything went dark.
He came to consciousness in a little room
behind the shop. He lay on a wooden bench-
bed spread with mats. An overpowering
scent clung to it of cocoanut-oil, and someone
was massaging his bruised head. He opened
his eyes, to see a girl looking anxiously at
him and an old mountainous woman peering
near-sightedly. He shut his eyes again, and
this time drifted into uneasy sleep.
So much goes to explain how Snowy
Martin and Iri came to be living together a
month after she had found him on her door-
step. A ramshackle weatherboard dwelling
they shared now with a squint-eyed Spanish
half-caste, his Fijian mother, half-blind and
feeble with age, and Via-via, his young native
wife.
Iri’s mother, Tema, would have none of
them. “Lia lia!” [idiot] and “Ulu lala!”
she had stormed at her unheeding daughter.
“To take a man with no money thrown up
like a stranded fish from the Black Water.”
“Luveni vuaka!” [child of a pig] she raged
with a fine disregard of the personal note;
and she flung further abuse, less capable of
translation. But to no purpose.
If Iri was the easy product of her time
and place, the man no less had drifted with
the tide. Drawn by the colorful, pulsing
life —blind to the squalor and rotting filth of
it—he plunged into the swirling deeps. So
easily he fitted into it all. The hot, sensuous
atmosphere closed about him. He was one
of this jabbering, reeking medley of blacks
and browns and yellows in all but color and
speech. He scarcely noticed the veiled won-
der, the tinge of contempt, that underlay the
manner of his new friends. Except Iri, Iri
who had made of him for the moment some-
thing of a god. But she was easily amor-
ous. Iri—she was of the kind that could
not help loving a personable man. White or
brown, it mattered little, so long as the
strong arms held her. She was still in the
flowering of her hot youth, and the years
were distant that would see her fallen into
the grizzled maturity which comes so swiftly
on island womanhood. Nor did she, as yet,
even reckon with the menace of them.
For the time, at any rate, she was Imnestly
in love with him; but, being Iri, she did not
at all lose interest in the others.
Too _ many of these last there were for
Snowy’s liking. Vilitati and Netani, blus-
terous youths who scowled each at each
when she was free with her smiles to them
both. Marika, a fat, jolly rogue, who cap-
tained a trading cutter and had been lover
to more half-forgotten girls than he cared
to count. But he brought Iri a fringed silk
scarf embroidered lavishly with the flaring
colors in which her soul delighted, and a
silver chain for her round throat. She was
all cooing joy. Snowy, coming in oppor-
tunely upon the pulsing scene, saw the slow
fire beginning in her eyes as the great Marika
took her in his arms and tilted back her
lighted face. He snarled, but Marika took
his kiss at his leisure, released the girl, and,
laughing quite amiably at the other’s uncon-
cealed jealousy, sauntered out. For the first
time since he had sunk into these depths,
Snowy began dimly to see himself as another
of his race would have seen him. And,
though the allure Iri had for him was dying
hard, the little plain face of Millie overseas
in Sydney began to rise up and reproach
him.
_ “But I’m down—down!” he said aloud,
pitying himself after the fashion of his kind.
To get out of it all and go back to Millie!
Millie who had always forgiven! The thought
became an imperative desire.
He looked with new distaste about the
room, sordid in the light of the late after-
noon that would redden soon to sunset. It
had been a day of intense and windless
heat.
Yia-via came in to spread the mat on which
the evening meal would be set. She
droned the kava song as she went slow-
moving about her work—stressing the
lugubrious burden of the penniless drinker—
“Sa sega noqu penny loa loa” ——
She dwelt on that line as though it pleased
her, casting from time to time a curious
glance at the white man and at Iri, who was
unwontedly silent.
A woman, who through that long, hot
afternoon had toiled up and down Suva’s
twisting roads, came, almost at sunset, into
the stirring street. Panting she was —her
black dress seemed to draw the heat, and
her hat had worked distressfully to the back
of her head. The calm lay heavy on Suva
that afternoon. Some quality of the sinis-
ter the street took on, in the pervading
brooding light and oblique shadows. She
came, then, to the furtive dwelling and shud-
dered, and knew inevitably it was the house
she sought. She went straight in—nothing
would have stopped her.
The meal was almost over. Yia-via, fin-
ished, was leaning back against the door-
post, singing in an undertone. “Isa lai, isa
lai,” she crooned, and stopped all at once—
stilled in intense interest. The amazed
half-caste started, and his mother with
dimmed eyes turned to the sound. But Iri
shrank back and Snowy came stumbling to
his feet.
“My God—Millie !” he said. “My God !”
and could not at first meet his wife’s gaze.
It swept the room fiercely—took them all
in, and the remnant of untidy food on the
greasy tin-plates, , strewn haphazard across
the unclean mat.
“Millie !” he said again.
Her glance swept back to him.
“I didn’t believe ■ it,” She flamed. “Oh, I
didn’t believe it, though they told me over
and over. That you could come to this!”
She stopped and then went on vehemently:
“I could ’a’ forgive a lot, Snow, and God
knows I done it many a time. If you’d ’a’
gone even to one of your own kind. But
this /”
She looked on Iri again; and then no more
at all. It w ! as as if, after that one long
glance, the girl had ceased to exist. Iri’s
hands went up, shaking, to hide her face.
“A damned waster you was always,”
Millie said, so deadly low her voice that Iri,
knowing how she or any of her kind in such
a case would have screamed abuse, mar-
velled. “Out o’ work you was time and
again, and drunk and ready enough to take
the last I’d got, and me fool enough to give
it always.”
“Millie!” Snowy said, and again could
find no words.
But a fire seemed to burn in her, stinging
her face with a surge of red.
“Oh, you’ll whine to be forgiven again,”
she said. “But, before God, I’m through
—done with you for good.”
She stopped choking and an implacable
quiet fell on the narrow room. They were
all caught in it—lri cowering, the staring-
half-caste and his womenfolk straining
avidly for each burning word, Snowy
aghast, and Millie, for whom more than any
of them it was sheer tragedy.
Suddenly from some neighboring house
there came the shrill wail of an Indian record
played on a jangling gramophone, and a
scurry of unfamiliar speech. It was the
last touch —that. It emphasised too vividly
and horribly her surroundings and his. She
threw out her hands and turned half-dazed
to the door. Snowy caught at her dress
to pull her back. His face was distorted
and working.
“Mill, Mill!” he said. “I’ll never even
look at another woman. Mill, for God’s sake,
look at me.”
She wrenched her dress away and he fell
back. He had again the odd feeling that
he was sinking further into the swirling
deeps. None of the others moved.
But Millie went out blindly into the alien
street, flooded now with sunset, and. as she
passed, a lounging Fijian spat reflectively
into the dust.
A. SMITH.


Si
as
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414. .
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUdBCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
MCO
Tttt
PtTROI-
OV/t-W
The ATCO MOTOR MOWEB
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. &, W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants,
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
ENGINEERING ECONOMY
Is mainly in the use of tools that enable production costs to be kept
at bedrock. In “An Eagle on a Globe” Engineers’ Files is found the
happy combination of low price and high quality. Leading engineers
throughout Australia specify
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Engineers’ Files
because of their uniform high quality. Each file must conform to a
high standard of efficiency before leaving the Sheffield works, and their
service under severe conditions means a great saving in time and work —
ECONOMY.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD.,
Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY: 379-381 Kent Street.
MELBOURNE: 342-318 Swanston Street.
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray Ltd., Scott Street.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street.
ADELAIDE: Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street.
HOBART: R. L. Milligan,
32a Argyle Street.
Also at FREMANTLE,
PERTH
and Kalgoorlie.
....
'.'.in'
m
WiMm
Let “An Eagle on a Globe” be your
guide, and send for post-free booklet,
“Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manageb.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —— . think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
R 6434
r
ISSBSk
R 3053
Remington
R 3333
"They cut keenly 91
Remington.
Pocket Knives
Many Styles
One Quality
The Best
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
25 Broadway, New York t V.S.A
D. D. BRYANT, Repressnte+ivc. Box 686, Q.P.0., Melbourne.
Eating carelessly frequently causes
stomach troubles, but careful eating
will never right them. When your
stomach is out of order, it needs help.
It must be thoroughly cleansed, settled
and strengthened.
Give Beecham’s Pills a chance of restoring
good order and you will again know the pleasures
of a sound digestion. Appetite will return and
the digestive organs again work without dis-
comfort. The eyes will clear, the complexion
will improve, the whole system will be toned
and strengthened—in fact, your altered con-
dition will cause your friends to remark “How
well you are looking."
To be healthy , do as the
healthy do—take
fkechatm
m
Sold in boxes, labelled
(original English prices.)
If any illustration appearing in Tub
lulletin takes your fancy, write to the
lanager, who will quote you price for it.
A
LL AUSTRALIANS visitiug Londou
should read the Biutisii Austualasian,
Ud. weekly— an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Heading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
The
Famous
Sckebler Carburetor,
Latest pattern Schebler Carburetor
Regular Model “A.”
as befits a good instrument, is sufficiently versa-
tile as to readily adapt itself to all types of
Motor Engines.
This Latest Pattern SCHEBLER CAR-
BURETOR is a Plain Tube Instrument with
Two Adjustable Jets. Controls may be fitted
so that the setting of Air Shutter and Petrol
Jets may be altered from the driver’s seat
while the machine is running.
List of N.S.W. Prices for the SCHEBLEK
CARBURETOR Regular Models, are:—
Complete
To suit engines up to 20h.p. .. £6 15 0
„ „ 30h.p. .. 7 0 0
Special Models—
To suit all models MAXWELL.. £6 10 0
„ „ „ „ FORD .. 5 0 0
„ „ „ „ DODGE .. 6 0 0
„ „ model 83 OVERLAND.. 615 0
„ „ 490 CHEVROLET 610 0
„ „ models 1915-22 DORT.. 610 0
There is a Schebler Agent in every
Special Models— Complete
To suit model R HUP .. .. £6 10 0
„ „ „ N HUP . . .. 712 6
„ ~ models 1918-22 STEPHENS
7 0 0
„ „ model 1922 HUDSON.. 8 0 0
„ „ 8-cyl. CADILLAC 8 0 0
„ „ 4- and 6-cyl. STUDEBAKER
7 0 0
~ „ 8-cyl. OLDSMOBILE .. 712 6
„ „ ESSEX 711 6
„ „ INTERNATIONAL LORRY
8 10 0
Australian State and Dominion of New
Zealand, viz: —
VICTORIA:
John Danks & Son Fty., Ltd.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Co.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Cornell, Limited.
TASMANIA:
Chas. Davis, Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Jas. A. Dimmitt, Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., Ltd.,
ANNOUNCING NEW PRICES.
TRADE MARK
(British Made.)
All sizes up to 3in .. .. 2/- each
Over 3in. and up to 4in .. 2/6 „
Over 4in. and up to Sin 3/- „
There’s a “Brico” Ring for every engine.
04 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents for
The Wheeler-Schebler Carburetor Co., U.S.A.,
and Distributors for
British Piston Ring Co., England.


m
M)
\
E
*Born 1&20
Still going Strong
“Johnnie Walker” is guar-
anteed by its distillers to be
“ pure Scotch Whisky” of
the highest quality and per-
fectly matured. It is bottled
under the supervision of the
Commonwealth Customs,
who require on importation
a Certificate of Age.
m
■xr
JSk.
Ul
vrvip
UiZn
o
Guaranteed same quality all over the world
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
