

4
f- . ;
J
Tb
!L-
-/
Entry forms and full details
of this big competition will
shortly be available at all
Kodak Dealers.
Entries will be judged as
pictures, not as photographs;
so everyone will have an
equal chance.
a
Of all Kodiak dealers, and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
George Street, Sydney.
52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
. ■ '
“The Block,” 284 Collins
Melbourne.
37 Rundie
: ; .r.
Street,
Mil 3
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Rutliven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., 672 Hay Street,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2244.
Thursday, February 15, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Circulating Library Catalogue,
’osted free, with full particulars, to any
address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
!;S;SiSnjSiSsS!i!i*S!i!
iiiiiiii;
:!
mmm
Economise Power by installing ——
MANGROVITE Leather or Raw-Hide BELTING.
You pay to generate power, and it is to your interests to
see that every ounce is utilised. Mangrovite Belting
transmits perfectly, never slackening or letting up on its
grip, even under the .most trying conditions.
Experienced engineers specify Mangrovite Belting for every
class of drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTp.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Go., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 573-85 Lons-
dale Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: .John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel Sc Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
GBD
oAll
shapes
now
à
One
To-day !
The pipe smoker who has experienced the satis-
faction of a G.B.D. needs no one to help him in
his choice of a pipe. Sele&ion of this good
pipe assures a cool, sweet smoke at all times.
Made from genuine French Briarwood—thoroughly
matured and neatly shaped, embodying that good old-
fashioned quality that makes a pipe into a pal. With
your favourite tobacco in coalition with a G.B.D.
success is assured.
All shapes and sizes, now 7/6. Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to Box 765, Q.P.0., Sydney,
L 8
á
tm
Used by Winners
Brisbane to Sydney Tests,
1931 and 1932.
The Automatic Petrol Saver Co. Commerce Buildings. A»h street. SYDNEY^
ri
u
U 64.4 8
PATON
UNIFORM
|T is always the same. The quality of Lifeguard Milk never varies*
1 All our supplies are drawn from a single factory, produced by
the same scrupulous and careful methods- “Lifeguard” is therefore
invariably uniformly rich in cream-safe, wholesome, good.
LIFEGUARD
MIL.K~
BE SURE YOU GET “LIFEGUARD”
The Best Australian Milk
>rsnnrvLiyi
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
K>
m
MUSTDIE-
The Red Page
Individuality and Ignorance
The world has never before supported so
many artists, yet, if we may judge of the best
that is being done by what appears in art
journals, no one is carrying art a step on
from where the Old Masters left it, and the
pictures of few come anywhere near that
standard. Most of the prominent men,
nearly all capable of painting masterpieces,
are wasting their efforts in the production
of mediocre work and even rubbish, while
the others are doing their best (or worst)
to lead art back to where it commenced.
The tragedy of waste is wholly due to a
rejuvenation of the idea that Individuality
is of all quantities the most precious, and
the one to be fostered above all others.
Convinced of that, the modern artist, care-
less of all the later discoveries of ,the
Masters, abandons the still immature tree
of art evolution, develops a sucker out of
its roots, claims it as his very own, and
expects in a lifetime to make a better tree
of it than its mother, which has taken
centuries to struggle up to its present state
of development. He presents a romantic
figure and provides a wealth of material
for the big army of sentimental writers on
art, who enlarge on his poetic temperament,
the lyric beauty of his expression, and the
divine texture of his soul, and apply to
him all the other time-worn and cloudy
phrases familiar enough in “art notes.”
Thus he serves a doubtfully useful purpose
in keeping many practically useless pens
busy satisfying the human weakness for
hero-worship, and that is all.
If any other worker showed as little
respect for the tree of knowledge left to his
care,, public opinion would waste no honors
on him. A doctor who discarded as nonsense
all that science has discovered, and adopted
the practices and beliefs of a primitive
medicine man, would most likely be rendered
harmless in an asylum. Unfortunately,
owing to the fact that in matters of art
! the world leaves its thinking almost entire-
ly to the sentimental critics, it is illogically
kinder to the man of art. He is usually
| looked up to, and generally expected to be
’a more or less dreamy individual w-ith a
charming but conventionally bohemian dis-
regard of conventions, quite at liberty to
push his latest fool-notion on to a bewil-
dered mankind. If his work is sufficiently
daring or mysterious to attract the critics,
he thus becomes what is called a suc-
cess, we demand that he henceforth distort
all lie takes as the basis of his work —dis-
tort it to such an extent that it preserves
his original outstanding limitations and
untruths. If, like some of the ultra-
moderns, he attempts to base his art on
nothing, * our ridicule is only half-hearted,
because we grant him the benefit of the
doubt whether there may not be “something
in it.” In short, we accept the artist, and,
like the primitive witch-doctor, he accepts
himself, as being greater than his science.
Consider, for example, the case of one who
has established a reputation in etching or
black and white. If growing consciousness
of the narrow limitations of these mediums
leads him to experiment with oils, the least
limited medium of all, he fills us with doubts
as to whether he should do it, even though
his fuller statement surpasses those of his
previous efforts. To the critics, and thus
to us, he remains a “born black and white
man.” In consequence of this, and the
belief that personal expression is a full
expression, many capable artists the world
over are spending their powers on drawing
only—the element which was discovered by
the first savage who attempted to scratch
an image on a rock, and which centuries
of artists, have developed to a stage beyond
which it is practically impossible to take it.
There would be no justification for this
continued concentration on drawing if it
had further to go than it has towards a
perfect statement. The great painters 400
years ago proved that without an equally
true statement of the remaining two ele-
ments, tone (i.e., shading) and color, art
at its best could give no more than a life-
less symbol. But now, as in every other
decadent period since Velasquez, the fact
that the laws of light and color are no less
absolute than that of lineal form is wholly
ignored. The student is still taught that
drawing is all-important, and the serious
painter who would shudder at the thought
of taking a liberty with the proportions of
his model will unconcernedly monkey with
its lights and shadows and its color.
Take a reproduction of a picture by Velas-
quez, Rembrandt, Titian, Rubens, Oorot,
or any one of the big painters of the past,
whom the world has acknowledged a master,
and stand it beside a reproduction of the
work of a recognised pillar of contemporary
art. . All the self-expression, the flights of
imagination, facile technique, pretty color,
fine designs and excellence of drawing will
not save the present-day picture from be-
coming the more or less flat and discordant
painted surface it is beside the depth, the
vital illusion of space and life and the har-
mony of the Old Master. Made without
bias, the comparison will leave no room for
doubt that, though some of the great men
may also have, had some ideas about their
divine powers,, and, therefore, reserved the
right to take liberties, they were at any rate
about 90 per cent, disciples of truth.'
Since no child at birth has any more
knowledge than another, life from beginning
to end is a voyage of discovery. It is clear,
then, that the only native thing we possess
to color the outpouring of our thought is
ignorance, which means that all conscious
effort to preserve ourselves damages out-
work, and all conscious effort to attain
truth enhances our work.
The art teacher in his training of the
student acknowledges this truth. If he
failed to do so, the student who depended
entirely on the school would depart from it
no better equipped than when he entered it.
But the parting words .to the leaving student
from the majoritv of instructors take the
form of exhortation to preserve his self-
expression at all costs. Thus the in-
structor repudiates the teaching of his
school and sets up the dry-rot that
leads many students to the conviction that
they are possessed of superhuman poAyers
which make them rare creative artists.
Fostered by the critics the foolish notion
brings a careless attitude towards further
research. In some cases it leads to the com-
plete abandonment of study, and the unfor-
tunate victim early presents the spectacle
of a life becoming feebler with each suc-
cessive manifestation of his thoughts.
Obviously, distinct marks of individuality
Avill persist until all men have a perfect
knowledge of all things; and since that
desirable age lies such a long way ahead,
there is little cause to be nervous about
losing that manifestation of the state of
our ignorance which the artist and the art-
lover value so highly as to make it a real
hindrance to any further artistic develop-
ment.
PERCY LEASON.
An Australian Academy
In proposing an Academy of Letters I
was careful to outline a plan by which
new blood would continually be vitalising
the whole body. Mr. A. iSart’s objection
(R.P. 25/l/’23) seems to be that the
French Academy has partially failed in this
very matter. He asks what would become
of a Shelley, and a Keats under such a
scheme as I outlined. Knowing the older
Australian writers fairly well, I can say
with confidence that these young poets would
get from them a much better deal than
from the young men of their own age.
But in any case, young men of their
own age would be in such an academy as
I propose; for young Australians do good
work and only cease doing it for sheer
lack of encouragement. If we had a Keats
and a Shelley among us at this moment, there
is nothing mdre certain than that the former
would break his heart when he tried
to publish his first volume of verse, and
that the latter would get on a soap-box
and shout his last lung away in sheer de-
spair at the futility of seeking more per-
manent modes of self-expression.
The present condition of Australian litera-
ture is shown all too clearly in the article
: which follows that by Mr. Hart. There,
over the signature “R. A. Bellay,” appears
an interesting-enough gathering-up of
statements about poetry by a group of
non-Australian writers. Not one of these
makers of verse would be regarded as in
the front rank if Fate had pitted them
against Australians on Australian soil; but
their opinions are given as if they really
mattered. The painful fact is that, though
most of these overseas singers are people
with very small voices, they are better
known to many Australian readers than
the people of larger stature who live among
us. Occasionally a sincere English or
American critic says that Australia is do-
ing something in verse; but the ordinary
Australian writer-about-writers finds it
easier and thinks it safer to confine his
attention to people overseas. And 'our few
publishers and most of our readers blindly
follow this blind lead. Too much Aus-
tralian reviewing is a mere re-hash of mat-
ter that has appeared in England.
Here are three strong reasons for the
establishment of such an academy as I pro-
pose, or something as much better as the
real friends of Australian letters may be
able to suggest:—
(1) Good Australian money is going out of
Australia to import worse literature than that
manufactured at home. Most of this money is spent
in ignorance, not of choice.
(2) Good Australian writings, which are beyond
the scope of weekly ,or monthly publications, ' fail
to find Australian publishers, and are heavily
handicapped if offered in England and America.
(3) The best permanent Australian work collected
from Australian periodicals can rarely secure a
decent sale. The author is generally lucky if he
can put it permanently on record at his own
expense.
Mr. Hart does not offer a single word in
criticism of the scheme I outlined. He
merely writes failure across some other
schemes. That he does not make out even
a passably good case against those other
schemes does not matter. Fie has tried
to, damage and misrepresent a practicable
plan by obscuring the issue. He says, in
effect, the way they have in Paris is not
ideal because it differs so radically from
the proposal I made; therefore, my pro-
posal must be bad. , That is amazing logic;
but even worse would be quite useful at a
pinch to those who want an excuse for
continuing to do nothing.
But here is the gist of the matter. Let
us have any system here that will do half
as much for us as the French Academy
has done for France, and the lot of the
Australian writer will be a thousand
times better than it is to-day.
D. M. W.
Eugene O’Neill
America has never been famous for its
dramatic literature. As a matter of fact,
it never has had any dramatic literature. It
was only within the last few generations that
it began at all seriously to produce
plays of its own ; but even when the drama
became popular, and there were more
theatres in New York than in London, there
was no such thing as an American drama,
nothing equivalent to the poems and stories
of Edgar Allan Poe, the novels of Hawthorne,
or the rough verses of that grand old bar-
barian Walt Whitman. In recent years, of
course, thousands of plays have been pro-
duced, and America now exports as many
plays as it imports. "Fairly good work has
been done in picturesque melodrama and
social comedy. There arose writers like
George M. Broadhurst, who began with lively
farces, “What Happened to Jones” and
“Why Smith Left Home,” and finished with
(Continued on page 3.)


2k
u
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
Finishes Saturday, February 17.
Unexcelled in Quality, Style and Cut, a fashionable
Made-to-measure Suit has been priced down to bedrock.
AUSTRALIAN TWEED
Place Your Order before Saturday
for a smartly-cut, well-finished
Suit to Measure. The price has
been reduced from
84/- to
£3/15/-
TO YOUR
ORDER.
The material*
are good quality
All-Wool Aus-
tralian Tweed.
ORDER
BY MAIL.
If a personal
visit is inconve-
nient, post your
order. Our
Mail Order
Service will
give faithful
attention to
your orders,
and ensures
prompt
despatch.
SUITINGS OF DISTINCTION.
If you want a Suit cut from a finer English
or Australian Tweed or Worsted, and a
finer selection of neat, smart designs,
prices have been
REDUCED FROM 126/- TO £5,1 5
ill
Sr
I'r
Pnv
|or
r.'p
Nliitl
aNo
§0
Ns
Mjl
MSI K
22
»lUI
u (S
nji
I jj hi ii
< r iv*rl
::ri
HIP
Ml 'I
1
jmg mi nil
>57
Mill 1
Hiiiimf
t
INDIGO DYE SERGE and
ALL-WOOL TWEED-
Or you may take advantage of
this extraordinary offer—a Made-
to-Your-Measure Suit
Reduced from
5. 5/15/- to
£5/5/-
TO YOUR ORDER.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
on Men’s
Wear in
N.S.W.,
and to the
nearest Port
on Interstate
and Island
Orders.
OTHER PRICES:
£6/7/6 and £7/2/6
Write for Patterns. They will be
posted free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


y ‘BURROUGHS *
DOING * MACHINE * COMPAN
V
KBHH
i * j-W'
In
Ini
*9l
What “Burroughs” Means
to Business
From the original “Adding Machine 99 has
developed a diversified line of figuring machines
for service to manufacturing, banking, whole-
saling and retailing .
Twenty years ago the Burroughs Adding Ma-
chine seemed marvelous in its capacity to list
items rapidly and compute the total with auto-
matic and unfailing accuracy.
But the banker said: “I must have a daily bal-
ance,” —and Burroughs gave him automatic sub-
traction.
Then the banker and the business man asked:
“Why not post directly to the ledger?”—and Bur-
roughs developed a carriage into which the ledger
leaf or card could be inserted, automatically mov-
ing from column to column.
The wholesaler and the accountant needed
rapid calculating to get at a price, or a cost —and
the Burroughs Calculator took its place in
business.
Many business men said: “How can we save
time in distributing sales or costs?” —and Bur-
roughs answered with the “Duplex,” a double
adding machine, which delivers individual totals
and accumulates a grand total simultaneously,
or adds two sets of items at one time and auto-
matically combines the totals.
Whatever the figure needs of your business,
Burroughs has already given thought to them,
and to the easiest, shortest, most economical way
to satisfy them.
That is our conception of what “Burroughs”
means to business —the best way available today
and a still better way tomorrow.
Behind these machines stands a Company
capitalized at £6,000,000 with factories in Not-
tingham, England; Windsor, Canada, and Detroit,
Michigan, U. S. A. —and sales and service stations
throughout the world.
In Australia, these machines are sold by repre-
sentatives with years of experience in selling this
product—a house whose interest in a sale does not
end with the delivery of the machine, but insists
that the investor in Burroughs equipment shall
continuously receive the maximum return for
his investment.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
4425
Adding —Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines


David Jones’
SALE
“The Event of the Safe Season
Elnds Saturday, 17th February.
Sensational reductions are being made in every
department throughout the Store—exceptions
including a few proprietary lines which carry no
concession whatever. In addition to Sale Prices,
t^ a scount W HI k e allowed to the extent
of 2/- in the £ for cash.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may order from our Spring and Summer Catalogue, as all
lines therein are to be cleared at Sale Prices, but to avoid
disappointment a second choice is advised.
We pay carriage on all dress and fashion
goods throughout Australasia.
David oJoney
for Service
Opp G. P. O.
SYDNEY
Tel.
(City —6336
l(Auco.) 86971
“Bought and Paid For,” a clever and more
ambitious work, something like a fifth-rate
Ibsen; George M. Cohan, Booth Tarkington,
and a whole school of Broadway playwrights,
ingenious writers who can contrive a neat
plot and know all the tricks of the trade,
hut have nothing whatever to say; and,
above all, David Belasco, the great apostle of
commercial American drama, who stated
that the theatre was never in a better or
healthier condition than it is to-day, or,
rather, was yesterday, when his own cheap and
blatant productions reached the height of
their Broadway fame. Belasco bitterly de-
nounced the Little Theatres, non-commercial
theatres of freedom and experiment, that
were springing up all over the country and
presenting entirely different types of play.
This was not art, according to .Belasco. Yet
Philip Moeller, a writer of light comedy,
who had the honor of being played by Mrs.
Patrick Campbell in London; Susan Glas-
pell, whose “Trifles” is an excellent one-act
play; and a number of other young writers
who were all brought out by the Little
Theatre movement, played their part in help-
ing to create at last a drama that was really
characteristic of America. Then came Eugene
O’Neill, a writer of genius, the greatest
dramatist that America has produced, and
one who can hold his own with the best Euro-
pean playwrights of his time.
Eugene O’Neill, the son of a famous Irish
actor, though but just over 30, has had a
varied experience of life. He has been a
sailor before the mast, as well as an actor
and a journalist; and though, as might be
expected, he knows the stage and has an
expert’s technical equipment, no one could
be less a man of the theatre. He was first
produced by the Provincetown Players, a
little group of enthusiasts who produce only
original native works. Two years later one
of his short plays was first seen in New
York, where now, in the last three years,
eight of his plays have been produced with
astonishing success.
In London I had the good fortune to see
one of O’Neill’s short plays produced by
the Everyman Company ; and though it was
not one of his great works everybody felt
that here at last had arrived a dramatist of
power and originality. His first volume of
plays to be published in England contained
“The Emperor Jones,” which, in its own
way, is a masterpiece. Those who witnessed
its production in New York, with a great
negro actor in the title-role, agreed that the
pursuit of Jones through the tropical forest,
with the relentless beating of the tom-toms
gradually getting louder and nearer, the
visions of his past life —he is an escaped con-
vict —his courage and quaint humor and fears
and superstitions, and his desperate but hope-
less effort to escape, suggested something of
the inevitability of a Greek tragedy. It is
almost a one-part play, consisting of eight
short scenes, six of which are in monologue,
a strikingly original creation in both form
and spirit. The other plays in this volume,
“The Straw” and "Diff’rent,” though inferior
to the negro tragedy, contain some fine scenes
and characters, and would have been notable
works by any other modern dramatist writing
in English.
But O’Neill, who is a young man, goes
steadily forward, and carries a new position
with each successive work. A new volume
of plays, published in New York, contains
his most mature works to date, “Anna Chris-
tie” and “The Hairy Ape.” Now that he
is firmly established in America and Eng-
land, American critics are anxious that he
should appear on the Continent, where seri-
ous American drama has been hitherto un-
known. Their desire will soon be fulfilled.
M. Gemier, the director of the Odeon Theatre,
expressed the wish to show Paris an example
of the best America had yet done in the
art of drama, and left the choice of the work
to a special committee appointed by the
Drama League of America. The committee,
which happened to be truly representative,
considered that “Anna Christie,” by Eugene
O’Neill, was the best American play yet
written, placing the same author’s ’ “The
Hairy Ape” third. Other plays which
obtained a few votes were “The Great
Divide,” by William Vaughan Moody; “The
New York Idea,” by Langdon Mitchell; and
“Kindling,” by Charles Kinyon. Popular
writers like Augustus' Thomas, Booth Tar-
kington, George M. Cohan and David Belasco
were just mentioned, receiving one futile vote
apiece. O’Neill received more votes than all
his rivals put together. It was an over-
whelming triumph.
“Anna Christie,” which has thus been
selected by competent judges as the best
play ever written in America, is a powerful
primitive work, based on a sailor’s super-
stitious fear of “the old devil sea.” In order
to save his daughter from the dangers of
the sea and sailormen, Old Chris has her
brought up on an inland farm, where she
is seduced and then becomes a woman of
the town. Chris believes Anna is a good
girl, and fights against her marrying a rough
ship’s fireman. As the men wrangle Anna
breaks in and horrifies them by telling them
the truth about herself. A strongly-drawn
character is Marthy Owen, a woman of the
water-front, who lives on a barge with Chris.
The meeting of Anna and Marthy in the
saloon, where they talk and drink together,
and discover they are of the same kind, pro-
vides a grimly ironic scene.
Eugene O’Neill may not yet be an absolute
master, though he seems destined to become
one; but he possesses all the qualities, an
intensely tragic sense of life, originality of
conception and characterisation, a simple
and flexible technique, and a marvellous
style—the finest in English drama since
Synge’s: natural, but rich, vivid and full
of picturesque idiom ; not the feeble artificial
language of the drawing-room dramatists,
but a modern style of almost Elizabethan
energy and exuberance, that seems to come
direct out of life itself.
LOUIS ESSON.
Regenerated Poland
Charles Phillips, author of The New
Poland (George Allen and Umrn), was a
member of the American Red Cross Com-
mission to Poland, and much of this big
book consists of day-by-day notes jotted
down between the end of 1919, when he
arrived there first, and the middle of last
year, when he went home again. He is a
biased witness. One of his most idol'sed
friends was Modjeska, and he seems to have
gone to her country ready to see it through
her eyes. Poland can do no wrong; and
the extent of his obsession may be measured
by the fact that one of those whom he in-
sists acted throughout like a far-sighted
statesman was Pilsudski.
The most interesting part of the book is
the 30 pages or more which he devotes to
a brilliant analysis of the Jewish question.
Again his bias shows out: he looks at the
Polish Jew from the standpoint of a Polish
jingo, hating and despising him for his in-
ternationalism and his cunning in evading
military service. Nevertheless he establishes
that the Jew is a dangerous person for any
country to have in bulk. In the Middle
Ages P'oland was known as “Paradisus
Judseorum”; it was the only part of the
civilised world where Jews were not per-
secuted for their religion, and so Israel
flocked there from England, France, Italy,
Spain and Germany. Despite emigration to
the U.S.A. and other countries over 15 per
cent, of the population was Jewish at the
last census, and this proportion is growing
by natural increase, the Jew being much
more prolific than the Gentile. The objec-
tions to him as a citizen are twofold. In
the first place he does not assimilate, raci-
ally, and never will: —
For many weeks Red Cross work in Warsaw necessi-
tated my going daily on foot into the Ghetto. 1
grew to know it well. At first I had a frank feeling
of pity for these Jewish youngsters, and for their
elders as well, so set apart by their exclusive garb. 1
imagined in a vague way at first that it was, ihat
it must be, somehow or other, an unwelcome mark
of distinction put upon them. But I soon learned
my mistake. On the contrary, the Jew, could he
have read my thoughts, would have felt sorry for
me. The whole ethical system of the Talmud, from
generations immemorial, has bred in him the con-
viction of his superiority. Whatever of the old
teaching of Hebrew morality clings or does not cling
to the Jewish soul —of his alleged “rights” over the
Gentile or “Goy”; of his moral non-liability to
Gentile law; of mental reservation and so on —in
the sum total this one thing does remain, the caste
sense, the separatist instinct, the idea of superiority.
The other objection is the Jew’s passion for
cities:—•
The Jew in Poland never has become a tiller of
the soil. Even though the Russian Government had
not forced him, as it did at times, to crowd into
the towns, he would still have remained, by choice,
a city-dweller. His religion alone necessitated this:
for to till any other soil but that of Palestine is,
to many of the extremists in Jewish orthodoxy, a
defilement. Besides, the Jew is by nature an urban-
ite. He is a social animal in the highest degree.
He must live in a crowd. He cannot endure the
loneliness of the open field or the solitary house.
He enjoys crowds, talk and gossip, and he must have
company. He is Oriental.
“Even to a blind man,” wrote Erzeberger
in 1919, “Germany’s future lies in Russia.”
Poland has pledged herself to stand as a
barrier against such a movement, which
could only be directed at the subjugation
of the rest of Europe, if not the world ; and
she is equally determined to check the west-
ward march of the Russians. As to her
capacity :—•
The Pole is happy and at work. In one year he
lias reclaimed 500,000 acres of farmland laid waste
by war. His grain fields are fairly shouting with
the bounty of their first peace-year harvests —the
best, crops in memory, so old-timers say. On April
1, 1920, .the Polish cotton industry was restored to
40 per cent, of pre-war production. On October 1,
1920, it had climbed to 51 per cent. By April 1,
1921, to 60 per cent. By February, 1922, it had
touched the pre-war figure! The oil-wells are
already producing the full pre-war quota, with an
over-and-above export of 25,000 carloads for 1921,
and the coal-mines are up to 83 per cent, of normal,
anmm-ease of 17 per cent, in the past year (1920-
The author has little to say about the
wonderful work his country did in relieving
Polish distress; but he allows one or two
Polish generals to speak for him, and their
Praise is high. The Polish Red Cross, bv
the way, “spent 20 million marks in its
work” (in the critical months of 1920),
“and its entire administration costs ran less
than 5 per cent.” These are figures that
some of our own charity organisers might
ponder over with profit.
J. D.
The Journalist
From a pressman’s desk :
Frank Morton has to earn his daily bread some-
how, of course, but that doesn’t excuse his compari-
son (R.P. l/2/’23) of newspaper offices of to-day with
those of 20 years or so ago. Apart from its hideous
snobbishness, his dragging-in of the A.J.A. to be
blamed for what he regards as a failing of literary
taste in reporters’ rooms betrays sheer ignorance.
Incidentally, I would be quite content to let the
editor of The Bulletin act as arbiter on that
point, and say whose he considered likely to be the
juster verdict on the subject—mine or Morton’s.
The A.J.A. was formed to correct certain gross
abuses. No body of wage-earners in Australia were
so sweated as pressmen; none, God help them,
were ever so loyal to their salt. It was to pro-
tect themselves against the exactions of a greedy
race of employers (and the very despicable hire-
lings of these people) that they fortified themselves
behind a union. As a union, what authority can
they exercise over the tone and literary style of
newspapers? Is their status in this respect' any
different from that of linotype-operators, sluggers,
stonehands and proof-readers? If it is, then, per-
haps, Morton will explain to the A.J.A. how’ Aus-
tralian reporters can restore the sheets they work
on to the departed standard he ambiguously snuffles
about.
Obviously his allegation concerning the dailies of
long ago is a. matter of opinion; but the opinion
he stands committed to is not supported by refer-
ence to the bound files of any metropolitan paper
published in the Commonwealth, with one exception.
In that single case it would be idiocy to place
responsibility upon the rapidly-changing reporting
staff. That the style and tone and methods of
Australian newspapers are open to censure is readily
conceded by the writer, whose earlier opinion that,
commercialised journalism represents a grave social
peril becomes stronger with passing years. Most of
us know the thing, in many of its phases, to be an
organised hypocrisy, and know the newspaper-office
to be the place where many of the finer things of
life are systematically strangled. But Morton’s
diagnosis is hopelessly wrong. The blame is on
the proprietors. They get what they want. There
is a simple test by which he may determine the
value placed upon cultural attainment or public
spirit by the proprietors of Australia’s numerous
city papers. Within the last few years many changes
have been made in the editors of these. Does he
know the men who were beckoned to the job? Does
he know them? One or two have the real stuff in
them; but it really does not matter. They are
smothered. Of the others—well, never mind. Let
the secrets of the charnel house be secrets still
from the crowd outside.
It is a tragedy that the journalism of opinion in
Australia should be so inadequate. But it may be
as well to remind my friend that there is a greater
public demand for reliable news than for obiter
dicta that shooting the bird on the wing is as
valuable an accomplishment as scoring bull’s-eyes
on a fixed target. Morton is allowing a natural exas-
peration at the columns of ill-written, pretentious
punk disfiguring the papers day in and day out
to blind him to the useful and exacting work done
by many of the men he slanders. These are they
who give to the public most of that news without
which the day would be a blank. What about the
men who reproduce accurately and concisely the
proceedings before, say, a Royal Commission inquir-
ing into some question of intense interest to the
community; who crystallise the issues, evidence and
findings in important law suits; who faithfully pro-
vide the essence of a Ministry’s political policy and
the criticisms thereof; who handle deluges of cables
and telegrams; who give dependable surveys of
changes in the prices of stock and produce; who
furnish accurate accounts of the races, the cricket
match, the tennis tournament, the riot at Woolloo-
mooloo, and 0 f the happenings in connection with
elections, strikes, mining-booms and slumps, share-
market changes, murders, banquets, shipping,
funerals, railway accidents, the search for petroleum
and wrecks; who can write quickly and informatively
about developments in road-construction, housing,
mail-services, ship-building, apprenticeship, the
taiiff, the navy, aviation, and sharks at Coogee?
I submit to the jury that these men (and some
of them are extraordinarily versatile) perform a
service quite as honorable as a man who earns space
rates by maliciously misrepresenting his fellow-
craftsmen and inventing a laborious subterfuge for
evading payment of the union dues he should be
ashamed of having withheld. Furthermore, lam
certain that in the hurly-burly of that part of
daily journalism devoted to the preparation of reli-
able, water-tight “news” Morton would scarcely be
worth having on the premises. This can be said,
one hopes, without offence, and while entertaining
sincere regret that the more ample field of letters
for which Morton’s great talents so fitted him has
in Australia been so circumscribed by an almost
illiterate public.
I agree with Morton that times have changed.
Somehow they always do. One proof of change,
alas, is to find Frank Morton, addressing himself
to discussion of a big public question, footling
round the outskirts of the matter with empty
phrase and senile period.
A Satchel of Books
Babbit, by Sinclair Lewis (Jonathan Cape, Lon-
don). This book ought to be in every Australian
school. It is a study of a house-agent in Zenith,
a U.S. city which is nearing the half-million mark.
Its first lesson is the danger to an English-speaking
country of assimilating mean Europeans in large
numbers. The deplorable lingo of the inhabitants of
Zenith and the accompanying antics are not the
fruit of drink, as might fairly be imagined. Yet,
though the action takes place under prohibition,
there is drink everywhere. Babbit and his friends
have it at their dinners; he smells whisky on his
boy at a flappers’ dance; and when the chief banker
of the town meets him to discuss a scheme for rais-
ing funds for the local Presbyterian Church, the
saintly old financier’s first act is to ring for drinks.
This book has won high praise as a brilliant bit
of psychology, but it is as a lesson in what to
avoid that it will be of most value to Australia. It
is better in the long run for a nation to debase its
coinage than its language; and an enactment such
as prohibition, which is flouted without a vestige of
confusion by church elders, should surely have no
place on the statute book of a country that wishes
to have the rest of its laws respected.
Hidden Lives , by M. Leonora Eyles (William
Heinemann). Remarkable inasmuch as, in all its
300-and-odd pages, it has not a trace of humor. But
the sex-novel is usually like that. Another feature
is the superabundance of illegitimate children.
Every prominent female character is “unfortunate,”
including the heroine. A thoroughly unpleasant
work, the insanitary effect of which is heightened, if
anything, by its smear of spirituality.
The Autobiography of Margot Asquith (Vol. 2).
The most interesting chapters of this second instal-
ment are those which deal with the war years. They
are revealing, and should have a high historical
value. Mrs. Asquith has a mordant style, and
lashes to some purpose the professional loyalists who
put it about that she, a devoted mother with one
son killed in action, another gassed, and a third
shell-shocked, was a pro-German. But the intimate
stuff about her youngest child’s doings at his prepara-
tory school is rather tiresome, and at times inept.
Maternal bathos apart, she has an eye like a hawk
and the courage to write what she sees. Could
anything be more convincing than this note from
her diary on kings in general, and Edward VII, in
particular: “Royal persons are necessarily divorced
irom the true opinions of people that count, and are
almost always obliged to take safe and commonplace
views. To them clever men are ‘prigs,’ clever
women ‘too advanced’; Liberals are ‘Socialists’; the
uninteresting ‘pleasant’; the interesting ‘intriguers,’
and the dreamer ‘mad’....The King is fond of
Henry [Asquith], but is not really interested in
any man. He is loyal to all his West End friends
-—female admirers, Jewish financiers and Newmarket
bloods. ’
Lilian, by Arnold Bennett (Cassell). Another
of Bennett s Pretty Ladies who discovers with
tears of graititude that her adopted husband is not
the casual lover with a time limit to his affections,
a ? h? llora kle English gentleman with aJmost
mid-Victorian notions of what is due to frailty in
distress. If it hadn’t been written by Bennett it
wouldn’t hold enough interest to carry the aver-
age reader to the end. Yet, whilst disdaining the
chronique intime style of the Keable school, Ben-
nett still manages to infect you with his own
curiosity as to the result of a relationship between
two very ordinary personalities.
The Man Who Knew Too Much, by G. It. Chesterton
(Cassell). A series of fantastic detective stories
that mostly wriggle to an unexpected conclusion
through a bog of paradox and speculation. Horne
Fisher is the name of the new investigator, but he
doesn’t hold the attention like Chesterton’s previous
creation, Father Brown, who, though he was simi-
larly miraculous in deduction, had a beguiling
sweetness of character. Still the yarns are cleverly
constructed, and almost incredibly plausible. With
a V its air of elfin absurdity, “The Hole in the
Vail” is a. first-class mystery, and, though they
seem grotesque jokes, “The Face in the Target”
and “The Fad of the Fisherman” do arouse an
odd feeling of terror.
The First Friend, by Lucy Menzies (Geo. Allen and
Unwin). An anthology compiled with the idea of
showing how the dog has been the trusty mate of
man down through the centuries. A wide sweep
of literature, from 1400 b.c to a.d. 1921, has
been freely drawn upon, and the result is a com-
pendium of reflection and incident that the dov-
lover will never tire of dipping into.
, lobster Salad , by Lynn Doyle (Duckworth). A
bundle of clever sketches of Irish life, some whim-
sical, some pathetic, all vivid of their kind. The
author has not a little in common with Canon Han-
nay (George A. Birmingham), although he burlesques
less subtly, and his Ireland is further north.
Oh, Shoot, by Rex Beach (Hodder and Stoughton).
h'lT f (< ; OUII f S hunting tours in more or less fam-
\; T of , the Americas. Capital journalese, and
the photographs are excellent.


Modern Methods of Construction
Large Extensions to
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne.
m&M '
in
m
m
si
ir
m
m
:
KS
t
fetfelS
MB
■hhHBBHHH
M.M
iiiMiwwp«WM
I fj
« ~~ • j
m.
m
■
■ttfi
H
*
■
*1
■MM
n
H
V. •
ir: ***■>
■
H
Hi
£
IT
m
wi
i?
MM
VIEW OF NEW DINING-ROOM, MENZIES’ HOTEL.
We are Contractors for Any Class of Construction Work in any STATE.
We arc prepared to submit Estimates for your Building Propositions.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS
47 King Street, Sydney.


There is a Firestone
Truck Tyre for every
Road, Load and Con-
dition of Service.
i
vC
\
/
E
'■■■
aas
MB
i
l
If
GIANT CUSHION
PNEUMATIC
GIANT SOLID
CUP CUSHION
SOLID
Are you aware that if you have the right type
of tyre for your special haulage conditions, trouble should not be
a matter of any frequency ? If you are in any way dissatisfied in
other words, if you consider that you have bought more tyres than
you should have —let us provide the cure.
What every man requires in hauling oper-
ations is low cost per ton per mile, and
Firestone truck tyres have proved their
ability to accomplish this.
Scientific haulage analysis states conclusiv-
ely that every variety of operation requires
its own type of tyre; every variety of truck
has its own size and carrying capacity, and
every variety of load and road has a bearing
on the truck tyres you need, in order to reap
supreme economy results in truck operation.
Having made a master-study of the subject,
we are in a position to prescribe accurately.
Truck Tyres are our business that is why
we have a Firestone tyre for every road,
load and condition of service.
Distributors:
New South Wales: E. G. BAGSHAW & CO., 352 Kent Street, Sydney,
Queensland: E. G. EAGER & SON, Ltd. Newstead, Brisbane.
Office of Australian Representative: 161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
â


BARNET GLASS
TENNIS BALLS
Adopted by the
Lawn Tennis Associations of Victoria and
New South Wales sis si Standard JSall*,
BARNET GLASS TENNIS BALLS
will be used in the forthcoming M.C.C. Autumn Championship
Tournament in Handicap Events.
Mr. J. O. ANDERSON,
The Australian Champion Tennis Player, writes:—
*‘The Bungalow,”
Brunswick Parade,
ASHFIELD,
12th January, 1923,
Messrs. Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.,
124 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I feel it my duty to congratulate you on the production of your
BARNET GLASS ’ TENNIS BALLS. I think it is a veritable
triumph for an Australian production,
I might mention that I have never played with a better Ball.
The fact of this Ball being made in Australia, I feel sure will have
a wonderful future.
I have recommended this Ball to many Tennis Players, and I
feel confident that the BARNET GLASS BALL, if it is kept
up to its present standard of quality, will be the leading Ball in
Australia.
If you think this letter will help you in the furtherance of your
Tennis Balls, you may use it as you think fit.
Yours truly,
Obtainable at all Leading Sports Depots throughout Australia.
Price 2/6 each, or 29/- per doz.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND.
“Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,”


Have Good Hair
and Clean Scalp
Free from dandruff and itch-
ing. It’s easy. On retiring rub
spots of dandruff and itching with
Cuticura Ointment, getting Oint-
ment well on scalp. Next morning
shampoo with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. Binse with tepid water.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Dudleys
T OW Cncjlißl)
Lavender Soap
The chosen Soap of the Lady
of Fashion, and one of the
daintiest items of her toilet.
Made of extra fine materials and
luxuriously perfumed, it clears
and refines the skin and en-
hances the beauty of the com-
plexion.
Large tablet 2/-. Three in Box 5/9.
Sold by the best Chemists and Stores.
YARDLEY & CO., LTD.,
8, New Bond Street, London, W. 1.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
9
mk
>6
n
No More
Grey Hairs
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
-—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
- —p e r m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
MEXICAN
I WALNUT STAIN!
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
o
1 TAKE NO RISKS
WITH YOUR LIVELIHOOD!
It is criminally foolish for the stockowner to
take unnecessary risks with the lives of his
animals—and to use Veterinary Instruments
that are not perfectly and absolutely Reliable
IS taking- such risks. For all castrating
, . operations, for instance, you should use
Denyer s Eclipse Triple Crush Emasculator,
the simple, scientific instrument that makes .
safe success certain. Ask us for full details
and information now.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL VET NEEDS.
Whatever Veterinary Appli-
ances or supplies you need, we
have. And, what is more,
they are really Reliable
Goods, the sort that give
long, satisfactory service.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
All Parts Standard and Interchangeablei.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U. S. A.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SJL
Cable Addrass-KERMATH
m
Second only to the “Swan.”
The '‘Blackbird” is the “SWAN” Pen’s junior
and fully meets the demand for a reliable foun-
tain pen at somewhat below the standard price.
ã
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS
Made by the "Swan” Pen People.
Illustrated List Post Free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.
Swan House, 133-135. Oxford Street. London, W.l
Manchester, Paris. Brussels, Zurich, Sydney. Toronto, and Cape Town.
Associate House: Mabie. Todd & Co.. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Famous Bruyen?
Style No. 530
Silver-mounted,
15/-
as
The World’s
Best Pipe.
We '
will
show a
shape
every
week.
i
1
Made by French Diggers at St. Claude, Jura, France,
from the highest-grade Briar Root the world can supply.
100 Smart Shapes, each sold with
A TWELVE-MONTHS’ GUARANTEE,
and any pipe cracking or burning within that
time will be replaced.
ASK \OUR TOBACCONIST FOB F.L.C., or send a post-
card to the Manager of F.L.C., Box 954 G.F.0., Melbourne
or Box 2939 G.P.0., Sydney., and we wili
tell you where to get one.
[1
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Light.
Light gleaming there through the darkness,
light sweet and clear-streaming
Out past the wreck of my dreams,
Strengthen my heart till I reach you, dear
light sweet and clear-streaming!
Often it seems
That my strength must go out in the night,
In the night that is black with my sorrow ;
Often it seems that I cannot hold on till
the morrow.
Hold ye my faith still exultant and keep
me from falling,
Tender and exquisite light,
Pure light clearly calling!
N.S.W.
FRABK MORTON.
Solitude.
The south wind sings and sighs about my
door
With messages from far across the seas,
From old-time friends that I may see no
more ;
And as it flings the surf upon the shore
I hear its kindly whispers in the trees.
It tells of stately oaks and larches tall
That rocked around my cradle when a
child ;
I hear again the wood-dove’s plaintive call
And listen to the mountain water fall
And all the music of my native wild.
Oh. wind ! I must not hearken to your song
Lest vain Regret should cause the tears
to start
And Weakness wreck me, when I should be
strong,
And Right forsake me, giving place to
Wrong,
While Fortitude is fighting for my heart!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.
Feet in the Night.
I heard them passing with their bruisfed feet,
Brushing the grass ; and through the long,
long night
Whimperings rise and fall, and beat, and
beat.
Naked and black, through rain and cold and
heat,
No Christ for them, no Heaven, no beacon
light—
I hear them passing with their bruised feet.
The trooper’s lash cracks, savage, grim and
fleet,
And lagging footsteps run. As in affright
Whimperings rise and fall, and beat, and
beat.
Only the grave is theirs for safe retreat
From wrongs they cannot understand, nor
right.
I hear them passing with their bruisbd feet.
Unhappy natives, foredoomed to defeat;
As they are hurried out of human sight,
Whimperings rise and fall, and beat, and
beat.
Ah ! Is not liberty to black men sweet?
Would not God’s Heaven appear to them
most bright?
I hear them passing with their bruised feet;
Whimperings rise and fall, and beat—and
beat!
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
Iceland Poppies.
Colored like burning coppers of a sun
Seen through the khamsin in some desert
place,
Even your whites reveal a saffron trace;
And your fine crinkled yellows—days begun
With cloudless skies across the mustard
fields
Of India, where the fakir brings his bowl
Crying for rice grains that will heal a soul
With giving, till the heavenly harvest
yields
The grain he sowed, and there at Buddha’s
feet
The beggar’s yellow robe will plead for
you.
Oh, Iceland poppies, summer is your hue;
Your sturdy brethren in the lanes of wheat
Cannot outblaze your beauty with their
scorn.
You make me dream of polished floors,
between
Dull curtains, by an orange-colored screen
Mosaic of rare w y oods from Burmah borne.
Or polished copper braziers, smouldering
With sticks of cinnamon and heavy spice.
You are a thousand miles from worlds of
ice,
When to brown tides the breaking ice-floes
swing.
Fancy can pluck you by a caliph’s tomb
Where some repentant slave a brazier brings,
Seeking forgiveness in the hills of doom
For one gold opium pellet mixed with wine,
Because a queen was pliable and young,
And Passion speaks too well without a
tongue
In sudden pressures and in hot arms’ twine.
Oh. Iceland poppies! In your loveliness
You are as frail as that soft queen long
dead.
You lack the stout plebeian touch of red.
I dare not take you in my arms, to press
You, hungering for your fairness, to my
mouth,
But I must set you in a vase apart,
A love forbidden, giving to the heart
Nothing to quench a flaming passion’s
drouth.
And yet I cannot look at you, and dream
That wintry skies are grey abovejthe town.
Just where you stand a hundred "suns rain
down.
And you have steeped your petals in the
stream!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


IQmz is gwd
DAe oideA tie AdteX
tne&csf
;^!&rr»A
HfiFOLW
eh/K
RT
3S


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44.—N0. 2244.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1923.
Pkice 6n.
THE PARTY MINISTRY.
THE SHOPKEEPER: “Well, I’ve been in this business all my life, but I’ve never before had to try to make everybody take the same
size in the same sort of clothes.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL* AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly,
months, £1 6s. ; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To- any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 Ills.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
whick has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under Which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon house, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.4; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service. 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana house, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Coi, 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Bool : and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
CeYlon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: -'/Oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: 4oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1923.
THE COUNTY COUNCIL RED
HERRING.
It has been charged against the Australian
that he has the incomplete or compromise
habit "of mind —that he has a good capacity
for beginning things, especially with loan
money, but that at finishing them he is
something of a dud. It is also said that
lie has an untidy way, when he has quite
decided to do something of importance, of
being attracted by alternative plans, where-
upon he divides into two or more schools of
thought, and sits down to ponder over them
till he is tired of both of them, like
Kipling’s monkey whose tail hung down
behind. Australia’s diverse railway gauges
(eight of them, though the solitary sample
of 20in. line is only included to round off
the figures) are a world’s joke, and they
oegan because sundry fools, after an agree-
ment for uniformity had been signed and
sealed, went shambling after new gods for
the mere sake of change. The plans for a
return to uniformity, of which there have been
221, are a joke also, for they invariably dis-
solve in a haze of uncertainty and procrastina-
tion. The South-to-North-railway sticks
fast because, after the route and the terms
were fully agreed upon and the bargain was
fixed by law, the debate about routes began
as briskly as if no agreement had been
made or heard of. When Holman ap-
peared on the scene with an alternative plan
re the point of junction of the new Sydney-
Brisbane line, experienced cynics said that,
the period of indefinite indecision having
commenced, it might be as well to tear up
the incomplete job and sell it for what it
would fetch. The “problem” of an ordinary
bridge over an ordinary bit of water to con-
nect the two sections of the third greatest
city in the hemisphere has been in suspense
for a lifetime, through the cUtiicuity experi-
enced in making up the vast public mind. If
it was nearly being a Private Enterprise
bridge a State one looked better, and if it
was on the verge of being a State bridge a
municipal one became attractive. If it
really promised to be any sort \of bridge, it
was practically certain to change into a
tunnel, and after that the whole debate
would begin afresh. Years ago, Sydney,
the third metropolis of the hemisphere,
badly needed a railway through the city in
place of two dead-ends at two ends of the
city, and a more central and up-to-date sta-
tion. After much debate about routes, and
about rival station sites, such as Hyde Park
and Wynyard Square, the breach was
patched by putting a very costly new sta-
tion near the old awkward spot, and having
no city line at all. The question, of course,
promptly re-opened in a worse form, with
the new station squatting in the road of
extension.
It is wholly in keeping that an attempt
should be made to “white-ant” the New
State movement by advancing as an alterna-
tive “an extension of the' county council
principle,” and that some secessionists should
seriously consider it as an alternative, while
others talk of it as “a step in the right
direction.” The demand for a great Separa-
tion process is based on three main con-
siderations. One is the urgent demand for
more centres of population, so that there
will be a larger and better-diffused popula-
tion, instead of a few dense masses, and,
attached to them, vast wastes of rabbits and
cactus. As the country shows not the least
capacity for acquiring permanent population
except round State capitals, the idea of hav-
ing a lot more State capitals naturally
arises. The county council proposition
doesn’t even touch the fringe of this matter.
Then new States are recommended because
the rulers of them would, of necessity, open
up and equip and make accessible their own
ports, now shut save for some paltry local
traffic, and almost deserted, and often almost
inaccessible. The county council scheme
would leave the control of ports and rail-
ways to the old methods, and with the old
results. Finally, the divisions of Aus-
tralia are too large on general principles,
and the ends of them, governed by telegram
from a capital one or two or three thousand
miles distant by ordinary travelling route,
have a neglected look. The county coun-
cil abortion would make the areas no
smaller and the distances no less. Under
the proposed innovation the abandoned, un-
lighted port would have four layers or
storeys of authority (Federal, State, county
council, and municipal) on top of it instead
of the present three. But the real power
would remain in the same old place, for
the council is suggested in place of a small
State Parliament simply because the latter
would involve the shifting of power from
the old place.
. The stereotyped plea, when it is men-
tioned that Australia should be divided into
less monstrous and unwieldy masses, is that
it has too many politicians already, and
that to make more by making new States
is a fool’s game. Australia really has 649
members of Parliament—Federal and State,
Upper House and Low r er House. This in-
cludes certain unpaid and elderly nominees
who should hardly count, and the proportion
is one member to about 4750 square miles,
at which rate England and Wales would
have a Legislature of 13 members—six peers
and seven commoners. Possibly the’ Aus-
tralian number is capable of reduction, but
still it appears unreasonable to ask a poli-
tician to know thoroughly the people and
possibilities and requirements and resources
of more than 4750 square miles. Probably
the fact is that the country needs many
more politicians, only not chosen on the
present machine system, as as more
Legislatures to put them in. But it doesn’t
want to be deluged with unpaid politicians,
with no particular duties and filling no par-
ticular want, whether they are called county
councillors or not. The idea is an attempt
at a servile c-opy of an English institution.
The 117- square miles of Greater London
are ruled by a Council of 145—quite a Par-
liament, in fact, with a member to each 517
acres. Of its constituents about 15 per
cent, vote, except where none of them vote,
there being no contest. The august body is
helped by 29 mayors and corporations,
and the world seems tired of it. It
doesn’t look after railways, nor does
the Government. Private companies do
that, and, besides, , every British port
has its railway already. It doesn’t
look after land settlement, the country being
far too much settled. It doesn’t seek for
-population to fill the empty spaces, popula-
tion being a drug in the market. In short,
it does none of the things that new Aus-
tralian Legislatures are required for, and it
shows no capacity for doing them. Still,
the foolish proposal is helping to divert
attention from an immensely important
issue, and attention is easily diverted. Any-
one who has been chairman on a com-
mittee of opium-eaters must have noticed
the difficulty of keeping his dope-fiends to
the point—any point. Australia is so filled
with the easy dope of loans that it has
also lost the habit of keeping to a point.
THE SECOND TWO-HEADED
MINISTRY.
It was ominously recalled last week, while
the Bruce-Page Ministry was getting pain-
fully born, that Australia’s first two-headed
Government was put out of its misery in
101 months. If the new duumvirs can
keep their majority together (Reid and
McLean had no majority), they should last
longer than that; but the path they must
wander in is beset with pitfalls and gins.
In the first place, their infant Administration
is_ the result of a compromise, and compro-
mises never excite enthusiasm except among
those who immediately profit by them. Then
each party to the compact is “to retain its
separate entity,” which presumably means
that there will be a Nationalist caucus and
a Country party caucus, each with a leaven
of dissatisfied candidates for office, and with
the rierht to veto policies recommended by
the Cabinet, and to call individual Ministers
to account. In such an arrangement there
are obvious possilvlities of trouble. Again,
all but four of the Ministers are new to
office, and beyond Melbourne and Grafton
we two ieauers are known only by their
names and brands. What is more, the Gov-
ernment lacks what its predecessor had dur-
ing nearly the whole of its protitless existence
—a “good” Press. There is lukewarmness
in quarters where support was expected ; in
others there is hostility. Nowhere is there
warm friendship. For some of the present cold-
ness there certainly is very poor excuse. Page
has been slated for the “secrecy” he observed
while ttie arrangement was under discus-
sion ; Bruce for his “reticence” in saying he
had nothing to say. But Australia wilt at
least reserve judgment on the accused. Not-
withstanding the requirements of sensational
journalism, the country will not crucify
men engaged in a delicate and difficult busi-
ness for keeping their own counsel when a
loosely-wagging jaw might have wrecked
their negotiations. It has suffered too much
from the kind of party leader who is volubly
affable to reporters— Holman, for instance.
* * * *
One obvious weakness the Government has
in common with those which went before it.
In the appointment of certain Ministers
ability was sacrificed to geographical con-
siderations, and others equally unworthy.
Hopeless duds, therefore, figure in the
Cabinet, while brainy men have been ex-
cluded. The Commonwealth has grown
accustomed to the making of Ministries with
one eye on the atlas and the other on the
election results, but the retention of Pearce
in office is a difficult pill to swallow. It sug-
gests that Hughes was present at the nego-
tiations. in spirit if not in the flesh, and
that Pearce’s boss will alwnvs be lurking
round the corner. The excuse offered for keep-
ing Pearce is that, as there are still seven
“National Labor” Senators, beside the lorn
Bamford, M.H.R., the group is entitled to
representation. But if the claim is admitted
(although the five Liberal M.’sH.R. have
no Minister), and if it were desired to
combine _ representation of Westralia and
the National Laborites in the one person,
Lynch was available as well as the man
who spent £B5OO on his trip to Washington.
Lynch has far more native ability than the
feeble Pearce, and has also had some Min-
isterial experience. But Lynch is incapable
of crawling to Hughes or anyone else (he
is one of the few Labor conscriptionists who
have never been suspected of leaving the
A.L.P. for the sake of the seat), so exit
Lynch: enter Pearce. The inclusion of
Hughes’s offsider in a Government from
which Hughes himself was expressly barred,
and the exclusion of Pratten, who did more
than any other man to promote the alliance,
and who has Obviously been sacrificed to the
enmity of the ex-Primihister, are two of
those political blunders that are worse than
crimes.
A point in the Ministry’s favor is that its
two beads are returned soldiers. For that
reason alone it is entitled to a fair crack
of the whip. It is short of first-class de-
haters, but, then, work is more essential than
talk. _ And if three of its members are de-
pressing party hacks, from whom nothing
can be hoped, three or four others show
traces of ability, and the majority will bring
fresh minds to their jobs. The Government
should be warned against the mischievous
Foreign-traders who want it to start tinker-
ing with the tariff. If it does that it will cer-
tainly strike trouble. It would also be well
advised to drop the non-essential parts of
its overloaded programme and concentrate
for the present on a few big things, such
as the reform of the taxation and electoral
swindles, the construction of the North-
South railway and a change in the control
of the Commonwealth Bank. A Government
that would give Australia one income-tax
and one electoral roll would deserve to be
gratefully remembered, even if it didn’t last
101 months.
APRES LA GUERRE.
You knew that something had happened as
soon as you went to see about your boat-
ticket. The passage from Australia, which
before the war cost you £5O, now cost you
£l5O. And when you asked your bank for
a handful of gold you got a shake of the
head instead. Banks are almost as much
strangers to gold as you are these days.
Every country clings desperately to what
Tittle the U.S.A. have left it.. There
was a time when you met only one set of
Customs officers at a border. Now you meet
two. Going out of France into Switzerland
you are held up first by the French, who are
liable to search you for a concealed golden
louis. The Swiss will deal with you a few
paces farther on for concealed cigars. In-
deed, the French go one step beyond that,
and strictly limit the amount of paper money
you may take with you. Germany does the
same; but the German official is much more
concerned about foodstuffs than paper.
Butter especially he smells for. His herds
grew distressingly small during the war, and
he cannot buy from Denmark and Holland
as he used to. Yet, though butter for the
poor German bread is so meagre, the mark
has fallen so tremendously that it pays well
to buy German butter and smuggle it into
Holland or Belgium—pays well if you suc-
ceed. If you fail, confiscation and perhaps
a fine await you. A party of British officers
had nearly a quarter of a ton among them
recently—and lost it.
Landed on the other side, you will meet
Americans everywhere. Europe discovered
America; now America is returning the com-
pliment and discovering Europe. They are
not always happy. Reputed to be all mil-
lionaires, they none the less don’t relish
being fleeced. The first to come after the
war were shorn mercilessly. Those who
took part in this invasion had themselves
to blame. They were so full of national pride
that no hotel-keeper could charge more than
they were prepared to pay, for the greater
glory of the United States. “AVherever they
go,” a patriotic citizen of the U.S.A. told
me, “Americans spoil the hotels.” But that
first wave was succeeded by another and
yet another, and these have not been so
docile. As a result, the hotels of Southern
France —Nice, Cannes and so on—were de-
serted last winter, and many of them did
not open. This winter they have cut their
rates by one-half; and many a London hotel
will have to do the same before long. Paris
has been not quite so rapacious. But in
France there is the Government tax on the
bill —from 10 per cent, at the hotels de luxe
to 3 per cent, at those of poorer quality—-
and in some parts there is the local tax of
anything up to three francs —say, Is. —a
day as well. Tips have, of course, moved
up with the regular charges. Before the
war you expected, if you were not a person
of extraordinary courage, to pay 10 per
cent, on your spendings. Not only are your
spendings far greater now, but the percent-
age extorted for what is called “service” has
risen. In London Australia House issues
a leaflet of fatherly advice to newcomers,
and tells them tha-t the waiter expects about
one-sixth on the bill. I don’t know what
he expects, but whatever it is he never looks
as though he got it. xkmericans have told
me that they still work on the 10 per cent,
plan. On the Continent at some hotels they
now add this 10 per cent, to your bill. In
Italy the total additions are liable to be 22
per cent. —for taxes and “service”; and in
Paris the waiters are working through their
union for a 20 per cent, addition for “ser-
vice” alone. Their prospects are not good.
It was because Italy had become almost
the most demoralised country in Europe that
the Fascisti recently had so easy a victory.
The thing had gone too far, and there was
a natural reaction. Thinly-veiled robbery
and robbery not veiled at all had become gen-
eral in the public service and the public
utilities. You had to sit on your luggage
to be sure of it. What was charged for a
railway ticket depended on the conscience
of the ticket-seller —and the appearance of
the purchaser.
Switzerland, which has probably been
saved from a revolution only by the refer-
endum, has suffered in another way. The
little republic lives mainly on watches and
strangers. The watch trade went wrong
during and after the war —during the war
in the higher-grade goods, and after the_ war
in the lower-grade—and the tourist business
has slumped badly. There are some of the
finest hotels in the world among the Alps,
and many of them are now in the hands
of the banks. (Swiss banks have not .for
many years been short of money. Even
crowned heads have, as a rule, put a little
on deposit there as a kind of last resort.
You can still get handfuls of gold coin in
Switzerland; but don’t try to carry any out,
or there will be trouble.) Thousands of
Swiss have been very close to starvation;
and, prompted by the Bolshevists, who found
in the little country a handy refuge, they
ask, “How can we be worse off than we are?
Your old systems have failed. Give these
new ones a chance.” The demand for a capi-
tal levy—as though capital were _ a
thing you could divide into tenths, taking
one or two pa rts off with yon—was the first
step. It was staved off, but the feeling thai
was behind the demand remains.
Every country of Europe has changed, but
no two have changed in the same way. Eng-
land takes serious things less seriously—
and work may be put among the serious
things. France is toiling harder. In an-
other direction there is a curious difference
between the two. Men have not been con-
spicuously numerous in English churches for
years. Nowadays you will find still fewer
there. Sunday sports have increased enor-
mously. In France it is quite otherwise.
After Combes’ famous stroke at the churches
it became almost a matter for jest for a
man to sit in the congregation. But Combes
ordered the clergy to “carry the sack”—to
w’ear tbe soldier’s uniform. During the war
the young clergy gained such a hold unon
the poilu, very largely by the high quality
of their soldiering, that to-day, in the country
districts of France especially—that is to say,
where France is most French—the churches
have more men than women in them.
S. H. P.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The A(ss) W(Ithout) U(nderstanding).
The A.W.U. has issued another of its
thundering manifestoes, urging all “workers”
to unite in a copper-bottomed resolve never
to take a hand in any war “outside the
Commonwealth.” This pious resolvu and
deep anxiety to wait for 'war inside the
country, which is the same sort that they
are having in Ireland, is gruesome, and
almost sounds as if somebody was look-
ing confidently forward to horrid bloodshed
on the premises. And, in addition to being
gruesome, it is the last word in lunacy.
When war becomes inevitable the desire of
every general and statesman and patriot is
to get outside the country, and fight among
the debris of the other fellow’s city, rather
than among the embers of his own. Dur-
ing the recent coolness in Europe, Asia and
Africa, France did of necessity exactly what
the traitors or fools of the A.W.U. would
have Australia do of set purpose—it didn’t
take part in a war outside the Common-
wealth, but within it. That was because it
wasn’t quick enough off the mark. As a
result it had 2300 towns, villages and ham-
lets wiped off the map; also some 30,000
factories and all its coal-mines, for the war
was fought out in the industrial section of
the country. It has thousands of miles of
road and railway to re-build, and countless
bridges. Its peaceful farmers are still being
blown up at intervals, when the plough with
which they are trying to declaim their
wasted acres knocks up against a stray shell.
The loss of women and children through
hardship and ill-usage was terrible, and the
crop of half-breed babies, born of compul-
sory mothers, isn’t nice to think about. Yet
France won the w T ar —on paper, anyhow.
If it had been the loser the position would
have been much worse. And meanwhile the
Hun on the other side of the border didn’t
turn a hair. It is difficult to decide what
to say about an A.W.U. which preaches
and teaches that Australia, if given the
opportunity to choose its part, should elect,
of its own free will, to go through all the
horrors which France went through, merely
to please some silly doctrinaires of doubt-
ful patriotism and assorted nationality. Aus.
tralia, as a matter of fact, is the last
country in the world for the sort of defen-
sive warfare that the A.W.U. theorists crave
for. Its big cities, which are also its seats
of Government, might be taken on the same
day, and that almost the first day of active
hostilities, by concerted attack from the sea,
so exposed are they. The main railway
lines could be cut simultaneously by sea
attack at Gladstone, Bundaberg. Brisbane,
Newcastle, Hawkesbury Bridge, Port


Augusta and elsewhere, they having been
carefully and obligingly deposited on the
shore for the purpose. There is no place
worth mentioning in the interior for the
defenders and the defenceless population to
retreat to —hardly anything save hamlets,
most of them without even a mill to grind
the material for bread, or a loom to weave
the material for a pair of pants. In fact,
the seizure of a very few points on the shore
would put the whole vast inland country in
a complete state of blockade. Moscow, and
Mexico city, Paris, and Berlin, and Madrid,
and Vienna, and Delhi, and Angora, and
Bucharest, and even Rome require some
reaching on the part of the invader, but
all Australia’s goods are in the front win-
dow, and even a small brick would smash
the pane. It isn’t likely that even the scrap of
defence put up at the big coastal cities would
be more than formal under the A.W.U. pro-
gramme, for the A.W.U. is isternly opposed
to “militarism,” except in the form of mili-
tant unionism. And help from outside could
hardly be looked for. Any nation which
declares flatly that it will never leave its
own fireside to lend a hand to its best friend
in distress can hardly hope to find friends in
its own distress. A country run according
to the wisdom of the A.W.U. would allow
its enemy with complete impunity to kill
its people abroad ; to confiscate its property
abroad ; to seize its ships and cargoes till it
had neither exports, imports (especially im-
ports of arms and ammunition), nor money;
and to make the passengers and crews walk
the plank. Until his army was seen enter-
ing George-istreet, Sydney, there would be no
resistance or retaliation, for that could only
be done by going abroad in search of the
hostile miscreant, beyond the three-mile
limit, and thus “participating in a war out-
side the Commonwealth,” which same is
alleged to be the earmark of the tyrant, and
the brand or tattoo of the capitalist, the
militarist, and the foe of freedom. Naturally
the enemy would select his time to appear
in, George-street, and the time would be when
this country was weakened past resistance, and
had lost its courage through long suspense,
and when the globe had much business on
hand, and wasn’t likely to be interested. On
these lines the United States would now
have not a ship on the seas, the Hun having
sunk them in. the course of his wonderful
U-boat campaign, and the same Hun might
be master of Europe through Uncle Sam’s
noble And resolute refusal to “participate,”
already mentioned, “in any war outside
the Commonwealth.” And Uncle, very poor
and down-hearted, would be sitting on the
head of the Statue of Liberty, and entering
on the fifth year of his watch for the enemy
who was sure to come, but could wait his
own good time. In fact, the certainty that
he would come in such a case would be
only equalled by the assurance that the
Sydney Labor daily which is now 8i year's
overdue won't.
The Party System.
Nearly all the countries which had two-
party government, or thereabouts, before
the war are turning away from it. Ger-
many, which complicated things many years
ago by introducing a sectarian party to the
Reichstag, has now at least seven political
groups. Even the sectarians are split, and
turther modifications of parties are constantly
occurring. Getting away from the revolu-
tionary or near-revolutionary peoples, which
in their desperation are bound to continually
throw off new parties till, as in Russia, the
nation sinks to the degradation of having but
one party, we find situations very similar to
that which now exists in our Federal Par-
liament. Canada, for example, had a fairly
neat Conservative-Radical cleavage before
the war, and an exceedingly neat pro- and
anti-conscriptionist divergence during the
war. Since the peace an agrarian party
has become prominent, calling for lowered
duties on agricultural implements, and also
for the Australian equivalent of cheaper
freights and fares. The countrymen are
opposed in the cities by manufacturers who
believe in high duties all round, and both
parties help to split the Labor vote. It is
the same, with unimportant differences, in
k. Africa, France, Britain and elsewhere,
there is nothing wrong in this. On the
contrary, a really representative legislature
ought to reflect in its personnel as many
shades of political opinion as the community
that elected it. What is wrong is for Par-
liamentarians who have been elected to advo-
cate certain radically divergent causes to
effect mergers in their own interest; for
party leaders to dragoon their followers into
supporting 1 measures they are pledged to
oppose with the threat that if they speak
and vote according to their convictions they
will be put to the expense of a fresh elec-
tion. W. M. Hughes wanted to meet
Parliament at the end of the month. He
knew that all the Laborites, practically all
the Agriculturists, and perhaps a majority
of the Nationalists, were opposed to his con-
tinuance in office, much less his continuance
as Prime Minister. But he also knew that
few of his enemies are anxious to face their
constituencies again, and that many would
go to almost any lengths to avoid so much
expense and risk. And this, as he saw, gave
him a chance to defeat the nation’s will, on
the one hand by hanging on as Prime Minis-
ter, and on the other by putting forward a
programme composed of measures which can-
cel one another. Under genuinely represen-
tative government, which the ’ two-party
arrangement has ceased to be, a Laborite
might vote with his own. people on an indus-
trial bill, with the Nationalists in defence,
and with the Agrarians on an issue involving
new States, As it is he is the creature of
his caucus, and may have to register two
votes for policies in which he disbelieves for
every one cast for a policy in whi’ch he
believes.
Theodore in Search of a Majority.
When Francis Michael Fordev Labor
M.L.A. for Rockhampton (Q.), resigned his
seat to go after Higgs’s scalp, he took
Fheopore’s majority with him. At the
1020 State election, although the long-dis-
tance Ministry was in a minority of over
20,000 votes in the constituencies, 38 Min-
isterialists were returned, and only 34 Oppo-
sitionists. It is a way they have in the
Queensland Labor party. Peterson’s seces-
sion to the Cockies made the state of parties
•J'os. The loss of another seat would
oblige the Government to go to the country
six months before the due date —that is, un-
less it could nobble an Opposition member
with the Speakership or resuscitate some
simple and effective old Tory device like the
proxy voting that kept it in office during the
last lightning session, when three or four
of_ its followers were una.vailable. So a cer-
tain interest attaches to the Rockhampton
by-election which is set down for Saturday.
Rockhampton is the place where the so-
called Queensland United party was
launched on its hectic career by Peterson
and Elpiiinstone, who share the proud dis-
tinction of having belonged to three politi-
cal groups in about 12 months. Had these
exuberant persons waited until the Nation-
alists and the Agrarians had come to an
agreement in Melbourne, they would have
secured a powerful argument for a similar
understanding in Queensland, and corres-
pondingly strengthened the position of the
man who is standing for Rockhampton as
an anti-TiiEODORE candidate. In any case,
his chance is fairly good. In ordinary cir-
cumstances it wouldn’t be worth consider-
ing, but the circumstances are hot ordinary.
The crowd he is opposing has been fastened
to the Treasury benches since 1915. After
eight years people grow tired of even a
good Government, and theirs is one of the
worst. Under Labor rule Queensland has
beaten all Australian records for per capita
increase of taxation and public debt. Loans
amounting to 30 millions have been lavished
on Government enterprises, of which the
cattle stations (admitted loss last year,
£342,000) are a fair sample; the railways,
which once paid handsomely, have accumu-
lated a deficit which approaches its tenth
million ; and the State taxes have been raised
from £i Bs. 2d. to £4 17s. per head (they
used to be below the Australian average, but
are now enormously above it) without
balancing the ledger. In the result, the
fairest portion of Australia has been reduced
to the condition of a mendicant State, in
which the spirit of enterprise has been
stifled by over-taxation and Ministerial
meddling, and doles have become a disease.
So fed up is the average elector with the
fruits of Theodorism that Queensland was
the only State in which Labor was beaten
out of sight at the Federal elections. The
party fared worse up North than even in
1917, winning only two of the 14 contested
seats and polling 36,000 fewer No. 1 votes
for the Senate than the non-Labor groups.
It carried Caprieornia by a majority of 1464
in a poll of .38,338 (87.96 p.c.) ; but it used
to count on getting its man in by 2 to 1
at least. Besides, the electorate had been
thoroughly canvassed, and Forde, who is
personally popular, had been campaigning
for the best part of a year. In the Rock-
hampton subdivision, which corresponds to
the State electorate, the voting was 1964
to 1501 in Forde|s favor. For that reason
the odds are against the Opposition candi-
date in Saturday’s tussle, but being a native
of the town, and its Mayor to boot, he will
probably poll better than the southerner,
Higgs, did, whereas the little-known Labor
nominee is unlikely to have such a following
as Forde had. And a turnover of 232 votes
would -do the trick. Maybe the Theodorian
is destined to move the vote of thanks to
the returning-officer, but the other’s lafyor
will not be lost if he shapes sufficiently w
to point the necessity of a working agree-
ment, as in Westralia, Tasmania and the
Commonwealth, between the two wings of
the Opposition. United, these groups could
easily settle Theodore’s hash. Divided,
they will achieve nothing.
The Sinking Soviet*Ship.
The noisy and arrogant N.S.W. Labor
Council has started with great eagerness to
disclaim all acquaintance with Russian
Sovietism, and almost goes the length of
declaring that it never heard of such a
thing. Yet it joined up with the Red Inter-
national at Moscow, obtaining recognition
as a pure and blank and gory revolutionary
affair in order to quality, and its cherished
Garden went there as a delegate. It received
advice, if not positive orders, from the Soviet
capital. Some other prominent men went on
pilgrimages there in order to wallow at the
shrine, and Australia’s casual Government
allowed them to come back. Recent reports
have, however, been altogether too gloomy.
One Youngman, on a visit to Sydney, told
how, in the pre-Bolshevik days, he managed,
for an English company, large agricultural
machinery works, valued at £1,500,000 and
employing 5000 men, in Southern Russia.
The self-appointed Bolshevik Government
acquired them free of debt by the simple pro-
cess of confiscation. But high thinking and
bulgy declamation don’t qualify for running
a big machinery factory; so the sovietised
works now employ 200 men whose earnings
don’t pay for their keep, and, incidentally,
Russia has gone back to the Dark Ages in
its lack of agricultural apparatus. One Cap-
tain Pylie, who lately returned to Australia
after many years in and about Siberia, esti-
mates the deaths from starvation at
25,000,000, and reports that cannibalism has
grown into a habit. The farmers got out
of the custom of producing surplus grain in
the year when the dictators seized their
crops to feed the overgrown army, and they
remain out of it because they don’t care to
sell in exchange for waste-paper money, and
people who want to buy have swapped all
their spare clothes for food already. The
“Daily Mail Year-book for 1923,” an early
blossom in the annual crop of works of
reference, estimates the loss of population
in Soviet Russia during recent years at
21,000,000 —in other words, death, includ-
ing hunger and cannibalism, with emigra-
tion, has w ; ned out all the natural increase
and 21 000.000 besides. It adds :
With a few exceptions the aristocrats have been
killed, and doctors, teachers, musicians, artists and
Scientists have shared their fate.
According to Professor Sorokin, about 70 per
cent, of the accumulated wealth of the country
has been scattered in these years of revolution.
The purchasing power of the people has fallen
to a seventh of what it was in 1914.
A third of Petrograd’s population is out of work.
The rulers of the bedevilled land would gladly
get back to “capitalism,” but they are not
the kind of business men who know the road.
Yet they dare not make way for men who
do know. After holding office by force ever
since they seized it in 1917, they can’t let
go their grip of the army and police and
judiciary, unless they want to be promptly
put on trial. Like Robespierre, they have
to die hanging on. Wherefore active deser-
tion has set in among once-reliable Austra-
lian admirers. Sydney Worker has urged
its readers to “turn their dream-filled eyes
from Russia,” which is no shining example
after, all, but represents “conditions as alien
from our own as if Moscow were in the
moon.” And, two whole months after the
report was published, Senator Gardiner
fiercely denies that he ever said he “would
rather have the record of Lenin and
Trotsky than that of the best man in the
world.” What he now says he said was: —:
The peasants regarded Lenin almost as a god.
Having heard that Lenin was in want of food, from
their own scanty supplies they collected and carried
portion to him. Lenin accepted the food, had it
placed in the public stores, and continued as be-
fore to subsist on the same rations as the rest of
the people. I then said that I would rather be
the man who would do that than any man living.
Some people would rather be a plain, elected
ruler, not filled with noble maxims like a
copy-book, but also not capable of reducing
a rich country to rags, rations and subscrip-
tions of crusts and broken meats. Still
there is no accounting for taste.
The Speck Contemplates Economy.
How a typhoon struck Tasmania: —
When the Economy Board was appointed by the
Hayes Government three months ago to avert the
wrath of the House of Landlords, it was estimated
that some £5OOO a year might be saved by a re-
organisation of departments and sundry economies,
wage-reductions and retrenchments* But apparently
the two business experts and the Public Service Com-
missioner comprising the Board decided that it was up
to them to earn their oats (the two experts get
£4 4s. a day expenses) ; anyway, they have presented
a whole-hog report showing these totals: —
Savings in salaries, etc . . .. . . £45,809
Prospective savings . . .. .. .. 54,903
Proposed new revenue .. .. .. 94,688
Grand total (per annum) .. .. £195,400
The proposed savings include the abolition of the In-
dustrial and Stores Departments, reduction and re-
adjustment of staff in nearly every secstioniof the public
service, new scale of hospital fees, £lO,OOO to be cut off
education, abolition of free technical- and high-school
education (the former to pay £16,500, and the lat-
ter £3OOO in fees), and the non-registration of let-
ters sent out by the Treasury Department. All de-
partments that collect fees are to collect more fees;
a wheel tax is recommended; also an export duty
on butter and fruit; and it is recommended that all
employers act as agents of the Taxes Commissioner
and deduct threepence in the £ from all wages
under six pounds a week.
The Economy Board reckons the proposed savings
and the suggested new revenue will just about enable
the Treasurer to square his ledger in three years;
meanwhile no public works are to be put in hand
unless the Treasurer can pay for them out of the
surplus he is not expected to achieve.
As the Board’s report covers nearly 150 close-
typed foolscap pages, it took the Government a fort-
night or so to read it, and another two weeks to get
its breath sufficiently to ask the newspapers to pub-
lish the document—by instalments. Meantime it is an
open secret that the Government, hoping to escape
the full force of the inevitable storm, will tell Par-
liament that the Economy Board has exceeded its
functions, has arrived at conclusions which are based
on a misapprehension of the position, and has made
certain recommendations which, though useful, are|
not immediately practicable. If the Government!
finds itself then driven into a corner, and unable to
*Oll,lll either the devil of the Leg. Council or the deep
§e& of the Labor Opposition, something may happen.
'The position may, indeed, become so desperate that there
may have to be a general election. And on its
present record,—its financial proposals already turned
down by Parliament and its own Economy Board
making it a laughing-stock by proposing to assume
all the functions of Government—the Hayes-Lee
Administration would perish at the polls. Its one
and only chance with the electors would be the
adoption of an election slogan with a kick in it.
For instance, it might pick a real quarrel with the
Chamber that thrust the Economy Board on to it,
and go to the country with a whole-hog economy
programme, including the abolition of the Second
Chamber. This, with perhaps a £50,000 reduction
in the income-tax and a £lOO,OOO increase in the
land tax, might enable even the Hayes-Lee Govern-
ment to remain in the seats of the courageous.
♦
In the Land of Sudden Death.
When all the burning and looting is finished
and the Irish Free State Government has
done its best to hang the last gunman for
making a bonfire of the last mansion, Ire-
land will still retain its natural beauties, like
the Bog of Allen and Magillicuddy’s Reeks,
but the prospects are that very little of its
best architecture will be left. Picturesque
structures, which survived racial wars be-
tween Irish and English, and old sectarian
brawls, are going up in smoke at the rate of
about one per day now that the Southerners,
having got the long-desired Home Rule, are
holding high debate among themselves about
details. Less killing is reported than for-
merly, but the breakage of property threat-
ens to leave the isle with nothing but its
shillelagh and its caubeen to sleep under. A
section, which can’t be counted because it
comes out almost entirely at night, but which
is believed to be small 'else it would walk
in defiant procession by day, desires to be
able to intimate to the world that Ireland
has ceased to be under the protection of the
Empire (said protection involving no recip-
rocal obligation), and that any foreign
Power which wants it will have only the
local forces to reckon with. It is hard to
negotiate with this crowd, it being mainly
a voice in the dark and occasionally a face
at the window, and it is hard to know what
to negotiate about, as it apparently wants
nothing but complete surrender—the com-
plete surrender of something or other. Still,
50,000 Irish ex-Republican soldiers, who
have accepted the • Free State arrangement
and are now liable to be shot at any moment
by persons supposed to be former comrades,
have appointed 200 delegates to meet with-
out any special authority, and see if they
can find some coherent persons to discuss the
situation with —face to face, or over the
telephone. Some few years ago Ireland was
wonderfully nrosoerous, and the obnoxious
landlord ivas fast being eliminated by
Imperial legislation. In fact, with the isle,
which is a shade larger than Tasmania, cut
into 571,985 holdings, most of the holders
being their own landlords, some people won-
dered if the work might not be overdone.
Then the civil war raged on a large scale,
and many of the new small proprietors fled
in terror for safer places, and some soil went
out of cultivation, and some was seized by
unauthorised parties. Naturally this was
bad for agriculture, or something was bad
for it; anyway the output of wheat, barley and
oats fell from 12,114,000 bushels in 1918 to
0,663,000 bushels in 1921. When an almost
purely agricultural country goes that road
it seems to imply that politics are being
taken too seriously.
A Hireling Clergy,
A cby from a Sydney parsonage:—
The article on “Freedom of Conscience’’ (B.
l/2/’23) is welcome to many of us who feel that
the time has come when no subject should be re-
garded as sacrosanct, and so immune from discus-
sion. Truth has nothing to fear. Certain things
may merely be regarded as truth.
Take the system which we call ecclesi-
asticism. llow many there are who swear by
it, and consider it unchallengeable! But, like
militarism and capitalism, ecclesiasticism is
in the crucible. Though in the past it may have
been of service, much of it has now outg-rown
its usefulness. To-day, in the larger sense, it
is not the best thing possible. In some vital re-
spects it must change. Letters claiming infalli-
bility for the 66 books comprising what is called
the Bible, simply illustrate the need of change. The
church or clergy making such claims can have no
future.
It is doubtful if the whole church position, with
its hireling ministry, will not have to be reviewed.
One thing is indisputable. If the pulpit is to be
the power in the community it should be, then the
man who occupies it must be a prophet, free and
unfettered, and not a retailer of conventional plati-
tudes. To Bay the clergy are free to speak out all
they know and see is not true. Religion, like indus-
try, has become capitalised. The sects are corpora-
tions, to whose ministry none can be admitted unless
prepared to voice their distinctive shibboleths.
Objection is taken to the pledge and platform in
politics, but we have its counterpart in religion.
Ministers must have the label, i.e., the imprimatur
of a sect. This is not Christianity. It is denomina-
tional mechanism. It may help Christianity, but
the chances are it will hinder it.
In any case, the minister is not free. If he muses
on current problems—say, social or economic—until
“the fire burns” within him, he must consider his
message ere he delivers it. There is the pew, the
elder, the deacon, the steward and there is the
confession of faith, the creed, and in some in-
stances that awful nightmare, the trust-deed. The
relation of the preacher to these things, and those
who incorporate them, is that of the dependent.
He must say what is prescribed, and must not con-
trovert them, as he feels he should, having come
to question half of them. But there is his bread
and butter, and there are the wife and the children.
The position, to say the least, is humiliating, and
before the pulpit can become the dynamic it should
be this embargo must be lifted. This is the one
hope of conventional churchism. A ereed-bour.d,
confession-bound, “Basis”-bound pulpit does not and
cannot fill the bill of the world’s need. “Where
the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty” ; but if
there be no liberty, even the Spirit itself is cribbed,
cabined and confined.
The Struggle to Avoid the Obvious.
More than half of N. S. Wales is nearer
some other State’s capital than its own, so
the struggle to force all export and import
trade to the local metropolis is even more
costly and idiotic in N. S. Wales than else-
where. Curious things happen in the course
of the scrimmage, and one of them is hap-
pening now on the Victorian border. The
trade of 44,734 square miles of Ma State
tends to go to Melbourne, though quite a lot
of it would find an outlet at Eden, in its
own territory, if allowed. Not being allowed,
and Sydney being too far away, this area
doesn’t trade at all except in a very small
way, and doesn’t pay expenses. An effort
is, therefore, being made to strike a clumsy
compromise by making the region part of
Victoria for railway purposes, and keeping
it part of N. S. Wales in other respects.
The Vic. Government is to extend its line
into the debatable land, so that Lawson’s
State will have a treble capacity. It will
be partner in four Federal railways, none of
them in Victoria. It will be a sovereign rail-
way owner within its own borders. And in
N.' S. Wales it will be a tenant owner or
lodger, and a sort of subject, walking a
chalk-line according to agreement, and hold-
ing acrimonious debate with its landlady at in-
tervals—especially if the landlady thinks bet-
ter of her bargain, and tries to recover the lost
trade for Sydney with competing lines and
cut rates. The land values created by the
work will, of course, belong to the landlady
—not to the lodger. In order to provide
trade for the lines N. S. Wales is to cut up
a large area for settlement, but it is hai’d
to say what remedy the boarder will have
if the State forgets, or if the land is cut
up but fails to stay cut, and so the trade
doesn’t eventuate. Possibly in that case Vic-
toria will get wild and revive its old claim
to the area between the Murrumbidgee and
the Murray, including part of Canberra,
Avhile N. S. Wales will get wilder and try
to freeze its occupant out, so as to buy the
work at a reduction. The hunger to bring
a little more commerce to the Yarra—the
storied stream that people throw dead bodies
into —may be patriotic, but the scheme looks
like a cumbersome revival of the feudal sys-
tem, by which the same man might be a
king in England and an infuriated nominal
subject in France or elsewhere. It didn’t
work well, and if, say, Richard I. had
started building railways in France, rela-
tions might have been even more strained.
Politics in Papua.
“Ikoico Gatina” : The appointment to the
Papuan Legislative Council of Erle Hunt-
ley, a newcomer, whose mining company re-
cently borrowed £45,000 from the Govern-
ment, and of Walter H. Gors, who hasn’t
lived in Papua for 20 years, is a knockout to
the people who battled for local representa-
tation and the franchise. The re-installation
of Judge Herbert to the Council, though the
public clamored for the separation of the
Judiciary and the Administration, is a further
triumph for the Murray Administration. To
stop the noise Judge Herbert was tem-
porarily taken off the Council. The battle
in the boom days was bitter. The progres-
sive party on one occasion beat the Govern-
ment in the House by one vote. The motion
demanded the franchise and local represen-
tation. On another occasion, the rebels, at
a well-attended public meeting in Port
Moresby, passed a motion praying the Prime
Minister to have an immediate change of
Administrators. The Government spent a lot
of time explaining things. Oily politicians
appeared from Australia ready to promise
anything for peace. One Minister of the Crown
expressed abhorrence at the spectacle of a
thousand disfranchised Australians, and pro-


VEGETARIAN
RESTAURANTS
at 308 George Street
Sydney ; 293 Little
Collins Street, Mel-
bourne : 360-62
Queen Street,
Brisbane: 116
Barrack St..
Perth.
£
Zf&oZ
nv
S.,_ Ulter orU:
i,k *«
g
°O<J
*n x
Begin the Day with Granose
Begin it with a crisp Granose Biscuit, served
with cream, butter, fruit or fruit juices.
Health demands the 100% nourishment it
supplies—and altogether apart from that—
you’ll like Granose.
Granose is made from the choicest wheat,
which has been so treated that all the nutri-
tion contained in the grain is retained. The
starch is perfectly cooked and dextrinised —
therefore Granose is pre-digested and ready
for assimilation.
Granose supplies the needs of growing
children, and offers the most appetising
breakfast to grown-ups. Eaten in its dry
form, and well masticated, Granose is an
excellent food remedy for indigestion, consti-
pation and similar disorders.
Ask for Granose Flakes, or for Granose
Biscuits —you can buy Granose either way.
It is exactly the same food, so nourishing—so
nice.
Granose and other Sanitarium Health Foods obtainable at all leading grocers throughout
Australia and New Zealand, and at all Branches of
THE SANITARIUM HEALTH FOOD COMPANY
mised to have grievances redressed forthwith.
The public, in a petition to the Common-
wealth, had prayed for elective local repre-
sentation, with a Senator in the Federal
House without a vote; also for tile separa-
tion of judicial and administrative work. To
have a Senator in the House who could voice
the needs of Papua ought to be the death-
knell of bureaucracy. Hughes, after pro-
mising the Senator, strangled him. He gave
one to Darwin ; but that place when annoyed
with officialdom had dumped it out of' the
Territory, whereas Papua had tried legitimate
means to get rid of the incubus. A compro-
mise was offered to the settlers: they could
elect their own representatives to the Coun-
cil provided they agreed to have some wowser
nominees, supposed to represent the native
interests, appointed by the Lieut.-Governor,
apparently to swamp the show. The settlers
threw this hybrid scheme out. They held
the interest of the native sufficiently guarded
(1) by the Government, one of the members
being Commissioner of Native Affairs; (2)
by the people’s representatives, the welfare
of the native being recognised as synonymous
with the welfare of Papua. Then came the
deluge. The boom burst. Prices of Papuan
products reached bedrock, and then fell a
few fathoms further. No one cared whether
Judge Murray administered the ruined land
or someone else. Taking advantage of this
apathy the Government has dropped all men-
tion of the Senator and the franchise, nomi-
nated two new members to the Council,
manoeuvred for the inclusion of Judge Her-
bert in the Chamber, and brought things back
a couple of decades. It is apparently hoped
that the apathv for which tins Administra-
tion is partially responsible will continue,
assisting the present bureaucrats to a further
long lease of office. I’m not sure that it
won’t.
“Bildad” : It is a shameful disappointment
that W. M. Hughes failed to patch up liis (
depleted Ministry and meet Parliament. I
had pictured that Cabinet facing the House
with a smile on its face and Austin
Chapman as Minister for Canberra pro-
ducing a vice-regal speech of two words and
a cough; ruling (with the aid of the Labor
party, which hates the idea of another elec-
tion) that the motion of censure was out
of order; moving that everybody who wanted
to speak on it was out of order ; moving the
closure; and .hen adjourning till the middle
of July. Then I saw Hughes spending
£6,000,000 of Commonwealth Bank money
(say £1,000,000 per month) to get Can-
berra finished by the Kirkpatrick firm of
architects before anybody could interpose,
being driven to this by Austin Chapman,
who had gradually become the whole indis-
pensable Cabinet, his colleagues having fled
through fear of ridicule. A Prime Minister
who bought an entire commercial navy with-
out authority should be equal to a little mat-
ter like that. Later, I foresaw Earle Page
setting up his New State while there was
no adequate power to prevent him, and
creating a rival Federal Government at
Grafton, on the ground that there must be
some Federal Government somewhere. I
viewed Chapman applying for an injunction
against Grafton, on the plea that it wasn’t
a real capital according to Clause 125, and
getting it. I considered the spectacle of
Page applying for an injunction against
Canberra, and getting it, the reason being
that Clause 125 says that the capital must
be in N. S. Wales, and must also be in some
territory that isn’t in N. S. Wales, but has
been taken out of it. Then I foresaw’ every-
body concerned threatened with apoplexy,
and Hughes departing hurriedly to be High
Commissioner at Washington, leaving
Austin Chapman to form a new Cabinet,
or otherwise get along as best he could. That
resignation spoiled many bright possibilities.
C. R. Bradisii goes back to school: —
One remembers S. M. Bruce at the Melbourne Gram-
mar for his sportsmanship and everlasting good
humor. In those days a sunny smile transfigured
the features that have now settled down somewhat
into the heavy marmoreal dignity of a successful
politician. He was one of the biggest and oldest
of the fifth form youths who did so well in “Matric."
in 1899 by securing about 90 per cent of passes.
Fair at books and capable of great application,
“Janey” came through with flying colors. He was
then about 17, extraordinarily good-looking, and lack-
ing nothing that a fine character can obtain in a
school where high principles stand next to games
in the curriculum. He was a brilliant oarsman, a
fact that was established later at Cambridge, but
not quite so distinguished in cricket and football, though
he always played with spirit and courage. He was
twice Captain of the School, a fact which doesn’t
necessarily represent an overpowering scholastic at-
tainment, and the glory of the position is, these
days, diminished to one who cannot regard personal
popularity, plus prestige in “sport,” as a diploma
of celebrity for the future. Still, “Janet” Bruce
was a fine boy—a boys’ boy—and the only problem
now confronting us is how much his subsequent
English education, full of its soul-warping traditions
and narrowing classicism, has affected his tempera-
ment for the great things before him. He left Aus-
tralia an Australian. Has he come back a little
wilted, a little unsympathetic with this lusty young
democracy? In my first encounter with him in the
House of Representatives, my memories of him were
dissipated by the crowding impressions of a singu-
larly new political type in this country—a well-bred
gentleman without snobbery or pretence, but a
trifle bleak and crusted with the formalities of
English polities, and presenting ever that immobile
countenance which, somehow, looks inhospitable to
new ideas.
• ;
South Aus. is looking hard at a sugges-
tion by squatter Sidney Kidman and con-
tractor Joseph Timms that they shall build
a railway from Morgan to Renmark. Mor-
gan is at the Nor’-West Bend, where the
Murray finally changes its rambling course
to run southwards to the sea. It has had
a railway for many years, but is a dead-end.
The river above that wanders round many
enormous bends and curves, but is mostly
well, to the south. Renmark, however, is at
the top of a loop, and pretty well level with
Morgan; and a thriving motor-car service
from Morgan has been established, going on
finally to Wentworth at the junction of the
Darling. The railway is wanted. But the
construction of railways as a private specu-
lation is clean contrary to the State’s policy.
The promoters offer a choice: they will run
the line for seven years and then hand it
over to the Government at the actual cost
to them ; or they will run it for 25 and then
THE COTTAGE NEXT DOOR.
“The A.W.U. has decided to instruct its members never to engage in any war outside Australia.”
Bill’s NEIGHBOR : “Hey, Bill, come and give us a hand. There's a fire broke out in
my place."
A.W.U. BILL: “Against my principles, brother. I'm pledged not to do anything till the
flames get into my own place."
hand it over free of charge. Neither plan is
acceptable, but the latter has at least this
merit—the railway would have to be paid
for within 25 years. The ordinary State-
built line can be built for 100 years and the
country be still in debt for it to the utter-
most farthing of its cost.
•
“Sky Pilot” : Archbishop Wright repeats
his annual protest against the Sydney Show
being open on Good Friday. As good a case
can be made out for a Good Thursday as
for a Good Friday. But what does it matter?
The observance of the day, whenever it was,
is no integral part of Christianity. Nor is
there any Christly authority for regarding
one day as being more holy than another, and
certainly no vestige of command for celebra-
ting one day in gloom, because on that day
Christ died. The religion of Christ is not
a thing of days or seasons. Even the Sab-
bath He said was “made for man, and not
man for the Sabbath.” Why then seek to
bring men into bondage to these things?
Paul asked: “Who are thou that judgest
another man’s servant? To his own master
he standeth or falleth. One man esteemeth
one day above another, another esteemeth
every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded
in his own mind. .. .But let no man judge
you in respect of days.” This squeamishness
about days is what Christ called “straining
at gnats and swallowing camels.” Worry-
ing about a dead Christ; whilst there is no
protest that the principles of a living
Christ are not being applied to war, rack-
renting, profiteering, exploitation and slum-
letting.
"Tarago’s” tale of tribulation: —
Over 3.0 years ago the Patterson (Vic.) Govern-
ment started the Kooweerup swamp reclamation
works, to relieve the unemployed. Each succeeding
Government has carried on—the cost must now lun
into half-a-million —and the swamp, consisting of
75,000 acres, is not drained yet. Private owners
of watery areas, after waiting years for a proper
drainage scheme, sold their land —at a profit—to
the Repat., which in turn sold to soldiers. The
Government washed its hands of the whole business,
and handed the water over to the State Rivers and
Water Commission. The Commission started by
striking a drainage rate of Is. per acre. Then it
let contracts for the cutting of drains at a flat rate
(i.e., the same price top and bottom). On cutting
away the surface with horses and scoops, the con-
tractors found that it would be a losing proposition
to remove the bottom, so they chucked their contracts
and their deposits. It was suggested that the Dig-
gers might complete the job with shovels, but this
expedient failing, an expensive dredge was imported.
An efficient implement, no doubt, if it would only
work, but nobody seems to understand it, and,
despite the visits of numerous Government experts
in high-power motor-ears, it is in chronic disrepair.
Meantime Diggers’ crops are washed away each season
with monotonous regularity. The proprietors of the
wandering vegetables are not quite sure whether they
are paying a drainage or an irrigation rate. The
one thing they are certain of is that good old father
Repat. will have to foot the bill.
The South Aus. courts have been taking a
stand against the reporting of unsavory cases.
A country doctor was charged with an offence
against a girl-patient in his surgery. Paine,
the youthful S.M. before whom the case
came, at once prohibited the publication of
all evidence, and even of the girl’s name.
When it came to the Criminal Court, Judge
Gordon did the same. The defence was long
and keen, and ultimately the jury disagreed.
That is all —except the name of the accused
-—that the public has heard, or will hear
until the case has been tried again and
settled one way or the other. It may be all
very sensible, but is it logical? What has
the doctor certainly done, for instance, that
he should have his name published? It may,
of course, be said that the publication or
an accused person’s name may unearth others
who have suffered at his hands. But there
are plenty of instances where the publication
of a woman’s name in a criminal-assault case
might bring forward evidence that other men
have suffered at her hands. Only if the
Court is quite sure such a thing is out oi
the question is it safe to adopt the practice
followed in this case.
9
“Diaiiakana” : Frank Hurley, who is fill-
ing some Australian papers with stories of
his explorations in Papua, seems to have
allowed a little rumpus with Authority to
shadow his judgment in matters of wider con-
cern. He may have discovered something
new, but in any case he is too big a man
and too good an Australian not to do justice
to the memory of those who blazed the trail
over which he passed. Magistrate Beaver
some 10 years ago interested students of
anthropology with his discoveries of that race
of people whom he designated Kaibiri, or
swamp-dwellers, their tribal name being
Gogodara. These people receive picture-
taking and other visitors who travel to the
head waters of the Aramea River, and thence
across many miles of swamp. They are well
under Government control. Magistrate
Ryan was another who, years ago, had a
nodding acquaintance with the elusive gentle-
men who people the sylvan glades which
Hurley saw when the flying-foxes and mos-
quitoes did not obscure his vision. Few
official reports contain anything so fine as
the story of an incident which occurred in
the course of a trip Ryan made in an
attempt to cross from Kikori to the Fly. In
hostile country almost the whole way,, the
party at one time was compelled to mix it
with an overwhelming number of savages.
On a swaying raft, in a narrow crebk, and
at night, Ryan, with one native policeman,
fought for life and got through. When the
black man went down temporarily, Ryan
fought over him and saved his life; when
Ryan went down his colored partner played
the game in similar style and enabled Ryan
to escape the count. Beaver, Ryan and a
number of others who brought Western
Papua under Government control swapped
spheres of action in 1914, and future genera-
tions that may desire to see their names in
print will find those of Beaver, Ryan and
Herbert on crosses among the poppies ot
Flanders.
“Tauwarra” (Papua) : “Lagani-Namo’s”
enthusiasm for the Motuan language is not
shared by the average white man in Papua,
for reasons which Governor MacGregor
found unanswerable 25 years ago. Motuan
is merely a fairly well-defined Melanesian
dialect, possessing no literature and no tra-
ditions. It is spoken only by an obscure
tribe about Port Moresby—a tribe generally
held in contempt by the rest of Papua s
native population —and its limited vocabu-
lary and imperfect grammar make it quite
unsuited to the everyday requirements of
commerce and industry. There are no
Motuan equivalents for hundreds of Eng-
lish words in common use, and the white
man has been compelled to bastardise his
own tongue to conduct the simplest conver-
sation with a Motuan-speaking native. The
Motuan dictionary is full of words marked
“introduced.” Some, mainly dealing with
things spiritual, have been adopted from
other languages ; others appear to have been
Invented by imaginative missionaries—the
majority, however, are plain “pidgin.” As
for the hybrid-Motuan. spoken by the pol'ce,
time-expired laborers, bush-lawyers and most
white men, which “Lagani-Namo” extolls
as a perfect lingua Franca fo” the whole
of Papua, this is a linguistic horror which
no more resembles the pure Motuan of
Hanuabada than “pidgin” English resembles
the language of Shakspeare: It is not
worth preserving even as a philological curi-
osity. Unlike “Lagani-Namo.” I know
dozens of native Papuans who not only speak
English (not “pidgin”), but also read and
write it better than many white men. Un-
fortunately there are hundreds more who
have been trained only in the use of their
own imperfect dialects, but under the stimu-
lus of a substantial annual subsidy—contri-
ved by Brown Brother himself, but disbursed
by the Government —English is now being
taught by white teachers in practically every
mission school. Regular examinations are
conducted by a qualified European inspector,
and the results show that MacGregor was
on the right track when he made English
the official language for the Territory.


ą
ǻ
The Importance of Tight Valves
Boiler Blow-off service is the most difficult of any required of valves.
Further, the slightest leak at the blow-off valve means continuous money loss.
The valve which does not leak soon pays for itself, whatever the cost, and
thereafter earns daily dividends for you.
GUARANTEE.
The knowledge of what the Everlasting Valve has done warrants us in
giving this guarantee:
yfRLASTijj
G
Should any regular Everlasting Valve in boiler blow-off use develop a leak, and not give perfect continuous service
for TWO YEARS after installation, it will be repaired or replaced without charge, or money refunded, as buyer may choose.
In addition to Blow-off. Service, the Patent, Leak-proof, Everlasting Valve is unequalled for any service where a straight-through passage is
required. It is made for quick or slow opening and closing, and in any kind of metal.
Our valve book cannot fail to interest you.
Reference may be made to some of the largest plants in the Commonwealth.
SOLE
MANUFACTURERS
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City),Sydney
* . k
POLITICAL
POINTS
The longer you look at it the more it
becomes the Bruglies Ministry.
Apart from the fact that Pearce has been
left in and Pratten left out, the weakest
point about the Bruce-Page arrangement is
that as good a Government, or better, could
be picked from the same side of the House.
Take, for example, one composed of Watt,
Prime Minister and External Affairs; Prat-
ten, Treasurer; Latham, Attorney-General;
Prow r se, Postmaster-General; Hunter, Home
and Territories ; Foster, Trade and Customs ;
Hill, Works and Railways: Ilowse, Defence
and Health; Cook, Hon. Minister; Lynch,
Repatriation and leader of the Senate ; Bak-
hap, Vice-President of the Executive Coun-
cil. Such a Ministry would embody the
essential features of the Gnash-Cocky under-
standing and would be more likely to give
the public a good run for its money than a
Cabinet which has burdened itself with so
many depressing persons. Its leaders, more-
over, would be able to take care of them-
selves in debate. In that respect the Bruce-
Pages are liable to strike stormy weather
in their first session unless they have im-
proved a ton.
In a well-meant attempt to assuage, the
anguish of Dicky Foster at being omitted
from the Ministry, Poynton, ex-Postmaster-
General, said that “South Australia has
never had less than one full portfolio on any
other occasion.” Considering that Poynton
was an M.H.R. for 21 years, he ought to
know better. South Australia had no re-
presentative in the Barton Government after
Kingston’s retirement, or in the second
Donkin combination when Playford was de-
feated at the 1906 election —and Deakin
hung on for another two years. Neither
did Hughes have a South Australian in his
first Ministry, which lasted from October
27, 1915, to November 14. 1916.
Two or three years ago the Queensland
Labor Government passed a .Workers’ Homes
Act, providing for the erection of houses on
perpetual leasehold land. The shacks in
question were to be handed to the “workers”
upon payment of an infinitesimal deposit and
a similar amount weekly or monthly, with in-
terest at the rate of about half that being
paid for the loans which make these miracles
possible. Under the plea of shortage of cash,
brought about by the scheming financiers of
London, the Act has been temporarily for-
gotten. Now, however, a by-election involv-
ing Theodore’s majority of one is to be staged
at Rockhampton. Wherefore regulations
bringing the sleeping Act into force have
been issued with a great blare of trumpets.
And the first place to receive the humane
benefits thereof is to be —Rockhampton!
Moaning at Rockhampton (Q.), Premier
Theodore told the populace that there was
no truth in the lie that Queenslanders were
the most heavily-taxed people in the Com-
monwealth. The figures appear in the “Offi-
cial Year Book of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia,” and Theodore should make a sensation
and an advertisement by going for the author
of that volume like a wild cat and an
avalanche and vetting damages. These are
the figures for 1914, the year before the Two-
Up Ministry took office, and for 1921, which
are the latest available: —
State Taxes Per Head Per Annum.
1914. 1921. Increase.
New South Wales.. £1 5 5 £3 10 8 £2 5 3
Victoria ..128 2 10 4 178
Queensland .. 16 11 417 11 311 0
S. Australia • - 1 13 2 3 6 0 1 12 10
West Australia . . 14 1 2 17 9 113 8
Tasmania . . 1 16 10 3 6 7 1 9 9
To the above may be added that since
June, 1915, the year it took office, Theo-
dore’s Government has changed the best-
paying State railway system of the Com-
monwealth into far the worst-paying one,
and rushed the State debt from £B2 ss. lOd.
per head to £lO4 os. lOd. inside six years.
The average Labor leader is so like a man
who hangs by the tips of his fingers from
the edge of a precipice that it is a bold thing
to say who will be the next to fall. But
present indications point to Dooley, of N.
S. Wales. The usual A.L.P. committee has
reported that Dooley was responsible for
J. B. Suttor’s appointment to the Leg. Coun-
cil over the heads of several thousand “good”
Labor men, and that hanky-panky tracks
were employed in the process. Drearily,
familiar accusations are made about “cor-
ruption” and “faked membership tickets.”
Suttor is the M.L.C. who was mixed up with
the notorious coal contract for the Govern-
ment trawlers. When the facts were ex-
posed by a Royal Commission, Oakes, Chief
Sec. and now Acting-Premier, said that Sut-
tor’s association with the affair would have
to be considered. But in the exuberance of
his joy at getting the contract cancelled he
seems to have dropped the subject down a
coal-hole.
Now that nearly everybody is hurrying
to renounce Lenin and Trotsky, it is thrill-
ing to reflect that, save for the blessed influ-
ence of Federation, N.S.W. and Queensland
might now be a good deal like Russia.
Dooley and Theodore and Fihelly and the
rest attained office when the craving to imi-
SAFETY FIRST.
“If he (Mr. Hughes) is thrown out, I say, incidentally, that I will go out too.” —Extract from election
speech at Marybdrough by then-Treasurer Bruce.
BRUCE (as he grabs the lifebelt): “This is an occasion when necessity Knows no law
and consistency is the refuge of — er — fools. Good-bye, Billy.”
tate the heavenly example of Lenin was at
fever heat. Not having control of the banks,
note issue, coinage, army, navy, customs,
excise, foreign relat’ons, etc., they couldn’t
follow their tin god on his fearsome way.
But it was a narrow escape.
As a diplomatic haggler the Turk holds
the record, and he lived up to his reputation
at the Lausanne Conference. It was three
weeks before the chatty Asiatic really got to
ground level at all. He wanted all his terri-
tories back. He had ideas about being paid
an indemnity for being licked. He asked
for control of the Straits; the subjection of
all foreigners in Turkey to his own ratty
tribunals; no unpleasant remarks about his
treatment of Greeks. Armenians or other
Christian minorities; the right to evict the
Allied dead from their graves at Gallipoli,
etc. After 11 weeks the Conference broke
up, and the principal members started for
home. Before they had gone a mile noises
in the rear intimated that the Unspeakable
was racing after the lost ’bus, saying he
would sign on a number of points, and was
open to enter into conversation about the
rest. Abdul is a patient, persistent being
with whom time is no object, and he has
got out of many difficulties by talking for
years till somebody died or some alliance
fell to pieces. But he is also shreddy. One
big bomb dropped into the middle of bis Par-
liament at Angora would probably make him
sign everything, though he might deny the
signature afterwards.
Certain Victorians were lately seized with
the periodical craze to annex Tasmania,
which Melbourne Age described as “impov-
erished, practically insolvent and dependent
on the bounty of the Commonwealth.” The
island’s position, certainly, is only middling.
It oives less per head than Westralia,
Queensland or S. Australia, it is less heavily
taxed than Queensland or N.S.W., and it
has saved up more sinking fund to meet its
liabilities with than these two put together,
though its debt is only one-thirteenth of
theirs. But the Federal arrangements struck
Tasmania hard. Westralia stipulated for a
separate tariff for a number of years; and
also bagged a special subsidy. Victoria
secured the temporary Federal capital, and
N.S.W. the permanent one. Queensland
secured a sugar guarantee and a cotton
guarantee. But Tasmania .isn’t big enough
to practise the hold-up game with much
success. It obtained, for a time, a special
grant of £90,000 per annum, but it lost in
other ways. The control of shipping became
a Federal affair, and the Commonwealth
shipping laws weren’t helpful. Tasmania is
the only State which is isolated by the
annual marine strike, and in dealing with
that fairly regular Christmas gift Ministers
have shown all the determination of a wet
rag. But, wdiatever its troubles, the island
has shown no desire to get out of them by
sinking its identity in that of Victoria,
though the anxiety of Victoria to take it in
is often palpable enough. It might join up
in a day. and find that it was a matter in-
volving 50 years’ effort to unjoin again.
A case in Melbourne the other day showed
how harsh our bail-bond system may be. A
man was charged with obtaining credit by
fraud. He had gone into a restaurant and
had a meal, but when he got the bill for
Is. lid. he found he had only in his
pockets, so a charge was laid against him
and he had to spend three weeks in gaol
awaiting trial. And then the jury acquitted
the man, satisfied that there was no wilful
attempt to defraud. Just how many accused
persons wouldn’t turn up for trial if they
were let out on their own bond it is of
course impossible to say; but if they had
to report to the police frequently and were
liable to stiff punishment if they didn’t turn
up, there probably wouldn’t be many; and
a lot of people who now have to go to gaol
for their poverty and friendlessness wouldn t
have that experience.
Britain missed a chance when it faxed up
its debt-problem with the. United States by
the simple process of agreeing to Uncle Sam s
rather onerous terms re interest and other
matters. It might at least have reminded Uncle
that various of the States once borrowed from
Britain, and then repudiated their liability
(one of them even said that the request tor
payment was an outrage upon its free con-
stitution, and altered the same to prohibit
payment at any future time), while Uncle
looked on admiringly at the slickness of his
children. A proposition that this old
swindle should be deducted from the
indemnity would not have been amiss, and
with compound interest it is said to
approach £60,000,000.
A start has been made on the breaking-up
of the big estates under the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s scheme based on moral suasion.
In the Queanbeyan district, two of the
largest squattages —Foxlow and Gidleigh—
have had large pieces lopped off by their
owners, F. B. S. Falkiner and Rutledge,
M.L.A. Of course the disposal was by pub-
lic auction. The Foxlow area, that would
have prosperously homed twenty families,
went to two neighboring big land-holders for
£50,000 or thereabouts; and of the eleven
lots in Gidleigh eight went to two men who
already have big stations. And there’s
nothing mysterious or fishy about it either.
It simply amounts to this: a given area of
land will, as a rule, be worth more to the
experienced than to the inexperienced man,
to the man with capital than to the one
without it. No scheme which doesn’t take
that into account can hope to be a success.
“Good Aussie” strikes another note: —
Walter James, a former W.A. Premier, proclaims
that Victoria is highly fortunate in having a canny
Scot as Treasurer. The reference is to McPherson,
but Wullie was born in Bonnie South Melbourne, not
in Bonnie Scotland. Also, he doesn’t deserve the
wreath James heaved at him. In five years
McPherson has borrowed £32,277,089 and increased
Victoria’s debt 42 p.c. He has beaten all his
predecessors as a borrower. Last year Vic. raised
more loan money than ' even N.S.W. When
McPherson took charge of the Treasury, Vic.’s yearly
expenditure was £12,631,000. His estimates for
the current year are £21,000,000. Under his admin-
istration the revenue from taxation has grown from
£2,310,723 to £3,626,138. This is not Gladstonian
finance, and there seems no urgent need to salute
McPherson as a Heaven-born Treasurer. If he does
stick a feather in his cap he should call it Macaroni.
Owing to its alliance for governing pur-
poses with a Nationalist minority, the Coun-
try party in W.A. dunno-where-it-are every
now and again. When the Hughesite Senators
were bumped out in Groperland the Primary
Producer, which is supposed to voice the
sentiments and aspirations of W.A. Cocky-
dom, expressed unqualified pleasure at the
extinction of “plastic patriots like Hen-
derson, Buzacott and De Largie.” There-
upon the members of the State Country party
announced that they dissociated themselves
from such disparaging remarks, pointing out,
almost plaintively, that they had been “allied
with the National Labor party since its in-
ception.” Verily politics are in a confused
state in W.A. when the only sympathy for
Hughes’s defeated offsiders comes from the
party which, in Federal politics, has an-
nounced its determination never to touch
Hughes himself with the end of a bargepole.
On January 26 the Sydney papers unani-
mously handed round butter on a lordly dish
as regards the greatness of Australia’s past,
and the wonder of its present, and the obvi-
ous and undoubted stupenduosity of its
future. It is the regulation thing. The
comfortable habit of reflecting on the coun-
try’s progress, but not on the progress of
its debt, which is the most progressive insti-
tution it possesses, is a regular holiday occu-
pation. It is a pity some Jeremiah didn’t
arise and cast healthy doubt on the glitter-
ing tale. When the great original State has
just borrowed four millions, and its Premier
is on his way to borrow millions more, and
it has just finished spending 15 millions in
a few months, there is a certain amount of
drink-money for everybody, and it is difficult
to be rational. But the rational frame of
mind should be cultivated at times.
While the Nat. and C.P. coteries were
discussing Hughes’s funeral Willie Watt
watched things from afar off at Port Fairy.
It was Watt’s fine performance at the
A.N.A. conference there in 1899 that helped
to win him the P.M.G.-ship in McLean’s
Ministry. It was in the same hamlet that
Alec Peacock won his wife (Millie Holden
that was), who stirred him up to become
Premier in 1901. There, also, the latest
knight, Attorney-General Arthur Robinson,
got the brain-wave that made him a public
man. In years more remote Bryan O’Logh-
len was the local member for a decade or
more. And it was while Tommy Bent was
rusticating on his Port Fairy farm that he
received the call to Brighton that resulted in
his becoming Railway Minister under
Irvine, with the reversion to the Premiership,
in which Watt succeeded him.
THE NEED OF POPULATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There is only one effective way to overcome the
prickly-pear, and that is more' population.”
Who was it said that sons of Italy
By false pretences hither were decoyed,
And shooed them back again across the sea
Lest they should swell the ranks of un-
employed ?
What purblind chumps some politicians be,
Of true discernment lamentably void!
Australia has a place and jobs to spare
For anyone who’ll fight the prickly-pear.
Nuggets of gold no longer strew the soil;
The lure of cotton’s not compelling yet;
While wheat 'and wool and wine (and gushing
oil)
Some capital, ’tis clear, require to get.
But he who means to rise by honest toil
And fill his pockets by plebeian sweat
Can take a mattock almost anywhere
And joyfully assault the prickly-pear.
Then flash the glad intelligence to Bull,
The Commonwealth lias struck a new resource
For idie arms. Together all must pull
This war we cannot win but by the force
Of numbers. And for keeping cradles full
It’s just another argument, of course.
Increase and multiply we must, I swear,
To put the kibosh on the prickly-pear.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON: HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney. Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba. Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Hynam
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland :
Dividends.
/ * ,
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ It
1913. .109,915 23,336 5 p.e.= 32,718 20,000 291,111
1914. .139,553 49,460 5 ~,,41,716 339,483
Further profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land ]
Association .. .. .. £166,571 t 446,194
Written off premises and stores.. 59,865 J
1915. .136,387 49,460 5 p.c.= 41,716 491.405
Further profits N.Z. Land Association 1
liquidation .. .. .. £6,353 I ~.,
Profit on realisation of old co.’s assets 84,180 f 0 ’
Written off premises and stores . . 20,533 J
1916. .137,131 49,460 6 p.c.= 50,059 10.000 539,017
1917. .184,978 49,460 7 „ ~58,401 30,000 636,134
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 „ ~ 66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,228 49,730 8 ~,, 75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 6J „ ~ 65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 ~,, 20,000 518,448
That table covers the 10 years since the last
of several reconstructions which were neces-
sary to free the co. of the troubles it had
got into when the boom of the late ’eighties
and early ’nineties collapsed. Several entries
tell how reserves have been helped by unload-
ing assets at figures which were much
better than the values at which the man-
agement had taken them into the new set
of books. The old troubles are now not of
much interest, though, no doubt, during the
past few years some of the old hands have
been wondering whether similar trouble, on
a smaller scale, was threatening. The
war sent prices soaring, and while that
meant bigger commission earnings, property,
stock and merchandise values also rose rapidly,
particularly in Maoriland. When the war
boom collapsed many people had a taste of
what had been experienced in the ’nineties. For
several years this co.’s ordinary divs. recov-
ered to 8 p.c. on a much larger capital.
Then, in 1920, though record profits were
disclosed, the directors decided to take
£38,593 to write investments down to market
value, and the div. was reduced to 61 p.c.,
though, for the first time, the distribution
was free of income tax. In the 1921 financial
year the co. discovered how artificial the
war prosperity had been: values crashed in
all directions. Commission earnings slumped
and provision had to be made for the drop
in merchandise values. But there were
other troubles, too. D. M. Morgan, mana-
ger at Rockhampton, became inspector in
Maoriland, and was instructed to overhaul
securities there. His report was like an
echo of 30 years previously. The directors’
allusion to it was as follows: —
Desiring, no doubt, to place the business on bed-
rock, he has made a valuation which appears to the
directors to be drastic, but they have not thought it
right in any way to cut down his recommendations.
The provisions recommended by him have been dealt
with out of contingent reserves not now required for
the purposes for which they were originally set aside.
In view of the low prices prevailing, Mr. Morgan
also recommended an additional contingent provision
which the directors consider may appropriately be
dealt with out of the general reserve account, should
it be required.
But even though the book losses were cov-
ered by old profits which had not been dis-
closed, the period closed with a loss of
£16,186. During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the directors discovered
the necessity for Mr. Morgan’s “drastic valua-
tion,” and £lOO,OOO of reserves were trans-
ferred to Profit and Loss, so that £65,000
could be written off securities and the usual
5 p.c. for prefs. and a 2 p.c. div. for ordi-
naries could be distributed. As the whole of
the £65,000 written off was not depreciation
incurred during the period, a fairer way of
displaying results would be to show a profit
of £36,143 and treat the amount written off
as a separate entry. On the other hand the
appreciation of the market value of gilt-edged
securities has not been taken credit for in
the accounts. At June 30 this parcel was
labelled £508,203, but the market appraise-
ment was £543,509.
Whether all the writing down has placed
book values on a thoroughly satisfactory basis
is not ascertainable. The improved wool mar-
ket and the gradual recovery in other pro
ducts has probably made the position better
than the management had expected. But
these pastoral-finance cos. are on sounder
foundations than they were in the big boom.
Nowadays they have very few creditors to
worry them. This one, for instance, at June
30 last, had cash in hand and at short call
£259,000 in excess of all outside liabilities.
There were, in addition, Government securi-
ties worth £543,000. Balance-sheet figures for
the past two years compare with those of
1915 as follows :
Liabilities.
1915 1921 1922.
Debentures .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Other debts . - 376,065 697,004 690,688
Liquid assets . . 930,033 667,277 1,524,613
Co.’s debentures 300,000 300,000 300,000
Advances, etc. 2,945,022 3,944,599 3,000,361
Properties, stock,
etc. . . 49,272 4,377 4,617
Premises . . 330,000 269,774 280,290
Merchandise . . 203,102 173,281 144,255
During the seven years £176,486 of new capi-
tal had been got in, and that and the cash
from realisation of old assets have gone
mostly into readily convertible securities. In
a co. commanding two millions of 4 p.c. de-
bentures, a million of 5 p.c. prefs and a half-
million of reserves, a million of ordinaries
should have good div. prospects. But these
prospects and the general health of the co.
depend on things concerning which balance-
sheet figures are not always a reliable guide.
If Mr. Morgan’s valuations have proved
to be “bedrock,” and affairs elsewhere are
equally satisfactory, the N. Z. Loan and Mer-
cantile Agency should give a better account
of itself in the improving markets.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunteb River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1910.. £7,239 6 p.c. = £6,000 £1,239 £12,907
1911.. 5,837 6 „ „ 6,000 12,744
1912.. . 8,969 7 „ „ 7,000 1,969 14,713
1913.. 10,027 7 „ „ 7,000 3,027 17,740
An “adjustment” of valns of assets made in 1919
claimed that at June, 1914. the co. had £98,108 of
reserves instead of £18,153 disclosed by the pub-
lished accounts.
1914.. £12,753 7 p.c. = £7,000 £5,753 £103,448
1915.. 14,933 8 „„ 8,000 6,933 110,381
1916.. 24,652 9 „ „ 9,000 15,652 126,033
1917.. 9,948 9 „„ 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 ~,, 10,000 4,530 131,511
1919.. 10,012 10 ~,, 10,000 12 { ;
Written off, £17,495. j ’
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
192 °w -ft 29 ’tr lo I°P- C \ = [ 13,962 77,990
Written off contingencies, £248 j ’
mi.. 23,937 10 p.c = 15,000 l 89 - g 6 885
Written off, £42 )
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
This N. S. Wales coastal co. added the 1929-
ton Gwydir to its fleet in October, and there
is now £156,466 in ships against £90,487 a
year ago. But “depression in trade in New-
castle,” the directors say, “together with a
decline in shipments of pastoral and agri-
cultural products from the Hunter, is respon-
sible for a large falling-off in freight earn-
ings.” Actual results were not quite so lean
as a first glance at the accounts suggests.
The net profit disclosed was only £36 more
than the £15,000 required to pay 10 p.c.; but
the management had previously laid aside
something for depreciation, insurance, etc.
How much was appropriated for deprecia-
tion is not ascertainable, but as £5281 net
was added to insurance account presumably
adequate allowance had already been made
for wasting assets. The profit shown in the
table includes the addition to insurance
reserves and also a few pounds dropped into
a contingencies account. Though net earn-
ings ascertainable from the accounts are
some thousands less than they were for the
previous couple of years, they are much bet-
ter than the average prior to the transfer of
reserves in 1920. That bonus issue took
paid capital from £lOO,OOO to £150,000, and
to old hands the present 10 p.c. means 15
p.c. For very many years shareholders
received only 6 p.c. on their money; and
though the published accounts showed only
narrow margins, the co. was really doing
better. When arranging the bonus issue,
and so that the Commonwealth tax-collector
would not participate, the directors admitted
that at June 30, 1914, the co. had actual
reserves of £98,108 instead of the £18,153
which had been shown. The accumulation of
these large reserves when only mild dis-
tributions w r ere being made has been partly
responsible for the better divs. in recent
years. Newcastle’s rapid development since
the B. H. Prop, established its steel-works
has also helped this co. The fact that it
has done so well during the recent industrial
depression suggests that when the steel-works
and allied industries again become active the
Newcastle and Hunter River S. S. should
continue to give good returns. The addition
of the Gwydir to the fleet should be a big
help.
The effect of the purchase of the new
steamer on balance-sheet figures is shown in
this comparison:—
June,’l4. Dec. ’2l. Dec., 22.
Liabilities .. .. £9,543 £17,041 £17,996
Ship property .. 46,475 90,487 156,466
Freeholds & leaseholds 1,357 16,309 16,309
Plant, stores, etc. .. 3,296 5,449 9,151
Book debts . . .. 11,058 19,000 18,320
Cash, etc 67,507 130,445 67,632
At December 31 the co. had borrowed £1273
from the bank, but on the other side were
Government securities with a book value of
£67,632. After paying the final div. there
was a surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
of £69,607, equal to 9s. per £1 share. So the
position was very comfortable. At the June,
1914, balance the liquid surplus was £68,318,
so the addition of the Gwydir was accom-
plished almost wholly from additions to the
liquid surplus during the past 71 years. But
another way, profits not distributed .and ac-
cumulations for depreciation for that period
covered the cost of placing the new steamer
in commission.
N.S.W. Fkesii Food and Ice Co,, Ltd.,
(Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1911. . £25,594 11 p.c.= £12,842 £12,752 £73,724
Transferred to capital, £55,038 .. 18,686
1912.. 39,417 114 p.c.= 16,328 23,089 41,775
1913.. 31,727 111 „ „ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to capital, £18,346 .. 38,094
1914.. 28,760 111 p.c.= 17,796 10,964 49,058
1915.. 16,478 81 „ „ 13,851 2,627 51,685
1916.. 13,732 8' „ ~ 13,209 523 52,208
1917.. 20,192 10 „ „ 16,511 3,681 55,889
1918.. 17,979 10 „ „ 16,511 1,468 57,357
1919.. 24,367 10 „ „ 16,511 7,856 65,213
1920.. 13,876 10 ~ „ 16,696 62,393
1921.. 15,352 8 „ „ 15,543 62,202
1922.. 19,816 8 „ „ 17,727 2,089 64,291
Much new capital has been introduced dur-
ing the past two years; in 1921 the co. opened
new branches and bought the freehold of
portion of its works site ; last year additional
plant was installed to cope with the demand
for ice. Paid capital at the 1920 balance
was £182,514; 12 months ago, £209,359; at
December 31 last, £253,705. The works
extensions were completed only a few weeks
prior to the balance, so they contributed very
little to the year’s earnings. Owing to the
increased capital the improvement of profits
has not lifted the div. rate: 8 p.c. now calls
for £20,296 p.a., but as much of the new
capital was paid in only lately, that div.
for the past year required only £17,727, leav-
ing a visible £2089 for reserves. Though
the co. has overcome some of the troubles,
such as price-fixing, which restricted its
earnings for several years, the business is
far from being on a normal basis. Some
branches have expanded, but the frozen-meat
trade has been very dull, and it is likely
to continue so until the English market im-
proves. Under these circumstances, the
management did well to earn S p.c. That
rate, by the way, is no better because of
the two transfers of reserves which figure
in the table. Those “bonus” distributions
merely replaced capital written off after the
gruelling the co. received 20 years ago.
This comparison shows that, during the
past seven years, net additions to fixed assets
have exceeded £86,000: —
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities. . . . £55,578 £70,441 £76,334 £99,032
Property, plant, etc. 203,027 190,963 243,975 289,422
Stock .. ... 22,010 38,426 27,664 28,126
Cash & investments 20,970 27,057 34,129 51,972
Book debts . . 31,324 67,343 50,207 56,858
All the new capital has not been required for
works extensions, and the management still
has a good bundle of public securities; at
December 31, £48,966. So though outside
liabilities were heavier, the surplus of stocks,
book debts and investments at £37,924 was
£2258 more than 12 months before. The
co. is now equipped to carry a much larger
business than it used to, and better results
should come when the frozen-meat trade
recovers. But it is a concern whose turn-
over depends largely on erratic seasons, and
for that reason the profits of any one year
are not a reliable guide to prospective earn-
ings. Since it recovered from the big drought
early this century, the F. F. & I. has paid
srood average divs. and meanwhile accumu-
lated substantial reserves. After payment
of the final div. there were net assets with
a book value of £318,000 to represent
£253,000 of paid capital, assuming that the
£30,000 redemption fund and £lB,OOO in a
reserve for renewals, public risk and con-
tingencies, were true accumulations of undis-
tributed profits.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney),
property auctioneers, subdivisionists, valua-
tors, etc.: —-
Written To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1910.. £9,898 6 p.c. = £3,600 £6298 £26,853
1911.. 11,346 7 „ „ 4,200 7146 19,707
1912.. 12,349 7 „ „ 4,200 8149 11,558
1913.. 12,024 7 „ „ 4,200 7824 3,734
Nominal
Reserves.
1914.. 10,787 7 „ „ 4,200 6587 2,853
1915.. 9,775 7 ~ ~ 4,200 5575 8,428
1916.. 8,102 7 „ „ 4,200 £984 2918 11,346
1917.. 6,571 7 ~ „ 4,200 1114 1257 12,603
1918.. 8.273 8 ~ „ 5,345 1452 1476 14,079
1919.. 14,883 124 „ „ 7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 274 „ „ 19,071 3735 18,247
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „ 6,955 4110 15,329
1922.. 14,394 17 „ „ 11,840 2962 14,921
Last year Sydney recovered from the depres-
sion which followed the post-war slump, and
as the city railway. North Shore bridge and
other schemes were resuscitated and house-
shortage was still acute, the property market
became active again. R. and W.’s estimates
of metropolitan sales for the past five years
have been as follows:
City. Suburbs.
1918 .. .. £1,000,000 £2,500,000
1919 .. .. 1,150,000 3,200,000
1920 . . . . 3,000,000 4,375,000
1921 . . . . 1,483,515 2,566,827
1922 . . .. 3,000,000 3,500,000
This co.’s share of the 1922 transactions ex-
ceeded a million, and was double that of
the previous year; also it knocked down
386,000 of Australian Gas shares. So, after
paying £1750 of bonuses to the staff, the direc-
tors distributed divs. totalling 17 p.c. A
feature of the introductory table is the
amount, written off each year : since the 1921
accounts were presented £1962 has dropped
out of the contingencies account and £.lOOO
voted for a special reserve has vanished.
Taxation possibly accounts for portion of the
disappearances; if so. actual net profits
have not been quite so large as those shown
in the table. Apparently the co. has also
taken advantage of its very prosperous run
to put a little up its sleeve, though the fol-
lowing comparisons of balance-sheet figures
suggest that there are not many assets which
should require the support of internal re-
serves :
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Capital .. .. £60,000 £69,350 £69,650 £69,650
Liabilities .. 12,282 27,823 20,424 21,479
Advances .. .. 53,462 73,129 71,810 54,194
Book debts .. 6,281 3,684 1,972 3,356
Cash, etc. . . 21,206 40,594 31,881 52,284
Odds and ends .. 1,861 4,948 3,222 3,181
At one time the co. was almost wholly an
agency concern, but the management decided
that advances were profitable s.de-lines in
which to invest surplus funds. No doubt the
£54,394 on the books is supported by values
with a substantial margin. The co.’s posi-
tion is snug: the £21,479 of liabilities (which
include £12,734 of deposits on sales) at De-
cember 31 had the backing of £34,570 of
cash, £17,713 of War Loan, and sundry other
more or less liquid assets with a book value
of £5974. Since the balance £5974 has been
distributed in divs. and bonuses, but the co.
was still left with a large volume of surplus
liquid assets.
* * * *
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.)
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1914. . £3,006 sp.e. = £3125 £41,820
Dec., 1914.. 7,354 5 „ „ 3125 46,049
June, 1915.. 4,587 5 „ „ 3125 47,511
Dec., 1915.. 4,312 5 „ „ 3125 48,698
June, 1916.. 1,094 5 „ .. 3125 46,667
Dec., 1916.. 4,025 5 „ „ 3125 47,567
June, 1917.. 3,750 5 „ „ 3125 48,192
Dec., 1917.. 6,082 6 „ „ 3750 50,524
June, 1918.. 5,331 6 „ „ 3750 52,105
Dec., 1918.. 5,256 6 „ „ 3750 53,611
June, 1919.. 2,131 5 „ 3125 52,617
Dec., 1919.. 7,218 6 „ „ 3750 56,085
June, 1920.. 5,638 6 „ „ 3750 57,973
Dec., 1920., 5,132 6 „ „ 3750 59,355
June, 1921.. 4,738 7 „ „ 4375 59,718
Dee., 1921.. 6,258 7 „ „ 4375 61,601
June, 1922.. 4,628 7 „ ~ 4375 61,854
Written off renewals, £1832 .. 60,022
Dec., 1922.. 11,024 8 p.c. = 5000 66,046
Written off, £1305 64,741
For no other half-year of which The Bulle-
tin has record have this co.’s profits got into
five figures. The Deniliquin-Moama is one
of the very few privately-owned railways; it
was not constructed or acquired by the N.
S. Wales Government because it links up por-
tion of the south-west with the Victorian
system. Earnings have always been depend-
ent upon erratic seasons, and disclosed
profits also vary according to the amounts
provided out of revenue for permanent-way
maintenance and renewals. During the
past six months traffic was unusually brisk,
and the management seems to have cut exes.
Also only £3360 was spent on maintenance
compared with £6059 for the 1921 Decem-
ber term, and £5526 for the first half of the
past year. But after closing the accounts
the directors appropriated £1305 of the
latest profits to pay for new rails about to
arrive. That amount is shown as written
off in the table. The directors have also
set aside £2500 in a reserve for taxation. A
more satisfactory view of performances is
got by comparing balance-sheet figures over
lengthy periods. Since 1905, when the co.
was. recovering from the big drought, the
liquid position has improved this way
1905. 1915. 1921. 1922.
Liquid assets .. £11,254 £14,381 £28,457 £33,394
Liabilities.. .. 30,917 230 152 187
Excess liabilities £19,663
Surplus assets £14,151 £28,305 £33,207
For many years the div. did not go higher
than 5 p.c., though after the transfer of
£25,000 of reserves in 1911 to the old capi-
tal of £lOO,OOO shareholders were getting a
return of 6J p.c. Meanwhile, surplus profits
were reducing a debenture debt. To old holders
the latest 8 p.c. means 10 p.c., and as the
permanent-way, plant and rolling . stock
have been maintained “in good order,” the
little co. is now doing very well. In 17
years an excess of liabilities over assets of
£19,663 has been converted into a liquid
surplus of £33,207. Of course, that means
an average improvement of only £3llO p.a.,
but considered along with the divs. paid it
is a performance which makes the State
railway accounts look sick. The co. now
has more than one-fourth of its total capital
represented by Commonwealth loans,
deposits, cash and stores. Incidentally, the
fact that reserves half as large as capital
have been accumulated means that the 8
p.c. is not an out-of-the-way reward for
shareholders.
The Western Australian Bank is putting
the final touches to its re-arrangement
scheme, made possible by the new Act. Old
£lO scrip is being called in, and 10 shares
•of £1 each fully-paid are being issued in its


Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, :n
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
» * * •
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process wuich makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * »
The durability of Wood Pipe has been well known
since the earliest times. Wooden Water Pipes taken
up in London not long ago, after having been in
the ground nearly three centuries, were found excel-
lently preserved. Pioneer Wood Pipe, the modern
type of water conduit, in addition to being durable,
is cheap, easy to transport and lay, and the most
effective conveyer for all kinds of heavy fluids, acids,
brine, tanning liquors, etc., as well as water. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World. — Advt.
« * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
» » • •
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent. Apnlications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings. 350 George Street. Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* « * #
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply: “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. —Advt.
* * #
Drilling Plant. —Wanted Drilling Plant, port-
able, good condition, and capable doing 1500 ft. Price
must be bedrock. Reply immediately, “Oil Driller,”
care Gordon and Gotch, Ltd., Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * •
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
• « • «
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.—Advt.
The attention of investors and financial experts is directed
to the many advantages offered by
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF IM.S.W., LTD.
As Trustees, Executors or Administrators—as Attorneys under power or Agents
for Absentees—as Guardians of young children or Managers of Estates. This
Company possesses all the legal and financial knowledge necessary to the fulfil-
ment of the duties enumerated.
Clients interested are safeguarded by the Company’s whole capital and surplus,
and the personal liability of its Directors, Manager and Assistant-Manager.
An interview offers the most speedy means of arriving at an understanding,
or write Dept. P. for Free Booklet.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant-Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AAA REALLY SAVES !
6%
Automatic Petrol Saver Co.,
Commerce Buildings, Ash-atreet. Sydney.
Used by Winners
Brisbane to Sydney Tests,
1921 and 1922.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POP!-’. General Manager.
place. The transfer of £50,000 of reserves
gives two fully paids for every 10 £1 shares,
but this bonus scrip is not eligible for divs.
before November next. This will take paid
capital to £BOO,OOO, and it is to be increased
to half-a-million at the directors’ discretion
by the issue of 200,000 new £1 shares. For
a start, 50,000 are to be offered at 50s. each.
The recent market value of the £lO shares
has been £29 155., and, as 10 new shares
will cost £25, the directors express the
opinion that the scrip is “well worth the
price asked.”
Broken Hill South has issued a report for
the six months ended December 31 which esti-
mates a profit for that period, after allow-
ing for depreciation and taxes, of £135,000.
During the six months lead averaged £24
10s. per ton, zinc £33 Is. 3d., and silver 3s.
per oz. The output of crudes at 3979 tons
per week was 811 tons per week more than
for the first half of the year, but at 2465
tons there was a falling off of 255 tons of
slimes treated per week. Nevertheless, the o’d
material was an important contributor to
profits. The eastern slime dumps have been
cleaned up, and the western dumps are now
being drawn from. From 103,450 tons
crudes 18.698 tons concentrates going 66.2
p.c. lead, 24.20 z. silver and 7.5 p.c. zinc were
produced: 64,099 tons of dump slime gave
10,532 tons concentrates assaying 52.2 p.c.
lead, 33.10 z. silver and 12.8 p.c. zinc. Alto-
gether the South won 29,230 tons leady con-
centrates averaging 61.2 p.c. lead, 27.40 z.
silver and 9.4 p.c. zinc, and 48,448 tons
zincy tails going 16.8 p.c. zinc, 3.1 p.c. lead
and 3.30 z silver went to Amalgamated Zinc
on the old 50-50 basis. That contract expired
on December 31, but Amalgamated Zinc will
continue to treat this product until about
October next, when the South’s own plant
should be completed. Referring to the South’s
recent purchase of 50,000 £1 fully-paids in
the British mine, the directors are reported
to be “unanimously of opinion that the acqui-
sition of the British mine by an Australian
co. will prove highly advantageous to the
whole Broken Hill mining and smelting in-
dustry, and that this investment is wise and
prudent.”
* * * *
Efforts are being made in Sydney to give
the Occidental Consolidated. Cobar (N.S.W.).
another go. Several meetings have been held
to consider proposals to form a new co. The
latest scheme, in which Mt. Boppy manager
James Negus is taking a prominent part,
does not propose to remodel or enlarge sur-
face plant, but provides for the new co.
first developing the mine by opening up an-
other level. When the mine has been proved
attention will then be given to treatment,
which, though badly mulled in the past, pre-
sents no unsurmountable difficulties. The
Occidental is a big low-grade show, which,
properly handled, should be a success. Its
ore averages better than many of the Rand
mines which pay regular divs. An advisory
committee, which does not include members
of the old Board, has been appointed to
consider details.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.) is to have another share
shuffle, and, being hard up, it is of the three-
golden-balls type. The co. began with
£120,000 of capital in £1 shares, and, having
10 p.c. copper ore, began paying divs. in 1911.
Things went well until the 3 p.c zone was
reached, when the policy of making up in
low-grade claims what was lost in quality
was adopted. All the decent shows about
Cloncurry went into the pot, accompanying
them being Mt. Oxide. When things were
good the 120,000 £1 shares were converted
into £5 scrip. Then, when the Fanti-Davies
crowd unloaded Oxide, capital increased from
£750,000 in £5 shares to £1,250,000 in £1
shares. W. H. Corbould all the while worked
to fulfil his dream of making the Elliott the
one big copper thing in Aussie. But cash
ran out, and Paris and London were too Sick
to find funds for the Oxide railway. Uncle
Sam was approached, but didn’t bite. Rupert
Henning, in London, had a free hand, and
finally has to throw' on the table two possi-
bilities: (1) liquidation; (2) reconstruction
and a new crowd in charge. Though the
scheme was called a “salvage” operation,
shareholders have swallowed it. The names
to the offer are Brandeis Goldschmidt, of pre-
war metal fame, and Lionel Robinson, Clark
and Co. They underwrite £120,000 out. of
£500,000 of new £1 participating pref. shares,
leaving shareholders the right to take up the
lot. These shares have the right to a refund
of capital out of first profits, then a 7 p.c.
cum. pref. div., and when that is met one-
third of any balance of profits available.
Should the co. go into liquidation the partici-
pator not only gets another 20s. per share
back and interest due as a first charge on the
assets, but also one-third of the balance. So
the present shares become far-off deferreds.
Though the mines which Elliott controls con-
tain 1.800,000 tons of 4.63 p.c. copper ore,
the holder who cannot mop up his share of
the new issue looks to have a slender chance
of getting bis capital back. They are very
stiff terms, but evidence the best obtainable
after protracted negotiations.
Torrington Blatchford, geologist in charge
of survey operations on Frene.v’s oil areas
(W.A.), has brought his detailed plans to
Sydney, and will confer with Professor David.
Martin Freney, managing-director, has re-
signed as field-superintendent, and Blatchford
has been appointed in control of all work on
the areas. Talbot will continue as field-
geologist, and boring will be resumed at the
beginning of next month.
Four shafts have' been sunk 15ft. on two
parallel lodes on Mutooroo’s new find, Mt.
Juglali (W.A.). Widths range tram 5 to 5
feet and values from 15 to 35 dwt. Rich
quartz floaters continue to be found, and these
no doubt have been shed from the two lodes
referred to. The lodes appear to run for a
considerable distance, but so far they have
been opened up only at four points. The
present position is summed up by describing
the find as a surface show of promise.
Nothing of value has been discovered out-
side the Mutooroo blocks, although shares in
cos. which have secured _ options near by
have received much attention on the market.
* * * *
Jasper is gradually replacing quartz at
depth in the Retaliation Reward and Retalia-
tion Junction, and it is not surprising there-
fore to learn that gold values have fallen to
sdwt. at 40ft. Both shows looked promising
enough near the surface, where values aver-
aged over an ounce. Shareholders are disap-
pointed, and it is likely that the leases will
soon be thrown back to the vendors. If this
course be followed it cannot be said the leases
were tried to any great extent. The deepest
shaft is 40ft., and no crosscutting has been
done. But on the Yalgoo field, it has been a
general experience that when values dis-
appear at shallow depth alongside the jaspers
they rarely recur with deeper sinking. The
Retaliation cos. have some cash in hand, so
they may decide to seek other properties.
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) recently treated
at the State Battery 260 tons for an average
of 21dwt. by amalgamation, with 43dwt. in
tailings. The co. intends crosscutting for
what is called the New lode from a point 50ft.
down in the old workings, and will also sink
a new shaft to strike this lode at the same
depth. Brown’s can be recommended to _ do
some genuine mining work, such as sinking
to 100 ft., with a view to exposing an ore re-
serve that might justify a treatment plant.
The carting of ore 22 miles for milling is
wasteful, but the co. requires cash quickly to
meet the £BOOO balance of purchase price to
be found within a few months.
Brown’s Reward Central, in 120,000 shares
of 10s., of which 60,000 are offered to the
public at Is. on application, is now on the
market. Central is at Field’s Find, near
Brown’s Reward. A shaft is down to 300 ft.,
and about 180 ft below water level. As the
shaft has not been unwatered for a long time,
the public is asked to take the float on trust,
as there has been no opportunity recently for
a survey below water level. The £5OOO cash,
besides shares, is a big consideration to pay
intermediate vendors, particularly as the
original vendor gets only £750.
A Westralian syndicate recently acquired
a 6000-acre tin concession in Penang and
sent C. M. Harris to have a look. Harris
returned the other day and reported that the
property included a number of streams con-
taining high-grade w’ash. A sluicing plant
is to be sent to demonstrate the value of the
concession, and, meantime, wash is being
developed under the supervision of an experi-
enced mining-engineer.
* ■* # *
The increasing demand for arsenic is caus-
ing activity in the mines in northern N.S.W.
and southern Queensland. Among these is
the Valla, in the Beilingen district, North
Coast (N.S.W.). It was worked for gold
over 30 years ago, but was abandoned when
values dropped below an ounce and difficulties
of treating pyrites became insuperable. Dur-
ing the last years of war, when arsenic was
realising big prices, a Peal syndicate was
formed to work the show for that chemical. A
small co. fo lowed, and after spending a few
thousands it began shipping 40 p.c. concentrate
containing 15dw*t. gold to Leggo’s. Later
on, a larger co. was formed in Melbourne and
Leggo’s acquired a half-interest. After the
armistice the market steadily declined, until
mining for arsenic alone became a risky job.
Nevertheless, the Valla continued to spend a
lot of money on development and plant
in expectation of an improved market, and
after a wait of 18 months it looks like
materialising. Arsenic is now around the
£7O mark in London and N’York. Germany
is also a buyer. The Valla is putting in
another 140 h.p. boiler, electric lighting has
been installed, and arrangements are being
made to work three shifts. The few dwts.
of gold in the pyrites helps, and if the
market holds, shareholders may reasonably
expect better things.
O. C. Roberts, Ltd., opened their chemical
works at Wallangarra (Q.'i with gi-pat eclat
last week, and ran a special from Brisbane
carrying the Governor and a numerous party
of business men. The ore is coming from
the Beecroft mine, and the first lot put
through carried 30 p.c. arsenic. As this
is nearly pure mispickel. it is safe to say
the average ore will run much lower. A. T.
Teague, formerly of the Sundown tin and
arsenic mine, is manager of the Beecroft.
Incidentally, the co. gets in well ahead of
State enterprise: the Mines Department has
been talking about putting arsenical poisons
on the market instead of oxide for a year
or more.
“Talpa,” on the Roma bore: —
The strictures of “H. 11.” (B. l/2/’23) on “dila-
tory methods” at the Government oil bore at Roma
(Q.) look to be merited on the face of things, but
a little inquiry puts the matter in another light.
In the first place, the Government of the day, hav-
ing had it well rammed down its throat that Aus-
tralians were incapable of drilling a well, sent its
hydraulic-engineer, the late J. Hargreaves, to U.S.A.
to buy appliances and engage the best driller
that he could get. He bought an up-to-the-minute
American Standard rig, and engaged driller Whaley,
who had unquestionable references. Whaley was
accustomed to 12-hour shifts, and worked them con-
scientiously, having two drillers who worked 12
hours each, and three sets of men, each working
eight hours, although there was nothing in his agree-
ment about working 12 hours. So much for his
dilatory methods.
Whaley had been accustomed to the soft Cali-
fornian tertiaries, where 100 feet per day is com-
mon practice, and did not savvy the quartzitic sand-
stones of our Walloons. His co-worker and suc-
cessor, Patton, was a Pennsylvanian and Oklahoma
driller, and was accustomed to harder rocks, but he
made no better time than Whaley. There were very
few accidents while drilling, and, although the work
was carried on slowly, it was well done, and every-
thing was in good order until the final accident.
The mistakes made were those of the petroleum
engineer, and it must be remembered that in 1915
the term was almost unknown, even in the U.S.A.,
as has been proved by the number of mistakes made
there since that date. The site was wrongly chosen ;
it was so close to the artesian wells which supply
the town, that any shows of oil or gas above 2700 ft.
would be drowned out. The method of drilling
with a hole full of water was all wrong for prospect-
ing, but could not be avoided, as the sands were
continuous from the other wells. The use of long
strings of light casing was also a mistake. These
are not a driller’s problems, but an engineer’s.
Incidentally, the last lesson has not been learned
yet, as a local oil co. now proposes to use 124 in.
casing to 4600 ft., entirely ignoring the fact that the
external collapsing pressure of the heaviest casing
made in this size is only 12001 b. per sq. in., whilst
it will be subjected to fully 20001 b. at that depth.
When the Yanks had gone home, the question of
abandoning the well and starting a new one was
raised, and that would appear to have been a sensible
step. Yet, had that been done, the large flow cf
petrol-bearing gas would never have been disclosed,
and it may yet prove a most valuable discovery.
The cost ( £40,000) looks enormous, although there
is a set-off of a few thousands for plant and casing
recovered. Compare the expenditure by the British
Government of £500,000 for 10 wells,' only one of
which is producing oil, the investment of $1,000,000
by the Imperial Oil Co. (Standard Oil of Canada)
for no oil at all, and the recent completion of the
dry hole between Lost Hills and Mclvittrick (Cali-
fornia) by the same co., which took three years at
an average expense rate of $2OO a day; then our
expenditure looks ridiculously small.
A Government drill lias been packed up
and consigned to Gympie to test the area
in the vicinity of the Great Northern Ex-
tended, between the two crosscourses where
L. C. Ball reckons the plumbago beds will
be struck. Ball is confident of his data,
and it is a reasonably good spec, to antici-
pate that they will carry a rich reef or two.
Cairns (N.Q.) has had a couple of gold
shows in the range behind it, at Specimen
Hill and Mt. Peter, which have been tackled
at various periods with indifferent results.
Mt. Peter recently sprang a bit of a surprise,
as the new straight shaft which cut the lode
at 95ft. ran through a reef 3ft. wide with
every appearance of living, as the walls are
well defined and indicate a true fissure lode.
The stone in the sink is showing gold freely,
so that assay results will be rich and possibiv
misleading. Still, as the ore is full of
mineral, it is likely to carry good values apart
from the free gold. Prospects are considered
good enough to put on four shifts driving and
sinking.
* * * *
Last month’s work did not reveal anything
startling at Brookfield, near Brisbane (Q.),
and there is nothing much of value in sight
except Mattingley’s Eclipse, in which up to
18in. of ore is showing, and from which a
trial crushing gave 3oz. A great deal more
work is necessary to show whether it is
worth anything near the valuation the
owners are putting on the shares.
Nukinenda (Q.) featured a small rush a
couple of years back, and then faded out.
Some of the old brigade kept going, and have
lately located a galena lode and a couple
of gold reefs, the prospects of the latter
being considered sufficiently good to stand
development. A battery has been purcha'sed
in Gympie, and is being erected. Toowoomba
money is backing the enterprise.
Tannymorel (Q.), which used to supply
the best coal on the Darling Downs, has,
like Oakey and Clifton, faded away. The
Government recently concluded boring tests,
but they showed that the field had littP be-
hind it. One bore revealed that for 150 ft.
there were no other seams than the Tanny,
and it was too poor to be workable where
struck. An Ipswich co. looking for a new
mine has abandoned its holding there. All
the Downs seams appear small and capri-
cious, and investigations on the Oakey held
support this conclusion.
Harry Hartrick, who maintains his faith
in Walhalla (Vic-.), gives North Overseas a
Long Tunnel chance. Work on the dyke in
the south tunnel has brought to light a
diorite formation from 25ft. to 30ft. wide,
with quartz veins carrying some gold, but
not payable. The north tunnel panned out
about the same. 80 Hartrick cleaned out
an old tunnel 218 ft. in the hillside, and by
crosscutting off it to 113 ft. ran into a split
off ’the old dyke which he wants to test for
another 200 ft.
* * * *
Chas. Kerry is very cheerful in his latest
half-yearly talk to Malaya Tin Corp. share-
holders. This is because tin recently im-
proved from around £l5O to more than £lBO,
and “70 p.c. of this difference means addi-
tional profit.” The Corp. has holdings in
Ratrut, which is completing a second dredge,
in Takuapa, which towards the middle of
the year will have one of the largest
dredges in Malaya ready for steam, and in
the recently-floated Bundi, a 2000-acre con-
cern which, for a start, offers 400 acres
averaging 141 b. Unexpectedly, the prospects
of doing something with the Siberian con-
cessions have brightened: that country, the
chairman says, can “once more be regarded
as a likely asset.” The Corp.’s representa-
tive there considers that to secure permis-
sion to work the Severnick properties from
the Soviet Government is “more or less of a
formality now,” and that there should be
few difficulties in getting a labor team to-
gether. So, later on, the provisional sale
which was negotiated in 1919 may be re-
vived. Chairman Kerry talks of the “early
prospect” of divs. from “consistent income”
which the three new dredges are expected to
give. Meanwhile, the co. is looking into the
merits of three new areas, and offering the
£5900 balance of its £lO,OOO debenture issue
of two years ago to keep the pot boiling.
These 10 p.c. debentures of £25 each are
repayable on October 1. 1926, and can be
converted into ordinaries at par during their
currency.


A MAJOR OPERATION.
BRUCE (very dubiously): “Strikes me, Doctor, that when you’ve finished that tail’s going to wag the dog!”


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
European Plan—Charges for Room only.
Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
snout
Suites de luxe, with batnroom attached.
Telephone in every Room. Roof Garden.
Under the Direction of —
ROWE’S LIMITED, PROPRIETORS.
For Reservations address Manager.
t -i
U:
It
4.
m
X: ■>* -j
Italy's Best
PERFUMES
and
Face Powders
Even the best gifts of grace and charm are
enhanced when their possessor carries with her the
tender fragrances of flowers that are of natural per-
fume —pure, real and perfect.
Only the extracts from the loveliest flowers of
Italy are used in making Lepit Perfumes.
Try their exquisite difference in both Face Powder
and Perfume. Ask for Fior di Notte (Flowers of
the Night), Ninfea (Lilies of the Water), Olea Frag-
rans, Acacia Cyclamen, Origanum, Mimosa and the
other alluring Lepit fragrances.
Buy Lepit Perfumery of High-Class Chemists .
GATTINO & CO., LTD., Agents, 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
Carlton Hotel Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
Where a genuine Welcome awaits you.
Ideally situated in the heart of the
Banking and Shopping Centre.
Direction J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland;
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Excellent Cuisine.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
HOCAR, SYDNEY.
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Wilfrido”: The cables anent the tomb
unearthed at Luxor and the pristine lady
with the perfect bust remind me of the
discovery of the Shellal mosaic at Gaza
during the Palestine campaign. The mosaic
was the floor of a Christian chapel, whose
date was fixed from Greek inscriptions as
the 622nd year after the Roman foundation
of Gaza, or approximately a.d. 561. It is
in variegated marbles, and is rich in gor-
THE INFANT CONNOISSEUR.
PA: “I never have any trouble with baby.
I've only to sing to him and off he goes
to sleep.”
VISITOR: “Oh, what a knowing child!”
geous imagery, with a centre scheme of
lions, tigers, flamingoes and peacocks. The
work of supervising its removal was given
to an Australian padre, Maitland-Woods, an
enthusiastic archgeologist. He believed that
the chapel had been erected in memory of
some saint, presumably George, and lie
nearly collapsed with excitement when a
small cavity in the chamber under the floor
revealed the skeleton of a man. Post-
haste, the padre tore off to the nearest tele-
graph office and sent this wire to D.H.Q.:
“Have found bones of saint!” The tele-
gram went to Cairo and was sent on with-
out alteration or explanation to the Records
Office there. The answer that came was
thoroughly characteristic: “Send name, No.
and Regiment of Trooper Saint!” Whether
those bones belonged to St. George or the
Dragon has not yet, I believe, been definitely
ascertained.
“Yardley” muses: —
“Melbourne”—“Melba” —how many people could
trace back the word to its first meaning? Many of the
brooks of Derbyshire tear through limestone country,
which often gives the waters a milky color. In the
language of the Saxon invaders the word for milk was
meolc , and the word for stream was burna. Hence
the hamlet which arose beside one milk-stream became
Melbourne. The place furnished a title for a Derby-
shire gentleman when he was created viscount; and
his successor happened to be Prime Minister of Britain
when the people of Batman’s village were casting
round for a name.
“Invalid”: “Fax’s” charge against the
Commonwealth Weather Bureau (B.
25/l/’23) is inconsistent with a statement
of Mr Hunt’s pub-
lished in The Bulle-
tin some months ago,
viz., “The records of
weather conditions at
Melbourne go back 66
years ending with
Dec., 1921. I have
divided this period
into three divisions of
22 years each....l
find that instead of
the summers becoming-
milder they appear to
be (if changing at
all) warmer.” Figures
followed in support of
this contention. Pos-
sibly “Fax” shares
the popular belief that
in Victoria another
ice age is slowly
approaching, and sus-
pects that it has re-
mained unnoticed at
the Weather Bureau.
The average' tempera-
tures of various periods, however, have been
compared there, and they altogether d scount
the theory that Melbourne is becoming more
frigid.
* * ¥ *
“Smike”: When Tom Mann was running
the Socialist in Melbourne he was intro-
duced to a young and verdant artist who
was prepared to do cartoons gratis. Mann
welcomed the youth with enthusiasm, and
the first idea suggested to the draughtsman
was a group of workers throwing off their
chains. The artist was to be very particu-
lar about the chains—“good, big ones,” Mann
suggested—and he went off to his work de-
termined to give the chain-breaker every
satisfaction. Two days later he turned up
with a queue of well-fed toilers who were
busily separating themselves from huge gold
wcrtc/i-chains and casting them on the
ground. To this day Mann doesn’t know
whether the joke was perpetrated from igno-
rance or irony. I have my doubts also,
though I was the cartoonist*
* * * *
“Brutus II.”: In Adelaide recently a
young widow was brought before the Court
for practising the “oldest profession.” She
pleaded that she had been forced to do so
in order to provide bread for her little ones.
The Beak, however, was unsympathetic, and
handed out 14 days. In the local press next
morning appeared a host of letters express-
ing indignation at the severity of the sen-
tence, and there were several advocates of
a public subscription to give the unfortunate
woman a fresh start. One sympathetic lady’s
contribution to the discussion was a gem.
“I appeal,” she wrote, “to all the men who
have helped to make this kind of woman to
contribute a shilling. Will every woman
who has sinned contribute sixpence? I en-
close 55.”
* * * #
“Cliff S.”: The fact that old muddy Mother
Yarra is a poor sort of bosom to drop dead
bodies on should be patent by now to the
humblest murderer; yet the habit of doing
amateur burial there sticks closer than a
brother. It is the first place where the ortho-
dox Victorian thinks of putting the remains,
and the first place where the police look for
them. If the corpse is left in the street it
only means that the criminal was interrupted
while taking it to the recognised receptacle.
The Yarra is soup-like, if not absolutely
nourishing, and goods sink in it but slowly.
It doesn’t hurry to the sea with its freight
of sin, and when it ostensibly reaches the
sea it isn’t the sea but a very large lagoon,
where the evidence may amble to and fro for
weeks; and if the Yarra itself isn’t being
actually searched for people it is being
scratched to prevent it silting up, and corpses
turn up as a side-line. In the matter of the
latest mystery, the story is that the body
was first buried somewhere else, but that,
too many people being in the secret, five or
six of them became alarmed, and naturally
could think of nothing better than to bring
their corpse back to the most crowded place
in the State, and drop it in the garrulous
old stream that talks even in its sleep.
“Centurion” corrects a Crown Prosecutor:
That queer myth, “The King’s Sergeant,” cropped
up again the other day in a N. S. Wales court of
law, and no lei s an authority than barrister Captain
Storkey, V.C., explained to ’S’onah that the rank
was a special one conferred for exceptional conduct
on the field, and carrying special privileges. So
widely did this legend spread in the early years
of the war that a general order was issued to the
BARRED.
“A man should dress in harmony with his
hair. Grey hair demands a grey suit, for
instance.”
“Never do for my old slab: he's as bald as
a duck's egg!”
British Forces in 1917, pointing out that there was
no such rank or title as King’s Sergeant, or King’s
Corporal, and that there were no privileges attach-
ing to any rank save those set out in the King’s
Regulations. How the hard-to-kill fiction originated
is hard to say. One explanation I have heard is
that, in the earlier days of the Boer War, Queen
Victoria knitted half-a-dozen woollen scarves. These
were to be issued to officers or non-coms, who had
done something especially meritorious. But there was
no official endorsement of the idea, and the thing
fell cold. At least one Australian Light horseman
received, or was offered, the honor. When I re-
minded him of it in Shepheard’s nearly 20 years
later, he assumed such a murderous expression that
I hurriedly shouted twice running.
“P.W.”: She seemed compounded of sweet-
ness, hat and emotion as she tripped into the
chemist’s. “I want half-an-ounee of castor-
oil in something that will take the taste right
away,” was her demand. The druggist
beamed as he intimated that such a mixture
was well within his professional powers. He
added that it was a trying day, and wouldn’t
the young lady refresh herself with a saline
drink whilst she waited? She accepted the
courteous offer, and after disposing of what
looked like a delicious product of the soda-
fountain, asked if the oil was ready. Drugs
grinned. “You’ve just taken it.” he said.
But he got none of the compliments on his
skill that lie clearly expected. ~ “You idiot!”
shrieked the customer. “I wanted the oil
for my little brother. I'm going to a ball
to-night!”
“Bagman”: The railway hotel is the
world’s most striking modern development
in pubs. In the beginning it was mostly a
rather makeshift concern, at which the tra-
veller who was “stopping over” for a night
stopped the night and wasn’t sorry to leave
in the morning. That you fell out of the
train into the pub vestibule and had no
trouble to speak of with your luggage was
then the railway hotel’s sole recommenda-
tion. But things have changed utterly, and
in some parts—Canada and Scotland are
most conspicuous examples—the railway
hotel is now the finest caravanserai avail-
able. The Canadian Pacific Railway has a
whole string of them, mostly of great mag-
nificence —some of them in the Rocky Moun-
tain tourist country open for only- three or
four months in the year. One consequence
of their improvement is that the tired tra-
veller, for whose accommodation they were
designed, is now very liable to find no bed
for him. So there has been a more modei’n
development still; and when you have been
three days at, say, the Terminus Hotel at
Marseilles, in France, you will find the
tariff has gone up 25 per cent, for the next
four days, and if you stay on thereafter you
must pay 50 per cent, extra.
* * * *
“Lexite”: A young man who appeared to
have a long list of aliases has just been in the
dock in Sydney. Taxed with his multiplicity
of names, he denied that there was any-
thing sinister or suspicious about it, insist-
ing that all the names in the charge-sheet
had been legitimately his at one time or
another. It is a queer story. His earliest mem-
ories were of living with an aunt whose
name he bore, but with a dim idea that
it wasn’t his own. When he was thirteen his
aunt died and he was adopted by a German,
thereby acquiring a new moniker. _ During
the war, however, the German Englished his
name, which involved another change for the
lad. At this stage the adopted dad disap-
peared, and the adopted mum took another
mate, and always called the boy by the name
of her new husband. Finding himself in
the way, the boy cleared out and was
“adopted” by some other people. The Law,
which found him innocent of the charges
against him, advised him to decide upon
one name and stick to it for the future.
* « * *
“D.F.”: The regional nature of many dis-
eases in Australia is clearly shown by the
mapping work which is being done by Dr.
Harvey Sutton and his staff. Hookworm is
confined to the northern coastal regions; its
southern limit is between Taree and New-
castle. It is true that five cases have been
found in Newcastle, but everything went
to show that the disease had been brought
from further north. Trachoma, on the other
hand, is mainly a disease of the more arid
regions of the interior. Goitre is markedly
regional in its distribution. It is nowhere
in N.S.W. so prevalent as it is in some
districts of Gippsland (Vic.), where 20 per
cent, of the population are affected. But it
is fairly common in some South Coast dis-
tricts. In Sydney it'is almost non-existent,
which is perhaps due to some quality of the
water; there seems to be an obscure rela-
tion between the nature of the water supply
and the prevalence of the disease.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: An eminent Cape Town sur-
geon was recently sued (unsuccessfully) by a
hospital patient for £lO,OOO damages for
operating without the patient’s consent. It
appeared the surgeon was under the impres-
sion that the patient’s consent had been
obtained. That hospital views the case with
disquiet, and has decided that no operation
will be performed in future without the writ-
ten consent of the patient: leading surgeons
who give their services free shouldn’t, it
thinks, be laid open to the risk of action.
How do Australian public hospitals stand in
this respect?
* * * *
“Sierra”: On Sunday afternoons a small
knot of people, provided with oversea accents
and voluminous parcels of letters and news-
paper cuttings, confer together round a
wooden pulpit in Sydney Domain. They use
strange terms unknown in Australia outside
picture shows, whisper mysteriously to each
other of ginks and gazebos, and hint darkly
of railroading certain citizens out of the
State. At 3 o’clock (blowing-off time in the
HE SAW A STRAW AND GRABBED IT.
HIM : “Still pining after that frock?”
SHIM: “Lost my head over it.”
HIM: “Hum! Then you won't want that
thirty-guinea hat ice saw.”
Dornain) the leaders mount the pulpit and
deliver speeches about the Church, Unseen
Enemies and Hidden Hands. This is the
newly-born Australian offspring of the Ku
Ivlux Klan. At present the grotesque thing
is plainly exotic, and tends to excite ridicule
more than anger; but, under police protec-
tion, it may strike root and become as for-
midable a menace to the Commonwealth as
its progenitor is to the U.S.A.
(Continued on page ID.)
WOMAN’S WRITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In shorthand and typewriting, women swept the
board at the recent N. S. Wales Public Service exam-
inations. Nineteen persons passed, 18 misses, one
Mrs., no misters.”—Age.
Who called them “inexpressive shes” showed ignorance
excessive,
The Irts wherein they lead are these essentially
expressive.
They sweep the board when points are scored for
lettered keys a-tapping,
With winged words to snare, like birds, you seldom
catch them napping.
The looked-for lists are out at last. Forth let
the news be blurted:
Competitors nineteen have passed—and every one
is skirted.
Not yet for pulpits they’re equipped, or fights for
cricket “ashes,”
But when it comes to typing script or jotting dots
and dashes
At lightning pace—ah, hide your face, no longer
are you It, man;
With Remington ’tis She’s the one. She’s got you
beat at Pitman.
Here’s ’most a score to swell the corps that serve
the State for payment,
And of the lot not one has got a pocket in the
raiment.
Though slow to win their way within the Parlia-
mentary portals,
Or get enrolled among the fold of lit’rature’s im-
mortals,
In Uni. rig or legal wig they knotty points deter-
mine ;
There’s nought to stay their upward way to gowns
of silk and ermine.
Clerks fresh arrayed each day invade some unex-
ploited places,
New on the scene here note nineteen—nor any
weareth braces!
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


WHAT A DIFFERENCE A BABY MAKES IN THE HOUSE!


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged
Beresford Morgan, Indooroopiliy, Q.
£lBB 8 0
110
£lB9 9 0
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
Stewart Dawson’s
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case
15 Jewels, f-Plate Nickel Movement.
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically and Soundly Constructed, and
to Keep Accurate Time.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
ESTABLISHED 1871. NS W - LTD -
sL
51
Defiance Lever
Special Price : 65-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled.
POSTAGE FREE.
Two Sydney Establishments:
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER.
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET.
“Stargazer” : He was an actor associated
temporarily with a Melbourne company. Of
late all his professional associations had
been temporary, due to a powerful alcoholic
habit. One evening he wandered into a pub
that had long been a favorite resort. The
front door was left ajar by a workman who
was removing fittings. Rossicus camped in
the bar, making himself comfortable on the
floor. He did not put in an appearance at
the theatre that evening, and his part was
taken by an understudy. Next morning the
man on the job in the hotel, which, in point
of fact, had been condemned by the non-
licensing board and was temporarily de-
serted, discovered Rossicus, still on the floor
and fast asleep. Awakened by the workman
the artist sat up, took a survey of the de-
populated bar and the bottleless shelves,
rubbed his eyes and had another look.
“Cleaned out!” he groaned. “What a bender
I must have had !”
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless” : Last year the N. S.
Wales Education Department was hard put
to it to provide sufficient room in the high
schools for students qualified to use them;
this year most of them are half-empty. The
cause, of course, is the decision to charge
fees. In Tamworth additions to the school
to meet the expected rush of students
recently cost the Department £5OOO ; but only
25 primary scholars out of over a hundred
who qualified have passed on to the high
school, and the attendance has dropped from
220 to 109. Similar conditions prevail in
practically all the high schools —in Albury
90 students have enrolled as against 200
last year. Though the Department is col-
THE REMINDER.
“George says I inspire him with a beautiful dim religious feeling.”
“I suppose he means you make him feel like a month of Mel-
bourne Sundays.”
lecting a trifle, it isn’t saving much, because
high-school teachers can’t be shifted to other
jobs at a moment’s notice.
* * * *
“Veda”: The staple beverage of the
French may be wine, but they aren’t slow
in adapting themselves to the customs of
other na+ives. The Jules Michelet dropped
into Wellington (M.L.) the other day, and
the sailors proceeded to demonstrate that
all their spare centimes hadn’t gone over
the Sydney bars. The Admiral’s favorite
liquor appeared to be kumrnel, and it wasn’t
made in France. As a wind-up to a joyous
week the Frenchmen were entertained by
the R.S.A.. where a toast honored w.th fran-
tic enthusiasm was that of “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres.” In its report the next
evening the Post altered the item to read:
“Another toast drunk was that of ‘The
Ladies of France’!”
“Dido”: The two newly-arrived represen-
tatives of the hayseed interests had been im-
HIS DARING PLAN.
WIFIE: “Oh, I 'm bored stiff — let’s do something fresh to-night.”
HUBBY : “Yes, let’s. We’ll spend the evening at home, eh?”
bibing freely of the booze that lendetli color
to the nose, and they struggled aboard the
tram with linked arms. Having fallen into
a seat, the one in the corner put his head out
of the back door, and gave his order. “North
Melbourne!” said he. His companion was
hurt. “You know I wanner go St. Ivilda,
he protested. Putting his head out of the
window, he shouted, “St. Ivilda ! North
Melbourne !” insisted the first. “St. Ivilda !
commanded the second. Then North Mel-
bourne smote St. Kilda very deliberately,
after which they fought and bled all over
each other, till, the gripman and conductor
joined forces and rolled them into the road.
After which the tram went its destined way
to Port Melbourne.
“Tarrago”: Isn’t it time some check was
placed on the indiscriminate selling of
methylated spirits?
In the early days of
six-o’clock closing it
came into vogue as a
substitute for other
things with a kick in
them, but it has tra-
velled far since then,
and is reaching a
stage where it is often
preferred to legitimate
alcohol. When beer
is obtainable “metho
and beer shandy” is a
favorite beverage—it
looks like new milk
and smells like a
motor-garage—and I
have the assurance of
connoisseurs that they
prefer it to anything
that the publican can
put up. Via the old
route it would take a
man a week to reach
the jim-jams stage,
but with a high-speed
spirit like this a few
hours will suffice to
show him a gnome in
a tin hat feeding
chunks of fat to a bunyip. What wood-
alcohol is doing for the U.S.A. “metho”
may yet do for Australia, unless its sale
is restricted.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: My friend Biggs has
the sort of face that even the description
“homely” would would de-
scribe a gargoyle as homely. I never heard
it adequately labelled till the other day, and
then it was a lady friend who found the right
phrase. “He’s got a face,” she said, “that
only a mother would love.”
“Poor Father” ; Talking about go-slowism,
consider N.S.W. Education Department. All
the exams, were held last year, well before
the holidays. Yet late in January the pri-
mary schools had been reopened a fortnight
before the pupils selected for higher
schools knew their fate, and the high schools
were in full blast after the end of the mouth
before those victims of our educational sys-
tem who had sat for the intermedi-
ate knew whether
they were to go up
or fall down or
stay out. As for
Bursaries, the
haughty Board is
a bad last in an-
nouncing its august
selections to the
low-waged waiting
parents. Rattle
his bones over the
stones, he’s only a
bursar whom no-
body owns.
* #
“Ashmead”: A
new sequel to a
breach-of - promise
case arose when a
man was recently
required to show
cause, before a
Hobart judge, why
he had not paid
£3OO damages
awarded agtainst
him at the suit of
a lady whose affec-
tions he had trifled
with. The respon-
dent admitted that
he had sold up his
house and furni-
ture, had a holiday
and blewed the
proceeds. He
would rather go to
gaol, he added de-
fiantly, than pay
the plaintiff what
the Court had
awarded her. The
The Judge, after
commenting on the
defaulter’s frank-
ness, agreed that
gaol was the
proper place for him, and suggested a
judgment summons to get him there
promptly.
“O.Iv.”: The extraordinary manner in
which a Victorian woman-motorist met her
death last week seems to raise a question as
to the difference between the workings of
the average feminine and the ordinary mas-
culine mind in a moment of sudden peril.
This woman-motorist was about to toot
across a level railway-crossing when she be-
came aware of a train coming. The car
couldn’t be stopped in time to let the train
rush by. She had to let the car proceed
and take its chance. Meanwhile, however,
she might have scrambled out of the car
from her front seat; but her impulse was
to climb over the back and escape that way.
The driver of the advancing train saw the
motor in time to put both brakes on,
and had the lady stayed aboard she
would have escaped destruction. Instead,
she fell from the back of the car in front
of the oncoming train. The engine caught
her up and killed her instantly. The car,
Iriverless, ran on unbanned until it bashed
into a fence, 100 yards beyond the railway
line. Woman-motorists have, as a rule, cul-
tivated stronger nerves than most women.
This one showed activity and resource where
it would have been better had she been
“paralysed bv fear.” It is hard to imagine
any man going so far out of his way to do
the wrong thing.
* * * «■
“John Palmer” on music and millinery;—
“T.W.’s” catalogue of the wearing apparel vended
by British music-academies engaged in the Australian
trade (B. 25/l/’23) is regrettably incomplete. The
oldest and biggest of these institutions is the Lon-
don College of Music in Great Marlborough-street.
Annually it issues a thousand-odd diplomas, and
any number of certificates, and recipients may
write A.L.C.M., A.Mus.L.C.M., L.C.M., or L.Mus.-
L.O.M. after their names. Also they may case
themselves in gowns of black, tastefully lined with
light-blue silk, obtainable from the official robe-
makers. If this fancy garment doesn’t appeal to
the seeker after musical “honors,” there are numer-
ous alternatives. The National College of Music
in Gower-street will issue her with a black gown,
striped with lavender silk on each sleeve, and a hood
of black silk lined with lavender silk; also the
initials L.N.C.M. follow the name. Or she may
become a L.N.A.M. of the National Academy of
Music in Molyneaux-road, Liverpool, and be gor-
geously arrayed in a black gown, with a silk hood
of navy-blue lined with red and trimmed with
white, and a college cap with a red, white and blue
tassel.
The outfit supplied by the Victoria College of Music,
of Holland Park-avenue, London, is better still. The
degree F.V.C.M. allows the candidate to buy—cash
with order—three inches of red silk on the sleeves of
his black gown, to wear a hood of royal-blue silk lined
with red silk and bordered with fur of a white
rabbit or cat, and to attach a red tassel to his
college cap. Painters are likewise supplied with
diplomas and robes, and the F.V.C.A. gets a black
silk gown faced with emerald silk, sleeves similarly
edged, and a hood of royal blue, lined with red silk
and edged with white fur. The National Conserva-
toire of Music’s rigout is comparatively quiet. The
only relief to the black gown is a two-inch border
of old-gold silk down the front and on the sleeves,
and an edging to the hood and neckband. On the
other hand, this institution riots in such gorgeous
diplomas as L. Cello N. Cons. Lon. and L.B.M.N.
Cons. Lon.
I haven’t exhausted the list by any means. There
are so many musical ragshops in Britain, and the
taste and fancy of the trusting “colonial” flat are
so extensively catered for, that the would-be wearer
of hood and gown need have no difficulty in match-
ing his or her complexion.
• * » *
“Iritis”: They do some things better in
Australia. Our private hospitals are good
only in patches, but taking them all round
they are not the leeches that the “nursing-
homes” of London are. A while ago two
old people who had been running a country
store in Maoriland saved up enough for the
Great Adventure —a trip to England. They
reached London all right, but on the second
day there the old lady fell and broke her
thigh. Because they thought it was the
proper thing to do, she was taken to a
nursing home in Wimpole-street, and after
she had been tucked in they came to the
question of terms. It would be 20 guineas
a week, with almost everything an extra
except breathing. They didn’t pay the 20
guineas, because they couldn’t, but they
were made to feel that people who couldn’t
pay 20 guineas and extras had no right to
break their legs. There were people in that
home —a small one with a single trained
nurse—paying 24 guineas ; and an Austra-
lian in London lately paid 30. Of course,
the person who knows his way about and to
whom money matters isn’t bled like this. But
with the stranger the Biblical injunction is
strictly followed.
* * * *
“V.C.” finds a new diversion:
Some time ago the name-plate on a suburban
villa caught my eye. “Lemah” it read, and I did
not interpret it as “Hamel” till next day. Now I
am a name-plate fiend, and lie awake solving these
acrostics. Some are easy, as “Lender!” for Fred
Nell, but others beat me completely, “Val Esbra”
being the tough nut of the collection. “The Rover”
and “Anna Carlovna” seem to indicate the achieving
of that good Australian ambition, a prize in
Tatt.’s. Others are literary, with “Locksley”
and “Melrose” first favorites; and our old
friends “Mon Repos” and “La Maison” are
AND SUE SO GUILELESS, TOO!
“Did you hear sobs in the audience as I
said farewell to the old home and fared
forth into the Great Unknown?”
“Yes. I expect they knew it was only make-
believe.”
well represented. One house with a very neglected
garden was labelled “Manana” ; I should like to meet
that cheerful jester. Many migrations can be traced
in the use of bush-township names from all over the
continent and Maoriland. Somehow, padding the
suburbs these days does not seem such a weary busi-
ness with a story or a puzzle behind every strip of
oxidised copper.
THE DEVIL UP TO DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The old Devil is here much the more dangerous
for his finer raiment and more gentlemanly address.”
— Rev. J. K. Robertson., of Melbourne.
The Devil is a fellow now
Of many cute disguises.
He may assume the pastor’s brow,
Quite bare of hair, and, oh, I vow,
The rascal very wise is.
Audacity he will not lack
To hook his collar down the back.
He’ll simulate a profiteer,
One of the most respected.
A splendid motor-car he’ll steer
To pick up any pretty dear,
And never be detected.
Ev’n as a broker he may pose,
Immaculate in evening clo’es.
He may be Smith upon the right
Or any simple neighbor,
Or any caller in the night
With little mask and jemmy dight,
Or he may sit for Labor.
This simple fact we have to own —
The Devil is the Great Unknown!
’Tis obviously hard to flee
A fiend who seems a straight ’un ;
The very man pretending he
Is helping us may prove to be
The old familiar Satan.
How can we dodge or overthrow him
When it’s impossible to know him ?
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


1
2
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I amcnn Store f A 102 Daktng House.
Lamsstm Service CU *» Svdney.
Olderfleet. Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 200 High St.. Christchurch
W. A.-H. Little &- Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
You can’t buy
any better than
B
K
It’s Tooth’s!
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness. Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
In the new Federal Cabinet there’s a
George (Pearce) and a Bill (Gibson), but
the others are Stanley Melbourne (Bruce),
Earle Christmas Grafton (Page), Littleton
Ernest (Groom), Austin (Chapman), Percy
Gerald (Stewart), Eric Kendall (Bowden),
Llewellyn (Atkinson), and Reginald Victor
(Wilson). The last eight all seem to have
stepped out of a Garvice novel.
With the passing of the Keighrans, the
oldest squatting family in the Riverina gives
up possession. The present Keighran
family represents the third generation
Melbournc’s Mayor
SWANSON, who has
been busy entertaining
visiting M’s.P.
of Australian - born
landowners. The pos-
sessions of the head
of the clan originally
extended from Henty
well into Wagga coun-
try, but much of the
land has since passed
into the hands of out-
lying branches of the
family. There was
still left, however, an
extensive area adja-
cent to Henty, but it
was all sold last
m o n t h, Iveighran,
senior, finding himself
too advanced in years
to continue handling
his numerous acres.
Of the new Federal Ministers Bruce is a
soft- As-wareliouseman (he has also been
called to the Bar in England), Earle Page
a surgeon, Groom, Bowden and Atkinson
are lawyers, Chapman is a landowner (he
has been in Parliament since he was 26, and
that is 32 years ago), Pearce a carpenter
(a union organiser before he went to the
Senate 22 years ago), Wilson a storekeeper
turned vigneron, Gibson a farmer and
Stewart an ex-sailor who now ploughs the
Mallee.
The wail of a black-and-white man:—
All the cartoonists will wish the new Federal
team a short life. The regularity of Bruce’s features
provides no opening for a decent caricature, though
Wells, of Melbourne Herald, is giving an outward
curve to the nose, with the result that Bruce’s
initials, S.M., are suspected of standing for Solo-
mon Moses. Earle Page is already the despair of
the artists, who are compelled to concentrate on his
clump of blonde curls and exaggerate Nature’s half-
hearted intention of making him a cherub. Bowden
has a bald head and fringe of sandy hair
like a young buster crop, but otherwise approxi-
mates to normal, like Pearce, Groom, Chapman and
Gibson, though the last certainly has a pair of
good keyhole ears. If Wilson and Stewart were move
prominent, they might furnish the black-and-whiters
with some excellent drawings. Wilson, short and
stocky, seems to have had a punch on the nose
at some time, and with a little doctoring-up lie
might pass for a stadium bottle-holder. Stewart,
with a protruding chin and forehead, which frown
heavily on the pretensions of an immature nose,
calls- for irreverent illustration. Also the lampoon-
ists would probably pounce on his method of part-
ing his hair into two converging rows of curls after
the fashion of M.C.’s at push darnces in days gone by.
J. R. Douglas, formerly a barrister of
Townsville, who steps up to the Q. Supreme
Court Bench in succession to Jamieson, J..
is the youngest son of a one-time Premier of
Queensland. Fort Augustus College, Inver-
ness (Scotland),
Riverview College
(Sydney) and the
Sydney Uni. had
the educating of
him. His record
as a law student
is breathless —he
passed his final
exam. 18 months
after starting out
to study law. This
is the minimum
time permitted
under the rules.
Douglas was
admitted to the
Bar in 1006, and
10 years later be-
came a Judge of
the Arbitration
Court.
“Concrete” LEWIS.
builder of Menzies’
and the Astor Flats.
From an old schoolfellow :
Of men who moulded S. M. Bruce’s char-
acter in the ’nineties at Melbourne Grammar no one
is worthier of mention than A. J. (“Bunty”) Evans,
the senior mathematical master. He was a small
man, exquisitely creased by an expert tailor, and he
was such a riot of right angles that he was a living illus-
tration of the second Book of Euclid. To-day,
Bruce also looks a victim to the terrible tyranny
of Todhunter. He can be drawn at any moment
by a T square and a pair of parallel rulers. He
was generally regarded as Evans’s favorite, but
not a boy envied Bruce. We all felt that
in the feat of shattering “Bunty’s”' reserve
he well deserved all the fruits of victory. Bruce
benefited by Evans’s interest in his development,
but he was never spoilt by the unbending of one
whom we other cringing infants considered a proud
and unaproachable creature.
“Rienzi”: Looking at Senator Pearce with
a Flor Superfina in his face, I recalled the
time when he attended May Day celebra-
tions with the red flower of Socialism blaz-
ing in his coat. On those occasions “Com-
rade” Pearce frothed when Capitalism was
mentioned, and once it was at his own re-
quest that he moved the resolution against
militarism in all its forms, and spoke on
the matter with a lot more violence than his
latter-day acquaintances would give him
credit for. Probably he sometimes reflects
with alarm that, if Destiny hadn’t inter-
vened and made him a politician, he might
have become one of the first victims of
Hughes’s War Precautions Act.
Hughes developed the “blithering blazes”
feature early. When he was head serang
of the waterside workers he was given
authority to meet the employers over a diffi-
culty. He came to an agreement with them,
then rang up an official of the union and
told him the terms of settlement. The offi-
cial, an extremist, who wanted something
different, said: “It’s impossible. There’s
some mistake. It can’t be Hughes speak-
ing !” Came the reply: “What the ——
do you mean, you and
—— —!” The paralysed official stopped
the blithering blaziness with: “Oh, it’s all
right, Billy—l know it’s you now.”
Greg. McGirr. the bunch of crackers on
the tail of the N.S.W. Labor party, has sud-
denly emerged from his temporary obscurity.
An abandoned fish-shop at Darlinghurst has
just blossomed into new life with flaring
intimations that it will soon be opened as a
pharmacy by “Greg. McGirr, Esq., M.L.A.”
Robert Stout’s successor in the Chancel-
lorship of the ’Varsity of Maoriland is Prof.
Macmillan Brown, an astonishingly vigorous
man of 77, who has spent a great part of
his retirement (he was at Canterbury Col-
lege for many years) in travelling about the
Pacific studying ethnology. Recently he
put in some months at Easter Island, which
is about as difficult to get to and from as
any part of the world. On the subject of
himself and his work, Brown is no. shrink-
ing violet. Few men can talk more interest-
ingly ; but he’s like the lady who said: “Then
the conversation became general—l talked
and the others listened.”
Paddy Cahill died at Sydney the other
day after 40 strenuous years in the N. Ter-
ritory, buffalo-shooting and stock-raising,
but mostly buffalo-shooting. He knew as
much about N.T. blacks as anybody, and in
his later days the Government made him
Protector of abos. He was full of yarns.
With a tribe which drifted into Oenpelli
once a year from a district away to the east
was a woman who always had a young child
with her. As there was never more than
one, and as it never seemed to grow, Pat-
rick asked about it. He found that it was
a different child each time, and that its
predecessors had been eaten. Talking about
the abos’. flesh-eating, Cahill told The Bul-
letin that a tribe from the back country
of the Liverpool River used to eat those of
its members who died away from the ances-
tral hunting-grounds, but that was only to
make sure that they were not buried on
alien soil. It was the most convenient
means of carrying them home.
George Miller, who died recently at 80,
was a Sydney native, the son of a one-time
Commissariat officer who founded the Sav-
ings Bank system of N. S. Wales. In 1860
George Miller became private sec. to Pre-
mier Charles Cowper and later to William
Forster. He then took up squatting in
Queensland, but two years sufficed for the
experiment. In 1867 he joined the Educa-
tion Department, and was for 15 years chief
clerk and twice Acting U.-S. Then he was
Comptroller of Prisons and Under-Sec. for
and fell under the axe in 1905.
“Cynic”: To say that Roland Green (B.
l/2/’23), who defeated Massy Greene, had
regrets that his lost leg gave him a senti-
mental advantage over his opponent is
bunkum. Thousands of dodgers were issued
by Green —he gave me one —which asked :
“Which do you prefer, the man who went to
the war twice and left a leg there, or the man
who stayed at home in a cushy job and tried
to conscript you?” Massy Greene wasn’t a
member of the Conscription Government, and
be offered his services in the A.1.F.; and the
unfair statements did the soldier who made
them more harm than good.
Dr. Leeper, of Melbourne, has been dis-
coursing of the coming visit of Prof. J. W.
Mackail, president of the Classical Associa-
tion of England, but hasn’t mentioned his
“Life of William Morris,” published in 1899,
and running to several editions. Mackail
married the daughter of artist Edward
Burne-Jones, who was a bosom friend of
Morris from their pre-Raphaelite days. Rud-
yard Kipling is related to that family also.
Leeper tells of a dinner at Balliol when an
Australian lady, on the invitation of Mac-
kail, danced a Highland fling on the table
and was much admired. A don capable of
that is sure of a tremendous Australian re-
ception.
“Bouragi” salutes a veteran: —
The last link between the old Papuan Administra-
tion and the new parted recently, when Jock Mac-
donald, Superintendent of Public Works, resigned,
after 30 years m the service. Macdonald went to
British New Guinea with Macgregor in 1892, as
gaoler and European constable, but, though he
didn’t get the title for many years, he was always
superintendent of what public works were going.
When lie went up there two Resident Magistrates
divided New Guinea between them —“Mat” Moreton
reigning from Samarai to the Gira mouth and Bing-
ham Hely from Samarai to Daru. Both are dead
this many a year. There was an incidental customs
official or two, and a Treasurer who entered the ser-
vice as a boat-steerer and kept the Treasury accounts
in a petty cash-book. Yet these men, with Mac-
gregor at their head, left a deeper mark on Papua’s
history than all those who came after them. Mac-
donald’s share in civilising the native was not the
least; as head gaoler at Port Moresby he made the
place a sort of university of civilisation, and the
thousands of natives who passed through his hands
did immense good among their savage brothers when
they left the comforts of the jug to again face the
terrors of freedom. Macdonald was a companion of
Macgregor in many of the latter’s earliest and most
arduous expeditions. The exacting Pro-Consul
trusted him to the uttermost and never found him
wanting.
Passed out at Bowen (Q.), Holyoake
Woodd, retired sec. of the Mt. Morgan G. M.
Co. Most of his early life was taken up
with banking; he was with the Bank of
N. S. Wales and the Q.N. in Sydney, Ips-
wich, Bowen, Rockhampton and Charters
Towers. He was 80-odd at the end and
for years had been living quietly at Bowen
on a Mt. Morgan pension.
“Uramao”: A reminder that Maoriland
has a connecting link with the poet Keats
was given recently when an application was
made to the New Plymouth Council by Mrs.
Jessie Brown for permission to erect a con-
crete wall around three sides of the grave of
her grandfather, with the epitaph : “Charles
Armitage Brown, the friend of Keats,” in-
scribed thereon. Brown arrived in New Ply-
mouth in 1841. He had spent much time in
Italy, and besides being an intimate of Keats
was associated with Byron, Leigh Hunt and
Walter Savage Landor. He survived only
seven months after his arrival, and was
given burial on the slopes of Marshland Hill,
New Plymouth.
R. W. FOSTER , recently Minister
for Works and Railways, who was sur-
prised to find that he hadn't keen in-
cluded in the new Cabinet,
“Bad Bill”: The retirement of A. E.
Cutler (B. S/2/’23) recalls that he was
responsible for the manufacture of locomo-
tives in Australia. Shortly after he took
charge at Cockatoo, the State Government
came on the market for 40 locomotives, and
Cutler fired in a tender. The Government
frowned fearfully at the idea of a State
department doing the work, but Cutler’s
price made it stop and think. A Royal Com-
mission was appointed to inquire into the
discrepancy of local and imported costs,
and its report led to fresh tenders being
called. The Clyde Engineering Works then
came into the business. Their price was
slightly higher than Cutler’s, but was about
£66,000 lower than the lowest overseas offer,
and was accepted. This killed the importa-
tion of locos.
J. W. Dunlop, chief engineer at the
Tramways Trust nower-house, who died sud-
denly at Port Adelaide last week, was the
hero of the Wairarapa wreck off the Maori-
land coast in 1894. He swam to the cliffs
through heavy seas, and saved many lives.
“J.H.” (London) on a rocketing Italian:
I had to interview Mussolini when he came fo
London the other day for the Reparations Confer-
ence. He speaks no English, but very rapid French,
picked up when he was an exile in Switzerland.
He is tall, commanding, good-looking, but an in-
nate poseur. His room at Claridge’s was fulj of
flowers, the scent of which, he found an opportunity
of saying, is an obsession of his. He struck one as
essentially a “brain-milker,” lacked the conference
manner, and was like fish out of water in the dis-
cussions with Bonar Law, Ourzon and Poincare. The
plan he put forward wasn’t his, but Gianinni’s- —
Italy’s economic expert in London and a very able
man. The “political correspondents” here think he
will last about six months..
Gone west in England, Grosvenor Thomas,
landscape painter, born in Sydney in 1856,
at which time there was an artist named
Edwin Thomas with a studio in Hunter-
street, near Henry Parkes’s Empire office.
Grosvenor Thomas adopted art as a profes-
sion 30 years ago, was self-taught, and lived
to see his work in many galleries.
Dead in Glasgow, at 92, Hamilton Max-
well, artist, who came to Australia in 1852
and put in four years in the bush and on the
diggings. In 1859 he went to India, where
he became Sheriff of Bombay, and by and bye
chairman of a local bank. Those were the
days when things went wrong with many
Indian banks; so Maxwell retired to Scot-
land in 1881 and joined the professional
artists.
“Gallery”: Senator Reginald Victor Wil-
son, just hoisted into the Bruce-Page Cabinet,
is about the most aggressive and voluble
man in the Federal Parliament. Though
he hasn’t Jupp Gardiner’s power of Mara-
thonic speech, he manages by interjection to
keep Hansard equally busy. He can dis-
perse a quorum quicker than even the lovable
but prosy Dr. Maloney. About the only
man in the Senate who can stand him un-
moved is Charlie Cox —but then Cox has
been under shell-fire.
PROPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The butcher never wears a hat, he’s got such bonza
hair,
He laughs and sings and whistles, and his only
earthly care
Seems shaving corners closer than he shaved them
yesterday,
Or cutting out the milkie with the girl across the
way.
But poor old Props! His hair is gone, his share of
laughter spent,
His bones are due to follow soon where youth and
vigor went,
And he has only one refrain, it quavers up and drops,
And no one seems to heed it: “0-ho ! Props! Clothes
props !”
The rabbit-o’s impatient; you must catch him at
the gate
And pick one quick and lively, and hurry with your
plate.
His glossy pony’s little hoofs tap quick as kettle-
drums,
And dogs and cats and women are running when he
comes.
But Props lets his old neddy crawl like' some
meandering rhyme,
He’s getting mighty near the land where there is
lots of time,
And lots of room, and lots of rest, where all the
bustle stops ;
And so he drifts, a-mumbling: “O-ho! Props!
Clothes props!”
The baker has his troubles, but he has his round to
go,
There’s always someone looking out to call the
bottl >o ;
But props are not the sort of thing you’re buying
, every day,
So, poor old bloke! he wanders by and nobody
shouts “Hey!”
He isn’t like the dustman with a good and steady
job,
He looks as though he roughed it and he never had
a bob;
But still he goes the same old round, he’ll do it till
he drops,
And the gibing echoes jeer him, crying: “Props!
Props! Props !”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Swift, silent
acceleration, with a
tremendous reserve of
power, is characteristic
of the Hudson Super-Six.
m
m
m
I
is
V
ll
r Wiseman’s Ferry
Hill Climb, May 13,
1922, Hudson Super-
Six, carrying heaviest
load (51661 b.), and mak-
ing fastest time.
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
W \ \ \ / —.
THE predominant position held by Hudson at the
present time is due to the way in which the Hudson
Motor Car Company has constantly modernised its
cars, thus keeping pace with the ever-forward wave
of Automobile progress.
The value of the Hudson is undisputed, even amongst its
competitors; its ability to out-perform, and outlast, any other
car of about its power is due to the patented features,
which Hudson alone possesses.
Buy a Hudson and possess a car which is respected by every-
one. There is considerable pleasure to be derived from this
friendly atmosphere, added to the general satisfaction that
is invariably obtained from the car itself.
The New Model is a Revelation
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
JOHNSTON, BRADLEY &
WILLIAMS,
41-45 Pier Street,
Perth, W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN, LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan.
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
King George IV
|\IIW J| WHISKY
nil
THE TOP NOTCH’ SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
HAWAII
THE YEAR' ROUND PLAYGROUND
sss
i
9
Vjmffpn 2#«v
v?-
Land of Lunar
Rainbows
—rare colors and climate,
is an ideal vacation resort
the year round. Swim
and surf, play tennis and
all other outdoor games every day.
Good Hotels of all classes. Ask
nearest travel, tourist or steam-
ship agency; or write for new
illustrated booklet, to —
Dept. B.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney, or
Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.A.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Pick”: Not only children, as mentioned
by Abos. recently, but the half-witted and
real crazy seem to have some singular taming'
influence on animals. On a South Coast (N.S.W.)
dairy farm an imbecile youth was the only employee
who, per boot, could round up the herd, which in-
cluded a bull that was a holy terror. The lad was
never attacked, though the owner and other hands,
when unmounted, were regularly chivvied out of
the paddock. I once saw a harmlessly insane woman
on a Monaro farm casually upend a gin-case beehive
and proceed to feast on the honeycomb. She didn’t
receive a sting; but a niece, who sought to rescue
her from the danger, was almost stung to death.
Another half-wit that I toiled with could walk up
and put a bridle on any broken horse in the pad-
dock, though everybody else on the station could
only catch the prads when yarded, after miles of
galloping. And it has long been claimed that the
savagest dog will not bite a person bereft of reason.
* * * •
“Malokihi”: How’s this for the Endur-
ance Stakes? While camped the other day in a
Papuan village, I sent a native constable to arrest
an offender 17 miles away. He turned up at night-
fall with the wanted man, ate a hurried supper
of half-raw pork and sweet potatoes, grabbed a
native drum and threw himself into the enjoyment
of a dance then in progress, which lasted until
dawn —and in two hours he was off again with me
on the day’s march.
* * * *
“Ironbark”: A blacksmith on the South
Coast (N.S.W.) caught a small black snake and put
him in a glass case, where he lived without food
for about six months. Then one day the smith, with
the idea of giving his pet a beano, put a mouse in
the case. The mouse immediately got the wind up
and raced round the enclosure at a terrific speed.
The snake seemed to get windy too, for he'started to
do the Beauford act also. He didn’t appear to be
chasing the mouse. This went on for two or three
minutes, then suddenly the wriggler stopped, turner'
round and bit himself about nine inches behind the
head. In 10 seconds he was dead meat. Whether
he was over-excited at seeing a bit of scran, or
whether it was pure dinkum fright, I can’t say ; but
that ended Smithy’s menagerie.
* * * *
“Parama”: Head-hunting is not quite as
. common in Papua to-day as “Dia Qara” leads one
to imagine (B. 11 /1/’23). The game has lost
much of its old-time popularity, owing to white-
man laws and missionaries. The delta region of
the Gulf of Papua to-day is a little less exciting
than Taronga Park, and is much too near Daru’s
magistrate and gaol—to say nothing of the black
police and their rifles —for the collector of head-
pieces. Once every buck had his curved bamboo
head-knife, but you have to go far to find one to-day.
I have one; but, though I offered old Seeou enough
trade tobacco to make him happy for the rest of
his life for a knife that had been actually used
and which bore the notches cut in it tallying the
number of heads it had removed, there was nothing
doing. The decrepit old savage did his darned-
est to dig me out something of the sort, and had
the whole village on the go ; but it proved a dud —
there wasn’t one in the place. Again, the heads
and skulls taken in fight were valued too highly by
their second owners ever to have been given over to
the boys as playthings, as “Dia Qara” describes;
and, even if such were not the case, the youngsters
would wait long before they got such toys now. I’ve
not been as far up as the headwaters of the Fly* so
can’t say what they do there, but I do know some-
thing about the other end of the big drain.
* * * *
“Malleeite”: If “Gazeeka” (B. 11/l/’23)
had said the bronzewing-pigeon was the fastest
gamebird, he would have a chance, although the
jacksnipe would make a good race of it; but in
an open event the little falcon could give the
bronzewing half-way start in a mile, and eat him
before the winning-post was reached. “Gazeeka”
says he aimed 30 ft. in front of a bronzewing
and shot it. On that figure, if he wants to get
a falcon going full-speed ahead, he’ll have to aim
60 ft; in front. And if, as he says, the dead
pigeon went 83yds. before hitting the ground,
he’ll have to look somewhere in the next paddock
for the falcon—and then it won’t be there, ’cos he
won’t hit it.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Near Sackville Reach
(N.S.W.) recently I saw a willy-wagtail give a fine
display of cunning. He was prancing over the
ground towards where I was sitting when he sud-
denly Stopped and peered intently down the hole of
a trap-door spider. Then he started to jump round
and round the burrow, making a little pattering
row with his feet, but without uttering a single
chirrup. This went on for nearly five minutes, and
at last the spider, who had become curious as to
what was happening above, came up to investigate.
When his little snack was over Willie cocked an eye
at me that said in plain Australian: “That’s the way
to catch ’em!”
* * * #
“Mirza”: When does Dobbin turn a deal
ear to the cajoling voice of Spring? Some time
ago, at Casterton (Vic.), a pensioned-off thorough-
bred entire eluded the stable-boy, cleared a few
post-and-rail fences and joined a couple of young
mares in the adjoining section. The vet. avers
that both dames will collect the bonus; and the
stud-book records show that the dissolute old
roue will complete his 33rd year on August 1. Has
any Abo. a more potent Methuselah in his stable?
“T.V.T.”: With all due deference to “Key
String” (B. 18/l/’23), who doubts that a kangaroo
can do 41ft. in a single leap, I hereby hand in my
affidavit that at least one ’roo went 16ft. better. It
happened in the Wombat State Forest, near Rocky
Lead (Vic.), some years ago. Dogs were after him,
and he took a flying leap at a log that was in his
path, and didn’t land till he had travelled 57ft. 6in.
I’m dead sure of the distance, because I helped to
sink the flamin’ shaft—and it was a duffer at that.
“Te Babarantiko”: I’m aching to know
how “Rhino” (B. 25/l/’23) came by his informa-
tion about Gilbert Islands fish. With as intimate a
personal knowledge of all the atolls in the group as
any white man alive —one excepled—and with con-
siderable lagoon and open-ocean fishing experience,
I have found that group conspicuously free of poison-
ous fish. In the neighboring Marshalls the opposite
is the case. Outside certain islands —Ceram is one
—in Malaysia, I have never seen so many and so
THE REBUKE.
“Whatcher think, ’e asked me to ’ave a drink wiv ’im!”
“And what did yer say?”
“I looks at ’im hard, and I says, ‘No lady ’as is a lady,’ I says.
‘drinks out of a bottle!’ ”
great a variety of fishes as in Jaluit lagoon in the
vicinity of the old Government jetty. Many of these,
the coral-feeding fishes in particular, are reputedly
poisonous, due possibly to feeding on marine growth
on the copper-sheeting of wooden ships sunk in the
lagoon. Anyway, there three of the old Titus’s crew
died, fish-poisoned. Detained on shore, Flood, the
supercargo, decided against the fish kept hot for him
in the oven, and escaped. On Butaritari, in the
Gilberts, the great yellow land-crab which lives in
holes in the edge of the babai cultivation swamps is
eagerly sought for and eaten by the brown people;
yet on Maiana atoll, farther toward the equator in
the same group, a similar-looking crab is considered
unwholesome and is not eaten.
* * * *
“H.E.R.” : Indians are not the only fakirs.
One day I was standing on the Onslow (W.A.) jetty,
throwing stones at a little school of parrot-fish.
Near me stood a Malay. Presently he held out his
hand and asked me for a stone. I gave him one,
which he at once threw into the water. Then he
calmly opened his hand and showed me he still
had the stone I had given him. Again he threw,
and the parrot-fish dashed to one side as the missile
TRUTH IN DREAMS
AUGUSTA: “Too bad! And I dreamt last
night that we put our money on him and
he walked home!”
AUGUSTUS: “Wonderful! Wonderful! In
fact, the only thing you didn't notice
was that we were walking too.”
struck the water. But the Malay showed me the stone
still in his hand. On the spur of the moment 1
unhitched my watch from its chain and handed it
over. Without doubt he flung it in, because I saw
it flash as it sank. But it is still in my pocket, and
keeping better time than any railway clock. The
black chap had nothing “up his sleeve,” because
he was wearing only a pair of old pants. Has any
other Abo. seen the trick?
“Exul”: I am
not quite sure that
“Golub” (B. 18/1-
’23) is right when he
states that it is im-
possible for a man to
be poisoned by the in-
troduction of snake
venom into his eye.
There is an Indian
snake which attacks
its victims by spitting
venom into their eyes.
In the case of Aus-
tralian snakes it re-
mains to be proved
that the slight salin-
ity of the tears would
effect a chemical
neutralisation of ,the
venom. Cojubrine
venom can be taken
into the mouth with-
out harm (providing
mouth and throat are
free from cracks or
erosions) because, be-
fore it reaches the ab-
sorbing surface of the
intestine, it is split
up by the digestive
juices into harmless
polypept ides and
amino-acids. But the
conjunctival sac of
the eye may be quite
capable of transmit-
ting a fair amount of
venom to the blood-
stream. I was very
puzzled once to ac-
count for pronounced
symptoms of bella-
donna poisoning in a
young girl, until I
discovered that the
mother had misunder-
stood an oculist’s
prescription, and had
been putting large
quantities of atro-
phine drops (the active principle of belladonna)
into her daughter’s eye. If this could be absorbed
thus I don’t see why snake venom couldn’t.
* * * *
“O’Ren” (B. 25/l/’23) on the
Beetaloo (S.A.) ponies. It would be interesting to
know whether they were indebted to one particular
sire for their toughness. Years ago, in western
N.S.W., a stallion, owned by a mail-contractor, fre-
quently did a journey of 100 miles, with a fresh
team-mate in the shanghai with him at each coach-
change—and he could knock up all four offsiders
if the going was heavy. Owning no pedigree and
just ordinary-looking, he was very prepotent, and
the fact that a prad was the progeny of “Blank’s
pony” insured £5 to £lO more for him than he
would otherwise have fetched.
* * # *
“R.P.C.”: When “X2X” (B. 25/l/’23)
suggests potassium chlorate and strong hydrochloric
acid as the basis of a gas attack upon ants, he is
tipping something foolish and expensive, with no
certainty of success. It is highly improbable much
chlorine (which does the damage) would be evolved.
A double decomposition takes place between the
chlorate and the acid, and chlorine peroxide is pro-
duced. This is then oxidised by the excess of acid
and chlorine is given off. But the possibility of
chlorate and hydrochloric acid reacting freely is
slight. Hydrochloric is a “weak” acid when com-
pared with, say, sulphuric, so very little reaction
will go on, and hence not much chlorine will be
formed. If “3130” wants to use chlorine, the best
plan is to just pour hydrochloric acid on to bleach-
ing powder, so-called “chloride of lime,” from which
fumes will come off in* abundance. But let “3130”
keep clear of them himself—chlorine,was the first
gas used in the war. Actually the best ant-
exterminator is that suggested by “X.Y.,” viz., car-
bon disulphide. Its injurious effects on insects
are well known to entomologists. But let “3130”
if he uses it be prepared for smells —also keep
any flame well away from it.
* * * *
Concerning an Asiatic immigrant:—
“H.1.M.”: Tell “Aves” (B. 25/l/’23), who wants
to know if the bulbul is destructive, that up about
Killara (Sydney) the bird is becoming decidedly un-
popular, having been convicted of a catholic taste for
stone-fruits. 'The evidence, however, doesn’t seem
to have convinced the scientists, as the last Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine has an illustration and
an urgent request for detailed observations; but
the suburban jury has no doubts on the point.
“De-ni-lago”: The bulbul is a fruit eater. In
Fiji it feeds largely on ripe guavas, and
in growing tomatoes there you have either
to put a mosquito-net over them or pick them
before the faintest tinge of color appears on the
fruit. Incidentally, I always had an idea that in
Fiji the bulbul had crossed with the minah. Is
there a darker-colored branch to the minah family
somewhat smaller than the ordinary type?
(Continued on page 24.)
THE FARMER’S LOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The farmer’s is a toilsome lot —at dawn he leaves
his bed
To take a few strong cups of tea and half-a-loaf of
bread,
And with the missus talks about the long, laborious
day
Ahead: there’s more late spuds to plant and end-
less loads of hay
For early carting. “And,” he says, “it’s dashed
well sure to rain
B’ breakfast-time —it’s coinin’ when me corns begin
to pain.”
The farmer’s is a toilsome lot —he works from
dawn to dark.
lie rises up at 4 g.m. to greet the trilling lark,
And labors all day long with heavy hobnails on
his feet,
Except when now and then he stops to sit him
down and eat;
Or at mid-morning, smoke-oh done, he spends an
hour or so
Telling his next-door neighbor things that fathead
ought to know.
All day, the whole, long, blazing day, he toils like
one possessed,
With scarcely time to stop until he really needs
a rest.
At dinner-time —an hour or two—he grabs his
usual bite,
And then goes forth once more to toil until the
fall of night.
Small wonder that, when Brown comes down to
borrow half a team,
A trickle of farm-talk soon swells into a steady
stream.
A SORT OF FAMILY REUNION.
“Yes, baby, we were all monkeys once—you
were a little monkey thousands of years
ago.”
“Gracious! I wonder if they’ll know me
again!”
He’s up at 4 g.m., or if not always quite so soon,
You’ll find he gets his full time in. Beneath the
summer moon
You’ll see him thrpugh the evening hours still
working hard and well
Or, clean exhausted, leaning on the sliprails for
a spell,
Taking a breather while he learns from Smithy,
passing by,
How Strawb’ry’s eaten Billy’s boots an’ ’s pretty
sure to die.
The farmer’s is a toilsome lot; and should he find
no time
To talk, the work he plans to do would kill him
in his prime;
And if he lingered less upon his six square meals a
day
His hefty frame most probably would simply waste
away,
While, should he, like us city blokes, spend hours
upon his bed,
He would, he says, go off his nut —and how should
we be fed?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION
%
M
li
1
<U!U
ill
WA
n
///■
i
f/M
wm
$5
S
fc
c
*
MEGGITTS LINSEED OIL MEAL
the most valuable food ingredient for all stock, under all conditions,
and
MEGGITT S STOCK FOODS
the best and most reliable Foods, combining all the constituents of a complete,
balanced ration, scientifically compounded and procurable at prices consistent with quality*
MEGGITT’S DAIRY CATTLE FOOD ~ Produces more milk for more days.
MEGGITT S CALF FOOD ------ Rears healthy, husky calves.
MEGGITT’S PIG FOOD ------- Puts on the weight in less time.
MEGGITT’S LAYING MASH Assures maximum egg production.
MEGGITT’S GROWING MASH - - - - The best food procurable for growing stock
MEGGITT’S HORSE FOOD Ensures stamina and strength.
“READY TO SERVE.”
DNSKDOILM^
MEECITTII*
PARRAMATTA
JLS 0ND137, 2DLLIO CIVMH
’iaaawwMnii'.... ■ - '
T y *?rM?£)rm
1 raGGrnrs
UNSEED OH MW
mi
/AECCITT I** WVt
rWPRAMATTA
9fce boy on the bag
guarantees quality "
AOENTS.-
Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd (j 66 liourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Denhams ltd
frtsbane, Q.; Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd.. Rockhampton, Q.; Messrs. Cummins A Campbell’
/ , Townsville and Cait ns, Messrs . Corser <£ Co., Ltd., Maryborough, Q.; Messrs William
Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth, W.A.; Messrs F.W. Heritage dCo Ltd TTnb*% «l\
Launceston; The S.A. Farmers' Co-op, Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
boy on the bag
guarantees gualify


THE PERFECT COMBINATION
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
Iv&f
the Summer Camp
Abbots
lager
THE BEER Wf THOUT ARTVAL;
“Sandfly”: “Gouger” (B. 19/10/’22) and
“Bill Bowyang” (B. 23/11/’22) on their cane-cut-
ting tallies are a bit behind. On Jim Reid’s farm,
Waterson, Proserpine (N.Q.), in 1913, two men,
Norman Morgan and Walter Dimmick, cut and
loaded 81 tons 13cwt. in 5J days. Most of the
cane was crooked and of the “D 1135” variety, but
it was in their favor that the cane was burned.
Of course, there are cutters who can sprint for a
big tally under favorable conditions; but the man
who averages four tons a day throughout the seasor
is reckoned among the best of ’em.
*•**■*
“Bung”: If tlie kangaroo long-jump argu-
ment has finally petered out, let me back in with
the performance recently put up by a Bungendore
(N.S.W.) baker’s carthorse. Bolting while un-
attended from the railway station, he cleared the
HIS OWN TIME.
“ An’ yer can begin milkin’ any time yer like
in the mornin’s”
“ That’ll do me.”
“ S’long as it ain’t after four.”
4 Jft. railway gate, taking over with him the
loaded cart so cleanly that there was not so much as
a scratch on the gate-paint. There was a great
fall in bread at the bump, but nothing more. It
was an upgrade jump, too, and taken on a sharp
swerve from the street.
OH, YES!
ONE : “Beautiful eyes, hasn't she?”
T’OTHER ( abstractedly ) : "Yes, hut they’re
a trifle slender, don’t you think?”
“F. Clinton”: It is not the nature of the
soil but the condition of the surface which is the
vital factor in the fight between couch and buffalo
grasses. In soils that are loose for four or five
inches down from the surface, buffalo will deliver
the 11.0. to couch every time, but immediately the
surface begins to harden and cake the couch grass
has a better chance of getting a grip than buffalo,
which wears badly on a hard surface. The one
big distinction between the grasses lies in the
fact that couch travels both above and below the
surface and buffalo only on top. This largely
supplies the reason for the superiority of couch
on hard surfaces. Once let the surface become soft-
ened by rain or ploughing, and buffalo comes for-
ward at a gallop. The ideal top dressing for a
couch lawn is a tight loam, which tends to con-
solidate the surface, whereas the best top-dressing
for buffalo is a sandy soil, which not only provides
a loose surface, but working into the hard patches
tends to disintegrate them. In average soil and
under average conditions buffalo will beat couch
every time.
* * * *
“Widgee” : No matter how long he may be
located in the one camp, a certain type of toiler
always regards himself as a “floater”—liable to take
the track at any moment. But here and there you find
one who spends .most of his
spare time “making’ him-
self comfortable” and doll-
ing up his shack. This
chap, when he takes to
mural decoration, is an in-
teresting sort. One of
him, in our camp, has lined
the walls of his well-built
bark humpy with hori-
zontal, thumb-thick ti-tree,
covered this with hessian,
and pasted brown paper over
the lot. Then after months
of bower-birdlike activity,
coming home every day
with a jam- or coffee-tin
label, he finished off with
a broad dado all round —
brightly-colored jam-labels
in the middle and choco-
late-and-fawn labels above
and below. A persevering homemaker like that
is wasted as a bush-bachelor; yet this particular
Bill is absolutely woman-shy.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Re poisonous native lilies, men-
tioned bv “Girofla” (B. 11/l/’23). Nearly SO
years ago, five boys and myself were roving miles
away from our home town, when we stopped to drink
at a big lagoon on which hundreds of pale-blue
lilies bloomed about a foot above the water, and
enormous lily leaves, dark-green and purple-veined,
lay like plates on the surface. The water was diffi-
cult to get at until one youngster suggested the lily-
leaf stem, which, if tugged at from the top, broke
loose from the bottom. Each stem was about 4ft.
long and had four separate passages from end to
end. So we got a lily hose apiece, then sprawled
on the bank and sucked up water at our ease. We
felt no ill effects until some hours later. Happily
a pumpkin squatter came along in a cart and ran us
to the local bush doctor, who worked double time
emptying us. We all swore to the one tale—that
it was the sardines we took for lunch that upset
us; and for about a year our town wiped Norway
off the map.
* * * *
“Magela Bada”: “Jimmy ’Possum’s” par.
on the cruelties inflicted on the native-bear by
skinning it before it is dead (B. l/2/’23) reminds
me of the Papuan native preparing a fowl for the
kai-kai pot. If he isn’t carefully watched he will
pluck the fowl clean as soon as he catches it, regard-
less of the inconvenience to the bird. He says it
makes an easier job and the fowl tastes better if
plucked before death. In curious contrast the
native carefully preserves the miserable lives of pet
dogs that have become sore-covered, disease-breeding,
mangy abominations.
* * * *
“Wad”: “Pick” (B. 11/l/’23) is a novice
on hereditary instinct in dogs. A greyhound pup
often sees its first hare when slipped in competition
with another pup, and sometimes wins. It is the
old dog who runs cunning and lurches for the kill.
Setters set by instinct, but are trained to drop
when the birds rise or the gun goes off, to stop
them running wild and flushing other birds. I
once timed an Irish setter to set quail for 20
minutes, but this dog, the best I ever saw, would
chase and refuse to drop when the gun went, unless
restrained at frequent intervals. I have often
sec-n greyhounds, sheep-dogs and spaniels set both
fur and feather, but they were never staunch like
setters.
* * * *
“Sucre”: I’ve got a late-fee entry for
the Queer Accident Stakes. A man at Wariocer,
(S.Q.) racing at night for the doctor to help his
first-born into the world, bumped into the local
undertaker’s horse in the dark, and the neddv
lashed out, fracturing his skull. He didn’t live
to see his offspring.
* *■ * *
“Boori”: The white-throated fly-eater
( Gerygone albigularis) , mentioned by “Aves” (B.
25/l/’23), is one of many fine Australian song-birds
booked for early extinction. It’s donkey’s years since
I’ve noticed a young one, although the bird is a
regular migrant along the N.S.W. coast. The remark-
able song and the beautiful nest (a clever imitation
of the dead drooping leaf of the bloodwood wherein
it loves to build) are its undoing. The egg-collecting
horror and the übiquitous catapult will soon w'ipe
this little musician from the programme of the
Australian Bush Entertainers. By the way, there
are two distinct varieties in this (Newcastle) dis-
trict. One stages his show in the bush-clad hills;
the other frequents the sandy banksia belts near
the sea. The hill variety is probably the one that
charmed “Aves.” His song is more sustained and
of greater volume than that of his seaside relative.
■*•***
“Te Ore Ore” : How came this Abo. cus-
tom of using Henare as a typical Maori name?
Having lived in a pakeha-Maori town for years, 1
would say that the most popular names were Ilori
(George), after George Grey; Wiremu, probably in
compliment to old sailor King Billy of Eingland ;
Tamati (Thomas), on general principles; and Honi,
or Hoani (John), on good reports of John the Bap-
tist. Owing to contact with the missionaries, Bibli-
cal names were plentiful—lhaia (Isaiah), Apira-
hama (Abraham), Hamuera or Ihamuera (Samuel),
Hohepa (Joseph), and Ihakopa (Jacob). We had
also plenty of Tare (Charlie), Hare (Harry), Tiki
(Dick), Hemi (James), and eke Wikitioria (Vic-
toria). But in my part of the country Henare was
about as frequent as Cyril in Sydney.
* * * *
“Energy”: “Gazeeka” (B. 11/l/’23) is a
good bit out in his guess that the bronzewing
was flying at about 80 miles an hour because it
travelled 83 yards before reaching the earth after
being shot at an altitude of 28ft. A little calcula-
tion proves that it was going at 128 miles an
hour. This, of course, takes no account of the
possibility of the bird not being killed instantly,
or of the shot helping to carry it on a bit. If
the bronzewing was coming towards “Gazeeka” the
shot would tend to lessen the slant of the fall,
and the real speed in that case would be even
greater than 128 miles an hour.
* * * *
“ J.G.” : Dunno what sort of animals “Key-
string” (B. 18/l/’23) has been killing under the im-
pression that they are kangaroos. There is a mob of
big grey animals near where I live, and everybody
about calls them kangaroos (anyhow, they look like
pictures of ’roos I’ve seen in books), and many of
them wall take high wire-fences without any apparent
exertion. Last winter, one old man took off at a
fence in front of me and landed well over the
half-way mark of a Govermuent surveyed chain-
road ; and, although 1 had nothing to measure tiie
distance with, 1 would be quite willing to say
that from where he took off he covered fully 40ft.
before he landed. The ground was soft at the
time, and I took particular notice as to where the
flier came to earth. These ’roos, not far from
Wallan (Vic.), have to negotiate a lot of fences in
going from place to place, and probably they are
trained jumpers; but I've never seen one flounder
after a jump, or roll over, as “Keystringi” sayis.
As a rule they don’t wait a second after one big
jump before taking on another.
* * * *
“Zanthus” : When the first rush of muddy
water comes down the Macquarie River (N.S.W.)
after a heavy fall of rain, it seems to turn the
cod and other fish sick. For a while they are
quite helpless, and can be caught by hand. It was
church time when the new's of a fresh reached one
township beyond Dubbo, and most of the boys didn't
wait for the sermon before going back to the original
trade of the Apostles. One party of three brothers
got 53 good ’uns. .
* * * t
“F.J.”: A mulberry-tree, planted near
Kingscote, Kangaroo Island, by the first English
settlers to arrive in S. Aus., nearly 87 years ago,
continues to yield a big crop. This reputedly first
fruit-tree in the colony stands unprotected in an
open paddock, some distance up from the beach,
where the S. Aus. pilgrim fathers stepped ashore in
1836.
“Mag”: A snake’s fondness for children
(“5.5.,” B. 28/12/’22) is only a rumor. In Mary-
borough (Q.), the other day, a little girl ran inside
and told her mother a lizard had bitten her. The
mother saw no cause for alarm, and the child re-
sumed her playing. But presently she returned and
said it was hurting. The mother, now alarmed,
sent for the near-by schoolmaster, and, on investiga-
tion, the “lizard” turned out to be a black snake.
They saved the child; but it was hard work.
* * * *
More shots at a shooter: —
“Buckshot”: High-pressure powder and a long-
pointed bullet fixed up by “Bullet” (B. 18/l/’23)
would tend to increase velocity and energy, but to no
great extent, and at a probable sacrifice of accuracy
which would not warrant the departure. Apparently,
in an attempt to bring about the results “Bullet”
desires, the .22 extra long cartridge was developed,
seven grains of powder being employed behind 40
grains of lead, and showing a muzzle velocity oi
1065.31 feet per second and muzzle energy of 100.82
foot pounds. The difference in striking power wasn’t
a great improvement on the 1012.32 feet per second
m.v. and 91.04 foot pounds m.e. of the .22 long
cartridge with its five grains of powder and 40 grains
of lead ; .and it is generally admitted that the
accuracy was decidedly inferior. That the experi-
ment was a failure is evident from the existence
of the Winchester .22 W.R.F. and Remington .22
special cartridges—both extremely accurate, with
excellent stopping power. Each of these
cartridges shoots a 45-grain bullet with
seven grains of powder, and the Winchester
ballistics for their product are: m.v. 1118.54
feet per second, and m.e. 125.04 foot pounds.
Thus the only way to obtain higher ballistics in
the calibre under discussion was to increase both
powder space and weight of bullet. A velocity of
over 1000 to 1500 feet per second necessitates the
use of a copper- or nickel-jacketed bullet to insure
it taking the rifling. With a long “Spitzer” pointed
copper-jacketed bullet of 70 grains and a powerful
charge of high-concentration powder, the Savage
Arms Co. produced 2800 feet per second m.v., and
1218 foot pounds energy. This extraordinary rifle
shows a trajectory of only 30.34 inches at 500 yards.
THE HANDICAP.
“’Ow’s the missus gettin' on with ’er new
cookery-hook ?”
“ Couldn't do nuthin with it. Every one of
ther recipes starts with ‘Take a clean
dish,’ and that settled it.”
All my figures are quoted from “Lesmok” or black
powder ballistics, with the exception of those refer-
ring to the Savage Hi-Power. Smokeless powder
gives considerably lower powers.
“H.W.P.”: “Bullet’s” scheme won’t work. If he in-
creased the strength of the powder charge, the higher
pressure would split the shells at the rim, for the cop-
per is made very thin and soft, to yield easily to the
striker. Then a lead bullet is no good for high
velocity, as the heat, pressure and friction combine
to parti} 7 melt it as it goes through the barrel, and
accuracy is entirely lost. Metal-cased bullets
would cure that,, but would wear out the barrel in
no time, for the ordinary .22 barrel is made of
soft steel, which can nearly be cut with a knife.
“Bullet” had better trv hollow-pointed bullets in fcis
.22 —or invest in a .25/20,
THE SPECTRAL TREES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All in the middle of the night
Strange things are going on ;
The moon behind the timbered height
Is sinking, warped and wan ;
The timbered height from foot to crest
A haunted region seems —-
A leafless realm, a lifeless realm.
That one may see in dreams.
A curlew, sensing something strange,
Wails down the stirless ajr;
It is no night to roam and range,
Nor blithe of heart to fare
Down forest-tracks or mountain-tracks,
O’er rock and root upcurled,
For night has changed the world of day
Into another world.
The ghosts of tall trees, slain by men,
The ghosts of pine and gum,
They rise in ghostly rows again,
Dim, menacing and dumb ;
No birds among their branches sing,
No winds among them call,
But in the dying light they stand
Death-bleached and lifeless all.
As down the warped moon waning swims
Through depths of pallid sky,
Their limbs are like the fleshless limbs
Of dead men raised on high—
Of dead men buried in cold earth,
And brought to life, at length,
To call a vengeance down on those
Who slew them in their strength.
Because a Presence- seems to brood
On flat and slope and height— r
A Presence weird —it is not good
To walk the tracks to-night;
The birds are dumb, made mute by fear,
And stirless is the breeze;
White-limbed against the moon they stand,
The ghosts of stricken trees.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


STONEWALL SHOES
Wfl ?A Dependable Boots,
1«v« wvi suitable for heavy work
or street wear. They are made from
Selected Box Hide, Waxed Stitched
and reinforced at every necessary
point. Have three-decker soles,
clumped with Genuine “Stonehide”
Leather. Made in broad and medium
lasts. The “Stonehide” Sole, with which
they are clumped, is of picked heavy
leather tanned through and through
with a resistance, the quality of which
is not excelled by any known process.
Plain Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6.
N.S.W. Postage, 1/3; Interstate, 2/2.
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy, Toe-cap: 10
to 13, 15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6.
Postage 1/- extra.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for a
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTD., SYDNEY.
Ask for our New Free Catalogue.
duch&oiPb
(STONEWALL STORES
380-2 Pitt Street,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DO YOUR SHOPPING
IN BLOCK 14.
m
£
<q
xH
m
mm
m
m
m
ran
TH e“ STO N E HID E"
CLUMP SOLE
The Stonewall Clump Sole Boot
A MAN is known by the company he
keeps: not less by the whisky he prefers. In
whisky, as in other things, purity and quality
are the things that matter. Age only can
guarantee perfection. In
WHITE HORSE SCOTCH WHISKY
these three attributes are present: purity,
pre-war quality and mellow age, as certified
by H.M. Excise Certificate accompanying every
shipment. Age-proof Certificate furnished with
every bottle by Mackie & Co. Distillers Ltd.,
Glasgow & London, or their Australasian Agents.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
cm mm
HE PLUS ULTRA
à
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agreitts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
á
Diamond and Platinum Ornaments
The Company has a comprehensive selection op Diamond and
Rings in the newest ideas. Inspection is invited.
Gem-set
â
Diamond Octagon
Cluster Ring,
mounted in
Platinum,
£67 10 0
Diamond Civ Her Brooch, mounted in
Platinum, £57 10 0.
Smaller, £32 0 0.
Diamond Two-stone
Ring, mounted in
Platinum,
£145 0 0
Full particulars and Booklet iorwarded on application.
WILLIAM FARMER &C° L TD
(Jewelers. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths.
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
The King had to wait until he was 55 to
welcome a grandchild. That was the war, of
course. Still, being a second son, he didn’t
marry till he was 26, whereas his father
wasn’t 22 when he made the gentle Alexandra
his Princess. The new infant is a son and
may be the Earl of Harewood one day, if
meantime pa isn’t advanced a step.
The Commodore Mclvor Edwards couple
farewelled a lawn full of sailors’ wives
and kiddies at Tresco one afternoon
last week, and tile wonderful old tree
on the top terrace seemed to regard the
leave-taking as regretfully as most of the popu-
lar couple’s guests. Son Basil, very brown and
tall, helped by a couple of willing Jack Tars
and a quarter-deck or so of officer-chaps,
dashed about with gallons of tea and lemon-
ade ; while the women talked and compared
babies. A rosebud, with a few weeks’ age
weighing upon it, was the prize exhibit of
the afternoon; after passing through the
arms of half the company it became moored
to Mrs. Nelson Clover, who had brought
long ivory ear-rings and black georgette to
the party. Chaplain Hardie’s new wife, in
daffodil organdie, helped to keep the cake-
traffic moving to the jazz accompaniment of
a naval band, and Mrs. Brand and Mrs.
Starr helped.
A lady was holding forth on the new com-
posite Ministry. “They’re going to’ have
separate rooms, I see,” she exclaimed. “Don’t
tell me—l know what that means. I’ve
seen it again and again. You can watch
for an early divorce.”
Baroness Furnivall, whom Sydney still
remembers as one of the bright spots of its
New Year festivities a couple of years ago,
is the latest society lass to thrust her charms
in dumb show before the world. She’s to
appear with Diana Manners in “The Virgin
Queen” or some such. Her husband is
Lieutenant Agar, V.C., and is attached to
the staff of Maoriland’s Governor. She her-
self has a battalion of relations in the South
Island —the Petres, who are next door to
a peerage on architect dad’s side.
With a dream of home in her eyes Maori-
land poetess Dora Wilcox (Mrs. Hameiius)
is back in Sydney after 20 years’ absence,
and in a few weeks she will be in Christ-
church, her home town. Her life abroad
was spent first in a maisonette in Chelsea
with her mother, then, after her marriage,
a red-roofed, cobble-paved Belgium town was
her abode, and for the last year or so her
home has been a cottage on Hampstead
Heath. Maoriland will find its girl-poet
turned into a charming woman with gor-
geous white hair, and an up-to-the-minute
knowledge of the art and letters of the old
world. Of Maorilanders in London who are
doing well she mentions David Low, con-
tralto Stella Murray, pianist Vera Moore
and the artistic Hellaby couple (she was
Ruth llollingworthL who threaten a canvas
invasion from Auckland to the Bluff. Dora
herself will be remembered as the author of
“Rata and Mistletoe” and “Verses from
Maoriland.” Lately Poetry, the Beacon
and London Mercury have published some
fine things above her name, but she still
remembers with a thrill the day The Bul-
letin first published her verse, and J. F.
Archibald took her out to lunch.
Like most men who come from the out-
posts, Papua’s tall Excellency, who has gone
to England on six months’ furlough, has
no use for sectarianism. A staunch R.C., he
has been thanked by various Protestant mis-
sionary bodies for his “humane and impar-
tial” administration. Just before leaving
Sydney he was the guest at lunch of a
Methody gathering. In England, where he
will be the guest of learned brother Gilbert,
he will look up his youngest son Pat, who
is doing very well at Oxford, with a han-
kering to be a naturalist and catch winged
things in a net.
Brother artists and decorative ladies gave
Elioth Gruner a great send-off the other
night at the Cavalier. The big clijb table
was massed with beautiful blooms, and each
visitor carried away a food list hidden be-
neath a charming reproduction of Gruner’s
“Mellowing Afternoon,” owned by Miss
Read, of the High School. The guests were
divided into the Sheep and the Goats of Art,
one-half being well-known makers of pictures
and the other half buyers. Speeches ran to
about three glassfuls. Blonde president Sid
Smith, so clean and shining he almost looked
veneered, was one of the talkers; another
was Henry Braddon; but the prize speech
of the evening was Ernest Watt’s. His wife,
by the way, wore one of the quaintest frocks
of the evening—it was sable of hue, and its
swathings were clutched at the right side
by a multi-colored Oriental clasp. There
were several Allens among the eaters —
Marcia was one of them—and Hugh McCrae
presented tall daughter Huntley to an inter-
ested board. Mrs. Vivers, in spite of the loss of
her pearl, bloomed from mists of blue soft-
ness ; and Thea Proctor’s fine shoulders
gleamed like alabaster above an Early Vic-
torian bodice of black velvet. Mrs. Jim
Gordon and Mrs. Dudley Gibson were out-
standing features in the decorative scheme.
Norman Lindsay’s wife finished off classic
drapings with a wide tissue band across her
brow, and the artist’s sister Mary, over from
Ballarat, kept her company. Lachlan
Beaton, the most unobstrusive tall man pos-
sibly in the world, made an effective back-
ground for his small, exquisitely-groomed
wife and for willowy Ruby Adams, who
accompanied her.
Years ago a small boy made a bargain
with his mother. She proposed that the
youngster should attack the piano. He had
already decided to dabble in paints. With
simple guile the infant promised to do the
musical gymnastics if he could have draw-
ing lessons. Gradually, in spite of the heroic
efforts of mother, the brush painted out the
piano. The boy that was is the man that is.
At the farewell dinner given to him by the
Cavalier Club he answered to the name of
Elioth Gruner.
A tale of “atmosphere”:—
It happened at a swaggah boarding-house on the
Pacific sea-front. The Front-Room—“with parlor
and bath” —was giving a tea-party, and her guests
were seated in something approaching splendor on
the wide balcony, while their hostess discoursed
poetically on the wide-flung view, the breath of the
mighty deep, and so on. Presently, around the
corner appeared the tray carried jauntily by a sun-
bronzed waiter attired in a bathing-suit, with a
towel swung across his shoulders. In an ear-shatter-
ing silence he deposited the tray ; then with a friendly-
smile he picked up an extra cup, saying cheerily,
“You don’t mind my having a cup of tea, I know,”
and before the hostess could utter the scream that
was boiling in her innards the young man had
poured a cup of the fluid and disappeared with it
around the corner of the balcony.
At Harris Park, Parramatta, a few days
before lie got the surprise of his life and
was made Minister of Defence, solicitor E.
Iv. Bowden, M.H.R., and his wife celebrated
their silver wedding. She is a daughter of
Stephen Murphy, retired P.M. He descends
from that first Bowden who came to Aus-
tralia in 1812 as chief of the Orphan School.
Hats off to Mrs. M. E. Wilson, who com-
menced war-work three months after the
outbreak of the
European upheaval
—it was when her
two boys went into
khaki —and hasn’t
finished yet. At
present her efforts
are directed to put-
ting a cheer into the
lives of the more or
less convalescent
diggers at the Lady
Davidson Home at
Turramurra. Every
week Mrs. Wilson
supplies at least one
entertainment for the
boys there, and any-
body who has worked
at concert-organising
Knows the mountain
of toil fifty-two
parties a year entail. The isolation wards
at Liverpool and later No. 30 Hut at Rand-
wick were cheered by the never-failing sup-
ply of comforts she collected and distributed,
and she saw to it that no local warrior ever
returned without finding the village station
gay with bunting in his honor. She was
vice-president of the North Shore Line War
Memorial at Chatswood, and raised the first
sum for the honor roll at Roseville, of
which garden suburb she is an old resident.
After being nearly engulfed in farewell
parties, Lute Drummond had scarcely
strength to draw a lung-full of air as she
mounted the Orsova gangway last Saturday.
She won’t have brushed the final tea-leaf
from her hair before she reaches Colombo;
and then it will start all over again. Con-
sul Lindquist gave a Swedish dinner for her
among the art treasures of his home, and
Mrs. Osborne England lured another crowd
of farewellers to Manly, where the special
entertainment was a. cool breeze from the
Pacific and four kinds of iced fruit. The Aus-
tralia, Wentworth and Women’s Club billies
have all been boiled in her honor. One of
the biggest cheerios was laid in the Queen
Victoria Club, and was hostessed by Mrs.
George Taylor and Mrs. Ainsworth,' Lute’s
sister, whose good-looking chicks, Fay and
Ruth, accompany her on her travels. The
long brown room was colorful with blue
delphiniums, and in low bowl and tall vase
roses plump and roses slender drooped. A
great bouquet of the same mixture and a
basket of garden splendors somewhat ham-
pered Lute’s progress, but served to hide
her blushes when Ruth Beale. called for
three cheers “for the girl who told the
‘Stories of the Operas,’ ” and out of the tell-
ing formed the nucleus of a fund for giving
a Torrens title to grand opera in Australia.
Mrs. Taylor trailed black elegance about the
room, while Mrs. Ainsworth set off sand-
colored georgette with a nobby mole hat that
carried gold embroideries on its turned-up
brim, and a cascading p'urne over the right
ear. Daughter Fay’s frock swung a bat-
like cape on its top rigging, and was mid-
night blue in tone. With it she wore some-
thing that was a cross between the old-
fashioned smoking cap and the newest thing
in turbans. Daughter Ruth had pushed all
her hair under a Montmartre cap of soft grey
straw.
This is , »««. Mclvor Edwards the wife of
the Naval Uommodore, who with her husband
UUd SOU BaSll TO*
turns to England
next month. The
popular couple are
quite frank over
their dislike to leave
Sunny Sydney. Mrs.
Edwards has always
taken the deepest
interest in the
Friendly Union of
Sailors’ Wives, and
the family gatherings
at the Naval House
are going to miss her
smiling presence
just as much as
social Sydney will
miss her quiet
charm. During their
stay at Elizabeth
Bay Tresco has been
another name for warm-hearted hospitality.
Her last function will be the introduction
of Mrs. Crawford, the wife of the new Com-
modore.
Indefatigable Ettie Rout is hon. sec. of
the little London body which is helping the
Feminist Club in Sydney with its immigra-
tion scheme. At that end they call it the
Home Companions movement; and every
woman who joins up with a view to taking
a passage is expected to have £loo—£so to
pay for a passage and incidentals, the other
£5O to set her up in Australia. There is
an obvious suggestion that it may be needed
for a trousseau. “In the country districts.”
a circular says in capital letter's, “there is
a surplus male population of 200,000,” and
“nearly 80 per cent, of the British women
who migrate to the country districts marry
within a year of their arrival.” It sounds
attractive; but wouldn’t it be as well to
mention that there are a few infants among
the 200,000?
The beautiful string of pearls that Mrs.
George Yivers wears almost constantly is
short of its largest gem. One night last
week Mrs. Yivers had been viewing the car-
nival at Manly with a party of friends, and
while they were waiting for the homeward
ferry the necklet snapped, and the prize
pearl dropped through a crack in the planks.
A diver has been busy ever since, but so far
without result. The pearl is valued at some-
thing like £l5OO. But if the fair-haired lady
has lost one prized possession she has an-
other that pot-hunters will envy her, and
that’s a beautiful lace fan with amber sticks
given to her by Lord Carnarvon —the one
who has just sesamed the tomb of Tutti
Frutti, as the girl in the Sundae Shop called
the ancient king whose long slumber has just
been disturbed.
_ Another voyager on the London and Con-
tinental seas of music will be launched next
week by the Lyceum Club. The clever-
fingered girl is Lily Juncker, a daughter of
Sydney’s well-known composer.
That all-wool Australian woman, Mar-
garet Baxter, had a quite unexpected recog-
nition of her war services when the Colonial
Institute (London headquarters) decided
recently to admit women as Fellows instead
of keeping them in their place as Associates;
and the second Australian woman elected
a Fellow was Miss Baxter. She hadn’t even
Associated with them before, as it happened.
Sir Godfrey Lagden, a one-time Afr can
explorer, proposed the lady from Sydney;
and the much-travelled Sir Charles Lucas
seconded the matter.
At St. Peter’s, Neutral Bay, Madge Har-
wood, a daughter of the late Harry Rickards,
took a second plunge, and emerged the wife of
John Broadbent, of Windella, Narrandera.
The reception, after the quietest of weddings,
was at the Australia, and later in the day
the newly-weds left for the homestead. Mrs.
Harwood and her small 12-year-old son
benefited under the will of Mrs. Harry, which
was lately passed for probate; and of course
as Harry’s daughter she had already sufficient
helping of the Tivoli profits to put a bead or
two on the beaker of life. The wedding is
the rounding off of a war romance: young
Broadbent, then wearing a captain’s stars,
was one of the many Diggers whom Mrs.
Ilarwood helped through convalescence in
Blighty.
Dashing Pauline McMorran is another
entry for the Double Harness Handicap.
Her partner-to-be is George Walker, whose
father was the ex-Senator.
Mrs. Herbert Nelson has packed her
trunks (the travelling variety) and made
another dash across the Pacific to visit
daughter Gwen. Gwen is still a film-dancer
in New York, and it was a particularly en-
ticing contract that prevented her making
a Christmas call on motner. The mos„
sacred present to Gwen from her homeland
is a large Australian flag.
Thornton Masters, governing director of
the Commonwealth Life Co., was to have
been married to Mrs. Chandler a week or
two ago; but the wedding-day found him
seriously ill in hospital, and the ceremony
still stands postponed. The patient, however,
is now convalescing.
All the really smart society-steppers have
been pouring into the Crystal Palace to view
Lady Diana Manners in “The Glorious
Adventure.” The London beauty proves
graceful of hand and limb rather than ravish-
ing of face, though this is probably the fault
of the color photography. Complexion,
under its rays, becomes very beefy. Scenes
and cows and frocking, on the other hand,
show up splendidly. As an actress Lady Di.
isn’t likely to pluck the laurels from the
brow of Clara Kimball Young ; but she has
one thing in her favor as a film heroine—
when tragedy overtakes her she doesn’t bil-
low up and down like a yacht caught in a
squall off Barrenjoey.
The first public meeting called in connec-
tion with the Domestic Assistance Associa-
tion nearly blew the roof off the vestibule of
the Town Hall—the lustres of the candelabra
are shivering still. The concussion was
principally between the objectors to the
semi-private meeting of the previous week,
when the scheme of the proposed association
had been discussed, and the women who had
been roped in to that first meeting and dis-
cussion. Each party shouted at the other
in a vain attempt to enforce its views, and
finally the meeting dissolved without any-
thing vital being agreed upon.
It’s just as wise these hot nights to keep
your eye from soaring godwards in the in-
tervals of the Greatest Show on Earth. The
other night one of our Very Naicest was sit-
ting in the stalls between acts waiting the
return of her escort, when she felt a sharp
pain in the fleshy part of her right arm.
Not wishing to look as though she imagined
a hypo fiend had let himself loose upon her,
she stared ahead with Spartan endurance.
Presently a voice whispered across her shoul-
der : “Madam, do you know your arm is
bleeding profusely?” With a gasp she
looked down, and sure enough there was a
long gash. As she hastily bound the wound
she found that a fragment of broken bottle,
dropped from the upper rigging, was
responsible.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matt, went to Wallangarra oil the 6th, and
having declared the prickly-pear poison factory there
well and truly opened he dashed to Stahthorpe, and,
after setting wide the doors of the Soldiers’ Club, lent
his presence to the show. His Ex. will be away from
Brisbane till after St. Valentine’s day, and in the
interval will speak to the Queensland Women’s con-
ference, lecture at the Royal Geographical Society’s
rooms and open the W. R. Black home at the
Presbyterian Girls’ College at Toowoomba; open
the Warwick show, and lunch with the Laidley Shire
Council, unveil a soldiers’ memorial and present a
few medals, and lecture to the Royal Geographers
at Ipswich. Which all goes to prove that His Ex.
is earning his screw.
On Feb. 7, Arundell Wilson, grandson of the late
Judge Harding, took Eileen Wright to wife. Margery
Loveridge, of Sydney, was bridesmaid, and Parson
Norman Osborne tied the knot in St. Thomas’s,
Toowong. Flowers came from as far away as the
Apple Isle to deck the Wright home, and the honey-
moon is shining on the Northern rivers.
In the little Church of England at Kedron, the
same day, Dorrie Thomlinson was linked by Parson
Osborne to one Vivian McCulloch, late of the A.I.F.
The dainty, brown-eyed bride wore white over pale-
pink, and carried a posy of rosebuds and carnations.
Mrs. M. Forrest’s daughter, Kathleen, was bridesmaid,
and the bride’s brother gave the bride away.
Still another on the 7th. Fathers Walsh and Lee
joined up Frank M’Donnell’s daughter Eileen with
Reg.. Cosgrove in St. Stephen’s R.C. Cathedral at
noon. This bride was all ivory moire, silver tissue,
pearls .and orange blossom, and carried a sheaf of
euchai'ist lilies. They go a-honeymooning in Sydney
and Melbourne.
Freda Bage, principal of the Women’s College, is
up for ’Varsity Senate election—the first woman to
tackle the job.
Lily Svensen and N. V. Whitehouse were not
afraid to make a Friday their wedding-day. Pink
and white was the color scheme, and Norway’s
Consul, Captain Svensen, handed a handsomely-
frocked bride to her bridegroom in St. John’s
Cathedral. There was an Early Victorian effect about
the bridesmaid’s frocking, and later on the flags of
Australia and Norway mingled their folds over a
shivoo at the Bellevue.
The following day Saidee Raff promised to honor
and obey Parson CampbeU-Robertson at St. Colomb’s,
Clayfield. She did it in a hand-embroidered Belgian
lace veil and charmante gown.


w
HARDY BROS. LTD.
c Jewellers.
m
m
■
,v*s
.
1
Vv;
■b:
M
If i I
HI
m
Exquisite
Examples of
Choice Pearl
and Diamond
Jewellery .
1. Cluster Brooch,
£320.
2. Bar Brooch,
£llO.
S. Cluster Pendant,
£225.
Five per cent .
discount for Cash.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
c Jewellers <Sa <
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
You Carry it as You Do Your Watch—
IN YOUR POCKET.
The Ansco
Vest Pocket No. 0
Size of picture,
If x 24 inches.
For Roll Films
Daylight Loading.
Correct in design, construction and
equipment—the kind of miniature
Camera which can be used with
entire satisfaction. Suitable for the
amateur and the expert.
The camera weighs but 1 O^oz.
PRICES:
FIXED-FOCUS MODELS—
POSTAGE 9d.
ã
LT?
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney,
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
16 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
/7
The AUTOTONE
: . ) r'• r " < ■, ' • ■ " . '" “ ' * - •. ' ; . ■ ■ ■
Player Piano
by reason of its beautiful tone quality, its artistic
interpretation, and its charm of appearance, has
become a great favorite with our customers.
Judge the AUTOTONE Player Piano on all points
—Touch and Tone, Design and Finish, Mechanism
and Workmanship—and you will convince yourself
that it is THE instrument for you and yours.
Visit Paling’s Player Piano Salon and hear the
AUTOTONE. If unable to call,
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE,
Price List, and particulars of extended payments.
PALING’S will accept your present Piano as part
payment, if desired.
PALING’S FOR.
MUSIC ROLLS.
From the many thousands of
Music Rolls at Paling’s you
may choose Grand Opera,
Classical Selections, Famous
Ballads, Dance Music, etc., etc.
SEND FOR LIST TO-DAY.
sm iEy.
rtNO AT
B R , rttWCfIJTLt.
TOOWOOMBA UXMOR.t,
ROCKHAWPTO/S.^'S
WE SELL ON
fc* EASY TERMS.


Ladies’ Writing & Rest c ßpom
adjoining Corset Salon, fourth floor.
Away from the noise of the city, Farmer’s have
opened a delightful Writing and Rest Room,
befitting the convenience of patrons of the Store.
Here, amidst attractive surroundings, ladies may
attend to their correspondence or rest in comfort.
A nominal charge of 3d. is made, which includes writing requisites.
Farmer’s :: Sydney .
Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
qA la Heine des Fleurs :: established 1774
L.. X. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Estab Ushed 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfectly adherent, and
will suit your skin; the name is the guarantee of quality.
Sxauisite Herfumes created by the
House of L. T. PIVER ,
Le Trefle, Azurea, Floramye. Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
171
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Prime Minister Bruce is something- of an
exquisite, so he should appreciate his new
official quarters in the Commonwealth block
of the Treasury Buildings. The P.M.’s room
inside is “strictly business,” but it is
approached by a corridor that opens on to
a fine grey stone balcony that has been
turned into a conservatory. The windows
look out of walls draped with scarlet Vir-
ginia creeper on to a forest of elms and a
deep vista of huge gums and other Fitzroy
garden beauties. Thousands of birds take
shelter in those gardens, and if Bruce finds
he has to “work back” at night he may see
the bright eyes of a ’possum or two peeping
in upon him. Those gardens make up one
of Melbourne’s picked spots, and the com-
mercial-minded property-investor looks on
the Commonwealth block of offices with deep
and fervent yearning. His imagination pic-
tures it as ultra-expensive residential flats.
Its fine grey stone solidity, its marvel-
lous shrubberies and gardens—all wasted on
a small army of Civil servants who “down
tools” and desert it just as its most alluring
evening aspect begins!
Ma State politicians with wives and
daughters—a tair-sized contingent all told
—came over to us this week to fraternise
with our State politicans and feminine folk.
Incidentally, the legislators played cricket,
bowls, tennis and billiards. Hospitality was
fairly lavish, as the Parliamentary Sports
Club was well backed up by outside bodies
and private hosts and hostesses.
Like our ex-Czar, Billy Hughes, the new
Prime Minister fills in his odd hours in the
country. His Frankston homestead lies
alongside the Brights’ sheep-run. Mrs.
Bruce, who is among Toorak’s most taste-
fully-dressed matrons, was one of the Ander-
son sisters. Their mother was a Manifold.
There are no little Bruces, but a well-mani-
cured fox-terrier does his best to keep the
pair from feeling too lonely.
The vice-regal Forsters shed their official-
dom for the afternoon on Thursday last to
attend the marriage at Christ Church of Iveva
Allardyce and Charles Butler, son of the
C. W. Butlers, of Hobart. The G.-G. handed
Iveva over, and parson Lionel Townshend tied
the knot. The bride’s white satin skirt,
fashioned from her dead mother’s court
train, billowed mid-Victorianly under a
straight-jacket bodice effect described as
mediaeval. Seed pearl embroiderings mean-
dered round the panel hems and across the
chest piece. The little lass was hidden away
under clouds of tulle veiling clamped to the
head with white leaves and a cluster of
orange-blossoms over each ear, and her white
floral hand posy nestled in a lace frill. The
two small Pitt Rivers boys, in their garden-
party blue satin breeks and silk-knitted
jumpers, clutched the backwash of the bridal
drapings, while cousin Elizabeth Stawell, the
Collins-street medico’s flapper chick, and
grand-daughter of that Stawell dame who
was a Molesworth Greene, played a lone hand
as bridesmaid, in blue cr§pe pleatings and
white hat. Gent.-help Lawrence looked after
the bridegroom. The wedding feast was
spread in the gubernatorial parlors for rela-
tives and one or two extra-special friends.
Lady Forster hostessed in blue Jersey silk
and flower-wreathed hat, and the bridegroom’s
mother stood by in black satin, with her
daughter brocaded in brown.
Capt. Jimmy Traill, who gent.-helped for
a long while on the Forsters’ staff, has
packed up his Glengarry and kilts and gone
to join up with his regiment again. The
only brick he dropped was regarding the
masked ball given at Federal Government
House. He wrote, a tactless letter to the
Melbourne press-women asking them to view
the somewhat dull proceedings from the
musicians’ gallery and to wear walking kit,
top boots and rain coats. This gained for
him the soubriquet of “The Blazed Traill.”
Otherwise he was a kind, gentle little fellow.
Lady Forster will go to the first of Amy
Castles’s three concerts in the Town Hall —
it’s to be on March 1. Amy will have sister
Eileen to help ; and brother George is man-
aging the season —his first attempt at such
work, but he is making good headway.
If Lady Honor Ward (whose photos don’t
make her out to have grown quite beautiful
since she was a pretty flapper in Australia)
is going to be married shortly to Major
Bridgeman, will she get much of the jewel-
lery that gran’ma owns? Old folks never
spoke of the Dudleys when they were here
without smacking their lips over the dowager’s
diamonds. You heard them tell of how those
sparklers were a special exhibit, in a case,
at a famous London Exhibition in 1862, or
thereabouts. Her husband —the father of
our Lord Dudley—was regarded as the
eccentric son of an eccentric sire.
He wore his hair so long that it fell
on his shoulders and completely covered
the place where his ears were said not to be,
owing to a Sultan of Turkey or his harem-
keepers having had them cut off. And his
pride in the beautiful Miss Moncrief (no
relation to Gladys), who consented to share
his title, was so great that he showered dia-
monds and things on her. They were said to
be worth a million pounds, and whatever they
did cost was doubtless less than their value
nowadays. So there was method in the late
Earl’s madness. The once-lovely owner of
the famous jewellery must be outgrowing her
young delight in it, and the present Earl no
longer has a wife to need necklaces, so there
ought to be lots of scintillating things to
spare for Lady Gladys Honor Ward, in spite
of her awfully bad taste in marrying the son
of a “colonial.”
Kathleen Payne, who has come from Eng-
land to marry ex-Senator Chataway’s
younger hope, George, rested just a few weeks
in this city, getting acquainted with her
prospective in-laws before streaking off to
the Solomops to swear herself away to her
ex-Anzac, who has something to do with the
8.-P. activities. The pretty little bride-to-be
is now preparing to hand the island belles
the surprise of their dusky lives by breath-
ing her vows through folds of venerable old
Limerick, with the usual bridal accompani-
ments.
The Charles D’Ebro widow’s only chick,
Essa, and Arthur Barraclough (whose dad
has charge of the local end of Reuter’s acti-
vities) have fixed up for an early start in
matrimony. The bride-to-be is a fine, up-
standing out-o’-doors damsel, who can hold
her own at golf and tennis. Her mother is
a daughter of the late Dr. Tracey, a noted
Collins-street medico of the ’sixties.
Long Johnnie Campbell and pretty little
Nell Chambers swore to be good and true
to each other in Melbourne Grammar’s ivy-
clad chapel the other day. The bride, who
was handed over by her banker dad, dimpled
engagingly in white georgette under folds of
old Limerick (lent by Mrs. E. J. MacMiek-
ing) anchored to her fluffy locks by a circlet
of orange blossom; but she broke her bridal
whiteness with an armful of pink flowers.
Betty Nichol, a Clunes belle, wore pink
crepe de Chine with veil to match, and bore
a floral trophy of blue and pink. Relatives
and a few extra-special friends toasted the
contracting pair at Kenmore, the Chambers’s
Tooralc place. Bridegroom Johnnie is the
younger son of the John Campbell widow,
who lost her husband and eldest daughter
within a few months of each other a year
after two fine sons had fallen in France.
She sent along her good wishes from
S’Africa, where she is visiting a married
daughter. The younger Campbell girls’ wire-
less greetings came from the overseas vessel
which is bearing them back to the Cold
Country.
This is a Monteath photo, of Mrs. S. Tait,
mother of the remarkable brethren who lend
a hand at the helm of J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Mrs Tait, now 85, was born in London, and
first met her husband, a Shetland man, at
the Castlemaine gold diggings in the ’fifties.
She had a family of
nine, of whom six
survive. The eldest
son, William, who
preferred a steady
job in the Post
Office to the adven-
tures and advertise-
ments of the show
business, died two or
three years back,
and a sister and
brother predeceased
him. The others
comprise the popular
Mrs. Scott, who lives
with her mamma in
East Melbourne;
Charles, one of the
genial heads of
Allan’s; Nevin, the
clan’s London repre-
sentative; and John, Frank and Ted, who
are all holding posts in the Firm’s London
and Sydney offices. Frank, whose ability won
him his seat on the directorate, is only about
half-way through the thirties. He is an old
Melbourne Grammar boy, and about the end
of last century was the chubby coxswain of
the school eight, stroked at that time by
Prime Minister Bruce.
Dr. Kent Hughes’s eldest son Billy, who
got back from his Rhodes scholar course at
Oxford at the end of last year, just waited
to show himself round the family circle be-
fore dashing off to the TJ.S. to marry a New
Jersey miss, Edith Kerr, whom he met fn
Paris after the Armjstice. Bridegroom Bill
captained “Melbourne” when he was 18,
collected an M.C. -at the Front, and after-
wards launched a volume of his war experi-
ences. The pair will come on to Melbourne
after an Amurrican honeymoon.
Major Jim Fairbairn takes his Dark Rosa-
leen bride, Peggy Forester, to wife on March
21, after which they skip to that Isle of
Lovers, Honolulu. When the moon has
waned they return to watch his numerous
flocks on a Queensland estancia. Their pals
dub this young couple Rouge et Noir, as the
Major inclines to marmalade coloring whilst
the bridelet owns inky tresses.
Artist Norman Carter (pictured by May
Moore) is in Melbourne—his old home.-town
—interesting himself
in the Victorian
aspect of the exhibi-
tion of Australian
paintings, to be held
in London in Octo-
ber. The Society of
Artists, backed up
by a number of art
patrons, has the
matter in hand, and,
with the help of in-
fluential Australians
abroad, they have
already achieved one
remarkable thing—
engaged some rooms
of the Royal Aca-
demy, which august
institution has here-
tofore set its face
against outsiders
using its rooms, and has made only very
rare exceptions for small, precious and ex-
clusive exhibitions. And all that, the altru-
istic Academy is asking, the Aussie painters
in return for the privilege of holding the
show within its w T alls is a mere £4O a week.
Artist Elioth Gruner has gone abroad as
the business agent of the show. Melba is
a patron, and is helping from the London
side.. A preliminary exhibition has been
planned for June in Sydney, and Norman
Carter is now looking into the possibility
of another in Melbourne before the pictures
are shipped oversea.
The brightest boy in Prime Minister
Bruce’s form when he matriculated at
Melbourne Grammar in 1899 is now Ur.
Mark Gardner, a younger brother of Come
Gardner, partner in the firm of Gardner,
Waern and Co. Mark Gardner,- known as
“Pup,” did well at the Grammar and the Var-
sity. but shone most as an eye-expert with a
British unit in Roumania during the war.
He practises at the east end of Collins-street,
where another old school, pal. Dr. lv. Stuart
Cross, is making something of a reputation
as an X-ray specialist. Cross is one of
Grammar’s brainiest products. A slight,
unassuming lad, who rarely played games,
he grabbed the coveted “dux” prize without
any difficulty, and was held up to the laggards
as a wonderful example. Cross never had
much color at school, but he was a rosy-
cheeked cherub compared with the other
anaemic-looking and probably overworked
medico who may be seen daily picking a bit
of food at a Collins-street pub.
Artist Janet Cumbrae Stewart launched
a show in the Fog one day last week, and
the cable declares that the Times gave it
honorable mention. If the venture turns
out a success it may mean that blue-eyed
Janet will be tied to the other side of the
equator for some months. When the last
mail left she was sheltering with the Coun-
tess Darnley, who. besides being an Austra-
lian, is quite a skilled paintress herself.
Mrs. “Frankie” Stuart-Murray’s depar-
ture by the Ascanius for the Big Fog leaves
Toorak dimmer: she is one of its brightest
lights. She takes her only chick, “Buster,
to finish at a superfine English girls school.
“Frankie” is a daughter of genial Sandy
Oliver, of the Stock Exchange, and just
got her husband through a bout of pneu-
monia in time to catch the boat.
Public spirit in Geelong seems to be dis-
creetly mixed with the tonic-water of wis-
dom. Popular Alderman Hitchcock and his
wife, five times Mayor and Mayoress of the
city, are off to Britain and elsewhere next
month. A committee is arranging a great
demonstration prior to their departure, but
a little bird chirrups that “a presentation
is not likely to be made until they return.
Geelong, seemingly, has a horrible suspicion
that the wicked world may beguile its Mayor
and Mayoress into staying there forever, or
may corrupt them to such an extent that
old Wesleyan friends will hardly know them
again. So Geelong means to be sure of its
Hitchcocks ere it makes a presentation.
Two smart Melbourne sisters, Mrs. W.
P. Hogarth, of Malvern, and Mrs. Rattray,
home is now in Sydney, suddenly
decided to get back to girlish days for a
roam round together. They are now travel-
ling on the Continent. At latest they were
taking a spell at that exquisite Italian town,
Bordighera, after a feverish time at Monte
Carlo, and intended going thence to Rome.
The Shenton Gordons and their school-
girl daughter are homeward bound to Aus-
tralia after sampling Germany. Mrs. Gor-
don was a Johns, of the Johns and Wdygood
Johnses.
Looking mighty uncomfortable a deputa-
tion from the Dental Society emerged from
an interview with Alec Peacock the other
day. They had gone in to protest against
the setting up of a wages board fo r j , •
mechanics —it would destroy the camaraa
between the employers and employees or
“profession.” Peacock’s reply was to l
effect that as the average pay was •
and some of the women employees rece
as little as 235. Id. a week, he thought
little more remuneration would be api Ji
ated even if it meant a little less cama
derie.”
Something of a literary landmark passes
out with the abandonment of the . UD *v o
the Verandah” column, by “Atticus, in
Leader. For a long time Marcus Clarke
provided the matter for ‘Under the ' e
andah,” then Garnet Walsh had a dash a
it. and at odd times it has employed s ®^ eia
well-known pens. During the last 1» »
20 years the column has been contributed Dy
Edward Dyson. But there is to be a recon-
struction of the paper, and Atticus
being abolished to make room presumably
for more exciting matter dealing with
and pumpkins.
When is Australia going to create some
quaint family names such as came to us
from England of old, and are still coming (
Melbourne’s in memoriam notices last week
recorded the death of a loved husband and
father named Drinkmilk. Everybody has
heard of the Mrs. Dvvakwater who was
bosom friend of a pantomime dame (.trie
dame used to say: “Mrs. Drmlcw&tev— l
don’t, think!”) : but Drinkmilk is almost as
unexpected as Drinkbeer. Now, a name tnat
ought to originate in this country is Drink-
tea. And one day there should be wide-
spread families of Sheepdip, Mulgawire and
Heatwave. Why, we haven’t got even a
Blacksnake or Drydam in the directoiy
thus far.
The feminine typist is not always merely
an office-machine. At the fourth Civil Ser-
vice Typists’ Hobbies Exhibition m London
the other day there were 1500 entries, in-
cluding such things as knitted jumpers,
dresses, beautiful embroidery and needle-
work, sketches, photographs, cakes, pies and
sweets, all made in spare time. Here in Mel-
bourne the girls invariably have some needle-
work on hand for slack moments, and click
a brisk accompaniment to the latest gossip.
The really good typist is a great alLround
girl, and it’s a pity there’s not an exhibition
on the London lines to encourage her here.
Incidentally, this Letter knows of one cute
little typist who bought dozens of men s
hankies wholesale and sold the linen,, duly
branded with initials, to all the clerks m her
vicinity.
Vic. Cabinet consists of seven Anglicans,
three Scotchbyterians, one Congregationalist
and one Baptist. Four of the Anglicans
leaned toward the proposal for Sunday games
in the city parks. The other eight Minis-
ters went for the veto, and their view pre-
vailed. The chief Melb. press advocate of
Sunday games is a son of a Moderator-
General of the Scotchbyterian Church of
Australia. Lawson, whose Ministry has
turned down the request for sanction, is also
a son of the manse. Which is right? Per-
haps Lawson regards Murdoch as a Wee
Free.
A line or two from Adelaide
The Blinded Soldiers’ Assoc, the other day tare-
welled Miss Mary Stirling, who is bound for England
in a week or two, with the late Dr. Russell’s two
daughters under her wing. She worked tor a time at
St. Dunstan’s during the war, and on her return to
S. Aus. helped to found an association for blinded
men here. w
Miss Lenore Reynell sailed with Miss Kyffin Thomas
in one of the new Italian liners, where they had
nearly all the first-class to themselves.
Bessie Davidson has added to her laurels by selling
another picture, a figure study, to the French; Govern-
ment. It is to hang in the Luxembourg. '
Passed out at Glenelg, Mrs. John Tassie, one of the
most consistent battlers for local charities. Both
the District Trained Nurses’ Society and the Minda
Home will miss her badly.
Miss Dorothy MacDonald, who toiled with the Red
Cross in France in the early days of repatriation, has
gone to rejoin her old unit. This time she is
booked for work among refugees in Central Europe.
IJrrbrae, the Waites’ home at Glen Osmond, changed
from a private house to a public institution the
other day, when Miss Waite and her sister handed
it over to George Murray and the Assistant Registrar
of the University. It used to be the most hospit-
able of homes, and its passing turns down one of
the pleasantest pages in our social life. The bequest
to the ’Varsity is on the same scale as that old
lavish hospitality—- £60,000 worth of Elder-Smith
and Co. shares, and 232 acres of park-like land
stretching up to the foot-hills, with 67 acres moie
for a Government reserve close by.
The Church of Christ’s new school for girls at
Magill has been opened by William Burford, one
of its founders and the donor of the cheque that
made the move into the new building possible. It
is an oldish house, set in a big, rambling garden
and flanked by paddocks that will give the modern
and athletic feminine young person plenty of room.
The Elder Conservatorium lately had a mild sen-
sation. A valuable violin, the property of orchestra-
leader Will Cade, was lent to Miss Whitington, and
afterwards stolen from a cupboard. The police
were informed, and two days later the missing instru-
ment was dug up in the Uni. grounds, where it had
been buried. It had been properly interred —
coffined in its case—and was not injured.


Announcing
The
NEW
CHEVROLET
AGAIN CHEVROLET MOTOR COMPANY has empha-
sised its admitted leadership as producer of the World s
Low-priced Quality Automobiles.
THE NEW SUPERIOR MODELS (of which the five-
passenger Touring Car is illustrated) represent the most
sensational values in modern, economical transportation
ever established.
QUALITY has been still further improved by more artistic
design and added equipment.
■Tyi ■'l'-: ...... .. ... t •• .
ECONOMY has been still further increased by engineering
refinements and greatly broadened production and distribu-
tion facilities.
SERVICE is ensured by the establishment of agents and
service stations throughout the world.
PRICES remain the same in spite of added equipment and
more expensive construction, which have greatly increased
Chevrolet Value.
Some Distinctive Features:
Streamline body design with higher radiator; vacuum feed and rear
petrol tank on all models; drum-type head lamps with legal lenses;
full crowned and panelled mudguards; high-tension magneto. All
closed models have Fisher bodies with plateglass Ternstedt
regulated windows; straight-side cord tyres; sun visor; wind-shield
wiper and dash light.
I CHEVROLET J
New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., 181 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
West Australia :
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd.,
DOO Hay Street, Perth.
Victoria and Riverina :
S. A. Cheney Motors Pty., Ltd.,
22 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Tasmania.
Beasley’s Garage Pty., Ltd.,
8-12 Patterson Street, Launceston.
274 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
South Australia:
Mann's Motors. Ltd., Currie Street.
Adelaide.
Queensland:
Howard Motor Co.. Ltd..
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ä
ft
Nothing compares
with Chevrolet


fa
t.
>
58
2
M
s**
m
mS
«®BB*V
S&&
s&r.
Mf>
/Hr
wA'
cm>
Afit
\/A// y
7 )J /a
/A A A f )
fyK
! 4 \ /,♦
/.A ••/
{/
/>\ 'A;'
/ ,r\ /rf v
/A i
0
f * \
A. TV
'(Vi) K
Kf\r)
I / A /k' ‘
Goodyear
means Good Wear
THE obvious way to build up a
cord tyre is to lay one ply of
cords alternately crosswise upon
another.
Such a method gives a reasonably
satisfactory result.
But Goodyear learned years ago that
this fundamental principle could be
improved upon —that cord plies laid
in alternate groups insured a better
result —less internal friction, less heat
in the tyre, longer life.
So to-day Goodyear Cords are built
in this special Goodyear way and it is
one of the many reasons why
“Goodyear means Good Wear”
GOOD-YEAR
CORDTYREi


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP tt CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
a
m
A Silk Dressing Gown
combining luxury and practicality.
This is something altogether exclusive—a gown
personally chosen in. London for its handsome
quality, rich, harmonious coloring, and quiet dis-
tinction.
It is of heavy Paisley silk—in dark and navy
blue tones, well cut, fitting neatly but comfortably
at neck and shoulders, and finished with black and
blue silk cord.
An ideal birthday gift—a treasure to the man of
particular tastes, moderately priced bv Peapes at
£7/15/-
Peapes pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
.109-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
All Serene, a three-year-old daughter of
All Black, let into the Newmarket with the mini-
mum, scored a smart win over six furlongs at Wil-
liamstown last Saturday. The filly was receiving
three stone from top-weight Salatis, who made a
brave attempt to catch her in the straight, but
alter she had snatched the lead from Una Carlos
I” e o U , n AH Serene made was really too much
tor Salatis. She rushed past the post, with a length
to the good, in lmin. 12fsec. If she can travel
as fast up the Flemington straight six there are
many that will see All Serene’s tail in the New-
market. Her owner and trainer, Hildyard, brought
off a coup at the meeting, for previous to the
nllys victory he had won the 11-furlongs event
with cast-iron Sinbad the Sailor, who was giving
considerable weight to some of the runners. Though
unplaced 60 times in his strenuous career, the sea-
soned battler has done well as a six-year-old, and
may have yet more improvement in him. But he
has still to show that he likes a longer distance than
12 furlongs.
< <v *
0.K.”: Two kindly-treated animals, on
torm in the Newmarket and Australian Cup are
I ,a yhope and Shillinglee in Scobie’s stable. The form
is English, and neither horse has done anything in
Australia to deserve a substantial weight; all the
same 6st. 111 b. for Hayhope in the flutter, and 7st.
81b. for Shillinglee in the long race, were the least
they could have been asked to carry* They were not
so well handicapped in the Spring, when they were
n °t_ so acclimatised, nor so nearly at the prime of
racing life. Of the most respected Victorian sprinters
none look more dangerous than Weedah, Sunburst and
Sonora, the placed three in the Standish on New
Year s Day. And because they are mares, one is
inclined to prefer Weedah and Sonora to Sunburst
tor the sprint in March. Easingwold looks well
handicapped at Bst. 51b. in the Newmarket, seeing
that he ran second to Violoncello in a valuable race
while ago. But there was no saying how easily
tli e big English horse beat Easingwold, or how
rapidly he was improving at the time. Scorpius and
Weedah are on the same mark in the Newmarket,
and nobody can say which of them is the more favor-
ably handicapped, but this writer guesses that the
mare’s performances in Melbourne have been more
convincing evidence of great speed than Scorpius’s
lr V,. tl ? e West. By the same token, The Cypher,
Mufti, Sister Olive and Harvest King impress him
more than Jolly Cosy, who has Bst. 81b. in the Aus-
tralian Cup. Neither Sister Olive nor Mufti would
be picked as a weight-carrier, and the last-named is
only a handful in a big field, where bumps befall
thickest, but they both have fair chances on their
Melbourne Cup running.
* * * *
Poor Gazomp, the hapless hero of some
Bulletin verse last winter, met his death last week
through a fall at jumping exercise. He was the 1921
Australian Steeple winner, whose loss of form last
season was explained by his having suffered uncom-
plainingly from broken ribs. Gazomp of late
appeared to feel no inconvenience from the old
breakage, blit it couldn’t have been a stimulating
memory to one who had never quite mastered the art
of safe jumping.
* * * *
“Lend.”: A thing Australian visitors
never can understand is why England should keep the
fat-racing and the jumping seasons in watertight com-
partments, so to speak. A steeple or hurdle would
greatly brighten up Derby Day. or a nv other dav;
but no, it mustn’t be seen till winter, when the
ordinary racing season is all over. Presumably the
idea is that jumps mean falls, and falls wouid be
more dangerous on hard ground ; but an average Eng-
lish summer is not so baking to the turf as all that.
When jumping does arrive, there is nothing else. A
flat-race or two would brighten up the existing winter
(or so-called “Hunt”) programmes immensely. Take
Hurst Park, just before Christmas, for example. The
monotonous programme was made up of three steenles,
2, 3 and 2 miles, ,and three hurdles, 2, 2 and li
miles. There wasn’t a close finish in the lot, and in
four cases the winner came home alone. Every
winter there are complaints that the meetings don’t
attract, and various remedies are suggested; yet
nobody seems to dream of experimenting with the
mixed programme which to Australians would be a
matter of course.
“G.F.” : Adelaide’s plain-clothes policemen
wage relentless w r ar on the bookmakers who ply their
useless calling in and about seedy pubs. But some-
times they come a thud. On a recent race-day
two of them saw a youth hand a piece of paper
to a barman. One of them grabbed the suspected
punter; the other snatched his missive out of the
barman’s hand. However, it contained nothing more
sinister than a few words of greeting and a request
for a pint of the best. The writer was just a
thirsty deaf-mute.
Since Jack Gregory retired from Sydney
to lead the pastoral life he has been learning
tennis. It is only twelve months since be handled
a racquet for the first time, but in the mixed
doubles at Rushcutters Bay he and his partner, Miss
Doddemeade, won a set from H. W. Kirkpatrick and
Miss Lloyd, players of undoubted class, and pushed
them hard in the other two. The long international
hadn’t trained for the tourney and tired over the
last bit, but he did enough to suggest that he
may give Anderson and Patterson some trouble if
he sticks to the game. His natural advantages are
certainly equal to those of the pair mentioned,
and he is younger than Dick Arnst was when the
burly Maorilander dropped cycling for sculling and
became the world’s champion waterman.
* * * *
“15.30”: A review of last year’s tennis
in the London National Review is interesting for
the tribute paid to Pat O’Hara Wood, who is christ-
ened by the writer “the D’Artagnan of tennis.’’ Wood
is not only described as the best of the Australians
on the backhand—a fact on which I have modestly
insisted from time to time—but is also proclaimed
as the most resourceful player that this country
possesses. There is praise for his recovery against
Anderson in the Wimbledon tournament, when, after
dropping the first two sets, he ran away with the
next two, and just missed winning the match. Also
when Australia met Spain in the U.S., Wood had
practically clinched his argument with the Spanish
champion, Alonzo, when a foot-fault, called against
him after his service had been delivered and the
ball was in play, knocked him to pieces, with the
result that Alonzo, taking brilliant advantage of
the occasion, fought out the finish to five sets and
just scraped home. But Wood gets the greatest
bouquet for his doubles work with Patterson in the
challenge round with the Yankees for the Davis
Cup. “Rarely in the history of tennis,” alleges the
writer, “has a player given such a remarkable exhi-
bition of interception at the net. His kills, especially
off Richards’s returns, were phenomenal, and there
is no doubt that he outshone his partner, Patterson,
and even the mighty Tilden on that famous oc-
casion.” Incidentally, the reviewer regards Anderson
as a finer artist than Patterson.
“F. Clinton”: “Baseline” notwithstand-
ing (B. l/2/’23), I remain of the opinion that the
prices demanded for the so-called “higher-class”
tennis racquets are extortionate. Can “Baseline”
reasonably believe that a piece of bent cane, a
short handle of soft wood, and a few vards of cat-
got are worth a fiver? Allowing for' the best of
materials, the best hand-work, and handsome profits
to manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer, the price
is ridiculous. The frills about the modern high-
priced racquet do not conduce to strength. The
more simply-constructed the thing is the less likely
it is to break. Pieces of fancy wood inlet into
the shoulder and two-piece frames weaken a racquet
and shorten its life. “Baseline” says that he is
still using an implement which cost him 4os. five
years ago and that it is now onlv about 10s. dearer.
This practically proves my contention that the high
prices exacted for the fanev blades are absurd. As
lie has used _ his weapon in all weathers for five years
without having it restrung, he has an excellent article
purchased at a reasonable figure, or else he is a tip-
and-catch dud player. He may'take his. choice.
With J. O. Anderson out of the N.S.W.
team (he mysteriously retired when Norman Peach
was appointed captain) and Patterson, Hawkes and
O’Hara Wood absent from the Victorians, the inter-
State tennis contests at
Sydney were robbed of a
good deal of their attrac-
tiveness. However, the
country players, F. Kalms,.
R. Spencer and Aubrey
Sieler, proved worthy repre-
sentatives of the Ma State.
Kalms, especially, was
brilliant, and only needs
more experience in first-
class company to be ranked
with the champions Tn
the aggregate N.S.W.
triumphed by 18 rubbers
to 3. The ladies’ matches
were more even. N.S.W.
winning by 7 rubbers to
5. Miss Lance and Miss
Lloyd—just back from
M.L., where they carried
all before them—were in
great form. They were
unbeaten in the singles .and
doubles, a distinction
which they shared with the
Melbourne girl, Miss Boyd.
A UBREY SIELER.
a member of the
N.S.W. tennis team
that, defeated
Victoria.
"Linesman”: Young 11. Coldhani, who is
related to the unsuccessful Liberal candidate for
Ballarat at the recent elections, looks like making a
name for himself in Though only 16, he
won the “B” division singles at Geelong last Easter,
beat all the opposition in a similar tournament at
Ballarat at Christmas, and has now collared the
trophy at Hamilton after tearing his way through a
record field.
“Tuart”: According to a London weekly
the hue and cry against Lawton, the Queensland
Rhodes scholar, who has been suspended by the
Rugby Union for having played the League code at
Brisbane when the Union game had faded out, was
started by a person who is morosely antagonistic to
the prominence ot “colonials” in games of British
origin, i know that person. He is related to the
depressing asses who alleged, by cable, that the
limping Hobbs had been savagely jeered at by the
Sydney cricket crowd. The obese old gentle-
men who vituperated Armstrong because he didn’t
bowl McDonald and Gregory for six hours on end
in the match against Little Puddleton, and for other
offences equally heinous (didn’t he make the mon-
strous assertion that the average English pro. plays
dull cricket?) belong to the same family. So does
that noble London writer who, after Patterson and
Anderson had made mincemeat of the English tennis
cracks, openly lamented that the genteel traditions
of Wimbledon should have been sullied bv “huge
persons of aboriginal appearance.” And there are
the aristocrats of English rowing who refused to let
the Murray Bridge crew compete against the lily-
whites of Henley because some of the low blightahs
from South Australiah earn their living by vulgah
toil—they, also, are members of the tribe. Like
all Australians of English parentage, I was cradled
in the belief that Britain is the spiritual home of
sport and sportsmanship. But, thanks to such
pleasantries as those aforementioned, the present Aus-
tralian kid is growing up with quite a different
opinion.
“Centurion”: As a result of the feeling
in Britain over the granting of international Rugby
“caps” to “colonial” Rhodes scholars, there is a
prospect of a Dominions international side being
formed next season to play against England, Scot-
land, Wales and Ireland. Such a team would include
Forsay.th, Lawton (if his suspension is removed),
Aitken, Wallace, Bettington, Rowe and Wesche, while
Raymond, the N.S.W. wing three, will be in resi-
dence by next season. Should the South Africans join
up, the beastly colonials will make things hum.
There ought to be good forward material, too, among
the Canadians, who nowadays affect the tear-’em-
and-eat-’em U.S. game.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: Oxford and Cambridge,
in their recent Rugby match, actually got out of
their rut and allowed the players to wear distinguish-
ing numbers, to the great satisfaction of the specta-
tors. Then arose the question of No. 13. England is
so hidebound in superstition that this number is
usually left out altogether, nobody caring to wear it.
The universities would not openly countenance super-
stition, and yet several undergrads, seemed to look
sideways at the badge. Then said Wakefield, the
Cambridge captain—an older man than the rest, hav-
ing been right through the war, in the Air Force—
“ All right; I’ll have it.” And he did, and he led
his side to a win which none of the sporting
prophets had expected.
“Matahari”: Boy-champions are bursting
into prominence in Australia as well as the U.S.A.
G. A. Dempsey, who beat big fieids
ot JN. S. Wales cyclists in the races for the one-mile
and ten-mile titles, is only 17. lie left the ten
miles behind in 23min. 32sec. True, Grenda, the
Tasmanian, has ridden ten miles in 20min. 0 3-ssec.
but it was a wonderful feat for a kid.
i ‘! Tr u en ” •' In classing Henry, the Queens-
land aba, as the fastest bowler Australia has pro-
duced, Q. (B. 25/1/23) isn’t far wrong. “Plum”
Warner played against this black express in 1904.
and rated him as fast as Kortright or Jones.
According to “Plum,” Braund was so scared of the
abo. that he retreated from every ball towards square-
leg*, poked his bat out blindly to protect his wicket,
and soon tapped an easy catch up to point. Henry
was dangerous for a few overs on a fiery wicket but
® n J lowed down. Marsh, the abo. who represented
vr i ' 011 several occasions, was so fast that Archie
Maclaren, when captaining the 1902 team, objected to
his bowling on the ground that he might injure some
of his players. However, as Marsh could not get out
of the habit of throwing at least three times every
over, he* was soon dropped from big cricket.
“Winkle”: The Victorian cricket selectors,
in picking Karl Schneider, captain of Xavier College,
to represent Victoria against Tasmania (he made 55,
run out), for once helped a promising young plaver
along. Schneider is small for his It years, but all-
round ability, confidence and enthusiasm for the game
make up for his lack of inches. With his college he
has a splendid record, including the following per-
formances : Against Wesley, 56 and 6 wickets for 36 ;
v. Geelong College, 7 for 34, 3 for 10, 124, 6 for 27;
v. Scotch, Si and 34, 8 for 80; v. Geelong Grammar,.
1 4 5- _ For combined Public Schools against
M.C.C., he made 73. Then, given a place in the
Melbourne XI, he was so successful that he repre-
sented the Vie. colts against the South Aus. colts at
Christmas, scoring 43 and 64, and taking 5 wickets
for 100. At Australian football Karl is a brilliant
rover, but his lack of weight will so handicap him
that he is unlikely to reach League company in that
■opacity. But, like Park, he may become a crack
orward.
* * * *
“R.H.C.”: It is evident that Hartkopf has
not been trying to boom his school feats through
the agency of “Winkle” (B. l/2/’23), several of
whose statements are wrong. Hartkopf did not take
100 wickets and score 1000 runs in each of his
la-'t two seasons. That would be impossible in a
season of orlv five matches. All told, he played
for Scotch College first XI for seven years, 1903-09,
scoring 1187-’; runs and taking 156 ‘ wickets. Tie
was champion athlete only in 1909, but was a mem-
ber of both the 1908 and 1909 crews. His years
in the football teams were, by the way from 1904
till 1909.
* * * #
“Warrawong” : Tom Carlton (B. l/2/’23)
is a nephew 0 f Jack and Tom of that ilk, who used
to be pillars of North Melbourne. At on»
time, seven brothers from three families plaved with
North: Harry and Geoae\- Stuckev, Alf., Jack
and Will Carlton and George and E. E. Bean. The
last-named, now V .C.A. secretary and member of
the Board of Control, was also a good footballer •
whilst George Stuckey won a Stawell Gift, and was
eantain of the Essendon F.C. in the days of Dr
Officer (now a leading horseowner in Perth W.A ) and
the late “Tracker” Forbes.
Provide : I hough Warwick Armstrong
has a reputation for indolence, he can bestir himself
when in the mood. Four sehoolbov bowlers were in
(he Melbourne team against Northcote, and were
Punished by Fred Yeomans (120)
that the big fellow had to keen an end nearly all
the afternoon. In all he bowled 27 overs and took
shade^tool 8 f ° r 82 FUnS ‘ lt WaS 98 de »- in the
Mosman, the runners-up last season, are
making a valiant attempt to win the Sydney
grade premiership. A fine 109 from Rupert Minnett’s
bat enabled them to beat Balmain after ’Main
had scored 212 and Mosman had lost five of the
best for 99. Back in 1909-10, Rupert topped the
season’s aggregate with 681 runs, averaging 97.28.
In 1914-15, he flashed again with a brilliant 131
v. Balmain. But since then he hadn’t troubled the
scorers to any noticeable extent. Buckle, a Central
Cumberland colt, got the other three-figure score—
102 not out v. Peter-
sham, but Cumberland
were defeated never-
theless. Gordon went
under to North Syd-
ney, for whom C.
Hogue took 7 for 43,
Macartney and Kelle-
way being among the
victims; and Hendry’s
7 for 60 for Waverley
v. Marrickville didn’t
suffice to gain last
year’s premiers the
victory - Marrickville
were 36 runs to the
good when each side
had played an innings.
Gordon and Waverley
still lead with 24
points, but Mosman
and North Sydney are
hard on their heels
with 23 apiece, and
Marrickville have 22.
WALLACE, the Vic-
torian fast howler.
Spargo is evidently slipping. Ilis two
tussles with Jacks suggested that he was finding
it difficult to elude a brisk punch, and the sus-
,was deepened by his performance against
Bill Grime, of N. S. Wales. That agile young man
outpointed Bert at Melbourne on Saturday night and
will return to his native Young with the feather-
weight crown. Thus far Grime is merely a clever
tapper who ducks smartly and is quick on his feet,
but he was Spargo’s master except in the close
work, and for the most part he kept well awav.
though a pound or so lighter William is 10 years
younger than the Melbournian. Which accounts for
a lot.
# * * *
Departing from the dreary 20-rounder,
which has been pretty well abandoned in Britain
and wholly in the U.S.A., the Sydney Stadium man-
agement put on two 12-rounders on Saturday night.
It is an innovation which should be encouraged, but
the crowd will have to be educated up to it. The
bout between Jack Cole (list. 311 b.) and Jim Hoff-
man (1-st. olb.) was nothing to write home about,
Coie making a punching-! ag of the bigger man.
Pa K' GUeeson (9st. 101 b.) and Kid Dale (9st
olb.), of Melbourne, fought as if there were £lO,OOO
in the house. The referee called it a draw, but
ma ?y thought that Dale’s great finishing round
entitled him to the decision. Still only 18 he is a
very likely-looking bit of slugging machinery.
Some prospective competitors for next
years Olympic, games were seen in action on the
Melbourne Amateur Sports Ground on Saturday.
One of them was A. W. Hunt, who fractured the
\ic. javelin record by nearly 13 feet. The voung
man hurled the implement 164 ft. Ilf in., which is
not far from the Olympian standard. D W. Gale
the Uni. sprinter, annexed the 100yds. in 10 l-10sec ’
the or the 440yds. he had three yards
vi% in '? f , th x- Lalltou cracl{ . P- J- Carroll, in
»1 3-10 sec. Jack Newman, the pride of St. Stephen’s,
lan a decent mile, coming in eight yards ahead of
his clubmate, W. H. Brown, in 4min. 28 2-ssec The
Australian record is 4min. 18|see.—Joe O’Brien es-
tablished it at Ballarat 42 years a°o
** * &
Fremont (W.A.), last week, Bill
lOOvds ti-tlp Ha ;n al Ji go i t , awa - y with the Australian
100yds. title, in the slick time of ooisee., and he
\ion comfortably at that. IV. Herald (N.S.W.) was
two yards astern, and “Brusher” Jones (W At a
foot behind Herald, Moss Christie (N.S.W.) follow-
laU<rthMr,? a At 9 rawley baths three days
later, Moss Christie beat Jones in the 1320 yards
them P rft* S th P ’ there were only inches between
I'b'-'n at the finish, Harris being six yards awav
third. The time, 18mm. 56 2-ssec., was slow com-
?9lQ d 9 Norma " boss’s 17min. 29 l-ssec in the
1919-20 season at Fletcher’s Dock, Adelaide, but
Crawley is no place to make time in when the
Fremantle Doctor blows. Jones is still a youngster
and, rightly handled, there is championship material
in nim. But he was allowed to start the season
b> competing in a three-mile race off scratch, and
that is no way to prepare for contests against
seasoned swimmers like Harris and Christie. In the
diving championship Dick Kve (N.S W ) was
adjudged eight points better than Morris, the Vic-
sno an ' a , K \ rkland Pretty certain to win the
100 yards backstroke at Adelaide, N. S. Wales looks
to have a mortgage on the Kieran Shield.
Some good young swimmers are comin«-
on in Adelaide, ar.d they cannot complain of anv
Jack of encouragement. The only .fresh-water swim
of the year, the length of the Torrens Lake, has had
the handicaps cut down from the old extravagant
figures, but they are still far too big. Out of 97
starters, the limit men were already under Morphett-
street bridge when Beaglehole, scratch, dived in at
the weir. He did the distance, about a mile in
2Smin. ; but a boy of 15 did it in •33min. 52se’c—
and had 11 minutes start. A voung girl with
12min was second: Beaglehole "14th. Port Pirie
sent down a team of seven—all expenses paid bv a
local subscription.
In the pair-oared championship of Vic-
toria on Lake Wendouree, Ballarat, J. Jopling and
R. W. Todd, the old-established Wendouree pair,
who paddled home pretty comfortably last year,
repeated the performance with more ease on Sat-
urday. They would have won bv about the width
of Sturt-street if they had maintained their pace
right up to the finish. But comparatively languor
beset them when they saw that they had' the race
well in hand, so there were only four lengths be-
tween them and Nagambie, who just beat Ballarat
for third place. The other loiterers were Albert
Park, Ballarat City and Footscray in that order.
WHY NOT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three chariots have been recovered from the tomb
of King Tutankhamen at Luxor. They are lignt
enough to have been used for racing purposes.— Cable.
Here on this hoary, prehistoric ground
Of dynasties and splendors infinite,
Ere Moses in the bulrushes was found
Or Joseph’s brethren bumped him in the pit,
Did racing tracks beside the Nile resound
With hoofs that thundered as the tan they hit?
Did Tutankhamen keep some prads to trot
For Cups and Plates? Why not?
Did Isis and Anubis and the rest
Of dog-faced deities and cow-tailed gods
Look from their lofty shrines with solemn zest
Or, like Olympians, with winks and nods
When earliest perspiring punters prest
Round hoarse-voiced men with bags who
bellowed odds?
Did the impassive Sphinx see many a pot
*'• Boil up and spill? Why not?
Come, excavate some more, ye savants keen ;
Dredge deeper yet beneath the Pyramids,
And solve the problem that has always been
So tough : Who “laid the field” before the Lids
Arrived upon the animated scene
To skin the goats and lambs and snare the
quids?
Here is some priceless knowledge still un-got.
Dig on! In Tutankhamen’s burial lot
It may be found —why not?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive’’ will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines —
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
Chamberlains
Tablets
å
ā
Thousands enjoy good health
because they tried Chamberlain s
Tablets when their Stomachs
W'ere weak and Livers disordered.
Try them and test their power to
relieve Biliousness. Constipation . and
disorders of the Stomach and Liver.
If you wish to try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain’s Ltd., 520 Riley St., Sydney, N.S.W.
&
irC
s\m>
f#
rj*
pyA
r\7o
<J>5
t*>
sO
\ :::: |
fig
V C&
\|e>
Children's Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and oowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
m 142306? 5
pro® «*
II *OOO :.!.
|- ' KiIOWATT HOURS
'OfiS too
r © ® ©■©
r tRRANT! IP
w ( < V ■•fiwcof) tv: u. ?Nr*
Type F. D. Ferranti Alternating Current
Watt Hour House Service Meter.
FERRANT I
METERS and
T ransformeirs.
As agents for Ferranti, Ltd., Hollingwood, Lancashire,
England, we offer a full range of Ferranti products,
including Continuous Current House Service
Ampere Hour Meters, Alternating Current Watt
Hour Meters, Overload Time Limit Relays for
Alternating Current, Moving Iron Ammeters and
Voltmeters, Induction Indicating Watt Meters.
Power Factor Indicators, Synchroscopes. Instru-
ment Transformers, Oil-Immersed Power Trans-
formers, etc.
votTMerg*
K
' D.C. VOLTMETER.
ELLIOTT BROS. (LONDON)
Indicating and Recording
INSTRUMENTS
The high quality and accuracy of Elliott Bros.’ instru-
ments are too well-known among highly technical men
to be emphasised. We offer an Elliott instrument for
every recording, measuring and testing service.
Switchboard Moving Coil Ammeters and Volt-
meters; Dynamometer Ammeters, Voltmeters and
Wattmeters; Recording Voltmeters and Ammetres;
Test Sets; Meter Bridges; Speed Indicators;
Recorders for Air, Steam and Water Pressure;
Galvanometers; Telegraph Instruments; Surveying
Instruments; Mathematical and Drawing Instru-
ments; Steam Engine Indicators, Revolution
Counters, etc. Special literature and complete specifica-
tion of instruments gladly forwarded.
Write in for illustrated matter detailing any of the
above lines.
Our new 12S-page General Engineering Catalogue will
also be forwarded post free.
Write Nearest Address.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
Hobart. Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth.
THE INKY WAY.
“Rae-akiaki”: W. W. Dunsterville, the new editor
of the N. Z. Farmer, was for 12 years on the Christ-
church Press ; then, until he took over the job of
South Island correspondent for the Farmer, about
12 months ago, he edited the now-defunct Dominion
Motor and the N. Z. Decorator, both more or less
trade journals.
“E.M.F.”: Lionel Lindsay says (B. 11/l/’23) that
Gruner discovered violet in shadows. Is this quite
correct? I can well remember the interest Sid
Long roused when he put so much violet in the
shadows of his “Boys Bathing’’ that it was the
opening of a door for at least one Australian who
has seen violet ever since in shadows at certain
times of the day.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Frederick T. Macartney’s article
on Charles Ilarpur, with some reference to other
early Australian verse-writers (B. 25/l/’23), reminds
me that I have never seen Henry Heylyn Hayter’s
name in a list of our poets. 1 know only one little
volume of his verse —“Camboola,” I think: it
appeared about 40 years ago. Hayter was a very
good Govt. Statist of Victoria at that time. Doe=
anybody possess a copy ?
“Rae-akiaki”: The Australian free-lance is in
clover when compared with his M.L. brother.
Comparatively few M.L. papers pay for outside
matter, and these pay poorly. The average rate is
about a guinea for 1500 words; a penny a line is
regarded bv proprietors as generous remuneration.
The result” is that the M.L. free-lance is forced
to send his matter overseas, and has to wait weeks
or months for payment.
B. L. Goode, who recently stepped across from
the Queensland to Federal Hansard, was one of tee
slickest shorthanders in the North. A year or so
ago he wanted to sit for Pitman’s 200-words-a-
-minute exam., but was told the privilege of sitting
for such a test was not conceded to anyone outside
the U.K. So he had a private test, which was
supervised by Rockhampton citizens and newspaper-
men. He tried for 220 words a minute, wrote
1110 words in 4min. 56see's., and scored 98 4-5 p.c.
for transcript.
“Camden” : Boni and Liveright, American publish-
ers, have issued a reprint of the Ralph Strauss
“Petronius,” with Norman Lindsay’s illustrations.
Immediately the New York Society for the Sup-
pression of Vice got on the warpath, and through
one Sumner, an inspector, proceeded against the
publishers. However, the case was dismissed in
what has been described by Shadowland, an Art
journal, as “one of the best reasoned literary
judgments it has been our pleasure to read.” If any-
one can put me on to this judgment, I’ll be grateful.
“F. Clinton”: Henry Bateson (B. 18/l/’23) says
a bad par.-writer earn be a good novelist. He
can’t. A worthy novelist must tell his story
directly and concisely. Nowadays the novel with a
rambling, leisured style has not a chance of success.
Padding is what’s wrong with practically every bad
novel. It is here that the value of what might be
termed the “paragraph style” becomes evident. The
par. writer must compress his stuff. If he doesn’t,
the editor will. The golden rule in the longer work
is “Know what you wish to say and say it
quickly,” which is exactly what the good par.-writer
must do if he wishes to see his work in print.
“Ganesha”: One day, in a literary Fleet-street
pub, there was a discussion on a railway poet
who’ was popular at the time. A friend of “Lime-
house” Burke maintained that he was a sophisti-
cated bore; but other journalists thought there
might be something in primitive poetry, as there
is in negro or savage art. Half-a-dozen of the
scribes recited any “natural” poem they could
remember. I entered our Australian champion,
“Bellerive,” and quoted two poems, one being
topical, “The Suffering Poles,” and the other a
Ivric written when “his art was in its dawn
Among the listeners were some of the most orii-
liant journalists in Fleet-street; and the opinion
was unanimous that for simple emotional power and
a free modern technique Bellerive stood alone.
One admirer copied out the lyric; so some cay
“Bellerive” mav awake to find himself as famous in
London as in his native land.
“S.T.S.”: About two years ago I had a pictured
l'oke in The Bulletin of an athlete in running-
costume explaining that he was engaged by a con-
scientious house-agent who would not advertise
“five minutes from the railway station unless that
was a fact; “and he says that as long as I can
do the mile in five minutes I’ve got a steady job.
In London Punch, 8/U/’22, is a picture of a con-
scientious house-agent producing an athlete in
running-costume to a dissatisfied client. You think
it more than eight minutes from the station? Not at
all I assure you. Why, our Mr. Sprintwell here,
who acts as demonstrator, can do it easily in <min.
43sec ” I think I still prefer the original
version Of course the idea might occur independ-
ently to anyone; but there is a certain innocent
free-trade in jokes. Those of Bulletin, Punch,
and others are regularly copied, picture and all
/ w ith honest acknowledgments), in various others
of the world’s papers. Then they may get quoted
in clubs and trains and drawing-rooms, and finally
someone with no knowledge of previous publication
sends them in for prirt again. (This is the charit-
able view of it: but probably a lot of plain
thievery goes on as well.)
GRUB-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Close by, two or three big men are ta P a ,'!F
together in low tones; the out-thrust jaw, the hai ,
questioning eye, reveals the detective t <jP_P} ainl }
any error, despite the lack of uniform. out«.
The ready pressman combs the town,
He’s here and there, and up and down,
And to and fro, and in and out,
A practised and persistent scout;
He dredges, grubs, and interviews,
To demonstrate his flair for news.
In what seems commonplace to us
He finds a portent ominous ;
A drunk who’s pinched at closing-time
Connotes, per se, a “wave of crime,
Two politicians eating soup
May make a very telling scoop.
The tripe-hound’s knowledge is profound,
The classics are his stamping ground—
“ Non compos mentis,” “sic,” and “vide,’
“Facta non verba,” “bona fide,’’
With p’raps a merry jeu d’esprit
Like, “O Temoral O Moree!”
His judgment is unerring when
He catalogues his fellowmen,
He knows an actor by his head,
A corpse because it’s mostly dead
(Though “dead’s” a word that’s too succinct,
He’d rather hint at “life extinct”).
A Jew’s detected by his nose,
A typiste by her guinea hose,
Bowyangs denote the proletaire,
A barmaid flaunts peroxide hair,
Dress suits proclaim big chiefs and waiter?,
And bishops’ trade-marks are their gaiters.
He spots a p’liceman by his boot,
He knows a burglar by his loot;
Though they’re in mufti, it’s a law
That D’s display' “the out-thrust jaw”
(It’s much the same with politicians,
Or books —I’m sorry ! —“metallieians”).
The pressman carries all his weight
Of wisdom with an air sedate,
The only thing that stings his pride
Is when the sub. —-base fratricide 1 —
Deletes a split infinitive ;
That insult he cannot forgive.
„.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


SuipU9-J9AOU SI XOWO3 J° J3MO d 9 HI
9tn\
90
m
k % l
00r^
9&
*
h:
*
'BW-
*M-S
ur&
j ss.
& w
ir.P
- --^u-
mi
EXI
nags
ot_
Mb
l=\i €=4
r?
■N
a s a
V- b D
V_--> K 7
C t 0 o n u n 13
pTT^ut*
> v
!U_■<■ >
W&J* l^--
IT '
VV*r~
l V
<JL
«jSB*
t
icl2
Sss
£
*c
//" A
' <k.- '
r.
99
** ’"pHOSE who go down to the sea in ships ** are frequently
grateful to Comox (Oxy-Acetylene) Welding.
Engine parts often come to grief, propeller blades need to be re-
typed, various sections of metal gear need the welcome attention
of the wonderful Comox Blowpipe.
Comox fuses broken metal sections—builds up worn machine parts
by the action of the powerful Oxy-Acetylene Flame.
Even the building of steamers is hastened to-day by Oxy-
Acetylene, which cuts and forms metal sections or welds them
together by a definite and permanent fusion. Think of the ship-
ping in the harbours, visualise the industries scattered through-
out the world. In all of this colossal activity it would
be almost impossible to find an engine, a machine, or a metal
structure that was not helped by Comox in construction, or in time
of breakdown.
7he service of Comox to the community at large is one of great
economy. It serves to repair with equal facility gigantic Atlantic
liner, the factory machine, the motor car, the farm plough or the
humble kitchen pot.
Whether a big repair job or a tiny one, the Comox Welder is
always glad to see you. Send to nearest address for name of your
local Comox Welder, and the little post-free booklet “Comox will
Save it.”
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN & ACCESSORIES
LIMITED, Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney N.S.W.
Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street, Melbourne; Geo. Wills &
Coy., Grenfell Street, Adelaide; Queensland Oxygen Ltd., New-
stead Terrace, Newstead, Brisbane; Harrison Bros. & Coy., Ltd.,
20 Patterson Street, Launceston; Geo. Wills & Coy., Ltd.,
Murray Street, Perth; Brown & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
C-Z. 152


ts
ft:
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
o
o
D
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Picnic Race
Meetings.
Our stock of Trophies is one of the
largest in Sydney. The quality of the
goods is of the best only.
Our prices (in plain figures) are the
lowest in Australia when quality is
taken into consideration.
We allow special discounts for Public
Presentations.
ROSS BRITISH FIELiD-GIjASSES.
Special Racing Models; Illustrated
Price Lists on Application.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “SjjUy
Criterion klaw
Royal “Benvenuto
Palace “The Sentimental Bloke
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ‘‘Cairo
Royal “A Southern Maid
King’s " “Ambrose Applejohu’s Adventure”
Princess’s “The O'Brien Girl ’
Palace “Dick Whittington
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Suggested, more or less, by the once-famous
“Message from Mars,” the fantasy of
“Ambrose Applejolm’s Adventure’' has subtle
humor of plot and characterisation. The
“The O'Brien Girl,”
at Melbourne
Princess's.
Mrs. Drexel (May
Beatty) glares at her
husband.
final explanatory
excuse which the
author offers for a
rush of crooks to
Applejohn’s abode
is more adroit than
excuses offered in
ordinary melo-
dramas, and the
dream-creation of
a pirate captain is
a gloriously droll
picture of the sort
of salt sea marau-
der whom Apple-
john would imagine
in his sleep. To
say that the Law-
re nc e Grossmith
impersonation is
the best possible
would be absurd.
There is any
amount of scope
for subtle acting
in this versatile
part, and a more
convincing Apple-
john than this, in
both waking and
dreaming moments,
can be imagined.
But, Grossmith is
a capital hero—as
good as one ex-
pects—and in an
interestingly staged
performance of a
forcible farcical comedy he gets sufficiently
valuable support from Diana Wilson, Doris
Kendal, Ashton Jarry and others. Cer-
tainly, the new show at Melbourne King’s is
a fantasy to be seen, more than once, by
people capable of savoring its rich humor.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the Chinese spy is
chanting his last dirges concerning his
squeaky wife. “Cairo” and its rather tire-
some Gates will close to-morrow, and on
Saturday Oscar Asche’s production of
“Julius Csesar” will remind us once again
that Julius liked men about him who were
of the Apple type—plump and sleepy.
The nights and afternoons of “The O’Brien
Girl,” at Melbourne Princess’s, are still
nine per week, and the undiminished vigor
of the beautiful ballet-chorus continues to
find its most exciting expression in the
Choctaw dance, or whatever they call it.
* * * *
At Melbourne Palace a heat-wave dashed
up against “Dick Whittington” last week,
and the panto, in general thought it better
to be Odiva and her seals, rather than an
acrobatic novelty or a ballet. Nevertheless
Whittington and co. tried to look as though
they had duties to perform outside the tank,
and were enjoying the temperature.
# Hi * *
Now that “A Southern Maid” has had
ample time at Melbourne Royal to niake the
most of its spectacular and vocal strength,
whilst noting its libretto weaknesses, the
wonder is that the dull dualogue between
Stigant and Nell Payne—in the first act—
has not been pruned or brightened, and the
double expletives that Claude Flemming
fires off, in all the acts, replaced by some
worth uttering. “Damnation and ditch-
water!” or “Fury and fish-hooks!” are oaths
of a sort that grows monotonous after an
“SALLY,” AT
SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Shendorff (Charles Howard), proprietor of
the Allep Inn, salutes George Lane, a
comic-opera duke disguised as a waiter.
hour or two of it. Meanwhile the improve-
ment in Gladys Moncrieff’s acting, especially
in her conversation with Worster at the
refreshment table in the open, has earned
sincere forgiveness for a slight loss of fresh
young beauty in her warble, as well as for
the matronly roundness of her lamp-shade
costume, which she soon changes for a more
graceful outfit. Why are women on the stage
so ready to keep lamp-shades in counte-
nance?
“Molly Bawn,” disguised as Edna Keeley,
is again bringing a fond note into Allen
Doone’s gentle warble at Melbourne Gaiety.
Molly is Doone’s objective from the start*
and it is his purty flow of blarney that
crumples up her hauteur before the pro-
ceedings are half through. This is an un-
usually early surrender for Edna, but pro-
bably the first. sight of the hero in his stun-
ning riding-suit, coupled with his audacity
in stealing a kiss, makes an unprecedented
appeal to her heart. Miss Keeley, more
buxom than before, is now producing a col-
leen in the welter division, but neither she
nor Doone adds much to the dramatic score,
whereas her grandpa (Charles Brown) and
his scheming relatives (Adele Inman and
Ronald Riley), who would hire a band to
play him on his way to the cemetery, pile up
points every time they appear. On Satur-
day Miss Inman fairly routed the idea that
she is only a performer of ingenue parts,
whilst Riley’s quiet villainy is a change
from the fearsome rant of the blood-and-
blunder school. Also, Charles Brown keeps
Lord Amherst at the right pitch of irasci-
lnb'ty. His Hindu servant. Dimetri is
“Kevin Kerrigan,” though the apparition
looks very like our old friend Fred Kehoe
trying to hide his identity behind a brown
stain and an unbearable silence. Nothing
else is conspicuous in the little show, bar
the mouldy setting for Lord Amherst’s draw-
room (Act 2). which suggests that Doone
has been presented with the freedom of an
old scene-dump and is making the most of
his opportunity.
*!• $
In a respectable but uneventful bill at
Melbourne Tivoli none of the later turns
have diverted public regard from the Gladi-
ators, whose feats of muscle are beautifully
displayed. But the two noble athletes will
talk to fill in breathing time.
* * * *
Admirers of Bebe Daniels and the late
Wallace Reid are bidden this week to Hoyt’s
De Luxe, Melbourne, where the pair are
exhibiting the prevailing brand of Yankee
gaiety in a film that is overstated as “Nice
People.” There is a moral like a sandbag
at the end of the tale, and a similar bit of
lead-piping awaits the righteous who follow
the viciss tudes of the crook in “Don’t
Shoot.” The third of Hoyt’s offerings fer-
tile week is a fresh lay of ancient Rome
called “The Greatest Truth,” in Which a
new star, Mia May, is presented for close
inspection. The Majestic has the celluloid
version of “The Great Lover,” with John
SaiUpolis as a picturesque spectre of the
songster Whom Louis Bennison vividly pre-
sented in Melbourne a while ago. The effect
of sudden cash on a Kentucky ostler is dis-
closed in a broad knockabout manner in the
supporting feature, “Bovs Will Be Boys.”
Mustangs, Mexicans and other Western
ingredients are visible in the latest Tom Mix-
ture, “Just Tony,” at the Melba. Fast
husbands and slow wives will feast their
eyes for different reasons on “Don’t Neglect
Your Wife” at the Britannia.
* * * *
Wirtlis’ Park, Melbourne, which will be
open to inquiries on Saturday afternoon, is
to be a sixpenny show as regards entrance,
with a band, a Blondin. menagerie items, etc.,
available for the introductory coin. For the
most part, of course, the Park will provide
“all the fun of the fair” in side-shows and
open-air joys that cost 3d. a time, or more,
and altogether the park, under these new
circs., will be what the Melbourne weather
makes it. The new field of recreation is to
resound with the hoarse voice of the spruiker
every evening and on Saturday afternoons.
Unless the present summer shows an utter
contempt for the law of averages the new
rendezvous should get a good send-off. Warm
eventides are long overdue.
The Sentimental Bloke will do a duck at
Sydney Palace after to-morrow night, and
G nger will cease to be hot i’ the mouth.
“The Man They Could Not Hang” arrives
on Saturday.
At Sydney Theatre Royal Louis Bennison
keeps up Benvenuto Cellini’s end with im-
mense spirit and eclat in 10th-century Flor-
ence. And Lizette Parkes develops from a
model of offended propriety and frigidity
into a pulsing package of youthful ardency.
Events moved rapidly in medbeval Florence,
and few people in fashionable circles could
have died of ennui. There were plenty of
other ways of dying, anyhow.
Emelie Polini and Frank Harvey are har-
rowing the hearts of the groundlings, and
making the gallery girl dab all the powder
off her nose at Sydney Criterion, where
“The Flaw” is now well into its stride. The
play is rich in the emotional situations in
which the Polini revels.
“Sally” retains her spell at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. Her dominion rests on Josie Mel-
ville’s dancing, which is excellent, and a
certain lilting pleasantness in the piece itself,
which is restful.
At the Sydney Tivoli G. P. Huntley cw'ce
daily clothes the English “johnny” in “Wall-
papers,” and as a matter of course does it
most artistically. A pair of first-timers who
have caught on are Geaiks and Geaiks,
French mimics. In imitating instruments
and birds they can have very few equals.
Vida Sutton and Mollie Locke get back to
the days of crinolines and broughams. They
make a charming pair of Early Victorian
Girls, and, besides, have tuneful throats and
finger-tips. For the rest, the ghosts of other
days go back to the spirit world contented
while Hector St. Clair, Moon and Morris
and Decima and Eddie McLean are on the
bill.
* * * iy
“Manslaughter,” the thriller at Sydney
Globe, is calculated to gladden the hearts of
psychologists. The whole bunch of char-
acters are an unstable lot and an amazing
labyrinth of reflex curves is the result. “The
Great Lover” at the Lyceum is the story
that Louis Bennison played at the Criterion
a while back. Between the spoken and the
mute play there is a difference as wide as
that between the bottom and the top of Er n.
Still, though the good points are on the
spoken drama’s side, the picture can be seen
for a quarter the money. Doug Fairbanks
is also at this house. “Nice People” at the
Strand has the late Wallace Reid in the
star role —that’s another pull the cinema
actor (or his widow-) has over the talking
mummer, who can’t say another w-ord when
he’s dead. “The Storm.” long heralded, has
arrived, and the Piccadilly is the centre of
the disturbance. Lady Diana Manners, with
help from other adorable frocks, is keeping
“The Glorious Adventure,” the beautiful
natural-colored flicker, on the map at the
Crystal Palace. The Empress is enjoying
temporary notoriety with “Blood and
Sand”; and a new D. W. Griffiths film,
“Dream Street,” is to be at the Crystal
Palace next Saturday.
Though Adelaide is full of fun-makers.
Jack Cannot and Joe Brennan are just
coining in at the Royal with the William-
son ia n panto.
“The Flaw” at
Sydney Criterion.
Frank Harvey as the
nerve-ridden
Richard Craig.
Claude Dampiei*
leads a jolly team
at Austral Gar-
dens every fine
evening, and across
the road at the
Garden Theatre
behind the Exhibw
ti o n is another
prosperous Ve m
true, headed by
Hugh Iluxham,
With Reg Harrison
prominent. The
Russell ventufe at
the Royal has done
well in a series pf
revivals. “Sunday’
gave Nellie Bram-
ley scope for both
sides of her art,
and a chance to a
lot of the men of
the co. Guy Hast-
ings wisely takes
the part of the
colonel, leaving
Hewlett to play
•Tacky. This co.
has moved on to
Broken Hill. The
Royal has mysteri-
ous promises of a
big London attrac-
tion —first time in
Australia —for the winter. The most strik-
ing thing- at West’s pictures is a strong
variety turn now added to the programme.
Wallace Reid is dashing at Wondergraph,
and Elinor Glyn’s “Beyond the Rocks’’ at
the York is not nearly so shocking as the
advtSj (of American origin) would have the
public believe.
“C, Ockney” • Mrs. Kendal, the grand old
wotnafi of the British stage, was recently
dined by. the London 0, I\ Club. id her 1
speech of thanks she got in a neat little d g
at present-day actresses, of.the Mrs. Patrick
Campbell stamp, who publish their Margot-
like reminiscences. Said the witty old dame:
I shall tell nothing but what is pleasant td remem-
ber. To hurt the feelings of husbands and Wives
and" friends who admired and loved one is,. to tinf
thinking, a great mistake. So you will rejoice w
hear I am not writing any book of any kind. 1 wilt
also add that 1 have burnt my love-letters, so you
are all safe.
“J.H..” (London) : “Treasure Island,”
adapted by J. B. Fagan, the brilliant Irish-
man who first brought the Irish Court
Players to London a decade or so ago, and
who has been associated with most of the
productions here of G. 8.5., is having a
wonderful run at the Strand Theatre. No
play produced in London for many years
has had such unqualified praise from the
critics, and it looks as if Stevenson’s
romance will take its place with “Peter
Pan” as an annual Christmas attraction for
Londoners.
“Park Royal”: When Irene Vanbrugh
comes to Australia, may the gods allow her
to stage “Sweet Lavender!” It hasn’t been
played here fob ever so many years. Pinero
wrote it for Edward Terry, and it tiiadc
such a. hit that Terry bought the' theatre*
afterwards called Terry’s, nut. of the profits.-
Terry, a churchwarden and magistrate, dis-
liked the character of Dick . Phenyl exceed-
ingly. “A nice drunkard Pinero Has givefl
me to play!” he groaned. Other Pine.rO
comedies in Irene’s repertoire are “Mid-;
Channel” and “The Benefit of the Doubt.”
“Whitebait”: Hearing Cecil Humphreys
in “Cairo,” no one would think that he is
an actor with a fairly notable record. Yet he
has played Jim Bensiger in Macdonald Hast-
ings’s “New Sin,” Blaclde Daw in “Walling-
ford.” Arthur Preece in Arnold Bennett’S
“Milestones” and Juggins in “Fanny’S First
Play” when that piece was toured by Grdn--
ville Barker in America. Peter WavertOfi
in “Passers-by” and Cornelius Van Tuyl ill
“Romance” are two more, and he has been
to Stratford-on-Avon in a Shakspearean co.
doing “Much Add” and “The Merchant of
Venice.” Most remarkable of all, he was
the mildly Satanic Lucifer D. Nation in “My
Lady Frayle” at London Shaftesbury,- though
Claude Flemming led Australia to believe
that Lucifer was a very different sort of
man. Humphreys, who is not yet 40. is mar-
ried to Gladys Mason, also of “Cairo,” and
she too has crowded a lot of experiences into
her 17 years of stage life. She has been
Lady Alethea in “The Walls of Jericho,”
Light in Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird,” Emily
Bhead in “Milestones,” Peggy Adtnaston in
“The Butterfly on the Wheel” and Ophelia
to H. B. Irving’s Hamlet at the Court
Theatre, London. Touching Irving’s Dane,
by the way, O. Asche claims that in his pro-
duction of the tragedy Irving did Hamlet
according to his (Asche’s) directions. The
only comment that seems necessary is that
if irving’s Hamlet, seen in Melbourne, was
really Asche’s conception, Australia has a
lot to forgive Oscar for.
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S ADVENTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prim Ambrose Applejohn enjoyed
A wealthy, blameless life;
No household cares his peace destroyed—
He had no wedded wife
To worry, with her fad or whim,
Or lead her spouse a dance.
So somebody persuaded him
He needed wild romance.
Himself he “kidded” with the thought
That he would prove, mayhap,
Were sudden peril to him brought,
A devil of a chap.
And lo! it happened like a flash —-
He got a wondrous chance
To cut a devil of a dash
In meeting wild romance.
Thieves came to Ambrose late at night
And roughly bade him yield
The hoard of priceless treasure bright.
That long had lain concealed
In this his home. At ages past
’Prim Ambrose looked askance;
In point of fact he gazed aghast
At Applejack’s romance.
By facts and fairy tales deceived,
Amb. had his mental fling;
In one brief nightmare he believed
He was a Pirate King.
But, midst his strange excitements new,
He caught his cousin’s glance,
And in a jiff staid Ambrose knew
The Girl was his romance.
No pirate’s blood ran in his veins;
No half-a-ton of gold
(An ancestor’s ill-gotten gains)
Lay in his mansion old;
Those burglars of the “pirate’s lair”
Were fooled by circumstance,
As he was, whilst young Poppy F*> s ~*
Brought to his soul romance.
Mere bachelors, who, in your ways,
Respectable would seem,
Who at a paltry price appraise
Adventure’s golden dream,
Light now the sacred fires that burn,
Life’s value to enhance,
Fall deep in love at once, and learn
That Woman is romance.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


If
■
liillill
, m.
■
¥
m
: : ’ . -
:
m
m i
P
■
Be MurdocH-tailored
for Easter
“Pay Less and
Dress Better
s
%
The Superb
OOD work of any kind demands time!
The clean lines, careful draping and perfect
finish of a Murdoch Suit is the outcome of
thoughtful, patient care—and that can’t be
done in a hurry.
••• • • •
••• o a •
Better send the Coupon for Patterns NOW!
Beautiful Suiting Fabrics
Included in the selection you will receive some nice English
Tweeds—beautiful 5-Guinea Suiting Fabrics which, because of
Murdoch’s DIRECT “MILLS TO WEARER” POLICY vou
obtain for
£4|lB|9
To Your Measure.
Murdoch Velour
The “one thing needful” to complete
your Easter Outfit. This Smart Model
takes pride of place in modern fashion-
able headwear.
Made exclusively for Murdoch’s
from superior quality English
Velour of rich texture and silk-
like finish. In attractive shades
of Fawn, Biscuit, Gold, Dark
Grey, Black and Olive Green.
Silk lined and fitted
with soft sweat-proof
leather
SO/-
Murdoch’s Pay Postage to all
parts of Australia. When
writing address your letter to
DESK R.
SEND THIS COUPON.
MURDOCH'S IN PARK ST., LTD., Sydney,
DUSK R,
Dear Sirs, —Please send me free of all cost a
nice range of your new Suiting Patterns; also free
measure-form outfit.
NAME
ADDRESS
m
' —^
h
E?jK
vm
K
IBPU3
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney
** The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Storm
OtHer Excellent
Suiting' Values—
£4/2/9
£5/13/9
£6/10/-
£7/10 1-
Although you may send this Coupon'
you are in no way obliged to buy.
Kindly address your letter to DESK R.
Murdoch’s good name and
GUARANTEE is your protec-
tion—“ Perfect Satisfaction or
money back instantly—-and
in full.


An ‘Alston” Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to tight
winds, stronger or more durable, lower m cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Mtted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Luori-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON S SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
c
£
tm
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER PARIS
the FACE POWDER
de Lyxe
“Fax”: Prophets who predicted that
“Cairo” would not get an ordinary panto-
mime run in Melbourne were fair judges of
local taste. The run will be eight weeks
only, with no more than one matinee
per week, as a rule. An increase in prices
may have accounted for the inability of
Asche’s show to draw some regular theatre-
goers more than once, but the main objec-
tion to the entertainment is its dulness. In
comparison with “Chu Chin Chow” even it
is a depressing spectacle. The air of new-
ness that gave interest to “Chu” is wanting
here. The silly, steretoyped melodrama dis-
guised in stagey Eastern character and dress
lacks oddity as it lacks reasonableness. It
leaves the mind with nothing to think about.
No touches of realism relieve the obtrusively
theatrical color and composition of the thin
romance. Its only enthusiastic admirers are
the very impressionable minority that raves
about stage pictures; and most people who
have a keen appetite for “productions” make
their heartiest meals at the movies.
“Dido”: If Oscar Asc be is to get an Aus-
tralian play to suit his florid fancy, he will
have to be content with a futurist plot. Aus-
tralia is a brown country, allowing small
scope for variegated splendor of costume and
marvels in the way of hats. The Aussie
gets into a soft felt, and for the rest a grey
sac suit gives small opportunity for the
gorgeous Orientalism Oscar’s soul yearns for.
But nobody can say what Canberra will be
in two or three hundred years, and the pro-
ducer can dress the people in flowing table-
cloths, with the classic touch, or in the
numerous dyes of Araby or the Hun, and
can make the city as gorgeous as a garden in
Babylon. This is a period of unromantic
fact, but the future of Canberra can be
bathed in any kind of roseate glow an
exuberant playwright to supply.
“Yardley”: “Norbell’s” description of a
Chinese drama (B. l/2/’23) omits mention
of the idol upon the stage. At entry, the
“A Southern Maid,”
at Melbourne Royal.
Claude Flemming as
a desperado.
star of the piece
makes obeisance to
the image, and the
play must wait
until the gentle-
man has concluded
his devotions. The
presentation of ia
Chinese play at
the old Sandhurst
(Bendigo) Easter
Fair always began
with a procession
in which kettle-
drums and dragons
were the principal
features. It was
understood t h a t
the parade was in
honor of the idol,
which was being
escorted to a cen-
tral portion upon
the stage. There
was a full-dress
repetition of the
stunt a day or two
after the close of
the fair, and this,
it was further
understood by the
Caucasian, was to
seek pardon from
the god for dis-
turbing his joss-house calm and dragging
him on to the boards.
“William Street”: The Wright who was
Timothy Gibbs in the Australian production
of “Our Miss Gibbs” (B. l/2/’23), and
whom “F.A.” says he met in England when
the Trouble was on. was Bertie, not Fred.
Fred has played the part in German at
Berlin, in French (I think) at Paris and in
American at N. York, but never in Australia.
Bertie had a voice like 14 tin-whistles.
Associated with him in the Australian ver-
sion were Leslie Holland and Ivy Shilling,
who did the Champagne Dance. The last
time I saw Leslie he shuffled about with the
aid of a stick. On stage, of course.
“Up Stage”: The question most discussed
at the Point these days is how the local
actor will fare while the Ward-Fullers are
fighting the J.C.W.-Taits. Opinions vary;
but to me the unanimity with which the well-
advertised rivals are importing “complete
companies” is depressing. There are signs
that “complete companies” will presently be
arriving by the crate, and it is a wonder
E. J. Carroll, or someone like him, doesn’t
start in and utilise the talent on the spot.
“The Bloke” shows what can be done.
“Orb”: Touching that Melbourne Prin-
cess’s Theatre apparition (B. 8/2/’23). I
once sat up and watched for it nearly all
night, after the show, with the fireman for
company. He said he’d seen it often, but
there were no symptoms that night. How-
ever, that’s not the only occasion on which
the ghost has failed to walk at the Princess’s,
and with big, prosperous-looking shows, too.
In Tree’s days—-and nights—at the London
Haymarket, the ghost of Buckstone, the
actor, was believed to haunt the theatre at
uncanny hours, and circumstantial stories of
the old spook were current for many years.
“E.’ ? : It is surprising that Ernest Hutche-
son, a Melbourne piano virtuoso who has
made an enormous success in Canada and
the States, has
never returned to
his native land.
As an infant pro-
digy it is doubt-
ful if he has ever
had an equal.
There is authentic
evidence to prove
he knew his notes
at two, composed
music at five, and
while still an in-
fant gave a con-
cert at the Town
Hall. These per-
formances were
due not entirely to
the light of nature,
for he was scienti-
fically and severely
trained by a stern
Caledonian father.
Then the “Austra-
lian Mozart” went
abroad; and it
generally believed
that, like. most
infant prodigies, he
had failed to fulfil
his early promise.
But this was not
so. Ernest became
a famous pianist.
Recently in New
York he gave a
series of “Masters
of Music” recitals,
Frank Blandford,
manager of the New
Princess Ward-Fuller
Theatre, Melbourne.
solid programmes
of Bach, Beethoven and other classics, and
won the praise of Paderewski.
"Orb”: “Old ’Un” explains (B. 8/2/’23)
that Charles Arnold did a “smalls” tour by
playing overland to Melbourne from New-
castle. If he means the Groperland New-
castle (now called Toodyay) it certainly was
a dinkum smalls tour, as such an itinerary
would probably include Esperance and Eucla.
But if, as I suspect, he means the better •
known Newcastle in N.S.W., then Arnold’s
tour was only the beaten pad which most
cos. follow on the Sydney-Melbourne journey.
I’ve done it often. Once it was with Wil-
liam F. Ilawtrey’s “Message from Mars’
mob in 1901. On that occasion we invaded
Goulburn, Young, Wagga and Albury, and
the old boy hit the roof because he had paid
a fat fee to some “expert” to “map-out” the
tour of four towns. It was the inclusion
of Young that hurt, for getting there meant
two consecutive nights in the train, going
and returning, besides changing carriages at
Harden. The real “smalls” tour only begins
at towns like that.
“Fax” : “Publicity” is the wrong term for
many press-agent pars. “Simplicity” would
be more appropriate. Take the case of a
songstress whose success in Australia a few
years ago was largely due to her being a
woman’s woman” on the platform. The
simplicity item says :
J. arid N. Tait have received a cable message
from Madame Evelyn Scotney stating that she was
leaving for Australia to visit her parents in Mel-
bourne.... It is probable that during Madame
Scotney’s visit to Australia she will be prevailed
upon to give a series of concerts.
What an artless yarn! Why should a. pro-
fessional singer announce to the Taits her
setting out for Australia if she hadn’t
already prevailed upon herself to give a
series of concerts when she got there?
“Hamfat”: Parson Gorman is still pur-
suing that fortune which he set out to find
on the stage so that he might punch a pulpit
in financial independence. Or it may be
the stage has proved too fascinating to leave.
It is about three years since the reverend
actor-r arrived with the boom of sanctity
and high intention. Having had a profit-
able run as a “singing parson,” and then as
a John Storm-like actor, he is now doing
an incidental act at a Sydney picture-house.
And going well, too. The wimmen simply
love to be sung to by an earnest-looking
young man whose a-'”winced purpose in lite
is spiritual uplift. When I go back to the
boards it will be as a man who only wants
to make enough money to set up in business
as a saint.
“Stargazer”: Deliver us from the male
coquette. I am thinking more particularly
of the vaudeville performers who, having
something natty to do in the way of a gym-
nastic turn, begin by taking off their clothes
and substituting a few tails of guinea-pigs
and Manx cats, and who parade the stage
looking like Friday night’s display at a
popular butchery. This sort of coyness is
also observed in the male accompaniment of
a fashionable dancer in comic opera or revue.
The disposition to dress up in two butterfly
wings and a penn’orth of silk gauze should
confine itself to the feminine, and then to
representatives of the species who are
elegantly proportioned and adorably young.
I have in mind a turn lately showing at the
Melbourne Tiv., in which a braw Scotchman
and a burly Swede turn up attired a good
deal like Solomon when prepared for mixed
bathing with his thousand and one. They do
good things in their luscious undress, but
at the King’s panto at the same time two
plain men in any old clothes, and plenty of
them, tossed each other about much more
amusingly. Possibly the idea is to give the
girls a treat, but it turns a man up a bit to
see his sex displaying the old Adam with all
the coquetry of an elderly ballet.
“Dido” : Now and again a small party of
locals take the vaudeville stage with a one-
acter. Such a trio is bidding for favor at
the Tivoli in Melbourne with the wrong
thing. Their play is “Always Tell Your
Wife.” The two men are good enough,
being Arthur Greenaway and Frank Bradley ;
and the lone lady concerned is passable. But
the script is poor—poor for its purpose, that
is—and moreover turns on the stale, worked-
out theme of a chance burglar. It is so
slow as to be almost inanimate, although the
talk is not dull, and it is evident an expert
litterateur has had a finger in it. I am
afraid to ask Greenaway and Bradley why
they didn’t employ a local brain-specialist to
make a play for them, because possibly they
did, but they are old enough dramatic prac-
titioners to know they didn’t get the goods.
“G.A.C.” : Blood tells. When I first saw
Nancye Stewart, gauche and angular, with
the voice of a shrew, I wondered how she
could be the daughter of the most attractive
woman on the Australian stage. When she
was with Marie Tempest her crudities showed
clearly, not to say hideously, against the
Englishwoman’s plump charm. But years
of hard work have passed since then, and it
was a very dainty Nancye Stewart that I
saw the other evening in “The Flaw.” Her
French maid was an excellent bit of work.
In fact, she was one or the bits of ointment
on the fly.
“Norbell”: No less an authority than
Nellie Stewart advised me to go and see
Griffith’s “Orphans of the Storm,” declar-
ing it to be an object-lesson in the art of
producing. It certainly is, and I appre-
ciate it the more because in pre-picture days
I was concerned in the elaborate staging of
“The Only Way” (“A Tale of Two Cities”),
with Tyrone Power and Edith Crane, a play
of the same period. Also, I remembered
George Rignold’s “The Two Orphans,” on
which the celluloid story is founded. I was
inclined to think the introduction of um-
brellas was an anachronism, but I find the
meticulous Griffith was right—umbrellas
were in use in Paris, though not in London,
at that period. John Qxenford’s drama,
“The Two Orphans,” was first produced at
the Royal Olympic Theatre, London, on Sep-
tember 14. 1874. William Rignold and
Henry Neville were Jacques and Pierre re-
spectively ; Annie Taylor played a small
part, Florette; and our very old friend G.
W. Anson was the Picard.
“Csesar’s Ghost”: Reported from London
that luckless Hugh Buckler has been charged
with issuing valueless cheques. He is not
the first actor to imagine that so long as
his cheque-book remained unexhausted he
was well ahead of it. A Sydney publican
has a bundle of cheques bearing the signa-
tures of well-known actors, all endorsed with
signs of the banks’ disapproval. In most
cases he might easily have got the money
had he pressed for it, but his imagination
was intrigued by the idea of keeping the
scraps of paper for their theatrical interest,
and he periodically adds to the collection.
“Second Murderer”: In “Benvenuto,” at
Sydney Royal—it is billed as “a play of
Florence during the last years of the Renais-
sance” —Louis Bennison refers to his rival
in love as “a Tahm cat, an die Tahm cat,”
which makes Florence sound like San Fran-
cisco. In an interview Bennison says of
Benvenuto Cellini. “This old braggart is a
loVe. How some blithe playmaker didn’t get
away with him before has gotten me beat.”
No—chewing-gum simply won’t synchronise
with the doublet and hose of the 16th cen-
tury.
“S.T.S.”: Shaw’s “Pygmalion” (®-
1/2 /’23) has been produced in at least one
Australian city. Adelaide’s Repertory
Theatre did the deed last May, with cle.c
Ivy Stacy as the Lady with the Language.
“Uramao”: For the first time the W esd
Coast Sounds of M.L. are being ‘ shot by
kinema men. The series of views should be
magnificent, and shown at the Empire Ex-
hibition, and then taken on a circuit ot tne
world, should give the Sounds a bigger boost,
than they have ever had before.
“THE FLAW.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Kay Souper as Dr. Lee.
“P.X.”: A surgical friend has been in
Germany lately with his family, which in-
cludes a small boy of about nine. Several
times w T hen the infant had neglected his les-
sons less than usual, dad promised him the
customary Australian treat —a night at the
pictures. But dad found that he had to
get into another country before he could
honor his promise. For youngsters under
16 there is positively no admittance to even-
ing picture-shows in Germany, and the pro-
grammes for matinees are strictly censored
on the assumption that these are essentially
children’s shows. The Hun didn’t lose all
of his head when he went to war.
“0.K.” : In lan Hay’s latest comedy, “The
Happy Ending,” the audience is said to be
tickled to death by the remark of a philo-
sopher : “I fear that the Heavenly Choir
will be mostly made up of sopranos.” • But
is that even so much as an original version
of a conventional jest at the orthodox
Heaven? One half-remembers to have heard
the same inequality of sexes suggested in
vaudeville. Next to the exclamatory
“Damn!” and the mother-in-law joke, there
is no surer stage-laugh getter than a refer-
ence to vocal and instrumental music among
the angels. All the same, it doesn’t evoke
a larger volume of merriment than the come-
dian’s trick of pointing downwards whilst
observing that somebody has gone to a
Better World. The Celestial Choir is very
necessary to commercial playwrights. They
want Heaven and Hell as badly as black-
and-white artists want Hughes’s face. It
accounts for the Church and Stage Guild.
“Orb”: Sydney Telegraph says of “A
Southern Maid,” at Melbourne Royal:—-
At the end of the show there was a tremendous
demonstration of appreciation, and when Mr. Asche,
still wearing the anointed beard of the Wrestler
in “Cairo,” was dragged on to the stage by Miss
Moncrieff the enthusiasm was unrestrained.
Oscar is bulking large in “Cairo,” at H. M.
Theatre, quite a step from the Royal, yet he
hadn’t time to shed his ziff en route, before
being “dragged” on to the stage of the latter
theatre. The thought of artless Oscar re-
quiring to be dragged on by a girl is very
touching. How he must have hated the
publicity!
“V.V.”: An opera co., of which Henry
Bracy was manager, was on its w r ay to
Maoriland. A small soubrette and the lady
who played the massive parts shared a
cabin, and were excessively ill. The second
morning out from Sydney they were lying
in their bunks with eyes closed, the large
lady having a hot-water bag over the spot
where her breakfast should have been. After
a sharp and unregarded knock, the cabin-
door swung open and revealed natty little
Henry, exhilarated with the fresh sea air.
“Now, gairls,” he said briskly, “you should
be on deck. Such a splendid morning!
Come now.” The sea-sick lumps of love-
liness made no reply. Becoming bolder, he
advanced into the cabin —a most unusual
proceeding for a person so precise—and
drew near the massive dame. “Now, get
up,” he gaily said, accompanying the
words with a playful pat-pat. His hand
struck the centre of the half-filled bag, wh'ch
gave forth a ghastly gurgling sound. “O
my Gad!” was Henry’s cry of horror as
he fled from the affrighting scene.
THE HERO ENTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With interviews and photographs
He fills our chastest sheet.
Camels and houris, fowls, giraffes
And niggers block the street.
Gay Oriental pennants fly,
Drums beat and flappers cheer.
The vast procession passes by,
The hero’s drawing near.
Stage carpenters have widened out
The old proscenium ;
And Melbourne has no further doubt
That Oscar Asche has come.
victoria.
GANESHA.


jtfeme QthunfJLexe
attke end of a %teuk
m
M
m
'M
&
i|i mi
III!*'
J-JOME atmosphere—that subtle something
suggesting comfort and artistic refinement—
is accentuated by stained wood floors. Taubmans Floor Stain
imparts home atmosphere "at the end of a brush.” It stains
and varnishes simultaneously and dries with a flint-hard, lus-
trous finish overnight. For floors and skirtings—for every
room in the home —scratch-proof and fadeless —its Beauty
endures. Obtainable in Seven Natural Wood Tones, at all
Paint and Hardware Stores.
NOTE. —OId stained work that needs reviving should be
coated with Taubmans TJarneeros. :: Saves re-staining.
TAUBMANS
FLCSDK STAIN
''The Stain of Stainless T^epute.”
203
TAUBMANS LTD., SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE. BRISBANE 8c WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
here
Will any kind of Oil do
for the Timing Gears?
ÜBRICATION here is just
as important as in any
other part of your motor.
And don’t forget—the oil that
lubricates the timing gears is
the same oil which has to stand
up under high temperatures in
your cylinders, or take the
heavy work at crank-shaft and
connecting-rod bearings.
Provide the right oil and you
need not give a thought to
lubrication troubles; you don’t
have any.
Texaco Motor Oil does not
deposit hard carbon in the
cylinders. It does not break up
under high temperatures; and
on the bearings it maintains a
protective cushion of the high-
est lubricating value.
Make sure you are getting
honest and thorough lubrica-
tion. Buy Texaco Motor Oil
consistently.
m
IlllllfiU'ij
I
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEXaCO
T
O
M
Q
V--
II
i
TT
<^y
&
' 'lf' }
Which way do you
get out of bed ?
Some people are con-
tinually getting out of bed
the wrong way. You can
tell it when they come in
to breakfast —with glum,
discontented looks, with
a frown that is sometimes
a scowl, with dragging
feet and lack-lustre eyes.
They quarrel with their
food, upset the household,
slam the door when they
leave, and spread ill-
humor wherever they go.
They grope their way
through a fog of depres-
sion, unable to take any
interest in their work or
their play. They are a
| nuisance to themselves
land to everybody else —
and they know it. And
yet, all the time, it’s only
a question of internal
adjustment.
THE KRUSCHEN WAY
The right way to get
out of bed is the Kruschen
way. You keep a bottle
of Kruschen Salts handy,
and into your first cup of
tea just drop a wee pinch
—no more than will lie on
a sixpence. Although you
cannot taste it, this little
dose contains six different
salts, blended in just the
right proportions to en-
sure that the eliminating
organs perform their
work efficiently.
Don’t take Kruschen
Salts once or twice; take
them every day till the
bottle s finished. only
costs a farthing a day, but
it will send your stock
soaring sky-high. Krus-
chen corrects the ill-
effects of a life out of
touch with Nature. Gently
but firmly it removes from
the system the accumula-
tion of waste that want of
air and exercise, errors of
diet, worry and overwork
have formed, and sends
new, pure blood coursing
through the body.
It sends you to sleep
well content with the
world, and wakes you up
all eager to taste the thrill
of another day of glorious
life.
Kruschen folk get out
of bed the right way.
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will
lie on a sixpence.
fr u djts
Good health for a farthing a day.
The dose of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found, in practice,
just the right amount for a most
invigorating daily tonic. The medi-
cinal dose for persons suffering
from pains of rheumatism and gout,
or habitual constipation, with in-
active liver, etc., is that given on the
label of the bottle, viz., half to one
teaspoonful in a tumbler of hot
water before breakfast.
ECONOMY.—It’s the little daily
dose that does it. A bottle of
Kruschen Salts last three months,
and costs a farthing a day. Get a
bottle at your chemist’s to-day and
start to-morrow.
NOTE. —Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, Eng-
land, by E. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established
1754, in the reign of George the Second.
Australia.—Trade Supplies are stocked by H, & W.
Grear, 119-23 York Street, Sydney; also at Mel-
bourne. Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
New Zealand.—Trade Supplies stocked bv Fairbairn,
Wright & Co., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch
and' Dunedin.


A Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cu;
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
2BHHB%g£S
A. Saunders’ Silver double-case Waltham
Lever, £4/10/-. Gold-filled 10-ycar case,
£4/5/-. 20-year, £6/10/-. 25-year,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
m
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Watch Bracelet, fullv-jewelled movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l5.
FINE DIAMOND
JEWELLERY.
BMSi
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond liim;,
18ct. Gold,
£75.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set two fine Diamonds,
£6/10/-
mm
A. Saunders double-cut Diamord How
Brooch, set in Platinum, £75.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-1, lieu, Open-fare Wristlet,
10-year guaranteed cai-e, £4/10/-, £5.
25-year case, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
9ct. Geld, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ci. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Albert, £4/10/-; lighter,
£4, £3/10/-; heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6, £6/10/-
15et. Gold, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
ASAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ double-cut D’nmond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Keylesi
f Lever, 20/-, 25/-. Extra jewelled,
30/-, 40/-. Higher Grades, 50/-,
60/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Britannic Watch
Bracelet, thoroughly reliable, £lO.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Entrust all
your repairs
to us. We
specialise.
T
MILS
rrs
M2MI
KSi
Good Service
assured
bij irjateiidls from
oflocl(£j(zrbus
Best Quality Tennis Nets, flexible wire, head
lines. Single top, 2ft. 6in., 45/-; 3ft., 557-
Double Top, 2ft. 6in„ 50/-; 3ft., 60/-; 3ft
Gin., 65/-
Ayres’ 1923 Championship Tennis Balls,
'2/9 each ; 32/- doz.
Slazenger’s 1923 Tennis Balls, 2/9 each;
32/- doz.
Wistlen Hard Court Tennis Balls, 2/9 each;
32/- doz.
Rackets that can stand up to hard,
fast play.
Slazenger’s Tennis Rackets:
I.Z, 95/-; Lambert Chambers,
90/-; Doherty, 85/-; E.G.M.,
80/-; The Demon, 55/-; ’Var-
sity, 52/6; ' Renshaw, 45/-;
Player, 30/-; La Belle, 27/6.
The “Winner” Tennis Racket,
95/-
The “Olympic Driver” Tennis
Racket, 85/-
“The President” Tennis Racket,
75/-
Spalding’s Tennis Rackets: The
Spalding, 95/-; Gold Medal,
model E, 87/6; Gold Medal,
H.1.C., 70/-; Service Special,
57/6; Tournament, 50/-
Alex. Taylor Racket, 87/6.
Full Racket Covers, 4/-, 5/- ea.
Half Tennis Racket Covers,
1/9, 2/6
Racket Presses, 4/6, 5/6.
YOU CAN SEND YOUR ORDER BY THE V.P.P. SYSTEM.
188 George Street,
Sydney.
ita
wQi
HiIHUIUIH
• • 1
1 his is why
you should always use British Made
OSRAM ELECTRIC LAMPS (
: of established reputation.
Wherever electric light is available, they
are worthily upholding their great reputation
for strength, long life, durability and economy.
They are made throughout by British
labour, with British capital, in a British factory
by one of Britain’s greatest industrial organ-
I isations—The General Electric Co., Ltd.
f Sold by all principal Electrical Contractors and Stores.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD., Sydney, Newcastle,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston ; Welling-
ton, N.Z J XT "- ™ J -’“ XT "
, Auckland, N.Z. ,
Suva and Levuka,
Dunedin, N.Z.;
Fiji
La
Electric
PA
m
I


Aniimeinents.
gVI) NE y’s CIII K I TIIEAT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SALLY.
CRITERION: THE FLAW.
ROYAL: BENVENUTO.
PAI.A C 15 TIIISAT It E, SYI>N E Y.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
E. J. & DAN CARROLL’S COMEDY COMPANY in
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
By C. J. DENNIS.
' PRODUCED BY BERT BAILEY.
Plans at Nicholsons.
J C. WILLIAM ISON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS. •
HER MAJESTY’S.
JULIUS CLESAR.
THEATRE ROYAL.
A SOUTHERN MAID
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAWRENCE GROSSMITH in
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S
ADVENTURE.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD S COMPANY of COMEDIANS in
THE O’BRIEN GIRL.
Plans at Glen’s.
|y| A. 11551 IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
LOVE NEVER DIES.
A VIDOR PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
PAL A C E TIIEA T R E, MELBOURNE.
Direction: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
BEN & JOHN FULLER’S GREAT 1922-23 SHOW,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Glen’s.
|_| OVT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
" Also SYDNEY.
WALLACE REID in
NICE PEOPLE.
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
DON’T SHOOT.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
TOWN HALL, MELHOCRN E.
Direction: GEORGE CASTLES.
RETURN OF
AMY CASTLES.
THURSDAY, MARCH Ist,
TUESDAY, MARCH 6th,
and
THURSDAY, MARCH Bth.
. Plan at Allan’s.
W IRT H S’ PARK. WIRTHS’ PARK.
GRAND RE-OPENING OF MELBOURNE’S
PLAYGROUND.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON AND NIGHT.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
A WHOLE NIGHT’S CARNIVAL.
HOW WILD ANIMALS ARE TRAINED.
TRAINING LIONS, TRAINING BABOONS
And other animals.
RAYMOND’S MIRACULOUS ESCAPES;
We defy the public to hold him.
KILTIES’ BEAUTIFUL BAND.
THE DRESS CIRCLE OF THE SKATING RINK.
Seeing the wonderful dresses of Carnival.
Seeing the wonderful Skaters in Fancy Skating.
In teams of five, in couples and costume. Scores cf
Side-shows and Games of all sorts.
Melbourne’s Playground for Melbourne’s Children;
Old and Young, Male and Female.
A Pure, Healthy Night’s Amusement for —
SIXPENCE, SIXPENCE, SIXPENCE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAKEAN
1 PRODUCTIONS
AUSTRALIAN TOUR RE-OPENS FEBRUARY 24th.
Australian Representatives: J. V. De BATYN, 4th j
Floor, Country Press Chambers, Castlereagh-street.
Public Notice.
Sydney Technical College.
'"pECHNICAL Training by Correspondence in:—
X AGRICULTURE.
BOOKKEEPING,
STATION-BOOKKEEPING,
SHEEP-CLASSING,
WOOL-CLASSING,
CARE OF ANIMAL OR ANIMAL HUSBANDRY.
IN THE PAST, people in isolated parts of the
State requiring instruction in these subjects have
been unable to obtain it unless they could go to
comparatively few centres.
NOW they can bring themselves by Home Study
into closest touch with the chief centre of educa-
tional activity, a nd can be successfully taught and
trained by the leading experts in their particular
professions.
THE SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE provides in- I
struction of the soundest practical and scientific
character by correspondence in the following subjects |
also: —
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION,
CONSTRUCTION DRAAVING.
CARPENTRY AND JOINERY,
DRESSMAKING AND MILLINERY,
DRAINAGE AND WATER FITTING,
ELEMENTARY ART DRAWING,
INSPECTION OF MEAT AND ANIMALS,
PENMANSHIP AND CORRESPONDENCE,
PRINTING AND COMPOSING,
SHORTHAND,
SANITARY ENGINEERING AND SANITARY LAW,
TRADES CALCULATIONS.
Send for Syllabus “Technical Education Extension \
by Correspondence” to JAMES NANGLE, Superin- t
tendent of Technical Education. (Z. 1002).
The Drills for Service
“CAPITAL” BRAND
HIGH-SPEED
TWIST DRILLS
will serve you better. We know the quality
because we make the steel itself, as well as
the drills, in our own British works. If you
want long dependable service and clean accu-
rate cutting at high speeds, you want a
“Capital” drill. We’ll replace every one
that proves defective. Table of speeds and
feeds and “Balfour’s Hints on Steel” in book
form gladly forwarded. Send us a trial order.
CAPITAL
i
I
I
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Boad, Kalgoor-
lie. Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. U.
Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co.,
Htd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
£3
feP!
fexf
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 35/-, Poolscap size.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
Station House,
Rawson Place, 'Sydney.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL size
The cigar for
particular
• smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
Special sampl-
ing cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
CRAIG 8 AMEN,
6548 George Street.
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
If any illustration appearing in Tm<
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tin
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BUFFALO
Blowers, Forges, Drilling Machines
In the development of fan engineering
“Buffalo” has occupied a prominent
position for generations. The design
and structural details of the different
machines are the result of practical
manufacturing knowledge of all
requirements. There’s a Buffalo
Blower, Exhauster or Ventilating
Fan for every industrial need.
RELY ON A
“BUFFALO”
The "Buffalo” nameplate indicates a product developed to
the highest degree. Ihe design and construction are as perfect
as practical experience and high-quality materials and work-
manship can make them. For these reasons you can safely
rely on a “Buffalo” to give long reliable service on the hardest
work you can put it to.
“BUFFALO” FORGES, BLOWERS,
EXHAUST FANS, ELECTRIC BLOWERS,
DRILLING MACHINES, SHEARS,
PUNCHES, etc.
Get facts and figures about "Buffalo” lines before you buy.
Ask us for catalogue and all particulars.
AGENTS—
In the modest hand forge, the
“little brother Buffalo” as it
were, is expressed the same
great principles upon which the
mighty Buffalo machines am
constructed. There’s a Buffalo
Hand Forge and Blower for
every workshop, farm and field
PARKE andLACY C° L TD
Engineers 6 Machinery Merchants, 60 Qarence St SYDNEY


LEARN TO DRAW!
* a
fSi
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
You can
learn to
make effec-
tive original
drawings in a
short period
under the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Each lesson is given
under the personal
supervision of Aus-
tralia’s foremost
commercial artist,
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, who criticises
and corrects the
exercises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of art!
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby?
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,-” which
tells all about
the course,
fees, etc., and
gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
200 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
aNnionw
£7/?e £Per/ec£
©IFIFSCgE WkWEM
CLEANEST.
STRONGEST.- BEST
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS
%i^ ,e ALEx Cowan g> Sons, fe>
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide.
A Midget in Size,
A Giant in Sound
“Boomerang”
THE KING OF
MOUTH ORGANS
-V
•Ur.
A
is the greatest “much in little”
on this planet.
You can get the effect of an orchestra, with
The Large “BOOMERANG.” which has‘2o
holes and 40 reeds and a clear resonant
sweet tone. Strong! v and artistically made
and smoothly finished.
Price 5/6 Posted.
The Miniature “BOOMERANG,” equally
well made and finished, has 10 holes and
•20 reeds. p r i ce 3/3 Posted.
J. ALBERT & SON
Depi B. “Boomerang House,”
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at 231 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Special rates for wholesale lots.
B 5
Business Notice.
Become an Expert
Show - card Writer.
This fascinating and highly-paid art of
Show-card and Ticket Writing taught by
correspondence in 12 easy lessons illus-
trated by plates ..of alphabets, etc.,.
Gives the right training for a profitable
profession or a paying hobby. It is
the trained man who succeeds. Write
for particulars.
Adelaide Show-card School,
Box 518 G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Missing: Friends.
JAMES PETER OLAF ARELDSON,
formerly of Melbourne and Adelaide.
Information required as to his address.
Reward. J. WOOLF, Solicitor, Queen
Street. Melbourne.
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.”
You may have seen or known the
quiet, inoffensive kind of chap who,
under. the spur of necessity, could
administer a thorough and artistic
thrashing to a big blustering op-
ponent. What a surprise he caused,
and how you envied him! He was
a “dark horse.’’ He knew the
science of Boxing, and possessed the
confidence of his knowledge. You,
too, can become a “dark horse.”
Learn Boxing by Post.
The Baker Course teaches you all the points _of
the game, beginning with a thorough grounding
in the rudiments of Boxing. It takes you through
every move,' punch, stop and counter —and teaches
you facts about ringcraft based on practical ex-
perience that are quite out of the ordinary.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students are practising
the Baker Boxing Course.
Just write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to us with three stamps,
for postage, and we will send you free a copy of
the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about the course, fees,
etc.
,-fS
VifSf
1
*5:
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
257 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Sick Headache
@Biliousness
ă
Sale! Reprnentativet t
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE S'Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
These troublesome complaints are generally due
to a sluggish liver, and are most frequently
experienced by those who lead a sedentary life.
A teaspoonful of ENO’s “bruit Salt m a
glass of cold water will prove soothing and
refreshing, and by eliminating harm!ul waste
matter soon restores normality and natural buoy-
icy. For your health’s sake ask your chemist for
*<g
FRUIT SALT
ojjA\
Benger’s Food does three
things for the dyspeptic
- it gives complete nourishment ;
-it allays the craving of the stomach;
—it w ns back natural digestion.
ą
Food
is so highly nutritious that athletes use it in training, so
delicious that invalids and aged persons enjoy it, year
in and year cut.
The Booklet of Beoger’s Fo-d contains dainty recipes which give
relief from the sameness of milk and similar diet. Theseare so light
as to giv nourishment with digestive rest. Post free on request from
BENGERS FOOD LTD.,
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
ll7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
BENGER S FOOD. LTD., MANCHESTER. England.
A.lB.
v/A
m
II""- %
&
si
a.
8 0
r Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Heal Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets. 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or Jin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and roost efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon m
L. SvdneV.
f/Az.
i m * it
% fe.
HR
wm
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
- Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.D.W.: Thank you. Afraid the idea
wouldn’t illustrate without too much explanation. . . .
B; Nana: You can substitute Gladstone for Rock-
hampton if it will make you happier. The argu-
ment won’t be affected.... A.H.F.: But there can be
no copyright in news, and he certainly didn’t steal
anything else.... Bili: Apparently they were hungry
because they would not work. We really cah’t get
excited about that. .. .Vivian C.: Besides lacking
interest, it frequently gets down to prose level... .
J.D.L.: .Thanks, but we’ve kept track of New Aus-
tralia pretty well, and still hear regularly....
R.J.0.: Can’t do anything with an article that long.
But there’s a market here for shorter stuff... .I'M’.:
“Work” moves too heavily... .John D. (Q.) : Not
fuite. . . .Penshurst: The matter is interesting enough,
ut the manner fails. .. .Cor: Too wordy....
Trafalgar: Can’t spare even half-a-column to retell
the yarn of how Billy Hughes once opened a safe by
finding the key underneath it.... A. Shock: We
simply must give you room for two or three verses: —
At Randwick last night our civic director,
Aid. Strange-Muir, delivered a lecture.
On Thieves poisoning pups, all for pelf;.
Then each one resolved to look after himself.
Ouoth he: the poodle’s life the miscreant takes,
Then into our houses attempts to break;
Thus property values will cease to swell,
Aldermen, we must look after ourselves.
Each one felt it was awful amiss,
Randwick subjected to doings like this;
Certainly watchdogs poisoned by frolicsome elfs,
Demands that each one should look after themselves.
. ...C.R.: Here’s your dogmatic assertion, then, for
all whom it may concern: “I have a fair acquaintance
with the Australian vocabulary as usually spoken
by the unregenerate of the bush and city, but
‘’Struth!’ and ‘Cripes!’ have no place in it.”
’Struth !. .. . W.S.T.: “Forest” nicely done, but it is
only a rustling among dead leaves 1 .... A.W. (Manly):
The waking part is quite as ridiculous as the dream.
....Mageja Bada: Too violent and thin. ~ . A.S.M.:
No use. .. . W.W.A.: Doesn’t get near,.. .R.F.S.:
“Midnight” too slight... .H.M.J.: Purely mechanical
yarn, not made for a full-sized intelligence. .. .15. K.:
Poor verse straining after commonplace... .Z.Y.W.:
That “Bush School” is responsible for more verses
than any other Australian theme. Most of them are
better than yours.... Lemo: Poor attempt. .. .W.D.
(Nana Glen): Amazing how you can write so many
words without saying anything.... J.L.M.. Needs - a
lot of sandpapering. .. .McArab: Not quite. You
want a more real subject. But there have been
many worse first attempts. .. .A.J.L.: None of them
well enough done. .. .E.T.M.: A small tale told in
too many words; and too many of those words
wrongly used.. .. . K.M.H.: Sorry, but only the title
‘usrgcsts that it could be a memorial to anybody....
C.R.T.: The tender sadness of “You” is a little over-
shadowed by the delirious selection of rhymes:—
You are my love of yesterday,
I remember your eyes of gray;
And though I would fain forget you
Thoughts of you are still in my memory’s
revenue.
And when in years of the future
You will be my actions' tutor,
I’ll forget that you my heart did butcher
And still worship your picture.
...... .P.A..J.: Even an after-midnight cat may be dull.
....John N.: Doesn’t, get to the slip-rails....
GYX.: Falls all over its own feet. . . .Iv.A.T.: The
“Cows” and men are equally dull ... .VV .E.L.: Son-
nets badly constructed ; none of the verse up....
A.F.M.: “Catastrophe” has too frail a point....
A.H.G.. Might do for a suburban drawing-room song
in dull weather.... Blunder-B.: There is some
material there, but you must learn your game. Try
more care, more thought, more time, more condensa-
tion. .. .H.F.H.: Hopelessly uninteresting twaddle.. ..
L.E.K.: Why did j you try to tell it from the end
backwards ?.... Barbara M.: The buttercups are very
dead, too Bert Bateye: Weary old gags about
“Dad” that have become classics of the waste-paper-
basket... .Cecily W.: No, we can’t “hear the desert
calling.” The picture-star Arabs are making too
much noise. .. .Francis D.: Poor and obscure Senga
Z.: Mostly rubbish on stilts... .A.S. (Levuka) : A
slight theme that needed perfect handling. Do some
more work on it. . . .F.MeC.: Commonplaces turned
into a sort of literary sausage. . . .W.J. (Collaroy) :
Doesn’t strike us 0.D.W.: Don’t pronounce
“brilliantly” brilly-antly just to fill out a line....
F.H.R.: Never gets out of the furrow. .. .W.E.L.:
Doesn’t make a yarn. . . .11.J.8.: Matter handled
already. .. .Bellerive: “The Tramp Detective” has the
vigorous note of the early heroes of handcuff
fiction:
Disguised as a rough and roving tramp,
With a bluev upon his back,
An armed detective followed the trail
Of a crook on the wallaby tra< k.
They met in the shade of the rustling trees.
Two strong and desperate men.
Alertful was the hunted wretch,
Like a lion from his den.
‘*Wolf!” he gasped, with a fiendish frown;
But before he’d time to draw,
A pistol was pointed at his head
Bv the daredevil of the law.
That night within a speeding train,
Said the prisoner to the D.,
“Webbed again like a buzzing fly—
I’ll go straight when I’m free.”
II Biscione: Interesting stuff; but we haven't
the space. . . .Verey L: Just failed to make the
weight. •* . Jackeroo; Too geneial and indefinite foi
that' sort of thing. . . .Kromski: Outski. .. .Fernleaf:
You travel in circles.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Gunn: Nothing like him....R.M.: Too stiff....
M.A.W.: Finicky little things impossible to repro-
duce C.T.: No interest in your two people merely
looking at each other... . J.L.: All 0ut.... J.I .T.:
Poor drawing O’F.: A scratchy monstrosity
H..W.T.: Nowhere near it A.E.E.: You have a
queer idea of a hand C.McA.: Curiously uneven
work D.J.H.: I3ut lie's not trying to get into the
car J.McI.: Poor but honest attempts; you'll
have to learn drawing before you can get anywhere.
. ...Yarra: Not a glimpse of promise K.S.: The
worst of the week E.G.: Drawing fair but pen-
work weak T.H.: A slight improvement; but
they’re terrible hands. . . .A.E.: Woefully stiff treat-
ment. .. .E.K.: Out. .. .E.S.W.: You fall down badly
on the figures J.C.: Distinctly promising if
original; try something typically Australian
L.C.C.: Misses.


Are Good T i res
"
Road 'round the
World
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,*
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
Royal Cord
Tyres.
aiswe*
mmw
DISTRIBUTORS:-
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA) LTD.,
53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY;
517 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 76 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., LTD., Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
F. W. HERITAGE & CO, PTY., LTD.
Hobart.
W. A. SORRELL, 165 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.


ǻ
A Charming Interior of
H’ibFoHil'fe
USE “FIBBOUITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets for lining the Interior Walls
and Ceilings throughout your home.
Booms lined with “FIBBOTITE” are
Cool, Hygienic, Fire Safe and Artistic.
Also consider that “FIBBOTITE” costs
less than lining boards, lath and plaster,
etc., and is suj>erior in every respect.
The sheets are quickly erected, without
waste, mess or litter.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Sydney: Cnr. York & Wynyard Streets.
Brisbane: A.M.P. Building, Queen Street.
Melbourne: 581-83 Tittle Collins Street.
Adelaide: 30 Currie Street.
New Zealand: 24 Nathan’s Buildings,
Wellington.
£35
•h
A Skin
in hand
may be worth two
in the hush.
But “there’s many a slip ’twixt cup and
lip.”
Make sure that your consignments realise
top market values. Send your RABBIT,
KANGAROO, FOX SKINS, etc., to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Expert Salesmen, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
ART
Life Studies,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. Fleury, Calle
Cuyas de Sarria, Barcelona, Spain.
Foreign postage is threepence.
Reduced 10/- in Price
and delivered at your door any-
where in Australia.
300
Candle-
Power.
COLEMAN
QUICK-LITE
Lights
with
Matches.
It’s Easy to do Better Work
with Quick-Lite at Night.
Quick-Lite gives 300-candlepower light from
petrol-gas generated by the lantern itself, and
puts any other outdoor light in the shade.
Strongly built for service in the wildest storm.
Cannot blow out or spill, and has unbreakable
mica chimney and twin mantles that cast no
shadows.
The Light that Never Fails.
Reduced to 65/- each.
WITH FULL KIT OF TOOLS
AND TWO SPARE MANTLES.
GUARANTEED AND DELIVERED FREE BY
RAIL OR MAIL IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
ORDER NOW, or write for pamphlet to
Coleman Quick-Lite Company of Australia,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne; Box 1083.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Increase the Capacity
of Your Horses.
Are you in that awkward posi-
tion in which you wish to cope
with MORE deliveries, yet
you do not care to spend
more money on horses,
waggons and extra labor?
A very practical way out of
0
the difficulty is to equip your carts with
SKF
Ball Bearing' Axles.
If you do this you will reduce the friction in the hubs so greatly that the
horses in each waggon will, with the same energy, be able to pull a load
fifty per cent, heavier. The vehicles will last longer and need less repairs,
the axles will need greasing but three or four times a year, and your horses
will be in a better condition and live longer owing to less strain on the
heart and lungs. . , ,
Full particulars and prices on request.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 389 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at: —
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., 37
King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street.
H22/25.
iEGISTERII
tHAOE M»R»
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previouslv
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
«es®SK.i
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY,
Australasian AiXp. tacniatives: —
Norman Raker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
SKANDIA Crude Oil Engines
now available in Stock, for immediate delivery
and for arrival.
SCANDIA Woodboard
for Building. Ideal for Linings, Ceilings, Partitions,
etc. From 20/- per 100 sq. ft. Easy to erect,
everlasting. Samples and illustrated catalogue
posted free on application.
Nelson & Robertson,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“W.WAV.”: How’s this for business ?
Hundreds of pairs of rubber soles imported
into Australia from Yankeeland failed to
find a market owing to the reluctance of
boot-repairers to handle them. After a lapse
of years a Sydney merchant bought them up
for £lO-0, returned most of them to the land
of their origin and netted £2OOO.
“Bond”: The London clubs are having a
kind of civil war over German wines. The e
were, of course, all barred during the war,
and most committees refuse to take down
the barrier, even though the write-your-own-
ticket value of the mark offers a gorgeous
opportunity for re-stocking empty cellars,
But now the wily German has published
broadcast that the latest Rhine wines are
proving “the finest-flavored year since
1862,” and the elaborate-dinner members
who carry most weight are almost muti-
nously demanding that such a chance shall
not be neglected for the sake of mere senti-
ment.
* * * *
“0.K.”: A capital scheme has been sug-
gested for Vic. State-school education in the
national value of timber. The proposal is
that the Government shall grant to the State
school, where possible, a suitable area of
waste land for tree-planting. The young
trees will be brought up under the care of
the young scholars, and when the time, comes
for cutting a tree down and replacing it with
a sturdy infant of the same species, or some-
thing different, the timber will be sold for
the school’s benefit. If Australia needs to
be more interested in the cultivation of trees
for their dead bodies’ sake, what better way
can be suggested?
* * * *
“Widgee”: Despite overseas competition
Vic.’s only clothes-peg factory continues to
hum —and latterly, owing to a duplication
of machines, twice as loudly as ever. Early
defects in the product have been remedied,
so that it rank's with the best of imported
goods, and can be sold at a rate which gives
those handling the foreign article something
to think about. The factory, near the Yarra
Glen railway station, a trucking-centre for
the timber from the great forests up Too-
langi way, is managed by young Rupert
Newman, of Melbourne’s ancient jewel-trad-
ing family ; and Falfreyman, of the jam busi-
ness and the racing game, has an interest.
Rupert collected most of his tips about the
peg industry in the U.S., where they call
’em “clothes' pins” and fight local trade w T ars
over them.
*** - *
“Stony” : Are city taxi rates too high? Be-
tween the mammoth works of the State Elec-
tricity Commission' at Yallourn (Vic.) and
Morwell, where the Melbourne train lands
the navvies for the field, there plies for hire
a fleet of cars, some of them owned by ex-
workers for the Commission. Charges are
about 6d. per mile, and the cars have long
spells of inactivity. Yet one driver drew £6O
gross for a recent week’s work, and the net
profit keeps most of the owners cheerful. On
reading figures like these the city public must
feel that it is overpaying for services which,
in this bustling generation, should be avail-
able on a daily-necessity basis.
# * * *
“H.L.N.”: In the eastern Riverina
(N.S.W.) the “saffron thistle” is having a
blasphemous effect on land-holders. It is a
tough, spiny pest with yellow flowers; and
this season it came up like a crop in many
paddocks. Unlike the big variegated thistle
that covers the creek flats in the same dis-
trict, it is useless as fodder; and it crowds
out or covers up the useful grasses. The
thing is so well established that it has be-
come a Big' Problem ; and the ventleman on
the land seems able to do little beyond
hope that the prickly horror will vanish as
mysteriously as it appeared. The career of
the plant known as “Patterson’s curse” gives
some support to that hope; but meantime
large areas are being put out of action.
SAN SALVADOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the North we drew'
To coast the couchant land
That old Columbus knew
And his swart Spaniard band;
From far-off Spain their first new shore
And landfall was San Salvador.
They seized the land, and men
They gave unto the sword,
And did their thieving then
To glorify the Lord ;
And Florida they held in thrall,
And robbed and dominated all.
Their plate ships sailed the seas—■
Galleon and caravel
Collected men and fees
By methods made in Hell;
And pious pirates come and go
Upon the Gulf of Mexico.
Yet in these days the fleets
With richer cargoes Sail
From out Bermuda heats
North on the southern gale—
Nassau and. Cuba’s goodly sum
Of gold in old Jamaica rum;
With whisky of the Scotch,
And John de Kuyper’s gin.
Though Prohibition watch
The cargoes enter in;
The Rum Fleet makes accustomed round
By Jersey and Long Island Sound.
From Mexico a flood
Crosses the Rio Grande;
Wine of the black grape’s blood,
Whisky at every hand ;
Nibbling at Prohibition’s walls,
The Gulf Stream and Niagara Falls.
From Cuba and Nassau,
Bermuda and the isles,
Defiant of the law',
And breaking it with smiles,
Gulf Streams of rum are duly sent
Along the track Columbus went.
Deep the Canadian stream
Of grog into the States ;
Nightly the mastlights gleam
Where the good Rum Fleet waits;
Liberty’s statue, lighted yet,
To say New York is free and wet.
PANAMA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


S 3
A
Better Farming with Better Tractors
æ
ǽ
a
à
á
â
'
*
m
glßlflgiill
: . r wV-'W
"i-fc* j
" f \ "' ‘'’V'
iMMiias
», v t
i I
"How much more money I
would have in my bank
now if I’d listened to Bill
last year—mine’s a CASE
Tractor this year!"
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.,
Head Office: 53-57 MORPHETT STREET, ADELAIDE.
Kadina Branch: GRAVES STREET, KADINA, S.A,
VICTORIA:
Clarke Buildings, 430 Bourke St.
Box 1486 G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Bowen Street (off Ann Street),
Box 1036 G.P.O. ’Phone 7591
NEW SOUTH W ALES:
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
Box 2664 G.P.O. ’Phone 8.1769.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
7 & 8 Bank N.S.W. Chambers,
Perth. Box 551.
Sole Selling Agents for W r .A:
4VESTRALIAN FARMERS LTD.
ã


D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
Wl
©
;2g&wojitAvm!§/
*52 MAI T(0
r
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only*
Rend 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng
&
<L
6
M
n:
Championship
Calibre
Championship calibre goes be-
yond national boundaries; cham-
; pionship calibre brings intema-
'<■tional fame.
Tennis is an international sport.
; Players like Brookes, Anderson
and Patterson are justas famous in
• America as Tilden and Johnston
are in Australia and New Zealand.
Shaving is an international nuis-
ance, but it can be made less of a
nuisance with Mennen Shaving
Cream. Mennen enjoys interna-
tional fame because it works just
as well with hard water as with
soft, with cold water or with hot.
Let me ask you, “Would Men-
nen Shaving Cream enjoy inter-
national fame if it did not check
up with championship calibre ?”
The test is in the tube.
(Mennen Salesman )
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO.,LTD.
249 George Street, ayc-ney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
ä
Ignition Sets for
“Fordson” Tractors
and “Ford” Cars
now available.
Smith, Sons & Rees
Limited,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
’Phones, City 7518 (3 lines).
d/hytdeAA/
Jk% mo^s/np&tfant?
When nursing infants to see that
their stomachs are kept sweet
and healthy by giving
small doses
of
I«»*
r.«>
M>”
SB*
ps*
**«
••a
A great many
infantile ailments
” can be positively avoided
by taking this simple precaution,
and the unpleasantness and distress
arising from teething greatly minimised by
the use of this delightfully cooling and safe
aperient.
COOLING I# SUMMER RELIABLE ALWAYS
The genuine KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA contains no
harmful drugs, and is strongly recommended to people of
all ages by the Medical Faculty
Sold Everywhere
Made by
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. ltd.
Melbourne
-
m
The 24/60 6-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater Touring
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
376-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality”
That indefinable feeling which is particularly
noticeable in the latest six-cylinder Sunbeam
Models, as evidenced by the following opinions
of “Men who know” :
The Autocar: —“There is no doubt that the six-
cylinder SUNBEAM car is a distinct advance on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor:— “The side valve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.”
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Mail for Particulars :
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD., Wolverhampton, England.
Export Dept.: 12 PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address — “Subeamoco,” London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
BOSTON
50fcP^
K
I
m
0
m
jHHR|
m
m
\\w\v
m
M
A\n«
miii
1
«
mmmm
For Milady’s Suede Shoes-
so dainty, so chic, so easily soiled-Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner is a positive necessity.
Cleans quickly and surely, brings up the
nap and helps it retain its velvety softness.
Colours: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Khaki or Taupe, Brown, and Nigger.
Bostock’s Polishes Ltd., Box 91, Haymarket,
Sydney
GOVERNMENT
å
SAVINGS BANK
of N.B.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3£ % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS openedfor any person, firm, company
or institution.
“Coot": The pipe-organ in Melbourne’s
Exhibition Building, which at its opening
in 1880 ranked as one of the largest in the
world, has been played for the last time.
For some years the trustees of the building
have spent large sums on patches, but ex-
perts have finally condemned it. It will in
future be merely a gaudy ornament in the
barn. Fincham and Sons, of Richmond,
built it.
“Seno” : At one time in the Federal ser-
vice a charge laid under Section 46 was
considered a serious thing; nowadays, it is
as cheap as an 0.8. E. In a recent case the
officer was asked to reply to a query, and
although his reply contained no bad language
or anything discourteous, and gave the facts
required only, it brought forth a Sec. 46,
charging him with “making a flippant reply.”
The delinquent had put his answer in verse!
“Kilkenny” : Someone recently referred to
“our only bart., S’Rupert.” Of course, there are
others who own English or Irish baronetcies.
My exhibit lives near Alexandra (Vic.):
he is John Robert, 11th Baronet Barnewall.
He was born in Victoria 73 years ago, and
has lived there all his life except for a few
months 14 years ago, when he went to Lon-
don to take delivery of the title. Although
comfortably fixed, he does not affect society.
He has a couple of sons: Reginald John,
now 34, is the heir.
“Pom Pom”: One recently rejected
Federal member, who is an industrious col-
lector of political souvenirs, recently picked
up a page from a Melbourne illustrated
weekly showing the presentation of the
famous £25,000 to Hughes. As portion of
the left-hand corner was torn away, two
men were missing from the group. Want-
ing to secure the complete tableau, the poli-
tician acquired a back number of the paper
and discovered—to his amusement —that one
of the missing pair was Pratten.
“T. 0.1.”: Some of the hungry eyes of the
N.S.W. Government are on Callan Park,
and a kite has been sent up to find out how
the wind blows. The suggestion is that it
should be converted into a general hospital,
the “mentals” to be removed to the country
and the surplus lands cut up and sold. The
Valuer-General says the property is worth
£4,345,376. The grounds total 127
The estate, originally known as Garryovren,
was the property of the old-time legal family
of Brenan. Henry Parkes bought it during
his first Premiership for £12,000, but since
then the area has been largely added to.
“Plasmon”: The Federal Parliament’s
stamp-box will feel the better for the rejec-
tion of one member on December 16. He
was an unparalleled letter-writer, and the
mail he despatched every week started the
rumor that he was teaching something by
correspondence. The pile of missives that
arrived for him almost daily strongly sup-
ported this suspicion. Then began other
rumors. Just before the election he absent-
mindedly handed a bundle of letters to an
attendant to post for him. The official looked
casually at the envelopes, and discovered
that the great man was writing to himself.
This was the explanation of his tremendous
industry. He wanted to create an impres-
sion of his importance in political affairs.
“Lexite”: After an unadvertised union
quarrel vrhich has been going on for the last
18 months, George Bodkin has been re-
appointed secretary of the N.S.W. Railway
Workers. Bodkin, who has made several
appearances as a political candidate, fell out
with his executive, and the latter sacked
him. The Council of the A.W.U., which has
a deciding voice, ordered his reinstatement,
but, discovering fresh cause for dissatisfac-
tion, the executive applied the boot again.
Bodkin was re-elected by the members, only
to be heaved out by the unwearied executive
for the third time. Now, as the result of
a fresh election, Bodkin has regained his
salary and emoluments, and most of the
executive have learned what it feels to be
chucked out themselves. There are'striking
points of resemblance between unions and
see-saws.
Herbert Robinson, who was on the N.S.W.
Hansard staff under his father (the late
Chas. Robinson) and has been on the Fed-
eral staff since it started, has been promoted,
and now ranks second to veteran Friend at
a salary of £750 a year. He is a graduate-
in law of the Sydney ’Varsity, but the
fascination of Pitmanic hieroglyphs kept
him from donning wig and gown. Two of his
brothers are well known inky wayfarers.
“Harold Hardupp”: H.C.L. is nowhere in
more exasperating evidence than on the
beaches around Sydney, where licensed piracy
flourishes. Recently I have adventured
with some of my responsibilities to these
resorts, and can speak with knowledge of the
rampant profiteering. Bathing outfits and
the use of sheds for three people ran from
3s. 2d. to 3s. lOd.: and in one place the
attendant insisted that if my life-partner
wanted the use of a sixpenny locker she
would have to hire another for her daughter.
A decade ago the whole expense, including
admission to the baths, would have been
covered by sixpence. Amongst other extor-
tions there are beaches where sixpence is
demanded for the use of a chair, a privilege
for which a penny pays handsomely at
English seasides. Is it fair that the hapless
stranger who visits an ocean beach should
be made the victim of this sort of piracy?
“The Deacon”: Mention of the defeat of
Tom Seddon (B. 11/l/’23) in the late M.L.
elections recalls that neither of the sons in-
herited anything of the rugged personality
of the old man. Rather they favored their
gentle mother. The latter years of old King
Dick’s life were embittered by enemies who
struck at the father through the son. Young
Dick was one of the gilded Australasian few
who had the final polish put on their soldier-
ing at an Indian school. He held a com-
mission in the Boer disturbance, and as the
result of political machinations he stood a
court-martial for alleged cowardice in face
of the enemy. The better-minded Maori-
landers showed what they thought of the
matter with banquets, addresses and rolls of
notes on his acquittal. Young Dick shortly
after chucked the military, but when the
Big Stunt came along he was waiting on the
mat. Knowing what his charitable friends
were thinking and saying, it fretted him to
remain on the Instructional Staff, where the
brass-hats put him ; but he worked his point
after three years, and got into the trenches —
to be killed within two minutes of reaching
the firing-line.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Springe Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
Ily way of
South Sea Islands,
Ho no] ul u—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 21,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Bunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. Q.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne,, Sydney and 84
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austra-
lasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest'
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £ 1,523 000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £ 13, 269’,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman Frank
N. Yarwood, E.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.IV.: W. G. Hull.
111 C A 1) OFFICE, SYDNEY (.Corner George and Kiri"
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott. °
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New booth Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. If. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 24 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager; R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairhairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
BRANT* DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on ail classes of
' Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ° T % W™ 1 ’ Merchandise,
, Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
4 il Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
'I HE Lar GEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, Ist MARCH,
MAKURA, 29th MARCH.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N. 1.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tiie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 15th MARCH.
TAHITI, 19th APRIL.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3} TO 4* WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO M LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide and Brisbane.
wm
m*
KlHi■
• j
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £96 to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tQiis.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £37 to £45 to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America;
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, AVatt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
HEGULAIt sailings of the fine and
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
ItUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
.MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EUKII’IDES 15,000 tons
Til EMISXOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
“SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
“DIOGENES 12,500 tons
“New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 18X7.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors
*5,864,360
3,675,000
5,864,360
£15,403,730
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Matkellar, K.C.M.G :
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq,, M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milsoh, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. ' London Office —29 Threadneedle Street., E.C.
374 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua- and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY 0 n).
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
l/». Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
• •
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 27-
Contents—Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5,
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage..
GOLF AT KOSCIUSKO.
Enjoy a Game at an Altitude
of over 5000 ft.
Always Cool. No Humidity.
HOTEL KOSCIUSKO.
Admirably Equipped. Tariff from £5/12/6 week.
Full Information, Booking and Concession-Fare Certificates at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney, N.S.W.
ShlDDlnt-
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUROPE,
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
ROUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLD
TOURS,
Apply our , TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
Bnrns-Plvilp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart Parker L™ l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY,
8 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.tn.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers on these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOK
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Coolctown,


i£efd
’Gil SINOf 11IODOJ
Picnics to Right of Us—
Picnics to left us —-
And who has not heard of
REX CAMP PIE
the Picnic Dainty with few equals.
When cut in thin slices, it is fine for sandwiches.
Combine it with Lettuce Leaves, thinly sliced Egg,
Tomato, Beetroot, Cucumber, Olives, etc., and you
can prepare dozens of k nds of dainty sandwiches
quite unlike those usually served at picnics.
If the picnic t ikes the form of an impromptu meal,
serve Camp Pie with a Salad.
REX CAMP PIE is prepared from choicest meats —■
cooked to retain the savory flavors - packed in the
tins and surrounded by clear mouth-watering jelly.
Be sure to include it in your Holiday Picnic Menus.
Sold Everywhere.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castiemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT TVILLIAMSTOVVN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICR-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED,
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co- Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & PeekcSj Fenchurcb Street.
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS,
=s*
Xt/i
IEJL
RACKETS.
2. School Match
3. Special
4. M.S., Special Practice
4A. 0.8.8., Leather Grip
r>. M.S. Special or Premier
10. C. 8.8., Double Strung
11. c. 8.8.. Concave, Double Centre
14. Haymarket, extra special
17. Titanic, concave throat
15. Cyclonic, concave throat
10. Bussey’s Standard
21. Handicap
22. A 1
23. ~ Invincible
24. Ayre’s Sandown
2r>. „ Handicap
2(5. .. A 1
27. .. Champion
25. Matador
20. ~ Central Strung
9/6
14/6
18/6
21/-
25/-
27/6
45/-
70/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
32/6
35/-
50/-
30/-
37/6
40/-
50/-
55/-
60/-
31. Special sample, cork-ribbed grip 35/-
34. Spalding’s Tournament 49/6
35. Continental 55/-
30. „ Gold Medal 70/-
37. Davis Riseley Hexagon. 99b"
40. Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
A 1 TlDninn ... /-
RACKET REPAIRS
SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Resrulation Grey
Dunlop's Champion .. .
Each. Do/.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
Eacli. lmz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1923 2/9 32/-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1923 (airtight tins)
SUNDRIES.
(Kimlly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each. r
82/-
Each.
85/-, 40/-, , 50/-,
Anne (square) Posts, pair
Tennis Court Markers
Brush Spray Court Marker ... .
Tennis Tapes
Gut Solution, for renovating the
of rackets, bottle
60/-, 70/-
lO5/-
37/6
.... 105/-
22/6
strings
/- l-
Racket Covers. ... 1/9, 2/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratcliet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips .. 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-, 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/
ILLUSTRATED tennis price list free on request.
BOXING
GLOVES
W/OMa
l»
X
SSK
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
real leather, special value - 12/6, 13/(
C. 8.8. Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTIQN FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker ■ 40/-
JOCK° STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 4/9, 7/6,. 10/6 each
linvi\G BOOTS English Leather, extra light, weight 340 z. (Postage 6Ad.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed •••••••• n/"a/a iSfl
Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
as*
THE
PORTABLE
THE
ARPIY
ns
u
THE EXPERT
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg. , for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. .12/6, 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
AII above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
uc
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Rexona—Best
for Summer
Skin Troubles.
In the Summer-time we all suffer more or less from some
skin trouble, such as Rashes, Boils, Ulcers, Sores, Stings of Insects,
Pimples, or perhaps even Eczema. These skin eruptions are
dangerous if neglected, and might become chronic. You must
give them careful attention.
There is no better treatment than to apply Rexona, the
Rapid Healer. This is an antiseptic Ointment containing just the
right cooling, soothing and healing properties that are needed to
rid your skin of all impurities.
Rexona soothes pain, builds new tissues, and renews and
heals the skin.
Ihe triangular pot of Rexona, with its healing, soft green
Ointment, should be kept handy on the dressing table so that
every member of the family can have access to its wonderful
healing powers.
REXONA —
The Rapid
Healer.
JpCoolmo, \v
Mb oolkmg.- \
Mr. Healing w
£flr\iiseplK: Omlmenl ,
pijrif* ea $ Absolutely
& fleals \ Reliable
Bi
A Reliable Rnnnly for dll eruption
i>kin. Jurzeina «PunpJo sore>. t hilWam.-j Chopped Hondi Vo
sacifico. Itching or Rkfdmg Wes. GjLs. Runty Brillsey Scolds \
Pmd Legs. 3lmqs of Insecb and oil kind.s of Infla/nmofua* \
REXONA DEPT
SHELDON DRUG CO LIP
73^
'das
«»-
m
0^
SI
'T'
%
a^-
iw
■*%>
sfe
x ' , v/
"S^V-"-
. -a-V;
R
r<»a
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
—inchuUdUt Clititia&aaffieautuA
“The Famous Red Box”
Mailed to you the day they are made to any address in Australia-Post free.
■- Jf^
m
s<Xulio
S*«*
PRICES.
3/. 5/6 7/6
12/6 15/- 20/-
and 30/-.
OuteSt HiMiek
162*166 PITT Street
6 Cr George £ King Sts
Ultimate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'IT7rT"E whom Fate has given to dream,
VV Whom some far-off grail, agleam
With a radiance starry white,
As a blossom-haunted night
Ever lures to dare the quest
Of the dream held loveliest —•
When we pause with faltering tongue,
Have we left one song unsung?
Here, rich harvesting of dream,
Row on row my brown books gleam;
Living poets dwell with me
In my witch-realm, Fantasy.
These have sought in days long dead
Grain of gold and poppies red!
Well they gleamed each faery hill,
Yet the fairest fled them still.
Lo! These were the lords of dream ;
Fain of beauty’s deathless gleam;
Yet amid their lambent lines
Oft, divinest splendor shines —-
Sparks that tantalise and vex
Like a vague, half-caught reflex
Of the light that on them shone
From some starrier Ilion!
Sweet, ah! sweet it is to dream
Through the shadow and the gleam,
When the fronded gullies sing
Green leaf-rhymes of happy Spring,
And the pale dawn-dappled blue
Glows, one lucent gold all through,
Till, in phrase on burning phrase.
Flames the soul’s full songs of praise.
Yet, there is a fairer dream
Than our fairest, and a gleam—
Shadow-shrouded far before—
That eludes us evermore,
Like lost lights of memory.
When we steal all wearily
Past the gates of mortal breath,
Shall we sing that song in death?
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Betsy of The Good Intent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP on the southern end of the Rocks,
not very far from where they built a
church that canonised a worthy post-
eaptain of the Royal Navy—St. Philip’s—
stood The Good Intent Inn, by Thomas Nut-
ting.
It was a place with yellow, plastered walls,
a thatched roof and a squat appearance, and
its pleasant name was entirely misleading as
to its character. The intent of Thomas Nut-
ting, all his life, had been evil, and for the
most part his really welcome guests intended
license, robbery, piracy, murder, bloody insur-
rection, and any available wickedness that
might come their way. Neither Black Tom,
nor the riff-raff of Sydney and the wide world
that he entertained, fleeced and shanghaied
ever had any hypocritical notions as to what
swayed their individual existences. Except
to the proper authorities, who might hang,
flog or inflict penal servitude upon them, they
never pretended that their intent was good.
Nor from the appearance of most of them
would you be likely to expect it.
The Good Intent had been a smart lugger
of some 20 tons burthen, and her career had
been as disreputable as the revenue service of
Great Britain, the English coastguards, the
King’s ships, and the vaisseaux de guerre of
the French Emperor would permit. She
had smuggled little kegs of good French
brandy into Kent, Sussex and Hampshire.
She had carried the spies of William Pitt
into France, and the spies of Napoleon
Bonaparte into England. Defaulting citi-
zens of London had absconded to Europe in
her, and she had assisted in the invasion of
the British Isles by sinister gentlemen who
had made the Continent of Europe too hot
to hold them. People had been brought
aboard her, upon either side, who had never
reached the other, and over whom the gulls
of the Channel held the only sort of inquest
that ever was held.
It was after this evil little ship that her
former commander and owner had named his
licensed house in Sydney. Her impious
memory was the single touch of sentiment
in his composition. With the possible ex-
ception of Thomas Nutting she had been
Thomas Nutting’s only love, and when the
sudden Channel fog, drifting down from the
Essex marshes and the estuary of the
Thames, had hidden Gris Nez, the South
Foreland and the Goodwin Sands —so that
she ran upon the latter on a falling tide —
Thomas Nutting made some remarks reflect-
ing upon the Almighty which must have
been very offensive Up Above. He made
them to Lieutenant Smiley, R.N., of his
Majesty’s Preventive . cutter Alacrity, who
had been chasing him with earnest purpose
when the fog fell, and who captured him
with much grinning satisfaction when it
lifted. And that gentleman, deeming
Heaven to be his helper and his ally, had
promptly punched his prisoner in the jaw—
breaking it —and had cast him forthwith
into the hold of the King’s ship, with gyves
upon wrists and ankles and bitterness in
his soul.
“Ye gallow bird!” said Mr.
Tobias Smiley, with virtuous indignation,
“That’ll teach ye—well, not to insult y’r
Creator! ’Twill teach ye a
proper spirit towards Him when they deal
with ye at Newgate—damme if ’twon’t!”
But, because of some undeniable services
rendered by Mr. Nutting to British diplo-
macy, Mr. Pitt had seen to it that he was
not dealt with at Newgate, as jury and
judge felt confident he would be, and had
inflicted him upon New South Wales in-
stead.
And so we come to a sunny morning in
April, 1805, and to Betsy of The Good
Intent.
She stood beside the door of the inn and
gazed out across the town and the sparkling
cove and the blue harbor, towards the
purple and grey wall of the North Head.
Near the little wooded knoll of the Islet of
Mattewai, which the prisoners had humor-
ously named Pinchgut, H.M.S. Leveret, a
trim brig lately from Calcutta, lay at
anchor in the stream. It was of her com-
mander that Black Tom Nutting—lean and
evil and swarthy, and with an old cutlass
wound across his right cheek and a black
patch over his left eye—planned with the
girl the discomfiture and destruction.
She was not merely a pretty, black-haired,
dark-eyed girl of 18, with a clear com-
plexion—she was a very beautiful and fully-
developed woman. If she was not an Aus-
tralian she was the next thing to it, for she
had been born on the -female transport Lady
Penrhyn, during the voyage of the First
I leet in ’B7. Tall and graceful and sweet-
faced, there was nothing in her appearance
or her manner to indicate that she was the
daughter of a St. Giles’s prostitute by a
father unknown, was a decoy and snare for
The Good Intent, and was without morals or
morality.
It may not have been her fault that she
lacked these things—they were almost un-
known and impossible in the offspring of
the first of the prison population of Sydney.
But she did lack them, and lacked them with
enthusiasm. She took a curious delight in
touting for Black Tom—a delight that was
tempered by no mercy. Men from South Sea
whalers, sailors from the men-o’-war, sol-
diers, piratical ruffians who came in Spanish
ships from California and Peru, young offi-
cials of the civil establishment, a colonial
surgeon or two, wealthy convicts whose
moneys had softened the rigors of trans-
portation, subalterns of the New South
Wales Corps, once, and very notably, a
young clergyman imported by Mr. Marsden
himself —of every kind of two-legged male
creature she had taken toll in the interests
of The Good Intent and its industrious
licensee. It was almost as though she
exacted vengeance upon mankind for the
social conditions that had shaped her
mother’s life and brought her into being.
“This fellie,” said Mr. Nutting, “this
d—d lousy , he’m one o’ they shell-
back cap’ns as ain’t never been no young
gen’l’inan o’ th’ quarter-deck. Gunners-
mate, gunner, master’s mate, master —
an’ a lootenant in th’ Preven-
tive sarvice. He’m a proper tarpaulin,
an’ nothin’ to look at, though he be
cap’n of a King’s ship, d—n un ! A hard
man, a d—d hard man, an’ a fighter. He
don’t drink much, but he’s got a good eye for
a pretty wench, so they say—an’ bai'nt no
prettier nor you, Bet., in these yer South
Seas. If I was a young man”—leering at
her with his one eye—“l’d take ye me-
self”
“Oh, shut up, ye ugly son of a , ye!”
said the damsel, impolitely and impatiently.
“Get on with th’ tellin’. I wouldn’t
well be seen dead with ye. What’s th’ plant?
What am I to do?”
She spoke with a soft drawl that gave a
charm even to the hideous coarseness of her
speech.
Black Tom took a paper from his pocket
and unfolded it. She looked at it suspi-
ciously.
“What’s this?” she said.
“This here’s what fetches tarry-breeches
ashore this ev’nin’. This is what does th’
trick —thishyer hand o’ write an’ your pretty
face, my lass. George th’ Penman wrote
it—him that clurks in the Guv’nor’s office—
an’ ’tis as good a female’s writin’ as ever
I see. Look for yourself.”
He held out the paper, but she shook her
head angrily.
“Read it out to me,” she snapped. “Ye
know dam’ well I’m no scholar, ye ugly devil,
ye. Read it to me.”
Mr. Nutting did as she demanded. The
missive was as follows:
Hon’d Sir, —There is to give Warning that some of
ye People of ye Brig, of which your Honor hath
ye Command, do intend to take opportunity for to
desert ye Service of His Majesty, and to escape to
ye Hawkesbury, where shelter is to be provided them
until ye Leverit doath sail from this Port. It is
of a desire to serve your Honor and His Majestv
that your humble servant doath make bold to Apprise
your Honor of this Wicked Scheme. If your Honor
will land this night in ye Farm Cove' at Gunfire
and will meet with your Honor’s servant, who is
but a poor girl, but anxious to do her duties, your
Honor will be inform’d further of ye design, and 'may
take such steps to hinder it as your Honor may
chuse. —Your Honor’s servant to commant.
A Wellwisher.
“And what then?” asked the girl.
“You take him to your place, my dear—
’tis quiet and well suited to the purpose—an’
about midnight we’ll come and seize him.
He’ll eo aboard, the Esmeralda, and Juan
Mendana will give him free passage to the
port of Callao. You shall have whatever
money or valuables he may carry upon him
for your trouble.”
“But he will be missed ! They will seek
him ashore when he does not return to-
night.”
“The Penman has writ another letter to
the First Lieutenant, in his own hand, ex-
plaining that he remains ashore. By to-
morrow’s sunset the Esmeralda will be clear
of the Heads. Now, ye understand, Betsy,
what ye’ve to do?”
The girl laughed.
“ ’Tis an easy task for me. But will that
letter bring him ashore?”
“For certain sure. He’s death on de-
serters—an’, besides, would not lose the
chance of solving the mystery of the poor
girl who is his Wellwisher. ‘ ’Tis a vain
dog, he is.”
“Why do you want to do this, Tom?
What has he done?”
The black visage of Mr. Nutting took on
a ferocious look of bitter anger.
“He’m the man who took th’ Good Intent.
He struck me. ’Tis because of him I’m
here. But when he’s slaving in the silver
mines of Peru he’ll remember—for I’ll take
care he’s told—thatfth’ Good Intent cost
more than he bargained for.”
“And his name?”
“Cap’n Tobias Smiley.”
* * * *
The 9 o’clock gun boomed out from Fort
Phillip, and echoed between the hills across
the waters of the harbor as the caotain’s
gig of H.M.S. Leveret grounded in the sand
and seaweed at the mouth of the little creek
that ran into Farm Cove. Captain Tobias
Smiley, muffled in a boat-cloak, stepped
ashore, gruffly informing his coxswain that
he was to return to the ship, and to call for
him at the King’s wharf in Sydney Cove
(Continued on next page.)


CONTAINS
ANIMAL
NO
OIL
FAT
fa
nos
Mine*££
mi
pu
d
Q
rs
»
rUMAi
soar
BAC
35
3E»
L/NfQOALLCD
cn/CKc re as
crci
room ah
/STS
PL Ay CPS
sponrsMc*
ccMtoAiiy
»OCA
m
The Box it Pays
to Keep Handy.
’s Healing in Every Touch!
Zam-Bilk, the great herbal skin-
balm, has a threefold action on all
skin troubles, cuts, burns, etc.: it is
healing, soothing and antiseptic.
When Zam-Buk is applied to any
skin disease inflammation and irri-
tation are allayed, festering is
stopped, sore places made well,
and new healthy skin replaces the
old. and diseased tissues;
Zam-Buk is the ideal first-
aid for any cut, scrape, burn
or abrasion. It instantly
takes out the smarting pain
and promotes perfect heal-
ing. You should always
keep a box of Zam-Buk
handy—ready for all
emergencies.
Zam-Buk MEDICINAL Soap
is the ideal Soap for Toilet,
Bath and Nursery, because of
its fulfilling the long-felt want
of a Soap not only with unique
medicinal value, but with free-
dom from the harmful skin-
irritating properties of ordinary
soaps. Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap is specially prepared to
meet the needs of those who
suffer from a diseased, tender
or irritable skin, especially dur-
ing the hot weather, and is in-
valuable when used with Zam-
Buk Balm for the cure of skin
troubles.
Obtainable of all
Chemists or Store-
keepers at 1 /6 and 3/6
per box.
“The Great Herbal Healer. 1
Test Zam-Buk Free.
Simply send your name
and address to the proprie-
tors, C. E. Fulford (Aust.),
Ltd., mention The Bulletin
of February 15, and a Free
Sample box of Zam-Buk will
be posted to you.
at eight: bells. Then lie turned and walked
slowly up the shore.
“Skipper’s a-huntin’ skirt,” muttered the
coxswain to the stroke oar. “Don’t lose
no time, don’t our Toby.”
I t was a clear starlight night, and Captain
Smiley easily made out the figure of a woman
who walked slowly down to meet him. She
came quite close and whispered: “ ’Tis Cap-
tain Smiley?”
It was a soft, confiding little whisper, and
it thrilled the gallant seaman. She came
quite close, and laid a small hand timidly
upon his arm.
“Oh, dear Captain Smiley,” she sighed,
“I m so frightened. They may be watching.”
“Have, no fear, my lass, while I’m with
ye.” His arm stole protectively about her
yielding form, and she leaned against him.
Her face was lifted towards his, and in the
starlight he reassured himself that it was
no uncomely face. He kissed it. As his
coxswain had observed, Tobias Smiley lost
no time in these affairs. She giggled and
pushed his face away. So he kissed her
again.
“Fie, sir,” she laughed softly. “I do de-
clare ’twas not for this ye came in answer
to my letter!”
“What better could bring me?” he pro-
tested.
“ ’Tis of your men I am anxious, sir.
Will ye come with me and learn of the plot?
There is little time to lose.”
“I’ll go anywhere, my dear, so long as
’tis with you. Take me where you will—
somewhere where there’s light. I want to
see your face, which, I vow, is most beauti-
ful, even in this darkness.”
She took his hand and led him up the
hill through the Governor’s domain, keep-
ing south of the vice-regal cottage, and then
down to the bridge across the Tank Stream.
They turned into Sergeant-Major’s-row—
which Governor Macquarie later-on included
in George-street—and came to a cottage
standing by itself in a little garden with
a wicket fence.
“The key,” she said slyly, “ ’Tis in my
stocking. Would y’r honor open the door?”
Indeed, his honor was delighted to oblige
her-—and some of you who read this might as
easily have been delighted—and they went
in. With flint and steel and tinder box, for
which she groped on the mantel, she lit a
pair of candles—and that leather-faced,
wrinkled reprobate gasped with admiration
when he beheld her loveliness. He deemed
himself a very fortunate fellow.
And there w r as something about her victim
that the cynical Betsy liked, too. It was
certain that he bore the markings and had
the bearing of a man—a better sort of man
than often came her way. The hard, seamed,
face —weathered red and brown—with its
steadfast,, steel-grey eyes, had a certain hand-
someness of virility. The square shoulders,
well set off by the tasselled epaulettes, and
the trini, strong figure belonged to a man in
the prime of life. Toby Smiley had come
to the quarter-deck by way of the hawse-
hole—as they still say in the Navy—but so
had James Cook, and so had William Bligh,
and, long before, Admiral Benbow, and many
another of the best of the great and ancient
service. They were, and are, always good
men, the hawse-hole officers of the Navy—
sometimes a trifle rude and coarse, but good
men.
She reflected, maybe a little sadly, that it
was less distasteful to lead some debauched
drunken blackguard to his ruin, or some sen-
timental fool, than such a man as this.
Betsy sighed and languished often for busi-
ness purposes, but she felt to-night that she
could almost sigh, over this business, for
her own regrets.
Well, well—and dammit! What had it
to do with her?
* * * *
You must imagine that couple of hours.
It would make interesting reading, but
there is not space for it here. You must
put yourself in Captain Smiley’s place.
* * * #
A little after 11 o’clock she sat oppo-
site him at a small round table, upon which
were glasses and a bottle of port— which she
had not hocussed. (This is so remarkable
that it deserves italics.")
His sword lay naked across the table,
under her white arm. Behind her, on the
mantel-shelf were his pistols. Although he
did not realise it, Captain Smiley might just
as well have left these lethal weapons aboard
ship. He had been teaching her some tricks
of fence —and the sword was under her
elbow. The disarmament of her victims
was one of Betsy’s first, and almost instinc-
tive, principles.
Her shoulders were bare, and the masses
of her black hair tumbled about them un-
bound, framing the ivory column of her
beautiful throat. She was a little paler
than her wont, and seemed to strain a lis-
tening ear for some sound outside, whilst
she gave one little shell of an. ear to the
fatuousness of his speech. He was not dis-
cussing deserters.
“So there ye are, my Bessie —I like not
‘Betsy’—’tis too much of the st-yle of some
tavern wench.”
Betsy smiled.
“So there ye are,” he went on. “You
ships as my sarvint, an’ I take ye with me
in the Leveret. Ye’d make a pretty boy, my
love—only, that splendid hair must needs be
shorn. A shame—-but ye must play the part.
None aboard my ship would dare to be the
wiser. I tell you, ’tis easy. And, by God,
Bess, my sweetheart, I’ll tell ye what! If
ye’re a good boy—ha, ha—l’ll marry ye in
Portsmouth. What d’ye say to that—
what d’ye say to a little house at Gosport?
What”
“Hist! Listen !” she whispered, holding up
her hand. She went very white, and stared
at him wistfully with her big brown eyes.
There were tears in them.
There was a noise of heavy footsteps in
the pathway, and, almost at once, came a
thump upon the door.
“Here!” she hissed, “your sword. Stab
and run—run for your life—to the Cove.
Yes, yes—l’ll come. Stab, stab !”
She thrust the sword into his hand, and
snatched one of the pistols from the shelf.
“God! What’s the matter, Bess. Why
should I run? I’d rather stay and fight—if
’tis necessary I fight at all.”
“No, no—you must go ! Please —for my
sake. Ah, yes. ’Tis —’tis my husband !”
“Oh, Hell and fury— Ye deceitful bitch !
Let me out pf this !
“Go, run —run hard,” sbe cried, reaching
for the latch, and flinging open the door.
For an instant Black Tom saw his enemy.
“Stand!” he growled, “or ye’re a dead
man !” He raised his pistol, and then Betsy
fired, and he crumpled on the doorstep.
“Go !” she cried. “Run !”
With a quick leap, the seaman was among
those who followed the landlord of The
Good Intent. He had a vision of dark faces,
white teeth, and ear-rings gleaming in the
candlelight. One he ran through the body
—another had the sailor’s fist in his face.
He jumped the low T paling and ran.
Betsy of The Good Intent cowered in a
corner of the room and wept—for the first
time in her life. Betsy has been dead these
hundred years (and may God rest her sinful
soul!), but she never went again.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Selling a Suit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
44 % 7" ES, they’re worse ’n whisperers on
a racecourse,” said Seedy., ‘‘Per-
haps they ain’t so bad now, but a
couple of years ago, if a man dwelt outside
one of them tailorin’ joints for ’alf a tick,
they’d ’ave yer be the arm and draggin’ yer
inside before yer awake to them. Absolute
murder!
‘•Remember one day I was goin’ inter one
of them shops and stopped to ’ave a screw
in the winder, when I felt a ’and pullin’ me
sleeve, and one of them urgers whispers,
‘Come inside.’ I let ’im lead me in, and
’e showed me inter a place with ‘Private
Fittin’ Room’ on the glass-door. When ’e
gets me inside another bird rushes up with
a chair and takes me bag and says, ‘’Ave
a chair, sir,’ and pushes a book of patterns
inter me ’and, which ’e reckons was ‘Lon-
don’s latest —the correct thing for the man
with taste.’ After I’d ’ad a look at ’em ’e
asks me to stand up, and leads me to where
the light’s good, and I undergoes a close in-
spection. ’E walks around me a couple of
times, and screws me off from the front, and
then walks be’ind me and gets me off from
there, and finishes up takin’ me side-on. I
seems to ’ave ’im fasernated, and ’e starts
to pile on the kidstakes. Reckons ’e’s never
seen such a figger; comes at me about
me wonderful chest and straight back
and me width of shoulders and me
perfect pose. Reckons I’m an athlete of
some standin’, and what a pleasure it would
be to make for a man like me. ’E wasn’t
greedy with me. No, not ’im ; ’e shares me
with two others that ’e calls in from the
back, and asks if they’d ever saw such a
perfect model. After they strolls round me
once or twice, they agree I’m a prize-winner.
“ ‘ ’Ave you measured ’im, Mr. Twill?’
asks one of ’em.
“ ‘No, but I’m sure ’e’d measure better than
any person we’ve ever put through ’ere,’
says Mr. Twill, ruunin’ the tape through
’e’s fingers. -
“‘Well, why not put it over ’im jest to
see ’ow ’e goes?’
“Before I gets time to chip in ’e ’ops inter
me, and gives me the once-over, and starts
shootin’ figgers at the other two, and they
starts tellin’ one another it was jest what
they expected—l’m a world-beater.
"‘How would you like the coat? Roll
lapels, three buttons, top pocket? And the
vest —buttonhole lor watch-chain? Pants
turned up at bottom? Of course, they’s
extras. Now, which will you ’ave- —the blue
twill? That’s very good wearin’. Eleven
guineas to you. It’s marked fifteen, but
we’re willing to lose on this suit, as you’re
the best advertisement we ever ’ad. Or you
can ’ave that grey—very: stylish-—for nine.
Or that ‘All-Australian’ wool for eight,
We’re making a big reduction for yer, and
don’t ferget to tell your friends where yer
got it from. Now, what deposit will yer
leave?’ he puts the acid on me.
“ ‘Blarmey, I didn’t come in to git
measured for a suit. I come in’
“ ‘Oh you didn’t come in to get measured
fer a suit’ —’e comes back at me. ‘Oh, you
didn’t! Well, what d’yer mean by cornin’
in ’ere wastin’ me time and the time of me
two ’ead cutters? Do you think yer can
walk inter the leadin’ tailor’s shop of the
city and put that over us?’
“I tried to butt in ’ere, but ’e was goin’
fer ’e’s life.
“ ‘Now, me man,’ ’e says, ‘l’ll take a small
deposit of two guineas.’
“ ‘No, yer won’t,’ I says, ‘becorse I ain’t
got it.’.
“ ‘Well, one’ —and when I wouldn’t come to
light ’e wanted to take me watch and chain ;
but I knocked ’im back again. ‘All right, me
man, I’ll fix yer. Mr. Fox, ring up the per-
lice station,’ ’e says, as ’e walked over and
planted ’e’s frame in the door.
“Seein’ things was gettin’ a bit crook
I tried to give ’em th’ oil why I was there,
but nothink short of a deposit would shut
’em up. So old Fox gets on the ’phon *
and starts yappin’. ‘ ’Ullo, that Central?
Put me on to Russell-street. ’Ullo, that
Russell-street? ’Ullo, Russell-street—would
you send a constable up to Rush and
Rookem’s tailor shop? There’s a man ’ere
that ordered a suit and won’t cough up a
deposit. What’s that? Can we hold ’im
for ten minutes? Yes. One 'will be down
then? Good. ’Ullo, are yer there? Ilow
long did that other man get that refused?
’Ullo. How long? Six months!’
“After he’d throwed this off ’e’s chest,
the boss rooster, Mr. Twill, comes up and
says: ‘Now, yer ’eard what Mr. Fox said
about the perliceman. I don’t want to be
’aid on yer. Will you pay a deposit and
leave a free man, or wait and be a criminal
fer the rest of yer life? Now, make up yer
mind quickly.’
“ ‘Well,’ I says, ‘I think I’ll wait. Yer
see, two days ago yer reported yer ’phone
out of order and couldn’t connect with
Central, so I came up to fix it, and it’s jest
as well fer me to do it now I’m ’ere. Yer
know, they’re charging yer so much an hour
fer me time?”
INDICO.


ā
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offfoe—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington,
.Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
SUFFERERS
FROM RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us, and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR-CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away with all
cumbersome springs, giving a feeling of ease
and comfort from the first day’s use. It is
the most scientific appliance yet invented for
this complaint. It will hold a rupture firmly
and comfortably under all conditions. To
prove what we state,
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU ON A FREE TRIAL
If it is not satisfactory, we do not expect you
to keep it, and the trial costs you nothing. It
is suitable for men, women and children, and
the price is within the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free ~
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW COMPANY,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic. [2
and
-
mg if you wish
S'W ■
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
7
%
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 244 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, - etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
r. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Brunswick Street* Fitzroy,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
.BOURNE.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
&
iiiyHfe'i
ftßfKnwHmi
DETROIT (AtCMIOAM
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES.
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices:—■
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2£h.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address: “BROSBENSON.”
By Appointment
Purveyors to the
Royal House of Spain
Calibres
.22, .25, .30, .32, .35,
.38-40 and .44
ă
a
Repeating Rifles
for Target and Qame Shooting
KNOWN all over the world
for their accuracy, safety
and durability.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
25 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
D. D. Bryant, Representative, G. P. 0. Box 686, Melbourne ',
a
HINT AS&IYAfft
ft
. -V.•* A . ;< V <V V-• * I lv 7
• *<>.«v > v *%■ : *iv? ; • 1 • ***v\ ,; »*..—
'. an um /. hi H ■ Hi •. h jMrfjJu h* , snm - 'Hi ':■
«.! .»•
*•'•• i-,;
.£•
. "i
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are Cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Ileading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SAFETY FIRST.
KEEP "HER” FIT.
If you drive a car for Business or Pleasure, or both—
Don’t Starve the Maintenance Vote.
SWAN’S Superior SERVICE
is always at your command. Consider these few items:—
Brico British Piston Rings,
as used 'on all the best Cars.
More Power.
Prices, 2/6, 3/-, 4/6 each.
For
Renew your Brake Lining,
All sizes, English and American, in
stock.
Shackle Bolts.
Fit new bolts and avoid roadside
repairs.
All sizes in stock.
‘The Heart of the Automobile.’
The Famous Schebler
Carburetter.
Prices for car up to 20h.p., £6/15/-
Other cars pro rata.
Fords, £5.
Loose Nuts often Cause Accidents.
Keep them tight.
Box Spanner Set,
from 207-
Save the tyres by keeping them fully
inflated.
Tyre Pumps.
English make, 17/6, 30/- each.
Sparking Plugs,
Various Makes.
Prices, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6,
6/6 each.
New plugs sometimes save
gear changing.
Keep up appearances
Keep out the wet.
Hood Dressing.
Khaki 5/6 10/-
81ack..... 5/- 9/-
m
IODGI
mm
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The House for Motor-Engineers’ Supplies.


IB mux’s
The Spirit of
TASTE
Taste is the very essence
of beauty. The ability to
discriminate in harmony
of colour, in qualities of
character or in the meaning
of books is the key to the
best in life. And when it
comes to whisky that same
sense of selection insists on
Betoari
