

Inexpensive
- simple in use
*
For good pictures (24in. x
3iin.) in the simplest pos-
sible way and at the lowest
possible cost, select a No.
2 Box Brownie, Nothing
better as a present for
young people.
Price 14(6
H
i
The idea of making
happy little pictures
appeals to young and
old—and a No. 2a Box
Brownie often provides
a pleasant and easy
way of doing it. For
pictures 2£in. x 4£in.
Price 19/6
The No. 2 Folding Brownie folds like
a Kodak, works like a a Kodak, has
the Kodak Autographic feature, but
retains Brownie simplicity. It is light,
compact, convenient —makes pictures
2\ x3£ inches.
Price 47/6
WF
Of all Kodak Dealers and
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
#< The Block,” 284 Collins Street
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplier Co., 672 Hay Street,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2275.
Thursday, September 20, 1923,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 Oeorge Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
NMMfe
sli
iii
HU
Power Saved means Direct Gain.
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING
Will save it steadily, daily, year in and year out. Its strong
frictional grip allows not an atom of energy to evaporate in
transit. This steady saving rapidly outweighs the'different-
in first cost between Mangrovite Belting and cheap, inferior
types—and the service rendered is vastly superior all the
time. Think it over.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derharn & Co. Pty., Ltd., 573-85
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth..
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 6 Bedford Row, Christchureii.
.
o
L»W]
1
w.
mm
o
Ef
wm
m
mmmm
M
'''mi
'fa.
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
[Pool
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A,
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922 £1,826,924
Yielding’ Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,000,001'
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £50,000,00
Annual Income .. •. •• •• £7,600,00'
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLEY, F.S.S., General Manager.
!\
&
>2
iiiiiiimm
n&eß
Lifeguard comes to your
home sweet and pure and
wholesome. Because it is rich and'
creamy and prepared under ideal con-
ditions, it is the finest milk for every
purpose.
And
it Keeps t
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
A. The I.arynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea oi
Windpipe.
m
SJ
The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
The Lobe of on'
Lungs.
the
The Red Page
C. J. Dennis
If letters be the art of making all types
of pictures in terms of the written word, it
follows that some of the pictures must be
made in slang. Not. many good ones, cer-
tainly, inasmuch as slang is extreme, and
all extremes are topheavy. Fifty per cent,
of its users write slang from the ’Varsity
point of view. Forty of the other 50 shift
their native melodrama holus-bolus to a
strange underworld of highly-colored types
with only one impact on society: they are
as insistently and passionately honest as
every guttural alien was Swiss in 1914. Of
the other 10 possibly five get under the skins
of the ordinary honest and dishonest, pro-
creative, tender, conceited people who pep-
per their dialect with slang; e.g., Rudyard
Kipling, Neil Lyons, Robert Burns. The
remaining five of the 100 are capable writers
who scratch the skins and occasionally pro-
duce a superficially-consistent artistic pic-
ture, but more often an artificial comedy of
"sob-stuff” and joyous payability.
Of course, it is agreed that the “Senti-
mental Bloke” has no place in Australian
literature ; the man who wrote “The Glugs of
Gosh” and “Backblock Ballads” doesn’t ex-
pect the Bloke to have any place anywhere.
For one thing, the Bloke doesn’t exist; nor
Ginger Mick, nor Doreen, nor any of those
waxworks rougnies. But Dennis, who is a
versifier of great skill and a poet of a
siibtly-satirical vision, has chosen that
most of his impact on society shall be in,
slang; so for the moment one must take
him so. Solid slang in three languages in
one book: Australian, American and Eng-
lish. The waxwork ghost of Ginger Mick
must have to stop moralising every now
and again to consult his English and Ameri-
can glossaries to get the strength of much
of it. That is the topheaviness of the ex-
treme. One has drunk beer with thieves
and the odd remnants of pushes; and, albeit
the “copy”-hungry memory retains best the
dramatic jolts of the slang and the patter,
yet the general memory establishes that
these dramatic jolts didn’t come in often.
Not one of the larrikins spoke pure slang,
any more than he insisted passionately upon
his honesty or his love for his mother or
even for his beer. They were rather reti-
cent men whose lazy, slurring speech was
dusted sparingly with idiomatic and cunning
simile. But slang is the color of the pic-
ture ; and at all cost of verisimilitude it
must be painted in terms of this sparse acci-
dent of speech. If Australian won’t cover
it, then English and American must be used ;
we. cannot possibly let the-fine strained effort
down to the level of the mere language of the
larrikins! It is an underwmrld picture for
the different upper world to buy ; and that
it provide good value in the all-important dif-
ference, all the points must be hit hard and
often. But as a picture of any human
world the Ten Commandments is better.
But about Dennis when he is expressing
Dennis. The spirit of sympathetic irony, of
the friendly mocker in the same boat with the
mocked, is a rare thing in letters. We
guard it; all posterity keeps it jealously in
the heart of its treasuries, from “The Can-
terbury Tales” to “Merton of the Movies.”
Like most rare qualities it is hypersensitive,
and is apt not to trust itself; and like most
hypersensitive qualities it has a chameleon
cleverness in doing the other thing as well
as or better than the other fellow—which
volte-face is as often defensive as the reverse.
Too much of that, of course, buries the sweet
sprite under the sour scrub of the possibly
popular other thing. While the man is
young the sprite occasionally looks through
in spite of the man :
Then, up from the grass, where he sat by his tree,
the voice of the Tinker rose fearless and free.
The little dog listened, his head on one side ;
then sought him a spot where a bored dog could hide.
“Kettles and pans! IIo 3 kettles and pans!
'the stars are the gods’ but the earth it is man’s!
xet down in the shadow dull mortals there are
Who climb in the tree-tops to snatch at a star:
Seeking content and a surcease of care,
Finding but emptiness everywhere.
\ir? n ma^e f° r the) mountain, importunate man!
With a kettle to mend and your Emily Ann.”
As he cocked a sad ■ eye o’er a sheltering log,
Oh, a Glug is a Glug!”' sighed the little red dog.
That is the elusive tenderness of mockery
which, I think, stays in its picture by virtue
of its own will-o’-the-wisp sweetness, needing
no waxw'ork buttressing. Here, to me, is
the charm of low romantic laughter, gentle
and kindly, yet shrewd as the Tales.
Or Jim of the Hills, the lonely man just
accepted by Nell. While he was waiting
for her in fear and trembling in the bush, the
grey thrush supplied his agonised inarticu-
lateness with the only words it could assimi-
late : its call —“Oh, you pretty dear!”
Grey Thrush is in the wattle-tree when I get home
that day—
Back to my silent, lonely house—an’ still he sings
away.
There is no other voice about, no step upon the floor;
An’ none to come an’ welcome me as I get to the
door.
Yet in the happy heart of me I play at make-believe:
I hear one singin’ in the room whdre once I used to
grieve;
I hear a light step on the path, an’, as I reach the
gate,
A happy voice that, makes me glad, tells me I’m
awful late,
Now what’s a man to think of that, an’ what’s a
man to say
Who’s been out workin’ in the bush, tree-failin’, all
the day ?.
An’ how’s a man to greet his wife, if she should
meet him here ?
But Grey Thrush in the wattle-tree says, “Oh, you
pretty dear!”
That is not so good, I know; it works up
rather consciously tp its attractive finish,
and there are one or two signs of careless-
ness. But it has the smiling, sideways
glance of humanity, despite its sentimen-
tality.
In Australia mostly we mock. A bush-fire
that has ruined the year’s work and hopes
of hundreds of people is, lazily, “a fair cow” ;
the wreckage of the home is, possibly indig-
nantly but never tragically, “over the odds”;
an insurmountable obstacle in a man’s career
“cruels the pitch,” generally with a smile.
It is not the traditions 1 affectation of indif-
ference; it is the hard front, the good face
that mustn’t let down the job of making a
nation. Australia is hard right through and
must be for 200 years. Ask any Pommy for
an unbiased precis of his first six months —I
mean unbiased by his subsequent contented
adoption of the formula —just the solid
blood and tears of his learning of the for-
mula.
Chaucer must have been very good for the
early centuries of England, hard, cold, and
mistrustful centuries to which the leaven of
gentle poetic laughter was surely priceless.
Nothing in the world has such strength
as laughter. If we could find a Chaucer
now! All round us are the keen, cold men
who look bored and tell us that our life’s
downfall is “a cow.” That is astringent; in
the end it conquers, no doubt, as far as the
hard things go in conquest. But could Den-
nis add a little bit to the formula —not the
old tears or hysteria, but the little, subtle
prod in the ribs which could make it a bit
happier?
HILARY LOFTING.
A Celt in a Kilt
The dignity of a uniform edition of 10
volumes is being conferred on Neil Mump by
the Blackwoods. Hitherto much of his work
seems to have gone about in those small and
often not very well printed volumes which
find their natural habitat in the railway
bookstall. This may have tended to give a
false idea of what he is. His virtue for those
who like to see Scottish life treated accu-
rately is that he writes of the Celt with an
intimate knowledge of his subject, with his-
torical truth and racial fidelity. There are
too many folk getting into print who are
content to put every Scot into a kilt and
then make him talk like a Glaswegian. It is
being forgotten that, as nastily but neatly
put, more than half of Scotland once re-
garded the kilt as the dress of a thief; make
it a cattle thief and you have it exactly. In
Munro there is a true appreciation of the
Highland Line. It could hardly be other-
wise with a man who was born at Inverary,
supped Gaelic with his porridge and remem-
bered it .after he came down from the hills
to edit a Glasgow evening paper.
Jf Munro had been an Irish Celt, and had
written the romances that appear under his
name, he would be a great deal better known.
The Irishman understands the art of adver-
tisement as the Highlander does not. Other-
wise this end of the world would not believe
Ireland the only part of the United Kingdom
with ancient wrongs. Something might have
been heard of the evictions of the crofters
and the origin of the Highland deer parks
and sheep walks. Munro does not deal with
those pitiful times. He goes further back
into history. Two romances that typify his
powers, “John Splendid” and “The New
Road,” show the clans in the heyday of their
glory and at the beginning of their decline.
He does not moralise or spin words about
death and decay or cause and effect. He
draws his pictures of the times, and leaves
the reader to extract the moral and see the
historical significance, if he will. If he
won’t, he can read the stories for their own
sake and find entertainment.
The periods treated in the two works cited
give the author the opportunity he likes. In
"John Splendid” the rival chieftains use the
brewing quarrel between the Stewarts and
the Parliaments to settle ancient grudges,
and indulge in the most proper occupation
for a Highland gentleman—fighting, with
incidental looting. Argyle, the uncrowned
king of the West Highlands, and Montrose,
the rival star, are the two big figures. John
Splendid himself is a cousin of Argyle,
arrived on earth after an absent-minded
Campbell’s extra-marital adventures. A sea-
soned soldier and a first-class swordsman, he
suffers no inconvenience and little loss of
prestige. Munro, being a Munro, gives the
Campbell side. But he is not blinded. He
leaves it possible to realise why, to this day,
you can meet people who swear good,-round
Gaelic oaths if you mention the Campbells in
their hearing. He speaks a good word for
Montrose, while the rather blotchy figure of
Argyle is not entirely whitewashed. Munro
has too much of the artist in him to do that.
He does not gloss over the way Argyle was
conspicuously missing twice in succession
when the Campbells got a thorough drub-
bing. At Inverlochy, when they took more
than they sought from the Camerons, the
Macdonalds and some others, their great chief
retired early, because he had an injured arm.
So history says; and Munro concurs, but
seems to think it was a thin excuse. He
prefers to sketch the character of a kilted
Hamlet, intellectually in advance of his
people, and prone to think too completely
round a situation ever to be prompt or reso-
lute in action. Being able to run ahead, aiid
hint at the manly showing Argyle made at
the block, Munro skates over the thin section
in safety. Otherwise Argyle must have been
left a poor thing for the name he bore
through much of the Highlands, a name that
was almost a legend. Munro, it may be
added, does not palter with the truth that
religion had a good deal to do w T ith most
of the feuds, and influenced strongly the
whole current of Highland politics right up
to the ’45. He does not get as far as the
bloody massacre of Glencoe, a story on which
a Campbell would not dwell in any case;
but religion had its weight there, as "a Mac-
donald whom Australia used to know 7 was
prepared to testify.
In “The New Road” you can find what
broke the clans more than proscription, fort-
bailding or the banning of arms. The Eng-
lish drove a road through the Highlands,
with the active support of another Argyle.
The trader followed it, at some risk, intro-
ducing comforts and the need for money ip to
the distant glens. That turned the ‘trick.
The Highland communities scattered over
the Empire and elsewhere are the sequel;
this Munro does not say in so man 3 ) ’ words,
but he paints the causes with a sure hand.
The best piece of historical characterisation
in the book is of that old fox Simon Fraser,
Lord Lovat, who raised his clans for Charlie
(Continued on page 3.)


GrtjjoiuMofdefaS'Jfye
T'Vddbrn
Kitchen
Equipment
7
PH®
K
'fly/
;~\// LllJ
W~
L»*M HM******'
/vy
yW<‘ ; ~ *rf°. » i i
!ff%
*la®
is
W 1
ul
“ I I
! ’
1
m
lei^
nl^9.
gg*3
UR
=a(
1
,^3>sSS^-
I
rr^
SSI®
•' ; S'i , j' h :l.'S
Ul
Pi;
|IM ( I
QtflF- 1 'W^>
llfli
1I»\W
* -v^', “' l l— 1 1 1 \
m.
Efficiency and convenience are very much the concern of
modem housewives. You can bring your kitchen into line with
the times by ordering the latest labor-saving and culinary aids
from the House of Economy, where low prices reign.
Kudos Gas Cookers.
Kudos Gas Cookers (as illustrated) are Ameri-
can made, and incorporate the best features which
stand for efficiency, economy and labor-saving m
cooking. They are easily kept clean, and otter
wonderful value.
Oven size.
Width, 16in. Depth, 12in. Height, 10in.
Price £6/15/-
Fireclay Sinks.
No kitchen is complete without an all-white Fire-
clay Sink, with plug, washer and union. Install
one at your home.
Sizes lSin. 21in. 24m.
Prices 57/6 67/6 75/-
Dresser Cabinet.
The Modern Dresser Cabinet (illustrated) is
strongly made in picked pine. It is 50in. wide,
24in. deep; top 12in. deep, 82in. high over all.
Enclosed cupboard has shelf 12in. broad and hooks
for jugs, above a sliding baking-board. Other
cupboard has wire gauze on three sides, and shaped
shelf to admit hanging joint of meat from top.
Plate-rack is removable. ,
Price £lO/15/-
Plain Pine Kitchen Tables.
Without Drawer.
4ft. x 2ft. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. sft. x 3ft.
23/6 31/6 37/6
With Drawer.
26/9 33/6 43/6
Chilcott Refrigerators —Galvanised Steel Pro-
vision Chambers.
Width, 20in. Depth, 15in. Height, 37in.
Price £5/2/6
Porcelain lined £6/15/-
Width, 22in. Depth, 15in. Height, 3Sin.
Price £5/19/-
Porcelain lined £7/19/6
Width, 24in. Depth, 17in. Height, 41in.
Price £6/13/-
Porcelain lined £B/17/6
Household Aids.
Here are a few useful household aids which will
give great satisfaction. Prices are very model ate,
as these representative examples demonstrate.
Enamel Frypans.
Sizes • 8m- 4/3
Prices 2/9 3/- 3/6 4/3
O’Cedar Mops— Triangular. v
Small, No. 4. Battleship, Large, No. 10.
8/3
1-gall.
15/-
Prices. . 5/6
O’Cedar Oil — Tins.
i-gall.
Prices 6/- 9/11
Hair Brooms, best quality.
V n a 28 ol 04 00
Prices”'.'. 4/9 5/9 7/- 9/-
Dairy Can Scrubs Price, 3/- each
Scrub Brushes. Prices 1/2, 1/3, 1/10
Best-quality Millet Brooms.
Prices 2/3, 2/9, 3/3, 3/6, 4/3, o/-
Kenrick’s Cast-iron Saucepans, tinned inside.
To hold 2pt. 3pt. 4pt. 6pt. Bpt.
Prices 5/3 6/3 7/3 8/6 9/6
™old 10pt. 12pt. 14pt. 16pt. 20pt.
PricS 11/3 12/9 13/9 17/6 29/6
5,«.l K , -y , ,an S . tinned. IMn , lin 12in ,
Prices";..'. 1/9 a/- a/4 3/9
Cherry Dash Churns.
Nos. ........ A OO v)
Prices 50/- 55/- 57/6
Galvanised Tubs, strong.
Sizes 16in. ISin. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26m. 28m.*
Bound : 4/- 4/9 5/9 7/3 8/6 10/6 13/-
Oval 4/6 5/- 6/- 7/9 9/- 11/- 13/6
1
60/-
Country Customers experience com-
plete satisfaction in the knowledge
that their requirements are expertly
attended to by our competent Mail
Order Staff.
Perfected Aluminium Ware.
The brightness and convenience of Aluminium
Ware, its heat-retaining properties and cleanliness
commend it to all housewives. Additional economy
lies in its ability to wear.
Cast Aluminium Kettles, highly polished, with
corrugated bottoms and wood-grip handle.
To hold 4pt. 6pt. Bpt.
Prices 15/- 16/6 2)5/'-
Cast Aluminium Preserving Pans, polished.
Sizes 12in. 14in. 16in.
Prices 31/- 34/6 38/6
Cast Aluminium Stock Pots, with cover and side
handles.
Sizes ... llin. 15in.
Prices 37/6 45/-
English Aluminium Frypans, polished inside
and out.
Sizes 7in. Sin. 9in. lOin. llin.
Prices 4/9 5/3 6/3 6/9 7/9
English Aluminium Saucepans and Covers,
strong.
To hold 2pt. 3pt. 4pt. 6pt. Bpt. lOpt. 12pt.
Prices 4/- 5/- 6/- 7/6 9/6 11/9 13/9
English Aluminium Colanders.
Si’zes Sin. 9in. lQin.
Prices 4/6 5/6 6/6
••Palace” Kitchen Sets, comprising five best Eng-
lish Aluminium Saucepans, fitted with Bronze
Handles, four-pint Cast Aluminium Kettle and
Saucepan Stand. Price, £3/17/6 complete.
Enamel Ware at Anthony Horderns’ will give
long service, without the annoyance of “chipping.”
Almost every kitchen utensil comes in this medium.
Enamel Piedishes.
Sizes 64 74 8§ 94 11 114 124 134 144 in.
Prices 1/11/3 1/61/8 2/- 2/3 3/3 4/-
Deep White Enamel Mixing Bowls.
Sizes llfin. 124 in. 134 in. 144 in. 15in. 154 in.
Prices 2/6 2/9 3/- 3/6 4/- 4/6
White Enamel Bread, Flour or Sugar Bins.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


The Sunshine Reaper and Binder,
6ft. and Bft.
Manufactured in Australia
for Australian conditions.
t-
——»
m wff
HUGHV M C KAY
. ■
M 3
n
.: .-
mms
m
wmmmmmmmm
m -M
h/.
a.
11
1 m
i! •;■• ;
i 1
mm
- . ;■
'
H n
>• A.
I?
WT
'• WfiSl 1 S' -L'/Sp*'
.
'- *5" A f ••■'■i ■ :\a % *» fas®
:
Hundreds of these machines are in use throughout the Commonwealth, and have demonstrated that Australian-made
Binders, as well as other Australian-made Implements, are the best for Australian conditions.
Write to any of the following addresses for art catalogues and prices of Sunshine Binders, Harvesters, Headers, Seeding Machinery,
Tillage Implements, Orchard Implements, etc. Easy extended terms or liberal discount for cash.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD. , Sunshine Harvester Works
Blanches and Agencies.
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
607 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cor. York and St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON.
Ruwolt Road-making Equipments
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
. v - ' -' V
* T !
«U
afcif*, -
/ ,•
Sw,’*
n \
¥?.>&*
-” " ’” ■ ' -' „ -
ti swisr ■ >. .
-’. .
\ , --;.
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus Marsh
* Road—Capacity 90 tons per day.
Some users of our Crushers and Plants:—Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (South Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; J. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St. Albans Quarrying Co. (4); E. J.
Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool.
..... - '
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS—SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161.
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


■
wm\
85®
Quality!
HARDY’S
WINES
Op
TINTARA
mm
mm.
mm.
■
w
n.
m
- 5.j11.:;
but stayed at home himself. This eariy
example of the art of hedging did not avail
in the end, for eventually Lovat kept an
early-morning appointment, a gentleman
with an axe being also present. At the time
of the story Lovat is deep in a commercial
proposition which would win him the admira-
tion of many business circles to-day. l ire "
arms had been forb-dden the clansmen, and
to stimulate obedience to the order the Gov-
ernment paid a small sum for every piece
surrendered. A brisk trade sprang up with
Holland; old muskets, junk from European
battlefields, were imported at cut rates, and
quietly distributed. The guileless Celt came
in, smiled blandly, gave up a gun, drew the
money and shared it with those who handled
the wholesale supply—possibly the origin of
“surrender value” as a commercial term.
While thus gaining credit for being a law-
abiding citizen, John Highlandman was
hiding his own old trusty in the thatch of
his shieling, or somewhere safe and handy.
But other forces were working on his life,
and he might just as well have given up the
struggle. He was presently t'o be beaten
flat by a process of land-grabbing connived
;at and sometimes engineered by the chief-
tains he had served too well for his own
good.
These are the things handled by Munro.
The historical and social side is not obtruded,
nor is the story subordinated to it. The
necessary Highland trappings are all there —
dark lochs, high hills, heather-covered moors,
the deer on the mountain and the trout in
the stream. Mysterious MacGregors, pro-
scribed and forced to use other names, come
and go. There is the appropriate dash of
Highland love-making, said to have a savor
and a sweetness known to no other. The
same thing has been said of love-making
among the Irish, the Spaniards, the Italians,
the Magyars, the Aztecs, the Thibetans, the
Maoris and a few others. But let it pass.
lViunro writes a fluent, flexible, musical Eng-
lish prose, with a sub-flavor of the Gaelic
idiom, and an echo of its note. He is an
incurable romantic, so will find no favor
with the psycho-analyst, or the neurotic-
erotic moderns. He had the disadvantage of
being born in 1864, and of publishing his
first book in 1896. For people who want
entertainment and not brain-fag when they
read fiction, he has qualities. If he teaches
Something of history, written and unwritten,
by chronicle and by atmosphere, he does it
so gently that it is hardly felt.
R. H. M.
Nietzsche as Pessimist
Amid the general ignorance or misrepre-
sentation of Nietzsche’s thought, it is a little
saddening to see “C.McL.,” who is for the
most so keenly and intelligently impartial in
his analyses, repeating the usual cliches on
the subject. I can only surmise that for
once he has not investigated personally, but
has been satisfied with accepting the popular
agreement with regard to Nietzsche, when
surely he of all men should know that the
very fact that a polite agreement has been
reached on any matter makes it tolerably cer-
tain that the agreement is wrong. “C.McL.”
says of Nietzsche’s “Übermensch” : “Of course
it was simply Nietzsche’s insane reading of
the Darwinian theory of the struggle of life,
under the utterly mistaken idea that the
struggle in man was carried on with the
tooth and claw of the beasts. If Darwin
is to be misread by such a lunatic as
Nietzsche, then all truth goes to the wall.
Nietzsche, of course, was adjudged insane
even in his lifetime” ; and he goes on to talk
about Nietzsche’s responsibility for the war
with as much regard for the truth as any
leader-writer of the war period.
Nietzsche expressly cut his philosophy
away from any contact with Darwinism, and
he had merely amused contempt for anybody
who imagined that there was any basis for
thought whatever to be found in the so-
called “struggle for existence.” He even
wrote a mocking verse, “To the Disciples of
Darwin.” A week or so before the refer-
ence quoted above, “C.McL.” mentioned on
the Red Page Nietzsche as a fellow-pessimist
with Schopenhauer—another of those
triflings with the truth of which “C.McL.”
accuses Nietzsche. Schopenhauer is merely a
logical Buddhist who sees that Nirvana is
the only possible escape from the suffering
which all existence entails. Nietzsche went
to every extreme from this position to find a
justification for life as a self-affirmative pro-
cess.
Does “C.McL.” find black pessimism in
these three aphorisms, which may justly be
said to sum up Nietzsche’s whole position?—
I could only believe in a god who would know
how to dance.
Not by wrath, but by laughter one slayeth. Arise,
let us slay the spirit of gravity.
Deep is the world’s woe, but deeper still than woe
is joy.
Indeed, Nietzsche found Man wanting in the
high ideal of courage and grace he set for
Life, “the divine tact and taste in all things”
that he advocated. But he did not make the
mistake of letting the spectacle of Man’s bru.
tality and imbecility obsess him. “Man is
something that must be surpassed,” and he
formulated a morality of laughter, beauty
and self-discipline which for the first time
divined the psychology of the creative mind.
For the rest the manner in which he treated
his contempt for man is symbolised in the
chapter of “Zarathustra”. .called “Of Pass-
ing.” There “the ape of Zarathustra” comes
on Zarathustra at the gate of a great city
and rages against the inhabitants in the best
manner of Swift, a genuinely debased and
vitiated mind, but whom “C.McL.” has
treated very tenderly in a lately published
article. He cries:—
“Spit on this town of shopkeepers and turn
round.
“Here the blood floweth rotten and lukewarm and
with a scum through all its veins. Spit at the
great city, which is the great rubbish-heap where
all the scum simmereth together.
“Spit at this town of the nressed-in souls and the
narrow breasts, the pointed eyes and the sticky
fingers—
“ Where all that is tainted, feignful. lustful, dust-
ful. over-mellow, ulcer-yellow, consniring, ulcerateth
together ”
And to him Zarathustra replies scornfully:—
“Stop now, I have long loathed thy speech and
kin !
~ “Why hast thou dwelt so long nigh the swamp
that thou wert obliged to become a frog and a toad?
“Doth not a rotten scum-like swamp-blood flow
through thine own veins that thou hast learnt to
croak and slander thus?
“1 despise thy despairing. .. .
“This wisdom I give thee, thou fool, at parting:
Where one can love no longer, one shall toss 1”
I think these few simple quotations are
enough without any deeper analyses ot
Nietzsche’s proclamation of the Dionysian
spirit or his symbol of Eternity as an exalta-
tion blessing Life, to show “C.McL.” he is
doing Nietzsche a grave injustice. This is
all the stronger because the admirable work
which “C.McL.” is doing himself in. .analys-
ing men from a diagnosis of their physical
condition was initiated by Nietzsche. Nietz-
sche, however, never made the mistake which
these medical successors are somewhat apt
to make —that is, to seek only for a definite
disease or localised symptom, and then deduce
a man’s whole spiritual action from - this.
Nietzsche looked always for a condition of
physiological substance as the basis for
analysis, not for a chance condition.
Finally the silly slander. about Nietzsche’s
insanity deserves to be laid for a while at
least, though there will always ignorant
and malevolent people raising it. Nietzsche’s
mental breakdown was diagnosed as atypi-
cal paralysis due to excessive taking of
drugs. For years Nietzsche suffered from
racking headaches and sleeplessness, owing
to eye-trouble, which he sought to alleviate a
little by chloral and an unknown “Javanese
drug.” His extreme courage, which in
•defiance of almost continuous pain insisted
on keeping attention on work, cannot be
admired sufficiently. His sister writes:
“The atypic element is so strongly emphasised
that the term ‘paralysis’ seems quite out of
place. The subsequent course of the disease
shows no similarity to other cases of ‘pro-
gressive paralysis.’ ”
Of Nietzsche Wagner said: “I was alone
after he left me.” Surely with such an ex-
pression of love. Nietzsche can stand even
more foolish obloquy than he still gets from
newspapers, bishops, and, I am sorry to add,
“C.McL.”
JACK LINDSAY.
Ogham and Authority
Henry Molony (R.P. 30/8/’23) seems to
imagine that by the quotation of a name or
two he has entirely demolished the theory
that Ogham is pre-Christian. Like all who
think that reference to an authority is argu-
ment, he contributes nothing to the actual
discussion except a few lines of rhetoric. But
what real knowledge has he of the authori-
ties? He says: “Nobody of _ consequence
known to me, except Mr. Wright and the
ancient bards, suggests that Ogham was in
existence before Christianity.” Clearly the
phrase “known to me” is the key of the whole
matter; so it may be as well to see if any .
persons of consequence are unknown to
Henry Molony. Dr. Ernst Rethwische —a
German investigator and consequently not
biased in favor of Celtic theories —-after re-
marking on the simplicity of Ogham, - says
“the natural gifts of the Celts and their
practical genius for simplicity and observa-
tion ripened up to a certain stage far earlier
than those of their Indo-European relations.”
That is at least a suggestion that in the view
of one independent investigator Ogham is
older than the other written languages of
Europe. M. d’Arbois de Jubainville, a big
French authority on Celtic matters, takes
the pagan origin of Ogham for granted, for,
dealing with the miracle of Fiach having
learned from St. Patrick to read the Psalms
in the short period of 24 hours, says that this
might be possible, as Fiach would already
have beeh able to read Ogham. Dr. Whitely
Stokes, a thoroughly conservative authority,
says that there is at least “enough to shqw
that some of the Celts of these islands wrote
their language before the fifth century, the
time at which Christianity is supposed to
have been introduced into Ireland.” Zeuss
also, commenting on the Oghams, found in
early Christian books remarks on their great
antiquity; and Dr. Douglas Hyde shows by
the extremely archaic construction of the
sentences written in Ogham that they are
earlier than any other Irish writing. These'
quotations and suggestions do not amount to
very much; but they do prove that Henry
Molony, in suggesting that I stood alone with
the Irish bards in my view, was not within
even moderate distance of the truth. That
the Ogham letters approach those of Latin
rather than those of the Greeks is capable of
a very different explanation from that sug-
gested by Professor Mac Neill. The closer
affinity of Latin to the Celtic tongues than
to the Greek is now admitted: and what
more likely than that, the Ogham writing be-
ing already in existence, the Romans and
other Italians should have modified the
Greek alphabet to suit their own needs by
reference to Ogham? That is surely just as
good a theory as the supposition that the
Irish made a new alphabet, based bn the "
Roman, at a time when the Roman alphabet
was better suited to-their needs. Isaac Tay-'
lor —the real authority on Ogham in Taylor’s
day was Todd —does not divide with Pro-
fessor Mac Neill the honor of getting a hear-
ing on this question. There have been about
as many theories as writers on the subject;
and as the key of the matter is not scholar-
ship—on account of the paucity of material
—the test of the theories is whether or not
they are historically workable. That the
runes are barbaric attempts at the European
Ogham seems -to me reasonably probable.
One point that has been largely overlooked
in the whole discussion is the origin of the
present Irish alphabet. Two theories are'
generally put forward with regard to this.
One is that it came in with early Christian-
ity ; the other that it was derived, through
early commerce with the Phocian colony* at
Marseilles, from the Greek traders. I be-
lieve that its Phoenician shape, and .the
fact that the first letter is still called “Beth,”
point to a much earlier introduction. If it 1
should yet be shown —and I think it will bet
shown—that the present alphabet used byt
the Irish Free State came from Carthage'
and was afterwards modified by commerce
with Marseilles before it was touched by tl>,
Latin of the Church, the invention or
Ogham would be pushed back into exactly
such a remote antiquity as that at which I 1
guessed in the article Mr. Molony sq much'
objects to, without furnishing adequate rea-
sons for his objection. Professor MacNeill'J
may know all about it or he may not;
strongly suspect that all the scholars in the,
world know very little about it yet. Even;
that the range of Ogham corresponds to the
range of Irish settlement is by no means
proved. The range of Ogham stone pillars
corresponds partly to that of Irish settle-
ment ; but that is a very different matter.
Nor does the distribution of the pillars
wholly suggest an Irish origin. Cork and
Kerry have a great many; only one has been
found in the west of Connaught and only a
couple in Ulster; but between 20 and 30
have been found in Wales and Devonshire
and 10 or a dozen in Scotland. Yet, despite
the absence of such remains in Ulster, the
heroic legends of the north are full of refer-
ences to Ogham. In point -of fact, more
Ogham inscriptions have been found in
Wessex than in the kingdom over- which
Maeve once reigned! So consider what
would be historically involved in an accept-
ance of Professor Mac Neill’s view. It would
mean that Irish forces entered southern
Britain and made their landing good either
during the Roman period or in the rierce
early days of the Saxon Heptarchy. It is
true that the penetration might have occurred
in the few years between these periods; but
in that case the West Saxons would have
first clashed with a strong Gaelic foe and
would have certainly left the tradition of
such a clash in their chronicle. No ; to have
put the monuments where they were found
at any.time later than the Christian era the
supposed Irish inventors of Ogham must
have smashed their way either through
Roman legions or the hard-fighting early
Saxons. That this could have been done
without leaving so much as a fragment of
tradition is far harder to believe than that
the stone pillars were erected at some period
b.c. A fuller archaeological and historical
investigation may lead to results far beyond
anyi present conjecture; and while all is in
doubt I am as much entitled to my guess as
the next man.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Norman Lindsay’s disclaimer:-
Hugh McCrae has committed an act of lese-majeste
to his own genius (B. 20/8/23) ; and as his extraor-
dinarily genesous abnegation of self is made on my
behalf, I must hasten to deny it. I could not dare
to assume any responsibility for an expression in
poetry so rare and beautiful as Hugh MeCrae’s. Nor
is its utterance due to anything save the dx-iving
force within him. It is the essence of his sub-
conscious being, not an intellectual exercise in emula-
tion of any other expression of mind. If he were
wrecked on a desert island, without books, pens, pic-
tures or paper, he would write poeti'y on the sands.
Nor can poetry of such quality as his be illustrated.
The static plastic form must lag behind the winged
word. To come after the statement in words with
a statement in form is merely to repeat the written
utterance in hieroglyphic. It is rather on my con-
science that I have appended decorations to his poems
which may have got in the way of the poems, and
which are at best appreciations in deference to the
works they assume to illustrate. In regard to
“Satyi's and Sunlight,” “Columbine” and “Idyllia,” I
have never counted -myself other than the fortunate
instrument that has helped to preserve these rare
works by putting them forth in a form that would
make others anxious to preserve them. To- the few
for whom poetry is a living element in the mind’s
development, Hugh McCrae’s work takes its irrefutable
place with the great lyric utterances this world
possesses. The future will see its quality defined in
absolute terms. Any general appreciation of poetry
is always about a century behind the poet.
“Futurist”:—
I am, I think, fairly neutral as regards all
this debate concerning the purity of I the
obscene in art, and I find it interesting, even if Jt
is less instructive than it might be. So far as I have
gathered, nothing in a painting can be objectionable
except bad workmanship, because a painting is Art.
I presume that nothing in a book or. paper can be
objectionable either save by reason of inferior gram-
mar and rotten composition, because a word-picture
or pen-picture is Art also. This leads to the problem
whether the reality—that which is painted or de-
scribed —can be regarded in any circumstances as
annoying or out of place. If it can’t be, then we
may look forward to a little dinner party of three
consisting of a gentleman, his wife and a perfectly
naked male friend. The fact that he was bare
would merely prove that he was artistic. Further, the
bedrooms of presentable people should abut on the
street, and the movable front be rolled up in warm
weather. I have no very fixed idea about births
taking place in a public hall, with admission by
ticket; but I am pi'epared to listen to argument on
the point. The proposition, in short, is that life
should itself be a realistic picture, even if the sale
of realistic pictures should suffer, so that people who
can’t afford to buy Art should, be Art, and should
improve their minds by seeing others be it. I recall
two well-preserved works in Pompeii, which are not
shown to ladies now; though they once were. One
had been open to public inspection in the vestibule of
a bachelor’s home —probably he had more pedigree
than fortune. It explained without words that the house-
holder was willing to sell his manly proportions in
return for a rich wife. The artist might not be an
absolute genius, but he had entered into the spirit
of the thing, and the manly proportions were realis-
tically depicted for the inspection of blushing and
unblushing applicants. The other was on the ceil-
ing of what was called, merely by reason of the
ceiling, a bridal chamber, and supplied advance
bridal information for the flappers of the family. In
those days, and for centuries later, pyjamas and
night-dresses were not worn. People brought up in
such an atmosphere lived Art. These unaffected ways
and days are not gone beyond recall. It is only
necessary to call loudly enough.
Desolate Splendour, by Michael Sadleir (Con-
stable). A novel, written in a fine though some-
what attenuated style, that teems with promise and
then fades away into violent melodrama. A young
Canadian girl, Viola Maxwell, becomes the ward of
Chai-les Plethem, who is a roue and obsessed with
a desire to seoure the property of Lord Rockarvon,
a wicked, painted old lecherer who offers to ex-
change the coveted land for the beautiful Viola. Her
development is shown from her early innocence and
bewilderment to a sophistication that leads her
to put Charles through a course of salvation and to
offer herself to the villainous earl in the process.
Within These Walls , by Rupert Hughes
(Nash, Eveleigh and Grayson). The author’s most
poignant novel, and perhaps his best. David Robards,
a New York lawyer of a century ago, succeeds in
marrying the irresponsible child he loves, and the
rest of his outwardly successful and happy life is a
desperate struggle to hide his inward miseries from
the world. One of the least of these is the discovery
that his adored wife has been unfaithful to him with
the man she should have married. But he fights
on until middle-age and disillusionment and their
common sorrows and losses bring him and Patty—
still as desirable in his eyes as when he married
her—more closely together than they ever were in
youth. The agony may be a shade forced at times,
but on the whole the drama rings true, and the
pictures of early New York are charmingly done.


\
/r.
S
Iwi f m
tn m
m m in
mi hd na mi
eCJi
Xh
Q £
V)
m
m
0
I
>4
r * ■*-*-.
111
r J
Studebaker Light-Six 5-Seater Touring Car—Australian Body, £455; Imported Body, £475.
A city of workmen build
your STUDEBAKER
Behind the Studebaker motor cars you see on the
street each day is a city of workmen—the 20,000
people employed in Studebaker factories!
. ■- / • • • • ■ * . • • • •
When the Studebaker business was established
seventy-one years ago, the payroll numbered
but three employees.
Strict adherence to the high principles laid down
by the Studebaker founders has found its re-
ward in tremendous growth and an enviable
world-wide reputation for products bearing the
Studebaker name.
AUSTRALIAN PRICES
.Light Six, Australian Body £455
„ „ Imported „ .. ... .. £475
„ ,, Roadster, Imported Body .. £470
„ „ Coupe, „ „ .. £585
„ „ Sedan, „ ,, £695
Special SiXj Australian Body ..
„ „ „ „ 7 seater
„ Imported Body ..
„ „ „ „ 7 seater
„ „ ,t „ Roadster
~ „ Sedanj Imported Body..
£555
£565
£575
£595
£565
£925
Big Six Touring, Imported Body, 7 seater £695
~ ~ Speedster, Imported Body.. .. £735
„ „ Sedan, Imported Body .. .. £lOO5
DISTRIBUTORS
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
The Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay Street,
Perth.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Adams Limited, 152-154 High Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
L. Corrick, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street,
Launceston.
I s
STUD E B A K E R
YEAR
THIS
A


1 nmm
■,?
tXM
m
m
mm
mmmm
: \ ;
Helping the Farmer to help himself
THIS is what the CASE Tractor is doing for farmers in Australia to-day.
Self-help on the farm means lower labour costs, less worry and more profit.
To the owner of a CASE Tractor it means very much more than this.
It means better farming and more intensive working of the land, more timely
ploughing and better preparation of the seed bed, more economical and less
laborious farming, more efficient methods, and better results.
The CASE Tradtor supplies dependable power at a minimum cost, reducing
the expense of many operations, eliminating needless labour, making possible
increase of crop acreage and ensuring far better returns.
Every farmer who wants to help himself, eliminate time-worn methods and
make farm life better and happier should investigate the CASE proposition.
There are four sizes a size to fit the needs of every farmer.
Spare parts are available at all branches.
CASE service ensures mechanical efficiency at all times.
Let us send you full information write for a Catalog .
Kerosene
12/20 H.P. - £550
15/27 H.P. - £675
22/40 H.P. - £ll5O
With
standard
equipment
only.
40/72 H.P. - Price on application.
Terms can be arranged
Sole oAustrolian oAgentt ;
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers,
Ltd.
Box 674, G. P. O.
Head Office: 53-57 Morphett Street, Adelaide.
Phone, Cent. 6870*
NEW SOUTH WALES:
114, Gotilburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Box 2664 G.P.O. Phone M 3764.
VICTORIA:
Corner King & Flinders Streets
MELBOURNE.
Box 1456, G.P.O. Cent. 2134.
‘ Branches:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Graves Street,
KADINA.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
7 & 8 Bank of N.S.W. Chambers
PERTH.
Box 551 G.P.O. Phone A 5489.
QUEENSLAND :•
Bowen Street (off Ann Street,))
BRISBANE.
Box 1036, G.P.O. Phone 7591,


Immediate Deliveries
: S$
mm
SEVEN PASSENGER
SINGLE SIX
WHY A PACKARD ?
PE TEST
MOTOR • ..
■tmm
ACKARD’S traditional policy has always been-—to produce
a "fine” car. Every stage in the progress of every unit toward
superb completion is carefully guided. Machines that are
almost humanly intelligent in their action, and certainly are
superhuman in their accuracy, turn and grind the gears for*
the Packard car. Electric motors work the stiffness from
the new engine in a ten-hour pull on the block. Big electric
dynamometers act as a load for the registration of the motor’s
efficiency in the production of power. Electrical connections ~
and fittings are made with "jeweller” accuracy. The enamel
of the fenders is baked on in electrical furnaces, where heat
is regulated to a degree.
In the manufacture of the parts of the Single Six
hundreds of measurements must be absolutely true
within almost unrealisable parts of an inch—-for
example the infinitesimal .0002 of an inch.
Lest the very micrometers themselves by which these
limits are measured should vary from mathematical
absoluteness, they are constantly checked against
master guages kept under cover, on cushions of vel-
vet, secure against casual jars or the fluctuations of
temperature.
In one quiet room set apart from the rest, the Pack-
ard motor undergoes more than a hundred tests for
silence and smoothness alone. One of these tests is
made with a stethoscope to aid the expert in detect-
ing noises beyond the unaided human ear.
Such mechanical precision is indicative of the entire
construction of this New Packard Single Six. It is
truly an "aristocratic” car throughout—yet Packard
has so successfully combined Economy with Quality,
that the price of this car is surprisingly moderate.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring City 5 338 for demonstration. Write or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Faikiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne
The Universal Motors Pty.,
Petrie’s Bight , Brisbane
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.,
75 Pirie Street , Adelaide
x6B


W. JNO. BAKER.
BAKER
Aluminium
Sheep and
Cattle Ear
Labels—
m
Sheep size, 12/6 per 100. Cattle size, 21/-
per 100. Prices include lettering and num-
bering. Centre Oval Hole Pliers for above —
Sheep, 23/- ; Cattle, 35 /- ■
sd
CATTLE ROUND
FORK.
A
SHEEP SWALLOW.
Hand-forged
Sheep & Cattle
Ear Pliers.
Any design made to
order.
Tattoo Bar Pliers, Sheep or Cattle.
Fine nickel-plated, adjustable jaws, to allow
letter or figure to be changed.
fd
sin. Daggin g
Shears, 6/6 each,
postage 6d. ; 36/-
1-dozen, postage 1/6.
6in. Lamb Shears,
7/- each, postage 6d.;
37/- 1-dozen, postage
Ira lalifl
sin. Dagging
Shear, in leather
sheath, 11/6.
6in. Lamb Shear
and Sheath, 12/6.
I !
Specially Strong and Good Foot-
rot. Secateur, Bin. oter all, 13/6 each.
Post Free.
m
185—Improved 5-blade Pocket
Knife, fine quality and finish, .Sdn. stag
haft, 18/6; 4in„ 21/- each.
Post Free.
150—4 Blades, 4in. stag halft, 13/6
each.
Illustrated Catalogue, showing
many other Designs, posted free
on request.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
wm
mi
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
DR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless-
Waterproof—Permanent! All
Chemists.
GRAVIC
MOTOR
MOWER
'
V
r i
■ .
THE BEST
YET.
SIMPLE,
RELIABLE,
EFFICIENT.
GRANT 8 VICKERY,
BARNSTAPLE ROAD, FIVE DOCK,
SYDNEY.
sf
SLSs
&
nTH
A DAINTY “AFTER DINNER "
Coffee Set
This is a set that you will love to possess, charming in design
and thoroughly reliable in its high-grade construction.
The Cups are English White China, and the remainder of the
set, including Tray, is heavily plated on hard white metal.
The Complete Set, £4/12/- Nett
Fairfax & Roberts have many such examples of wonderful
value in delightful Coffee Sets at their Huntor Street Show-
rooms.
THE OPTICAL DEPARTMENT.
First Floor.
Consult Mr. Gardiner, if you are in any doubt as to
your is a thoroughly Qualified refractionist with
long experience. *
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRMX&ROBERTS Uf
£5 &£5 Hunter Street Sydney
WijlJ/11111.
PLUM
RAZOR
s
SI
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post Paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Ileal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set trf-7 -Razors. v
Each razor set read}' for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and Jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6; 12/6;
15/6 each. 'Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
THEY GOME AS A BOON S A BLESSING TO MET
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
SEE THE LANE COVE RIVER,
SYDNEY’S MOST BEAUTIFUL WATERWAY.
TIME-TABLE (Abridged).
Steamers leave No. 8 .Jetty, Circular Quay, as follows: —
Monday to Saturday: At'about 30-45-minute intervals.
Sunday: 8.45 a.m., and hourly to 12.45 p.m. ; 1.80 p.m., and half-hourly to 4.30 p.m.; 5.15 p.m.,
and at about 30-minute intervals thereafter.
Holidays: At -about 30-minute intervals. ,V
Leaflet and full time-tables obtainable at Circular Quay, or Telephone 86276. Aiso at
Government Tourist Bureau, Martin Place. -a*-....
Sinsrle Fare:—Adults sd. Children 2d.
Sydney Ferries, Limited.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Some Day.
Some day, when wild with Spring the soft
wdnds blow,
I’ll hear the cuckoo calling and I’ll go
Far off until I reach that radiant rim
Where slow, with sails of silk, the white
clouds swim.
And I shall wander past the dreaming blue,
By daisied drift and bracken drowned in
dew;
And still the cuckoo’s pain will call me on,
Past shadowy hill and dale where none have
gone....
And I shall never, never come again,
In yellow sun, or through the beaded rain;
But they will mourn me moon by moon,
and cry:
“Ah, she is gone who loved too much to
die!”
And still, forever free, forever young,
Bare-footed where the billowing clouds have
sprung,
Upon the green hills deathless I shall be,
Chasing that wild, elusive melody !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Shriven.
It is the sullen dead of night.
My soul broods on an ehipty height.
But, hark, a footfall at the door !
Oh, well-remembered, joyous feet,
Like wings of butterflies they beat—
Dear, haunting accents that implore
An entrance at the inclement door ! ,
“Soul, may I not undo the bars?
He is so lovely and so frail,
He wanders in so bleak a vale ;
And night has shrouded all her stars.”
Austere the answer came: “Not so.
One shrined immaculate within
Would freeze his beauty in her snow.”
Shrill winds of dawn creep cold and thin.
The rosemary sways to and fro,
The trodden rue waits by the door.
VICTORIA.
D. R.
The Judgment.
Brown was most orthodox in all his views ;
He bore a hidden fear his soul within—
He thought that any act which might amuse
, Would bring the punishment of deadly sin.
Upon the threshold of eternity
He often pondered, picturing courts of
dread,
Where angel juries, terrible to see,
Brought in their verdicts on the newly-
dead.
So that his soul might face without a fear
The dreadful summons of the Judgment
Day,
He frowned on pleasure, revelry and beer,
And sternly kept himself from going gay.
At last came mourning in the house of
Brown,
The blinds were drawn, and noise awhile
was stilled ;
A dark procession made one blot in town—
And in a day his empty place was filled.
A little speck went fluttering into space,
To grit upon a hasting angel's eye.
The angel swept the atom from his face
And muttered w T ith impatience, “Drat that
fly!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.
The Curio Shop.
Here are bowls carven with pale lotus
flowers
And fretted ivory clocks to chime the hours:
Slim, ancient swords and paper-knives of
jade,
The soft mantilla of a Spanish maid;
A gilded fan, a richly-painted shell,
A mantle crimson as a flame from Hell;
Grave chessmen and a jester’s gay disguise,
A painted masque to veil my lady’s eyes;
And gems whose depths a thousand stories
hold,
A snuff-box of vermilion and fine gold;
While heavy Eastern robes in colored sheen
Rival the beauty of a peacock screen;
And, in a corner, with his spreading hips,
A shaven Buddha, squats with smiling lips.
Sometimes I wonder, when the night is still,
If slim and ancient blades of Old Seville
Flash from the shadows with swift rapier-
twists,
Guided by skilled and subtle sparring wrists;
Or bright eyes, while the moon is on the
wane,
Shine through the soft mantilla mists again ;
And from a brace of lightly-tuned guitars
Do ghostly players woo the r ondering stars?
The click of dice in fingers fine and old
Flirting a snuff-box with its faded gold,
The jester’s laugh, my lady’s wanton eyes
Piercing the tinsel of his frail disguise—
Ah, the gay clatter of that magic hour,
The red cloak flaming like a peony flower!
Or, borne on memories’ swift bright waves,
may be
The sandalwood will drown the pot-pourri,
And all the dear dead women of the years,
Who wore those gems like iridescent tears,
Awake, and, with the shimmering -silver
gloom,
Trail scented robes of sadness through the
room;
While slant-eye<F warriors in coats of sheen,
Struggle and stab beside the peacock screen.
Strange memories vibrate this crowded place,
From rusted sword and waft of faded lace!
It seems to-day as if the sunrays glance
T T poh a whole dead world of old romance—
Here vdiere the Buddha, clasping fingertips,
Dreams on "His stand With softly-smiling lips’
N.S.W.
A. GORE-JONES.


X
%
>
fjf
'//
duajsuu4c $
IN the springtime of life, when every pulse is athrob with
the sheer joy of living, when the racing blood, flushing a
face smooth as satin and as fine, lingers to enrich the lips
with rose—youth seems eternal. For youth cannot think of
age in relation to itself.
Yet there is one thing even the most youthful woman knows.
That if she is to retain her schoolgirl complexion throughout
the coming years, she cannot leave its preservation to chance.
She must fortify the tender skin to withstand in turn, cutting
winter winds, and hot and parching winds of an Australian
summer. Shield it against sunburn; protect it from particles
of dust and dirt.
How best to do it ? This is every woman’s problem. Obviously, natural
means are best, if these can be obtained. And they can be. Palmolive supplies
them. For Palmolive contains the valuable natural oils of the palm and the
olive. Nature’s own cosmetics—bland, but wonderfully protective; sooth-
ing, yet stimulating, too.
Gently, the soft, velvety lather cleanses every pore of all accumulations that
impede the natural action of a healthy skin. Two thousand years ago, Cleo-
patra used the same natural means to beauty, the same incomparable oils.
To-day their application is infinitely simpler, for they are contained conveni-
ently in Palmolive Soap.
And everyone can use Palmolive now. It is very inexpensive
and economical in use. Buy Palmolive to-day. You will de-
light in using it —-delight in the results.
THE PALMOLIVE CO. (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
SYDNEY
Palm and Olive Oils —
nothing else—give na-
ture’s green colour to
Palmolive Soap.
sterna
tP
Ob
*!>
I
can
I
m
w
L
=SBTfIS!
m
USSsB
safe
PONS 9


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44.—N0. 2275.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1923.
Price 6d.
p U J 3, Juj C
IF > j |Q| v 5
THicst.
Civil .Servlets. aonss. too
■nt)m«.rous , V\TaMI lry&v«. to l*ld
<ff som& cjf tb<g.m | iHa.Tr«r Wowt k«&
H#/* us ¥ w ~ ”
f TK«- X-!lttW Mar*.: * TVwayp don't SH.<ZAr*> $•*«•
r*4» ; l?ot tk«~yr«- adl rafts >vi4 its 1 s&\<zA *. Vtt
* ihadr. cK«xesas.. /'■■'
SAVING HIS CHEESE.
“The N.S.W. Treasury has decided on dispensing with the services of 21 clerks.”


The Bulletin.
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Oltice of the
... Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
AIeliioukne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS to STIRSCRTRERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
„ Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
J* months, 6s.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months. Is.
To any address Ovehskasi 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
■months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, 8s.
Cheques, drajts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stumped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publisher
'-the Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
arid not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
"The Bulletin” can be obtained from the
"British-Australasian” seller at the entrance
to Australia House, London. Also from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W\ Dawson and
Sons, Cimnon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.\; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service. 56 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.l; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Ilavdna House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie
Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office News Co\,
33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New York; Bren-
tano’s, 5th Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Ilotaling’s News Agency, 203 West 51st Street, New
York City. Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle.
Californa ; Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco.
Ecypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
IIong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peddcr Street, Ilong
Kong.
Ceylon. —W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo} R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.5.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 16oz.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 2oz., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: IGoz., lid. United States: 5oz. or
part thereof, l\d. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
HTuTSfeidleiu/i.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1923.
A PREFERENCE POLICY FOR
AUSTRALIA.
The destiny of temperate Australia, on the
weight of evidence so far taken, is to be a
manufacturing and pastoral country, with
agriculture as a side-line; butter and
cheese, being cow products, coming, of course,
under the “pastoral” heading. This may
not be a strictly orthodox view, but then the
earmark of orthodox views is their consistent
wrongness. In wool this country produces
an article which holds the world’s record for
quality, whereas its wheat is not so very dif-
ferent from other people’s. Unless the
quality of our clip deteriorates through the
business passing wholly into the fyands of
small men who can’t go in for expensive
things in the way of breeding, thepe is no
reason to suppose that the situation will
change. The crop never makes an
utterly absurd failure or an utterly ridicu-
lous slump in price, like wheat, and it is a
substance of which there is never a riotous
glut in the world’s market. Nor does ir
cry for State subventions. On the N. S.
Wales railways (N. S. Wales is the great
sheep State) wool, in 1922, paid 275. lOd. per
ton per 100 miles, which was about 16s. 4d.
profit to the Department, while “wheat, flour,
etc. (up journey)” paid ss. 4d. per ton per
100 miles, which was about 6s. 2d. loss. In
addition, the wool man doesn’t call with any
great intensity for hundreds of miles of new
money-losing railways, nor does he involve
an outlay of £5,000,000 per annum in a single
State for “settlement” devices which have
very medium luck in the way of permanent
settlement. Nor does he hang on by the
skin of his teeth per medium of a 3s. Bd.-per-
bushel Federal guarantee.
As regards the reasons why Australia
should look to manufactures for a very great
part of its future prosperity, a few of the
many may be set out after this fashion: —
(1) The Australian is as good a tradesman as
any other man. Blastiferous influences, which need
not be permanent, have operated during recent years
to prevent him learning a trade, and to turn him
into an animal of burden instead, but that doesn’t
affect his natural capacity.
(2) The coal, iron, tin, copper, zinc, lead, etc.,
required are all here, and the cotton and flax and
silk required can be produced here.
(3) A considerable market fpi* finished goods is
here, while for more wheat and fruit there is only a
precarious outlet 12,000 miles away. There is a
demand for the making of anything up to
£100,000,0(10 worth of goods per annum that are
now imported, for the Australian is a luxurious whale
for goods; and if skilled taxpayers were brought here
or grown here to make these goods they would create
a demand for more goods.
(4) It is especially important that the Australian
should be his own manufacturer, for to pay about the
longest sea freight possible on half the things he
uses, and to pay it to strangers, is burning the candle
at both ends.
(5) Moreover the Australian shows a natural turn
for manufactures, and no special turn for dragging
up vegetables. Manufacturing industry is burdened
by high wages, fixed by Courts and Boards and other
devices. It is very ill-protected as Protection is under-
stood in some rival countries. It pays huge railway
charges, because every yard of railway has to pay
a heavy interest-dividend to the people who put up
the money but took no risk or responsibility, and
something extra to make up the loss incurred by
carrying agricultural produce at a loss. (In N. S.
Wales, for 1922, the loss on the “grain, flour, etc., up-
journey’’ item was over £1,300,000). The factory
owner has to compete against State industries sub-
sidised by himself and other taxpayers. And hq is
cursed, as no similar person is cursed on this wide
earth, by a policy which aims at confining his busi-
ness to capital cities, where rents and land prices
are enormous. Yet manufactures improve while
other sources Of revenue fluctuate or fade. In 1921-22
the value of Australian manufactures (not the value
of the gross output, but the value added in process of
manufacture) beat each of the other five branches
of industry out of sigjst. Compared With 1920-21
these were the movements:—-
Agricultural Decrease £30,911,000
Pastoral „ 17,628,000
Dairies, fowls, bees .. .. „ 8,196,000
Mining 1,636,000
I* orests and fisheries . . . . ~ 117,000
Manufactures Increase 11,316,000
And what the increase might have been if
small industrial towns had been fdstered
everywhere instead of repressed it is hard
to say.
* * # •
When Sir Melbourne Bruce, as he doubt-
less will be then, puts on his best spats (not
the ordinary ones that he used on board ship)
and goes to Canada and the United States to
talk over a trade treaty, there is no secret
about what people there will offer. They
propose easier theoretical admission (per
medium of a reduced tariff) for our agricul-
tural products to their glutted markets, in
return for easier admission for their manu-
factured goods her£, where there is a real
market. The question is one of sacrificing,
in a measure and possibly a great measure,
the business which pays gbod wages, yields
good profits, and which, judged by the pro-
gress which it makes under many difficul-
ties, is our special business, and of making
that sacrifice principally in the hope of
boosting an industry which is run at h loss,
and which is liable to be a bigger loss if
made larger. For the wheat-export busi-
ness has come to a point at which it is run
at a loss, w'ljen account is taken of the rail-
way rebates, the Government guarantees, and
the pouring out of loan money to put small
and often unfortunate settlers “on the land.”
The brilliantly-insahe idea is to sacrifice a
part of the sure market in Australia for
Australian-manufactured goods, and also part
of the sure market in Australia for Austra-
lian wheat and flour and fruit and meat (for
the growth of our own manufacturing popula-
tion furnishes the best outlet the farmers
have), and get in return a slightly better
show to scramble with a hundred competi-
tors in foreign places for whatever long-
distance freight charges may leave. Having
got so far oht of the primitive state of the
man with the hoe, it is suggested that we
should revert to if of our own free will.
The nearest approach to a reason assigned
for taking a header over this particular cliff
is that Australia, owing to wages and condi-
tions, can’t hope to manufacture for export,
and therefore the cultivation of factory in-
dustries is putting dependence on a very frail
reed. To which the reply is that the straight
course is to supply our own market, and to
hope, if there is a surplus of factory wares
many years hence, that conditions wili alter
to meet the case, as conditions often do. To
commit suicide now, lest we should have sur-
plus woollens and cottons on hand in 1953,
would be premature. Anyhow, this is a
shockingly bad time to let any plausible
persons beguile us into putting more of our
reliance on the soil. Canada and the U.S.
anticipate a wheat glut, and some gloomy
authority predicts the insolvency of 150,000
lankee wheat-farmers through low prices.
And in England a starvation price of 40s.
per quarter (ss. per bushel) is prognosti-
cated.
* * # »
There is no cause w'hy Sir Melbourne
Bruce and his retihue and spats should not
go to Canada or elsewhere, and offer t 6
make a reciprocity treaty, but it is import-
ant that the matter should not be approached
in a grovelling spirit. Our ambassador should
absolutely reject the insulting pose that the
Canadians are a highly advanced people as
compared with ths bucolic barbarians of
Australia. He should insist that we also
have a manufacturing status, and intend to
have a bigger one—bigger, in fact, than that
of Canada. But there would be no harm
in offering to let Canadian wheat and wool
and beef into Australia on easy terms, or
even fre<\ also United States coal and rab-
bits, provided those countries have any
adequate concessions to offer in return, and
provided it is any more worth their while
to send us wheat and rabbits than it will
presently be worth our while to send such
things to them. The offer might be some
solatium for Australia’s action in presently
putting up duties against most of their wares
by 100 per cent. Having put them up 100
per cent., they might later be let down 20
per cent, in return for value received. But
this would be a matter to be approached
cautiously.
MORALS AND STATECRAFT.
It is necessary to accept the proposition that
there is little or no morality in statecraft
(which is merely business on a big scale)
to appreciate the folly of striking fine atti-
tudes of protest against the conduct of the
Erench since the signing of the Versailles
Treaty. What they are doing is logical and
inevitable in the present state of world-
culture and world-ethics. It is possible that
the Germans might have saved themselves
by an attitude of iron correctitude in de-
feat. Political ecclesiastics, like religious
ones, are unable to make much headway
against a thoroughly roused popular con-
science. But if ever a nation shouted for
trouble Germany has between the Armis-
tice and now. By the Treaty of Frankfort
the 36 million inhabitants of France en-
gaged, though deprived of Alsace-Lorraine,
to pay five milliards of francs inside three
years. At Versailles Germany’s 62 million
people, with not a single field or factory rumed,
undertook to pay over a period of decades
62 milliards of gold marks. The France of
50 years ago mobilised every sou in the
country to discharge the national obliga-
tion. The French Government put it to the
people that to shirk repayment was traitor-
ous. All the German Governments but ohe
since Versailles have argued that evasion of
the reparation payments is a patriotic duty.
The last of the German battalions of occu-
pation marched out of France in the auttimn
of 1873 vVith the indemnity bill paid-—-jus 1 ;
two years and six months after the required
amount had been fixed by Bismarck. In
four years Germany has defaulted six times,
and for months past has paid nothing, while
leading German statesmen and industrial-
ists have been proclaiming that it is the
nation’s sacred duty not to pay. It is pos-
sible—in fact, probable—that had the Ger-
mans made an effort comparable to that of
the French under the guidance of Thiers —
in which case, with their wealth of coal, iron
and industrial efficiency, they would quickly
have recovered their old standing—the im-
placable Poincare might still have picked
a quarrel with them. But he would have
found it extremely difficult in a world which
talks continually of the beauties of fair
play, and which, as a rule, really believes
that equity is the moving force in national
affairs. As things have turned out his task
is easy.
* * •
Not without reason were the French
troubled by the abrupt German collapse in
1918. They immediately began to be haunted
by the spectre of an unravaged Germany
settling down to flood the world with cheap
goods. The position at the signing of the
Peace Treaty was extraordinarily unfavor-
able to France. The U.S.A. had most of
the world’s gold, and had not yet begun to
feel the effects of foreign competition in its
industries. Britain had gained control of
practically all the oil outside the failing sup-
ply in the U.S.A. This shrewd move on the
part of a few long-sighted British business
men ensures the position of the U.K. as the
chief sea-carrier for generations to come. Ger-
many was deprived of Alsace and Lorraine,
and it had to temporarily relinquish control
of the Saar coalfields, but was left with the
Ruhr, and that meant everything from a
reconstruction standpoint. It is from the
Ruhr that the coking-coal comes which is
a necessity in the iron industry. With the
Ruhr, and despite its territorial and other
losses, Germany would not have found it
impossible inside a generation to recover
the iron and steel pre-eminence it enjoyed
in Europe before the war. Pre-eminence in
iron and steel means pre-eminence in the
capacity to wage successful modern wars.
In short, retention of the Ruhr, taken in
conjunction with Germany’s bounding birth-
rate and the military proclivities of the
people (“War,” said Mirabeau, “is Prussia’s
chief industry”), would have meant France's
eventual relegation to the status of Spain
or Holland. What the nations expected of
the country whose ambition now causes them
so much anguish was repentance (or, any-
how, an appearance of it), hard work and
results in the form of cash and goods pay-
ments. What they got were war and revolu-
tionary propaganda; strikes which were ap-
plauded by employers and lock-outs which
were cheered by employees; and hardly so
much as a pretence on the part of any Ger-
man Government of an intention or desire
to pay. And so France is in the Ruhr and
Germany, at long last, has something to
whine about.
* * •
An attempt is being made in Australia to
demonstrate that all true Britishers should
object to France’s action “on patriotic
grounds.” It is claimed that a supreme
France will upset the balance of power (the
alleged menace which the war was fought,
inter alia, to abolish) and that France has
hot paid her debt to Britain. That the
French adventure in the Ruhr has no con-
nection with Britain’s unemployment pro-
blem is now admitted by most reasonable
Englishmen. What the British are chiefly
suffering from is the Freetrade lunacy. C.
H. McCurdy, M.P., put it this way in the
London .daily Chronicle last week: —
Britain concentrated the whole of her energies cn
the reduction of her debt, balancing the Budget and
restoring exchanges—in a word followed a banker's
po’icv. France has increased her people’s productive
capacity by making improvement td ports, waterways,
railways and roads, and by the erection and equip-
ment of factories. _ In a word she has pursued a
manufacturer’s policy.
As regards the steel gpd iron trade, Britain
was doomed to be superseded by more favor-
ably situated rivals long before the World
War. Germany was her equal and the U.S.
more than her master by 1914. More and
more as the coal which founded England’s
financial greatness at the beginning of the
Industrial Revolution becomes increasingly
costly to win the nation must turn to the
new fuel —oil. As manufacturers the Brit-
ish should still remain unbeaten in their
chosen lines —a matter of being able to do
certain things better than anybody else. But
oil is destined to be king. Sir Edward
Edgar wrote recently to the Times :
I should say that two-thirds of the improved fields
of Central and South America are in British hands.
.... 'Hie Shell group owns exclusively or controls inter-
ests in every important oil field in the world.
I estimate that, if their present course of consump-
tion, especially of high-grade products, is maintained,
Americans in 10 years will be under the necessity
of importing 500 million barrels of oil yearly at two
dollars a barrel —a very low figure—and that means
an annual payment of a thousand million dollars
per annum, most, if not all, of which will find its
way into British pockets.
In the circumstances the British can well
afford to view France’s relatively modest tri-
umph with complacency. Germany must
wrest the irpn and steel trade from the U.E.
if France does not; and Germany will mili-
tarily dominate Western Europe if France
fails. As for France’s debts, if that country
remains in the Ruhr for another decade it
will be capable of paying them 10 times over.
The realisation of that is a measure of the
difficulty which faces those pro-German pro-
pagandists who are now attempting to reason
the French on to the path of rectitude —and
national ruin.
LAND-GRANT RAILWAYS AND
SETTLEMENT.
“Australia must have population. It is impossible
that a mere 9,000,000 people can hold this great
continent permanently.”— Statement by 545 members
of Parliament, 1621 candidates, al' the Ministers there
are, 2001 clerics of various denominations, the press,
many philanthropists, kvery globe-trotter whose
opinion has been ascertained, and the Billions Club
(Sydney).
And it may be added that 50 millions couldn’t
hold this or any other continent, and that
500 millions might hold it with difficulty, if
practically the entire mob was crowded into
the south-east corner, and the great mass of
the country was far more accessible to assail-
ants by sea than to its own defenders by
land. The United States, with all its mul-
titudes, couldn’t hold its country if those
multitudes were packed in Florida and
Georgia, and the only way an army could
reach the Washington Territory was to cross
the continent by hoof. As a matter of fact,
no one has any reason to propose holding
Australia With five million people. There
are 5,700,000 now, and there will be 6,000,000
very soon, and 7,000,000 not much later. If
the population and the railways were distri-
buted on any semblance of a sane method
Australia would already be making a very
fair commencement on a system of defence,
or at least a fair pretence at one. And if
there were 15 mainland States instead of
five, each offering its separate inducements
to immigrants, the rate of increase, which
is not very bad now, would assuredly be a
great deal better. But the fixed resolve of
politicians and other mental freaks to pre-
vent anything happening which will put
Australia in a state of defence amounts to a
disease —also to a crime. The occupation of
the empty spaces is agreed upon by all and
sundry as an essential. Yet if a Fuller or
a Fuller’s babbling satellite volubly pro-
mises a railway from the N.S.W. northern
tableland to a north-coast port, which is
the very mildest form of pioneering, every-
body assumes that the work is meant to be
postponed for 50 years, and that another
crowd of suburban lines is in prospect. And
if a Lawson or a Lawson’s press-agent
grows maudlin about the outports, it is
known by that sign that some new move for
concentrating trade and population in Mel-
bourne is impending.
* * * *
The case may be summarised in the state-
ment that the more money Australia bor-
rows in order to settle the empty spaces
(directly or indirectly the money is all bor-
rowed to help along the empty spaces) the
more settlement there is in the Six old cities
which huddle together in the Far South, and
the more Australia lainents about congestion
the more it congests. For instance, this is
how the growth of settlement worked out
between 1911 and 1921:
Increase op Commonwealth Population, 1911-21.
Metropolis. Country. Total.
N. S., Wales . . 261,285 192,602 453,887
Victoria . . . . 189,742 25,987 215,729
Queensland . . 68,722 83,099 151,821
S. Australia . . 64,006 23,332 87,338
Westralia. . .. 45,754 4,345 ' 50,099
Tasmania.. .. 12,050 10,616 22,666
Total . . . . 641,559 339,981 981,540
And by way of contrast: —
Maoriland .. 36,762 173,101 209,863
The policy of Maoriland is to make every
port of any value accessible by rail, and not
to seek, by crooked devices and differential
rates, to force people and trade to any place
in particular. So though it is a little
dominion, one-third the size of N. S. Wales
and lpss than one-sixth that of Queensland,
it had, between the censuses, quite a lot of
new population available for country settle-
ment. In proportion to its size it did about
14 times more non-metropolitan settlement
than the Commonwealth did. Queensland
made far the best showing in the way of
acquiring non-metropolitan population this
side of the Tasman Sea. The visible explana-
tion is that that misgoverned land of 7 per
cent, loans has still one outstanding virtue.
Its railways strike inland from Mary-
borough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns,
etc., dnd there is a certain measure of decen-
tralisation (though it is a poor substitute
for subdivision), and the “inside” is blessed
with short cuts to the sea. Tasmania, which
has done its best to make Strahan, Burnie,
Devonport and Launceston available ports
as well as Hobart, naturally ranks third best.
Nearly half the new population Was available
for distribution after the mildly-bloated little
metropolis had collected what it could. The
record of the four really centralised States
was appalling, though N.S.W., with three great
coalfields and its big iron industry, fouhded
by a Victorian company, couldn’t contrive
to be quite as bad as the rest. Still, it did
its best to be bad, and angels could do no
more.
# # * *
The amount borrowed in the 10 years
1911-21 to put people on the land was vastly
more than the amount borrowed in 1901-11.
So, with the natural crookedness of things
and loan-politicians, people were put in the
slummy cities instead of the breezy out-
lands, and those who d : dn’t actually go there
mostly went into the places immediately
around —Bankstown. Auburn. Granville and
Lidcombe in N. S. Wales, and the like. The
following shows what State loan money was


spent and what real “development” and
hardy pioneering the States got for their
spendings
New Money
New Popula- Population Borrowed
tion in Six in Rest of to Promote
Capital Cities. Six States. Settlement.
1901-11 350,721 330,480 £63,609,008
1911-21 . ! 641,559 339,9&1 191,281,617
From these returns it is deduced that, if
the rotten State Governments hadn’t in-
creased their expenditure on loan railways
and loan land-for-settlement jobbery and
thievery by the astonishing sum of nearly
£13,000,000 a year, they might have had
more new country settlers than they got. The
natural increase by excess of births over
deaths should have assured that. It was
the decade of many Labor Governments, of
high wages for poor work, of sinecures, job-
finding for political supporters, pre-selection
ballots, ballot-boxes with sliding panels,
strikes, day labor, “uncouth crooks,” scan-
dals, brawls, expulsions, deficits, red flags,
Red Objectives, affiliation with Moscow and
all manner of surprises. In days long gone
by the Government Life Insurance Depart-
ment of Maoriland was the shining example
which converted all manner of people to the
idea that the State could launch out advan-
tageously into mixed industry on a large
scale. Now people this side of the Tasman
Sea are too busy considering public fish-
shops and coal contracts and 60 dozen public
stenches of the sort to take much thought
for things beyond. #
The reason why people begin to talk again,
after a long interval, of land-grant rail-
ways and Private Enterprise of the sort is
that, in the rottenness and decay of loan
politics. State and Federal, there seems now
little hope of settlement, except the city
and suburban variety, by any other kind of
enterprise. Railways aren’t built now save
for the benefit of some place which has
votes to dispose of, which means that it has
population already. The biggest cities, vastly
more influential than they were before they
were bloated with the last £191,281,617 of
“land settlement” loans, are capable of
absorbing in their orbits all the rest of the
loan money, and applying for more. Certain
it is that over £19,000,000 per year of State
loan money was spent in the period 1911-21.
and over £48,000,000 in 1922, and an amount
not yet known in 1923, and much Federal
loan money to boot, yet Australia didn’t gain
thereby one new State, State capital, city,
town (at least it gained no town which is big
enough to be remembered) or seaport, and
there can’t be much pioneering without some-
thing of the kind happening. On the other
hand the land-grant railway gambler has to
try his luck in the wilderness, because he
can’t get an allotment of 10,000 of 15,000
acres per mile alongside a line in thickly
settled country, or in the suburbs, or in the
city. He has to push settlement in new
places, because his income depends on finding
buyers or tenants for new lands. He has a
craving for new ports, for a port makes a
profitable and desirable terminus. If he loses
money it is his own money and not the
nation’s, and if he makes a success the
nation generally buys him out in the end.
It may seem a poor business to engage non-
Australian money-kings and money-grubbers
to pioneer for us, but under the loan system
we depend on those people now, and take all
the risk of loss, and yet no pioneering comes
to pass.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sir Walter Davidson.
Sib Waltek Davidson, who died of heart
failure on Sunday morning, was the, best-
liked Governor N. S. Wales has known.
The explanation of his popularity is
simple. “Write me : as one who loved
his fellow-men,” suggested Abotj Ben
A'dhem: on a famous occasion. The dead
Governor had no need to proclaim the
possession of this rarest and most attractive
of qualities. • He radiated -goodwill —not the
irritating benignance of the faux bonhomme ,
but a kindliness which was transparently
genuine. Just as people liked him because
he liked them, so he got the best out of
those around him because he never expected
anything different. Partly because of his
happy temperament, partly because he had
studied men and manners in most parts of the
English-speaking world, he was without pre-
judices, political, social or religious. Every
form of bigotry fell dead before his tolerance.
He was controversial only in face of the
slanders that the baser elements everywhere
hurl at rival sects, and classes. ‘‘The Aus-
tralian workers are disloyal ruffians—
enemies of the Empire,” cried a colonel with
a troopship war-record, in his presence. “On
the evidence of the A.I.F. they are the
best Empire men in the community,”
was the Governor’s smiling rebuke. He
was an Ulsterman, and everything that
is meant by a “good Protestant,” yet the
R.C. section had nothing but praise for him.
He was a Tory and a flamboyant “King’s
man,” yet none of our soap-,box democrats,
was so trusted by Labor. Indifferently
equipped on the intellectual side, his best
asset was a certain astuteness in handling
men. coupled w ! ith a considerable fund of
practical wisdom garnered during 40 years
of official life. A more brilliant man in
the mental sense, on having an unacceptable
proposition put to him in Council, might have
set out to controvert it with argument. Sir
Waltek Davidson merely turned and mur-
mured to the parrot which was often on his
shoulder, and the gesture usually served. He
had rectitude without righteousness, loyalty
without cant: when he said that he loved
God and honored the King, his hearers really
believed him. The only harm he has done
N. S. Wales in the course of six years’ ser-
vice is to give a new lease of life to an office
which should long since have been abolished.
The Pessimists.
Just at the time when Australia has come
into possession of a Prime and an Associate-
Prime Minister of dubious tariff proclivities,
the tariff question threatens to take on a
really serious aspect. The salient feature of
the wild mix-up of exchanges is that a coun-
try with a depreciated currency can sell
cheaply to one without that doubtful blessing,
and can flood its markets unless it has, or
promptly acquires, a tariff strong enough to
square the difference.' This has caused less
trouble in the past to a manufacturing State
like Britain than might have been supposed,
because in pre-war days the lands with shock-
ingly depreciated paper-money were such as
Colombia, Haiti and Nicaragua, where a varie-
gated race cultivated the soil and was con-
tent. Russia gained little by its currency
gambols, for its Government obligingly de-
stroyed its manufactures. But now there
are heavily protected manufacturing States
in the business,.. and the other day a well-
known war correspondent, Sir Beach
Thomas, described the temporary glory of
one of them in the London Daily Express':
A great miracle has been wrought in France.
The country’s prosperity leaps to the eye. Magni-
ficent new factories have been built in every district
from the Pyrenees to Calais. The world’s most
modern steel plants have been installed along the
frontiers of the devastated regions, and engineering
trusts, grounded on productive industries in France,
have extended their operations to Czecho-Slovakia,
Poland and Rumania. Unemployment is unknown.
Indeed, there is a shortage of labor. French exports
of wool, cotton and linen textiles have trebled, while
the total exports have quadrupled in quantity, all
within three years.... Protective duties have been
clapped on when needed without. even a day’s delay
....AH this expenditure has entailed heavy debt.
It has temporarily lowered the value of the franc,
but the latter has assisted manufacturers, and given
them an overwhelming advantage over their heavily-
taxed and unprotected rivals in Great Britain.
And this, which has been already quoted in
The Bulletin, but can bear repetition, is a
picture of Bradford, where England’s finest
cloths are, or used to be, made —-a city which
last census showed to be on the down-grade
in the matter of population :
I have just seen a Bradford house with shelves
and rooms packed with French textiles.... Travellers
for local houses are all returning, declaring that
it is useless to show their samples. No retailer
will look at Bradford cloths, seeing that the French
manufacturers, owing to the rate of exchange, can
undercut us by Is. and more per yard The Rou-
baix workers are throwing the Bradford workers
out of work as surely as if they were devastating
the city with howitzers. Continental manufacturers
having, through tariffs, complete control of their
home markets, from which they pay all overhead
expenses, can descend on the British market like the
wolf on the fold.
In Australia we are trying to mask the
truth by spoon-feeding the population with
loans; nevertheless Mr. Carter, secretary of
the Factory Employees’ Union, told the Syd-
ney press a few days ago:—
He had not seen things so bad for the last 35
years as they are now. Many factory-workers are
among the unemployed and the number is increasing
steadily. Firms are gradually reducing to: the
absolute minimum the hands employed by them,
fresh dismissals being reported every week, and the
end not in sight. One company has discharged
35 men and boys during the last fortnight, and many
women were dismissed in addition.
And so on. Possibly this secretary is a
pessimist and a calamity-monger, but these
and other circumstances combine to suggest
that the bottom may fall out of something
Australia’s silly tariff doesn’t give., its manu-
facturers even moderately complete “control of their
home markets.” In July, the first month of a
new financial year and the latest for which returns
are available, imports were £1,897,000 more than
for the previous July (about 20 per cent increase),
so there was less work to be done. Exports were
£2,731,638 less than for the previous July, so there
was less work done and less money coming in.
These protected people, who, having got their
second wind after the war, are down upon England
“like the wolf on the fold,’’ can come down on this
foolish country like a milder edition of the same
animal. If they like to acquire factories in Britain
and finish some of their goods there (25 per cent,
of the work,is enough to do in Britain), these goods
can arrive here as British and come even below
the ineffective tariff rate.
While the foreign-loaiu curse continues it is
difficult for any tariff to keep out imports. Such
loan money as comes here arrives in the form c.f
goods.
Between 1918, the last year of war and war
wages and war prices, and 1922, the average factory
wage rate for the whole Commonwealth rase from
£l2l 15s. per man, woman and boy and girl, per
annum to £179 4s. lOd. . Yet in. the latter part of
the time various other nations were reducing wages
violently. There was no corresponding increase
of hours or quantity of output ; in fact, there was
a tendency to reduce both.
There was no sufficient corresponding increase in
the tariff. The country has a Tariff Board whose
powers apparently run mostly in the direction of
reducing or Suspending duties, and a Parliament
which will be available to deal with tariff matters
next February or March, and a Prime Minister who
has gone abroad to arrange for the better admission:
of Canadian manufactures.
Australian factory industries- progressed wonderfully
while , such foreign competitors as France, to say
nothing of Germany and Russia, were more or less
in dock repairing damages,--and While- wages were
only going up. In fact, they were almost the
only affairs, barring the public d.ebt, that did pro-
gress. But some of the competitors have recovered
their old form, and wages in Australia have - most
decisively gone, up—gone higher than ever' before,
and are still rising. So it is , just . possible that: the
tower of prosperity l is getting a dangerous: tilt to
leeward. ' : v.r .
Pessimists like the secretary of the Factory
Employees’ Union are always with us. The
distressing thing about them is that they
aren’t always wrong.
«
The Cadgers. ,
As the tale unfolds it begins to appear that
the British-American mission of Prime Min-
ister Bruce is an extensive affair with rami-
fications. The latest development, which
apparently developed while Bruce was in
Westralia, is to the effect that he proposes
“to urge in London, with the offer of
Federal participation, a scheme to connect
Broome, Derby and Wyndham, a,ll in West-
ralia, with the Queensland railway system
at Camooweal.” “To urge in London” is, of
course, a polite way of saying that it is
proposed to cadge in London for a gift of
some of the capital, or a loan guarantee and
a gift-of some of the interest. For a long
while Australia was content to borrow fairly
large sums in England. Then it borrowed
larger and larger sums, till the security be-
gan to look tottery. Now' this vigorous
grown-up son, claiming to be the possessor
of “boundless natural resources,” has taken
to sticking up his embarrassed parent for
straight-out gifts in addition. The old parent
is going through a trying time. Not one of
the Allies to whom he made huge war loans
is paying any interest as yet. Still less ate
they paying any principal—-in fact, one very
large debtor declares that he will never pay
any principal. Australia didn’t exactly de-
fault, but it certainly did undertake to pay,
in cash, by a fixed date, a fairly large amount
which the British Treasury advanced for
the pay of Australian troops, and the affable
lOLi which it tendered instead was little
consolation to a country which was getting
lOU’s from all and sundry. While unable
to collect, Britain is itself being collected from
hard by its own importunate creditor, the
“Anglo-Saxon brother” across the Atlantic.
The position is that Britain wants to get rid
of surplus population. On the other hand,
Australia wants population, or else it must
cadge its defence as well as its loans from
the embarrassed parent, and it wants tax-
payers to share its debts. As Australia gets
taxpayers while Britain loses them, it is
difficult to see why Britain should pay for
the loss; but blushless importunity goes a
long way. If the proposed negotiation comes
off in London, it will probably come off here
also, partly because the Government will be
more or less “committed,” partly because
of a loathing to turn away well-cadged
money, and partly through the usual local
influences. It will be a long piece of work—
considerably longer than the Port Augusta-
Darwin affair. It won’t improve the Com-
monwealth’s own property in the Territory
much, but will take the shortest possible cut
through it, and divert its trade to the West-
ralian ports of Wyndham and Derby. There
are. doubts about the immediate advantage,
from the viewpoint of either defence or
settlement, of linking Townsville (popula-
tiqn 22,000, and situated 750 miles from even
a minor city) with Broome (population
about 1000, and deposited 1374 miles from
a still smaller city). Especially there are
doubts as compared with the proposal to
build first of all the South-North railway,
which would put Melbourne and Adelaide
within half the distance of the Federal
estate in the North, and be Federal property
from sea to sea, leaving cross-country con-
nections till later. But a Federal property
with no votes to sell is an uninteresting pro-
position. All these details, however, are only
relevant in a remote way to the original
point, that cadging for-' subsidies, large or
small, from the old people in London is a
poor business. \A grown-up, full-blown
member of the family of nations should be
above that sort of thing.
The Japanese Catastrophe.
As always happens in such cases, the earlier
reports made the Japanese tragedy more
tragic than it really was. The Yokusuka
naval base has not been destroyed, the Bonin
base was not in the least affected —indeed,
no other base has been damaged. Not one
capital ship has perished, though the battle-
cruiser Horuna is said to be a casualty. The
only other naval casualty so far reported is
the Amagi, an aircraft carrier, which appears
to have sunk in dock. “The city of Tokio,”
said one described as “head steward of the
household of Prince Ktjni,” “was delivered
over to mad panic and wild reports.” Cities
always are in such circumstances. Many
Australians will remember the wild stories
circulated in connection with the San Fran-
cisco earthquake of 17 years ago. The dead
numbered 50,000; the Californian wine in-
dustry was destroyed and the State with it.
Though the - city by the Golden Gate was
virtually wiped out, neither the State nor
the citizen was permanently impoverished;
inside six months the survivors were be-
ginning to agree that a fire was just what
their huddle of shacks most needed. Yoko-
hama and the ravaged parts of Tokio will
rise again, as London did 300 years ago,
wealthier and more efficient for their dread-
ful purification; and as for the country
regions where the industrial strength of the
nation lies they will be found to be as little
devastated as those of California were in
1906. France lost 1,000,000 inhabitants
during the World War—-not an assorted, col-
lection including weaklings, cripples, inva-
lids and old people, but the pick of her man-
hood. Her richest industrial region was
turned into a wilderness, and every town and
village in that area was razed to' the earth.
To-day visitors unanimously remark upon the
astounding prosperity of the country. Even
if Japan had lost half-a-million inhabitants
—'and it appears that the figure is not more
than one-fourth of that —yet in a cohntry
where the births exceed the deaths by
750,000 per annum the loss would be insig-
nificant in the national sense. And the
Japanese Government can look with confi-
dence to America’s surplus gold for all the
reconstruction money that may be needed,
and to the whole world, for sympathy and
moral support. In the circumstances it :is
preposterous to talk of Nippon haying “de-
genera, ted. to the status of a third-rate
Power,”, and it is not without significance
that those who are doing it loudest in this
country- are the folks who advocate the
scrapping of the R.A.N. and the establish-
ment, of an R.N. base at Port Stephens or
Sydney, or any other site on which there is
not the slightest likelihood of Britain build-
ing a base.
. ♦
Legalised Blackmail.
Before; Justice Mann, in Melbourne last
week, Ada Anderson, a divorcee, aged 42,
claimed £5OOO damages from George Smart,
five years her junior, for breach of promise
of marriage. Assuming the lady to have been
one of those innocent and unworldly crea-
tures whom the British legislature had in
mind when it first considered this question,
then Smart behaved as badly as any . man
could. He seduced her—technically speak-
ing—and tried to dodge the moral obligation
of transforming her into an “honest woman”
by the mean device of arguing that his
mother, being a Roman Catholic, was opposed
to his marrying a Protestant and a divorced
wmman. But the lady was no more ingenu-
ous than the gentleman. In the words of the
Judge, who gave her £25 for the extra cloth-
ing she had bought—
The parties in this suit were engaged in a contest
of wits to some extent, and they met on fairly
equal terms.
A breach-of-promise suit resolves itself, in
most cases of this sort, into a form of legal-
ised blackmail. It is not pretended that affec-
tion exists on either side. A marriage would
be likely .to mean misery to both. The position
usually is that a man of some means has
committed himself by word or deed, (the case
of a female defendant in breach is so rare
that it may be overlooked) and that, on dis-
covering his mistake, he may be called on
under the rules to pay up or face the legal
music. A public appearance in the absurd
or discreditable role may mean little to one
man ; but it may spell ruin to his neighbor.
The one fights the suit, and is shot, in 99
cases out ot a hundred, for a mere fraction
of the amount demanded by his “victim.”
The other, pays a sum out of all proportion
to any moral or material damage he may
have done the lady—pays it not to salve her
wounds but to save his reputation. Lawyers
estimate that for every, breach matter that
gets into court 20 are settled, on more or
less exorbitant terms, outside. It is right
and equitable that where a genuine seduc-
tion has occurred? —that where an inex-
perienced girl has been led' astray and per-
haps burdened with the support of an infant
—there should be special damages against
the seducer. And also where a decent
woman has been strung on for years, and
then abandoned. But it is ridiculous at this
time of day that a broken “engagement”
should of itself render a man liable to be
hauled before one of the superior courts and
faced with a law-suit on the grand scale.
That it is not a matter for action at law is
realised in perhaps 90 out of every 100 cases
of broken “engagements.” Of the other 19
cases, in perhaps five there is good, sound
ground for action and damages—sometimes
very heavy damages. In the other live the
law is simply used by the adventuress to
levy blackmail. And, as a rule, she only
fails conspicuously when she has to go into
court with her case.
From Hamel to a Henroost.
On the silliest of all repatriation schemes: —
The homing Digger whose transport called at
Fremantle in 1919, and who travelled to Perth by
train, saw from his carriage a spectacle that never
failed to make him laugh. It was a dreary expanse
of sand about six miles, from the capital—a for-
bidding tract, in which the arid shrubs and stunted
trees struggling for existence only deepened the
impression of hopeless sterility. At the entrance
was an enormous signboard, with the legend, in
letters a foot long:
Returned Soldiers’ Poultry-farming Settlement.
The contrast between this proud proclamation
and the hungry wilderness within, and between that
and the gorgeous fairy-tales of politicians and others
in the repatriation business, invariably caused waves
of hilarity to roll along the troop-trains. After
a .long course of rhetoric about the Great New
Life that awaited him in a land made At for heroes
-—oceans of this stuff wei'e spilt from the Armistice
till the Peace —the ragged chicken colony appealed
to the Digger’s sense of humor. It struck that
genial character as a grotesque anti-climax, none
the less diverting because he was, or was to. be,
the “mug.” '
Unfortunately, ridicule has no effect on the Aus-
tralian politician when he is bent on some tom-fool
idea of “developing the natural resources of the
country.” He persisted with the pottering imbecility
of putting untrained men on poultry-farms, and N.
S. , Wales, as usual, led the procession, Ma’s repat-
riation scheme; being based on the theory that a
war discharge had the magic property of enabling
its possessor to grow anything. Other . States de-
manded some evidence of capacity from the
warrior desirous of “going on the land,” but in
N. S. Wales, the war discharge and the qualification
certificate were one and the same thing. Apropos,
the following information has. been obtained from
the N.S.W. Lands Minister by H. J. Connell, an
A.I.F. major:—-.
What is the average indebtedness of a settler on
a returned-soldier poultry-settlement?—£l6lB.
How many such settlers vacated their holdings
for, the 12 months - ending June 30, 1923? — -iS.
What was the average amount charged to those
who subsequently took up such holdings?—Approxi-
mately. £1226.
t orty-eight. failures in one year, and an admitted
loss of £18,816 on an outlay of £77,064! It
would be thrilling news for the taxpayer even if
he could get out'of it -for £18,816, and cf. course
he won’t. There is a significant dearth of informa-
tion as to the extent of the rush for deserted hen-
ranches. capitalised at ■ £1226, but it is unlikely
to have been great. More especially as a select
committee of the Leg. Assembly has recommended
that “the full indebtedness of each settler” —not
merely those who have taken over abandoned pro-
perties—“be written down to such a figure that the
repayment of capital and interest will not' amount
to more than £65 p.a.”
Crazy as it seems, £411,000 of 6 p.c, money
has been lavished on the hen-and-chickens branch of
the N.S.W. repatriation industry. ..One man owes
the Government - £1292 for “marketing”—principally
sustenance allowance and fowl feed. Other indi-
vidual debts on this score are £1073, £9OB,
£624 and £4OB, the total being £64,000. That
is in respect o-f tsix group-settlements, concerning
which the Minister remarks —
It seemed as if the men 'continually wanted assist-
ance. They paid nothing back. They had been in
occupation from four-and-a-half to five years, and
never paid a’ shilling. A man who owed £1,075
for marketing had lived on the place, rent free,
since 1918. The white arits had eaten away half
of the roof of his shed, and it fell on the floor, so
he threw it on top of the other portion, and let the
white ants have it. They were starting on the house
when I arrived.
At Campbelltown, according to an official state-
ment submitted to the select committee, the average
income of 35 poultry-farmers was £l5O 10s. p.a’.
This is about 15s. a week less than the wage of a
Sydney block : boy. But the Campbelltown chOok-
raiser is practically operating on a rent-free basis.
If he had had to pay interest on an outlay of
£l6lB and the Government had demanded a settle-
ment of his marketing account (£10,738 was the
latest total) there would have been no “income”
left. Yet Campbelltown, on the testimony of two
departmental witnesses, is the pride of the group
settlements—“the most satisfactory of the lot.”
The root fact about poultry-farming is that it is
a precarious occupation at the best of times. Thou-
sands of Australians have found by harsh experience
that it isn’t as easy as it looks, nor so profitable as
they, imagined. The few succeed; the many burn
their fingers. Owing to the sky-high cost of feed the
game had ceased to be worth the candle long before the
hosts came home. Many crimes have been commit! ed
in the name of repatriation, but for a certain quality
of complacent idiocy this N.S.W. henfarming stunt
stands alone. Crazy in conception it has been
abominably cruel in its results. Having neither
knowledge nor money 90 p.c. of the unhappy warriors
inveigled into the pursuit of wealth in the fowlyard
would probably have failed in any event. As things
have fallen out not one of them has succeeded ;
it is doubtful if one can succeed.
Australia and the U.S.A.
Hard words from W. A. Lloyd, an Austra-
lian who looks back from Washington (D.C.) :
The Bulletin is mildly angry because the U.S.A.
does not buy from more than it sells to Australia.
It really is time something was done about this


T~ Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us Jlil ia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums . . . . . . . . . . , # # 4 # , £8849
Seventh year’s premiums.. .. .. .. .. . £87,728
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
Managing Director.
matter. For a beginning:, Australia, which is too
much brag, booze and bet, might get a move on, and
cease being a mere hewer of wood and carrier of
water for outsiders. Instead of crudely scratching
together the raw material to feed the factories of
people who don’t pay Australian taxes, and who live
on the other side of the globe, it might start a
few’ factories of its own, and make something other
people might be inclined to buy. Instead of talking
about Yankee bluster, Australia might copy America
in not a few’ things, and show cause why it should
cease to be regarded as a community of poor whites
on about a level with the Turk as regards doing
anything for itself. Australia is mostly too lazy,
too accustomed to living on the eternal loan, lo
think about developing its heritage. There is too
much talk about the magnificent resources of the
country and too little enterprise and initiative in
using them.
A large proportion of Australians profess contempt
for outsiders, and especially for the immigrants from
the mother country; but they don’t mind in the
least sponging for defence on the sorely-taxed
Britisher, or everlastingly chasing John Bull for
the loan of a few more millions. Three million
square miles—think of it: larger than continental
U.S.A. —and a population about two-thirds that -qf
New York city! A third of the population in two
cities, both on the seaboard, and liable to be blown
to smithereens by enemy guns in five minutes. Less
than two persons to the square mile, and an un-
employed problem that has existed as far back as
the writer can remember! A fine tribute to Austra-
lian statesmanship ! Yes, The Bulletin is right,
something should be done; but the Australian seems
in no hurry to do it. Australians might well ask
themselves how they propose to keep Australia at
all if an enemy disputed the right of 5,000,000
people to monopolise 3,000,000 square miles of the
earth’s crowded surface.
The Bulletin’s own gibes about prohibition cut no
ice. Prohibition may be a crazy experiment, but
it’s a mighty big experiment, all the same. America
may not have solved the liquor problem, it may
even have created a bigger problem, but it has
shown the whole world that it has the courage of
its opinion, and is game to tackle a big problem in
a big way. When Australia develops the habit of
doing things, instead of merely talking about them,
it will have the right to criticise America. At
present it hasn’t the right to criticise anybody.
•
Post-office Finance.
The Bruce-Page combination is posed as a
reform Government, and compared with its
predecessor it shows some claim to the title.
Still, if someone would reform its reforma-
tion the feat would not be amiss. A pleasing
feature is the idea of starting a modest
sinking fund to chase a very gross and im-
modest debt, and a wholly unpleasing one
is the acceleration of the debt so that it
may not be overtaken. The proposed loan
spendings for the new year amount to
£18,945,622. Of this monster sum £12,600,000
(.including the immigration money) is for
the settlements that never seem to increase
the number of settlers and for the homes
which leave the community as homeless as
ever. And £3,941,766 of loans is for the
Post and Telegraph Department—that mar-
vel which is so poor that it is always borrow-
ing a trifle to add to the burden of posterity,
and so rich that of late it has paid quite re-
markable amounts into the Treasury. These
surpluses the late Ministry expended gaily
on the purchase of new Spring fashions in fads.
The other £220,000 which the Department
requires for extensions and improvements
will be reluctantly provided out of revenue.
It is in keeping with the capsized record of
the concern that this year the charges are to
be largely reduced because it. is so rich, and
the borrowings are to be largely increased be-
cause it is so poor. The figures invite com-
ment :
Number of Post
and Receiving Amount
Offices. Loss. Borrow’ed.
1915- ._ 8565 £315,990 £489,047
1916- . . 8483 177,146 Nil
Profit.
1917- .. 8298 387,382 94,533
1918- . . 8334 524,645 136,672
1919- . . 8292 487,954 327,728
1920- . . 8369 1,143,768 22,555
1921- .. 1,564,241 847,791
1922- . . 2,149,850 2,288,637
1923- (estimate) 318,590 3,941,766
It is a quaint array. The concern got on
with comparatively little loan money when
it had comparatively little revenue, but when
it had a lot more revenue it wanted a lot
more loans. Now it is resolved to reduce
charges and so cut down the revenue; but
the loans, which went up as. the revenue
went up, are now to go up because it goes
down. What would happen if the rates went
up and the profit reached four millions is'
hard to say. On a new principle that loans
shall be 12 times the net earnings it might
be necessary to borrow £48,000,000 merely
to avoid untidiness.
• ,
The League of Nations saved its dignity
over the Graeco-Italian disturbance by swal-
lowing it, thereby putting it in a safe place.
The League gave big Italy practically all the
satisfaction it wanted at the cost of little
Greece, and pretended as far as possible that
it did so out of a sense of justice, and didn’t
know that Italy had declared that it would
take the satisfaction, anyhow, and that me
League could give it or lump it. It didn’t
tell Mussolini and his employer that they
must withdraw their truculent ultimatums
to Greece and Serbia, and start afresh from
scratch. And though the worst that could
be charged against the Greek Government
for the slaying of Italians on their borders
was gross carelessness, while the best that
could be charged against the Italian Gov-
ernment for bombarding a defenceless Greek
town and slaughtering men, women and
school children was gross fiendishness, the
butchery at Corfu is apparently to pass with
neither apology nor compensation, nor even
the hanging of anybody.
When attacks are made upon the honor of a
public man he owes it to his constituents and
the country to vindicate himself. No offi-
cial is too elevated to be affected by this
salutary rule, and none is too humble. The
present King brought an action against a
retailer of detrimental gossip; Winston
Churchill recently proceeded against some
London newspapers which had accused him
of taking his wife to Cairo at the country’s
expense. When a public man sets himself
up as a censor of morals it is peculiarly de-
sirable that his bona fides should be beyond
question. Mr. It. W. D. Weaver, M.L.A.
for North Sydney, who is such a man, was
publicly accused, on affidavit, some time back,
THE HABIT IS CATCHING.
KING MAGOMBO (to his Prime Minister) : “That low-down chief on the next island
looked sideways at me last week. Send him an unanswerable ultimatum de-
manding 4000 elephant tusks and a salute of 21 tomtoms. We cannot allow
this Italian precedent to go by without taking advantage of it.”
by one W. J. Thomas of having offered him
(Thomas) a bribe of £5OO to fake evidence
against the Communist party in Australia.
Mr. Weaver’s reply was made in the Assem-
bly from behind the hedge of Parliamentary
privilege. The Speaker’s comment summed
up fairly accurately, the sentiment of the
House:—
It is up to Mr. Weaver to take action if he has
any case at all, and not come here and try to
malign a man and brand him as a criminal without
bringing one tittle of evidence against him.
Asked why he had not taken action, Weaver
explained that his alleged libeller was
“financially a man of straw.” He missed
the point here, which is that' the public has
a right to demand that he shall refute
Thomas, even though there may be no dam-
ages attached to the verdict. But in any
event he is in a position to look for redress in
an unquestionably solvent direction. At least
one Sydney newspaper shouldered the re-
sponsibility for the allegations of Thomas in
a leading article which was as libellous (if
untrue) as anything of the sort could be.
For an M.L.A. to reply to a reflection on
his honor, much less to a direct charge of
criminality, from his place in the Assembly is
about as convincing as it would be if he
whispered his defence to the sea waves on a
deserted beach.
“Wog” : A writer from “a city consulting-
room” (B. 6/9/’23) has something to say
regarding Dr. Camac Wilkinson and the
Spahlingeb cure, and suggests that the
Government should consult Dr. Wilkinson
before taking up that treatment. I don’t
mind a consultation; but no Government
should be guided by Dr. Wilkinson or any
other doctor who practises the expensive
tuberculin treatment and is committed to it.
It was mainly through reading Dr. Wilkin-
son’s book that I went through a two years’
course of injections, only to find that tuber-
culin had failed in my case as it has done in
thousands of others all over Australia. Dr.
Wilkinson also praises sanatorium treat-
ment in this work, and even mentions the
shores of Fort Jackson as a suitable spot ;
but he seems to have changed his mind now,
and at present is sceptical. Writing from
the largest sanatorium in Australia and one
of the largest in the world, let me say that
there is absolutely no treatment here —unless
one calls plenty of fresh air and badly cooked
food treatment. No doubt many of the in-
mates are only suffering from bronchial
catarrh ; but as we can’t even get catarrhal
vaccine, it can hardly be wondered at that
there is a certain amount of unrest among
consumptives. A dying man will clutch at
a straw, and after reading the facts of the
case both for and against Spahlingeb the
Straw in this case certainly seems to be a
very promising raft. It is absurd to state
that the talk about Spahlingeb has a bad
effect on a T.B. All sufferers in a very short
time become quite reconciled to their fate;
but it is only natural that, after reading
some of the many favorable opinions of medi-
cal men which the Lancet has printed—
men quite as famous as Dr. Camac Wilkin-
son—we should resolve to fight and fight
for at least a trial of it. If any of us suffer
it is from the depressing fear that we shall
be denied the chance —be it great or little
—which the new treatment offers.
Deab Bulletin, —The Society for Oversea
Settlement of British Women has just pub-
lished a scheme for sbhding 30 educated Brit-
ish women to Victoria. This is practically
the “Home Companions” scheme with the
medical safeguards (bacteriological examina-
tion and blood test) torn out. It does not
matter, of course, who sends British women
to Australia —the more the better. What
does matter is that the women should be
really healthy. My experience in selecting
educated British women during the last
12 months proves conclusively that stringent
medical measures are just as necessary to
protect Australia from diseased educated
women as from diseased working-class women
and factory-girls. Among a number of
examples I quote these two: —
(1) A well-educated young unmarried woman
was sent to me recently bv the 5.0.5.8. W. with
the highest credentials, and l should myself have
regarded her as quite suitable. Nevertheless, medi;
cal examination showed that internal organs were
partly rotted away with gonorrhrea.
(2) Another well-educated, refined and charming
married woman had been infected with syphilis.
Neither of these applicants knew their con-
dition before examination; and both were
genuinely distressed, and afterwards con-
sulted me as to their receiving prolonged
treatment. I am bound in honor, therefore,
to record my emphatic protest against per-
mission being granted by the Australian
Government to any English society of women
—no matter how well-intentioned —to land
on the hospitable shores of Australia women-
migrants who are simply pools oi poison.
I am well aware that Australia House is
not guiltless in this matter, and that the
5.0.5.8. W. may even be acting in collusion
with certain immigration officials. That
only makes the recording of this protest more
important.— Ettie A. Bout.
From Richard O’Connor, the trainer of
Polycrates
In The Bulletin of the 6th instant I notice an
article, “The Polycrates Case and the A.J.C.” You
ask for three main points to be cleared up, viz.: —
(1) Who owned the horse at the time of the
transaction with the Tatt.’s syndicate?
(2) Who got the £600?
(3) If a trainer, what is his name?
The following are the answers to these questions:—
(1) J. W. and F. A. Macarthur Onflow owned
the horse ; F. A. Macarthur managed the horse for
the partnership.
(2) I received the £6OO on behalf of myself and
the stable.
(3) I was the trainer.
1 have never known any owners to object to their
trainers and their staff accepting a present of this
description.
I may mention that I have known of owners who
were only too glad to accept such a present on
their .own behalf without any recognition of the
trainer or his staff.
As already noted, the right place for evidence
to be given on this subject is where it can
be adequately sifted — j.e., before the A.J.C.
Committee. The apparent fact that the
A.J.C. regards this malodorous affair as too
common and ordinary to be worth investiga-
tion merely serves to indicate the state of
racing ethics in N. S. Wales.
«
An outburst of scandalised protest greeted
last week’s sentence of three years’ penal
servitude on young Puddifoot, who killed a
little boy recently in a Sydney suburb. The
protestants have secured a firm hold of the
wrong end of the stick. The jury was bound
by the evidence, which certainly indicated no
more than manslaughter, and the Judge was
bound by the jury’s verdict. The real culprit
is Parliament, which persistently overlooks
the existence of a type of unfortunate who
is neither a criminal nor a lunatic while
social and other surroundings are favorable,
but who is liable to “go fanti” or run , amok
at the first sign of stress. The best-behaved
inmate of Bathurst Gaol, during many years,
was a young man, now dead, who had com-
mitted a particularly atrocious murder. The
one fear his spiritual adviser and warm
friend had concerning him was that, at the
end of his term, he would be released. The
clergyman knew that, given a recurrence of
the circumstances which had produced the
first tragedy, there would be a second,
and the same no doubt applies to Puddifoot.
He will come out of gaol in some 30 months
time (the prison behavior of these degener-
ates is invariably admirable) and face the
World with the deceptive demeanor of a
harmless youth, yet underlying it a wild
beast’s disposition, ever ready to be roused,
and when roused capable of being served by
a human being’s intelligence. The average
jury does not care to convict these people
of murder; and, indeed, they are not mur-
derers in the true sense of the term. Nor,
for that matter, does a murder verdict meet
the case where the accused is of an age
when even a so-called “life sentence” might
result in his being freed in the prime of his
powers for evil. But most juries, if the law
allowed it, would find one of the Puddifoot
type “unfit to be at larg6,” ipore especially
if they knew that the verdict did not involve
punishment, but merely segregation in an
environment containing most of the ordinary
amenities of life, with the exception of free-
dom. Tbe presence on the Bench, in such
cases, of a specialist in psycho-pathology
would be of help to both Judge and jury.
More and more it is coming to be realised
that much of what we have been accustomed
to treat as crime is disease; that a diagnosis
requires to be substituted for a trial, and
surgical or hospital treatment for the lash
or the prison cell.


Summer-weight English
Balbriggan Underwear, 8/6.
Peapes have just opened large stocks of good
qualities in this popular style of light Underwear.
Undershirts with half-sleeves
Full-length Underpants
Trunk Drawers
Sizes: 34in. to 44in. chest measurements.
ALL ONE PRICE - - - 8/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
'iM j
fsd
“THE
WORLD
BEATER.”
GRAND PRIX OF
EUROPE
DISTANCE: 500 MILES.
STARTERS: 14 ITALIAN,
FRENCH AND AMERICAN
CARS.
RESULT:
Ist.—FIAT. Time: 5 hours
27 minutes 38 seconds.
2nd.—FIAT. Time: 5 hours
28 minutes 2 seconds.
On Road or Track FIAT
is Foremost.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At one time the Federal renewal loan
looked like a failure, and only by strenuous
whipping-up was a fiasco avoided. The
simple fact is that the operation was
too big. Australia has got into a sea where
the financial waves are dangerous to a vessel
that is overloaded and undermanned. Even
if the Federation attempted to pull up,
which it doesn’t, its five big hulking child-
ren (for Tasmania isn’t big enough to hulk),
with their unlimited borrowing powers, can
pull the Commonwealth’s credit down to the
gutter, and they are doing it. As for the
Commonwealth, when the war ended its debt
was almost exactly £300,000,000. It was
£416,000,000 last year, so the Government
had pretty well scraped the market bare be-
fore it offered its renewal loan. There are
plenty more renewals ahead, and if they all
pull through as well as Treasurer Earle
Page’s first venture Australia should be very
much glad and twice as much astonished.
H. C. M. Garling, who took Pratten’s place
in the Senate when that energetic little
man transferred to the House of Reps., has
another chance of becoming a N.S.W. Sena-
tor now that E. D. Millen has gone to his
account. Narrowly beaten in 1919 he was
second to Millen last December as regards
No. 1 Nationalist votes, polling 54,754
to Josh. Thomas’s 9082. However, in the
appointment of a successor to Tom Bakhap,
the Speck Parliament departed from the rule
that the prize should go to the “fastest un-
placed” candidate of the same political com-
plexion as the deceased, or retiring Senator,
bestowing the seat, and the £2OOO hanging
to it, on ex-Premier Hayes. Garling may
find this an awkward precedent, the more so
as he is out of favor with the National
Federation since he accused it of having
broken an arrangement relative to “How-to-
vote” cards.
Australia enjoys the blessing of preference
to unionists, which doubtless explains why
the Federal Statistician recorded the exist-
ence of 702,938 of them in 1922 as compared
with 130,320 in 1907. A trade-unionist is
not necessarily a man who knows his job
any better than an outsider. In other words,
the union gives the public nothing in return
for preference. But a unionist must strike
against the public when ordered, and must
pay levies in support of other people’s strikes
however virulent. Probably it will be de-
cided one of these days that the situation is
too one-sided, and the preference will go
on the ground that the public would get at
least as good service without it.
Judge Beeby oozed figures when giving the
N.S.W. weekly basic wage another lift of
3s. the other day. Most of them were quite
irrelevant; but a few that he didn’t mention
had a lot of bearing on the case. For in-
stance, the Commonwealth trade returns for
July had just shown that already Australian
wages were so high or the tariff so low that
for_ the one month we had imported
£6,540,000 worth of mostly-manufactured
goods more than our exports would pay for.
Peacock, who has been three times Premier
of Victoria, and has served 10 years in the
Ministry of Education, is a mucli-discussed
man these days. A majority of members qn
the Government side would prefer him to
Lawson. He has the more engaging person-
ality, is more democratic in his sympathies,
and has a quality of self-effacement whic'li
Lawson has never shown. If Lawson fails
to carry on with his composite Ministry, Pea-
cock is pretty sure to be sent for. Though
the veteran of the Assembly in point of ser-
vice (he-has sat there since 18S9) his spirit
is still fresh and youthful, and his laugh is
as gay as ever, if some of the old thunder
has gone.
EQUAL TO ALL THINGS.
MUSSOLINI THE MAGNIFICENT: “ You do not play? No matter —Mussolini shall by him-
self make all the music the world can want!”
W. F. Dunn writes: —
I wish others would do as I da—refrain from con-
troversy re the leadership of the N.S.W., Labor, party.
However, “Aussie’s” (B. 13/9/’23) obvious mixture
of malice and falsehood requires attention. I was
not a follower of Bailey, M.L.A., or any other
individual, J accepted executive control, as I dp now,
though not in accord with some recent executive
decrees. Let “Aussie” shed his anonymity and
I’ll submit my Labor and active-service record against
his.
Musings from the Gallery :
Vic. Premier Lawson’s worth as a political strate-
gist will be tested by his plan for the redistribution
of seats. Lawson would like to drop the - subject
entirely, just to stiffen the entente with farmer
Allan; but the insistent howl for justice to the
under-represented metropolis cannot be ignored. Allan
and his followers will fight against any suggestion
of increasing Melbourne’s representation at the expense
of two or three rural electorates, and the harassed
Premier may be obliged to placate the capital by the
addition of three members, which would make the
strength of the Assembly 68. Watt had a similar
brain-wave 10 years back. Willie’s idea was to raise
the number of constituencies by five, allotting 46 to
the country and 24 to Melbourne, but he thudded
heavily, with the result that Labor had an inglorious
reign of 13 days. Lawson’s wildest dream of redistri-
bution doesn’t go beyond the limited generosity of
Watt, though over 150,000 electors have been added
to the metropolitan rolls in the meantime.
“Fax”: Before another M.L.A. bids his
small political world good-night, I move that
State funerals be abolished in such cases.
Already an M.L.A., M.H.R. or Senator en-
joys advantages during his life which the
voters have not willingly bestowed. He
travels free, fixes his own charge for lun-
cheon and dinner, and raises his own salary
on the ground that the cost of living has in-
creased. Now the day seems to be drawing
near when every member of Parliament will
expect a free funeral. Already a start has
been made; and the imposition ought to be
nipped in the bud. The willing (or stupid)
taxpaying horse is being ridden to death.
And his supposed protector is the rider.
Elwood Mead, who was brought to N. 8
Wales to advise the Government generally
on irrigation and settlement, has furnished
his report; but very little of it has been
published, and it is doubtful if the Govern-
ment wants to see it made widely known. For
the truth is that the big American expert
isn’t a bit enthusiastic about either our wheat-
growing or our fruit-growing under irriga-
tion, and believes that the plan of dumping
unproved men on unmade farms in which
they have no financial interest is not only
bad but likely to be ruinous.
The N.S.YV. Government has struck an-
other brilliant idea —George Fuller did it,
apparently. Two “experts” are to be brought
from England, an engineer and a. traffic man,
to tell the State why its railways don’t pay
although fares and freights have been nearly
doubled during the. last few years. All this
is like a dipsomaniac calling on one doctor
after another in the hope that he will pre-
sently find one to comfort him by telling him
that what’s really the matter is housemaid’s
knee or ingrowing toenails. The engineering
and tralhc branches of the N.S.W. service
may not be ail they ought to be; but it the
Government can’t see that what is really the
matter is the political engineering it is be-
cause it doesn’t want to see. The shameful
increase in staff, in the cost of new works
and in the number of unpayable lines
(mostly built for purposes of political cor-
ruption) are all in evidence. But it is doubt-
ful whether Fuller’s two imported experts
will be asked to deal with those matters—
the last and most important; of them, any-
way.
Professor Edgeworth David told the recent
Science Congress that “such gatherings
would do more to ensure everlasting peace
in the Pacific than anything else.” Maybe.
Yet one recalls the Science Congress held in
Australia in 1914, when leading Hun pro-
fessors sang the same sweet song—and
then hopped home to Germany and set about
improving the poison-gas supply.
The Wheat Council created by a conference
organised by the U.S. Government, and held
at Chicago, has issued a statement of which
this is part:—
The directors of the Wheat Council are fully con-
vinced that a reduction in the wheat acreage and
wheat production in this country is absolutely
essential to a profitable price for wheat to the Ameri-
can grower.
The market is so weak and the outlook so
gloomy that the American Farm Bureau
Federation proposes to withhold 290,000,000
bushels. But that of course only dams
back the trouble, which indeed has been
partly caused by the carry-over of more
than 100,000,000 bushels from the previous
year. Now Russia is coming in again: it
has undertaken to deliver 15,000,000 bushels
to Germany before Nov. 1, and an official
statement declares that there will be upwards
of 100,000,000 bushels available for ex’port
from the crop which has just been har-
vested. What surplus America and Russia
have for export wouldn’t matter two straws
to Australia if it had its own consumers
within its own tariff walls. But to have
to depend on foreign buyers is tragic.
Bertram, Speaker of Queensland Assembly,
has resumed the practice of wearing robes—
he had previously discarded them as alien
to the traditions of democracy. Simul-
taneously, the pampered menial who brings
messages from the Governor has shed his
military togs for “civvies,” and neither
salutes nor is saluted. That is one for the
Whites and one for the Reds, so everyone
should be satisfied.
The imports into Britain are enormous—
far more than the exports will pay for —and
this reacts on Australia in a curious way.
This country grants preference to British
goods, but any article worth, say, £lOO,
brought into England with £75 worth of its
value complete, ranks as British goods if
the other £25 worth of work is done on it
in . John Bull’s country. Therefore it is
quite possible for 75 per cent, of the con-
cession which the Commonwealth grants
Britain, to the detriment of its own industries
and its revenue, to be preference to Hun
goods. The position is one which Australia
could amend, to its own profit, and indirectly
that of Britain also, by enacting that there
must be 50 or 75 or 90 per cent, of real
British work in these ostensibly-Britisli
goods.
When Bruce begins to flirt with Canada
on the question of reciprocal tariffs he will
promptly trip over two difficulties—unless
the Ivanuclc briskly covers them over. One
is the large employment of Asiatic and other
colored labor in some of the Canadian indus-
tries ; the other the fact that, whereas Aus-
tralian wages have been steadily advancing
and hours of labor diminishing, those of
Canada (like those of most of the world)
have been moving the other way. In the
Canadian timber industry, for instance, the
labor, team is 26 p.c. Asiatic. Canadian
working hours average 58 per week as
against 48 in Australia for the same classes
of labor; and the Canadian average wage is
£l4 18s. as against the Australian £lB 10s.
6d.—again for the same classes of labor.
Independent” strikes a new idea :
A Cabinet ranker who lately advocated in The
Bulletin elective Ministries declared that that re-
form would “eliminate most of the bitter party
strife in politics.” A Minister would, however, still
retain in an elected Cabinet the privileges, place and,
above all, pay and “perks” of a portfolio possessor;
and that being so, that he was elected by the
members would not leave him immune from envy
and intrigue. Until the pay of portfolio-holders and
private members is made equal, no great change
will be observed. The only way to disintegrate
party is to pool all salaries.
Nowadays when Greg. McGirr, M.L.A.,
is seen in Sydney, Higgins, M.L.C., is gener-
ally somewhere in the neighborhood. They
are the Young Australia Party, whose osten-
sible purpose is to revive some of the planks
that Labor has nearly forgotten—a solid
adherence to a White Australia is one of
them. But its main object in life is to
supply a platform for the feet of Greg.
McGirr. He is the party in the House;
Higgins the official sec. outside.
PROVING IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw him turn in the Domain on those who mocked
at him,
And guessed his cup of bitterness was just about
a-brim.
His attitude suggested one who's stung by gibe and
jeer
To vindicate his honor and his character to clear.
“I am a dinkum Labor man”—his words came hiss-
ing hot —-
“I throw the lie into the teeth of him who says I’m
not;
I brand him as a slanderer and stamp him as a
swine;
As Kipling phrases it, my friends, the lives you’ve
lived are mine.
“Is it the loose sac suit I wear and thirty-shilling
hat
That make you loath to take me for a genuine demo-
crat '!
Or can it be my pointed boots set memories astir
Of Socialists like Minahan and Gregory McGirr ?
“ ’Tis true, perhaps, the eloquence and gestures that
1 use
May waken reminiscences of llolman and ol' Hughes,
Who rose from soap-boxes like these and proletarian
cheers
To fraternise with plutocrats and grip the hands of
peers.
“They climbed upon the workers’ backs, to eminence
they rose,
To bite the hands that fed them once. I’ll not be
classed with those.
I’ve evidence they could not give, a proof that
cannot lie,
That I’ve been alwavs one of vou and shall be
till I die.
“With Martha’s sons, till Hell shall freeze, I’ll
always stand in line” —
He paused, as one about to give a true Masonic
sign;
He paused, that bourgeois-looking man, and did a
simple thing
With only the proficiency that practice long can
bring—
In short, to shatter calumny and puncture disbelief,
He very deftly blew his nose without a handkerchief.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BRITISH-
MADE
02SQE0
ELECTRIC
IRONS.
m.
MQ
■
lCKer
ELECTRICAL"
CO.. LTD
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobol
Samsonite
Qekatme Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
mte
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
II
In Powder and Liquid Form
Obtainable at all Stores
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturer* of ‘VALLO’ Brand Chemicals, Dips & Sprays
And at
Sydney & Brisbane
Head Office:
497-503 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Correspondence
Invited
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Southern Union General Insur-
ance Co. of Australasia, Ltd.: —
To Reduce
June, Surplus. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£102,210
1922*.. £3724 Nil £3724 98,486
Additional flotation exes., £86.. 98,572
1923 .. 8454 Nil 8454 90,118
*lB months.
But the £90,118 deficit shown by the table
is not a matter which concerns policy-
holders : it will be shown presently that the
backing for insurance contracts is unusually
large. The deficit is the portion of share-
holders’ capital which has no tangible assets
to represent it. The methods employed in
floating the Southern Union were the most
impudent on record; and its promoter pulled
off one of the biggest coups in share-selling.
The prospectus suggested that the flotation
was to be one of the cleanest; there were to
be “no promotion or vendor’s shares; and
no payment of any kind, whether in cash or
shares,” was to be made to any individual
for joining the co. But there was a sting
in the tail of the prospectus: an “under-
writing” agreement provided for the establish-
ment of an independent share-selling organ-
isation which was to receive a commission
not to exceed 8 p.c. on the “nominal value”
of shares. Some of the effects of that agree-
ment were exposed by The Bulletin
(30/11/’22). Briefly, this is what happened :
The “underwriting” co. turned out to be in 300
shares (George Abbott held 50, and Mrs. Mina Abbott
250), which were called to only Is., making paid
capital £l5. This mite took to itself the right of
placing the two million £1 shares, and it pro-
ceeded to sell apparently regardless of what amount
of capital prospective insurance operations warranted.
Altogether 1,892,364 shares were placed.
Though the shares were to be called to only 45.,
the £l5 “underwriting” concern pouched its 8 p.c.
on the £1 “nominal value” of scrip. But the joke
did not end there. Share-selling proved easy, and
after a time the “underwriters” decided to sell
scrip, to be paid to 45., at a premium of 2s. 6d.,
and they were so successful that they then became
bolder and lifted the premium to 45., representing
100 p.c. on the amount to be called up. Insurance
operations meanwhile had shown no justification
whatever for any premium ; in fact, the additional
capital was not wanted.
How much the “underwriters” bagged after pay-
ing share-selling exes, has not been divulged. The
directors have also failed to disclose the actual costs
of flotation, because the published accounts do not show
what became of the share premiums, though it is
understood that the “underwriters” did pass on some-
thing. All the directors have to say in their latest
report is that the agreement with the underwriters
was terminated during the past year.
The Southern Union directors made no
effective protest against the flotation methods
employed, though had they appealed to the
Courts or to the Government, or even laid
the facts before the public, the £l5 share-
selling concern would probably have been
put out of business. One visible result, shown
by the published accounts, was that to raise
£378,473 paid capital, all the : share pre-
miums and £102,296 besides went in com-
missions and preliminary exes,., the £102,296
equalling almost 13d. per share called to 4s.
How much more was absorbed cannot
be ascertained, owing to lack of in-
formation as to how many shares were
sold at premiums of 2s. 6d. and 4s.
Evidently the “Wild Cat’s” disclosure of a
year back had some effect, because between
the annual balances the visible Cost charged
against the co. of placing 95.559 additional
shares was only £B6, the share-sellers’ cut
being practically restricted to the amount
of premiums received on the shares. But the
Southern Union did not require any of this
additional capital, and it has been robbed
for all time of premiums which, if future’
operations justified the prices, would have
been the co.’s property and not any indi-
vidual’s.
On the basis that funds 50 per cent, greater
than a year’s net premiums are fair backing
for policies, no more than £128,000 of funds
were required at June 30. The co. had all
this and more: even allowing for establish-
ment costs, at that date the co. showed
£288,355 net. This means that the co. is
heavily over-capitalised, and consequently,
even if the present volume of business proved
highly profitable, the return would be only
a small percentage on paid capital. But un-
derwriting has shown losses instead of pro-
fits. Of last year’s £85.209 of net premiums
claims took £46,532 (54.7 p.c.) and expenses
£46,356 (54.5 p.c.), so there was an under-
writing deficit of £7679. Interest and profit
on sales' of securities turned in £16,132, _so
the accounts closed with a surplus of £8453.
That does not take into account the necessity
which existed for providing 40 p.c. of. the
year’s net. premiums to cover unexpired risks.
The directors have set aside £5OOO for that
purpose; actually about £34,000 was needed.
From shareholders’ point of view the posi-
tion of the Southern Union at June 30 was
as follows. Approximately only £254,272
of their paid capital of £378,473 was repre-
sented by tangible assets when sufficient had
been extracted to provide adequate reserves
for unxpired risks. So the management is
faced with the problem of recovering about
£124,200 before its capital is restored. A
very much larger business of good quality
must be won at reasonable cost to accom-
plish that, and, later on, to produce even
moderate divs. So far costs have been ex-
cessive ; and that fact has evidently prompted
the proposal that the Board of Directors
should be written down from 14 to nine.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd. (the
deficit of £110,827 with which the co. began
was made up of patent rights £lOO,OOO, pre-
liminary exes. £3327, and underwriters’ com-
mission £7500) :
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£110,827
Surplus assets transferred £11,978 98,849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97,487
1921. . £19,986 5 p.c. = £12,094 7,892 89,595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 .. 90,809
Vendors’ adjustment, £Bl4 .. 91,623
1922.. 48,788 8 p.c. = 28,800 19,988 71,635
Additional goodwill items, £3681. .. 75,316
New share costs, £9471 84,787
Flotation consideration (Singa-
pore C 0.).. .. 10,000 74,787
1923.. 53,977 10 p.c. = 43,375 10,602 64,185
In three years the Hume Pipe has expanded
into a 10 p.c. proposition. The co. is doing
better even than that, because, besides having
£10,602 available after paying that rate,
£73,750 of capital which carried divs. for
a full year was in the co.’s care for only
four months. Incidentally, the published
accounts show net earnings at £68,477, but
in the table £14,500 provision for taxation,
most, if not all, of which will be collected
by tax-gatherers presently, has not been
treated as profit. There were other happen-
ings affecting the balance-sheet which are
not recorded by the Profit and Loss account.
During the year a pup co., the Singapore
Hume Pipe, was successfully floated, and
from it the parent co. received £5OOO cash
“to cover out-of-pocket expenses,” and
£lO,OOO in £1 fully-paid ordinaries. The
latter amount was used to write down the
book value of patents. Meanwhile, the
patents account had grown £3320 by the re-
purchase of the Maoriland rights, the parent
having decided to go into business on its
own account there. In addition, £361 w;as
spent on new patents, and as they are
not treated as tangible assets in the table,
that amount and the cost of the M.L. re-
purchase have been added to the deficit,
while £lO,OOO from the Singapore co. has
been deducted. During the year the direc-
tors decided to offer the balance of unissued
capital, funds having been required for the
vigorous extension of the business and to
keep the bank overdraft down to a reason-
able level. Old shareholders failed to pro-
vide all the cash wanted, and £9333 went in
underwriting commission and brokerage to
get the issue fully subscribed. That repre-
sented Is. 4d. per share issued during the
year, and was a stiff charge considering
how well the co. subsequently proved to have
been doing.
In three years the co. has expanded from
four works,, in which the Hume brothers had
demonstrated that their patents would re-
volutionise the manufacture of reinfpreed-
concrete piping, to 16 factories spread
throughout Australasia, and, according, to
the directors, all are now “working at full'
pressure,” and “prospects for the ensuing
year are most promising.” Indeed, it is one
of the advantages of this system that a “fac-
tory” can be set up almost anywhere—
alongside almost any big job that has to be
done, and this means a great saving in
freight. The profits so far earned are all
the more creditable considering the heavy
outlay and the strain on the administration
caused by the rapid expansion. Besides, not
all the Capital is in revenue-earning assets:
£60,504 is represented by shares in other
cos. Patent rights outside Australasia
were sold to an English co., Hume
Pipe and Concrete Construction Co.,
Ltd., in which the Australian co. apparently
holds about £50,000 of scrip. Owing to the
unsettled conditions, exploitation of -the
patents abroad has been costly, and the Eng-
lish co.’s Profit and Loss was £47,370 in
debit at March 31. However, rights had
been traded off in seven foreign countries,
the Stanton Iron Works (Eng.) had laia
down a plant, and the directors are expect-
ing that pending negotiations in California
will give the co. a big lift. The Australian
Co.’s £lO,OOO holding in the Singapore ven-
ture has also not yet become a contributor
to profits. Further the co. is doing nothing
at present in N. S. Wales. It sold the rights
to the Government, but, as the State there
is going out of trade, perhaps something may
be done either in the way of recovering the
rights or working under a royalty payable to
the Treasury.
The following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows how the new capital has been
employed, and gives a general view of the
improved position:—
1921. 1922. 1923.
Paid capital .. £322.515 £360,000 £433,750
Liabilities . . 117,395 121,013 89,994
Freeholds . . 38,838 38,429 42,813
Plant, etc. ... 92,478 155,665 190,043
Stocks.. ... 80,187 72,306 64,430
Uncompleted w»k 39,132 39,656 19,594
Book debts . . 47,771 59,762 100,255
Cash, etc. .. 17,178 25,537 25,868
Shares in other cos. 46,825 46,825 60,504
The future of the co. necessarily depends
on the extent of new works in which pipes are
required, and on the ability of Governments
and local bodies to raise funds for • those*
sqhemes. The directors are candid in refer-
ring to this aspect of the industry, but they
consider that the establishment of so many
works over the Commonwealth and Dominion
“must assist in stabilising profits.”
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), tim-
ber merchants and manufacturers of builders’
goods:—
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1913. , £14,151 8 p.c. =£13,200 £951 £49,737
Freeholds written up . . 10,000 59,737
1914.. 15,123 8 p.c. = 13,200 1,923 61,660
1915. . 13,266 8 „ „ 13,200 66 61,726
1916.. 13,224 8 „ „ 13,200 24 61,750
Written off plant, £6750 .. 55.000
1917.. 10,004 6 p.c. = 9,900 104 55,104
1918.. 10,027 6 „ „ 9,900 127 55,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.. 9,006 8 p.c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,800 312 55,749
Assets written up . . 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear. -
1921.. 20,004 ■ 6 p.c. = 13,200 6,804 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ „ 15,400 2,004 8,808
1923.. 17,795 8 „ „ 17,600 195 9,003
A div, taking all except £195 looks like sail-
ing close to the wind; but note that, even
though the directors state that “greater
activity in the building trade” permitted
the increase in the div.-rate, the disclosed
net profits w ere only £391 larger than those
shown for the previous indifferent year.
This suggests that, with the return of better
times, the management has revived an old
habit of stowing away a' bit on the quiet.
On the other hand, seeing that assets were
written up during the boom, larger internal
provisions may now be advisable, though in
cos. like Goodlet and Smith’s the outsider
is not permitted a peep at the true inside
position. Assets are collected under three
heads: —
1921. 1922. 1923.
Machinery, plant, etc.. . £54,000 £50,000 £50,000
Stocks . . ... 20,371 21,432 19,151
Book debts and shares in
other cos 222,170 196,442 204,808
£296,541 £267,874 £273,959
Liabilities .. 63,136 31,365 36,156
Net assets . . . . £233,405 £236,509 £237,803
The figures are of little value in the absence
of derails regarding the wide range of. out-
side investments. Obviously some of those
interests are producing handsome returns;
on the other hand, there: is the holding of
Mudgee Slate, which has so far produced
no divs., though G. and S. may be making a.
bit on sales of the limited output. The
most the outsider can learn of Goodlet and
Smith’s is that it has been highly successful
in the past, and apparently continues to do
well. The div.-rate has never been large,
but there have been several juicy plums for
shareholders. Five years ago £-55,000 of
capital was returned, and only three years
back remaining capital was doubled—mak-
ing it £220,000-Miy writing up assets and
issuing scrip against almost all reserves;
Consequently, the present 8 p.c. rate gives
16 p.c. on paid capital prior to the recon-
struction.
# * # *
Commonwealth Agricultural Service
Engineers, Ltd., generally known as the
■ C.A.S.E. Co.—This very energetic young
Adelaide co. published interim accounts in
February (reviewed B. 5/4/’23), to support
an issue of shares. Accounts for the 12
months ended June 30 have now been pub-
lished, and they disclose that the youngster
is developing in great style. The Case Co.
was formed to take over the Australian
agency of the J. I. Case Threshing Machine
Co., of Wisconsin (U.S.A.), the world’s biggest
manufacturers of tractors and agricultural
machinery. The Australian co.’s activity so
far has been confined mostly to tractors, and
its selling organisation has been so success-
ful that, though paid capital has bounded
from £58,728 at the end of February to
£144,844 at June 30 (£28,808 more has since
been raised), the management still requires
a substantial bank overdraft. The raising
of ample capital was the management’s big-
gest problem; but Adelaide, with its habit
of backing its faith with cash, came to the
co.’s aid. The wealthier Case shareholders
underwrote £lOO,OOO 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
£lOO,OOO of ordinaries, and lodged, securi-
ties to guarantee fulfilment of their agree-
ment. For this service they received 4 p.c.
on the issue ; under the circumstances it
suited the co. well to pay this commission,
and the doubtful prospect of immediate divs.
on any ordinary shares left on the under-
writers’ hands justified the terms. Of course,
underwriting added to the substantial good-
will load already carried by the co.: the tak-
ing over of the original agency co., purchase
of established engineering workshops, propa-
ganda and demonstration had absorbed a lot
of funds. The June 30 balance-sheet showed
the following intangible assets: Goodwill,
£9691; agency rights, £4000; demonstration
account, £2000; preliminary and underwriting
costs, £13,000. When div. appropriations
had .been extracted, approximately £28,000 of
the £144,844 paid capital was represented by
goodwill items. That was after writing
£11,502 off various establishment accounts.
The year’s operations appear to have been
very profitable, and the results are the more
creditable because much effort and cash were
spent on developing the organisation and
extending interests to all States. On orders
completed at the balancing-date the co. shows
a gross profit of £61,105, which gave £20,844
net, or rather better than 14 p.c. on capital
paid up. Most of the capital, of course, was in
the co.’s care for only a couple of months, and
the selling arrangements were in full swing
only portion of the year. If the manage-
ment can sustain its effort of recent months
—since the accounts closed turnover lias
further improved—the current year should
exhibit better results, particularly as many of
the charges on last year’s earnings should not
recur. Divs. of 8 p.c. on cumulative prefs.
and 10 p.c. on ordinaries took £8449 of the
year’s profit of £20,844. All except a few r
hundreds Of the balance was used to reduce
goodwill accounts. At June 30 outside lia-
bilities totted up £76.521, and on the other
side were these tangible assets
Property, workshops, plant, etc. . . £32,245
Book debts .. .. .. .. • 74,057
Stocks , and shipments.. .. .. 82,583
Cash. etc. .. .. .. .. . 6,414
Shares and investments .. .. 5,000
£200,299
One feature of trading so far has been that
an average of 65.2 p.c. cash payment has been
made on tractors sold, an unexpectedly large
proportion. The co. carries the balance on
p.n.’s and hire-agreements.
• • • • •
The underwriters, who have been held
strictly to their agreement, have lately been
selling shares in Queensland, and a prospec-
tus is out offering scrip in N. S. Wales. The
latest balance-sheet and additional figures pre-
sented should make share-selling easier than
it has been hitherto. The future of the co.
depends, of course, on the success of the wide-
spread organisation in inducing Cocky to
abandon Dobbin and on skilful management.
* . * . * *,..
The new Board of the Australian Provin-
cial- Assurance, Ltd., and founder' Selby
Wood, w;ho was on the sick-list for a couple
of years, have, wasted no time, straightening
Out the association’s affairs. There have
been changes on the Board and on the
executive, and several costly experiments 1 are
being dumped. The South African branch
—whose costs were not Warranted by the
business done-—is to be unloaded on to the
Southern Cross for £3OOO cash. The Tas-
manian branch has been closed, and'Will in
future be worked as an agency from Mel-
bourne. At the end of this month; the ‘fire
and marine branch, which John Goodwin,
formerly Insurance Commissioner ;-for
Queensland, established a few -years', ages and
which to; December 31 last had (registered a
deficiency • of £67,878; passes to the- Union
Assurance Society, one of the cos. in the
big English: Commercial Union stable. The
A.l’.A. appears to have got rid of this costly
branch on very satisfactory, terms : the. U nion
relieves it of all liabilities, and for five years
is to pay 10 p.c. p.a. on gross premiums
from business transferred. It seemed un-
likely that the A.P.A. could make this de-
partment pay for many years; now it has
prospects of picking Up as much as £lO,OOO
net p.a. for five years. At December 31 the
management had reserved £30,000-odd for un-
expired risks under lire, marine and accident
policies, and probably about £20,000 of that
would represent risks on the-business 5 now to
be 1 transferred. So the A.PA, appears to
have a good chance of recovering most, of the
deficiency. The sale also relieves the- co. of the
exceedingly costly organisation (Which 7: had
been created to handle the business. The
directors have swung the axe in other direc-
tions, and much dead wood has been chopped
away. Uf course, tlfe current year’s accounts
will:not show the full effect of all this, .relief
from excessive expenditure affecting only the
last few months of the period. The clean -


The “Wild Cat”
Monthly.
ACCEDING to the request of many subscribers The
Bulletin will, on the last Saturday of each
month, issue
AN INVESTORS’ GUIDE,
incorporating the company reviews published in these
columns, together with much other information of
value to investors, banks, insurance offices, trustees
and others.
In addition to a careful and exhaustive analysis of
THE HISTORY AND PROSPECTS OP
COMPANIES
whose shares are dealt with on ’Change,
THE POSITION OF INSURANCE
OFFICES
will be closely scrutinised, as a guide to policy-
holders and intending policy-holders.
Pride 2/- per copy; Post Free 22/6
per year.
Direct from The Bulletin Office, or through the
Principal Book-stores.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-fstreet, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
— A DVT.
• * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. [3
* * * »
The cleanliness of Pioneer Wood Pipe is a strong
recommendation for its use in domestic water supply.
No rust taints the water, nor growths cling to the
side to choke the flow, and pure, sparkling water is
delivered uncontaminabed throughout its long life.
This advantage.,in addition to its cheapness, lightness,
long life and simplicity, has established Pioneer Wood
Pipe as the finest modern conduit investment. For
full information write for our free illustrated book.
The Australian' Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane CoVe, N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World. — Advt,
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.tson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply: “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinerv, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants’,
etc. — Advt.
♦ * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is Impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOYj
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these conducts. They are issued
on a basis higiuy profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet tlui very substantial Death Duties
(State or federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director
w
&
L
3 ° °n
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Mb
Bj
Swift & ('mutmn> litij., Aw»trnla»tnti Agents. '.'6 80 Clarrnre Mt.. Syitney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Loßttes from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglarr- Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at invest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 11:5 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY
[. CARY. J.P.. Chairman.
G. HOWARD POP'S, General Manager.
up made in the last accounts and subsequent
reorganisation have probably saved the
A.P.A. from becoming a total wreck so far
as shareholders are concerned; on the other
hand, of course, the field for exploitation
has been greatly reduced. As to policy-
heldei-sii, THE BhLlEltn has repeatedly em-
phasised that tiihrh has sb fat beeff no need
for anxiety, though theii* ttifn WOtold liave
come had the co. continued to drift as it did.
Owing to the size of shareholders’ funds in
:he business, the last accounts showed
£200,000-odd of tangible assets in excess
of the actuary’s estimate of policy liabilities.
A meeting of shareholders has been called
for September 22 at which the directors will
seek authority to sell the fire and marine
department and the S’African business.
Shareholders should have no hesitation in
approving the deals.
* * * *
A notable absentee from the long array of
officials in the 8. 11. PrGjl’S latest report is
G. D. Delprat. When he resigned frbiii |n@
general-managership in 1921 —the resignation
followed differences of opinion with the Board
on vital matters of policy—Delprat was ap-
pointed consulting-engineer. The extent to
which he was “consulted” is not known, but
a significant feature is that when the arrange-
ment terminated it was not renewed, and
“G.D.” has passed out of the Prop.’s service
without comment in the directors’ report.
For many years Delprat was the driving force
and organising genius behind the Prop.’s min-
ing activities at Broken Hill, and it was his
imagination and far-sightedness which led to
the Associated Smelters relieving the Prop, of
the works at Pt. Pirie, and which induced the
directors to embark on the iron-and-steel en-
terprise at Newcastle. However, Delprat,
who at the age of 16 began a five years’
apprenticeship in Middlesex steelworks, is
still interested ih iron and steel. He is man-
aging director of Rylands, of Newcastle, and
recently joined the Board of Iladflelds
(Aus.), Ltdj, the big concern which has
sprung from the little Australian Electric
Steel Co. established by energetic J. M.
Deschamps.
Old B. H. Block 10 has instructed John
Brandon to call for tenders for the whole
outfit, either in lots or as a whole. What
hastened the end was the 90 thousand or so
dropped in Block 10 Misima (Papua)
gold-show. When lead shot up to £29 a ton
and there was a chance of making a rise, the
till was empty. So the Board borrowed
£20,000 or so from Amalgamated Zinc, and
had hardly got work going when the metal
boom burst, and the co. has gone so deep
in the mud that it has to sell up. The
Edmunds award hit Block 10 hard. Big
mines can pay on two shifts of six hours’
actual underground work. The has-beens,
like Block 10, with contracted shoots of low-
frade ore, lose money. Old chairman
Icßryde passed out before his old co., and
he was an angry man because the Board
backed O. B. Ward in going into Misima. A
possible buyer is the Sulphide Corporation,
Whose Central thihe, if the original surveyor
had kept Block 10 pegged on the line of the
Prop, blocks, would have been inside the
co.’s boundary.
• • • • • •
Floated in 1888 by the Proprietary, Block
10 started with 100,000 £lO shares, of which
the vendors received 96,000 paid to £9 10s.
a share. Block 10 set the market jigging
a year later by the strike of rich chlorides
in massive kaolin, assays going up to 5000 oz.
and 6000 oz. silver to the ton, with bulk
lots averaging 1800 oz. All the oxidised ores
were rich in silver, and Cap’n John Warren
made the most of them, and developed his
mine into the model show of the Barrier.
The biggest boom in Block 10’s was in the
mid-’nineties, when Staples and other big
dealers shot shares to near £2O. Of course,
the grade slumped when the sulphide zone
was reached. After John Warren’s retire-
ment, Stanley Low tried to restore the mine’s
glories. Then came O. B. Ward, who was
followed by the ybunger generation. Block
10’s tally has been 2,400,000 tons for
38,309,2130 z. silver and 393,600 tons lead,
and unrecorded zinc contents of the tailings
dump. Metals fetched £4,925,000, and
£1,425,000 was paid in divs. Existing ore
reserves are estimated at 150,000 tons. The
lowest level is at 1815 ft.
* * * *
There is no truth in the yarn that Mt.
Lyell intends to stop the shipment of pyrites.
All it has done has been to shift men from
the open cut into the South Lyell, whence it
will draw sulphur material for its acid
works. So far as smelting goes, North Lyell
fills the trucks. Bornite still comes from
700 ft. The best ore broken is from the stopes at
850 ft., and the largest supplies come from the
big shoots at 925 ft. The huge stope at 1100 ft.
is now almost touching the IOOOtt. floor, and
when it has been worked out to the north
one of the biggest blocks in the mine will
have gone. But North Lyell can still see
many years ahead, because the picks con-
tinue to add tonnages to reserves equal to
extractions.
W. H. Taylour’s National Portland
Cement, Maria Island (Tas.), has a paid
capital of £314,305 and owes £24,600; but
a final instalment of ss. per share is due on
November 1 on the 100,000 of 8 p.c. prefs.
The last 12 months have been spent in equip-
ping, and the word has gone round that by
the end of November the plant will be oper-
ating, and cement should be on the market
by the end of the year. Development and
preliminary exes, have mopped up £66,669.
* * * *
At last the doors of New Guinea have
been opened to the oil-seeker. A mining
ordinance has been gazetted by the Home
and Territories Department, which is really
an amendment of the previous mining ordi-
nances. Any co. registered in the territory
of New Guinea can get a five-years’ license
to prospect 1060 sq. miles for mineral oil
and coal for a fee of £lO. The applicant
must begin work within 90 days, and must
employ four white men continuously for at
least six months a year actually searching
for oil aiid coal. Anybody prospecting with-
out a license, or oil anybody else’s licensed
ground, is liable to a penalty of £lOO. The
applicant has to report every three months
what work he has done. If he discovers
oil or coal he has the preferential right to
a lease of 160 acres and a reward lease of
640 acres. This does not seem an exces-
sive selection from IOOOsq. miles. The lease
will run for 21 years at a rental of Is. an
a-cre, and may be renewed for 21 years.
The Administrator’s approval is necessary
tb the transfer of leases or licenses. The
Administrator retains the right to buy all
the oil produced and all its products. Be-
sides this, the lessee must pay the Govern-
ment a royalty of 5 p.c. on the gross value
of all oil he produces. The lessee must
have the oil refined in the territory or in
Australia, and he must not export any crude
oil abroad. A curious omission from the
ordinance is that only incorporated cos. and
not individual prospectors can apply for
licenses. Another defect is the absence of
a scale of survey fees, an important item in
jungle and mountainous country. Without
a geological, survey the quest for oil in New
Guinea looks hopeless.
* * * *
The search for oil is being pushed right
round the Great Australian Bight, iom
Denial Bay (S.A.) to Eucla (W.A.). Pros-
pectors are seeking the source of the small
quantities of light yellow oil of a paraffin-
base which has been found under the salt
and gypsum of dried-up salt lagoons in the
summer-time. Ozokerite, or mineral wax,
can be picked up anywhere along the coast
and inland amongst the salt dunes, which,
with limestone cliffs, fringe the southern
boundary of the vast Nullarbor Plain. The
Nullarbor Basin is believed to have been an
ancient sea-bed which was filled with ter-
tiary sedimentary deposits, partly , swept in
from the hinterland and partly from the
ocean. The logs of the bores put down for
water along the route of the East-West rail-
way have supplied much valuable evidence.
The Nullarbor Plain, which is bigger than
Victoria, is a solid bed of limestone from
300 ft. to 550 ft. thick overlying deep beds of
blue and black shales, intercalated with salt,
sand, gravel and porous limestone. In only
one bore was granite reached (at 1500 ft.).
* * * *
The optimism of the promoters of the
Associated Oil, Mt. Gambier (S.A.), was so
great that drilling was commenced with a
full-sized bore. Now the co. has decided
that a series of test bores would be of more
general value in arriving at the chances.
The original bore has been stopped, and a
first-test hole is down 349 ft. It passed
through limestone and flints, next doloinitic
limestone, and is now in shell-conglomerate.
* • « *
Doc. Pritchard still considers that Tor-
quay Oil Wells, near Queenscliff (Vic.), has
a good chance of striking oil. He assures
shareholders that “from the very outset”
favorable results have been got. But oil
isn’t flowing, and shareholders will have to
foot the bill for “a number of boreholes to
collect the data necessary.” Pritchard de-
clares that hundreds of thousands of pounds
have been spent elsewhere to find and prove
such structures as have been laid bare at
Torquay. He still persists that the first and
second bores have shown oil. He declares that
natural hydrocarbons were found at 137 ft.
in No. 1 bore, and that free sulphur, resins,
wax and oil are present in the sands. His
final certificate is: “The outstanding and all-
important fact is that the presence of mineral
oil has been undoubtedly proved in a forma-
tion favorable to its accumulation in vast
quantities.” Costs so far have taken £4102,
and the co. still has £6OOO cash in hand.
**■ * *
A long series of troubles at the Christmas
Gift, Cullinga. near Cootamundra (N.S.W.),
has culminated in the auctioning of 5200 for-
feited shares at 61d. The present co. is in
105 000 10s. shares, of which 45,000 are
paids and 60,000 contribs. paid to 6s. 6d.
Most holders hung on when shares were
marketable at up to ss. 6d.. and they paid
their 3d. calls with promptitude during 15
months’ development work. It was generally
believed that the stopes over the 200 ft. level
contained ore up to 40ft. wide and going
18dwt. But the 300 ft. level was tipped as
the sheet-anchor of the show. On paper it
seemed like it: a winze from the 200 ft. was
down 50ft. in solid, payable quartz. This
left only 50ft. unproved to the 300 ft., but
somehow everything went agley. A lot of
burrowing failed to locate anything worth
while lower down. The battery also went
wrong; it plodded wearily on a few hundred
tons of stuff, the first clean-up giving only
Sdwt. The next attempt, tipped to go “at
least 12 ’weights,” averaged only half that
from 224 tons, and intermittent calls at 3d.
a time were necessary to keep going. The
Gift appears to contain blows of medium
ore stultified by blanks; the ore-bodies are
ill-defined and the country badly broken.' The
complex character of the crushing stuff gives
such excessive sliming that the battery has
to be run at a funereal pace.
* * 4 * *
The tunnel at Vimy Ridge, Bega (N.S.W.),
has opened up a reef 6ft. wide at 215 ft. in
the mountain side. This tunnel is following
the Vimy reef, and expects to intersect the
Tanja, or cross-reef, at 225 ft. The official
announcement states that values have im-
proved. The mine is situated on a very
rough spur three miles from the coast, and
the plan of operations embraces a gravitation
system of ore-handling, with the battery at
the foot of the mountain, where ample
water has been provided by Nature in the
shape of a branch of the Bega River. Five
head of stamps should be dropping by the
end of October, and another five head later.
Cedar Creek, near the rich old Lionsville
field (N.S.W.), has so far not produced any-
thing sensational; the reefs followed have
proved narrow, and rich only in patches. De-
velopment has been slow, and though some
ore has been won for treatment the battery
has been held up by) a drought, one of the
worst the district has experienced. Manager
Walter Smith still hopes to develop sufficient
ore in the narrow rich reefs to keep the pot
boiling until; he locates the bonanzas which
were the feature of old Lionsville. The
latest find is the continuation of the No. 1
reef on the lease adjoining the present centre
of activity: it has been opened up by five
costeens over a distance of 90ft., and a
narrow leader (about wide) carries
“heavy free gold,” and loaming has given
“excellent dish prospects.”
*** 1 #
Boulder Perseverance is considered to have
sufficient developed ore to yield a revenue of
at least £140,000 in four years, and the addi-
tional capital raised by the reconstruction is
expected to open up reserves to keep the
mine going for a further eight, irrespective
of ore lower down. When the co. decided
to go into liquidation six years ago, reserves
were estimated to be worth 225. IGd. per ton,
but tributors went iff and mined ounce ore
and pulled out hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth of gold. The co. now offici-
ally explains the discrepancy in values by the
statement that tributors “confined their opera-
tions to the known width of the lode, instead
of excessive widths previously mined.” The
reconstructed co. proposes to commence sto-
ping payable ore at once.
*** * .
The migratory Golden Butterfly (W.A.)
still flits from field to field. Some time ago
it returned to Yilgarn after many years and
settled on the Banker mine. This show dis-
appointed, so the co. became interested in
options at Sullivan’s Find, beyond Laverton
In conjunction with Hansel Mundy it also
took an option on the Mighty Atom claim, at
Mt. Varden, but as neither co. was financially
strong enough to develop the show they
passed it on to the Mntooroo. If that co.
exercises its option the Butterfly and Hansel
Mundy will each receive 5000 fully-paids.
Even with copper at £64, the Cloncurry
gouger continues on his job, and the district
is producing £3OOO to £4OOO worth of the
metal monthly. Most of the ore raised is
well over 25 p.c., and it needs to be, for
freight is a serious item. Amongst the most,
important producing at present are the
Referee, Crusader and Magnet, the last just
re-opened after a two years’ spell. The
Referee, which has put out some glittering
ore within the last 12 months, has recently
struck a poorer patch carrying too much iron.
Boring on the Rainbow at Charters Towers
(N.Q.) might be classed as a “washout”; a
couple of quartzy formations were cut, but
there is no move on foot to test them, and
evidently the finds will be simply recorded
in the Mines Department’s annals. The
attitude of the local crowd to the boring has
been one of interested curiosity; there has
been no enthusiasm of the kind which is fol-
lowed by cash backing. Driller Berry has
taken his rig on to the Wellington, and the
bore is down more than 250 ft. A formation
of about 4ft., carrying a little quartz, was
passed through about 20Oft. down, but this
cannot be the Wellington, unless there is a
fault, as Berry is not expecting to cut it
under 400 to 500 feet. By the way, the
driller has not yet gone to the Palmer,
although Alf Jones gave out that he was
sending him there.
Mt. Cobalt, the rich Mt. Elliott cobalt
lode, is scrapping its temporary five-head mill
for a couple of new ball-mills, and the output
of concentrates will be increased above the
present rate, which is about 100 tons
monthly. Synchronising with the change a
very fine body of cobaltite and bloom was met
with in the 50ft. level, 320ft. south of the
main shaft. It has been driven on for 70ft.
and is still going strong. There is every in-
dication of the lode living to a good depth,
and it can certainly be regraded as easily the
best cobalt deposit yet opened up in Aus-
tralasia. As a cobalt lode alone —that is,
apart from other minerals mined in conjunc-
tion with cobalt in other countries —it prob-
ably stands on its own. In the market the
fight is with the by-product cobalt of On-
tario, the market being well controlled. So
far the Queensland crowd seem to be negoti-
ating the hurdles very successfully.
* * * *
Anakie (C.Q.) is still struggling alopg,
hoping for a greater appreciation in Eurdpe
of its sapphires. Its output oscillates
between £1000 and £1500, apart from private
deals.


THE OPEN SEASON FOR ALDERMEN.
“A Revolutionary Bill is before the Vic. Parliament proposing to. abolish the. office and title of alderman.”
Are these quaint birds no longer to be protected, but to be remorselessly exterminated like other harmless species of our fauna?
|P 'The last of his kimp
* Keeper:- mom , <ii rare specimen £ don t looK
or* account op his tucKer, hitn
Used tb The genuine <Atticle


THE HEXItY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged.. .. .. £236 18 6
Gorman, E. J., Sydney 110
£237 19 6
Contributions should be addressed to Titf.
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
Usher’s Hotel
A FIRST-CLASS, AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Look for the Warning RED ARM.
M
IS.
« ■■ ■
Prolong the Life
of Your Car.
■ ... '%
By avoiding overheating «
troubles and the consequent v
costly repair jobs, thousands
of miles are added to the
life of your Motor Car. , .
With a Thermomano-
metre Jndicateur on
your radiator cap you’ are
forewarned 15 to 20 minutes
be f o-r e overheating can
damage the motor. Com-
plete, with real silvered
wings, £3.
From, Oarages, Accessory
Houses and Dept. Stores.
Agents:
Gattino d Co., Ltd.,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
‘Tor Ever Best”
STAS
LAGER
TOOHEY'S.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“De Qarter.et” At the Premier gold-mine,
Ivyneton (Yjc;), the owner accidentally drove,
his pick through a board, behind which was
a rich, narrow rb.ef. Further along the
level he found a heap of wood covering a
shallow 'winze. Very little work revealed
a reef TSih. wide, 7 tons from "which gave
1760 z. of 'gold. This remind®-,.me. Qp.a*
chance meeting years ago at the seaside with
a respectable" old Cousin Jack, wearing a
goatee beard and a .black broadcloth suit on
a hot January day. After two “spots”
he told me he had retired- from : hard work-,
several years previously.- -Two more. spots
induced him to say he made his pile by “a-
coverinS "SfSni;: up.” He- described how he
found a rich reef, boarded it up and waited
till the mine was abandoned. Then he and
a mate went in and took tout £lO,OOO worth
of gold. The discovery of an unusually rich
reef in the Great Extended Hustler’s Pups-
(Bendigo) put wealth into the pockets of
another Cousin Jack. He covered his find,
and, on the plea of illness, rushed home,
DIDN’T WANT AN AEROPLANE.
DINER (who, has, ordered game) : “ For goodness sake
take this away.”
WAITER : “But you ordered it high, sir.”
DINER: “'High, yes but not doing altitude, stunts.”
changed into his Sunday-best, and made for
the Beehive. He mopped up scrip at 4s.
which later rose to £4.
* » * *
“Veedee, IL” : D’you know this one about
Priminister William Massey? A- farewell
shivoo was given in his honor prior to his
departure for Blighty, and one of the s'peechi-
fiers, while eulogising Big Bill’s career,
brought in a Shakspearean quotation, pre-
facing it with: “As the immortal William
saith.” Bill pricked up his ears. “When did
T. say that?” he whispered to a companion.
“8.V.E.”: He ambled into Goondiwindi
(Q.) the other day, carrying a 401 b. swag,
after having walked from Boomi, 50 miles
on the N.S.W. side, in two days! He told
me he was off to Mackay for a job on the
“cane”—a 500-odd-mile tramp, but he
reckoned he could do it in about 30 days, bar
accidents. I offered to pay his fare part of
the way, but he produced a bundle of notes
and said he preferred walking—“the time
passes better.” He had Soudan and S’African
medals, said he was born near Brisbane in
the ’forties, and, with the exception of two
years in Egypt and 18 months in S’Africa,
had spent his life in Bananaland, with an
occasional incursion into northern N. S.
Wales. That's what the climate of the
North does to a man!
* * * *
“Rick”: Our local John Hop was in-
structed by the sergeant to visit the bazaar
that was being conducted to aid the funds
of the tennis club, and keep an eye open for
illegal “games of chance.” His report ran :
“The proceedings were conducted orderly. A
few raffles took place for hams and other
works of art.”
• * * * *
Prom a stranger in the land: —
The prevalence of the queer passion for losing
money on pony-racing certainly puzzles the visitor
to Sydney. (B. 30/8/’23). Tramming it in a slummy
suburb, where the mean streets huddle together and
the . cats prowl in safety, there being no room in
the baLk yards to swing them, you come upon , what
the conductor tells you, with a grin, is the Robbery
racecourse. Continuing your travels, you discover
three,, other, spacious haunts of undersized horses
and 111-developed specimens of the human family,
all within five miles of the G.P.O. Cut up and
built on they would provide decent accommodation
for at least a thousand families now herding it in
the warrens of the poor —who, in many cases, would
not be poor but for the pony-gambling habit. In
England, the home of the thoroughbred, racecourses
have been banished from, the, suburbs to the country,
racing being recognised ass. a rich man’s pastime.
But .Sydney-would- rather keep its slums than shift
its racecourses. It. is - quite proud of one abomina-
tion and isn’t noticeably ashamed of the other. Bet-
ting, bulks So large in its hectic existence that it
sees nothing out of the, way in the spectacle of a
“Nationalist’’ M.L.A. Snivelling at the plight of the
pore bbpkmakers, mimy pf whom, he alleges, are not
making) a living. ,Also,; certain leaders of the
profession were the police, and caught in
the, act of (1) breaking, the law against shop-betting
and (2) dodging the tax on betting tickets, to
say, nothing of - concealing their highly profitable
.operations from, the Federal and State Income-tax
Commissioners, the . Government, I am told, was
thought to have., done rather a high-minded thing in
refusing to prosecute. • -■
.. “Flicker’s” geifi from the Law’s dustheap:
What must be about the most extraordinary legal
action on record was mentioned during a recent lec-
ture on “Partnership,’’ by John McGee, LL.B., one
of Adelaide’s costs-ch.asers, viz., the case of Everet v.
Williams (1787), suit brought by one highway-
man against another for an account Of their plunder.’’
The clairri set out “that the
plaintiff waf-‘skilled in dealing-
in several commodities such
as-plate, rings, watches, etc. ;
that the defendant applied to
him, ; to become a partner ; that
they entered into partnership,
and agreed to, bear expenses
and costs of necessaries, horses,
pistols,- etc., equally ; that the
plaintiff and defendant pro-
ceeded jointly with the busi-
ness at Hampstead Heath....
and dealt ’ with several gentle-
men for divers watches, rings,
etc.; that about a month later
the defendant informed plain-
tiff that there was a gentleman
about to cross Blaekheath who
had a good horse, watch, rings
and money to.dispose of, a nd
that tiie defendant considered
that these could be had for
little or no expense; that ac-
cordingly they went to Black-
heath and met the said gentle-
man, and after some; small dis-
course with him thsy- dealt for
the said ..horse, etc'), ; and:;,their
profits for . the time they were
in partnership were over
£2ooo.’’ The rest of the
claim was in the form of an
ordinary partnership,, account.
On the ffsise being brought on,
the Court sat up and took con-
siderable notice. The,, confi-
dence of the ingenuous partners
in British Justice was,: rudely
shattered. An. apoplectic
Judge—who may himself have been- “dealt* with” L>v
the firm, or others in the same line ’.of business —dis-
missed the claim with costs against the plaintiff’s
solicitors, who were also fined £5O each. The plain-
tiff, and defendant were both hanged, and the defend-
ant’s solicitor was transported to Australia—where
some of his descendants may n|w be keeping seaside
hotels.
* * # * v
“The Deaeon”: The Great War has left
another legacy. When Enid knitted socks
for some unknown warrior she would scribble
a few lines with her address so that the
“grateful soldier” could send his acknow-
ledgments, and the correspondence often
ripened into something warmer. Now the
romantic tobacco-packers of Sydney have
taken to writing legends like this on the
CONDITIONAL POLITENESS.
“Come along in. now and see gran’ma’.”
“And when I’m finished looking at gran’ma' can I come out here again?”
card which intimates that the -tin has been
hermetically sealed: “Be a sport and write
to Miss Eva Subbubs, Waterloo.” Apparently
similar feelers are being thrown out wherever
packing factories exist. The other day, in
a packet of breakfast food imported from
Holland, I came across an intimation from a
Dutch girl that she is interested in Australia
and the final destination "Of"the tucker, and.,
would like a reply, I’m hoping to yet see,
appended to some soulful. Bulletin verse a
note in small bAThis ’was set up under
the supervision ;of Bill West. 214 George-
street, Sydney, will lind him. It may .be
that he is your affinity./.-Photos exchanged.”
“Lex”: The effrontery of the private de-
tective reached its .highest) expression a few
days ago, when one of the breed named
Shekelton sued Archibald Mclnnes in
Sydney for £lOOO damages on account
of an assault. . Shekelton had entered
by night the., room in ' which Mclnnes
was sleeping, andl had been given a
hiding for his pains. Mclnnes paid 40s.
into court; bu# a special - jury decided that*
he should not be mulcted of even that modest
sum. The verdict was for the defendant
with costs. Australia’s private-inquiry
agencies, night-patrolmen and other organisa-
tions of Yankee derivation imagine that by
posturing as defenders of the right (at so
much per hour) they become entitled to
break the common law. They aspire to assist
legality (for a fee) by methods of illegality.
That other countries have taken this impos-
ture lying down is no reason why Australia
should. There is no legitimate place, under
our legal system, for the stipendiary tout;
and the more of them that meet with despite-
ful, treatment in the course of business, the
better’for true law and order.
“Verey Light”; To the average Digger
the “Jack” (military policeman) was a
blankard.—and a sanguinary blankard at
thg.t. Twice, though, at Weymouth (Eng.),
I ksaw Diggers glad of the , Jacks’ help, and
put it to the latter’s credit that it was
readily forthcoming. The first incident was
when some homing Tommies, finding the
girls they’d left behind ’em had transferred
their affections to Aussies, stirred things up,
and more than one brawl that threatened to
develop into a nasty business was stopped by
the appearance of Jacks—on the Aussies’
side. But these were mild affairs compared
with the box-on that took place when the
Yankee Fourth Squadron, homeward bound
from duty in the North Sea, put in at Port-
land, and the “Gar-dams” spent their shore
leave telling in Weymouth pubs how America
won the war. The Diggers stood the tale
until it became wearisome; then they said
so, and the resultant stoush spread over
several days. Our reps, were mostly war-
broken C-class cripples; but whenever things
looked like going the wrong way there was
always a Jack or two handy to keep his coun-
try’s end up, and the sight, which I once
witnessed, of three blue-bands cleaning up
thrice their number of perfectly sober Yanks
must have taken the rough edge off many a
Digger’s hatred of the Provost Corps badge.
THE ARROGANCE OF SOME PEOPLE.
“Impudent fellow! ‘Return at four ’ —who
does he think he’s giving orders to?”
THE CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When- bl ight is the earth
In the smile of September,
Wake fancies of worth
[That I fondly remember; ,*
Tfie warmth of the rays.
(That the gay sun has squandered
Recalls the sweet days --~
Wheri: with Nancy I wandered/
* iv:~ '
Each bird in the tree
To ' its- love-mate is singing
As lightly) in me
Is. old) passion upspringijng ;
There's)'song: in the air ■ -
Tli|t; awakes, the old fancy ;
Where’er, I go, there
I see visions of Nancy.’
Yet Nancy is gone;
My lonely heart misses .;
Her beauty that shone,
; The'delight of her kisses.
So who 'shbuld complain
'•When 1 feel how I miss her
If "I seek love again
In the. arms, of Clarissa?
x.s.w.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


*TF»«Z*
Bai>sic up .
So t>v* comes emoiker rise )
TEie Cost of Living go<z,s up.
lh<z. Cost of .Living up a^am.
2xnd #»«, Employer up Hie .
thaw fljis Kavppcrts •
ociwc.cn us we seem to Ka,ve mavde & mess gT* 7
THE BASIC WAGE AND THE JOB THAT VANISHED.


333 are fast claiming the
appreciation of all discrimi-
nating smokers. They are
“just that little better” that
counts for so much.
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
20forl^
WTEWPRPS
iui
v: *=
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
..S/,
“Bare”: “Winkle” (B. 2/8/’23) tries my
credulity, as one with some knowledge of the
Pensions Department, with his story of the
disabled Digger who had a pension forced on
him. It is quite safe to say that the Depart-
ment never moved without an application.
But I knew a Digger with a congenital de-
fect Who achieved a pension by pure effront-
ery. He Avas blind in one eye. How he suc-
ceeded in enlisting he never disclosed ; still,
he Avas at Mena, Egypt. When the military
machine did not work to liis liking; lie would
A GENTLE HINT ABOUT DOG’S MEAT.
MRS. PETTIT : “Here, you ought to make friends with the dog if
you don’t want him to hurt yuh.”
threaten to bring his “crook eye to light and
get out.” However, he landed at Gallipoli,
but was absent soon after, having sustained
a slight flesh wound. When encountered
later in London he was wearing a patch over
his “crook” eye; from his tone it could be
gathered that he was disappointed with the
show at Gallipoli, and so had made up his
mind to repatriate himself. When last seen
in his native city he was still wearing the
patch, and drawing pensions for himself and
three children.
*'"' * * *
“Randolph ...Rentless” : Among Sydney
slums booked for wholesome extinction is the
insanitary Frog Hollow, with its network
of evil lanes and alleys, known to
dwellers thereabouts as “Woodeners’ Lane,”
“Suicide Alley” and so on. It is a low-
lying section of Surry Hills —the back yards
of the houses in the street above run over
the roofs of some of the hovels below —and
its reputation is on a par with its lowest
level. It would be hard to say how many
murders have been committed here, for the
Avorst-battered man, if he had any sense left,
usually made a last effort to get out and die
elsewhere; but the killing of the thug
“Tinkle” Gardner by Constable McCormack
Avhen the latter had to fight his way through
a push was one of the unsavory warren’s
historic incidents. The name of the place
dates from the days Avhen soakage from
Surry Hills made a marsh in the vicinity ;
the soakage still trickles down, and, owing
to the narrowness of the open spaces and
the additional screen of higher houses and
tall buildings, there is a permanent atmo-
sphere of mildew. Sydney will be a bit
brighter for losing the horrible patch; even
if the sort of people it contains insist on
making a slum someAvhere else, it can hardly
be such a bad one.
“Centurion”: This libel by implication
comes from an American friend who served
in France. During the Yankee push at St.
Miliiel in 1918 a brigade commander, push-
ing up after the adA r ance, struck a panic-
stricken negro soldier going great guns to the
rear. “Doan’ you stop me, Boss,” cried the
scared coon—“I jus’ gotta keep* goin’.”
“ ‘Boss’?” replied the outraged brig. “Can’t
you see you’re talkin’ to a general !” “Why,”
said the relieved darkie, “yo’ suttingly is.
Ah guess Ah’ll pull up, then ; didn’ know Ah
Avas so far back.”
* * * *
“R.R.L.”: Our doctor has the reputation
of being something of a lady-killer. The
other day I was having afternoon-tea with
his young wife, who that morning had adver-
tised in the Wanted column for a cook. Pre-
sently in walked a gaunt spinster of uncer-
tain age. References proving satisfactory, she
was duly engaged, but hesitated before going.
“Well,” said her prospective employer, “any-
thing else?” “It’s about the doctor, please.”
"Well, Avhat about the doctor?” “If-—if I
get sick, do I have to consult him?”
“Cartot”: There
are tremendous
possibilities ahead
of the disco\ T ery of
an English anato-
mi s t—that is, if
it can be estab-
lished as a fact —
that the finger-
prints of insane
persons differ in
certain well-defined
characteristics from
those of normal in-
dividuals. The in-
vestigator claims
that distinguishing
characteristics have
appeared in prac-
tically every one of
about 10,000 prints
belonging to luna-
tics Avhich lie has
examined, while he
has been unable to
find them in any ot
the prints; of an
equal number . of
sane people. He
explains them on
the ground that
there is a direct
connection between
inherited mental
deficiencies and
various anatomical
structures. If this
can be proved the
classification of the
community’s dif-
ferent kinds of mis-
fits Avill become
a comparatively
simple matter. The
question is being
looked into by the
Royal College of
Surgeons, whi c h
seems to indicate
that there is something in it.
* * * . *f • \
“Veedee H.”: There is a tough breed grow-
ing up in the Shivery Isles, too. Young
Baggs, the son of my next-door neighbor,
was smashed up in a cycle accident last
Saturday and rushed to hospital for repairs.
As lie was coming to, after the op., he sat
up in bed and said: “What was the result,
nurse?” “The operation Avas quite success-
ful, sonny,” replied the sister. “Just you
lie quiet, now.” “Oh, blow the operation,
nurse,” said the youngster. “I mean who
won the Test Match, the Aussies or the All
Blacks?”
“D.D.”-: “Flicker” thinks (B. 23/8/’23)
that because the expression “wagging it”
occurs in “Dombey and Son” it is not a
coined-in-Australia phrase. Does “Flicker”
think Dickens lived before Australia was
discovered? “Dombey and Son” was pub-
lished in 1848, when, according to J. H. M.
Abbott, wagging it was not infrequent in
Sydney and Parramatta. That Dickens was
ready to take a tip from Australia is shown
in his story of the eccentric Miss Havisham
in “Great Expectations.” It is generally
BEAUTY TELLS.
“What a lovely tail! Oh, I must lack that horse!”
admitted that the suggestion for that char-
acter reached the great author from Aus-
tralia. At Newtown, Sydney, a lady, de-
serted on the day fixed for her wedding,
would not allow the breakfast and other
preparations to be removed, and lived in
the house as a recluse till her death many
years later. The house, I believe, still stands.
* * * *
“Mag” : Stradbroke Island, Moreton Bay, is
a jumpy place that should be avo'ded by
persons suffering from nerves or jimjams.
A couple of years ago a hill on the main-
land opposite took a sudden header into the
sea, immersing its bulk to a depth of 60ft.
Latterly it has sunk considerably lower, and
there is much talk of earth tremors. The
unwary individual on the island near this ,
point is liable to be suddenly struck with
his own wobbly gait, and
may find it wise to lie down.
Boats in the water will rock
violently, and startled fish
make high-jump records.
Some distance inland there
is an extinct volcano, the
crater of which is a lake,
reported “bottomless,” and
influenced to the same ex-
tent as the ocean by the tide.
This may account for the
St. Vitus nature of the
locality.
* * *
“777”: “Cartot’s” par (B.
9/S/’23) recalls to me a
demise through “internal
combustion” which occurred
some 35 years ago at Phillip
Island (Vic.). When the
Eric-the-Red was wrecked
on the back beach, a con-
■ siderable portion of her
cargo of whisky and brandy
came ashore and was
promptly salved by the en-
terprising locals, who .carted
the more easily shifted spirit
to the scrub and buried the
bulk (in large barrels) in
the sand. Incidentally, the
excise officers turned up
later and solemnly burned
the empty crates. An old
identity known, as Terrible
Billy was early on the scene,
and after strenuous and suc-
cessful operations retired
for the jag of his life. It proved to
be the jag of his death, too. He never had
a sober moment for weeks, and came to a
hideous end through his breath catching fire.
“Lomkey”: The grim story of the joys of
life in New Australia cheerfully told in a
recent Bulletin reminds me of a queer his-
torical parallel. Three centuries before
William Lane led away his pilgrims, another
band of the same kind, led by one Master
Lane, landed in North America from Eng-
land. Richard
Grenville dropped
107 of them at
Cape Ilatteras in
1555 and sailed
away to have _ a
vigorous talk in
the Revenge with a
Spanish fleet. That
was England’s first
colony in N.
America; but the
colonists heard
about gold from
the Indians, and,
following the lure,
ran short of provi-
sions and got into
a bad way. A
couple of years
later Francis
Drake, filled with
the grace of God
and the loot
of a raid on
Spanish South
American, found
them very hard up
The worthy old
Elizabethan pirate
hoisted them on his
blood-stained decks
and carried the
sad band of sobered
visionaries back to
Merrie England.
The Australian leg
of the parallel
breaks off at the
last joint, but
there is 119 reason
why it should stay
broken. Australia
has no Francis
Drake to return
the pilgrims
to their own coun-
try, but it has an
Immigration De-
partment. T hese
men and women
whom the modern Lane led off on a wild-
goose chase after Heaven were some of Aus-
tralia’s best, and they and their descendants
do not appear to have degenerated.
“Pip Tok”: Some weeks back a sliabby-
looking beer-sparrer became a noticeable fre-
quenter of the pubs along Oxford-street, Syd-
ney. Unlike most of this class of
deadbeat, he showed himself proficient at
sleight-of-hand tricks, with the result that he
became mildly popular and was allowed to con-
sume many drinks at the expense of the mob.
Then a bomb burst in the form of a police raid.
A number of s.p. bettors were landed and
, heavily, fined, the chief witness for the pro-
secution being the conjurer, a John Hop
CONSPIRATORS.
THE ARTIST: “It’s a crime for Dauber to attempt a
portrait .”
HIS MODEL: “And I suppose you’d call anyone who sat
for him his victim?”
THE ARTIST: “No, his accomplice.”
camouflaged. The next person who volun-
teers to produce a white rabbit out of his
hat in an Oxford-street bar will be taking
chances.
DEATHLESS LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘-My dear liica,’ the letter ran. ‘Has the wealth
of a great passion like mine ever breathed into the
souls of others ?.... Do all men speak to their sweet-
hearts as I do to you? There is hardly an hour’. .. .
The jury assessed damages at £lOOO.” — Sydney
breach-of-promise report.
His words with high passion were burning,
With eagerness swiftly a-throb ;
They yielded the soft hint of yearning,
Of a lover who’s g-cod at his job —
Who knows how to sigh
Just as if he will die
If his lady is deaf to his sob.
His love had a merit supernal
Which common hearts never could know,
Alive with ■& passion eternal
That down the wide ages would flow,
And its -rapture still hold
When the suh. L had grown cold,
And the last star had finished its glow.
Is it possible maiden could ever
Have spirit so icy and dead
As coldly to quench such endeavor,
Such perfect love knock on the head—
With a sneer or a frown
Would turn , the hand down
Of one who so woudrously pled ?
Alas! No; the lady is blameless.
His passion eternal is now
Quite dead—it proved flabby and. flameless
El-e the orange bloom’circled liel' brow.
'they quoted his speech
When she sued him for breach
And the damages costs him a thou, t
N.3.W,
HAMER.


Four Tests of an Assurance Company
rjl HE nature of Life Assurance, the fact that it constitutes
a promise of payment to your wife, child or dependant
at a critical period of their lives, demands the unshakeable
stability of the company issuing it. The following four tests
reveal the unassailable position of the Producers & Citizens’
Life Assurance Co. of Australia Ltd.
FOUNDATION.—The Producers & Citizens’ is based on a solid
rock of the primary producer—the backbone of the commu-
nity and on whom the very existence of the country depends.
By its agreements with the leading farmer and grazier co-
operative bodies in each state the Producers & Citizens’ is
linked with the most substantial section of the community.
VOLUME.—For a company of similar age, the Producers &
Citizens’ created an Australasian record during the last two
years by writing three million pounds of new business.
QUALITY.—The high quality of the business written and the
tact that the Renewal Premiums actually reached the
remarkable figure of 85 p.c. in its first two years testify
to the sound policy of the company.
MANAGERIAL AlMS.—Conservative financial methods plus a progres-
siveness in enlarging the scope of the Company and in giving utmost
assistance to the man on the land by means of co-operation.
By assuring with the Producers* Citizens’you obtain maximum stability
with the particular benefits that follow the co-operative principle.
G. Ju. WEAVER, Managing Director H. PEED, General Secretary.
The Producers & Citizens’
Co. of Australia, Limited,
• Also at Melbourne, Adelaide,
a
Co-operative Assurance
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Perth, Hobart, Brisbane.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Almost any fine morning of recent years a
quaint procession might have been seen in
the Sydney Botanical Gardens. A tall, be-
spectacled figure appeared holding a stout
walking-stick before him on which sat a
green parrot. At his heels trotted a couple
of small dogs with that air of being part of
a thoroughly creditable display which such
animals manage to convey. As Governor
Davidson walked he chatted to anyone who
happened to be present. It did not matter
to him that he knew none of those whom he
met in this way. They were human beings,
and hence admirable and absorbingly inter-
esting. His gregariousness, his passion for
FRANK CLARKE, the new President of
the Vic. Legislative Council, who got in
out of the wet just in time.
exchanging ideas with his fellow-creatures,
and, above all, his devotion to duty as he con-
ceived it (which involved a study of every
document he signed), did much to "hasten his
end.
About a dead Senator:—
“He was my friend,” said W. M. Hughes in his
oration over the body of the late Senator Millen.
He was more. Millen and Hughes were spiritual and
political blood-brothers. The main cleavage be-
tween them was on the anti-Soeialist issue raised by
George Reid in 1907. Before that they had been
freetraders and State righters, though Hughes was
nominally a Laborite, while Millen wasn’t. Millen
called himself a Liberal: actually, of course, he was
no more one than Hughes was a Socialist. Whatever
they may have been when they were cutting their
political teeth, they soon developed into Tories, pro-
found admirers of success, and with that veneration
for money which is so often to be found in men who
have had to scratch hard for a living. Millen
was nearly his friend’s equal as an anecdotist, and
in some respects his master as a political engineer.
At one time he dominated the Senate as absolutely as
Hughes did the Reps., and for much the same reason:
he was a born Parliamentarian, and he made a point
of not speaking without knowledge unless driven by
force of inexorable circumstances. But his best
work for his party was done in the famous “under-
ground cellar” in Pitt-street, Sydney, a dozen or
more years ago, and at other like resorts elsewhere
afterwards. Here lie planned and schemed, jollied
up malcontents and members of the press, and gener-
ally kept the wheels of the machine moving and well
oiled. Like the friend to whose fatal banner he
went over, bag and baggage, late in life, he was a
poor administrator. But, then, in Repatriation he
took a portfolio that would have broken the heart of
a vigorous young mental giant.
“0.P.H.”: Now that the versatile Lawson
has been given a new lease of office, the
political reporters
are hoping that
this country solici-
tor, who owes so
much to the Press,
will reciprocate to
the extent of being
decently courteous.
He doesn’t mean
to be rude, but he
gets so close to it
that he has become
the most unpopu-
lar Premier with
pressmen since
Shie 1 s. Stanley
Bruce is a mere
novice in politics
compared with
Lawson. but he
plays the game
like a gentleman.
W. E. DAVIES,
who is alleged by
a former partner
to have stated
that he had
“cleaned up”
£30,000 in his
sugar deals with
the Commonwealth.
From an old Gallery band :
It is strange that Senator K. D. Millen didn't
•acquire a greater reputation as a speaker, for lie
had a suavity and insouciance of address rare in any
Parliament. If I had not been assured to the con-
trary, I would have sworn some of his speeches had
been learnt by heart. The words always came
fluently in a smooth, conversational tone. But the
quality that impressed me most was his natural
aplomb, which was very different from the almost
theatrical nonchalance with which Bruce parries the
gibes of the better-witted. One night in the Senate
a noisy group of Laborites tried to bustle Millen
with interjections which he calmly ignored, until
one bellow, more insistent than the rest, seemed to
demand reply. Millen stopped and said to the
offender: “I didn’t catch what you said. Would
you please repeat it?” “What I said,” roared,-the
other, “was that I disagree with you.' “You do,
you do,” answered the humorist, with a mock expres-
sion of pain, “and I don’t know what to take for
it.”
T. G. Ellery having to give up the job of
Town Clerk of Melbourne through illness, it
looks as if McCall, the understudy, will step
into his shoes. It is eight years since Ellery
came over from Adelaide, and he will get 18
months’ pay as a solatium. Ilis finest ser-
vice for Slelbourne has been done perhaps in
connection with the city’s open spaces: mar-
vellous improvements have been made in them
of recent years. But it was Fitzgibbon who
laid the foundations.
“The Deacon”: Australia lost its oldest
Jesuit when Joseph Brennan, 83. went higher
at North Sydney the other day. Originally
a secular priest out of Maynooth, he joined
up with the S.J.’s a half-century ago. and
took up duty in the North Shore (N.S.W.)
scrub, where he remained, with but one brief
spell in Victoria, till the end. A map of
considerable literary ability, he handled most
of the Jesuits’ utterances, and, having a
genius for condensation, figured consistently
in bovrilised editions of many large books.
Arehbish. Kelly nominated him as one of
the ecclesiastical censors in N.S.W., and lat-
terly he was Australian representative for
foreign missions and many important church
organisations abroad.
Professor El wood Mead is to go to Pales-
tine to report upon water-supply and irriga-
tion. His fame having reached the head-
quarters of the Zionist Association, it cabled
to the local Zionists to secure him for the
job.
Like the other 11 Ministers sworn in four
days earlier, W. P. Crockett, M.L.C., who
has joined the Lawson-Allan Cabinet as an
honorary, is Victorian-born. As he repre-
sents the same Unpah Chambah constituency
as Goudie, the Works Minister, there was
some hesitation in appointing him, but he
was the only one available to complete the
stipulated Cocky five. At one time it
looked as if McGregor, M.L.C. (Liberal),
would be selected, to give Gippsland a show,
but Allan didn’t like to risk any more kicks
than he was already getting from his own
crowd over his bargaining.
Leonard Stephen, who has died at the
age of 49 in Sydney after a long illness,
was one of the most unaffectedly good
and charitable little men in Australia.
Though in great demand socially—he had
plenty of humor and great charm of manner
—he dedicated most Of his spare time to
the most laborious and least obtrusive forms
of charitable work. Until the beginning of
his last illness he had toiled unremittingly
for the Rawson Institute for Seamen, and
he was one of the standbys of the Children’s
Hospital-—he had an incomparable way with
children. He was a bachelor, a partner in
Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, and a brother
of Milner Stephen, alderman and barrister.
George Lambert’s portrait of himself and
his pyjamas and dressing-gown was taken to
Adelaide recently, and-while the S. Aus. Art
Gallery Board was looking hard and wonder-
ing whether it could afford the £lOOO asked, a
private citizen, T. E. Barr Smith, stepped in
and bought it.
The new Vic. Cabinet includes three law-
yers (Lawson, Cohen and Robinson) and
three working farmers (Allan, Old and
Goudie). McPherson is an iron merchant,
but prefers to be regarded as a financier.
Similarly, Ai-gyle is a doctor, but hopes Pos-
terity will remember him as a statesman.
Gordon, who used to retail calico and muslin,
is now a stockbreeder. Wettenhall is a re-
tired fruitgrower. Like Lawson, he was some-
thing of an athlete in his recent youth, and
Geelong College still talks of the way he used
to streak over the quarter-mile.
“Alastor” : Randolph Bedford, having won
the Labor nomination, is expected to take
over the Maranoa seat in the Bananaland
Parliament, recently swapped by Harry
Coyne for a Land Court judgeship. Bedford
was one of the members of the now-defunct
Upper House, and his rotund voice was wont
to Cause some disquietude among the placid
Tories there. Should he be elected to the
other Chamber he will outrival Mick Kirwin
in voice production and avoirdupois; and
Bedford and Frank Cooper, the two Labor
literary lights of Queensland, will make a for-
midable combination against an Opposition
which cannot boast of a solitary literary star.
John Waters Kirwan, chairman of com-
mittees in Groperland’s Leg. Council, owes
his preferment to the spin of a coin. When
the job became vacant two or three months
ago, Kirwan and another goldfields member,
Jimmy Cornell, ran a dead-heat in the vot-
ing. So they agreed to toss for it, and luck
favored the journalist. Kirwan began his
political career by getting elected M.H.R.
for Ivalgoorlie in the first Federal Parlia-
ment, but Labor dispossessed him of the seat
after a single term. He arrived in the State
Upper House in 1908, and has stayed there
ever since. In the pre-war days his hostility
to successive Liberal administrations domi-
nated by metropolitan and coastal interests
caused him to be regarded on the goldfields
an as-good-as-Labor man, and the local
Worker was wont to signalise its apprecia-
tion of his robust democracy by referring
to him affectionately as “Jack.” But a lot
of dust has blown over the political land-
scape since then.
The first woman to wear wig and gown
at the Vic. Bar is Mrs. Rosanove, who be-
fore marriage was Joan Lazarus. She prac-
tised for some time as an amalgam after
serving articles in her father’s office.
Lawson, having now formed three Vic.
Cabinets, becomes in that regard the equal
of O’ Shan assy, Berry and Peacock; but he
is still one term behind McCulloch, whose
first spell at the wheel was only a little over
six months less than Lawson’s total to date.
The shortest occupation of the Treasury
benches was, of course, Elmslie’s 13 days
in 1913. Next was O’Shanassy’s 49 days
in 1857.
V. M. Newland, who went to the Boer War
as a young man and stayed in Africa, has
homed back to Adelaide and bought a seat
on ’Change. He and Leslie Tarlton (also
of S. Aus.) had a hand in developing British
East Africa, now Kenya Colony, * and they
fitted out and accompanied Roosevelt’s much-
boomed big-game-hunting expedition. New-
land, 1 who won a lot of honors and a major’s
commission in the East African campaign of
1915, is a son of Simpson Newland, pastoral-
ist, explorer and author of “Paving the Way.”
Another son is an Adelaide surgeon, and a
third was Phil Newland, who went with an
Australian XI as wicketkeeper, but on
the voyage received an injury from which
he never really recovered.
“Gallery” : 11. 11. McLeod, who has won
the disputed Daylesford seat in the Yic.
Assembly, wears the
nickname of
“Grumpy,” apparently
on account of some
alleged physical re-
semblance to Cyril
Maude’s impersona-
tion. In his remoter
past he was a school-
teacher, and his les-
sons in French were
a feature of his career
at the Coburg High
School a few years
back. McLeod has,
by the way, always
humorously depre-
cated the teaching of
French to English-
speaking peoples on
account of their
alleged inability to
achieve a good accent.
To one parent who
approached him, ask-
ing him what was the
good of French to a
kid, the sardonic
pedagogue answered
brightly: “To expose
one’s nationality.”
Ex-Premier
RICHARD BUTLER,
now Speaker of the
S.A. Assembly.
A man of many escapes is Captain C. R.
Newby, in Sydney with the Naldera. Dur-
ing the war two ships of which he had
been in command were sunk just after he
had left them; and the Tithonus was sent
to the bottom on a voyage from which he
was absent on leave. He would have been
in Yokohama at the time of the recent cala-
mity, with the ship Dongola. but in London
he was transferred to the Naldera vice the
fleet’s commodore Llewellyn, who for years
past has been threatening to make every
voyage his last.
George William Hean, whose name has
been made known by advertising as far flung
as any in Australasia, died the other day
on his farm near Wanganui (M.L.). He
first hung out his shingle as a chemist in
that town; then, realising the fortune to be
made by advertising, he laid himself out to
discover something to advertise. He found
it, and in a few years sold his interest in
it, well satisfied with his pile.
Heidelberg (Vic.) claims the oldest Aus-
tralian mayor. John S. White was recently
invested with the rabbit-skins at 85.
Died in Gladstone (C.Q.) at 77, George
Ferguson, in turn stockman, publican, squat-
ter and for 22 years chief inspector for
Bananaland of the City Mutual Life oflice. A
stern old Scot who came to Australia in
1862 determined to get on in the world; and
he did, though the path was pretty rocky
at times.
As far as the War Office knows, when this
year broke there were only two surviving
non-commissioned officers who took part in
the charge of the Light Brigade. One of
them, W. H. Pennington, trumpeter, 11th
Hussars, died on May 1 at 91. The lone
n.c.o. still on deck is Edwin Hughes, Troop-
Sergeant-Major, 13th Hussars. He is 92.
Bigge Monrad, lately dead at Copenhagen,
aged 82, was connected with the early settle-
ment of the Manawatu district in Maoriland.
He went there nearly 60 years ago with his
father, Bishop Monrad. The Bishop in ’67
returned home and later sent to M.L. 180
specially-selected Scandinavians, who proved
their worth as bush subduers. Bigge Monfad
also sought the home nest in ’B4. His
second wife was the daughter of Admiral
Gaide, Governor of Danish West Indies.
“Blanc’’: Douglas Grant (B. 26/'7/’23l
of the Lithgow S. A. Factory, shows what
training may do for the Australian abo. if
caught young and sympathetically handled.
In the Fighting 13th Doug was a gallant and
thoughtful Digger and a fine Lewis-gunner.
His reasoning and conversational powers
were markedly above the average, and he is
a fine penman. But Grant is not the most
remarkable 13th Batt. identity at the S.A.F.,
for “Old Dad” Hart is there, too. Although
on the shady side of 60 —by how much is
a mystery to all but himself—Dad was equal
to the best the 13th possessed. His genial
nature was a tonic to all ranks in grouchy
times, and his influence for good throughout
the row was valued by all C.O.’s. He won
the M.M. in the swamps and gas of Passchen-
daele, after which he was given the training
of the 13th’s boxers.
THE SWEET HUGHES OF ADVERSITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“William Morris Hughes, who described himself as
a journalist, said that he remembered the position
regarding sugar in June and July, 1920.” —Royal
Commission of Inquiry.
O William Morris Hughes, how i hanged since
You reigned triumphant as a King or Prince;
When, never taking heed your head to cool,
You named the staple products—wheat, or wool,
Or what not —crying “Let there be a pool!”
Then were you great indeed. To wave a wand,
And sow your orders broadcast through the land,
Was your ambition; so toward your goal
You bore a flag marked “Government Control.”
And when the cannons’ din at last was o’er
You felt persuaded you had won the war.
O Royal Hughes, as “W you figured then —
A Prince of Pushfulness, a King of Men ;
And having the dictator in your blood,
“Great Hughes, give us this day our daily food”
Was your conception of fit household prayer,
Control of sugar your especial care.
What mattered aught as long as you could say
“Let there be sugar!” in a regal way?
Truly, O William, when we contemplate
Your former splendor and your present state
We almost weep. Yea, looking back we see
The Sugar magnate whom you used to be:
You cried, “Let Jones, or Brown, have half a ton” —
Proud days were those for William’s mother’s son.
Lor,’ what a drop! You rule the land no more,
No longer lose your head and win the war ;
The man whose movements once were better known
Than had he been a monarch on a throne.
Lor’, what a drop!
And now, to crown it all,
To emphasise the meaning of your fall,
To set us moralising on your case,
Your golden-goblin gilding of disgrace
(A slight allusion to the twenty thou.,
Which Heaven grant may help console you now)
To make us ponder Fortune’s turn and twist,
You call yourself to-day a journalist.
Shall dog eat dog? A truce to diatribes,
Great Pot and Kettle! Honor among scribes !
Sunk to this depth, no deeper can you sink:
Inkslinger you, at you we sling no ink,
But cry, with heart and voice profoundly tvist,
The King is dead, long live the Journalist!
VICTORIA.
O.K.


1
«2535 s
m
1
/
:
o
H
: s ‘
£l9B
The New Beale Player-Piano
nave yours delivered, this week.!
SINCE the announcement of the
New Beale "Five-Three ”a steadily
increasing demand for this instrument
has set in. It is quite apparent that
there are a large number of people who
are going to welcome a player-piano
that is capable of being used as a true
interpretative medium.
The artistic qualifications of this new instrument
are something far removed from the popular price
at which it is being sold ; so much so that it is
quite impossible to make effective comparisons
without actually having heard it. But some idea
of its value in this direction may be gauged from
the endorsement of the committee of eminent
musicians who passed final judgment on it before
it was offered to the public. The keyboard has
been covered with African ivory, the sharps
are genuine ebony ; the sound-board is of the
same quality spruce as is used for full-size concert-
grands ; all essential fabrics throughout are pure
wool, strings are silver-steel, the case-work is genu-
ine mahogany or English quartered oak.
None of our pianos—player models or otherwise
-—are issued without having seasoned for a cer-
tain period on the factory floor. This ensures
better tone-quality and a capacity for staying in
tune longer than is the case with pianos not so
carefully constructed. For this reason it is possible
that later we shall be compelled to book orders
subject to future deliveries. If you can make it
convenient to purchase during this week you
may be certain of having an instrument almost
at once.
Full, printed details showing actual photograph
of this new "Five-Three” model will be sent to any
address, post free, or an actual demonstration may
be arranged at the following addresses. Note
that in Quarter-Sawn English Oak this model is
£5 lower in price than the mahogany, viz., £193.
BRANCHES —New South Wales: Bathurst,
Lismore, Newcastle, Gou'burn. Victoria :
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas-
mania Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples,
Launceston. S. A.: Savery’s Pianos Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A. : Thomson’s Ltd., Perth
and Fremantle.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms: 340 (jeorge Street, Sydney.
Head Office and Factories: 41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BEALE and COMPANY
(Queensland) LIMITED.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bios.), Brisbane.
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
-SN-15X4


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Live
Stock, Public Risk, Boiler
Explosion, Worker’s Compensa-
tion, etc., etc.
During the week-end
there , ll be many occasions
when you’ll relish a bottle
of
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH l& CO., LIMITED.
Kent Brewery,
SYDNEY.
K.B.
LAGER
Carlton Hotel Ltd
Bed and Breakfast
or
Inclusive Tariff.
Courtesy, Comfort and Home-
like Atmosphere.
Perfection of Service.
Cable and Radio and Telegraph
Address:
“Hocar,” Sydney.
Telephone: BGI4I (10 lines).
Under the Management of
J. LEVY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Numbugga”: Probably many pallid cuck-
oos will come and go before some lucky bushman
lands that £5OO which English naturalist Edgar
Chance has offered for proof that a cuckoo lays
its egg on the ground and' uses its bill to place it
in another bird’s nest; but it is as well that some
more accepted theories re our feathered friends
should be either written up as doubtful or be
authenticated. Next on the list that should be
challenged is the legend that the little grebe, which
has a floating nest, paddles its home and furniture
to safer spots on the approach of danger. One
enthusiastic artist has given to the i world a picture
of this little aquatic acrobat sitting astride its
nest, with one leg (rather elongated) paddling off
to fresh regions. Truly a prolific imagination, when
one realises that the nest is usually 12in. to 15in.
in diameter and is always secured during construc-
tion by water-plant cables to many of the floating
plants! These cables do permit the nest to rise
in flood-time, but to a limited extent only. When
the bird is sitting on the nest, its leg isn’t long
enough ‘to reach even the edge of the cradle.
* * * . *
“Platman”: The distance from the Bloom-
field to Cooktown is over 45 mites, and not 25 as
given by. “Kenbir” (B. 26/7/’23). The shortest
route is by : Stuckey’s Gap, which lifts 1500 feet in
about 21 miles from the Bloomfield River flat to
the head of the Annan. The l&te J. R. Raleigh
put up a record by walking froen China Gamp to
Helenvale in* a long day of 14 hours. “Iv.’s” abo.
may have got back the day after he started out;
also he may have carried the 1401 b. load—-but if
he did ‘ someone was following him with a gun.
*** ) *
“Raupo”: Here’s a helping hand to “Sarah
Anne” (B. 26/7 ; /’23). Big snakes do slime their
prey before swallowing. In'’9l when I was toiling
with a bunch of Micks on the Cairns- llerberton
(Q.) railway-line, then under construction, the
ganger one day appealed to us,' with “Quick, for
the love of Hivin, there’s a great shnaake killin’
all me poulthry.” I myself finished the “killin’,”
the final item being'a 10ft. 6fn. carpet-snake. We
found in the fowl-house four pullets crushed and
lifeless, and all well slimed. Having had ocular
proof of the sliming, I want to ! know why a snake
continues killing and sliming j his victims before
starting out to eat one of them.)
“Yeilum”: Yes, snakes undoubtedly do slime their
prey before swallowing. After hearing a commotion
among the fowls one night, I managed to. save the
life of a half-grown chicken,. It was slimed all
oyer, and, although it
had received: a great,
squeezing, it recovered.
We knew that chicken
for a week after by
its feathers being stuck
together by the slim-
ing it had received. A
carpet-snake will often
kill more than one
fowl and nolt slime
them, the reason prob-
ably being that the
snake finds the fowl
uncomfortably big to
swallow and. goes for
a ; smaller one. Inci-
dentally, I have kept
a black, snake in cap-
tivity for as long as
six months without
food or water. This
can be more readily
believed when we re-
member that, all snakes
are more or less hiber-
n a tors ; also they are
poikilothermal—that is,
have a varying body
temperature whi e h
approximates that of
their surroundings.
“2555”: Tell “Picko” (B. 9/8/’23) that
just such another tyke as his is to be found at
Crawley, on the Swan River (W.A.). He belongs
to a fisherman, and when the) boss takes out the
boat Slasher races along the / spit and drives the
school of mullet or tailer nnshore. An old-man
pelican once tackled Slasher when he was in deep
water, and that tyke had to , submarine it to the
shallows; but once he felt firmness under his pins
he waited for the pelican to come again. It did;
and Slasher lived up to his> name—all that was
left of Pel. wouldn’t have ' decorated a flapper’s
bonnet. Incidentally, the same dog digs a hole
in the sand just off the water’s edge when he wants
a drink in summer, as the river water becomes
very salty. I believe that’s a bit of the dingo
strain in him. Can any Abo. • say?
“Hub”: I commend “Monaro” (B.
23/8,/’23) for his protest against weight-lifting
stunts. I read it while in hospital, which may have
had something to do with lifting a four-bushel bag
THE BOSS’S IMPROVEMENT.
"'Ow’s the ole jig workin' now, maister injineer?”
“I do 'ardly like to tell 'ee, Cap’n; but she eddeh so good as she
was before you improved she."
of cats from the ground to my shoulder 21. years
ago, just because some other fool had done it. But
that’s not the point. There’s a chap who has
been in the same hospital for weeks, and going to
be there many more. Cause—lifting a bag of wheat
from the ground to his shoulder, using his stomach
as a' fulcrum. His tummy has gone squash and
'dropped. There is not much hope for him, and cer-
tainly no peace ahead till the poor devil goes west.
My word to the younger section of the Council is:
Don’t.
* » # *
“Lobjc” (Trobriands) on pearls of price:
‘‘Buka Siput” (B. 14/6/’23) denies that there’s
anything in the yarn about pearls “breeding.” Most
of the Council know a good deal about one thing
,or another,-, but, this happens to be my subject.
Thirty years ago Sir Ernest Birch, Iv.C.M.G., late
Governor and C.-ireC. of British North Borneo (he
was then Mr. Birch and a minor political officer),
was given by a native whom he had befriended a
number of .small pearls. The native told him that
if the pearls were kept in a dark place and given
rice to eat, they would increase in size and multiply
exceedingly. Sir Ernest regarded the matter very
much in the same light as “Buka Siput,” but
nevertheless he slipped the pearls, with a small
handful of rice, into a black satin bag and locked
them in his office safe—and promptly forgot all
about them. A year or so later the bag was brought
to his notice, and with some curiosity he opened
it. Picture his amazement when he found that not
only had the original pearlsi increased in size, but
a number of very tiny pearls had made their appear-
ance in the bag. Much of the rice had vanished,
and that which remained showed on each grain a
clean incision at the end, as if it had been cut
away. : Up till the time he told me this story, 120
fair-sized pearls had been taken from the bag arid
made into necklaces for his three daughters. Sir
Ernest and his life-long friend, Sir George Murray,
some time a leader in the world of Anglo-Indian
finance, nearly came to blows over this very subject;
Sir George claiming that there was a catch in it
somewhere. To convince him, Sir Ernest gave him
a half-dozen, of the famous pearls, to start a “stud”
of his own. Sir George’s pearls I myself have
examined with the greatest-care, and this is what
occurs. Certain of the pearls develop a spot on
their surface which, under the microscope, has
something the, appearance of a ringworm. This
spot enlarges and bulges outwards until at last a
tiny body appears, , attached to the .parent, pearl.
This drops off and starts a career of its Own, leav-
ing no mark on the surface of its maternal ancestor.
The time from its first appearance as a spot till its
dropping varies from two to three months, and the
youngster is, no bigger than ■ a pinhead. I don't
know whether the introduction of the deadmaivs
finger spoken of by “Parama” (B. 26/4/'23) would
accelerate the process, but I doubt it. I write
thus at length because I am keenly interested in
this subject;but until “Parama” brought the. matter
up, I have never dared mention it in this country.
I have talked pearl breeding with Herbert Finnigajo
(the Bond-street chap), and with James Haynes, of
Hatton Garden, for hours. H.F. believes in it,
Haynes is dubious, but, in case any further argument
arises, I will mention the fact that the Royal picacls
of Bharatpur (India) are pedigreed, and have been
bred on the premises for generations.
“Ragar”: The lady who trotted off with
two sacks of flour, mentioned by “Fang-aloli” (B.
23/8/’23), was easily beaten by a young mother
in S’Africa. I sent my “boy” over to the
posthouse, 11 miles
away, to bring back
a case of stores
due there for me by
the waggon, and he
ignored my order to
take along another
“boy” to help him.
Five hours after giving
the order 1 heard the
sounds of a mouth-
organ, and looking out
saw his nibs swagger-
ing along followed by
a native woman, on
whose head balanced
the case of goods. She
was walking without
any sign of being dis-
tressed by the weight,
and was apparently un-
conscious of the fact
that her infant son, of
about 201 b., was enjoy-
ing his free lunch as
they came towards us.
That case weighed,
with its contents, just
2701 b., and had been
carried by the woman
the full 11 miles on an
up-grade the whole way
and along Kaffir paths
winding round some
pretty steep bits. My
“boy” explained that
he thought it would be
a small case, and so
wouldn’t want two of
them to carry it; and
the woman, a relation
of his, was handy down
at the post-house,
where her brother
worked. I presented
the young Amazon with
a handful of blue beads
—the fashionable color
at the time —and was
informed that she’d do
the same thing as often
as I liked for similar
payment.
‘‘Police Patrol”: I responded to a ’phone
call one day when I was stationed at Heathcote
(Vic.;, and on arrival I found Dad and Mum row-
ing hammer and tongs, and the debatable point was
the paternity of the “cheeild.” After pouring oil
on the troubled waters I explained to Joseph that he
was only providing- fuel for the gossips’ tongues,
and urged that it would be politic of him to accept
the parentage of the little stranger. He reluctantly
withdrew the insinuations against his fair Josephine
and philosophically remarked, “S’pose I’ll have ter
father it. A man can’t expect anything else for
living so close to the flamin’ road.”
* * * *
“Larry Longun” : “Skyrider” (B. 2/8/’23)
is right—it is by no means unusual for cattle to
swallow scrap-iron. One of our best milkers turned
up her toes suddenly a while back, and a post-
mortem revealed quite a collection of bric-a-brac in
her silo, among- it a handful of hobnails from old
blucher boots, and a couple of dozen boot-heel nails.
It was not the souvenirs,, however, that sent her to
THE JOY-RIDE.
“Are you sure we have taken the best road?"
"Somebody has. Dreadful thing they left in
its place, isn't it?"
her bovine paradise, as there was no sign of inflam-
mation or of a puncture in her glory-box, and she
had evidently been in ballast for some time.
(Continued on page 2!/.)
WHERE ALL THE WHITE MEN STOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In my own island I been think it good
To go the place . where come from all the thing
We buy for co-co-nuts and sandal-wood —
The stick-tobacco, jew’s-harp, finger-ring,
The turkey-red. the fish-hook, woman-lace,
And other trader thing—l mean the place
Where all the white men stop.
I think, my word, supposin’ I go there,
1 have-im one like-hell good-feller time!
I walk about all day-, go everywhere,
And no more work. No more for nuts I climb,
No dig-im yam, no spear-im fish, no chase
The turtle and the dugong in the place
Where all the white men stop.
I wear-im shirt and trousers, boot and hat,
Put plenty scenty oil along my head.
Sleep on a white-man bed —not on a mat —
And eat-im plenty proper baker-bread,
Semoke-im tin’ tobac’ play “find-im ace,”
And, mightbe, drink-im whisky in the place
AVhere all the white men stop.
So when the mission boat come look for crew
I take the chance and sign-on very smart.
And when my people cry at what I do,
And I get one big pain along my heart
As from my island I been turn my face,
I think of all the good things iui the place
AVhere all the white men stop.
And when I come ashore my heart he glad.
The plenty trader store—they never done!
All got in front the things I want-im bad,
(Of some of them I look about a ton!),
And more he stop inside alonga case!
I talk along myself I like this place
AVhere all the white men stop.
I look-im plenty new-kind thing. I think
The pol-ice-man who stop-im with his htind
The cart he no got horse, but plenty stink,
He proper brave along that place to stand !
If they no make him war-chief, they disgrace
(That word I just been learn) too much the place
Where all the white men stop.
1 look-im Charlie Chaplin picture-show /
AVhere warship captain stand outside and shout
To try and make-im people inside go.
I look-im men play music all about
A—AH!
“ Jes ’ think uv it! Three bottles cr beer fer sixpence!”
“ Where?”
“ Dunno. But jes think uv it!”
And bang-im one big drum they call-im “bass.”
But no one stop and listen in this place
Where all the white men stop.
I have-im one good-feller time all right ;
More better than I think before 1 start.
But, now I look-im everything, I fright,
And to my island want to go back smart —
I think of something I no like to face,
That make-im me no want to stop this place .
AA’here all the white men stop.
Too much the people walk about, and though
They altogether fill-im up the track,
Yet half of them they all-time somewhere go
Where half of them they all-time coming back.
And very quick they go, like in a race.
I think them plenty cranky in this place
Where all the white men stop.
And where they find-im tucker? I been try
To look the place where grow the things they eat.
But never a plantation look my eye;
The only thing they grow is house and street.
For yam and co-co-nuts they got no space —
They never grow-im nothing in this place
Where all the white men stop.
And that what for I want to run away;
To stop alonga place where nobodee
Grow tucker, and the people every day
Walk cranky come and go —no good to me!
Might be when tucker finish they me chase
All hungry mad—l want, to leave this place
Before the tucker stop!
VICTORIA.
FUZZY-TOP McNORTH.


9
m
»
m
m
m
1
■ . :
n
n
a
:
ill
i
a
*•
7<?s
m
.....


raw.
4.
TUTANKHAMEN L HIS TOMB
Wyi
The same indestructible mineral pro-
tects the felt fibres of MALTHOID
from the elements as that which
has so thoroughly preserved the
mummies of Egypt for thousands of
years. MALTHOID is made from
rag felt and pure bituminous
mineral, and lasts indefinitely.
Ask us for free booklet and samples.
*yße PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tne
(F M.PRINCE AustralasianManaqer)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of S»»Tiw S p 1 i C !krF
P & B MATERIALS
MALTHOID RDDFINC
NTS qA6i
Try It
With Your Dinner
t U’d Good
mJ
if*
i m
“Aarvi”: I invite “Blanc” (B. 26/7/’23)
to visit my brother’s shack at Woori Yallock, near
Warburton (Vie.), so that he may be introduced
to a much more romantic and lovable insect-absorber
than frogs and “triantelopes.” The first time I
saw the creature I was raking out the ashes to
light a fire, when what I thought was a half-burnt
piece of wood suddenly developed legs, blinked a
pair of bright eyes at nie, and departed in the
perfect leisurely and unperturbed fashion of a petted
and privileged habitue of the place. “That’s Joseph,”
my brother explained. Jo was a lizard about Tin.
long, who had taken up his residence in the shack
and was particularly fond of getting in among
the warm ashes once the fire had died down. When
the fire was lighted he patronised the hdb or the
hearth. In the evening he would scuttle suddenly
up the log wall and swarm out on to the mantel-
piece, threading his way between pipes, watches,
etc., and never once doing any damage. There he
would repose, regarding us with friendly bright
eyes. Once only did he meet with adversity. We
had gone out for the day leaving a cream rice-
pudding ready for tea on the bench. On our
return when I took the pudding up something moved,
and from out of its depths rose Joseph, a veritable
wraith, filmed in creamy whiteness.
* * * *
“Adam Selector”: Re “Jimmy Possum”
(B. 28/6/’23) and others on the kookaburra. For
30 years I have closely studied him, and in that
time once only have I seen a snake in the clutches
of the over-boomed egg thief. And then he did
drop the snake —but into a lagoon and lost it.
Perhaps in dry country Jack does better work,
but when he can get grubs, mice and the like,
snake is “off.” It’s different with the swamp-
pheasant. He sticks to a dry patch, forages and
catches snakes galore. As far as my experience
goes he beats all other birds at the game. Inciden-
tally, one evening I heard the seldom-voiced cry
of a sparrow-hawk overhead, and looking up I saw
one of those vandals streaking across with about
3ft. of snake wriggling in his talons.
# * * *
“Borom”: Re “Ivenbir’s” “little-fella pussy-
cat with big-fella stink” (B. 19/7/’23). Since the
par, appeared a friend of mine, well acquainted with
Cape York Peninsula and the Gulf, has told me that
the existence of such an animal is well known in
those parts, and that while it is infrequently seen
nowadays it was fairly common 20 years ago. It
has a small gland on the inside of its left
flank, and, like the American skunk, discharges
from this gland a secretion of overwhelming odor.
But the gland of the American animal is near the
base of the tail, and whereas the caudal appendage
of the Yankee animal is long and bushy, that of
the Northern Australian variety is short and straight
haired. The gland from which the odor is emitted
is probably, in the case of both varieties, a sur-
vival from some remote ancestor which killed or
patralysed its prey' by means of a cloud of vapor.
Only' one other species is known to have a similar
gland—the South American peccary or bush-pig.
While the skunk does actually use its secretion for
the purpose of protecting itself against its smaller
enemies, the peccary’s gland seems to have lost any
function of this kind that it ever owned, and the
contents are discharged only at death, which dis-
qualifies its flesh for the butcher’s shop.
* * * #
“T.P.” : O’Flannigan bounced breathlessly
into a pub at Nhill (Vic.). “I’m undher th’ Black-
feller’s Act all roight,” he yelled, “but fer the
THERE’S A REASON.
BIGGS : “You look very sad, old man.”
RIGGS : “Yes; my wife has been ordered to
the country, and if I look pleased she
won’t go.”
luv o’ Mike, a couple of bob’s worth of brandy—
a man’s been chucked orf ’is ’orse.” The kind-
hearted Bung flipped the florin into his till, dashed
a couple of measures and a bit over into a beer
bottle, passed it across and chanced the police.
An hour later a subdued O’Flannigan re-entered.
“The chap’s a taytottler,” he explained, “and as
It isn’t meself wud be puttin’ yer pot on, here’s
the cratur back.” Bung gratefully returned the
two-bob. Half an hour later he became thoughtful
SURE THING.
PARSON ( teaching reverence): “And, my little dears, who is it-.that we must always be
reverent to, who fulfils all our needs, who keeps the home going, who”
Billy: “Please, the cotvs.”
and tasted the returned liquor—to find that-O’Elan-
nigan had reversed that one biblical” miracle whifeh ,
always turns the toper blue with envy.
* * * / *
“Billy Brolga”: I don’t know about the
blue kingfisher being the quickjfest/Shing alive on
the wing (“Yarrum” B. 2/8/’23)*; tfllt I’m prepared
to say the sacred kingfisher' (HafFyfm sanctus) is
the greatest killer for anything near its size that
flies. These birds are armed with formidable, sharp-
pointed bills, a blow at the back of' the head from
which will knock out almost any bird. They have
a special grudge against laughing-jacks and butcher-
birds, and’ in the nesting season are always warring
with them, the baby butchers suffering’ heavily at
times. Some time back a pair had a nest in an
anthill on a tree about 100yds. from our house.
They were always harassing the cacklers, swooping
down at them with a volley of sharp, rasping
notes. I said nothing until they started knocking
out the chickens, and then I declared war.
» * * * ■>,
“Blunder-Buss” : I : can support “Jimmy
Possum” (B. 16/8/’23), who mentions horses tfiat
had to be caught by the bottom lip, or the’ tail,
before the winkers could be put on. Also I- re-
member a party of Cape River droVers. who caught
their worst horses (and some\of them were snorters)
in the most outlandish fashion. Starting. about five
yards from the beast, they first of all appeared to
fix their eye on the near hobble-strap ; then, bend-
ing down till their outstretches! hands almost-touched
the ground, they slowly advanced on the animal,
mumbling some gibberish song, half-nigger, half-
English. The horse never’ moved once the men
started to advance, but stood attentively waiting
for him to grab the hobble-strap. Tin- rest was
easy; all the catcher had to do was to run his.’-
hand up the front leg, along ithe neck, and put the
bridle on. One of the drovers .told me it was a ;
common practice on the Cape River, and had been
learnt from the blacks. In no/other way could
these particular horses be caught.v As to the tail,
business, I remember a cohky who;, broke in most
of the horses for the settlement—a good breaker
and one of the “treat ’em with kindness” sort;
Every horse he broke in had to be gaught by the
tail. I told him plainly j- thought it? a mad idea.
My opinion narked him a bit, and among other
things he pointed out thin none of his horses laid
ever kicked anyone ; also,- he claimed,»a' man com-
manded more respect from the'; pupil when behind
him, and that he could watch make the young-
ster understand him better from” that position.
• * *■ *
“Hermes” : Matthew Flinders behrs out the
statement of “Te Whare” (B. li)6/’2W) that Dam-
pier was the first white man to observe the kangaroo,
or at least to leave a record of the animal. Dampier
wrote that among the animals which he observed
was “a sort of raccoon, different from that of the
West Indies, chiefly as to the legs, for these have
very short fore-legs; but go jumping upon them
[the hind-legs?] as the others do,-and, like them/are
very good meat.” Upon fthis Flinders ip his “Vog-
age to Terra Australis” (remarks“ This appears" tb
be a description of the ’small since found
upon the islands which form the road®[Shark’s Bay],•
and if so, this account is probably, the ' first ever
made of that singular animal.” Dampier, of course,
had never heard of the word “kangaroo,”-.g name j
which seems to have been given by Cook to the
larger species of the animal.
“Valamac”: “Eureka’s” accident (B.
16/8/’23) reminds me. Watson, a young chap at
Pitt'sworth (Q..),was tying a high-spirited saddle-
horse to a post, when something frightened the
animal and it pulled back. The reins caught the man’s
hand on the top edge of the post and clamped it
there, until the horse, with a mighty heave, snapped
the bridle. Vv hen it was over Watson was rather
surprised to see one of his fingers all by itself on
the top of the post. It had been chopped off clean
at the second joint by the sharp edge c» the wood.
* * * * .
“T.V.T.”: “Keystring” (B. 23/8/z3)
wishes to know how the mute bullocky mentioned
in my par. (B. 19/7/’23) conveys his instructions
to his team. lie does it per medium of the whip ;
but there is no cruelty involved in “Dummy” Col-
lins’s method of using it. “Dummy” wields that
implement in much the same manner as the con-
ductor of an orchestra does his baton. He trains
his oxen as an instructor in flag-signalling trains
his squad, and every motion, every sway and flourish
of the greenhide is a subtle “Whoa,” “Gee-off,”
“Come-’ere” or “Giddap” that is understood by all
the bullocks in the team.
* * * *
•‘Centre”: Re biltong (B. 23/8/’23). I’ve
lived 10 years in the country in S’Africa, where
biltong was our daily food. I’ve eaten it, made
itsand seen it made, but have never seen it prepared
bv- dipping in boning fat before hanging up to
dry-. There never was any boiling fat where we
ntude our biltong—-generally where we camped after
Snooting the buck we required for scoff. The meat
was cut away most carefully from all fat, carved
into strips of about 12in. by 2in., threaded on a
wire, string or cane, and hung in the wind, or in
the sun if it was not hot. The food prepared with
fat. is an entirely different matter, and, as used in
Canada, firstly by the Indians ’ but. now universally
there by whites, is krioWnf as pemmiCan. This is
made from the dried ‘ and I pounded flesh of bear,
deer or other game, or even of the ox when no other
is available. The pounded" meat is pressed into
hard bricks or cakes, so as to make it keep as long
as possible, and as a further protection is dipped
into melted fat, which cools and forms an airtight
covering over it. I was over there at the tail
end of the Klondyke rush, and made the acquaint-
ance of it then. I also lived for some time on the
dried and : pounded meat in biscuit form, w»hich had
been made fully 12 months before it came my way.
I’ve tried to make biltong in Australia several
times, but the blowfly has been too many for me.
* * * *
“Pancharpoo”: Trees? Recently at Wil-
liamstown, near Gawler (S.A.), a red-gum shrub was
cut down from which were taken 121 broad-gauge
railway sleepers (lOin. x; Sin. and Bft. 6in. long),
137 narrow-gauge sleepers (Bin. x 4in. and 6ft.
6in. long) ; and 195 sft. 6in. fencing-posts. A
sapling trimmed at the same time was 22ft. in
diameter. This undergrowth was removed to give
some of the real trees a chance to expand.
* * ♦ *
"Ento” : The diptera include certain large
flies quicker on the wing than the dragon-fly. Those
of the family Nemestrinidae are without a popular
name, but others, belonging to the Bombylidae, are
well known as bee-flies. One can follow the flight
of the quickest dragon-fly up to 100yds. with ease ;
the nemestrinid, which gets off the motionless hover
to full flight within a foot or two, can be followed
for about 20yds. ; but the bombylid is so speedy
in its take-off that a few inches is the maximum one
is able to trace its path—in fact, this can be done
only sufficiently far to indicate which way the
creature has gone. “Yarrum” (B. 2/8/’23) claims
for the dragon-fly the relationship of first cousin to
a streak of lightning, and therefore I place the
bombylid as twin to the flash.
“Tame Whei”: “Bollweevil’s” account (B.
30/8/’23) of how Ted lost two fingers under his
mate’s axe recalls the amazing incident that
happened about three years- ago near Wanganui
(M.L.). Two bushmen shared a whare, and one
evening, after two days’ alcoholiday, the elder man
said he was sick of life and asked the younger,
Kinsella, to do him the favor of decapitating him.
Kinsella got his axe in order, and, the other kneeling
down with neck extended, performed the opera-
tion in two accurate chops. At the murder trial
Kinsella managed to evade the hempen necklace
but the brogd arrow still guards him.
* * * *
A blast of Counsel:—
“Centurion”: “Wanterknow” (B. 23/8/’23) asks
how to train a prad to stand when the reins are
simply dropped on the ground. The Boers, who
insist on this as part of a horse’s education, start
the youngster with a fairly heavy weight attached to
the bridle, gradually lessening it. In time the neddy
stops at the slightest pull, until at last the hanging
reins are enough to keep him standing all day. it
is a fairly troublesome job at the start, but that
will have to be swallowed.
“Paul C.” : Cross a half-inch rope with two twists
over the horse’s loins so as to form a crupper to
put under his tail; bring tliei ends of the rope for-
ward on each side of him, put them through a
ring (or over a rail will do), bring them back and
tie the ends to the rings of the bridle if it is a
strong one; —if not, put a halter on with the bridle
and fasten’ the ehds of the rope to that. Now
throw the bridle reins carelessly over his head
so that they hang down to the ground. After a
while, or perhaps before a while, the yarraman
will start to move away, thinking he is free, and
finding he is not, will rush back —and he’ll think
the Devil is somewhere at his rear when the rope
saws in. This will cause him to leap forward and
stand trembling over the dangling reins. There-
after “Wanterknow” can just throw the reins on
the ground and he won’t wanterknow “where me
crimson prad is gawn” when he comes out after
a four-hours’ interview with Bung on church business.
“Bora”: Get a good peg, bore a hole through it
near the top and put in a piece of wire to form
a neat loop; then drive the peg into the ground
until only the wire is showing, hook the prad on
to the wire by the bridle-reins and let him have
THE FICKLE SEX.
NEW CHUM : “Yes, Murphy, I'm engaged to
the boss's daughter. Do you think she’ll
stick to me?”
MURPHY: “Wimmen are queer cattle. You
never know when you’ve got ’em.”
( Warningly ). “She give up cigarettes
once for a fortnight.”
a few good pulls. After that the horse will
stand anywhere for any time, with the reins on the
ground.
“Tack”: If the bridle reins are good, just pass
them through the prad’s forelegs and tie them
fairly tightly to the offside stirrup-iron. The
horse will soon learn. I’m not too fond of walking,
and I’ve used this idea hundreds of times to teach
’em.
“A.L.J.”: Tie a bag to the ends of the reins and
let them hang down so that the bag rests on the
ground in front of Dobbin’s hoofs. When he goes
to walk away he will step on the bag, and so jerk
the reins and pull himself up. After a few lessons,
he’ll stand still whenever the reins are left hanging
down.
“Obert”: Start while breaking the horse in, or
shortly after. Have very long reins on which the
nag will keep treading; let him go and watch him,
occasionally going up and catching him. It is quite
simple with a young horse, but don’t try to break an
old one in to the habit —at least, not when you are
seven miles from home, as I did once. I was very
footsore when I unsaddled him at the sliprails that
night.


u
niIMT QDQ
BJ U HI LvJK Cl
• »
m
ny
w
'
m
mm
k
V .'fe
*
>1
WMmmmlß
I.l¥
•ii ’ i
•t-immL- ■
a 6» «*■**
■»f r
\<K.. > '■ , 1
'"'" i
•y
feJd® ■■■ : v
'
m
’*r
hi .: '" ' '
■
■ n
• In
fSM|
Kj» f^S^i
?«■
«Spuji
»_' ■
■»
Sill ■
y,\
‘ te
JM
J,
v
A
m
m
i
■
■fijpiltll
.
«I
.
—another Customer for Dunlop “Cords
These tyres are now in great request motorists appreciating their fine quality, dependable service and remarkable
value. The extra air space and materials in v
ftHM
ensure wonderful mileage—even over the roughest of roads—and absence of tyre troubles. These tyres also
add tojyour comfort and increase the life of your Car. You can buy big sized high grade Dunlop Cords for less
money than imported tyres of smaller size and incorporating less material. Obtain Dunlop list and compare prices.
fit J)unlop Cords and be satisfied I
DUNLOP IRUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. a .
IiuMIMP
CORD
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


Under
Royal
W&rrant
sdf
To H.M.
Kinfi
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsiech
UOiS
cn
VL
V
CHampaCHC
'iarieslleidsiedc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
EUDENTA
For White
Australian
Teeth.
Eudenta
Tooth Paste.
One Shilling
Everywhere.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Powders
Governor Davidson held his last levee
early this week. It was a big levee —it took
a whole day and night for his callers to pay
their respects. But Sir Walter never stirred
through the passing of the procession that
was almost as unbroken as the passing of the
hours. In the transept of St. Andrew’s on
violet-hung trestles he lay, midway between
open doors through which could be glimpsed
green lawn and gravelled walk languorous
in the delight of the September sun. Occa-
sionally an intruding breeze rippled the Union
Jack that covered him, and at intervals the
khaki-clad guard with its reversed arms was
changed; but always the steady tramp of
feet went on—Judges and politicians; men
who looked like elderly clerks; men who
looked like young clerks and artisans; young
mothers with babies in their arms ; very old
ladies, some leaning on elegant canes, some
on the arms of daughters; small boys, little
girls no bigger than his own Daphne and
Diana ; and the business girl in legions—a
subdued girl this in spite of her new
Spring millinery; and one could think
that under the flag of Empire Sir
Walter smiled gratefully at the work-
girl’s remembrance. Still the tramp of
feet, till the bent heads of the men on guard
must have been dizzy with the monotony of
it. By night-time pillar and pulpit were
stately in their sable drapings; the aisle lead-
ing up to the altar was banked high with
flowers; and here between 8 and 9 Dame
Margaret knelt in vigil, a pitifully aloof
figure of grief in her clinging black. And
still the leyee lasted, and the feet of old and
young beat their rhythm of respect across
the stones;
They buried Sir Walter at South Head
just before mid-day on Tuesday, after a ser-
vice, dignified and austere, in St. Andrew’s.
Here came all the leaders of State, and men
whose names add brilliance to the profes-
sions they follow; here came the flitter of
decorations and the gilded trappings of the
Navy; here came the loved brown of the
khaki that for the last time formed a
guard to honor Sir Walter’s gubernatorial
state. Here came, too, the dead’s w.dow and
little daughters in the trappings of loneliness.
When, finally, to the chords of the Uuneral
March the procession moved down the khaki-
lined aisle and through the open door, the
most impressive touch was the passing of
Dame Margaret, an arm about each small
girl's shoulder.
Now we know where all the legal §ix-and-
eightpences go—they go to buy pictures of
the tender cow and the balmy breeze. So the
sordid atmosphere of the Court is counter-
acted by the simple charms of Nature.
Justice Street let the Sydney that, attended
the opening of the Society o£ Artists’ show
into the secret. Not that he said it in
those words, but he painted a picture of Law
as the ardent admirer of Art, till we could
see Mr. Abigail waving away a fat fee that
some law-enmeshed artist tenders, murmur-
ing: “Put up your purse, but paint me one
of your purple cows!” Sydney Ure Smith,
the president of the society, looking very
polished, beamed over the opening speech,
though he was almost apologetic because the
Show held no startling, traffic-stopping can-
vases. .Norman Lindsay has put ail his
ladies and gentlemen of the chorus into one
frame, and the scarcity of clothing doesn’t
seem so noticeable, though one small girl
whose mother linger«d before the; magnificent
pen-and-ink work pressed her finger against
the extremely retrousse back portions of a
lady in the immediate foreground, and whis-
pered sibilantly, “Oh, Mother, did you ever
see such a tremendous bust!” tfifie Artists
thronged the big gallery, but Society had
done its duty on the previous day by going
to the private view; so there were no sar-
torial effects to tickle the eyebrows.
Lord Strathspey, who looks in at Sydney
on his way to revisit Maoril&nd, is a native
of the Rickety Isles. His father, who set
to work for his young family when his aris-
tocratic lineage was of no use to him, lived
in Oamaru and brought up the kifidies there.
The eldest son, James—later Earl Seafield—
was killed during the war, and Lord Strath-
spey is the second son. Lie married a
Miss Hard^-Johnston, of Christchurch. The
late Earl of Seafield likewise married into a
well-known Christchurch family—the Town-
ends.
St. Stephen’s was redolent of the very
best brands of face powder, in addition to
the perfume of masses of pink and white car-
nations, on Saturday night, when large sec-
tions of Society wedged into the Phillip-
street church to see Jeanie McMaster (her
father squatted on Weetalabah station,
Coolah, and mother is now Mrs. Colin Venn,
of Point Piper) whisper the promises that
turn a young spinster into a wedded wife.
Dr. Clive Robinson, of Petersham, exchanged
the orthodox chit-chat with the lady, and
Padre John Ferguson tied the knot. Jeanie,
who was escorted up the aisle by brother
Hugh, was hung with handsome trappings of
embossed ivory marocain, the new side-drap-
ing of the skirt clutched with an outsize
ornament that contained a high-voltage
sparkle. A train of silver tissue, a Brussels
lace veil and a clutter of pink and white
hyacinths, with the usual orange-blossom
etceteras, finished off the bridal outfit. The
bridesmaids (there were four of them not
counting the tiny train-bearer) wore a
souffle of silky pale blues and pinks sur-
mounted by silver-lace hats. After the
knot-tying Mrs. Colin Venn dealt out hospi-
tality on a large scale at the Rose Bay Golf
House.
One of the prettiest brides of the month
was Helen McGrath, who billowed up St.
Mary’s aisle in ivory satin of Early-Victorian
cut, her wonderful auburn hair shining like
burnished copper through a mist of tulle veil-
ing. Dr. Kevin" Byrne, of Lakemba, who was
supported by Dr. Sydney O’Riordan, took
charge of the young lady at the altar rails,
where Father Will Byrne, bridegroom’s
brother, tied the knot. Bride’s sister Anne,
in a quaintly-fashioned frock of Egyptian
blue and a scuttle-shaped hat, helped to make
up the picture. The toasts were drunk at
the Cavalier.
A w'edding with a Maoriland flavor stirred
the week-day boredom of St. James’s during
the week, Catherine Beresford, of Hawke’s
Bay, being riveted to Hugh Claud Roach, of
Cairns (Q.). Tbe wedding was of the quiet,
between-ourselvesi order, and the festive
snack was drufik at Paris House.
. Pretty Rene Pain and Frank Robertson
are among the newly-engaged. Rene is the
only daughter of the medical Francis Pain
couple, of the Darling Downs. The young
man’s people own Jandra station, outside
Bourke.
There seems to be no longer any hope that
the Charles Markells, of Neutral Bay,
escaped the earthquake in Yokohama. They
were seen an hour or so before the swift
destruction of their hotel by fire; since then
there has been a silence which can mean
only one thing. Mr. Markell, who came to
Sydney 40 years ago in ill-health, remained
here, established himself in business in the
city, and for years was one of the most influ-
ential of the American colony. His wife,
whose mother still lives, was the daughter
of a wealthy Bostonian. They left their
family of two when they went north to
escape the Sydney winter —a son, who is at
the Bar, and a daughter, for whom great
sympathy is felt.
This is one of the latest photographs of
Gertrude Elliott (Lady Forbes Robertson),
now playing a three-generation part in
“Smilin’ Through.” The lady, who is a
beauty in her
own right, has
been over-
shadowed in
the Venus
entries by be-
ing the little
sister of the
tr a nscendent
beauty, Maxine
Elliott. What
particularly in-
terests this
Letter is that
Gertrude not
only has
beauty and
charm, but is
actively inter-
ested in what
w omen are
doing all the
wor 1 d over.
Women play-
wrights are a
sort of hobby with her; and her first big
success was in “Mice and Men,” written
by Madeline Lucette Riley. As a young
thing she was an active suffragette, and
sealed her troth to the cause by marrying
the only actor-manager in England who had
declared himself publicly for Women’s
Rights.
With the passing, on Friday morning, of
Mrs. W. McCouort, widow of a one-time
Speaker of the Assembly, another link is
broken with that Parliamentary Past of
which Henry Parkes was the outstanding
figure. Two sons and three daughters are
left sorrowing.
“The O’Brien Girl” crowd, having an
evening free after months of toil at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, blew in to “The Beggar’s
Opera” for a ’busman’s holiday on Thurs-
day night. The Beggars were in wonderful
form. Pauline Bindley shapes well as an
actress, in spite of her monotonous concert
work ; but her strenuous role is telling on the
flesh. The orchestra is becoming quite
rakish-looking; and the ardent work is hav-
ing its effect on the set of some of the
elaborate wigs. Only conductor McCunn re-
tains an immaculate perfection of dress and
powdered thatch. Melbourne sassiety, drifting
in to Sydney for the .races, was represented
in the boxes. Justice Isaacs and his lady
had a place; Pauline Curran —daughter
of Curran of Tatt.’s —was in a resplendent
gown of purple—a classic dress devoid of
sleeves; and a new bride and bridegroom
from Melbourne clasped hands shyly in a
dim corner.
Gregan McMahon, of the Reps., is going
round in a smile and a sapphire-blue suit,
and Melbourne may look forward to seeing
both next month. He is taking Mrs.
“Pygmalion” Pitt Rivers, with all the Rep.
cast to back her up, in a week’s show at
Iler Majesty’s. Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s price
for starring is a performance to help the
hospitals. She bagged close on £2OOO in
Sydney for charity, and hopes to top that in
Melbourne.
You wouldn’t think that W. W. Davis
was 75 when he had this photo taken, would
you? Perhaps the fact that he had 21 child-
ren had something to do with it. And then
there was his
strenuous
working life,
which he be-
gan at 14 by
running away
from home
and joining a
droving party.
Most of his
days after
that were
spent ' among
stock, mainly
in the Bourke
where,
Incidentally, he
sank the first
successful ar-
tesiap well.
Everybody on
the Upper
Darling knew
“Baldy” Davis
in those days;
and four times Bourke sent him to Parlia-
ment—-once he beat his old friend E. D.
Millen by less than a dozen votes; nearly
30 years later these two died within three
hours of one another. A fine stamp of the
pioneer was W. W. Davis ; and he has left
a family which is still doing fine things for
Backblock Australia.
Sir Harry Lauder and his lady are due
here on the 25th. There will be merely
time for greetings; after a tub and a stall
at the Australia they will sail next mid-day
for ’Frisco by the Sonoma.
The Ball of a Thousand Lanterns will cast
its radiance over Race Week. Rose Meri-
vale, who helps to keep the Cinderellas going
for the C. of E. Homes all through the
winter, is the energetic secretary; and the
committee has sworn solemnly that the full
quota of 1000 glims shall shine aloft in
festoons. If any adder can reckon up only
999 lanterns she is entitled to something—
maybe a crick in the neck.
One branch of Y. Emma’s work which
comes little under notice is carried out at
Liverpool training-camp. At this time of
year any number from 1000 to 3000 N.S.W.
lads between 18 and 20 spend a week here.
Early this month the first batch of trainees
—about 1300 of them —made up of Uni.
Scouts, the 18th Battalion, and sections of
the A.S.C., A.M.C. and Engineers, occupied
the camp, and the Y.M.C.A. proved a fairy
godfather. Not only did it provide a well-
furnished writing-room and gymnasium, with
all kinds of games, including billiards, but
every evening there was some sort of show,
mainly war-film or comedy, and there was a
nightly audience of quite half the young
Australians in camp. In addition to the
amusement programme there was a series of
useful lectures. The officer in charge was Jack
Mackenzie, an old A.I.F. man with a pleasant
voice, a sense of humor, and a heart-winning
personality.
The committee of the Artists’ Ball is offer-
ing prizes for the most handsome, the most
horrible and the most humorous costumes
One boy entering for the Horrible Stakes is
going as an empty beer-bottle.
The garden fete in aid of the “Shore”
Grammar’s playing fields will not confine
itself to the afternoon of October 6. It
will stretch gaily into the evening, when a
dance in the school-hall will be the big attrac-
tion. Meantime secretary Mav Rhodes and
treasurer Mrs. Donald Esplin will be pleased
to hear from enthusiasts who would like to
swell the funds by bridge teas, tennis tourna-
ments or other permissible methods of brig-
andage.
The 53rd anniversary of Italy’s unity will
be commemorated to-night (Thursday), in the
Paddington Town Hall, by the Italian Club
and Circle. Consul-General Grossardi is
coming from Melbourne with a speech, and
the whole Italian community, forsaking the
rosy apple and the luscious oyst, will do its
best .to squeeze in.
The promoters of the recent ball for the
Royal Plospital for Women at Paddington
have been asked to repeat the popular offence
at the same price, so the Palais Royal will
slip on its glittering mask for the 21st in the
good Cause.
Mrs. Alexander Gordon is busy planning
a matinee in aid of the Deaf and Dumb
appeal. The star attraction will be a one-
act play by Sutro, “The Open Door,” in
which Mrs. Gordon and Lawrence Grossmitli
Will share the honors.
t Last week, for the fourth time, Nock and
Iyirby’s flung out gay pennants and indulged
in an annual jollo. The directors, the
hosts of these parties, were present in force
to greet the G(X)-odd employees who came to
the party.
Mosman is to have its own branch of the
Country Women’s Association, and to this
end the Chief Justice’s lady summoned a
meeting at Tregoyd last week. The ice
had been cut by the small gathering at Mrs.
Macleod’s the previous week. The result
Was a gregt roll up. Dame Alice Chisholm,
whose organising ability is far-famed, dripped
the honey of wisdom from her tongue, and
(in Auckland visitor, Mrs. Maguire, also
weighed in with a helpful speech. Male
support was given by Major-General Ryrie
gnd Dr. Arthur. Mrs. Arding Thomas is
to be president of the bantling.
> A theatre is the last place to warm up a
meeting. There is an awe-inspiring gloom about
the auditorium in the day-time (matinOes
Oxcepted) , ; that envelops the spirit even as
a wet blanket. When the committee of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital decided on the
Tivoli for a meeting-place last Thursday, it
milst have’forgotten this; also the fact that
the human! voice, unless of the fruity variety,
is but a tinkling ghost of sound that causes
a shrinking and a sinking in the regions of a
temperamental listener’s waistband. Still,
the meeting forged ahead to its objective,
which Whg a matinee at the Hippodrome in
October to help the CroWn-street institution.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Our much-travelled Ex. came back from the Too-
woomba polo on the 9th, and had the Theodores to
sup with him ; and he also entertained ’cellist Jean
Gerardy and his spouse, the Tullys, C. Montifiore and
his fiancee (who is the elder daughter of the Stan-
thorpe Ruddprs) before steering north for the Barrier
Reef with private sec. Michael Rogers in his wake.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers stayed at Government House
prior to going off to Coochin, and the Lenox-Con-
ynghams were also Sir Matthew’s guests. Miss
Lenox-Conyngham has now gone on to the Deshons’
place, Mitchell Downs.
For the finals of the Governor’s Cup there was a
big roll-up at Clifford Park, Mrs. Pitt Rivers, the
Hogarths, Feezes and Raffs being among the crowd,
and there were three buds presented to Society at
the Pavilion Ball in the evening—two Boyce girls
and a Banks, all in very charming frocks. The H6n.
Pamela wore leaf-green, and Mrs. Jack Chandler (who
was a Ross Munro) was sheathed in cherry color
covered by gold brocade.
The other day Nell Brownlow-Cole gave a tennis
party as a send-off to Mary Power, who becomes a
bride at the end of September. And Isobel Spowers
is off to India to an expectant bridegroom. Doris
Hall gave a party in her honor, at which about 60
guests saw old friends of the fair Isobel hand her
a wallet with a nice little cheque tucked therein,
along with some fine linen. The bride-elect was
in much-insertioned white voile, and Doris Hall was
in cream.
Still another bride-to-be was tea-ed when Olga
Harris fSted Dulcie Feather at the Bellevue, amid a
lot of pink poppies and tulle.
The Vacuum Oil Co. dropped business for an hour
or two the other night, and put on a jazz stance at
the South Brisbane City Hall. Naturally the thing
ran with perfect smoothness.
The Cremorne management lent the theatre for a
silver-coin musical show on the 9th, to give a lift to
the South Brisbane orchestra and the Curlew Male
Choir, w'ho are off to Lismore to see what can be
picked up in the way of prizes. The theatre over-
flowed with Sunday-afternoon-outers, a nd the pro-
gramme was worth the outing.
Mrs. M. Forrest gave a small luncheon party in
honor of Miss Jennings, who is here in connection
wdth the Walter Kirby concert tour.
Proud of its 61 years, All Sainfes’ Church broke
out in flags and bunting, gaily decorated stalls, music
and electric lights, in aid of alterations and repairs
to the doughty old Anglican pile. ’Gaiters Sharp
declared the f6te well and truly open, and quite a
lot of bawbees were raked in.
The übiquitous sweet-pea was part of the jollifica-
tion at the ’Varsity when the Women Students’ Club
arose and called its friends together to hear music
and see a little play, “Boy Comes Home,” enacted by
the girls. The A. J. Thynne and Cumbrae Stewart
matrons were among those bidden.
The Royal Automobilites held their last dance for
this year at the club rooms the other night, and the
thing went through on top gear, sparking well in
every cylinder.


>il .
A. Saunders’ pure
silverplated Flower
Vase, 10/6, 13/6,
15/6, 20 /-
a
i
sags
feCVyfc’-
rR
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
silverplated frame, cut crystal
glass bottles, 70/-
BIS
m
.ii. ■ -
R
A. Saunders* Salad Bowl and Servers, cut crystal glass jar#
pure silverplated mounts and servers, 21/-
Silver-plate Table-Appointments
Extensively Reduced.
CATALOGUE
SENT FREE
ON
REQUEST.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
ORDERS.
[glnftej
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure silverplated A 1
quality, highly burnished, 35/-
m
mi
5?
1
A. Saunders’ Four-cup Egg-stand
and Spool s, pure silverplated A 1
quality 50 /«
d
A. Saunders’ Pure silverplated
Flower Vase, 12/6> 13/6»
15/6
f
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silverplated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, pierced design, 50/-
m
■ :
A. Saunders’
silverplated
Biscuit Barrel, pure
floral design. 17/(>.
sdf
A. Saunders’ Honey
Jar and Spoon, pure
silverplated, Clpar Crv-
stal Glass Jar, 10/6-
4
A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure silverplated A 1 quality,
t highly burnished, 35/-, 40/-
r
A. Saunders’ Salt Cellar
and Spoon, pure silver-
plated frame, Cut Glass
Jar, 5/6 each.
ASAUMDERS
JEWELLER - - . OPTICIAN,
805-13 George Street (opposite Railway Station) ,
SYDNEY.
SgMjgtf;
A. Saunders’ Hot-water Kettle, pure silver-
plated Al; quality, handsomely burnished and
engraved, 84/-
!k>
1 I ...»
mm
as
17^
. .V
H. ■ ■■'
;a,i: -vc
r
*■: :■»
H
s?
** -
3K»
■
psfli
-> • /
■; , • .
„ *. , . V J
m WmMMm
mm '
m
m-
&V;
SMSfe.
SIX SEPARATE. WAYS
TO OPERATE IT!
Use it as an ordinary Piano.
2
Play it as a Player-Piano, using
foot pedals.
3
Use “Special Expression Rolls”
and play with foot pedals.
4
Operates Electrically and auto
matically, reproduces “Hand
played” expression.
5
Plays Electrically, but you can
put in your own expression.
6
Rewinds itself and repeats the
same piece as often as desired.
£3OO. Easy Terms Arranged.
The LAFFARGUE
Dynachord Electric
The Perfect Reproducing Player-Piano.
THE LAFFARGUE DYNACHORD is an instrument
developed from the Player and the Piano, and probably
the first exponent of this new and charming phase of
musical art.
The Laffargue Dynachord repeats the very sounds
produced by the artist, the touch of his fingers on the
keys—it gives you not only the tempo and cadence, but
the charm, individuality and technique of his playing
in every detail.
The Laffargue Dynachord is equipped with devices by
which the operator personally controls the application of
all the degrees of force, the accent on any note or chord,
the control of tempo; also the control of the solo or
divided soft-pedal buttons and the sustaining pedal.
When played by electric operation this power is taken
from the usual power plug, and the cost is trifling.
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS.
And at Brisbane,
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore,
Rockhampton.


p
w/
I
TAILORING
Exclusive suits.
Farmer’s present a high-grade
tailoring service for men. Dis-
tinctive suits will be faultlessly
made to order in the approved
style, with greatest care in the
execution of detail. Call or write
for the new season’s patterns.
FARMER’ S-” The Store for Men.”
POSTAL ADDRESS : BOX 49 7, G. P. O.
s
gg K««QDaHararaPinrara»inr3«mnnnrao»
“KING GEORGE IV’’WHISKY
Acknowledged to be
((
S
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
*ss3
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melboume.
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONNE DOYLE
pHENES cONTRAL 1532-1533.
Melbourne’s dressiest Women’s Club, the
Alexandra, sheltered the Bell sisters’ tea-
and-bridge frivol the other afternoon. The
hostessing sisters, who came from the West-
ern District, both wore misty black; the
elder lightening hers with a red rose on her
hat-brim, and the younger, Euphie, who is
one of our keenest golfists, with a steel girdle.
Everyone was best-hatted and gloved, and
every second woman was black-frocked. The
Irvine dame had an hour off from her trous-
seau-collecting for daughter Beatrice, whose
confetti has been ordered for Oct. 12.; and
in the gathering were sighted a brace of Syd-
neysiders, Mrs. Frank Thornthwaite, dark-
blue from thatch to toe, and Miss Mary
Watson, in delicate brown; Mrs. Lance
Gaunt, sister of the late “Chinese” Morrison
(her lawyer husband has steamed back to
the east of Asia leaving her for some further
weeks with. her mother, the widow of the
late famous Geelong College head) ; and the
Robert Power widow, who is able to take an
interest in life again after a bout with pneu-
monia.
The Edward Yenckens, who are contem-
plating an English trip, have sold their Too-
rak property, Glenbervie, which . stands in
18 acres of park, to a co. (which will chop
the land into villa allotments) for the grate-
ful sum of £3(5,000. They acquired the place
from the Suetonius Officer widow for £lB,OOO
some years back. The Yenckens’ city oil-
store, at the corner of Little Collins-street
and Elizabeth-street, has been bought by the
National Bank. One Yencken son, Arthur,
who entered the diplomatic service after
shedding his British majah’s war trappings,
seems to be making rather more than a mere
success of his job. Incidentally, Mrs. Officer
has just sold the family squattage, Killara.
on the ‘Darling River, and the late squatter
William Officer’s daughters have placed their
big old homestead. Hertford, in Alma-road,
on the auction block.
The brilliance of Mrs. Pitt Rivers in
theatricals puts her husband somewhat in
the shade among the Best People. Sassiety
gets yawnful with too much deep thought,
and Pitt Rivers does a good deal of mental
diving. He was a crack pupil of Prof.
William McDougall, the psychologist, and
is keen on the study of anthropology in the
Islands. The young man was much em-
barrassed by his popularity among the dusky
maidens of Aua, in the Pacific, when he put
in some weeks’ study there. The Aua group
is among the most primitive and interesting
places in this present prosaic world. The
natives are supposed to have a strain of
French blood—bequeathed to them by some
early explorers. This may explain the natti-
ness of figure of the women. They are
noted for their dainty little feet and hands,
as well as a general symmetry foreign to
the usual native Mary. Pitt Rivers’s study
of these Aua girls was taken as a personal
compliment by some of the maidens of high
degree. A white man is a rarity to them,
and they dubbed him Lily of the Valley, or
words to that effect, and songs are still sung
about the beauties of the fair young scien”
tist. The native women make a song about
everything that interests them—in quite a
different way from that in which their civi-
lised sisters are apt to make a song about
things that are of interest to nobody.
The Air Force Ball in the St. Ivilda
civic hall was a great success. Blue-
and-gold was all over the place, and
all. sorts of things • suggestive of the
flying arm had been artistically worked
into the decorative scheme. A Sopwith Pup
held the centre of the stage, and' even the
transparencies over the electric lights showed
Egyptian scenes snapped by Flying Corps
cameras. General Coxen convoyed his wife,
whose blue hangings were buttressed with
black. Daughter Ella enhanced her fairness
with palest pink, and her sister Bobby danced
in pale green. Wing-Commander Goble’s
wife wore a sweet early-Victorian air in
billowing petticoatings of white lace and
silver, while Miss Goble revolved in blue
georgette. Mrs. Eric Harrison’s mauve
georgette was cobwebbed over with crystal.
The feminine halves of birdmen Murray
Jones, Anderson, Mcßain, Marsden, Law-
rence, Brown and Wackett were among the
jazzers. Flight-Lieut. Wriglev, who brought
back a D.F.C. and A.F.C. from the Front.
was lion. sec. of the show, and Eileen
McEwan and M. Perkins gave the male com-
mittee a hand to fix up things.
With a twitch of pain her oid friends heard
of the death of Mary Mcßryde, who did fine
work during the war and was a genuine
friend to returning Diggers. She was a
daughter of that shrewd Scot, the late Dun-
can Mcßryde, who was a Broken Hill mining
magnate, a member of Vic. Upper House,
and Works Minister for a while in Bent’s
Cabinet. Mary Mcßryde’s war-time work
affected her health, and latterly she resided
with her sister, Mrs. Garnet Leary, wife of
a Sandringham medico.
Mrs. Georges Ferrand, a daughter of the
late Henry Wollaston knight, landed back
the other day from oversea for a whiff of
her native gum-trees, which she had not
scented for over 10 years. She is sheltering
with her sister, Mrs. Nick I.ockyer, until her
husband comes to convoy her back to Paris.
She is brimming over with war-time experi-
ences, which included some months in War-
saw. The Hun invasion cut in on the Fer-
rands’ honeymoon weeks in the Fog, and sent
the bridegroom dashing back across the Chan-
nel to apply for his issue of French Army
kit.
The meagre vestibule at the Playhouse was
too small for the rush to King Lear on
Saturday, and the effort of the manager to
maintain a queue was like a midge’s attempt
to stow a python in a matchbox. In the midst
of his trouble the poor fellow was hauled away
to prepare all hands for genuflections, as his
Ex. was sighted on the horizon. In the first
half-hour the Bard could hardly make his
voice heard in the rumpus of fashionable late-
comers, who were apparently all in
blucher boots. When silence at last befell,
we were able to feast our eyes on the mas-
sacre of unfair women and brave men. The
latter wore colored garments with large tin-
openers hanging from the waist, and their
calves were sheathed in leopard pelt, bath-
mats or whatever happened to be handy. The
ladies were duly robed .according to their
passions. Goneril (Lorna Forbes) and
Regan (Irene Webb) wore th e glum frocks
of scullions, as befitted a couple of cats with
dark, murderous humors. But the shining
innocence of Cordelia (Hunter-Watts) was
drum-fired at the house by an ash-blonde
wig and a shapely white frock with a candle-
extinguisher skirt, backed by a long, white
cloak with a vivid-green lining. It was a
charming effect, and gave a hint of what
might occur generally if Allan Wilkie kept
a real dressmaker on the premises.
Kathleen Gurner, after a visit to Paris,
Dresden, Antwerp, Rotterdam and other Con-
tinental cities, has spent the season in Lon-
don with her English-born niece, Dorothy
Gurner, the daughter of the late Judge. To-
gether they have seen most of the sights, and
after spending a fortnight at Little Stoke
Manor, Berkshire, the home of Rear-Admiral
Gurner, they go on to Scotland. Even then
there’s q trip to Italy to be done before the
return to Australia.
Here is Rembrandt’s presentment of Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, whose name is closely asso-
ciated with many gQod works. She is one
of the Baleombe family, which is identified
with so much
of the early
history of the
city. Her in-
terest in art
and music is
keen, and she
is always
ready to ex-
tend a hand
to help them—
an enthusiasm
that is shared
by her lawyer
husband. Their
big south
musi c-roo m
has been the
jampin g-off
ground for
many a suc-
cessful local
artist. Inci-
dentally, the
popular ma-
tron is a leading society hostess, and here
again she invariably makes her parties the
means of giving budding artistic talent its
chance—an example which is not so widely
followed as it might be.
The sudden death of Mrs. Peter, of Glen-
loth station, on the Murray, sadly shocked
her Victorian friends. She dropped dead in
a London street while on a shopping expedi-
tion. No one suspected heart disease in the
handsome, healthy-looking young matron.
Mrs. Peter, whose husband. William Teter,
is one of the best-known pastoralists on the
Upper Murray, was among Victoria’s most
popular hostesses. She was an Edinburgh
lassie, who did not lose her Scotch accent
in her 20 years of Australian life. Before
her marriage she was Cecilia Dickson, one
of a liue of IS Cecilias of the same family,
whose portraits all glow with the vivacious
beauty that belonged to the Cecilia of Aus-
tralian adoption. Two young daughters
show a promise of carrying on their mother’s
good looks. Mrs. Peter went to England to
visit son Cecil, a Geelong Grammarian who
had passed on to Cambridge.
No one who had read Burnett Gray’s Bul-
letin verses ever expected him to take a
header into municipal politics. Yet, after re-
turning from
the Front
with a depre-
ciated phy-
sique and sun-
dry shattered
ideals, he shot
into the St.
Ivilda Council,
and is now
fi n i shi ng a
short reign as
Mayor a
reign which
will be remem-
bered for radi-
cal activities
in many direc-
tions, and the
way he broad-
e n e d the
spirit of the
suburb and
gave it some
foundation for
its pride as the third city in Victoria. How-
ever, a mere twelvemonth in the mayoral
millinery wasn’t long enough for him to carry
all the reforms he has in mind. He wants
to build a large library and reading-room,
and he is nursing the plan of widening the
High-street that is about breathing its last
as a shopping thoroughfare, and replacing
the doddering edifices with smart villas and
gardens. This daring project has naturally
excited Vested Interests, but Burnett Gray
has the courage of his youthful convictions,
and that isn’t worrying him. Some weeks
back he delivered a blow at Tradition by
abandoning the annual hop and guzzle in
favor of an entertainment to 600 charity-
workers. This photo of the anarchist comes
from Monteath.
The Lawn Tennis Assoc, members bap-
tised the club house at Ivooyong with dance
and frivolity the other night. Association
sec. Koch and assistant-sec. Wilson moved
round perpetually to see that all was well.
Pat O’Hara Wood had brought Mrs. Pat,
who trotted in black lace. The Arthur
Spragues were besieged for the latest news
of Mrs. Arthur’s son, Bob Schlesinger, lrom
the American tennis front. Vere de Bavay
sparkled beguilingly in spring-like green and
silver stripes. Barbara Madden dimpled in
pink silk, and Mrs. Frank Schlesinger danced
in black, with a side-wash of silver tissue.
Chiffonery honors were divided by Mrs.
Nicholas, daughter of the late Dr. John Wil-
liams, who had clothed her slim elegance in
yellow velvet of irreproachable cut, and the
eldest De Courcy Talbot daughter, whose
fine figure was charmingly swathed in velvet
of orchid tint.
One bright young Melbourne scribe, Violet
Hibbs, who understudies Emily Charlwood,
will not sprint much further along the Inky
Way, as she has promised to make happy a
rising young accountant, Robert Smith, in
the not-too-far-off future. She is the
daughter of the well-known paper importer
who died a few months back with startling
suddenness, and left a widow and large
family;
General and Mrs. Grimwade’s adjourned
ball in honor of daughter Gwenda and her
husband Chester Manifold happened on Fri-
day night in No. 9 Darling-street. The
Undine-like wash of Mrs. Grimwade’s pale-
green silk foamed over with beaded' white-
ness was counteracted by a narrow black
border. Her daughter radiated in her bridal
satin draperies, which were interrupted mid-
way with a silver swathe. Cousin Kathleen
Thornton took the opportunity of budding in
her bridesmaid frock of white lace studded
with daisies springing from silvery bands.
Other debutters were the Atlee Hunt
daughter Marion, in palest yellow silk with
lace at shoulder; the Goulburn Brookes’s
little daughter Dorothy, of tennis fame, in
filmy white and gold; and a Stead girl, in
white and silver fluffed with tulle sideboards.
The quartet clutched white posies hedged in
with gold lace, the gift of the hostess. All
the Nicest People were there, including a
host of Grimwade and Manifold relations,
headed by the Chester Manifold widow, in
black velvet, and Mrs. Edward Manifold, in
cloudy grey.
# “Chinese” Morrison’s wife did not survive
him by many years. She died a month or
so ago in England. At the time of the
romantic marriage the remarkable Geelong
“boy” was Political Adviser to the President
of the Chinese Republic. On an English holi-
day he thought it would be a good idea to
enlist the assistance of a typist to help him
in among other things, cataloguing his Woh*
dertul library. A friend introduced Miss
.Jenny \\ ake Robm as the ideal secretary;
™ I- months later they were married.
1 Lree small sons are left to carry on the
world-wide reputation of their astonishing
parent.
The Queen Vic. Hospital appeal funds will
receive the financial results of the cafe
chantant and bridge afternoon which Mrs),
Henry Rosenthal is staging at her Toorak
home on September 25, and which threatens
to be a very swagger affair. The Rosenthals
acquired liomeden early last year from the
Norton Grimwades, the latter having bought
the place from the late Norman Hodges.
Quite a crowd had been beckoned to the
dress rehearsal of “Saliy” in the newly-reno-
vated Theatre Royal. The joyous beauty of
Sally s best frockihgs drew sighs of envy
fiotn the Womenfolk, particularly the deli*
T f,te sub-cUrtaihings which are so
Frenehily chic. The freshhess of Sally’s
ravishing opaiesceht harem-dress looks as if
it must be a new edition of ller Sydney
triumph. Most of the flappers raved about
some silvery hangings enlivened With teiidef
blue Worn by a show-girl under an Utn*
brella hat of black-and-white fowbfeatliers.
The bridesmaids’ ffocking does not come Up
to expectations, and surely Sally’s Wedding
dress was made before the order for lengthy
petticoatings was issued. Otherwise her
bridal whiteness strikes criticism dumb.
Jazz hostesses are feverishly bagging dates
for the Cup season. Already the frivols
listed threaten to outrun the nights avail-
able. And now prospective ball-makers and
Miss Toorak are unitedly invoking the gods
to send in a fresh consignment of dancing-
men. Even the cheeriest young thing finds
it hard to thrill to the prospect of whirling
with the same lot of boy-men every night in
the week; or, worse still, filling in the pro-
gramme blanks in the sanctuary of the dress-
ing-room. Jazz-weariness usually attacks the
male dancer in his second or third season,
wherbas the petticoated section appears to
be immune.
The Victoria League is going to boost its
low finances with a ball in the St. Kilda
Town Hall on Derby Eve. It will be tre-
mendously swish, of course—all League hap-
penings are—and it is hoped it will whirl
itself into an annual money-raising event
which will earmark the night before the
Derby as its own.
Some Adelaide gossip
1 i emier Barwell s doctor spoke to him severely
the other day and ordered an immediate rest of at
least a Week. Thus he had to go off to Port Victor
and Kangaroo Island just as country constituents were
crowding into Adelaide for the Show. Incidentally,
the Farmers and Settlers’ Assoc, got together and
decided that that name is too narrow; it is to be
known henceforth as the Country Party.
There was a subdued note at the annual meeting of
the Travellers’ Aid Society the other day, as the
committee is temporarily losing its president, Mrs.
Bussell; she is bound, with her archdeacon, for -an
extended trip to England. The committee gave her
a travelling rug, and she was cheered on her way by
the knowledge that the society she has done so
much to foster is booming.
Three charities—the Babies’ and Boys’ Homes at
V alkei ville, and the Girls’ Home at Mitcham—are to
share in the proceeds of a fete in the Town Hal
organised by the Ernest Good, Wylie and Wheadon
matrons, and officially blessed by Lady Bridges.
The S.P.C.A. has been money-hunting, too, and
marked down the days of the September S(how for its
own. Two of its chief cash-raising devices this
year were a concert, organised by Mrs. Delmar Hal!,
and a dance at the Palais. Lady Bridges was at
both shows at the dance in powder-blue charmeuse
with a diamond bandeau in her hair.
A sheaf of good wishes goes from here to Mr. ;Mul-
holland, whose engagement is just announced to
Olivia, second of the Harcourt daughters. He came
with the Galways as private sec., but had barely
finished his unpacking when war broke out and he
headed for England again. Even so, he made many
friends.
The engagement is announced of Margaret, younger
of the Cheadle daughters, to the Henry MarstOn
who has been successfuly delving into the mysteries
of preserving oranges. She is a sister of Mrs.
Davis, and it was at a dinner at the Davis honie
that the glad news was announced.
There was a thrill at the Show on Thursday when
Mrs. John Toll’s mount, Senator, bolted with her
when he was up for judgment as a ladies’ hack,
charged the side of the ring, scattered his rider
and himself over the pickets, and knocked down
most of the crowd within reach. Luckily Mrs.
Toll, who is a keen horsewoman and one of the
few feminine followers of the local hounds-and-
aniseed, got off with a strained shoulder and arm,
and no one else was badly damaged.
The feminine belongings of the Farmers and Sett-
lers seized the dual opportunity of Mrs. Earle
Page’s visit and the influx of Mrs. and Miss Way-
back to ask Mrs. Britomarte James to come over
from Melbourne and tell them how feminine farmers
and settlers manage their political affairs there.
Lunch and tea gave the opportunity to meet the
Victorian visitors, hear a speech or two and exchange
views on the chances of forming a new feminine
organisation. Mrs. W. G. Mills hostessed both
parties, and the chief speakers were Mrs. Earle
Page and Mrs. James.


AUSTRALIAN HUMOR
ALL AUSTRALIA’S BEST HUMORISTS ARE REPRESENTED
in the
"Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
1/- oer volume. obtainal>le f f ° m ah Bookstalls Posted 1/2.
——- and Booksellers '■—
STEELE RUDD’S SELECTION NOVELS.
Have You Read His Latest?
“ON EMU CREEK”—-Already in a Fourth Edition.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S
“Bridget McSweeney” Series,
And the World-wide Known “How McDougall Topped the Score/*
EDWARD DYSON.
“Fact’ry ’Ands“The Missing Link,
“Tommy the Hawker,” “Loves of Lancelot/*
CON DREW.
“Rogues and Ruses.” “The Doings of Dave.”
“ ‘THE BULLETIN’ BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS.”
The New Book of Australian Bungalows
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial Suburban House.
The book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings,
with estimated cost of construction, carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
BOOK OF AUSTRALIAN BUNGALOWS.
The work of two leading Australian Architects. Price 5/- (4d. postage).
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
is
■ M
N
SINGLE-STONE DIAMOND RING,
£2OO.
DIAMOND CLUSTER RING.
£l5O.
DIAMOND PENDANT.
WITH PLATINUM AND
FLEXIBLE DIAMOND BRACELET SET IN PLATINUM.
£ 150.
> HI
V
DIAMOND SET WRISTLET WATCH. £lO5.
JEWELLERY OF FINE QUALITY
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO., JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ten
Up
\bur
Home
fa ' f
If- V
a :
MV#- '
'
a®
m
; Mm
YOUR Linoleum will last longer and look better
if you polish it occasionally with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. Johnson’s Wax prevents crack-
ing and blistering—brings out the pattern and color—
protects linoleum from wear and makes cleaning easy.
JOHNSON’S
L>asfe -Li Quid - Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
'
You can give every room in your home that delightful
air of immaculate cleanliness by using Johnson’s
Polishing Wax occasionally on your furniture, wood-
work, floors and linoleum. Johnson’s Wax cleans,
polishes, preserves and protects —all in one operation.
A FORM FOR EVERY USE.
Johnson’s Wax is conveniently put up in three forms
—Paste, Liquid and Powdered. Use Paste Wax for
polishing floors of all kinds—wood, tile, marble,
composition, linoleum, etc. Use Johnson’s Liquid
Wax for polishing your furniture, piano, woodwork,
linoleum, leather goods and automobile. Johnson’s
Powdered Wax makes perfect dancing floors.
ILL 11 11111 4 11 «c
K
mim
HI
IF
sgsKßa&i
Prawn
' if n»'jhad Surface*
S -C.JOHNSONJS(
mfirving
INSIST ON JOHNSON’S POLISHING WAX—THERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE. FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.W.
[i


mm
°/V.p
If in Melbourne
for the Show
See the
3WHS>
SM
W\
r. \
AN '
®\
rn
NNI 3QISAWAA
m
" . - A!
m;
i
n
ohj°
u
ii
«
The Master Oar
of France.
The post-war Cottin & Desgouttes. is making
motor history. At La Course tie Cote .de Lassrey
(Grenoble) and Mt. Ventoux (France) it recently
beat powerful racing cam in strenuous hill
climbs.
Its valve-in-head engine, fitted with dual ignition,
is full of power and pep, doing 70 m.p.h. with
ease. Braking on all four wheels ensures safety
at any speed.
If in Melbourne for the Agricultural Show call
at
No. 15 Stand, No. 3
and see the latest models. Otherwise write for
full specifications and prices. Agents wanted
in territory not yet allotted.
Lawrence Morton & Co.
Proprietary, Limited,
Sole Concessionaires for “C. & D.” in Australasia,
353 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
[V/JKEF/ELD~\
#eg&
MOTOR. OIL]
Ist 8 2nd in Kings
Cup
Air
of
Ist PLACE—T. F. Courteney, Siddeley
Siskim, 225-h.p. Siddeley Jaguar Engine.
2nd PLACE—A. J. Cobham, D.H.9, 450-h.p.
Napier Lion.
WITH AN AVERAGE SPEED FOR 810 MILES, 149 m.p.h,
The manufacturers of the leading British Aircraft Engines
specify “Castrol” because it has been proved best of all where
the safety of human life is governed by lubrication efficiency.
Distributing Agents:
LARKIN AIRCRAFT SUPPLY CO., LTD., Melbourne.
BRITISH “CASTROL” OIL AGENCY, LTD., Brisbane.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
JAS. A. DIMMITT, LTD., Perth.
J. McKENZIE & CO., Launceston.
Head Office for Australasia:
C. C. WAKEFIELD & GO. LTD., Sydney,
Marine and Stationary Engines
F or Motor-boats, Pumping and Electric Lighting, etc.
r v',.
V3W
■r^ssr
© ©
© ©
syr s * 3^--^ ifSsl^^wR 1
21-25-B.H.P. AB/4-TYPE MARINE SET.
POWERS:—9 to 90 B.H.P.
Paraffin or Petrol.
Electric-lighting and starting equip-
ment supplied.
Reducing-Reversing Gears may be
fitted if desired.
Strongly constructed.
Simple to handle.
Write for full illustrated catalogues
and reduced prices.
Immediate delivery of all sizes from
stock.
SPARES ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSPECTION INVITED.
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
TELEGRAMS:
“THORNMOTOR, SYDNEY.”
“THORNMOTOR, MELBOURNE.”
Head Office: 18-20 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
And at 80 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
TELEPHONES:
86313.
CENTRAL 9918.
AGENT:
Flower, Davies & Johnson,
Howard Street,
PERTH.
Buy the Best —the Best are British.
AGENT:
Packer Bros. & Begrie,
Elizabeth Street,
BRISBANE.


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS I’Tl\, LTD., Brisbane.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP * CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sde Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICN
SIMMENS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Backers of short-priced favorites got a
succession of shocks at Randwick on Saturday, but
the worst whs administered when Beauford (5 to 2
on) failed fo pace it with The Hawk (6’s) over the
last of the eight furlongs set for the w.f.a. Hill
Stakes. He was beaten almost as easily as when
Gloaming downed him ill the same race at Rosehill
a year ago. On that occasion Beauford had 71b.
the worse of the weights; but he met The Hawk on
equal terms —each carried 9st. There is no excuse
for the beaten animal, for his condition was superior
to that of the nuggety Maorilander, who looked as if
he could have done with a few more fast gallops;
also, he got away pretty well (much better than
when he vanquished Gloaming in the 1922 Chelms-
ford Stakes), and was up with the leaders at the
end of a slow first furlong. He had an unhampered
run all the way. Given his head at the half-mile or
thereabouts, he tried to leave the field, but Wish
Wynne stuck to him for a furlong or so, thereby
taking a lot of the steam out of him, and when The
Hawk ranged alongside at the bottom of the straight,
wood called on him in vain. Galloping well within
himself, the gelded son of Martian —Sparrowhawk,
who was nicely ridden by Pike, was three lengths
to the good at the judge’s box, having covered the
mile in lmin. 39sec. He is two years younger than
the Newcastle horse, who may not be so good at
seven as he was at five or six, nor so keen on fighting
out a rigorous finish.
Three lengths behind Beauford, a,nd finishing
resolutely, was the three-year-old Rahiri. He not
only cut Wish Wynne out of third money, out
gave Polytheist, Soorak, The Epicure and Fred
Power (unready yet, but likely to be dangerous
soon) a view of his heels. It was a good Derby
trial on the part of the Tressady colt—much
better than those of The Monk and King Carnival in
the Rosehill Guineas, for which race Tye’s youngster
was even money and the son of Comedy King
4 to 1, it being 10’s bar 2. King Carnival hail
every chance but failed to come on. There is
talk of interference in The Monk’s case, but at
the end of the argument he was lengths astern of
Sunshine (20’s), Shrapnel and Lady Valais,
who were divided by hecks, with Black Scot (an
early winner over a shorter distance, than nine
furlongs) a close fourth. Owned and trained by
E. A. Connolly, whose winners seldom go out at
20 to 1, All Sunshine is a very useful-looking bay
colt by All Black —Cranbrook, and will doubt-
less improve. But one would as soon have Lady
Valais for the Derby—a nice chestnut by Valais—
Lady Childwick, she finished most generously—
without preferring either at the moment to Rahiri
or Tarleton.
Bardoleur, who didn’t shine in the heavy going at
the Tattersallls meeting, came to light at 14’s in
the seven-furlong Camellia Stakes, scraping home by
a head from, the unbacked Duke Isinglass. They
will meet in the Epsom on precisely the same terms,
Bardoleur having 7st. 71b. and the Duke Bgt. 131 b. A
smart beginner, a good weight-carrier and in ap-
pearance a greatly improved horse, Duke Foote's son
should be worth a place bet on September 29. Vac-
cine, the Tramway Handicap hero, pulled up
groggy in this race, and, as far as the Epsom is con-
cerned, he and The Bulletin part company. Salrak
is another horse whose Epsom chance is for sale
cheap; backed down to 7 to 2 in a field of 29, he
led for a few furlongs, but was settled at six. Inia’s
Boy and Sir Maitland looked rather well, but never
got out of the ruck, and the English horse Claro
gave the handicapper something to think of by
flying past about 20 horses, after losing many
lengths at the start.
Kingslot. favorite for the 11-furlong Rosehill Han-
dicap, let the public in badly. His showing was
really horrible, and perhaps his game effort to head
David and Rapine on the first day of the month did
the light-fleshed customer no good. Mirthmaker
(20’s) won at his ease from the fast-finishing English
chestnut Balaton (still on the burly side) and
Eudorean, who divided second money with the Eng-
lishman after setting a smart pace. The winner
is an uncertain brute l —he had run badly on the two
previous Saturdays—but can gallop when he likes.
Rivoli, who has grown into a fine horse, was a good
fourth, and others running on at the finish were
Basella and Furious —bandaged and (as usual)
indifferently ridden. Why this grand mare is bur-
dened with obscure apprentices, while excellent
jockeys like Pike and King stand down, is one of
the mysteries of the turf.
* * * *
As far as form in Melbourne goes the
Spring racing situation has not changed, nor will
there be any public argument of great moment before
the V.R.C. October meeting. Easingwold, Comedy
Star and Heir Apparent ran in the 10-furlongs
handicap at Moonee Valley, and finished second,
third and fourth respectively, Yacamunda being too
slippery for his pursuers. The form was not con-
clusive, but in a rough sort of way it indicated
that Comedy Star is at least as good a Cup pro-
as Easingwold.
“0.K.”: The Derby winner Papyrus, who
is going to America to race the best horse in those
parts, was beaten in the Doncaster St. Leger by
Tranquil, a filly owned by Lord Derby. In the
Spring, Tranquil ran away with the One Thousard
Guineas, but reserved for the Oaks, in which she
started at even money (Pharos, runner-up to Papy-
rus, was the stable choice in the Derby), she failed
dismally, as many another famous mare has done
in the first week of June. A number of mares have
won both Oaks and Leger, but as many more have
won the Leger after being beaten in a previous
classic race. In one memorable year, when a mare
(Shotover) won the Derby, and her stable companion,
Geheimniss, won the Oaks, the latter was expected to
beat the Derby winner for the Leger. So she did.
The stable companions ran second
and third, whilst Fred Archer, on
another mare, Dutch Oven, stag-
gered the racing world by beating
the pair. It was Dutch Oven’s
first win that season. September
is “the mares’ month” in England.
Why doesn’t Australia have a re-
cognised “mares’ month”? March
to April in this country doesn't
correspond in turf history with
September to October in England.
At that time a first-class mare,
with her sex allowance, is really
a better proposition than a first-
class colt for Leger purposes. No
doubt about it. It is not often
that three fillies fill the places,
but the fact remains that it has
happened in the Doncaster St.
Leger, whereas the number of
mares who have run into Derby
places in the last 50 years might
be counted on your fingers. Appa-
rently the proportion of great
mares on the English turf is larger
than the proportion we get in
Australia, where the sex is not
expected to show up brilliantly in
early Autumn, Mares may be.at
their best just then, but their
best is not unbeatable in a general
way.
* *
“The Deacon”: “Head-
Collarer” (B. 13/9/’23) knows the
little that is less than nothing
about the pestiferous pony-flogging
business, or he wouldn’t have ex-
pressed surprise at the late
“strike” having left anyone broke.
Of the hundreds of alleged trainers
now battling in the game not one
in 20 has a feather to' soar with.
The system of leasing “ponies”
(some of thpm are 16i hands
high), and the necessity of getting
a punter when the steed is ready,
make continuous racing essential
if all hands, men and horses, are
not to start for the Starvation
Stakes. There is a certain
wealthy horse-owner who always
has a few ponies in work. These
he leases to battlers on the prin-
ciple that he takes all the prize
money’, leaving it to the unfor-
tunate trainer to find a punter.
There is also the down-at-heel
owner who depends on a nearby
produce merchant to supply the
fodder, in return for which Hay-an’-Chaff gets the
“oil’’ when the nag is ready to go off. The farrier
comes in on the same principle. And so the dread-
ful game goes on. # #
“Sturt”: Orderly Adelaide has invented a
new crime, “unlawfully handing money to a person
in a queue at a totalisator window.” It has been
the custom to look for a friend well placed in the
queue and hand him one’s money to invest, but this
is now barred. “Not a very serious offence,” said
the prosecuting constable on the first charge taken in
the police court; “but the object of the Law is to
prevent confusion.” Five bob and costs.
# * * *
Could “O. Henry” have been present in the
flesh at the Dempsqy-Firpo fight in his Bagdad-on-the-
Subway, he would have humorously retracted his
reference to “the pathetically fistless Latin races.”
For, after having been battered to the floor seven
times in two minutes and a half, Firpo—-Italian on
the father’s side and Spanish-Indian on the mother’s
—knocked Dempsey through the ropes with a mighty
right. At that moment the Argentino was cham-
pion of the world, but the combination of Dempsey,
a Yankee referee and a forest of Yankee reporters
proved too much for him. The referee had allowed
Dempsey to stand over the stranger as he lay on the
boards, and to let flv as he was in the act of rising.
When the owner of the title was punched through the
ropes he fell back among the scribes, their arms
cushioning a shock that would probably have sent
him to sleep had the head of the dazed man met
solid timber, and was shoved into the ring again at
the ninth second. The gong came to his rescue as
he was out on his feet. Having taken loss punish-
ment, Dempsey recovered more quickly than the
smiter from Argentina, and, with a right over the
heart, followed by left and right on the jaw, he ended
the contest 57 seconds after the bell sounded for the
second round. Probably the inkslingers did no more
iban Australian paper-stainers would have done in
like circumstances —the fight-reporter is often a
bundle of nerves. But in no country but the U.S.A.
may a pug who has knocked another down —and a
foreigner at that —swarm round him and strike when
the man is incapable of defending himself. It isn’t
sport, but criminal assault.
Jack Corrigan, the Afrikander middle-
weight from Co. Cork, was stopped in seven rounds
at Sydney Stadium by Merv. Williams, of Queensland.
Corrigan was game, and had the better of the long-
range work, but he knew nothing about in-fighting,
and was punched silly with short right uppercuts.
Williams is a good stamp of fighter, and will do
famously in the ring if he masters the temptation
which besets the bruiser-bung—he runs a pub in one
of the Sydney suburbs-—of being his best customer.
* * * *
In an exciting match for the Rugby
League premiership, Eastern Suburbs won by a
three-point margin: East 15; South Sydney 12.
East hadn't been premiers since they completed a
run of three victorious seasons, 1911-’l2-’l3, and
became owners of the R.A.S. Shield. This time
they played 17 matches and won 14; scored 250
points against 136, and 113 of the 250 came from
big Oxford’s .sure left foot and capable hands. But
East took things easy after making thg premiership
their property, and Glebe licked them in the City
Cup competition, scoring 12 to 7. In a much
more thrilling encounter, Balmain drew with South
Sydney, after two extra terms of 10 minutes each
had been ordered by Tom McMahon. It was 3
points each at “lemops” ; 13 at full-time; the same
after the first extra, and 18 to 13 in South’s
favor with a few breathless 'minutes to' go. Then
Balmain’s George Robinson went over like a ferret
and Russell goaled.
In the play off for the Union premiership, Sydney
Uni. left nothing to chance, defeating Glebe-Balmain
by 23 points to 11. It was the seventh win for
’Varsity since the competition was launched in
1874. The Union game bas had a pretty good sea-
OVER THE ODDS.
BINGHI : “What price Billy Boy?”
BOOKIE: “Billy Boy, seven to two. Here, four to one to
you.”
BINGHI : “No fear; I no mug—gimme seven bob to two.”
son, but the ,N. S. Wales team fared badly in
Maoriland, losing all its matches except one. In
the third representative game the All Blacks scored
38 points to 11. In the opinion of critics com-
petent to judge, M.L. football is back to its pre-
war strength.
* * * *
“Centurion”: I can’t agree with “Prophet”
(B. 13/9/’23) that many Rugby League players will
secede to the Union if Dr. Warren’s whitewashing
motion—consideration has been postponed for a
month —goes through.. The vast majority of League
’bailers are working men, and 1 these, at least, are not
likely to throw away anything from £6O to £lOO
a season, together with free boots, jerseys, massage,
etc., to say nothing of occasionally cleaning up £4
a week and all exes., plus a £4OO bonus, as the last
Kangaroos did. The flickering candle of amateur
sport is as nothing beside the electric illumination
of real money. The Maoriland case cited is not
parallel, inasmuch as the M.L. League, like the Syd-
ney Uni. League team, maintains that its players are
amateurs. Anyhow, the solitary M.L. rep. with the
last Kangaroos got his exes, only and the recognised
“amateur allowance.”
* * * *
A crowd of 45,000 saw South Melbourne
push their way into “the four” at St. Kilda’s expense.
The game was fast and even up to lemon-time, but
S6uth lasted better and were 20 points to the
good at the bell. Down at Geelong the locals, who
had to win to reach the finals, took no chances
with Carlton, keeping the Blues down throughout
and ultimately scoring 103 points to Carlton’s 38.
Co’lino'wood piled up a mountain of 138 points to
Melbourne’s 87, but the effort was futile, and “the
four” comprise Essendon, Fitzroy, aouth Melbourne
and Geelong. It is a pity the Magpies are outed,
as they have been playing beautiful football—another
point in the drawn game against Carlton would
have put them in the quartette.
“Wink”: The League, of course, took no notice of
South Melbourne’s request that McMurray be not
again appointed to their matches (B. 6/9/’23). By
an odd coincidence, McMurray was drawn by lot to
umpire South's game against St. Kilda, which was
to decide whether they would appear in the finals.
A buzz of excitement ran through Melbourne when
this became known. On Saturday the persistent rumor
that Mac would be dealt with if South didn’t win
awoke the gladiatorial instinct in footbad enthusiasts,
and the crowd overflowed into the arena. McMurray,
affected neither by the threats nor by a hostile
demonstration from the riff-raff, umpired as imparti-
ally as usual, and at the conclusion of the match he
was cheered as never before by the victorious South-
erners, and hooted and abused by his late friends
from St. Kilda. Which proves (if proof is needed)
that it is the success or failure of their team that
determines, for enthusiasts, whether an umpire is
good or bad.
“Corbie” : The Magarey medal, which goes
to the “fairest and most brilliant’’ footballer in
Adelaide each winter, has been given to Horace ltiley,
pictured in last week’s Bulletin. He is rather a
fine-weather player, and has not shone in the mud
this year; the critics mostly preferred his Sturt
club-mate, Golding, who is nearing the end of a
long career. The central umpire at each League
match makes a nomination of the best player. This
goes in’ a sealed envelope, and at the end of the
season the votes are counted. They were extra-
ordinarily split up this year; about five votes gave
Riley the verdict, with Vic Richardson—still another
Sturt man —next.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Before the next Davis Cup
team goes to the U.S.A., Australia might stipulate
that the matches should be played on grounds which
afford a chance of a decent gate. The selection of
the courts at Orange, New Jersey, for the first tie
showed an inadequate appreciation of the Aussies’
standing in international tennis. Not only were the
courts wet and ill-prepared, but the local populace,
much thinned by the absence of the wejltnier sort
at the seaside, stayed away in large nunibers. The
biggest crowd at the meeting was a little over 400,
and on -the third day, when the match was no longer
in doubt, 40 was the mournful total. After all,
Australia is paying more than any other country
to maintain interest in the Cup.
* * * *
The Australian Lawn Tennis Association
is trying to induce Vincent Richards, the American,
Alonzo, of Spain, and Norton, the best singles player
in England, to take part in the Australian champion-
ships at Melbourne in January. The invitation nas
gone through Anderson in the U.S., with the inti-
mation that all exes, will be paid. The trio would
be a great draw. Alonzo, who has just played well
in the National singles at Philadelphia, where Tilden
proved himself a real world’s champion,' would be
particularly welcome, because he entered the inter-
national arena only two years ago, and already has
some notable achievements to his credit. Norton,
formerly champion of South Africa, is the cherubic
white hope of English tennis who has reached a
Wimbledon final, failing only in the shoot-off against
Tilden. Richards is no less celebrated. His youthful
beauty, his neckties and his inflammatory socks
would bring the girls along in shoals.
* * * *
“0.R.”: Since 1890 Yorkshire has been
England’s champion cricket county 11 times, Surrey
7 times, Kent 4 times, Middlesex thrice, Lancashire
twice, Notts once and Warwickshire once. in
a general way it may be said that the ■ centres of
cricket gravity in England don’t shift much; the
counties that were the strongest a generation ago
are the strongest still. There are 1,7 counties
competing for the championship nowadays (includ-
ing one Welsh one) ; in the ’eighties there were but
eight, vjz., Surrey, Yorkshire, Lancashire, Notts,
Kent, Middlesex, Gloucestershire and Sussex. Yet
eight of the first nine places in this year’s champion-
ship table—as it stood when the latest English files
came to hand—were being filled by the original
eight, the on’y intruder into the tradition-hallowed
ranks being Hampshire, which had fought its way
up to fourth or fifth place. Warwickshire is the
only comparative new-comer among first-class counties
that has ever gone to the very top (1911 was its
annus mirabilis). Somerset was the ninth shire
admitted to battle for championship honors (in
1891) ; it finished about tenth this year. Derbyshire,
Worcestershire, Essex, Leicestershire and Northamp-
tonshire came last into the magic circle, barring
Glamorgan, and they all remain at the tail of the
field. Derbyshire, however, is still listed in the
records as having been boss county as long ago as
1874, when there was no definite method of reckon-
ing points.
* * * *
East Torrens, the Adelaide cricket dis-
trict, which has held the premiership ever since the
war, has been split up. The western or Norwood
half remains. The eastern will have an A-grade
team as Kensington, the club there having the use
and control of the Kensington Oval. To keep an
even number of teams playing, S.A. Cricket Associa-
tion has gone outside the district system, and invented
another new team, to be called the Colts. They are
to be coached and captained by Arthur Richardson
(which means another heavy loss to East Torrens), and
on reaching 23 they will have to leave the team and
go back to their district club. It is hoped to de-
velop in this way junior talent which may hold its
own in time with N.S.W. and Victoria, a thing
which the seniors have been unable to do for the
past 10 years.
* * * *
At 32 Harold Hayden has won his fourth
Manly Marathon. Bailey was absent from an other-
wise representative field, and the veteran Botany man
made the youngsters travel. He finished the 124
miles in 69min. 17 4-ssec., M. J. Mackenzie arrived
15 3-ssec. later, and Botany took the teams’ prize.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A queerish feature
about the cricketer is his aversion to being seen
off the cricket field in his flannels. These are
broadminded days when the surfer does not mind
patrolling a seaside village in his bathing costume,
and the bush camper wears shorts and a singlet
without feeling it necessary to blush when ladies
round the corner; yet most cricketers are
prepared to go to any length sooner than wander
into town in their white “strides.” In places like
Moore Park, where there are no pavilions, little
knots can be seen after any match accommodatingly
clustering around players who wish to change their
clothes without providing studies for artists of the
Norman Lindsay school. Consideration of the laun-
dry, of course, may have some effect; but I am
convinced that quite a number of cricketers regard
themselves, for no ascertainable reason, as being
only partly dressed in flannels.
BALLADE OF THE WAGES OF SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The owner of Epinard says that it is impossible
to send his horse to the U.S.A. to race the American
champion, because Epinard drinks a pint and three-
quarters of beer before every race. He is no Pro-
hibitionist, and would not be satisfied with caf: au
lait and vanilla ices.” — Cable.
Bravely across the heaving seas
The noblest blood in Europe goes
To that loud land where, like the sneeze,
Speech rings triumphant through the nose.
To battle there with Yankee foes
Fare steeds as lissome as the pard.
But one remains, to brood his woes;
Sin’s wages come to Epinard.
Ah, me! When conscious virtue flees,
Like burning coal repentance glows;
Inevitable are the fees
That youth, misspent and squander’d, owes.
Nothing avails to gloss or gloze;
In vain lean earth our tear-drops lard.
Black as the homeward wending crows
His sins come back to Epinard.
Not his to tread the springy leas
Where famed Kentucky blue-grass grows.
He may not sniff the fragrant breeze
That from the frying nigger blows.
Too late he feels Remorse’s throes
Ar.d gloomy, in his stable yard,
At last the bitter truth he knows,
And eake is dough—with Epinard.
Envoy.
A mocker is the wine that flows
Red in the cup, so sings the bard.
While now a lonely row he hoes,
Sin’s wages come to Epinard.
N.S.W.
CENTURION.


'<?
, )
■
\
Cuticura Beautifies
Skin Hair and Hands
Make Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Talcum your every-day toilet prepa-
rations and watch your skin, hair
and hands improve. The Soap to
cleanse and purify, the Ointment to
soothe and heal and the Talcum to
powder arid . rfum j.
Soapls.,Ointmen' Is. and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress; “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
MTCuticura Soap shaves without mug.
sd
'Y&rdleys
_ 016 (Snoli.afe
Lavender Soap
An extra fine Toilet Soap
for dainty hands and delicate
complexions.
Delightfully and lavishly
perfumed, it is one of the most
charming of the little elegancies
of the Toilet.
Large Tablet, 2/” Three in box, 5/9
Sold by the best Chemists and Stores,
YARDLEY & Co., Ltd.,
8, New Bond Street, London, W. 1
Columbia
Dnr Batteries
W —they last longer
Obtainable everywhere
at little cost; give more
power for a longer time.
Insist upon IcoDpHffiAj
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York. N.Y., U. S. A.
HOT SHOT
m
BATTERY
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
*
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office}: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
What Would YOU Do?
i
Hard Times—Men out of
Work—Many Robberies.
One can never tell whether it will
be his or her turn next. x\n armed
man bigger and stronger than .your-
self —what could you do? Yet there
is a way in which you could in-
stantly render him helpless, whether
he be armed with a knife, a club
or a gun. With Ju-Jitsu the
weakest man or frailest woman
may instantly turn the biggest
bully or garrotter into a huddle of helpless agony. The Japanese JurJitsu Cor-
respondence Course will teach you 260 different Holts, Locks, Breaks and
Throws, any ONE of which would be sufficient to do it.
This is your Great Opportunity to learn this wonderful and invincible
system of Japanese Self-defence. Seize it now.
Write to-day (enclosing six Id. stamps) for FREE Illustrated Booklet of
our Home Training Course.
JU JITSU CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL,
P.O. Box 15, MOSMAN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M/iCr DISAGREE
but on this point they are
always unanimous, namely—
the unvarying excellence and
dependability of —
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
in \
mm
v\ V
fsd
Quality Pipes
Men who know and appreciate
pipe perfection choose the
famous JOS) pipes. Made from
Genuine French Briar they en-
sure a sweet smoke always.
Choose the pipe
'with a pedigree.
There is a shape to suit every
preference at all stores and
tobacconists.
All
shapes
now
fa
Shape
No.
42:)0
Make your selection now and
ensure smoke Satisfaction-
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
1
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Roils
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALIj SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQDES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
“Tauwarra”: A Papuan native John Hop
lay on the forward hatch of the small coastal
steamer, helplessly and hopelessly sea-sick.
A kindly missionary remarked: “lou are not
a good sailor, mv boy.” “No blurry fear!”
was the doleful response. “Me passenger!”
“The Oldest”: The Queen’s, Head Hotel,
built by Tom Monahan and later known as
Champion’s, on the . nor’-west corner of
Swanstonrstreet and the Lane, is coming
down to make room for the State Savings
Bank. The kitchen of the original pub was
the first meeting-place of the Methodists in
Melbourne.
“H.M.’s” eccentric genius :-
I have a friend who, during odd intervals, conceals
bottles (full ones) in his garden, although not with
any renunciatory views. lie simply wants a pic-
turesque cellar. I have been with him on his balcony
while' he directed from over his balustrade a hired
man where to move the Madeira. He kept whisky
under clematis, brandy under geraniums, beer and
stout under roses, and all liqueurs laid Star-fashion
round a beautiful lilae-tree. In the proper season,
as may be imagined,, there are grog-blossoms.
“The Deacon” : When “Mirza” suggested
in a recent Bulletin that the principal ob-
jection to the sterilisation of the unfit, medi-
cally and otherwise, was the popular idea
that such operation was unseemly mutila-
tion instead of an artistically simple opera-
tion, he missed one'.salient fact. That is
the opposition of' the. ? 8..C, Churcln In this
matter, the Papacy takes up the same atti-
tude as towards, birth control, divprce, scien-
tific motherhood and cremation, viz., that it
is absolutely unlawful.
“Ashmead”: The Speck is showing the
other States the way to exploit the tourist
business : last year it attracted 30,000 peorvle,
who, spent between £750,000 and £1,000,000.
Agencies in all of the capital cities keep in-
tending travellers acquainted with the
charms of the Garden Isle. To show how.
enterprising was. the Department’s policy,
Webb, who runs the Melbourne Bureau, told
a recent conference that-as soon as he sees;
an engagement announced in a society
weekly he posts to contracting parties
some illustrated literature demonstrating
what a lovely plade Tas. is for a honey-
moon.
“Alex. Val” : It happened during a Zeppe-
lin raid in 1917. The skipper of a Channel
boat arrived at his home near midnight, to
find his wife and children down the cellar
with the door locked-,; no light sho%ihg and
a fixed determination to stay there until
the atmosphere was entirely free from 'air-
craft. As the old seadqg was tired, and
reckoned that, anyhow*, there wasn’t much
more danger in a Zepp. than a submarine, he
contented himself with announcing his arriyap
to those below, and then stamped upstairs to
bed. Very shortly afterwards he was joined
by his wife, and as the raiders could still
be heard he inquired the reason fpr he!
change qf mind. “There was something, ran
over my, bed down in the cellar,” she told
him—“l believe it was a mouse.” “
“Cuzenos” dips his lid':— An,
The name'Dalryrnple is seldom heard in connection
with the early settlement of N. ' Queenslandand,
even when it is mentioned, the shade of. a Mackay
politician-chemist generally rises up and reaches for
the gum-leaves. But the genuine George Elphinstone
Dalryrnple was an explorer by land and water, the
official founder of Bowen and Cardwell —the first two
townships in the North —and the first political repre-
sentative of N. Queensland. Dalryrnple was the tenth
son of an English nobleman, and came to N. S. Wales
as aide-de-camp to Sir George Gipps. Afterwards he
did some squatting on the Darling Downs, and before
Separation he represented, Queensland in the Parlia-
ment of N. S. Wales. He was later on Colonial Trea-
surer in Bananaland. His last important, work, was
the opening up of the sugar lands of the Johnstohe,
Russell and Mulgrave rivers. ' In olden times they
would have handed Dalryrnple down a star, and in
N.. Queensland . he,should certainly have .had his name
perpetuated by some decent town or river or moun-
tain ; but they haven’t even named a horserace or
a pub after him.
“Chanticleer” finds a new mint: — <.
If there is such a thing as a Cinderella in the
Commonwealth it is. the everyday hen. Statistically
'she gets a bare page in “The Commonwealth Year-
book.,”, Legislatively she has not a single Act of
Parliament to her credit. No bounty or subsidy has
ever been voted to encourage her. There is certainly
a duty to stop the Asiatic hen underlaying her, and
on one occasion a Minister was beguiled by shrewdies
to buy some grain she isn’t partial to to carry her
through a bad season. No railways or roads or dams
or other huge works have been constructed in her
name and on her behalf. She is absolutely the least
State-aided of our Vast Natural Resources. Yet in
1920- the eggs and poultry produced in the Com-
monwealth were worth just on £10,000,000. Given
a couple of acres of land 500 of her will feed, clothe
and educate half-al-dozen young Australians and their
parents, and improve ,the land at the same time. In
1921- the Australian hen also sent abroad £125,000
worth to fill Uncle Bull’s maw ; and she did it with-
out special starving stock rates, free seed or grants
for wire-netting that some, other vast resources are
for ever leaning on. I have seen the plates ridgy
with wealth from a crushing. The mine that yielded
the gold, is now merely a hole in the ground. I
know’ a . lien-farm that was in existence before the
mine was opened, and it is still keeping a family,
and another ’ generation of children are growing up
on it. All the hen requires is the run of the national
rubbish-bin. She pays 2d. a pound for ground-up
abattoir offal from which every atom of fat has been
extracted, and that when the beef could not be sold
abroad without a subsidy. She turns the offal from
the Ahur-mill, the linseed-oil mill and the copra-mill
into dividends. Out of pinched, shrivelled, bleached
and other under F.A.Q. wheal she’ builds good Aus-
tralians. Lucerne chaff-cutters sweep up their dust,
hand it to the hen, and get a better price for it than
they do for the chaff. Rice-dressers, oatmeal and
breakfast-mush manufacturers pass on their dross,
and the hen turns it into food for the epicure.
Faulty maize, poor barley, low’-grade oats —put her
to work on them and the income-tax commissioners
watch the result. Taking her domestically she will,
so to speak, lick the family dishes clean and ask for
no payment but the pleasure of laying you an egg.-
Wherever she ranges white ants and other insect
pests cease to live. She is the mainspring of an
industry of an intensely social kind. Those pursuing
it can live and thrive near enough to civilisation to
give their women and childi;en fair social conditions
and opportunities. But forces are at work like
upper and nether millstones—the offal-mongers and
the poultry-products manipulators—that are threaten-
ing the very life of the industry. Some statesman or
even politician might possibly one day stop mouthing
phrases and consider the hen industry—and the
rogues who threaten it.


mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmssm
ii x klj
.
A
wm
u
■;i mmgm s
HUH
*1
lit
I
m
k.
™ *« ;
■fiNM II
\
■ B«
■
:
N
\
m
am
I
•v
■
ftf’S
i
■
I ■
?£
■ iiiiiii
HH
MS
H
H
■ 1
iliii 1
1
■
§1
;sf§aiiSP«
HICKSON ROAD, SYDNEY.
Constructed for The Sydney Harbor Trust.
Engineer-in-Chief: W. E. Adams, Esq.
Complete concrete road reinforced with No. 9 B.R.C. Fabric,
m
9 r.
The strength and length of life of a concrete road is
greatly increased when reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric.
B.R.C. Fabric ensures correct distribution of the reinforce-
ment in the concrete, gives perfect continuity and
reduces handling costs to a minimum.
By its use the wheel loads are distributed over a
larger area and the effect of impact forces are minimised.
Used by all experienced highway engineers throughout
the world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone 8861.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA .. . Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
N. S. WALES. . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd.,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA. . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company
(Australia), Ltd., Hobart.
N. ZEALAND. . . A. C. Gillies & Laird,
Johnston Street, Welling-
ton.
Fabric


DEPOSIT WITH
The Primary Prodllcers , Bank of Australia
AUTHORISED CAPITAL -
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL -
Limited.
£2,000,000
A Mutual Bank Owned and Controlled by the Man',Operated by carefully of Experience.
. , , Branches now operating in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
Available resources and deposits loaned only to men on the land.
Interest paid on Current, Fixed, and Saving, DepS,. 10 *" 8 4 ° C ‘ ty mercha *»fe <>r overseas traders.
No charge for keeping accounts.
F.
o.
W. STRACK,
L. CARLTLE,
F.A.1.5.,
1i.1.C.A.,
F.C.T.S.
A.8.1.A.
(Eng.), General Manager.
Secretary.
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Cabaret Girl”
Criterion “Bluebeard's Eighth Wife”
Royal “Quarantine”
Hoyt’s Moving' Pictures
MRT.BofTRVE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ma Mie Rosette”
Royal “Sally”
King’s “Mr. Pim Passes By”
Palace “Rockets"
The Playhouse Shakspearean Productions
Princess’s “Robin Hood” (photo play)
Majestic Moving'Pictures
llott’s Moving Pictures
It is daring to assert of a show which has
run nearly six months in Melbourne that
it is destined for a prosperous season in
Sydney, but the prophecy is desperately ven-
tured in respect of “The O’Brien Girl,” now
at the Opera House. And that not merely
because Hugh J. Ward and the Pullers have
passed their little Tariff Reduction Bill
The “Girl” is a finished specimen of a type
of entertainment : for which Sydney has any
amount of timei It associates a homely
morality with a refined display of legs. In
songs without smut and dialogue destitute
of expletives and indelicate suggestions it
teaches the improving lesson that a business
girl who pines for elegant frocks and the
pleasures of jazz-cafes and summer-hotels
will get them by the matrimonial route
provided she is Pretty and Good. Pro-
vided also she Learns to Smile, which, as
the lyrist observed, Makes Life Worth While.
The doctrine is brightened by exhibitions of
the ‘splits,” of high-kicking, and of the
modish sort of athletics in which a gentleman
catches a lady by the ankles and whirls her
about the scenery to a musical accompani-
ment; and a city in which swings are locked
up on Sundays to save the kids from moral
destruction, while ma mixed-bathes in a cot-
ton one-piece, and where the punter is plucked
from eternal damnation by an interdict on
the publication of the odds (there are only
five race-meetings a week), will find the
combination irresistible. Certainly “The
O’Brien Girl” is an unusually good show of
its kind.
** * *
There are two more nights of “Smilin’
Through,” at Sydney Criterion. On Satur-
day “Bluebeard’s; Eighth Wife” (from the
Irench of Alfred jSavoir) will take the stag-*
and Gertrude Elliott, of the widely ranging
roles, will be metamorphosed into some’
thing richer and stranger and more piquantly
attractive, if that is possible, than ever.
H! * * SS
A certain sadness of farewell will envelon
Sydney Palace on Friday night, when the
curtain falls on “The Beggar’s Opera” and
the delightful figures of Gay’s Newgate Pas-
toral make their final bows and curtseys.
Compared with the ephemeral stuff that
comes in such profusion from the modern
play-factory, the two-century-old extrava-
ganza has been like a bottle of port beside
the fizzy product of the soda-fountain
** * *
Quarantine, at Sydney Royal, continues
to provide a fine study in the art of gom<*
near to impropriety without being improper
and skating over thin ice without making it
“MR, HIM PASSES BY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Dion Boucicault as Caraway Pirn. Henry
Latimer as Sir Harry Simms in “The
Twelve-pound Look,” the curtain-raiser.
bend, much less crack. The perfect tact
and savoir faire of Lawrence Grossmith are
matchless, and Miss Diana Wilson’s artistry
in a minor rblei is hardly a less striking
feature of the piece.
At Sydney Majesty’s “The Cabaret Girl”
whirls bravely along, to the delight of those
who might look askance at Ibsen and set
no great store on Synge. The Elliott-Frith
combination is just gladsome.
There is no dearth of good entertainment
at Sydney livoli, where Herschel Ilettlere
swings the sceptre, or whatever the C&Stle-
reagh-street house keeps to lend dignity to
the office of headliner. Bailey and CoVan
are domg fine, and would do finer if the
litian-haired female partner had more ginger.
Newcomers include Pinto, who will probably
finish his contortion.ng life in a brave
*2 struggle into a pill-box; and
Cravat and Verena, passable toe-tl-ippers
$ $ $ 31
Sydney Lyceum, with ,its aptitude for edu-
cational films, has set junior Sydney
pondering over tU mysteries of the Stork,
and this papgr fears for what is go : ng to
happen to t tfc chilli who disturbs the dinner-
table peace by asking “Who are my parents’”
«Arf fol ?i ed .- Chart ® 8 Cha I jlin in a more
subtle role is exercising his humor at the
olystal lalace in “The Pilgrim”; and at
the same house Barbara La Marr is an
ardent propagandist, whose doctrine appa-
rently is that if a wife is starved of clothes
she ought to sneak
’em. The Strand
has pretty Bessite
Love imploring a|l
and sundry as an
orphan to “Forget
Me Not.” At tile
same structure
Walter Heirs is on
“Sixty Cents an
Hour.” Of course,
his real salary is
80—“ dirt money”
extra; some of
them get most o*f
their incojnes from
that source. The
Piccadilly i s not
letting such a
good-paying fellow
as “Rupert of
Hentzau” escape
yet; the Rialto
displays “Her
Accidental Hu 3-
band” altogether
a queer and fishy
busines s—a n d
“The Queen
of the Moulin
Rouge” has abdi-
cat e d from the
Globe, and is hold-
ing her Court at
the Majestic. “Put-
ting It Over,” at
Hoyt’s, introduces
a hero with a con-
science and a dirty
left; and “What
Wives Want” is an
appalling inventory
“Quarantine," at
Sydney Theatre Royal.
Lawrence Grossmith
as Tony Blunt.
of all the things they don’t possess.
Of a Sydney show of pictures, etc.:—
The range between the best and the worst is
narrow enough to give a certain air of staidness to
this year s exhibition of the Society of Artists in
Sydney. The average of achievement is perhaps a
little higher than has ever been attained before, but
there are no thrills. Nowhere is there anything
m subject or treatment that is challenging, and at
no point is a new note struck. It is all very sane and
honest—and uninspired. The “big” men of the show
are John Longstaff, Hans Heysen and, of course,
Norman Lindsay, though Lindsay has but one exhibit
—a large al’egorical pen drawing in which he demon-
strates once more his uncanny mastery of his medium
and his meticulous exposition of the nude. Lambert
is theie; but a coyly modest Lambert showing a
small impression of Spring sunlight (oil) and several
characteristically fine pencil studies. Longstaff has
three portraits, all advertising the thoroughly
equipped craftsman. The one of Mrs. T. H. Kelly
is handled with a care-free surety, and it has an
impish touch of theatricality in both method and
spirit that renders it an admirable foil to the finely
restrained and sympathetically painted portrait of
Mrs. A. B. Shand. In the water-color section Heysen
gives more of his lovable old gums in his own
inimitable fashion, another artistically patterned mob
of turkeys among saplings—-with a girl added this
time—and a couple of other landscapes, including
a delightful quiet thing in which he has caught
the after-effect of rain. Among the oils he shows
flowers and fruit, all painted with observation but
a rather insistent formality of method.
Howard Ashton went to Kosciusko for his subjects
this year, and has brought back some conscientious
work, though the stolidity of his paint misses some-
thing of the lens-like crispness of the upland atmo-
sphere. B. E. Minns has a fine panel of about a
dozen richly toned water-colors, mostly North Shore
subjects, and “Ryde and Mortlake from Eastwood”
and “Sydney from Bay Road” are among the best
things he has done in his later manner. The most
notable of John D. Moore’s contributions is "Environs
of the City,” in which he sets a jumble of buildings
hard against a well-painted strip of foreground and
tops the lot with an overload of jazzing clouds. A
striking bit of work, but marred by the obviousness
of the artist’s determination to make it such. Of a
trio of loaned Gruners two are in his overworked
“morning light” manner, but “New England
Pastoral”—a few sheep and ringbarked trees on a
plain backed by hills, the whole enveloped in a well-
rendered hazy Sbiilight—is a fine sample of Qruner’s
Craft, (eVieil though he does set a puzzle as to what
is Casting the definite and unnecessary strip of
shadow in the immediate foreground. Norman Carter
has several formal portraits, in none of which he
achieves a striking success. His two full-length femi-
nine subjects are heavily handicapped in the poses. \V.
B. Mclnnes, in a rather “slick” fashion, sfegUieS a
good likeness of Sydney Ure Smith ; and. Gfebrge Bell
has a particularly sound bit ot Wdrli in his. “bitty
in Black,” though theite is a Certain, lack 8f inteiest
in the picture and ail irritating hand. Will Ashton,
Mull' Auid ahd Pfeiey Lindsay are all well represented,
but althbhg'h each has done good work —and Lindsay
Ilia tackled some intriguing problems in half-Lights
—none has won to any outstanding distinction.
Blamire Young characteristically juggles with run-
ning water-color and achieves several picturesque
effects; and W. J. McNally also has one or two
pleasantly interesting things in Which manner out-
weighs matter. On the other hand, Harold Herbert
has honestly tried to set down what he saw in the
sunlight of “Meknes, Mot'oceo,” ahd at “Martigdei,
South of France,” and the &ouiag‘e G&eh Barringer
in tackling the difficult watet-eolor subject of almond-
trefeS i’n btebiil under a Spring sun has been rewarded
With a fine success. The only other notable features
of this section are the improvement shown by J. R.
ELdershaw (whose “Waggoner’s Cottage” is a com-
mendably forthright bit of work) and a spirited
illustration for “The Term of His Natural Life” by
Geoff. Litchfield. There is not much pastel in the
show, but what there is includes “Girl with Violin,”
one of the best littile thing), Florence Rodway has
done, and “Marion and the Mirror,” in which Dora
Wilson makes a successful essay in lew tfines find
transparent shadows.
at * * ft
“Sally” danced its way into immediate
favor at Melbourne Royal last Saturday-.
Why the fantastic musical Comedy |cof§i3 a
success everywhere is easily explained, Thebe
is something in “Sally,” giVteh the requisite
air of youtn and sifacbrity in the girl who
fills the numb-part and a sufficiently busy
Style of absurdity in the comedian Who plays
the Prince. Also, there are half a dozen
other characters, including the heavy father
(Gaston Mervalb), the almost silent violin-
ist, the lady of wondrous altitude and the
restaurant-proprietor, who have real human
interest in the story. Apart from the fact
that so many characters count, there is the
presence of Gee and Gracie Lavers in eon*
ventional parts which happen to suit them
admirably. Gee was never better placed,
Melbourne will naturally compare the theab
rical agent of the masquerading duhcfei 1
(Josie Melville) in this festive entertain-
ment with the agent and the masquerading
prima donna in “Sybil,” and to think of the
rival shows in comparison Is to perceive at
once where the advantage lies. “Sally” be*
gins with promiscuous flashes of gaiety, and
then makes an appeal on behalf of the hero-
ine. The old Cinderellan appeal, “¥oU Chh’fe
keep a good girl down,” is the bUrdp @f the
tale, and it never fails when gracefully ffiafe
George Lane, Gee and Gracie Lavers attract
sympathetic interest to theinseives b.y help-
ing the Good Girl to rise, and the finale of
the second act WbUld find an ah'diehce ready
to hurl tomatoes at the villain of the piece
if it had a villain. But it hasn’t a really
Unkind thought in the story, save the mis-
guided indignation of an unconvincing lover
(Hilton Osbourne), who talks with some-
what of the proverbial plum in his mouth,
but doesn’t really matter much; while its
virtues, apart from the sihgularly happy cast,
are splendor, swift variety and a Constant
flow of melodious jingle, seme of it hannt-
ingly tuneful.
** * £
“Lear,” presented with Allan Wilkie’s
heroic simplicity, was the opening outburst
of an eight weeks’ season at Melbourne
Playhouse on Saturday, Wilkie, as the
King, foams about upholstered in white
whiskers, his portentous t)oric baritone
pounding the welkin with declamatory curses,
let he clothes the mad monarch in undeni-
able dignity, and depicts the wanderer’s
tragedy with exceeding pitifulness. He
could not ask for a more undutiful Goneril
than Lorna Forbes, who has a glacial bitter-
ness, and there isn’t a gleam of kindliness in
the Regan of Irene Webb. Throughout she
is a siphon of concentrated venom. It may
be poetic justice or mere miscasting, but both
ladies are punished with feeble husbands.
Ellis Irving, who appears as Albany, soon
shows that he has taken a great name in
vain, and Hamilton Henry’s Cornwall is
almost as wooden as the two or three supers
who wrap hessian around their shins and pre-
tend to be stalwart men-at-arms. Nor is
Edmund, the illegitimate son of Gloucester, a
truly malignant scoundrel in the hands of
Claude Saunders. Augustus Neville, as
Kent, is plain and clear-spoken, and Plump-
ten A ■ son can be commended as the Fool.
As Cordelia, Miss Plunder Watts is very
sweet and contralto of diction, and it is cruel
to see so gracious a lady helping to sw’ell the
casualties of the conclusion. Allan Wilkie
employs the familiar green curtains without
the previous picture-postcard effects in the
front cloth, and the lighting meets his modest
demands. But the stage staff requires prac-
tice m the matter of storms
“Ma Mie Rosette” will continue for a few
days longer to put King Henri on a milk
diet at Melbourne Majesty’s. The fear that
Henri might be laid up with a sore throat
appears to have passed away, and all was
well, at time of writing, with a performance
duly adinired in last issues
"MA MIE ROSETTZ," AT MELBOURNE
HER MAJESTY'S.
Giodys Moncrieffin the name-part, Arther
Stigunt as Boufllon and claulty fleu
nlihn as King Henrt.
Mr. Pim is to Pass By for another week
at Melbourne King’s. The change of pro-
gramme will cbme ere the favorable impres-
sion that Boucicault’s doddering old gentle-
man makes on receptive congregations has
had time to wear off.
** * #
Melbourne Princess's is still giving two
shows a day to Douglas Fairbanks's flue pic*
tnte of the days when Richard I. sat on the
throne: Nobody on the screen has fallen ill
or died since “Robin Hood” was first pro*
duced. A photo-drama programme never lies
in one respect: anyway. The Sadie Richard
who gnawed a bone last week Will gnaW for
evCkmOre:
$ * & sic
“Rockets” is, how about to ttirh ihto its
12th week at Melbourne Palace, but no de-
mand for its withdrawal has been received
at the pay-bbkeS:
Si * * sis
Gerardy, the great artist o| .the ’cello* is
back at Melbburde TOWn Hall fob fotir ghh-
cCrfS billy. Sfippbfteil by gj thwart MeMahps
ana. Essie ACkland as before, the Mastef Will
perform again to-morrow (Friday) ; also on
Saturday, and finally on Thursday next
week. The Saturday and Thursday concerts
will be matinees.
Sc Sc Sc *
This week Melbourne Majestic has a close-
up of “The Little Church Round the Cor-
ner” wherein a noble pastor heals indus-
trial wounds with a smile and a prayer. He
is a beauteous cre&tfire* by the way* aiiri
if CVCr he appears fis an Arab sheik he Will
instantly be the flapper's ffibey:. “The Glorl-
ofis .FoOl,” another Victim of Quick-ltmeh
matrimony, is trying tO proVe he, made fl
heavenly choice in the other half of the
Majestic programme. Pug worship gets' a
fidip from “The Abysmal Brute”,at
In the hero the film-fakirs have tried td CfosS
Jack Dempsey with a West Point gfadiiate.
Coincidence is the divinity that shapes the
end of “Forget-Me-Not,” a sobsome tale of
two orphans at the same address. “Seven
Years Bad Luck” is the portion of the re-
vived French comedian, Max Linder, at the
Britannia. “The Queen of the Moulin
Rouge” is having a troubled reign at the
Melba.
He * *
“If Winter Comes,” at Adelaide Royal,
shows itself, unexpectedly as an argument
for easier divorce. One sees a whole heap
°f really nice people mismated and wretched,
with ideal partners waiting for them if they
could only get a fresh deal. Also Mark’s
wife gets a fair show, being allowed to ex-
plain how. and why she finds him as impos-
sible as. (in the book) lie found her. The
acting is good all round. The leads are well
chosen, and Leslie Victor, Stirling and Blunt
make small parts memorable. The Cat is
to clutch the Canary next. “Show Week”
has brought on a number of attractions, even
to “Uncle Tom” by the Fisk Singers at the
Town Hall. At the Prince of Wales’s Ris-
tori and partner (uncommonly well stage-
managed) get. most of the limelight, and
G. P. Hanna is a bill in himself. De Tisne
and Banvard Co. is giving a really sound
rendering of “The Man from Toronto” at
the King’s.


-
r-
\J 1:
/
/
d
iuiii
Oake ike Roiiokneff
off/ke Road^
A LL roads are smoothed by
the supreme resiliency of
Boomerang Bar Tread Tyres,
whilst their quality, their
unique endurance, is the best
insurance of a smaller tyre bill.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.*
Founder of the Rubber Industry in Australia.
All States and New Zealand.


Australia's Largest Hostelry.
SEVERAL NEW
ROOMS WITH
PRIVATE BATH
AND LAVATORY.
fsd
THE FEDERAL,
Melbourne.
IT BURNS BRIGHTEST AT
LEAST COST.
MMP
240- 50
The Little
Lamp with
the Big
Light.
ff you have any difficulty in obtaining a
Condor from your local dealer, write to
SCOTT & HOLLIDAY, LTD.,
Sole Agents f or Australia.
31A Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
& (St
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
New Automatic Rifle
f
FIRES 8 ORDINARY .22 LONG
RIFLE CARTRIDGES, made bv
the FAMOUS BROWNING F.N.
FIREARMS CO. An accurate rifle up to 200
yards. Take-down pattern. Ideal for quick
firing'. Pistol-grip stock, as illustrated, 95/-
The same model made to fire 11 ordinary
Shorts. 80/-
THE NEW .22 CAL. REPEATER. Made by
the same people. Hand-slide action. Take-
down pattern. Pistol-grip stock. Hammerless.
Fires short, long and long rifle Cartridges. Won-
derfully easy to take to pieces and clean, 9o /-
CADET 297/230 RIFLES ONCE AGAIN.
And HUGE SUPPLIES OF CARTRIDGES,
Short, 6/-; Long, 7/6 per 100.
These renowned rifles have been used by our
Cadets. Guaranteed accurate to 500 yards.
45/-. With Cleaning rod and sight protector,
SOLE BROWNING F.N. AGENTS.
Sports Centre, 318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER. PARIS
The "FACE POWDER
de Luxe.
“8.C.” : Passed out the other day, Arthur
Goodsall, an English actor and producer,
who helped the Melbourne Mermaid Society
when the Mermaid was sticking to its origi-
nal objective of presenting classic drama of
the type of its first effort, “The Knight of the
Burning Pestle.” Goodsall was the dress-
maker for that picturesque production, and
seemed destined to linger in the semi-
obscurity of amateur work until Allan
Wilkie’s sharp eye alighted upon him, and
he was requested to get the wardrobe right
for Wilkie’s “Macbeth.” I shan’t forget
the striking raiment of that show, which
suggested an artist’s attempt to interpret
temperaments in terms of color, and Good-
sall was responsible for every handsome pic-
ture. He played one of the witches as well.
He was an actor of some ability, having
learnt a few tricks from Granville Barker.
“Second Murderer”: “.Tacky Roo” com-
plains (B. l.'»/!)/’2il) that the male choristers
in “The Cabaret Girl” handle their golf-
clubs as if they were meat-axes. But if they
were required to wield meat-axes they would
probably use them as if they were safety-
razors. Did anyone ever see a male chorus
proficient in the handling of any tool,
weapon, implement or utensil on the stageV
Observe the chorus of any musical show
simulating conviviality, and enthusiastically
drinking nothing out of solid wooden goblets
or tin mugs. One would expect these chaps
to know how to manhandle a beer, at the
very least. But no. Pussyfoot himself could
juggle a pint more convincingly. They chorus
“All hail the ruby wine,” or “Quaff, oh !
quaff this draught divine” at the top gear of
their upper registers, what time they hold
their spots upside-down, or at any impossible
angle. By the time they actually say “Here’s
how!” there couldn’t be enough moisture left
to wet a postage-stamp.
“E.F.”: Frances Alda, who grew up at
St. Kilda (Vic.), had something sensible to
say recently regarding the complaint that
opera-singers and such are often too “tem-
peramental” to be pleasant. A prima donna
on tour, said Frances, has probably been
many hours in the train when she reaches a
town where she is to sing that night. She
hasn’t slept well on the journey, and, among
other things, is in need of a 'bath. But a
reception committee, or a bunch of local
acquaintances, would like to take her in
hand as soon as she leaves the train, and
because she gently requests her assailants to
go to —- she is accused of being “tempera-
mental.’ Or she is suffering from hunger
when the Mayor wants to rush her off to
the Town Hall to receive an address. Many
a stout and angry soprano is blamed for her
“temperament” when the real trouble is the
want of something to eat.
“Renquillian” : Why doesn’t Australia pro-
duce great actors nowadays? I blame the
soapbox and the suffrage. Many Australians
with a talent for acting are in the 13 Houses
of Parliament, posing, strutting and
gesticulating, and tearing policies in-
stead of passions to tatters. And most
of them are on three-years’ engage-
ments, with travelling expenses paid. Some
of them are in Ministries, with extra perks
and privileges. Ail this without any pre-
liminary training or discipline—no years of
drudgery before a manager hands them the
script of a fat part. Three ex-Premiers, to
writer’s knowledge, studied for the stage, and
abandoned it for the soapbox and the cheap
early-door to fame. Managers attending Par-
liamentary debates or smoke-concerts would
he. astonished at the amount of theatrical
ability that is going to waste. Until we
raise the voting age to 30 and make tin
legislative minimum 40 we shall never get
home-grown male leads.
From a veteran cynic:—
Recently the showmen of Britain lodged a futile
objection to the tax on entertainments. Replying
to their arguments a Cabinet Minister remarked that
they could not expect to have the better of both
worlds; they must not plead that they were being
ruined by an oppressive tax while they were, on
their own showing, paying one star as much as five
Cabinet Ministers received. He might also have
instanced the ease of Australia, where the impost
was immediately passed on to the public. Strictly
speaking, there is no tax on the tickets a showman
offers for sale. The tax is only on the people who buy
the tickets. The showman provides the cost of the
entertainment, while the public reooups him the
outlay, plus a profit. Unless he can make a living
wage out of his enterprise, the showman goes broke,
and the star engaged at a more or less enormous
salary is owed a good bit of it. If all the show-
men went broke no,, enormous salaries would be
paid. But they don’t go broke. Talk about the
“ruining” of showmen by the Government is ridicu-
lous. Taxes on entertainments fall on the people
who go to the entertainments, and the people have
agreed to consider them the most reasonable of all
taxes on luxuries.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) ; There is surely no
more melancholy spectacle than a derelict
theatre in a big city. We have two of them
in; Cockaigne—the Princess’s and Sadler’s
Wells.; At the; former, now degraded into
a furniture store, Charles Kean produced
Shakspeare in the grand manner; and at a
later period, under the management of Wilson
Barrett, it had another long period of pros-
perity. Sadler’s Wells is a ramshackle
wooden barn in the Merry Islington quarter,
HER PREFERENCE.
He : “ There's nothing like having the entree
behind the scenes.”
Site: “Oh, I'd rather have a grill at a decent
restaurant after the show.”
but in the ’fifties and ’sixties it was the
headquarters of a great Shakspearean co.,
led by Samuel Phelps. One of Phelps’s men
was William Hoskins, mentioned in an occa-
sional Bulletin par. While at the Wells
Hoskins had a class for aspiring actors, and
among his pupils was a certain young
Brodribb, then a clerk in a wine-mer-
chant’s office, but destined to become,
under the name of Henry Irving, the most
renowned actor of his day. Irving always
admitted his debt to Hoskins, who emigrated
to Australia and there died. Of recent
years Sadler’s Wells has been used for all
sorts of purposes—music-hall, picture-palace,
concert-room, etc. —but it has been now aban-
doned to utter decay, and is likely to be
pulled down.
"O. Blin”: Talking of actors who have
reproached interjectors during a perform-
ance. I recall one hilarious matinee at Mel-
bourne Princess’s when a well-known mum-
mer, now lost in the wilds of America, was
playing lead in “The Entrails in the Soap-
Dish.” or something of the kind. In the
gallery were sundry red matrons with thirsty
children, with the result that in the first in-
terval the lemonade-merchant did a roaring
trade. Discarded bottles got under kids'
feet in the next spasm, and two burning
speeches from the leading man were accom-
panied by an obligato of rattling glassware.
The great fellow could bear it no longer.
Releasing Lady Cynthia from his embrace,
he came forward to the footlights and begged
THE CONSCIENTIOUS UNDERSTUDY.
STRAGE MANAGER: “Good God, man, you can't
go on like this! Never in my life have
I seen anyone as drunk as you are.”
LEADING MAN : “ Hav'n' y' — hie! .lush wait!
y' shee my understudy!”
the gods to keep the receptacles quiet. A
hush succeeded this unprecedented request f
and then a coarse male voice upspoke: “Can’t
be done, mister. Your actin’ makes the bottles
restless.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A Yankee pitcher-man
recently in Australia confided to me his in-
tention of perdoocing “all-fired Ahstrahlian
flicks, with plenty lockahl kahlar.” He
showed me a scenario. It was all to happen
in RahckyGulch, and there were ranchers,
cow-punchers, bunco-steerers, rustlers, ten-
derfeet and sundries, including a hero who
had left his job in the cahtton-mill because
it didn’t pan out sufficient dahlars. The
scene in which the boys outwitted the sheriff
of Rahcky Gulch, and removed the villain
by lynch law, was a gem. I haven’t seen the
genius since, but trust the police arrived in
time to frustrate his fell design, which was
to “shoot the hull starry in the bush at La
Perouse.”
“Topee”: But actors who reprove interjec-
tors from the stage (B. 6/9/’23) don’t always
make themselves absurd. In the late ’six-
ties, when my father succeeded H. J. Byron
in the management of two Liverpool theatres,
Billy Bennett, a tragedian, appeared at one
as Macbeth. One night Billy was drunk—so
drunk that he collapsed on the boards. The
gods loved him, but this was beyond their
limit, and _ the remarks of the other actors
were lost in yells of derision. To the sur-
prise of all Billy rose, walked steadily to
the footlights and roared:—
Men of Liverpool!' Every briek in your accursed
city is cemented with the blood of a slave I
The rebuke was received in silence, and the
sobered-up Macbeth went on with the job.
“Orb”: Mention of Jennie Lee as “Jo” in
Melbourne in the ’eighties (B. 13/9/’23)
stirs old memories. In ’B9 I saw “Jo” at
Melb. Princess’s with this cast: Jo, Jennie
Lee; Bucket, J. P. Burnett; Esther, Mary
Heir (afterwards Mrs. J. C. Williamson) ;
Guster, Polly Emery; Snagsby, E. W.
Royce ; Sir Leicester Dedlock, Edwin Kelly •
Tulkingkorn, B. N. Jones; Guppy, George
Walton; Rosa, Branny Musgrove. I don’t
think Jennie had a better cast for “Jo” be-
fore that or since, and I doubt if it could be
equalled in Australia to-day. The next time
? saw Jennie as Jo was at Sydney Lyceum
m 94, when Edward Sass did Bucket. Ada
Lee, Jennie’s sister, died of the plague in
Sydney on March 1, 1902.
“Norbell”: An actor I know had applied
for the old-age pension, and asked me if I
could expedite matters. Ilis application had
been made many weeks before, and his
finances were pretty desperate. I fang up
Authority, but was told that the ancient was
earning money at his profession at the time
his application was submitted ; hence consid-
eration was still deferred. “Someone must
hare put my pot on,” said the old boy. “I
played Lord Mount Severn in ‘East Lynne’
for one night in the suburbs three months
ago, and that’s all the acting I’ve done for
two years.” I asked him how much he had
received for that night’s performance. “Three
bob and my tram fare,” he said simply.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The maddest prank of
James Beattie Fitzgerald (B. 0/9/23) was
to chase Nance O’Neil round the deck of the
Victoria, on her way back to Sydney from M.L.
On Miss O’Neil’s personal representations
Fitz’s liquor supply had been cut off. Lying in
his drought-stricken cabin his thoughts took
a sportive turn. Nance was lolling on a deck-
chair when she heard a shout, and, looking
around, caught sight of an alarming figure,
clad very lightly, and waving a razor. With
a wild scream she struggled from her seat,
and did three laps round the deck, with a
dancing, yelling maniac in pursuit. Then
she fainted. Statuesque in repose, the lady
was anything but graceful in hurried move-
ment, and the remembrance of that incident
makes the onlookers laugh to this day. Fitz,
who could easily have caught the fugitive star,
was put under lock and key for the balance
of the voyage.
“Mancam”: “T.P.’s” recollection of how
the street Arabs of the ’eighties used to line
up outside the theatre after a performance
of “Jo” (B. 13/f)/’23) reminds me of Wil-
liam F. Hawtrey’s tour of Australasia with
“A Message from Mars.” Wherever we went
there was a row of down-and-outs fringing
the kerb as the theatre emptied. One can-
did old reprobate outside Melb. Bijou told
me he had done no other “work” during our
long season there. “Y’see,” he explained,
“I’m a dead ring for ’Awtrey as th’ Tramp—
’e told me so ’imsdlf th’ other night—an’ as
soon as the toffs'Sight me they ’ave to come
at it. zYll I gotter do is look mis’rable, an’
that’s a nacheral gift.”
“Wink” : Tom Payne, now revisiting Aus-
tralia, had a thrilling experience at Melb.
Royal in Jan., 1909, when rehearsing Mey-
nell and Gunn’s pantomime. He had a great
idea for an effective entrance—he was to
roll on in a hoop, strapped by the ankle and
wrist, the course being down a steep path,
oyer a bridge and across the stage into the
wings. With an empty hoop it was a simple
feat, but the initial attempt with a passenger
was unlucky, for the hoop ran wide at the
bridge, crashed into the footlights, jumped
the orchestra, and landed heavily among the
stalls. Tom was picked up unconscious. A
report went round that he had gone aloft.
Then people were told that the hero was
still alive, though very badly hurt, and
would appear as usual that evening. (It
was a time of keen theatrical rivalry.) And
appear he did, though it was only a walk-on,
walk-off act.
“Hamfat” : When H. H. Vincent was man-
aging for the Firm there was a star who
failed to exhibit the lustre with which the
preliminary booster had credited - him. His
failure cudn’t redupe his tremendous opinion
of himself; and one day he apprised the ofiice
by ’phone of his indisposition, announcing
it as if he were proclaiming the end of the
world. "The doctor tells me I can’t act,”
he said. “I know'you can’t,” retorted Vin-
cent cruelly; “but if you don’t play to-night
we cancel your contract.” He played.
“McNorth”: As one who has been bored
to tears sitting out bad concerts and worse
plays, I nominate listening-in as the ideal
amusement. Its great advantage is that
you can sit comfortably at home and shut
off the alleged entertainment whenever you
wish. I had a loud-speaking wireless in my
London flat, and if I didn’t like the play
being transmitted from the Gaiety, or the
singing in the latest revue, or Gjlbert Fran-
kau reading passages from his own books,
I had merely to shove a switch and choke
the whole thing off. Indeed, I came to de-
light in inflicting sudden silence on treacly
tenors and saccharine sopranos, and act-ors
-who pronounced it “I law-uv you!” Then
I would tune up for Manchester and listen
to what was going on there, and if that
was no good there was Paris, the Hague,
Brussels or Berlin. I had all these per-
formers at my mercy. I felt I was getting
some of my own back. The only thing was
that I couldn’t hiss or throw vegetables;
but you can’t have things both ways.
“Second Murderer”: “Elingarah’s” remi-
niscences of unfeeling audiences (B.
30/8/’23) remind me. With the Holloway
and Anderson Co., at Brisbane in ’97, we were
doing a round of blood-and-bellows, with Maud
Williamson as leading woman. Maud, des-
perately ill, pluckily carried on in “Fallen
Among Thieves” until the second act, when
she had to be hurried off to the hospital in
an ambulance. But, in spite of explanations,
the audience made noisy remarks about her
“shocking condition”- —made them, indeed,
while poor Maud, most abstemious of mum-
meresses, was at death’s door in the operating
theatre at Brisbane Hospital.
CYNICAL CERBEKUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The stage door-keeper, always called
‘Old Peter, ’ though his name was Janies,
Scratched thoughtfully his headpiece bald
And said : “I’m not much good at names.
I recollect the one you mean-
She played in old-man Tresdon’s show.
But, Lor’, such shoals of ’em I’ve seen-—-
They conie and go,
These girls, you know;.
j They eoine and go.
‘ “Fine actress, was she? Had a way
Of: sending thrills all down your spine?
Perhaps; but 1 can only say
She'never sent no shocks down mine.
She was, as 1 remember well.
The leading lady of the co.
'Where is she now? Oh, who can tell?
They come and go,
These girls, you know ;
They come and go.
“Fine parts make actresses. I’ve seen
A bit of business and a word
Make half the difference between
A star and one that gets the bird.
The girl you speak of had some part
That played its blooming self, and so
You thought Her great. But, bless your ’eart.
They come and go,
These girls, you know ;
They come and go.
“It’s just the point of view, I guess.
That differs with young men and me:
To you they’re angels, nothing less ;
It’s from the front the play you see.
The comedy which I enjoy
Is when the angels skite and blow—
I’ve met so many sorts, my boy,
They come and go,
These girls, you know ;
They come and go.
“You wonder if she’s married yet?
My Gawd! Who did she marry last i
Such simple notions young chaps get .
About their Visions of the Past.
Love, courtship, marriage and divorce
Come round in turns- —tide’s high, then low.
To blokes in the profesh, of course.
They come and go.
These girls, you know :
They come and go.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Li
111 u
Any dealer will be pleased
to demonstrate to you the
“VALET”
Safety* Razor
The only Safety Razor and
stropping machine combined\
Till you have actually
seen a demonstration you
cannot understand the
wonderful simplicity of the
world’s supreme Safety Razor.
Only when you see the strop
put through the razor can you
realise that a super - sharp
edge is given the blade auto-
matically in ten seconds and
that it can be cleaned in
twelve seconds without re-
moving the blade. Each tested
“Valet Blade will last for
weeks and weeks. Saves its
initial cost many times in the
first year and will last a lifetime.
{British Made.
No. 101.
MODEL “C” SET.
All the practical fea-
tures of the more highly
embellished “Vaet ’’
Razors are embodied in
the new “Valet” Set,
known as Model “ C,”
complete wittx Razor,
strop and three blades
as illustrated
8/6
V
I
r
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO. LTD., 4?, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
'J’HE man who understands values
needs no argument when he comes
to buy a Stetson. He recognizes style
and quality immediately.
Stetson
P. B. Sheather Co., Ltd,
Sydney ano Melbourne
Sole Auitramnian Rcpi etentativu
The “
Riding
Hit
27/6
/Post Fre?/
v/y/s',
' 1
V',
vrn
V/
fa
-iZ&itSfg.
—-■tXL..
::: v '
—'•■—
triictaS"; ■
r'Bcasoned'Tajt:WillQW—•
• 'Ca If .with' Elasti <rSid es •*;-
- andDcrabTeTags; Dust-
..■,prpof,_:..Hgbl« .;-comfort*rr~
-Easy Z.T
off, the
»■_«:. boot-_ J
that no Australian horse* J
- man shonld be without. M
. Obtainable in all sizes, jfl
rr?K-=
m
>Vs
Kt
Wy?
s‘
s.
. ,- :v>., i
i~. "r \ *>" , [Sr
w. \ ’ ; <:/ .•> yv ifl
* X
a-.-
ivf.
•>%: .
fa i
t:**V.‘ y J&&E CtM
3^
, r i
N.-r
K4l
?*i‘i
lit
'V».^
r***—
Lmcofn^-Stuattdanw-’Ct^f^T-
iiv
244-254 Flinders
wasssam


p
CEGISTERB9
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
sdf
sdsf
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
previously
AustruhiM" M Representatives
Norman Raker & Longhurst
5O York Street, Sydney.
The best cartridges are
ELEY & KYNOCH
They are loaded with
SMOKELE S SOD IA MO ND
“E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throitghout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
'lll CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
sd
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
NIGGER HEAD" BRAND
Made of the finest French
Briar by the popular
makers of F.L.C. Pipes.
No. 909
s
a
6/6
Will not burn or crack.
Variety of Shapes.
At all Tobacconists.
6/6
No Better Value
Found Anywhere.
If not obtainable locally, write to
Box 2939, Sydney G.P.0.; or
Box 954, Melbourne; or 155, Adelaide.
mm
ip
03
QNP
.
f a
nr ir
S/fP} UPj
Aipim
ay/ i/a
Have Every Garment
or Article marked with
CASHS«m>WAMES
Thus preventing possible Loss or Exchange.
Truly Indispensable to every Home and Indi-
vidual CASH’S NAMES have more scope
than marking Ink —Any Name is woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.J
A Few
Stiches
and
They’re On
D S £vans
Sold by
all Best
Drapers
Actual Size, Name Style No. 2.
Price: 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3',6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH
PTY.
LTD.
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond, Melb.
£SGERS||I
'pOOD w'
* lB £0l«£“ 01
. ,»alids and the Aged
|an^-' nVa
for'"
- BEMGEtfS food Ltd
To the
health worried.
Those who do not enjoy robust
health are recommended to
*
Food
It gives digestive rest with full
nourishment and doctors agree
that this in itself is one of the
finest nerve restoratives.
Benger’s is the Food that is always made with fresh new milk,
which it greatly enriches and changes into a delicious food cream.
While being so highly nutritious that athletes train upon it, Benger’s
is so delicate that it will not disagree with the most sensitive stomach.
POST FREE. —The booklet of Benger’s Food contains a variety of dainty recipes
for sick persons. Every household with an invalid should write for a copy.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD.. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A. m>. Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers : BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
IMPORTANT TO OWNERS OF EARLY MODELS OF EDISON PHONOGRAPHS.
Edison’s PHonograph
still leads in value (&. tone
N
%
Hundreds of thousands of people were astonished when they
heard Mr. Edison s first cylinder machine; as many more are
enthusiastic over Mr. Edison’s new cylinder machine —the
Amberola. None but a man with his inventive ability could pro-
duce so unique an invention, and so remarkable an improvement.
The Amberola is definitely without a rival in phono-
graphic value. Its Blue Amberol Records are
without scratch and practically unwearable. It is
the ONLY type of record which reproduces the
“S” as in stars, the “L” as in bell, the “F” as in if,
a[nd the “V” as ip '/believe. Listen to a song by
sfcch artists as Sir Harry Lauder and Peter Dawson
-j-a few bars will convince you of its overwhelming
superiority.
The reproducer has a diamond point—so you do
not have to buy and change needles, while records
can be changed much more quickly. ' g,
And Blue Amberols are priced from 3s. —just 3s.
for records you can play 6GOO times or more; they
are nearly a hundred times cheaper than talking-
machine records.
Write now for details of the wonderful “Amberola ” or if you have an early type of Edison, ten, fifteen
or twenty years old, learn hoy) you can briny it up to date at small expense. Stale whether your phonograph
is a “ Standard“Home,'’ “Triumph" or '‘Concert."
THOMAS
EDISON, LIMITED, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney. Or your nearest Edison dealer.


Legal Notices.
VANDAR HEYDON, formerly of the Barquentine
Woolamai, Devonport, in the Slate of Tasmania,
but now of parts beyond the Seas, Seaman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
17th day of July 1923 has issued out of the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its Matrimonial
Causes Jurisdiction citing you to appear and answer
the petition of William Harold Allen of St. Leonards
in the State of Tasmania Railway Porter praying for
a dissolution of his marriage with his wife Ann May
Allen on the ground of her having committed adultery
with vou and that you be condemned in the cost
of and incidental to the suit. IN DEFAULT of your
appearing the Court will proceed to hear and deter-
mine the said charge and you will not be allowed to
address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you arc within Thirty days from the 22nd
day of September 1923 to attend in person or by your
Proctor at the Offi<e of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania situate at Franklin Squarie
Hobart in Tasmania and there to enter an j appearance
in a book provided for that purpose.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
OKINES A OGILVIE, of Collins House, Collins Street,
Hobart, in the State of Tasmania, Proctors to the
Petitioner.
MOTT. —If SAMUEL MOTT otherwise known as
Samuel John Mott last heard of at Teetulpa
Goldfields in 1887 a son of Charlotte Mott and nephew
of Elliza Tilley otherwise Eliza Tilley late of Port
Elliot in the State of South Australia widow deceased
will communicate with the undersigned he will hear
of something to his advantage. All persons claiming
to be the next of kin of the said Samuel Mott other-
wise Samuel John Mott are requested to send their
names and addresses with full particulars of their
claims to the undersigned within one month from the
date hereof and all persons having any knowdedge or
information as to the whereabouts of the said Samuel
Mott otherwise Samuel John Mott if living or if dead
as to the place and date of his death or of the where-
abouts of the next of kin of the said Samuel Mott
otherwise Samuel John Mott are invited to forward-
such knowledge or information to the undersigned.
FLEMING, BOUCAUT, ASHTON & HUNTER,
Solicitors for the executors of the said Elliza Tilley
otherwise Eliza Tilley, deceased,
30 Wa.vmouth Street, Adelaide.
Mi«slae Friends.
CRUICKSHANK
(Formerly of Auckland, N.Z.).
INFORMATION is required as to the
present . whereabouts (if alive) of
ANDREW ROBERT SWANN CRUICK-
SHANK, last known as resident at Casino,
New South Wales, or (if deceased) particu-
lars of his death. Please communicate with
the undersigned, who will reimburse any
reasonable expenses incurred in furnishing
the required information.
PARKER & KISSANE,
Solicitors, Casino, N.S.W.
T ESTHER JANE BOWEN, of 5 Bull Lane,
-*-> Gloucester, give notice that unless I have infor-
mation that EDWIN EDWARD BOWEN, formerly of
38 Stanley Road, Oxford, Blacksmith’s Stoker and
Licensed Victualler, of whom I have not heard
since 29th April, 1914, is still alive, I shall, after
the expiration of four months from this date, presume
that he is dead and that I am free to remarry.
Dated this 18th day of July, 1923.
ESTHER JANE BOWEN.
Witness:— P. D. CLARKE,
Managing Clerk to Messrs. Wellington and
Clifford, Solicitors, Gloucester, England.
fsd
fs
df
Modal 1899
Cal. .22
SAVAGE SUPERIORITY
A TRIBUTE FROM
DICK ARNST.
Kangaroo Hunt, 1922
party consisted of
-L three, and eight weeks
were devoted to the
expedition. My companions
carried 32.40 B ack Powder
Rifles, while I used a Savage
.22 ‘Hi-Power.’
The total bag was 500 Kan-
garoos, to which my contribu-
tion was 360.
With this Rifle a good shot
can count on 80 per cent of his
bullets, and it is very rare that
he would have to use a second
shot.
To sum up, the Savage .22
‘Hi-Power’ is the best Rifle I
have ever used.”
The Savage Model 1899, calibre .22
Ui-Powef Featherweight Tske-doWn
Kifle has a specially tapered 20-inch
round barrel. Its weight is 64 libs.
Velocity 2800 ft. per second. Cham-
bered for calibres .30-30 and .303,
ana in calibre .300 but with a 24-inch
barrel only.
Look over the SAVAGE models at
your dealer’s.
Excldsln Representative for Australia & New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH,
A, P-O. Box 966, Sydney, N2S.W.
SAVA6E ARMS CORPORATION, Utica, N.Y., U.S.A.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO. Chicopee Falls, Mass. U.S.A.
Export Office ; 50 Church St. New York.
AiniiaeniMitii
gTTT\Trs (. If IK I TiIISAT It E 8
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE CABARET GIRL.
CRITERION:
BLUEBEARD’S EIGHTH WIFE.
ROYAL: QUARANTINE.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELIiOUUNJ
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
MA MIE ROSETTE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SALLY.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
WESTMINSTER GLEE SINGERS.
NEW COMPANY DIRECT FROM LONDON.
All Previous Successes Eclipsed.
General Manager: LEO. D. CHATEAU.
Amusements.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. AND DAILY MATINEES
AT 2.15.
HUGH J.- WARD presents
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS in
ROBIN HOOD.
The Screen’s Greatest Achievement.
Plans; at Glen’s.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD S SPECTACULAR REVUE,
ROCKETS.
“THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN TOWN.”
Plans at Glen’s.
ING’S TREAT RE, A 1 ELIIOURN E.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
MR. PIM PASSES BY.
You should
Smoke
EDGEWORTH
Ready Rubbed or Plug Slice.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Beven
PH*o Medal*
dsf
Works a Birmingham, Englandi
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Amusements.
OVT'S THEATRES, SIELKOCUNK
Also SYDNICt.
REGINALD DENNY in
THE ABYSMAL BRUTE.
WALTER HEIRS and JACQUELINE LOGAN in
60 CENTS AN HOUR.
Prices as usual. '
|y|A.IKS'ilC THEATRIC, .MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
THE WALLFLOWER.
A GOLDWYN PRODUCTION.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
■JIE ALLAN WILKIE Sll A KSI'EA KEAN
I’ltOlH CTIONS
MELBOURNE SEASON: THE PLAYHOUSE.
Season Commenced September 15.
Head Oltice, 178 Castlereagli Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batvn.
Miss Bella Perman’s
Dancing Studio.
Are you satisfied with your Dancing?
Very few are —and you will enjoy
much more pleasure if you dance
better. I can give you Perfect Tuition
in this delightful exercise—Ballroom
or Stage and Deportment.
Be taught by a Professional holding
brilliant records as a Dancer from
leading English, Continental and
Australasian Theatres.
Australia House, 191 Liverpool St.,
Hyde Park, Sydney. Wm. 1718.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
.lanager, who will quote you price for it.
sd
Ideal Figure
Large Above Waist
fsd
Ideal Figure
Large Below Waist
fs
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
df
Ideal Figure
Tall Slender
sd
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
fsd
Ideal Figure
Short IVanted
f
Ideal Figure
Curved Back
Comfortable, Grace ful
Sensible, Healthful Corsets
res
Ideal Average
Figure
IF YOU want to look your best, you
must be properly corseted—for no
woman ever looked well, or felt well
or appeared to the best advantage, if she
was wearing the wrong corset.
Is the corset you have on perfectly com-
fortable? Does it exactly fit your figure?
Or does it “ride up” on your body and
bulge the flesh at the waist, or push up
under the arms, or dig into your legs or do any of those distracting
things that make you uncomfortable and tire you out and give you
that *‘corseted look” that adds years to your apparent age?
When you buy a corset you waiit one that is comfortable,one that
will make most of the natural grace of your figure, one that will
wash well and wear well, one that will protect your health and eter-
nally guard you against the injustice of looking older than you are.
Buy a Gossard Corset
Tw r enty years ago Mr. Gossard discovered in Paris a new kind of
corset —a corset that laced in front, designed for herself by a
French Countess, the Countess Fould de Grasse. Because this
new principle in corsetry offered a protection to the health as well
as to the appearance, Mr. Gossard introduced it to the feminine
world, and the practical artistry of Gossard designers has devel-
oped it to its present perfection. Your own family physician will
agree with other undisputed medical authorities that the front lac-
ing Gossard is the only corset that will give you ideal support.
This matter of designing for your type is the whole secret.
Gossard artists, after studying thousands of women, classified them
into nine figure groups and created special models to take care of
the particular figure needs of each group. There are Gossard Cor-
sets created with just the supportjwa need at your age and weight
to give you the proper proportions of the type to which you be-
long. Your Gossards will be differently proportioned and differ-
ently boned from the corsets created for the other figure groups.
Perhaps you have been buying your corset by waist measure alone.
That is a fatal mistake and one of the most common causes of cor-
set discomforts. If you want an exactly-right
corset, one that will always he comfortable,
one that will never need “breaking in,” all
you need do is to select a Gossard designed
for you. It is sure to fit you perfectly and
be absolutely comfortable every minute you
have it on.
sd
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Go to the Best Store You Know
Do you realise for how little you can buy
these comfortable, graceful, sensible, beautiful Gossard Corsets?
You can get one for as little cost as the ordinary corset. But no
matter what you pay, the Gossard corsetiere who fits you will
know types as well as corsets and will guarantee your satisfaction.
Gossard, Brassieres
Gossard Brassieres like Gossard Corsets are designed for the needs
of the nine figure groups. The new Longerlyne models are priceless
to the woman who heretofore has been unable to find brassieres with
special shaping to support and flatten the diaphragm and with extra
length to prevent them from slipping up over the lower tops of
the modern corsets. Yet they are most reasonably priced within
the reach of every purse.
Miss Eleanor Gray
If you have the slightest doubt about your type of figure, write to
Miss Eleanor Gray, the Gossard Corset Specialist, whose years of
experience are at your service. Use the coupon below, and be sure
it is carefully filled in. Your corset problems will be treated entirely
confidential by Miss Gray and your questions answered personally.
“YOU”
Miss Eleanor Gray has just completed a new book, “You,” that
will be invaluable to any woman who seeks to understand her type
and find any unfailing method of becoming dress. A copy is yours
for the asking, if you will address
MISS ELEANOR GRAY
c/o The Canadian H. TV. Gossard Co., 114. Castlereagk Street, Sydney, N. S. TV.
GOSSAED
FRONT
LACING
CORSETS
USE THIS COUPON
MISS ELEANOR GRAY, c/o The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., 114 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me your free book “YOU” and tell me what style corset to buy. I am in height, weigh
waist ...inches, bust inches hips inches.
No. 1
pounds.
Name.
.Address.
.State ot.


LEARN TO DRAW!
You can learn to make effective original
drawings in a short period under the
WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING.
Each lesson is given under the personal
supervision of Australia’s foremost commer-
cial artist, Mr. Harry J. Weston, who criti-
cises and corrects the exercises.
There are many things you see and hear
that can be turned into money when you can
draw. Big salaries await successful students,
and anyone who can write can draw, if they
know the right way.
Send three penny stamps to cover the post-
age, with your name and address, and we
will forward you a copy of the book “There’s
Money in the Pen,” which tells all about
the course, fees, etc., and gives examples of
the students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
256 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
V/*
J-j m
Make Sure: !
“STON EWALL
fsd
9 s£Z
.30lH3NCU,S. 3K *fcS.
The Stonewall Clump Sole Boot
No. 320 —-Black or Tan Box Hide, Plain or
Toecap “Stonehide” Treble-wear Soles.
Postage 1/3; Interstate 2/2.
Men's Wear & Shoe Catalog Free
Jacksons
fc3Bo 2 PITT ST
£ SYDNEY
CH
w ••
A ROYAL
Ail Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6 d.
each.
S3*
25 Cigars, 12/6
50, 25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box contain-
ing two cigars, Is.
Post free.
CraigsAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciub
Reil Cigar Factory,
Miwulnsr Friends.
IF JOHN JAMES BRANDLAY, nephew
of Elizabeth Kirwan, and last heard of
Little Surrey Street, Sydney, communi-
cates with Boldship, Barnes & Co., Soli-
citors, 160 Phillip Street, Sydney, he will
aear of something to his advantage.
«
ARRY EDGELL, formerly of Teddington. Letter
awaits you G.P.0., Sydney.
•J \\
31
\ ■ ’ v - ;-V
. -I'
THE 'TEXAS RANGER”
COWBOY SADDLE
A popular American-style • Stock Saddle,
finished in nut-brown leather, with full
covered seat and cantle. It is double rigged,
with two cord cim has and wood stirrups.
£ 1 9/1 R L Frei S'fit free for cash with order
"I“/ " *•/ to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY.
FLY SHEETS,
m
w
mm
1
STRONG
NETTING,
COOL
&
LTGHT.
WHITE,
22/6.
CREAM,
19/6.
Post, 1/-
Walther & Stevenson Ltd
Saddlery Merchants, 395 George Street, Sydney.
Qfc Grand
Bopmer^tmg
Mouth Organ
Is mac’s in two sizes—both possessing glorious tones, both perfectly
madeiard finished, both remarkably hiphm value
The Large "BCCMFF/ NG” GRAND
with 48 reeds —PRICE 12/6
Postage 6d. extra
T'.e MINIATURE “BOOMERANG”
GRAND, with 24 reeds—PßlCE 7/6
Postage 6d. extra
ooMJ&Sfllv^
ihtekhakcmbie
parts
{Band
VJSL ALBERT’S SYSTEM
Han# f, teo
seeds
J. Albert & Son
Dept. 18 “Boomerang House ”
137-139 King Street, Sydney
Also at 294-298 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne
\tfbn r f>=s»'e Prices quoted Shopkeepers
miITE LIQUID CLEANER
WHITES UEDE
CANVAS SHOES.
Your White Shoes will
Stay White this Summer
Whether Suede or Canvas, they’ll be fresh and
Spotless for every occasion if you use Bosrock’s
White Liquid Cleaner. Purest ingredients and
skilful mixing make it Milady’s Favourite.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91, Haymarket, Sydney.
I
For Canvas,
Nubuck. and
Suede
Leathers.
<2£> 308
m
>
w
WHITE LIQUID CLEANER
TELEPHONES for STATION OWNERS.
IwfBPSHW!
A*g§
IMi
y-y
b n
■
■ ■ > x>... ..'.-'- ■
Model F 2898. Government approved
Model for country service. 1000-ohm
Ringer. 5-Bar Generator, Long-dis-
tance Transmitter and Receiver.
Supplied from Australian stocks.
KELLOGG
APPARATUS
of quality and 25 years’ experience. Approved
by all Governments.
If you are not on the Government circuits 1
why not construct your own private line? We
will furnish you with guaranteed apparatus
and full information and estimates.
Will give continuous and uninterrupted ser-
vice. Non-breakable. Withstands hard and
severe usage.
KELLOGG RADIO EQUIPMENT
has been pronounced as the most'efficient and the most attractive apparatus ever
put into a wireless receiving set.
USE 'IS THE TEST.
Good results are only obtained with good equipment. Variable Vernier Condensers, Vario-
meters, Vario-couplers, Head ’Phones, Plugs, Jacks, Fixed Condensers, Choke Coils, Tube Sockets,
Dials, Cords, Transformers for Audio Frequency, Terminals, etc.
Send for Booklet and Price List to the agent in your State.
Victoria:
JAMES CHAMBERS & CO., Pty., Etd.,
374 Eittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.:
BTTRGIN ELECTRIC CO.,
352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
AMICO LTD.,
Amico House,
Queen Street. Brisbane.
S.A.:
NEWTON McEAREN LTD.,
Eeigh Street, Adelaide.
W.A.:
C. P. KNAPTON,
935 Hay Street, Perth.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (jexcept of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.FI.N.: “Arabe’s” remarks applied only
to tic. In N. S. Wales there is nothing in the
law to compel a petitioner to have a decree nisi in
divorce made absolute,.. .Gilbert T.: Understand that
some Diggers’, bodies have taken the matter up.
If nothing happens within three months, will you
re-state the case? —and we’ll forgive you if you use
violent language... .Paul L.: The sonnets are rather
wooden and the other isn’t attractive. .. .Tarago:
It still misses. .. .Louise B.: Done too often before.
. ...W.H.S.: Too slight to carry even a cobweb....
U.M.C.: Not up to the mark L.W.11.: There
really isn’t a great deal in “Jerry” F.C.R.: Too
much introduction and too little tale John G.:
If it had received brighter telling it might have
been worth while Wiilie W.: It says the old
things J.8.T.: Won’t do A.F. (Bilbarn) : Four
girls to three men —that’s over the odds.... Eardu:
Altogether too wild and improbable. ... Theocritus,
Jnr.: You can’t rhyme “envisage” with “mirage”
ip September; and it’s hard to do in February....
Iridis: It’s shockingly bad verse. .. .Me-Tax:: Doesn’t
even resemble the genuine article. .. .C.J.R.: Parodies
are poor things, and yours is an indifferent sample.'
. ...J.P.D.: The verse is rough and the finish weak
and crude F.J.H.: Not enough in it P.S.D.:
You say nothing at all except that morning will
follow night. A few people have said that before.
. ...Jas. N.: You want to know what is the matter
with it. Well, it doesn’t scan, it doesn’t rhyme,
it isn’t grammatical and it*doesn’t seem to mean
anything. .. . A.A.M.: Not , nearly L.G.W.: You
will have to get something better to do and do it
better... .E.H.M.: The same old amazing discovery
that the sun gets up in the morning,.. .T.F.8.;
It may be “grim fact veiled in lightsome fancy,
human interest, novelty, reality, diversion,” and all
the rest; but we find it a tedious mass of common-
place made more commonplace by the abundance of
capitals... .G.C.S.: Very poor stuff. ...P.0.H.: Some
distance from the g0a1.... Tyo: The yarn is of an
old type and lacks freshness... .Bill: The lucidity
of “Symbol of Pain” is what we specially like:—-
Whose Soul has not received the spark
Of synthesizing fellowship,
At cataclysmic throes of Earth,
Travailing grievous agony?
This speaks our valued BrotherhoOd-
We are withal of language one—
Known far, as flashes cross a gulf,
Bespeaking benison of Love.
....Matt R.: Another startled discoverer of the
fact that morning follows night... .H.H.H.: Too
jolty... .C.H.M.: The old thing a little dirtier than
usual.... Caesar: Long aimless ramble about dogs
without snap or bark.... Sulcus: Doesn’t strike us
very hard.. ..B.W. (Kensington): Heavy in manner
and poor in matter.... Rheum: Come down off those
stilts*. If * you talked to !• your pals like that, how
many of them would listen ?.... King W.: Doesn’t
strike u5....M.M. (Rosebanlt): Too long for its
interest.... Matt R.: Terrible... .Adamascus : Can’t
find much point... .Pierce B.: Not well enough done.
...:M.F. (Fitzroy) : Commonplace theme and poor
treatment... .Kay en: Weak album verse.... Jack A.
AY.: Heavy and sorrowful attempts at mirth....'
Freda It. : The old things in verse that is always
feeble and sometimes totters. .. .A.J.L.: It has been
better said very often.... John R.: Not up... .E.J.R.:
Without point and not well done.... Louis S.: Not
a lift in it... . Allen P. T.: A creaky sonnet with one
line short. .. .Howard A.: Seventeen should do better
than that.... J.W. (St. Kilda) : Misses L.H.P.:
No use to us... .W.M.8.: They don’t get near....
T.F. (Clovelly): No good at a11....Kat: “The
Dream” has all the eccentric magic of the season:—
Yesterday I was just a miserable wreck,
Groping like a dismal thing;
Hope I couldn’t see a speck,
To-day all things sing.
For the good of the wattle to perfection’s breaking,
Away a sunny warmth from my heart a-taking
Sorrow', that keeped it aching.
The perfume of the wattle (condensed ecstasy)
Is sweeter than lyric flowing from a lyre.
AVhen a baby zephyr spills the aroma over me
Joy sets my heart a-fire.
Someday the blueness of the sky will set me sleeping
At the wattle’s beauty again I’ll be peeping.
And its gold will improve in my keeping.
... .Hilda E.: One has a chance. .. . ALM.T.: “Players”
nicely done; but the theme has been gone over so
often in one form or other. .. .Scrutineer: So far
as we know Tatt.’s is scrupulously honest; but it
looks as thbugh its operations result in a good
deal of dishonesty. Australian public opinion
seems to require a gamble; but there is no reason
why it should'.be fastened on to a horse... .Fair-
play : Well enough done, but you don’t break any
new ground... .T.F.T.: Too vague and general—
the sort of thing a man who has a mere nodding
acquaintance with a subject might write... :Nor’-
West: Glad to hear from you; but why not. tell
us of the little things you know about—and the
rest of Australia doesn’t ?. ... Bat: Stumped for a
rhyme at your very first attempt to make one. ...
S.S.AV.: Gone west; it suffered from pernicious
anaemia.... Carton: Try to tell us about it in 200
words.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D. 8.: Were you trained in a laundry? You turn
out everything so well starched.... A.E.: The worst
hand that was ever dealt a human being... .Bonita:
But that joke ihas happened before... .H.W.8.:
Hardly worth it.. . .A.P.: Terrible... .J.R.U.: 35*
below freezing-point.. . .L.T.: Even if the drawing
were good we could do nothing with faint blue-ink
sketch on ruled notepaper. ~ .Broky: Every little
girl ought to have something to stand on—yours
hasn’t. .. .C.O’K.: A good deal to learn yet....
E.K.: Poor draftsmanship. .. .S.P.: Little art, and
less humor. .. ,J.D.: Pencil sketches useless except
as suggestions.... F.L.8.: Your goanna badly needs
a shave.
“T. 0.1.” .on some of our rude forefathers:
Many of the First Fleeters of 1788 reached great
ages, if the records are to be believed. In 1835
there died at Parramatta Elizabeth Eccles, aged
105; she was born at Stratford-on-Avon in 1730.
The name does not appear amongst compulsory
passengers, but as the fleet brought 24 Elizabeths,
doubtless Thomas Eccles, who came with a life
sentence, married one of them. John Limeburner,
who died in 1847 and is buried in St. John’s, Ash-
field, was 104. He came from New Sarum (Salis-
bury). William Bond, the first baker and inventor
of the “damper,” died in 1839, aged 110 years.
He came for seven years and remained for over 50. He
was in business for many years in Pitt-street. Among
long-lived colonists who did not travel at. King
George’s expense Catherine Deffney died at Toon-
gabbie in 1835, aged 100; and at Seven Hills in
the same year, William Marks (102). The latter
had been a soldier and fought at Bunker Hill.


KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
f
■22 RIM FIRE.
sdf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
m
"TVrVE.
ALL BRITISH
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
52-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY station),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
WIGS. BEARDS, MASKS, 4c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
• •
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents—April
Fools; Who Is Who;
Ici on Parle Franeais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from J2/6 to jgo.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
HORLICtfS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health aid strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mhk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILKCO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ENC.
SywoTtMty!
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street, Melbourne
'C.
w
m
Look to the
Mechanical Details
WHEN one purchases a motor car, it is the mechanical
construction that one buys. Is the engineering of such
design as to operate over a long period of time with little or
no repairs? This is a moot question that the careful and
thrifty purchaser will do well to consider. The body design,
the shape of the hood and contour of the bonnet are all
secondary and should be an afterthought.
When Paige engineers, after years of experiment, were satisfied
to offer the new six cylinder Paige Jewett to the motor owner,
they knew they built right from the beginning, and the
beautiful straight line body with its special finish and genuine
leather upholstery is only a beautiful covering of a chassis con-
struction, every part of which is accurate in its minutest detail.
The Paigejewett works —a company with years of experience
in building fine cars —is back of every one.
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.,
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.,
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
1
QJy/io
<gs>
i
Just Like a Man.
(By “PHLOX.”)
<t TOHN, I want to speak to you.”
*1 “Yes, dear.”
" “Don’t dear me! You ought to be
ashamed of yourself! The idea of a middle-
aged man like you giving a dinner-party for
a young actress. But old fools are always
the worst.”
“Surely you wouldn’t call me old, dear?”
“You’re older than I am. But you’re get-
ting away from the point in question. What
have you to say for yourself?”
“Nothing.”
“Then I’ve got something to say to you.
I’m simply not going to stand for you giving
dinners to actresses while I sit at home and
gaze at four walls.”
“But, Blanche, you don’t like Bohemian
nights, and as a pressman I simply can’t get
out of attending them sometimes.”
“Yes, but there’s no need for you to carry
on with a woman yoqng enough to be your
daughter. I heard all about you and Miss
Fortesque in the conservatory.”
“Ha, ha, ha! He, he he !”
“What are you laughing at, you idiot?”
“I’m laughing at you saying that Miss
Fortesque is young enough to be my daugh-
ter. You’ll be surprised to know that she's
two years older than you are, my dear.”
“Nonsense; she only looks a girl.”
“She may look one, but she isn’t. Fancy
accusing me of carrying on with poor old
Bertha!”
“Well, all I can say is that the way she
makes up is shameless.”
“As far as I know she doesn’t make-up.”
“John, you’re a bigger idiot than I thought
you were.”
“Thank you very much, Mabel. But. I
must be going. I’ve got an appointment.”
“Why, John, you promised to take me to
the pictures to-night.”
“Then I’m very sorry, for I simply can’t.”
“I suppose you’re going to meet Miss For-
tesque.”
“How absurd you are, Mabel! Anyway,
Bertha always looks nice, and she’s rattling
good company. Ta, ta !”
About half-an-liour later the maid an-
nounced Miss Oliver.
“How are you, Mrs. Forbes?” she began.
“Just dropped in to see if you’d conm on
the committee of the new Free Kinder-
garten. Just met Mr. Forbes in the hotel
lounge with Miss Fortesque, who was look-
ing lovely in a royal blue panne velvet
evening-gown, which showed up her glorious
complexion.”
And before Mrs. Forbes could get in a
word edgewise the voluble Miss Oliver was
gone. Later, however, Mrs. Warden, the
clergyman’s wife, called. Mrs. Forbes wel-
comed the pretty, tactful little woman as a
friend in whom she could confide. She told
her of her husband’s neglect, and of how he
was paying attention to Miss Fortesque.
“My dear Mrs. Forbes,” began Mrs. War-
den, “you are quite mistaken about your
husband’s attentions towards Miss For-
tesque. As a pressman he must meet and
make himself agreeable to star actresses. I
know Miss Fortesque to be a good church-
woman.”
“That’s what my husband says, but it’s
hard for me to be left alone evenings. Be-
sides, he accused me of being dowdy and
withered-looking. I notice, Mrs. Warden,
that you always manage to look bonnie.”
“Well, yes, dear; even a clergyman’s wife
needs to take pains to keep her looks. Good
looks help one in any walk of life. But if
you’ll pardon me, dear, you’ve not quite kept
yourself up to the mark. If, however, you'll
use the same face-cream as I do—Mercolized
Wax —you’ll soon have a new, fresh skin.”
“Oh, I’d use anything that would make my
skin decent. But look at my hair, it has
become brittle and faded, and is fast grey-
ing. You must be my age, and you haven’t
a grey hair.”
“No, because I keep off old age as far as
my hair is concerned by using Stallax as
a shampoo. To restore grey hair I make a
preparation of my own at home. I get two
ounces of Tammalite concentrate from the
chemist, and mix it with three ounces of
Bay Rum, and after a few T applications the
grey hair is restored to its natural color.
Miss Fortesque told me about these prepara-
tions in London years ago.”
“How comforting to know of them. I’ll
get the Mercolized Wax, the Stallax and the
Tammalite straight away. I’m delighted
you called, Mrs. Warden. When John
comes home I’ll tell him what a pleasant
evening we had.”
“And don’t worry when he tells you that
you are dowdy. That is just like a man.”
Next morning an excellent interview with
Miss Fortesque appeared in the paper.
“How good this interview is, John,” re-
marked Mrs. Forbes.
“So glad you like it, dear; I wrote it.”
“So that’s.why you were with Miss For-
tesque; but why ever didn’t you tell me?”
“Because professional etiquette forbade
me.”
“As Mrs. Warden says, ‘just like a man.’ ”
2] —Advt.


if
SI
Pigs
Calves
Sheep
Cattle
With each class of stock this golden rule
holds good. It is a certain producer of top
market results in every instance.
CONSIGN YOUR FATS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
CHEMICALS
for Every Purpose.
Being Sole Australian Agents for
the United Alkali Co. Ltd., and
other world-known Manufacturers,
we can quote lowest prices for
Heavy Chemicals for every pur-
pose—either from spot stocks,
shipments afloat or on indent.
LET US QUOTE YOU FOR
Caustic Soda (“Greenbank” Brand), Soda
Ash, Silicate of Soda, Chloride of Ammonium,
Chloride of Calcium, Chloride of Lime,
Chloride of Magnesium, Caustic Potash,
Muriate of Ammonia, Chloroform, Kesin, Tur-
pentine, Mvrbane Oil, Borax, Boraeie Acid,
Alum, Hypo, Acids, Crecylic Acid, Carbolic
Crystals, Naphthalene (Flake and Ball),
Oxalic Acid, Cream of Tartar, etc.
Further particulars on request.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
SYDNEY: York and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE: 581-83 Tittle Collins
Street.
ADELAIDE: 30 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: H. M. Russell & Co.,
Eagle Street.
TOWNSVILLE: James Tait & Son,
Denham Street.
PERTH: C. H. Goddard & Co.
NEW ZEALAND: Nathan’s Buildings,
Grey Street, Wellington.
KINGSLEY PRIVATE HOTEL
Mrs. GREAVES, Proprietress.
The most exclusive in Brisbane. Accommodation
for 200 Guests. Newly Furnished throughout.
Room and Breakfast, or Inclusive Terms, can he
arranged. Moderate Tariff. Every Convenience.
Adjoining Queensland Club and Botanical
Gardens, GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Save Money
Save Time
Save Worry
By Treating
CHEST OR LUNG
COMPLAINTS
With
0*
Thousands of permanent cures
have been effected by this cele*
bra ted Cod Liver Oil Emulsion,
which at the same time increases
energy, nerve force and power.
HYPOL is a rich, nutritious prep-
aration. delightfully palatable,
and very strengthening.
Sold Everywhere
MADE BY
Felton, Grimwade& Co. Ltd;
Melbourne
VV&W26.
Msslr®lt«n
London Office:
“Gresham House/’
Old Broad Street, E.'C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
sdf
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
* (99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association LTD*.,
Contractors icitli the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
• (Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
19 York Street. SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ranm-s
•mm
■y
*
Rend your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
CAUSTIC SOD
Electrolytic Liquid—32 per cent. Na2o.
Electrolytic Solid —70 per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
THE
t \ONAL
K
* • r
Jr
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital ..
Capital paid up . . £2,725,000
Reserve Fund Account 1,725,000
Reserve Inability of
, Shareholders .. 1,263,000
£5,000,000
Total
.. £5,713,000
Directors; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARICE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. 11. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Total Assets, 31st March, 1923—£35,285,348.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY (on leave).
Acting Chief Inspector: W. G. SEWELL.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 138 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 26 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The-Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 46 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 31 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand. j
Agents throughout the World.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tally Ho”: The Speck’s oldest pub, the
Ship Hotel, at Hobart, is being rebuilt. The
old structure did duty for over a century.
The first license was granted to William
Began in 1821.
"Yacko” : Apropos our pioneer brewers (B.
12/7/’23). Here is Mr. Boston’s recipe,
used at Sydney in 1796. Indian corn malted
and flavored with the leaves and stalks ot
the love-apple, commonly called by the old-
timers Cape gooseberry. The decoction was
voted Al, and sold at Is. 6d. a bottle.
* * * *
“Geo. Rich”: For the year ended June
30 marsupial skins stamped for royalty in
W.A. were: 57,196 grey kangaroos, 182,216
reds, 30,581 euros, 69,345 brush ’roos, 8307
others (smalls), and 402 ’possums—which
represents a decrease of 348,087 in the mar-
supial population. The State got £3977 out
of the slaughter.
♦ * * ” *
“Adamascus” : Cattle prospects are brighten-
ing in North Queensland, and some fairly
big sales have been recorded lately. P. Nalty,
who is interested in Woolerina, Kulki and
Cresswell Downs, recently purchased 10,000
cows (5500 from Inverleigh, 2000 from
Coolullah and 2500 from Burleigh), all des-
tined for N.S.W.; and W. Naughton, his
partner, has a further 10,000 head on the
road. Victorian buyers are also operating,
and prices are rapidly becoming firmer.
“L. Ree”: Wireless paid its debt to the
owners of the Eastern Moon in one hit.
That 5000-ton American boat dropped her
propeller in 135 fathoms and a calm sea 10
miles off C. Northumberland (S.A.). She
anchored, Marconied her Melbourne agents
to bargain for a tow, and politely told the
passing s.s. Berrima that all was serene.
In 24 hours the tug Eagle was taking her
to Melbourne at ordinary towage rate;
within 30 hours of her accident a heavy
westerly gale started. Only for Marconi
she would have had to take the first offer
at heavy salvage, or face helplessly the coast
that has the Admella, Geltwood, Star of
Greece and Tenterden in its graveyard.
“F.A.” : Ironbark as a material for heavy
building construction has got another ad. in
Sydney. A Kent-street warehouse was
gutted by fire. The building was in two
distinct parts, the older of brick, w 7 ith wal 1-
to-wall girders of ironbark; the newer sec-
tion, though contained by brick, was floored
upon steel girders. The flames gorged them-
selves on the light timber, but found the
ironbark too tough and left it almost intact.
The steel, on the other hand, was twisted
and buckled till it pulled in the walls and
turned them into a heap of debris. The
sides of the building in which ironbark was
used are still standing.
“Uramoa” : Christchurch (M.L.) has a citi-
zen who knows all about the Fazaekerley
millions, to which there are so many claim-
ants that it takes a public hall to hold the
lot when they meet to pass resolutions. This
is Thomas Fazaekerley, who is a descendant
of Sir Nicholas, the founder of the fortune.
It was in Thomas’s house at Preston (Eng.)
that the last corroboree took place; but the
case threatening to have the same mental
effect as Jamdyee v. Jarndyce, he dropped
the matter and emigrated to Maoriland.
Nicholas .was in 1730 Lord Mayor of Lon-
don. At the early age of '2l his uncle left
him a million and a half. The youth did not
proceed to dissipate it; he added to it till
he died, leaving it to a youthful wife and
any heirs she might subsequently acquire.
But the lady died childless, and a tribe of
other Fazackerleys has been putting in futile
claims to the mil Hons ever since.
* * 9 «
“Sturt”: The pressing matter of railway
communication between Adelaide and the
Upper Murray is not to be met (according
to the Standing Railways Committee of
S.A.) by pushing the line on from Morgan
to Renmarli and Barmera. It is proposed
instead to use the line which comes right up
from the south (the junction being Tailem
Bend on the Melbourne-to-Adelaide line) and
stops on the Murray bank, about three miles
from .Renmark, and on the wrong side. The
idea is to make a bridge there, connect with
Renmark, and run on another 10 miles or so
to Barmera, a new but progressive settle-
ment. The advantage of the scheme lies in
the bridge; there is not another over the
river from away down at Murray Bridge to
away up at Swan Hill. Also, it will be
handy for getting to Melbourne. But most
of Renmark’s produce goes to Adelaide, and
the new scheme will involve an increase to
the traffic, already too great, through the
bottle-neck in the hills behind that city.
“The Deacon” : The par. of “Cyrano” (B.
23/8/’23) on the practically-vanished coach-
ing-days in Maoriland brings back the stir-
ring times of the big boom at Waihi, 30-odd
years ago. Then George Crosby kept the
Royal Mail Hotel at Paeroa, and controlled
the coaching from that place to Waihi.
Incidentally, he imported his brothers Mick
and Peter from overseas, and they became
the crack w-hips on the 20-mile run. Reck-
less Jehus were Mick and Peter. “Moonless
midnight or matin prime,” they dashed hell-
for-leather round the wind-swept gorges of
Karangahake with thousands of feet of cliff
grazing one wheel or the crumbling edges of
the banks shivering under the other, while
the imported mining-experts gazed in terror
from the rocks on the near-side to the slug-
gish-moving Ohinemuri River 200 feet be-
low. To add to the peril of the latter, it
was colored ashen-grey with the cyanide
used in ore-treatment; a few mouthfuls of
it would indubitably have provided a through
ticket to the New Jerusalem. The perils of
the trip were supplemented by the considera-
tion that a long line of carriers’ waggons
might be just ahead with drunken drivers
asleep somewhere amidship. Yet there were
no accidents worth speaking of except to
horses. Now the railway runs through, the
Martha lode has been mislaid, Grand Junc-
tions have lost their glory, and in large
lettering is “Ichabod” inscribed on the glory
that once was Waihi.


“His
Master’s
Voice”
Records
now reduced in price.
“His Master’s Voice” and Zonophone
Records are now obtainable from all “His
Master’s Voice” Agents at the following
reduced prices:—
Zonophone Double-sided.
10-inch Now 4/-
12-inch „ 6/6
10-inch Grand Opera .... „ 5/6
“His Master’s Voice.”
10-inch plum label Nqw 5/6
12-inch „ • „ $/-
12-inch black ~ ~ 10/-
SINGLE-SIDED.
10-inch red label Now 7/6
12-inch „ „ „ 10/6
10-inch buff ~ „ 8/6
12-inch ~ „ 13/6
PRICES FOR THE FOLLOWING
REMAIN THE SAME:—
“His Master’s Voice” Double-sided.
1 0-inch black label 7/6
Single-sided.
12-inch green label I’/-
12-inch blue ~ . 16/6
12-inch white ~ 21/-
12-inch Patti and Clara Butt ... 17/-
1 0-inch and 1 2-inch Tamagno . . 25/-
J
His Master’s Voice
Li
7/>
Jm
ax
c
■tk
W/T/
ar*
K ,
*/ /tun
-2.^1
ft.*?
22
0
What better recommendation
could you have in the choice
of an instrument than that of
the world-famous artists who
record for it alone —Melba,
Galli-Curci, Paderewski, Heifetz, Kubelik, Chaliapin, Ruffo,
and many other stars equally celebrated for their brilliant art?
“His Master s Voice” Instruments range in price from 1 1 guineas to £94.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
Huptsolile
H immobile
It was the engine of the Hupmobile that first attracted the atten-
tion of the civilized world. Time has but enhanced its reputation
in the minds of motor-car drivers. Hupmobile power and en-
durance are well known to motor-car owners. These qualities
never fail. Every additional Hupmobile made contributes to this
good reputation.
I. PHI ZACKERLE Y, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PIICENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Welling-
ton. N.Z.


ro
COUGH
REMEDY
Coughs
CROI
r*t co«f%., c.i<u,
rAjTftrtfTtrn t"
;•!*»»
m:h,
SORE THI
INFLUE
UNO OTHER ArreCTK
THROAT and
IK!
ZS
!•! '•>
MADEinAUS
sut
Chamberla
SVDNEV K
»2!J!
fW
<£• SMALL
CHAKBEftUINS LIMfTEH
ifnl
This medicine is trusted
the whole world over.
The qualities which give it
the high place it holds in
the public’s regard are —
Its unfailing effectiveness.
Its perfect safety for
children and adults alike.
Its very pleasant taste.
chamberlains
“cough Remedy”
D.O.M.
t**
•r
Yes
Sir!
sd
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
%-pt. up.
VACUUM FLASKS
JARSandCARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY- H O T
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the u&e
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
IS9 W. Seerad St., Cinewnti, 0., 0 S.A.
11 & 12 Salisbury Square.. London.
f
Icy-Hot Food Jar
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
Weeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
11
V
UK
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “UOUTMAN
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Messrs. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
“DURABONE” —A New Exclusive
Black Boning is used in D. &. A.
Style 231.
The Corset which is filled with “Durabone,” even
atter long wear, will preserve its line and assure
the contour which the Corset is designed to give.
D. & A. Style 231 is
made to suit figures
ranging from slight to
fairly stout, and is sold
by up-to-date Corset-
tieres.
DOMINION
CORSET CO.
Quebec Canada
If
Jty/e
231
The price is moderate
and makes this D. & A,
like all other D. & A.
models, most excellent
- value.
Ask your dealer to
show you this new
style.
Wholesale Agrents:
D. & W. Murray
Ttd.
The
easy
way
to
dAeqs
YOU can shave with an
axe, if you first soften
your beard with Mennen
Shaving Cream. The stiffest
beard is quickly reduced to
subjection. You shave easily,
rapidly, smoothly. And your
comfort afterward is supreme.
Your face will be smooth as velvet.
Scores of men have discovered
that this is the most satisfactory
way to shave.
Your face feels so fine and you
look your best always. Ask in
any shop.
THE BRITISH H. F. RITCHIE CO., Ltd.
833-337 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
29 Brandon Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
4.7
ft
A
V.
W,
MS
fk&t.
svv
M
M^Nrren
SHAVING CRGAM
A blackfellow offering to give evidence in
S.A. Supreme Court lately was asked by
Judge Gordon if he knew what was meant by
God. He replied cheerfully: “Yes. Court.”
“It is very complimentary to the Court, ,of
course,” said the Judge; “but I think we will
take his evidence unsworn.” \ \
“Oretan”: “Digger’s Father” and “WegeV'
Motor” are both wrong about the origin of
the name “tanks” for the fighting machines
used in the war. They were originally
known as “water carriers” ; but on account
of Whitehall’s practice of adopting initial
letters for reference purposes, “water car-
riers” was dropped and “tanks” substituted,
for obvious reasons.
“Kip”: The milliner shall still have her
bird-of-paradise in spite of all our good in-
tentions. The Dutch Government isn’t built
for turning revenue away; and from the
little settlement of Hollandia, on the north-
ern coast of Dutch New Guinea, it derives
an annual revenue of £6OOO from bird-
of-paradise taxes. Enough birds are collected
to warrant a monthly call by a K.P.M.
steamer from Batavia. The inhabitants are
mostly Malay, with a few Chinese, and an
official or two from the Netherlands.
“Pantagruel” : Dr. Elkington, who a while
back was appointed Director of Tropical
Hygiene in the Commonwealth Dept, of
Health, has been making himself felt in
his new job. A chain of public laboratories
is being installed right across Australia. Three
of the series are completed and in operation
—at Bendigo, Townsville and Rabaul —while
three others, at Lismore, Toowoomba and
Rockhampton, are almost finished. Their
work will include clinical bacteriology and
pathology, the examination of possible plague
rats, diphtheria specimens, and so on.
'No charge is made, except for big examina-
tions, and the whole thing should do a lot
to keep Australia healthy.
“Sixenate”: A new weapon in the armory
of the “masher” was disclosed the other
day in a Sydney police court, when a con-
stable deposed that a certain young man
was “in the habit of walking about the
streets wearing a motor-coat and accosting
young women and girls.” The motor-coat is
apparently beginning to be recognised as an
adventitious aid to amorous adventures. It
is used as a bait for the unthinking fair
who delight in joy-rides. The illusion that
there are motor-trips ahead when the car
of the perfidious one comes out of dock is
apparently sufficient to induce kindness in
the eyes of a girl who would scorn to dally
with a pedestrian gallant. Of course, there
may be explanations to come, but that, after
all, is a matter for the future.
“F.W.S.”: “Yes, sir,” said my friend
Tony; “when it comes to suggestion the
waiter turns Hickson into a back number,
and makes CouC an also-ran. The cus-
tomer of to-day eats the waste of yesterday,
and it’s little Alphonse who does the trick.
At the wedding here yesterday they had
boiled breast of chicken and ham; and look
at what everyone is taking to-day—chicken
broth, fried chickens’ legs, cold ham and
chicken or plain ham. We won’t let ’em
have anything else, but they don’t know
it. To-morrow it’il be Murray cod and
oyster soup. The boss is down the bay fish-
ing, and he’s bound to catch a gummy or
two.” Another customer took his seat, and
Tony bustled away from me. “A gloomy
sort of day, sir,” I heard him say as he
handed the menu to a new arrival, “and
you look a little bit off color. Now, let me
get you some nice chicken broth and fried
chickens’ legs, sir. I’m sure you’ll enjoy
them, siiv 1 ’ And he did.
“T. 0.1.” : St. Mark’s, Darling Point, where
you get married if you sit in the front pews
of Harborside Society, has been having a
75th birthday, and the rector preached on
“To Whom We Owe St. Mark’s.” The debt is
mainly to three prominent residents of the
early days of Darling Point —T. W. Smart,
of Mona; Thomas Whistler Smith, of Glen-
rock ; and Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, of Green-
oakes —all wealthy merchants. In 1847 a
temporary tabernacle was erected on the
Mona estate, the gift of the three. In the
following year Mort gave the land on which
the present church is built, and on Septem-
ber 5 Bishop Broughton laid the foundation
stone. The church was opened for service on
November 7, 1852, the historic George
Fairfowl Macarthur being rector; but it
took 12 years to complete the building. In
1862 the peal of bells, the gift of T. W.
Smart, rang for the first time on the occasion
of the wedding of Miss Oliver, step-daughter
of the donor and sister of the late Alex-
ander Oliver, President of the Land Court,
who selected the site of the Federal capital.
In 1875 the tower was completed; it was the
gift of William Laidley, M.L.C., They were
neighborly at Darling Point two-thirds of
a century ago. Both Mort and Smart had
art galleries, which were open to visitors
once a month.
“Verde Gris”: The publication of a book
on Horatio Bottomley by his former offsider
(B. 24/5/’23) reminds me of Bottomley’s
connection with N.T. mining 20-odd years
ago; it was about as helpful to Australia as
his nursing of widow’s war-mites was to
England. The N. T. Goldfields Co., with
winch he was associated, began operations in
the Brock’s Creek district by spending about
£BO,OOO of shareholders’ money in residences,
hospitals, billiard-rooms, etc., but there was
hardly any serous attempt at actual mining.
Justice Dashwood, then Government Resi-
dent at Darwin, speaking of the harmful
over-capitalisation of this co., “ventured to
refer to the great disproportion between the
amount received by the vendors and that pro-
vided as working capital to develop the ex-
tensive area it had acquired.” Later on,
Bottomley, in London, waxed righteously in-
dignant about “the most shameful and waste-
ful mismanagement and incompetence that
even the mining history of this market could
produce, particularly in one large company,
which I shall not trouble you to name.”
Dashwood’s comment on this was acid,
Bottomley having been the prime boomster
of the show. This sort of thing put an end
to the interest of British investors in N.T.
mining, although everything goes to show
that the N. T. Co.’s proposition would have
paid handsomely with proper development.
One or two inadequate attempts have since
been made To re-open the mines, but now the
workings are ruined by water, and even the
wild cats have cleared out.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 26.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
'I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
5.5. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
8.5. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G.
W. Gray; James Love, Esq.; W, 11. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and S 3
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mare Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting Manager: G. 11. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2.250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 720,000
£1,595,00’0
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,470,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 95 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:. Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
MAKURA (8100 tons) OCT. 4
NIAGARA (13,500 tons) NOV. 8
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (8000 tons) OCT. 25
MAUNGANUI (7500 tons) NOV. 22.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
jPfPfi
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
Passages arranged to England, America,
Japan, China, India, Ceylon, Honolulu, etc.,
by our Tourist Traffic Department.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS.
1. To JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, b>
the magnificent steamers MAItELLA and MONTORO.
Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2 SYDNEY to JAPAN, CHINA, and RETURN to SYDNEY,
via SINGAPORE, JAVA, QUEENSLAND PORTS. Sailings
every two weeks.
9 weeks’ trip, lst-class throughout, £129/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
1
mt
m
m
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,800,000
- 6,000,000
£15,800,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Hearl Office —George Street, Sydney.
385 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E C.
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
“ Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT,
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throm
Foreign Bills
rhout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £3,000,000
RESERVE FUND 2,580,000
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,000,000
TOTAL £8,580,000
Directors :
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.; OWEN E. FRIEND ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager; H. H. MASSIE.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE. —18 Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping-
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sa ili ngs.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poita.
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
' FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACIvAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith
Ltd.
350 George St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,
350 George St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
’(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
DO THE GRAND WINTER TOUR TO CAIRNS.
Huddart ParkerLlH
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 144 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, MacdOALld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, l’hilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANLIA. HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
TO MANILA, HONGKONG AND JAPAN.
(Calling at Brisbane if sufficient inducement.)
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
SPECIAL TOURS TO JAPAN.
Specially Reduced Fares and Facilities offered for
parties of five or more during October, November,
and December. Faros include cost throughout,
steamer fares, hotel charges, train travelling and
sight-seeing.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia, *
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itfcroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
Sritisli India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Go.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
Turnbull, Martin & Co.). -New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
"ranoiaco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
>f New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd.
ondon Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Vgcnts for Messageries Maritimes Co.
id * vpHFS at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
A* laid” Svdney S,/va (Fiji) Brisbane, Mary,
aorough, . Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooiitown.


sdf
DO NOT BE
MISLED BY
CLUMSY
AND CHEAP
IMITATIONS
LOOK FOR
THE NAME
ON THE
PENCIL
Write with an Eversharp
\XTRITE with an Eversharp and
V ' you’ll never make thick, blur-
ring lines. Write with an Eversharp
and you won’t waste leads. Write
with an Eversharp and you’ll never
be bothered with a short pencil.
In fact, write once with an Ever-
sharp and you’ll never use any other
kind of pencil.
Made in gold, gold-filled, silver
and silver-plated styles, in various
patterns and sizes every pencil
equipped with an eraser concealed
by tht cap.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOA RE, Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
h
X
KSPo/tr
Ar
t
Reports are favorable about
REX HAM PATE
On every side you hear it proclaimed that Rex Ham
Pate is the thrifty housewives’ great stand-by in
helping to solve the sandwich problem—whether for
the children’s or the worker's daily lunches —or for
picnics where appetites need little coaxing.
Rex Ham Pate is all Ham—prepared in the exclusive
Rex way that gives it the most delectable flavor.
Try Rex Ham Pate by itself if you will. Add sliced
Tomato, Cucumber, beetroot, Chopped Olive,
Lettuce, Horseradish, Anchovy Sauce or Mayonnaise,
if you desire a change.
The young folks will soon show their appreciation—
and you’ll get lots of praise from them for “those
different sandwiches” which are eaten with zest.
in
£HAM PATJQ.
PURE
FOODS
n
GIVE REX HAM PATE
A TRY-OUT TODAY.
SOLD BY ALL
LEADING GROCERS
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F. J. 09
RELIABLE GUNS
BY WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS.
TRY US FIRST FOR ALL SPORT EQUIPMENT.
SOKOL FINE CUT
TOBACCO.
The World’s Best.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
I
814. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gull, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
816. The “Cert” Gun, as above, superior quality
,£5/12/6
£6/10/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES ,
m
825. B.S.A. D.B. Hammerless Shot Gun.
12-gauge, 30in. barrels, left choke, nitro proof, fluid
compressed steel barrels, automatic safety pistol grip ;
weight, about 6|lb Carriage paid
£■1415!-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for tlie Outdoorsman.
Tost Free, 3/9.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
sdf
824. American Hammerless D.8.8.1i. Gun (as illus-
trated) 12 gauge, top lever, dense Trogan nitrol 32m. steel barrels,
both choke, concealed crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol grip, chambered for 2|m. cartridges,
walnut stock, weight about 7fib.
Tested tor Nitvo Powders Freight paid,
824 A. Same as 824, hut has Anson & Deeley action... Freight paid,
£6/10/-
£7/7/-
[pMWW
154. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrel’s, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l2/12/-
£l5/15 -
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 9/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/6 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder raniiot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
sdf
832. Darlowe’s D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun,
12-gauge, top action,' bar locks, Greener cross-bolt,
high-filed rib, 30-inch steel barrels, left choke,
D & E fore-end side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges; beautifully engraved,
weight' about 7*lb Frei » ht P aid -
£l4/14/'
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
df
lop action,
pistol grip,
jn ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 3‘2in
walnut stock; weight about 6slb. Gun can be taken apart, same a-
Double-barrel Gun.
87 Ejector,
62/6
Freight paid.
NEW ILLUSTRATED SHOOTING CATALOGUE POST FREE.
jrficJcSmmons/M,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE,
...............nimiiiiiiiiiiniinimimiiiiiillttlllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMlllllllllimillllllllllimilllllllllllllltfiiii


Make Peace with
Your Stomach.
YOU CANNOT FORCE your stomach to do work that
it is unable to do. It has been tried time and again, with
always the same result. Ihe stomach is a good and faithful
servant, but, when pushed beyond the limit, it rebels. Some
stomachs will stand much more abuse than others, but every
stomach has its limit, and when that limit is reached it is a
very dangerous and unwise proceeding to attempt to force
it into doing further work.
THE REASONABLE COURSE and the most sensible is
to procure a substitute to carry on the work of digestion, and
give the stomach an opportunity to recuperate and regain its
lost strength.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES digest what
you eat, and are the only perfect substitute to take up and
carry on the work of tired, worn-out stomachs. They are
natural and easy in their work, and cause no disturbance in
the digestive organs. They contain all of the essential
elements that make up the gastric juice and other digestive
fluids, and will digest any food that a strong, healthy stomach
will, and do it in the same time and in the same way. Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold in two size tins, 1/9
and 2/9.
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive
Tabules
Make Your
Stomach
Strong and
Healthy.
pON*
s*»
n
,sf - / Co*
Di
».S
ear
<*
nilji*
A HI
COP}, P rt s
s«W
ii-Sj
B°l
ss>
--r
i |j|A mUm
Chocolates
I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home !
The Famous Red Box of
Chocolates. Mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia,
and Per Y.P. Parcels Post if
desired.
I
If
. /
Cb
■■■■
wmmm
m
IHMMM
■
v:
n
; : :|f
:
«B888a»8^raBBi
■i*
:
JSMa
mam
The Return.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the sky was a star fading white,
But the hillside was black as a
crow;
And I saw the crouched shape of the night
Creeping out through the valley below.
Her footsteps were weary and slow,
Going softly away from the light.
I said: “I will follow her feet
To find where she lies in the day.
The dusk of the dew-time was sweet,
But the loud sun will shout it away.
It is ill that the morning should play
With the lust of his haste and his heat.”
Down, down in the cavernous gloom,
Her rags huddled hard to her breast,
She went where the pale flowers bloom,
Dull-scented and heavy for rest,
Down the damp, broken steps of the west,
Till we came to the river of Doom.
Cold blackness, streaked white with despair,
It seethed under arches of death ;
A horror lay cold on the air,
A bitterness sobbed in the breath ;
And a prophet wind whispered, “Thus
saith,”
But died ere its word it could bear.
And now in the ultimate dark
No longer she faltered with fear.
The walls of the gloom had no mark ;
The edge of the pathway fell sheer,
Groping down like a formless dead year
To a winter unbroken and stark.
• Far off on a sorrow-dark floor
Shp ; ,paused; and the shadows grew lean—
Long shafts of thin darkness that wore
Ghost-colors of amber and green.
Then she raised the white hand of a queen,
And the shadows fell wide from a door
Oh, swiftly the panels flew back ;
But I saw for an instant of dread
Ere I turned on that terrible track
The heart of the darkness grown red
With the blood that the soft night had
shed —
Wild crimson splashed wet on the black.
Through horrors that clung to my feet
I cried to the gods of the day,
To the light, to the wonder of heat,
To the tumult of life and the play
Of words and of wheels on the way,
To all that seemed happy and sweet.
Lost there in the ultimate dark,
I trembled and faltered with fear.
The walls of the gloom had no mark
To guide me, while awful and sheer.
Groping down like a formless, dead year,
The pit of the horror fell stark.
Hard held were my feet that would run ;
My will was a slave to my dread.
No way to the light might be won;
My soul was alone with the dead.
Till, suddenly, over my head
Was the great, soft, white hand of the sun.
The darkness fell cowering back;
I saw the broad river of Doom
Turn golden with life and the track
Winding up through white gardens of
bloom,
While over the shadow of gloom
Soft purple lay warm on the black.
I said. “I will live with the light,
With the heat and the rapture of day;
I have looked on the home of the night,
On the fearful things hidden away.
Though thp sun have a red arm to slay,
The hand of his healing is white!”
N.S.W.
DAVOD McKEE WRIGHT.
The Nark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘/"VH, Vs an old nark, that’s what
II ’e is!”
Mrs. O’Leary turned a large,
angry face to Bobbo’s sullen, small one.
“Now, look, young Bobbo,” she said firmly,
“that's no way to talk of yer grandfather, as
a taste of the strap’d soon show yer. ’E’s
an old man”
. ... E . g
an old nark,” muttered Bobbo
again.
“An’ it’s our juty to do the best we can
for ’im.”
Mrs. O’Leary ran a hatpin decisively into
her skull as Mr. O’Leary appeared at the
door, putting on his good coat.
“What’s the trouble, mum?” lie asked.
“It’s Bobbo ’ere, goin’ on about stayin’
with dad. ’Ow’d ’e like it if dad was to
take another fit while we was all at the
pitchers an’ come ’ome an’ find ’im dead?
’Ow d’yer like that, eh?”
Bobbo looked as if he wouldn’t mind it at
all, but said nothing.
“Yairs,” Mr. O’Leary put in with an ex-
asperating air of patient wisdom, “that’s the
way yer got to look at it, me boy. Yer
know it isn’t safe to leave ’im since ’e ’ad
that fit last year, an’ yer know yer mother
wants to go to the pitchers to-night, don’t
yer? It isn’t as if fits was optional, now,
is it?”
“I s’pose not,” Bobbo conceded.
“Well, there you are,” Mr. O’Leary said
triumphantly, as if he’d proved something
against fearful odds. “That’s the way yer
got to look at it, Bobbo. An’, mind yer”——
A piercing whistle from the back fence cut
off the rest of the harangue, and Bobbo took
the black murder in his heart through the
kitchen-door on the run. At the yard-gate
Mick, the second-in-command of ITs Blokes,
greeted him.
“Coinin’ to the pitchers?”
“No.”
, ‘‘Why b?t?. ou - Red. There’s this
Y\ hat s-’is-name on—they say ’e’s as
goon as Charlie”
. R ra P® ’e is, but I ean’t see ’im. Mum’s
goin. an I got to stay ’ome an’ mind the
old nark.”
“What nark?”
“Me grandfather. Case ’e takes a fit or
busts or somethink. You’ll ’ave to tell me
about it in the mornin’, Mick.”
Mick’s stunned mind caught one appalling
glimpse of his chief playing nursemaid.
“Cripes,” he whispered, “that’s over the
fence, that is! Of all the narks! Righto,
Red ; I’ll give y’ a call as I c-’m’ ’ome and
let yer know if this Alf-bloke’s a dud.”
“Righto !”
Bobbo slowly made his way through the
gathering dusk of the Darlinghurst back
yard to the house and the evening’s infamous
job. The Nark was sitting on a chair in
the kitchen staring peaceably at nothing.
“Mum gone?” Bobbo asked curtly.
Mr. Quinn lifted his head and smiled.
“Yes, she’s gone. Off to ’er jollifications,
Bobbo, me boy. An’ leavin’ us ’ere to keep
’ouse for ’er. That’s the way ye do it when
ye’re young.”
“Mum ain’t young,” Bobbo offered non-
committally and coldly.
“Ah, well, p’raps she only seems young
to me. Age ain’t much, any’ow, if ye c’n
keep yer spirits up.”
Bobbo gloomed in sullen silence, his red
head a spot of angry light in the lamp-dim
room. Mr. Quinn looked up and smiled
again at the silence.
“Ain’t that right, Bobbo? It’s keepin’ yer
spirits up that matters. In a manner o’
speakin’, ye’re annoyed with me to-night—
oh, yes, you are,” he added huri'iedly t
meet the disclaimer Bob wasn’t going to
make; “an’ I don’t blame yer. I ’ad a taste
o’ the same thing meself when I was a
nipper; an’ I know what it is.”
His eyes looked over the boy’s head into
some long-dead irksome hours, but the peer-
ing smile still stayed on the withered lips
Presently he came back to the room.
“Ye see, it’s not so much what ye’re
goin’, to do when ye’re out as the bein' out
I c’n remember that. P’raps it’s nothin’
ye’re .goin’ to do—just kickin’ about in th
lane or wonderin’ what’s behind the lights
in the winders or the like o’ that. Or dariu’
someone —anyone —to go crook on ye for the
fun. of it.”
The dry voice' paused for a moment, and
Bobbo shifted uncomfortably on his hard
chair. It was one thing to mind the old
bloke, but it was quite another to listen to
him all night as well. What did he know
about the lanes or the lights in the windows
or the enemies hidden in the black shadows?
“Yairs, I c’n remember,” the dry voice
went on ; “I was always a bit of a rebel” —
Bobbo ceased his shuffling and looked up at
the word—“l was a red-headed Quinn like
you are, me boy, an’ they’re all rebels —
rebels till they turn their toes up at the
finish.”
The boy still stared at the white hair and
beard, the lined brown face, the quiet, faded
eyes looking at the stove. It was hard to
think of him as red-headed —as anything but
an old bloke who puttered slowly and un-
productively about in the sun, or sat silent
and practically non-existent beside the stove.
But, of course, you never knew.
“Sometimes a few of us’d get together an’
put an edge on it. My word! They knew
when we were coming” ■
A thin chuckle broke the sentence and
seemed to supply worlds of unspoken words.
“But that’s 50 years ago—not that that’s
anything. Only, p’raps, it don’t interest
ye. I’d like to interest ye, Bobbo ; it’s dull
for ye just settin’ there. Ain’t it now?”
Bob’s private opinion, which for two pins
he’d have made public, was that it was “a
cow”; but beyond a renewed embarrassed
shuffling he made no comment.
“If ye come to that I don’t see why we
sh’d sit ’ere gawpin’ at each , other all the
evenin’, do you?” Mr. Quinn shot a sideways
glance at him, and went on without waiting
for an answer. “What time d’ye make it,
Bobbo ?”
“ ’Bout 20 past 8.”
“Ah, well, we better be movin’ then.”
The peering smile came back to the accom-
paniment of another thin chuckle. “Let’s
get the lantern. I filled it this afternoon —
it’s ’angin’ in the wash-’ouse.”
On the impact of Bobbo’s shock of sur-
prise followed a sort of waking dream. The
Nark creaked stiffly out of his chair in a
halo of mystery, and, in the toils of hi 3
dream, Bob followed him to the wash-house.
A thin old arm reached down the lantern,
and a quavering match lit it. Bob watched
the lights and shadows dancing round the
white head and the brown, intent face—-
what did the poor old cove think he was up
to? From the threshold of the wash-house
Mr. Quinn peered up into the night'. f
“Dark but fine,” he murmured to himself;
“just the right sort o’ night—they’ll roll up
to-night all right. Come on. Bobbo.”
A fugitive glow touched Bob’s mind as he
padded down the yard after the poor old
cove. There was a flavor in this—a spirit
that he knew was playing at the heart of
this waking dream. Beyond, Darlinghurst
hummed and boomed and clattered; its
trams sped out into the darkness, the jumbled
call of its voice went up, its lights made a
flare down the streets. But in here the
black shadows crouched round the lantern
Mr. Quinn set down at the door of the big
shed. Here the unknown seemed to lie in
wait, safe from Darlinghurst and the pallid
known.
“I’ll just ’ave a last look round,” Mr. Quinn
said, opening the door of the shed. “Ye
might keep yer eye on the gate, Bobbo; 1
shan’t be ’alf a tick.”
Bob went over to the gate to keep his eye
on it. The lane was silent and dark, the
yard silent and dark, the world silent and
dark and waiting—waiting on tiptoe. What
did he want in the old empty shed? And
who was to roll up, for what? Presently a
muffled shuffling broke the silence of the
lane. Bob looked out. Two dim figures
were coming slowly towards the gate, and
behind them two more. Bob’s heart missed
a beat —here it was! But it wasn’t; his
heart came back to normal as he grinned
sheepishly at old Mr. Dennis and old Mr.
Cochran. Mr. Quinn’s voice sounded heartily
behind him.
“There you are, Ted —goodo. G’nigbt.
Billo. C’m’ on in.”
Bob stepped apart. This was it! Mr.
Quinn detached himself from the group of
(Continued on next page.)


Is a Bad Back
Ei/erj/PJeturi
HltsaStoty.
!l!lln» t£
rjf jJJ
/ /
»
f/J
rr
1
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says:—’“For some time I suffered agony from lumbago-like pains
across the small of my back. These pains prevented me from
bending or getting proper rest at night, and seriously hampered me
when attending to my household duties. Sometimes I was so bad
that I could hardly move, and if I tried to get about the house the
pain was almost unbearable. After trying. all sorts of remedies
without success, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice, so I got some, and they did me good almost at once.
After taking two bottles of these pills I was ever so much better,
and eight bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ago, and I have been well ever since. I always keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the house and take a dose
occasionally, and they keep me in splendid health.”
Ten years later Mrs. Wilkinson says:—“l have been free from
backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me eleven
years ago.”
Making You Old?
Is a dull, nerve-racking backache wearing you out —
making you feel years older than you are? Do you find
it hard to keep going—impossible to be happy or
enjoy work? It’s time, then, you looked to your kidneys.
A cold, chill or overwork may have weakened the kidneys
and brought on that nagging backache and those sharp,
piercing pains. You may have headaches, dizzy spells
and annoying kidney irregularities. Don’t wait until the
trouble becomes serious. Take things easier for awhile,
and strengthen the weakened kidneys with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands.
They should help you. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot, Sydney, says:—
“Some months ago I was suddenly seized with a terrific pain across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
at first it would, but, on the contrary, it got worse, and I was soon
so bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled,
and even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but
they gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested I
should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely, driving the
pain out of my back, regulating the secretions and banishing every
other distressing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now,
and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
sdf
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
old men and came slowly over to Bob, hand-
ing him two shillings.
“Slip up the lane an’ get us a couple o’
bottles o’ lemonade, will ye, Bobbo? I forgot
the shandy. And ’ave one yerseif.”
Bob shot up the lane, galvanised Signor
Giotto into a hysterically rapid sale, omitted
the one for himself, and shot down the lane
again to the waking dream. A dun light in
the window of the shed showed him where the
lantern had gone; otherwise the darkness and
silence dominated the deserted yard. He
hesitated for a moment; but presently tapped
at the door of the shed with one of his
bottles. The door opened six inches, and
Mr. Quinn took the. bottles.
“Thank ye, me boy. Er”
He paused for a moment, and then came
out and closed the door carefully behind him.
But not before Bob had caught a glimpse of
the bald heads and white heads and beards
of half-a-dozen “old blokes” sitting on pack-
ing-cases and on the floor. A couple of beer
bottles gleamed in the lantern-light from
the edge of a clear space. in the middle of
the shed.
“Er, Bobbo,” Mr. Quinn said, “I got a bit
of a jollo on for me cobbers to-night, an’ I
don’t want ’em disturbed. I wonder if ye’d
keep yer eye on the gate an’ that, an’ give
us the office, would ye?”
Bobbo smiled. “Betcherlife,” he said. “But
the old shed ain’t much of a place for a
jollo. Why don’t ye use the room? Dad’d
let yer.”
The new light faded momentarily from
Mr. Quinn’s eyes again. “I wouldn’t want
to trouble ’im, Bobbo,” he- replied. “Be-
dsides, it ain’t a thing ’e’d understand —like
you would.”
Bob smiled again. He understood all
right. This was goodo. And he was in it
—part of it.
“Righto ; I’ll sit on the mat an’ give yer
the office.”
Mr. Quinn chuckled. “Ta,” he said;
“we’ll be all right then. It’s better over
at Ted Cochran’s place, where we’re goin’
Monday week—’e’s only got ’is daughter an’
she goes to bed early—but we’re a bit
crowded ’ere, in a manner o’ speakin’, an’
yer got to be careful.”
The fugitive glow settled permanently in
Bobbo’s mind as he took his stand by the
gate. Night went on her way overhead,
over the muffled roar of Darlinghurst beyond,
the people sitting in the pitchers, Mum and
Dad, over all the aliens from this rebellion
in the shed. The commander-in-chief of
Us Blokes knew his job ; he stood on guard
between the lurking enemies in the black
lane and the rebels, his comrades round the
lantern. A recurrent subdued tinkling broke
into the job; it was not his business, but he
tiptoed from his post once and looked through
the dusty window 1 of the shed. It was fair
enough ; he knew his cobbers wouldn’t mind.
Dry murmurs reached his ears: “The like!”
“One and eight to the kitty!” And a quaver-
ing chant which came every now and then:
“It’s a fair go, a fair go.”
“Ah, two-up,” he thought dispassionately
and without surprise, and went back to his
post, hoping they were enjoying it and that
the luck ran good for Mr. Quinn.
The roar of Darlinghurst grew fainter
as a couple of hours slipped by, and a half-
way silence crept into the night. Bob
stayed happily and firmly on his job until
a patter of hurrying footsteps, the footsteps
of a crowd, sounded on the pavements. He
sighed, left his job, and walked to the door
of the shed.--- Mr. Quinn opened it in answer
to Bob’s tap.'
“Pitchers are out,” he said gravely, and
padded round to the front railing to leave
the coast clear.
_ Mick's bare feet, taking him home from
his fashionable revels, paused at the gate.
“I seen yer mum up at the pitchers, Red,”
he said, the fatigue of the social life evident
in his voice, “talkin’ to Stinker Stokes’s old
man.”
“Oli! . What’s this Alf like?”
“Not too bad. But nothin’ like Charlie.
'Off did ye, get on with the old Nark? Did
’e take a fit or anythink?” Mick asked hope-
fully of the drama that Alf had withheld.
The light of the new comradeship lit up
Bobbo’s eyes for a moment. “Me grand-
father?” he said stiffly. “ ’E's all right.”
HILARY LOBTING.
The Whole Truth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elizabeth collins was sitting on
the courthouse verandah, waiting to
be called as a witness in a case in
which her husband was proceeding against
the local butcher for trespass—his cattle had
been on her husband’s potato-patch. She
was a little woman, plainly but neatly
dressed. Her face was ploughed with the
lines that come to a settler’s wife after a
few years of unremitting toil: but her care-
worn appearance was relieved somewhat by
eyes that had in them a quiet strength. She
was nervous at this her first appearance at
a court, and was afraid that she would not
be able to pass through the ordeal of giving-
evidence without breaking down in the wit-
ness-box. She had heard of strong women
fainting in court, and to her the big uni-
formed policeman standing at the door was
the symbol of the dread Law, which was so
powerful, and which probed into secluded
lives without any consideration for the weak-
ness of women like herself. She had im-
plored her husband not to take the case to
court, but he had insisted on that mysterious
thing called his Rights.
Her distressing anticipation of the mental
discomfiture she would suffer in court was
suddenly interrupted by a loud voice that
boomed along the verandah. “E-liz-a-beth
Coil-ins!” roared the orderly from the door-
way, and he repeated the name twice in a
stentorian voice.
She rose and braced herself for the ordeal;
her nervousness had been increased by the un-
expected publicity of having her name pro-
claimed loudly to the wide world, but she
was determined to appear as brave as pos-
sible. As she entered the court another burly
policeman motioned her to the witness-box.
Although the action was only in the nature
of a civil case, the majesty of the Law
and its servants overwhelmed her. The
quietude of the court was more distressing
than the bellowing of the orderly at the
door. As she turned round in the witness-
box she noticed her husband silting at the
solicitors’ table. He smiled at her, and she
felt somewhat reassured immediately—she
mentally noted with some pride that he was
bigger than either of the two policemen.
The constable placed an open Bible in
her hand. “Kiss the Book,” she heard —•
and she kissed it with a resounding smack
of her lips which caused the spectators at
the back of the court to titter.
“Silence!” roared the orderly.
She thought that the reproof was meant
for herself; she felt that she had done some-
thing wrong, and was near to tears. But
the .quiet voice of her husband’s solicitor
brought her back to the case in hand. “Your
name is Elizabeth Collins, and you are the
wife of John Collins, the plaintiff?” In
answer to his questions she told of seeing
the cattle in the enclosed potato-patch while
her husband was working in a shed in the
large lucerne-paddock, of rushing through
a small gateway leading from the house to
this paddock and telling him that the cattle
were among the potatoes, of his turning them
out and mending a gate they had broken
down. Then her husband’s solicitor sat
down.
She was quite relieved at the simplicity
of it all.
Mr. Foggatt, for the defence, rose and
adjusted his glasses. He looked impressively
at the little woman ih the box, and wondered
why this frail witness should concoct a story.
The information given to him by his client
showed that she could not have seen the
cattle from any position near the house. His
cross-examination would bring out the truth.
“Now, Mrs. Collins, is it not a fact that
the three separate paddocks where the house,
the lucerne and the potatoes are form a curve,
and that' there is standing scrub on both
sides of the paddocks?”
“Yes.”
“And is it not a fact that, on account of
the standing scrub, the potato-patch, which is
below the lucerne, cannot be seen from any
position in the house paddock?”
“Yes.”
“And yet- you would ask us to believe that
you came through the gateway leading from
the house-paddock and informed your hus
band that the cattle were amongst the pota-
toes ?”
“But I wasn’t near the house when I saw
the cattle,” she replied in a faltering voice.
“I was in the scrub near the lucerne-paddock,
and I rushed towards the house, and then
through the little gate to my husband.”
“And do you go into the scrub often, or
only when cattle are trespassing on the
potato-patch ?”
“I—l go into the scrub sometimes.”
“Well, why did you rush towards the
house first and then into the lucerne-paddock
—which is quite a long way round _ when
cattle are doing damage?” As she did not
reply he added. “Why didn’t you call out
to your husband from the scrub?”
The witness looked on the floor and then
at the police-magistrate. “Have I got to
answer that question?” she said appealingly.
“Yes, witness,” he replied ; “you must an-
swer in cross-examination any question that
is relevant to the issue. Surely there is no
reason why you should not answer a simple
question like that.”
She looked towards her husband. He did
not know that she had been in the scrub,
and his perplexity at the evidence she was
giving showed itself in his face. As she real-
ised that she was not to get any assistance
from him, she turned to her cross-examiner
and said in a tremulous voice: “I didn’t
want my husband to know I was in the
scrub. I take my sewing there sometimes
when he is in the lucerne-paddock, and watch
him while he is working.”
“And does your husband know you watch
him?”
“N-no. He found a lot of snakes in the
lucerne-paddock, and didn’t like me to go
there.”
The cross-examination was taking a turn
Mr. Foggatt did not like, but he could not
leave the matter in mid-air. “Then why
did you go into the scrub, where there are
likely to be more snakes than there are in
the paddock?”
The witness looked wistfully at her hus-
band. “Because —because it’s so lonely in
the house by myself—there are only the
two of us. I’m not yet used to the loneli-
ness of the bush, and I want —I want to be
near my husband sometimes when he is
working in the bottom paddocks.”
There was a painful silence in the court.
The police-magistrate rested his chin on his
hand and looked at the witness, the plain-
tiff’s solicitor tried to harpoon a fly, and Mr.
Foggatt squared his shoulders, undecided
what to do.
A new light flashed into the eyes of John
Collins. He rose to his feet and thrust Mr.
Foggatt into his seat with the downward
thrust of an arm that seemed to the lawyer
to be a bent piece of iron. “That’s enough,”
he said hoarsely. Then he crossed the court
and took his wife by the arm as she stepped
out of the witness-box to meet him. He
turned to the astonished lawyers and said,
“I lost my potatoes, but you can settle the
matter yourselves.”
Mr. Foggadt had recovered himself, and
was on the point of rising to protest against
the unwarranted upsetting of his dignity;
but his client whispered that he was willing
to settle, so the ruffled lawyer kept his seat.
The husband led his wife to the door. As
she passed out with his arm in hers, the two
burly policemen no longer appeared to her as
the terrible embodiments of the Law she had
feared; they seemed to be ordinary men, of
whom she was no longer afraid. And this
change had been caused by her splendid hus-
band ; he was so strong.
The others marvelled at the quiet strength
of a lonely little woman who could tell the
whole truth, and who had confessed under
cross-examination that she was in love with
her husband.
MACOTA.


if-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOEMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black
J. Wildridge 8 Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
'Vo
w
/oN
Q6M
Saw User
should know his Saw
And every Saw should bear the
“Hall-mark” of quality, . “AN
EAGLE ON A GLOBE.” Hard
and rapid are
only two features of
“An Eagle on a Globe ”
Circular Saws.
Australian made, from blanks
of the famous Sheffield Cru-
«U- B»-w
cible Cast Steel, the only steel that will satisfactorily stand
up to the work.
All sizes up to 72 inches diameter, any size hole or gauge.
Send for special “Book of Saws,” and know the better
service of AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE.”
The Eagle &, Globe Steel Co. L-td.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
SYDNEY: 379-381 Kent Street. MELBOURNE: 313-318 Swanston Street.
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street.
BRISBANE: .John Reid & Nephews, 31-36 Charlotte Streel.
ADELAIDE: Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-!)0 Currie Street.
HOBART: R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street.
Also at ERE.AIANTLE arid KALCOORLIK.
xdfc
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long-
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the .22 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber —ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
fd
A Splendid Rabbit Ride /
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
r» 6
m
%
v/,.
2s
A
V.
I
m
ww/y^u.^
l^ePleeHon.
'XN be
Trerfiecshon
K
IF VOU TAKE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitisii A USTIIALASIAN,
lid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Hums!! Austhai,Asian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High . Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON'S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAM STOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
SHANE:
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L Hinlcs & Co. Etd.
ADELAIDE:
THE EAST:
McAlister fit Co. M<l,
PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co, of Aust. Lid. Newton, McLaren Ltd, Brown & Diu-eau Ltd
LONDON:
1 rant-is Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London


BLACK and WHITE
WMSM
? .g . i,y
‘
~
»- ■
B*
■
\
r
WHISKY
Guaranteed All Pre-war
Scotch Whisky.
