

/. J
'
: :
:
—i ■ ..
v : ' ...
1111 Hill lb :jk ! , lilt
m
: J'Ji :i;f i; !r.'
m
, V <A. . ' |H«:j:s'
m 1 . • -■ ■ mkMllMimjkk i
■
-- 6£ , ..•' -> --•- * ' , - W‘ y V '. ' '
■»»*' m WWSSSSSS
BawE ' i
Pf *4T?^
I —U^f
■Si
■
>
1
a
■
m
;
■
. w
mm
■
fetfcl
wm
*A
-
%
Si)
%2
HATS
Australian Made
THE marked success
of the Australian-
made Akuhra hat is
a great tribute to Austra-
lian enterprise and work-
manship. The output to-
day is double that of last
year. The Akubra is the
equal of any imported hat,
and you are not asked to
pay any fancy prices for
goodwill or other
imagined privileges.
The Bulletin
Vol. 4S.—No. 2312.
Thursday, June 5, 1924,
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. , Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
kH;
S-3
ggsv, .
I
Mangrovite Belting
Economises Power.
Only a high-quality, carefully manufactured belt will retain
a reliable power-saving grip on the pulleys under all con-
ditions That is why Mangrovite invariably justifies the
faith placed in it.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co Berth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide. ... , u ,,
VICTORIA • W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
Super Quality
■N CIGARETTES
Fine Old Virginia
Cork Tipped Ovals
f
v iVfi
VAx.V'Vi
V-l"' \ kwM/l
Of all Stores
and Tobacconists
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL.
Tariff from 16/- per day.
Ci
rtf'
'S/S'
5
%***&s•
tJB
\
Neatly brushed
HAIR
adds much to a man’s personal
appearance. Anzora will keep your
hair tidy all day. It is clean, easy
to use and delicately perfumed.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps,
Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers,
and stores, or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia: LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne. .Baldwin & Slattery Pty., CoE*
Sydney.. Jones & Joseph,' Ltd. Perth.... L. M. Cullen & o.
Manufactured, by
INZORA PERFUMERY CO., LTD., WiUesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to gm,
HUDSON'S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson s Eumen-
thoi Jujubes. This proves that
tions and substitutes have no reputation ot
Sr „“n, and am only be soM.on fte '.iood
repute and high character of Hudsons
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or for^
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudsons
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
G>
o
i. The Larynx o'
Organ of Voice
urgan
The Trachea *
C. The Bronchi
Tubes of a &
sected lu n f
D, A Lobe of one
of tie Lung -
The Red Page
Journalism and Literature
I ere are very few modern writers of
who have not attained admission to
Eligh Court of Literature through the
ils of journalism. It is difficult novva-
to pick up a book of critical or social
r s without reading a prefatory acknow-
aent to the journals in which they na\e
nally appeared. A great number ot
Is also are first published m serial form.
y volumes of modem verse owe the duik
leir content to industrious gleanings in
: Poet’s Corner.” Even the scientist
literary leanings who has something
nant to say does not disdain to dreuge
periodical press for the half-forgotten
lies he wrote in response to a passing
•gency or a sporadic impulse. Ltie
nalist is the silent and unknown slave
le Lamp of Culture, the flame of which
ever suiters to burn too dimly, the light
rhich he never allows wholly to expire,
ut (and this is the irony of it) no sooner
the journalist achieve admission to the
usive order of book-makers than he
is round and wrecks the ladder by which
climbed to his foothold. Sir Edward
k, himself a distinguished journalist, has
isingly listed the opinions ot the big;
3 and the mandarins on the status pLioiL-
sm, delivered pompously oye r a trenck-
;ected parapet of published volumes. Ihe
sage will be found in “Literature and
lern Journalism,” one of a half-dozen or
sssays in “Literary Recreations. hie
s Charles Dickens, himself once editor ot
Daily News, crudely assailing and bur-
ning modern journalism and journalists
the EatansWill Gazette ; and W. M.
'Cioray Ai “Philip.” The latter, by the
t invented the name of the Pall Mall
zette long before that journal was pro-
;ed. Then he quotes the editor of that
y journal Thackeray had pre-named,
•d Morley himself, who dismissed the news-
ier press in a cantankerously misrepre-
ting and supercilious flippancy as "that
;e engine for keeping discussion on a low
el.” Ruskin characterised the collective
dern newspaper as comprising so many
lare leagues of dirty-printed falsehood,
die Stephen, who so decried and belabored
foe simply because he was a journalist and
i “father of English journalism, defined
itributing to the newspaper press as wnt-
■ for pay upon matters of which you are
iorant.” And Thomas Hardy was the
■st merciless of detractors.
Notwithstanding his numerous gibes at
irnalists and journalism, Thackeray was,
riously enough, as Sir Edward Cook points
t, the first to establish a cheap, higli-class
erary magazine, the Corn hill, in London
a magazine which achieved a circulation ot
0,000 copies a month, and paid the highest
tes for “copy.” In those palmy days
peared in the CoRNIIiII Thackeray s latest
oks ; the last of Charlotte Bronte’s ; many a
em by Tennyson, Browning, Mrs. Brown-
g, Meredith and Swinburne; and many a
lume by Matthew Arnold, J. A.
unonds, Leslie Stephen (who hated
urnalism and journalists), Robert Coins
;evenson, and a host of other writers
eminence” —until pressure was brought to
ar on the eminent ones, and they were
illied into believing tliat it was infra dig.
truckle to mere vulgar popularity in the
tges of a shilling monthly magazine. I
n was not, however, consistently deal to
: e call of periodical literature, and the
•esent writer is still the proud possessor of
: e first number of the Nineteenth Cen-
jky (March, 1877), which the noble poet
-esents to the public in an introductory
,em. But the price of the new magazine
as half a crown, not a vulgar "bob. ’
Professor George Saintsbury is a great
•itic of literature, French as well as Eng-
sh; not a well, but a veritable ocean of.
■udition, a biographer, a historian-but he
as an almost childish respect for ‘family
nd “social tradition,” and grudgingly be-
;ows his praise on genius which lias
chieved, despite the lack of a university
ncture. It comes, therefore, with a sur-
rise to find him placing coronals on the
eads of the great chiefs of journalism, m
is “History of Nineteenth Century Litera-
te.” In dealing with “The Development
f Periodicals,” the Professor candidly admits
fiat there is no single feature of the English
terary history of the nineteenth century (not
yen the enormous popularisation of the novel)
/kich is so distinctive as the development of
ieriodical literature during its progress
owards the twentieth. Moreover, it did not,
,s did the extension of novel-writing, con-
ern only a single department. Thus writes
Saintsbury:—
The periodical (it may almost for shortness sake
ie said ‘The newspaper’) not only became infinitely
nultiplied, but gradually absorbed almost every
lepartment, or a share of almost eveiy depaitme.it,
nto itself. Very large numbers of the best as well
is of the worst novels themselves have originally
ippeared in periodicals; not a very small proportion
if the most noteworthy nineteenth-century poetry
las had the same origin ; it may almost be said that
ill the best work in essay, whether critical, medi-
cative or miscellaneous, has thus been ushered into
the world. Even the severer and more academic
divisions of history, philosophy, theology and their
sisters have condescended to avail themselves of this
means of obtaining a public audience; and though
there is still a certain conventional deiiency in apolo-
gising for reprints from periodicals, it is quite certain
that, had such reprints not taken place, more than
half the most valuable bwks of the age in some
departments, and a considerable minority of the
most valuable in others, would never have appeared
as books at all.
Saintsbury names as distinguished jour-
nalists of the new era Robert Southey,
William Corbett, Francis Jeffrey, Sydney
Smith, John Wilson (“Christopher North”),
Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt (as a prose
writer), William Hazlitt, Thomas de
Quincey (whose wonderful and classi-
cal output was all journalism), and
John Gibson Lockhart—“such frequent con-
tributors to periodical literature of one kind
and another that in some cases nothing,
in most comparatively little, would be left
of their work if contributions to newspapers,
reviews and magazines were to be excluded
from it.” In a chapter, “Later Journalism
and Criticism in Art and Letters,” he carries
on the story of the increasing influence of
the newspaper press. He wisely remarks in
his concluding chapter that one hears, on
I occasion literary enthusiasts of one kind or
Sther 'announoWwith joy or horror ‘that
the periodical is killing the book but,
it is, it is also engaged m be ,f “Stress the
If Saintsbury is inclined to oierstress tne
influence of the periodical press, Sir Hdward
Cook administers a corrective. He write .
Thp imimalist seems to me to stand in a
pJiU.n°wS «“ «•.«* SfoC' kSS
When he starts upon a subject he oiten KI1(^
it, tnt he sometime. Pietoup muel.
ant than the affairs of a kmema artist. _
In truth, it all amounts tp this. tne
newspaper or other periodical is the oo
a daily, or a weekly, or a monthly, 01 a
ciuarterly appearance; and considered as <.
SS ofno Pl matter what ephemera endur-
ance, there is no reason why should be
less literature than an address by Hemos
tlienes or a dialogue by Pluto;
Macaulay or a criticism by Walter i ater.
But much of the professional bookmaker s
work is not literature-at least, not sue
good literature as a draughtboard lettered
on the folded back with a title borrowed
from the sibylline sisters of Cumse.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
Caesar Cleopatra
I 'here is not a tittle of real evidence, that uiesar
Cleopatra ever met .The yam told by
irch, a writer of histoncal fiction.
ißce 'in 1886, the late J. A. Froude de-
led and convulsed scholars and . students
ifstory with his biography, nothing more
arkable has found its way into PQJ't
ut Csesar than these two sentences. T
lie at ion that Plutarch mom sole autho-
for the meeting of Csesar and Cleopati a,
for the story of the subsequent ni-
ne, indicates that the writer has the
rage of a very Ajax. . n him-
'irst of all he is up against Gsesai him
who, in the last book of his commen-
ts on the Civil War, describesi Jhe open-
stimes of the campaign m Alexanana
tch resulted in his setting Cleopatra upon
throne of Egypt. Csesfr’s truncated
ount of this campaign is continued aiid
ipleted by Aulus Hirtius 4 the woik
icli has come down to us as lne Alex
ran War.” Hirtius was a personal
,nd of Caesar’s, and managed liis affairs
Rome while he himself was in Egyp .
ese two works alone furnish proof abso-
e of the meeting of Caesar and Cleopatra.
r the intrigue we ha 7 Thoueh his
■ero- quite certainly of Livy, tliougn nis
rk has been lost; of Lucan,
irus, Suetonius, Plutarch and Dm y ab
s Cicero, in his letters to his friend
ticus, adverts to Cleopatra five or M
les. In one he says: I detest the Queen.
Her insolence when she was m her villa
•oss the river I cannot mention without
lignation. The villa was . probably
.gar’s. In another letter, written two
aitlis after Caesar’s death Cicero says:
hope it is true about the Queen and about
s Caesar.” The Caesar here mentioned
11 be only Caesarion. the boy whom
eopatra fathered on Caesar and name
ter him. The poet Lucan at the time of
lose death Plutarch was little more than
boy, tells the story of the intrigue in his
’harsalia,” a heroic poem, or, as some
efer to call it, rhymed chronicle, on the
ruggle between Caesar and I oinpey. Lucan
pplies a wealth of detail and decoration
at makes Plutarch’s work seem beggarly.
has practically been proved that the
’harsalia” is based upon the lost work ot
e great historian Livy, who was alive m
esar’s time. Floras, a later historian, who
scribes the meeting of Csesar and Cleo-
itra, actually calls his book an epitome of
ivy. Suetonius, about the same time as
lutarch, but independently, gives, m Ins
fe of “The Deified Julius,” what is in sub-
ance the same account as Plutarch’s. Sue-
■nius. who had been private secretary to
le Emperor Hadrian, had access to the
nperial archives. Appian corroborates, as
Iso does Dio Cassius; but Dio lived about
) years later. And it must be remembered
iat all these later writers probably. had
ncess to the whole of Livy, and certainly
> scores of historians and pamphleteers
hose works have now perished utterly.
After defeating Pompey at the battle of
’harsalia, Csesar: as he tells us in his Civil
Var,” chased his enemy to Egypt. When
e got there, he says, he found that the
pposing armies of Ptolemy and Cleopatra
whom, : some time before, Ptolemy # had ex-
idled from the kingdom) were facing each
ther at Pelusium, an ancient city situated
bout 20 miles east of where Port Said now
tands. Cmsar, though he had with lnm
nly two depleted legions of 3200 men and
!00 horse, landed at Alexandria, and took
ip his quarters at the royal palace. Pie
lays he did not desire to land, but winds
irevented him from getting away. As soon
is he got the hang of affairs he calmly an-
lounced it as his pleasure that Ptolemy and
Dleopatra should disband their armies and
:ome to Alexandria to state before him their
daims to the kingdom. While the debate
vas in progress the king’s army arrived
from Pelusium, attacked, and took all the
fity except the palace, where Caesar was, and
its immediate surroundings. Thus far
Caesar’s own story carries us. He adds
that he secured young Ptolemy’s person,, and
that the boy’s younger sister, Arsmoe,
“escaped from the palace and joined the
enemy.” But he shuts up like an oyster
about Cleopatra. At this point the tale is
taken up by Aulus Hirtius, who describes
in detail the belligerent operations. For
our purpose, however, only one sentence
need be quoted from his work. When the
long campaign was over, and Csesar had made
himself master of Alexandria and Egypt,
he “settled the kingdom upon the younger
brother of Ptolemy, in conjunction with
Cleopatra, the elder of the two sisters, who
(Continued on page S.)


w aae
Value and Service Assured in Shooters’ Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Values in Shooters’ Needs at
Anthony Horderns’ are more than
excellent; comparison will prove
them unsurpassable. Consider the
strenuous service each requisite
must go through, and decide how
important the sound, sterling
quality of material and workman-
ship. Anthony Horderns’ give
you the assurance of that quality
by stocking only thoroughly reli-
able Goods, and they are priced
very low, indeed.
YTl4B — Winchester Rifle, 1892 Model, Full or Half Magazine, 24-inch
Octagon Barrel, 25/20, 32, .38 or 44 calibre, weight about 6}lb.
Price £B/10/-
Winchester Rifle, 1894 Model, 32/40 calibre, Half Magazine, 26in. Octagon
barrel, weight about 81b. Price £9/10/«
fd
YTl45—-Winchester 22 Calibre Automatic Rifle,
Down,” to take Special Cartridge (22 Calibre Automatic),
Plain Trigger, Straight Grip, Walnut Stock, weight about s§lb.
Price
Cartridges, 5/9 100; 53/- 1000.
1903, “Take
20in. Barrel,
£lO/10/-
■3egBsgsaaßasaßBasaae3^
YTsl9—Pull Through. Consists of a bristle brush
with detachable cord and weight for dropping through
barrel, and a separate slotted wiper for pulling through
a dry cloth for oiling purposes, .22, .25/20, ,32, .38, .44
calibre. Price 2/6
Special Gun or
Rifle Covers
made to order
In Canvas or
Leather.
YTss7—Wood Decoy
Ducks and Drakes, painted
in Natural Colors, lifelike in ap-
pearance. Price, 10/6 each.
Wood Decoy Ducks and
Drakes, “Grand Prix,” Hol-
low Cedar. Price, 16/6 each.
Mail Orders
promptly
executed by a
specially-
trained staff of
assistants.
ďfd
YTsl—Winchester Mid-
get Clay Targets.
10/- 100; £4/15/- 1000.
Weight—Bllb.—loo.
REPAIRS.
We under-
take Repairs
of all kinds
to any make
of Gun, Rifle
or Revolver.
YTso—Winchester Junior Trapshooting
complete. . Price ..
Outfit,
.. £9
YTss6—Duck Calls.
Price 3/- each.
NEW
BARRELS
and other
parts fitted
to Rifles.
Sights fitted
and adjusted.
YT436 — Hunting Knives, made of finest Sheffield Steel,
Heavy Blade adapted to sticking and skinning, in leather
sheath.
Prices sin„ 8/-; Gin., 8/6; Tin., 9/.
YT44l—The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Knife.
Price . 10/6
‘Teddy” is a real knife, built for real sendee—sturdy,
efficient and rustless. The keen, hard-tempered, substantial
blade, measuring -1 Jin. in length, makes quick work of under-
brush or the toughest job of skinning. It is a product of the
great cutlery house of Wade & Butcher, manufacturers of the
finest cutlery' for 200 years. A veritable masterpiece of the
knife-maker’s art. Handle of variegated segments of richly-
colored leather, brass and bakelite, with a nickel-silver hilt and
polished aluminium head. A knife every hunter and outdoor
man may well be proud to own.
YT6I—I. Hollis & Sons’ 12-g.
Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun, Treble
Bolted action on the Cross Bolt prin-
ciple, Steel Barrels, Left Choke Bore,
good Steel Rebounding Bar Locks, well-
grown Walnut Heart Stock, Half-pistol
Grip, Snap Fore-end Fastener, Engine-
turned Rib, proved for Nitro Powders.
Price £l2
22 High Power Savage—
£l6 /5/- 1000 ; 35/. 100; 7/6 box 20
Canvas Rifle Covers, Strong Leather bound,
for Sporting Rifles, suitable for
1902 Model Winchester Price 10/6
1904 » >* „ ’ 10/6
Zt ” » 12/6
I®9 ’ i» ~ Carbine.. ~ 12/6
1892 „ „ Rifle „ 13//
1 To3—Eley Single-rise Expert
Trap, Price 80/-
Clay Targets, for Traps and large Hand
Flingers, in barrels containing 500.
Price 90/. per barrel.
YTl46—Winchester 32-calibre Self-loading Rifle, Model
1905, 22in. Round Barrel, Plain Trigger, Pistol Grip, Stock of plain
Walnut. Magazine holds 6 Cartridges. Weight about 7ilb.
p *ice ~ £l2/12/-
GUNS
RE-STOCKED
AND
REPAIRED.
YTl72—The New .22 Savage Hi-Power Rifle, ‘‘The
Imp.” Price £l2/10/-
The .22 Savage “Hi-Power Rifle” is supplied only in the famous
Savage Featherweight Take-down Model. This is a great advantage to all
sportsmen because of its light weight of only 611 b.
It is a hammerless, six-shot repeater, being the lightest high-power
rifle made. It is built with the Savage strong and durable take-down
feature. This is the simplest and most convenient ever devised in a high-
power rifle.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
C.P.O. Box BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440,


BRITISH TRIBUTE
W. G. Ashton, the British Motor Authority, writing in "The Tatler,”
London, pays a British tribute to Packard.
**TT has to be a pretty good Yankee car
X that can overcome my initial prejudice;
but when after doing that it contrives to
fill me with an uncontrollable lust for
possession, then I can assure you that it is
something right out of the common rut.
The Single-Six Packard costs (in England)
something under nine hundred pounds,
and is, in my humble opinion, as near
being the very best car in the world as
makes no difference. This is heavy praise,
I know, but it can’t be helped I must
speak as I find.
If I had leisure and one of these cars, I
would like to drive it round Coventry and
Birmingham and Manchester and other
places where motors are mostly made, and
take British managing directors out for a
run, just to show them, you understand.
The plain fact is that this is a car in which
I simply cannot find a fault.
It is as docile as angel, but goes like the
very devil. It is supremely well-sprung, it
is uncannily silent, it is a miser on petrol,
it steers no heavier than a wisp of cigarette
smoke, it climbs like a chamois—in short,
it just does anything that it should, and
does most things a good deal better than
you would think possible.
Mind you it is not one of those under-
geared contraptions, for without any fuss
or flurry it will do its modest seventy on
the level, nor has it got a huge engine, yet
it will do White Hill, Henley, with four
up, at a minimum of twenty-five miles an
hour. The Hindhead brings it down to
about fifty-five ! The Single-Six is, of
course, not to be confused with the
Twin-Six.
Yes, believe me, people, the six-cylinder
Packard is a very wonderful car indeed. I
wish it were made in this country, and I
can’t for the life of me see why it shouldn’t
be, though owing to the higher cost of
raw material over here it would naturally
come out more expensive.
I heartily wish the Packard were British.
It is easily amongst the first half-dozen
best cars in the world, at a figure which
has hitherto been associated with, com-
paratively speaking, mediocrity.”
We can make immediate deliveries of the Single-Six and Straight-Eight.
IRA L. 8c A. G BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261,263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne
The Universal Motors Pty.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
The Packard Agency,
141 Flinders St., Adelaide
H. C. Heathom & Co. Ltd.,
Hobart’Tasmania
PAC K ARD


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN'S
SHOPS
Ready-to-wear styles in
“PLUS FOURS” & GOLF SUITS
at David Jones\
Correct attire on the links be-
gets a pleasurable atmosphere of
satisfaction. Details of style need
be but matters of personality, pro-
vided care is exercised to provide
comfort. The combination of
comfortable freedom and distinc-
tive style is strikingly evident in
the new golfing Ready-to-wears.
“ Plus Four ” Knickers. Price, 35/-
Sports Suits, Coat (Sf* Trousers, 105/-
With “Plus Fours” to match. 140/-
Sports Coat. Prices from 60/- to 80/-
DAV I D JONES’
FOR SERVICE. OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY
had always continued under his protection
and guardianship.”
And what are the probabilities about the
intrigue’ What manner of man was this
Csesar, who, according to Froude, resisted
during these months the attractions of a
woman of 22 (Froude calls her “a loose
girl of 16”), whose power of bewitching men
has probably never been equalled or ap-
proached? Csesar was well over 50. AH
through his life he had been a man of the
very easiest sex-morals. Rightly or (as I
believe) wrongly, it was believed and pub-
licly stated all over Rome that in early life
he had even sunk to what we should now
call the lowest depth of moral turpitude.
According to Suetonius, a number of Roman
matrons had been divorced on his account.
For Servilia, the mother of Marcus Brutus,
he had a particular weakness. During his
first consulship he gave six million sesterces
(about £60,000) for a single pearl, which
he presented to this lady. Enthusiasts in
scandal have maintained stoutly that Brutus
was Caesar’s son, though Caesar was only
15 when Brutus was born. “Men of Rome!”
sang Caesar’s veterans as they marched
through the streets in his Gallic triumph—
Men of Rome! look to your wives!
Here comes a baldpate rake.
It seems probable that many of these tales
are plain lies and that the rest are exag-
gerated ; but it does not look as if the ser-
pent of old Nile would need to get a speci-
ally sinuous wriggle on in order to fascinate
the man about whom they were told.
HENRY MOLONY.
Poincare
To understand the career of this drab,
limelight-hating, typically bourgeois little
figure, whose name (“Squarefist”) might
have been chosen for him by a Bunyan, and
who is the most consistently indispensable
statesman that republican France has known,
it is necessary to understand Paris. Paris
is France when any great political or social
issue has to be decided. No one is so
absorbed in national and party questions, so
suspicious of his rulers or so intellectually
alert and curious as the Parisian; and in
consequence there is no more assiduous and
discriminating newspaper reader. That is
why every great French Minister of modern
times has been a journalist. Speeches are
made in the provinces, of course. Every
Sunday for months Poincare made two or
three in small villages of the devastated re-
gions on the Ruhr problem, but only that
they might be reported in the Paris press,
and so broadcasted to the nation. The most
effective method the French politician has
of imposing his personality and views on the
electors is by the signed article, and at this
art Poincare is without a peer. A Clemen-
ceau may have more of that cruel wit in
which the boulevards revel, and Daudet may
write more truculently (always a sure card
in a country which still clings to insults and
the duel as a means of avenging them) ;
but for wide knowledge, clarity and the
power to convey an impression of honesty
there is no one like Poincard. He has re-
peatedly written himself into office, and his
pen helped materially to keep him there.
Sisley Huddlestone, author of Poincare: A
Biographical Portrait (Fisher Unwin),
observes that “when Lord Curzon wrote his
famous long August Note he received from
M. Poincare, almost by return of post, a
point by point reply which was a sheer diplo-
matic tour de force. . . .After the reply of
M. Poincare they [the British Government!
did nothing. Lord Curzon’s menaces fell flat.
They became ridiculous. They placed Great
Britain in the most unenviable situation.”
The author of this biography, who is the
Times representative in Paris, used to be
a Francophobe, and he is an extremely can-
did friend now; but he cheerfully recognises
the extraordinary qualities, mental and
moral, that put and kept the subject of
this study where he was until a few days
ago. The 13,000-word reply to Lord Our-
zon’s Note (which had taken the Foreign
Office several weeks to prepare) was written
by Poincare without secretarial help, and
without references of any kind, in a single
day. , Some indications are given of the
characteristics which enable him to perform
such feats as a matter of course: —
In his private life he is almost an ascetic. lie
imposes upon himself the strictest discipline. He
does not smoke. He drinks wine sparingly. He has
no recreations. At the table he is Spartan. Often
have I spent hours in the company of French poli-
ticians and have talked of little but food and the
culinary art. It would be impossible to imagine
such a conversation with M. Poincare. . . .It should
perhaps be added that his capacity for memorising
and for precision is a characteristic of the family.
Henri Poincare was perhaps the greatest mathe-
matician that France has ever had.
The distinguishing mark of most politicians
is opportunism. They watch which way the
cat of public opinion seems to be jumping,
and proceed according to the conclusions so
drawn, often to their ruin. Poincare has
an almost inhuman contempt of popularity.
He arrives at every decision on the basis of
pure reason, marshals the arguments for the
course he has adopted like an advocate
(which is_ what he is by profession) hand-
ling a brief, and thereafter is immovable.
His Ruhr policy was probably decided upon
long before the fall of M. Briand, whom he
succeeded, though it was a year before he
moved. He never expected Germany to pay
if she could help it, and he wms right. He
did expect that the occupation would eventu-
ally be remunerative —not necessarily in his
own day, but some time —and here, if only
as chief counsel of France’s biggest indus-
trial concern, the Comite des Forges, he may
be assumed to speak with technical know-
ledge. He would certainly not get out till
Germany offers gilt-edged securities or repara-
tion payments, and perhaps not then. Like
Clemenceau, he is old enough to remember
Sedan, and to such minds security may be
worth even income taxation on the British
scale.
J.B.D.
The Problem of the Adjective
Mr. Harry Dean (R.P. 24/4/’24) cen-
sures _ the tiresome übiquity of “green” and
’grey and. ‘quiet” in the verse of David
McKee Wright; . but in his defence (R.P.
8/0/24) Mr. Wright attempts no elucidation
of the problem of the adjective in poetry. This
is no trivial matter. Banish adjectives, and
you banish poetry. “The business of life
may be carried on by substantives alone,” as
Stevenson says, “but this is not what we
call literature.” Still less is it poetry, which
is the quintessence and elixir of literature.
In the hands of a poet the adjective is a
thing of potential magic, to be charged with
overtones, extra-meanings, glancing innuen-
does, illuminating half-truths. The lyric
flights of Shakspeare, Keats and Francis
Thompson are thick-starred with these felici-
ties. If, by some stupid miracle, Keats’s
creative adjectives were replaced by “sen-
sible” ones, his fame would wilt from that
moment. A glance at a single page of “The
Eve of St. Agnes” will show his surpassing
virtuosity in the use of adjectives: for in
that glance the mind will take in many of
the most magical phrases in English poetry
—“diamonded with panes of quaint device” ;
“the tiger-moth’s deep-damasked wings”; a
disrobing girl’s “warmed jewels” and “fra-
grant boddice” ; “the hush’d carpet” ; “azure-
lidded sleep”; “blanch’d linen, smooth and
lavendered”; “lucent syrops tinct with cin-
namon.”
Indeed, the adjective is often more potent
than the noun that it illuminates: “Red rose
on triumphant brier” (Shakspeare) ; “Back-
ward mutters of dissevering power” (Mil-
ton) ; “The frolic wine” (Herrick) ; “The
fluttering fall of a flute divine” (Hugh
McCrae) ; “The sighing bloom that takes
the dew” (Shaw Neilson). When the blood
of the poet thrills and clamors at his heart,
and his verse is begotten in desire and born
of ecstasy, he may use as many adjectives
as he pleases; but none of them will be pad-
ding. For when, in a moment of vision,
some hitherto undefined aspect of the subject
is seized upon and focussed in the glow of
the adjectival spotlight, there is a surround-
ing sense-penumbra in which fact merges into
fantasy and truth resolves itself, by imper-
ceptible shades, into entrancing illusion.
This is beauty’s witching-moment; and that
penumbra is the very atmosphere of poetry.
Whether the energy of the creative moment
is alive with the far-reaching implications of
fantasy, as in Blake’s startling apostrophe:
Tiger, tiger burning bright
In the forests of the night,—
or whether it is busy with cunning touches
of realism, as in that vivid stroke of
Browning’s:—
the quick sharp scratch
And blue spurt of a lighted match, —
its expression in the creative phrase is always
full-charged with suggestion, as the literal
.statement is by its nature precluded from
being. Describing the violet, Milton says
“glowing,” Shakspeare “dim” ; and both epi-
thets, although mutually “counter-irritant,”
are inevitably right; for in each instance the
adjective’s relationship to the essential truth
is that it defines an effect of light.
One more example of the adjective as an
instrument of concrete definition. It is from
an unfinished piece by a contemporary poet,
and describes Danae’s brazen tower: —
So from this- tawny dune a hollow cirque
Of perfect brass rose smoothly up into
The spinning light.
On being shown this, a clever critic re-
marked that “the very weak ending of the
second line makes it dizzy with height; an
effect finalised by the term ‘spinning.’ ”
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Anne Boleyn
Some months ago a lady and gentleman
named Waerting wrote an extraordinarily
learned book called “The Dominant Sex,”
which set out to prove that Man, brutally
exerting his dominance over Woman, had
written history in his own favor. It also
set out to prove many other things, which
may or may not have been true; but the part
about history was the part which impressed
me most. Now, unquestionably, man has
represented the dominant sex for centuries;
but the whirligig of time is bringing in its
revenges, and woman is beginning to rouse
herself in her might. And she has found
vigorous champions in the Benighted States.
Thus Mark Twain wrote a book to prove
that Joan of Arc was in reality a virtuous
young thing, who might very well have come
from New England, with all the herd-im-
pulses and right-thinking of that country.
Then another American, Professor Cham-
berlin, set out to prove that Queen Eliza-
beth was always a virgin, such is his sense
of what must be due to so very great a
queen: because no woman in the age of good
Queen Victoria could be considered great
if her morals were unconventional, there-
fore good Queen Bess simply must have
been a virgin. And though Mr. Philip W.
Sergeant is not, so far as I know, an Ameri-
can, he is evidently imbued with American
opinions as to what constitutes excellence
in woman, for he has written a very read-
able book to whitewash the sad second wife
of Henry Tudor. It states all the known
facts about her that are ever likely to be
discovered, and shows her as she really
was, a charming, lively brunette, dancing
and singing, proud and vindictive, like Queen
Elizabeth, a great needlewoman, at first very
fond of her husband, and utterly crushed
by the responsibilities of queenship in that
violent and censorious age. Now, all this
is quite enough to explain the subsequent
tragedy. There is not the slightest need
for all the dark conspiracies and malevo-
lences of Chapuys that Mr. Sergeant calls
in to his aid. The fact that at a ball given
to the Admiral of France at the end of
1534, the poor little, overwrought Anne
burst into hysterical laughter without
earthly reason —she does not appear even to
have been pregnant at the time —proved that
at the bottom of her character was hysteria;
and nymphomania is but hysteria to the nth
power. As is well known, man is an oafish
creature whose heart is generally in his
stomach when it is not in his boots; but,
to quote the American philosopher and
novelist Robert W. Chambers, “woman is a
tender flower and delicate inside.” Hysteria
is derived from the Greek word hystera, the
womb ; and the fact that most of the ribald
stories about poor Anne seem to have begun
soon after the birth of Elizabeth, only to be
renewed after the birth of the dead baby
that ultimately called her to the Tower and
to the sword, makes it unnecessary to search
for any other motive. The mere dates are
enough to cast a doubt on Anne’s hysterical
assertions of her innocence; it is quite pro-
bable that she even believed them herself.
But there will always remain a residue of
persons who are willing to take the trouble
to imagine complicated and religious motives
when the simple truth is staring them ir
the face.
And so long as the English persist in
looking upon syphilis as a mere disease oi
skin and bone, so long will it continue to
ravage England. It is quite as much a very
grim disease of the mind and of the brain.
I do not say that Anne had syphilis; but
Henry VIII. undoubtedly had. Anne mar-
ried him, probably because she was really
fond of him, who was a great man—the
most intellectual man, and probably the
greatest, who ever sat on the throne of
England—and she honestly desired to give
England a son. When she found she
could only produce a girl and a dead
son, the poor, overstrained girl “went
dotty,” and rushed about the court in
a truly nymphomaniac frenzy. But Mr.
Sergeant’s book is interesting and well writ-
ten ; at least, it shows the religious nature
of the evidence on which Anne was convicted.
It is impossible at this date to prove Anne’s
sexual purity. Nor does it matter. The
book only proves the gallantry of English-
men, who will persist in considering every
age to have had the moral's of modern
England.
C. McL.
Edmund Fisher
Edmund Fisher had many admirable quali-
ties, but the greatest of them was his intrepid
spirit. No trial or suffering ever daunted
him, and, if he had been conscious in the
last hour, he would have met death with a
smile on his lips- How he endured his mala-
dies during the last five years only those
closest to him could tell. He was often
dreadfully ill, but his optimism, his extra-
ordinary physical toughness and, perhaps,
the hope of seeing another play and of com-
posing another poem, helped him out of many
a desperate situation. As a journalist he
had few interests apart from the theatre and
the racecourse. A finely modelled horse was
much to him: a Carbine would set him
chanting its praises to everybody. His
father had been a horseowner, and his early
familiarity with racing stables had implanted
in him a passion that never grew cold. Even
when direly suffering in hospital, he was
never too ill to study the racing news.
It is significant both of his fortitude and
of his meticulous cleanliness that when he
was laid out with pneumonia and pleurisy,
following an operation for appendicitis a de-
cade or more ago, he insisted on sitting up
every day to shave himself. “I may as well
die clean,” he said, little realising that he
had many good years of work before him.
On another occasion I found him sitting on
the stairway leading up to our old office, too
spent to move. Sheer tenacity had brought
him in to his job when he should have been
in bed. I had to use the utmost persuasion
to get him home. He went, protesting feebly;
but next day, though in no better shape,
he was rhyming gaily in all his old form.
His illness never affected his mentality,, and
to the end his writing, especially his theatri-
cal criticism, revealed all his native shrewd-
ness of observation. He was not given to
razor-edged sentences —he was too mellow for
mordancy—but he made every word tell.
i Many an actor felt that it told too
i much. Naturally a man of his fearlessness
and honesty smashed inflated reputations and
incurred the hostility of various people; but
he never swerved for a moment from the high
standard of criticism that he had set up. In
his earlier years he had many picturesque
encounters with embittered managers, but
always emerged with his wit and integrity
unimpaired. I recall how a manager, whose
show lie had given a week to live, stopped
the critic, on the threshold of his theatre a
couple of nights after the notice had appeared,
with a forbidding hand and stern words:
“Don’t you dare enter my theatre, Fisher.
I prefer even your criticism to your com-
pany.” Fisher replied with a characteristic
drawl: “Very well; and yet my company is
better than yours.” A stout American actor,
whom Fisher had aptly dubbed “the Bantoek
of melodrama,” expressed his desire to send
the Sundry Showman a box of liver pills.
Fisher told his fat friend to send them along.
“You don’t know how I need ’em,” he said.
“Your acting makes me bilious.”
Such was Edmund Fisher as I knew him
intimately for IS years, with whom I was
actively associated for 12, and whom I miss
for many agreeable courtesies and flashes of
wisdom, many little considerations and
touches of friendship. Sometimes he had
little attacks of peevishness inseparable from
his illness, but he was generally a most ami-
able and genial man. It may sound in-
credible, but it is nevertheless true, that,
though we differed on many things, we never
exchanged a heated word. I think I can
fairly count that as a credit to both of us.
C. R. BRADISH.
A Satchel of Books
The Fir ; and the Palm, by Elizabeth Bibeseo
(Hutchinson). This lady is the daughter of Margot
Asquith, and a while back made a promising start
as a fietionist with a series of short stories pub-
lished under the title of “Balloons.” The present
novel is smart. There is much irrelevantly brilliant
dialogue of 5 the kind that Wilde made popular in
the ’nineties, but one gets the impression that the
beautiful lady and her cool adorer, who are skim-
ming about in more or less adulterous communion,
would consider a scene well lost for an epigram.
Their passion doesn’t carry conviction. Their feel-
ings seem to be merely subterfuges while they are
thinking of something fresh to say.
Burma, by Sir J. G. Scott, K.C.I.E. (Fisher
Unwin). No European knows his Burma better than
Scott, whose official connection with it dates back
to the ’seventies, and his “The Burman: His Life
and Notions” is remembered as a particularly enlight-
ening and entertaining work. Now he has given a
comprehensive history of the country, starting from
misty legends, leading up through the formation of
the Burmese nation, which began with the founding
of Pagan in a.d. 108, the establishment of a king-
dom by the great Anawrata’a about the time William
the Conqueror was in his cradle, and so on to the
present day. A great amount of research has gone
to the making of this fat volume, but Scott sets
forth his facts in a very readable and at times divert-
ing form.
♦
“Cantuar”: I raise a howl of protest over a state-
ment that “Forty Years On” is Harrow’s song
(R.P. 17/4/’24). Harrow certainly includes it in its
song book, but the words were written for King’s
School, Canterbury, the oldest school in England.
Farmer, the writer, was a pupil long before he was
a master at Harrow. There is a tablet in the
Mint Yard, Canterbury, commemorating Farmer and
recording his authorship of the song.


■ •
m
Oxcart or
motor truck ?
IN nearly every country of the world the
motor truck is gradually supplanting the
oxcart and the horse-drawn wagon.
With several times the speed of animal-drawn
vehicles, a capacity of many tons, and ability to climb
steep hills and travel over rough roads, the motor
truck is employed for efficient and dependable trans-
portation. From Sweden to the Argentine, from
India to the Ivory Coast, motor trucks are carrying
the products of farm, factory and mine.
Yet the motor truck is more than a burden bearer.
It is the means of extending agriculture and lowering
the cost of living. In Brazil today, for example, a
fleet of more than 50 five-ton GMC Trucks and trailers
is helping to carry out a vast irrigation project which
will turn millions of acres of waste land into cultivated
fields.
*****
The motor truck has only begun the work it is destined
to do. The demand for its services steadily increases.
And General Motors, by uniting the men, money and
manufacturing facilities of many great automotive
companies, has brought to the manufacture of GMC
Trucks economies of large-scale production which
make possible the highest quality at the lowest cost.
The progress of a country is
measured by its methods of
transportation. Compare the
slow-moving buffalo cart with
the modern motor truck! The
picture at the right shows
G M C Trucks carrying baled
cotton in Brazil. They are
part of a fleet owned by the
Brazilian Government.
ď
Further information regarding General Motors may he had hy writing to
General Motors Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers, Sydney;
or to General Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick • Cadillac • Chevrolet • Oakland • Oldsmobile • GMC Trucks
New York . London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta .Shanghai . Yokohama.
Sydney . Melbourne . Wellington. Constantinople . Johannesburg. Mexico City . Rio de Janeiro .


f
The
Happy Woman
Knows that radiant health and
a beautiful figure are the reward
of a contented mind, sensible
food, and a due proportion of
exercise and rest.
There is no better indicator to
health than your weight; watch
it carefully; regularly.
In the privacy of the bathroom
the ASCO Personal Scale en-
ables you to weigh accurately
and easily without the disadvan-
tage of guessing at the varying
weight of clothing.
Encourage Father to keep fit by
weighing frequently and guard
the kiddies against the serious
danger of malnutrition by taking
their weights, after the bath.
The "ASCO” Personal Scale is com-
plete in itself. Records exact weight to
the Single Ounce. No loose weights.
Requires small soacc—lB inches square.
T he family’s friend for a lifetime.
Pay a call to our nearest Showroom, or 'write for full particulars.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
217-219 THOMAS STREET MAYMARKET. SYDNEY
BRANCHES
Asco-Ad.
135
37 BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE
122-4 CURRIE STREET
ADELAIDE
59 CUBA STREET
WELLINGTON. NZ
255-7 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
389 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
26 DURHAM STREET
AUCKLAND. N 2.
d
The Only GENUINE U ORIGINAL
BOSCH Magnetos
BOSCH Sparking Plugs
BOSCH Lighting and Starting Sets
BOSCH 2-Note Horn
BOSCH Platinum Points and Spare
Parts
Absolutely Dependable
under Severest Conditions.
WARNING.— Our Genuine Bosch goods are
not made in America, but exclusively at the
world-famous original works of
Robert Bosch, A.G., Stuttgart (Germany),
and are marked with the name of Robert
Bosch and this trade-mark: —
MELBOURNE: —Robert Bosch Supply & Service
Co. Pty., Ltd., 256-258 Latrobe Street.
SYDNEY: —Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co.
Pty., Ltd., 199 Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE:—Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
BRISBANE:—Elphinstones, Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St.
w
m
m
: a
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
Spares
always
available.
“Buy the Best—
the best are
British.”
AGENTS—
Packer Bros. & Begrie,
Mary and Albert Streets,
BRISBANE.
Duncan <df- Fraser, Ltd.,
Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.
Flower, Davies A: Johnson,
1/0J ( Murray Street,
PERTH .
m
o
Q
P
h COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES
for the Transport of Goods and Passengers.
New 88/4 50-h.p. Engines are now fitted to “Q” and “W” type chassis
as standard.
Short wheel-base chassis for six-wheeled attachments for freight and
passenger service.
Write for Catalogues, Prices, etc., to
THORNYCROFT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
18-20 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
And at SO Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephones: 86313 (2 lines). Telegrams: “Thommotor, Sydney.”


Chosen by those who are satisfied
with nothing less than the best
Springs guaranteed
for twelve months
against breakage
in service
There is no record of a broken
spring on a 10/22, 14/32 or
15/40 WOLSELEY.
The springs are so arranged that
when a severe road shock is ex-
perienced, it is absorbed by the
springs before it can reach a vital
part of the car or cause discom-
fort to the occupants .
So confident are the makers in the
perfection of the W OLSELEY
suspension, that they guarantee
the springs of every 10/22, 14/32
or 15/40 WOLSELEY for twelve
months against breakage in ser-
vice.
To select the WOLSELEY is to insure against future
car trouble.
This beautiful all-British Car is reliability itself. It rises
superior to every test —an example of the finest in
materials and workmanship. It is really an investment
in true economy.
Its groundwork of Vickers world-famous steel is sup-
plemented by equally flawless quality in every detail.
NEW REDUCED PRICES:
10/22 Single-seater de Luxe . ~. . . £430
10/22 4-seater de Luxe £485
14/32 4/5-seater £625
15/40 5-seater £745
Arrange for a trial and demonstration.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip Street, Sydney.
W. D. Bauld, Eastern Market Garage, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Simpson Motor Co., Ltd., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
H. C. Richards, Richards’ Building, Currie Street, Adelaide.
F. W. Cato, 1273 Hay Street, West Perth.


y
iT^7
v.
For Thin Falling Hair
Use Cuticura
If your scalp is irritated and your
hair dry and falling out in handfuls,
try this treatment: Touch spots of
dandruff and itching with Cuticura
Ointment and follow with hot sham-
poo of Cuticura Soap. Nothing better
than Cuticura for all skin and scalp
troubles.
Soapls.,Talcum Is. 3d,,Ointment ls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
gggT- Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
Shave in Comfort.
ďf
If you could shave
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE, and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
2]
\K
I
v
EureKa
Driving' Damp
(DIETZ)
A reliable weatherproof kerosene-
wick Lamp, with ruby rear lens
and bracket. Price 13/6 each.
List of Benzine Lamps, Lanterns
and Irons on application.
LUX LIGHT CO. OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Supreme
where quality
counts . a
1
CIL
y
ml
L & C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
''Agent : J. MACDOUGALL, G.P.0.1C5, SYDNEY.
Factory—Czecho-Slovakia.
7
Qpies into minutes
I WORKS LIKE A £lO MACHINE. Price 27/6.
Postage 2/-; other States, 3/6.
Write for H. DIBBS & 00. (Dept. B),
Manufacturers,
particulars. Box 2065 G.P.0., Sydney.
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN!
No More
Grey Hairs
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p e r m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grey
Hair to that most desirable Glcfesy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
The Sufferer’s Safeguard.
d
Denyer’s,
Denyer’s Elastic Truss has stood the
test of time, and afforded normal
activity and ease to hundreds of
sufferers from rupture. Scientifically
made, and efficient to the last degree,
Denyer’s Elastic Truss
is sold at 27/6 Single and 37/6
double. A Free Truss Pamphlet will
be forwarded post free under sealed
cover on request.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney.
Preserve as you
Polish
Make
Footwear
Last Longer
The daily use of Bostock’s Shoe
Paste is the surest way to make your
shoes last longer. Keeps the leather soft
and pliable—prevents cracks. In Black, Brown,
Dark Brown, and Nigger Brown. 6d. per tin.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES Ltd., Box 91, Haymarket,
SYDNEY
o
□
SHOE PASTE
o sf 2 c k
§
S
SEUSHIEU
it*
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924-
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept,),
141 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address —“Smadaburo,” London), who will arrange:—•
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses,
Furnished Flats, etc.,
Trips to Battlefields,
LONDON WILL BE FULL.
Continental and Provincial Tours,
Motor-car Hire—Sightseeing—Passports,
etc., etc.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW.
Ink-tight
The Onoto Self-Filling Safety is
absolutely ink-tight. No leaking —no
“sweat-beads”-no inky fingers. It is
the one self-filling pen you can safely
6end full of ink through the post.
When in use a twist of finger and
thumb on the pen controls the ink
supply, giving you just as much or
as little as you need.
Onoto
the Pen
Onoto Ink
Best for all Pens
ißcpresentatlreu: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST LTD*
Sydney, Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
Thomas De LA RUE & Co., ltd., HO Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Sill
vvo®
■s'*
o^°
pr
o <>*
\S&
tip
o^’
PLUM
RA
made in
s
a
N
s
i
m
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Beal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: gin. and fin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
CMISTtRM
TRADE hark
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
ďf
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Past Comes Back.
Musing here in Fort Macquarie,
Lapped by ripples, greenly-grassed,
Unto me through mists uplifting
Comes a vision of the past.
Gone are wharf-side ship and ferry,
And the First Fleet in their place,
Canvas stowed and flag at masthead,
Rides upon the Harbor’s face.
Out against the northern shoreline
Mast and yard and boom show clear;
Bos’n’s whistle, and an order,
Blown upon the wind, I hear.
In the high skies, blue and cloudless,
Wings aslant, a seahawk soars;
Comes a boat across the water
Urged by shining-bladed oars.
Through the mists of time uplifting,
Dreaming, gazing, I discern
On a seat beside the steersman
Arthur Phillip in the stern.
Ripples from his boat outcircle
As her bow blue water cleaves;
Shines his sword-hilt in the sunlight,
Silver-braided are his sleeves.
P ■
As he sits, still shores around him,
Does he other days forecast?
Does he vision as I vision—
He the future, I the past?
Does he see dome, spire and turret,
Cloudlike, taking shape, arise—
Market-place and high cathedral
Building with prophetic eyes?
Does he hear a city’s clamor
Sounding down ship-crowded shores,
As I hear his bo’s’n’s whistle,
And the plashing of his oars?
Does he see on slope and hill-crest
Miles of streets and leagues of lanes?
Vain to question—vain and futile !
Mute of tongue the Past remains.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Swimming in the Rain.
The silk of green water is fondling me o’er,
The pearls leap and sparkle, the round
ripples hiss;
A mist of grey dreams blurs the rocks on
the shore,
And a floating weed passes my arm with
a kiss.
The skies may be angry, the earth may be
sad,
The wind with its whip-lash may scourge
the dark air,
But the green sea is mellow and quiet and
glad
With its touch on my shoulder, its salt
in my hair.
vif-
We have walked in lush meadows, sun-warm
and dew-wet,
For ten airy ages by river and tree;
But our limbs in green water can never
forget
The fifty kind seons we lived in the sea.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE
Tokens.
Last night I saw the moon go down, the
same white moon that gleamed
When Ilomer sang, when Helen loved, when
rapt Isaiah dreamed.
Nearer to me than yesterday those vanished
ages seemed. *
And still, although the night is done, I muse
on times gone by;
For like a blazing souvenir eternally set
high,
The sun that shone on Babylon moves, glori-
ous, through the sky!
VICTOKIA.
SYD C.
Sea Sounds.
A crooning voice in the breeze
Is calling and calling,
As though from the tops of the trees
Lost sea-sounds were falling,
Seeking ’mid inland grass
And the creek’s long flow
The rushing songs that pass
When sea-winds blow.
Wild for the sweep of the sand
And the waves’ deep thunder,
They seek through the calm of this land
Their lost life’s wonder,
Crying from tree toe tree
And from long hour to hour,
They search for the song of ..the sea
As bees for a flower.
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
Enough!
We lived far removed from thought and care,
Free of our love as the seas are free,
And I was a fool to my own despair,
With never a thought that you’d cozen me.
Ah, the mad dream that beset me about,
Life made right in a world gone wrong,
Days of desire as keen as a shout,
Nights of delight as swift as a song!
Days when half-doubting I dreamed you true,
Nights when undoubting I knew you sweet,
What time you trod what I dreamt of you,
Honor and truth, in the slime at your
feet!
Would I take you back, to have and to
own,
To feel your smoothness about me curled?
Not if I were a man alone,
And you were the only woman in the
world!
FRANK MORTON.


HOSPITAL
BRANDY
GIVES THE HAPPY
PENFOLD SMILE,
■ :
t
mm
. -
■ cs
■
«*il
m
■
■■■
: .
cl ■ t *
! ‘w
»% v %
%%
«•
Pfc
K
K
««
I ft


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45.—N0. 2312.
THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
“WELL, WHAT ABOUT IT, SIR?”
“The President of the U.S.A. has signed the Japanese Exclusion Law.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Australia for the White Man.”
Piinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musg-rave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
1- months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
~A Ny, -A DDRESS Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s ■ 6
months, los. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
Manaffer IeSS CommunicationA to be addressed to the
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
. con^en J' ! j of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
alt contributions submitted, whether in the form of
1 olitical. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches i those dealing with Australian subjects
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
l’,. wor ds, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
ULL ? TIN w } ll return oil unsuitable MS. when
the address. is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current gvent, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
I J - st - c Grondona, Australia House. Strand,
W.C.3. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be TiT
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.ft; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, ¥> Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban'and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Iffil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City:
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — -L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Fostagre Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ) to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional J/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: >tOZ. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
'illetzai.
THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1924.
THE RESTORATION.
Europe has been a fairly quiet place of late,
as places often are when people are waiting
for something to happen. No war is in pro-
gress, though just on the outside the Turk
has been making an informal scuffle on the
Syrian border, and the new Egyptian Con-
stitution shows signs of dangerous swelled
head. The Greek revolution ambled through
without any bloodshed that was audible at
this distance, and the ghost of Pericles is
busy organising a republic. The dictatorial
Mussolini musses along successfully in
Italy. His imitator in Spain has made no
disastrous break, and the Communists of
Russia only perpetrate murder and stupidity
at about the usual pace. The Moslem world,
which, according to a centuries-old legend,
was to rise as one fez and fill the human
race with amaze if sacrilegious hands. were
laid on the alleged Caliph, has seen him run
off his old premises like a non-financial hotel
boarder, and has turned never a hair. Still,
in spite of all this, the impression remains
that something is preparing. The return of
the Crown Hun Prince to Germany was an
episode. For a few years the idea prevailed
that, should the Hoiienzollerns begin to
emerge from Holland, and especially if they
should show signs of a desire to settle again
at the old scene of trouble, large though
vague movements would start. Actually the
heir of the annoying dynasty oozed home as
quietly as a muddy tide pervading a flat
shore. Now it is reported that the Kaiser
has made a similar percolating change of
address without obstruction ; and, if so, the
possibility must be considered that he will
be found sitting on the - throne some morn-
ing, and no one will know exactly how
he arrived there, and it will be no one’s par-
ticular business to shoo him off. It is pos-
sibly significant that Ludendorff, who is re-
garded as the prospective Monk of the Hun
Restoration, held a military pageant not
long ago, and it was sufficiently large to
prove that the military apparatus is far from
scrapped. Further, the Hun held an election
recently, and the Monarchist party gained
considerably. He also concocted a Budget
in which he ostentatiously made no provision
for paying any reparation money whatsoever.
So far Fritz has received rather than paid.
He certainly parted with a little money in
the early days of the peace, but he recovered
as much (some estimates say twice as much)
by selling his depreciating Government notes
by drayloads to speculative foreigners, and
then repudiating the whole lot and starting
a new currency. Hun taxation is now at the
rate of about £4 6s. per Hun per annum,
while British taxation is close to £l7. The
question of which country is in the best con-
dition for a new war is at least as open as
the problem of who won the last war or the
material advantages thereof.
At one time the late scrap was lost, accord-
ing to most of the rules of the game. That
was when Roumania, Serbia and Montenegro
had been quite eliminated and Belgium prac-
tically eliminated, when Russia had deserted
and Italy was broken and the United States
was arriving with poor equipment and at a
snail’s pace. The simple idea of establish-
ing a united command under a highly capable
commander saved the situation. Then it was
to a great extent lost again because Wood-
row Wilson, the prize Dorcas meeting of
the hour, took charge of the situation, and
the making of peace was indefinitely post-
poned to allow time for long academic conver-
sations about a League of Nations which
Wilson’s own country presently treated with
contempt. Meanwhile, as the Allies cooled
down in hopes and enthusiasms, the Huns
braced up, and began to believe that they
weren’t so wholly licked as they had sup-
posed. They probably, during this rest-
ful interval, laid some of the financial
plans which have since panned out so
well. And while everything was in a
state of suspension Bolshevism progressed
with giant strides. If there had been a uni-
fied financial authority of the Foch calibre
to collect the indemnity, probably something
would have been gathered in, and the reason
for the failure to gather more would have
been more definitely ascertained. But the
divided command got into operation again.
As an indication of the casualness of things,
though the feverish and versatile William
is understood to have abdicated, it has been
frequently alleged that no written act of abdi-
cation exists, or that if it does exist its
whereabouts are quite unknown.
A Restoration might lead to war on a
large scale. On the other hand it might
cause a Ramsay Macdonald Government
to remark that this was a fitting time to
bury the hatchet and the unpaid bill, and to
take the Hun into the League of Nations,
and to start brotherhood on a large scale.
Then there would be no war, or at most a
limited disturbance, with the Ramshackle
Ministry struggling for peace and promoting
forgiveness in the offing. A large number of
circumstances might make a Restoration
party consider the chances far from hope-
less. _ There would be more prospect of
Russia being a friend than an enemy this
time, the opportunity to fish in troubled
waters and repair some old losses being a
tempting one. No very definite reasoth can
be assigned why the Balkan States or Italy
should move, their particular enemy, the
Austrian Empire, being off the map. There
could be no more unlimited submarine war-
fare to drag the United States into the arena.
A new situation has arisen in the Pacific to
keep both the republic and Japan out of
European complications. An agreement
exists by which a big U.S. naval station on
the Hawaiian group, a Japanese one at the
tip of its own archipelago, and a British
one at Singapore or thereabouts would con-
stitute three outposts in the Pacific. But
the British peace-keeper proposes to retire,
and neither of the other two policemen is
inclined to lightly take on obligations which
would leave its warmly-suspected friend in
full charge of the beat. There aren’t even
the battle-cruisers Australia and New Zea-
land in the Pacific now, one being at' the
bottom of the sea and the other sold to a
marine store for £20,000. Further, the
general attitude and outlook of the British
Empire has changed out of all knowledge
since 1914. The bogey of the Hun navy
and the Hun colonial empire is gone; but
even if those things still existed, the new
sort of Government which Britain has ac-
quired would probably trust to brotherly
love and hope for the best. It has gone
out of its way to extend the glad hand to
the Bolshevik and the courteous paw to the
Hun, while explaining with needless candor
to the Dominions that they have nothing to
hope for in the way of trade preference and
very little in the way of defence. As a result
Canada and the self-governing West Indies
talk of commercial treaties with (or commer-
cial annexation to) the United States. The
cause of secession in South Africa has re-
ceived a remarkable impetus, and in Southern
Rhodesia (so “loyal” in the old orthodox
sense that it stands out of the Union that
it may not be mixed up with the old Dutch
element) an official voice has been lifted up
asking in so many words if Southern Rho-
desia is wanted any longer. The change that
has come over George Y.’s scattered estate
is, however, not so much a matter of acts
as of atmosphere. No doubt all these con-
siderations added together don’t prove that
the time has arrived for a German restora-
tion. But they suggest that it may have
arrived.
NEW STATES AND OLD STODGE.
A New States Commission has been pervad-
ing the northern area of N. S. Wales, where
the most vigorous secession movement of the
day has its headquarters. In the course of
research it discovered many old facts and
found lots of things that had been found
often before. This repetition was inevit-
able. The case for the subdivision of the
big areas of the mainland is fully known
already to every intelligent local person
who takes an interest in public affairs.
The real case against subdivision is never
set forth, because it is not the kind that
would look well in print; but sundry alleged
arguments are adduced, interspersed with ap-
peals against undue haste, the question being
only about 65 years old yet. Some of the
matters which have been demonstrated, and
for which undeniable authority can be given,
are these:—
(1) Australia stands alone in the Big State habit;
even the U.S.A. and Brazil can show no freaks
like it.
(2) As either a consequence or a coincidence,
Australia also holds the record for failure to find
inhabitants for fertile outlying regions. Huge States
involve huge distances from the seat of government,
and the greater the distance the worse the failure.
(3) The small States carry the largest population
per square mile. Except that Tasmania is second
for density instead of first the ratio is absolutely
accurate.
(4) The small States produce most wealth per
square mile.
(5) The small States cost least per inhabitant to
govern. The gibe of those who think they have an inter-
est in maintaining the present system is based on
the alleged outlay on a drove of extra legislatures.
The change would be mostly one of names. NOwadays
there is a high and expensive Land or Works or
Railways official stationed out on the fringe of things,
and receiving instructions by wire or otherwise from
a Minister who is too far away to know or care
very much about the matter. After subdivision the
same individual would probably be called a Minister,
and the Minister would live nearer his job, and have
a chance to know more about it, and it isn’t
proved that he would cost any more. The Aus-
tralian experience is that Tasmania, where the
population is nearest to the ruling authority, costs
least per head for management, while the N. Terri-
tory, where it is furthest away, costs the most.
(6) In small States there is a wider choice of
rulers. Very few men whose intelligence has built
up any industry worth mentioning can afford to
spend half the year 1000 or 1500 miles away from it.
These are a few features in the case for sub-
division. Another one is that half of N. S.
Wales, the oldest State, said to be fertile, and
the possessor of a more valuable mineral out-
put than all its neighbors combined, is in
process of depopulation, and it is no solitary
instance. This is unique in what is com-
monly called a “new” country; and as the
Big State habit is the unique feature of the
country, one matter may be cause and the
other effect.
The Labor party represents one aspect of
the opposition to the New State improvement.
At least the men who have got hold of the
party make it do so. The party programme
is not only opposed to the creation of new
States; it includes the abolition of existing
States and State Legislatures and the oblitera-
tion of the Federal Senate. No information
can be extracted as to what benefit the nation
at large is to derive from this extraordinary
act of retrogression. It is merely explained
that it is “on the programme.” But the
convenience to the party bosses of having a
single machine to concentrate on is obvious.
As regards the mostly city and suburban
interests which stand for the maintenance of
the present system, they are every whit as
reticent when asked to show what the nation
gains by that system. One favorite reply
is that it is “the policy of the country.” A
railway commissioner made this remark to a
deputation which complained of the wicked
wrecking of the N. S. Wales country flour-
milling business by the discrimination be-
tween “down” and “up” rates, and was
astonished when told that it was just the
accursed and unspeakable “policy” that the
deputation was complaining of. Other
replies are to the effect that the matter calls
for consideration, that the time is not ripe,
and that it is necessary to ascertain whether
anybody among the shouting multitude is
really dissatisfied with things as they are.
It is not to be imagined that the most con-
firmed City Congester believes that it is
really good for the regions concerned that
ports should be empty of big ships and un-
productive of revenue ; that their shores should
be without inhabitants ; that non-paying rail-
ways should end at a stump when a good
harbor is just ahead ; that traffic should pay
200 or 300 miles of haulage when 100 miles
might suffice ; that half of an important State
should be systematically and purposefully
depopulated so that it won’t have the voting
power to decree its own separation. But the
localities which desire to secede are regarded
as good tribute-payers to city interests, and
last census showed that the County of Cum-
berland, which is pretty well all city interests,
had arrived, after much effort, at’a point at
which it could easily outvote all the rest of
the State. So one way and another, any
Separation movement, if it sticks to orthodox
ways, has a long road to travel. For outside
support it appeals to those who put the
country first and party demands or supposed
local interests second; and such people were
never like rabbits for multitude.
THE LUNATIC AND THE LAW.
“The Devil hath ta’en possession of him,”
said the early Christian of one afflicted by
the mental trouble known to us as insanity.
The theory of “devil possession” held ground
for many centuries, and the only cure was
exorcism. The case of the Gadarene swine
into which seven exorcised devils entered is
familiar. The theory had a most unhappy
effect on the lives of the poor wretches held to
be thus possessed. Exorcism by command, or
prayer, was found ineffectual, and then resort
was had to stripes and tortufe. Medical
men up to comparatively recent times en-
dorsed the practice. Dr. William Cullen,
a noted physician who died at the close of the
eighteenth century, ordered lashes for in-
sanity as he would leeches for blood-letting.
Other drastic remedies were “revolving
chairs” and “surprise baths” ; into the latter
the “possessed” were plunged till they were
nearly drowned. Such baths were said to
have been prescribed for George 111., of whom
Thackeray wrote: “All history presents no
sadder figure than that of the old man, blind
and deprived of reason, wandering through the
rooms of his palace, addressing imaginary
parliaments, reviewing fancied troops, hold-
ing ghostly courts.” And that was only just
over a hundred years ago.
State institutions for the reception of the
afflicted were unknown. True, Bedlam
existed, and had since 1472; but it was not
the legitimate offspring of the State. In the
eighteenth century patients there were treated
much as we treat the animals in the Zoo.
They were exhibited for the amusement, and
suffered the gibes, of the multitude. Hogarth
pictured them; Pepys in the gossip of his
diary recorded them. The law knew them
not; its business lay with the sane. Poor
Toms o’ Bedlam, witless but without guile,
wandered the streets and begged alms. To-
wards the close of that century, and increas-
ingly so in the one following, interest was
aroused in their condition. Hospitals for
the insane supported by private philanthropy
and public corporations increased. New
theories brought about more humane treat-
ment. Medicine increased in knowledge, and
the ancient teaching of “devil possession”
became discredited, though traces of exor-
cism may still be found in the Latin and
Greek Churches.
To-day we regard insanity as a disease,
as we do cancer or phthisis. It defies any
strict definition. As from light we merge
into twilight and slip into darkness, so the
sane man may pass into the night of in-
sanity. There are, of course, congenital
idiots, but their number is relatively few.
All that need be said of insanity is that it
is an alteration in the mental functions of
the brain which sets a man apart from
other units in the social group—a loss cf
normal self-control resulting from disease.
In olden days lunatic asylums were simply
places of detention for persons of unsound
mind. To-day such asylums are in fact
hospitals—State institutions for the treat-
ment of “physical diseases and conditions
which manifest themselves in some sort of
mental inadequacy.” The link between the
old and the new systems is the detention.
It is on this the law pivots. Obviously the
right to deprive a citizen of his liberty must
rest with the law. If the citizen voluntarily
submits, as many do, to treatment in these
institutions, that is his own concern. At
present no legal provision exists in N. S.
Wales for the admission of such volunteers,
although for years past Executive approval
has been given to their admission. In Vic-
toria and the Central and Western States
the practice has legislative authority.
One principal entrance to the asylums is
the police court. The alleged lunatic is
brought before the magistrate on an informa-
tion laid by the police to the effect that he
is deemed to be insane and is without suffi-
cient means of support, or is wandering at
large or has been found under such circum-
stances as indicate an intention to commit an
offence against the law. An information
may also be laid in cases where ihsane per-
sons are not receiving proper attention or
are being neglected or cruelly treated. Tin-
person charged is brought before the Court.
Usually the magistrate asks him a few ques-
tions and quite frequently he makes a speech
—which sometimes betrays him—demanding
his liberty. Then two medical practitioners
are put in the witness-box to produce certi-
ficates to the effect that they have indepen-
dently examined him and find him to be in-
sane. The “alleged” one may cross-examine,
and sometimes does so. Then the police
give their evidence as to wandering at large
and so on. This is essential, because the
fact of insanity is not in itself a sufficient
reason for interfering with personal liberty.
You may be insane and if your relatives or
friends iook after you, using proper control
and care, and treat you with kindness, the
law cannot lay hands on you. After hearing
all the evidence the magistrate may say “The
fellow seems to be all right, let him go!”'
But he never does say so. He invariably
accepts the medical certificates as the equiva-
lent of holy writ. Sitting on that Bench
daily, with the procession of Life ever mov-
ing past him, he has long since given up the
riddle of who is sane and who is not.
In cases of urgency the magistrate may
accept one medical certificate and send the
patient to a reception-house, public hospital
or even gaol for immediate treatment. There
he has to be re-examined and a second
medical certificate obtained before he can be
sent to the asylum. If, however, a relative
or friend comes forward and satisfies the
Court that he is both willing and able to
look after the man, he is entitled to
have him handed over. The patient stays
only so long as his custodian exercises all
due care and kindness —so far as the police
may be able to ascertain these facts.
The second and most used door of admis-
sion is “by request.” Not that of the un-
fortunate himself, which would be difficult
to get in most cases, but of a relative or
friend. The request is made to the superin-
tendent of the mental hospital and has to
be authenticated by a J.P. or a minister of
religion and be accompanied by the usual
two medical certificates.
A third means of entrance is a Ministerial
order—-in N. S. Wales it is made by the
Chief Secretary. Not many enter this way.
It is intended to meet exceptional cases, as
where relations, or others, _ are keeping in
their custody a person who in the public in-
terest needs restraint. Special provision is
made for the criminal insane, and persons
becoming insane in the gaols, reformatories
and industrial schools. Finally, there is one
other door, festooned with ivy, it is so rarely
used. It is by order of “a committee of
the person” appointed by the Supreme Court
in its lunacy jurisdiction ; but as one case
a decade is about the average of its admis-
sions in any State, it calls for no further
comment.
Now. once being in how can you get out?
Probably with a number of fellow-sufferers
you will cry plaintively and # continually that
you are not mad and are wrongfully detained.
But you are certified legally to be insane
and must be discharged with equal legality.
These means of discharge are by order issued
on the recommendation of the medical
superintendent of the asylum or hospital;
or, in the case ot a request, by direction of
the person who made that request; or by
direction of a “committee of the person :
or by order of the Chief Secretary where it
appears that a patient is detained without
sufficient cause; or, finally, by direction of
a Judge of the Supreme Court where it is
proved to his satisfaction that the patient is
of sound mind.
If all these avenues fail you, there js
still one left. You may escape. A recent
English case, Harnett v. Adams, suggests
that it may be a sporting venture worm
taKing —if you are really as sane as yon
think you are.
T.B.C.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Labor Refuses to Face the Facts.
Labor-leader Charlton made this pain-
fully feeble response to Prime Minister
Bruce’s recent Adelaide speech:—
Jn regard to defence, I have stated on more than
one occasion that we ara of opinion that every effort
should be made to bring- about a better international
understanding with a view to adjusting matters in
dispute without recourse to war, and, in my opinion,
the statesmen who attended the Imperial Conference
should have made that the most vital matter for
consideration, and utilised the great influence of
the Empire in the direction of promoting peace.
Of course, every effort should be made to
“bring about a better international under-
standing” ; but Britain is not going to have
any influence that way if it is defenceless
and impotent. At the present time the fol-
lowing manifestations may be observed in
different parts of the world:—
In Tokio 10,000 army reservists have adopted a
resolution “asking other reservists to unite for the
■ sake of the Fatherland to fulfil at a moment’s call
their duties as military men.” “If history teaches
anything,” declared a noted Japanese publicist, “an
eventual collision between Japan and America in
the Pacific is inevitable.”
In London Commander Burney, M.P., has written
that “the Americans have an aeroplane capable of
carrying nearly five tons of bombs. Plans exist for
larger machines, and a load of 10 tons can be
contemplated. A future squadron of 100 machines
could carry 1000 tons of explosives or poison-gas.
There is little doubt that within a very few years
it will be possible to destroy a city the size of
London within a few days.”
The French Parliamentary Commission on the
army has just approved a bill which proposes that
“every civilian of every occupation and age shall
automatically be enrolled for civilian services. The
bill aims at the organisation of all material and
resources indispensable to the successful prosecution
of a great war.”
Britain, by recent American admission, has the
strongest navy in the world. But the French
have outbuilt her in the air, and are determined
to keep ahead; and so, in the words of the Daily
Chronicle, “a great scheme to make London the most
perfectly air-defended city in the world has been devised.
Land for a ring of aerodromes encircling London
has been purchased, and armament firms are plan-
ning a large number of high-speed aeroplanes, fitted
with devices for night flying, which will combine
movement in the dark with a precision hitherto im-
possible. So that defence shall no longer depend on
searchlights and anti-aircraft guns, net devices will
be suspended high in the air.”
If there were any indications anywhere that
the leading nations are in a mood to “adjust
matters in dispute without recourse to war,”
or, at any rate, without recourse to the threat
of war implied in armaments, there might be
something to be said for Mr. Charlton’s
policy of folded hands. But the very British
Labor Government to whose achievements
he has been pointing with such pride con-
stitutes a standing repudiation of the humbug
talked by himselt and his followers m .Aus-
tralia. British Labor is building right up to
the sea standard allowed by the Washington
agreement ■ and so far as is practicable, in
view of the difficulty of training the neces-
sary pilots, it is building up to the French
air standard as well. Lord Haldane, widely
objurgated for his pacifism during the World
War, and now Labor’s chairman of the
National Committee of Defence, put it this
way to a Review of Reviews interviewer a.
few weeks ago -
Nor do we think of radical one-sided reductions
of our defensive forces while the world is in its
present dishevelled state. We hope, eventually, to
reach a position in which all countries, Great Britain
and France included, will be able to reduce military
and naval commitments and the heavy expenditure
they entail. But to reduce them single-handed may
be bad economy. What we should save financially
we might lose diplomatically.
The sooner Australian Labor accepts that
logical principle the better it will be for its
reputation for sense and honesty. And once
that hurdle is jumped, the party will only
need to produce an adequate defence policy
to win back some of its lost prestige.
*
Suggested Stoppage of Public Works.
The present remarkable financial position is
that Australia has real money due to it in
England and is quite unable to collect. The
money belongs in part to Australian Gov-
ernments which have been on the loan razzle,
if borrowed money can be said to belong,
and in part to banks and individuals as a
result of wool sales and the like; but how
much is one and how little is the other is
mere speculation. The total has been guessed
as high as £50,000,000, and the debtor will
settle neither in gold nor in any sort of
paper which has any wage-paying value
here, though he is willing to send out goods
which will compete against our industries
and deprive our people of work. As N. S.
Wales Minister Ley put the matter recently,
“Refusal to give preference was a bad enotigh
blow, but to deny to Australians the use of
their own money demands some explana-
tion,” and it certainly does. Another mat-
ter which calls for explanation is the action
of the Federal Government in floating an-
other £10,000,000 loan in the Cold Country,
where this community appears to have so
much money already that it can’t lay its
hands upon. Presumably it won’t be able
to lay its hands on this new lot either. The
situation appears to be that J. Bull won’t
part with gold coin, because he wants every
sovereign to liquidate the annual instalment
of his big debt to that very eminent bill-
collector, Uncle Washington Sam. When
Uncle gets the gold he doesn’t part with it
to pay for goods or anything else, but sits
down on it with the impact of an elephant
and stays there. In 1921 and 1922 our
acquisitive American relative imported 1114
million dollars worth of gold and exported
only 161 million dollars worth; in other
words, lie gathered in 953 million golden dol-
lars net in payment for goods for which he
refused to accept goods in exchange. Some
surreptitious and unrecorded exports of coin
may have taken place in return for boot-
legged whisky, but still the balance is very
heavy. In addition, Uncle sits hard on his
local output, which is three times Australia’s
output, and he has been pursuing this policy
of accumulation for years, until his illus-
trated coat-tail is worn to rags with roosting
on hard metal. In fact, he has looted the
world so successfully that it is difficult for
it to pay him what it owes him. Australia
allows its much diminished gold yield to be
exported because it fetches fancy and in-
flated values abroad; but as the values cau
be collected only in foreign paper of no pur-
chasing value here, or in foreign merchan-
dise which crowds local merchandise out of
our own market, there is nothing in the
business except lunacy. The Australian
gold crop ultimately, it is supposed, finds
its way to the pile of the absorbent Uncle
Washington Sam, and stays there. This
country doesn’t put its gold coin into circu-
lation because the said coin would disappear.
It doesn’t print and issue enough notes to keep
the wheels of industry turning because of a
fear that the gold reserve isn’t large enough to
preserve a much bigger paper issue from de-
preciation. The reserve doesn’t increase to
any appreciable extent because the new out-
put of precious metal is sent abroad, as
already mentioned. And the other day a
N. S. Wales Minister stated, with a face
of gloom, that, despite the large revenue, the
heavy taxation and the lavish borrowing, it
may be necessary to shut down on public
works and turn the workers adrift for lack
of small change to pay them with. If a
capable board of directors had charge of the
problem it would almost certainly decide to
make the purchase of the Australian gold
output an Australian Government monopoly,
paying any extra price that might be called
for out of the profits of the note issue, and
thus get a sound basis for the issue of more
paper. In other words, it might decide to
do our American relative the subtle compli-
ment of imitating, in a small way, his habit
of hoarding hard money. But the difficulty
of getting the legislative machine, which is
generally an adjourned machine when it is
most wanted, into motion is something ter-
rible.
♦
The Section That Can Never Be
Internationalist.
Count Kaw'amuka, a delegate to the League
of Nations, interviewed at San Francisco
recently, said that “Japan would support
internationally-enforced immigration agree-
ments barring from any country the
lower classes of other nations, while
freely admitting the higher classes.” What
a devastating criticism it constitutes of the
dream on which communism and disarma-
ment are founded! The world has always
had a certain amount of internationalism.
In the Middle Ages the European kings and
certain great families were united under the
aegis of the Roman Catholic Church. Medi-
cine is edifyingly international. So is pure
science. Even modern Christianity, that
fertile breeder of un-Christian vices, is
capable of becoming internationalist under
the spur of persecution. Archbishop
Clepliaic attributed his release by the Soviet
authorities lately to the representations of
Protestant England. But there is one
quarter in every country, white, brown or
black, where there is precious little inter-
nationalism, and that is the quarter where
the thing is now being acclaimed most
vehemently. Even the Japanese, who are so
anxious to enter into competition industri-
ally and agriculturally with white workers,
have no desire to see a principle established
which would permit Koreans and Chinese
coolies to compete with them. Those works
of reference which provide glossaries of
newly-coined words show the way the wind
blows —that the bitterest enemies of workers
are rival workers. “Pommies,” “Dagoes,”
“Chows,” “Wops,” “Squareheads”—these
are terms of opprobrium, by whatever
sophistries their users try to hide the fact,
and they are accepted as such by those to
whom they are applied. It has nothing to
do with a superior standard of urbanity
that insulting words of the sort are not
hurled by, say, Australian surgeons at
English ones: the explanation is that the
dread and anger are not there. When the
position of the over-populated and luxury-
demanding world of to-day is boiled down
to essentials, the great truth emerges that
the only people who cannot participate in
an honest world-brotherhood movement are
the manual workers. A Russian who talks
1.W.W.-ism in Moscow is an object for
admiration by a Yarra-bank orator, and a
starving brother of Petrograd may be sent
doles b.v the well-fed workers of 'Australia.
But let one of these unfortunates immi-
grate, and accept the only rate of pay that
lie is economically worth, and he becomes not
a brother to be embraced, but a “scab” to be
boycotted. Count Kawamura recognises
that Japanese of his sort —the intelligentsia
of the nation —are not merely tolerable but
welcome even in color-sensitive parts of the
world like the U.S. The unpopular immigrant
is the cheap immigrant; and the cheaper he
is the colder his welcome. And he can rely
on finding that the laws to keep him out,
and (should he get in) to industrially control
him, in the interests of the native-born, are
the more drastic in proportion as the Gov-
ernment is more imbued w T ith Labor sym-
pathies.
♦
The Banking Burden.
The conclusions of an accountant: —
There has for some time been a large surplus in
London, with the result that the rate of exchange
has continually gone against sellers of bills drawn
against Australian exports, and in favor of importers.
It will hardly be credited, but it is) a fact, that the
mere negotiation of a wool-draft on London costs
more than the shearing of the sheep; the discount
on a 60-days bill is equivalent to about Id. in the
£l, while the removal of the fleece from the sheep’s
back costs about Id. per £l.
In some quarters the panacea is a “cut” in wages;
but what is required to remedy the heavy impost
on the woolgrower is a reduction in the cost of
purchasing bills on London. It may be thought that
the grower is not concerned in the cost of
financing the shipment; but it stands to reason
that, if the cost of negotiating his bills
is unduly high, a lower price will be paid
by the buyer and less money can be got for the
wool, while more goes into the coffers of the banks.
The actual charge for negotiating a 60-days bill on
London at present is 725. 6d. p.c.; at the same time of
year in 1914 the rate was 325. 6d. p.c. So that, for
every £lOO realised for our wool, £2 more than
in the pre-war period is absorbed by the banks for
negotiating the transaction. The wheat-grower is
hit up for about lfd. per bushel, butter to the tune
of about £6 per ton, and so on, with every other
article of export. This state of affairs is clearly
prejudicial to the producers, and calls for remedy.
It is idle for the banks to declare that so much of
their funds are already in London that they cannot
afford to purchase bills on more favorable terms.
The position amounts to a confession of incapacity
when such charges are inflicted upon primary pro-
ducers.
In the endeavors of laymen to solve the difficulty
various proposals have been made. It has been
suggested that gold should be imported from Eng-
land, ignoring the fact that gold is not free, and
could not be obtained. The reasonable and feasible
way is to invest the temporary balances to best
advantage in London and secure Australian notes to
meet all legitimate requirements. What is to pre-
vent a re-discount of trade bills with the Common-
wealth Bank by those banks that need more cur-
rency? The notes would be automatically retired as
the bills ran off. The Commonwealth Bank should,
of course, negotiate such bills as were drawn against
goods, and not bills for accommodation purposes.
This would make funds available to meet the un-
satisfied demands for money for useful purposes, and
tend also to bring down the excessive rates of in-
terest. It would be a move in the direction of easing
the extraordinary rates to which Treasurers have
allowed themselves to be subjected.
Those engaged in industry, whether primary or
secondary, are suffering from excessive interest rates.
This affects them in two ways—in the cost of then-
direct borrowing and in the taxes they are called
upon to pay to meet the exorbitant interest on
public borrowing. The farmers, for example, are now
paying anything from 50 p.c. to 75 p.c. higher rates
of interest than in the pre-war days; and these
increased rates are paid upon higher prices for the
same land, making their outgoing in this direction
almost unsupportable. Incidentally, when the banks
restrict credit for legitimate uses it would be in-
teresting to ascertain how much of their advances
have been;made upon land, assisting to inflate prices
ana thus rendering land less accessible and less re-
munerative. This is an aspect of the financial posi-
tion which deserves close attention. Anything that
tends to make it more difficult for those who wish
to bring land into use to procure it on such condi-
tions as will enable them to enjoy a fair return for
their labor, is contrary to the best interests of the
community.
Again, it is not alone the heavy charges laid upon
the exporters that are objectionable, but the margin
between buying and selling is unjustifiable. Prior to
the outbreak of the war the margin was 17s. 6d. p.c.
but this was increased to 30s. p.c. in August, 1914.
It was maintained at this figure, in spite of con-
stant protests from the mercantile community, till
quite recently, when the difference was grudgingly
reduced to between 225. 6d. p.c. and 275. 6d. p.c., still
largely in excess of pre-war rates, in spite of the
enormously increased amount of the transactions.
Again, in the matter of exchange on transactions
within the Commonwealth and Maoriland, no ease
has been given to the public. The more rapid tran-
sit, and the system under which banks may lodge
Australian notes at one point and obtain the same
amount without deduction at another, is justification
for expecting a revision of the rates imposed by the
banks. Perusal of the rates discloses no concession;
in fact, rates that ruled decades ago, before the ex-
tension of the railways, prevail to-day; and points
lying outside a particular State, although within one
or two days’ mail, are subjected to special rates
which are quite indefensible, and could not persist
if there were real competition.
The fact is that the community is paying too
much for its banking services, and it is time to
survey the position in the interests of the producers,
both primary and secondary, of the Commonwealth.
Banking, after all, is only secondary to production
of all kinds. It has, however, gradually assumed
in every community a dominant position not justi-
fied by its services. It is injurious to our best in-
terests that what may be termed a tertiary organisa-
tion increases its profits irrespective of the general
condition of the community. The Economist, deal-
ing with banking profits, innocently remarked the
other day: “It seems to indicate that the general
slackness of trade is not greatly impairing the earn-
ing capacity of the great banks.”
4
Discipline in Politics.
The political situation in Victoria can be
matched in its essentials in all the States and
in the Commonwealth. Victoria has 30
alleged Ministerialists, 12 Agrarians and 23
Laborites. The Laborites are solid when it
comes to a conflict in or out of the House—
despite inevitable domestic differences, most
of which are settled out of earshot of the
press—while their opponents are sharply
divided in name and in fact. The country
Liberals more or less repudiate the Farm-
ers Union representatives and are likewise
repudiated by ' the metropolitan Liberals,
and all of them have certain objections to the
members of the Ministry. For about a year
the same futile bickerings—now falling to
low mutterings of discontent, now rising
to roars of anger and hatred—have been
as audible in Victoria’s anti-Labor ranks as
in those of N. S. Wales and amongst the
Bruce-I age following. The breakaway on
the part of the five metropolitan Liberals,
which resulted in the defeat of the Vic. Gov-
ernment on the Redistribution of Seats Bill
and the infliction on the State of another
general election, was to be expected in the
circumstances—or, if not that breakaway,
then a Farmers’ Union or a Country Liberal
one. But a phenomenon which is both un-
expected and inexplicable is the astounded
indignation of papers like the Age at the
attitude of the National Campaign Council
in the matter:—
The Council is said to be considering the feasi-
bility of “knifing,” through the medium of the
organisation, the five members of Parliament who
contributed to the Government’s defeat. It simplv
means that, if the organisation decides that these
"ve men are to be “downed,” the electors will be
sooled into doing the organisation’s dirty work. The
fault of the five is that they failed in docility to the
unseen, unknown bosses of the party; they did not
respond With sufficient promptness to' the party whip.
All perfectly true and thoroughly deplorable,
but, as a matter of practical politics, what
else can the council do? These petty
political conundrums, which are being-
set all over the Commonwealth, belong
to the same sinister family as the vast
European problem which is threatening the
life of civilisation. The first of them made
its appearance when Labor decided to fight
according to tactics that might have been
devised by a Prussian general. The motto
of the modern Australian Laborite is “My
party, right or wrong”; his watchword:
“Blind discipline.” If the opponents of Labor
are not prepared to meet organisation with
organisation, they must be prepared for the
fate of those who go out unarmed to fight
enemies equipped with the latest methods of
destruction. The effects of political warfare
conducted on such lines are as deadly in
their way as the effects of international war-
fare. The system produces a type of mem-
ber who represents no one but the party
H.Q. staff that nominates him; who is with-
out strong principles as a condition of
getting his job, and who, in consequence, is
easily corrupted. There was a time when
the conscience of the community was hostile
to machine politics, when “caucus rule” was
a reproach that carried weight. If Liberal-
ism, as anti-Labor described itself at the
time, had come out decisively then for Elec-
tive Ministries and the Recall, it would
simultaneously have spiked the guns of the
Trades Hall generalissimos and done much
to give the country clean politics. The party’s
masterly torpor on the matter is to blame
for the present position, which is that, un-
less all the sections opposed to Labor are con-
tent to submit absolutely to some form of
unified command, they must expect to see an
organisation in which Moscow anarchists
and Australian trades unionists are as one
controlling the Commonwealth for an in-
definite period.
The Sitting-member Superstition.
The two half-Priministers agreed last week
that the more or less cordial understanding
between the parties they lead should be con-
verted into an alliance. Then was published
a treaty which is to last as long as the Com-
posite Ministry hangs together, and the
main points of it are as follows:
It the Government lives till the next election,
Nationalists are to be run for the 27 seats in the
House of Reps, and Cookies for the 14 that they at
present hold. They will be the official candidates,
and poaching is prohibited.
For Labor constituencies, such as Wannan (Vic.)
and Gwydir (N.S.W.), both parties will be free to
nominate. Where the privilege is exercised an
exchange of preferences will be enjoined on the elec-
tors by the issue of how-to-vote cards and the like.
But “every effort” will first be made to limit the
people’s choice to one particular candidate or group.
The Ministerial ticket for the Senate to consist of
two Nationalists and one Cocky—in N. S. .Wales, any-
how, “and wherever else opportunity offers.”
The pact has been loudly applauded; but
the Farmers’ Federal organisation has yet
to be heard from. Without its approval the
thing will be valueless; and there are doubts
whether it will ratify an arrangement which
forbids its party to grow at the expense of
the Nationalists. Apart from that considera-
tion, however, some of the delegates to its
forthcoming conference may be expected to
take up the cudgels for McWilliams, the
first Cocky leader in the House of Reps., and
Fleming, who was Earle Page’s deputy
18 months ago. McWilliams, who had
been M.H.R. for Franklin (Tas.) since 1903,
was narrowly beaten by 1 - the Nationalist
Seabrogk in December, 1922, the voting
being 2829 for Seabbook and 2762 for
McWilliams in a 43.82 p.c. poll. Fleming
also Avent under to a Nationalist in Robert-
son (N.S.W.) , which he had represented for
ten years, the adverse margin in his case
being 2056 and the percentage of voters
52.3. Neither has done anything to
warrant ins being coldly sacrificed by the
Cocky bosses. The moral right of Massy
Greene, the ex-Treasurer, and of Wise, the
ex-Postmaster-General, to stand again in the
National interest is equally unassailable.
Yet under the half-Priministers’ agreement,
none of the four will be permitted to con-
test his old constituency as an accredited
party candidate. He will have to stand
aside in favor of the sitting member, who
perhaps owed his success to a passing caprice
or a fluke, or come out as an Independent,
with the Government, the party organisation
and the Ministerial journals ranged against
him. If Greene's claims are rejected the
Nationalists will be guilty of the blackest
ingratitude, for he polled 9660 votes in Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) against 9848 recorded for
the victorious Agrarian, a much inferior
politician, and he has made no secret of his
intention (Bruce, his associate in the
Hughes Cabinet, must have been aware of
it) to try again. Another difficulty about
the arrangement is that Cameron and
Duncan-Hughes, two S.A. members, and
Latham, the legal member for Kooyong
(Vic.), were returned as Liberals, and
Watson, of Fremantle, as an Independent.
Watson defeated an official Nationalist, and
Latham was hailed as an Agrarian by Earle
Page, although he sits for a suburban con-
stituency. If Latham is a Cocky, Robert Best
will be unable to contest Kooyong as an
accredited Nationalist, although Best (an
original Senator) represented the place for
12 years, got 3868 more primary votes than
Latham in 1922, and was only 329 behind
when 28,391 ballot-papers (5341 of them
Labor preferences) had been counted. The
preservation of the Buuce-Page Govern-
ment is doubtless important; the arrival of
such a Labor Government as Charlton
would nominally lead would certainly be a
national disaster. But the success of the
forces opposed to Red Raggery does not de-
pend upon acquiescence in a proposal to make
Parliament a close preserve for sitting mem-
bers.
Hearts and Poles.
Dear Bulletin, —What specially interests
me in the chorus of admiration of
Stefansson is a statement that “for
generations learned theorists, living in
London, Berlin, etc., had proclaimed
that the Arctic regions were not only
economically worthless, but for the most part
(in the words of the ‘Encyclopedia Britan -
nica’) without animal life, and hence unin-
habitable by Europeans.” Not having the
“Ency. Brit.” at hand, I am unable to verify
the story: but “Chambers’.-;” puts it briefly:
“Musk oxen, reindeer, foxes, hares and wolves
are met with on Arctic land. Polar bears
roam widely over the icefields. Whales,
walruses, narwhals and seals abound.
Guillemots, little auks, gulls and other sea-
birds are found in vast numbers near Spitz-
bergen and other islands. Eider-duck nest
on the low lands,” etc. I read much the same
at school. These facts leaked out to such
an extent, even before Stefansson discov-
ered life in the Arctic, that whalers and seal-
liunters went there regularly, and the Hud-
son’s Bay Co. lived up that way for a couple
of hundred years or so. The map goes so
far as to show permanent towns inside the
Arctic regions; those in Norway, _ Finland
and Russia are certainly white men’s towns,
though the Arctic towns in Greenland, such
as tlpernavik, Jacobsliavn and Christian-
sliaab, are white within limits only. The
fact that there is vegetation on the Arctic
lands, as Stefansson states, was inferred
long ago, partly through people noticing it.
and partly through the presence of hares and
the like, ‘which don’t live by fishing. Ste-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
FUNDS EXCEED - - £875,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT and PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, J.F., Governing Director.
' Representatives wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
fansson has certainly demonstrated that a
small party of white men can lead a rather
profitless and monotonous life in the Arctic
regions for some years, if they live on wild
meat and fish, as the Eskimo do, and dis-
pense with asparagus and certain other vege-
tables. It is only a question of learning to
catch the meat, and I don’t think it is news
that a certain type of white man—the type
of which good explorers are made —can learn
any simple art that his colored brother is
capable of. As the Eskimo support a scanty
population on local produce it was obvious
that there was local produce, if a scanty
party of whites cared to be supported in
Eskimo style. I confess that I don’t consider
it worth while. If the sanguine explorer
really thinks that the reindeer and domestic
musk-ox will do anything appreciable in the
Farthest North to help the world’s meat sup-
ply, I think he is thinking through his hat.
A diet of moss, lichens, birch-bark, snow-
balls and an occasional wild flower doesn’t
make for vast herds. The buffalo had every
chance to multiply without stint right up to
the Pole, the ice giving a pathway among
the islands, and he had every permission to
be as domestic as he pleased, but he didn’t
grow numerous enough in the real North to
amount to much. Stefansson, having
proved by experiment in the Arctic what was
known already and was hardly worth know-
ing, and having built a gilded theory on it,
is now said to be the right man to discover
that the Australian “desert” or dry region
isn’t a desert at all, and that all previous visi-
tors were wrong. If he had discovered any-
thing new of the climatic sort on his own
stamping-ground I would be more hopeful.
As it is I expect he will find the same old
thing. I decline to worship at the shrine of
the “foreign expert.” The desert’s reputa-
tion for being what it is wasn’t made by
“pedants of the cities” to any greater extent
than the reputation of Sahara, Arabia
Deserta, Gobi and any other dry sample. It
rests on the word of men who went out there
and put the dry country on the map. It is
considered patriotic in Australia, and also
helpful to the big loan, to deny that Australia
isn’t green all over. It is even the right
thing to aver that the country is rather
mountainous on the whole, and well supplied
with rivers. I don’t know what is gained
by this camouflage, but if Stefansson is
going to give it a new start I wish he would
go away and disprove someone else’s desert
and leave our “heart” alone. Sahara would be
a good myth to begin on. P»ut perhaps there
are no city men there to offer the glad hand
and the light lunch. —Yours, etc., Solomon
Malaprop.
♦
The Fanatical Disarmer.
“J.E.” in reply to “Sky Pilot”
The reverend critic who replies to my article on
the making of war with pruning-hooks states that
in the recent row “armaments didn’t save the
nations.” If armaments didn’t save them —such as
were saved —I would like to know what did. It
was a new thing in armaments which saved Britain,
anyhow, namely, the depth charge. I have never
contemplated the idea of England deciding that in
future she would take no other people’s “territory,
mines or oil-wells,” and in addition restoring “those
which in the past she had commandeered,” but I
will give the matter earnest consideration. Still, the
first place the English commandeered was England
itself, and to give it back to the ancient Welsh race
might leave the dominant push rather homeless. It
would assuredly be a heroic act if some country of
importance (not necessarily Great Britain) led tiie
way and announced that “on a certain date she would
scrap he)' navy and disband her army” (also disband
her police force), and trust in future to the “honor,
fairness and integrity” of other nations (and like-
wise of her own nation). I think I would begin with
the police. Then that country would find out
whether the world has improved much since Poland
set an example to Europe by disbanding its military
outfit —at least the outfit, being unpaid, disbanded
itself, so far as the confused record goes. The crim-
inal courts, I suppose, would be closed. It would be
absurd to retain the police on the ground that our
own community was the only one whose “honor,
fairness and integrity” couldn’t be relied on, and it
would be equally absurd to have courts without
police to drag people to them.
After all, Mr. S. Pilot avoids my point, which
was the only point worth dealing with. It was that
if people do beat the sword into a pruning-liook and
abandon the military art, there is nothing to pre-
vent two or more amateur mobs going to war witli
said hooks, and doing horrible things on the cheap,
the same as Cain did—if the churches still hold that
the individual who slew 25 per cent, of the human
race wasn’t a myth. The great change would be
that all the races would be starting afresh from
scratch. The people who were furthest from the ape
would have abandoned their advantage over those
who were nearest to the ape and who showed no
signs of getting away from that hairy animal; and
civilisation and Christianity might perish in conse-
quence. In any case, though war is a dreadful thing,
even to people without cold feet (and I suppose
much pacifism is really cold feet), there may be
something worse. So much benevolence and genius
is being spent on the reduction of the death-rate
and the making of ten people, including four niggers
and one or two mental deficients, grow where one
bloomed before, that this globe may yet become a
slum in which the finer feelings are smothered by
overcrowding.
I have no desire to be irreverent, but I want to
put my case, and if Mr. Pilot feels damaged 1 hope
he will presently be repaired. The whole trouble is
due, so far as I can see, to God making the Devil,
which apparently led to the making of sin (includ-
ing war), disease, misery and the bottomless pit. If
the Devil can neither be converted nor removed, the
effort to make an end of war is not worth discussing,
and might almost be classified as impertinent inter-
ference. There was at least one notable sect which
held that the universe was founded by two co-equal
Powers, one dark and the other blond; but the
orthodox, who held that one beneficent Authority
made everything, including Satan and the results
arising from him, persecuted it out of existence, and
the orthodox prevail unto this day.
#
Political Blackmail.
The people behind the movement to secure
a liquor referendum in N. S. Wales next
year have announced that “a State-wide
campaign will be launched in Sydney Town
Hall on June 17. The Mayor of the city will
preside, and every moral and social reform
force will be represented.” The aim of the
THE TROJAN HORSE: NEW STYLE.
“Communists can join in no movement in which they are not free to propagate their ideas.”— Manifesto.
KING BOLSHIE: “A new idea, we flatter ourselves. Instead of armed soldiers it contains
white ants.”
campaign is not to show the taxpayers how,
in the event of Prohibition being carried,
it will be effectuated and financed (incom-
parably more difficult problems in any Aus-
tralian State than in the U.S.A.), but to
persuade 100,000 of them to vote blindly for
Prohibitionist candidates as such. The tem-
perance party of the State is even more
divided than the Labor and anti-Labor
parties. One half believes in compensation:
the other points out that the payment of
over 14 millions sterling to the trade must be
an intolerable tax on the rest of the com-
munity. One half is convinced that N. S.
Wales, without troops, warships and a lavish
expenditure of money, can enforce total
abstinence; the other has its doubts. One
half argues that the attempt should not be
made till a large majority has been won over
to the Prohibition side: the other half says
that a snap majority-vote of a few thousands
in a population of a couple of millions is
enough to warrant a beginning. The so-
called “Victory Pledge” is an ingenious trick
to force the hands of honest doubters and
more particularly of politicians who are doubt-
ers. The 100,000 pledge-signers will be only
a twentieth of the population of the State,
but they will constitute a solid block, ready,
like a “push,” to save or slay as circum-
stances demand. In the present case their
orders will be to demand the utmost. Many
politicians happen to be men of the world
as well as temperance advocates. They dis-
like Prohibition for the same reason that
they dislike intemperance. They know that
the diminution of drunkenness cannot be
brought about by a sudden order directed by
non-drinkers at drunkards and temperate
drinkers alike. They know also that much
of the drunkenness which now scandalises
decent people in the cities and big towns is
due to easily removable causes. But they
do not dare to move, for the watchful eyes
of the 100,000 are ever on them, and to the
directing forces behind this band moderation
is the traitor’s badge. The danger of incor-
porating this Yankee notion of the “Victory
Pledge” with our constitutional system is that
it can be used to foist almost any craze on.
the community. All that is required is an
energetic organiser and a leaven of unin-
formed prejudice to work upon. On such
lines it would be fairly easy to rake together
100.000 citizens sworn to vote only for poli-
ticians who favored the prohibition of Sun-
day games, cigarettes, jazzing, picture shows
or surf-bathing. All have their bitter critics
and each is indulged in by a careless minority
of the population. And a feature of the
device that adds, if possible, to its undesir-
ableness is the impossibility of employing it
for constructive purposes.
Tropical Diseases.
From another laboratory :
The writer of “A Warning from a Laboratory” (B.
29/5/’24) does well to remind us that Australia must
conduct an unceasing offensive-defensive against
malaria; but is it true, as he asserts, that the
scourge is “steadily gaining ground”? Let me
draw his attention to the last report of the Repatria-
tion Commission, which states that the cases with
which that body is specially concerned are “markedly
lessening in number,” and that “the great influx
of malarial soldiers has not increased the incidence
of malaria in Australia, nor caused any new foci of
infection.” Though the fact is little known, a large
proportion of our Lighthorsemen and Cameliers
who fought against Jacko—particularly those who
served in the Jordan Valley —contracted malaria.
Their return in 1919 gave the medical authorities a
tough nut to crack, for many of the patients belonged
to South Queensland, Northern N. S. Wales and
sub-tropical Groperland, where the anopheles mos-
quito had been found, although it had done no
recorded damage. Segregation was out of the ques-
tion, and there was a real danger that anopheles
would carry the disease from soldiers to civilians and
establish it in districts previously immune. But
the problem was resolutely tackled along the lines of
notification and intensive treatment, the Diggers co-
operating loyally. These measures have proved so
effective that hundreds of warriors who crawled into
hospital, shivering wrecks of manhood, in the latter
part of 1919 have been restored to perfect health,
and those who haven’t been cured outright hare
been greatly relieved.
As regards bilharzia, another highly-infective and
even more distressing disease —160 of Chauvei/s
men brought it back from Egypt—loo p.c. of cures
have been effected by the antimony tartrate treat-
ment, and the danger of its being established in
the Commonwealth is now regarded as over.
These results are entirely creditable to the Com-
monwealth and State Health Departments and the
Repatriation doctors, who get more kicks than ha’-
pence. They suggest that tropical diseases can be
eradicated from Australia if Australians are pre-
pared to pay the not very considerable price. There
are indications that malaria has never been much cf
a burden to Binghi. Investigators from the Towns-
ville Institute of Tropical Medicine reported not
long ago that the aboriginal population of the North-
ern Territory was practically free from it, and the
same is probably true of the blacks in Northern West-
ralia. A Protector of Aborigines told me once
that Binghi, though uncleanly about his person, had
a very efficient sanitary system, being far more scrupu-
lous in this regard than Gyppos, negroes, South
American Indians or poor whites. It is significant
that he i has transmitted no indigenous disease to
the conquering race —nothing comparable to the
syphilis with which the American aborigine avenged
himself on Spain, or the hookworm which the
African slave carried to the Carolinas.
♦
Minister Stewart, the ex-Mallee farmer
who has quite forgotten his Mallee thrifti-
ness, believes in doing things on a large
scale and doing them with a whoop. He is
even wild that the House boggled over the
proposal to appoint three Commissioners, at
£3OOO, £2OOO and £2OOO rsepectively, to
superintend Canberra. According to his
view, “if there is one mistake made in Aus-
tralia it is cheeseparing in matters of
national importance,” and when one com-
pares the apparently insuperable difficulty
experienced in getting even a single-line
narrow-gauge railway to provide for the
North a show of defence, settlement and
effective occupation with the haste shown
over a futility like Canberra, there appears
a streak of wisdom in Stewart. And by
way of a streak of the other thing he added
that the United States’ way of doing things
is “to get big men and pay them well,” and
forgot to mention that these big men are per-
mitted to do big things. Australia dodges
the last and most important feature. In
consequence it hires fairly big railway mana-
gers, but won’t let them build assuredly pro-
fitable lines that are not political jobs, or
refuse to build assuredly disastrous ones
that are political jobs, or close-up utterly
hopeless ones which have always been politi-
cal jobs. Even now N. S. Wales has two
expensive imported men on hand with a com-
mission to report on every aspect of its
railway management except the foolishness
of making the lines so crooked that the way
from a rich district to the sea may be three
times longer than necessary, and the absurd-
ity of lines that stop short almost in sight
of a serviceable port merely because it isn’t
Sydney. It isn’t worth bringing in big men
under such limitations. A station-master
and a traffic superintendent should be enough.
But when the United States hustle and lav-
ishness are quoted by persons like Stewart
in the interests of Canberra (which is to be
our Washington) the parable falls flat.
Washington was certainly chosen early (in
the first President’s first presidency, in fact),
because, though the Constitution was com-
plete, some of the States hung back from
ratifying it until the site of the capital should
be settled. None of them demanded that the
metropolis should be in, or wholly sur-
rounded by, its own territory, but there was
a demand for a definite central site with a
port attached. Congress removed to its new
home in 1800, when the Constitution was 13
years old. But then the community got so
busy with what it regarded as of “national
importance,” including transcontinental rail-
ways, that the place wasn’t even paved until
Grant’s second term (1873-1877). The
Yank may be a hustler, but he has his calm
moments.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers aii classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
What is the Economic Life of a
Motor Lorry?
The “Commercial Motor,” London, reporting on the 18th
London Parade of Commercial Motor Vehicles, says:—
“Thomas Tilling, Ltd., showed no fewer than 12 vehicles,
all of Tilling-Stevens manufacture, several being box vans
employed by the General Post Office.
“These vehicles were remarkable for their length of
service; one, which had covered no fewer than 286,500 miles,
looked in the pink of condition.”
Sole Concessionaires for Tilling-Stevens Motors, Ltd.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, Parramatta Road, Camperdown (City).
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
A pre-election survey:—
The outlook for the Vic. Liberals who go to
the country on June 26 is such that not even Pre-
mier Peacock could call it bright. The party organ-
isation —unready, as always—has been in pursuit of
possible candidates, only to receive acid refusals
from eligible after eligible. Hence the first batch
of candidates comprised Tories (wild and
tame), theorists, visionaries and nonentities, who
will, of course, make it easier for Labor and the
Agrarians to score. Peacock, wearer of Berry s tat-
tered mantle, must have felt distressed as he sat
with the Campaign Council doing the picking. His
policy speech at Creswiek, which he read, was in
no way inspiring; it contained no clarion call. 1 his
is the third time he has had to lead the Liberal
army when it became worn out and ragged first,
after Federation, when the House of Reps, stole
some of the best men from the Assembly; next, when
the Big Disturbance in Europe knocked everything
sideways; and now, when the legion is undisciplined
and unkempt. To keep Labor out of office it will
almost certainly be necessary for Liberalism to con-
clude another agreement with the Cockies, and the
latter will make their own terms.
Labor will run 40-odd candidates in the
Vic. Assembly election, and talks of adding
10 seats to the 22 it already has. The
prophecy is discounted by the fact that it
has taken the party 35 years to win those
22 seats. Twenty years ago, when the
Prendergast group took possession of the
main Opposition benches, it had 17 ad-
herents, including Hannah (now an IshmaeL)
and Solly, members for the State services
under Irvine’s separate-representation scheme.
Thus only five members have been added
since 1904, and one of the five (the Dal-
liousie man) got in by a fluke. Much as
Liberalism lias earned a bump by its flab-
biness, there is small chance of the ever-
defeated Prendergast accomplishing twice as
much on June 26 as has been done m 20
years.
Dr. Watson, the Commonwealth’s official
historian and a witness before the New
States Commission, broke fresh ground when
he gave his opinion that Sydney was a mis-
take, and that Governor Phillip would have
put the capital at Port Stephens if he had
made a more careful inspection of the country
to begin with. He described Sydney as an
oasis surrounded by miles of inferior
which involved “90 miles of dead haulage.
By the time the Commission recovered its
senses the witness was gone, but his arrest
is hourly expected.
The N.S.W. Premier lately delivered a
speech composed largely of extracts from the
orations of prominent Laborites to the effect
that the pre-selection ballots in their party
are as rotten as they can be, that they have
been so for 20 years, and that the biggest
swindler wins almost every time. Labor-
leader Lang, to whom the gift of repartee
has been denied, could think of no brighter
retort than that it was a dull speech and a
“dud.” But though Fuller declared, in
effect, that his friends were being ruled by a
choice assortment of swindlers, he didn’t men-
tion that he had a remedy. What good is
there in being a sanitary department which
reports on the debris in the streets, and says
it has been there a long time, and leaves it
there?
Although the Westralian Labor Ministry
is pledged to State Socialism, it started its
business career by selling a Government but-
ter-factory to a co-operative company. The
transaction was justified by the fact that
Government couldn’t make the thing pay,
but it represents a striking departure from
the precept and practice of Australian Labor
parties for the last five-and-twenty years.
The Nationalists are waiting for a roar of
protest from the workers —the roar they
were warned to expect if they disposed of the
bankrupt State undertakings launched by
their Labor predecessors. So far they
haven’t heard a squeak.
Tax-free securities amounting to
£132,071,874 have been issued in Australia
by the Commonwealth Government. How-
ever, the privileged class thus established can
be soon extinguished by a resolute Treasurer,
for 70 millions mature in December, 1925,
and 48 millions in December, 1927, while
12 millions are redeemable this month. The
Big-City Governments are in a worse plight;
without drastic action on the part of the
Commonwealth the curse of tax-free issues
will lie on the States for decades. One way
of rescuing them is to Federalise the State
debts.
THE OLD WOOD-PILE.
“The platform on which the Vic. Liberals will go to the country, as disclosed by Mr. Peacock in his
policy speech, has a familiar appearance.”
PEACOOK (to the Vic. elector): “Timber looks a hit old? Nonsense, sir! It's very highly
seasoned, that’s what it is; and anyone knows that's an advantage."
Those Queensland civil servants who be-
long to the General Officers’ Association have
linked up with the Labor organisation and
appointed a delegate to its central executive.
Thereby they have committed a folly, for a
non-Labor Government may be in office when
the inevitable day of retrenchment arrives,
and rude hands will be laid on depart-
ments packed with political opponents. More-
over, organised State employees who identify
themselves with a particular party, expect-
ing thereby to wring concessions from the
general taxpayer, have no valid defence
against the charge that their massed vote is
a danger and should therefore be segregated.
With the closing down of British prefer-
ence, such as it was, another jolt has been
given to the dried-fruit business, in which
so many hopes, including those of returned
soldiers, are embarked, to say nothing of
wads of loan money. The trade was worth
£1,200,000 in 1922-23, and was just getting
into its stride. Disasters of the kind are
always lying in wait for the “primary in-
dustry” which depends on the chance that
the man who makes our woollens and cottons
and linens in England will buy the output
instead of purchasing from his old adjacent
friend Demetrius, the Corinthian, whom
Paul wrote the two letters to. _ If our spin-
ners and weavers and machinery makers
were here we could make sure of their cus-
tom, and so far as they were concerned the
Corinthian would be in the hole instead ot
us. When will Country party cranks cease
to teach the man on the land to cry out for
Freetrade ?
The Bulletin wishes these people would
make up their minds about one matter. It
is an axiom of the New Labor that the
greatest virtue lies in doing the least work,
and it is another axiom that reduction of
hours doesn’t involve reduction of output.
Yet it is held that increase of hours implies
increase of output; hence Lang’s lament that
the N.S.W. Government had restored the 48-
hour week, and thus “made a present of
£8,000,000 a year to the capitalist.”
From the Federal Gallery:—
Nationalists and Agriculturists who were outer!
at the last election are not cheering the Bruce-Page
proposal to give Ministerial supporters in the House
of Reps, mortgages on their seats. McWilliams,
sometime leader of the Country party, says frankly
that he won’t abide by the arrangement, even if it
is endorsed by the Federal Conference of Cockies.
George Wise, who held Gippsland for many years, is
equally antagonistic, and there are other discarded
members in a similar frame of mind. The plan
will not be approved without a lot of opposition from
the young lions of the Vic. Farmers’ Union. Stewart,
Minister for Works and Railways, is known to be
opposed to it, and Dunstan, M.L.A., complains that
it will hurt the State Agrarians in the Vic. Assem-
bly election. Both are highly regarded by the mili-
tants of the Farmers’ parties, and if Page retired
from the Federal leadership (that is reported to be
his intention should his little scheme be rejected by
the forthcoming conference) the member for the
Wimmera would have a good chance of being hoisted
into the vacancy.
Westralia’s new Government has made it
clear that it stands for 44 hours’ work per
week and 124 hours’ sleep and post-leaning.
For a State with the biggest debt per head on
earth, a magnificent accumulated deficit which
has been growing for a dozen consecutive
years, and a great lack of factory industries,
a little extra exertion might seem in order.
Up to latest Federal advices (June, 1922)
the record was that the Westralian indi-
vidual factory ’and produced less value in out-
put than any other on the mainland, and man-
aged to collect far the biggest wage, and, pos-
sibly as a consequence, the State made only
a little over half as much of the goods it
uses as the Australian average—£33 17s. 7d.
worth per inhabitant per year as against an
average of £5B ss. 2d.
The S.A. Labor Government is reported
to be ordering a muzzle for Jelley, M.L.C., its
impulsive Chief Secretary. Having embar-
rassed his party by suggesting (before the
pear was ripe) that it wouldn’t mind
licensing its lawless friend the bookmaker,
the animated indiscretion started a financial
argument with the late Barwell Ministry,
finance being the subject of which he knows
least. He said the Barwellians had left the
Treasury as empty as Mrs. Hubbard’s cup-
board. In effect: —
The whole of the money voted for the activities of
the State for the current financial year was spent
before the Labor Government came into office.
Another five weeks have still to go before the year
ends, and we have got to carry on without money.
Told that he was talking through his hat,
the gentleman discovered that he had “in-
tended to refer to the Railway Department.’
As to that, he alleged that the previous Gov-
ernment had “stooped to fake up a balance-
sheet,” inasmuch as the Railway Commis-
sioners had been obliged to alter the esti-
mates they had prepared for Hague’s last
Budget. Hague replied (1) that lie had
merely followed the general practice of ask-
ing heads of departments to moderate then-
transports, they having asked for £1,000,000
more than he, as Treasurer, was prepared to
find; and (2) that even a Labor Minister
ought to know the difference between esti-
mates and balance-sheets. At this stage
Premier Gunn’s thoughts turned to muzzles.
Russian news deals rather monoto-
nously with the hanging of somebody or
the holding out of the hat. On a
recent day there were two items. One was
about the passing of sentences (death, im-
prisonment or exile) on a large batch of offi-
cials who had utilised their positions to com-
mit all the known crimes except suicide.
The other concerned a newly-founded Society
of Chemical Warfare, which wants funds for
the promotion of new invisible stink-poisons.
The Soviet had subscribed £2,000,000 in
gold, but more funds were urgently needed
to kill people with.
The Nationalist Fedders in Melbourne have
actually dared to put a candidate in the
field against Grandmaster Snowball! Ihe
man selected, Colonel Crowther, is a former
headmaster of Brighton Grammar School;
his late dad, who founded the academy, was
an inveterate opponent of Bent, then M.L.A.
for Brighton, and helped to put Moulc (now
a County Court Judge) in his place. Snow-
ball is in danger, but the L.O.L. will send
out the fiery cross and scorch things before
polling-day.
A. A. Farthing will have a mortal struggle
for the East Melbourne seat in the \ ic.
Assembly. There is a strong Labor vote in
East Melbourne, and Michael Collins got
within 108 votes of Farthing in 1920, though
handicapped by the fact (it was a handicap
in those days) that his cousin and namesake
was a rebel against the Crown. Mick is
not a candidate this time. Then the Pea-
cock party resents Farthing’s attitude over
the Redistribution of Seats Bill. It isn’t
running a man against him, but there will
be no moaning on the Ministerial benches if
the Labor man does the trick.
Apparently the German monarchists could
have secured at least a half-interest in the
Cabinet to go on with after the recent elec-
tions but for their insistence that Grand
Admiral von Tirpitz should be Chancellor.
Tirpitz is 75, and regarded as a genius he
is doubtful. The circumstances recall that
in 1873 the Bourbons could have had the
throne of France back, only an obstinate old
man insisted on bringing back the old flag
with him. The chance hasn’t come round
again in France, and it may not in Germany.
“Zanthus” : Where would Sydney be now
but for the southerly buster that blew Cook
northward on April 20, 1770, before he could
discover Twofold and Jervis bays? asks
“J.H.M.A.” (B. l/5/’24). Yes, where? I
suggest that the Port Jackson New State and
Development League might now be giving
evidence before the New State Commission
sitting at Twofold Bay. If the weather had
been better Cook would certainly have taken
the Endeavor into Twofold Bay instead of
Botany. Then Phillip would have been in-
structed to found his settlement there, and
the newspaper of Twofold would be printing
to-day evidence like this: —
Mr. Stinger, speaking for the Port Jackson
Development League, pointed out that one of the
best harbors in the world was lying practically
unused in Port Jackson. There was no railway
within 60 miles of it, and the products of the back
country which should be served by it were being
taken by a roundabout route to a port 300-odd
miles away. An abundant water supply for a city
of at least 50,000 persons could be made available
at reasonable expense. Owing to the lack oi
facilities and of markets, the rich lands along the
Hawkesbury were lying practically unused, whereas
they should be amongst the most productive in the
State. The whole area within a radius of 100 miles
of Port Jackson had lost population in the last
20 years owing to the drift of population to the
capital. He could see no possible remedy for this
except the opening of Port Jackson and the establish-
ment of a new State with its own capital and
reasonable communication facilities.
After which the Twofold Bay press would
doubtless point out that there were all sorts
of difficulties in the way, and that it would
be best to leave the opening up of Port Jack-
son until the natural increase of population
and of trade made such a step imperative.
MR. PRESIDENT GILDS THE PILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“U.S. President Coolidge, in signing the measure
that provides for the total exclusion of Japanese,
said he would like to make it clear that the action
of Congress and himself does not imply any change
in the American sentiment of admiration and cordial
friendship for the Japanese people.’ ”
This entente cordiale between Yanks and Japs,
Take it from me, need undergo no change.
You deem the measure that I foot, perhaps,
One to antagonise or to estrange
Two friendly nations? Aw, forget it, chaps!
We love you still —but ’tis at distant range,
You in the East, we in our hustling West,
We love you best.
We have no derry on you, not a bit;
We’d simply hate to see your feelings hurt.
Your ancient customs one by one you’ve quit
And learned the trick of tucking in your shirt
Caucasian-wise; with pleasure infinite
Along progression’s path we’ve watched you spurt.
But we esteem you most while seas divide, .
So —keep outside!
It sounds perempt’ry? Yet should I decline
Approval of the bill ’t might cost my place,
But never think that what I got to sign
Shows Uncle Sam’s aversion to your race.
I count your qualities so ’tarnal fine
That your Mikado I would fain embrace.
He is my brother—just as long as he’s
Beyond the seas.
Let not our friendship wane then, I entreat,
Tested through years of peace and tried in war ;
Our hearts in loyal agreement cease to beat
Because —which personally I deplore—
-1 have to tell you that the time is meet
On you and yours to slam and lock the door.
Our admiration high, esteem sincere
And deep affection you need never fear
To forfeit —while you stay away from here.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and_ Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobat
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety c uae
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Fladfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELPS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Primary Producers’ Rank of Aus-
tralia,. Ltd. —Registration of tliis newest
Australian bank was effected in Brisbane on
February 10, 1923, and the first lot of
accounts, issued recently, covered the 12
months to February 29 this year. The bank
had its beginnings in Land Credits, Ltd.,
which had been established to make loans
to farmers and graziers on the ballot system,
but it was subsequently described as “a pro-
visional co. formed to assemble and operate
the free capital available for loan and invest-
ment purposes for a definite purpose,” the
objective being “to operate with full banking
privileges as the Farmers and Merchants’
Bank, Ltd.” One prospectus of Land Credits
was followed by another in which the mer-
chants were dumped—that word in the title
“did not ring true to our proposals in the
minds of many shareholders and supporters,”
the promoters explained, “although it was
only country merchants the directors origi-
nally had in mind.” Under the new title the
bank bounded ahead in its capital-raising
campaign ; its objects appealed so strongly to
farmers and graziers and the country com-
munity generally that support came from
unexpected quarters. Here, at last, was a
bank being established wholly in the interests
of the primary producers—a bank which
they would own and control, and which
would make its funds available to tide them
over their difficult periods. Within limits—
very strict limits, seeing that the concern
might be suddenly overwhelmed by applica-
tions for advances to the people who nor-
mally would be the principal depositors—
there are possibilities in the scheme. Accord-
ing to the directors, the venture is already
an unqualified success. “The year’s opera-
tions. they say, “disclose a small profit of
±976. We think it almost the first time in
banking circles that a bank has been able
to announce a profit for its first year of
operations, and it augurs well for the divi-
dend-earning future of the institution.” That
statement demands the closest scrutiny, be-
cause if even that little bit of profit was
truly a surplus of earnings over and above
interest, rent and working expenses from
branches and agencies organised and
established in the short period of 12 months
the performance would be remarkable. The
directors, however, refuse to divulge how
that profit was made.
The published Profit and Loss account is
limited to the one entry stating the “balance
or profit.” The “Wild Cat,” appreciating
irr l® the difficulties which confronted
h. W . Strack when he assumed the manage-
ment of the bank, and in friendliness to the
venture, asked if the detailed accounts would
be made available for inspection: it was not
desired to publish the figures; it was desired
to have data for a full and complete judg-
The directors, however, refused the
Wild Cat a view pf the detailed accounts
which would have disclosed how they arrived
at the. figures of which they are so proud.
Here is the official reply (dated May 26)
from general-manager
~ directors feel that the information supplied is
that which is customary, and nothing is to be gained
by supplying anything more. Our shareholders are
all in the country, and large numbers have expressed
satisfaction with the report, there being not one
single dissentient voice.
Ihe request for more details comes mainly from
critics who are looking for something with which to
entertain the combined banks, so that the latter mav
gibe at the Country Bank.” While willing at all
times to give you every reasonable sort of informa-
tion about the bank, I do not think that any good
purpose can be served by giving any fuller “details
than already shown, in the report.
You may be interested to know that this is the
only bank that came forward and offered to help
the maize-growers with a pool to save them from
the middlemen.
Naturally, if shareholders accept the direc-
tors’ statement of profit without qualifica-
tion, they cannot be other than delighted with
results. But why fear the “critics” if the
profit claimed was genuinely earned ? There
are very good grounds for believing that it
is not all it looks, because in the prospectus
of the promoting co., which issued the £~>
shares at a premium of £1 and called up £l,
the following policy was laid down:—
It is the aim of the directors that until the co. is
in full operation all expenses of ■ ever)/ nature shall
be fully covered by the premium.... thus the gross
profits may be distributed as cash dividends or
placed to the reserve, or both, as the- directors may
recommend.
If the directors are adhering to that policy,
their statement of “profit” and their cheery
comment is dust thrown in the eyes of
shareholders and clients. And in those cir-
cumstances; the published accounts would be
utterly worthless. By refusing further in-
formation the directors lay themselves open
to even graver accusations which the facts
may not warrant. The P. P. Bank has so
far been built up on sentiment and intensive
share-selling campaigns; but now that it is
an active, banking business —which is a com-
plicated trustee business —the management
is under a moral obligation to conduct its
affairs in a more open manner.
This policy is called for not only because
the P.P. is a young bank which must earn
its place on its merits, but also because there
have been several features of its promotion
and subsequent activities which cannot be
overlooked. At the beginning Land Credits
had an authorised capital of £60,000; the
bank’s authorised capital is now four mil-
lions, and for a time the management per-
sistently advertised the increases as the
“capital” of the bank. Of course, if the
directors had been prepared to pay the taxes
there is no reason why “capital” should not
be £40,000,000 or £400,000,000. To start
with, a limited number of preferred 7 p.c.
shares were offered at £1 premium ; but the
“limit” seems to have been elastic, because
the present subscribed capital of £1,475,276,
of which £156,258 is paid up, is almost
wholly in pref. shares. With only a neligible
issue of ordinaries, what backing is given
the “preferential” rights? And what are
those rights? The Land Credits prospectuses
failed to specify them; and whereas the
bank’s “Official Bulletin” states that recent
issues (also put out at the £1 premium)
have been 7 p.c. “cumulative” prefs., in
May of last year the Associated banks were
informed that, “preference shareholders have
preferential right as to dividend at 7 p.c.
(non-accumulative).”
The most serious omission in stating the
bank’s position, however, has been the fail-
ure to account for the expenditure out of
share premiums. The policy adopted, and
explicitly stated in the prospectuses, of pay-
ing preliminaries out of the share premiums,
and thus keeping paid capital intact, was a
sound one; by endeavoring to provide solid-
looking balance-sheets in future the promo-
ters were laying the foundations for attract-
ing business; the presence of an establish-
ment or business-organisation account among
assets would be a serious handicap. But
whether their money was called up as capital
or as premiums shareholders should be told
how the money was spent. Assuming that
every £1 paid up was accompa lied by £1 pre-
mium, in their first report the directors fail
to account for approximately £122,000 ’
How much of it has gone in establishment
expenses? And what was the “under-
writers’” cut? In failing to explain all
these matters, the first accounts are most un-
satisfactory, and they, therefore, fail to de-
velop confidence, which is the most indispen-
sable asset of any bank.
• • • • . .
The published balance-sheet looks sound,
but cannot be taken as a guide to the future.
At February 29 deposits totalled £300,221,
and bills and other liabilities were £42,108
Against all outside debts of £342,329 were
notes, cash, Government securities, balances
due by other banks and remittances in transit
amounting to. £275,159, representing four-
pfths of all liabilities. The balance of lia-
bilities (£67,170) was backed by advances
with a book value of £254,631.
* * * #
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney)
Bonus Added
~ _ „..■■■ to to Re- Re-
jMar., i routs. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
1914. . £lO,OlB 7 p.c. =£2Boo £3,784 £3434 £36,528
1915.. 3,457 7 „ „ 2800 2,945 34,240
1916.. 10,670 7 „ „ 2800 4,547 3323 37,563
1917.. 9,631 7 „ „ 2800 5,902 929 38,492
1918.. 12,3817 „ „ 2800 8,167 1414 39,906
1919.. 12,106 7 „ „ 2800 7,264 2042 41 948
Provident Fund, £5OOO .. .. 36 948
1920.. 8,868 7 p.c. = 2800 6,252 36’764
Provident Fund, £lOOO . . . . 35’764
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 223 35*987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 .’. .. 26 777
Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 ) . 01 n(7 01V ,
Provident Fund, £914 f 40l 27,20 s
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 ) 9Q
Provident Fund, £3047 . . f 6086 »3,294
1924.. 21.275 3004 3756 10,149 ) „„„„ r „.
Provident Fund, £2140 . . ( 2 “ 26 0J >5 2 0
The Co-op. Wool and Produce had another
very good year; though droughty conditions
m the first half affected turnover and carry-
forward stocks of unsold wool were smaller
than in the previous year, gross earnings
at £00,757 were only £4187 less than the
record 1923 harvest. Wool values were ex-
cellent throughout the season, and earnings
from livestock and other sections were good.
While gross profits shrank a little, the man-
agement did not get exes. down. Early in
the financial year the co. took over the new
stores which it had erected, so as to conduct
its wool sales under the best methods of dis-
play and lighting. “We are emphasising the
importance of our new show floor,” the direc-
tors report, “because it stands to reason tljat,
with wool bringing present high prices, any
variation of judgment on the part of a buyer
represents, say, three times as much monetary
value as was the case a few years ago.”
The upkeep of new premises has probably
accounted for all the extra expenditure, but
the management no doubt expects its re-
ward from additional business which they
should attract. With exes, up and 8 p.c.
paid on a larger capital, and with rebates of
commission charges exceeding £lO,OOO for
the first time, the lay-by was considerably
less than for the previous year. Neverthe-
less, £4366 was left after paying £6760 of
divs., and almost one-half of that surplus was
voted to an employees’ provident fund, which
in five years has reached £14,169.
The following table shows how balance-
sheet figures have moved since 1915:
„ . 19X5. 1921. 1923. 1921.
Capital .. .. £40,000 £45,000 £83,284 £93,871
Liabilities. . .. 06,568 150,968 230,684 169,790
Buildings, etc. . . 72,129 76,867 194,232 211,635
Stocks .-. .. 2,788 1,414 2,170
Book debts . . 74,821 110,865 152,981 90,553
Cash and public
securities .. 69 48,694 16,517 15,753
The outstanding feature of the comparisons
is that, though paid capital has increased
from £40,600 to £93,871 in nine years, con-
siderably more than double the present paid
capital is tied up in wool and produce stores,
sheep paddocks at Flemington and in plant.
Of course, there are also the reserves of
£35,520. accumulated in 27 years (inciden-
tally £9210 was capitalised in 1921), and
shareholders’ funds now amount to £129,391.
The properties are necessarily carrying large
mortgages, and the management is depend-
ing on its bankers to finance agency trans-
actions. That is a feature of the financing
of most cos. in the business, but though in
this instance liabilities in relation to more
or less liquid assets look large, the co. is
evidently well accommodated for its require-
ments, because it still holds £15,494 of in-
vestments and War Loan.
The year’s £10,149 of cash bonus to clients
was made up of rebates of 30 p.c. of com-
missions charged on all sales of wool, and
of 15 p.c. of commissions charged on the
livestock and produce turnover.
* * * *
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia :
Total Deficit,
Out- Including
Aov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912 . . £10.989 £18,918 £3,715 £22,633 £19,644
Dec.,
1913 .. 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,952
1914 .. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915 .. 36,892 22,986 10,277 33,263 16,517
1916 .. 40,172 21,651 8,661 30,312 6,657
Reserves.
1917 . . 49,298 27,225 11,430 38,655 3,986
Goodwill, £5OOO, disappears.. .. 8,986
1918 . . 61,414 40,127 8,209 48,336 22,064
1919 .. 84,335 55,927 9,857 40,615
1920 .. 142,939 70,583 14,008 84,591 98,963
1921 . . 154,415 70,699 15,624 86,323 167,055
Industrial business sold for £6223 cash 173,278
Year’s industrial surplus, £1235 .. 174,513
1922 . . 141,693 75*175* 15,838 91,013 225,193
1923 . . 147,752 52,177* 17,290 69,467 303,478
Written off, £5890 . . . . . . 297,588
*lncludes 6 p.c. div.
This is the life office which the Australian
Provincial Assurance, the purchaser of the
Go-operative Assurance, of Sydney,' wants to
buy. It is offering 30s. per lOs.-paid share,
and the deal is to be finalised if 80,000 of
the 143,000 shares issued are sold at that
price. So far the L.C.A., after 12 years, has
paid only two divs. —6 p.c. for 1922 and 1923
—and as the business now on the books is
not big enough to give promise of good re-
turns, and as current conditions don’t help
a small office to introduce large volumes of
new policies at low cost, shareholders should
not hesitate. If they invested the proceeds
of the sale in Government securities carry-
iny only 5 p.c. p.a. their annual income
would be 2|- times the amount received from
L.C.A. divs., which are not likely to better
the recent 6 p.c. for some years. Put another
way, this life office would have to pay 24
p.c. p.a. on its capital, requiring £17,160
profit after finding bonuses for policy-holders,
to give shareholders the equivalent of what
they can earn by investing their 30s. in safe
8 p.c. pref. issues.
The L.C.A. was established primarily to
“issue a cheaper and better form of Indus-
trial policy,” but business-writing and col-
lecting arrangements which looked promis-
ing on paper—storekeepers and others were
to be enlisted to win and hold clients—
broke down' in the early stages, and the
L.C.A. soon adopted the customary methods
of handling the business. Eventually the
directors discovered that there was very
little, if any, profit to be won from Industrial
operations on a small scale, and in the 1922
financial year the branch was sold at a very
satisfactory figure to the Commonwealth
General, one of the younger offices. Since
then, under George Smith, formerly manager
of the Sydney branch and a hard-headed
insurance man of the old school, the L.C.A.
has been strengthening its Ordinary business
and reducing costs. The directors also set a
“definite limit on the cost of obtaining new
business.” As a result the expense rate
was reduced from half total income for 1922
to less than one-tliird last year. The out-
standing feature of the performance was that
the amount of new assurances did not slump
to correspond: £817,45(5, compared with
£888,900 for the previous 12 months. For the
three years to 1921, however, new business
amounted to £1,030,325, £1.2(50,971 and
£1,057,(503. Eight years’ Ordinary operations
are compared in the next table
Ordinary Department.
Claims Expense
Income. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1916.. £22,685 £1,673 £12,087 7.4 p.c. 53.3 p.c.
1917.. 31.708 4,268 17.306 13.4 „ 54.7 „
1918.. 48,372 5,796 30,627 12.0 „ 63.3 „
1919.. 77,044 8,537 51,257 11.1 „ 66.5 „
1920.. 113,597 12,652 65,677 11.1 ~ 57.8 „
1921.. 185,268 13,112 64.935 9.7 „ 48.0„
1922.. 140,404 15,271 70,301 10.9 ~ 50.1 ~
1923.. 146,400 16,663 47,298 11.4 ~ 32.3 „
On the reckoning that new business is 10
times costlier than old, the renewals expense
rate last year was 11.9 p.c., and that of new
business 119 p.c. That was a big improve-
ment on the figures for the previous year:
15.6 and 156 p.c. respectively. With cost
rates so reduced, a favorable claims experi-
ence, and funds returning a trifle more than
5 p.c. net, the L.C.A. was considerably
strengthened as a result of the year’s opera-
tions, and, a surplus having been disclosed 12
months previously, the A.P.A. naturally
found that the business was healthy.
If shareholders agree to sell, the A.P.A.
proposes to run the L.C.A. as a separate co.,
and employ its own organisation to develop
the business and to reduce expenses. L.C.A.
general-manager Smith and his office and
field staffs are to continue as at present, and
with the backing of the much larger concern
they expect to be relieved of some of the
disabilities experienced by a small office.
Though the purchase price of £214,500 looks
big, the L.C.A. should become a payable pro-
position for the A.P.A. if the business can
be expanded on sound lines, and if costs are re-
duced. The surplus shown by the recent valua-
tion —the L.C.A. has employed more conserva-
tive methods of estimating policy liabilities
than most young offices —should have fully
covered the £32,891 in the establishment and
new-business accounts as at December 31
last, and that means that the whole of capi-
tal is intact. So with £71,500 of the purchase
price the A.P.A. buys assets which are of
good quality, and it pays £143,000 for the
business, which, the actuaries say, has made
full provision for liabilities accrued under
policies. As the L.C.A.’s annual premium
income is now approximately £143,000, the
A.P.A. really buys policies, fully protected
by reserves for the period they have run,
at a price equal to a year’s premium in-
come. That is considerably less than it
would have to pay to write a similar amount
of new business on its own account. Further,
approximately £lOO,OOO of the L.C.A.’s pre-
mium income is from renewals, and this old
business is much more likely to stick than
new.
At December 31 the L.C.A.’s assets were:
Public securities, £242,268; freehold pro-
perty, £103,706 ; mortgages, £54,697 ; loans
on policies, £7814; cash, deposits and inter-
est accrued, £9917; outstanding premiums.
£14,042; book debts, £4626. For several
years the management has been working on
an overdraft to finance some of its invest-
ments: at the latest balance £45,099 was
owing to the bank, £14,678 was held on
deposit, and all other current debt amounted
to only £7266.
* -X' * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began in 19.10 with £17,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1916.. £lO5 Nil £lOOB £10,230
Mar., 1917.. 1083 Nil 930 10,077
Sept., 1917.. 1646 858 9,289
Written off capital, £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears . . 95
Mar., 1918.. £3156 10 p.c. = £1225 £1292 £734
Sept., 1918.. 3552 10 „ „ 1225 1307 1,754
Mar., 1919.. 3390 10 „ „ 1225 1209 2,710
Sept., 1919.. 2303 10 „ „ 1225 3,788
Loss.
Mar., 1920.. 3199 Nil 480 109
Profit.
Sept., 1920.. 3222 Nil 3,331
Loss. Deficit.
Mar., 1921.. 9298 Nil 5,967
Profit.
Sept. 1921.. 3974 Nil 1,993
Loss.
Mar., 1922.. 7203 Nil 884 10,080
Pref. Written.
Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1922.. 5631 105 Nil 1250 6,436
Mar., 1923.. 2345 304 Nil 4,395-
Sept., 1923.. 1323 323 Nil 3,395
Mar., 1924.. 1705 323 Nil 2,013
This little catering co. is making a steady
recovery from its latest set-back. From the
beginning it had been in trouble, but just
when everything seemed to be going well and
10 p.c. divs. were paid on written-down
capital, it encountered another run of losses
which nearly ended in liquidation. Only
two years ago accumulated losses exceeded
£lO,OOO and paid capital was but £24,500.
New management, aided by £6465 of ex-
pensive pref. capital (10 p.c.) and by despair-
ing creditors funding the amounts owing to
them, has now reduced the deficit at Profit
and Loss to £2013 after providing for depre-
ciation and paying pref. divs. Meanwhile


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR MAY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Advertising Mechanisms.
Australian Metropolitan
Life.
Bankers & Traders’ In-
surance.
Bank of Adelaide.
Bon Marche.
Builders’ Steel Form
Supply.
Burns, Philp.
Burns, Philp (South Sea).
Caldwell’s Wines.
.Colonial Sugar Refining.
Elder’s Trustee.
General Motor Invest-
ments.
Illawarra & South Coast
S.N.
Kempthorne Prosser.
London Loan & Discount.
Loch Katherine Colliery.
McDowells, Ltd.
Murray Shipping.
Mid-North Electricity.
Monarch Brick and Tile
Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance.
Olympia Motor Speedway.
Perkins & Co.
Petroleum Export Corp.
Permewan, Wright.
Plaster Boards (Vic. and
S.A.).
Prospectuses.
Reservoir Timber.
Registrations.
Rothwell’s, Ltd.
Sydney Road Freeholds.
Tasmanian Perm. Execu-
tors.
Vianini Concrete Pipes,
(Vic.).
Wests, Ltd.
Wickham & Bullock
Island Coal.
Wilsons, Ltd.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
Younghusband, Ltd.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They tan be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
Municipal engineers in search of a pipe that
gives permanently satisfactory service cannot do
better than specify Pioneer Wood Pipe. They can
be certain that it will never rust nor tuberculate,
that its capacity (normally some 20 p.e. greater than
metal pipe) will actually increase, not decrease, with
age. They will find also that the purity will be
preserved and that the conduit will not be affected
by electrolysis or frost. These claims have been
corroborated by the service records of Pioneer Wood
Pipe in hundreds of installations, ranging all over
Australia. Send for our book of full information.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Advertiser, who has a deposit of talc on freehold
property on railway, and close to port, desires lo
get in touch with someone interested in its use
and development. “Talc,” c/o The Bulletin. —Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out "the World. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W., for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horse-power. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gasworks. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regenls
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reouirements.—Advt.
* # * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Anv'i\
The Fvduey and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Permanence, Security and Strength are
assured to all who appoint as their Trustee
Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W. Ltd.
Capital—Subscribed, £1,000,000; Paid-up, £llO,OOO. Uncalled, £890,000.
Estates under control exceed £8,000,000.
Figures like these speak for themselves, especially when it is borne in mind
that the whole Capital and Surplus of the Company are liable at law for
the protection of clients’ interests.
No individual Trustee could offer such security. The whole attention and
resources of the Company are devoted to the administration of Trust affairs.
Moreover, its activities are in the truest sense permanent, as the Company
cannot travel, disappear or die. Write for Booklet.
DIRECTORS:
Alfred G. Milson, F. N. Yarwood (Chairman), 0. E. Friend, James Moir,
Thos. Buckland.
A. P. BEDFORD (Hon. Director).
E. V. T. Whittle, Ass’t Manager. J. W. Barnes, Manager.
N. L. Shaw, Secretary.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “ Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.
the position for creditors has improved in
this way. Mar., Mar., .Sept., Mar.,
1922. 1923. 1923. 1924.
Liquid assets . . £14,825 £13,109
Liabilities.. .. 37,380 16,637 10,829 11,610
Excess liabilities .. £22,555 £3,528 £1,9/0 £B6O
With profit-earning maintained at the recent
level, the Profit and Loss account should be
restored to its proper place in the balance-
sheet early next year. For the past 12
months the management has been winning
9 p.c. on ordinary capital, but even when
accumulated losses have been erased, share-
holders cannot expect divs. until the funded
debts are repaid and other liabilities are got
down a little. At March 31 the debenture
debt (funded creditors) was £4436, £1983
was owed to the bank (secured by freehold
property) and £5190 was owed to sundry
creditors. Altogether £25,770 of debt has
been wiped off in two years. The pref. issue
and sales of properties, besides the profits
earned during the period, have helped to ex-
tricate the co. from its troubles.. Though
there are tangible assets with a written-down
book value of 12s. 7d. per 14s. paid share,
owing to doubts as to div. prospects the
buyers’ limit lately has been 9s. 3d.
* * * *
“Old Banker” : The attack made in Lon-
don on the Commonwealth Bank because of
its attitude in being a party with the bank-
ing combine in the exchange tangle brought
forth a weak and evasive reply from the man-
agement. “We are not in the combine,”
says the Sydney manager, “and have only
adopted the London exchange rates of the
private banks when we felt justified.” But
have the Commonwealth Bank rates ever
differed from those laid down by. the bank-
ing combine? The national bank is certainly
not a member of the combine, but it has
never failed to adopt the proprietary banks’
scale of charges, except, perhaps, in certain
Government transactions. Neither in the pre-
sent crisis nor on any previous occasion has
the Commonwealth Bank made any attempt
to prevent an exchange hold-up. It cer-
tainly never has trodden on the corns of
the banks in the combine. Recent happen-
ings emphasise The Bulletin’s comment of
last year that the Commonwealth Bank is
an institution conducting business without
any fixed policy. The present, trouble is in
part due to the tyrannical action of all the
banks in preserving for themselves the exclu-
sive right of handling the transfer of funds,
and of buying and selling bills and drafts
between London and Australia. Any firm
or person whom they find trespassing on
their field is crushed out of the business. Take
Reuters. Throughout the world they handle
an enormous amount of foreign exchange, yet
in Australia and Maoriland the banks place
every obstacle in their path. . Several large
quasi-banking Australian institutions, seeing
the big profits in the handling of London and
foreign exchanges, have attempted to culti-
vate the business, but the banking “ring” has
sent them to the rightabout pretty sharply
when their offence has been discovered.
Only a few months ago pressure was put on
an influential Melbourne crowd who had
threatened to handle a big exchange business.
The banks’ methods are indirect but
very effective. Clients diverting their ex-
changes sooner or later seek accommodation.
“Oh,” the banks say, “we understood you
were putting your business through Brown
and Smith ; they are the people from whom
you should now seek the advance.” For the
present exchange tangle the associated banks
and the acquiescent Commonwealth Bank are
to blame; they have done practically nothing
to prevent a crisis. Had Australian securities
been bought up in London, and the scrip
and debentures sold quietly in the local mar-
ket during the past eight or nine months,
the position »would have been eased by some
millions. That is one method adopted by
many concerns in the old days to adjust
London balances, and many big firms of
brokers with representatives in London adopt
the same course to-day.
* * * *
Latest developments in Mt. Isa Mines (Q.)
have again taken scrip to high values in the
market after a temporary slump caused
partly by original holders getting on velvet
and partly by Melbourne being influenced by
the cautious report of Dr. Stillwell, who, as
a result of an examination two months back,
considered previous opinions a little too opti-
mistic. At that time practically no under-
ground work had been done, but there are
now several shafts down in the vicinity of
100 ft., and in a crosscut at 85ft. the Isa
lode has proved to be 15ft. thick, while the
other shafts have disclosed results consistent
with surface promises. Chief Geologist Dun-
stan and Prof. W. Frecheville have had a
look at the field recently. Dunstan’s sum-
mary is that the prospects are splen-
did ; his full report will be available shortly.
Geo. Beard, manager for Isa Mines, talks
cheerfully of his group giving ample
feed for a 30,000 ton-per-month plant.
Of course, that is talking ahead of
actual development. A couple of large
gossan bodies have been recently disclosed
between the surface and 50ft., and there are
indications of silver enrichment at water
level. Blocked-out ore reserves are now
assuming respectable proportions. So far
the early optimism of the experts has been en-
dorsed. But “so far” is still not very far.
Mt. Coolon field (Q.) is to have a 11500-
battery, thanks to the generosity of Mines
Minister Jones. The field already has three
private batteries, and local opinion is divided
as to the necessity for another. There certainly
is very little developed ore on the field out-
side of the Sydney, Native Bear and Mt.
Coolon mines. The Sunbeam group can
supply some stone, but it is not yet a cer-
tainty that its lodes are payable. The
question of putting up a public battery on
the field was considered by a private north-
ern syndicate six months ago, but the pro-
position was turned down.
* * * *
Queensland Petroleum, 'Ltd., is being
formed to bore on Hart and Moore’s area,
30 miles north of Mitchell, and on the western
boundary of the State oil reserves, which in-
cludes Orallo. H. I. Jensen is geologist to
the co., and he has selected a favorable anti-
clinal structure. He considers the chances
there as good as in the Orallo and Roma dis-
tricts, and the public can anticipate a careful
and genuine attempt to prove commercial oil
in a formation which has given probably the
only positive evidence of free oil in Queens-
land so far. Arthur Moore, who put down
the Roma bore for the Government and re-
cently spent some months working on the Cali-
fornian fields to get experience of modern
drilling practice, is to be in charge. The
testing of these beds is fully warranted by
geological evidence.
Queensland Oil Concessions’ bore at Tew-
antin is down . over 520 ft., and the drill
record shows hard, grey sandstone, brown
shale and small coal seams. This looks as
though the bore has passed through the ter-
tiary beds which were considered likely to
go down for 700 or 800 feet. The proba-
bility is that the bore has got into the
Ipswich coal measures. The point is worth
determining, because the Ipswich coals are
high in carbon, and if there is anything in
the carbon ratio law, followed so generally
in U.S.A., prospects would be less favorable
than in the tertiary. Geological opinion does
not favor the existence of oil in the Ipswich
formation.
* * * *
E. M. Di Villa, a British oil geologist, has
arrived in Melbourne after spending three
months in Westralia and three weeks in
S.A. He comes from Borneo, and is under-
stood to be connected with the Royal Dutch
Shell. He approves of Freney’s Kimberley
borehole, but did not go as far east as the
Okes Durack areas, which he does not think
have any chance. The south-west of Westralia
he condemns utterly, and after a flying trip
along the road from Adelaide past the
Coorong, he is “of opinion that coorongite,
the petroliferous substance found on the sur-
face, had originated in the tertiaries, it being
animal and vegetable matter in the state of
change into petroleum; but owing to the un-
favorable attitude of the strata when the
country became flooded and the strata satu-
rated, the unformed mineral oil was forced
to the surface by water pressure, and by
exposure to the atmosphere the evaporation
of its lighter constituents occurred. The
mass called coorongite remained behind. It
could not therefore be classed as a petro-
leum product.”
* * * *
At Freney’s, Kimberley (W.A.), geologist
Blatchford’s optimism is still shared by field-
superintendent Talbot. He wants drills to
keep going, until the older formations below
the possible oil horizon are touched. Bitu-
men, which gave out at about 500 ft., is now
said to have reappeared, along with globules
of oil. Talbot says that the drill core tells
that the fractured zone through which the oil
and bitumen oozed has been left behind.
* * * *
When the co. running the Lloyd George
(W.A.) flung in the towel, the mine was
thrown open to tributors, and, as usual in the
West, they are making a good thing out of
it. Last month the 12 tributors took out
360 tons ore which yielded 4200 z., and 6dwt.
per ton went into the sands. Some of the
high-grade stone came from a new find south,
and close to the Carlton lease.
* * * *
The very successful group of Malayan tin-
dredging concerns in the Austral Malay-
Freeman stable have issued preliminary state-
ments of their performances for the 12
months ended December 31 last. Here are
some of the figures:—
Kampong Asam Ulu
Kamunting. Kumbang. Yam.
Treated (yd.) .. 2,083,000 1,456,000 1,347,000
Tin won (tons) .. 873.85 493.45 272.15
Average yield (per
yd.) .. .. 0.941 b. 0.761 b. 0.451 b.
Working costs (per
yd.) .. .. 4.18 d. 3.94 d. 3.44 d.
Average price (per
ton) .. . . £203 3s. lOd. £ll9 18s. £2Ol 15s.
Working profit . . £64,403 £31,881 £12,020
Net profit ..£59,207 £19,656 £8,568
r,. ( Bs. per share, 3s. 60. V
Dividends.. £36,000 £17,500 5
Kampong Kamunting is operating in lower-
grade ground this year, but what it will lose
in that way and in a slumped tin-market will
be partly made good by the divs. expected
from its holding in Asam Kumbang, that
proposition having lately given splendid re-
turns. The co. has had its life extended a
little by securing the rights to dredge portion
of the Kamunting township. There is approxi-
mately 02 years’ work ahead of the two
dredges, apart from heavy ground at the
head of the valley, which is expected to yield
profits. At the end of the current year the
directors propose to make a return of capital
by distributing to shareholders the scrip held
in Asam Kumbang and Thabawleik.
Ulu Yam, which was partly financed by
advances, reduced its indebtedness to £21,327
during the year, and since to £15,260. The
loan accounts now being “well within con-
trol,” a shilling div. was paid in April, and
the directors hope to pay 2s. more this year
and wipe off more debt. Construction of
Thabawleik’s 100,000 yd.-per-month dredge
is well in hand, and the machine is expected
to be delivered in Singapore in mid-October,
but production will probably not begin until
towards the end of next year.
* * * *
Austral Malay, the fairy godmother of
the Freeman tin-dredging family, has had no
luck in Lower Burma since the Thabawleik
float. Several areas were close-bored, but
results have been disappointing, and further
prospecting has been abandoned. Investiga-
tion of gold-dredging areas in Upper Burma
is still in hand, but the staff won't commit
itself beyond reporting that “results, though
promising, are still indefinite.” While they
are on the job, a couple of other areas in
Upper Burma are to be tested for gold. In
Malaya an option has been taken over an-
other tin area, which is believed to offer
possibilities of a large yardage of payable
ground, and a prospecting campaign is being
planned. Besides its Kampong and Kumbang
divs., Austral Malay expects good returns
this year from its Ulu Yam holding. With
three regular contributors on the list, and
another in prospect, the directors have de-
cided to undertake a reconstruction ; next
week the statutory meeting in Taiping is to
be asked to agree to the issue of four bonus
shares for every share now held.
Though W. G. Gillett and Alan Davis suc-
cessively failed to float the Peak Mines,
Cobar (N.S.W.), the former has succeeded
in inducing the holders of the Brown Lode
and Conqueror areas to merge into one small
co. with £lO,OOO nominal capital in shares
of 2s. each. This co. is to take over all
liabilities incurred in the first flotation, and
will go to allotment when 40,000 shares are
applied for. Applications so far total about
35,000 shares, so the float seems assured. It
was necessary that labor conditions should
be complied with on the Conqueror section,
and three men have been employed there for
a few weeks under W. S. Curtis’s direction.
Driving is claimed to have proved the down-
ward continuation of the rich shoot from
which Condon and party won £12,000 of
metal during their tribute three years ago.
* * * *
Digger Prince, seeking riches in a Gulgong
deep-lead (N.S.W.), has been granted aid
from the Prospecting Vote at the rate of 50s.
per foot for 135 ft. of shaft sinking. The
Mines Department will also subsidise 200 ft.
of driving when the shaft is down. Manager
Cock estimates the wash channel at a mile
long and 300 ft. wide, but nobody knows what
it offers. Very little fresh has been learned
since a bore gave 4ft. of wash and promising
rough prospects.
A flat make north in Ajax Central, Dayles-
ford (Vic.), has given the market a fresh
pawn to play with. The Daylesford crowd
scorned little Ajax a few short months ago, and
as the new run of stone is only 425 ft. from
the surface they hopped in once more and
now hope for the best. Ballarat couldn’t be
content with the flat makes out of which
Daylesford has made some of its best rises,
so it has provided another vertical. It
seems to have been ashamed of its daring,
for the market got a bit loose before the
fact of the strike was told. Hansen, at Ajax
North, is also in the market running with a
flat make off McMillan’s lode at No. 8. This
is rather deep for good stuff at Daylesford,
but the occurrence is in the right zone. Han-
sen certainly deserves a turn of luck.
At Story’s Creek, Avoca (Tas.), the
“Mac” Syndicate is getting into its stride
again after a serious mishap to the com-
pressor engine. During the past 18 months
operations have been confined principally
to the No. 1 lode, which carries aproximately
60 p.c. tin and 40 p.c. wolfram in the values.
For the calendar year 10,360 tons were
treated for 156 tons tin oxide and 103 tons
wolfram, values averaging 1.505 p.c. tin and
0.994 p.c. wolfram in the crude ore.
John Brandon’s Kaili Options (Papua)
has been considering whether it should call
in a liquidator, now that it has abandoned
the Bulolo River alluvial claims, or seek an-
other option with the £2500 in hand. It
has been decided to give Brandon three
months in which to find another gamble—
anywhere except in Papua. As he is an old
hand at the mining game, the Kaili crowd
will be disappointed if they are not intro-
duced to a likely new prospect.


THE COUNTRY PARTY’S DREAM OP THE MILLENNIUM.
“Have the duties on everything been abolished, Miss Page?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then the boy had better go out and drown the office cat —this donarrment is hereby wiped out as from to-morrow.”


Papes' “Warrigal” Jacket Sweaters
Ideal for Sports or General Wear.
These lines will appeal specially for Winter,
being of heavyweight pure wool, elastically
and evenly woven, very smartly and comfort-
ably proportioned.
36in. 40in. 44in.
With V-front, in Grey, Heather,
Sand or White .. .. 45/. 47/6 50/-
With roll collar, in White, ex-
cellent for tennis .. .. 42/6 45/- 47/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
fd
The original Pilsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops,
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported.
Guaranteed free from all chemicals.
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass or
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors:—
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney, *
Or their Queensland Agents:—
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Veedee H.”: When the Special Service
Squadron was in a Maoriland port, an invita-
tion was received by the commander of one of
the ships to send 50 men to a Methodist church
service. Navy politeness demanded an
acceptance. So the crew paraded on the
Saturday, and the officer in charge of the
muster ordered the Methodists to step to the
front. Only three responded. The lieutenant
LOVE'S YOUNG DEE AM.
“Yes, yes; but do you know that this young man only
gets jour pounds per week?”
“I know that, daddy dear; but a week passes very
quickly when two are so fond of each other as
we are.”
was by no means dismayed. Fifty Method-
ists were wanted, and fifty had to be found.
So he reclosed the ranks and gave the order:
“Number off from the right; every even num-
ber a Methodist.” In that way he got the
required number of sturdy fellows, who, if
not prepared to defend in detail all that
John Wesley stood for, were at least ready
to behave themselves. All hut one. This
bluejacket ventured, w T ith regulation diffi-
dence, on a remonstrance: “Please, sir, I’m
a Catholic.” “No,” replied the officer, “you
may have been a Catholic yesterday and to-
day, biit to-morrow you’re going to be a
Methodist, and a darned good Methodist, too.”
And so he was.
* * * *
“Billo C.”: Concerning that frightful
“round-up” and hideous massacre of blacks
in the early days of S. Aus., when the mus-
tered nigs, were driven willy-nilly over the
cliffs at Waterloo Bay (B. 22/5/’24), it
seems only fair to both the whites and the
natives to recall the circumstances that led
to it. It was the last act in a sequence of
three. Act 1 was that of a settler, who.
annoyed by the depredations of uninvited
black visitors to his hut in his absence,
baked a batch of bread with a liberal admix-
ture of strychnine, and left it where it would
be easily found —in the camp oven. Sure
enough it was found and eaten by the
raiders, with deadly results. It was then
that other members of the tribe took a grue-
some revenge. Waiting until the poisoner
was left alone in the hut, they raided it
again; when his sons returned in the evening
it was to discover their father’s severed head
in the camp oven. The third and last act
has already been related.
“Lex” sees some earnings ahead: —
Almost every week cases are reported of jilted
swains who have sued successfully for the return of
engagement rings. Previous to Jacobs v. Davis,
which was decided in 1918, attractive girls thought
they had a right to amass engagement rings as fast
as they could secure admirers on matrimony bent;
and the practice had become one-of the stock comic-
paper subjects. Justice Shearman’s decision in Lon-
don King’s Bench Division that the ring was merely
a pledge to marry, to be forfeited if the contract
was broken, put the position on an equitable basis,
and rejected suitors of to-day appear to know all
about it. Hardship arrives,' however, when, as in, a
recent Sydney case, the father has pawned the ring
and the maiden finds herself without means to get
it out. It opens up an interesting vista for lawyers.
Is a ring the only present a suitor gives oh the im-
plied understanding that a' wedding will result ?
May not all other sorts of jewellery, and even choco-
lates and theatre tickets, be included in the same
category ? And is the lady who accepts them, and
afterwards turns down the donor, not just as liable
to return them or their value as the Sydney girl
was to compound for her pawned ring? This is one
of those test cases, with a sporting chance of suc-
cess, that is bound to be given a fly by a spurned
lover before long, the age of chivalry having defi-
nitely gone out in the cities with the arrival of the
congested traffic problem and strap-hanging.
*»* ' *
“Kakanui”: Pars about one : armed jour-
nalists remind me of a day in Auckland
(M.L.), just after the war, when there hap-
pened to be three maimed reporters in court.
One had lost his right arm, another his left
arm, and the third had a permanently stiff leg.
All three went away together to the war;
and Nos. 1 and 3 were hit by the same shell
on the Peninsula. I was Number 3. The
star case before the Court that day w T as a
compensation- claim for some hundreds for
the loss of a finger. We all envied the com-
plainant the result of the case; he got a
lot more from his employer than any of us
did from the State for. our disabilities.
* * * *
“H.H.” : Australia seems to have got out
of the habit of erecting stone effigies in honor
of deceased notables. At one
time Sydney was fond of re-
ferring to itself as “the
Athens of the South,” and
leading citizens would
proudly draw the attention
of visitors to art treasures
like the G.P.O. carvings and
those now fortunately van-
ished from the Manly Corso.
The idea in those days
seemed to be that anything
vaguely resembling a statue
showed an artistic leaning,
but now there is a danger of
going to the other extreme.
A few busts have been
erected here and there, like
the one that will show the
first Governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank to the
bank's customers, and the
other that will preserve the
memory of E. W. O’Sullivan
at the Trades Hall; but
there are no graven images
of men like Barton, Deakin,
Kingston and Forrest. The
proposal to raise a statue of
H en r y Lawson in the
Domain makes . little head-
way ; and Nelson Illingworth
has had his General Bird-
wood on his hands ever since
he made it.
“Arold Ardupp”: In most of the gilded
dance-lialls of the suburbs it is a glaring
breach of etiquette for any bloke (except
by special request) to dance with a girl for
whom another bloke has paid; but apparently
there are definite rules about the way a
rebuke may be given to any trespasser. In
Newtown, one Darkie was annoyed when
he saw a pirate known as Blue piloting his
girl through an intimate foxtrot. A fight fol-
lowed, in which Blue was woodened out,
and the venue was in due course shifted to
the police court. There, one of the m’s.o.,
'called as a witness, remarked that Darkie
would never again be'given the entry to one
of these social functions. The magistrate
agreed that it would be a wise act to exclude
men who were liable to use bottles in an
argument. “It isn’t only because he used
a bottle,” explained the m.c. “The bottle he
used belonged to another gentleman.”
* * * *
“L.S.C.G.” from London (24/4/’24) :
The truth about Wembley will never be told by
the British press. This morning the papers talk of
the Exhibition as though it were already the greatest
show that was ever offered. In actual fact, if the
R.A.S. of Melbourne or Sydney declared a show
open in such a state it would be pilloried and its
committee called upon to resign. There is hardly
a building in which carpenters and painters are not
still at work. Scaffolding mars the landscape;
some of the pavilions have not even got the roofs
oji ; litter and rubbish and smellful garbage lie all
over the place. The roads are in a shocking state.
Fortunately, yesterday was fine. Rain would have
given us a quagmire. Actually, all we had was a
pall of dust. I went to five buffets under the
grandstand in an effort to get nourishment. -Not ■
one was able to supply me with anything but black
NOT TO BE CAUGHT OUT.
“My husband is miserable without me. Every time he writes he
asks me to let him know when I am coming home.’'
“Ah, what a dear wife you are! Now, when I wrote like that to
my wife, she merely replied that I was getting cautious
in my old age.”
tea. The lavatory accommodation for men is bad;
for women it is appalling. Of the hundreds of
uniformed attendants only one in twenty seemed to
know anything about the place. ■ Most of them
appeared to have commenced their duty on the
previous day, and in their knowledge of the geo-
graphy Of the Exhibition they were as helpful as
jellyfish; The idiocy which ordained that the Exhibi-
tion should be opened, ready or unready, on April
23, ought to be dealt with. But it won’t be. The
few days’ hold-up over the strike could not possibly
be responsible for the disorder. Only monumental
ineptitude can account for mat. The Royal Opening,
•vthich took place in the Stadium, was a magnificent
effort at pageantry; but outside of the Stadium
Lyons the caterers impress the visitor as being the
whole team and the small pup under the waggon.
“Wing” : Talk about wooden legs running
iu families! Two years ago a young man
got a piece of metal in his right eye, which
resulted in the loss of the optic. Last year
his brother, in a wood-choppittg competition,
got a chip in his right eye—same result. A
few weeks ago the third and only remain-
ing member of the family injured his right
eye while shooting, and has just had it re-
moved in the Melbourne Hospital.
* * * *
“Wilfrido”: The classic instance of the
nervous barrister, who, having mumbled
several times “My unfortunate client,” and
proceeded no further, was met by the remark
from the Bench, “Go on, Mr. Costs, so far
the Court agrees with you” has some sort
of parallel, in the verdict of a Maoriland jury
the other week. The defending wig was suf-
fering from a' bad cold, and stood but badly
up to the Judge’s comment on his handling
of the case. The jury, after a hurried con-
sultation, worded their finding, which the
reporters mercifully toned down a little:
“Guilty, with a recommendation to, mercy on
account of his counsel.”
“Sturt” .- Wliat would you do in a case
like this? A woman of 31, with three child-
ren, charged in the S.A. Criminal Court with
stealing a ring, pleaded a chronic uncon-
trollable impulse. She said she had lately
come from Melbourne with plenty of money,
and “had no intention of taking the ring,
but was unable to resist. I have served
several terms of imprisonment,” she added,
“but it does no good.” The statement wasn't
denied or impugned. What about it? Is it
a case for pity—or for punishment? Judge
Parsons didn’t express any opinion when he
sentenced her to one year. Perhaps he re-
gavded it merely as detention. Forbes Wins-
low, the great alienist, would probably have
agreed with him. A man consulted him, tell-
ing him he had an uncontrollable impulse to
kill a certain person. Could the doctor do
anything for him? “Yes,” replied Winslow,
“I can try to get you hanged if you do kill
the person. And I shall. You know you’ve
got the impulse. The rest lies with yourself.”
* * * *
“G.BX.”: I suggest that “Peter Whiffle”
is in error when he states (B. 15/5/’24)
that Richthofen’s
younger brother
brought down the
British ace, Captain
A. Ball, V.C. Major
C. C. Turner, an
R.A.F. officer, in
“The Struggle in the
Air, 1914-18,” men-
tions that Van
Richthofen attri-
buted to his younger
brother, Lotliar, the
bringing down of
Ball, “but,” he adds,
“t h e machine
brought down by the
younger Richthofen
was, a triplane ; and
we know that Ball
was not flying a tri-
plane when he met
his death.” “Peter
Whiffle” mentions
that by March, 1918,
Richthofen was cre-
dited with a bag of
80 enemy machines.
I wonder what the
final bags of the
various aces were.
The Frenchman,
Captain Guynemer,
was credited with 55
when he was killed
in September, 1917.
Another Frenchman,
Lieut. Fonck, was re-
ported to have
brought down 70 by
October, 1918.
L ieut. -Colonel
Bishop, V.C., came
out of the war with
a reputed record of
72. Captain McCud-
den got his V.C. in
April, 1918, and at
that date his total
was 54. Major Man-
nock, a Londoner,
was credited with 58
victims by July 1,
1918, and he secured
others before his death. I believe several
Australian airmen had totals of 30 or there-
abouts. " ' #
“Country Fed”: It may be fine sport to
cavort about the farm paddocks at night m
a motor-car and shoot rabbits and foxes tem-
porarily blinded by the glare of the powerful
headlights; but it isn’t quite the same thing
to take potshots at rabbits on a public road.
This kind of amusement is becoming rather
common of late; but one of these nights a
human being will be killed instead of a rabbit,
and someone will go up for manslaughter.
GRAVE HOPES.
DORA: “Marry him! Why, I’d die first!”
FLORA: “Nonsense, dear! He’s not nearly
as strong as he looks.”
Already one Victorian has been uncomfort-
ably peppered with pellets; and the next
victim may not so lucky as to escape with a
mere peppering. Before any lives are lost
the Police Offences Act should be amended
to make shooting from a vehicle on a public
highway at night an offence punishable with
a whole, lot of gaol.
(Continued on page 19.)
WHEN MARY SMOKES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mary takes a fag, and blue
And wind-tossed, feathery clouds arise,
I do not heed those Grundies who
Make a commotion with their cries,
Or mingle scandal with their lies.
I do not cherish one regret,
But fondly I esteem my prize
When Mary smokes a cigarette.
Then she has not a thing to do;
Sweet is her temper, I surmise,
And she will kiss and softly coo.
When smoke is floating round her eyes
A tender beauty in them lies.
No, bless you, I have no regret
Though others warn me and advise
When Mary smokes a cigarette.
Then ’tis she looks her fairest, too,
So I am last to criticise.
Her lips take on their richest hue :
Like traps her dimples all devise
My heart to happily surprise.
So wherefore should I fume and fret,
And make a bid to tyrannise,
If Mary smokes a cigarette?
Envoy.
A cunning man and weather-wise,
I know thermometers ‘are set
All fair when straight the vapor flies,
And Mary smokes a cigarette.
E. DYSON.
VICTORIA.


THE EVOLUTION OP A BUSH HOME.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£313 14 0
P. J. Nunan, 2/G; O. Cameron, 6d... 3 0
£3l3 17 «
Contributions should be addressed to Tiie
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
df
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20 f„ F 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
“Pimlico” : Coincident with the Prince of
Wales’s 30th birthday arrive in London,
with a flourish of expectations, the King of
Italy and his wife, the Prince of Piedmont
and Princess Mafalda, the last-named of
whom the tipsters of Royal matches (and
they start at A and finish at Z) are alone
concerned about. What do the cards sayV
It is no secret that Edward P. is sliy of the
marriage halter. He has had either too
much rope or not enough to content him to
settle down in an official wigwam and be no
more one of the lads, jazzing it with all the
girls, and scrambling home in haste to beat
the .dawn through a skylight. That stout
wrestler Rumor, who will never be downed,
has persistently put words into the Prince’s
mouth about his fixed aversion to marriage;
and there was even the yarn likening a bache-
lor king to the maiden Queen Elizabeth.
Impossible, of course. But there you are.
When Edward returned from Australia the
King of Italy was also at Buckingham, or,
at least, his daughter Yolanda was. Great
was the crystal-gazing, but nothing came of
it. Then there was Princess lien a, daugh-
HIS WIFE WAS A WONDERFUL MANAGER.
H ONK: “I got pinched for exceeding the speed-limit.
Sure to catch a fiver or fourteen days.”
MRS. HONK: "What a stroke of luck! Take the four-
teen days, John, and' I'll go up to the mountains
for my holidays.”
ter of Roumania’s Queen Marie; and,
although she was only a kid (14), all the
Wise Women read the riddle- —wrongly. The
teacups and the cables thrilled again when
Princess Marie-Jose of Belgium was men-
SO INEXPENSIVE, TOO!
DAPHNE: “I want to (five Harold a surprise for his birthday—can you suggest some-
thing?”
CORAL: “Tell him your age, darling.'”
tioned, and so on with Heaven knows how
many more. Amongst the “certs” have been
Lady Joan Mulholland (a widow, bless
you!), Lady Rachel Cavendish, Lady Mary
Cambridge and Lady Mary Beatrice Thynne.
Edward P. really ought to call it a day one
way or another.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: It is a safe bet that at
least one item about Empire Day in Sydney
won’t appear in the despatch to Lord Meath.
It relates to the 'celebration at Sydney
Ragged School. Most people, I fancy, had
the impression that this disgraceful name had
been abolished, if the institution itself hadn't
gone. But Sydney D.T. gravely reports “the
loyalty of the Sydney Ragged School.” God
help us!
* * * #
“D.H.R.”: The shortest play I’ve ever
seen was a two-act drama staged before an
enthusiastic audience at the aerodrome be-
hind Dartford Hospital (Kent, Eng.) in ’lB.
It had no title at the time of its presenta-
tion, but: was subsequently christened “David
and Coliath” by one-half of the audience.
Tlie other half never re-
ferred to it after the cur-
tain was rung down. The
hospital was full of con-
valescent Diggers, and the
aerodrome of American
aero-mechanics. One even-
ing, just as the two crowds
were beginning to mingle
a little in a friendly way,
a well-juiced six-foot-two
Yank emerged from a hut
and yelled belligerently,
“I’ll give a quid to the first
blasted Aussie who ken
tyake this harr rose out o’
my cyoat!” Everyone was
flabbergasted at this
gratuitous challenge to
friendly relations, and for
a moment complete silence
reigned. Then a 54ft.
Aussie hurtled through the
air, laid the Yank out with
a right to the jaw, and re-
turned to his side with the
rose and the contents of
the Yank’s pockets—4d.
“Silas”: It was in
Chapel-street, Prah r a n
(Melb.), that I encount-
ered the Prince of Schnor-
rers. If he was not a Jew
he had an action against
his face; and if he was he
was the most bankrupt Jew
I have ever met. His
boots were bankrupt, so
was his hat, his coat failed
miserably, and his trousers
looked as if they had been
chewed by a ruminant cow.
He was begging, and bore
a bundle that might have
contained his spoil, a de-
plorable bundle. He
touched me for twopence,
his plea being neuritis. Then he ducked into the
shops along the line, having discovered that
it is safer to beg indoors when the police are
on the qtii vive for street solicitors. I watched
him with interest, and presently he came to
where a woman was singing on the kerb. A
little girl on crutches went round with a
tin, collecting pennies for the singer. My
king beggar waited and listened. When the
tin came to him, to my amazement he dropped
in a half-crown.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: One excellent scheme the army
authorities evolved in Egypt for the elimina-
tion of parasites was to periodically steam
the men’s blankets and clothes. The usual
procedure was for the Digger to carry his
blankets and spare clothes to the spot chosen,
and then strip off the uniform he was wear-
ing, so that every stitch he possessed would
go through the cleansing process. Several
score of us one day were waiting in a state
of nature for the conclusion of operations,
when a train bound for Cairo unexpectedly
pulled up alongside. Immediately a crowd
of faces appeared at the windows, many of
them owned by white women. One acquires
liberal views in the East on the subject of
nudity, and for a while not one of the faces
was withdrawn. “The brazen hussies,” mut-
tered Terence, my Irish mate. Then, as one
pretty face disappeared: “Thank Hivins
there’s one with a sinse av dacency. I’ll bet
she’s Oirisli.” Unfortunately for Terence,
a few seconds afterwards the pretty face re-
appeared, and this time its owner held an
adjusted camera in her hands.
“Adelaide” : No use trying to dodge Fate
when your number is up. An Adelaide man
was cycling on the Port-road one dark even-
ing lately, when he was overtaken and run
down by a motor-cycle. He was not greatly
damaged, though his machine was, and after
taking it into a repair-shop opposite he went
back to the scene of the collision with the
usual small crowd that gathers on such occa-
sions. Along came a motor-lorry and scat-
tered them. The previous victim was the
only one struck, and this time his injuries
were fatal. Which was even worse luck than
that of the Sydney woman whose bad day
arrived when Gladys Moncrieff was married.
She was trampled on in the crowd outside
St. James’s, and had to be taken to Sydney
Hospital. Fixed up there she was discharged,
and walking down the street was hit on
the head by some falling masonry from a
new building. The police took her back to
the same hospital, and the doctor who had
said good-bye to her half an hour before re-
admitted her.
* -X- * *
“Skipper”: Tell “Veedee H.” (B.
15/5/’24) that Diggers who collected
Blighties from Fritzy often saw them com-
ing. One night Smithers flopped into my dug-
out and demanded rum. He was white about
the gills and very rattled, and he complained
that Jerry had been sniping him with Min-
nies. He saw the last one coming and ran
like a hare to the right. Then, as he looked
up, the curse seemed to be almost on top of
him, so he doubled back —-and it followed.
Finally in desperation he dropped to the
ground. After an eternity of seconds there
was a roar, a great flash of flame and huge
masses of debris were hurled into the air—
about 50 yards to his left.
“Sturt”: Two Sydney men have just
rivalled the inland voyage from Albury down
the Murray which E. J. Brady made and
wrote a book about. Their route was nearer
that taken by my great namesake; as they
started from Mungindi (Q.) and worked
down to the Murray by the Macintyre, Bar-
won and Darling. They took from Sydney
harbor a 27ft. English skiff, and towed a
small boat with the stores. Snags and rapids
hampered them much at first, but lower down
they were able to use a portable outboard
propeller, and only once was it smashed on
a rocky outcrop. At Brewarrina the wife
of one of the voyagers joined the party, with
two young girls, and the expedition continued
to Waikerie, where it had ceased to be
adventurous, and was abandoned on account
of the freezing nights. It had covered 2000
miles, and taken 14 weeks. The party lived
mainly on wild duck. Their worst troubles
were sore eyes and festered mosquito bites.
“The Deacon”: While the talk is of his-
toric bells let me'enter an older one than
that of the Samuel Plimsoll (B. 22,/5/’24),
and one with a history of its own. This is
the bell that rang in Parson Marsden’s
church at Parramatta. When that wattle-
and-dab structure was pulled down, and the
old ex-blacksmitli, like others of his ilk, had
retired to Arcadian pursuits, the bell of
St. John’s went with him. At his farm at
Mamre, on the old Dogtrap-road, the bell,
like the storied one on Aberbrothock, rang
out its warning, though there was mighty
little smoko in those days and plenty of graft.
Lately, when the old homestead was dis-
mantled, a good daughter of the kirk, Mrs.
Thompson, a descendant of Marsden, pre-
sented the bell to the Metliody folk of St,
Mary’s, the South Creek of the old coaching
days, and nowadays in that outermost suburb
of Sydney it warns residents generally that
the hour of church is nigh.
“.Tesmond”: “R.G.N.C.’s” reference to
Mormonism at Queensferry (B. 15/'5/’24) re-
calls that there is another flourishing settle-
ment of Latter Day Saints at Phillip Island
(Vic.). The services are usually held in an
onion shed, but the baptismal font is either
Swan Lake or the open sea. An initiation
ceremony, especially if held in midwinter, is
largely attended by all and sundry, being a
never-failing attraction. From a very modest
beginning, the sect has increased wonderfully
—largely owing to the persuasive powers of
visiting Yanks—and is now probably the
strongest denomination on the island, so that
the mention of polygamy is liable to buy a
fight anywhere.
■X- * * *
“Centurion”: The only really naice
“colonial” regiment, to wit, King Edward’s
Horse, originally known as the “King’s
Colonials,” is to have a funeral. The regiment
was formed late in 1901, in order to give a
HIS SAD EXPERIENCE.
PARISH P RIEST: “Well, if you can't go to-
night, perhaps Mrs. Wiggins would go
for you?”
MR. W IGGINS: “She always does —every
night !”
tone to the guerilla warfare in S’Africa, which
was becoming debased by the tactics of Cana-
dian and Australian Bushmen regiments;
and it was continued in England after the
war, on the Yeomanry establishment, and
offered many a smart young gentleman with
“colonial” experience or aspirations a chance
to show himself in a “perfectly deevy” uni-
form, provided he was properly introduced.
The Big War brought a better element into
the corps, including Australians abroad who
didn’t want to waste time going home to
enlist and who shied at English regiments.
Without attaining deathless glory, the corps
earned an honorable name. It was, however,
always an anomaly as an Imperial corps—
neither regular, territorial, nor plain blariky
colonial.
THE SONG OF THE PLIMSOLL’S BELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The bell which was formerly cm the cliPP e r ship
Samuel Plimsoll is now in use at the Geelong Girls
Grammar School.”
Long years ago
When the winds did blow
And first I went to sea,
I rang the watch
To their “three hot Scotch,”
And my “Eight Bells” set them free.
I rang to prog
When the spotted dog
And the lobscouse graced the board,
And I rang once more
When they went on shore
To get drunk as any lord!
It was Heave ho!
And to sea we go
When we’ve had our ’long-shore spell,
And out with your mops
And up to the tops—
Hurrah for the Plimsolls bell!
But now I clang
From where I hang
In the Grammar School, Geelong,
When the girls upstairs
Come down to prayers
And to sing their matin song.
Their laughter peals
When I call to meals,
And they race from court and park,
And their white teeth crunch
As they munch their lunch
Till they’re down to the Plimsoll mark.
Then it’s Heigh lio!
And away they go
On their dancing feet, pell-mell,
As 1 ring to play
, On a bright Spring day—
Hurrah for the Plimsoll’s bell!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOFTER.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
m
m
m
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO.
Will not bite the Tongue.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS <Bk CO., Sydney.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
H. M. Somer, secretary of the society
which runs Sydney’s great Easter Show,
died suddenly on Saturday morning. He be-
gan as a country journalist, strayed for a
while into the wool-buying arena, returned
to press work as editor of the Hamilton
Spectator, and eventually became the agri-
cultural expert of Sydney Mail, and was
editor of the S. M. Herald’s “Land” sec-
tion when the secretaryship of the R.A.S.
offered 18 years ago. One of those hearty
souls who tempt the obscure and unknown
to call them by their Christian names, he
was an accomplished publicity getter; and
no accountant could compute the thousands
of pounds’ worth of free newspaper advertis-
ing he got for the R.A.S. by his winning
ways and ingenious methods. He had a book
(“Base Brands”) to his credit, and was
about to begin another on his experiences
as a Show organiser when the end came.
VILH JALMUR STEFANHSON, the Cana-
dian explorer, now lecturing in Aus-
tralia.
Only two members of the wealthy Lar-
nach family, one of whom left £1,322,000 in
London last month, have got well into the
public eye. Donald, father of Sydney, just
deceased, was for years one of the pillars of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, and James, a
Maorilander, won the English Derby in 1898
with Jeddah. This animal, though a rank
outsider (100 to 1 against), was known by
the stable to be a red-hot good thing. Lar-
naoli let the then Prince of Wales into it,
and the latter never forgot the good turn.
Bendigo West may fall to the Labor candi-
date, “Mitta” Cook, in this Vic. Parliamen-
tary election. Mitta has long been anxious
to take on Parliamentary duties, and make
barbering a secondary consideration, but so
far he has been unsuccessful. But the elec-
torate seems to be swinging back to Labor.
The chosen Nationalist candidate, George
Ham, is also no chicken at the game. He
has addressed some stormy meetings in former
campaigns, and in some instances it was a
case of Ham and eggs. A moulder by trade,
he was in those days a slim young man with
a halting manner; but experience as a
National organiser has developed him into a
fluent speaker.
Although he has drawn about £23,850 as
Minister and member in the 35 years and
two months he has been in State politics,
x\lec Peacock. Vie. Premier for the third
time, is probably not so well off as if he had
stuck to private business. He has been a
salaried Minister for 18 years 7 months, an
hon. Minister for a year and three months,
and private member for years—and it
would have been a poor sort of business that
would not have returned a Peacock £6BO a
year for the time he has given to Parliament
and the departments. He has carried on a
fair-sized establishment as company secre-
tary, but has not been able to give it close
personal supervision while running or help-
ing to run 13 Governments.
Colin Campbell Mackay, founder of Rock-
hampton (Q.), and typical old Scotch pio-
neer, has passed out at 04. The son of a
colonel of the Black Watch, he came to
Queensland in 1847 with his parents, took up
land at Morinish when old enough, and re-
sided there till he died. He was one of
the pioneers of woolgrowing in C.Q., and
though now the grass-seed lias driven the
sheep back to the West, he still kept a few
to remind him of the old days. He was
buried near the spot where he first camped
on his discovery of the Fitzroy River.
The star exhibit of the latest bsinquet
which S. Aus. gives yearly to its military
veterans was Archibald Reid, aged 95. He
joined the British Navy in 1850, so that the
Crimea and the Indian Mutiny saw him no
novice. Veterans of the M.L. wars, of the
Jamaica rebellion (18651 and of long-ago
troubles in North and South Africa and
Afghanistan were quite common. Governor
Bridges, himself a veteran, proposed the
principal toast. A feature of the gathering
was the number of men with medals of over
40 years ago who hold also those for the
greatest war of all. The ssme day died at
Renmark (S.A.) W. E. L. Willis, one of the
pioneers of the Murray fruitgrowing colony.
He first came to Australia as an instructor
on the N.S.W. permanent staff. Before that
he was in a South Wales regiment, and
missed only by being out of camp for that
day the massacre by the Zulus at Isandhl-
wana.
Long before the present headquarters of
the Sisters of Mercv in N. S. Wales was
established at Monte Saint Angelo, North
Sydney, St. Patrick’s Church, on Church
Hill, was the R.C. centre for almost all Aus-
tralia. Nearly 60 years ago the Sisters of
Mercy brought in from Ireland established
a foundation there and called for candidates.
The very first to join up was Mary Stanis-
laus Real, a sister of Queensland barrister
Real, later a Judge. Though she was some-
thing of a musical genius, it was her organis-
ing capacity that was chiefly availed of. She
heard the convent bell for the last time the
other day, when she had reached 83.
“Perdix” : Dr. John B. Mason, the oldest
medical practitioner on an Australian regis-
ter, recently celebrated his 90th birthday. He
started his professional career with a Gov-
ernment appointment in the West Indies,
whence he migrated to the small township of
Longford (Tas.). Recent years of his life
have been spent with his only child, the wife
of St. Hill, the Speck’s Engineer for Rail-
ways.
Pennington and Barnes, two of Lawson’s
ex-colleagues, who are away tripping, will
have strong opposition at Kara Kara and
Walhalla respectively at the Vic. general
election on the 26th. Pennington’s opponent
is Pickering, a stalwart of the Cocky party;
and Barnes has ag’in him Murphy, a Labor-
ite, who is depending chiefly upon the Elec-
tricity Commission’s army of workers at
Yallourn. MePhairson, ex-Treasurer, whose
habit of being away at election times is get-
ting monotonous, will be re-elected in his
absence.
Paul Cambon, who has died in Paris,
arrived in London as French Ambassador
when the Fashoda episode was still fresh in
the public mind. Then came the Boer War
and the lacerating attacks by French car-
toonists on British soldiers and Queen Vic-
toria. No official position was more difficult
than his, yet such was his skill that Albert
Gate House, where he lived, was thronged by
British royalties and generals through the
loudest of the uproar on the other side of the
Channel. So popular was he in England
that Clemenceau, Millerand and other ex-
tremists of the period urged his recall. He
was the real founder of the Entente, for he
spoke through the mouth of his friend and
admirer Edward VII. His first great diplo-
matic success in the face of difficulties was
as Tunisian Resident-General, and it was in
Tunis that he conceived his admiration for
British methods of handling natives, though
his own Government never allowed him to
put them into force. He held the London
post for 22 years, which is a record for a
French Ambassador that is not likely to be
beaten.
The new president of the Associated Cham-
bers of Commerce is W. J. Hill, grain mer-
chant, of Adelaide. The sec. is J. A. Riley,
of the same city, who should have a busy
year. As sec. of the S.A. Agricultural
Society he will stage-manage the annual
Show in September, and as sec. to the Cricket
Assoc, he will handle a Test match in Jan-
uary.
A. E. Ramsay, who died recently at 64,
was descended from that Dr. Ramsay who a
century ago married a daughter of Simeon
Ex-Journalist
DAVID DOW,
of the Prime
Minister’s office,
who has been
appointed
secretary to the
Australian Com-
missioner in
America.
Lord, of Macquarie-
place, Sydney, and
got with her a large
acreage on which
he established the
Dobroyd Nursery.
A slice of the land,
known as Ram-
say's Bush, had a
very smellful repu-
tation half a cen-
tury ago, but is
now covered by the
ultra - respectable
suburb of Haber-
held. A landmark
there is the Presby-
terian Church, the
foundation-stone of
which was laid by
the Duke of Edin-
burgh on his visit
in the late ’sixties.
“Simon" : Arthur Grimm, Liberal M.L.A.
for Asliburnham (N.S.W.), who says he will
retire at the end of the present Parliament,
m a son of that parson Grimm who wrote a
history of Australian explorers. He early
betook himself to the land up Grenfell way,
and with hard work made himself snug:
then he suddenly became easy-going and
reached Parliament in this frame of mind a
decade .ago. Knowing the country thoroughly,
and being a good, humorous talker, he might
have climbed in politics, but he never could
develop any party nastiness and just didn’t
bother. For all that he was a hard man to
beat in his electorate.
“Macnade”: Len Pike, private sec. to Theo-
dore, gave early promise of becoming a musi-
cal genius, but at 16 he threw up his appoint-
ment as assistant-organist at a large London
churchy together with his job in a commer-
cial office, and went soldiering in the Boer
War. A few years later he came to Aus-
tralia, joined the Q. public service, and, after
another spell of active service with the
A.1.F., became Theodore’s sec. in 1918. A
while back when the Q. Government gave
the British Cotton Delegation a farewell
dinner, Walter Kirby was engaged to warble,
and he provided a surprise by producing as
his accompanist . the Premier’s secretary,
whose musical ability was unsuspected by all
but a few of those present.
This year’s Bundey Prize, which is handed
by the Adelaide ’Varsity Council to the
undergrad. submitting the best English verse,
goes to A. J. Korff, well-known to Bulletin
and other readers as “Flicker.” Korff, who
is studying law, served with the Light Horse
in the war, and between sandstorms in
Egypt turned out some very creditable metri-
cal remarks.
Sydney Uni. has just conferred its third
LL.D. this century—on H. V. Evatt. The
other two were gained by G. W. Waddell
(1903) and F. M. Gellatly (1916). But
Evatt does what no man ever did before—
he gets the University Medal with his de-
gree ; and he already had an M.A. with
first-class honors. His long suit is Con-
stitutional law. Once or twice he has thought
about Parliament; he is president of the
Labor league in his own suburb.
Maoriland crooks will be as sorry as any-
body over the passing of old Edwin Arnold,
visiting Justice at the Wellington Prison for
over a quarter of a century. Arnold was
small in stature but had an outsize in hearts,
as none knew better than the boarders on
the Terrace. He made the Terrace quite a
habitable place, and put permanently on the
menu a smoke a day for the men and a pint
of tea with milk and sugar for the women.
Arnold sold prams for many years before
he took up the prison hobby.
The Maitland (N.S.W.) coal district lost
a notable resident the other day—Henry
Cartwright, under-manager of East Greta.
It was he who, while prospecting for a Mait-
land syndicate, found the seam which led
on to the opening of the great colliery with
which he was connected till his death.
Adelaide has lost a brisk citizen in Henry
Woodcock. He had a genius for the buying
and selling of land, and claimed to have had
more of S. Aus. registered in his name, at
one time and another in a long career, than
any other private person. He admitted hav-
ing made and lost three fortunes, but was
well on the up-grade at the finish.
,T. W. Wauehope, a S. Aus. pioneer, just
dead at over 90, was the last survivor of the
telegraph party which put up the most diffi-
cult part of the overland line, Adelaide to
Darwin, when S.A. tackled that job 60 years
ago. His favorite story was of a mysterious
white man who visited the party with black-
fellows. They seemed to hold him in great
respect, and he spoke their language
fluently. He disappeared as quietly as he
had come; but the camp always held the
idea that it had entertained a stray survivor
from the lost Leichhardt expedition.
“The Deacon”: Young Dr. Farrelly. the
Australian, retires from the job of private
sec. to Apostolic Delegate' Cattaneo, and
Charles Maguire, born oversea, takes his
place. This makes the third sec. since the
Delegation was established 10 years ago.
(Prior to that Dr. Moran had pull enough in
Rome to have himself appointed Delegate;
consequently there was work for neither a
Delegate nor a sec.) The first was appointed
by Dr. Cerretti, who gave young Willie
Ormond, of Maoriland, the job, and also
promoted him to the purple. His successor,
Farrelly, is a native of Lismore (N.S.W.) ;
the new man also comes from that diocese.
But there has been no repetition of the
purple-raising.
A. L. N. Walter, of the Cocky Party, was
a member of Vic.’s 27th Assembly for five
days, at £5OO a year; but he didn’t know it
till a day after the House had been dissolved.
The poll was held on May 23, and it took a
week to collect the ballot-papers and conduct
the second and third counts under the pre-
ferential system. Then it was found that
Walter had mopped up the bulk of the con-
tingent votes and beaten Bremner (Nat.) by
3094 to 1778. McKellar, the Laborite, who
was third on the list, helped to put the
Cockyite in, as 1079 of his votes were trans-
ferred to Walter as against 242 to Bremner.
Campbell, the Independent Lib., and
McQueen, the second Hayseeder, were far
back stragglers, the latter losing his £59
deposit by nine votes. Walter has got a
leg in for the general election and may indeed
be left alone, although the poll was only a
47 per cent. one.
David Wood, just dead at North Fitzroy
(Vic.), aged 86, was the oldest member of
the Vic. Stonemasons’ Society, to which he
had belonged since 1863. He was also one
of the earliest members of the Eight Hours
Committee, and had marched in every proces-
sion for 60 years.
A depressing sort of record was put up
by Councillor J. P. D. Laurie, who resigned
from the Narracoorte (S.A.) district coun-
cil the other day. He was elected in 1880,
and for 35 years he attended every meeting
but one. During that time he was chairman
for nine consecutive years, and was back in
the chair, after a break of six years, when
he retired.
A very old railway engineer was Walter
Rutt, just dead in Adelaide. Born in Lon-
don in 1842, he helped to lay out Victoria
station, and had wide experience on the Mid-
land and in Portugal. He came to Australia
in 1869, did some
surveying in West-
ralia, helped with
the telegraph line
from Adelaide to
Darwin, and later
became Chief Engi-
neer for Railways
in S. Aus. Since
his retirement in
1912 he had been
immensely busy
with Congrega-
tional Church
affairs.
Little Doctor
MALONEY,
M.H.R., who has
just delivered an
impassioned
address of welcome
to his 70th
milestone.
Dr. W. G. Armstrong, who goes upon six
months’ leave before vacating his job as
Director-General of Public Health in
N.S.W., was the first graduate of the Sydney
’Varsity Medical School. The fact that he
has reached the cavil service retiring age of
(55 will make no difference to his position as
a member of the Meat Board, to which he
was recently appointed.
ON THE NECESSITY OF MAINTAINING
DISCIPLINE AGAINST THE REBELLIOUS
PETTICOAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tou want to be firm with a woman ;
It is best she should bow to your sway.
Though she may call your conduct inhuman,
Rise sternly and say,
When she wants her own way:
“Tou can’t (or you will) ; and you’ll have lo
obey!”
And stick to that stand, though it takes you a year.
1 nbent by her storming, unmoved by a tear !
Take a grip on yourself and be master;
Let your word be the law in your house.
Though the angry words faster and faster
Pour out of your spouse,
Let her wrangle and rouse ;
You’ll find that in time she’ll grow still as a
mouse,
If you sternly stand fast —quite unmoved by the
Strife—
And show you intend to be firm with your wife.
Though some call such conduct inhuman,
There are times when a wife should be whacked.
Yes, you want to be firm with a woman,
And never retract
What you state as a fact,
Rut teach her that rebels will have to be smacked.
You ought to be firm —so should nigh every man ;
But I’m willing to bet there are darn few who can.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


«r
nn n =
J
v. -A
% & rx ■'
GOOD 0
1(1 ii n
Ml
nn r n
i * rj
" Iv^'V-P
A
c >
G.tr
r?
ss* lv ;
i\P
( 4te"
k u^»
5®
“ii
f
T.\
■
-
oxfr 'if *
>;.
ill '\y j -—C^
v
KW?
$ A
$ o»
X
jfe/
//
The ESSEX-SIX
A Thirty-Minute Ride will Win You
Take a short ride in an Essex-Six. Note its smoothness
and silence of operation, its comfort and roominess, and
the pleasing manner in which it rides over all roads at all
speeds. In thickest traffic, or on steepest pulls, its top-gear
ability will astound you. Ask for a demonstration of its
petrol consumption. It will do 26 miles or more to the
gallon. You will agree that its riding qualities and perform*
ance and its economy of upkeep cannot be equalled by any
other car of Essex price, or near it.
Then Consider These Essex-Six Advantages:
The quality and efficiency of any Hudson-built product.
Hudson type patented counter-balanced crankshaft.
Hudson type clutch, transmission and axles;
Silent chain drive to camshaft. Roller tappets.
Splayed rear springs, which eliminate all side sway.
Lightness of steering. Chassis lubrication by oilers an
advantage that saves hours of work.
The Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX


d
f
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOLJSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if i'; were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day
Lamson s,ore
102 Daking House,
b"i) Sydney.
Olderfleet. Collins Street Mefcourne
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St Christchurch
W.A.—H. Little 6- Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
NO RABBIT HAS A CHANCE
WHEN YOU USE
CALCIUM
KUM.O
BRAND
CYANIDE
This dust-like powder is blown into the warren or hollow log. It reveals all ODenintrs mww
the walls and gives off deadly fumes over 24 hours. openings, mantles
The rabbits cannoi escape, because every time they move they are met by death-dealing <ms
Scf ;ia " y I‘ “ ion-explosive, oo„-l„«a™ble, economic, 1,
The machine for its application is of the knapsack type,- light and portable.
Full details on request.
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA-
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
SOUTH R AU^RAT h Jr J | i ?' I T n & C ,°V, 486 C « llins Street, Melbourne.
s 1 KALIA,—S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union Ltd
WEs¥ N ItsTRiF?A “h‘“-
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd.. Perth.
d
ďf
POLO
Players
should use
only the best
Sticks,
Balls,
etc., etc.
Stocked in
large
assortment
by the Polo
Specialists,
JOHN BRUSH (and Butler’s),
371 George St. .Sydney; & 432-4 Queen St., Brisbane
Write for Season 1924 Booklet of Rules and
latest prices.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Gill Guy”: Ringside chairs at a kangaroo
fight are well worth £5, and the first man who gets
a picture of one for the screen need worry no more
about tucker. “Flinders River’s” account (B.
8/5/’24) is about the third I ever heard in a fairly
IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN GEORGE V.
“'Ere, Willie, wot yer makin’ all that row about? Any-
one’d think yer was ther King of Hingland openin’
th’ Hempire Hexhibition.”
wide experience. I watched one fight at close
quarters for fully 20 minutes, and think I can
throw some light on the Marquis of Rooberry rules.
It’s a bare-toe go. The two, with their heads well
drawn back and their bodies erect, are locked the
length of the short forearms apart. Each stares
the other with never a flutter of an eyelid (hence
the chance of a man getting close to view a con-
test), and pulls, pushes or twists to get his opponent
off his tripod base. When one manages this he
breaks away and in goes his powerful hind legs.
Herein is the science (and it’s worthy the name)
feint for a breakaway, in with the kick and then
close again before the compliment is returned.
Three lady friends reclining among the Mitchell
grass formed the ring and doubtless the cause ol
the argument.
* * * *
"H.L.S.”: The kookaburras round about
Port Darwin (N.T.) are small, and their laugh is
a very poor imitation of that of their southern
brothers. When I mentioned this latter fact to a
mate up there his remark was: “Well, what the
blazes could they find to laugh at in this flamin’
hole?”
“Gouger”: The Binghi who told “D. Jay”
(B. 17/4/’24) that wild ducks don’t nest on Cape
\ork Peninsula (N.Q.) was pulling his leg. Many’s
the time I’ve got outside of half a dozen eggs hard
boiled. The birds nest in the reedy lagoons, tropical
swamps and gloomy mangrove creeks. Incidentally,
the nigger thinks a brood of ducklings a delicacy
even if only a few days old. At the mouth of a
shallow creek, feeding a waterhole, he cunningly
lays semi-floating nets of woven grass. Next day he
creeps to the opposite end of the pool, and if, as
expected, there are several mothers with their Droods
serenely swimming on the placid water, he jumps in
with a yell and a splash. Instantly the startled
families make straight for the outlet creek. The
flurried ducklings get their feet entangled in the net
—and Binghi gets his dinner.
* * * *
“Hopalong” : Talking of queer friendships,
a friend of mine has a pet jackass and a tabby cat
which are the best of pals, having been reared to-
gether from infancy. Puss at present has a batch of
five kittens, and Jack has taken upon himself the
rOle of godfather and assistant-provider—every now
and then he flops down and deposits a mouse or a
young bird in front of the family.
“D.H.R.”: The Papuan, like the Gyppo,
believes in going into the next world iuny equipped,
and arms, cooking utensils, garments, articles of
personal adornment, etc., are in many places buried
with the dead. With various tribes it is customary
also to bury a roast pig wrapped in palm-leaves as
rations for the trip, which is generally believed to
occupy the traveller till the next sunset—the moment
of sunset being the time of admission for new arrivals.
A couple of years ago I went to visit a chief near
Delena, taking with me the usual presents. On
arrival I learned that he had died two days previously.
Expressing a wish to pay my respects in the tribe's
most approved manner, I was led out and placed
sitting on a mat on top of the grave. Here I was
requested to join in a wailing, which was continued
for over three hours. Then I was invited to open
the grave and place my presents on the corpse.
Having gone thus far with my respects I knew it
would be construed as an insult to the deceased
to jib, so I got to work, and I assure you I didn’t
want to. (If you don’t believe me, dig one up for
yourself.) The articles buried with this corpse in-
cluded spears, clubs, bows and arrows, frontlets, arm-
lets, necklets and ear-pendants.
* * * *
“Y.4R.”: There was nothing uncommon
in the action of “Olive’s” centipede which “swallowed”
her eggs (B. l/5/’24). The many-legged lady has a
cavity in the throat next to the .'esophagus, and when
her eggs are in danger she puts them in this cavity
as if she was swallowing them. I cannot understand
how, as “Olive” relates, her particular Mrs. Centipede
could not get the last egg down, for Mother Nature
has made the cavity quite large enough to receive
the biggest clutch that could be laid.
* * * *
“Cobba Cobba”: “Larry Longun’s” wild
plum (B. 24/4/’24) at one
time grew rather plenti-
fully in the rough scrub coun-
try adjacent to Cairns (N.Q.).
In addition to its qualities as
a fruit, when boiled, well
strained and allowed to cool,
the syrup made a delicious
drink. As a school kid I did
many a long Saturday tramp,
and ruined many a shirt in
the lawyer-infested scrub at
Edgehill, near Cairns, gather-
ing the fruit. Local abos.
called it the “boungavai,” and
that was the only name we
knew it by. Another gopd-
eating plum (though it has a
surplus of seed) growing in
profusion in N.Q. scrubs is the
Burdekin. When gathering
this one it is necessary to
include an abo. or a good
treeclimber in the party. Most
of the trees are very tall, and,
though thickly branched near
the top, show up to 60ft. of
slippery trunk between the
ground and the first limb. The
usual method is to gather the
plums green and plant them
in the ground until they ripen.
If cold-blooded animals are im-
mune to snake-poisoning, as some Abo. Councillors
say, I would like to know what happened to a dozen
or more eels a year or two back. At the time I
related in The Bulletin' the experience of an tel
fisherman in the Western District (Vic.), who caught
a dozen or more eels in the night and placed them
in a cieam-can half full of water, as he wished to
keep them alive for a day or two. The lid was put
on the can, but plenty of air was let in through
small holes. Next morning the angler found all
the eels dead, but a very lively black-snake about
sft. long was swimming about in the water in the
can. The fisherman must have caught the snake
in the creek with the eels. Did the black devil
bite the eels and so kill them, or did they just die
of heart failure?
“Bouragi”: Though, as “Morob” says (B.
8/4/’24), the Papuan Government often makes vil-
lage constables of ex-gaolbirds, the practice does not
there apply to the Armed Native Constabulary, what-
ever the custom may be in the Mandated Territories.
Governor Macgregor, who instituted the practice of
training his village constables in the Jug University
gave the idea a trial once only in the A.N.C. That
was when he brought down Dumai, one of the Mamba
natives who murdered Clarke and other prospectors
in 1896, and gave him a year’s training in Port
Moresby Gaol. When Dumai had learned some
Motu, he was sent up with Green, who founded the
first Government station on the Mamba, as inter-
preter and “liaison officer” with his friends of the
Binandele. The treacherous massacre of Green and
his police by Dumai and his friends soon followed,
and Sir William tried no more experiments in that
direction.
THE RIGHT SORT OF A YOUNG MAN.
THE P OET: “Polly, when you frown upon me dark rain-clouds fill the sky.”
THE OLD MAN ( who has looked in to say it’s time lights were out ): “For Gawd’s sake,
keep frownin’, Polly—we could do with a drop of rain.”
“Nollig”: Wiri contemplated matrimony—
in “the pakeha way.” Asked if the affair was to
be solemnised at a church he occasionally attended,
Wiri became emphatic: “No prurry goot to me!
You no get te tivorse wit te Kathriks!”
* * * *
“C.C.S.” : “E.S.S.” on the dugong (B,
8/5/’24) reminds me that my father, the late Tom
Petrie, the Queensland authority, used to say that
the abos. of Moreton Bay had a superstition that
should the gins see a dugong before it was cut up for
food it would not be fat. Consequently the ladies
kept well out of the way when one was caught.
Another idea was that unless a twig or piece of
grass was-put at once in each ear the creature would
be no good. As for the culinary part, a large fire
was made, into which the dugong was rolled, after
which more fire was placed on top. When the car-
case was half-cooked the head and tail were cut off,
the back was opened down the middle, and the
blubber and flesh were taken from the ribs in a
large flake. The whole carcase was then cut up and
divided out, the gins now allowed to come along
with their piccaninnies, getting their share; after
the further cooking of the pieces there would be a
rare old feast. . ,
* * ■«
“F.H.R.”: Re the unthinking illtreatment
of horses. I know one man who would drive his
prad all day without taking the gear off him. He
thought if he put the nosebag on and gave the horse
a drink at dinner-time, there was no need for any-
thing else—and he was always losing time by being
troubled with a water-griped neddy. Any bushman
knows what half an hour’s spell with the saddle or
harness off and a good roll in a bit of dry dust
means to a horse when you are out to do anything
from 50 to 80 miles in a day. I can still drive
60 miles a day with my 16-year-old mare Lady, but
she wouldn’t do it if I didn’t let her out every 20
miles or so. Pity we couldn’t get some opinions
from her on the matter!
* * * *
“Meran” : A ewe in this district (Iverang,
Vic.) had a lamb, and later, when the mob was
turned out after marking, three motherless infants
joined her. She is now rearing the whole quartet,
and bonnie lambs they are, too.
“Bola”: Some time ago an Abo. contri-
butor alleged that the bolas of South America, or
something like them, were used by some of the Aus-
tralian abos. A proposal to introduce the bolas was
made at a very early date by Sir Joseph Banks, but
history is silent as to the result. Writing to Gov-
ernor King on August 29, 1804, Banks said:—
I send you with this two volumes of the natural
history of Paraguay for the chapter in the second
volume, which gives some account of the method of
managing housed stock in an open country. Some
hints from it may be used by you and be useful.
The chief thing to be wished for is some person
from Buenos Ayres skilled in the use and manage-
ment of the bullet and thong; this may be managed
by the South Sea whalers, and shall be proposed to
Government.
“Fana”: Despite the assertion of “Brud”
(B. 22/5,/’24), it is a fact that pigs frequently cut
their throats with their feet while swimming A
flood in our part of Vic. swept away a large pig-
pen in which were about 20 fat porkers. The waters
carried them into a corner of the valley, and later
on the bodies of most of them were found there,
every one, with the exception of two or three, with
its throat gashed. Again, a new-chum drover,
contrary to his boss’s orders, tried to cross a small
river with some pigs. They had only about 20
yards to go, but before half the distance had been
traversed most of them were bleeding to death from
the wounds they had inflicted in their throats.
Incidentally, this particular incident formed the basis
for an action in the District Court in Vic., and it
is on record there for anybody to read.
“Pedro”: “B.” asks what flavor a fish
diet would give pork (B. 15/'5/’24). He needn't
burst in ignorance about it if the effect of fish food
on poultry is any criterion. Next time he has fish,
let him leave the offal where the ducks can gef.
at it. If the birds are laying, for a day or two
he can have fish and eggs without buying any fish.
* * * *
“Cartot”: I would like to tell “C. Coral”
that the theory of the relationship between the
dynastic Egyptians and the islanders of Torres
Strait rests on something more solid than the mere
practice of mummification (B. 24/4/’24). During the
process of embalming, the islanders make a .number
of incisions in different parts of the body. If
questioned as to the reason they reply that it is
a custom they have always followed. In the Egyptian
process, however, it was by means of these incisions
that the viscera were extracted, and this fact alone
argues strongly that mummification was brought to
Torres Strait from Egypt—probably during the
great migrations that peopled the Pacific Islands.
Confirmation is supplied by the custom of tying in
the toe- and finger-nails of the corpse with string.
In Egypt this was necessary because the body was
placed in natron, or preserving fluid, which shrank
THE HALL-MARK.
“An’ are the family yer workin’ for gen-
teel, Hagues?”
“Genteel! I should just think they WERE
genteel! Why, I never seen another
lady smoke fags and swear like her.”
the flesh and caused the nails to fall out unless they
had been previously tied in. It is quite unnecessary hi
Darnley and Stephen islands, as no preserving liquid
is used ; yet the natives never omit the wrappings of
string on the hands and feet, and they put them on
with exactly the same sort of knot that the Egyptians
employed. They can give no reason for doing so
save that it is the custom.
(Continued on page 24.)
WAYSIDE MAGIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Sydney-side, if you should take
The road to Bell, upclimbing,
When winds are warm and skies are clear
It may be you will chance to hear,
Now faint and far, now rich and near,
Among tall wattles by the way,
The mountain bell-birds chiming.
While still the bracken gleams with dew
They all begin together;
And never came there melody
More quaint and sweet from bush or tree
Than you shall hear as lazily
You listen to their silver chimes,
All in the golden weather.
Their music has such witchery
That, while the sun is flinging
His splendors on the upland way,
And wind and leaf together play,
You’ll quite forget the world, and say;
“’Tis market-time in Fairyland,
And fairy bells are ringing.”
To free oneself of tiresome thought
Is surely worth the winning;
And he who idles there daylong
Shall quite forget the busy throng,
And feast his soul on scent and song—
A loiterer till dewy eve
From dewy morn’s beginning.
Upon the upland road to Bell
When spreading wattles fountain
With golden spray, and skies are clear,
Loud town afar and nature near,
If you’ll but pause awhile, you’ll hear,
Now near and rich, now far and faint,
The bell-birds on the mountain.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Willard
The only genuine Threaded Rubber Batteries
are made by Willard.
Let the Willard Trade-mark that appears at
the top of this notification guide you in identifying
a Willard Threaded Rubber Battery, wherever it
is offered for sale.
Be sure this mark is on the battery you purchase
and you will be sure of the battery’s quality.
Willard Service Stations display the sign below,
that you may find them the more speedily when
the need for a new battery arises, or repairs are
in order on your present battery.
These passenger cars and trucks are equipped by their
makers with genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Cole
Crawford
Cunningham
Daniels
Dixie
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Exp.)
Duesenberg
Elcar
Fifth Ave.
Coach
Franklin
Gardner
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Holmes
Huffman
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
Mercer
Meteor
(Piqua)
McFarlan
Miller
Nash
Ogren
Olds
Packard
(Exp.)
Paige (Exp.)
Paterson
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Riddle
R & V
Knight
Sayers
Studebaker
Stutz
Tarkington
Velie
Westcott
Wills Sainte
Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All American
American-
La France
Armstead
Atterbury
Austin
Avery
Backhus
Brown
Bridgeport
Buffalo-
Springfield
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dependable
Detroit
Motor Bus
Dorris
Eugol
F WD
Fulton
Garford
G M C
Gotfredson
Guilder'
Hahn
Highway
Holt
Huffman
Hurlbut
Independent
Indiana
Kalamazoo
Kankakee
Kissel
Koehler
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Nash
Nelson &
Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Petroleum
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Rowe
Sandow
Sayers
Seagrave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
White
Wilson
L
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A,
STORAGE
BATTERY
I
lift


m
m
m
ki*
mm
m
fey
■
VM
mm
1
QK
A
m
i
11
H
m
n
IP:
1
'
. ' v:
at
:
Hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141—10 lines.
“Wingella”: But Binghi will eat goat,
“Cam Cove” notwithstanding (B. 27/3/’24).' In
16 years’ experience I have never found a Territory
nigger, either myall or civilised, to refuse nanny-goat
at any time, save when under ceremonial tribal ban.
Even then, if the nigger is hungry and “slim” enough,
it is eaten under the plea that it is “white-feller
food.”
“Dr. Nil”: I cannot tell “B. See” (B.
S/5/’24) what soldier-ants do with dead snake or
other meat. I had supposed they ate it on the
spot. But if they do store it, the preserving part
of the business may use up some of that formic acid
which allegedly gives them their peculiar smell
when crushed, and which also enters into the com-
position of “wooralli” (arrow) poison in South
THE EXPERT.
PA: “Yes, Peggy, the doctor brought twins.”
PEGGY: “Well, that’s what we get for having a special-
ist, pa.”
America and of formalin—hence the name of the
latter. I say “allegedly” because anyone who con-
tinues to believe what he was taught more than 10
years ago is apt to be looked upon as a fogey and
a has-been.
“Anaf”: Tell “Cam Cove” that what the
seagulls were looking for when he saw them catch-
ing yellowtail in the dark (B. 1/5/’24) was the
phosphorescent streaks in the water that marked
the presence of the fish. Both yellow-tail and
mackerel, two of the gulls’ favorite dishes, keep
close to the surface at night. Hence, it is com-
paratively easy for the birds to spot them. Once I
was standing on the deck of a vessel in Sydney
Harbor watching seagulls catch fish in this manner.
It was too dark for one to see more than a few
yards; yet the birds went on catching the yellow-
tail for nearly half an hour. The phosphorescent
streaks caused by the fish darting here and there did
the trick.
“Buttinski”: Re the mystification of “H.
Swordfish” (B. l/5/’24) because he can’t see his
luminous watch in a tunnel. Let him step into a
room at night and switch out the light. Even
the luminous face of the best of watches, such as
mine—a Spitz and Dazzle; price one dahlar —is in-
visible for some time in such circumstances. The
human eye refuses to adapt itself from the bright
light of day to tne feeble rays of luminous paint
within a period long enough for even a Tasmanian
train to go through a 60-chain tunnel.
“X2X”: “S.C.” is wrong when he says
that epidemic diseases never attack fish (B. 22/5/’24j.
In one case large numbers of fish of all kinds were
washed up on the coast just a little north of Cook-
town (Q.). They were all marked with mottled
patches, ranging in color from grey to brown, and
the flesh where these patches were seemed to be
so soft as to be practically decomposed. Unfor-
tunately, there were no facilities on the spot for
making a bacteriological examination ; and, although
some of the fish were sent to a laboratory, the
senders, through lack of technical knowledge, placed
them in jars of alcohol, in order to preserve them,
and of course the alcohol killed whatever organisms
were present, so that cultures could not be made.
Another instance was when thousands of dead fish
were to be seen floating in the sea near Merauke,
Dutch New Guinea. These were also covered with
patches, some of which extended over almost the
whole of the fish, and were a yellowish-green. No
microbiological examination was made in this care
either, but from other indications it was plain that
the fish had died from a bacterial infection of some
sort.
* * * «
“V.H.” : A letter-card sent from Palmerston
North (M.L.) bore the following address: “House-
holder at finger-post, Pahiatua-Ballance-Palmerston
North, first post over bridge from Pahiatua.” A
thing like that didn’t worry the postal officials, how-
ever, and the card was delivered up to time at the
correct address.
“Bouragi” makes reply:—
“Lobje” in taking me to task for defending the
Papuan savage from the charge of cruelty (B.
15/5/’24) dodges the real issue—that of deliberate
intention. With many years of experience of him
I find it impossible to believe that the Papuan, though
often cruel, is deliberately so for the sheer Sadistic
delight of beholding the agony of other living
things. No one has ever brought definite proof that
the Papuan has inflicted torture on his prisoners of
war, for instance, as savages much higher in the
scale of humanity, like the American Indian, the
Maori, and even the Zulu were accustomed to do.
Wild yarns of torture have often held the floor for a
bit, as in the cases of the mur-
ders of the prospectors Campion
and King on the Yodda, and of
Brackenbury and others at the
old Gira. I was closely
connected with the subsequent in-
vestigation Of those cases, and the
very circumstantial torture story
proved utterly baseless. Further,
the New Guinea natives, with
whom I came in contact when they
were far more primitive than they
are now, . most certainly never
practised torture per se. Cold-
blooded butchery and callous
methods to prisoners, yes ; but the
idea of torturing an enemy for
profit, pleasure or revenge, as the
civilised Chinese do to-day and our
own ancestors did a century ago,
is foreign to the Papuan mentality.
As to natives holding “high rank”
in the constabulary being guilty
of even unconscious cruelty—l
doubt it. The police in my day
were swiftly made to understand
that the white man’s objection to
roasting a bunch of frogs alive,
say, was one that carried weight.
This tendency in my experience is
easy to eradicate. “Lobje” asks
why, if the native is easily
taught so many things, he cannot
be taught not to inflict needless
pain on helpless creatures. The
answer is that he can, and often
is, without trouble. There are
exceptions, here as elsewhere. Only
a few months ago, two young
white men in N. S. Wales were
convicted of flogging a horse
almost to death with fencing-wire.
The most bloody-minded cannibal
of the part of Papua I once knew
could not be forced to do a thing
like that, even by fear of death.
To put the Papuan who breaks an
enemy’s leg, lest the meat escape
before the fire is ready, in the
same category as those horse-
torturers is to wrong one party to
the question—-and not the white
one.
“J.A.”: Will a honey-bee go to the rescue
of a comrade in distress ? I was sitting in my
garden when I saw a bee fall foul of a spider’s web.
Whether the spider was afraid to tackle its catch,
or intended to let it weaken itself by struggling for
freedom, I can’t say, but it seemed content to look
on. A few moments later two bees, whether by
accident or design, collided with the captive, and
their joint weight broke the web, and all three
flew away together. I was inclined to think that it
was an accidental collision, but an apiarist tells me
that it was a ease of rescue.
* * * *
“Pedro”: Fishing over the wreck of an
old hulk in Wellington (M.L.) I once I made fast to
what hauled up motionless like a piece of seaweed.
In view' it turned out to be a red fish over a foot
long. I was about to throw it back in disgust when
a man fishing near by shouted “What are you doing ?
Don’t you know it’s a red cod, one of the best
fish that swims?” and the flabby thing was swapped
for three tarakihi. Now in a recent story by
Stewart Edward White, of fishing somewhere m
North American waters, a big red cod is caught,
THE NEW BREED.
“Dunno what she is —l calls her American.”
“ But — er, really, there isn’t any such breed of cow, is there ?”
“I dunno. She’s yarn dry, anyhow.”
and it is explained to another sceptical fisherman
that these cod always come up as unresisting ns
though they were dead—or drunk. Is it a fact
that all red cod when hooked are passive resisters ?
“The Jumper”: That Gracemere (C.Q.)
pet ’possum, mentioned by “Adamascus” (B.
24/4/’24), which goes out periodically to lose the
old baby and collect a new one, must belong to a
new species. I’ve never known a ’possum to abandon
one joey to make room for another. As a matter of fact.
No. 1 is still riding on mammy’s back and sucking
long after little brother has been placed in the
pouch. And big brother usually keeps pretty close
to mammy till he is nearly 12 months old and on
the lookout for a mate. If the Gracemere pet re-
turned from the honeymoon each time without the
previous season’s piccaninny, then something must
have happened to the youngster.
“Zanthus”: A monograph on the history
of shearing is long overdue. Who invented sheep-
shears, for instance ? We do not seem to know even
in what age they were invented. One Australian
authority who has spent much of the leisure of a
lifetime in delving into the wool industry and its
history holds that the principle of the bow of
the shears was known to the dwellers in the Swiss
lake villages many hundreds of years ago. The
marvellous speed of the Australian shearer seems
to be a fairly modern development. In his book
on Westralia, published in 1839, Nathaniel Ogle
says that two shepherds could watch 1000 sheep,
but that three or four extra men would be needed
for what he calls the clipping. Which seems to
show that in his day the rate of shearing was more
like the leisurely English procedure.
* * * *
The milk as ordered :
“A.C.T.” (N.S.W.); “Caesar” is asking for another
case of a heifer giving milk though it has not had a calf
' !•§/?/ ° n the cow -. f arm on which I worked as
a kid two young poddy heifers became great cobbers,
and after feeding up they would suck each other’s
ears and udders. When they had been weaned off
they were turned out into a paddock and left there.
Then a dealer turned up looking for young stock and
one of the heifers was sold. Next day I noticed
that her mate’s udder seemed to be swollen, so I
ran her into the yard and looked her over. She gave
a good quart of milk. My theory is that the con-
stant sucking had brought the milk on. Like
“Caesar’s” animal she was a Jersey.
“Hop Toit” (Vic.) : When I was earning a crust
teat-pulling we had two purebred Jersey heifers,
mates from birth, that used to suck each other’s
ears, etc., apparently to their mutual enjoyment. As
yearlings it was remarked that, the sucking continued,
though both had long given up the ears in favor of
the teats. Soon after an opportunity occurred to run
them into the bails, and then it was found they
both had milk. I weighed what I got from one, and
it went 21b., or just under a quart. As both heifers
were only about six weeks in calf at the time, it is
hardly possible that they were springing. The suck-
ing had continued without interruption from poddy-
hood, so there’s no telling at what age they first
began to make milk.
“Spenner”: A Portland (Vic.) resident is at
present milking a heifer which was not due to calve
till the end of June. Over two months ago, through
some misadventure, she lost her calf, and upon the
advice of an experienced cow-cocky the owner com-
menced milking her from the time of the mishap.
From half a gallon at the first milking, there has
been a gradual increase, till 2-1 gallons are now
obtained twice daily, and at time of writing there are
still six weeks to go to the time the calf was due.
“Double-Six”: In this district (Wyalong, N.S.W.)
a cow came into milk with her first calf ; then every
year she would dry off for a few weeks and come in
again in full milk without having a calf.
“Jimmy Possum”: Tell “Keystring” (B.
24/4/’24) that the brown hawk has long been known
f as an expert snake-killer, and for this reason is
permanently protected in Queensland. The whistling
jeagle (Haliastur sphenurus ) will also kill snakes.
1 saw one a few seasons back pick up a 4ft. wriggler
in front of our house and fly away with it in the
direction of the nest.
The reptile, which was
probably of the tree-
climbing order, was
dropped once or twice
and caught again be-
fore it was finally
carried off, head hang-
ing downwards. I have
also known the kingly
wedgetail to kill goan-
nas, and 1 once saw
a couple of these birds,
a pair of whistling
eagles and several
crows fighting over the
remains of a 10ft.
carpet-snake, though
whether they had killed
poor old Slowcoach l
don’t know. And,
talking of crows, I
once saw two dealing
it out to a 3ft. brown
wriggler, which they
most certainly would
have killed if they had
been left alone. They
were taking it turn
about, jerking the rep-
tile first this way and
then that, and had him
almost knocked out
when the boss, who
never spared a crow,
interrupted the game
with a gun. The only
result, however, was
that the Ivellys got a
deuce of a fright and
the snake got his free-
dom.
“Werrimee” : When Binghi wants to trap
a big eel for dinner, and has none of the common
means at hand, he looks for a small hollow log,
baits it amidships with any kind of raw meat, and
sinks it in a narrow, shallow part of a creek, or
near the edge of a big lagoon. When the slithery
fish has entered, he creeps down and upends the
log smartly. Then, shoving a piece of flat wood
under the bottom end, he lifts it out.
* * * *
“H.L.S.”: Talking to a friend one even-
ing I told him that a couple of times lately I have
had to walk down to the blacks’ camp and threaten to
shoot their dogs'to make them stop their corroborees,
as I could not get to sleep because of their noise. I
didn’t mind it till, say, 10 o’clock, but all night was
over the fence. He then told me that he was often
troubled by them at his place, but that, when he
wanted them to stop, he sneaked up close to the abos.
and threw a stone to one side of their camp, then
another to the other side, and so on, till the row
stopped—an invariable result. He said that they
thought there were debil-debils about, and were then
quiet for the night.
BEATS IT.
BLITHERS: “Old Tankley has discovered a
new way to avoid a headache when he
is recovering from a drunk."
SLITHERS: “How does he do it?”
BLITHERS: “He stays drunk."
“John Willie”: Can any of the Council
give a name to a small and wicked-looking wriggler
which is fairly plentiful in the Cairns (Q.) hinter-
land? So far as my observation goes, he does not
exceed a foot in length, is a very dark slate color,
both back and belly, and wears a stylish-looking
pair of orange-colored spectacles about two sizes too
large for him. When disturbed he invariably shows
fight and will return to the attack until he is
despatched. With his name, I’d like also to know
if he is as venomous as he looks.
WHEN MOLLY BAKES THE SCONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When merry Molly bakes the scones
Most dainty fair she looks;
And all the kiddies murmur “Bonz!”
For fit for marquises and dons
Is all that Molly cooks.
Her eyes are blue, her face is fair—
Most winsome she of girls!
Her long and handsome arms are bare ;
And flour is sprinkled on her hair
Just where it softly curls.
To cut the squares may seem to be
A simple occupation ;
But pretty Molly Drew’ to see
So occupied has got for me
A subtle fascination.
How gracefully she flours the board,
How deftly rolls the dough;
And as she turns the crisp brown hoard
Her dimpled face can well afford
To take the oven’s glow.
And there are many greedy eyes
And eager teeth at John’s.
We watch the floury dainties rise
And ruthlessly the butter flies
When Molly makes the scones.
Tom fell in love with Molly Drew.
One day discovering
Her baking scones, he had to woo,
And offered for a scone or two
A golden wedding ring.
Now he comes lurching round the door
On Molly’s baking day;
And very soon, as all deplore,
She will be baking only for
That hulking bloke from Hay.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


.
■
m
am
H,. :
a—i
*.
tel
ttHK
>7
m
m hb
m hi ■an
H• • -
jT:
a<
'
a:
a
i
a
ti
m
■
m
1
r
■ ■
i m
mm
.
■ -
Sl—iaaMiii
m
ES
! li
■
■
Hi
1
m
mmmmmM
%
mam
■
«»■*
■
ft.
ii ■ m
m
H
■I
iieMsa
■
HESS
1
■
1
iilillli
«
, ■
a; mm
m
111 ■'
.
H
m
#
B a,
■
|^M|
mm
■
a
mu
; : , : A-.
mm
Cleanliness demands
more than Hathing^ —
HOW EASY and pleasant is
bathing! Now that nearly
every house has the mod-
ern bath-room, external cleanli-
ness is a national habit. But there
is another habit, the habit of inter-
nal cleanliness which is far more
important to your health and
well-being.
Doctors will tell you that internal
cleanliness means keeping the
food waste moving regularly
out of the system. A clogged in-
testinal system is a disease-breeder.
Here start first such ailments as
headaches, bilious attacks and in-
somnia —each of which takes toll
of your health and vitality. Poi-
sons flood your system. Vital or-
gans are affected. Your power of
resistance is lowered. Health,even
life itself, is threatened. In this
clogging, say intestinal specialists,
lies the primary cause of more
than three-quarters of all illness,
Nui ol
TRADE MARK
For Internal Cleanliness
including the gravest diseases of
life.
Thousands of healthy men and
women have learned to prevent
illness by maintaining internal
cleanliness through the regular
use of Nujol. Nujol is not a laxa-
tive and cannot cause distress.
Nujol prevents intestinal clogg-
ing by lubrication, the method now
employed by medical authorities
throughout the world. Nujol lub-
ricates and softens the food waste
and thus hastens its passage
through and out of the body.
Don’t give disease a start. Take
Nujol as regularly as you brush
your teeth or wash your face.
Nujol is not a medicine. Like pure
water it is harmless. Nujol estab-
lishes the habit of internal clean-
liness—the healthiest habit in
the world.
If you would maintain health,
good looks, and youthful energy,
adopt this habit of internal clean-
liness. Nujol will make every day
brighter and your
enjoyment of life
more keen.
For Sale at all Chemists.
Regular as
Clockwork’
Faulty Elimination
Everywhere physicians are sounding urgent
warnings of the growing menace of faulty
elimination. A health official of one of our
leading cities recently declared that not only
serious bodily diseases but many nervous and
mental ills are founded on clogged intestines.
Too many people are miserable, he states, due
to this condition. They are too tired to begin
the day, nervous, gloomy and apprehensive.
In fact, the continual absorption of poisons
from sluggish intestines may cause the break-
down of the entire system and the early wan-
ing of youth.
Why Physicians Favor
Lubrication
Medical science, through knowledge of the in-
testinal tract gained by X-ray observation and
exhaustive tests, has found at last in lubrica-
tion a means of overcoming faulty elimination.
The gentle lubricant, Nujol, penetrates and
softens the hard food waste. Thus it enables
Nature to secure regular, thorough elimina-
tion. Nujol is not a laxative, and cannot cause
distress. Nujol hastens the rate of flow through
the intestine,preventing intestinal sluggishness.
Nujol is used in leading hospitals and is pre-
scribed by physicians throughout the world
for the relief of faulty elimination in people of
all ages.
Complexion Troubles: Science now knows
that poisons from intestinal sluggishness are
the chief cause of personal unattractiveness.
Carried by the blood they reach every body
cell, the millions of cells that compose the skin,
the roots of the hair and the eyes. No wonder
that through faulty elimination the skin be-
comes sallow, muddy, roughened, blotched or
disfigured with pimples or other blemishes. It
is not strange that the hair loses its sheen and
the eyes become dull.
Nujol should be taken regularly for the com-
plexion. Nujol overcomes and prevents intes-
tinal sluggishness. It thus keeps the body free
from poisons which are the principal cause of
complexion troubles.
Nujol is the most effective aid to a clear,
healthy, lovely skin.
Elderly People. In youth and perfect health the in-
testine supplies a natural lubricating liquid in sufficient
quantities to soften the food waste and hasten its move-
ment out of the body. In advanced years this lubricant
decreases in quantity. Hence the need for something t
give assistance. The action of Nujol so closely resembles
that of Nature's lubricant that is especially beneficial to
those in advanced years. Nujol softens the
\ waste,thus enabling the intestinal muscles k. J
to move it along and out of the body. m
Nujol, Grosvenor House, Sydney, N. S.W.
Please send me your 16-page free booklet: “The
Dangers of Constipation.”
Name
Address


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1914
CfflflPH®
HE PLUS ULTRA
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Diamond and Platinum Ornaments.
The Company has a comprehensive selection of Diamond and Gem-set
Ornaments in the newest ideas. Inspection is invited.
Diamond and Sapphire Brooch,
£55 :0: 0.
Also in All Diamonds, Diamonds and
Onyx, Emeralds, etc.
From £15:10:0 to £250 :0: 0.
Full Particulars on Application.
Diamond and
Platinum Ring.
£l5O : 0:0.'
Diamond and
Platinum Ring,
£ Hfi : 0 : 0.
WILLIAM FARMER &C° LT?
Jewelers. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Nothing of its kind equals
N
Cuisine, beauty and delightful music, together
■with the distinction of its guests, all contribute
to the allure of The Ambassadors.
DINNER DE LUXE, Nightly, 7.30, 21/-;
Saturday. 25/-
SUPPERS, from 9.30, 12/6; Saturday, 15/6.
4A to 6 hours’ perfect enjoyment nowhere
equalled.
RALTON’S WORLD-FAMED HAVANA BAND.
Enthralling music, satin-smooth spring floors,
adding to dancing its crowning charm.
LUNCHEONS DE LUXE, eminently
superior, from 12.30, 5/-; or a La Carte.
Equal to London’s best half-guinea lunch.
AFTERNOON TEAS, at 3.30 daily, 5/-
Delicious Pastry by French Chefs.
Ralton’s Band in attendance.
Special Note. —For Wedding Receptions, Balls
and Parties, small and up to 700, no place
equals The Ambassadors. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LERER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Learning and brain-waves filled the Great
Hall of the Uni. to overflowing on Thursday
night; and the result was a conversazione
—in the dire meaning of the word. After you
had been welcomed by Chancellor Cullen, who
was supported by daughter Ailsa, you passed
along a line of grave signiors with multi-
colored hoods to their robes, and then you
added still another to the masses that were
worming a passage in and out of stationary
groups. The idea seemed to be that as soon
as you had painfully progressed to one side
of the room, leaving a string of greetings and
apologies behind, you pulled your perfectly
genuine bunny up to your ear-tips (the Great
Hall is the place where the winds meet), took
a breath, and started back to the place
whence you had come. Every academic
notable in Sydney had turned up; but lots
of time was lost in the search of the gradu-
ates for the men (and women) of the same
year. Next re-union will be held in the Uni.
Park, with either gunyahs or cattle-pens
(that’s not settled yet) marked with the dif-
ferent years, so that if 1914 wants to meet
1914 he makes for the sign.
The gayest rocket in the week-long fire-
works display of Sydney Uni. soared sky-
high on Friday when the undergrads ran
their fete. This represented their big effort
towards the War Memorial Bells. By 2
o’clock the quadrangle was crowded. Sweet
girl graduates peddled flowers and lucky
packets, and implored the passer-by to pay
a shilling for the joy of pondering such pro-
blems as “If it took a girl and a half an
hour and a half to build this iced-cake” —
splendid specimen of the genus pointed to —
“what are the length and breadth of Stefans-
son’s snowshoes?” The correct answer
brought you the iced-cake plus any microbes
it might have accumulated during the after-
noon. Young men with bunny-lined hoods
staggered around trafficking hams and other
country produce in the cause; Mrs. McCal-
lum struggled from midstream to the out-
skirts of the crowd hugging a stained-glass
effigy of her St. Mungo ; Mrs. Dettman, the
Grammar School's wife, steamed along draw-
ing her sun-browned husband in her wake;
and the ever-delectable Edgeworth David
couple smiled at the goings-on. His Ex.,
having been sentenced to wear Priniinister
Bruce’s spats for six months on suspicion of
being in the plot for the establishment of
silk hats, was only kept from feeling glum
about it by the sight of so many burnished
copper topknots among the girl students.
Titian would have swooned with rage to see
the splendor even partially eclipsed by dull
mortar-boards. The Governor-General’s lady,
a study in gobelin blues, made touching re-
ference to those whose memory the bells would
perpetuate.
While the Forsters were at the Uni. fete
the State Governor’s lady was unlocking the
front .door of the new Barnardo home, and
making a great speech in favor of the White
Australia policy. The place is the old home
of the Popes of Aslifield, and is surrounded by
gay flowei*-beds and green lawns shaded by
old trees. Arthur Rickard and his wife
and a big committee welcomed the Governor’s
lady, who was further gladdened by a bunch
of the garden’s fairest flowers.
Lady de Chair presided at her first meet-
ing of the Victoria League at the Women’s
Club midway through last week. The solemn
occasion was the annual foregathering of the
leaguers, and after Chief Justice Cullen’s lady
had welcomed her Ex. with a garland of
words and a bunch of roses, she spoke of the
society’s progress and. proudly mentioned its
membership of 772. While Beulah Bolton
read reports the other 771 had a chance to
observe that the skirt of Lady de Chair’s
black satin frocking showed the up-grade ten-
dency. When the business had been polished
off, every woman hurried to buy her little
supper-ticket, and if she felt plutocratic in-
vested 255. on the spot in the 8.8. C. ball.
Then the meeting descended on the sand-
wiches and coffee in the club dining-room.
Mere members took their nourishment on the
wing; her Ex. and a few headlights sat about
a gaily-decorated table and flung the bones
to Aide Coote, knight Hughes and a few
other males who stood patiently behind them.
The State Excellency’s lady presided at
her first meeting of the Bush Book Club the
other day. It was held at the Royal Colonial
Institute, and as usual there was a great
rally of the best furs and feathers —the
8.8. C. goes hand in hand with the Victoria
League, and the cream of Darling Point and
Elizabeth Bay are supporters of both. Sec-
retary Beulah Bolton paid tribute to Mrs.
Aubrey Withers, the woman with the big
heart and brain who founded the club, and
quoted the beautiful “In Memoriam” written
by Mrs. Rose-Soley. Professor David’s wife
rapped the big landowners over the knuckles
for not supporting the club; and_ listening
to the report one could vision the tiny home-
steads in those edge-of-tlie-desert places where
the arrival of a 8.8. C. parcel is as welcome
almost as the rains. Barbara Knox out-
lined the plot for a ball in aid of the club
and the Victoria League—to be staged at
the Ambassadors on June 25. Lady de
Chair then drew the threads of the meeting
together in one of her warm, lucid speeches,
and pinned a feather in the club’s cap with
the remark that she was writing to South
Africa to try to get it to cheer the lot of its
out-backers in the club’s way.
David Jones’s was a proud 86 last week,
and all hands and the apprentice rolled up at
the Palais Royal to celebrate the event. Three
thousand strong, they danced or ambled on
the outskirts of the jazzing area in every
known fancy costume, with many newly
created for the occasion. Director Charley
Lloyd-Jones, dressed as a sundowner, mooched
about gazing with a connoisseur’s eye on the
gallery of pictured milestones in his firm’s
career. Weird and wonderful cartoons and
posters decked the Hall of Years, and quietly
in between snuggled grave and gay photo-
graphs of olden-time celebrities of the busi-
ness. Mrs. Lloyd-Jones accompanied her
lord in the guise of a French doll, all powder-
blue puffings and flaxen curls. Another glit-
tering doll is in real life the Queen of the
Corset Department; a small creature in
brown-paper wrappings represented the Mail
Order Department. There were Beaucaires,
Beau Brummels, Poupees, Early Victorians
and everybody in and out of musical comedy.
Wirelessed spirit voices breathed the order
of the programme over the dancing-floor, and
there w r ere gallons of excitement and furlongs
of fun for everybody.
The lady in the Falk picture is the bril-
liant Mrs. Carlisle-Morrison, LL.B., who on
Monday was
admitted by
Chief Justice
Cullen, Justice
Gordon and
Justice James
to practise in
their courts.
She is this
State’s second
lady barrister.
The pioneer,
Miss A. E.
Evans, was ad-
mitted in
1921, but she
does not prac-
tise. Mrs. Car-
lisle - Morri-
son before her
marriage was
Sybil Enid
Vera Monro
Gibbs —• and
it’s not many
who can boast such a wealth of front names!
The Journalists’ Institute, having dis-
covered that Dion Boueicault and Irene Van-
brugh were in Sydney, had a couple of extra
forks and knives laid for them at the Insti-
tute’s luncheon on Friday. Then, with the
arrival of Stefansson in Sydney, the
treasurer got out his ready-reckoner, and,
finding the funds would stand a bit more,
called in the seal-eater and his chum, Cap-
tain “Beaver” Wilkins. From their table
of honor the guests looked down on serried
columns, and the columns in turn looked up
at Dion, more suggestive than ever of a
nice French priest; at a black-frocked Irene,
much better looking off the stage than on;
at the Manitoban with his Arctic-blue eyes
and his shagginess; and, finally—if not
firstly—at the extraordinary chin-adornment
of the Australian Wilkins. From the pre-
liminary four oysters to the final ice, the
meal went its digested or undigested way,
and presently the time was ripe for Bouci-
eault’s speech. Its introduction was a
tribute to Robert Brough, and then it was a
tale of literary yesterday, with himself as a
small boy playing little parts in it—now
pasting notices in a book of press-cuttings for
Charles Reade; now sitting with Oscar
Wilde while Oscar’s mother recited to them
some of her very fine poems; next writing
from the dictation of Wilkie Collins, lifting
his hat to Dickens, having a word with
George Meredith, discussing “The Cloister
and the Hearth” with Besant.
From the Journalists’ luncheon Irene Van-
brugh and Dion Boueicault went around to
the Colonial Institute’s rooms, where the
Repertory Society boiled the billy to their
glory. Mrs. Pitt Rivers accompanied the
stars, and dressed for the occasion in rich
browns. Item: One wrap coat, emblazoned
with Roumanian embroideries; one brown
panne sheer-off-the-faee headpiece; one set
brown furs. Miss Vanbrugh was sleekly clad in
black marocain, from which her smooth,
creamy throat emerged with distinction.
Sydney’s first night club—the Garrick —
is to open on Thursday next. It is not to
be a place of hectic revelry—the fact that
Attorney-General Bavin is one of the mem-
bers should be enough to dispel unworthy
suspicions—but has rather arrived as a pro-
test against the outrageous prices and dubi-
ous goings-on of some of the public dance-
halls which pay neither amusement nor liquor
taxes. If youthful Sydney wants a place
where it can dance till a reasonable hour
without any prospect of meeting men with
vine-leaves in their hair, or what Arnold
Bennett Calls Pretty Ladies, the Garrick will
flourish. But many keen students of modern
social form are dubious on the subject.
A singing bow that has taken her all
through Europe and America, and has been
her letter of introduction to great ones such
as Bernhardt, Duse and Kreisler, is the
possession of Bathurst-born Leila Waddell.
Leaving Australia before the war, she went
to Europe to study under Sauret. Then she
took an engagement in the halls, which
brought her in time to Manchester and the
Tiller school
o f dancing.
Fascinated by
the art of the
founder of this
school, the
Sydney girl
became a de-
votee. It was
then she got,
the idea for'
her jazz in g.
gipsy act-,
which took her
to the Winter
Garden, New
York, and right
through
America under
the Schubert
banner. With
the same turn
she was fea-
tured in Lon-
don and Paris
and through Russia. At Moscow she studied
Russian ballet methods under the Imperial
ballet-master. Then over to Ozecho-Slovakia
and Sevcik for polishing up, and just before
her return there were more lessons from
Auer.
Pretty little Beaupre Waddell, Leila’s
youngest sister, is busy selecting orange-buds
and tulle veiling for her big moment in Sep-
tember, when she will become Mrs. William
Robinson, of Myee, Grenfell.
St. Edward’s Church, Canowindra, was
the scene of the wedding of Julia Grant,
eldest daughter of the A. J. Grants, of Brag-
anza, and Instructor-Lieut. B. .T. McGrath,
of the Naval College, Jervis Bay. Arch-
deacon Doran, who officiated at the cere-
mony and presided at the breakfast, an-
nounced that he had acted in the same capa-
cities at the marriage of the bride’s parents
during his early days in the district.
Audrey Petherick, the good-looking, golden-
voiced contralto who, as Audrey Allan, sang
with the Allen Priora and Jean Drummond
quartette around the three eastern States, is
giving up the footlights for a radiator of
her own. The young man who has caused
the change in her plans is John Leigh
Vivers, of King’s Plains and Elizabeth Bay.
Audrey, who is the only daughter of the
Edward Pethericks of Tenterfield, has won
several blue ribbons at the Sydney and Bris-
bane Shows for riding.
Ex-students from 17 convents joined forces
in the interests of the Sacre Cceur Hostel
on Monday night. Every year the combined
convents’ old pupils set aside a night on
which to make merry in the interests of some
charity. This week’s dance at the Went-
worth will benefit the hostel at Darlington
for the Catholic girl students at the Uni.
Dr. Dan Kelly’s wife, who was president of
the dance, wore an American model in rose-
pink chenille.
Monday night’s chill had no effect on the
spirits of the Kambala old girls, who frivolled
about the rooms and gardens of their student
days. The pretty function was designed to
help the property-purchase fund; and hosts
of youth and beauty rolled up to help the
cause the principals of the school have set
their hearts upon. The two Misses Roseby
were assisted in aH the arrangements by
Gwen Fulton Rofe and Jessie McMaster.
Soprano Ethel Osborn’s concert in the
Town Hall was one of the successes of last
week. Backed by health and looks, the
voice with its crystal purity will be a world-
beater if its owner will study sincerely. It
is unusual to hear an organ so completely at
home in altissimo, and the “Caro Nome”
number resulted in a storm of applause and
a mountain of flowers. Ethel’s bird imita-
tions were another feature of the programme.
Golden-throated Virginia Bassetti poured
out her rich contralto in support of her
sister artist.
Mrs. Ronald Greville, whose ball last week,
to which the visiting Italian royalties and
the Prince went, was “London’s record social
crush,” is a sister-in-law of Mrs. Creer, of
Sydney. She was a great match for the
socially popular but impecunious “Ronnie”
Greville 30-odd years ago. Her father was
a millionaire brewer, and in every respect
the antithesis of his Life Guardsman son-in-
law. However, there was no personal ani-
mosity ; and the Radical Mr. McEwan and
the Conservative Captain Greville lived
within four doors of each other for many
years. The home in Berkeley-square, in
which the Italian Ball was held, was given
to Mrs. Greville by her father.
The Chosen, who have a reputation for
looking after their poor and helpless, have
opened a new Sir Moses Montefiore Home at
Bellevue Hill. The old home was in Dow-
ling-street, but the neighborhood grew
dusty and crowded. The new building is
roomy and set in spacious grounds, and every
stick of furniture is new. Aged and indigent
Jews are given a resting-place for their
twilight, and orphan children are temporarily
accommodated until private homes can be
found for them. The old establishment dates
from 1887.
The Women Painters had one full day last
week. In the morning the G.-G.’s lady
came to their show w T ith son-in-law Captain
Pitt Rivers; and in the afternoon the presi-
dent and council were at home to friends in
the big Education Gallery.
A man of 72 who lives at Spier’s Point,
in the Newcastle district, had not seen his
two sisters, both older than himself, for
40 years, when one day recently they
descended upon his home. They arrived
within an hour of each other, one all the
way from Cottesloe (W.A.) and the other
from Wallangarra (Q.) ; yet neither knew
the other was making the trip—each hau
been inspired by a desire to give the brother
a surprise, and was surprised herself. The
elder lady was the one who came from the
West, and as she is 77 the jaunt in itself
was a hardy performance.
With two fruity comedians in the cast
and every second name direct from Old Ire-
land, no wonder the North Sydney Dramatic
Club made a rollicking success of “It Pays
to Advertise.” The club is in connection
with the R.C. Church at Ridge-street, and
the profits from two crowded nights go to
local charities.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matthew has returned from the bush bringing
much first-hand information about things out back.
As an instance of the hardships which the women of
the West suffer so cheerfully he speaks of one with
two young children and a three-weeks-old babe set-
ting courageously forth on the long trek to her home,
the whole family on camel back.
His Ex. appeared at the final performance of
“Smilin’ Thro’,” by the Gertrude Elliott co., at His
Majesty’s. Dr. Glynn Connolly and his lady, who
had been dining at Government House, were also in
the vice-regal box, with Jem Brown, Elfrida Walsh
and A.-D.-C. Turner.
On the next night the Thynnes dined at Govern-
ment House, and went with his Ex. to the Centennial
Hall to see Shakspeare’s lovers arranged by A. i).
Graham. Jean fallow made a pretty Jessica, and
Barbara Sisley took on the strenuous parts of Beat-
rice and Benedick ; Nell Douglas Graham was Portia
and Bassanio ; Grizel Gibson became Miranda, Rhoda
Felgate was Viola, Sievwright, of the Uni., played
Orlando, and Mrs. P. J. Symes looked very smart as
Rosalind. Scott Macallum looked after the orchestra.
“Madam” entered at His Majesty’s on the same
night, and continued doing so till the season closed
with the reappearance of Allan Wilkie. A presenta-
tion to this plucky Shakspearean is being fixed up
under the paternal eye of Mayor Barry.
The Brisbane Thousand was run in sparkling
weather, and there was a big roll up. President
Oxlade and chairman Dash, along with members of
the committee, poured tea for a group of friends in
the new private tea-room fornirist the grandstand.
Mrs. Oxlade was in brown with Oriental touches:
Mayoress Barry wore grey with fur, the Whitting-
ham dame a grey tailor-made, Cecily Cadell GarricK
navy with a very smart squirrel coat, and Mollie
Brenan light brown.
Dulcie Crane said she would to Robert Scott at St.
Andrew’s on May 28. The bride, who is barely 20,
is the only child of the late Arthur Crane, who
played for years in J.C.W. shows, and of Mrs. Arthur
Crane, of Brisbane. The Lissners gave the wedding-
feast.
Jean, daughter of the David Cramonds of Too-
woomba, is wearing the diamonds that bespeak a
plain gold band, and the man who is responsible for
it all is Capt. Plane, a Digger with a good record.
Mrs. Scott Fletcher and Miss Dora Loekington are
touring the countryside putting the claims of the
Women’s College before the affluent public. The col-
lege is a home-from-home for country girls studying
in Brisbane, and it would be a thousand pities if
lack of funds closed its doors.
Lil Roberts, the pretty daughter of Mrs. H. D.
Roberts, of Nundora, Toowoomba, is engaged to Vere
Hobart Hampden, who is learning the ways of the
bush with the Brabazons of N. Queensland. The
young man is a great-nephew of that sailor Hobart
who lent his name to the Speck’s capital.
Died at her post, in her 39th year, Dr. Edith Fox,
of Foxborough private hospital, Toogoolawah. She
came of a brilliant family—five brothers and two
sisters are medicoes, and a third sister was for many
years matron of a Sydney hospital. She herself won
the Haswell prize for zoology and botany at Sydney
Uni., and later equalled Dr. Macintosh (now of
Sydney) in surgery.


HARDY BROS. LTD
JEWELLERS
Graceful Ear-rings.
V.
THE Jewellery Dis-
plays at Hardy
Brothers’ Showrooms
include many ex-
tremely dainty de-
signs in fashionable
Drop Ear-rings. For
patrons removed
from City conveni-
ences, the Com-
pany s Catalogue
brings details of the
newest styles attrac-
tively illustrated.
Selections are sent on appro-
val anywhere in Australia
and Five per cent. Discount
allowed for cash.
Upper: Onyx and Crystal
Drop Ear-rings, £6/10/-
Lower: Jade and Onyx
Drop Ear-rings .... £9
HARDY BROS LTD
"'The of Exclusive Jewellejx”
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON.
116-118 Queen St. f
BRISBANE.
lYundgrlich
ART METAL CEILINGS
•aasEa&jjg
Distinctive Ceilings.
r choice of Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings will l*e
doubly appreciated as years go by; for such Ceilings
retain their freshness and charm for generations, being
proof against Are, dry rot, white ants and borers.
These Ceilings are available in hundreds of distinctive
designs, and prices are extremely moderate, ranging
from 2s. 6d. per square yard. Any man handy with
tools can fix our Ceilings.
AA’ e will gladly provide designs and quotations on
receipt of plans or measurements of rooms.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Manufacturers
Sydney , Newcastle , Melbourne ,Sldelatde
/J 3 cl ft , IS ns bane , JLaunceston , ffcbart
Bargains in Cameras.
We are offering Our Entire Stock of
ANSCO CAMERAS
at a Great Reduction for this Month Only.
d
2C JUNIOR takes pictures 4| x 2|-.
3A JUNIOR takes pictures 5£ x 3£.
For Daylight Loading Roll Films.
The substantial and durable qualities of
Ansco construction are well exemplified
in these two inexpensive cameras. They
are efficiently and conveniently equipped.
The Actus Shutter which is fitted to
these models works at Time, Bulb and
exposures ranging from 1 -25th to 1 - 1 00th
second.
Model.
2C . .
2C . .
3 A . .
3 A . .
These Eire
Lens. Price.
Single Achromatic . . £4 5 0
Rapid Rectilinear ... £5 5 0
Single Achromatic . . £4 10 0
Rapid Rectilinear . . £5 10 0
Postage 1/9.
REDUCED TO
£3 3 9
£3 18 9
£3 7 6
£4 2 ; 6
high-quality Cameras. Not shop-soiled or second-
hand.
RADIO SUPPLIES
Of every description. Lowest Prices. Advice freely given.
G?
886 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney
The House for
GOOD Canieras,
Melbourne: 266 Collins Street.
Brisbane: 93 Queen Street.
Adelaide: 10 Bundle Street.
Katoomba, N.S.W.: Katoomba Street
Wellington, N.Z.: 43 Willis Street.
Auckland, N.Z.: 140 Queen Street.
=?=i-SS¥5%. •
11<33
in®
-
m
wfw*
s.
SiiJlfSSi
liiiiii
isfe
xm
; ..'i
I/J
m
m
■
CIS
So m
M
U
m
ro
1®;
j jj
§§B
m
u
ms
KLVS
W* 1 C.WENTWORTH. 3
£
■B
H
0 VI I¥e
■l a
11111118
|i|
B
r^i
■
C2i'is/ocr'afzc Pioneers
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA


Exclusive
Men’s Hats
** The Store for Men ” specialises
in clothing which fulfils all the
demands of fashion, rendering utmost
service in comfort and durability.
Australian Felt Hits, with bound
edges; light grey and steel. ... 22/6
Woodrow’s English Felt Hats, with
cut and bound edges; light grey,
steel, fawn, and moose. 32/6, 35/-
FARMER’S
n The Store for Men, ”
by eighty-four years of
sincere merchandising, has
acquired renown for quality.
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and
Seeded - Ready for Use
Obtainable
All Grocers
ď
fd
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
A returned tripper brings a report of Billy
Hughes’s first lecture in Noo Yoik. lhe
little man’s mission had not been boldly an-
nounced in the press, and that, coupled with
a very wet night, was probably responsible
for his appearing before about a tramload
of the intelligentsia. Billy, looking skimpier
than ever in a well-fitting evening suit, was
visibly depressed by the size of the congrega-
tion, and, instead of talking about Australia,
as he had been expected to do, launched out
on a halting description of the Peace Con-
ference, which seemed to sadden his hearers.
When the weary discourse had finished there
was a limp vote of thanks and a bit or ap-
plause. Then the ex-Prime Minister faded
from the platform as if he hated it, and the
audience gathered up its overcoat and um-
brella and sloshed out into the ram.
The Malvern Church was elaborately blos-
somed for the marriage of pretty Jean lor-
dyce and Bruce Henderson, only son ot the
James Henderson widow of Adelaide, ihe
leading lady’s draperies of cream velvet sup-
ported a stream of silver tissue which trailed
yards in the rear without the assistance ot
train-bearers. Antique Limerick screened
the bridal blushes, with some help from a
hand shower of white roses. Sister Elsie,
cousin Elsie Henderson and Eleanor Haseil
(the youngest Arthur Haseil girl, whose own
orange blossoms and confetti have been
ordered for June 7) ’maided in hydrangea
velvet with clouds of blue tulle, floating
from ribbon bands, over their heads and
shoulders. J. Winnall was in charge of the
leading man, and had the assistance of the
bride’s cousin, Geoff Horwood, and Eleanor
Hasell’s fiance, Dr. Brian Woods. Later on
Mr. and Mrs. .T. Fordyce staged a health-
drinking at their Malvern home, Alvie. She
was in silvery marocain, and the bridegroom s
mother sported magpie effects. The 'moon is
being spent in the Blue. Mountains, after
which the newly-weds will settle down at
Darling Point.
The Princess’s Theatre was packed on
Saturday night for the first performance of
“Mr. Battling Butler.” Hugh Ward had
his wife and Mrs. Brenan boxed with him,
while the Barry Thompson pair, with son
Jack, saw the show from the opposite pen.
The Arthur Robinsons, medical Herbert Hew-
letts and Edmund Jowett were in the front
stalls, and Mrs. Bob Staughton and other
of the Best Known sat in the circle. The
dressing of the show recalls an old-time
valentine; but its fluttery color collides with
Dorothy Brunton’s rather tomboyish attrac-
tiveness, which seems to call for a weightier
type of upholstering. However, she airs a
whole trunkful of frocks, all a shade on the
short side. Her first skirt was of
floral georgette over a rosy lining that bil-
lowed under a silken straiglitjacket,
and her last was of gold lace, straight-
jacketed with gold tissue. This emerged
like a golden sunset from a cloak of white
flouncings hemmed with fur, and with gold
lace inset at the hip. Mary Gannon likewise
changes from frock to frock all much of .the
same type. The first was her star covering.
White lace fell to the ankles over pink veil-
ings ; above this was white silk, patterned
with pink flowers, which swathed her slim
body and ended up as a sash on one hip.
On top of all was a floppy picture-hat, with
a huge pink rose perched on the left ledge.
Marie La Varre, as the prize-fighter’s jeal
ous wife, opened in peacock silk, and closed
in a charming gown of lettuce-green crepe
and a tunic with glittering bugles. She also
sported a flowery velvet wrap which sug-
gested a hot-water bottle cover. One set of
hooped ballet skirts in vivid tangerine were
topped with poke bonnets to match, set over
white lace frills which curtained the girls’
back hair-knobs. The popularity of Dot
Bruntou was evidenced by the flowers which
flooded the stage to the back line at the final
curtain. Hugh Ward and Dot could hardly
discover a hole in the thicket of vegetation
through which to crawl to deliver the few
words the audience yelled for.
Although the District Nursing Society’s
Appeal Fund has not yet mounted half-way
to the desired £15,000, a committee of the
Best Known, again headed by Lady Strad-
broke, is preparing to sound a fresh call.
This time it is for a £OOOO cheque for the Tra-
vellers’ Aid Society, which is in urgent need
of financial reinforcements. Irene Van-
brugh and Mrs. Pitt Rivers have promised
to do their bit with the usual charity
matinee, and dozens of others have pledged
themselves to scare up other money-raising
projects for the cause. The T.A.S. deserves
all the good words that can be said about
it. Among other things it meets incoming
steamers and country trains and takes under
its wing any unprotected women or girls who
might otherwise find themselves stranded oil
the wharf or station ; and migrants who want
to get married after arrival here have only
to drop in to the rooms to get fixed up with
bridesmaids, wedding breakfast and such
trifles.
Incidentallv, if it was not for these m
aid of” frivols the social slump would be ap-
palling. As one matron remarked the other
day, “If you speak of asking your friends
to a private party, you rouse a regular snort
of protest. And ten to one you are talked
into making it over into a money-raising
affair for something or other.” On every side
our hospitals and other charitable institu-
tions are howling for financial assistance, the
reason for the shortage of cash being, it is
said, that people have eased down m the
habit of direct giving.
Old Melburnians woke up the big school-
room the other night with their annual
smoker, when Judge Moule was hailed as
president for the coming year. Before the
affair Dr. Alan Mackay, the retiring presi-
dent, spread a dinner for his brother coun-
cillors and headmaster Lofty at No. 9 Dar-
ling-street. The smokers were all correctly
dinner-jacketed, save a tweed-clad trio who
protest that boiled shirts are apt to ©ramp
the style of a fraternal gathering which in-
cludes all sections of the community. Also,
there was some murmuring over the dryness
of the atmosphere. Ginger-ale was substituted
for the other sort during the war, and since
then the canteen has remained dry.
Keith Officer, who shed his Anzac Major s
rank and trappings after the Armistice to
take an Imperial job in far Nigeria, has
found the call of his native gum-trees too
strong. He is coming back to Melbourne,
where he will link up with his father’s account-
ancy firm. Brother Hugh, who exchanged his
A.I.F. khaki for an Indian Army cap-
tain’s kit, will be here to join the family in
welcoming the other wanderer back to the
home circle. Hugh is spending a long
leave with his parents at their Seymour
property.
When Marjorie Atkins met Dr. Johnstone
Thwaites, the younger, at South Yarra Christ
Church the other night, under convoy of her
ex-city councillor dad, she looked like an
early daffodil, in palest yellow satin, under a
head-veiling of the same shade. Little Helen
and Dick Atkins flushed prettily to the im-
portance of holding Auntie Marjorie’s satin
backwash out of harm’s way. Blanche Atkins
’maided in cinnamon brocaded georgette under
a head bandage of tulle moored by bunched
ribbons. She was preceded, American style,
by a matron-of-honor, Mrs. Olive Morris,
in similar upholsterings, but with a brown
hat. Both had autumn-tinted hand posies.
Dr. D. Brown looked after the leading man,
with the assistance of Kingsley Atkins. After
the links had been welded Captain and Mrs.
Atkins uncorked the usual beano at No. 9
Darling-street, and presently frothed over into
Darling-street, and it presently frothed over
into a foxtrot.
Renew your acquaintance with Nettie
Palmer, the brainy wife of writer Vance
Palmer. Her friends who thought that her
devotion to domesticity had permanently in-
terrupted her
literary work
have been un-
deceived by the
annou n c e-
ment that her
handbook of
A u s t r a-
lian literature,
1900-1024, will
soon make its
a p p e a r-
anc e. The
book is de-
signed to cut
the ground be-
neath the feet
of those
people who
yawn and say:
“I really
would like to
know soin e-
tliing about
A u s t r a-
lian verse and prose, but it’s so hard to get
a book with any information at all on the
subject. If only you had a literary hand-
book like other countries”- It is rumored
that husband Vance does not regard the ven-
ture with very great favor, because his Nettie
has undutifully forgotten to mention any of
his verse, stories, plays or sketches. He is
avenging himself by bringing out a book of
four short plays, and will spitefully ignore
her as a critic. Still, the two are really
terribly devoted. They live at Pimerald, and
their house ranks with the Brady and Esson
establishments at Mallacoota as a literary
centre.
Mrs. Albert Goldwater is preparing to
steam back to Auckland after several glad
weeks of Melbourne life, and the other day
Mrs, A. V. Richardson and Mrs. Teddy Dyson
combined to farewell the Maoriland matron
with a round-table liihch-jJafty at Menzies’.
Pink carnations and blue lupins snla‘!'»d
with autumn leaves centred the board; The
star guest wore black with a silver shimmer
on the upper deck, and included in the gather-
ing was another Auckland visitor, Mbs. Frost;
Herewith Frank Allanby, the young Aus-
tralian mummer now appearing iii London as
Megson in Allan Monkitouse’s war-problem
drama, Frank. Who is the only son of it.
H. Gatehouse,
Commonwealth
Audit Secte-
tar y, aii d
grandson ci'
the late Chief
Justice John
Dodds, Lieut.-
Governor of
Tas., took his
first stage
steps with the
Melbourne Re-
pertories, and
it was while
he was with
them that
Marie Tem-
pest beckoned
him over tc
her company.
He played
with the
famous comedy
star before
and after she went to South Africa (appear-
ing with Muriel Starr during Marie s
absence), and she then fixed him up for her
English season. This, however, proved a
frost; but Allanby’s luck was in, and after
he had turned down an offer to play lead in
Galsworthy’s “The Forest” in the provinces,
Percy Dean, who saw him in the trial show
of “The Conquering Hero” at the Aldwycli
with the Play Actors’ Society, invited him
to appear in the Monkhouse piece. Accord-
ing to Allanby “it is only luck which gets
you into a London production—influence,
talent, money don’t count; it’s just one glori-
ous fluke.” Rembrandt took this pnoto of
the modest young Australian.
The Deschamps family is evacuating the
hired Hawthorn place, and there is to be a
temporary scatter. The head of the house
is off on steel business on the other side of
the equator; son Max is bound for the works
of Dad’s firm in N.S.W.; and Mrs. Deschamps
is going up for a few weeks in the Queens-
land sunshine, leaving daughter Yvonne and
her schoolboy brother in Melbourne. On
Thursday afternoon the matron turned on a
good-bye musical tea for her intimates.
Fiddle solos of a rarely beautiful quality
were decanted by violinist Heintsse, with
fine piano backings by Yvonne Deschamps.
(The young fiddler, who came here a few
months back to judge the South-street Com-
petitions, and is now associated temporarily
with the ’Varsity Con.’s pianistic headlight,
Edouard Goll, was offered the leadership of
the Dresden Orchestra a day or two after
signing up for Australia. He has an itch-
ing hand for miniatures and old etchings, of
which lie has a fine collection.) Tea and
talk in the dining-room intersected the two
musical periods. Mrs. Deschamps hostessed
in silvery silk, while daughter Yvonne smiled
over a frock of Tuttisli pattern.
Mrs. Robert Jolley helped to whittle away
a little bit of the debt on the Renown Free
Kindergarten building with her bridge after-
noon. Her South Yarra parlors overflowed
with enthusiasts, headed by the Kindergar-
ten’s popular president, Ella Guthrie. Mrs.
J. H. Thompson, her daughters Beryl
and Joan and Mrs. J. Hill dispensed cakes
and tea at small tables, richly yellowed with
Iceland poppies, on the vine-clad verandah.
Mrs. Jolley spoke a prologue to the final
rubbers—words of thanks to helpers and
players. And she broadcasted an invitation
to the company to visit the Kindergarten
any old morning and see how the thing
worked from the inside.
Without any fuss the Commonwealth
Bank got into its new palace in Collins-
street, opposite the Stock Exchange, a few
days ago. No speeches or popping of corks
—-nothing but a change over from the
Equitable Buildings on the other side of
the street! N. S. Wales supplied the granite
columns which aye a feature of the facade
up to the second-floor level: Queensland
the maple for the banking-chamber: Vm.
(Buchan quarries) the white marble for the
wall panels; and the Speck the blackwood
for the governor’s suite of offices. The
officers should be able to move about without
jostling one another. The site, as only old
hands like Byron Moore can remember, is
that on which the old Stock Exchange stood,
where the first telephone exchange (run by
a company) was established, and where The
Bulletin had its Melbourne home for a
generation.
Mrs. James Angus is engineering a variety
show to swell the fund for furnishing the new
wing of the children’s section of the Alfred
Hospital. A number of ’Varsity meds. will
supply the variety turns with the help of
professionals, and a mannequin parade, pro-
vided Hy a leading drapery firm, y^ill. help
draw the petticoats. The affaif will bb staged
in thfe Prahran Town Hall bn July 3.
It was a pretty grim joke for his Ex.’s sec.
to send cards of private entree to members of
the just-dissolved Hbuse to attend the King's
Birthday levee; I'he day selected was that
on which the writs for the new Assembly
were issued. As some of the 65 shook hands
with his Ex. there must have come to mind
the old Roman gladiators with their “We
who are about to die salute thee.”
Australia's champion woman tennis-player
got netted the other night at St. Stephen’s,
Sydney, when Padre John Ferguson tied tile
knot that joined Sylvia Lance to Robert Rainy
(“Blue”) Harper. Up a crowded church
Sylvia, holding tight to father's arm, swished
ivory georgettes, their simple drapings caught
with a glittering ornament. A foam of tulle
veiling, moored with clusters of orange buds
to the dark head, was sleuthed up the aisle
by two 'maids in powder-blue and silver trap-
pings. The wedding party was held at the
White City Tennis Club, where an elegant
cake, topped by a silver championship cup and
sporting emblems, went the way of all wed-
ding cakes. The new Mrs. Harper brings
a silver salver from the Tennis Association
of N. S. Wales to brighten her Melbourne
home. Sylvia is the only daughter of the
Vaucluse Lances, and “Blue” is the second
son of Professor Andrew Harper, whose ad-
dress until recently was St. Andrew’s Col-
lege.
The 'phone at Vimy House private hospital
has been worked overtime with inquiries
about the progress of Robert Blackwood, who
is convalescent after an operation. Brother
George, who has just recovered from an ill-
ness that kept him anchored for several
months, is now packing for Ixmdon to join
his wife and stepdaughters, Joyce Russell
and her schoolgirl sister. The latter has been
having a top-dressing put on her education
in Paris.
Some gossip from Adelaide: —-
Everyone who wasn’t in “Healo," either Oti the
stage or selling things to the audience, was at it,
and there has been little else doing tor the whole
week. For an amateur show—it was mostly that —
the affair was easily the best this village has seen,
especially as to choruses, ballets and dressing—tin-
last evolved by a committee of younger matrons
headed by Mrs. Stanley Skipper. The dancing
honors went to Maxime Tolley and Bobbie Helpman,
ana the best of the amateur mummers were Asthorc
Symons, Dr. Nott, Cyril Langley, Christabel Mill
Smith and Ethelwyn Robin, The S.P.C.A., the
Mission to Seamen and the Babies’ Home at Walker-
ville were the charities chosen to benefit by it all,
and their special sponsors wel‘e responsible for the
sales in the front of the house. The Bridges were
there cn the night that was specially dedicated to
the Mission to Seamen; so were the Bishop Thomases,
the Dean Youngs and Various other clerical digni-
taries. On S.P.C.A. night Mrs. H. P. MeLachlan
was in charge of the sales, and Glenelg rolled up in
force. The first performance was followed by a
dance and supper at the Osborne Hall, and there
was more dancing and supping most other nights,
with a final fling on Friday.
Charlotte Grivell, bound for London in July, was
given a farewell in the Chalmers Church lecture-
room, the hostesses being Mrs, John Muijro and Miss
Ada Wordie. Tea, a few songs (Charlotte herself
sang twice) and a speech or two filled up the after-
noon, and the guest staggered home under a load
of miscellaneous gifts and good wishes.
For its preliminary run the Hunt Club had the
throw-off from the George Morphetts’, at Cummins,
and the kill near the kennels, where the Paul Tees-
dale Smiths (he is Master this year) were hosts at
afternoon tea. There was a goodish muster, but
the younger generation is too keen on motors to take
to hunting, and most of the field’s beards would
be grey—if it wore ’em.
The National Council of Women made merry at the
Town Hall with a musical afternoon —you could drop
your thrippence in the box to help the work along.
That work was explained by Dr. Marie Brown, after
which there was a musical programme arranged by
Mrs. K. H. Weston and tea in charge of Mrs. Leal.
Lady Bridges came with Miss Judge and was received
by Mrs. T. R. Bowman, the president, and Mrs. C.
R. Morris and Dr. Marie Brown, vice-presidents.
The Winter Club’s frivols this year are to be in
the Liberal Union’s new dance hall on North-terrace.
Tea-rooms are to be established there soon, and
then arrangements will be possible for dinners,
supper-parties and Heaven knows what other jun-
ketings.
Jean, eldest of the Patrick MacMahon Glynn
daughters, was married on Wednesday of last week
to Frank O’Collins of St. Hilda (Vic.). There was
only one ’maid, the bride’s sister, and the best man
was Melburnian Emmet McGillicuddy. The feature
of the afternoon was a special benediction on the
marriage from the Pope.
An unusual memorial to a schoolmaster is planned
by Prince Alfred’s in memory of Frederic Chappie,
headmaster for close on 40 years. London-trained,
lie was one of the first to realise the claims of
Science, though it was not in his own line, and the
memorial is to be a physical laboratory, bearing his
name, at the school.
An unusual view of Hobart goes into our Ait
Gallery, it shows the Customs House on the qua.'
as seen from the water through the rigging of idle
ships. The painting is a water-color by Mrs. Gwen
Barringer, of Adelaide, and is one of a batch of
souvenirs of a hard-working visit to the island.


BRONZE, COPPER and OXIDISED GOODS.
A. Saunders’ Art Vase,
finished in Old Brass
or Antique Bronze.
13-inch.
16J-inch
30/.
40/'
A. Saunders’ Jardiniere, handsomely finished
in Old Brass or Antique Bronze. Three sizes,
15/6, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ new design Bread Tray, finished in old
Brass. Length, 13 inches; width, 7f inches.
A. Saunders’ Art Vase, finished
in Satin or polished Brass,
■
m
A. Saunders’ Art Jardiniere, hand-
somely embossed, Grecian Bronze
finish, with polished decorations,
■2O/-
A. Saunders’ Antique Ash
Tray, finished in oxidised
Brass, complete with Match
Holder and Glass lining,
15/6.
A. Saunders’ Art Vase,
finished in Old Brass with
embossed reliefs. Height,
10 inches, 20/-
A. Saunders’ jardiniere, Antique Brass finish.
17/6.
Similar designs, 21/-, 25/-, SO/-, 35/-
A. zanders’ Crumb Tray and Brush, new designs in Art Copper
and Brass, at prices ranging from 12/6, 15/6, SO/-, 25/-
Complete with Brush.
ILLUSTRATIONS AND PRICES SENT FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ESS
mm
m
ll
A. Saunders’ Art Fern Pot, finished in Satin Brass or
Bronze. In three sizes,
30/-, 40/-, 50/-
Announcement Extraordinary
A Wonderful Discovery in
Modem Chemistry
THE following sensational account reads more like fiction than
truth. By delving in the obscure realms of science a liquid
having magical cleansing qualities has been produced. Upon
being applied to an object upon which grease, dirt, tar, spots, smears,
specks or stains have been accidentally deposited, this saponaceous
solution instantly commences to disintegrate the particles of the
blemish, which may, in most cases, be quickly and easily removed
by slight friction. It is not caustic or acid and even long immersion
will not harm the hands. Being non-inflammable it is superior to
Benzine for many purposes. Painted, polished and varnished
surfaces may be cleansed by its agency without injury to the original
coating. Fancy what this means to motorists, furniture dealers,
shopkeepers and hotelkeepers in particular and to housewives and
others generally. This marvellous product has been aptly named
“ORFUGO”—pronounced off you go —and may be obtained from
a chemist or storekeeper in quarter-pint tins for one shilling! Cheap
enough, surely, when a tablespoonful in half a bucket of water will
clean the body of a motor-car or take the accumulated dirt of
years off a suite of furniture or the fittings of a large shop with
little effort! “ORFUGO” removes motor and other grease from the
hands in a few seconds, and will clean clothes, hats, sinks, baths
walls, marble, china, glass, linoleum, tiles and other objects too
numerous to mention. It is also useful as a shampoo and liquid
soap.
A trial will convince any sceptic, and money paid will be
refunded to any purchaser who is dissatisfied after a fair trial has
been given. The public is urged to test the invention and to tell
others if good results be obtained. A sample will be posted upon
receipt of a 1 stamp. “ORFUGO is not a polish, but polished
surfaces shine anew when cleaned, washed and briskly dried.
Proprietors: ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
If your chemist or store cannot supply send 1 /6 in stamps (to cover
postage) for a tin.
“A little goes a long way.”
1 -
• ■ V* '
J4(e CcOu
SeAvnd
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
is tLe Mascn.pL iheix (yuJkGf
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes and
Mailed to You the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Per V.P., Parcels Post, if desired.
fe st^.uos
162-166 PITT Street
6 Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
ti


ď
Around Australia
ON
WAKEFIELD
Regd
□
22
MOTOR OIL
The Magnificent Flight of Wing-Commander
Goble and Flight-Lieutenant Mclntyre,
in the Fairey 3D Seaplane (Rolls Royce Eagle VIII. 375-h.p.
engine), was achieved on the famous British-owned lubricant,
which was used in the Trans-Atlantic and England-Australia
Flights—a regular grade of “Castrol” obtainable from leading
garages.
fHEOILTH^T
Q
yC U LATES EVERVW/y^
II
125^10*
<34"
m
TE
.
m
mg
Leading Engineers Specify
Pioneer Leather Belting
Engineers in large industrial plants realise the importance of efficiency in
power transmission in increasing the productive capacity of their plants.
Manufacturers realise what this means in increased profits and less idle
time through breakdowns and repairs.
That is why’
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been specified on important belt drives in many of the largest mining
and industrial plants in the Commonw T ealth.
The illustration shows one 48-inch and three 34-inch Pioneer Double-
Cemented Leather Belts supplied for the largest and most difficult belt drive
in Australia —that in the Rod Mill of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Manufacturers and engineers are invited to confer with us on their
belting problems.
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Dry Imperial
is the Finest Wine
produced by
MOET&
CHANDON
Other Wines may be
imported under
MOET
label,
but connoisseurs are asked
to insist on getting
• •
MOET
Dry Imperial
1914 VINTAGE
Which is Best Suited to the
Climate and Taste.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting •
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
863.
f SON!
TAKE MY
ADVICE
USE
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
It is estimated that 55,000 people saw
Queensland beat N. S. Wales in the first of their
Rugby League engagements on the Sydney Cricket
Ground, and the crowd would have been enlarged to
60,000 at least if the police hadn’t prohibited the
sale of tickets after 2.45 p.m. As it was, £4lOO was
taken at the turnstiles. Those who contributed to
this pyramid of notes and silver witnessed a keenly-
contested game, wTiich was interesting always ana
great in spots. One particular Queensland try, the
result of a movement begun by Duncan Thompson
(who has returned to his native North after playing in
the N.S.W. teaih for years), was a masterpiece in
its way. In the end Queensland had six tries and
two goals (22 points), and the Sydney men four
tries and four goals (20 points). The invaders de-
served their victory, for after the first 20 minutes
they had distinctly the better of the argument. With
ordinary luck they would have had at least one more
try to their credit, whereas the last of the Sydney
tries was something of a fluke. It has to be said,
moreover, that the referee was noticeably rough on
the Queenslanders in the second half, when they were
playing all over the local men, and his strict inter-
pretation of the rules (a section of the crowd re-
sented it, and the Northerners were frank in their
comments on Saturday night) probably affected their
game. On the other hand, the N. S. Wales team
was handicapped by the fact that several of its men
were playing in strange positions. In the circum-
stances, it did very well.
Duncan Thompson was the cleverest man on '.he
ground. The great Toowoomba half played the game
of his life, and he had a capital coadjutor in Hunt,
of Ipswich, who was miles better than Seddon as
stand-off half. Aynsley, the Brisbane winger, and
Paten, the Ipswich centre threequarter, were fast and
sure. Neither is as speedy as Blinkhorn, who showed
JIMMY CRAIG,
the Queensland
captain.
a return to form, but
both were more effec-
tive than Wearing, and
Fraurnf elder’s work
as fullback was
superior to that of
Waterhouse. Why Rig-
ney is not selected for
this position is one
of the standing mys-
teries of Sydney League
football. Dawson, at
inside centre, was about
the best of the N. S.
Welshmen, and Horder
was sometimes bril-
liant, while O’Connor
and Latta worked
strenuously in the pack,
though not more so
than Potter and Ben-
nett, from Ipswich and
Toowoomba resp ee-
tively. Also, the rug-
ged Watkins was a
tower of strength to a
side whose defence was
its weak point.
Parkin’s Englishmen had an easy time at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), mopping up a local side by
43 to 18. They are to meet N. S. Wales on Satur-
day, and the League is afraid that the Cricket Ground
won’t be large enough for the crowd, but the A.J.C.
will simplify the problem—a Randwick meeting is
a great attraction to the casual patron of football.
it would be more to the purpose if the League got
its referee to have a heart-to-heart talk with both
teams about the rules. Without some preliminary
understanding on that score there is pretty sure to
be trouble.
“Binks”: Sullivan, the English goal-kicker, is a
butcher by trade. As soon as he arrived in Melbourne
he made arrangements to visit a big local butchery,
where he gazed meditatively at carcases on the hook :
and he was heard to regret that he couldn’t < ram
enough abattoirs into his round of visits in the short
time at his disposal. The light in the young man’s
eye as he was shown a well-nourished sheep’s* pluck
was akin to that of a connoisseur discovering an Old
Master.
“Centurion”: The League team to represent Aus-
tralia against the Englishmen in the first Test will
take a lot of picking. N.S.W, is short of good
centres, and, with Caples in Melbourne, the stand-off
half material is also weak. Dallas Hodgins did sc
well against the Englishmen at Newcastle that he
will have to be considered, but the only others in
the running are Hunt, the Queenslander, and Caples,
now in Melbourne. As an early selection, the first
N.S.W. game against the Englishmen being yet to
come,-here is a preliminary side: Back, Frauenfelder
(Q.) ; threequarters, Blinkhorn (N.S.W.), Dawson
(N.S.W.), Horder (N.S.W.) and Aynsley (Q.) ; halves,
Hunt (Q.) and Thompson (Q.) ; forwards, Potter,
Sigley, Bennett (Q.), Watkins, O’Connor* and Latta
(N.S.W.). ■*
* * * *
“Machete”: The manager of the visiting
Northern Union team has made the usual reference
to the alleged fact that the playing fields helped to
win the war. Perhaps that is why followers of the
N.U. code kept on following it in England till con-
scription forced them to stop. Their cousins of the
League in Australia kept their club and other eom T
petitions going full blast all along, though the FiiiOii
amateurs shut down here and in ; Britain ihd sent 'a
huge percentage of' their- players - to - scrummage
abroad. Certainly if playing football -won *the war -
the professional code helped, to its’ full. capacity
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : There was an ad. in the
S. M. Herald recently for a bricklayer, a carpenter
and a laborer; a country town wanted them, and
they had to be footballers. Professional , footer in
the provinces, with its added attractions of games
between rival centres for big cash stakes, has proved
a godsend to Sydney players, even of second-class
calibre. A job as coach for a country team is worth
at least £7 a week for the season, with board and
lodging thrown in. In the old days of the Rugby
Union, the job-finding inducement was freely offered
by lily white organisations, though it is an act of
professionalism under the rules. I can recall a club
in Brisbane which imported three players from M.L.
and four from N.S.W. —all “reps.”—as a nucleus
for the first season. Indeed, a big Sydney commercial
man told an interviewer not long ago that, as a
youth in M.L., he had been given a better job
because of his football. Later on, in N.S.W., he
again swapped horses and for the same reason.
Perhaps it has never Occurred to him, but he *
remains a technical professional player to this day,
though a high panjandrum in amateur sporting bodies.
* * * *
“Lond.” : The Rugby championship of the
British Isles and France (lately admitted) has
been won again by England—unbeaten. Scotland
beat Wales badly and Ireland by a bit, but lost
unexpectedly to France and to England. Ireland
was third —beating Wales at Cardiff for the first
time this century. Wales beat France only, and -
France beat Scotland only. Wales, almost unbeat-
able a few years back, is having a thin time, its
best men being steadily tempted away by the
League clubs in the north of England. However, it is
making up for its decline in Rugby by a big advance
in Soccer. The latter international premiership is
generally a fight between England and Scotland, but'
this year Wales heat them both. Ireland had only
one win, against England. England won nothing, but
tied with Scotland, in a one-goal match.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: For weeks past all
other Maoriland interests have been subordinated to
the selection of the All Black team to tour Britain.
Conditions are very strict this time. No re-instated
men (those who joined the League and later re-
turned to the Union fold) are to be selected. Single
men are to get preference, other things being equal,
and the strictest scrutiny is to be made of character.
Nothing has yet been said about the appointment of
a chaplain, but that is expected to follow.
Saturday saw the first defeat of Colling-
wood this season, Fitzroy being now the only team
with a clean sheet. The Magpies started well against
South Melbourne, but after the first quarter their
play fell to pieces, and South won a rough game oy
69 to 56. ’Roy’s collision with Essendon was hardly
worth watching till just near the finish. Then the
’Dons woke up, and the Maroons had to play despe-
rately to scrape home seven points to the good—6B
to 61. Richmond downed St. Kilda by 73 to 54 —
their first win this season—and the Melburnians
returned from Geelong with sore heads and limbs:
Geelong, 73 ; Melbourne, 63. There is no old-world
courtesy about the League competition this year.
* * * *
In a 10-round affair at Michigan City,
Tom Gibbons outpointed Georges Carpentier, winning
every round. At the age of 29 (he is 34 now') Gib-
bons travelled 15 rounds with Australian Mick King,
who was about 71b. lighter. On his record likewise
are two no-decision bouts with Gus Christie, three
each with George Chip and Chuck Wiggins, and four
with Greek George Brown. The late Les Darcy
knocked skin and hair off Brown, Chip, Christie and
King, and it took Wiggins all his time to whip the
lumbering Lloyd, who was never in Darcy’s class—-in
fact, Fred Kay went 11 rounds with Wiggins, con-
ceding him 2st. On this form Gibbons and Carpen-
tier w'ould have been “pie” for Darcy had he lived.
* * * *
At the end of an hour’s scrapping at Syd-
ney Stadium, Westralian Eddie Butcher was bleeding
from the mouth, nose and left eye, while Alf Sim-
mons, of Cockaigne, was practically unmarked. But
Butcher got the decision, plus 25 p.c. of the offer-
tory (£243), albeit most of the crowd thought
the Englishman had won handily. Though felled a
couple of times by left body punches, Alfred made
nearly all the fight. He has been decidedly unlucky
in Australia.
* * * *
St. Roseate, the Goodwood Handicap win-
ner, made a great effort to do it again in the
City Handicap on the first day of the Adelaide
R.C.’s Birthday meeting. Bouncing out of the
barrier, he was soon 10 lengths in the lead, and with
two of the seven furlongs to travel he was still six
lengths to ■ the good. But Kibano, another St.
Anton gelding, chased him along the straight, caught
him about a hundred yards from home, and lasted
long enough to win by half a head from Sweet-
magne, with; imported Shanky and St. Roseate next.
Kibano, whose backers collected £6 16s. for every
£1 toted, ( was second in the Goodwood, and Shanky
was third, Produced again in the Parkside Stakes,
the Englishman (he is by King’s Prize—Minefield)
made hacks of Leahcim, Graculus, Crusader, St.
Speed anct other decent cattle at w.f.a., and he will
carry a ton of public money for the Birthday Cup.
Two great dividends were paid during the day—£46
on Shaheen in the Adelaide Stakes and £3O 4s. on
Pistol Grip in the Toorak Welter. R. M. Hawker
“SANDY"
GORDON, Adel-
aide racing identity.
owns, and Bradfield
trains, Shaheen, who
is by The Welkin —
Tringa, and is closely
related to the late
Furious, a great mare
on her day. The S.A.
Labor party, which
proposes to legalise
McShortodds, might
ask itself . what chance
punters would have of
inducing its parasitic
pal to lay 45 to 1 for
a Win, and 15 to 1 for
second place, against a
beautifully-bred colt in
a fashionable stable—
its only representative
at that.
Les Paddington was backed for the Hurdle
at Moorefield (N.S.W.) on Saturday, but was never
in the picture. Lord Satin, a four-year-old bay
gelding, by imported Sands of the Orient —Charm-
euse, won at 20’s from Tickaroo, who jumped
pretty Well, and Tuckbridge, and there was daylight
between the last-named and the topweight. How-
ever, those who fancy Les Paddington for the big
affair over the battens at Randwick next Saturday
should not reject him' because of one indifferent
performance on the peculiar Kogarah course. He
has 12st. 51b. at Randwick, and may be wortny
of a Tote ticket for all his weight. The Maori-
land-bred Farceur, who won the Moorefield Handicao
from end to end, is showing good form over middle
distances, and will not lack support for the A.J.C.
Ellesmere Handicap, in which he has 9st. lib.
The new chairman of the A.J.C. stipen-
diary stewards is making things interesting for cer-
tain influential people in the racing game. Follow-
ing on the disqualification of Bryans, the Randwick
, trainer, and Meddick, the jockey, over the running
of Corncrake at Canterbury Park, the stewards in-
vited the connections of Royal Howard to account
for that steed’s performance in the Empire Day
Handicap at Randwick, in which he ran second !.o
Note. Rejecting the explanations submitted, what-
ever they may have been, they imposed a year’s
disqualification on the horse, the jockey (Davis), the
trainer (Poison) and the owners (Matthews and
McDonald). On the day the sentences were an-
nounced the parties appealed to the A.J.C. com-
mittee, who removed the ban on horse, trainer and
owners —two wealthy bookmakers—-but, “in view of
admissions made by Davis,” extended his term to
three years. And now the public is wondering
what the “admissions” were, and whether the jockey
mightn’t have amplified (or perhaps withdrawn) them
if the appeal had been adjourned for a week or two.
It is a curious business altogether.
“The Deacon”: One of these days the
S.P.C.A. should get a list of ponies about to come
up for remeasurement and visit the stables where the
unfortunate cuddies are being prepared for the ordeal.
It will be a miracle if they don’t find a pony with
its head tied up in the air the whole night through.
This humane treatment is continued between training
stunts. With the hair on the wither shaved to the
bone, the unhappy runt is put under the “stick” day
after day, and subtly taught to flinch when it feels
timber. Refined touches' age' added, such as a sharp
nail in the wood where it meets the bare hide, an.l
playful jabs with a penknife in the forearm. And
these are merely preliminaries. If the pony is a
five-year-old due for its final certificate the regimen
becomes more thorough as the fatal day approaches.
Sugar bags filled with sand are swung on either
side of the wretched galloper. His shoes are removed,
and the front hoofs are pared down to the quick.
Loaded with the sand, he is dragged for hours over
the neighboring hills. And even then the labor is
sometimes (but. not often) in vain.
* * * *
The Australian Davis Cup ' team didn’t
show up brightly- in. some exhibition matches at San
Francisco. Little Johnston decisively beat Patterson
by two sets to one, and Robert Kinsey similarly
accounted for O’Hara Wood, who, however, was only
one game down in the aggregate. Schlesinger, who
had a hand against Howard Kinsey, went out in
straight sets, whilst the doubles, in which Patterson
and Wood faced Johnston and Griffin, resulted in a
win for the Yanks, their figures reading 4-6, 7-5,
10-8. It can be contended in excuse for the Aus-
tralians that they are just off the boat and haven't
struck form, whilst they are probably not yet accus-
tomed to the light. All the Americans playing rank
high on the national list of champions. Johnston,
of course, is second only to Tilden, and Griffin and
the Kinseys are among Uncle Sam’s first ten. As
doubles players the Kinseys are only a trifle inferior
to Johnston and Griffin, who won the National
Doubles at Boston in 1915, 1916 and 1920, and
would probably put up a better fight for America
than any other pair on the continent. They are,
however, not in their first youth as tennis players
go. Griffin has been a front-ranker for 12 years, and
Johnston’s record is almost as long.
“15-30” : Tilden is still boosting the Jap-
anese for the Davis Cup. He has discovered a new
man, Harada, whose aggressiveness has impressed him.
The other front-rank Japs rely mainly on skilful de-
fence, but Harada has great pace, so Tilden says,
and as he is only 23 and full of stamina, he is ex-
pected to do big things. It is not certain whether
he will be picked to appear with Shimidzu in the
singles, especially as Fukuda is understood to have
improved on last year’s form, but his kind of game
might get him a trial because it ia more likely to
extend the Australians. Still one doesn’t expect Pat-
terson and O’Hara Wood to be beaten by any Jap-
anese combination available. Even Harada is said
to have his countrymen’s weakness in the matter of
the volley. This simply means that Nippon’s chances
'in the doubles are not worth betting on, whilst it
would be remarkable if the little men should prevail
in the singles, wherein Wood and Patterson use the
volley with deadly effect. Wood, at his best, is pro-
bably the greatest volleyer in the world.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Norman Brookes and S. N.
Doust opened the eyes of English tennis critics by
winning the Surrey championship doubles. Both are
46, and though Brookes has retained a measure of
his old genius, Doust can only be regarded now as
a second-rater. In his day and on his day he was an
artist in doubles tactics, showing skill and speed in
the close work at the net; his only weakness was a
soft service. The cables mention that Norman scored
heavily with his “whipped drive”—a remarkable
cross-court shot which, on account of its tremendous
spin-, drops disconcertingly at the server’s feet as he
is coming in. In his match with Anderson against
Patterson and O’Hara Wood in Melbourne- last Janu-
ary Brookes brought oft' his specialty with great
effect.
* * * *
Thanks largely to N, R. Burns, the
sprinter, Sydney won the inter-’Varsity track cham-
pionships by 20 points to Melbourne’s 19, Brisbane
and Adelaide failing to notch a point. Burns got
away with the 100yds. in 10 2-ssee. and the 220yds.
in 22 4-ssec. He had three yards to spare in each
event, and is a very promising young man indeed.
The Victorian team was well served by L. R. M. Ross,
who won the half-mile in lmiu. 59 3-ssec., and J.
Nankevells, whose mile was left behind in 4min.
41 l-ssec.
* ’ * * -X-
The impression that Victoria owned a
usually good ’Varsity eight was confirmed on Satur-
day,- when R. H. Keon-Cohen ‘ stroked the Melbourne
boat to victory in the inter-Uhi. race on the Yarra.
Weight told once more, the winners being much
the heaviest of the five crews—they averaged 141 b.
more than the Queenslanders, who" finished half a
length behind them, and had precisely the same advan-
tage over the young men from Adelaide, who were
three lengths astern. Tasmania was fourth, and Syd-
ney last again.
* * * *
“Nitric”: There is a superstition among
billiardists that a player who breaks a ball can get
a “fiver” on reporting the fact to the makers. An-
other belief is that the same amount is paid if the
metal bracket holding the pocket is displaced during
a game. These brackets are let in and can be
pulled out in various makes of tables, but it would
take an extraordinarily hard shot to shift one. I
saw a ball broken the other day, but doubt if the
manufacturers will cough up five notes. One of the
players was 98 and the other had three to
make. The latter scored a “shearer’s break” (two
and one away), which put them level. Just as his
opponent was shooting for an easy winning hazard
and the quid a side that depended on it, the other
interrupted. “Food for the chickens,” he growled.
“Fancy a man leavin’ ’em up like that, Go on,
Ted —pot the red, go in off the white, swaller yiour
cue and spit all over the floor!” Ted fh-ed and
missed; then he picked up the red and heavedj it
at the satirist. It grazed his head, cannoned on; to
the brick wall and split in halves. ■
» * * # ;
“Pick”: In individual shooting for prizes
coaching is barred. Many a rifleman has • felt a
wrench when unable, owing to this N.R.A. law, to
warn a cobber on the mounds of changes in windage
or light. At a South Coast (N.S.W) meeting, how-
ever, two mates tore holes in the regulation to their
mutual advantage. Throughout the shoot they indus-
triously " instructed each other by means of a pre-
arranged code. It wasn’t till they had gone back
to the bush with their winnings that other competi-
tors hit upon the significance of the jerky whistling
that for two days had been heard across the range.
“Centurion”: I. Zingari (B. 24/4/’24) has
other peculiar features beside being “fashionable.'’
When it was formed in mid-Victorian days by a
group of old Harrovians, it was laid down that “the
entrance fee should be nil and the annual subscription
the same as the entrance fee.” Membership can onlv
be obtained by invitation; personality counts for
much more than blue blood, great possessions or even
special skill. W. G. Grace, though he tried hard
enough, died outside the pale of the Red, Black and
Gold. Ranjitsinhji was also overlooked, yet a mere
barrister like A. G. Steel and his brothers H.Q.
and D.G. (they were Liverpool merchants) were
members. A. N. Hornby, of Harrow and Lancashire,
was a member; A. C. Maclaren, of Harrow and
Lancashire, was not. Yet both were scions of Lan-
cashire commercial houses. The Zingari club formed
at Warwick on the Darling Downs in Queensland in
the ’sixties was recognised by the parent club as a
“colonial” branch. The Downs affair was founded
by Englishmen from the public schools and univer-
sities. It expired in the early ’eighties.
“Ex-Oxonian”: Wisden’s Almanack
(1924) has a few lines on a subject which has
recently evoked a par or two on this page —the
dwindling list of survivors of the England v. Aus-
tralia cricket matches of the early ’eighties. Lord
Harris is the only man left of the All-England XI
that downed Murdoch’s team at the Oval in 1880.
Of the English side that were beaten by seven runs on
the same ground two years later, A. N. Hornby, C.
T. Studd and Maurice Read are still on deck. In
1884 three Test matches were played, but only the
one at Lords was finished, England winning by an
innings. Lord Harris and Stanley Christopherson
are the only English survivors of that game. In
1886 England won all three contests, but of the side
that figured in the Lords match, which decided the
rubber, but one remains above ground, E. F. S.
Tyleeote. I suggest that Australia could show a lot
more than six survivors of those four matches.
* * * *
“Brud” : An accident similar to “McNib-
lick’s” (B. 8/5/’24) happened on the nine-hole .course
at Norfolk Island in 1910. Capt. F. E. Quintal
drove from the fourth tee, and the ball, striking a
passing noddy, was deflected into a patch of mutton-
birds’ burrows. Before this same Quintal left his
right eye on Gallipoli, by the way, he was about
the best “country” all-rounder of my acquaintance.
Golf, tennis, Rugby and cricket (bowling and
batting) all came alike to him, and he was almost
up to A-grade form in each. During the 1921)
Rugger season on the island he filled a very useful
breakaway’s possie for the returned men’s team.
QUO VADIS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Fifty-five thousand people witnessed the N.S.W.-
Queensland Rugby League match ; 10,000 more failed
to gain admittance. It would not be surprising if
100,000 want to see the English team take the field
against N.S.W. on Saturday.” —Sydney paper.
Some there may be whom flashing oars delight,
Or on whose ears may fall no sweeter sound
Than when the blades of willow deftly smite
The luscious demi-volley from the ground.
Some, rapt in ecstasy, the courts surround
Where man and maiden, deft at smash and spin
With twisted catgut, throbbing crowds astound.
All things in season, but who’d give a pin
For gentler sports and pastimes now that football's
in?
The Stadium may show a goodly sight
When iron-dialled pugs their art expound
And devastating lelt or savage right
Go hurtling home with emphasis profound.
Some, plunged in rapture, watch the streaking
hound
Pursue the hare the coursing fields within,
Or pigeons by the dexterous marksman downed.
I go to add my quota to the din
Where boot meets ball and shin raps on opposing
shin.
I am the Barracker —the same old wight
In Rome of old who recreation found
Where gladiators met in pulsing might
Battling the grim arena round and round
That some might take the count and some be
crowned.
Unleash the teams and let the strife begin.
After the whirling leather let them bound.
We w'ill acclaim him for our paladin
Whose skill and strength and fieetness score the
points that win.
N.B.W.
IFORD.


Friction is
for Braßes
—Not Bearing's.
You have doubtless watched the sparks fly when the
brake imposes its binding grip on the wheels of loco-
motives, and most likely you have been delayed by
the stopping of an entire train, in order to cool and
lubricate just one hot, grinding jodrnal. In the one
case friction is purposely applied to retard motion—in
the other, the train must be stopped to eliminate the
tremendous frictional drag which would seize the
bearing and stop the wheel altogether if ignored.
This example of friction created by the brakes is a
homely exaggeration of the binding drag which friction
imposes on a line of shafting equipped with plain
bearings. This frictional drag must be overcome, as
well as the binding and sticking due to deflected shafts,
which cause the bearings to run hot and often seize
with destructive effects comparable to hot journals on
railway trucks. Altogether approximately 40 per
cent, of the total power supplied to a line of shafting
is wasted in overcoming this frictional drag.
f
Power expended in overcoming friction does not dis-
appear without a trace. In lineshaft bearings it is
dissipated in heat and in wear. Hot bearings become
a fire risk, plant efficiency is weakened, and the power
waste curtails profits and cuts deep into dividends.
SKF
BALL BEARINGS.
S.K.F. self-aligning ball-bearings deliver their full quota of power to your
machines, with a 50 per cent, saving of friction load, or a net saving of from
15 per cent, to 35 per cent, of the total power supplied. Ask us at our
showroom to prove these facts.
Gardner, Waern &, Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street.
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE—Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.. 157 Way-
mouth Street.
PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
377-391 Murray Street.
HOBART—Charles Davis. Ltd.
8.8.—8/23.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
Value so pronounced that you are justified
in looking upon the purchase of a Dodge
Brothers Motor Car as the soundest possible
investment in transportation.
Not a pound is added to the purchase price
to support a free service policy; nor to
cover the costliness of numerous body or
chassis types; nor to pay interest on borrowed
money; nor to maintain a multiple organisation
of middlemen.
Dodge Brothers finance themselves. They
sell directly through a single organisation
of dealers to you. They do not believe in
charging in advance for service you may
never need. They have developed remark-
able economies, and a time-seasoned pro-
duct, by concentrating on standard types.
These facts are reflected, not only in the
price of the Car, but in the quality of work-
manship and materials that enter into its
construction.
Dodbe Brothers, Deikuii
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
6/6/’24.
THE INKY WAY.
“Ike Hollar”: The freelance system gets no hold
on Australian dailies. Even its oldest contributors are
being informed by Sydney Sun that “owing to
space being fully occupied” it is practically useless to
submit copy. The “casuals” went first; now the
freelance “special”-writer follows.
“P.X.”: Hobart World wrote its own death-notice
the other day. It never had a hope: the hoodoo
of its sponsor, the Sydney W orld which never
rotated, was upon it. The failure will put another
nail in the coffin of that timorous and futile enter-
prise—if a chicken that was never hatched can be
called an enterprise.
“Hasen”: These tremendous trifles! By London
cable and “Special Representative” we are informed
in a Melbourne paper that Chief Justice Irvine and
his wife, after a tour of France and Belgium,
motored from Folkestone to London, and that “Sir
William skilfully negotiated the heavy traffic.” I
still live in hopes of reading that Mr. Ramsay Mac:
donald, after settling a freetrade dispute, negotiated
a beer with great cleverness, and that Mussolini,
having dealt with a new Fascisti crisis, neatly lit
a large cigar.
“Veedee H.”: The death of Marie Corelli recalls
a happening of the early days of the novelist’s
fame. In the Empire Hotel, Wellington (M.L.), a
bet of £lO was made between a Hansard reporter
and a newspaper proprietor. The former under-
took to write a paragraph which would be quite
untrue, and which nevertheless half the papers in
M.L. would copy without question. A third party
held the stakes, and was to see that the item com-
plied with the conditions. It was actually found
in 70 per cent, of the papers and read thus: “Marie
Corelli, the famous young novelist, is now en route
to Maoriland to marry a well-ftnown Canterbury
squatter.”
“J.H.” (London) : T. S. Towncnd, London manager
of the Argus for over 40 years, has just retired,
after 70 years of journalism. Born in Yorkshire 85
years ago, he has served Australia in London as well
as any native could have done it. Three years ago
he retired from the Australian Press Assoc. —the
cable syndicate—and has since given his time to the
Argus. A keen Egyptologist, he last year presented
nearly a hundred volumes of his Egyptian library to
Melbourne University. There was no better-liked
figure in Fleet-street than the versatile old journalist.
The Manchester Guardian, whose London office he
organised in the ’sixties, gave him nearly a column
of glowing apreciation in its issue of April 9.
“Te Pana”: The freelance writer must be an
extremist. Red should be much redder to him than to
the rest of the world; he has to hate harder, drink
deeper, love more, curse more. The greater the
extremist he is the more profitable the job. And
having his subject he must be careful of the words he
clothes it in. There is a form of writing known as
“journilese,” clear, simple, concise, suave, dignified,
impersonal. That is why it is not for the freelance.
To enter a room on one’s feet is graceful; but to
walk in on your hands will invariably attract more
attention. The freelance writer must always travel
on his hands for the sake of Friday’s pay. And
because the freelance fills more and more of the
papers, they become —well, more like you’d expect
them to be.
“J.H.” (London) : One of the first men to be
apointed to the staff of the London Evening Standard
by Lord Beaverbrook, after he had paid Sir Edward
Hulton £250,000 for the property, was Richard K.
Law, second son of the late ex-Prime Minister.
Bonar Law and Beaverbrook have been friends from
the time they began their careers together as
boys in Canada. Beaverbrook was then Max Aitken,
the future Prime Minister a raw Scot, sent out by
an uncle in the Glasgow iron trade to learn, New
World business methods. Beaverbrook was at Bonar
Law’s elbow at every stage of the latter’s political
career, and gave him the necessary journalistic
backing when it was a question whether Bonar Law
or Austen Chamberlain should succeed Balfour in
the leadership of the Unionist Party.
“Simon”: When Walter Bennett, Liberal M.L.A.
for Upper Hunter (N.S.W.), started a paper in Dun-
gog 30 years ago, he was a good deal bothered by the
local system of “cutting it out.” One farmer
Would bring in a load of wood in payment of a
year’s subscription; another would empty a load of
pumpkins into his yard with a “That’ll fix y’ till
next corn-pullin’.” But the most novel form of
barter offered, Bennett always insisted, came from
a down-the-river settler, one Bill. William had a colt
that, just before branding time, had escaped to the
mountains; on being recovered three years later he
was not in that condition of physical neutrality gen-
erally reckoned suitable for a farm prad. “How much,”
demanded Bill of the editor, “do you want for
printin’ a picture of Bally, saying that he will
stand the season between here and Patterson River?”
“Twenty-five shillings.” he was told. “That’s a lot
of money,” drawled Bill; “but, tell y’ what, if you’ve
got a mare we could square it that way.”
“Iford”: “Gape Liptrap,” referred to by “Delyer”
(B. 8/5/’24) as one of the christening efforts of Lieut.
James Grant of the Lady Nelson, a naval pioneer of
1800. has always puzzled me. I can’t find the word
“liptrap” in any dictionary, not even in Webster.
But in one of Conan Doyle’s books, “Rodney Stone,”
it occurs repeatedly as a slang term for the spirits
(liquid) supplied to the prize-fighters of the period
bv their Corinthian patrons. Whether “liptrap” was
gin or brandy, the word has utterly vanished in
England. The word hasn’t a place even in Vizetelly’s
“Idioms and Idiomatic Phrases,” published last year
by Funk and Wagnalls. It is strange that it should
have been perpetrated on the map of Australia.
Lieut. Grant, who left England at the very period
with which “Rodney Stone” deals, doubtless knew
' all about liptrap. But what induced him to name
a promontory after it? And did the crew get a
double ration of grog in honor of the event?
“Good Australian”: I think “Iford” (B. 15/5/’24)
is mistaken when he says Rudyard Kipling was once
asked to write the Melbourne Cup introduction for
the Argus. Kipling was in Melbourne for only three
days—in ’ July, 1891. He had travelled from London
by a Shaw, Savill Co. steamer to Hobart, and came
here in a hurry. His flying visit is fixed in my
mind because the late Matthew Henry Davies, then
Speaker of the Assembly, asked me to an informal
dinner in the Athenaeum Club which he was giving
in Kipling’s honor that night. It was a memorable
function, for the young author’s yarns were new and
his style of telling them inimitable. After dinner,
over cigars and coffee, Davies asked the guest of the
evening to give us an exhibition of his lightning-like
observation. We all went outside the small smoking-
room, and well inside five minutes Kipling came out to
the passage and described minutely every article in the
dining-room, and named one or two curiosities none
of us old members had noticed. He was full of
nonsense, and so tactful that he never even asked
his host how manv banks and building societies had
foundered up to that timt.
WHAT’S YOURS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Have you a mystic letter which seems to dominate
your whole life? Dame Nellie Melba was remark-
ing the other day that she has one —the letter M
from which she finds it impassible to escape.”
—Melbourne Herald.
Yes, others have their letter, too;
No scribe goes very far
Before he knows he is pursued
By a vindictive “R.”
And budding Hamlets quickly find
Themselves by “B” preferred,
Because it stands for Busted, Broke,
Bills, Bad Luck and the Bird.
But for the common run of folk
They come in groups of three,
•As “H.C.L.” and “1.0. U.”
And always “C.0.D.”
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


REMARKABLE
TAILORING OFFER
t
\
X
•—i
Extra Trousers at Half-
Price with Every
Quality Suit
“QUALITY” SUIT
T 0 and Bl £7 / 17 / 6
Extra Trousers
To Order
Half-Price
m
Book your Order
now while this
Offer stands.
£BllBl6
In order to further prove the unrivalled
supremacy of Leviathan Tailoring and to
emphasise the fact that the “Quality’
Tailored-to-Order Suit is absolutely the
best Tailoring Value in Melbourne, we are
giving an extra pair of Tailored-to-Order
Trousers, at half-price, with every
‘ ‘Quality’ ’ Suit.
PATTERNS, SPECIAL SELF-MEASURE-
MENT CHART AND TAPE POST FREE
ON APPLICATION.
m THE
LEVIATHAN
PTY. UTD.
Cr. Swanston
and Bourke Sts.,
Melbourne.
ONE MILE OF FOX YARN WEIGHS
LESS THAN ONE OUNCE
ilSwK*
■S3
■Mir
SI?
is
Ako
Si
Hf
=£2
m
J -
S 2
£0
FOX
The fine West of England Cloths
of Fox Bros, are demanded to
the exclusion of all other cloths
by those who have once worn
them.
Fine cloths call for fine yarns,
finely spun from finest Australian
wools.
To produce a light.weight Fox
superfine cloth it is necessary to
spin the yarn to such fineness
that a mile weighs less than an
ounce.
Look for the Fox Trade Mark
which gives entire satisfaction
because it is backed by this
guarantee
Fox’s Cloths are all pure wool
and will not shrink or fade by
land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
„ FOX .
LOest of Sng/anJ Highest Quality
CLOTHS
fANCY WORSTEDS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS • TWEEDS AND
FOX'S IMPROVED PUTTEES
I
I -
.
! 1
j I
a* tit
a'DEAL
K
WRITE
FOR
FREE
BOOKLET,
Make Your
Home a Haven
During these Bleak Winter Months by
Installing Central Heating with
Ideal x Ideal
1 Radiators I Boilers
At a cost of only about twopence per day per room
you can warm the entire house from one fire.
The rooms are freed from soot and ashes, keeping the
atmosphere cleaner and healthier, preserving the furnish-
ings and taking the drudgery out of housework. Hot
water for baths, etc., is always available.
Easily installed. “Classic” installations for smaller homes
Up to 7 rooms; “Ideal” installations for larger homes,
hotels, clubs, etc. Send number of rooms for an
approximate price.
JohnDanks e-SONIM#
324 -330 P i±i -Si. Sydney
391 - 405 Bocirke Si. Melbourne


*»“ Alston” Windmill Plant
I
I will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
! for Household, Stock and Garden.
i No other windmill is so sensitive to light
; winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
! or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubr 5
I cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All wot!’.*
j ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
: run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
I works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
| on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
(OoMa’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
d
Ask for
ABBOTS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Lilac Time”
Criterion “Aren’t We All?”
Royal “Sally”
New Palace “Madame X”
Hoyt’s , Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
Royal “Kissing Time”
Princess’s “Mr. Battling Butler”
King’s “The Skin Game”
Palace “Rain”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
“Mr. Battling Butler,” staged with a pro-
fusion of millinery at Melbourne Princess's
on Saturday, depends largely on Charles
Heslop and Dorothy Brunton. Heslop is
often a mechanical humorist, but here his
exuberance of gesture and command of “busi-
ness” emphasise and enlarge the mirthful
passages of the story. At first he seems tame,
but, as he impresses the audience with the
gaiety of a roving husband who pretends to
be a champion pug flitting away for periods
of training, he shows flashes of genuine
comedy. In the last scene, where the mas-
querade has brought him to the verge of
facing an actual encounter, his bogus terror,
while gazing dismally at his frail fists and
quaking knees, is undeniably funny. Later
on, when he stands on the steps of the
slaughter-house, what time an apparently
slain boxer is trailed across the foreground
by a couple of mournful stretcher-bearers, he
provides a diverting vision of a seasick curate.
Dorothy Brunton merits attention for her
graceful team-work and her sharp, staccato
handling of the neat little gags that come her
way. A note of worldly freshness gives
pungency to her patter; but in the mood of
a cynical young wife with 1 o illusions about
her wandering one, she is a different Dorothy
to the girl who dances smartly and sings
simple sentiment before a crescent of chorus
boys. Unhappily the little artist hasn't
much to sing. The score isn’t prodigal of
catchy lyrics and comic strains. Of the
latter, hardly one would be worth a trial
at a brewers’ picnic. One or two numbers
“THE MAN IN DRESS CLOTHES," AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Frederick Lloyd, as Henri, brings glad tid-
ings of a square meal to the starving
Lucien ( Seymour Hicks).
fall to Mary Gannon, a new divinity from
the chorus with sufficient shapely attributes
to decorate every frock she wears. With no
great volume of voice, but with the gift of
looking pretty in an engagingly modest way,
she i ought, with experience, to do very well.
Marie le Varre, the wife of the real Battling
Butler, represented by Tom Preston as a
skating expert, hides her blonde tresses under
a brown wig and talks in subdued tones most
of the time. Alec Regan is another new-
comer —he has a decent voice and a cheery
manner of rendering his not over-bright lines.
Douglas Calderwood exhibits a partiality for
cream-puffs and ice-cream in a silly-ass role,
and George Willoughby is a producer of fatal
uppercuts and lullaby swipes who scorns
peace and goodwill with every breath. Comp-
ton Coutts, as a fussy functionary in the
first act, seems determined to make. Jumself
heiird above his audible red necktie and the
lurid garments of the female support. But
the extra ladies are otherwise well-dressed
and their activities, under the direction of
Hhrry Hall and Minnie Hooper, have all the
charming enthusiasm of youth. Likewise
Alima Hardman and John Robertson can be
commended for a lively dance in the first half
of the show.
“Carmen” was staged again at Melbourne
Majesty’s on Saturday, and as it is appa-
rently a bigger draw than ever, with Stella
Power now flourishing her soprano as
Micaela, it has been listed for another run
next Saturday. Melba has been delivering
her final trill in “Bohfeme,” and there lias
been a revival of “The Barber of Seville.
Another Dal Monte night occurs next Mon-
day (King’s birthday), when the little lady
will squander pearls from the topmost flights
of song as the unhappy Lucia. Meantime
“The Tales of Hoffmann” is providing ail
the crowd needs in the way of spectacle, pas-
sion and vocalisation. An opera that pre-
sents Dal Monte, Scavizzi and Lahoska ou
the one evening is a tremendous attraction,
and seats for every performance are rushed.
“O’Flynn, Pussyfooter,” which is finishing
Allen Doone’s brief season at Melbourne
Palace, shows the actor as an expert cock-
tail-mixer driven to prohibition by the arro-
gance of the liquor interests he has been
engaged to serve. Though converted in haste,
Doone doesn’t, repent his change at leisure,
but barracks for the soda-fountain and the
Limejuice Brotherhood, ultimately turning
the populace in favor of a near-beer which is
said to give a mild kick to the speech of the
pious. The concoction is the work of Charles
Brown, who has been long cherished in the
minutes of the W.C.T.U. for his noble con-
trol of a temperance hashery where Edna
Keeley is a manicurist. It’s all up with the
play when Doone’s restless eye alights on
Edna’s plump charms; but, before the
Wedding March drones from the village
organ, the Bad Bung of the story is brought
to renounce his nefarious triade and laps up
milk-shakes ever afterwards. The drama is
touching in its wholesale effects. A few
impassioned words from Doone, with a wave
or two of the Star-spangled Banner, imme-
diately turn the whole place dry. Next
Saturday “Rain” will be presented, with
Barbara Hoffe conspicuous in the downpour.
Chide Horn blower is still endeavoring to
escape her Past in “The Skin Game,” at
Melbourne King’s. But it hunts her down
like a cadging relation, causing the down-
fall of her husband’s house, and bringing
her plans to grief.
Cyril Ritchard will continue to be mis-
taken for an army cook for a few more
nights at Melbourne Royal. But all thoughts
of “Kissing Time” are pushed into the back-
ground by the threat of a new attraction
called “Whirled into Happiness,” in which
Kitty Reidy is to star.
“The Midnight Alarm,” at Melbourne
Majestic this week, shows our old friend
Percy Marmont as a dauntless fireman saving
the heroine from being fried in a vault. This
is only one incident in a film that seems de-
termined to have the lady calling continu-
ously for help. At the same house another
girl is enabled to estimate the fighting quali-
ties of two suitors in a sensational water
scene. The yarn is entitled “The Critical
Age.” Hoyt’s tract dept, unlooses an old
favorite in “Slippy McGee,” the tale of the
crook who was brought to repentance by a
rustic maiden’s glance. Mae Marsh in “A
Woman’s Secret” is another of Hoyt’s cur-
rent features; but the prize picture of the
week is “The Eternal City” at the'Gaiety. In
this astonishing film Hall Caine’s narrative
is over-run with Fascisti. At the Britannia
the crowd is trying to discover whether
Betty Blythe is “Sinner or Saint,” while the
Melba is putting up one of Zane Grey’s
masterpieces, “The Call of the Canyon.”
Blamire Young has anothef show :
Blamire Young’s art is again |usible in 50 or
more fresh efforts at the Melbourne Athenaeum.
Some of them repeat his tricks of style, but in many
there is a, new note, a more gracious expression of
suavity and restraint. Take as an example “The
Hour of the Pearl.” Here is a study of light pouring
over a scene that is like a dream trying to come
true. The mixture of fantasy and reality makes
a provocative and baffling essay in color, for which
Criticism cannot find the right word. In “The
Road to Pei’haps” we see an almost direct transcript
from Nature, yet the picture is invested with a
subtle illusion. Everywhere the artist charms the
eye with some strange problem of his own fabrica-
tion. In “Silver Solitude” the high light on the
backs of the cattle gives them a curious splendor.
In “Solace of Pale Skies” the color attracts, though
the trees do resemble puffs of cornflower smoke.
Blamire Young also handles the human figure to
much decorative purpose. The grouping is masterly
in “Old Shop, Hobart”; and “The Balcony,” show-
ing a vague nymph in a billowy buttercup skirt, with
the black back of a gentleman stencilled in the
corner, is a notable achievement. The bending
prelate in “Vestigia Fidei” is remembered for the
excellent drawing, whereas the solitary nude in
“Muslin” hasn’t the lines of Helen of Troy. The
manner in which water-color can be employed to
depict the glitter and delicacy of porcelain is strik-
ingly demonstrated in the picture of Chinese vases.
Technically this is a tour de force. The color is
perfect. There is not a tone wrong.
And a picture pie:—
At the Decoration Gallery in Melbourne there are
two or three water-colors by Harold Herbert that are
pleasant to look at, though they do not represent his
highest performance. Hans Heysen signs an out-
door study in a graver mood than usual, and Lionel
Lindsay contributes some more memoranda from his
Spanish sketch-book. Brother Daryl, disdaining to
make landscape the background of an incident, con-
centrates his art on strong natural effects. There
are certainly a few vague figures in his picture of a
yellow cliff, but the towering rock stresses the un-
importance of the intruders. W. J. MacNally has a
characteristic water-color, and one is allowed a peep
into a comer of the late Alex. McCubbin’s pea-green
“JIM O'BRIEN, PIRATE ” AT
MELBOURNE PALACE.
Allen Doone as Jim O'Brien; Eardley
Turner as Grand-dad MacLane; Maurice
Lynch as Sam Dickens.
xjvorld. But clever painting saves the large canvas
from being monotonous. A small Hilder, which is
liot in his best style, is hanging near a couple of
impressions by Tristram ; and R. W. Sturgess puts
dome of his daintiest work into another sketch near
by.
Vilhjalmur Stefansson, the Arctic explorer,
spun a good yarn at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night, but his pellets of facts were
lust facts, without any surrounding atmo-
sphere of the Farthest North. Graphic de-
scription is hot the big Canadian’s long suit,
find though he talked entertainingly of ice-
floes and snow-houses and frost-bite, his
Words hadn’t even the cold tinkle of ice
kgainst glass in them. His style is intimate
and racy; but Australian audiences could
stand a more meaty diet than he offered
them on Saturday. He started his story at
the point where he went to Peary and told
him that he had solved the problem of food-
supplies for Polar expeditions; then he
dashed off with his sledges and three com-
panions for the Pole and beyond it. On the
route he taught his audience how to snare a
seal, how to drink snow with impunity
(you first warm it in your hand), gave a
lesson on Eskimo tailoring; then said a word
about the desirability of the Poles for
summer holiday quarters, and ended with
the arrival of his Australian friend Wilkins
in the ship that brought him and his com-
panions back to roast beef and hygienic
underwear. The architecture of snow houses
was the foundation of Tuesday’s talk, and to-
night (Thursday) the Arctic regions will
have a final survey.
At Sydney Palace “Town Topics” go their
light-hearted way, with Billy Maloney in the
forefront as a fun-maker, and the ventrilo-
quist’s doll developing a more Dion Bouci-
cault accent at each performance.
The harrowing “Madame X” will vacate
Svdney Royal for the entrancing “Sally’ on
Saturday night. “Madame X” moves on to
the New Palace for a final week of the grip-
ping emotionalism of Muriel Starr and the
care-free swashbuckling of Frank Harvey.
“Lilac Time,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
is nightly hitting the spot which every true
music-lover carries. The Schubert play is
a feast of melody temptingly presented.
** * *
At Sydney Opera House Seymour Hicks
continues to portray the alternately stomach-
empty, and soulful “Man in Dress Clothes.”
The hardest acting in the piece falls to the
supernumeraries in the cafe scene: they have
to sit around for half an hour and make pre-
tence of dining: luxuriously, when it is obvi-
ous they are doing nothing of the sort. If
Oscar Asche were stage-producer they might
be.
“Aren’t We All?” still holds the Sydney
Cri. On Saturday night the curtain-raiser
will be “Half an Hour,” the Barrie playlet
which the Vanbrugh-Boucicault pair per-
formed for the special delectation of George
Rex and Mary Regina before leaving Eng-
land last year.
Arthur Prince, arrayed in yards of naval
braid, gives an air of distinction to the
Sydney Tivoli’s quarter-deck. His ventrilo-
quist’s chatter is bright, and there is an
absence of the usual forced effort and
mechanical effect. Howard Rogers, the
other newcomer, is an unconventional curate
whose methods would prove a certain remedy
for the empty-cliurch disease. The artisti-
cally-masked Grace Christie and contralto
Eileen Shettle are other bright stars.
Eleven months ago Gertrude Elliott gave
Sydney “Woman to Woman” at the Cri.,
and now the tearful tale has been set to
celluloid. At the Lyric the shingled gender
is so carried away by Betty Compson’s por-
trayal of Deloryse’s self-sacrifice that its
tear-splashed fur stole resembles the outer
covering of a drowned cat. The Lyceum
exhibits “Scars of Jealousy,” which gets its
real kick-off when a father disinherits a
high-living offspring and takes in his place
an unlearned numskull, who proves in the
long run to have wonderful blood trickling
through his veins. “Snowy” Baker appears
as one of “The Empire Builders” in the
supporting picture. “Snowy” has always
been one of this land’s white-headed boys;
but though he is a passable acrobat, it has
to be confessed that his acting is tiresome.
“The Meanest Man,” at Hoyt’s, although a
dud chaser of Costs, shines as an umbrella-
salesman and oil-company promoter. “The
Call of the Canyon” is echoing through
the Globe, and it drags a young war-
veteran away from his wife to a made-to-
order Zane Grey setting of crags and waste
land. All the tricks of the trade employed
in “Live and Let Live,” at the Strand,
were the brainwaves of Noah aboard the
Ark. “Rosita” keeps on the move at the
Crystal Palace.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has been busy all the week
with an amateur show, and the Cherniavskys
are just coming in. The Prince of Wales is
waking from a long sleep to welcome Hugh
J. Ward’s co. and “The O’Brien Girl.” Pic-
tures are varied. At the York Richard Bar-
thelmess swings a vigorous and effective
Fighting Blade. Bill Hart, with pony, is at
Wondergraph. Johnny Hines as a low-
comedy tram-conductor, at West’s, is run
close by a less-boomed “Barnyard” film, in
which animals and birds once more prove
themselves the starriest actors. And the
Pav. has one more story of the hard-riding
girl reared by cow-punchers. Charles Hackett
is also here, and has crowded the Town Hall
several times.
“The 5a10n—1924,” which is an offshoot of
the Sydney Salon that before the war was the
quintessence of all the arts, and during the
war dropped to a reading circle of which
poetess Dorothea Mackellar was vice-reine,
has decided upon a second blooming in ama-
teur operatics. Its first performance at the
MELBOURNE HIP MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON — “AIDA.”
Augusta Concato as Aida; Umberto di Lelio
as Ram phis, chief of priests; 'Nino Pic-
caluga as Radames, Captain of the
Guards.
Con. was “Trial by Jury.” The production
now in rehearsal is “Pinafore.” Milner
Stephen, who proved himself such an excellent
comedian last time, will be Sir Joseph Porter;
Dr. Silverton will be Captain Corcoran;
the doctor’s wife, who sings as Dulcie Hux-
table, has the melodious rble of Josephine;
and Buttercup will be played by elocutionist
Mary Hosking. The Con. harbors the per-
formance on June 24 and 25, and the Itaw-
son Institute and the Adult Blind, Deaf and
Dumb Building Fund will share the takings.


BY APPOINTMENT
*
%
vy/s/s.
TwMTmwr'm
»
V. '/.
'Abss/s/fy
%
m
m
m
m.
m
m
m
m
v///y<
/.
't.
WHISKY
RSE
as
£r-
k \
////«
///4
ii
Ml
wmmm
m
m
m
m
m
’/////A
'Mr//////.
v///s %
YSS/4
2 2 #
Greal' Age
and
BouQuet
Genuine Pure
Scotch
E. E. WILKS
(Managing Director).
WHEN!
Contemplating the
Purchase of a Player
Piano there are Facts
YOU cannot afford to
Miss!
GULBRANSEN
Zduc^&cncertc
POSSESSES UNIQUE FEATURES
THAT ARE NOT CONTAINED IN ANY OTHER
PLAYER PIANO IN THE WORLD.
IT IS 50 PER CENT.
EASIER TO PEDAL.
IT IS 50 PER CENT.
MORE SENSITIVE.
IT HAS A DIRECT CONTROL OVER
THE STROKE OF THE PIANO HAMMER.
IT HAS A NON-FRICTION MOTOR THAT
DOES NOT REQUIRE LUBRICATION.
May be purchased from 180 guineas.
:
(MACDONEGE HOUSE),
317, 319 AND 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY' (next to Y.M.C.A.)
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
Tel.: City 10751 and 10752.
Newcastle Ajjeney: 10 HUNTER STREET.
Mastertovch Music Rolls
This Month’s Fine Selection of Titles.
BALLADS.
Three Fishers Went Sailing.
Whatever Is—ls Best.
Pleading.
Oh, Dry Those Tears.
Good Morning, Brother Sun-
shine.
C SERIES.
Lilae Time (Selection).
Qui Qive —Grand Galop de
Concert.
Rondo Capriccioso.
Repasz Band (March).
Traumerei.
Moonlight on the Hudson.
Serenade—Gounod.
Moonlight Goblins.
Blue Bells of Scotland.
POX TROTS.
Blue Hoosier Blue.
That Old Gang of Mine.
I Love Tou.
Carolian Rolling Stone.
Chansonette.
Louisville Lou.
WALTZES.
La Confession.
THESE ROLLS ARE OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
If your local agent does not handle them, write us direct, so
we may get in touch with him.
m
AVASTERTOUCH
Mand Pfa/ed X
f? ,A\ustc Rolls - •
- are the *
LATEST amd BEST
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.


Ask Your Dealer (or Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
W. W, GREtllßr
GUNMAKERS. BIRMINGHAM
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.,
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
IV
GEORGE
king
"S'
f&yScotyiN
• ..
'
m.
you are ajyared iiv every bottle
'of tKat/elfjranve /tandard o/“
excellence which hay made
ď
FAMOUS THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconi\oijyeurj' to be
JCOTLANDjrJbUNDEfT/TIMULANT
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
AIIONA
Tarifi —Write for Descriptive Folder
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER.PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Wlio is the oldest
theatre-goer in the world ? Sir Henry
Poland, K.C., claims the honor in a volume
of very readable reminiscences just pub-
lished. He is 95 and still writes frequent
letters to the Times, usually on abstruse
legal questions, but occasionally on social and
theatrical topics. He was present at the
first performance of “Bohemian Girl m 1843
at Drury-lane, and he makes the pretty sate
assertion that he is the only man alive who
can boast of such a recollection. In his
young days, he says, the programmes of the
London theatres were prodigious affairs. Ihe
entertainment started at 7 with a burlesque
or light comedietta, then proceeded to a full-
sized four-act drama, and always wound up
with “a side-splitting farce.” At 9 0 clock
people were admitted at half-price, and the
curtain came down shortly before midnight.
My own memory can vouch that the triple
programme prevailed throughout the late
’fifties and ’sixties in Melbourne and Sydney
as well as in London.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Barney Barnard lias
gone where it is to be hoped he will be able
to make the angels laugh. Barney, who was
born in 1877, had travelled a long way before
he struck his biggest patch as Abe Potash, in
“Potash and Perlmutter” —Glass s first
sketch of that delightful Jewish pair appeared
in 1913. Since then Barnard has ap-
peared as Potash over 3000 times. But lie
was in the front rank as a Jewish comedian
long before that. He was here some 20 years
ago with the New York Travesty Stars,
appearing with the two comedians Kolb and
Dill in “Hoity-Toity,” “Fiddle-dee-dee” and
other cheerful trifles.
“Harnfat”: It is rather curious to note
how the skirt has gone down on the stage
as it has gone up everywhere else, in the
days when our maiden aunts trembled with
horror at the idea of showing their ankles,
the stage lady was largely addicted to dis-
porting herself in tights and spangles, lhe
theory seemed correct that men were pre-
pared* to pay handsomely to view the tor-
bidden extremities of woman. But leg-
shows (in the strict sense of the word) went
out of fashion when it was realised that free
entertainment of that sort could be obtained
in any city street. Possibly as an offset,
there has certainly been a loosening and
abbreviation of upper feminine raiment; but
skirts in which no ordinary auntie would be
ashamed to do the block are more common be-
fore the footlights nowadays than “tight -
clothed extremities.
“J.N.”: “A.P.” omitted Soldene
from the Sonnambulas (B. 15/5/’24).
She performed the role at Lyster’s Opera
House in ’75 or ’76, and was no lightweight,
either, physically or vocally. _ In the sleep-
walk her garment was a milky white. I
expected “0.K.” to rectify “A.P.’s” omission.
I am one of thousands who grieved to read
that this old theatrical authority will settle
no more arguments and correct no more slips.
“T.L.H.”: Forty years ago this month
Melba, then Mrs. Armstrong, sang at Mel-
bourne Town Hall at a benefit to Elsasser,
one-time conductor of the Philharmonic. At
her farewell concert in 1886, before she left
for Europe, the assisting artists were otef-
fani, I-limmer, Tom Bergin, Zerbini, Julius
Herz, Guenett, Madame Tasca and John
Lemmone. The only two survivors are Melba
and the tuneful flautist.
“Cospetto” : Milan has at last seen Boito’s
vast opera, “Nerone,” and votes it good.
The composer w r rote it years ago, and per-
haps the effects he introduced, including the
burning of Rome, made managers chary of
producing it on the scale it deserved. Boito
was responsible for the libretti of Verdis
“Otello” and “Falstaff,” and many have won-
dered why he didn’t set them to his own
music, seeing that he was a sound-maker ot
considerable eminence. His dark and strik-
ing orchestration and power in dramatic
climaxes are heard in his version of the
Faust legend which he named “Mefistofele.
It has never been presented in Australia, but
some critics declare it is to Gounod what salt
is to sugar, and presents a devil in whom it
would be impossible to hide the tired talent
of an elderly bass. Boito died six or seven
years back, his last days darkened by the
disappointment regarding “Nero,” which
then had five acts, and would be considered
more than a snack at Bayreuth. Arturo
Toscanini, the presiding genius at La Scala,
lias now cut the score sufficiently to let the
audience get home before the milk.
“Smike”: It doesn’t require much brain-
sweat to construct an Irish-American play.
In his last season at Melbourne Palace Allen
Doone put up a thing called “O’Kelly, Detec-
tive.” It reminded one strangely of a Max
Marcin thriller, “Cheating Cheaters,” which
was lost to notice after a short season in
Sydney. Followed “O’Brien, Pirate,” which
recalled a sweet tale of a buried box that h;id
touched American fiapperhood as “Captain
Kidd, Junior.” Another of Doone’s produc-
tions, “O’Flynn, Pussyfooter,” was near
enough in idea to George M. Cohan’s “llit-
the-Trail Holliday” to pass for the latter’s
twin brother.
“J. 8.” : It’s a wonder it hasn’t been done
long ago, but Arthur Shirley is making good
the oversight. He is preparing for the Pyra-
mid Picture Productions Proprietary Ltd.,
Melbourne, Fergus Hume’s one-time famous
story “The Mystery of a Hansom Cab.” The
Rushcutters Bay studio (Sydney) is head-
quarters for the work, and Shirley reckons
to unwind the old favorite to a generation
that knows it not, except by repute, in a few
months’ time. 11. C. Macfie, a well-known
Sydney public accountant, is associated with
the experiment.
“Santander” : A couple of features fami-
liar to old opera-goers were missing from
the Firm’s latest production of “I Pagliacci.”
According to the score Nedda, Tonio and
Canio should make their first entrance in a
little donkey-cart. In the Williamson ver-
sion the trio just stroll on and mingle with
the villagers, which to a certain extent les-
sens their importance as the chief actors in
the tale. Also, I have seen a performance
in which Silvio made love to Nedda with one
leg jauntily dangling over a stile, leading into
the adjacent wood. To me this seemed a
more convincing way of addressing the lady
than the conventional Italian pose of heart-
felt passion which I saw at His Majesty’s
the other night. In one respect, however, the
latest “Pagliacci” surpassed all its fore-
runners —-the manner in which Tonio (Gran-
forte) smirked and giggled at the populace
was a great demonstration of what a face can
be made to do in a tragi-comic role.
A GAP IN THE PROGRAMME.
MR. BAK'K: “’Oo’s the bloke singin’?”
MR. BLOKKS: "Wait a jiff—[?]U tell yer when
’is mouth’s shut!”
“Hamfat”: The programme refers to
Frederick Lloyd, the Henri de la Tour ot
“The Man in Dress Clothes,” as an Lnglisli
actor; but Fred is by way of being a Maori-
lander. He migrated to M.L. in his youth
and did a bit of jackerooing in the Auckland
Province. Then the boards lured him, and
he joined up with Dix in vaudeville. It
was after this experience that he got to
London,
“D.F.”: Leonard Flemming, a native of
Australia and the son of Herbert, an actor
of the Brough days, has just published m
London “The Call of the Veld, the story
of his struggles and success on a IUOU-acic
farm in the Orange River Colony. As a
bov in Australia he had, he tells, nngbarked
thousands of trees, hut he has since tried
to make up for it by planting thousands m
S'Africa.
“JF.H.” (Lond.) : Our Marie Lohr lent
her Globe Theatre on a recent afternoon to
the Academy of Dramatic Art to enable its
students to compete in acting and elocution
for gold medals and other prizes. Veteran
actor-manager Squire Bancroft was conspicu-
ous in a stage-box, keenly interested, looking
HER CIRCLE.
“My friends look down on me since I mar-
ried you.”
“They can’t help it, my dear. Remember
you could only afford to sit in the
gallery.”
30 vears younger than his 83. Round him
were a score of present-day leading actors
and managers, headed by Gerald Du Mauner.
Lady Tree, widow of Sir Beerbohm, was
conspicuous as one of the judges; the
Queenslander William Archer, eminent dra-
matic critic, received congratulations in ms
stage-box on the continued success ot his
“Oreen Goddess,” which has just passed its
250t1i performance at St. James s. Loth
Shakspeare and present-day playwrights were
represented in the trial selections. Lady
aspirants were considerably in excess ot
gents. Only eight of the latter faced the
footlights.
“Lon.” : “It Pays to Advertise,” the farce-
comedy which Niblo showed Australia long
years ago, has reached London. It lias been
adapted as happening in England, with the
soap-merchant a titled person. Of course its
real American origin still shrieks at the be-
holder, the main conception being that ot an
idle young man, at the call of Love, proving
his manhood by trying to best his own father
in a business deal. There are even a
few Yankee terms of speech which the
adapter has overlooked. Tom W alls plays
the heavy father.
“H.E.S.” : Oscar Asche’s system of front
floodlights produces some weird effects m
“The Skin Game.” In Act 1, Hillcnst s
study is lighted by large windows back stage,
yet all the shadows fall towards the windows
instead of from them. In Chloe’s boudoir
elongated shapes of the actors stalk about
the walls, and a Gargantuan double ofAsche
nearly obliterates the whole scene. Surely
there’s enough Asche on the stage without
this limelight multiplication on the scenery !
“Femina”: According to the programme it
took three people to manufacture the version
of “Madame X” produced at Sydney Ruyal
—Alexander Bisson wrote the thing, John
Raphael adapted it, and the American ver-
sion was edited by William Henry W right.
This may account for the stilted phraseology
and the old-fashioned tricks of letting the
audience know what is happening by means
of confidential servants and friends, and by
asides audible only to the boxes and front
stalls. Nevertheless, the revivalists may be
pardoned for two reasons —they help to erase
the memory of Muriel Starr in “The Garden
of Allah” and give Reginald Long an oppor-
tunity which he turns to good account.
“Norbell” : That yarn of “Caesar’s Ghost - ’
about the intelligent super, who prompted
Wilson Barrett (B. 29/5/’24) reminds me.
When one of George Rignold’s young men
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, I had a line or two
to say in Act 1 of “Work and W ages.
Sometimes George stuck most unexpectedly,
even in familiar parts like Henry V., but
the only living being from whom he could
take the “word” was his s.-m., .Timmy Hazlitt
to-day manager at the same theatre. I
didn’t know about the old mans ldiosy -
crasy, and one night, when he suddenly ciriea
up, I gave him the line he wanted. Instead
of the heartfelt thanks I expected, lie lixeu
me with a steely stare and, hissed, "no
the hell made you prompter?”
“Austrexile” (N.-W. Frontier of India) .
I saw a liillsman fakir performing at Fesfia-
war. All the properties he employed were
a blanket, a collapsible drum, or tom tom,
and a basket or two. After a few sleiglit-
of-liand tricks the tom tom was passed round
for inspection; it consisted of thin wooden
sides with skin ends, and it came apart at
the centre. I put it together myself, and
the fakir then beat upon it. When opened
it contained two doves. Closed again with
the doves inside it was handed to one ot
the onlookers to open. He dropped it with
a yell when a cobra slid out with hood dis-
tended and was coaxed on to the blanket by
music from the fakir’s pipes. The fakir s oh-
sider, a small boy, now lay down beside the
snake on the blanket, and the fakir rolled
them both up and jerked them about, the
boy uttering blood-curdling shrieks. On un-
rolling the blanket, however, he was dis-
closed quite unhurt. The boy was now
thrust into a basket and the better-known
trick of running the sword through it was
performed. In this case, however, the show
was carried out in bright sunlight, at the
side of a road, with the audience squatting
close up all round —except during temporary
panics. When I expressed some doubt about
the cobra, its poisonous properties were
obligingly tested on a mongrel dog, which died
almost immediately upon being bitten.
“ ’Enry”: England is rubbing its eyes.
Yorkshire, not usually the county to which
you look for setting the fashion in things
intellectual, is breaking the record. The
Leeds Art Theatre, by staging “The Great
World Theatre,” by Hugo von Hofmannstal,
a mystery play, never performed before out-
side its native Austria, set the . pace. There
are, besides, the Thespians at Huddersfield
and the Industrial Theatre at Hunslet, and
they boast that they put on “more plays dur-
ing the winter than any dozen West End
theatres during the whole year.” Shelley’s
“The Cenci” and Ibsen’s “Peer Gynt” were
staged by amateur performers. The Hunslet
people came from the perambulator factory
and gladly paid weekly subscriptions of
threepence or fourpence. This group began
four years ago and they have produced four
new plays, since accepted by London man-
agers.
“Thersites”: Talking about the celluloid
tripe that comes to us from Hollywood, what
about the ingenuous appeals for alms from
the same artistic centre? I found this in a
column advt. for a film-producing firm: —
I am doing everything possible for the starving
and stricken people of Germany. Will you help? Will
you send money or clothing or anything you can
afford? I will distribute it at my own expense.
Conditions over there are pitiful in the extreme. Will
you forget the war and remember only the call of
Humanity ?
It is signed by the president of the concern—
his name is redolent of sauerkraut. That is
what we get for letting the Germyank show-
man have the loan of our legs.
“Second Murderer”: Jimmy Atholwood
told me this one the other day. He had been
playing Polydor in “Ingomar” at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and Phil Stuart and
George Rignold met him in the street. “Ah!”
said ' Phil cordially, “the very man! Mr.
Rignold, here, is organising and wants you
in the company. We were tremendously
taken with your w T ork in ‘lngomar.’ Best
thing you’ve ever done. Magnificent—eh.
Mr. Rignold?” George cleared his throat. “Er
—hum !” he began. “Er—l will say this,
Atholwood. You —er —you were not quite so
blanky awful as the rest of the company!”
“R.G.N.C.”: Said a would-be-friendly
Aussie to a group of signorinas: “Are you
going to [say] ‘II Caterwol del Oustoppas'
to-night?” “To hear them? Them!” chat-
tered the signorinas. “Why, we’d r sooner go
to a bullfight!” They, it appeared, belonged
to another group. Yes, it is a delicate busi-
ness, running a grand-opera co. in Australia.
“D.F.”: Some day the good Australian
travel-pictures now in cold storage may get
a chance. Reposing in Melbourne is a fine
film of the Great Barrier Reef, which would
be far more interesting to Australians than
acres of dreary rubbish concerning Kentucky
Days and Wyoming Trails. Years ago a local
syndicate made a film of the whaling at Two-
fold Bay (N.S.W.). It secured some great
pictures of the harpooning and lancing, pic-
tures that it would hardly be possible to get
for love or money except in one or two places
in the world. Yet, owing to the Americanisa-
tion of the Australian cinema-theatre, they
have never had a run.
“Second Murderer” : Melba is fond of lead-
ing off with “La Boheme.” She opened with
it in her last season at Covent Garden with
the British National Co., and the opera was
broadcasted by wireless all over the country.
As soon as “Butterfly” was finished on the
Tuesday night, the first comer in the queue
for “Boli&me” lined up to wait nearly 24
hours. Ilis wife (for whom he kept the
place in the queue) relieved him at 4
o’clock next afternoon.
“I PAGLIACCI.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On with the motley! All must play,
A few short scenes, this farce deceiving ;
Hope is the spouse whose faithless way
Brings one and all to bitter grieving •
False, false she is, as false and sweet
As lake begot of desert heat.
Laugh, struggling players, laugh ! From mirth
Some desperate scraps of tinsel borrow
To mask the tawdry pageant’s dearth
And deck the interludes of sorrow.
Laugh ! ’Tis the mummer’s sole defence,
Sword, comfort, harbor, recompense.
Poor clowns, so deft in piteous feint
They cannot quite forget their lore
When Death wipes off the ruddy paint
And bids them rest —the play is o’er.
See how the laugh they learned is yet
Wide on each fleshless visage set!
SYD C.
VICTORIA.


A NEW BRITISH ACHIEVEMENT
m
m
The Strop slips through
the razor head
The blade sharpens itself by turning over and over on the strop
A touch on its back throws
the razor open for cleaning
f
d
THE shaving news of the day is an event that will
affect the daily life of thousands of Australian shavers—
the "VAL E T ” Auto Strop Safety Razor for
three and sixpence.
You have heard of the " VALET ” Razor ? You must
get to know its ways. The pictures above will 'tell you
its simple story.
On the left it is seen slipping on to its strop through a
slot in its own head; in the middle it is sharpening
itself, turning its blade over and over on the strop; on
the right it has thrown itself wide open, asking to be
cleaned. A few seconds will strop it, a few seconds will
clean it —razor and blade never parted—as fit for shaving
to-day as it was yesterday and the day before. Forty or
fifty shaves with a single blade I That is the story of
the "VALET.”
Ask your dealer to demonstrate to you its simple working
principle.
v ; '
THE “99” SET, 3/6.
The 3/6 set contains the essentials for a perfect
“ VALET ” shave—the razor, one blade and
strop in neat case.
The 7/6 set has three blades and is boxed in a
japanned metal case with strop container and
blade sheath.
The 25/- Set de Luxe contains everything of “the
best possible” — triple silver-plated “ VALET ”
Razor, 12 blades, strop of specially selected shell
horsehide, highly polished nickel case.
Ask your dealer to show you all three models •
VALET
Auto • Strap
The “50” SET—2S/-
“VALET”
Safety Razor
British Made
Of all Dealers
Why not spend 3/6 just to try
the “VALET” system ? We are
confident it will make you a
regular user of the “VALET,”
m
The “101” SET—7/6
Dealers should now he able to obtain supplies of the new “99” Set from their regular
wholesalers . In case of difficulty please apply to the Managing Agents for Australia
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED
181 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY


ďf
SH ELLlit S H ELL* S H ELL
(i with
KNOCKING?
famous Brazenose Knocker
at Oxford University— at
which many a “leading spirit ’*
knocked.
But Shell—the leading Motor Spirit—never “knocks.” That Shell will
not knock—or pink-—is due to the fact that Shell possesses in pre-eminent
degree a high proportion ot aromatics essential to prevent “knocking.”
The perfect spirit is one rich in aromatics and of correct volatility.
CUT7T T
oiIJC/ ljl j
most perfectly combines these vital essentials.
To ensure entire satisfaction use also
Shell Lubricating Oil —the thoroughly effi-
cient lubricant. Shell Motor Spirit and Shell
Lubricating Oil were used by the winner of
the world's greatest motoring event—the
French Grand Prix.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL
OIL COMPANY LIMITED
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
M 44
d
ď
f
COMOX PRESSURE GAUGES
FOR
AIR, OXYGEN, ACETYLENE, STEAM, HYDROGEN. NITROGEN.
CARBONIC ACID, Etc.
A"' 1 /
m is
a
200
523
°HOSPHOR BRONZE TUBING
(STRENGTH')
\
/
y
HAIR SPRING
(TAKES UP LOST
MOVEMENT)
RENEWABLE
NIPPLE
ADJUSTABLE QUADRANT
(ACCURACY)
«C
COMO
AT
-o.fr A>kT?
K CONCENTRIC DIAL
\(ACCURATE READING)
FORGED NAVAL BRASS
‘ \ (NO POROSITY)
COMPARE THESE GAUGE FEATURES
WITH THOSE OF OTHER GAUGES SOLD AT DOUBLE THE PRICE
Gauge blocks made from hot brass
stampings, ensures freedom from
porosity and greater strength than
castings.
Interchangeable screwed nipple
made from solid drawn bar is easily
renewable in case of breakage
through accidents—also permits of
gauge being adapted to any type of
fitting.
Spring tubing is of specially drawn
phosphor bronze, producing that
ideal combination of strength and
elasticity so essential in gauge
manufacture.
Special standardised tubing in com-
bination with pinion and quadrant
movement transmits a maximum of
movement to the dial pointer, ensur-
ing sensitiveness and accuracy.
Pinion fitted with hair spring pre-
vents any backlash due to wear, etc.
Adjustable quadrant arm allows for
any possible variations in temper
of spring tubing.
Casings are of solid drawn metal
combining lightness with strength.
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN & ACCESSORIES, LTD.
FOY STREET. BALMAIN. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE Queensland Oxygen
Ltd., Newstead Terrace, New-
stead.
LAUNCESTON: Harrison Bros. &
Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Murray Street.
coifox
Agents:
MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart,
362 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: The Western Oxygen
Co., Ltd., Bellingham Street,
Torrensville.
SUVA. FIJI: Brown & Joske.
i''- y
m
m
¥ !1
MISS SADIE GALE,
the Beautiful Fuller Revue Artiste.
A Dainty Advocate of Mercolized
Wax for the Skin.
PURE MERCOLIZED
WAX.
A beautifully-refined Face Cream,
invaluable to all women in every
walk of life. Protects the skin from
sun, wind and dust. Necessary to
all lovers of out-door life, and posi-
tively does not encourage the
growth of hair.
STALLAX GRANULES
Orange Blossom Hair Shampoo,
which produces a rich, creamy lather
for brightening the hair and allaying
scalp irritation.
COLLIANDUM.
Rose-tinted cherry-perfumed cheek
color, which gives a refined, healthy
tint, and does not streak like rouge.
TAMMALITE.
A harmless preparation which is not
a dye, but will restore grey hairs to
their natural color.
SILMERINE.
Effective Hair-waving Fluid whi*:
easy to use at home and is
greasy. Produces a delightful ™
which stays in for a consider;
time.
Used by the world's most famoi
women, and guaranteed harmles
Obtainable from reliable chemist
or post free from
DEARBORN (Australia), LTD.,
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Missing Friends.
WORKMAN. —Persons knowing the
whereabouts of (Mrs.) May Work-
man (nee Noakes) are requested to com-
municate with Queensland Trustees, Limited,
Box 296 G.P.0., Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOK
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each.
r
4?
i
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/0
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reii Cifar Factory.
Amusements.
§ VnN J 5 Clll 15 I-' TIIISAT It K S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: LILAC TIME.
CRITERION: AREN’T WE ALL?
ROYAL: SALLY.
NEW PALACE: MADAME X.
piCKAEDS' TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
MUSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THEATRE ROYAL.
KISSING TIME.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBQDRN 15
OSCAR ASCHE in
THE SKIN GAME.
D RINC ESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen’s.
PAL A C E TII 15 ATIt E. MELKOURN I
* Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JUNE 7.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE DRAMATIC SENSATION OF THE CENTURY
RAIN,
With BARBARA HOFFE.
Plans at Glen’s.
THE ALLAN WILKIE Sll A KSI’KA REA
PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR—BRISBANE SEASON.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
MAY 31 to JUNE 13.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagn Street. Sydney
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write ui and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all condition*.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
I 97 Queen Street. Melbourne
COMET
Comet
%»WINDMILLSI
S.W. 18
There Is As Much Difference Between Wind-
mills As There Is Between Men .
Some give faithful service, being always ready for duty when the occasion
arises. Some mills are just cheap agricultural machines, which give false
impressions as to the wonderful economy of a Windmill Plant. ihe
“Comet” Mill is of Sterling Value and always gives Dependable Service.
“Comet” owners are enthusiastic about this point.
“Use the Wind” is a most attractive little booklet. May we send you a
copy?
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., LTD.
WORKS AND OFFICE ...... DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY
CITY OFFICE 255 a GEORGE STREET
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, and Townsville.
mmmmmtmmumMmumamDmmmm
Amusements.
Li OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SV DM isy.
MAE MARSH in
A WOMAN’S SECRET.
COLLEEN MOORE in
SLIPPY McGEE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
|y|A.IESTIC XII IS AT BIS, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
KENNETH HARLAN and FLORENCE VIDOR in
THE VIRGINIAN.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
No. 1.
\
m
m
m
mm
mm
m
m
■
mm
m
Mm
m
ip
m
r, ;*>T ||lgtl
m
m
m
iisi
wm
»'i£i
m.
Sll!!!
m
i #
No. 2.
tm i
mss
hH
r \M4
Pure Wool
—at Murdoch's
13111
A
STRIKING example of the money you save in buying direct
from the manufacturer. Murdoch Coat Sweaters are made
with double cuffs, close knitting, flat seams, taped
shoulders—everything to ensure genuine protection and
faithful service.
MURDOCH’S FAMOUS ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS for Men.
Woven by skilled specialists in Murdoch’s own work-
rooms. Made with V Fronts only (as illustration No.
1). Shades: Mid Grey, Heather or Navy. s. Men’s
Men’s. O.S. X.O.S.
14/11 15/11 16/11
Superior Quality Winter-weight Coat Sweaters. Popular shades of
Brown, Heather, Navy or Grey. Fashioned with V
Fronts (as illustration No. 1). S. Men’s and Men’s..
O.S. X.O.S.
17/11 18/11
With Polo Collars (as illustration No. 2), 1/7 extra
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
13/11
16111
WHEN
ORDERING
KINDLY
STATE SIZE
AND COLOR.
dfd
ADDRESS
YOUR LETTER
TO DESK R.
“The World's Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store
PLAY BOOKS & CONJURING TRIX
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD
TRICKS that anyone can do
with ordinary cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-
Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks
with Coins, 1/-. How to learn
Ventriloquism, 1/-
CONJURING APPARATUS for
amateurs and professionals.
Ventriloquial Heads from 12/6
to £5.
MAKE UPS OF ALL KINDS—
GREASE PAINTS, WIGS,
BEARDS, MASKS, ETC.
if* '
r
••
n*
m
'TOUR MORE FARCES, in one
book, 2/6. Contents —My Turn
Next; Our First Performance;
Area Belle; Mock Trial for
Breach of Promise.
LE VINSKY AT THE WEDDING,
and 70 other Popular Recita-
tions, 2/6.
PLAY CATALOGUE FREE.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to
the Stage, 1/6.
CATALOGUES FREE.
173 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
W.C. ANDRADE
201 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
HEW MODELS
14/40 h.D. —
Four-Cylinder
20/60 h.p.—
Six-Cylinder
sm
20/60-h.p.
Six-cylinder Touring.
Both these Models are Equipped with Six Brakes
(System patented.)
ROUNDLY built in the heart of England, this super-excellent Car, of
IO phenomenal speed, is designed to withstand the wear and tear of the
world’s worst roads. SIX BRAKES (system patented) OF PROVED
EFFICIENCY are standardised, and the whole ensemble typifies the
thoroughness and excellence of British Workmanship.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LIMITED
Works: Wolverhampton.
EXPORT DEPT.: 12 Princes St., Hanover Sq., London, W.l, Eng.
Authorised Dealers : —Adelaide Motors. Ltd., 173-175 a Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
Williams Bros., 822 George Street, Sydney. The Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd.,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne. Howard Motor Co., Ltd., 370-378 Queen
Street, Brisbane. Arthur Anderson. Ltd., 1056 Hay Street, Per f h. W.A.


'ft' /'/>J
ft
QrO
ff
1, HI
S /
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN”
There is an enormous demand from News-
papers, Magazines, Advertisers, etc., for
strong, forceful illustrations, and they pay
high prices for work that suits them.
Why Not Learn Drawing?
You can! Easily, rapidly and thoroughly,
bv the
WESTON METHOD
It takes you step by step from the rudiments
of sketching to the very highest branches of
this fascinating and lucrative profession. The
lessons are so simple that you cannot fail to
make rapid progress, and, remember, we
teach to draw, not to copy.
Enclose three stamps, with your name and
address, and we will post you a copy of our
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.’’ It
explains all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
329 Union House, Ceorg-e Street, SYDNEY.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m
RfTtSB
MADE
Perfection
push: rubber.
The Silver Box.
«\WHEN I decant port from a plain
VV and dusty bottle, sir, into a
fine cut-glass decanter, it
doesn’t make the port taste any better.
“Just the same with the Kensitas,
sir. If I serve them to you in a silver
box it doesn’t make the cigarettes any
better, because Ken-
sitas Cigarettes, as
you are aware, are
‘as good as really
good cigarettes can
be.’ ”
yr
Kensitas
Cu/aA&tfoi SVi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
i. Wii & Sons. Ltd... London.
SKANDIA
Kerosene and Crude Oil. Stationary.
4-5 HORSE-POWER.
Constructed especially for Pump-
ing Plants, Sawmills, Electric
Lighting Outfits, Chaffcutters,
Shearing Machines and all Farm
Work.
£B5
Complete as illustrated,
with Accessories and
Spare Parts.
STARTS IN Yz MINUTE.
RUNS FOR 2d. PER HOUR.
Larger Powers in
Stock.
Also
MARINE
ENGINES
from £95.
Further Particulars
obtainable from
the Australasian Agents,
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
ďf
Missing Friends.
IF MRS. ELIZABETH LEVACK (maiden
surname Garrett), who was some time in
the employment of Miss Nona Watson, of
Glasgow, Scotland, now deceased, will com-
municate with Templeton & Granger, Solici-
tors, 157 West George Street, Glasgow, Scot-
land, she may hear of something to her
advantage.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d- weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at _ home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
BECOME A STORYWRITER IT PAYS.
STOTT’S Expert can teach you to write stories that sell. Get particulars.
Stott’s Technical
100 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
Correspondence
70 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
College Pty., Ltd.
452 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
GROWN IN EVERY
HABITABLE PART
OF THE GLOBE
BECAUSE THE\
ARE THE WORLD’S
BEST SEEDS.
HUNDREDS OF GOLD MEDALS.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER AWARDS.
ORDER NOW FOR SPRING SHOWING.
SUTTON’S CHOICE STRAINS of FLOWER and VEGETABLE SEEDS
Catalogues available on request from J. B. MILLS & CO., 9 Queen St., Melbourne, Vic.
All Orders to be Mail; d direct to Dept. I
1907-1924
MOON
“ c Uhe Six Supreme **
MOON supremacy was never more strikingly evi-
denced than in the three-passenger Roadster
illustrated below. Your inspection of this
attractive model is earnestly invited.
The mechanical excellence of MOON Cars has been
still further enhanced by the adoption of the new ROSS
CAM and LEVER STEERING GEAR —the “lightest”
operating and most responsive steering gear ever
embodied in a Motor Vehicle.
Communicate with your Local Agent NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth
St., Adelaide
New South Wales:
Lockett's Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Bros.
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
Roadster
3 passenger
Queensland:
Johnston's Motors Ltd.
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
St. George’s T errace
d
If you shun the Commonplace-
Buy a Moon
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of ■ communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and, no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Apex: No use for dull yarns which merely
vary old themes... .E.C.G.: Not the meat for this
pink sausage Scrivener: You drag it out with a
great waste of words. .. .R.K.0.: A very solemn
attempt to make mirth.... Bessie C.: Not quite....
G.D.H.: Old ground re-covered. .. .Rin Chin: The
verse doesn’t carry it... .H.F.C.: No, it doesn’t
strike us. . . .C.C.M.: “Youth” has points, but is not
a good sonnet. .. .F.J. (Lindfield) : “lvatai” must go
back AY.ILL.: Not bright enough Ivy A.:
Pretty, but so little in it.... D.AV.H.: The happy
lunatic doetn't give us a thrill. .. .Louis S.: It’s
vigorous and violent, but that’s all that can be
said for it....010f: Not for u 5.... R.L.AV.: Very
crude. .. .Augustus W.: The hymn to the sun has a
certain classic splendor:—
The Sun awakes with its splendor,
and sends the rays through the sky of blue,
amongst the Hills, the sweetest odor
rising from flowers in daylight glow.
The Sun gives light all over the globe
and purifies the Life of all living,
in Winter she gives some lands white Robe
which hides the beauty of all ■ giving.
When the Sun lies down in the AVcst
and her golden Rays bid good-night
to the beauty and Life gone to rest
in darkness, till again she sends her light.
Sunshine and air no one can steal,
like our treasure Land, of this World;
Mankind, some with greed, would repeal
and bottle up light and air, and sell for gold.
O Sun of the heavens wonder,
shine thou in the people’s heart.
So that they see their blunder,
and a paradise on earth would start!
.AV.H.: (South B.) : “Escape” manages to do it,
though there were times when the verdict was in
doubt N.A.R.: You have all the color, but the
yarn is too slight... .Venturino: The verise hasn’t
any grappling-hooks in it. .. . G.8.L.: Doesn t say
much Paula P.: Too much prose in your verse.
Eden: The “Ode to the Editor” made even the
Wild Oat weep Echo: Weak echoes of things you
have read. . . .Omeo : The verse is too rough. .. .
A.G.L.: You contrive to make it tedious. .. .5.E.8.:
The poorest sort of verse. .. .L.M.R.: A thing like
that could only be valuable for its music; and
vours hasn’t got any. .. .R.A.S.: Weak and flimsc.
.Colin S.: Rugged verse with a rather blunt
point Geo. W.: Glad you think it would be good
for illustration. AVe don’t know any artist whose
work would stand the strain S.E.N.: Not strong
enough R.F.C.: “Gauze” won’t rhyme with
“doors” in this paper, except sometimes on our
birthday W. J.M.: The verse didn’t make us more
interested in the desert sands than in the garbage
tip.... Jimmy D.: You overweight yourself with
words J.J.C.: Difficult to say anything new of
the lyre-bird’s mimicry... .A.H.: Such closely-typed
matter goes automatically to the w.p.b H.S.:
You may be talking of different skulls. .. .The Ele-
vationist: It didn’t cheer us Elena B.: You must
improve a lot on that.... George C.: Seems quite
mad. ... J.H. (Innisfail) : You’ll have to know the
language better before you can get a poet’s license.
Cobba-Cobba: Not enough in the yarn M.M.
(Brisbane): A miss B.H. (Mosman) : Not up
Arthur M.: They’re on the road, but they don't
arrive M.M. (Wangaratta): A lumpy re-hash of
old commonplaces. .. .R.R. (Greenwich): Too arti-
ficial Nimrod: All of it better done so often
Anne G.: Poor little trifle A.B. (Chatswood) :
Says obvious things in weak verse Minnie M.:
Some distance away Connie S.: No use....
Bellerive: True, every word of it:—
AA r hile treasured gold doth glitter.
AVhile shines the light of fame,
There’ll be discord, grasp and grapple
For riches and a name;
There’s writers in Life’s drama
AA r ho win success, and thrive,
And others in old garrets
Bare keep themselves alive.
If I died a wealthy poet.
I’d sleep where flowers bloom,
AVith “He left to join the angels’
Inserted on my tomb.
A.R.B.: Said often —the last time only a few
weeks ago. . . .M. 0.: Yes, thanks; already noted
P. Player; There is no music in it.... Spencer G.:
Send it to the paper that published the yarn. Four-
fifths of the people who read The Bulletin didn t
see the other paper. .. .Cum Ah Joss; Room for your
“Song of the Parasite,” certainly:—
Fair land of kangaroo
And snow-white cockatoo,
I mean to conquer you.
Light of Asia’s daughter
Came with me o’er the water;
In disguise I brought her.
Beneath the Southern Cross
In your soft nest I doss
Your commerce is my joss.
In breeding pure Chinee
Prolific we will be,
Changing AVhite Historie.
... .H.A.G.: Doesn’t quite earn its space.... Morden:
It dislocated our best ear. .. . J.AV.M.: No fresh
thought; nor an old one freshly stated F. Femur:
Light weight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.M.: You certainly show Nature one or two
points... .AV.N.AV.: Perspective gone at the knees.
....Forecast: Cast forth. .. .W.A.H.: No better....
R.D.M.: That gag brings the flies around... .J.F.:
Left at the post K.L.: You have plumbed the
depths of ineptitude J.D.: Some promise in draw-
ing; but both gags 01d....J.C.: Flat, stale and (to
you) decidedly unprofitable... . A.T.AV. : Gentlemen
playing cards on three square miles of linoleum ruled
0ut....R.M.: Not up; may place one or two else-
where. .. .G.A.L : Drawing below the mark... .P.M.:
You’re mixing your mediums—and that’s as bad as
mixing your drinks.
“Old Timer” : Several writers have imputed
gross carelessness to the officers of the N.S.W.
Department that looks after the board-
ing out of State children, and no doubt mis-
takes and blunders have been made. But
my own experience as a foster parent is
perhaps worth setting on the other side. I
had to get a recommendation from a clergy-
man and another from a J.P., give full par-
ticulars of my dwelling and specify the dis-
tance to a school. After this an inspector
came and saw for himself: he had to he
satisfied that the child would sleep in a
separate bed, and he even turned down the
bedclothes. Subsequently the inspector made
a surprise visit three or four times a year
(sometimes oftener) ; he never failed to go
through all the wearing apparel to see that
it was mended and clean. Also he called at
school and interviewed the child to see if he
was treated well.


Dawson
'SPECIAL"
Scotch Whisky
*** f town (j Gl ASOO^
T°o«ft4
pETER DAWSON is a Scotch Whisky. A
■*" pedigree whisky. Scotsmen have distilled it.
The passing of years has mellowed it. We could
say a lot more but —when your lips touch the
glass brim you know the rest. “ Here,” you say,
“is a deeply satisfying blend.”
Scotch Whisky
The Whisky to drink with
Soda Water.
s
I
0
K
m
Here is a good
Cigarette
made from 16 different
growths of the finest
Virginia leaf procurable,
ensuring a palatable
smoke right through.
PRINCE CHARMING
CIGARETTES represent
pre-war Value and
Quality a revelation
nowadays.
lOfcPMr 16
also in 50 s in vacuum tins & in 100 5
in boxes. On sale everywhere .
JU4ICC CfuVWTMIQ
CIGARETTES'
Manufactured by MCoustafa, Ltd., 165, Piccadilly, London, W.l, England .
Westclox
All aboard
To make certain of being aboard the ferry when
it leaves the pier, set your Westclox to give you
ample time to rise, breakfast and catch the boat.
Maintain your schedule strictly and one minute
leeway is sufficient. That seems the most important
minute, but every minute after your Westclox calls
till you’re aboard is just as important.
Westclox are trained to count in seconds. You
will know them by the trade mark Westclox on the
dial and tag.
Westclox Big Ben, 251 Baby Ben, 251-; Sleep-Meter, 1316; America, 10 /•;
hive Bird, 12/6; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 20/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous , 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-:
Black Bird Luminous, 151-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
13


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
Hhi t» r>o 1 i
-..s
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROEITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Koof of “FIBROEITE”
Slates, you can reduce your costs and
secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs no more than weather-
boards and lining boards and is superior to
either in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is
fire retardant, white-ant proof and improves
with age. Not only are “upkeep” costs elimi-
nated but big concessions are secured in in-
surance rates. Before building, send for full
information.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide—Hobart.
Ail Wool
AND A YARD WIDE.
Quality and quantity to the utmost.
Seasons may influence the clip grown, but if
you want top market values for it,
SEND YOUR WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane.
Expert Salesmen in every particular.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Williams'
HOLDER TOP
Shaving Stick
GET one. Examine
the threaded metal
collar. See how firmly
it screws into the holder
device. No chance of its
gettingloose or wobbly.
Then use the soap. Note
how the wonderful lather
softens the beard and
soothes the skin.
When you have used it
down to the last atom, you
can buy a Re-Load to
screw into the holder.
Sold by all Chemists
and good Shops
everywhere.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Defiance Lever
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case
15 Jewels, Y Plate Nickel Movement
m
N
V
ij
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically
and Soundly
Constructed and to
Keep Accurate Time
Special Price:
65/-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled
POSTAGE FREE
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 1871 N.s.w. ltd.
Two Sydney
Establishments
412 George Street, Strand Corner
185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
Nothing is Richer in Vitamins than Cod Liver Oil •
IS COD LIVER OIL-MADE PALATABLE.
This Rich, Creamy Emulsion Banishes
Chest Ailments, Strengthens the System,
Increases Weight.
Hypol
is a Genuine Restorative for
Building Up Sick People—a
Food, Tonic and Healer in one.
To Feel Better, Look Better, Work Better-
Take HYPOL
SOLD EVE RjY WHERE
Made by FELTOH, CRIMWABE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mate”: Claimed by “J.A.” (B. 15/5/’24)
that the s.s. Cambridge put up a record when
she left Port Adelaide for Naples with
152,730 bags of wheat. In January, 1021,
the T.S.S. Vogtrand sailed from Melbourne
with 159,310 bags, weighing 12,737 tons.
“Coot”: Victoria’s old “ironclad,” • the
Cerberus, was recently sold by the Govern-
ment to a syndicate for less than £5OO, and is
to be broken up. Built in 1868, she cost
£185,000, of which the Imperial Govern-
ment contributed £lOO,OOO. She arrived
in April, 1871, and has been here ever since.
“J.H.8.” : Canada may lead the world in
maize-production per acre, but for an area
where manure has never been used Motiti,
an island in the Bay of Plenty (M.L.), has
a record of its own. This area belongs en-
tirely to natives; and for nearly 30 years no
crop except maize has been grown, and always
on the same ground. The maximum yield
has been 80 bushels, and a 58-bushel average
has been recorded.
* * * *
“Brud”: For a number of years shark
(liver) oil and fins have figured, albeit mod-
estly, in the “commercial products” column
of both Lord Howe and Norfolk islands.
Shark-fin soup is a great delicacy among the
Japs; and as for the oil it’s much the same
as the stuff that comes out of cod-liver oil
bottles, and added value is claimed for it as
a remedy for rheumatism. Its penetrative
properties when rubbed in are extraordi-
nary. So, incidentally, is its smell.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Enter for the polite business-
methods championship the leading firm in
the wattle-bark business in South Aus. It
always pays out with this formula: “In
sympathy with your load of bark delivered
on sucli-a-date, we are pleased to herewith
enclose our cheque for so-much.” I sus-
pected sarcasm the first time ; but no, the
goods were satisfactory, and so was the
price. Then I imagined that the “sym-
pathy” might be a typist’s error; but the
polite introduction never varies.
“Wart”: The Waverley Woollen Mills,
Launceston, have just celebrated a jubilee.
They were started by Bulman, Hogarth and
Johnstone, and the Hogarth family are the
present owners. In 1875 the Waverley mills
collected a thousand-pound bonus offered by
the British Government for the first £lOOO
worth of woollen goods made in Tas. from
“colonial” wool. Motive power was origi-
nally provided by a water-wheel; nowadays
Distillery Creek has been harnessed to pro-
vide 200h.p. of hydro-electricity, and 250
hands are employed.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar” : Sydney jewellers, after put-
ting up with the competition of snide stuff
for years, have at last done something to
protect themselves. The Commonwealth in-
sists that goods brought into the country
shall be stamped; but anything may happen
to stuff when it is in the country, whether
it be Australian-made or imported. Now the
Sydney jewellers have established the Hall
Mark Company, to which they send their
goods to be stamped, and Chief See. Oakes,
who knows the business, has promised to try
to get a bill through which will give the
company a charter. It is hoped that the
public will then soon learn to demand hall-
marked goods and will assume that whatever
isn’t hall-marked is dishonest.
* * * *
“Cartot”: Whatever pressure may be
applied to discourage grocers from selling
“medicinal” wines (B. 15/5/’24), I predict
that chemists will continue to do a thriving
business in these goods. Some years ago
there was an attempt to define a medicinal
wine, owing to some chemists having started
to sell, under this head, preparations contain-
ing about 60 per cent, of alcohol with a few
grains of drug and some flavoring essence.
Officialdom then decided that all medicinal
wines must be of a certain composition, and
that they should not contain more than a
fixed amount of alcohol. But even that
amount was quite sufficient to provide a
moderate “jag,” which readily explains why
the average suburban chemist does a brisk
trade in these wines on Sundays. I know
of one establishment which recently sold
more than four dozen bottles on a Sabbath,
although throughout the week it would not
sell half a dozen.
“Brud”: “Yacko” (B. 8/5/’24) and
“Wart” (B. 22/5/’24) may be interested to
learn that shipbuilding has been revived at
Norfolk Island. A.schooner of about 40 tons
is being constructed there by the local
Farmers’ Association. The cost is computed
at £l5OO, but owing to the scarcity of money,
labor and timber are being largely accepted
instead, three days’ graft being the equiva-
lent of a £1 share. Hard cash is only needed
for the items which it is necessary to import
—bolts, nails, fittings and the like. The
vessel will be of island timber from stem to
stern, will be manned (with the exception of
the skipper) entirely by Norfolkers, and
named the Norfolk. There is some dis-
appointment because she cannot be regis-
tered at Kingston, the island’s seat of gov-
ernment. But why “cannot”? If it is
merely a matter of some regulation, the
islanders deserve that it should be altered if
only in recognition of their pluck.
* * * *
“Hippo”: At Kenya, on the Victoria
Nyanza, there is a sugar plantation and fac-
tory (started by one Mayers, an ex-Queens-
land canegrower, and the late Charles
Hannan) that has just finished its
second crushing. It has made 2500
tons of sugar out of 35,000 tons of
cane, and the sugar has been sold
for £lOl,OOO, the net profit being £55,500.
It took 14 tons of cane to produce ope ton
of sugar, as compared with 8.11 and 7.53
in Queensland for 1921 and 1922 respec-
tively. The sugar of Victoria Nyanza fetched
£44 a ton: Queensland factories are limited
to a selling price of £27 a ton. The V.N.
margin between cost and sale price was £22
4s. 9d., as compared with £1 6s. Bd. at
Babinda and £1 7s. at South Johnstone, the
two North Queensland mills which make
about 15,000 tons of sugar each year. Appa-
rently Kenya, with all its cheap production,
does not get cheap sugar, and the place has
an Indian labor problem as well as a reli-
gious row on its hands.


THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
'SkestuoM&aoeTHuUc
■atfumver fife g&e&
A
• wwimv,
imi
'WVxV
Made in
Black, Tan, Light
Tan, Dark Tan,
Nigger Brown, Red
Stain, Patent, and
White.
First Ladyt
I wonder how it is I
can’t get a shine on
my shoes like these
they show in the
shops?
Second Lady :
Oh, there’s no secret
about that, my dear.
They use “Nugget.”
I’ve always used it
because I find it gives
a brighter and more
lasting shine than any
other.
“.NUGGET
BOOT POLISH
4
dependable PLOUGH CHAINS
What points do
you look for in a
Plough Chain?
—strength!
*—uniform, smooth,
non-chafing links!
—neat appearance!
You get all these
and more in ACCO
Plough Chains. Ac-
co Chains are made
of the best materi-
als on automatic
machines that en-
sure even finish
and extra-great
strength. Each is
tested to maximum
strain before it
leaves our factory.
Of good store-
keepers and sad-
dlers’ ironmongers,
or write our repre-
sentative direct.
Notice the smooth
welding of the links
Doneon automaticma-
chines thatensureuni*
form links, great
strength, neat appear-
ance- Acco chains do
not chafe.
IKK
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY. Inc.
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Bldg-, New York, U. S. A.
Representative:
Edward G. Vaughan, P.O. Box 845, Sydney, N.S»W.
ď
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss
Account for the year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £62,884 Os. 3d. for
Income, Land and Note Taxes,
Amounted to ..
Add Balance brought forward from previous year
Leaving available .. .. .. ....
From this sum the following appropriations have been made: —
profits for the six months to 30tli September, 1923
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £2,040,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the £lO and on
the £8 shares at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum out of the
profits for the six months to 31st March, 1924
Carry Forward
13 consequence oi tne continued expansion oi me Damns 1
decided to obtain the necessary approval of the Shareholders to increase the Authorised
Capital of the Bank to £10,000,000 by the creation of 150,000 new £lO Shares and
437,500 new £8 Shares, and this was agreed to at an Extraordinary General Meeting
held on 16th ultimo.
To increase the Paid-up Capital to £4,000.000, the Board resolved to make available
for subscription by shareholders at £l2 each the 46,250 £lO shares remaining of the old
authorisation, and'also 62,500 of the newly created £8 shares (paid to £5) at £6 per share.
During the year the following New Branches were opened: —
Victoria .. .. .. Hawthorn Road, Caulfield, Merbein and Moreland.
South Australia .. Hindley Street, Adelaide, and Torrensville (Sub-branch).
Western Australia .. Busselton, Dalwallinu, Ivondinin, Kulin, Merredin, and
Murray Street, Perth.
The Branches at Meeniyan and Thorpdale, in Victoria, were converted into Receiving
Offices, and the Fremantle Town Hall sub-Branch (W.A.) was made an Agency.
During the same period 38 Receiving Offices were opened in the various States, and
8 discontinued.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room at the Bank’s
Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 28th May, at noon, when the
Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors in lieu of Mr. Edward Trenchard
and Mr. Bowes Kelly, who retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Associa-
tion, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The Shareholders will be asked to increase the remuneration of the Directors from
£2400 per annum to £3500 per annum, in terms of the formal resolution set out in the
Notice convening the Meeting.
No alteration in the average rate of remuneration per Director has taken placesince
1917, but during that period the Deposits have increased from £12,400,000 to £31,200,000,
the Advances from £9,050,000 to £25,750,000, and the Branches and Agencies from 215
to 458. And the number of Customers’ Current Accounts has considerably more than
doubled.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing
year in lieu of Messrs. John Bishop and S. J. Warnock, who retire, but are eligible for
re-election. There are no other candidates.
By order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd.,
Head Office, Melbourne, 15th May, 1924.
BALANCE SHEET of
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
AT 31st MARCH, 1924.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-103,750 £lO
Shares fully
paid up . . £1,037,500
437,500 £8
Shares paid
up to £ 5 per
Share .. 2,187,500
Reserve Fund Account ..
Profit and Loss Account ..
0 0
0 0
£3,225,000 0 0
2,040,000 0 0
269,592 3 1
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest .. £299,010 0 9
Bearing In-
terest .. 747,970 17 9
Other Deposits—
Not bearing
Interest .. £13,579,794 4 5
Bearing In-
terest .. 16,587,214 5 4
Interest Accrued and Rebate on
Current Bills
Balances due to other Banks ..
£5,534,592 3 1
48,311 10 0
702,776 10 4
1,046,980 18 6
30,167,008 9 9
389,447 10 10
320,109 9 11
£38.209,226 12 5
Contingent Liability, as per con-
tra, in regard to obligations of
Customers and others on Letters
of Credit and Guarantees,
£972,191 16s. lOd.
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r a lian
Notes and Cash
at Bankers ..£5,505,853 19 9
Cover nment,
Municipal and
other Public
Stocks, Deben-
tures and
Funds. . . . 2,452,630 14 9
Bills and Re-
mittances in
transitu . . 3,324,030 4 11
Notes and Bills
of other
Banks .. .. 94,428 15 9
Balances Due
from other
Banks .. .. 101,107 0 10
Duty Stamps .. 17,485 3 0
£11,495,535 19 0
Real Estate, consisting of Bank
Premises . . . . .. . . 716,299 17 3
Other Real Estate. . . . . . 186,206 4 0
Bank Furniture . . . . ■ . 51,537 15 10
Bills Discounted and Other Ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts .. 25,759,646 16 4
£38,209,226 12 5
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, Drafts and
Guarantees, as per contra,
£972,191 16s. lOd.
PROFIT AND DOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 291
Branches, and 167 Agencies..
„ Income, Land and Note Taxes..
„ Interim Dividend . .
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Reduction of Bank Premises A/c
~ Balance ..
£638,229 6 2
62,884 0 3
146,722 15 0
123,177 9 11
40,000 0 0
269,592 3 1
£1,280,605 14 5
By Balance brought forward .. £81,324 3 5
„ Gross Profits, including Re-
coveries, less Rebate on Bills
Current, Interest Accrued on De-
posits, Repairs to Premises and
Rent 1,199,281 11 0
£1,280,605 14 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
. £2,040,000 0 0
To Balance ..
£2,040,000 0 0
Balance Last Year .. .. £1,725,000 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account.. .. 123,177 911
Premiums on Shares .. • • 191,822 10 1
£2,040,000 0 0
the
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comply with
Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report. H WREFORDj Chief Manager.


SjSure
H(n« ,,, coNTfi?rs-* ©uiiei*
COUGH
VMM Ik
Coughs. Colds.
CROUP.
WHOOPINC COUCH.
HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS.
SORE THROAT.
INFLUENZA
anO OTmCO *frfCT»ONS or vng
THROAT and LUNGS.
f
D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
MAN
d
NEWS
29/6
Pair
ďf
The
“MEXICAN” Riding Boot
Is patented under No. 4322, because it
has the new two-fold strapped tops,
which can buckle and fit closely around
any instep. Made of light, tho’ strong
Wallaby Skin—cut on riding pattern,
with S.S. Soles and low Heels. Allsizcs.
Mail to Desk “ 5.8.” State size.
Pike Brothers
limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
d
For bells and buzzers, Columbia
No. 6. For gas engine ignition,
Columbia “Hot Shot.” Obtainable
everywhere at little cost; more
energy; more prolonged service.
Always insist upon
COLUMBIA
s®y ©E**
tHmoN AM®
ALL
LfltßAl PtJßf o^
• A
HOT SHOT
afe S
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
Sew York, S. Y".
U. S. A.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dihfctors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 84 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking- Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
hanking business.
GRAVIC
MOTOR
MOWER
Simple,
Reliable,
Efficient.
m m
f\
4
w
s
THE BEST
YET.
Sizes: 12in., 14in., 16in.
Price 16 in.: £7B
GRANT 8 VICKERY,
BARNSTAPLE ROAD, FIVE DOCK,
SVDNEY.
W*
A Silver Tea Service
of Classic Beauty, at an fixtra-Ordinarily Low-Price.
ONLY the immense resources and cash buying facilities of an old estab-
lished firm have secured this fine example of the Silver-smith s art
at so moderate a price. Quantity production has also lent a hand.
This service is of good quality, each piece heavily plated on hard
white metal that will wear without tarnishing for any number of years.
TE tx SET P A , N a D TR r Y £l2/8/- NET
(Tea Pot If pints, lray 20 inches ) ' 1
Our Optical Department is celebrated. If your eyes are troubling you call in and tee
our Mr. Gardiner, M. I. O. He is noted for his skill.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
fairfax&Roberts U?
25&2S Hunter Street Sydney
ď
42 INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO £5OO AND
3ON ANY EXCESS TO £IOOO
Cheque Accounts opened for Individuals, Hirms. Companies or Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED.
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in 7\T.S.W.
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
Dependable
Marine Engines
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos— impulse coupling.
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich., U. S. A.
Kermath Marine °"n < d fr£“iSm
let"’ install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fnirhanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
n>r aw filnimtwui SvdllftV. A ll S t Fit 1 V fl .
Kermafh Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mick.U.SA
TaTilp Address-KERMATH
Ivor MacGillivray, of Port Adelaide, one
of the first Labor members of the S. A us.
Parliament, was S 4 on May 24. He worked
on Maoriland goldfields for 12 years, and one
time had Dick Seddon picking up gold along-
side him. He lost a son in the war.
Among some dull legal notices in the Syd-
ney papers the other day there transpired the
name of .Josiali Jubilee Gentle. No name
has pleased The Bulletin quite so well
since the arrival of Modest Maryanski, min-
ing engineer, in the early days of Kalgoorlie.
He was a Pole, with a large voice and a black
thundercloud of whiskers.
“Dido”: We were standing on a Swan-
ston-street corner when the funeral proces-
sion passed. The oh-so-drunk immediately
removed his hat and bent himself in a very
reverential attitude, remaining so till the last
motor had gone by. Clyde, jollying linn,
asked: “Why this appearance of deep devo-
tion?” “Why shouldn’t I show reverence?
was the reply. “It’sh my funeral.”
“E.D.”: When airman Hawker was in
Melbourne and about to take flight, he was
interviewed by a persistent woman who
wanted to go up, and who offered a handsome
fee. “But,” said Hawker, a little diffident,
“wouldn’t you be terribly afraid in mid-air?”
“Afraid!” replied the woman contemptu-
ously, “What should Ibe afraid of? I have
attempted to drown myself twice.” She did
not go up.
“D.”: Lieut. J. W. Morris, president of
N.S.W.’s Veterans’ Association, is the most
juvenile-looking veteran on record. Spare,
sandy-liaired and as straight as a lance, he
might be 40 or so; yet he fought (as a sailor)
at the bombardment of Alexandria, 42 years
ago, and he has been fighting on land and
sea, off and on, ever since. In the late war
he joined up as an infantry private, and was
wounded at Gallipoli.
W. J. Player, dead in Adelaide at 78,
was well known in several States. Long ago
he was with the Giles exploring expedition in
the N.T. He was in early at Broken Hill—
that was when the Kidmans were getting on
their feet; Player was a stock-dealing and
butchering partner —but of late years he had
been a hotelkeeper in Adelaide. Sons and
daughters are scattered all over Australia
from Goulburn to Perth.
“D.F.”: The 41b. and slb. potatoes which
“Nitric” saw at Ivillarney (Q.) may be
reckoned big in the North, but in the Speck
they can do better than that. In 1898-99,
the year after the biggest bush fires that the
island has seen, we grew one red potato at
Bream Creek (Tas.) which weighed o|lb.
There were plenty between slb. and 61b. The
big fellow was as sound as a bell and fine
eating. I know because I helped to eat it.
“Sierra” : Among the many odd spruikers
in Sydney Domain probably the oddest is
Henry Kitts, the “Australian Poet.” From
a soap-box he declaims his poetry, with
apropriate gestures, for two hours every
Sunday. He has “edited,” and claims to
have improved, most of “Banjo” Paterson’s
poems and some of Byron’s. Of his own
epics he considers “Long Harry the Lemon
Man,” “Influenza” and “The Wild Kabbit-O”
to be his masterpieces.
“N.L.1.” : Yes, it was possible to see the
thing that was going to kill you (B.
15/5/’24). On one occasion on the Somme,
in 1918, my company saw many German
shells in the air. Fritz was sending over
heavy stuff, which was landing two or three
hundred yards behind us. When the coming
shell was heard we looked a little distance
ahead of the sound, and could plainly sec a
small black object rapidly approaching the
ground. Once it got below the skyline, the
so-called “grasscutter” again became in-
visible.
“T.P.” : Ballarat College jubilee will show
that the name of John Garbutt is kept green in
the affectionate memory of hundreds of old-
sters scattered through Australasia. The
youngster's summing up of Arnold of Kugby,
“A beast, but a just beast,” applied also to
this whimsical, big-souled schoolmaster.
Even now my skin tingles as his voice rings
down the long years : “Boy, it is a law of
Nature that, if you tumble down stairs, she
bumps you at every step, finishing up with
a crash on the doormat. For your soul’s
welfare I represent Nature. You broke
badly the school law. You knew what would
happen if found out. So don’t snivel.” Then
came the bumps.
“Wilfrido”: “P.P.” (B. l/5/'24) records
the case of a stamp-dealer who reckoned
that a sixpenny stamp that had been cut in
halves and duly cancelled was worth half
a guinea. Some time ago a Maoriland Court
valued a similar curiosity at 400 times as
much. The head of the parcels department
of a large store noticed that in the case of
nine stamps out of ten only an upper or a
lower portion was affected by cancellation.
He accordingly conceived the bright notion
of collecting used stamps from all available
sources, and joining the good half of one to
that of another. The join was almost im-
possible to detect with the naked eye, and
it Avas further concealed by the string of flic
parcel passing directly over it. But one day
a string broke, or a join was poorly done, or
both, and the department dropped to the
fraud. There were five charges: and de-
fendant was fined £4O on each, the fine not
being made lighter by the disclosure that
some 15,000 unused stamps were discovered
in his home.
“H.H.”: Although the employers in the
printing trade in Sydney • have secured an
alteration of awards giving them a 48-hour
instead of a 44-hour week, it is hardly likely
that more than a small percentage of the
houses will enforce the extra time- —which
means Saturday morning work. The union
is not threatening strike-resistance; but if
the boss wants the extra four hours worked
pointed questions may be put to him about
the construction and ventilation of his place
of business, or he may be asked to remove
sundry machines to separate rooms. If he
cannot be caught over these matters a score
of other little points may be brought up.
For instance, floors ought to be cleaned
every day, and there ought to be no dry
sweeping or cleaning of flooi’s during work-
ing hours except by suction. The employee,
if asked to work the extra hours in some
places where all the conditions are not per-
fect, is not to strike; he is merely to report
to his union, and the union Avill do the rest
—in a strictly legal way.


Shipping:. __
orient Li nil
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular,_ giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
via
SAMOA - - HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
~ QUICKEST
OF ANY
LINE.
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
City 2282
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars appjy:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH. 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. <ftc.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570.265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. . £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Georue F. Tod man ;
Duncan Carson; 11. R. Lvsagut, 0.8. E. ; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receivi'-g Offices at 149 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street. E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE anti WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Kosciusko
Snow Carnival
Fixtures
June 1 to June 16—
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY UNION,
SYDNEY TEACHERS’ COL-
LEGE.
June 20 to July 10 —
STATE HIGH SCHOOLS’ SKI
CLUB OF AUSTRALIA.
July 10 to July 23 —
KOSCIUSKO ALPINE CLUB.
July 23 to August 16—
SKI CLUB OF AUSTRALIA.
August 16 to August 23
MILLIONS CLUB WEEK.
August 23 to September 16 —
GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
NON-STATE HIGH SCHOOLS.
Full Information at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:, 3tc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU by
MAIvURA, sth JUNE; NIAGARA, 3rd JULY; MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) JUNE 5
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) JULY 3
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) JUNE 19
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) JULY 17
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
r,
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. RHII.I* & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
■k
0m
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500
ULYSSES .. 14,500
AENEAS .. 10,000
Tong.
10,000
10,000
ANCHISES ..
ASCANIUS ..
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUEVIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
PERSIC 13,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,350 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,350 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 13,500 tons
•DIOGENES 13,500 tons
•New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Katabtislied 181 V.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital - - - »
Reserve Fund - • • «
Reserve Liability * • • »
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. 8. Falkiner, Esq
The Hon. Reginald J. Bl;
Charles Binnie, Ksq.
James Burns, Esq.
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World,
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOAVNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
! * Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
I (Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parkerl|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickers available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS JOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., .Ltd.,
and I'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
o’- AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hjiddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries. Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundabergr, Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2,103,220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds ; . .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. £7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEItLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - *1,000,000.
InQiirannns effected on all classes o£
Fire insurances Buildings stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks bn Wool > Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, ete.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian -Institution.
BAUTIN HAIGH, Gttfferal Manager.


Backward children.
If you have a child that is not thriving, the greatest
food help that you can give is Benger’s.
Benger’s Food is always prepared with fresh new milk,
nature’s greatest food for growing children.
XSCEff
Food
helps the digestion of the milk; changing it into a highly
nutritious food cream which children greatly enjoy.
An extra meal of Benger’s twice a day, mid-morning and bed-
time, given by Doctors’ recommendation, has helped thousands
of weakly children to robust health.
Benger’s booklet is full of help for anxious parents. Write for a free copy to-day.
BENGER’S FOOD LTD. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers : BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
A. IS!
“To be bent —not to be broken.”
CALLENDER’S
Cab-Tyre Sheathed
CABLES
REPRESENTATIVE TYPES OF LIGHTING,
POWER AND TRACTION CABLES.
fytlft
A?/
m
f&ii ,«;*;** -
"Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is waterproof
and protects insulated cable from corrosive
moisture, alkalis, oils and all climatic
conditions.
"Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing will stand
plenty of rough usage, resist vibration and will
not easily cut or fray.
"Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is tough, light
and extremely flexible.
"Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is specially
suitable for use underground in Collieries and
in yards of Shipbuilding and Engineering
works.
BULLERS LTD., LONDON
Makers of High- and Low-tension Insulators
and Fittings. Bullers’ Insulators have gained
a high reputation for reliability under the most
severe service conditions.
The excellence of Bullers’ Porcelain is well
known wherever high-tension transmission has
been adopted.
In addition they manufacture:—
High- and Low-tension Transformer Bushings.
Bus Bar Insulators.
Insulators for High- and Low-tension Switch-
gear.
Post Office Type Insulators.
Pin Type, Strain Type and Suspension Type
Insulators for all voltages.
We will be pleased to give particulars and
quotations for any of the above lines. Write
nearest address.
NOYES BROS
(Sydney), Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane.
(Melb.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart.
Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth, W.A.
li
Vi
>
rN
i
Everything
FOR
the Game.
Whatever your requirements in the held
of sport ; be it Tennis, Golf or any other
outdoor or indoor game—it will be to
your advantage to inspect, before buying,
our large and comprehensive range, which
has been carefully selected from the
world’s leading makers.
TENNIS RACKETS.
f
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon 90/-
AYRES’.
Sandown 28/6
Handicap 36/-
A 1 38/-
Champion 47/6
Matador 52/6
Central Strung 57/-
S.N.D. Model A 82/6
S.N.D. Model B 85/-
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon 90/-
BANCROPT’S.
The Winner 85/-
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke 85/-
SLAZENGER’S.
Pa Belle 25/-
Player 27/6
Renshaw 45/-
Demon 50/-
Whitehouse 58/6
Ideal 67/6
Classic 75/-
E.G.M 68/-
Doherty 79/6
Stadium 79/6
Rambert Chambers 87/6
I. 90/-
Patterson 92/6
J. O. Anderson 95/-
H. C. LEE’S.
Spartan 70/-
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD’S BEST. Price 85/- each.
TENNIS BALLS.
Bach. Doz.
Barnet Glass Hard Court 2/4 27/-
Barnet Glass Flite, tile new
seamless ball, equal to
any imported 2/5 28/6
Ayres’ Court 1/10 21/-
Ayres’ Champion 2/5 28/6
Each. Doz.
Slazenger’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin) 28/6
Dunlop’s Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/5 28/6
Dunlop’s Play Ball 1/- 10/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
c
\Mf
-JJ'-
u S?
VL
lluim
»(lUi uaMlM' ml\ » w\
/4\a
GOLF CLUBS.
We carry an unrivalled selection of high-grade Golf Clubs and
Golfing Requisites. Illustrated Price List Post Free on request.
A PARTIAL LIST.
CANN & TAYLOR’S Reliable High-grade Clubs.—
Brassies 19/6. Drivers 18/6. Irons 17/6
A. G. SPALDING’S, well made and well balanced.—
Brassies 22/6. Drivers 21/-. Irons 18/6
A. PATRICK’S, effective and well made, moderately priced.—
Brassies 22/6. Drivers 21/-. Irons 16/6
J. & A. SIMPSON’S extremely effective Clubs.—
Brassies 25/-. Drivers 25/-. Irons 22/6
JVk/c Simmonslts
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Rexona Soap for
Health
and
Beauty
sAon
O
n
a
□
D
P<S
o
“I think Rexona Soap is
simply indispensable—it
keeps the hair in perfect con-
dition, and for the com-
plexion it is excellent.”
Miss MURIEL STARR.
Why Not Enjoy a
Good Complexion?
You cannot, if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. "W hen
you wash your face, do you realise that it is not enough to simply remov
the dirt, hut that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep you
complexion fresh and free • from blemish ? Scented toilet soaps are otten ver>
pleasant, but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware. Many o
them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy 1 *
delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the
skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, nut
is medicated on the same principle as the famous Rexona Ointment, wmcn 1
famous throughout all of Australasia as the Rapid Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for the skin and face
what cosmetics are supposed to do, by ensuring not
only a clean face but a pure and healthy
skin, and thus gives you a clear com-
plexion.
Rexona
Soap
xi *
• 1
I
w
mk « ‘ M
I
V.
%
/
A Dainty Bite Sor
Supper To-night
Here is a refreshing change for the sandwiches easy
to prepare—economical and wholesome.
REX
HAM PATE
is the most appetizing and wholesome sandwich spread
you can procure.
“ Rex ” Ham Pate is prepared from the choicest meats,
cooked correctly and flavoured with pure spices (then
packed in hygienic solderless tins). Its taste is a
j o y— an appetizing treat for the school kiadies an
workers’ lunches—for dainty afternoon tea and supper
sandwiches.
Order a couple of tins to-day and see how all will enjoy
its appetizing zest.
FOGCITT JONES LTD.,
Curers of the choice
REX HAMS & BACON
F.J.-36.
n=?
NET
3*©x
Homeless I Go.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOMELESS I go, Who ever longed for
home;
No rest I know, whose feet must
onward roam;
Who still must seek one look to hold my gaze,
One voice to speak, one way amid all ways.
Homeless I go, who ever longed for home.
Through ebb and flow, like flotsam m the
foam; .
Yet though far driv’n, though beaten, bruised
and sore,
Waits my replevin: keeps for me still my
shore!
Homeless and sad, like one long scourged
by pain,
Yet to be glad so little serves the grain,.
Who but for star, for moonlight in his night,
Were lonelier far through all his weary
plight.
Up through the trees I lift my searching
eyes
Towards these strange seas where heavenly
lanterns rise;
There watch star-ships pass on, unseen our
hail,
Launched from what slips in that far deep
to sail!
Changeless they change upon the curve of
night;
Mutating range on tides that mock the sight;
Yet through what deep, what course the
compass shows,
Onward, asweep, in certainty each goes.
What cargo strips beneath each mighty
mast
Of these strange ships that sail the heavenly
vast?
Bear they the sad small freight of human
thought,
Frailest of all frail things that God hath
wrought ?
Bear they within, these galleons of God,
Earth’s cargoed sin, life’s sufferings of the
rod ?
Or hold they each such things as here but
seem,
Beyond the reach of man, yet in his dream?
Homeless I go, who have so longed for rest,
A bended bow whose arrow never drest
Swift to far height—released the tensioned
bow
That by that flight the soul itself might
know!
Therefore must I a wanderer onward go,
Change with the sky, nor harvest what I
sow;
Therefore do I, who ever long for home,
Pass lonely by on roads I still must roam.
N.S.W.
Mary Gilmore.
The Rose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAINT flashes of light, blue and golden
and sometimes red, were pressing
against the lining of Dr. Thorne s
eyelids as he opened the gate. He decided
again that it was certainly time he had a
rest. His nine months in the country of
rarefied thought had been too much: his
brain was a sensitised plate. Anyhow, the
book was done. Lamington, of the Univer-
sity, would probably say it was no more
than a footnote to Einstein. In a way,
perhaps, he would be right, if you allowed
for his constitutional acid ; but the deroga-
tory “footnote” would be unfair —a “com-
panion-volume to Einstein” would be truer.
And that, conceived and argued by Matthew
Thorne in Sydney—or, to be precise, in
Blacklieath —was —er —not too bad.
In the light from the street lamp at the
corner he could see the straight lines of
flower-borders and a hedge in the garden.
That was good: Martha would like the for-
mality of it. The house looked in the half-
darkness snug enough; it was a pity that
his first visit to it couldn’t have been made
in daylight, or that Martha couldn’t have
been with him. He walked up the verandah-
steps and took out the agent’s key. If the
house wasn’t suitable —well, he had paid only
a week’s rent.
It was very suitable. There was a big
living-room with three lights, one a standard
on a roomy side-table, and an excellent
bookcase considerately emptied of trash;
the pictures were inoffensive ; the furniture
was solid and sensible. The bedrooms
couldn’t be improved; the small one was
small, but the other made up for it. Martha
would think she was in Heaven instead of
Mosman. Not that she. .. .Nevertheless, a
bedroom was a very important room; and,
however foreign to your nature the —the fri-
volous may be, you can’t despise roominess
and airiness, a door on to the verandah and
a great bow-window facing the east and the
sea.
And it wasn’t frivolous, exactly. One’s
thoughts ran in traditional channels; things
—ideas —received their labels years, perhaps
centuries ago—lsaac Newton’s fluxions, for
example—and the labels remained. A three-
panelled mirror, the two side-panels mov-
able, and the whole thing tall and spacious,
w r as better than a small square of glass;
the motive was to see yourself. He shifted
the wings about until he could see his pro-
file, which astonished him so much with its
uncanny intimacy that he turned his back
on the splendid dressing-table to look at the
rest of the room. A big built-in cupboard
in the far wall took the place of the usual
lumbering wardrobe; there was no loose fur-
niture except the bed and the dressing-table,
a stool in front of the dressing-table and a
low, comfortable chair. Nothing more broke
the spaces of the French-grey carpet or of
the white walls, which were flushed a faint
claret-color by the shade of deep red over
the electric light. A wall-light on both sides
of the dressing-table was covered by a simi-
lar shade. A bedspread of red silk with a
liand-painted Japanese design in bold curves
and squares was a dramatic note of color.
A truly remarkable room to find in a fur-
nished cottage! It was as big as the living-
room —bigger, he thought, with the bay and
its window-seat. The built-in cupboard was
about the size of the bedroom at Blackheath.
The room’s freshness and airiness, which
seemed almost personal, had nothing of the
furnished-cottage atmosphere. Martha would
surely be very glad to have such a room;
lie hoped she would be able to arrive that
night. But she had said not to expect her
for certain till to-morrow. In any case, he
would leave the room just as it was until
she did come; it was absurd for him to think
of sleeping there alone. He took his bag
into the smaller room after switching off
the lights and closing the door of this most
beautiful of bedrooms.
He filled the kettle and put it on a low
gas—Martha would like a cup of tea if
she did turn up—and settled himself in a
big chair. As a rule, Bergson amused him
—frothy, of course, and faintly suggestive
of the Parisian equivalent of Philosophy-
for-the-Million, but agile and piquant. He
could state dramatically, if he couldn’t think
at a high level for long. For that reason
he was good light reading—nothing solid,
no effect of strain on the mind at all. But
to-night the flashy theses failed to come to
life. He was tired, and he missed Martha
about the house. She was a very conscien-
tious woman, Martha, who always seemed
to find a little subdued series of jobs to do
in the evening, which kept her going until
bedtime. In that way she avoided the wast-
ing of any waking moments. The noise of
her performing these small duties, with its
dry undertone of her felt slippers on the
floor, was a companionable thing, impersonal
but familiar.
At the end of that empty top-shelf The
Relative Tides” would stand, a volume of
strong thought and sound scholarship, con-
ceived long before Einstein’s name was _ a
commonplace, though the heavy work of writ-
ing it had been delayed till now. It was only
the good fortune of the Jarvises taking his
house at Parramatta for a year that had
made it possible to get the writing done at
all. And now the fact that Jarvis wanted
the house for another month would give
Martha a little break before she returned to
serious housekeeping after the elemental
camp. This house would run itself; and it
was near Sydney—she could do some gad-
ding, tea-parties, the T.W.C.A. and so on,
all with a metropolitan flavor instead of
the Parramatta substitute. Probably the
first thing to be discussed on her arrival to-
morrow would be her proposed activities
listed in detail f6r the whole month.
At its first impact he couldn’t quite place
the fugitive thought; it remained as only a
fugitive thought. But gradually it became
alive and half-familiar like the belief _ that
he wasn’t alone. He shook it off, and picked
up “Mind Energy” again. But the thought
persisted ; the belief became a certainty. He
leaned back in his chair and closed his eyes;
for the past month or two irregular thought-
direction had occasionally annoyed him. It
was harmless, of course—too-long concen-
tration —and three days’ complete rest of the
mind would disperse it finally. .It was
necessary to separate it from reality. The
house was quite still. Nothing but the tick-
ing of the clock broke the silence. A vague
humming from the kitchen was no more than
an accompaniment to the silence, and was
easily referable to the kettle. Beyond those
there was no sign of life; the house and the
night were quiet.
Yet the thought persisted still. He
wasn’t alone. He opened his eyes and rose
softly from the deep chair, confused and
quaking a little at the need of running an
intruder down in a strange house. It was
absurd, of course; this was Mosman and
1924. 8ut.... He searched the kitchen and
the little laundry; went out into the black
shadows of the back verandah, and felt his
skin quivering as he pulled aside a kero-
sene-tin and a washing-tub. Absurd
Yet the thought was growing stronger. lie
was aware of a potential horror whi,ch
seemed to threaten real fear as every detail
of his search proved fruitless. Somewhere
there tvas someone; yet where? The dark-
ness and the still night increased his con-
fusion. If he could only find a cat or a
dog—but nothing!—to feel this dominating,
half-menacing certainty, and nowhere to find
a single thing to verify it! A sudden small
breeze whipped the back door out of his
hand and slammed it; he felt the hair rise
on his quaking scalp—the fear was putting
its finger on him. There was a sort of mock-
ery behind it, too, as if the haunting cer-
tainty despised him while it played with
him. Coming back into the living-room he
felt a wave of relief; even its brief fami-
liarity was an anchorage.
Across the living-room, in the little alcove
at the far end, he saw a line of light beneath
the door of that splendid bedroom. He re-
membered shutting off the lights before he
closed the door. Ergo—
The mocking fear receded; here was de-
finition. He crept out on to the verandah.
The glass door to the bedroom, glowing with
red light, was closed; the lock was a Yale,
he remembered. Leaning over the verandah-
railing he could see that all the casements
of the bay window were closed, too, and the
curtains drawn. In the kitchen he found
a tomahawk. He slipped off his coat and
rolled up his shirt sleeves, opened the front
door as a way of escape if he should need
one, and, the tomahawk firmly grasped in
his right hand, went noiselessly back through
the living-room and into the little lobby
between the bedrooms. There he licked his
dry lips and felt his heart miss a beat; but,
making the most of his narrow-chested sft.
Gin., he grasped the handle and threw open
the door.
A lady was sitting on the stool before the
dressing-table, doing, her hair or finishing
the doing of her hair, at the triple mirror.
The room was flooded with light, and seemed
warm and full of perfume; everything in
it was touched to life. Subconsciously Dr.
Thorne felt this atmosphere; but he saw
only the lady. She had very little clothing
on; the transparent, lavender-colored gar-
ment rising like pale smoke round the faint
flush beneath it could hardly be called a
(Continued on next page.)


Let ZAM-BUK Soothe and Heal
All CUTS, BURNS $ SCALDS.
You cannot get away from accidents—and you cannot get
away from the need of Zam-Buk. Daily examples of Zam-Buk’s
swift, clean healing and its great utility in a thousand emergencies
justify the high claims made for this herbal “first-aid” and skin
balm. When you cut or bruise yourself simply wash with Zam-Buk
Soap, apply Zam-Buk, and bandage up. Zam-Buk and Nature
will do the rest.
Zam-Buk is superior to common ointments in this respect —it
has extraordinary soothing, healing and antiseptic powers. Zam-
Buk occupies a unique place in regard to its real medicinal power.
There is nothing that is capable of more efficient healing and
curative action, and every housewife and worker should keep a
box of Zam-Buk handy for the prompt self-treatment of any
wound or sore. When Zam-Buk is applied to the bruised or broken
skin any danger of the wound taking bad ways is removed.
There are also Poisoned Sores, Ulcers and Bad Legs, Ringworms and Scalp Sores,
burning Eczema and aggravating Piles that tell their tale in their own weakening and
distressing way. All are relieved by the healing power of Zam-Buk. With a box of
Zam-Buk in the home you re ready prepared for almost every skin injury or trouble.
»V
S£SS
0»
ri*£B®S
■■l
0*
00
00
A
3
3
3
I
7
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL SOAP.
Sufferers from skin complaints such
as pimples, eczema, etc., will find Zam-
Buk Medicinal Soap particularly effective
when used with Zam-Buk Balm. Zam-
Buk Medicinal Soap is highly antiseptic,
soothing and purifying, and is unequalled
for the toilet, bath and nursery. 1/- per
tablet, 2/10 box of three.
Mng
uie
KEEP A BOX ALWAYS HANDY!
//6 and 3/6— all Chemists and Stores.
garment at all. It fell away from her arms
as she adjusted the wings of the mirror to
pm a great scarlet rose in her hair. Satis-
fied with the profile effect, she turned to
him.
“Hullo!" she said. “How do you doV
Come in.”
Dr. Thorne’s tomahawk fell feebly to his
knee, and dangled there. Old bells were in
her voice, old muffled bells on Some moun-
tain slope; red and yellow villages slept in
its cadences. His narrow sft. Gin. came
shyly in and stood awkwardly at the foot
of the bed ; he was poignantly conscious of
his shirt-sleeves, his tomahawk and the fact
that he hadn’t brushed his shock of grey
hair since he left Blackheath.
Her eyes flashed up at him again before
she turned back to the mirror. “I won’t ask
you to sit down because I haven’t long. But
you looked so pathetic standing in the door-
way that I couldn’t help asking you in.”
Pathetic! He tried hard to get a grip
mi the thing. This practically naked lady !
But she was speaking again.
‘‘You write, don’t you?”
“Yes. Er —rather dry matter, as a rule,
I fear, though.”
“Dry?” Her eyes came round again and
;} sad smile which yet was magically merry.
Oh no—that cannot be.” He was vaguely
aware of a foreign accent. “Sometimes per-
haps the words look dry on the page. But
the thought is never dry; and the writing is
the thought. Isn’t it?”
Behind her voice a slumbrous tide of
charm came to life; a soft rhythmic thunder
was beating gently in his veins. This red-
shaded room was a sanctuary at the heart
of the night. The charm lisped softly about
his feet, which yet stood ungainly on her
I rench-grey floor. He was monstrously un-
comfortable—all hands and shirt-sleeves and
inspired mathematics, all dry and narrow.
But at last he surrendered and shut out the
dry world, turning lightly to the tide of
charm.
“Yes, I know,” he said, smiling back at
her, ’but you need two lifetimes to fit the
words and the thought—one lifetime for the
learning of each.”
“In my country,” she told him, “we have
a saying, ‘To-morrow is another day’ : and in
yours you say, ‘To-morrow never comes’ ”
“Listen, senora,” he broke in, “if you’re
going to read me lectures about ‘Do It
Now’ at my age, we must change the sub-
ject.”
“What is your age?”
“Fifty-seven,” he confessed, something
clutching at his heart. “Now let’s talk about
your hair or your eyes.”
She laughed and swung round on the stool,
facing him, to his only momentary dismay ;
her opulent sweetness was part of the sanctu-
ary. Enchanting beauty, dark and wistful,
a great rose blazing in her hair —-the some-
thing grasped his heart again, but his laugh
echoed hers.
“Yes,” she murmured. “My hair—tell
me.”
“Night,” the words came tumbling to his
lips, “a shadow on the heart of night, as
this room is a torch. A beneficence. I
bring a dole of words—those words that look
so dry on the page—but I say nothing. How
can 1 say anything while your hair veils
the'—
The flood of speech ceased suddenly ; and
Dr. Thoime shifted his tomahawk into the
other hand and stared humbly at her radi-
ance. The narrowness and dryness came
mocking back, and the hunting confusion.
This was an unimaginable thing—grotesque
and foolish.
Her voice murmured into his awkward
pause, its lisping undertone lulling the con-
fusion. Her hands were lilies on her
knees. A magic encompassed her.
“Long ago a song of my hair and eyes was
made, with a refrain of happy death. I was
a girl then—a nina —and | was very proud.
It was a sweetness for me, which warms me
still. The poet who made it is dead, but”
—she shrugged imperial shoulders —“in
Valladolid sometimes a reader sings of me
from his book.”
Her eyes flashed up into his and fell again
to the incomparable hands on her knees.
“To you that is a smallness, perhaps,” she
said. “But the world has its lovers who
must find their songs where they can. That
is a grace for them, to whom, it may be,
graces are many. Yet one more, of my eyes
and my hair, does not make too many, does
it?”
Dr. Thorne smiled but had nothing to
say.
“I think of them,” the bells in her voice
went on, “as remembering me for a talisman
in the patios and beneath the windows. I
made that praise for them, that melody they
whisper in the darkness in Valladolid—/ am
on their lips and in their hearts. Is that a
small thing?”
He shook his head, still in silence.
“Then,” the white hands brushed the rose
again, setting it more firmly in the black-
ness, “I go down the generations—l am
always alive.”
Her laugh lapsed gently on the perfumed
air. But another sound overlapped it. the
sound of a motor purring in the road, the
sound of a slammed door and a dry definite
voice at the gate.
“My God!” he gasped. “Martha—my
wife!”
The lady looked up and laughed again;
she rose, the lavender falling softly round
the pink flush.
“Ah, well!” she said, and touched his
hand, glided swiftly across the room, and
vanished in the built-in wardrobe.
“Matthew!”
Dazed,, he turned to the doorway to see
Martha, rigid in coat and skirt and service-
able hat.
“I found the door open and What on
earth are you doing with that axe, Mat-
thew ?”
Mrs. Thorne’s nose wrinkled.
“I can smell powder—perfume,” her voice
rose to horrified indignation. “Good heavens,
Matthew, you haven’t”
Her face set in a tragic stillness. She
stared at Dr. Thorne for an outraged, in-
credulous moment before her eyes travelled
round the rich beauty of the bedroom. They
stopped at the door of the wardrobe, and she
strode across the room and flung it open.
The wardrobe was empty—-nothing; she
peered into the corners, and up at the hooks
and shelves—nothing. She turned and faced
Matthew' again, whose fascinated eyes w r ere
staring blankly at the empty wardrobe.
“Now wdiat have you”—she began, but
Matthew dropped his tomahawk and lifted
his shirt-sleeved arms. Peal after peal,
his high, metallic laughter filled the room
and the house. Martha was aghast; hys-
terics—and from Matthew !
“Why, Martha, you poor, safe woman,” he
screamed at her, “you came in the nick of
time, damn you. I had the torch in my
hand. Why, Hyperion was beside me, you
dreary old helpmeet; the golden earth and
heaven of his begetting were under my
feet.”
The cackling laughter broke out again, and
Martha strode across the room to him. But
he backed to the dressing-table stool; his
hand stroked and caressed it as he shrieked
at her again.
“Keep off, keep off! You're dry—dry as
carrion-dust, or as the relative tides. My
God! That a man should dither dow r n his
years with an old wisp of straw to buttress
him! Where are your eyes and your hands,
woman; where is your hair? Where are the
bells in your voice? Ha! Ha!, The bells
in your voice—sweet, muffled bells from
Sestos”
“Matthew—Matt,” she interrupted, delib-
erately soothing, “you’re ill. I told you
you were killing yourself on that prepos-
terous book. Come to bed, and I’ll make
you a cup of tea”
“Fool, fool!” he yelled at her, shaking a
long forefinger in her face, “what do you
know of books and the songs that can be
made?” Suddenly his voice fell to a
mumbling, toneless note. “Have done, old
faggot,” he muttered; “the torch is out,
dropped in the waters of the night. On the
margin of a dead world I’m alone”
He fell silent, and the shock of grey hair
drooped forward. He was quite passive as
she helped him to undress; in bed, he fell
instantly into deep sleep-—indeed, most of
the three days’ rest his brain needed were
spent in deep sleep. Nor was there any
recurrence of his amazing' outburst of
hysteria when he awoke.
On the fourth day Mrs. Thorne felt that
she could leave him, to do some needed shop-
ping; and this, preserving her expression of
visibly-expressed aggrievement, she did. As
the gate snapped to behind her, Dr. Thorne
slipped out of bed. He prowled round the
room and the wardrobe, examining every
inch. He tapped all the walls, took down
shelves and put. them back, lifted the carpet,
left no source of possible information untried.
But fruitlessly; the mystery remained a
mystery. Only one thing rewarded him:
the finding of a withered, blackened rose in a
corner under the dressing-table. This he
hid, and kept, deprecating his folly in so
doing.
The paying of his rent on the Wednesday
brought him as neat as he ever got to the
thing. The agent thanked him for the
money and, while writing the receipt, re-
marked that it would be included in a remit-
tance to Mr. Clavering that day, Avhich was
mail day.
“He’s abroad, then?”
“Oh yes,” the man said casually, blotting
the receipt. “He went abroad —to London—
as soon as he could get away after her death.”
He handed the blue slip to Dr. Thorne.
“Her death V”
The agent’s eyes narrowed. He’d for-
gotten that this old bird didn't know about
the Claverings. Rather awkward'! Oh,
well —it was only a month, and he'd got two
weeks of it!”
“She was some _ sort of a Spaniard or
Italian —died a couple of months ago. No;
they weren’t married —she had a husband or
something who used to knocked her about:
something prevented their marriage. Yes.
Very sad.’’
But Dr. Thorne spent much time after-
wards examining minutely the built-in cup-
board in the bedroom. He must have tapped
every inch of its walls during his tenancy:
it seemed incredible that he should not
ultimately find some sliding panel, some exit
for her.
HILABY LOGTING.
The Best of Tracks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OF all the tracks a man may roam.
Though they go east or west,
Or northward wend or southward
stray,
One track is ever best; .
The track for tiring feet to take—
The track that leads us home.
A man may travel round the earth
And seek that track in vain;
No chart will show him where it lies,
No finger-post make plain;
But, should he find it, he shall have
Warm love and fireside mirth.
No fate is altogether grim
With such a track to tread;
Though gloom close in on every side,
With starless skies o’erhcad,
A man may walk and have no fear
With love to shelter him.
The roysterer loves the tavern lit,
The sailor loves the seas,
The hunter loves the forest-path
That winds through leafy trees;
Yet all, at moments, view that track
And long to follow it.
Though men there be, a-many men,
Who wander from that track,
When memories stare them in the eyes,
And cares fall thick and black.
With aching hearts and heavy feet
They seek for it again.
Yet he who loses it may seek,
And seek and never find.
And drift and drift, a wasted leaf,
Borne down the winter wind—
A wasted leaf tossed to and fro
In woodways black and bleak.
That track may be a lamplit street,
An alley or a lane,
A sea-route linking coast to coast,
A road o’er hill and plain,
But whatsoe’er it be ’tis trod
All time by eager feet.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


*
•Ti.
■
it:
* •:
■
■
M®
1
1
m
:
.-KWWWW*^-
■- ; £
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains hi stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
itit WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHUECH Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Teatlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
N. S.
WALES.
rmi z ■
0
kic°
p£*S°V
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
THEY RETAIN THEIR EDGE.
“Capital” Brandi High-
Speed Twist Drills. I"
Satisfactory service—that’s what accounts for the
popularity of “CAPITAL” Drills. Experts have
designed and manufactured these famous drills to
cut accurately at high speeds and they are guaranteed
to RETAIN THEIR EDGE.
They are slightly thinned at the point, this prevents
splitting under normal conditions.
Table of speeds and feeds for all classes of material
forwarded on request.
Give “CAPITAL” Drills a trial and your future
choice will be easv.
“BALFOUR’S HINTS ON STEEL” forwarded post
free on request.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.. Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 342-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE .... John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE .... Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
- ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
mar* w/// //itl /4
TRADE
CAPITAU
I
I
1
1
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
ƒd
NITRO CLUB Wetproof
Shotgun Cartridges
HARD HITTING—UNIFORM —is the
judgment of the army of sportsmen
using Nitro Club either for game or at
the traps.
No hand loaded cartridge can be expect-
ed to compete with Remington’s
way of loading —precisely and uni-
formly —by the most modern auto-
matic machinery
The proof of a cartridge
is the shooting!
m
: ■
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
Knswl
LISTEN IN
rOR SOUND ADVICE
,43
-
S> N
H
v/
TAKE
BEECHAM'S PILLS
THEY RADIATE GOOD HEALTH
AND
ENSURE A PERFECT COMPLEXION
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Febries. Limited. _
0.
lastlcmaino)
Prop. Ltd.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIIXIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest-Orade Machinery Supplied.
agents.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Eta.
SYDNEY:
1,. Hinks & Co- Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
Francis Chapman Son
LONDON:
k Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.


/7
0
0
%
\
s
l
s
Aw?
w,
0
b
DEWAR’S
Whisky
Reputation is the Universal Bank of
Character; everyone and everything has
a debit or credit balance there. The
appreciation of others, which merit
always earns, goes on the credit side.
That being so, it is almost superfluous
to add that
position is very healthy!
