

The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
MINE OWNERS. IRON and STEEL MASTERS.
I i
1-3 ; ■ ti: ■
m
»■ mm
iim&i
<W*M£
wt'
, rTr .- T
View of Blast Furnace .Plant at N ewcastle.
MANUFACTURERS o/
Pig Iron, Billets, Ingots,
Blooms, Rails and Fishplates,
Bridge Rails, Beams, Channels,
Angles, T ees, Rounds, Squares,
Flats, Octagons, Wire Rods,
Reinforcing Bars, Road Tar,
Solvent Naphtha, Benzol,
Sulphate of Ammonia.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY; 28 O’Connell Street
ADELAIDE; 28 Franklin Street
LONDON: 3 Gt. Winchester St
<?-
!Co>
q:
3^2
V;--: :
St°
£
3
o
o
WORKS:
Iron & Steel Works:
~~ Newcastle, N.S.W.
Ironstone Quarries:
Iron Knob, S.A.
Silver-lead Mine:
Broken Hill, N.S.W.
QO
<ll.
UIU.
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS: “HEMATITE,” MELBOURNE*
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2328.
Thursday, September 25, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,,
428 George Street, Sydney,
■
USSSMS SK
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Delivers Maximum Power.
When you buy Mangrovite you are buying a belt that will
carry the heaviest loads that will perform economically under
all circumstances, one that is backed by a firm of over 40
years’ standing. That is why it offers greater value for
your money than cheaper but inferior substitutes.
Our engineers are always at your service. Let them show
you the way to a more efficient transmission system.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWIOI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
SEE FREE TO M
SEND
FORM
f.
Men Discarded
their shaving creams for this
Do you realise what has happened in the world of shaving
creams? Three years ago every man who shaved had his
own favourite soap. Then Palmolive Shaving Cream was
perfected and ever since men have been discarding the old be-
cause the new is so infinitely better.
Five reasons why
Palmolive Shaving Cream offers these five advantages—
(l) It multiplies itself iq lather 250 times.
(2) It ads quickly—softens the beard in one minute.
(3) It endures —maintains its creamy fullness for ten minutes on
the face.
(4) The bubbles are strong to support the hair for cutting-
Weak bubbles let the hair fall down.
(5) The after-effects are delightful, due to soothing palm and
olive oils.
These are the qualities you want in a Shaving Cream. We
have provided them. Now we ask a test at our expense, in
fairness to yourself and us. Cut Cut the form, send now.
PALMOLIVE
SHAVING CREAM
On Sale everywhere at IJ9
Follow with Palmolive After-Shaving Talc—a scientific, in-
visible powder for men. It assures that well-groomed look.
10 SHAVES FREE
Simply insert your name and address and post to
The, Palmolive Company (Australasia) Ltd., Dept. 260, Sydney
Ndme
Address P.S.c. 23
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Kiilarnef.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Limited.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol, Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
W *
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Charlemagne in England
Charlemagne and liis Peers, who stand f
the glory of feudal France, find scant fav
as subjects for poetry in England. At t
close of the sixteenth century they vanis
without hope of the great quickening tli
awaited Arthurian romance at the hands o:
Tennyson, Morris and Swinburne. Rolanc
who, rather than Charlemagne, is the he
of the cycle, is a universal figure, the Palad
of feudal France; the Song of Roland is j
epic. No foreigner could ever capture t
spirit of it.
The earliest record of Charlemagne :
England is buried in the eleventh centur;
Tradition asserts that the Chanson i
Roland was sung at the Battle of Hastin
by the minstrel Tallifer. William of Malme
bury fathers the idea, and Wace speaks o!
the minstrel who marched before the Du
of Normandy at Hastings “singing abou
Charlemagne and Rolland and Oliver ant
the vassals who died at Roncesvalles.” Ti
chant may even have been written by Rol
of Normandy. In a fourteenth-centur
manuscript appears the first English son
of Roland, probably a re-handling of an old
chanson dc geste since lost. The eye
consists of ten romances; seven are metrica
two simply fragments, and three prose tran
lations, published soon after the inventio
of printing. Though new details are intr
duced, the mark of their foreign ancestry
strong upon them.
The prologue to the “Cursor Mundi,
written in Northumbria about 1320, men
tions that , “men yerne for to here” how
“King Charles and Roland fought with Sara
zins.” Some years later Barbour refers a
length to the “romance of Ferrumbrace.
Henceforth Fierabras or Ferrumbrace, is th
most popular romance of the cycle. Fiera
bras makes his first official mark in a foui
teenth-century deed by which Beauchamp
Earl of Warwick, bequeathes his library t
the Abbey of Bordesley. In “Sir Ferrum
bras” Roland is boldly drawn as a dare
devil knight who is the real hero of the poem
The exploits of the giant Ferrumbras fill
comparatively unimportant part. It is writ
ten in the southern dialect with a mixtur
of northern words, sometimes quaintly spelt
in short alternately rhyming stanzas wit]
fairly frequent alliteration :
It befell between March and May
When kind corage beginneth to prick
When frith and fielde waxen gay
And every wight desireth her like
When lovers slepen with open eye
As nightingales on a greene tree
And some desire that they eoud fly
That they mighten with their love be.
The romance tells of the taking of Rome by
the. Saracens. Charlemagne goes to its
relief and overcomes the infidel Sowdan, who
promises to accept Christianity. He proves
impatient of baptism, however, at the hands
of Bishop Turpin, and nothing remains but
to dispatch him. It is described with charm-
ing mediaeval frankness:—
It was done as the king eommande
His soul was fet to hell
To dance in that sorry lande
With devils that were full fell.
The hanging of the traitor Ganelon on the
high gibbet of Montfaucon ends the story.
“Sir Ferrumbras” is also memorable for its
stern-minded heroine Floripas, who, for the
sake of her lover, brains a gaoler with con-
siderable gusto. Then there is the grotesque
Barrok, who figures in the Bridge of Man-
trible episode, and shows a rare proficiency
in dispatching Christians with a scythe.
Later we learn with relief that King Charles,
not altogether chivalrously perhaps, “smote
her.” To this group belongs the “Life of
Charles the Grete,” printed by Caxton in
1485. It is a translation of the fifteenth-
century prose romance of Fierabras, based
on a chanson dc geste with extracts and addi-
tions from the later chronicles in the lavish
manner that is more or less characteristic of
the period. Caxton’s task was “to reduce
all these sayd liistoryes into our English
tongue.... I have put me in devoir to trans-
late this sayd book how by revelacyon of
Saynt James Charles went and conquered
Spayne and Galyce and finally of the
trayson of Ganelon by the wliych the death
of Rolland was pyteous, the death of Oliver
dolorous and finally the death of Charles
the emperour.”
The Otinel or Otuel cycle, dealing chiefly
with the exploits of Roland and Ferragus,
owes its immortality in the main to its
cheerful anachronisms and bizarre accounts
of Ferragus’s manly beauty. In another
version of Otinel, Roland, stricken with
wounds, seeks to break the sword Durandal.
There is a touch of pure romance here, far
removed from the coldly heroic vein of the
Chanson de Roland
O sword of great might
Better bare never no knight
To win with no land!
Thou hast y-be in many batayle
That never Sarrazin sans fayle
Ne might thy stroke withstand.
Go! let never no Paynim
Into batayle bear him
After the death of Roland!
The “Siege of Melayne” warrants attention
because some of its episodes are among those
that inspired Chaucer’s fun-making in “Sir
Thopas,” rather than for any dazzling merit
of its own. That such things had a certain
vogue is proved by Caxton’s issuing in 1490
another translation of “the right pleasant
and goodlie historie of the Four Sons of
Aymon.” It has its origin in a fifteenth-
century chanson de geste, telling of the wars
of Charlemagne and his rebellious vassals,
and enjoys the distinction of being quoted by
that critical Elizabethan worthy Frmcis
Meres iii a list of books considered “hurtful
to youth.”
Of all the Charlemagne romances only one
has had any traceable influence in England.
This is Huon of Bordeaux. This version,
the work of Lord Berners, the distinguished
translator of Froissart, was printed for him
by Wynken de Worde in 1534. Huon intro-
duced to English poetry the sprite Oberon,
who served Spenser in the “Faery Queen”
and Shakspeare in “A Midsummer Night's
Dream,” though his king of the fairies dif-
fers poetically from the Robin Goodfellow
or Puck type of sprite in the old romance.
Robert Greene, Elizabethan playwright and
pamphleteer, was algo indebted to Huon and
the Four Sons of Aymon for his “pleasant
comedie presented by Oberon, King of the
Fayres,” attached to his play, “The Scot-
tish story of James IV. Slain at Flodden
Field.” More interesting than any of these,
perhaps, is Rauf Coilyear (Collier), for the
reason that it is almost certainly an original
work. By 1500 it must have been well estab-
lished in popular favor for Dunbar to couple
it with John the Reeve. These is nothing
unusual about the plot, which is a hardy old
favorite with ballad-makers—the visit of a
king in disguise to one of his lowlier sub-
jects. The quaint humor and rollicking fun
suggest the land of Burns rather than any
Latin source, particularly in the racy de-
scription of the duel between Rauf and the
Saracen, which burlesques the fighting in
Ferumbras and Otuel.
The Arthurian cycle is built up of myth and
fable, abounding in mystery and unreality.
Its knights see visions. Arthur is pious,
but he is also gallant. The women are beau-
tiful, according to the new idea of chivalry.
The Charlemagne cycle deals with reality,
idealised in snatches, but reality neverthe-
less. It sings of swords and pagans and
pitched battle. Charlemagne is stern and
ascetic—a far more realistic and more feudal
conception than the knights of the Table
Round. The women are for the most part
unwomanly.
The vigorous nationalism, by virtue of
which the Charlemagne cycle was chiefly
great, explains why it had no lasting influ-
ence in England. It is not difficult to see
why Arthurian romance flourishes with us
to this day, while the Charlemagne cycle died
at the birth of modern England.
E. M. L.
Literary Torquemadas
“C. McL.” pronounces (R.P. 4/9/’24) the
verdict of a literary coroner on Sabatini’s
horrifying tour dc force, “Torquemada and
the Spanish Inquisition,” which he describes
as “the most painfully absorbing book that
I have ever read.” The methods by which
this finding is reached are illustrative of the
way a story may be told effectively without
a beginning and an end. Following a bril-
liant romancer—a self-confessed entertainer,
a writer of history and not a historian—
“C. McL.’’ starts with the Spanish Inquisi-
tion in existence and excess; he cannot say
how it came to be there without telling a
heroic story of European struggle against
Islam and Oriental pessimism. It hardly
suffices to assert categorically that “the
Jews, being the only really clever and saving
people in the _ world at that time, were
accused of being robbers and capitalists.”
The historical fact is that the Jews were both
robbers and capitalists—robbers in the uni-
versal acceptation of the synonym “usurers”
by mediaeval canonists; capitalists in the
sense that Shaw (in “Man and Superrnan”)
understands the word, i.e., those who live
by robbing the poor. They were never, as
such, regarded as heretics; but the usury
they so widely practised made them liable
to be suspected of unorthodoxy. Moreover,
the dominant faith was seriously endangered
by the countless pseudo-converts from Juda-
ism and Mohammedanism, who sought not
the good but the goods of the Church. No
apology, however, was required of them for
existence, and if Torquemada indeed “awoke
to the fact that, the Jews having crucified
Clmst, every member of the accursed race
should be burned in expiation,” he awoke
to some hitherto hidden doctrine that no one
else had ever dreamt of. As to “C. McL.’s”
statement that “thousands of Jews were
burned,” the fantastic nature of this is re-
vealed by comparison with the estimate of
the Jewish historian Graetz, that “2000 Jews
were burned under the rule of the first In-
quisitor, Torquemada.” Relatively consid-
ered, this is not so bad after all. Recent
German investigations have reduced the total
number of victims, including robbers, sex-
perverts, brigands and traitors, to 10,000*
tlle . j udicial - m inded Gams puts it at
4000. _ As the Inquisition lasted about four
centuries, that means a thousand deaths in
every hundred years, which is only ten a
year. And in America there have been more
than 100 lynchings annually for many years!
laking it all in all, the Inquisition in its
operation denoted a real progress in the
treatment of criminals; for it not only put
an end to the summary vengeance of the
mob, but it diminished considerably the num-
ber of those sentenced to death.
~,“ c * MeL-V’ is a harrowing picture of the
lire and times of the Dominican zealot. That
it is egregiously overdrawn, and placed in
wrong perspective, may be seen from his
rhetorical allusion to the “hideous sanbenito,”
which was a thing more than a hair-shirt,
having its modern counterpart in the “broad-
arrow suits issued to convicts. He repre-
sents the people as “making many attempts
to break the spell; but, the Pope, the Queen
and religion combining together to lash them,
they were powerless.” This sort of history
is better unlearned. Those two great Pope-
baiters, but unprejudiced historians, Ranke
and Guizot, could tell him that the Spanish
Inquisition was not an ecclesiastical but a
political institution, subject directly and ulti-
mately to the Crown. Its severities were
repeatedly condemned by the Popes, who on
several occasions delated the Inquisitors to
Rome, and censured, excommunicated and
punished them. In the case of the suffer-
ing Jews, the Papal magnanimity was dis-
played in remarkable degrees. Popes en-
couraged them to flee to the Papal States
where they were accorded full citizen rights
and freedom of worship. On April 6, 1233
two years after the founding of the Inquisi-
tion, Gregory IX. addressed a Brief to the
French bishops, which stated: “The benign-
ity which we wish to be borne to Christians
in pagan lands is also to be displayed by
Christians towards Jews.” When the Jews
were suffering violence at the hands of Cru-
saders, they appealed to Innocent 111., who
(Continued on page 8.)


Jk
w aae
Fashion Exemplified in Fuji Silk Frocks
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Daintiness is the first attribute by reason of
which these lovely Frocks attract your attention.
Their general becomingness, their distinctive
richness, their smart serviceability make them
ideal for practical wear. The low prices are
no criterion of their charm.
1
L_J
u
u
Dl-S5/6
DfoOIS
Ds99t>
Dsb7
D}Bl
D6o2B—Becoming Frock, made in Fuji Silk,
showing the new slim lines; eyelet embroidery
is used as a trimming ; ruched on hips ; unique
handkerchief pocket. In shades of Brown,
Navy, Black, Light Grey, Putty and
Jade. Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. PRICE
I)3Bl—Useful Frock of Fuji Silk. The imita-
tion pockets and collar are of contrasting
shades, also the rows of rouleau which show on
the short sleeves and belt. In shades of Saxe,
Buff, Grey, Lemon, Rose, Nil and
Navy. Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. PRICE
29/6
49/11
Ds996 —This Dainty Frock is carried out in
Fuji Sjlk; fine tucking on bodice; open-work
embroidery trims the smart jabot at neck, also
shows on the loose-fitting sleeves and at waist
line. In shades of Jade, Putty, Oyster, Brown,
Navy, Black. Sizes, S.W., W. 0.5.,
PRICE
D 367 —Practical Frock, carried out in Fuji Silk.
The scarf collar is of White Fuji, which also
forms the turned-back cuffs; two smart tailored
pockets on skirt ; buckle gives finish to the self
belt. In shades of Grey, Saxe, Lemon. Rose,
Buff, Nil and Navy. Sizes, S.W.,
W., O.S. PRICE
45/-
49/11
D 135/6 — Stylish Striped Light Ground Fuji Frock. The dainty
collar and cuffs are of White Fuji; smart effect is given by a row of
large buttons extending from neck to hem ; self belt and sash ends.
In stripings of Saxe, Brown, Brick, Rose, Jade, Lemon, Navv, and
Black. Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. >lO /11
price 1 1
(Fashion Salon —Third £> J
11/6fr
We Pay Carriage on Fashion Goods in N.S.W., and to the Nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
Silk and Art-Silk Hose
Hose of Luxite —Plain Artificial Silk
over Lisle, with seamed legs; good
medium weight, lisle tops and re-
inforced heels and toes. In Black,
White, African and Cor- 4/11
dovan. PRICE i(pair) .. tt' 1 1
Hose of Luxite —Plain, heavy-
weight silk over lisle hose, with
seams at back, extra stretch ribbed
lisle suspender tops. In tones of
African Brown or Nigger, Black
or White. C/1 1
PRICE (pair) O/ I I
“Holeproof” Pure Silk and Arti-
ficial Silk Hose, with seam at back,
double lisle tops and soles. In
shades of Fawn, Camel, Beige,
Sponge, Cloud, African, Antique,
Jack Rabbit, Black or £5/11
White. PRICE (pair).. 0/11
“Holeproof” Pure Silk Hose, with
seam at back, double lisle tops and
soles. In smart shades—Black,
White, African, Sponge, Fawn,
Cloud, Beige, Airedale and Jack
Rabbit. 0/11
PRICE (pair) O/1 1
(Hosiery—First Floor.)
The Newest Footwear
Black Suede One-Bar Shoes, Louis
heels, pump soles, white kid o*7 /g*
lined. PRICE (pair) ... O
Blaek Suede One-Strap Shoes, pump
soles, sports heels. or*/
PRICE (pair) 40/-
Fine-Grade Patent One-Bar Shoes,
Louis heels, pump soles. o»7 /£+
PRICE (pair) 4 4/0
Fine-Quality new style Cinnamon
Suede Langtry Shoes, Baby Louis
heels, pump soles, large, hand-made
beaded buckles, with satin AtZ/
inserts. PRICE (pair).. *iO/ m
Brown Lizard Calf One-Strap
Shoes, leather sports heels, welted
soles. o*7 m
PRICE (pair) 44/0
All-Patent Lace Walking Shoes,
welted soles, leather sports on /g*
heels. PRICE (pair)... 44/0
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Dainty Handbags.
Grey and Brown Spider Calf
Handbags, short handle, fitted cap-
tive purse and burnished 40/
fittings. PRICE 4Z/-
Beaver and Morocco Handbags,
Kodak shape, burnished fittings,
wide front flap. Efcf /
PRICE OD/-
Blue Morocco Handbags, envelope
shape, flap finished with enamel
catch to tone ; fitted mirror £JQ/
and purse. PRICE.... DO/"
Grey and Gold Persian Handbags,
envelope shape, fitted mil- '7C/
ror and tablet. PRICE. . 4 0/-
Cinnamon Saffron Handbags,
envelope shape, flap finished with
enamel tongue, set in silver to tone
with bag; fitted mirror and centre
KSSe £5/18/6
Similar style, in Black Pin Seal, flap
finished with grey enamel jC C/1 A /
tongue. PRICE XD/ IU/-
(Handbags—Second Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440


<
CO
CO
f'
P 5
OS-
k. \
w
Q
pd
H
**:?;:
:•>?-:•; •: • iljl • t •
:: : : .;•£$ &£':•: 1
r
i: ]:: :: i;:::■: •: I: I jj
: : : : :::::: §§: •
: rj:: :;:^;:': : : : :: : : : : :t:
Wa 'iVIV^
> ;
CC
ui
L
uj p
c* £
20
O a
o£ I
WJ
« X!
v & - 1
; Z* 2
! S w 2
a:
> o
Q n *
\ «2*
, <w !?
*4s
«Ui?]
UUiitui
l« i/A
CL
3E
i 5
< z 3
« < o
0 j»o
I UI
h o
mMmm
niminiKiiih.i
X M
Ini;
a
W.
S’
rv
'¥/gl
a life l
VP
sH
a
.
,4:4
'
in
Ist& *v*»
IfISSIII
ilSillgP
•' : V- - ’’•
m
CV
I
Silll
©
Si
"w
Y:feiV
Ml
b® 4 j
I
!
1 till
ft
/, n
mm
■mu
a
.
fills
‘SSe
98
nip
- 1 : i -
h. K
SiS
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


THE ACCESSIBLE
MEN’S. SHOPS
&
&
IM
English tailored
“PLUS FOURS” SUITS
of
Fine Scotch Tweeds.
Here is the new style of two piece golf suitl
‘‘Pius Fours”, full cut for comfort, and coat
made with two large back p eats for shoulder
expansion. Made in England from finely
woven Scotch Tweeds in shades of fawn
and grey. Price, suit ... ... £6/15/-
The latest English Golf Suit has plain coat
and checked ” Plus Fours ” to match.
Faultlessly tailored from excellently woven
homespuns. David Jones’ have received a
limited quantity only, in fawns and greys.
Price, suit ... ... ... ••• £B/15/-
Also Coat Sweaters in fawn, heather and
grey Prices from ... ... 17/6 to 39/6
DAVID JONES’
FOR SERVICE - OPP. G.P.0., SYDNE.V
issued a Constitution forbidding mob law
and compulsory baptism.
The gravest kind of misleading history is,
perhaps, that in which the atmosphere is
unconsciously falsified. This arises some-
times from an attempt to judge past ages by
the canons accepted in our own time; but
more often, when Spain or the Inquisition
is discussed, from a misunderstanding of the
mediaeval attitude towards innovationists in
religion. There is very little justification
for regarding intolerance as essentially a
product of the Middle Ages. Plato taught
the doctrine hundreds of years before. It
was the spirit of the times, the Zeitgeist , as
we would call it now, that was responsible
for the rigorous measures used in the sup-
pressing of unwelcome opinions. Man lias
not changed greatly in the course of half
a millennium. “We must face the fact,"
Shaw tells us in his preface to “Saint Joan,”
“that society is based on intolerance. There
are glaring cases of the abuse of intolerance;
but they are quite as characteristic of our
own age as of the Middle Ages.” Consider
Lenin and his experiments in Russia; the
Star Chamber methods of the Ivu Ivlux Klan
in the United States; the “kill-and-try-after-
wards” manner of the Black and Tans in
Southern Ireland! The peculiar thing about
all this is that our modern Torquemadas lack
even the excuse of example. Everywhere
and always in the ages of Faith men believed,
rightly or wrongly, that nothing disturbed
the common peace as much as religious dis-
sensions and conflicts, and on the other hand
that a uniform faith was the surest guaran-
tee of the State's stability and prosperity.
Communism and anarchy expressed them-
selves in theological forms, and Church and
State united in a popular campaign of pro-
scription. For instance, the Albigensians
(or Cathari), whom “C. MeL.” drags in as
witnesses at his auto-da-fe, were the fore-
runners of a hundred irrational modern sects.
“Had Catharism become dominant.” writes
Lea in his “History of the Inquisition,” “or
even had it been allowed to exist on equal
terms, its influence could not have failed to
prove disastrous. Its asceticism with regard
to commerce between the sexes, if rightly
enforced, could only have led to the extinc-
tion of the race.... Such a creed could only
lead man back in time to his original condi-
tion of savageism.” It was precisely a
“horrible asceticism,” which “C. McL.” incor-
rectly attributes to Torquemada, that brought
about their downfall. We should be fair
even to a monk and an inquisitor.
P. K. S.
A Gipsy by Adoption
George Borrow, one of the most individual-
istic writers in English literature, was born
in a small Norfolk village in 1803. His
father, a Cornishman and captain of militia,
led, with his Huguenot wife and two small
sons, an unsettled existence, suffering almost
monthly change of garrisons. In this way,
while still a child. Borrow travelled all over
England, Scotland and Ireland, picking up
a desultory education, now at Edinburgh
High School, now at the Academy of
Cashel, and now as private pupil to such
eccentrics as the Germanopliile Taylor, of
Norwich, or the old exiled priest. With
such a childhood it is not surprising that
he was totally unable to settle down to the
life of a country solicitor, and when barely
20, his father being dead, he went to Lon-
don, taking with him two MSS., translations
of Welsh songs and Danish ballads, and not
much besides. He was an extraordinary
youth, in both mind and body. Already
he deserved his gipsy name of Lavengro,
the Word-master, for he knew Irish,
French, German, Italian, Danish, Welsh,
Latin, Greek, and even Romany, the gipsy
speech. Many people believed this last to be
simply a made-up gibberish similar to
thieves’ slang. Borrow was soon convinced
that it was not only a real language but a
very ancient one; indeed, lie believed it to
be cognate with Sanscrit.
His personal appearance was not less
striking than his mental equipment. He
was powerfully built and of great height,
and, while still a lad, quite white-
haired. Mrs. Herne, the old gipsy who tried
to poison him, referred to his “singular and
outrageous ugliness”—epithets that seem by
all accounts to have been accurate enough.
He led a half-starved and unhappy life in
London as a hack of the ferocious publisher
Sir Kichard Phillips, and it was with joy
that he turned his back on London and
went a-gipsying throughout England. Of
these wanderings “Lavengro” and “Romany
Rye” are an absolutely true account —facts,
dates, names are all innocent of the thinnest
disguise. The more one realises this, the
more one wonders not that the author should
have suffered from violent criticism, but that
he should not have spent the remainder of
his life as defendant in libel actions.
Having £IOO in hand, the profits of a suc-
cessful horse deal, this strange being set
off for St. Petersburg as an agent of the
British and Foreign Bible Society; after
two years there he went, still as colporteur,
to Portugal, Spain and Morocco. He re-
turned to England in 1840 and married a
well-to-do widow and settled down on a
small estate of hers near Lowestoft. But
his passion for wandering was too strong,
and within four years he was off again,
to South-Eastern Europe this time. That
wandering finished, he settled down chiefly
at Lowestoft, where he died (1881) at the
respectable age of 78. He did not begin
to write his original work till his travels
were over, and of his six books “Lavengro,”
with its sequel “Romany Rye,” is head and
shoulders above the rest. “Lavengro” is
one of those books that happen once and
once for all—they can never be imitated
without sheer plagiarism. It is the most
curious book: at times it contains such
poetry as this discourse of Lavengro’s with
Mr. Petulengro, on death :—.
“What is your opinion of death, Mr. Petulengro
said I, as I sat down beside him.
“My opinion of death, brother, is much the same
as that in the old song of Pharaoh, which T have
heard my grandam sing.... When a man dies, he
is cast into the earth, and his wife and child sor-
row oyer him. If he has neither wife nor child
then his father and mother, I suppose; and if he is
quite alone in the world, why, then, he is cast into
the earth, and there is an end of the matter. ,,
“And do you think that is the end of man?”
There s an end of him, brother, more’s the pity.**
“Why do you say so?”
“Life is sweet, brother.”
“Do you think so?”
“Think so! There's night and day, brother, both
sweet things; sun, moon, and stars, brother, all
sweet things; there’s likewise a wind on the heath.
Life is very sweet, brother; who would wish to die?”
“I would wish to die”
“You talk like a Gorgio—-which is the same as
talking like a fool. Were you a Romany C'hal, you
would talk wiser. Wish to die, indeed ! A Romany
Chal would wish to live for ever!”
“In sickness, Jasper ?”
“There’s the sun and stars, brother.”
“In blindness, Jasper?” *
“There’s the wind on the heath, brother; if I
could only feel that, I would gladly live for ever.”
Borrow could describe the ancient game of
the pea and tliimble equally well: —
Presently a man emerged from the tent, bearing
before him a rather singular table; it appeared to
be of white deal, was exceedingly small at the top,
and with very long legs.
Said I, “It’s a fine day.”
“Verv fine, mv Lord; will your Lordship player
Them that finds wins—-them that don’t find loses.”
“Play at what?” said I.
“Only at the tliimble and pea, my Lord.
“I never heard of such a game.”
“Didn’t you? Well, I’ll soon teach you, said lie,
placing the table down. “All you have to do is to
put a sovereign down on my table, and to find fne
pea, which 1 put under one of my thimbles. If
you find it—and it is easy enough to find it—I give
you a sovereign besides your own: for them that
finds, wins.”
“And them that don’t find, loses,’ said I.
Tlie only love story in the 147 chapters is
the idyll with Isopel Berners in Mumper s
Dingle. Isopel helped him to vanquish his
rival the Flaming Tinman, and loved him
better than he deserved ; but in the end she
refused to marry him, emigrating instead to
America, because she believed that,, though
he had “a wonderful deal of learning and
was exceedingly shrewd in some things, he
was at the root mad” —a belief other people
have shared with her. For Borrow, with
all his philological learning and general
acumen, was possessed by strange whimsies,
and in his hatred of Popery and of cant lie
overstepped the bounds of all moderation
and became not only undignified but tedious.
This same perversity led him, lik“ Coleridge,
to admire all sorts of insignificant personali-
ties —“Lavengro,” for instance, is full of
rhapsodies on men, mostly prize-fighters, long
forgotten.
Borrow chanced to live at the very turn-
ing point of the century, and experienced in
his own person the change from the Eng-
land of Dickens, with stage-coaches and
pugilism in the heyday of. their glory, to
modern England, with its railroads and com-
mercialism. In some of Lavengro’s roadside
adventures he seems to belong to an earlier
world altogether: then suddenly w T e come
on such an astonishingly modern passage as
this: “Some cants are not dangerous; but
the writer believes that a more dangerous
cant than the temperance cant, or, as it is
generally called, teetotalism, is scarcely to
be found. The writer is willing to believe
that it originated with well-meaning, though
weak, people, but there can be no doubt
that it was quickly turned to account by
people who were neither well-meaning nor
weak. Let the reader note particularly the
purpose to which this cry has been turned
in America; the land, indeed, par excellence,
of humbug and humbug cries.”
Borrow is the shining example of muscu-
lar Christianity, being, like Isopel Berners,
“one who feared God, and took his own
part.”
D. J.
The Intelligent Scot
Where is he? What has become of him?
The questions are suggested by the article
“Burns —and Another,” from the pen of
“D.M.W.” In my recollection of 60 years
ago the average Scot stoodr on a high plane
of intelligence, knowledge and discrimina-
tion ; but he has evidently been caught by
the wave of “progress” and now devotes his
intellect to no higher themes than football,
golf and moving-pictures. The facts dis-
closed in connection with the bogus lines,
“To Jessie Lewars,” found near Dunedin and
acclaimed by Maoriland Scots as a genuine
Burns lyric, at any rate prove that the aver-
age Scot of to-day knows nothing of poetry.
The poem referred to, consisting of eight
stanzas of eight lines each, was said to have
been written by Burns five days before his
death, when he was at Brow, some eight
miles from Dumfries, and when it was sup-
posed Miss Lewars was visiting him. The
fact is Miss Lewars was not at Brow; but
in a letter to his wife, written on July 14,
1796, her name is mentioned by Burns. This
led an unknown impostor to conclude that
she was with the poet, and on this assump-
tion the lines were based. They were first
published and attributed to Burns in the
New York Scotsman on June 17, 1876, and
were soon after pronounced an imposture.
The truth, evidently, did not reach Maori-
land, for the verses were published in the
Otago Witness, as genuine, about the year
1880. They then sank into oblivion until the
present year, when a visitor from Scotland
rediscovered them in the scrap-book of “an
aged Scot” near Dunedin, and sen* them to
the Peeblesshire Advertiser (Scotland),
whence they were copied by the Otago Daily
Times, with the bold signature “Robert
Burns.” This was enough for the unintelli-
gent Scots, who at once shouted themselves
hoarse over the “discovery,” though they
should all have perceived, with “D.M.W.,” that
Burns could not have written it—“not one
verse of it is in his manner.” More, they
proceeded to defend its bad grammar, poor
rhymes and nonsensical phrases as “Burns at
his best.”
The seventh stanza (the best of the lot)
as originally printed in New York, read :
Ah! What is Fame ? Its wreath of bays
Cools not the fevered brow,
Though proudly it may tell his name
Who whistled at the plough.
When reprinted in Otago, about 1880.
“wreath of bays” was altered to “wealth of
lays,” as given by “D.M.W.,” and the third
line appeared as “Will’t tell his name in
future days.” Forty-four years later, when the
lines were rediscovered, the nonsensical expres-
sion “wealth of lays” appeared in the cryptic
form “wealth of lava.” which, besides being
unintelligible, made halting metre. Yet a
bold Otago Scot claimed to make sense of
this by declaring that “lava” was a Gaelic
word meaning “day” or “days gone by.” This
was an example of sheer obstinacy, which
makes it a virtue to stick to an opinion, even
when it is shown to be wrong. Apart from
the awful nonsense of a “wealth of lava,”
this seventh stanza satisfied me at once that
the verses were bogus, though at the time
they appeared I knew nothing of their true
history. Burns was not given to the use of
“apt alliteration” to the extent shown in
this verse, e.g., “simple song,” “happier
hearts,” “shining sheaves” and “round the
....ring.” It could better have passed as
genuine Swinburne!
I have found that nearly all Scots nowa-
days attribute every bit of Scots verse to
Burns. At the present moment a controversy
is raging in the Scotsman (Edinburgh) over
the authorship of “I’m Wearin’ Awa’,” some
stoutly maintaining that Burns wrote it.
and not Lady Nairne, though to fit the Burns
theory the person addressed as John has his
name altered to Jean. Some 50 years ago it
was solemnly argued in Scotland that Burns
wrote most of the “Paraphrases” published
in the Scottish Bible, notably the celebrated
“Oh, God of Bethel.” A renewml of that
claim is now nearly due. Some Englishmen,
I must admit, similarly claim every bit of
sententious metre as “Sliakspearc.” Even
“JAM. vv.” is not free from this weak-
ness, for he says Scotland has only “one
poet who takes first rank.” Of course he
means Burns, but he ignores or slights others
who deserve to be bracketed (at least) with
him. What of Allan Ramsay, Robert Fer-
guson, Walter Scott. Tannahile and others?
Critics agree that Burns owes much to Ram-
say ; Burns himself addresses Ferguson as
“by far my elder brother in the Muses”;
and no one who has read the works of these
poets can deny that Burns imitated and
appropriated from them wholesale.
J. L. K.
Modern Australian Literature
There are obvious and sufficiently painful
reasons why no author of a book on Austra-
lian Literature (1900-23) can hope to
find praise in the eyes of all whom it may
concern. A very great deal of the best work
that has been done in Australia in the last
20 years exists only in the fugitive form of
more or less meteoric appearances in a small
section of the press, which is an additional
handicap to the historian. In the limited
scope of 50-odd well-printed pages Nettie
Palmer has achieved a masterly bit of pio-
neering. So vital a book is something more
than “suggestive,” a label prodigally be-
stowed by reviewers to indicate the liigli-
watcr mark of criticism: it is provocative.
It is a happy chance that the first real book
on Australian Literature should create so
fine a precedent in clear-cut judgment, often
brilliantly set forth. Such things as this
challenge in their oddly vivid and arresting
way:—
Bernard O’Dowd in Melbourne, but passionately
conscious of Australia as a whole, cut like ribbed
lightning across the calm of the book with his
“Dawnward?” using short, harsh stanzas and often
long, harsh words.
The truth is not always so happily told!
Some sins of omission sit heavy on the
book. Few writers among us at the present
time combine Vance Palmer’s originality of
thought with such rare mellowness of style.
(Is the modern wife as fastidious in the
matter of literature as the immortal valet?)
Certainly, he should not have been banished.
J. H. M. Abbott might have been more
lavishly treated, not because his work is
redolent of gum-saplings and salt-busli, but
because lie has re-created with great raciness
and imaginative sympathy a period which is
vital and fraught witli romance to us of the
third and fourth generations. Lawson come
in for a rarely penetrating piece of criticism.
Although his stories are sometimes rough and
defective in detail, there is a fine feeling about their
general form. Their loose, easy look is not due to
limpness, but to perfect control. In such a way the
bushman has been described as riding, “sitting loosely
in the saddle all the while.” Lawson sits loosely
in the saddle, and this gives his best work the air
of naturalness that most modern writers of the short
story, from Tchekhov onwards, have tried to attain.
Room might have been found for Roy Bridges,
at the expense of one or two pot-boilers,
bare of literary distinction, which force an
entrance on the doubtful plea that they re-
veal resources as yet untapped by fiction.
Randolph Bedford, on the other hand, is
happily hit off in a paragraph that does full
justice to his “indomitable gusto.” Some
well-seasoned readers of the Red Page will
regret the absence of Frank Morton among
the versifiers. So far we have produced no
more urbane writer of “occasional” verse.
At his best his handling of intricate verse-
forms was distinguished by a nonchalant
deftness that was often very charming, and,
sometimes, vastly felicitous. No one brings
this forward as a proof that his poetry was
sublime, but it served as a wholesome. and
“sweet remembrancer” of the more spiritual
conventions of poetic form at its finest to more
than one wild-eyed young poet. Finally, in
a work of larger scope the little anthology
of Melbourne University verse published a
few years ago—the sister ’varsities have
since followed the innovation —might have
been mentioned in earnest of the fact that
even with the younger generation jioetry in
Australia betrays an interesting breach with
tradition in content, and, within limits, in
form as well.
It is a rare thing to find a critic of con-
temporary writers combining a sureness of
touch with the ability to write prose that
has at once strength and beauty. This
summing-up of the prose and verse that the
twentieth century has brought to life shows
a grip of the subject and a fine feeling for
just beauty of expression that make one
hope the small book is merely the. fore-
runner of more comprehensive studies.
E. L.
Fitzgerald’s “Omar” must have been fairly
well known in England in the late ’seventies (B.
4/9/’24) ; in 1879 it had reached a fourth edition.
It was 10 years, however, before the fifth came; ever
since then it has been reprinted every year, occasionally
with several impressions in the one year. By the
’nineties it was just establishing a reputation in
Australia. Fitzgerald published his translation
privately in 1859 ; it is a well-known piece of
literary history that he gave the greater part of the
edition to Quaritch, the bookseller, who, finding he
couldn’t get rid of it, relegated it to a street stall
and priced it at a penny. It was here that Swin-
burne and Rossetti first made Omar’s acquaintance;
having bought a few copies each, they returned
next day for more, only to find, says Swinburne, that
the price had gone up to the “sinfully extravagant
sum of twopence.” That penny pamphlet now brings
over £3OO at auction!


ONLY PACKARD CAN BUILD A PACKARD
u
X.
*
♦
if
*s>
/
fr
/
♦
%
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX SEVEN
PASSENGER TOURING CAR
Back of the Single-Six
IN 1899 The Packard Motor Car Company was founded by the brothers J.W. and W.D. Packard. In that first year
only one car was produced and it was driven by J.W. Packard himself for a year before he was satisfied that it was better
than anything that had yet appeared on the American market. After this, production began in real earnest and twelve cars
were placed on the market the next year. In 1903 the Packard factory was moved to Detroit and there is little doubt but
that Packard’s greatness as a builder of fine cars rests upon the splendid reputation for performance which its products
made in the years 1904 and 1905, for by 1906 the quality of the Packard was as firmly established in the minds of motor-
ists as it is to-day, and the ownership of a Packard car carried as much distinction.
As far back as 1905, not only was the Packard a reliable, durable car, but it was quiet and beautiful, according to the standards of the day.
Packard’s policy has always been to secure the best materials available and then to put them through the most rigid scientific tests avail-
able. The process of construction which those materials go through is a craft, just at the manufacture of chronometers and delicate in-
struments is a craft; and Packard engineers are craftsmen whose standard of workmanship is summed up in the Packard factory slogan,
"Quality First.” To such standards has the famous Single-Six been built. It comprises the finest in material, workmanship and design.
The motor of the Single-Six is so scientifically constructed that it produces
a perfect combination of those essential elements Power, Flexibility and
Economy. The Engine has a 3%in. bore and a sm. stroke and develops over
54 horse-power. It is so flexible that a change out of high gear is seldom nec-
essary. It will idle along, on a rise, at two miles an hour in top gear without
the slightest period in the engine and it will do its modest seventy on the
level with the same amount of ease. In dense traffic it will pick up in high
gear as long as the engine is just turning over. It takes the severest hills on
high with consummate ease. Some two years experience in Australia shows
that Packard owners are obtaining 16 to 20 miles to a gallon of petrol, and
500 to 800 miles to a gallon of oil.
Besides these features Packard has given a new meaning to Comfort. The
crankshaft of the Single-Six engine has seven bearings which entirely elimi-
nate vibration. Side-sway and rolling have been obviated by the use of
semi-elliptic front and rear springs of very efficient construction. The Single-
Six rests on a total spring length of 15 ft. 4 in. The long wheelbase of 133 in.
provides ample room for passengers and makes possible that smooth, glid-
ing movement for which the Packard is noted.
All Packard models are equipped with the famous Packard Fuelizer. This
exclusive Packard feature accomplishes four important results :
1. It contributes to fuel economy.
2. It adds greatly to the speed of acceleration.
3. It reduces the"warming-up”period in cold weather.
4. It diminishes dilution of crankshaft oil.
The Packard Straight-Eight was the first prominent American car to carry
four-wheel brakes, and now all Packard models are equipped with them.
An interesting feature of the Packard brake design is that the four-wheel
brakes involve no greater number of parts than the conventional brakes
used on the rear wheels only. There is absolute safety with Packard brakes
because of the perfect compensation between all wheels, both across the car,
and lengthwise. Skidding and sidesway have been completely eliminated,
and it is quite impossible to lock the front wheel brakes. In all there is a
total of six brakes on the Packard.
There are many other features that will interest you. Let us demonstrate
them. They will convince you that in this Single-Six Packard has main-
tained its reputation for the best that human skill and modern machinery
can produce.
IRA L. & A.C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261,263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd., The Universal Motors Pty., The Packard Agency, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne Petrie's Bight, Brisbane 141 Flinders St., Adelaide Hobart, Tasmania
PACKARD
ask the man who owns one


AFRAID TO FACE THE
FACTS ?
Then don’t read this page-
MOST MEN are afraid to
face the HARD facts.
They like to go on with
the easy assumption that “things
are going to break” for them
some day.
They hate to be reminded that
in ten years Business will regard
them as middle-aged.
The income which marks a
man as a success at twenty-five
or thirty marks him as a failure
at thirty-five or forty.
When you look about you,
what are the hard facts?
A majority of the men you
know are living up to every cent
they earn. Many have mort-
gaged their incomes for luxuries
months ahead. They are “get-
ting as much fun as they can as
they go along.”
Every man is entitled to fun as
he goes along. Only a fool will
sacrifice all of the present for the
future. But between the folly
which refuses to look facts in the
face, and the folly which sacri-
fices too much, there is a sensible
middle ground.
The Alexander Hamilton In-
stitute appeals to thoughtful men
on that sensible middle ground.
It demands no sacrifice —only
a few pence a day and a few
hours a month. It asks no man
to take a chance—more than
In ten years you will be—
1. Just about where you are to-day
in business; only greyer, more
tired, with family expenses always
just a little ahead of the routine
salary increases. Or—
2. The head of a department. A
very useful man—so useful that
they couldn’t think of doing with-
out you, yet lacking the all-
round knowledge which lifts
men beyond departmental posi-
tions into executive opportunity.
Or—
3. In business for yourself, but not
doing very well. A very large
percentage of the men who em-
bark in business fail. They know
the one department in which they
have had previous experience—
sales, accounting, production or
finance—but are weak in one or
more of the others. A chain
breaks at its weakest link. Or—
4. Really successful, either in your
own business or some other.
Able to employ and direct de-
partmental men because you
have a working knowledge of
their departments. Confident,
prosperous, experiencing the satis-
faction of succeeding while you
are still young enough to enjoy
your success.
250,000 men have tested its
training and been repaid for it
hundreds of times over by their
increased earning power. It
asks no man to wait for a vague,
far-off result; the reading you do
to-day begins to work for you to-
morrow. You are conscious
FROM THE FIRST MOMENT
that a new strong power is acting
for your business and financial
progress.
You find yourself master of
the sound business knowledge
which is so absolutely necessary
to every man who dares to hope
for an executive position and a
large income.
Decision —the Test of Success.
The difference between suc-
cess and failure is frequently a
matter of decision. Two men
read about life insurance. One
acts; one waits until it is too late.
Two men will read this page.
One will say: “At least I will get
the facts about this training.
There is no cost or obligation in
that.” The other will MEAN to
act, but will not.
You have Decision.
The coupon will bring you a
book of facts that are intensely
interesting. Send for it; read it.
Spend one evening quietly in
your own home, thinking about
the next ten years. It may be an
evening that will mean hundreds
of pounds to you.
Alexander Hamilton Institute of
Australia, Ltd.,
Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Modern
Send me “Forging Ahead _in
Business,” which I may keep with-
out obligation.
Name
(Print Here)
Business
Address
Business
Position
B. 22.
Victorian Representative ....
Queensland Representative ....
South Australian Representative
Western Australian Representative
New Zealand Representatives
Box 726 G.P.O., Melbourne.
Box 91+3 G.P.O., Brisbane.
Box 89It G.P.O., Adelaide.
Perpetual Trustee Buildings,
Box Jfl5 G.P.O., Wellington.
Box J+22 G.P.O., Auckland.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.


Ili
i
m
L
f
"»■
"S
\
•-
“THE CHEERY
WELCOME OF AN INN”
In no business is attractiveness more necessary than in
an hotel or holiday resort. The traveller arriving at night
feels welcome, when he sees the well-lighted establishment,
for here he knows is a host who caters well for his guests.
His first impression is favorable, and first impressions are
lasting.
Bad lighting is depressing—your guests want comfort,
brightness, gaiety—let them have it, it costs no more.
Hundreds of hotels and holiday resorts throughout
Australia are Delco-Light equipped, for Delco-Light supplies
an abundance of brilliant electric light, more cheaply than
your present inefficient system. There are 25 models, one of
which exactly meets your requirements.
Write to your Distributor for Booklet “B.”
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.
' •
5S»!e
msm
m
A
s«w
Tf "WJ
■' ■-
H
*
tm '
«S
DELCO-LIGHT


Cuticura Talcum Is
Refreshing To The Skin
Daily use of Cuticura Talcum
overcomes heavy perspiration and
soothes and refreshes the skin. It
imparts a delicate fragrance, leaving
the skin sweet and wholesome.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad ;
dress: ‘‘R.Towns& Co.. Sydney. N.S.W, "
ft Try our new Shaving Stick.
t
For bells and buzzers, Columbia
No. 6. For gas engine ignition,
Columbia “Hot Shot.” Obtainable
everywhere at little cost; more
energy; more prolonged service.
Always insist upon
COLUMBIA
iawxxoa
WNition AW»
ra shoic
Lr..-| BATTERY EH
ii
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/» per day inclusive;
10/6 Red and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
l should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
I< .*■!*
mm
"V
111
111
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
OR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless-
Waterproof—Permanent!
All Chemists.
Stock Saved is Money Saved
Old methods and inefficient castrating instruments resulted
in many a loss of valuable animals.
The progressive stockowner, alive to every advantageous
invention, castrates with
DENVER’S “ECLIPSE”
TRIPLE-CRUSH EMASCULATOR.
This is the most humane and efficient instrument. it
removes all danger from blood-poisoning and prevents loss
of life. Crushes before cutting. Most rapid and convenient
in use. Finest quality, tested and guaranteed.
Write for Veterinary Catalogue and prices.
Veterinary Specialists,
Dept. 1, 281 George Street, Sydney.
h
DENYERS,
ĥ
ħ
Missing Friends.
ANY person having information regarding
the following:—
RICHARD MURPHY, who was last heard
of at Waverley, Sydney;
JOHN MURPHY, who was last hoard of at
Preston, Melbourne; and
MICHAEL MURPHY, who was last heard
of at Cloncurry, Queensland;
all of whom are sons of JAMES MURPHY,
laborer, who died at Dunedin, New Zealand,
on is requested to communicate with
the District Public Trustee, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
DALPH, CHARLES ALBERT, formerly
X\> of Melbourne, communicate with
Septimus, reference English estate.
Beautiful Diamond Rings
Correct in Quality and Design
Expert knowledge of gems, wide cash-buying powers and excep-
tionally long experience combine to make Fairfax & Roberts
values for line jewellery phenomenal.
Choice Diamonds set
in Platinum and ISct.
Gold Ring, £25-
Fine Diamond, with
small diamonds at the
sides, set in Platinum
and 18ct. gold, £3O
Choice Diamonds
platinum and
gold, £35
set in
18ct.
-1 Fine Diamonds set
in Platinum and 18ct.
gold ring, £22/10/-
■
: i
3 Choice Diamonds set
in platinum and 18ct.
gold ring, £2O
Five selected Diamonds,
milled grain settings in
Platinum and 18ct.
gold ring, £l7/10/-
The Optical Department, on the first floor, is equipped to render
the most complete service.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFAXfeROBERTS L T f l
25&Z5 Hunter Street Sydney A
ill ! l»
Ri
4
C RAIG and AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
s
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets: —
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and fin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
VARIOVS VERSE
[For THE BULLETIN]
A Point of View.
I have no time to stand and stare,
To watch the whole world amble by.
Only a fool is free from care —
I have a house to build more fair
Before I come to die.
Though they should call me Philistine,
Yet do I dream a blasphemy?
Why should the wish be not divine
To gather a treasure for me and mine
Against the enemy?
The passionless years will come too soon ;
I build for the dreamers that are to be.
Shall I be singing a lonely rune,
Like an old dog baying a pallid moon,
When youth is gone from me?
But I shall go in a cool green space
When I am old and have earned my rest;
I shall sit in a sunny place,
And I shall read in your tranquil face —
The good I have is best.
MAORII.AND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
The Overture.
To this high heaven of sounding song, to this
Abode of light ineffable and bliss
The music, soaring to the farthest spheres,
Has borne me. Filling my enraptured ears,
Sonorous, vibrant, wonderful, it swells
And rises like the murmurous tide. Now
bells
Ring goldenly; the cymbals clash; the drums
Beat, throbbing into silence whence there
comes
The plaintive cry of muted violins.
The faint star-singing in the distance thins
To one white thread of silver sound. Again
The ’cellos voice the elemental pain
At nature’s heart. The strings and wood-
winds merge
In one tempestuous overwhelming surge
Of sound —a storm of music, like a sea
Onrushing, irresistible, whose roll
Reverberates and thunders through my soul.
1 am but foam upon the tossing crest
Of those wild waves, upborne upon the breast
Of depths unfatliomed, rich in dreams, pro-
found.
Oh, swift and splendid surging sea of sound!
The music rises still to heights sublime,
Transcending thought. It bids my spirit
climb
To rapture, sings of love and life and tears,
The mystery and wonder of the years,
Until each golden mellow ringing tone,
Deep and most beautiful, has made its own
My every sense and filled with ecstasy,
Supreme, divine, the inmost heart of me.
Victoria.
ETHEL MARTYR.
The Dream Ship.
Out of the gloom and stormy weather
See her drive like a silver cloud!
Under her bows a white foam feather —
Curling out like an ostrich feather —
Dazzling canvas and shining shroud.
Stark and clear for the heart’s discerning,
Pure as a lily half unfurled,
Hope, the figure-head, forward yearning—
Out of the dark to the dayspring yearning—
Leans her breast where the crests are
curled.
Blackly blue are the deeps that sunder
Slopes of sapphire dappled with white;
Loud behind us the crash of thunder- —-
Toppling castles and crags of thunder—
Shaking caverns of storm and night.
What of the freight the tall ship carries?
Oh, let the dark-blue waves dispart!
Hush! for spirit with substance marries—
Long desire with an old need marries—
Sails embossed with a burning heart.
Ah ! what exquisite air drives with her,
Sharp as the deathless Viking brine!
Whence is lost, but the radiant Whither —
Hope at the prow leans toward that
Whither—
Lifts in light that our dreams divine.
light that never on land or water
Sunrise glamor of saffron shed!
Spears of the storm are raised for
slaughter—
Oh. at our back is foam and slaughter—
Lean, swift Hope, toward the coasts ahead!
Cliffs that melt in the brightness o’er them—
Saffron, amber, mirage of gold!
Foamless the dark-blue stream before them—
Peace of the sea outspread before them —
Sunrise vistas like flowers unfold.
n.s.w.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Heart Song.
Oh, my heart has looked on the mountains
high
And into the valleys between,
Out over the paddocks of ripening rye
And the little new grass all green!
Oh, my heart has looked on the golden sea,
On the sea with its sullen face;
But never the sea has a call for me
Like the call of the mountain place!
I have laughed with the little chattering
streams
And joined their silences deep
In the shadowed pool where the mountain
dreams
And the ferns in their mosses sleep.
Oh, my heart has looked for many a year
On the shine and the cloud and rain;
And there’s never a bird from far or near
That has piped to my heart in vain!
For they call it away to the mountains high
Where no other but Ood shall see
Its anguish when brushes my car a sigh
Of the grass that shall cover me!
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.


Z 7
/7
I
'\w
p
9
b
The Spirit of Unity
Unity is the very music of life—
a perfect symphony of thought
and action. With unity one may
live ideals in a world of wonderful
reality. And its surest foundation
lies in the genial companionship
and unquestioned maturity of
DEWAR’S


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Tranemission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 45.—N0. 2328.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924.
PBICB 6d.
THE PLAYFUL LITTLE BEGGARS.
“Though Sydney Trades and Labor Council last week issued a manifesto to the effect that ‘the fight against the capitalist social order can be carried on only in the
last resort with weapons in the hand,' T. J. Lang, Parliamentary Labor leader, still says that the communists are not worth taking any notice of.”
N.S.W. LABOR-LEADER LANG: “See what they’re doing? Playful little beggars, ain’t they?"


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man."
liintcd and published by William Macleod, of
i, usgiave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
lo„ -14 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS .
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
lo ANY address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 16s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
ues ’ di'afts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pai t of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly j reserved by the publishers.
7//e Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Corres-pondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
1 optical. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
°i Sketches i those dealing with Australian subjects
1l e j ccee< B n O two columns in length, or, say.
3UM icords, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
t 16 regarded as strictly confidential.
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sona, applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.’e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Tj. St, C. Grondona, Australia House. Strand"
of_^The_BunetiiF^oanbeoh-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson
and Sons; Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
L.C.I; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High, Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: .1. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 IKesf Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Pereia, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 'East Eric Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1, to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924.
WRECKING THE PEACE LEAGUE.
A man dropped in on the League of Nations
Assembly at Geneva with a scheme for
achieving universal peace. He came from
Massey’s country, which was the first to
rush to the recruiting-office when Lloyd
George, in a fit of cerebral excitement and
wounded egoism, sent out his bugle-call to
the Dominions to fall on the unspeakable
Turk in contravention of the League
covenant and the rules of commonsense;
and his name was llyde. His plan for
reaching the longed-for goal in a hurry has
the merit of being simple and explicit. Having
first of all induced the high contracting parties
to voluntarily limit their forces to a stated
figure, he proposes to establish a League of
Nations general staff of all the number one
admirals, generals, airmen and scientists to
control these forces, which, in the event of
war, will become the army of the League.
Any nation transgressing the covenant be-
comes an aggressor nation, and will be
promptly sat upon by the collective army.
What is left of the aggressor after the poly-
glot steam-roller has gone over it will be
liable to assessment for all expenses con-
nected with the proceedings. For the pur-
poses of the scheme the League is to he
divided into full members, who agree to do
the fighting ; conditional members, who agree
to everything except fighting; and friendly
members, who will just stand round and bar-
rack.
The fact that the plan was not car-
ried to the fireplace forthwith seems to indi-
cate that the small moral successes achieved
by the League have gone to its head, and that
some of its members have begun to dream
that ancient dream of world-domination
which first came to Ashukbanipal, the
Assyrian, and has since troubled the sleep
of various persons, including Dakius Hys-
taspis, the Greek Alexander, the Buddhist
Asoka, Jengiiis Iviian, Napoleon 1., also
111., and the German Kaiser. When Alex-
ander started on his career, Parmenio said
to him, “After you have conquered Persia
what will you do 7” “Then I shall conquer
India.’’ “After you have conquered India,
what will you do?” “Conquer Scythia.”
“And after Scythia, what will you do?”
“Sit down and rest.” “Well,” said Par-
M'ENio, “why not sit down and rest now?”
The youth did not take Parmenio’s advice,
and after conquering Scythia pushed on into
India. India, he discovered, was not the
limit of the habitable globe, for beyond it
lay Burmah, Siam, China and othe* coun-
tries ; and as his ramshackle empire was
already tumbling to pieces in his rear,
he had to hurry home. All the other
world-conquerors had the same experi-
ence. The pax Romanus brooded over
Europe, Asia and Africa longer than the
rest, and men began to think it was immor-
tal : the anopheles mosquito initiated its de-
struction and the unabsorbed barbarians com-
pleted it. Charlemagne revived the dream
and the Holy Roman Empire carried it on.
It obsessed the heavy minds of the Bourbons,
and Napoleon came as near to realising it
as any man in modern times. All the great
failures started with the best intentions
—with the same intentions, in fact, as the
League of Nations. They all ardently de-
sired the Reign of Peace, and they waded
through oceans of blood and raised heca-
tombs of corpses to establish it. They all
labored under the same delusion—that life is
static, that human evolution can be immobil-
ised.
* * * *
So does the plan ascribed to the opti-
mistic Hyde, of Maoriland. It infers that
present national boundaries are as they should
be, that political institutions have reached
perfection, that any possible dispute breaking
out between two nations should be resolvable
by arbitration, and if not resolved, one
or other should be punished for cussedness.
Yet Greece has a just grievance against Tur-
key for its treatment of her nationals in
Asia Minor; Germany has a grouch with
merit in it against Poland for a similar
reason: there is something in the Indian
complaint of discrimination against colored
colonists in Kenya. All these people have
powerful friends amongst the members of the
League. There are alien minorities in every
country, with compatriots across the frontier
spoiling for a fight on their behalf. Private
agreements, racial prejudices and economic
interests make a secret network inside the
League’s fabric. It is certain that any coun-
try which defied arbitration over a major
issue would get plenty of support. Napoleon
recruited his armies by levies on the Euro-
pean nations only so long as he could keep
them terrorised; the League, to achieve the
same result, would have to do a deal of
terrorising. There are 200 million Germans
and Americans outside the League, and over
1000 million Asiatics and negroes are only in
it because their imperial masters want them
to be. Almost every one of the covenanting
countries brings with it a long train of
brown, black or tawny subjects. Britain
brings 300 million protesting Indians, Japau
20 million expostulating Koreans, France
50 million semi-barbarous Africans and dis-
gruntled Annamites. The dusky helots of
disorganised Portugal number 10 millions,
little Belgium is weighted down with 18 mil-
lion savages and Holland with its home popu-
lation of less than 7 millions polices
a vast subject population six times
as great. Most of this vast multi-
tude of skeletons at the festival of peace
hail from Asia. Most of them are in more
or less active revolt against their foreign
masters, and most of them regard the League,
if they ever heard of it, as a sinister
confederation of their alien lords and masters
to maintain them in a state of political and
economic slavery, so that they may be the
more easily exploited. And over against
them, in more or less intimate contact, are
the 120 millions of Soviet Russia, who are
neither members of the League nor want to
be.
* * * *
Yet, in the face of these facts, even
the League itself proposes to abandon its
comparatively fruitful policy of moral
suasion, and adopt military methods of im-
posing peace similar to those suggested by the
gentleman from Maoriland ; there have been
tentative inquiries as to Britain’s readiness
to employ the Grand Fleet as a heavyweight
pacificator, and the British and French dele-
gations have even gone so far as to agree to
the terms of a protocol regarding the penal-
ties to be applied to any State refusing arbi-
tration. The first preliminary is to be gen-
eral disarmament, to be discussed at a con-
ference shortly. As some of the most heavily-
armed nations are outside the League and
1000 million colored people are only nomi-
nally in it. while the members themselves are
far from being the contented family they
appear, the proposition sounds rash. The
League has been doing good work along the
lines of moral suasion and propaganda. Its
newest outburst merely threatens its use-
fulness.
THE WRENS AND THEIR FRIENDS.
The politician who regards horse- and pony-
gambling as a pursuit worthy of an en-
lightened people, and has a deep respect for
the votes of those engaged in the business, is
very conspicuous these days. In South
Australia a Labor legislator is sponsoring a
bill to legalise bookmakers, who have been
banned from S.A. racecourses during the
present century; and though Labor professes
to be anti-capitalist, and the bookmaker is
the most noxious of parasites on the workers,
the measure is expected to have a speedy
passage thorough the House which Labor
controls. McShortobds has powerful friends
in the Tasmanian Labor party also, and there
are indications that the evil S.A. example
will presently be imitated in the Speck.
Wren, the proprietary-racing potentate, is
a Labor boss in Victoria, where his interests
have been championed on numerous occasions
by alleged representatives of the toiling
masses; and the manager of his two Perth
racecourses is a Westralian M.L.A. The
same Wren is on terms of intimacy with
Queensland Labor politicians, whose support
has been useful in the past—witness the
fact, among others, that Queensland proprie-
taries have been permitted to retain p.c.
of the totalisator receipts, whereas p.c. is
the statutory deduction in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
And in an emergency which has arisen
the friendship of these politicians may have
to be tested again. Last year, when there
was an outcry against proprietary racing,
When was reported to have sold his Albion
Park course to a body calling itself the
Brisbane Amateur Turf Club. The terms
were not paraded, but it has been asserted
without contradiction that the purchasers
undertook to pay WREN £477,000 at so much
a month—£477,ooo for a dingy racetrack in
an out-of-the-way part of one of the lesser
capitals!—and handed him £lO,OOO to bind
the contract. It is also alleged that the
B.A.T.C. has 45 members (the Queensland
Turf Club has 800), and a pertinent in-
quiry as to whether Wren retains any
measure of control has not been answered.
Reporting on its first year’s operations, the
new club said enough to show that the
Albion, Park clean-up would be envied by any
Australian gold-mining co. now in the busi-
ness. Receipts from all sources were stated
at £114,328, of which £28,717 was contri-
buted by the totalisator and £34,479 taken at
the gates. The expenditure included improve-
ments, £2397; “further stamp and transfer
duties in connection with the sale of the pro-
perties,” £3581: instalment of the deposit,
£8000; and “£42.000 of the purchase-money
to the vendor, Mr. Wren.” There was no
reference to the amount on which income-tax
had been levied, but when the facts were
considered at the annual meeting of the
Queensland Turf Club, which controls regis-
tered racing throughout the State, the profits
were assessed at £55,978, and no one dis-
puted it. Comparing its own transactions
with those of the fortunate “amateurs,” the
Q.T.C. found that it had raced 26 days and
distributed prize-money amounting to
£05.609, an average of £2449, whereas the
B.A.T.C. had conducted 32 meetings and dis-
tributed £29,810, an average of £931. The
Q.T.C. profit on a year described by the
chairman as “the most successful in the long
history of the club” was £12,495, or nearly
£30,0d0 less than was received from the
B.A.T.C. by Wren alone. And the owner-
ship of Albion Park would presumably revert
to that engaging person if anything hap-
pened to the, B.A.T.C. In view of all the
circumstances, the controlling body decided,
very properly, that the Albion Park people
could afford to be less niggardly with owners
of racehorses, and ordered them to increase
their prize-money to £l5OO per meeting. For
this it has been attacked in the Queensland
Assembly by a Labor member, who mentioned,
as an afterthought, that he “held no brief for
Mr. Wren or the 8.A.T.C.” The Govern-
ment has been urged to intervene on political
grounds. There is a crying need, it seems,
for “a bill to fix up racing”—a bill that
would deprive the Q.T.C. of its controlling
powers (especially the power to interfere
with Wren’s arrangements) and transfer
them to a “Board” congenial to the Boss.
llow elevating is that Laborism which flies
to the help of Wren and persons of his de-
scription when their right to extract huge
profits in one way and another from licensed
gambling-hells is in question!
* •* * *
A Board of the species demanded in Queens-
land crept into existence in N. S. Wales
wdien the last Labor Government was in
office. It had a pony-racecourse proprietor
for chairman, and its aims were ambitious
—one of them, so the story went at the time,
was to secure the registration of a pony club
in spite of the A.J.C. But opposition was
aroused by the secret and midnight fashion
in which the oracle had been worked, and
the Board judged it prudent to steal into
silence again, leaving its task unaccom-
plished. The pear wasn’t ripe. The incident
demonstrated, however, that the pony-racing
interest was a power in N. S. Wales politics,
and, though LqJ)or is out and “Nationalism”
is in. a power it still is. For the report of
the Parliamentary Select Committee which
inquired into the nefarious pony business and
suggested that the four Sydney clubs should
be converted into non-proprietary institu-
tions, with a governing body of their own,
it has been almost boisterous in its contempt.
When the Select Committee’s recommenda-
tions were published a man was put up to
say that no N. S. Wales Government would
dare to adopt them, flabby as they are. The
taunt is evidently justified as regards the
present Ministry, for the report has not been
debated, although a month has elapsed since
it was handed to the newspapers, aud Oakes.
the Chief Secretary (the same who refused
to prosecute a number of city bookmakers for
breaking the law against shop betting),
bleated that he would do nothing “until I see
what action the clubs are taking,” which
means that nothing will be done. In the
course of its investigations the Select Com-
mittee found —as the Q.T.C. has done in the
case of Albion Park—that “immense sums
have been earned” by the pony proprietaries,
and that “certain clubs have been many times
reconstructed, to the inordinate advantage of
the original shareholders.” These “immense
sums” have, for tli,e most part, been made at
the expense of the class for which Labor
members profess’toy speak. Were all forms of
proprietary racing abolished that class would
be better off in every way, and a political
mincer would be cut out. Indeed, a multitude
of workers would be saved from a costly and
dangerous craze, aud millions now wasted
would be available for fruitful industrial pur-
poses. if racing were conducted solely by
amateur clubs with no incentive to overdo
the business, if betting were confined to their
totalisators—which, on prominent courses,
would comprise straightout, place and double-
event machines —and if the printing of handi-
caps were forbidden until 11 o’clock on the
morning of a race-day. The last-mentioned
measure would be an absolute preventive
against the nlague of s.-p. betting, which
rages so furiously in Australian metropoli
and towns, whereas the silly Victorian and
N. S. Wales embargo on the publication of
ante-post odds merely assists knaves to rob
fools.
CLERKS, PUBLICANS AND ’BUS-
DRIVERS.
In proportion to size, Victoria lias, and for
many years lias liad, ten times more of its
area under crop than the Commonwealth as
a whole, and 81 times more than the State
with the next-best record. It is more than
twice as densely peopled as any other State,
and has nearly 10 times the average den-
sity of the Commonwealth, yet the area under
crop in proportion also to population has
long been well above the Australian average.
In addition to all this Victoria has made
such a success of “secondary” industries that
it lias a far larger proportion of its popu-
lation employed in factories than any of its
neighbors. The situation at the time when
the late Ministry began to wear straws in
its hair was that the State wanted a more
diffused population and the strenuous en-
couragement of its neglected ports and its
small industrial towns. It further required
something done to the holders of big estates,
but not something crazy. There was like-
wise a demand, as there always is, for sane,
honest government and a reduction of debt.
But there was no reason at all why a
Cabinet of mad hatters and March hares
should have conceived the idea of spending as
much money as all the other States com-
bined on the purchase of “land for settle-
ment,” often buying the little farm of the
competent Brown at a figure forced up by
artificial competition, so that the raw anil
incompetent Smith might go on it burdened
with a debt that he could never pay. Nor was
there visible cause why Victoria should not
only push its own returned soldiers on the
land, whether they were suitable or not, but
also go in for the wholesale purchase of im-
migrants. and set them to growing things
which were in over-supply already. As
regards the quality of this purchased and
imported population, the new Ministry,
which can afford to tell the truth about them
and perhaps a trifle more, says it has been
looking them over and finds them to consist
of clerks, publicans and ’bus-drivers. Never-
theless, these dealings of one sort and an-
other had, up to June, 1923, added £l2 10s.
per head to the State debt, and things have
grown worse since.
* * * #
Though the export of ’busmen is over the
odds, still the selectors at the British end are
not wholly blameworthy for the large propor-
tion of “duds.” They have a difficult task.
When one of them proceeds to inspect Giles
Hodge of England this is the proposition:—
Here is a man who, if he is really an agriculturist
and not a bankrupt publican or reduced bailiff or a
potman in disguise, has worked under a master’s
direction all his life. He has hardly been out of
sight of a town all his life. He is accustomed to
30-bushel wheat crops, good roads, no droughts, and
a market next door. About the business side of
agriculture he probably knows nothing, for his
owner did the buying and selling and kept the books.
Even if he is as versatile as he looks (and hi
doesn’t look versatile at all), how will he get along
on his own responsibility, where the crop is 15
bushels one year and three the next, with new
weather and new pests, and amid what his genial
soul (though he doesn’t look genial) will probably
take for profound lonesomeness ? Is he a good
investment to advance money on with little or no
margin of security, more particularly if he is only
going to try his hand at growing produce for export
to a very remote market? If he was guaranteed
to fill an aching local void by raising flax, silk or
cotton for use in local factories it would be another
story.
Tlie situation looks so dubious that it would
surely be wiser to concentrate mostly on
artisans, especially iron and steel workers of
all sorts, and weavers and spinners. They
wouldn’t go to pieces on the rock of changed
conditions, for conditions as regards the
artisan are not so widely different here and
iit England. The drought doesn’t trouble
him, neither does the bush-fire, or the wild
dog, or the bunny, or the kangaroo, and, being
under a boss, he can do without initiative.
In some recent years about £100,000,000 of
reliable local artisans’ work has been wasted
on the importer—the kind of work which
doesn’t need export bonuses, Government
guarantee of fixed prices, or railway rates
which amount to charity. To solidly secure
the local market might necessitate blank pro-
hibition in some directions, but such a thing
is not unknown. The importation of nigger-
grown cane-sugar is prohibited, and there
being no other on the market outside Aus-
tralia, cane-sugar importation in general is
prohibited. There is no reason why the sons
both of Australian and of imported artisans
should not go on the land in good time,
especially if they have been reared in these
comparatively small industrial towns which
this country hopes to possess when the huge
States are broken up. The youth of Sydney
often goes on the soil, as the records of agri-
cultural colleges show. Why lie doesn’t often
stay is that the change from being in a city
of a million people to being 10 miles from a
a dull and decaying hamlet of a thousand
people is rather too violent.
* * * *
Much debate is wasted concerning the
right place to put the agricultural settler
when caught—the settler who. unless he is a
grower of cotton or flax, isn’t really of
first importance just now, even if he doesn't
prove to be a publican in mufti. And the debate
frequently side-tracks into irrelevancies, such
as the argument that this country is
too tropical, and that white settlement in the
tropics is impossible. So long as the white
man is living in the tropics, as he assuredly
is in North Queensland and elsewhere, it
doesn’t matter how conclusively it is proved
on paper that he can’t do it. And. anyhow,
the precise merits of Australia don't signify
most in the question of settlement. It has
merits enough to go on with, and it may
acquire more when wanted. What is most
amiss is the habit of seeking earnestly for
settlers allegedly able to produce the things
which this nation doesn’t really require, in-
stead of those which it requires badly, and
then settling them where settlement is least
urgent. Unsettled and inaccessible Australia
certainly has small chance while it is man-
aged by the type of man who takes 16 months
to start an expedition to look for some cast-
aways, alleged to be in a very dreadful posi-
tion, and only makes one nautical mile per


hour when started. But the community need
not always tolerate that type of man, any
more than it need tolerate being supplied with
’bus-drivers when it has paid for farmers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Funds for the “Class War.”
A newspaper controversy which ran for a
fortnight, and in which the noisiest com-
batants were Garden of the Sydney Trades
and Labor Council and Carey of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P., closed with the now-familiar
demand for a Royal Commission. It has be-
came an article of faith with these brawling
Labor politicians and union secretaries that
the taxpayer should defray the cost of in-
vestigating their muddy charges and counter-
charges : within the last tew months the
State Government has been asked to appoint
judges and counsel to determine (1) whether
a Labor M.L.A. ever had V.D., as insinu-
ated by another Labor M.L.A.; (2) which
Tammany clique used the faked ballot-boxes,
the fraudulent voting papers and so on;
and (3) whether the Labor party was or is
subsidised by the breweries- —the matter in
dispute between Garden and Carey. The
audacity of elected persons and persons who
want to be elected was never more strikingly
exemplified. But there ivas one feature of
interest in the Garden-Carey wrangle,
though it is matter for inquiry by the police
and not by a Royal Commission. Changing
from the defensive to the offensive, the
A.L.P. secretary challenged Garden to ex-
plain how the Australian Bolshevist move-
ment was financed. “Who pays the expenses
of the Communist couriers who flit between
Australia and the European capitals V” asked
the gentleman at Mucdonell House. And
there was no.reply. In this connection Aus-
tralia has a certain interest in Clumsy
Macdonald’s undertaking to lend millions
of British money (“tens of millions,” Lloyd
George says) to a Government which has
never been popularly elected, which can fur-
nish no security, which has no respect for
engagements made xvitli "capitaiistic” coun-
tries. and which hasn’t even cancelled its
repudiation of the Russian debt to Britain,
that matter, as Ponsonby, .the British
Foreign Secretary, lightheartedly remarked in
the House of Commons, having been “put in
cold storage.” In the arrangements between
Macdonald . and the Russian mission to
London there is apparently no stipulation
as to how the loan is to be expended. Por-
tion of it may be devoted to suppressing the
anti-Bolshevist “revolt” in Georgia. An-
other portion may be remitted to Australia
for use in “the class-war.” Perhaps it was
in anticipation of such remittance that
Garden’s Trades and Labor Council issued
the subjoined announcement last week:—
In the wars of capitalism we are pacifists; in
he class war we fight to the death. We must take
ip with greater passion, with sacrifice and devotion,
the fight against the capitalist social order, a fight
which cannot be carried on with fine words and
resolutions, but only in the last resort with weapons
in the hand.
America has a short way with insolent
foreigners who, while enjoying its hospi-
tality and protection, openly engage in a
treasonable conspiracy against its institu-
tions and threaten it with the most mur-
derous form of civil war. It has deported
scores of them. But the Australian Govern-
ment won’t deport any of the authors of the
foregoing manifesto, though a large per-
centage are foreign-born. It is the fashion
ot Australian Governments to be lamblike in
these matters.
4
A House of Toothless Eld.
As T. J. Ley is a N.S.W. Minister it is a
iair presumption that he speaks on local
political matters ex cathedra, and not like
one of the foolish virgins, through his hut.
He must at least stand for something. There-
fore the scheme of a reformed Upper House
which he sketched in a recent issue of Syd-
ney Telegraph has a semi-official look, im-
possible and unbelievable as it may seem.
The nominee principle is to be replaced by
an elective one, only the Upper Chamber is
to be chosen by the Lower one, and not by
the people. The most aged third of the exist-
ing members in to stay on for life. Another
third is to retire after 14 years and the
remaining one after 21 years. The second
and third categories are to be eligible for
re-election on retirement, but not me first
one, which will be dead and will not be
replaced. Apparently the only chance of
getting any new blood into the wonderful in-
stitution for 14 years will, if this plan
eventuates, come about through the occa-
sional death of Noaii Arkbottom, M.L.C.,
provided Noah isn’t one of the permanencies.
The Council, when the “lifers” are collected
to their fathers, is to settle down to a steady
membership of 60. It is something of an
achievement in this 20th century to think
out a legislative body which can’t be dissolved
or swarnped, which won’t be created by either
the Crown or the People, and which will have
the longest run and the greatest accumulated
age of any elected House on earth. The
nearest thing to a duplicate is the Irish
Senate, which, when it passes the present
preliminary stage (if it ever does), is to con-
sist of 60 paid members with a 12 years’ ten-
ure, 15 retiring every three years, the new
members to be chosen by popular vote from
a list of eligibles drawn up by the two
Houses in joint session, no others being al-
lowed to stand. But apparently, judging by
the long delay, pains are being taken to
devise for N. S. Wales some even more re-
markable freak in the House line —something
after the Siamese twin or two-headed calf
style, or maybe an albino whale. It is
difficult to imagine that anything could be
simpler than one House of perhaps 60 mem-
bers, chosen on one day by constituencies,
and another, similar in size, pay and power,
retiring on the instalment plan, and chosen
by the State as a single constituency. The
two could settle their differences at joint
sittings held for voting purposes only. They
would represent public opinion equally, but
from different aspects, which might be called
the gerrymandered aspect (Assembly) and
the non-gerrymandered aspect (Senate), the
latter being the side of the case which no
other plan takes into consideration. Neither
House need be older or stupider than the
other, and the proposed method would pre-
vent unseemly charges about the election of
one House by the other being a hole-aud-
corner affair, like a pre-selection ballot, with
faked ballot-papers, a false bottom and a
sliding-panel. This country isn't Luggnagg,
and anything in the way of a Chamber of
Struldbrugs is out of place.
4
A Dispute over Unearned Increment.
There is something to be said for the depu-
tation of 40 Wanganui Maoris (in Govern-
ment blankets) who are reported to have
turned up at Geneva with a bill against the
pakelia for land alleged to have been stolen
nearly a century ago; but the matter is
somewhat complicated. Young Master
Wakefield, son of the first director of the
N.Z. Co., was tiie agent in the original trans-
action. A sanguine youth, lie blew into
the mouth of the Wanganui River in 1839,
and, seeing that it was good, proceeded to
make terms with its native inhabitants, whose
knowledge of the value of land in terms of
jew's-harps, muskets, lead slates, red night-
caps, shaving boxes, umbrellas, soap and
other necessaries of savage life was of the
slightest. Wakefield proffered £5OO worth
of these commodities in exchange for the
communal lands of several tribes, extending
about 70 miles up the river, and including
100 miles of rich coastline besides. His
optimistic nature and his lack of knowledge
of the native dialect assisted to convince him
that the alleged owners, some of whom were
recent invaders of other people’s territory,
fully appreciated the terms of sale; and the
assortment of European oddments was duly
dumped on the deck of his schooner and
fought for by all the principals, the women
and children assisting by biting the legs of
members of opposing factions whenever they
protruded from the heaving mass. Next day
the Maoris made the white men a present of
pigs and potatoes which they afterwards
claimed was in return for the harps and red
nightcaps; and it was probably a very fair
return, too. When the N.Z. Co.’s settlers
came to take possession of their laud they
were chased off it so vigorously by the alleged
vendors that one man had to abandon his
holding by jumping off a 100 ft. cliff into the
river. War broke out later on the subject,
and even in those days some of the whites
appreciated the native claim, an English
magistrate doing a brisk trade with the
enemy in muskets, one of which was instru-
mental in killing an uncle of the optimistic
Wakefield. In 1848 the Government inter-
vened and placed the matter on a better
footing. The natives were paid £lOOO for
80,000 acres ot land, which works out at 3d.
an acre, plus nine bags of flour and one of
sugar. The Government felt so good about
it that it voluntarily added a free gift of
five bags of flour and some tobacco. Some
of the land has since changed hands at £lOO
and more an acre; and the spectacle of so
much unearned increment going into the
hands of alien landlords instead of their
own has so exasperated the Maoris that from
time to time they have embarked on disas-
trous wars to regain it, losing more land as
punishment in the upshot. The question is
even more complex in the South Island,
where territory originally sold to a whaler
for an old iron pot used for trying out
blubber was resold to a French baron for
36 axes, bought by an American citizen for
£l4O in cash and £1476 in goods, and fore-
closed on by a Sydney lawyer in 1840 for
£200; the Government intervening again
and repurchasing a vast area for £2OOO,
which worked out at a little more than a half-
penny an acre. This last deal has been the
subject of litigation for 74 years, and re-
cently a Royal Commission made the em-
barrassing recommendation that compensa-
tion of £354.000 should be paid to the
descendants of the owners of one small sec-
tion. The Government not having taken this
suggestion up with alacrity, the League of
Nations might as well consider it after set-
tling the Wanganui question. The dis-
tressed Incas, who claim large sums from the
Spanish Government on account of wholesale
destruction of real estate in Cuzco in 1530,
are also no doubt watching the proceedings;
and should the Maori deputation succeed in
getting a hearing,: the union of expropriated
Philistines will certainly prepare a claim for
redress against the new Jewish State in
Palestine. Also, the Moriori, who were in
possession of Maoriland before the Maoris,
will have a grievance worth consideration.
Yet perhaps there is soifte little difference
between the various cases. The British who
arrived in Maoriland had what afterwards
became known as the Exeter Hall brand
upon them. They must not therefore take
even from the colored man—must not take
lend even. Hitherto colonisers had not
been so troubled with a conscience; and
m ! vbe in this case it wasn’t much of a con-
science—certainly it made them do only just,
enough to acknowledge that the natives had
rights. But it is just that acknowledgment
which causes all the trouble. Almost univer-
sally no right had been conceded; if the
people in nominal occupation were not mak-
ing good use of the land, then the land was
not theirs to hold. If the League of Nations
looks at the matter from that point of view,
and shoos Brown Brother off the premises,
it will make our own position in the North
rather rocky.
4
One of the Great Mysteries.
On a recent day the newly-appointed city
engineer of Sydney resigned for the reasons
that his department was “untrained, unfitted,
unskilled. ill-equipped and ‘ totally in-
adequate.” and that lie wasn’t allowed to get
rid of misfits. He added that the inefficient
department was so scattered over the ramb-
ling Town Hall that proper supervision was
impossible. The resignation of the trouble-
some reformer was apparently received xvith
great joy in certain quarters, and. as one
morning paper put it, certain Labor aider-
men “assert quite openly that by making
Mr. Weekes a scapegoat they will be able
to enhance their prospects at the coming
elections.” What puzzles The Bulletin is
whymen struggle after“enhanced”or anyother
prospects of capturing certain jobs which
look more like a nuisance than..anything elke.
The job of nominee M.L.C. in N. 8. Wales
has a railway pass attached ; that of aider-
man lacks even the pass. If a man has an
ideal, whether he wants to abolish drink or
Canberra, or to establish pure milk or pure
idiocy, one can imagine him snatching at
any office in which he can get publicity for
his views; but the most strenuous office-seck-
ers are not idealists. If a man has business
interests he might w'ant to boom the city or
the country for the sake of his business, and
that, though not quite idealistic, is considered
allowable. But many of these violent and
persistent vote-hunters have no businesses. If
being an unpaid alderman or M.L.C. brought
with it even the adulation which attaches to
being an honorary duke one could under-
stand the struggle. But it doesn't; it more
often brings scorn and derision. It all really
seems akin to a life-and-doath struggle to be
elected a gratis postman and pay for your
own boots. As none of these unpaids is
arrested under the Vagrancy Act, presum-
ably the matter is all right. Still a Royal
Commission with very extensive powers, in-
cluding the right of search, to find out what
unpaid public men live on, might fathom a
great mystery.
e-
Jutland.
“X.N.0.” in reply—
Mv article on Jutland (B. 28/8/’24) was intended
wholly and solely as a defence of Jellicoe, and 1
must be forgiven if the words “the Germans never
moved after Jutland’’ were not pedantically accurate.
“VeRECO” (B. 18/9/’24) has seized the words, given
them a perfectly literal interpretation, and used them
as a peg on which to lung an ill-concealed boost for
Beatty, and in the process gives the impression that
the German Fleet did much what it liked in the
North Sea after May 31, 1910.
If “Vereco” is a Britisher his article leaves a
nasty savor behind it, and I would suggest that a
defence of Beatty would have been in better taste had
it been based on the tactics of Jutland, which were
under discussion. However, in effect 1 maintain that
the meaning intended by my words, “the Germans
never moved after Jutland,” is perfectly correct,
though it would have been better had 1 not sacrificed
meticulous accuracy on brevity’s altar and had said
“The German High Seas Fleet never made a serious
move after Jutland.” Certainly they emerged from
their mine-protected lair about August, 1916, but the
movement was not a battle-fleet operation. It was
essentially a submarine operation. The Huns had
collected every submarine within reach, and merely
used their fleet as a bait to lure us into the submarine
area. They nearly succeeded, but they took good
care that before the Grand Fleet came within scores
of miles their big ships were hull down on the
eastern horizon, tearing for the home that was never
too far away to reach in time.
As for the other cases mentioned, let us number them:
(1) “Verco” cites an instance when two German ships
ventured up the coast of Denmark. The coast of
Denmark ! Terribly courageous of them, wasn’t it ?
(2) The Gulf of Riga operations had nothing to do
with the Grand Fleet. The German vessels were
safe from the Grand Fleet on that side of Denmark.
(3) The operations in November, 1917—at which
“Vereco” incorrectly states the Renown was present
—were not a Fleet movement, but only a cruiser
venture, having no effect on my contention. (4 j
Certainly in April, 1918, the High Sea Fleet crept
along the Denmark coast, across the friendly Skager-
Rack, and a bit of the way up the coast of Norway. At
r.o ume did they place themselves in a position where
they could not have scampered for home either by
the way they came or through the Skager-Rack. As
a serious movement this operation can be ruled out.
It can have had no conceivable object, as we had
no interests in that part of the world which could
have been attacked. Why the Moltke was not bagged
by us on her way home I do not know. Beatty was
in command then, and I’m defending Jellicoe, not
his successor.
Regarding “Vkreco’s” extract from the “Eney-
clopsdia Britannica Naval History,” it must be re-
membered that every writer on this subject of
Jutland has his opinions biased one way or the
other. A dispassionate view will not be possible
till the present generation has passed away. Also
bear in mind that the war—for good or bad-left
Beatty supreme. If the “Encyclopaedia” writer was
a naval man or even a political writer his expressed
views may have been influenced by the fact that
future favors might have to be looked for from
Beatty. However, I disagree with the extracts quoted
from the “Encyclopaedia,” which consist of ryere
word-juggling. It sounds very wise to say the “High
Seas Fleet remained intact to be a bulwark to its
submarines,” but on analysis the words mean nothing.
The existence or otherwise of the High Seas Fleet
could have had no conceivable connection with the
submarine campaign, which that fleet never supported
in any way and which was an entirely separate opera-
tion intended to do what the big ships couldn't
accomplish.
_4
Fiji Bananas.
Ernest Osborne states the position
An effort is being made to re-impose the Fiji
banana upon the Australian market, and a trial ship-
ment has been landed at Sydney. Much capital has
been made of the alleged loss of outward trade by
Australia since the imposition of an import duty on
Fiji bananas. Deputations of Sydney middlemen have
appealed for remission of the duty, basing the appeal
also on the alleged superiority of the Viti vegetable
—which superiority applies, anyhow, only to Aus-
tralian fruit grown extra-tropicallv.
In view of the revival of the Fijian menace to one
of our important farming industries, it might be
appropriate to review the banana position of recent
years. Curiously, and quite unintentionally, the first
perceptible protection extended to the Australian
industry had its inception in Fiji and in a native
Fijian at that. In 1917 most of the talk in Fiji
was about Apolosi and his doings: his banana price-
fixing, his ultimatums to banana buyers, his Viti
company, his £lOO per month salary, and so on. The
white population in Fiji tempered wonder as to how
long it would last and what the end would be with
speculations as to which white business men (names
were mentioned) were backing Apolosi for their own
ends. And the outcome for Apolosi was seven years’
banishment from his homeland.
This native movement, with a native commoner
at its head,- -had- its counterpart in a native co-
operative company in Tonga, and was at the time
discussed correctly enough for superficial purposes in
the Australian press. Actually, the movement was
of significance to Australia because it promised to
benefit Australia’s banana growers. This effect was
unintentional. The turmoil caused in Fiji by AroLOsi
was mdrely an expression of a desire among the
natives of the most advanced eastern Pacific groups
for emancipation from the unjust prices forced upon
natives and small white growers and traders by
“honorable understandings” among big trading con-
cerns exploiting the islands.
Bananas wjjre grown on a large scale by white and
Chinese planters who by reason of their own selling
organisations in Australia could only be affected to
their advantage by Apolosi’s manipulations. But
the fruit was also grown quite extensively by native
Fijians, a number of Solomon and other Pacific
Islanders, and by, “free”, Indians—coolieff who had
served their time of indenture and remained in Fiji.
Most of them .worked “free” leases,- i.-e.-y-land owned
or leased by whites was occupied rent free by the
dusky planters on condition that their bananas were
sold to the landlord for a fixed price of one shilling
or thereabouts per bunch. Apolosi conceived a
remedy for the tremendous discrepancy in the price
these native growers received from the banana gam-
blers and the prices obtained in the Australian and
Maoriland markets. Admittedly the banana buyer
took certain risks in a distinctly speculative trade.
The less astute sometimes lost. Consensus of Fijian
opinion, however, alleged the existence of a ring,
combine or understanding among the banana specu-
lators which ground down the banana grower.
Apolosi until his downfall so far remedied, the
evil that Suva buyers of bananas .for export were
compelled to pay decent prices fixed by the company.
Apolosi’s removal from Fijian finance caused a
temporary reversion to the time-honored Fijian method
of trading in bananas. And very properly the Com-
monwealth Government came to the rescue of Aus-
tralia’s banana industry with a prohibitive tariff
whose efficacy is now challenged.
Published figures showing the decrease of the
Australian-Fiji trade are not worth their face value.
Australia’s export trade to Fiji was not dependent
upon the banana trade. Actually imports into Fiji
are determined by the copra trade. Fiji in the war
years began to generally ship her copra direct to
the United States and Europe instead of via Aus-
tralia, wherefore American copra-loading schooner's
and steamers, as well as the regularly calling liners,
brought merchandise to Fiji in ever-increasing quan-
tities, with consequent decrease in Australia’s export
to Fiji.
Before the trouble develops into an unequal struggle
of white Australian banana growers against a product
largely of native growers working under a system
akin to slavery, for the benefit of speculators hostile
to Australian ideals, it behoves the Federal Govern-
ment to put an extra brick on the tariff wall. Not
lower but higher duties are called for.
♦—
“Madas” : “A Subsidy for the Loafer” (B.
11/D/’24) may be misconstrued by those not
conversant with the Queensland Unemployed
Workers’ Insurance Act. The relief dole
which takes the form of rations obtainable
through police-stations must not be con-
fused with expenditure under the heading of
Unemployment Sustenance. The revenue
necessary to finance this latter scheme is
drawn from State funds, employers and em-
ployees by a levy on each, which brings to
the fund ninepence per week for every person
over IS who is in employment and
working under an industrial award. The old
dole expenditure has dropped over a period
of three years from £177,019 to £40,869, but
as a set-off against this decrease the unem-
ployment sustenance has absorbed £149,109
ir its first year of existence. No person cau
become a charge on the latter without pro-
duction of a stamped card certifying to con-
tinuous employment over the preceding six
months, and sustenance is strictly limited to
a total period of 15 weeks in any one year.
The applicant must register for employment,
and refusal to accept a suitable position
when offered constitutes disqualification for
any further sustenance. Therefore, assum-
ing that reasonable supervision is exercised
over all claims for sustenance, the latest
figures would point to the fact that Queens-
land is in a bad way regarding unemploy-
ment. It also means that many of the
genuine unemployed who previously disdained
to accept the “dole” may now conscientiously
line up for sustenance, having earned the
right to do so by regular contributions dur-
ing the periods of employment. It is a bold
slice of experimental legislation which,
though it created storms of protest at its
inception some 18 months ago, is now gener-
ally accepted as an honest attempt to ameli-
orate the lot of the genuine unemployed.
4
Despite the anxiety of Parliamentarians to
finish their four or five months’ work, and
get away for their seven or eight months’
spell on full pay, something might be done
to decide the position of the ex-crew of the
Federal steamer Fordsdale before the general
dispersal. _ The ex-crew broke no union law',
for the right of job-control on ships hasn’t
developed into law yet.. Said crew was
ordered to give up its job so that there might
bedroom for a fight to decide whether the
union officials or the ship’s officers should
appoint the next lot, and it hesitated. The
sentence was some months of exclusion from
the union, and, consequently, from employ-
ment, with the possibility of a further in-
definite period of idleness and hunger to
follow. The question which calls for settle-
ment is whether any Court which is not a
court of law should be allowed to pass
heavy and random sentences, even if they
don’t go quite so far as flogging or confine-
ment in a private gaol. If such an arrange-
ment is all right, then there is a law inside
the country’s law' which may grow bigger
till it is the more important of the two.
• ♦
The American moving-picture monopoly has
no friend in Jackson, M.H.R. for Bass, who
has had personal experience of running a
cinema show'. Of 24,000,000 feet of film
imported last year, Jackson said in the
House of Reps, recently, only 75,000 ft. was
classed as educational. Nearly 20.000 ft. was
cut by the censorship. And he added: —
I have seen some of the censored stuff. One ex-
perience was enough, It amazed me to think that
people could be found to take part in such produc-
tions and exploit them as is done. Companies pro-
ducing Australian pictures find it verv difficult to
get them screened. Wonderful films "showing the
development of our country life and industries—
hon. members have seen them —have been refused by
various theatres, even though they were offered free,
so great is the influence of the film combine in
Australia.
Jackson suggests that the Commonwealth
should impose ad valorem duties on films, in-
stead of the silly flat rate of lid. a foot,
and restrict U.S. importations by 10 p.c. of
the 1922-23 footage (20,674,000) in the first
year, another 10 p.c. in the second year and
50 p.c. in the third year. Which recalls that
the Brisbane branch of the Returned Sol-
diers’ League presented the case for protec-
tion to Australian-made pictures midway
through 1923. The Tariff Board then pro-
mised that the matter would be inquired into.
Similar undertakings w r ere given by Earle
Page and by Austin Chapman wlien he
was Minister of Customs. Yet when
Pratten, Chapman’s successor, was asked
the other day how the inquiry was progress-
ing he replied that he had never heard of it.
Some explanation of the mystery is certainly
due to the Brisbane Diggers.


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
and the wisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effecting a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
covering all Accidents and Sicknesses.
The A.P.A. Standard Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Australasia.
Premium from £l per annum upwards. Apply for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIA:
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers, St, George’s Terrace,
Perth.
or any of its Branches:'
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers, King William Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Georgia, which lies in the bloodstained angle
where Europe and Asia meet, is having a bad
time. It set up as a republic when the Czar’s
show dissolved, with a system of small-
peasant proprietorship and a one-House Par-
liament elected by “direct, equal, universal,
secret and proportional voting by citizens of
both sexes.’’ It had secured the recognition
of the civilised world, and all seemed well
till 1921. when Bolshevik agents engineered
the usual “revolution,” and inaugurated the
blessings of “liberty.” A State the size of
Tasmania, and not situated, like the equally
minute Latvia, handy to European assist-
ance, had. a poor show in these conditions;
nevertheless the “revolt,” as it is named at
Moscow, still continues. Some recent re-
ports :
Three members of the Soviet’s Secret Police, in-
cluding a Chinese, have set out for the Caucasus to
suppress the Georgian revolt —by the most severe
measures, if necessary.
Tlie Bolsheviks, reinforced from the sea, are
descending on Batoum, massacring old people, women
and children. Bodies are thickly strewn on the
railway. Neighboring villages have been put to lire
and sword. The most sanguinary period of Georgian
history palls before these unheard-of acts of bar-
barism.
Australia will be like that if “Jock” Gar-
den’s revolution gets going, and the law is
paralysed, and the kind of people who stoush
►strangers with bottles come into their king-
dom and are all stoushing at once. And if
it doesn t get going it won’t be the fault of
the seven Governments, for they merely look
on while the thing is openly prepared and
organised.
♦
“Chloe” : Apropos the Sydney Artists’ Ball,
why all the fuss about nudityV Nudity
doesn’t make us either more or less moral.
But I do wish a censorship could be exer-
cised prior to public exhibitions of semi-
nudity. Then we should not see the piteous
spectacle of wagging-stomaclied, hairy-legged
stooped-shouldered, wobble-eyed old ' men
cavorting round as bare-legged urchins or
other attempted counterfeits of the genus
boy. If ever I saw a ghastly, heart-rending
spectacle it was that poor pretence at gay
light-lieartedness. As for the women, there
must have been 250 canary-legged, flat-
bosomed, hairy-skinned women trying to do
the ten-year-old, dimpled stunt; and as for
the triple-chinned Columbines, they made
angels weep. What a sad crowd we are, fol-
lowing each other in the pursuit of pleasure
and bleating over it like sheep! Does a half-
tjpsy, silly flapper, with pillars of support
instead of legs, lank hair, a nasty habit of
hiccoughing over her neighbor and an idea
that she is really going it in true Bohemian
fashion because she has sampled bad whisky
and stale beer—does she contribute to the
world s sum of happiness, or to her own ’
♦
“Feng-Siiui” : It is one of the ironies of
politics m China that the good men are
obliged to adopt the methods of their rivals
General Du Yung-hsiang, at present on the
run, has preserved the peace of Chekiang
province, with its population of 12 millions,
through the worst years of the revolution.
llis beautiful capital, Hangchow, of which
I have very pleasant memories, is the Mecca
ot Chinese tourists, and strongly impressed
Marco Polo in the thirteenth century for
the excellence of its civic organisation.
Under General Lu it was the best-governed
city in China, and was rapidly developing a
modern silk and cotton industry. It stands
every chance of being well looted by the vic-
torious _ troops. Some people jump to the
conclusion that, because Lu’s troops deserted
to the enemy on the offer of a bribe, Chinese
soldiers will never make good fighters. Well
led, there are no steadier and more intelli-
gent soldiers in the world. “Chinese” Gor-
don showed what regular wages, discipline
and a courageous example could make of
Celestial raw material. I watched in 1913
halt-drilled coolies repeatedly advance across
open country against a well-entrenched enemy
backed by an unseen fleet, which pumped
shells into the area they had to cross. Tliev
had been offered $4 to enlist and another $4
i\ they came out alive, and they only began
to break and run when the news * filtered
through that most of their leaders had
booked their passages to Japan with the bal-
ance of the army’s wages in their pockets. No
British sailor who took part in the naval
engagements with the old Chinese junk navy
sneered at the behavior of the Chinese sea-
man. They had watched him come out
in his lumbering galleons to be smashed up
by the English guns, not once, but again
and again; and when the Jap fleet destroyed
the Chinese navy at the Yalu, two battered
hulks emerged from the mess and actually
steamed for some distance after the depart-
ing ironclads.
+
“Wealsman”: The J. D. Connolly pro-
posal for a big, new, fast motor-ship service
between Britain and the Southern Dominions
is unlikely to obtain Australia’s enthusiastic
endorsement. This country has done many
foolish things in its time, particularly in
following a ruinous loan policy; but that
policy was imposed upon it when it was in
the blind puppy stage. No Australian Gov-
ernment of the present day would dare to
commit the Commonwealth to a policy of
tying itself up with a London-owned line by
subsidies and guarantees to the extent of a
million or two per annum, without the power
to control freights, fares or conditions. Short
of an Empire-owned overseas line, such as
was proposed by the D’Abernon Commission
of 1917, no shipping line in which the
Dominions do not hold a controlling interest
should be given a second thought by Austra-
lian producers, traders or legislators. In
the absence of that majority control the Ship-
ping Ring may do as it wills with freights
and fares. If. as reported, Prime Minister
Bruce and the Premiers of four of the
States have expressed “general agreement”
with the Connolly proposal—well, they
would be wise to explain precisely what they
mean. Any sort of subsidy to ships con-
trolled by Private Enterprise means a sub-
sidy to the Shipping Conference, and in the
matter of freights, and fares the Shipping
Conference is already in such a commanding
position that the receipt of a Government
subsidy from Australia would probably fill
the Inchcapers with mirthful admiration of
the Commonwealth as the prize boob of the
Seven Seas.
♦
“Pollio” : There need be no trouble about
carrying out "M.’s” suggestion (B. 11/9/’24)
that Hume’s name should be restored to the
THE DRIFT OF PINIONS.
“The British Trades Union Congress has once more repudiated Bolshevists. Sexton, a Labor M.P.,
said that when the Soviet came to a capitalist country to borrow money it absolutely admitted failure.
Another delegate ridiculed what he called ‘disposition to worship the Russians as angels.’”
BRITISH WORKER: “And take your other blinking wing with you!”
map of Australia. It is probable that the
Murray is the only sizeable Australian river
which has the same name from start to fin-
ish. The Hawkeshury and the Macquarie
are two obvious examples of the multiple
name, and there are dozens more. The
Nepean plus the Grose is the Hawkesbury;
the Fish plus the Campbell’s is the Mac-
quarie. Very well, then, let the Hume plus
the Murrumbidgee be the Murray ; that is
to say, let tin l river be the Ilume from its
souree to the Murrumbidgee junction. That
does justice to both Hume and Sturt.
It is cabled from England that Bacchus
has made au eloquent pronouncement in favor
of Prohibition : in other words, Prime Minis-
ter Clumsy Macdonald has put it in print
that “doles, Poplarism, strikes and limitation
of output are not Socialism.... are immoral,
uneconomic, and will lead to disaster.” “Pop-
larism” is derived from Poplar, a poor and
densely-peopled district of London, where a
Socialistic municipal authority decided that
the unemployed should have some sort of
basic wage. In the effort to pay this it drove
the rates (payable by the tenant) to 235. in
the £, so that the local struggler who kept
on working found his local taxes even more
than his rent. The Baldwin Government
put a limit on the expenditure of local rates
in relief, but the Macdonald Government
promptly took it off, and Poplarism again
flourished mightily. Now, little more than
half-way through his first year, Clumsy
apparently begins to have doubts about the
policy of making Britain a gigantic Free-
trade poorhouse.
»
"Nitric” : “H.P.,” eulogising Melbourne Uni.
for its Extension work (B. 11/9/’24), might
have added a postscript of praise for the
Brisbane University. Brisbane, though the
youngest of the Australian family, was the
originator of the correspondence scheme;
and, although the Gulf country does not
benefit, districts within a 700-mile radius of
the seat of learning do. Not only are the
lectures sent out as regularly as they are
delivered, but lecturers themselves go forth.
A public lecture committee, consisting of the
professorial staff, offers its services free of
charge, and its members deliver lectures in
the larger country centres. A university ex-
tension lecture Committee is formed in each
town, the secretary being a graduate of the
home university if possible; and the classes
as well as the public lectures are well organ-
ised. As the graduate who has done the
spade-work in one centre, I am able to judge
of the appeal that various subjects make.
A lecture on “Literature of the Seventeenth
Century” was poorly received, the audience
not being educated to that point. “Twelfth
Night” or any Shakspearean work was more
favorably accepted. “The Will and How to
Use It.” with a popular dissertation on psy-
chology and interesting examples of psycho-
analysis. was a general favorite. “The
French Revolution” and “Greek Sculpture”
brought fair houses. Science subjects have
always been attractive. There is no better
way of acquainting people with the existence
of a university than a scheme of this sort,
and the lack of endowments, space and appa-
ratus of the Queensland University, as com-
pared with her more fortunate sisters, is a
standing disgrace to the people of the north-
ern State.
*
“Pollio” : “H.P.” (B. 11/9/’24) says that
Sydney University’s proposal to send lec-
turers into the country “may be a very good
beginning,” and quotes the Extension Board’s
work in Victoria. But N. S. Wales doesn t
really need lessons from Victoria. In the
nineties of last century Sydney had an
Extension Board of its own, which ran
lecture-courses all over the State —at any
rate, as far away as Glen Innes, Inverell,
Bourke, Forbes, Wyalong and Junee. It was
the stimulus of Extension work at Bathurst
that led that city to propose during those
same ’nineties the establishment of local
university classes covering at least the first
year’s work and examinations. Brisbane
was making the same suggestion at the same
time; and, if the Senate at Sydney had only
had the sense to encourage the idea, the
present Queensland Uni. might have been
just a full-blown branch of Sydney. But
the then Chancellor — Normand MacLaubin
—was stiffnecked. Presently Sydney dropped
the country idea altogether, except for a few
centres not too far away from Sydney, and
the so-called University Extension Board of
this century became a mere supplier of
popular lectures, unaccompanied by classes
or any form of study, to the suburbs, New-
castle and Wollongong. That—barring a
few importations of lecturers from outside to
talk to Sydney audiences, which is good work,
but not Extension work at all—is all the
Board is now.
«
A disquieting English judgment has
migrated here and proposes to settle. In
the Russell divorce suit the learned Judge,
Sir Daniel Hairsplitter, laid it down that
if a married woman bore a child it was her
husband’s child, even if he had long been
living apart from the lady. In fact, evidence
of the apartness must not be dragged in.
Justice Owen (N.S.W.) has decided in the
Stewart divorce case that this must be
accepted in Australia unless a new statute is
passed to meet the difficulty. But really Sir
Dantel Hairsplitter’s decision isn’t as new
as this commotion on the Bench would sug-
gest. In the crusading days Western Europe
swarmed with high-born grass-widows whose
husbands had gone to look for Saladin, and
in one instance the ecclesiastical courts re-
fused to take any notice of evidence that Sir
Bedivere had been away 24 years when little
Bedivere was born.
♦
‘‘Country Ped” : Without a doubt a “forest
conscience” is growing in Australia. The
Vic. Education Department now employs a
full-time forest officer, whose duty it is to
give expert advice on tree-planting in thos n
school districts that are entering into the
plantation scheme for the future endowment
of local education. In the old worn-out min-
ing areas conifers will grow remarkably well,
and school committees in those districts favor
the idea with enthusiasm. Even shire coun-
cils are lending their aid by providing the
necessary vacant areas for afforestation and
in securing wire-netting for the fences. Thus
far 20 schools have established plantations
totalling 450 acres, and 22 others have been
granted reservations amounting to 350 acres;
and it is reckoned that each tree-covered acre
will he worth £250 in 25 or 30 years—a nice
subsidy for local educational needs. As the
scheme has been in operation for only a little
more than 12 months, the progress is note-
worthy. But the most remarkable fact of
all is that some farmers in the Ararat dis-
trict have actually sought permission to plant
trees on the roads adjacent to their pro-
perties.
“Cartot” : A reduction of the fees of Sydney
and Melbourne doctors below the present
half-guinea minimum is a possibility of the
near future. It isn’t only the growth of
professional competition that is making it
harder and harder for the struggling medico
to earn a decent living. The half-guinea fee
diverts many a patient to the chemist, who,
despite the fact that the treatment of dis-
ease is no part of his calling, is nearly always
ready to listen to a recital of symptoms, and
to give gratuitous advice which will enable
him to sell tw r o or three shillings’ worth of
medicine. Many chemists have thus acquired
a remunerative following, though counter-
prescribing is forbidden by law; in some in-
dustrial suburbs there are more patients
waiting daily in local pharmacies than in
neighboring doctors’ rooms. Naturally, the
leading lights of the profession strongly
oppoee any reduction; nevertheless, profes-
sional charges can stand a lowering in Aus-
tralia, where they arc probably higher than
in anjy other part of the world. In England
large numbers of general practitioners charge
only two and sixpence for a consultation;
in many even of the better-class districts the
maximum fee will not exceed seven and six-
pence. Numbers of specialists charge no
more than a general practitioner in Aus-
tralia. In America, too, fees are also con-
siderably low T er, ranging from one to two and
a half dollars: and many New York and
Chicago specialists receive only about five
dollars for an ordinary consultation.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
GET THE “ABOTT” OF DRINKING
PURE WATER.
Summer is almost upon us, and those
who want to drink pure water will be
inquiring about Filters.
The Abott is the leading Australian
Filter. It has been certified to by
the Boards of Health of all States
as bacteria proof.
Bulletin and Price List on application.
Liberal discount to storekeepers.
xss
Fmis
sfop cot#
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Camperdown, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, .Live Stock,
Public Risk. Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Corn*
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Labor-leader Lang had. a poor
foundation on which to build his latest
attack on the Fuller Government. The Gov-
ernment. easily the largest consumer of
cement in the State, wanted to make sure
of supplies, and called for tenders. A
£40,000 co. made an offer fathoms below any
other. The whole question is whether a
Government should make a bargain with a
co. which hasn’t the capital to do the job,
but would probably be able to get it if it
secured the contract. There is no good
reason why a Government shouldn’t. Hun-
dreds of contractors depend upon a bank to
finance them, and there is nothing more
vicious about getting the money directly from
the public through a broker than indirectly
from the public through a bank.
The Brucc-Page Government has brought
more trouble on itself by. deciding to grant
£5OOO to the “loyalist” wliarf-laborers whom
the N. S. Wales Fuller Government has had
on its hands since their award of preference
was cancelled by the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court. In their haste the half-Pri-
ministers forgot that there were “loyalists”
in Fremantle (W.A.) who had a far rougher
time than Fuller’s band. The latter had
their pick of the waterfront jobs for six years
or more. But the Fremantle volunteers were
chased off the wharves, with violence and
contumely, in 1919. Now, no doubt, the
scattered units will draw together again and
weigh in with a claim for physical and moral
injuries suffered in 1919, and for financial
losses incurred since.
As the Peacock, Allan and Snowball sec-
tions comprising the Vic. Opposition have
not yet composed their differences, Labor has
a stronger grip on office than it had when it
faced the House on August 26. Allan’s
trouble is that half of his followers prefer
that the Cockies should be the x party in
politics. Hero-worship is not its failing:
every member is convinced that he is as
good as, if not better than, the other fellow.
Snowball. Angus, Farthing, Everard and
A. A. Billson, who call themselves Liberal,
are in no hurry to bring back Peacock, Law-
son, Argyle and Eggleston. So Prendergast
goes on reigning, and even gets cheers at the
Royal Show luncheon. Naturally, he didn’t
discount the cheers by saying he was going
to put on extra income- or land-tax, or both,
to pay for the reduced freights on agricul-
tural and dairy ’products. For the nine
months of 1924-25 during which the lower
freights will operate there will be a loss to
the railway revenue of £116,000.
The Dutch Government has finally re-
jected the application of a German syndi-
cate for a concession to exploit Dutch New
Guinea. The head of the so-called syndi-
cate was Duke Frederick of Mecklenburg,
and a few days after the Dutch had turned
him down that decayed potentate let the
cat out of the bag at a meeting of the
syndicate, which called itself a colonial con-
ference. In spite of the Dutch, said the
duke, the old flag must wave again in
colonies abroad. This makes it look more
than ever certain that the Hun “conference”
was the moving spirit in 4 the recent anti-
Australian propaganda with regard to the
mandated territory.
The S. Aus. Labor conference commanded
Premier Gunn to arrange for “the prevention
of any further immigration into Australia
until the whole of the workers of the Com-
monwealth are found work.” Gunn is to see
the Labor Premiers of the other States
about it, although it is neither his business
nor theirs: a State Premier has no more
control over immigration than a shire coun-
cillor. In the freakish art of advancing
mutually destructive propositions the Labor
delegate of the “advanced” type is without _a
peer. He is a prohibitionist as regards immi-
gration and a pacifist as regards defence. lie
affirms that his thinly-peopled continent is
forbidden ground, and he glories in his re-
fusal to provide means of resistance in case
the crazy doctrine is disputed.
According to T. 11. Nesbitt, who was Town
Clerk for 23 years. Sydney municipal affairs
are no sweeter than they have been suspected
of being—“there is graft,” he alleges, “in
relation to tenders, quotations, ap-
pointments and increases in salaries.” Find-
ing it impossible to clear up his department,
which is over-run with aldermen’s pets—
blockboys and the like—the recently-
appointed engineer has resigned. The man-
ager of the electricity-supply branch reports
BAIT.
“Speaking at the opening of the Melbourne Show, Labor Premier Prendergast announced that an
Order in Council had been prepared directing that the freight for the carriage of all agricultuial pioduee
shall be reduced by 10 per cent, as from October 1.”
PRENDERGAST (to the farmer) : “There, my hoy, a beautiful home-made elephant—all
for your very own. What do you think of your Uncle Prcndy now?"
that aldermanic influence with the business
supposed to be under his control has plunged
the administration in chaos and reduced him
to despair. If the Government had any
courage it would appoint a Commission
to run the municipality—it might be com-
posed of the present Town Clerk, the engi-
neer and the electricity-supply man —until
the various departments have been made rea-
sonably clean and efficient. Meantime the
Minister for Local Government, to whom
the Commission would be responsible (and
he, in turn, would be responsible to Parlia-
ment), could draw up a Greater Sydney
scheme. It is on record that an early City
Council was suspended for three years; and
the situation could hardly have been as
putrid then as it is now.
One of the features of the Parliamentary
recrimination over the two women alleged to
be held captives by Arnheimland blacks was
the suggestion by Riley, M.H.R., that the
delay in despatching a rescue expedition was
due to the fact that the captives were the
wife and daughter of a laborer. Of course
there was a shocked cry that any such sug-
gestion was wickedly untrue. _ But it isn’t
—the matter certainly wouldn't have been
allowed to rest for a year and a half if the
castaways had been, say. Lady Forster and
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, or anybody else who made
good newspaper copy. What no doubt is
wickedly untrue is that the women’s circum-
stances in life made a bit more difference to
Bruce and Page than it would have done to
Charlton and Anstcy.
“Centurion”: “Windsor” (B. 11/9/’24)
makes out a strong case against our com-
pulsory training system. One cannot help
feeling sympathy with him in having to put
up with the monotony of the work, to say
nothing of his having to miss important foot-
ball semi-finals arid evening appointments
with the female of the species. No doubt
when Australia is invaded and is fighting
for her life, it will be possible to arrange
an armistice for the dates of important semi-
finals and special leave for evening appoint-
ments.
The N.S.W. Labor Council’s persistent
talk about “revolution” and “arms” signifies
that an organised minority is to rise, when
the leaders consider the occasion suitable,
and, attracting to itself naturally the per-
verts, bottle-throwers and criminal classes
generally, take, away the self-governing rights
of the majority, and take charge of life and
property generally. It hopes to be aided
by at least a section of the police, to which
end it is admittedly working, and as to the
army, it trusts that there will be none. Some-
thing might be done in this matter by a law
making the minimum penalty five years and
the maximum life for treason against the
self-governing people, combined with the
crime of advocating and organising murder
and other unavoidable concomitants of re-
volution. By throwing in a liberal depor-
tation of non-Australian disturbers some-
thing further might be effected. But the
flabby old souls in high places have a dread
of being called “alarmists,” and if anything
was done by way of reasonable precaution
the loudest sliouters of the epithet would be
the conspirators themselves, who would pose
as dreamy theorists, akin to a Naturalists
Club or a Shakspeare Society, whom none
but fussy busybodies would take seriously.
Yet it was tlfe neglect to take dreamy theor-
ists seriously which was the undoing of the
Russian Parliamentary republic.
The S.A. Board of Industry has been asked
to rule that the cost of bobbing Claribel's
hair and keeping it bobbed should be in-
cluded iu the basic wage for female em-
ployees. And the chairman gravely replied
that the point would be considered. Recently
it was stated, on behalf of the boot and shoe
trade, that feminine footwear would be a
lot less dear if the fashion didn't change
every month or so. and if knee-high boots
(say) could be sold at any price when the
vogue had suddenly veered to sandals with
slashed uppers. This might have been ad-
duced as an offset to the claim that the boss
should pay the hairdresser for shearing Clari-
bel’s crowning glory and assisting her ambi-
tion to look like Belladonna Sludge, the
celebrated picture-actress. But the defen-
dants were so dumbfounded that they didn't
think of it.
The sheeplike manner in which Australian
newspapers accept the bluffs of European
statesmen would be pathetic if the results
were not so tragic. The Dawes report,
which provides for the payment of huge
annual sums by Germany, which payments
can be made only in the same sort of goods
the creditor countries themselves manufac-
ture, was hailed by the S. M. llekald with
peals of joy. The other day Reuter cabled
this biting comment on the futility of the
scheme: “Following the restoration by
Britain of the 26 per cent, tax on German
imports, with application to the Dawes
plan, France has now decided to impose a
similar tax. It will be imposed on all Ger-
man goods imported direct or through a
third country.” This item hid itself shame-
facedly in an obscure corner amongst the
general cable news.
A Federal Bankruptcy Bill passed its prin-
cipal stages the other day. This looks like
exceeding the speed limit. A Federal bill to
deal with bankruptcy was only drafted in
1907, and Federal bills (not yet touched)
dealing with insurance, marriage and divorce
were on the stocks long before that.
Probably the Fuller Government will
dribble into recess without doing anything
to make reasonably hard the way of the
motor-car kidnapper, yet now that the steals
in Sydney alone run up to eight or ten per
day some action appears due. The law
can’t make up its mind whether taking a car
without the owner’s permission or knowledge
is an offence or not, provided the vehicle, or
the ruins of it, are found after an indefinite
number of days abandoned within an indefi-
nite number of miles from the scene of dis-
appearance. There was once a crude theory
that when an offence was easy to commit
and the offender hard to locate the simplest
way was to hit mightily when a rare speci-
men was located. The idea may be better
than it looks. Two criminals of a most
elusive sort are the man who bolts with a
car and the one who fells a stranger with a
bottle after dark, and not nearly enough
happens to them when they fail to elude.
Australia's sketch metropolis at Canberra
has got this much nearer—there begins to uc
languid official conversation about away-
from-home allowances for civil servants sta-
tioned there (nobody seems to contemplate
the place as a home), about week-end travel-
ling allowances so that they can go home,
about the size of the skeleton departments
that must be kept there, about bringing
pressure to bear on clerks and others who
refuse to move to ’Berra when ordered, of
try to shirk out of their duty by subterranean
engineering or dubious medical certificates,
and about the erection of civil servants’
barracks. One way and another the Great
Mistake that is partly a swindle is going
to cost Australia a pretty penny.
The boiling over of the Irish pot is expected
next month or shortly after. The North re-
fuses to appoint its boundary commissioner
(one of three) on two grounds. One is
that it wasn’t consulted and never promised
a commissioner. The other is that it isn't
going into debate with the Free State so
long as the latter says its minimum demand
is, not a mere straightening of kinks in
the border line, but more than a third of
the North. The Southern army threatens to
take matters in hand and proclaim a republic
unless its Premier gets two counties and
two boroughs from the North ; and the North
says it will see the South fried first. The
problem before Clumsy Macdonald is whether
to coerce the North, or the South, or both,
or let them fight it out. The one man who
seems to have a satisfactory billet amid
these conflicts is Tim Hcaly. K.C.. now in
his 70th year: he gets £lO,OOO p.a. for being
G.-G. of an area about the size of Tasmania.
When Grandmaster Snowball gave notice
in Vic. Assembly of a bill to amend the
Marriage Act, everybody who heard him
jumped to the conclusion that it would em-
body an attack on the Ac Temcre decree.
Instead, it turned out to be a proposal to
make divorce easier, on the ground of de-
sertion, for couples who have been separated
for years by virtue of legal agreements.
Partly because it is a commonsense reform,
and partly because numerous members are
anxious to oblige Snowball, the measure
looks like having an easy passage.
For the benefit of the new brand of Aus-
tralian Labor men Egypt is beginning to
find out that the independent life has its
disadvantages when it isn't supported by a
dirty left. A few days ago Italy served a
demand upon the re-conditioned nation of
the Nile that Solium and Jarabub be evacu-
ated and handed over. Both these places
arc small ports on the Mediterranean, west
of Alexandria, and have been acknowledged
as Egyptian property for a long time. But
the Senussi have lately increased their in-
fluence there, and the Italians have culti-
vated the Sliiekh el Senussi, who has
acknowledged Italy in Tripoli as his suze-
rain. Hence, no doubt, the demand—
probably just a try-on by the Italian-Senussi
combination, to test how much Britain has
really loosened her grip on Egypt.
THE GOLDEN AGE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking at an anti-war meeting at Geneva, Mr.
Charlton said that if Labor were returned to power
in Australia, as appeared to be certain, its first step
would be to wipe out compulsory military training.”
liases and battleships, great guns that kill,
And forts that frown a menace murderous,
Munition factories and men at drill —-
What are these things to us?
Offensive symbols of a day that’s dead,
When foolish nations scorned to arbitrate
And half God’B smiling world with blood ran red
And hissed with hellish hate.
Caesars and Tamerlanes and Genghis Khans,
Napoleons, Kaisen Bills and all the type
Of mighty conquerors and fighting fans
Are dead as pickled tripe.
Why rifle-shooting teach or bayonet drill?
Rifles will nevermore on armed host
Be trained, or bayonets be used to kill —
They shall be kept to toast.
There shall be no more war! So may it be!
Yet Georgia under Russia’s fist has reeled,
And where is now Korea’s liberty?
We ask no sword —but if we have no shield!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


PROLOGUE
Tlotker' HuLk«yr*cL
[played by a]
Her Do£
Tke Cupboard.
THE PLAY
AGT 1
Q]Jl riotlver* HuLLaj-d
siie werv-t to tKe tuptoani
To her* poor* dog d. horve,
act it
Dut wkctx ske, got tkcrc
Tke cupboard was bare -
ACT ttt 1
Aj So tke poor
—Had none.
EPILOGUE
Said tke dog to Dame Hub bird "Its Coo late to save me
But iiv Juture 'twere well to make use of this key.
THE CUPBOARD THAT WASN’T LOCKED.


ĥ
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20a / 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Troophorse”: The Northern Territory
doesn’t burst into flames of indignation over
the gradualness of the Huddersfield, hired to
explore the Gulf country for white castaways
from the Douglas Mawson. It is used to
such things. Rast year the Rachel Cohen,
auxiliary brigantine, was sent to carry on
the N.T. shipping service. For a start the
Cohen took three months to make the trip
from Fremantle to Darwin. On a trip to
Wyndham and back to Darwin she took
14 days, usually done by steamers in the
local trade in four days. On her first visit
to Borroloola, in the Gulf, she took 92 days
to do the round trip. On her outward voyage
she steamed her 850 miles at an averaged
speed of Itlis of a mile per hour. Coming back
she did the same trip at the violent speed of
1 l-12th mile per hour. It was after the
WHAT DID THE GIRL MEAN?
MISTRESS : “So you are going to work at an asylum,
Bridget? Do you think you will he able to stand
the strain ?”
BRIDGET : “Well, ma’am, I’ve been here for two years.”
Cohen was burnt in Darwin that Senator
Pearce selected the Huddersfield to do the
job. This vessel had been engaged in the
M.L. timber trade and had proved a failure.
Sent to New Guinea, she gave her owners
and crew an anxious time —till Senator
Pearce chose her to carry on the N.T. ship-
ping work on a subsidy of ftiOOO a year.
Her owners are getting an additional £2OOO
for the present expedition to the Gulf.
* * * *
“This Freedom”: The Greek archbishop
who is visiting Australia had a queer recep-
tion in Adelaide. The Greek citizens of the
Port gave a dinner to the potentate at the
establishment of a prominent Greek caterer,
and the proud proprietor went over to the
police-station and told the local Johns of
the honor conferred on him. The dinner
started off all right, but just as the archie-
piscopal glass was brimming nicely the Law
came in, took the names of the guests—in-
eluding the Archbishop—-seized all the liquor
and broke up the party. The next day the
proprietor and the guests, except the Arch-
bishop, appeared in the police court charged
with a breach of the Licensing Act. The
case against the proprietor was dismissed,
and the other cases were adjourned sine die.
But that doesn’t stop Oysteropolis from mut-
tering, and it seems even to a casual Aus-
tralian that the police might have made a
better job of it if they had warned the proud
caterer of the rocks that were ahead.
* * * *
“Prisoner’s Friend”: A right-thinking
Melbourne citizen, who was wont to remark
that he had never been in a court in his life,
had a staggering introduction to the laws
of his country the other day. His detached
wife applied for an
increase in ali-
mony, and having
secured a trifle
extra, waylaid him
outside the court
with a jeer. Where-
upon the exasper-
ated defendant hit
the lady’s lawyer
on the nose. Then
he jumped into his
raotor-ca r and
drove away so furi-
ously that he ran
over a dog and
smashed into a
passing sulky:
and he “told off”
an unsympathetic
policeman. This
all harassed him so
much that lie took
several d rink s,
babbled to all and
sundry about his
sorrows, and pre-
sently, being pro-
foundly unsophisti-
cated, was caught
by a raiding party
in a sly-groggery.
Insulting language,
assault, reckless
driving, cruelty to
animals, damages
for killing a prize
dog, drunkenness,
slander against two
of his wife’s friends
and illegal con-
sumption of liquor
were among the
matters whic h
have since kept
him running from
court to court; the
cruelty to animals
charge, brought by a man who reckoned that
he should have paused to put a nearly-killed
dog out of its misery, was the only one he
got out of.
“Wilfrido” : I can quote a
worse bit of luck than befel
“J.K.’s” pilot (B. 21/8/’24)
in the witness-box. It was
at the Wellington (M.L.)
Court, and a slick young
man was being charged with
the theft of an overcoat
from the lounge of a hotel.
His version was that a
stranger had asked him to
take charge of the garment,
and that having two coats
already he had no need to
steal another. The con-
stant reference to the three
coats confused the defendant
while he was giving evi-
dence, and he turned to
his counsel with the query,
“Which do you mean —-my
own or the one that I stole?”
Mr. Wig hurriedly sought to
cover the tongue-slip with
the suggestion that the
novelty of the proceedings
was causing his client to say
things he didn’t mean.
“That’s right,” said the
accused, confidingly. “I got
mixed up between my own
coat and the one I took from the pub.” Tlie
Beak ceased to record any further evidence
for the defence.
* * « *
This is from a woman who has been writ-
ing to The Bulletin from the Northern
Territory for most of a lifetime: —
Latest report concerning the survivors of the
Douglas Mawson is that the boat went ashore a
little south of Point Bradshaw. About 10 men and
two women reached the shore, three children and
the rest of the men being drowned. Natives from
Point Bradshaw and Caledon Bay gathered round the
little party and pretended to be friendly, but one
morning they speared all the men and took the
women bush. The elder woman has since given
birth to a white baby girl, which is said to be still
alive. How much of the account is true only time
will tell. Certainly' there is some circumstantial
evidence in its favor. A Mrs. Willett was a passenger
on the Douglas Mawson, and she was proceeding to
Cooktown for a confinement. Also she had with her
a daughter, aged about 13 or 14.
From the writer’s extensive knowledge of Territory
blacks (though it does not extend to those particular
tribes), she has no hesitation in saying that the
women are very well treated, and that the baby
wants for nothing that the lubras can give it. They
are devoted to children, and are skilful midwives
and nurses. When a lubra becomes pregnant she is
not permitted to prepare food, nor to witness the
cooking of meals; she eats and sleeps apart from
the rest of the camp. When her time comes, she
withdraws behind a sand-dune or a bush, and sits
down with the elder women round her. As she
cries out, the other women make great noises also,
so that the debbil-debbil which haunts the vicinity
of blacks’ camps will be unable to find out which
woman is suffering, and therefore cannot plague her.
“ SHINGLE-SHORT.”
When the child is born, each woman in the circle
nurses it for awhile, still further to perplex the
debbil-debbil. Then the child is rubbed all over
with charcoal, so that it may turn black properly
and not keep the dusky yellow that it is at birth.
A coolamon, or cradle of soft paper bark, lined
with kapok, is prepared, and in this the baby spends
most of the first month or so of its life. The
mother is cared for by the old crones, guarded from
all over-exertion for the first few days, and subjected
to frequent smokings over a fire of green leaves to
prevent the debbil-debbil from plaguing her with
illness ; for the niggers’ debbil-debbil, who is white,
dreads fire more than anything else, and is a com-
paratively easy gentleman to hoodwink —far more so
than the Caucasian’s Prince of Darkness.
* * * *
“Flicker”: The wicked old colonel men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin who laughed
at a man’s Parisian adventures and then
gave him “28 days’ F.P. No. 2”_was like a
bird w T ho commanded us in the Light Horse;
only he wasn’t wicked —he was fatherly.
Trooper Hardshell of my squadron had ex-
ceeded his ten days’ leave in Cairo, had been
captured “out of bounds” (and not in a
church either), and had cheerfully and in-
dustriously resisted the military police, so
that several of them were casualties. The
Old Man shook his head at the culprit.
“Hardshell,” he said, “I’m sorry to hear this
of you. I take a personal interest in you,
Hardshell, for I know your family. If I
had not known your father I should impose
a severe sentence; as it is, 14 days’ F.l\
No. 2.” “Thank God!” gasped Hardshell.
“Thank God for what?” the Old Man asked.
“Thank God you didn't know my grand-
father, too,” said the trooper.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: How’s this for grasping an
opportunity? Two girls were on the llobart-
Bellerive (Tas.) ferry. A fresh young feller
began to get fresher. One of the girls
wriggled away with the warning: “Don’t,
touch me—l’m married!” The fresh ’un
began an apology. The other leaned towards
him. “ I’m not!” she whispered.
* * * *
“Sheriff’s Dep.”: Some curious last re-
quests have been made to Australian prison
authorities by tenants of the condemned cell.
I recall an Afghan whose dusky features
lighted up with pleasure when told that his
final meal would consist of whatever he liked
to order. It took the lip-smacking heathen
hours to make up his mind as to what he
would have. Another turbaned buck aston-
ished his guardians with a request that he
should be allowed to have a lady friend in
his cell on his last night on earth. Applica-
tion refused. A Chinaman hanged for kill-
ing his half-caste partner in particularly
brutal circumstances asked for a small quan-
tity of a. Chinese remedy for indigestion, and
after a good deal of trouble it was obtained.
Having been first inspected by an analyst to
make sure that the Celestial was not trying
to avoid justice by the poison route, the stuff
was handed to the interesting dyspeptic, and
great was his delight. As a rule, however,
condemned prisoners seldom ask for anything
special during their last days. They are
content to take what is given to them —ex-
cepting, of course, the rope.
* * * *
“Sixcnate”: Conscience got in some re-
markable work on a man in Adelaide recently.
All the police knew about him when they
decided to pay him a visit was that he looked
an undesirable sort of person, wedded to idle-
ness, so they merely decided to tell him to get
work or move on. But Conscience whispered
that the Johns were there for an altogether
different purpose, and the police refusal to
accept his preliminary lies convinced him.
So he said they were quite right—he was the
man wanted for an assault upon a little girl
in Melbourne. Actually the offence had not
been reported by the parents, who, as no
harm had been done save upon the child's
mind, preferred to let the offender go un-
punished rather than have the story known :
but the Conscience-ridden man gave such de-
tails about his crime that the facts were
soon verified. Probably the six months lie
got is a cheap release from the terror of dis-
covery that lived with him.
* * * *
“P. Pinktape”: A nice point concerning
etiquette has been considered in the Foots-
cray (Melbourne) Police Court. A young
man had “handed a tart a clip on the ear”
for dancing with a bloke other than the
bloke who had brought her and paid her way
in. The Bench fined the young man;
but it was wrong. In these days of woman’s
rights a girl certainly may buy her own
darnce-ticket, but if she doesn’t choose to
do that it is bad taste for her to dance with
anyone but her own providore. An M.C.
who was an interested follower of the court
case afterwards put me wise to his way of
avoiding trouble. “If there’s ever a row
between blokes,” he said, “I find out ’oo the
tart is; and then I tell ’er: ‘You’ve been
dancin’ with some other bloke than the one
OUR GREAT INDUSTRIES—No. 1.
you camp with: we don't want you ’ere
again. We only want girls ’ere that knows
’ow to be’ave like ladies.’ ” As he says he
very seldom has a row, his attitude must be
right; and the fining of a man who was only
endeavoring to inculcate good manners
amounts almost to a scandal.
(Continued on page 16.)
A NEW EXCUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The conduct of these beggars,’ said Prosecuting-
Sergeant Stephens at the City Court, ‘is a regular
nuisance to business men, who are sometimes driven
into hotels, to avoid them.’ ”
All old excuses are outworn,
Gone in the legs, and done to death;
There looms in Mabel’s face high scorn
When, kissing me to smell my breath,
Her scoffs make such a chilling gale
They wither each ingenious tale.
But when to-night I seek my cot
I’ll boldly own to many bars.
“Not that,” I’ll say, “I wished the ‘spot’
I had to take, for drinking jars
My soul when I’ve no time to waste;
By beggars, darling, I was chased.”
She must believe! The printed par
Will show precisely what occurred:
How men are chased into the bar—
Where not to drink would seem absurd—
By “hums” whose cunning, wrong or right,
Means either yielding cash or flight.
Alas, I’ve tried it—it’s a dud,
And all the hopes I held are shrunk !
She said (and brought my hopes a thud) :
“Percy, you must indeed be drunk”
(Her sneer was worse than wild abuse)
To think I’d swallow that excuse!”
VICTORIA.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
THE SLUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hatless women in frowsy blouses
Lounge in front of tumble-down houses.
Sticky-faced children sprawl on floors;
Slobbering babies crawl all fours
Slack-mouthed louts compare their bets,
Vacantly sucking their cigarettes;
Saucy-eyed hussies, in near-silk frocks,
Giggle and squeak while chewing “chocs.”
Beer-dazed fathers, between their nods,
Finger the paper, and study the odds ;
AVheezy old geezers, with smoke-dried faces,
Squat on the kerb and discuss the races.
Flash young matrons parade the gutter,
While crouching grannies look on and mutter.
So it appears to the passing cynic,
Using the slum as a social clinic ;
Yet in the heart of each one of these
Happiness sits, like a king at ease,
Giving them joy of the gift God sent them —•
Glorious sunlight! Let that content them !
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£322 4 7
J. L. Idriess .. 2 0
£322 6 7
Contributions should be addressed to Tite
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
Serviceable Suit Cases from Peapes’
ħ
For those "who travel continuously, those who
go away frequently at the week-end, there
could be no wiser choice than a Peapes Suit
Case, built of selected strong materials on
strong iron frames in a way that ensures
lifelong wear.
JDlB.—Dark Tan Solid Sole Leather
Suit Cases, two nickel sliding locks,
strong leather handle, covered iron
frame, inside straps, 6in. deep.
Sizes. .. . 20, 22, 24, 26 in.
Prices: 47/6 52/6 57/6 62/6
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opposite Hunter
Street), Sydney.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue—now available.
Look for the name
“Italia” on each plug.
Italia
SPARK PLUGS
The full, rich spark, the solid brass
body, the insulator of laminated mica—these salient
points of the “Italia” Plug make it of especial value to
the motorist with the high-powered engine whose
requirements are Strength, Simplicity and utter De-
pendability. All “Italia” Motor Accessories are reliable
in every way, none more so than this fine plug. No
leakage of compression is possible. The parts are
renewable. If one part is worn or damaged, it may be
replaced at a fraction the cost of a new plug. Ask
to-day at the garage to see an “Italia” Spark Plug, and
examine for yourself its many good points.
SOLE AGENTS:—
■6ATTINO 8 CO. LTD.. 39-41 York Street. Sydney.
“Chancery Lane”: Recently at Clifton Hill
(Vic.) the bodies of an old couple were
found in a house, death having apparently
occurred in each case the previous day. Each
possessed separate estate, but only the wife
left a will. Under the wife’s will certain
legacies were payable, the residuary estate
going to the husband. In order to administer
the estates the question arises as to which
shall be presumed to have died first. If the
wife predeceased the husband, then liis estate
is entitled to her residuary estate, and his
next of kin (there were no children) take
such residue as well as all his own estate. If,
however, he died first, then her estate is en-
titled to the first £lOOO of his assets and one-
half of the rest, the residue passing to liis
next of kin, while an intestacy arises as to
her residuary estate. Most lawyers argue
that where husband and wife are accidentally
killed together, the assumption should be that
the wife, being presumably the weaker, would
succumb first. No judicial decision, however,
has been given. One English case did reach
the Judge. In this instance the couple were
victims of a shipwreck, but the interested
beneficiaries mutually agreed as to the dis-
THE COMFORTER.
“Gertrude has been telling lies about me
again.”
“But I should hate her if she told the truth
about you, darlingest.”
tribution of the estates, and so relieved his
Honor of the responsibility of deciding the
point at issue. Nor was there any need for
the N.S.W. Court to consider the matter in
•the Markell case, recently before it —it was
sufficient to merely find that both Mr. and
Mrs. Markell perished in the Japanese earth-
quake. In the Clifton Hill case, however,
there is no evidence of any accident. In all
probability after one suddenly expired the
poor old survivor died from shock.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Ashmead’s” story of the
man who chose a bit of old bike-chain for his
weapon in a trench raid (B. 11/9/’24) re-
calls the fads for unusual armaments dis-
played by some of our men on the Penin-
sula. I recollect a Light Horse Squadron-
leader who used a double-barrelled 12-bore
during the Turkish attacks in May, 1915.
Had he been caught with the goods the Hun
command would probably have made a hor-
rible example of him, but he carried on till
he got the tip from higher up that it wasn’t
cricket. There’s nothing makes such a satis-
factory stopper as a shotgun at close quar-
ters.
"Lramao": The N. 8. Wales wrangle
about No Tcmere reminds me that when
the decree was made a political issue in
Maoriland it excited nearly as much interest
as the purchase of the Mokau estate., A rough
old cocky was standing for a rural constitu-
ency in Otago, and his first spech was mostly
about the Mokau affair. Question-time
brought a sectary to his feet. “Will the can-
didate, if elected, vote for a select committee
AMPLY REWARDED.
GWENDOLINE: “My husband is so appreciative. He admires my
voice, my eyes, my hair—and he says there never were such
slender ankles.”
MARGERY: “And what do you admire about him?”
GWENDOLINE : “Why, his good taste, dear.”
to report on the iVe T a mere question?” The
candidate thoughtfully lapped up the remain-
ing contents of the water bottle. “I will,”
he replied firmly. “If that Netimaru land is
no better than Mokau the Gover’ment oughter
be pinched.”
* * * *
“H.II.”: The disadvantage of being a
David known to have slain a Goliath has
been discovered by a Collingwood youth. The
deed upon which his fame was built was
the putting to flight of a big trespasser who
had invaded the district and made a nuisance
of himself. Within a week David found him-
self waited upon by sundry people who had
troubles in which a good right arm and a
straight left would be useful; he was requi-
sitioned by local pushes who wanted someone
to lead them in their quarrels ; he was even
asked to bring a rectifying muscle into matri-
monial affairs where the husband was too
fond of walloping his missus. At least this
was something of the story put up by the
defence when the young man was charged
with assault. The police said he
was concerned in so many acts of
viplence that he was a nuisance; where-
upon evidence was produced to show
that he was really a quiet, unaggressive
young man, forced into other people’s troubles
by his reputation as a champion. Jt was
even claimed that he had once gone to the
country to get away from his fame, but
had found accumulated grievances waiting
for him on his return. The police admitted
that all this might be true, but he was a
nuisance all the same; and the young cham-
pion of many causes is now tied to peace by
a bond whose fracture will mean imprison-
ment.
* * * #
“X.N.0.” r “Forebridge” does the R.N. a
dis-service by quoting the vagaries of Sir
Robert Arbuthnot as proof that the senior
service excels in spit and polish. Where
“Bobby” was concerned it was generally a
case of polish and spit—at Bobby. I sup-
pose he was the best-hated man the R.N.
ever bred. An Australian ship’s company
would have lynched him first and gladly paid
the price afterwards. I served with him
in the Lord Nelson in 1900. In that ship
there was no officers’ smoking-room ; Bobby
merely allowed a space along the deck
to be curtained off and used for smok-
ing. But he would not allow drinks to be
served there; so to have a drink and a smoke
at the same time entailed putting one’s
head on the alcove side to puff and on the
ward-room side to sip. The officers’ dress
regulations stipulate a black satin tie two
inches broad and a white stiff collar. As
a two-inch tie is clumsy narrower ties were
frequently worn. Bobby discovered it, and
gave all hands 48 hours to get uniform ties.
He waged perpetual war on fancy waist-
coats, whether visible or not. He visited the
bridge one day and found one Jones to be
officer of the watch. Getting close to him
Bobby diagnosed a warm cardigan waistcoat
hidden under Jones’s coat. In full view
of quartermaster, telegraph-men, look-outs,
etc., Jones was ordered to remove his coat.
He spent the rest of the watch with his coat
over his arm so that the offending waist-
coat might be an example to others. I
nearly plugged the mutiny-breeder myself
one day. I Avas on watch about 8.10 a.m.
Bobby came up behind me and said, “Your
cap doesn't look up to much, Mr. .” Off
came my cap at once so that I could look at
it, whereupon Bobby said, “Ah, I thought
so; your cap's all right, but your hair wants
cutting.”
* # * *
“Ex-Dig.” : The anniversary of BirdAA ood's
birth, which fell on Sept. 13. is remembered
kindly by at least
a few Diggers.
Some of us recall
a September day
in France when an
extra issue of rum
was handed out to
a resting unit,
with the explana-
tion : "It's Birdie’s
birthday.” If it
had stopped at
that, perhaps we
should have for-
gotten ; but sundry
officers of the unit,
imagining they saw
a signal to make
themselves merry,
“turned it on” in
a liberal fashion,
and altogether it
was a great night.
Miss Birdwood
used to visit the
hospitals in
Blighty and tell
the Diggers that
they must hurry
up and get better,
as papa wanted to
see them back in
France. She
couldn’t quite un-
derstand it when
one day a Digger
•1 „ sat U P eagerly and
said, Miss Birdwood, if your Old Man is
going to have another birthday I’ll get over
quick. But his cobbers understood.
* * * *
“Centurion”: A Newcastle (N.S.W.) civil
servant has joined the ranks of the misogy-
nists. His hobby is the decoration of his
office walls with weird objects brought up
from the bottom of Newcastle harbor by the
dredges. The other day he acquired a large
glass lamp-globe, which had been landed
intact by one of the suction dredges. It
had been so long on the bottom that it was
encrusted with small oysters and barnacles,
i rouuly he added it to his collection, dream-
ing dreams as well of what the manufac-
turers, whose name could be made out on the
globe, would do in the way of acknowledging
the advertisement. But, missing the precious
object a few days, later, he made inquiries.
Ihe charlady it was who led him proudly
into the hall, where, fitted to a long-globeless
hanging gas-fitting, was the globe, carefully
cleaned of all its barnacles and other evi-
dences of its life in the underworld.
< T. * • * * *
“Nitric”: A fine point of law decided at
Cairns (Q.) lately enabled an alleged prime
mover in a murder to be at large, while two
companions received “life.” Three abos.
were concerned in the murder of a fellow-
abo., and the story throws interesting light
on the psychology of Black Brother’s mind.
Ihe three called at the house of the de-
ceased and helped him and his gin to gather
mangoes, a quite friendly act. On return-
lng from a walk Lame Frank told Pompev
Dick to stay behind with a spear and “get”
Douglas as he stooped under a slip-rail. The
spear was poisoned, and after Douglas fell
the three niggers carried him to a water-
hole, where they boiled water and bathed
Ins wounds. They also provided him with
a cigarette, which he smoked. And then
with Black Brother’s amazing capacity for
doing the unexpected, they cut short sticks
and beat lnm to death. Lame Frank could
not speak English, and the police in obtain-
ing information from him used an inter-
preter whom they did not produce at the
trial. That was the technical point on
which Lame Frank hobbled out to freedom.
And now there are three poor niggers
puzzling over the mad ways of white-pfeller.
* * * #
“W.L.” (U.S.A.) : When the dust of dry
United States and the froth of kickless
drinks pall on the American, he seeks what
he would find by travelling north to Canada,
east to Europe, south to Mexico or westward
to Tahiti. In the Western States Tahiti
has many adherents, for it is like that place
renowned in song where the beer is cheap
and the pots are long. The way in which
notable American writers have lately focussed
on Tahiti as a scene for stories or as a place
where stories may be written is significant.
For its size it has caused more inkwells to
bubble over than any other spot in the
Pacific. According to legend, it was from
Tahiti that Maoriland was populated; and
of course Australia has had a direct interest
in it. The London Society sent mission-
aries there in 1797, and Governor King kept
an eye on the island, where King Pomare
had been installed by the newcomers. But.
alas! Pomare fell in love with two sisters,
married one, and did the best he could
with the other. His half-sister, who suc-
ceeded him, had likewise two husbands, but
one of them ran away. She was on the
throne when Governor Macquarie sent a
magistrate to look after Tahiti. But Gover-
nor Brisbane, who followed Macquarie, did
not worry about the distant speck, and the
magistrate was removed. This led Queen
Pomare, in 1825, to request that her king-
dom should be placed under British protec-
tion. While the British Cabinet was hum-
ming and hawing about it, an admiral, sent
by King Louis Pliillipe, of France, to annex
islands in the Pacific, grabbed Tahiti, and
French it has been ever since. But the
owners are represented chiefly by a large
official class; and the Tahitian takes life
as it comes—including the folks of many
nations who seek the happy isle where cham-
pagne costs only a dollar a bottle.
* * * *
“Hambone”: Not all the sardonic humor of
military officialdom has been strangled by red-
tape. A rear-guard party had to be detailed
at a recent encampment of citizen forces
at Liverpool (Sydney) to perform the odious
and odorous duties of cleaning up the camp
after the main body was on the way to home
and mother. The choice fell upon a company
of youths drawn from the swanky Great
Public Schools. I saw the son of a wealthy
knight energetically wielding a Mary I-iovell
with one hand and holding a patrician nose
with the other.
* * * *
“Coot” : On the now demolished walls of
the Melbourne Gaol were many lines scribbled
by prisoners, but only one, a woman, ven-
tured into verse. Here is the heart-throb she
wrote: —
Poor Elma, she came from Bathurst
Where the Bathuret-burr grows,
She wandered down to Melbourne town
To see the life so gay ;
And now she is doing ten months’ hard
To pass the time away.
* * ■* *
“Beetlecrusher”: “Piriti’s” shell which
added 43 names to the casualty lists (B.
4/9/’24) was only a pipsqueak compared with
a Jack Johnson which disturbed the cobbles
in the Amiens railway-station yard in May,
19.18, when the second battalion was entrain-
ing for Strazeele. Sixty-four was the total in
that case ; the youngest of three officers hit had
received his pip only the night before. Strange
OH, THESE STUPID HUSBANDS!
“But surely when you found you were losing
so much you should have stopped
playing!”
“How ridiculous you are, George! Why,
the other women simply wouldn't hear
of such a thing.”
to relate, 64 losses were also caused by a
direct hit on the Albert-Amiens-road: the
shell landed between two parties of the
Tommy Labor Corps, who were collecting
their mail.
THE MAIN BLESSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘lt makes me feel very sick at heart to kn nv
you are ill,’ defendant wrote. ‘Now, instead of
going to the pubs, I go to the Army and feel all
the better for it. I do not drink now with my
friends—the pubs won’t give you a shilling when
you are down and out.’ ” — Age report.
I’ve given up my sinful ways; I wash and I am
clean.
My wife need fear no thumpings now—the drum
is all I need.
I’m wiping off the shameful mud in which so long
I’ve been,
And snow-white robes I mean to wear, and be
a saint indeed.
Let worldlings go their wicked ways ; a saner course
I wing,
Eschewing wicked women, cards, gin, brandy, beer
and stout,
The races and the two-up school; the Army is a
thing
That will provide a bob for you when j r ou are
down and out.
D'ye know of grace, and have you heard of haloes
and the crown?
About the mansions in the sky, the golden harps
and wings?
The pure high joy of holiness and lying idly down
In paradisian meadowlandsl that have eternal
springs ?
Against these prizes, may I ask, what offering has
Sin?
Which, furthermore (and this is why so cheer-
fully I shout
And whirl my drumsticks up and down to make a
merry din)
Will never pass a bob to you when you are down
and out!
VICTORIA.
H. H.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne. A. AUBREY, General Manager.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland, Wellington and
Capetown.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Napier, Durban, Johannesburg and Bloemfontein,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qetatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safe'y Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
Towards Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1914.. £1,898 Nil £lB9B £1,037
1915.. 4,188 Nil 4188 5,225
1916.. 6,904 8 p.c. = £3076 3828 9,053
1917.. 3,965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3,284 8 „ „ 3099 185 10,104
Premiums on new shares . . 458 10,562
1919.. 4,219 10 p.c. = 4039 180 10,742
Premiums on new shares . . 2822 13,564
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4843 4280 17,844
Premiums on new shares . . 3166 21,010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. = 5408 7602 28,612
Premiums on new shares .. 7491 36,103
1922.. 7.130 10 p.c. = 7130 36,103
Premiums on new shares .. 1210 37,313
1923.. 5,351 7 p.c. ■■= 5159 192 37,505
1924.. 6,601 8 „ „ 5896 705 38,210
During the 12 months to June 30 the Federal
Mutual handled £181,098 of premiums; but
it carried only £90,433, re-insuring the
balance. Though this net premium income
was much more than double that of five years
back, only a trifle more profit was made.
Losses were as heavy as in the previous
unfavorable underwriting year, but exes,
were less. Ten years’ underwriting is de-
tailed in the next table:—
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1915.. £25,520 £13,303 £9,636 52.1 p.c. 37.8 p.c.
1916.. 32,303 14,981 12.292 46.4 „ 38.1 „
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15,508 50.7 „ 43.9 „
19181. 44,029 25,724 16,661 58.4 „ 37.8 „
1919.. 45,372 27,180 15,647 59.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 54,882 29,719 18,556 54.1 „ 33.8 „
1921.. 81,501 44,211 26,633 54.2 „ 32.7 „
1922. . 90,202 49,031 36,677 54.3 ~ 40.6 ~
1923.. 94,109 48,299 44.080 51.4 „ 46.7 „
1924.. 99,433 60,084 46,455 50.4 ~ 46.7 „
The surplus was £2894, and that and £3707
of interest earnings made up the profit
shown in the last line of the first table. Not
all of that can be regarded as profit definitely
earned, however; a larger premium income
requires larger protecting reserves, including
cover for unexpired policies. Twelve months
back the accumulations in these reserves were
almost the 40 p.c. of net premium income
which underwriters consider adequate; but
on this occasion the reserve against a larger
volume of risks has been weakened a little
by distributing 89 p.c. of the surplus among
shareholders. Though the increasing of the
div. rate to S p.c. was not justified by the
year’s underwriting results, the directors are
satisfied that, under normal conditions, the
bit extra to shareholders will be fully re-
covered. The Federal Mutual has been a
fairly conservative little underwriter; its
management, having established the co. on a
sound basis —there was no promoters’ or
goodwill consideration —has weighed risks
carefully, and it claims that it lias a “par-
tieularly fine class of business on the books.”
When claims become normal again earnings
should spurt, because every point drop in the
loss rate means practically a. thousand more
flowing to credit of Profit and Loss, and is
equal to 1$ p.c. on present paid capital.
When underwriting does swing back in the
co.’s favor, shareholders cannot reasonably
expect much improvement in divs. until the
position is strengthened. It is generally con-
sidered prudent to have funds (capital and
reserves) 14 times greater than premium
income, but the Federal Mutual's capi-
tal and reserves are only 112 p.c. of last
year’s net revenue from insurances. Funds
are £36,457 short of accepted standards, so
shareholders should either (1) contribute
that amount by way of new capital, or (2)
be content with mild divs. while surplus
profits make up the difference. Of course,
as the business continues to grow, larger
funds will be required, and probably the
issue of new shares or a call on the present
lot would be the better plan. With larger
funds the Federal Mutual would be much
more impressive when seeking new business.
The performances for its dozen years have
been very encouraging, and shareholders
have had nothing to complain of in respect
of the average div. return, notwithstanding
the share premiums paid by some proprietors
on the strength of the 10 p.c. divs. paid for
four years.
Not having been burdened with any good-
will payments, since early in life this co.’s
funds have been in real money or tangible
property. The £73,704 of capital and £38,210
of reserves left after payment of the latest
div. were represented by:—
Government securities, deposits and cash. . £45,089
Mortgages and investments .. .. .. 29,310
Book debts .. .. . . . . • • 22,325
Premises .. .. .. •• •• 15,681
Office equipment and motor-cars .. .. 11,15 i
£123,562
Liabilities ~ .. .. .. £5752
Dividend .. .. .. .. 5896
11,648
Shareholders’ funds .. £111,914
Motor-cars and office furniture stand for a
lot in the balance-sheet, and the extent to
which they have been written down is not
disclosed. Besides what it has in hand the
co. is entitled to call on shareholders for
£221,112, the 294,816 £1 shares being paid
to only ss.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1914.. £15,697 9 p.c. =£B,loo £7597 £57,490
Written off premises, £7500 . . 49,990
1915.. 11,355 8 p.c. = 7,200 4155 54,145
1916.. 11,390 9 ~ ~ 8,100 3290 57,435
1917.. 11,262 10 ~ ~ 9,000 2262 59,697
1918.. 14,450 10 ~ „ 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 „ ~ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO . . 68,722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 ~ ~ 10,800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 ~ „ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ „ 15,600 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ „ 16,800 5151 86,716
During the period covered by the table
annual income (less net reservations of
commission unearned) has soared from
£34,997 to £62,961. But expenses have
been swifter: they have moved from £18,031
to £37,010. Those figures show a larger
margin of profit than do the entries in the
introductory table, but for some years the
directors were writing down premises; £7500
was struck off in the 1914 financial year,
and after charging some alterations against
revenue they now have a book value of
£50,000 against £75,548 “original cost.” Also
staff funds have lately benefited after share-
holders have had their cut. Out of the past
year’s net profit £4OOO was set aside for
provident and other funds. How the co.’s
trust business has grown is shown by the
following comparisons:—
1900.. £6,329,656 | 1920.. £13,533,081
1905.. 7,787,043 | 1922.. 14,282,208
1910.. 9,013,807 | 1923.. 14,866,551
1915.. 10,930,858 | 1924.. 15,718,767
The influence of Government borrowings is
strikingly illustrated by the detailed figures:
whereas more than 24 millions were out on
mortgage 10 years back, less than £1,300,000
is now so invested, and meanwhile the book
value of debentures and inscribed stock has
gone from £2,349,049 to £7,174,219, the in-
crease in that line alone being a couple of
hundreds of thousands greater than the net
additions to estates during the 10 years.
The T., E. and A. has never issued any
bonus scrip, and it is doing so well that on
£120,000 paid up it is now giving 14 p.c.,
and putting 4.3 p.c. into reserve after con-
tributing liberally to employees’ funds. Of
course, div. earning is much easier now
because there are visible reserves of £86,000-
odd at work to help. Interest on funds
alone contributes 6j p.c. on capital. Capi-
tal and reserves, which besides £lBO,OOO of
uncalled capital are the guarantee to clients
that their affairs will not be mismanaged,
are in the best of assets. At June 30 this
co. owed nothing outside and showed £148,027
of Government and municipal securities and
cash. £12.000 loaned on mortgage, book debts
for £2189, and premises and equipment writ-
ten down to £56,600.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. . Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Julv, £ £ £ £ £
1914.. 18.077 10 p.c. = 12,500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 14.442 10 „ „ 12,500 1942 35,030
1916.. 15.732 10 „ ~ 12,500 1242 1990 37.020
1917.. 16.539 10 „ „ 12,500 2000 2039 39,059
191 S. . 20,006 10 ~ ~ 12,500 5000 2506 41,565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
Prefs. Writ-
fS p.c.) Ordinaries. ten Off.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. = £13,125 £2Bll ( ,
Taxation reserve. . .. 3000 ) a ’
Assets written up, £lO,OOO . . 41.274
Transferred to capital, £27,500. . 13,774
1920. .28.530 2000 12) p.c. = 17,706 3000 19,598
1921.. 22.497.2000 10 „ „ 18.756 1000 20,339
1922.. 27.553.2000 10 „ ~ 18,756 2500 24,636
Premiums.on new shares, £3llO 27,746
1923. .31,115 4000 Hi p.c. = 21,689 33,172
1924.. 26.959.4000 10 „ „ 20,000 • 36,131
Raid capital is now a round quarter-million
—50,000 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £200,000
of ordinaries —and though profits have de-
clined a little, there is still a good margin
left after paying pref. divs. and the 10 p.c.
on ordinaries which has been the regular
thing for 11 years, though in two prosper-
ous terms a bit extra was added. To old
holders of ordinaries the 10 p.c. gives more,
because between 1918-20 £40,000 of bonus
scrip was cut up. The co. is a very old one
—it held its 52nd annual meeting a week
or two back —and having been through the
fires of the ’nineties and survived other
booms and crashes, during the gravely un-
certain war period, a cold eye was kept on
the buying. So when prices fell the co. con-
tinued to show good profits and all of the
old visible reserves remained intact. Re
serves are still substantial despite the two
bonus issues which they provided; and they
materially help profits. There are inner
reserves, too; at least there used to be,
because regularly each year the directors
wrote down plant and equipment more liber-
ally than seemed to be necessary, and portion
of the amounts spent on extending premises
was similarly deducted from profits. Net
earnings for the past 12 months were smaller
than the record lot for the previous year
only because trading and office exes, pressed
heavier; almost every account grew a little,
and though gross profits, rent and interest
turned in £2803 more, the period was leaner
by £4156.
Stocks at July 31 were of record size,
and so were customers’ balances; conse-
quently liabilities had grown unusually big.
Here are comparisons going back to just
prior to the war: —
1914. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities ..£69,726 £90,507 £86,327 £112,273
Property . . 103,625 103,625 106,000 136,000
Plant, etc. . . 14,322 24,750 46,158 36,800
Stock.. .. 85,974 142,518 153,776 158,693
Book debts . . 30,157 50,899 69,833 78,612
Cash . . . . 1,487 18,503 8,202 300
Liabilities at July 31 were a £40.000 mort-
gage!, £38,479 due to trading and other credi-
tors and £33,794 overdraft. Against £72,273
of floating debt the Mutual Store showed
£237,605 in stocks, customers’ accounts and
till-money, so its bank manager and its sup-
pliers were splendidly protected. In 10
years the surplus of liquid assets over and
above all liabilities (including mortgage)
has gone from £47,892 to £125,332 and mean-
while the book value of premises and plant
had increased from £117,947 to £172.500.
Those two groups had had £132,293 added
in the 10 years; almost two-tliirds came
from new capital, the balance being surplus
profits.
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral pronerty and products salesmen: —
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1914.. £21,100 6 p.c. =£12,345 £8,755 £2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 „ „ 12,345 1,474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14,403 7,408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 „ „ 14,403 8,197 14,144
1918.. 25.168 7 „ ~ 14,403 10,765 24,909
1919.. 26,216 7 ~ ~ 14.403 11,813 36.722
1920.. 26,360 7 ~ „ 14,403 11,957 48,679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 46,275
1922.. 32,978 8 „ „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
1923.. 33,740 8 ~ „ 16,860 10,880 79,273
1924.. 42,047 8 „ „ 17,372 24,675 103,948
Latest profits are easily this co.’s best;
for though of late a steady shrinkage "is
visible in handlings in two of the three
principal sections—wool, sheep and cattle
—the high prices for wool fully com-
pensated in the cash turnover, on which
commissions are calculated. For some years
Winchcombe-Carson’s had disappointed; it
had not made the progress expected of it
when in 1910 the old owners passed the busi-
ness over to a public co. which was not over-
loaded with goodwill. Profits for a time were
no better than in the old proprietary days.
Even when war prices were helping, the co.
did not bound ahead as others did. Never-
theless, good average profits were made, and
as the div. rate did not go above 7 p.c. large
amounts were laid aside. Almost £107,009
has been visibly accumulated during the past
10 years, and the earnings of these savings
are an important factor in swelling recent
profits. For the past 12 months 19.9 p.c.
was earned on paid capital, and as the direc-
tors decided to disburse only the usual 8 p.c.,
the additions to reserves have been unusually
large. Though something better was war-
ranted. the directors adopted a wise course,
because for the first time since 1910 capital
is being substantially increased. To provide
funds for adding to Sydney premises and for
financing a growing business, shareholders
were offered one new share at par for every
two held. The issue, which was fully sub-
scribed, will add £105,377 to capital, increas-
ing it to £316,132. At the balancing date
only £26.059 was in, the final call not being
payable until February next year. Divs. of
8 p.c. on the enlarged capital will require
£25.290 p.a., and though profits can confi-
dently be expected to average more than
that the directors have not taken the risk of
lifting the rate just because of one year’s
exceptional affluence.
The next table shows how turnover has be-
haved over 15 years, though the values for
past two have not been disclosed: —
Wool Total
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. . Turnover.
1909.. 104,676 477,180 9,106
1914.. 101,579 307,813 18,764 £2,342,290
1919.. 137,167 270,893 9,731 3,954,570
1920.. 137,258 321,140 15,357 4,556,856
1921.. 61,756 264.921 16,523 2,342,496
1922.. 163,530 347,825 25,881 3,797,292
1923.. 157,915 335,827 22,542 9
1924.. 132,693 293,012 24,585 ?
And the next one records balance-sheet move-
ments over two five-year periods, and tells
how surplus profits and the little new capi-
tal that has been introduced have been em-
ployed :—-
1914. 1919. 1924.
Paid capital .. .. £205,755 £205,765 £236,814
Liabilities . . . . 106,228 387,439 466,026
Freeholds . . . . 142,784 160,814 162,474
Advances, etc. .. .. 145,094 392,989 602,480
Investments and cash.. 12,341 31,446 '20,300
Consignments .. . . 1,141 1,753 1,207
Plant, etc 13,860 50,116 29,269
The greatest expansion lias been in the
group “Advances against wool and produce,
stock mortgages, liens and sundry debts” ; it
has more than quadrupled since 1914, and
has required all additional funds _ and a lot
of outside financing besides. Considering the
growth of this item, it is surprising that
turnover has not expanded more. In the
10 years the book value of tangible assets
has become slightly more than a half-million
larger—from £315,221 to £815,730. Only
£31,059 has been provided by new share
issues; £359,798 has been supplied by bank
overdraft (the Commonwealth Bank account
at June 30 was £139,241) and other creditor
accounts (total in June, £326,755). Mean-
while £106,883 of surplus profit has been
left in, and that is some thousands more than
half the capital of 10 years back.
Reserves apart from those off-setting
£41,983 originally paid for goodwill (the
proprietary co. placed that value on goodwill,
but at the same time it handed over accumu-
lated profits which made the actual cost to
the present co. £31,729) will be approxi-
mately equal to one-third of paid capital
when all calls are in, so if securities backing
advances are good and markets are favor-
able, the prospects of Winchcombe, Carson
giving its shareholders more than 8 p.c. are
bright.
* * * *
Broken Hill South. Ltd.: —
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1914 .. £323,847 £280,000 £11,158 £188,682
1915 .. 231,373 30,000 18,636 371,419
1916 .. 386,979 210,000 17,194 531,204
1917 . . 492,540 240,000 32,245 751,499
1918 . . 334,976 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reconstructed —
Special div., £60,000 . . . . 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 .. 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 ... 288,443
Other writings up and adjustments
making reserves .. .. . . 390,091
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 .. £344.113 15 p.c. = £ 120,000 £614,204
1920 ~ 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 .. 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280.000 938,711
1924 . . 497,033 36 „ „ 280,000 1,156,344
The profits for the 12 months were the best
the B. IJ. South has ever made. The figures
in the table are £39,255 larger than the net
profits declared by the directors, unexplained
additions to various reserves accounting for
the difference. As some of them have gone
into a depreciation reserve, actual earnings
may not be quite so big when due allowance
is made for wear and tear of plant. Mine
wastage does not come into consideration;
and, anyhow, the property with its 3,650,009
tons of known ore-reserves, has a book value of
only £84,262. Plant stands in the books at
£818,471, and on the other side £279.719 has
been reserved for depreciation. Counting
in specific reserves, the accumulations have
grown like this in three years:—
1921. 1923. 1924.
Special reserve ..£311.034.6264,879 £264,579
General reserve .. 33,927 88,732 141,958
Debenture reserve .. 79,051 108,434 122,062
P. & L. balance . . 7,411 128,048 246,055
Total .. .. £431,423 £590,093 £774,954
Depreciation reserve . . 136,996 246,947 279,719
New plant and develop-
ment reserve .. 101,671 101,671
£568,419 £938,711 £1,156,344
Throughout the past year until April the re-
treatment of old slime dumps was contri-
buting magnificently to profits, and they had
so great an influence on the figures that the
management has made a more or less arbi-
trary division of earnings according to
source
r~ Marketed v —Gross Profits—,,
1923. 1924. 1923. 1924.
Products o f
other years £61,373 £146,273 £61,373 £146,273
Metals from
crudes . . 496,307 700,418 117,227 227,298
Metals from
slimes . . 276,063 235,580 204,305 162,661
£833,743 £1,082,271 £382,905 £536,232
From the western slime dumps 68,385 tons
were handled by the lead flotation plant for
17,719 tons concentrates containing 6952
tons lead, 399,5660 z. silver and 3636 tons
zinc. Meanwhile the zinc-flotation plant put
through 50,666 tons of the de-leaded residue
from the lead section and 16,875 tons from
the dumps for 19.111 tons zinc concentrates
containing 2303 tons lead, 117,3180 z. silver
and SO7O tons zinc. This source of profit
has now practically disappeared, though
119.000 tons oxidised slimes, going 11.7 p.c.
lead, 61oz. silver and 16.7 p.c. zinc, are re-
ceiving the attention of the South’s metallur-
gists in the hope that a process will be de-
(Continued on page 19.)


THE CHRISTENING.
"Despite the hostility of ex-Minister for Public Works Stewart, the Bruce- Page pact is believed to be out of danger; but a new name is being sought.”
THE CHRISTENING PARTY: Let's think of a nice name for the little chap —something lucky.”
BAD-BOY STEWART: “Call him Dudley —Duel for short!”


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR SEPTEMBER.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Bank of Com-
merce
Australian Drug Co.
Automobiles, Ltd.
Ballarat Trustees
Bank of Victoria
Broken Hill Proprietary
Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney
Commercial Bank of
Australia
Cox Bros.
Emu Bay Railway
Equity Trustees
Federal Guarantee Corp.
Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co.
Geo. Farmer
Goodlet & Smith
Gypsum & Salt Supplies
Pty.
Home Recreations, Ltd.
Intercolonial Investment,
Land & Building
Mercantile Mutual Insur-
ance
National Housing Asso-
ciation
Newcastle County Mutual'
Building
New Kra Insurance
New Zealand Insurance
Co.
North Coast Steam
Navigation
Phoenix Films
Pitt, Son & Badgery
Port Jackson & Manly
S.S.
Port Jackson Investment
and Insurance
Queensland Brewery
Queensland National Bank
Queensland Trustees
Queensland Woollen
Manufacturing
Simpson, H. L. & S.
Vale of Clwydd Coal
Wege Motor
Wollongong Brick & Tile
W. It. Carpenter
Increases of Capital
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Prospectuses
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand: at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/G per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
row working throug'hout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical hfeating furnaces.
# # Advt.
„ Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers
scales, Crucibles Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
tact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc. is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. i.’td
0 Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.’
# —Advt.
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Ada max Asphaltum Hoofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
Pioneer Wood Pipe is steadily advancing in favor
with progressive engineers. They find it not only
saves enormously cn initial costs, but its longer service
and lack of maintenance charges increase the economy.
This modern wood conduit weighs only a third as
much as metal pipe, is simple to install, never de-
creases in capacity and does not corrode nor pit. An
interesting manual of full information has been pre-
pared, which will be sent to those interested in reduc-
ing their conduit expenditure. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlerengh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
# * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv rears' practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Ai>vt.
f< “National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines
‘Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
‘ Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Aiminn LeplastrieiT & Co
Pty., Ltd.. Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * #
Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of east-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known ns
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydr.ey.— Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
PERMANENCE
of N. S.V Ltd.
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents.
Estates under control exceed £8,000,000.
This Company has all the facilities for the success-
ful control of Estates. Legal and financial
knowledge arising out of its 36 years’ experience,
combined with its permanence, endow it with
advantages which no individual could offer you.
A Booklet will show you the advantages.
Write for one.
E. V, T. Whittle, Assistant Manager. J. W. Barnes, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & C 0.,. LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building),
Telephones: Central 7691-2!
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir VT. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co.. Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster. S.W.I.
Sydney:
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagrh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
vised to relieve this old waste product of
much of its wealth. At June 30 there were
also 409,411 tons of de-leaded slime residues
(13.2 p.c. zinc and 1.90 z. silver) awaiting
treatment.
Last year 35,849 tons more crudes were
hauled, the average wmekly extraction being
4606 tons compared with 3917 tons for the
previous 12 months. The co. would have
done better had not the fire in the adjoin-
ing Central mine interrupted operations
and resulted in the flooding of the 1270 and
1370 levels, which, incidentally, also re-
tarded development. The 1270 ft. should soon
be in trim again, and provided labor is avail-
able the mine should be capable of putting
out GOOO tons ore per week. Besides the
larger production, the South was assisted
by better lead prices: the year’s average was
£29 10s. 4d., or 735. 3d. more than for
1923. Working costs were much the same
as in the previous year:—
1922. 1923. 1924.
Crudes raised 164,953 tons 203,659 tons 239,508 tons
Extractions . . 225. 11.3 d. 255. 11.3 d. 265. 0.6 d.
Development .. 3s. 6.0 d. 2s. 10.Od. Is. 11. fid.
Treatment .. Bs. 5.6 d. Bs. 0.3 d. Bs. 5.4 d.
345. 10.9 d. 365. 9.6 d. 365. 6.4 d.
But W’lien expenses in connection with the
Central fire had been debited, the cost of
producing each ton of lead concentrate was
7s. 4d. higher—£lo 14s. 7d. Meanwhile the
lead and zinc concentrates from slimes were
a gift: the former cost 435. per ton and the
latter 335. Bd.
The year’s prosperity had a big influence
on the balance-sheet. This comparison of
the liquid position is illuminating:—
1921. 1923. 1924.
Assets other than mine
and plant.. . . £783,662 £1,091,197 £1,287,112
Liabilities .. . . 207,561 200,405 222,014
Excess assets ..£576,101 £890,792 £1,065,098
The figures in each case are those after
extracting divs. Including the £280,000 split
among shareholders, the year’s operations
added £454,306 to the liquid surplus shown
in June, 1923. Even after giving share-
holders divs. totalling 35 p.c., for every £1
paid no less than 12s. 2d. was added to the
surplus of liquid assets over and above all
liabilities. This strengthening was alone
equal to 22 p.c. on paid capital, and that
has made the South extremely snug. Liquid
assets include £392,870 of shares, among
them £200,000 in Associated Smelters,
£150,000 of Electrolytic Zincs and £20,000
in British Australian Lead Manufacturers.
The last has paid a first div. of 8 p.c., and the
Electrolytic Zinc is strong in the div. list.
War Loan, debentures, deposits and cash at
June 30 totted up £392,262, stores and sup-
plies had a book value of £112,638, unsold
metals £354,797. and book debts £34.544. The
South shareholder can see surplus liquid
assets at present valued at 265. 7d. for every
one of the 800,000 £1 shares. Besides that
there is the mine and its equipment. Twelve
months back general-manager Wainwriglit
estimated proved ore reserves at 34 million
tons: but, notwithstanding the past year’s
extractions and the little development work
undertaken (his staff has been dealing with
fire troubles arising in the Central mine), he
has added 150,000 tons to the tally. These
figures do not take into account bodies of
ore which have been proved by diamond
drilling. The South can expect big tonnages
even beyond the radius drilled: after having
exhaustively examined the field. Government
Geologist Andrews last year concluded that
the South had prospects of finding between
one and two million tons outside known
areas. So if metal prices don’t break their
necks, and labor is reasonable, the South
still has many years’ mining in a big way
ahead of it. An interesting feature of the
latest accounts is that though only £87,200
of the original debenture debt of £200,000 is
outstanding, during the past year the direc-
tors increased a debenture sinking fund from
£108,434 to £122,062.
* * * *
The net premium on the 373,0990 z. of gold
handled by the Gold Producers’ Association
last half-year was £137,745. Administration
cost £2300; £16,490 was retained for con-
tingencies and the rest distributed. The pre-
mium is equal to 7s. 4.6 d. standard and Bs.
fine. The distribution will be at the rate of
6s. 5.2 d. and 7s. respectively. The directors
express concern at the charge made by the
banks for remitting the proceeds to Aus-
tralia. From 325. 6d. per cent, at the be-
ginning of the half-year it was increased to
655. at the close, and has since been lifted
to 70s. The total cost of realisation, which
includes freight and charges, insurance, com-
mission, foreign agents’ expenses, exchange
and administration, was Is. per sovereign
exported, and exchange at 70s. per cent,
represents 9.7 d., or over three-fourths of the
total. As the present discount is chiefly due
to lavish public borrowing in London, the
gold-producer is finding out some of the cost
of the loan policy which The Bulletin has
been cursing for 30 years past.
* * * *
Australian Oil Corp. proposes to re-
duce its nominal capital from £500,000
in 10s. shares to £150,000. Three more calls
of 6d. will make them paid to 75., when
shares will be endorsed as fully paid to 10s.
This intimation is accompanied by a report
from the consulting geologist, Dr. H. I. Jen-
sen, -who declares without qualification that
the Beaudesert. area is oil-bearing. It makes
other favorable comment which should im-
press shareholders sufficiently to insure pay-
ment of the remaining calls.
* * * *
Vimy Ridge (N.S.W.) isn’t living up to
its name. A disturbing, peace-like silence
is the most noticeable feature of the show’
these days. Crushing results for over two
months remain unannounced, and the mar-
ket, interpreting no news as bad new r s, has
almost passed the scrip out: where a mine
has a big lode and a 10-head mill, and the
shareholders are asked to contribute to the
expenses of crushing, the question arises
whether crushing is w’orth while. Of course
it may be; if in the course of prospecting
and development stone has to be broken and
raised, then it is better to crush it even if
the gold pays only for the crushing. But
that sort of thing shouldn’t go on for long.
North Blocks, the new Broken Hill ven-
ture, recently issued 500 of its reserved
shares at a premium of 30s. The issue was
over-applied for by present holders. North
Blocks has a nominal capital of £4500 in £1
shares. Vendors received 1500, and 1750
are still in reserve. Activity is concentrated
on installing plant. Poppet legs are over
the shaft, and the rest of the gear, includ-
ing a larger pump, is expected to be soon in
position. Most of the shareholders are local
people, and the payment of a premium looks
hopeful.
* # # *
The present position of Vegetable Creek
tin (N.S.W.) is an illustration of the romance
of mining. After winning 32 dividends at
Emmaville and striking lean times, the co.
last year acquired the old disappointment
knowm as the Cherry, at Ardlethan. Less
than six months ago, when abandonment of
this seemed certain, two pipes of good ore
were located, and the co. returned to the
dividend list after four years’ absence with
a Gd. distribution early this month. Mean-
time large numbers of the old shareholders
had dropped out rather than pay the calls;
consequently only 57.000 shares out of
135,000 participate. From a nominal value
calculated in halfpence, scrip went to Gs. 9d.,
and is now worth about ss. Gd. ex-dividend.
* * * *
Crowm, Mudgee (N.S.W.), still sleeps on
its water shortage. Since the flotation 18
months ago about £25,000 hag been expended
in driving two tunnels, both misfires, and
in erecting a 10-liead battery which cost
£2OO second-hand at Bodangora. The dam
holds relatively a mere spoonful of water:
but a subsidiary supply is being sought in
the dry creek-bed immediately beneath the
battery at the foot of Bombandy Mountain.
Reports are that the subsidiary supply w’ill
make possible a trial crushing. This con-
flicts with the chairman’s emphatic “No”
to a question about this possibility at the
annual meeting last month.
* * * *
Tin fell £l7 in two days last week —a total
of £29 since the beginning of the month.
But it did not look like the start of a long
run downhill, and that early belief is sup-
ported by the slight improvement on the
week. It is probable that the move repre-
sented manipulation by American interests
who had allow’ed stocks to run low, the
object being to force the market down as a
preliminary to heavy buying.
* * * #
So few people turned up that the meet-
ing called in Melbourne to liquidate Mt. Isa
South was pushed back into next week. The
remaining assets will not be distributed nor
the paid-up shares _ in Mt. Isa handed over
to shareholders un*til the necessary resolu-
tion is passed.
* * * *
Devon (W.A.) is again under new’ man-
agement. Most of the men who have tried
arid failed to turn this show to profit had
Bendigo or Ballarat experience, but the one
just appointed has been a lecturer in mining
and metallurgy in a Scottish University.
On the strength of the previous manager’s
opinions the directors expressed confidence
in the future, but they have done this so
often and then had to eat their words that
shareholders’ optimism is dowm to about a
dwt. to the ton.
* * * *
The Perth syndicate with Dutch oil con-
cessions has been advised of the arrival of
Mick Williams in Java and his departure
for Borneo “with the best petroleum engi-
neer available.” Mick's tales of oil and
coal wealth on the syndicate’s area have had
a cheering effect on the market, and 50s.
shares are being unloaded at fancy prices.
The first instalment of £2OOO purchase con-
sideration was cabled to the vendors the
other day, leaving a balance of £98.000.
* * * #
Ivalgoorlie shed a little of its depression
on receipt of a cable that Ivanhoes had
jumped to a sovereign. The rise w’as attri-
buted to good reports from Wiluna, w’here
the Ivanhoe holds an option. And then a
meddlesome cable arrived stating that the
inflated quotation was merely w’rong.
The more or less wise men of the East
are inquiring about Edjudina (W.A.). The
field, 100 miles north-east of Ivalgoorlie, was
discovered in the early ’nineties, and js re-
markable for its length and the comparative
narrowness of its ore deposits. Gt. Fingall
began there, but after buying a costly mill-
ing plant in England and paying £7OOO cart-
age from Albany, left hurriedly, and for
years the plant remained where it was
dumped. Then it was sold to the Cosmopoli-
tan Co. at Kookynie. Subsequently a party
of working miners crushed the dumps left
by the co. and got 2oz. gold per ton out of
them. Later still a number of small syndi-
cates operated on the field with success, but
none were financially strong enough to carry
on below water-level.
* * * *
Dr. Clapp recently got rid of most of his
staff and impedimenta at Broome (W.A. 1,
and when last heard of was motoring through
the Backblocks on his return journey to
Perth. It was announced at Freney’s meet-
ing that Clapp had been asked to inspect and
report on that co.’s “seepages and anti-
clines,” but it is understood that he refused
the job.
* * * *
Mararoa Co., having completed the pur-
chase of the Emu leases at Reedy’s, near Cue
(W.A.).is now giving attention to its second
string at Wiluna. A bore is to be put down
several hundred feet, and according to a
well-known expert who was recently on the
spot the drill is likely to strike the extension
of the ore body which the Ivanhoe lately
stabbed with good results.
* * * *
South-Western Shale and Oil has shifted
quarters, now being in the fold of C. C.
Jackson. To the end of June £1919 had been
spent in testing country in Westralia;
£lOOO was paid as an oil-expert’s fee, and a
trifle of £320 went in expenses. Whether
this went to De Hautpick or H. S. Lyne,
or was cut up between the two, is not told.
What is clear is that Lyne holds that the
Nornalup-Brookes Inlet area should be given
a spin. Manager Perkins is credited with
having a definite seepage in hand. Lake
Bunga, East Gippsland, is thought to be
also so attractive that a 200-acre block should
be held. All of which means that on C. C.
Jackson’s tip London is to be asked to put
up £lOO,OOO, with a working capital of
£50,000. But John Bull is pretty sick of
“sporty oil shows, and will want to know
why, if a seepage is about, the drill isn’t
hard at it to strike the gusher,
The bloom is off Daylesford (Vic.) until a
new lot of gudgeons _ come along or a fresh
fiat make turns up. Ajax dealers are finding it
is one thing to put scrip into a pouch to
hold bears up for differences and another to
unload when “formation” comes into the reef.
Stoping goes on above No. 6, while McMil-
lan’s lode is being explored for a favorable
sign. Ajax North is on the hunt on that
reef also, and is prospecting away east at
No. 9, but the result is nothing to brag
about. The flat make gives a good deal of
the battery feed. South Ajax shares have
had a boost, but the mine has to win its
spurs, so most people arc looking on. W. J.
Plain’s crowd, sticking to the old Cornish
United, have got a flat make at 255 ft.. but
so far the gold is small. The property has a
record at depth, which is more than can be
said of most Daylesford shows, so that the
testing of the shallow ground provides more
than a spice of interest.
* * * *
Those who got out of Amalgamated Zincs
at 19s. were dazed when Collins House an-
nounced a shilling div., and in a lordly way
didn’t tell why. Now a circular reveals that,
having regard to the income received from
the co.’s investments, the directors have
decided,” etc. The div. takes £25.000. As
£27,000 has come in from the co.'s holding of
300,000 Electrolytic Zinc shares and a few
odd thousands from other sources since Dec
31, why should Monty Cohen or W. L. Bail-
lieu go short? But the shindy isn’t settled
by the circular : the men who sold remember
that W. L. Baillicu, when talking to share-
holders in May about the deal with the
V.D.L. Co., remarked that, if either that pro-
ject or a mysterious No. 2 venture was em-
barked upon, the co. would require all its
“present funds.” In the light of that know-
ledge no div. had been distributed for some
time prior to the meeting. The malcontents
also quote the estimate that it would take
two years to get the new venture under way
if it was gone on with. Wily birds there-
upon sold because they counted on loss of
interest through no divs. coming along, and
the chance of a big capital outlay on the
new business. Reading between the lines the
circular tells a good deal. First, chemist
Avery and Government-official Benjamin are
satisfied the timbers on the V.D.L. property
will pnlp profitably. Second. British and
Continental expert opinion is now to be
sought. Third, if European opinion is
favorable, it will be invited to come in with
Collins House to provide funds. Possibly
it was the decision to invite European capital
to join in that decided the directors that
they could safely release some of their own
funds.
Ashmead”: It was always the belief of
that grand old miner-Scnator, the late Torn
Bakhap, that “something good” would be
unearthed in the deserted, wild region south
of Macquarie Harbor, on the Speck’s West
Coast. A party of prospectors left Hobart
in a fishing smack the other day to try their
luck in this rugged and practically unex-
plored country. A few days after they left
another party of three returned to Hobart
with about £lOOO worth of osmiridium, won
in seven weeks.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of tlie Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Quality Tolls’’
h
istinctive
Footwear
always available at
MACNAUGHTS
Lizard and Crocodile
Skill Shoes— Wonderful
imitation leathers, made up
into shoes of merit. Several
smart styles. Various
heels Only
29/6
If too far away to visit
the stores, let US servo
you by our efficient Mail
Order Service.
We pay postage, N.S.W.
Genuine Python Shoes
Remarkably fine shoes, made of genuine skins
imported direct from Java by Macnaughts. A
style that is exclusive can be selected from our
range.. Prices . ... 59/6 to 79/6
Write us specially about these magnificent shoes.
MACNAUGHT SHOE STORES LTD.,
189 PITT STREET—SYDNEY—136 KING STREET.
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“The
Pleasure is
all Yours.”
\r>,
fc *
rx
J. KITCHEN & SONS Pty. Ltd.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Justice Salmond, who died during the
week-end, was one of the few men who
reached the Maoriland Supreme Court Bench
from the study instead of the Bar. His
legal practice had been a pathetic failure,
and to his friends in later years he would
often recall with bitterness the years he
spent in a frowsy Maoriland township wait-
ing for litigants who didn't come. From there
Salmond went to Adelaide University as
Professor of Law, and stayed until reclaimed
by Maoriland, about 20 years ago, for a
similar job at Victoria College (Welling-
ton). Subsequently he became law-drafts-
man to the Cfown and Solicitor-General, and
so wended his way to the Bench, where he
showed rare intellectual power and a large
ignorance of human affairs. He nursed, too,
a secret sorrow —a nose that was fiery red,
the outward and visible sign of indigestion in
E. J. PAYNE,
the new Public Trustee of N. S. Wales.
a virulent form. Salmond’s father, who ex-
pounded philosophy at Dunedin University,
lived until nearly 90. The son, who never
took any exercise, finished at 62.
The Rev. Samuel Marsden’s stock was
good: another of his descendants, A. M.
Betts, the oldest practising lawyer in N. S.
Wales, has died at Goulburn, aged 80. The
Marsden and the Betts families were early
connected : Marsden’s daughter married young
Betts, who. had come to teach in the school
that the Rev. Samuel had established. The
deceased Goulburn man leaves two sons in
the law—one in his home town, the other
Selwyn Betts, barrister, of Sydney. The
“Selwyn” comes from that other line old
parson who was first bishop of the Pacific
Islands; in his early voyaging he had one of
the second generation of Bettses with him.
Later this Betts went into the back country,
and lived the rest of his life there. Twelve
years or less ago a Bui.letin man met him,
then far on in the seventies, paddling at
Manly. The veteran seemed to feel that
an explanation was due. “I can’t last much
longer,” he said, “so I just came down to say
good-bye to my old friend Neptune.”
Ex-P.M.G. George Wise, of Sale (Vic.),
has just had a 50th birthday—he was ad-
mitted to practise as a lawyer on Sept. 14,
1N74. Since he wrested the Gippsland
Federal seat from Allan McLean he has had
two defeats, but it looks as if he will down
Cocky Patterson at the next appeal, despite
his 75 years.
One of the founders of Sydney’s League of
Ancient Mariners. Captain .James Mathew
Banks, has hauled down his pennant at 05.
His first visit to Australia was in 1852 as
chief officer of the Alexander, bound for
Port Phillip. Two years later he was
skipper of the vessel, and held the job until
1857. He came to Sydney in 1868 and re-
mained there as marine surveyor.
“Pollio”: George Lambert is earning
notoriety just now in a manner that will
probably surprise him. Professor Guy Mon-
trose Whipple, of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology at Pittsburg (U.S.A.), has
apparently copyrighted Lambert's “Impor-
tant People” for use as a test of memory
and intelligence. “The test,” says a Ilearst
reporter, “is to examine this picture 20 to
00 seconds, then try to describe it so fully
that a person who had never seen it would
have a perfectly clear notion of its appear-
ance... .There is also a strange problem
suggested by the picture to be interpreted.”
Come to think of it, the first test is fairly
stiff, and as for the second——! “It is as-
tonishing,” the reporter adds, “how few per-
sons can give any intelligent description of
this picture.” Is it so astonishing, after all?
Gone west, at Brisbane, Fred Weiss, ex-
billiard champion of Australia. He was 60
up when he received a double baulk.
M.L. Chief Justice Robt. Stout first opened
his wise eyes on September 28 80 years ago
in the Shetland Isles. A non-conformist, he
is one of the few prominent men who dare
publicly to sponsor freethinkers like Joseph
McCabe; and an ardent prohibitionist he
shows no mercy to the delinquent who claims
booze as justification for crime.
“J.D.W.”: Canadians learnt something
about the horsemanship of the Australian
sailor when A. B. Gibson, of the well-known
family of Bananaland pastoralists and cane-
growers, climbed on to “the wildest broncho
that could be found in British Columbia.”
English sailors present said he would break
his neck, but he rode the beast to a stand-
still, and sent the crowd off its head. And
he can do other things, too: he recently won
the swimming championship of the British
Navy, and was runner-up in a boxing tour-
nament at Vancouver. He is an old boy of
Ipswich Grammar School.
The much-liked C. A. Bayer, just dead in
Adelaide, at 05, was the son of a popular doc-
tor of the long-ago. lie went to England as
a boy to learn hydraulic engineering, and
gave his whole life to Adelaide’s waterworks
and sewers. At first under Oswald Brown,
and then with complete control as Sanitary
Engineer, he installed deep drainage long
before Melbourne had it. and ran the city’s
second water scheme, which taps the Onka-
paringa, Clarendon and Happy Valley, lie
did fine service in the drought of 1914, and
the great Millbrook lake on the Torrens is
one of his monuments. Another is the sys-
tem of pumping stations along the Murray.
Made his last journey, at 78, C. N.
Chalker, explorer of caverns and the dis-
coverer of the Wombeyan Caves. He could
climb cliffs like a cat, and with the
aid of a greenhide rope and a tallow-candle
would plumb unknown depths. At first ha
showed visitors round as an act of grace;
later he was appointed official guide.
Mrs. Goodwin, who died a few days ago
at Potts Point, Sydney, was widow of that
Henry Goodwin who died at Hazelbrook,
Blue Mountains, 10 years ago, while build-
ing at his own expense a home for seamen of
the Navy disabled in the war. He was
descended from the First Fleet, and inherited
a good deal of city property. His wife’s
family runs back almost as far in Sydney
history. They w r ere the Dwyers of
Parramatta-street.
Lieut. J. A. Collins, R.A.N., the Jervis
Bay graduate who has beaten allcomers in
the long-gunnery examinations in England,
is a brother of Dale Collins, the young novel-
ist who is writing fast and profitably in
Blighty.
F. M. FoTde, Federal member for Capri-
eornia (Q.), makes his camera help him in
nursing his constituency. A while back he
visited New Guinea and obtained a host of
interesting photos. On his return lie had
these converted into lantern slides, plain and
colored, and purchased all equipment neces-
sary for showing them. Then he travelled
through his huge electorate on a hmturing
tour, all proceeds going to public chaHties.
Back to pedagogy after spending two years
in pursuit of the hookworm, Hamlyn Harris,
D.Sc., of Queensland and Tubingen, where
he was a fellow-student of Prof. Osborne
(Melbourne ) and Lord Milner. Once a
science master at Brisbane Grammar, he is
going now to the Southport School. Well
known as a scientific writer and lecturer, he
has been president of the Royal Society of
Queensland, of the Gould League of Bird-
lovers and of the Stanthorpe Entomological
Society, and was for a time director of
Queensland Museum.
Edward Williams, who died at 88 last
week, was one of the drivers of the first loco,
on Sydney railway lines. But he did not
claim to drive on the first trip from Sydney to
Parramatta in 1855. The driver on t int I
occasion was Sixsmith: the fireman was
Webster, father of the headmaster at
Cleveland-streot School. The guard was
Darby, who in old age was guard of the
funeral train from Sydney to Rookwood.
John O'Donovan. Maoriland’s ex-Commis-
sioner of Police, has crossed the Tasman
to see if Sydney's Spring weather will re-
CARMICHAEL LYNE, Pres, of the Tas-
manian Farmers, Stockowners and
Orchardists' Association.
store his health. O'Donovan, once a school-
teacher. by sheer merit won his way through
the M.L. police force, from ordinary bobby
to Commissioner, incidentally passing his
solicitor’s examination and being the first
instructor in the police training-school. Ills
eloquent tribute, paid a year or two ago, to
the memory of a police-constable shot dead
whilst on duty, was a classic in its way.
Mingling with the greybeards at the forth-
coming forestry conference in Sydney you
will find the 27-year-old Stephen Kessell, who
controls W.A.’s Forestry Department. The
son of a Methodist parson, he was recom-
mended for the big job by C. E. Lane-Poole,
who gave it best because of a dispute with
Jimmy Mitchell, then Premier. Kessell, who
learned the practical side of the tree busi-
ness in England and France, controls a wider
field than any other forester in this world.
“Lily-Beale”: Within a week of the ap-
pearance of the first newspaper par. that
he was a claimant for the Angell millions
and had a fighting chance of getting them,
T. E. Harper, of Dubbo (N.S.W.), began
to take in a heavy mail; and begging let-
ters have ever since arrived by the dozen.
The best so far is from a lady who has been
20 years working at a piece of tapestry
which she had never meant to part with;
but now she will take £5OOO for it. “buy my
old home back, and settle down quietly until
God calls me.”
“The Deacon”: Apropos the appointment
of the Irishman, Patrick Roche, as R.C. Vicar-
General of Maitland, what a chance the Aus-
tralian-born Bishop Dwyer missed when he
didn’t appoint Father Joe Coady! A
Manly student, with All Hallows experi-
ence, Coady knows his native land fore and
aft. But the thing that really endears hint
to Coalfields people is his discovery of
Les Darcy. A handy man with the gloves
himself, he helped to knock his young Mait-
land parishioner into shape for his big fights
in the city.
JUSTICE MANN (Vic.), presiding in the
action brought by Captain Falcke
against the Herald for aspersing his
Old Masters.
Took his own life', unaccountably, at 70,
James Evans, of Adelaide. For many years
lie was secretary to the tf.A. Gas Co., and till
lately was an enthusiastic veteran at tennis.
Captain Corner, just passed out in Eng-
land. will be remembered in Australia for
bis feat of bringing the s.s. Norfolk to Fre-
mantle under awnings and tarpaulins over
a thousand stormy miles of Indian Ocean
after she had lost her screw. lie received
a present of £.”00 for bis seamanship. lie
also held a life-saving medal from the Royal
Humane Society, gained by diving overboard
in Sydney Harbor to rescue a sailor who had
fallen into the water. Long experience as
commander of training-ships made him a
popular figure with building navigators.
Now nearing the nineties, Roger Benjamin
Barnes has resided almost continuously in
Williamstown (Vic.) since landing there as
a small boy with his parents. A numerous
tribe of Black Brother, ruled by “King” Ben-
bow, then roamed the district, their favorite
camp being a ti-tree clearing through which
Nelson-place, the main business street, now
passes.
Pied, at 80, Catherine Ahyou, who with
her husband saw the foundation of Bai’cal-
dine (Q.) and started a farm there. She
was a native of Tipperary, and outlived her
husband 23 years.
For 34 years master-mariner W, P, Collins
has walked the bridge of one or other of the
Union Co.’s fleet, and has never had a spill.
He joined the Monowai in Glasgae 44 years
ago on her maiden voyage to M.L., and ever
since has made his shore home in the quak-
ing places. He is just about to ring bis last
“go astern” to the engine-room of the Maheno
and hand in his sextant, A fine type of
seaman, Collins is known to thousands of
travellers on both sides of the Tasman.
Tommy Bent has been dead 15 years, and
his successor in Vic. Assembly, Lawyer
Snowball, has never had a smell of office.
Perhaps that is one of the reasons why he
is in a cave with four other disgruntleds.
John t Quinlan has just completed a half-
century’s continuous service as councillor of
Yea Shire (Vic.). He has been president
16 times. The octogenarian has a snug
farm a mile from the town, and was relieved
when he learned 15 years ago that the Tra-
wool reservoir scheme had been abandoned
and that his holding was not to be sub-
merged.
THE LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Cr. Anderson, during a heated discussion in
the Coburg City Council, told his colleagues that he
‘felt like Billy Hughes—words were not in his voca-
bulary to express himself on an occasion like this." ’’
Here is a man who, sore beset
By harassing vexation,
Disdained to let resentment flow
In words of passion such as “Blow!”
Or “Dash!” or “Botheration!”
He would not in his choler choose
Terms so offensive to the Muse
As “getting riled" or “seeing red” ;
No, when his peace and comfort fled
11c to his colleagues simply said:
“I feel like Billy Hughes!”
Thus, thus alone could he express
That height of irritation,
That fierce extremity of rage
Beyond man’s power to assuage
With any exclamation,
That point when frenzied mortals lose
The lingual vent they’re wont to use,
Asperity’s most peevish pass,
, Exasperation's coup tie, grace,
A tantrum of the highest class:
“I feel like Billy Hughes!”
Kelvin and Pasteur, Boycott, Lynch,
Each to a grateful, nation
Supplied a word concise and strong,
But here’s a jewel flve-words-long,
A grand, quintuple ration;
Though future students may refuse
Our dusty annals to peruse,
One name, at least, across the days,
Impervious to time’s decays,
Shall live immortal in the phrase
“I feel like Billy Hughes.”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His soul knows wonder-sunsets that no other eyes
have seen—
Wild color-bursts which Satan might have limned
before the Fall;
Fay harmonies and ghostly hues flung on a magic
screen,
Till Lady Dusk writes “Finis” in deep purple over
all.
Where hyacinths are prodigal and sunshine treasure
spills,
He wander's down far grass-grown paths no other
foot has trod ;
And he has ranged blue distances bevond the royal
hills,
Or viewed alone in dreams the spreading heavens
bright with God,
He knows the song the rosy almond blossoms sing
to greet
The advent of the ample-breasted generous Spring
wind ;
Yet ev’ry day he passes by along m3' sordid street
With “Tap, tap, tap,” monotonous, “Tap-tap”—
for he is blind!
x.s.w.
MARTINA BRABY.


ffl* Cdo your friends the highest honour
by including in the hospitality
66
TOP NOTCH
9$
“mnj&ojys IV
The Scotch Whisky
that always leaves
a pleasant memory
m
pH
mm
&
OUnwgh,
nnnnv/cx
N o*tfr£f
s
9
ComfuM^Jld'
wduiboftf/is.
‘*T*|»
I*»?t
5 C
f(T(
w
PRODUCE OF SCOTtA.NP
Bottled in Bond under supervision of the Customs.


1
i
m
&
&
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, juot as if ft were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I atnentl Store f n 102 Dakmg House,
LdlllaUll serviee Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little &• Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Uli
h iU
~niL!
*
lln<
uiiin
Hill
>aiillll*ll
UJ II
When You Visit Melbourne
ensure an added comfort and pleasure to your stay by
booking at the
JfoteOldmijot
Spring Street, Melbourne.
Ideally and centrally situated at the city’s highest point
in surroundings of quietness and beauty, yet is within
easy walking distance of the theatres and shopping centre.
Artistic, comfortable and complete furnishings through- \
out. Hot and cold water and telephones in all bed- 4
rooms. Perfect cuisine and quick, courteous service.
I <€T‘% ■
A
TARIFF:
Room and Breakfast, from 13/6 per day.
Inclusive Tariff „ 18/6 „ „
Private Suites De Luxe according to size and
position.
Telegrams & Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
’Phone : Cent. 9260. Manager: B. C. .Tones.
Best Value on Earth!
WAGGA,
Retr.
BRUSH,
Maker.
Sydney.
Stock
Saddle,
complete
with
mounts,
The
“Wagga”
for
£5/10/-
Mail your order, with remittance for £5/15/.,
and we will include a 10/6 Bridle for the extra
5/-, and will pay your Freight anywhere in N. S.
Wales. Your opportunity, don’t miss it.
John Brush (and Butlers),
371 George St., Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
AN OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE.
THE JOURNALIST: “ When you sit down to
think out a joke, time d’yon feel?”
THE COMEDIAN: “ Usually out of humor.”
“Piriti": Re “Kaituna’s” phosphorescent
worm (B. 21/8/’24). The Maori knows its value for
eel-fishing. He threads it on to flax fibre, of which
he makes a “bob’ ; or tangled skein ; and he fastens
the bob by a string to the end of a long pole. The
eel’s teeth become caught in the fibre when it snaps
at the worms, and the expert fisherman can jerk
the wriggler out of the water before it can free
itself. Anyone who has used a bob will never use
anything else for eeling. I don’t know whether the
glow-worm, as we called them as youngsters, is good
for other fish. Others don’t hang round when the
cot is after its supper.
* * * *
“S.S.S.” : My mates and I are working on
the New Canindah (Q.) railway extension, and going
back to our tent after work we met a fine old-man
black snake casually strolling out of our door.
Nothing was at hand to intercept his strolling, and
seeing murder in our eyes he got away. Ned was
more than ordinarily alarmed (he had cl.t.’s a month
ago), so he left the camp and went down to the
store. As we did not expect him to return, we
were much surprised at daylight to see him rolled
up in his bunk. We didn’t call him till breakfast
was ready—the rum down the line takes some sleep-
ing off. Then we pulled the blankets off, and close
alongside him, one coil on his neck and its head up
by his ear, was the old-man snake of the niglit
before. Our yell of surprise woke Ned. tVith a
shout of horror he fell out on the floor and tore off.
In the commotion his bedmate slid away. We put
the morning in hunting him. We got him. He
measured 6ft. 4in.
* * * *
“W iddymindoey”: “Kunmurry” must go
back a bit more than 15 years to find the first wild
camels in N.-W. Queensland (B. 2S/8/’24) —in fact,
he would have to go back to the time when Mac-
Intyre, a brother of Donald of Dalgonally, acting for
some wealthy Victorians, collected an outfit to search
for Ludwig Leichhardt, but died before he could
get it moving. His plant included a number of
camels, and these were finally turned adrift in the
country lying between the Flinders and the Leich-
hardt. They increased rapidly until they became a
nuisance to Sammy Walker and some other well-
known identities. This brought them under the
rifle, and they were very quickly wiped out. But
tney ranged over that country for quite a while
before their extermination was decided upon.
* * * *
“iarrum": Has any Abo. noticed that,
when disturbed by a car at night, rabbits and foxes
will scoot from the light as soon as it strikes them?
Hares, on the other hand, will keep in it, and fly
before the speeding vehicle for miles. They will
nev ei attempt to sidestep, even if completely exhausted
and in imminent danger of being run over.
, . * *■ * *
“YV.ij.” (San Francisco) : There is suffer-
ing among the range cattle and big game on the
Sierra Nevadas this summer. The foot-and-mouth
disease, which has been stamped out in 14 of the
1C districts ravaged by it, has got away into the
foothills. While the cattle are in the high country
it is impossible to muster them and handle the
disease ; but when the winter snows force the beasts
down into the lower country, a mighty muster will
be held, and the disease will soon be in hand.
VVith the wild deer and other game, it will be a
difficult job; but as a first offensive a wholesale
shooting will be organised. This experience of
Californians should be a warning to M.L. and other
places where wild deer are permitted to roam the
bush country ; among their crimes against the settled
lands must now be included that of carrying stock
diseases.
* * * •
“Moe” : An unusual phenomenon sometimes
met in New Guinea is the full-blooded native with
reu hair pure ginger. Microscopic examination
shows that the pigment cells are of exactly the same
nature as those of red-headed Europeans, the histo-
logical structure being identical also in other respects.
The most curious feature, however, is that in many
cases the owner is born with a thatch of the cus-
tomary color, the red tint developing usually about
the fifteenth or sixteenth year. In every instance
known to me the subject has been a man. Inci-
dentally, some years ago there was a red-headed
Chinaman in Merauke, the principal port in Dutch
New Guinea.
* * # #
“Borom” : Recently 20 shearers at Llanillo
station, in the Walgett district of New South Wales,
got through a big mob at a rate that averaged 163
sheep per day per man. Some tallies were, of course,
much higher, the two ringers averaging 237 and
235 respectively, while on one occasion the faster of
these two ran up a score of 261. The whole per-
formance will take some beating.
* * * *
“Runnymede”: A farmer in this district
had a well-bred sow, which he expected shortly to
give him a litter of valuable piglets. He had to
go into town one day, so he told a “migrant” whom
he employed to keep an eye on things and especially
the sow. On his return he asked how the sow was.
“All right,” he was answered, “an’ I did you and
her a good turn to-day. I went down to’see her
and there were dozens of rats crawling over her.
I killed every —— one of ’em.”
*.. * * *
“Lou" : In West Queensland you will come
across what they call “S” gates. These are half-
moon-shaped races through the squattahs’ fences,
and while light vehicular traffic can run through,
stock won’t venture. A sheet of flat iron is thrown
down at each end, and any inquisitive animal will
shy off when its foot touches the rattletrap. They
reduce the outlay on ordinary gates; besides, they
are never left open. Some wool-kings provide
motor ramps,” built of planks, over fences. Others
provide wonderful contraptions that have been known
to make a whirlwind shy off its course.
“Bobbo” : A few years before the war the
Emperor of Austria presented to the Maoriland Gov-
ernment a few chamois, which were liberated in the
snowy, glacier-bound fastnesses of the Southern Alps.
All trace of the animals was lost, and it was believed
they had not survived the change of environment.
Not long ago an exploring party, looking down one
of the hidden valleys between the lower hills, came
upon a herd of these timid creatures foraging
among the melting snow, and the count was up to 70
before the watchers’ presence was discovered. Then
the whole herd disappeared into one of the inacces-
sible gorges close by, probably not to be sighted again
for months, even years.
* * * •
“.Timmy Possum": Flindersia oxlcyana is
certainly a splendid timber, as “Smilax” says (B.
i/8/ 24) ; but I’ve known at least one large Banana-
land milling firm to turn it down on several occa-
sions, the excuse being that the timber was too
oily. The wood undoubtedly contains a certain
amount of oil, which gives planed boards a somewhat
slippery surface: but in this respect it is not worse
than tallow-wood or spotted-gum—if as bad. The
flindersia (or flandowser, as timbergetters usually
call it) attains an enormous girth on the North Coast
of Bananaland, the tree being the monarch of the
jungles or patches of dense scrubs which botanists
generally term “rain forest.”
THESE GREEDY CUSTOMERS.
CUSTOMER : “ 'Ere, this coat you sold me is full of silver-fish.”
COREN : “Vell, uot you expect for den lob — goldfish, mein friendt, eh?”
“Gouger”: Many of the Cape York nig-
gers have the habit of daubing their hair with various
binds of ochre as a sign of widowhood and sickness.
Different colored clays are used for different ills, and
also for different stages of widowhood. The hair
is divided into wisps, each being cemented together.
To see a lady nigger with this coiffure is a bit
startling—positively dangerous if she is fastidious
and stabs vivid scarlet berries into the clay in token
of sauciness. When the mud dries and milady
scratches her pate, you can hear her rattling a
mile off.
* * * *
“F.F.”: Re queer nesting-places for birds.
Some years age a sailing-ship arrived at Rock-
hampton, and while it was lying at the wharf a
pair of peewits built a nest on the extreme point
of the bowsprit. There was much speculation as to
whether the young birds would be old enough to
leave the nest before the ship sailed ; but, as it
turned out, about a week ahead of the boat leaving
the youngsters, after a day or two’s exercise in the
rigging, took their departure. The sailors prized the
nest very much, looking upon it as an Australian
mascot.
* * * *
“Borom” : Growing in the bush around
Middle Harbor, Sydney, is a plant which feeds on
flies and small insects. In general structure it is
not unlike the Venus fly-catching plant of S. America,
having a wide bulbous-shaped flower, lined with small
hairs and a sticky, mucous-like substance. The hairs
are so placed that an insect can crawl in but can’t
crawl out again, even if it is strong enough to
escape from the slime. Apparently, the digestive
process by which the victims are absorbed into the
tissues of the plant is similar in principle to that
in the animal system, being essentially one of
solution, for on the interior surface of the bulb are
generally to be seen insect-bodies in various stages
of being dissolved and absorbed. Curiously enough,
this plant is found only in the Middle Harbor district,
there being no record of its presence anywhere else.
' * * * *
“Cartot”: Writing from Sydney in May,
1788, Phillip mentions the ability of some of the
abos. around Port Jackson as carvers of statues, and
he describes a large figure of a man in a dancing
posture on the high land' at the back of Manly and
easily observable from some distance at sea. This
statue has long since disappeared—the oldest inhabi-
tants have no recollection of it —nor is there any
record of it elsewhere. Vet, from Phillip’s descrip-
tion, it seems to have been something of a landmark.
Does anybody know anything about it, or what has
become of it?
* * * *
“Medico”: “Fordson’s” (B. 4/9/’24) par.
reminds me of a bullocky I recently had to attend.
When encouraging his team with his long whip, the
lash caught and flicked up a splinter of wood from
the road with such force that it flew back and em-
bedded itself for the full length of its two inches :
fn his left forearm.
“Gouger" : A grim experience has befallen
neighbors of mine on one of N.Q.’s tropical tinfields.
In the middle of the night the wife, after a hard,
dreamy struggle, as if some fascinating power was
dragging her back to sleep, woke up with the
vague idea that she was suffocating. For one long.
tense minute she lay motionless, and then lifted her
left hand to her throat. Instantly the arm was
gripped and pressed with irresistible strength against
her head. A broad scaly body contracted round her
throat and neck, filled out under the chin, and pressed
closer and tighter. Choking, she tried to move her
right arm, only to feel it buried to the elbow down
the throat of a nuge carpet-snike, one of the great
tropical breed that can swallow a wallaby with
ease. The woman struggled, but was powerless to
move anything but her legs. She managed to kick
her husband, but he only grunted and turned sleepily
over to the extreme side of the bed. With all her
fast-waning strength she threw her legs backward
in a desperate attempt to kick the baby into wake-
fulness. She luckily succeeded, and under pressure
of lively kicks the youngster set up a lusty bawling.
The husband turned over, put his arms around the
child, and, three parts asleep, began crooning a
lullaby. But a lucky kick from the almost-finished
woman brought such an infantile roar that the
man woke completely, and on striking a light lie
got the greatest shock of his life. He broke the
jaws of the snake with his hands, and even then
had to struggle hard to release his wife’s neck
from the choking coils.
ON HIS ROUNDS.
BUSHWOMAN : “It’s a hit out of your tray,
doctor.”
DR. BAKKBLOX : “Not. at all. I've got to
go that way to see Mr. Budger, so it'll
be like hilling two birds with one stone.”
“E.W.M.”: Any challengers of the claim
of Innisfail (N.Q.) to be regarded as the wettest town
in Australia? It has had over 125 in. of rain during
tile first eight months of the present year.
(Continued on page 24-)
COOKING HAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A motor party bright and gay,
Composed of Jew and Gov,
Drove out of Perth one sunlit day,
The blue hills tb enjoy.
For lunch they rested at an inn—
An inn accounted good—
Well stocked with ale and wine and gin
And various brands of food.
The party round the table sat,
With sharpened appetite
For creamy milk and butter pat
And all that teeth might bite.
Before each guest the country maid,
As timid as »a lamb,
With pretty gesture deftly laid
A plate of luscious ham.
The happy Christian and his wife
Attacked the pale pink food
With stabbing fork and cutting knife,
As diners should.
So did the Jew ; but not his spouse,
The beauteous dark Jewess.
There shot from ’neath her handsome brows
A look of deep distress.
She took a mouthful and then two,
But made a wry grimace;
She turned the food and looked it through,
Then dropped it in its place.
And sitting back she softly cried:
“Convinced indeed I am,
None but a Jewess good and tried
Can really cook a ham!”
W.A.
D. I. F.


definite
cut
if
vefcle you 4au
lithe
* A
* 0
S*,
• tap
»»>*»
SflKJfr
"IVSD 34S
h-vscxva


ms
H
H
■
Hi
HI
-
rASTLEREAGH STREET’
i Lfc* SYDNEY
This hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141 —10 lines.
“Cell .14”: Watching armies of ibis mak-
ing meals off grasshoppers, I have often wondered
whether the ancient Egyptians came to regard the
bird as sacred because it helped them to combat
their Big Problem—the locust. At any rate, judging
by the frequent references in the Scriptures to the
grasshopper becoming a burden, the subjects of
Tutankhamen must have thrown their hats ■ into
the air whenever they saw the ibis coming over the
horizon.
* * * *
“V. 8.11.” : Before the foster-mother debate
becomes extinct, I would like to mention a cat in
my neighborhood which adopted and reared a young
’possum. Lacking a room to board him, she obligingly
carries him on her back. But as Joey expands the
dent in the cat’s back increases and looks as though
ONE MAN’S MEAT.
“Ah, it's love that makes the world go round.”
“Gam, don’t be young! What about beer!”
it will become permanent unless she throws the
youngster overboard pretty soon.
# * * X
“McG.”: Tell those who have been bewail-
ing the disappearance of the dugong that at Buck-
stan (Q„), where the Burrum River empties into
Hervey Bay, any amount may be found whenever
they’re wanted. Vast beds of dugong grass grow in
the shallows at the river mouth, and this no doubt
accounts for the presence of the “sea-cow.” Not
so many years ago quite a flourishing industry was
carried on in the oil and hides of these heavy-
weights. By the way, can any Abo. give an opinion
on dugong flesh done ham fashion? When I was with
a fishing party on the Isis River our boatman con-
tributed dugong steak to our evening menu. It
looked equal to the primest meat displayed at our
State butchery, but nobody could be tempted, de-
spite the boatman’s testimony to its fine qualities.
* * * *
“Yellum”: While fishing at Brunswick
Heads (North Coast, N.S.W.) I landed a small
whiting, and as the tide was coming in I threw it
far up the beach. But it did not land—a seagull
swooped low, caught it neatly and continued the
flight, leaving me to return home, as usual, fishless.
* » » *
“Troophorse”: Re queer finds in animals
(B. 7/8/’24). A 12ft. alligator we shot on Mendil
Beach, near Darwin (N.T.), several years ago, had
packed inside him half a digested pig, a couple >f
fathoms of Jin. rope attached to a shark hook by 2ft.
of a w'ire clothes-line, several stones the size of a
man’s fist, three Nestle’s milk-tins and several bully-
beef tins. This perambulating emporium was caught
in a Chinese fish-trap, and when the tide ebbed he
was left stranded behind the wire-netting fence.
* * * *
“Ole Samuel”: A problem troubling me at
present is how to permanently check the abnormal
growth of a cow’s hoofs. It was just about this
time last year that I had the vet. in to saw off the
tips of the hind hoofs ; but apparently that is only
a temporary remedy, for the hoofs are now so big
that walking is a very troublesome process for poor
Strawberry. Any suggestions?
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : In the early days of the
Murchison (W.A.) a police trooper was bringing a
prisoner across country, making him trot along
with his hand on the horse’s mane. Whenever the
runner lagged, or shifted his grip to take a fresh
one, he felt the muzzle of a revolver at his neck.
Vainly he asked to be allowed to hold the stirrup-
leather ; the John Hop was taking no chances of
having his charge behind him. But the prisoner’s
wita were still working. Unnoticed he worked his
hand towards the bridle throat-strap, and quietly
fingered until he had undone the little buckle. Sud-
denly slipping his hand under the headstall, he swung
the bridle off, hit the horse and yelled simultaneously.
The trooper wasn’t quick enough to throw himself
off, and the next second be was part of a bolt streak-
ing across the country, bereft of all control over
his frightened mount. The Murchison soon swallowed
up the escapee.
* » * #
“Troophorse”: As a trepanger who has col-
lected tons of it from the Gulf of Carpentaria and
sold it in Hong Kong I can tell those who have been
arguing about the matter that all
the Ilolothuria are known as “sea-
slugs.” There are about 80 vari-
eties round the coasts of Aus-
tralia. All the edible sorts fished
for are in the tropics and sub-
tropics, and the grades dealt in
are black, barrier black, deep-water
black, teat fish, prickly fish, mam-
ma teat, mainland black, chalk
fish, tiger fish, sand fish, lolly
fish and curry fish. Some of these
varieties get mixed in nomencla-
ture. The most plentiful is the
chalk fish. The N.T. coast is the
chief hunting-ground for this one
—practically the only sort found
along the N.T. coast from Wynd-
ham to the Wessel Islands. It is
a shallow-water variety, and on the
N.T. coast is invariably colored
with mangrove bark for export.
This preserves the product and
stamps it as N.T. fish. The same
variety found in Torres Strait is
never colored. The Macassars
started the tinting, and now Chi-
nese merchants look for the red
color in all N.T. produce. All
the other varieties mentioned are
along the Barrier and in the
Torres Strait. The blacks, teats
and reds bring the highest a.rice.
They are all deep-water fish. Lolly
fish is everywhere, but it is not of
sufficient commercial value. Just
now chalk fish is worth about £BO
a ton, best black up to £250.
Four years ago best black ran up
to £750 and chalk fish up ro
£250; others in between. What
little innards the creature has are
usually full of sand. It browses
on seaweed, and the sand is a di-
gestive. It is capable of slow
progression and of subsidence by
means of extension and contrac-
tion. When picked up in the
hand it stiffens out, and in a few
seconds heaves its inside out and
becomes flaccid. It is a simple,
innocent creature which harms no one, but brings joy
to the heart of the Chinese mandarin, making him
arch his neck and tax his subordinates.
* * * •
“F. Clinton”: Although the throwing-
stick was used extensively by the mainland abos.
with spears, it was never a feature of the armory
of the Tasmanian blacks. They preferred spears
about 12ft. long and even up to 15ft., very care-
fully made, as straight as a die, and about 2in.
thick. In throwing, the spear was nicely balanced
in the hand, and firmly gripped between the fore-
finger and thumb. As it left his hand the thrower
imparted a spin by cleverly flicking it. This
affected it as a bullet discharged from a rifled barrel
is affected—the flight was truer, and the distance
covered much greater than if simply thrown without
the spin. Although the points were only fire-hard-
ened wood, they were deadly weapons in the hands
of expert throwers. There are some good specimens
in the Hobart Museum.
“Borom”: Re water-lily seeds as an article
of diet in the Northern Territory. One might go a
lot further and fare a good deal worse. Owing to the
high proportion of flour in them they are extremely
nutritious, and, when ground up finely and made
PUTTING IT IN PARABLE FORM.
“Ez this thy son an’ hen?”
“Wha’s ’ce mean by that?”
“I’ll tell ’ee. S’posin' you was King of England, would ’e be
Prince of Waales?”
into a paste with water, and then baked, they form
a fairly passable substitute for bread or johnny-cake.
In the early days of Territory exploration they saved
the lives of more than one expedition which had run
short of provisions, and some old-timers give them
a regular place on the menu. Their only disadvan-
tage is that they are likely to upset the digestive
system which encounters them for the first time, and
bring about an attack of acute dyspepsia.
* * * *
“T.T.T.”: Has any Abo. heard of a bigger
pine stick of the King William ( Athrotaxis selagi-
r.oides) species than this? On R. Smith’s property
at Cradje Valley (Tas.) there reposed a log which
when measured Bft. from the butt was found to be
26ft. in circumference, and a foot below the finst
limb, 65ft. away, it required 16ft. 9in. of tape to
go round it. The King must have met his downfall
many years ago, as he wore a thick shroud of mo9s
and ferns.
* * * *
“Davrich”: A friend of mine knows a
cocky who gives this as his best day’s work: Caught
and harnessed two horses at 5.15 a.m. ; carted 105
Cin. (minimum) sft. Bin. fence posts three-quarters
of a mile ; dug 105 20in. holes and put up 105 posts ;
bored 630 holes (six in each post) ; distance covered,
15 chains ; unharnessed horses at 5.45 p.m. Sounds
like a record that will take a good deal of beating.
* * * *
“933” : Chance meals, is it? A mate and
I were footing it from Broken Hill across to Lake
Victoria during the 1920 depression, and about all
our larder contained was some very dry bread and
a quart or so of beef-dripping handed out by a
butcher. We camped one night beside the telegraph
line, and about 10 o’clock, just as Bill was enumer-
ating all the good things the winning ticket in
Tatt.’s would do for him, there was a swish over-
head, the telegraph wires rattled, and down dropped
two black ducks—necks broken in both cases. Be-
lieve me, baked wild duck at midnight on the track
takes some beating.
* * * *
“Rufus H.” : I was fishing on tiie Bur-
dekin (Q.) the other evening when I noticed a
carpet-snake lying cn a rock intently gazing into the
shallow water. I watched for a while and he sud-
denly made a lunge at the water, and, after a
few moments’ struggle, emerged with a two-foot eel.
I here interrupted the seance with a big boulder—
and had eel for breakfast.
* * « s
“Veronal”: The wolf or tiger of Tasmania,
now rare, bothered the early settlers by attacking
their few sheep much as the wild dog of Australia
does. As far back as 1817 a settler fired one
night at some dog-like animal which was worrying
his jumbucks. When morning came he found the
carcase of a strange animal, brownish in color, and
striped and spotted leopard-fashion. It was a female, and
had a pouch for the accommodation of its chick. This
description fits the Tasmanian wolf, or tiger, which
belongs to the order .1 larsupiala, i.e., animals which
have pouches for their young. The Tasmanian devil
also kept its end up in those early days by preying
on poultry. This bad-tempered little beast is said to
be untameable, and li a pair (male and female) are
kept in an enclosure, the lady is much given to
curtain-lecturing hubby in anything but a Toti dal
Monte voice.
* * * *
“M.Sc.”: Recent references to the botfly
suggest that few people know that farm stock are
not the only sufferers from the pest. A case is re-
ported in an English
medical journal of a
man who was stung on
the back of the hand.
The bite began to itch
at once, and in three
days a red raised rash
spread up his arm.
Under a lens a para-
site was seen, and it
was sent to Prof. Ski-
jabin, one of the
biggest authorities in
Europe, who recognised
it as the larva of the
great horse-fly (Qastro-
philus equi intesti-
nalis). We have this
stinger in Australia. 1
looked up the English
literature and found
similar cases reported
under the name of
“creeping disease” —the
first in 1874. Scattered
cases among stablemen
have been reported
from Europe, Asia and
Central America ; some
of them due to other
species of fly, such as
Oestrus and Tabanus.
There have been in-
stances in which the in-
fection has been con-
tracted by men while
grooming horses. An
outbreak of a similar
skin disease occurred in
Shetland among girls
who cut peat, which is
a well-known harbor for
the pests. Does the
■Council know of a case
in Australia ?
“J.R.Iv.” : A mate of mine in prospecting
around an old show unearthed a matchbox containing
two detonators. As they were dirty and discolored
he did not care to chance them on a fuse, so threw
them away. They had not left his hand more than
a few feet when one exploded in the air. Can the
Council advance any reason why and how this
occurred? Also doesn’t it serve to illustrate the
foolhardiness of blowing into the cap to clear the
sawdust, as is so often done by miners?
* * * #
“The Rumpus”: It’s easy to put roast
galah on the menu in the nor’-west of Groperland.
For three parts of the year the rivers are dry except
for pools of water miles apart, and at these spots
the pink and grey birds consort in big flocks. A
binghi showed me how. He got together a number
of good throwing-sticks about 2ft. long, and then
winged one galah with a stone. With his sticks
he ran up to it, and putting his foot on its wing
FAMILIARITY BREEDS CONTEMPT.
“I used to love poetry, but I’ve got no time
for it notv I'm in the bar all day.”
“But surely you could read in the evenings.”
“Silly! I mean I’ve got no time for it after
seeing so many poets.”
waited for a little while. The screeches of the
stricken bird brought thousands flying round and
round not more than 30ft. away, and the throwing-
sticks went hurtling in among the thickest. Eight
throws brought down 21 galahs.
GHOSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As in our cave we sat and smoked
Beside a starlit cove,
While birds of night called hauntingly
From creekside glade and grove,
The darkness took our souls in charge
And dreams and fancies wove.
Bewitched, bemused, as there we sat
With seeking eyes and ears,
We heard feet moving in the dark,
And visioned bygone years;
And then a dead tribe sought us out,
Hands grasping hunting spears.
Lithe-limbed, black-bodied, spears aloft,
Half-hidden by the smoke
Of our campfire, they grouped around,
And never word they spoke:
Through dark, accusing eyes they stared,
These ghosts of bygone folk.
IVe smoked m more, watched thus by them
Beside that starlit cove,
While birds of night called hauntingly
From creekside glade and grove,
And darkness, taking charge of us,
Strange dreams and fancies wove.
At last, fear fighting, up we rose,
And 10, no shape was nigh!
No shape except a lone she-oak
That tossed and swayed near by.
Yet what was it, we asked ourselves,
That made that she-oak sigh?
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


ilfi
SI
I ! I I.
ii
l aim
t .* -?
iilili*
i W.
liiipiipwa
•At.', j
a
sS*
I
i
Mm
r
li
5*
8 5
, V
-
:
' : :V
4K
SPW
•- ■ -
■
■ :
\f.\
*? i*»
gi
?v
SURTAX. KVEKDK
Holywood(Chli£j
M
■! m ■
t
m
CONCRETE USERS
Build Elastite Expansion Joint into Every
Concrete Road, Retaining Wall, Street
Pavements, Sidewalks, Courtyards.
CONCRETE road expands and contracts as the
temperature varies. It expands to the extent of
nearly lin. in 100 ft. or 47 inches in a mile. In the
early infancy of the concrete road Elastite Expansion Joint
was developed to fill the urgent need of a safety-valve
for the relief of the terrific stresses to which the concrete
was subjected. Elastite Expansion Joint has been tried
and tested under all conditions.
It is accepted everywhere as the standard expansion joint.
It consists of two substantial layers of asphalt-saturated
felt between which is interposed a body of asphaltic
compound, the whole being inseparably bonded together
in sandwich form by mechanical pressure. It is furnished
in thicknesses, widths and lengths as required, can be cut
to fit the crown of any road, and comes to the job ready
to set in place. It is stiff and rigid and as easily handled
as a board. It keeps its shape and does not melt or stick
together in hot weather; neither is it brittle or hard in
winter. It is firm but never hard, yielding under pressure,
but never soft.
Elastite Expansion Joint has been used since 1911 in
every important engineering structure in America. It
should be used to separate the pavement from sidewalks,
driveways, buildings and other fixed objects.
IT IS NOT COSTLY.
For all particulars apply
Allied Engineering Co.
59 YORK STREET, SYDNEY;
20 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ATKINS & CO., LTD., 88 CURRIE STREET,
ADELAIDE.


THE RED PAGE’S OFFSIDER.
What is Man?
One of the best of recent books is What
hy Professor J. Arthur Thomson
(Methuen), which contains the substance of
lectures before an assemblage of Free Kirk
ministers at Aberdeen. That the clergy have
for a long time shown earnest signs of acquir-
ing the knowledge that science has gained
about man and his predecessors on the face
of the globe is the best thing imaginable, and
likely to add immeasurably to the power of
the Church, a power that has lately been
waning simply because sensible men would
not go to hear deliberately expounded as
divine truth things that we know to be un-
true. No fault can be found with Professor
Thomson’s exposition, from the point either
of scientific truth or of its moral application.
For many ages it has been the custom to
sneer at the doctor as an atheist; and “tres
medici duo athci” was a favorite proverb in
the Middle Ages. To the best doctors the
chief attitude to mankind is one of pity;
pity to people who were brought into this
world against their will, a world of horror
and disease and sin and wickedness; and
they have always revolted against the idea
that these things came into the world by
divine ordinance. That, and not any sus-
picion of flippancy, is the real meaning of
radical atheism, and why doctors are nearly
all pantheists.
\v e know _ now that all three great dis-
tinctive feelings of the human brain—art,
science and religion, those three feelings that
immeasurably distinguish us from the brutes
—are all sublimations of sex, as it has been
evolved throughout the ages in the mighty
brain of Man. It is the possession of the
power so to sublime feelings at first com-
mon to man and the brutes that distinguishes
us from the lower animals; and it is to the
much-abused Professor Freud, to Julian
Huxley and to Havelock Ellis that we owe
this great truth. All these distinguished
men have independently perceived this fact,
and have stated it in almost the same words;
it is an imperative call from the “Uncon-
scious.”
But Professor Thomson does not go so
far as this. He contents himself with giving
an excellent account of man’s evolution and
at making guesses at his primitive state,
and later on stating his ideas of ethics as
now evolved by man as a social creature.
He shows how man evolved, not from an ape,
but from a common ape-like predecessor,
which may have been an original stem from
which many experiments in evolution arose,
until finally, at least for the present, man
himself arose. And man was never a mere
brute, living in promiscuity and without
morals, living the life of a rabbit. PI. G.
Wells’s idea that the family arose at the
call of an Old Man, who drove away his
sons and kept his daughters to add to his
harem is nonsensical, because every new wife
would have to be kept out of the slender
store of food that primitive man would be
able to amass. P'olygamy—or polygyny, as
Professor Thomson prefers to call it—arose
when man became wealthy enough to keep
several wives; it is essentially the device
of a wealthy man. Probably man was always
essentially monogamous; probably love for
his wife and his children always entered
into the mere sex relationship. That is
what always distinguished him from the
beasts that perish. To that extent, and only
to that extent, may we say with St. John
that “God is Love.” It is man’s power of
feeling pity and its brother love that has
always distinguished him from the brutes.
Professor Thomson writes interestingly
on the result of the erect posture as man
descended from his trees, to which he first
resorted as a means of escape from the crowd
of great ravening beasts that threatened to
devour him, and, still worse, to eat his wife
and little ones—he was always a self-deny-
ing and moral animal. He discourses on
man’s incessant battle. against disease, that
worst of all his enemies; and he discusses
very sanely the prospects of improving the
human race by the science of eugenics. But,
strangely enough, he overlooks syphilis, that
worst enemy of man, which probably causes
more misery, death and degradation to the
human race than any other three diseases,
directly and indirectly. But this is a minor
point compared with the message of hope
that he holds out for the human race—a
message founded not on a silly optimism but
on a sane meliorism that is fully justified
by scientific thought.
He sums it all up in one or two sentences:
Man’s highest conception, his conception of God,
must enlarge as his thoughts are widened. But it is
surely interesting to notice that the modern idea of
God—a God of Evolution—brings us back to the God
of our fathers whose name, Jehovah, the scholars
tell us, meant not “I am that I am,” but “I will he
what I will be.” Religious conceptions are trans-
cendental, those of Science are empirical. The aim of
Science is description. The aim of religious theory
is interpretation.
Better than this no man can say with any
regard for scientific truth.
This is a book that every man should
read if he wishes to keep abreast with
modern thought: this book, and Julian Hux-
ley’s “Essays of a Biologist.” Furthermore,
we might add “The Dance of Life,” by Have-
lock Ellis, and we should arrive at the real
opinions of three so-called atheistical doc-
tors. We are not really so atheistical as
they used to think us in the Middle Ages.
Beauty, truth and goodness remain to us
eternal verities, just as they were to Plato.
C. McL.
Schoolbags in Java and Australia
Having taken up temporary residence a
Pull half hour from George-street and, there-
fore, in the heart of the living bush, I find
*o my consternation that the anticipated de-
fights of country life are Dead Sea fruit. I
wake every morning to the sound of mysteri-
ous hissing, sipping, whistling and chirping
noises from the surrounding scrub—and they
remain mysterious. I walk along the beauti-
ful bush roads, between rows of silent gums,
each obviouslv different from its neighbors,
and they remain for me only gums. A note
on muted strings comes from the depths of
a green gully, and I do not know whether
bird, moth, lizard or cricket is its author.
A hundred varieties of wild flowering shrubs
are round me. but I am more familiar with
the names and appearances of the trim im-
ported flowers in my cottage garden than
with these.
My nearest neighbors on either side are
as ill-informed as I. I search the annals of
my childhood and adolescence to find out
why this fascinating book, with its many-
colored plates, has never been opened for
me. I have never seen a bull-moose in the
flesh, yet I would know it if I met it in
the street, and I could recognise a reindeer
at sight. I have always had a lively
curiosity of my environment, whatever it
happened to be ; yet I only learnt the other
day that a paddymelon was a beast and not
a vegetable. How comes it that my Austra-
lian birthright has apparently been sold for
a mess of foreign pottage?
I found the solution while ransacking
Helen’s schoolbag. Its contents seemed
to be vaguely familiar. There was,
in fact, no essential difference between
her collection of heterogeneous odd-
ments and the collection I used to carry along
the streets to school. Thirty years have
apparently not altered the principles of Aus-
tralian education. Textbooks are still sup-
plied from the cheapest market. A grudging
concession to Australian sentiment is made
in the shape of a very junior reader in which
kangaroos instead of kine illustrate the letter
lc; but the draughtsmanship is poor and the
production cheap. There is no lesson-book
illustrated by any of our Australian bush
artists, or letterpress contributed by writers
who know the country they write about.
It is galling, therefore, to find that the
schoolbag of the brown children of our next-
door neighbor, Java, are better stocked in this
respect than the Australian child’s. For
the past 15 years I have been making a col-
lection of the official textbooks used in the
Javanese vernacular schools. Popular edu-
cation is only 10 or 12 years old in Java, yet
they put our timid national effort to shame.
They are beautifully printed in Javanese,
Malay and Dutch, and are illustrated with
a lavishness that our publishers only bestow
on de luxe giftbooks sold at a guinea and
upwards; yet their price in the shops ranges
from tenpence to two shillings, and arc issued
to the schools at prices much lower. Two
or three gifted artists were commissioned to
adorn them, and they went for their inspira-
tion to the actual scenes with which their
audience would be familiar. Every phase of
native life is depicted with painstaking accu-
racy of detail. One sees the native crafts-
man handling the proper tools of his craft,
the smith working his primitive bellows, the
farmer guiding his simple plough, drawn by
paleolithic buffaloes. Modern innovations,
the railway and the sugar-fabrik, are shown
with their appropriate background of the
stupendous architecture of the irrigated rice-
sawah. which is Java’s pride and staff of
life. The fish illustrated in these books are
those which the Javanese small boy catches
in his lakes and rivers, the birds depicted are
those that swarm in the near-by jungle. The
seasons are the wet and dry monsoons, and
not the spring, summer, autumn, winter cycle
of faraway Europe. The problems of ' his
body, the dangers which in the tropics it is
likely to encounter, modern ideas of sanita-
tion, food and clothing adapted to the native
needs are set out for the native youngster
in admirable booklets, called “Pendjaga diri”
—-“Mind yourself.” The Javanese school-
bo.v’s. textbooks, in short, provide him with
a living study, instead .of foreign riddles;
they speak to him in his own language in-
stead of the language of his conquerors, and
they provide him with an equipment capable
of expanding in after-life his knowledge of
the only environment lie is ever likely to
endure. He may be provided with a window
on the outer world if he should pursue his
studies to the higher schools, but in the
clean, airy dessa-schools, encircled by the
universal rice-fields, the Dutch are content
to let him have a solid grounding in the essen-
tials of the life around him.
If the policy which places large orders
abroad for English publications and makes
cheap reprints of foreign productions instead
of fostering home endeavor were dictated by
a desire to. broaden the horizon of the Aus-
tralian child, there might be some excuse
for it; but since the motive governing it
is made up of equal parts of apathy, conser-
vatism and parsimony, it is altogether to
be deplored. Its results are seen in the
wholesale destruction of the native bush
round every Australian city, which is bound
to have a disastrous effect economically, not
to mention its aesthetic consequences.
I have just been looking wfith melancholy
wonder at a group of lovely gums standing
on a fenced-in allotment bearing the land
speculator's legend, “This Dot for Sale.” It
should read “This Lot for Execution,” for
on the other side of the road I see a timber-
getter rooting out the last stump of a similar
group to make room for a naked row of
building-contractors’ “bungalows,” miscalled
a garden suburb. If the Australian child
were taught at school the beauty, varieties
and uses of his native flora and fauna, he
would not as a grown man be able to view
such a sight with equanimity; but judging
by what 30. years have done for Helen’s
schoolbag, this generation’s manhood will be
as little recking as the last.
M. G. S.
Australian Land Settlement
A History of Australian Land Settlement,
by Stephen Roberts, M.A., Lecturer on Brit-
ish History in Melbourne University, is the
most complete survey of the subject that has
been made. As the innumerable footnotes
indicate, the author has not spared himself
in the quest for authentic information; and
the book would be worth while were it only
for its maps, 93 in number, and a complete
history in themselves.
Apart from the merits of this survey, the
time is singularly appropriate for its pre-
sentation. During the past decade the pro-
blems of land policy have declined in rela-
tive importance—actually if not politically.
Formerly the economic life of our community
was based almost entirely on primary produc-
tion ; now twin pillars support the edifice.
Primary production is being supplemented by
secondary to an ever-increasing extent, and
since that chapter in which land settlement
and development and national history coin-
cided must now be regarded as closed, it is
■well that we pause a moment and consider
what kind of a chapter it has been.
The first Australian settler was an expiree
named Ruse, who was placed on a farm by
Phillip and furnished with Government aid.
He was a capable and energetic individual
of an independent spirit. “Within 15
months,” remarks Mr. Roberts, “Ruse was
enabled to decline further support from the
Government, and his establishment justified
Phillip in undertaking further attempts.”
However, the “hot-house” methods of settle-
ment were early abandoned, and a resort
was made to "grants,” which had this merit
at least, that they threw the onus of making
good upon the individual. The most import-
ant influence in the initial stages was un-
doubtedly Lachlan Macquarie; but his suc-
cess in promoting settlement was due rather
to his energy in establishing roads and
towns than to any excellence inherent in
his land policy, which was in fact quite
wrong. His principal errors were embodied
in liis encouragement of the emancipists and
his refusal to recognise the importance of the
large stockowners. The most important event
of his time was the crossing of the Blue
Mountains. The discovery of Australia’s
mighty pastures led, among other things, to
a stressing of the importance of the two fac-
tors of labor and capital. Scarcity of capi-
tal within the colony accounts for the signi-
ficance the great companies possessed during
the ’thirties. The Australian Agricultural
Co., the Van Diemen’s Land Co., the Cressy
Co. and others did excellent work in en-
couraging exploration, improving stock
breeds, and in other ways; in fact, at one
period they were practically indispensable
to the well-being of the colony. Shortage of
labor rendered many attempts at settlement
abortive during the ’thirties, and this fact
accounts, in part, for the influence Wakefield
wielded in colonial land policy. The funda-
mental features of Wakefield’s plan were
disposal of land by sale, proceeds to go pre-
ferably to an immigration fund, and “con-
centration of settlement.” Mr. Roberts is
profoundly impressed with the extent of
Wakefield’s influence, and devotes several
chapters to an elucidation of the effects his
theory had on various land policies. But,
economically, his plan was exceedingly
erroneous. In particular he was unable
to grasp the significance of the squatting
movement. The squatters refused to “con-
centrate,” and while Wakefield theorised they
occupied vast tracts of land far beyond the
boundaries of “official settlement,” and under
no legal title whatsover.
No history of Australian land settlement
would be complete which failed to empha-
sise the importance of the squatter, and the
author of this work is not amiss in this
matter. The squatter is in turn the hero
and villain of the story—the hero as the
intrepid adventurer and enterprising stock-
breeder, the villain when he endeavored to
stem the emergence of agriculture which
occurred after ’55. As a pioneer he was in
the van of progress, but later as a land
monopolist he became an instrument of retro-
gression. Incidentally, in view of the pre-
sent controversy concerning the advisability
or otherwise, of exporting stud sheep to South
Africa, it is interesting to note that Australia
procured her first flock of merino sheep be-
cause a market could not be found for them
amongst the. veldt farmers.
“The Period of Closer Settlement” con-
cludes this study and brings us to our own
times. Mr. Roberts is hopeful concerning
the possibilities of immigration farms and
Government closer settlement purchase areas,
but ignores the difficulties arising out of the
slenderness of the home market and remote-
ness of the foreign. He claims that “de-
velopmental works, more help, and better
credit are needed,” but it is obvious that
Government spoon-feeding has the effect of
incapacitating the individual for self-help.
As to soldiers’ settlement he says that, “on
the whole, the settlement of nearly 30,000
men on the land within six years must be
regarded as satisfactory.” In view of the
tvay these men have been “settled,” all the
commentator can say is that Mr. Roberts
seems to be easily satisfied.
T. JASPER.
Stones for Bread
Alice Jackson' has her last word:—
The violent gesticulations of the Domain demagogue
do not convert his soap-box stand into a solid plat-
form. Neither do Mr. Way’s methods (R.P. 24/7/’24)
serve to hide the fraility of his fallacies. I have not
told Mr. Way “that human differences are the result
of purely hereditary forces.” I have contended that
environment alone cannot convert a true extrovert
into a true introvert. Do not twins, subject (pre-
sumably) to the same pre-natal and post-natal
influences of environment, frequently manifest marked
temperamental differences? “If the individual who is
displeased,” says Freud, “is in possession of esthetic
talent, which still remains a psychological riddle, he
can transform his fancies into works of art.” if
Mr. Way adheres to Coue’s pre-natal theory, does
this so enhance his devotion to his dwn as to afford
him the hardihood to advocate that his ideal “course
of social and educational cruelty” should be begun on
the expectant mother?
Mr. Way thinks that “the education which suited
the old Greeks admirably would suit us abominably.”
He can see no relation between our education problems
and theirs. His reason is that the Athenians were
a leisurely, slave-supported people who, freed from
the necessity of earning a livelihood, could easily
learn to live “happily and beautifully.” Now, how
does Mr. Way square this view with his theory that
misery is the mother of art ? Here is a people whom
he conceives to have been reared in the very lap of
luxury, yet it ranks pre-eminent in the history of
the nations because of its ethnic contributions in the
regions of art and literature! Sparta, on the other
hand, whose educational methods Mr. Way must surely
applaud, made no valuable contribution to this
flowering of the Greek genius. Nor can Mr. Wav
dismiss Plato and Aristotle with a gesture as irrele-
vant to this discussion. Do they not stand unique
in the history of English thought because of their
influence on science and philosophy? The education
problem, which they attacked, has become, in terms
of the new psychology, the problem of the harmoni-
ous development of the herd-complex and the ego-
ccmplex. It remains the same problem. Guided by
intuitive wisdom, these old Greeks believed that
spiritual autonomy could be achieved only by that
perfect self knowledge which they identified with
wisdom and virtue. The new psychology, teaching
that man canhot control the welling-up of psychic
enei gy from the Unconscious, nor altogether prevent
its flowing into the channels of the great primary
instincts, does not thereby commit itself to any
doctrine which exhausts the meaning of the human
souL It recognises that -element in consciousness
which has a vast power over the distribution of this
unconsciously derived energy. “That is why the
complete state of ethical freedom is ultimately
identical with wisdom, and that again with virtue.
We must be free from the unchecked sway of our
instincts and of all external moral codes before we
can set reason free to do its work in the ethical
sphere. Only when it has done its work on the
experience of life do we attain to anything like
wisdom. And only when harmony of mind and
conduct is attained is the higher virtue realised.’’
Is it, indeed, so far a cry from Plato to this New
Psychologist ?
“What psychology is it,” asks Mr. Way, “which
holds aloft the light of science? Is it the old
psychology so ardently clung to by the moralists
and so contemptuously spurned by the moderns?”
I had already suspected that Mr. Way considered a
contemptuously spurning attitude impressive! It is
the brummagem mark of the pseudo-scientist—the
man who is concerned, not with seeking truth, but
with exploiting the bizarre effects of a distorted
perspective. Every hall-marked scientist recognises
his debt to the older pioneers. In the realms of
education, so far from controverting the methods
of “the discoverers of sweet goodness and, innocence
in childhood,” whom Mr. Way abjures, the work
of Freud, Jung, Hart and others has but more
abundantly stressed the necessity of placing the
little child in a satisfying and happy environment.
If their theories hold good, the nursery and kinder-
garten become of. more importance to humanity than
the High School and University. In this connection
the voice of the old psychology becomes the tocsin
of the new. Its clear warning is that the child
who is indeed doomed to “frequent and bitter filching”
is precisely the child who is accustomed to receiving
stones for bread.
My viewpoint may be, as Mr. Way avers, that of
a pallid spinster. I do not doubt that Mr. Way’s
viewpoint will be eschewed by many a ruddy benedict.
It may relieve his mind, however, to know that 1
have never been engaged in distilling poison in a
kindergarten. My devitalising influence is limited
to bearing and rearing my own children.
National Literature
In his attack on my article on “National
Literature” Mr. Louis Esson writes (R.P.
28/8/24) that Turgenev serves as a high
and admirable model for any Australian
novelist. He certainly does. But no Austra-
lian novelist will ever be a Turgenev who
draws only the men and women on the land
and in the city slums, simple-minded and big-
hearted enough though those people be.
Ignorance and simple-mindedness are not vir-
tues, nor is. intelloctualism always a vice.
We can sentimentalise over the ignorant, and
we all like the simple-minded because we
know just where we stand with them. They
will not do us any harm, and can be made
to serve us well. But if they make the best
servants of individual men, it is the man of
highly developed intellect who is the best
servant of mankind. And it is this man,
seeing before and after as the ignorant and
simple-minded cannot see, and having to live
with the ignorant and simple-minded, who
knows what tragedy is. Hamlet and Mac-
beth are tragedies wholly of the mind. So
are the tragedies of Bazarov and Dimitri
Roudine. Henry Lawson drew swagmen and
shearers and publicans and larrikins and
women toiling on the land. But he never
drew one man of intellect nor one woman of
refinement and highly developed mentality.
It was the drawing of such men and women
that gave Turgenev his world fame. It was
the drawing of Hamlet and Macbeth and
lago and Othello and Beatrice and Ophelia
and Cleopatra, and not the drawing of Dog-
berry and Pistol and Autolycus and Dame
Quickly and Doll Tearslieet, that gave Shak-
speare his.
Mr. Esson takes exception to my statement
that Lawson sentimentalises and idealises
the country life. When we have read Lawson
we feel that the sort of people he describes
are the salt of the earth. They are no more the
salt of the earth than are the Russian pea-
sants. Then, if stories like “Macquarie’s
Mate” and “Avie Aspinall’s Alarm-clock.” to
mention just the first that come to mind, are
not sentimental, it is difficult to understand
what “sentimental” means. Next to the humor
in Lawson's stories and sketches it seems to
me that it is the sentimental touch he em-
ploys that makes those stories and sketches
appeal in the way they do to all of us.
Again, Mr. Esson takes exception to my
statement that a national literature includes
vrriters irrespective of what part of the
world they write of, or of what people, or
what subjects. The case of Turgenev, he
says, contradicts finally and absolutely my
contention. If Mr. Esson is right, then
Shakspeare, who wrote only a few plays
about England and not a single one about
the England of his own time, does not belong
to English literature. Nor does Joseph Con-
rad, who was born in Poland and only wrote
one novel the scene of which was laid in
England and dealt with English people. And
did an Australian writer, born and living all
his days in Australia, write the greatest his-
torical novel that ever was written, he could
not, according to this contention, belong to
Australian literature.
Mr. Esson says that in my article I have
waded up to .my waist in fallacy. Mr. Esson
seems to me in his article to be running along
the shore shouting out what convention says
should be shouted out.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
“Mary Scott”: The article on the color blue and its
essential joyousness and attraction for poets (B.
21/8/’24) sets me wondering more than ever why
“feeling blue” should be a synonym for dejection.
Possibly the originator of the phrase had in mind
not the tender azure of lake and sky but the more
sombre indigo shades; still, any blue at all is too
pleasant a thing to fit the dumps. Even navy is a
trim, ready-for-work-or-play sort of color. I shouldn't
mind feeling navy-blue; and as for turquoise and
saxe- and powder-blue and all the range of baltic
tints beloved of nature and fashion, they are only a
degree less exquisite than the poet’s own blue of skies
and forget-me-nots. And royal-blue—who wouldn't
feel royal-blue? I can only offer one explanation.
The blue intended to be descriptive of the doldrums
is the blue that won’t wash, the sort that fades to a
caricature of any known shade of blue. Let’s make
it “I feel my blue has faded.”
The Green Hat, by Michael Arlen (Collins). The
George Mooreish flavor of this author’s “London
Venture” is present in this second novel, but for an
erudite egotism he has substituted a playful fancy.
Possessing the scintillating wit of its predecessor, it
lacks the bitterness. Here the central figure is Ins
Storm, the wearer of the green hat, whose second
husband, a V.C., died in the war and whose first
committed suicide on the first night of his honeymoon.
The real passion of her life, however, is for Napier
Harpenden, and the whole thing works up to a
climax of power and originality. Strong meat, with
a gravy of striking epigrams.


ĥ
jvamcud
WfiiA/vy'
mgM
■■I
1m
jin
.
■
™ vrm x'.vs;- i
j?rae?
in
j? r,dv, , w, *, ■• m »
- £ -||%
' . V: V : V;/ :•" ■
*k ;, ■■
.Lowrie 8* c 9 tt?
& a/sr/Lie# 5
xM&Mtm&MmMiif. t Jk **■ ***■ \K/
Glasg o w
■'■'«• //y scot!.ahn
3k •
Nf
.>v.
J, ,'0
■HH
MSKIi
H B
v,V!
a
Australasian Agents- B-SEPPELT6SONS,L t °
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE e BROKEN HILL


Business, Robbery, etc.
T.0.1.’: The Surveyor-General Inn at
Berrima (N.S.W.), built in 1834 (shortly
after W. R. Govett surveyed the township
site), is going “out of the family”—the
family which has held it for 90 years. It
has passed through three generations to its
present owner, J. R. Harper.
* * * *
“E.W.M.”: About 18 months ago the
Banan aland Government gazetted Banyan
(Tully River, N.Q.) as the site for a new
Government sugar-mill. The prospects arc
indicated by the recent sale of perpetual
lease allotments at the township site.
Twenty-nine quarter-acre blocks were offered
and sold, the capital value realised being
£30,950. The highest price paid for an allot-
ment was £2200, and the lowest £5OO. More
and more the feeling grows that the country
north of Townsville is the sugar territory.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: Young Australian philatelists
might do worse than turn out grandfather’s
trunk. It was on Jan. 1, 1850, adhesive
stamps were first used in this country, and
in London recently a N.S.W. penny stamp
of that year brought £lB. and a twopenny
realised £l6, while a shilling one for 1854
was knocked down at £39. The highest
price ever given for an Australian stamp was
in 1904, when a W.A. stamp with the swan
printed upside down brought £4OO. Eight
of these specimens were known to exist.
Means of obliterating stamps were intro-
duced in 1856, and “0.5.” and “0.11. M.”
stamps, for the use of Government depart-
ments, arrived in 1879.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: Old Captain Ross, of Auck-
land, who bought the first Southern Cross
and re-named her the Ysabel. made much
money by retrieving anchors off Niua Foou,
in the Western Pacific. Scores of copra-
loading vessels shed their “picks” when a
breeze made holding on dangerous. Ross
fished with a team of Niue surf-boys by
“spotting” through a glass-bottomed box.
Having located either a cable or an anchor,
he sent a diver down, who made fast with a
hawser, and left the rest to the ship’s winch.
It is on record that one craft, in letting
go her anchor, lost chain and hook as weli,
the whole contraption disappearing in the
crater of a submarine volcano. Niua Foou
itself is merely the rim of a large crater.
* * * *
“Machete”: The old question of the tar-
branding of sheep cropped up again at the
recent Bradford (Eng.) wool conference.
Tar not only clogs the combs, but seriously
affects the quality of the tops, and Bradford
has been cursing about it these 40 years past.
The branding of travelling and other sheep
more or less indelibly is compulsory in Aus-
tralia, and tar is about the best material,
as far as branding goes, to fill the bill.
Years ago, in the hand-shearing days, it was
also used to smear on cut sheep. Bradford
combers got this abolished in favor of a
bluestone solution, but the tar-branding still
remains to worry them. The best the con-
ference could do was to suggest a search for
an effective substitute, and Bradford chem-
ists are now on the job. Meanwhile wool
without tar markings is rushed in Yorkshire.
* * * *
Australia has held seven official forestry
conferences within 13 years, the last happen-
ing in Sydney the other day. The purpose
is to render more umbrageous a rather shade-
less land, and if possible to diminish the
timber-importing business, which grew to
£6,200,000 last year, and is bounding along
like a kangaroo. But the awakening so far
is nothing to cheer about: the timbered area
of Australia was officially estimated at
97,000,000 acres in 1907 and at only
72,000,000 acres in 1921. No forestry con-
ference is likely to be trodden on by advanc-
ing forests, at any rate. In a list of 23-
countries furnished in last “Official Year
Book” Australia was the most treeless for
its size bar the United Kingdom. It beat
the U.K. by only a fraction, and it was get-
ting worse while the U.K. was improving.
Out of every 10,000 acres the Commonwealth
has 406 under timber, while crowded Japan
has 2753.
"The Padre’s Batman”: “Van Cat" didn’t
everything about “Combien-street” (B.
4/9/ 24). Some of the less scrupulous, re-
moving the labels from tins of pork-and-
beans, sold them to our gallant and trusting
allies as condensed milk.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The astonishing hotel at Ren-
mark (S.A.), which exists for the benefit of
the community, has allocated its year’s profits
among all sorts of local bodies. The local
hospital and the “institute” (library, etc.)
get the most, £5OO each, but everything is re-
membered, down to baby welfare centre £l5O,
boy scouts £5O, and £lOO “to be spent by the
Gistnct council as deemed desirable.” The
total of the gifts is over £2OOO.
* * * #
“Sturt”: S.A. Government is pressing the
advantages of its crematorium, which was
built in Adelaide, alongside West-terrace
Cemetery, at the beginning of the century by
a private society, and then handed over.
Belief in the simple and sanitary process
spreads slowly; but the Government says it
has handled about 50 cases in the last two
years, and now can take them for five guineas.
It adds the practical detail that a ton of coal
and half a ton of wood go to the disposal of
a body.
* * * •
“Leo Lear”: Citizens of Portland (Vic.)
are floating a co. to deal with one of our
neglected natural resources. Within two
miles of the town there are vast quantities of
sand suitable for manufacturing all kinds of
glassware. These deposits are, according to
analysis, equal to, if not better than, any-
thing else in the world, running up to 99.4
per cent, pure silica. Considering that we
send thousands of pounds out of the country
every year to pay for foreign goods in this
line, the Commonwealth Glass Co. deserves
all the help it can get.
* * * #
“T.V.T.”: The recent floods in Gippsland
upset a promising wager. Three years and
a bit ago a cocky was ploughing a small pad-
dock for a local publican, when he unearthed
two old ha’pennies, green with age. He bet
the publican a motor-cycle against a three-
furrow plough that inside five years he would
convert the two ha’pennies into £lOO. lie
started by buying a penny packet of onion
seed, of an early variety. With the money
he got for the onions he purchased a bag of
small seed-potatoes. These he sowed, and ob-
tained enough good tubers to plant over an
acre the following year. From seed obtained
from this area he had this year just finished
sowing 11 acres, and was in a fair way of
winning his wager, with a year to spare, when
Fate, in the shape of flood-water, intervened,
and rotted his seed—another instance of
water being turned to the publican’s advan-
tage.
BUT SHE FELT IT.
“Boot' old Bill! His wife got an awful shock when the
car came a cropper.”
“Why, I didn’t know his wife was with him?”
“No, she wasn’t; it was some other lady.”
“Bouragi”: The Papuan Administration,
which is always treading on somebody’s
corns, has just gone the way to get itself
disliked by the hardy mariners who navi-
gate those coral-strewn waters. For many
years the skippers of the nondescript craft
which ply between Daru and Warsong Point
have held office by virtue of what was locally
known as a “dog ticket,” issued to anyone
with sufficient knowledge of navigation to
scratch from one headland to another. A
new ordinance requires such mariners to
pass an exam, as to competency as well as
“supply evidence as to sobriety, experience,
ability and general good conduct.” No won-
der there’s a riot. One night, going up the
n.-e. coast in the old Bulldog, the whole
ship’s company, including the native steers-
man, fell asleep and woke up next morning
well on the way to New Britain. Instead
of repining, we turned round, and, using
the smoking top of Mount Victoria as a
steering mark, made Cape Nelson safely that
evening. Well may an indignant Papuan
resident write to the S. M. Herald to stig-
matise the ordinance as “an unwarrantable
interference with safe navigation and a pros-
titution of a profession that has proved itself
for the past 40 or 50 years!”
• * * *
“Midford”: The word “please” and its
variations —originally borrowed from the
polite French —lias been for centuries asso-
ciated in the English language with courtesy
and tender of service and readiness to oblige.
It used to be “An it please you,” “So please
3 r ou,” “What may be your pleasure?” and so
on. The Sydney modernisation—it may be
the London one, too, for all I know—the brisk,
brusque “Yes, please!” projected over the
counters of innumerable shops, begins to get
on my nerves. It has little interrogative
quality; there’s more bark than coo in it;
it is as if you were being peremptorily en-
joined to hurry up and make way for the
next customer rather than being suavely in-
vited to reveal your needs. And the worst
of it is that it seems to be a point of honor
—a mark of the really competent salesman or
saleswoman —to fire off this intimation that
you have secured attention before you can
open your mouth. Even if you happen to
be buying anything so commonplace as to-
bacco, with an indicative pouch in your
hand, you must be quick on the draw indeed
if you can anticipate the monotonous shib-
boleth in any up-to-date establishment, be it
crowded or empty.
* * * •
“Pantagruel”: For Bananaland’s cam-
paign against the prickly-pear the field staff
of the Lands Department has been re-organ-
ised, 36 rangers have been appointed officers
of the Prickly Pear Land Commission, and
another 43 officials will act as rangers. There
are 10,000 pear-infested tenures, from Too-
woomba to Charleville and from the N. S.
Wales border to Clermont. The Commission
is assuming the administration of these:
rents are to be reviewed and clearing condi-
tions adjusted. A London tender has been
accepted for 100 tons of arsenic pentoxide,
which will be distributed at cost price, pro-
bably about 9d. per lb —a pound of it can
destroy 12 tons of the vegetable porcupine.
* * * *
“Nitric”: Land-balloting (B. 2S/8/’24)
gives some queer results. In S.-W. Queens-
land a year or two ago a brother and a sister,
two among over 200 applicants, put in for
adjacent blocks and drew them. To conform
with the law they built a house on the boun-
dary-line, with a bedroom on each side, so
that the two owners could “reside”
on their respective blocks. The bad luck
of others is agonising. I know a manager
of a small station who jackerooed for four
years, overseered for five, and has managed
for another four, and he has been after every
available block without success for the last
10 years. His last try was for a fine bit of
sheep country, which went to a grocer who
wouldn’t know a merino from a crossbred.
Land-balloting should be restricted to pro-
perly-qualified applicants. It would give the
country a better deal and give experienced
men their due.
* * * *
“Johnnick” : It looks as if young Australia
wasn’t prepared to go in for science for the fun
of the thing. When Capt. Wilkins advertised
for assistants for two years’ research work
in North Queensland and Northern Terri-
tory he. received over 200 applications, but
not a single applicant could claim scientific
training. The lowest offer was from a laborer
who. wanted £5 per week and keep. In-
quiries at the Universities elicited the re-
sponse that there was no money in that kind
of research. Wilkins had turned down many
suitable applicants in England, as he reck-
oned that it was an Aussie job, and should
be done by Aussies.
* * * #
“Piriti”: Souvenirs were not the only
source of revenue for base-camp kings (B.
2_l/8/’24). In the N.Z.E.F. training-camp
at Sling there was an order that no one was
to leave his own camp unless
wearing a Webb belt. Few
Diggers ever went to the
trouble of dismantling their
Webb equipment. One enter-
prising gentleman had ac-
quired, in some way best
known to himself, a couple
of dozen spare belts, and as
new reinforcements came in
frequently he had no trouble
in disposing of them at ss.
a piece. When the reinforce-
ments left for France, our
friend would go round the
huts, collect the belts, which
were invariably left behind,
and sell them to the next lot.
* * *
“Harold H.”: The centen-
ary of the first settlement of
the N.T. this October makes
it of interest to recall that the
wooden piers on which the
first houses at Port Essington
were built, in 1838, are still
standing, undamaged by age,
weather and white ants. They
are of ironwood—a different
wood altogether from the iron-
bark, and the heaviest and
hardest wood in Australia. It
grows in considerable quanti-
ties in the Territory; and its
only enemy is the camel-driver
—its foliage is poisonous.
Phoney”: Either through lack of money,
for slaps are few, or out of respect for a
fellow-worker’s feeling, the Thursday Island
wharf-laborer has a delicate way of helping
a stranded mate. He is given an occasional
day’s lumping to keep the wolf away. It
is about the only port in Australia where a
man who is not a member of the all-powerful
union is allowed to join the gang.
* * * *
Will Lawson writes from ’Frisco:—
The Australian’s faith in the carrying powers of
a ljd. stamp causes* wrath and curses in San Fran-
cisco, where every mail brings surcharged letters
and packets. The correct postage is 2*d. to and
from Australia, though the rate from Maoriland is
only one penny each way, the Dominion having
reverted to penny postage and the U.S. having
agreed that it shall operate both ways, in considera-
tion of Maoriland giving the ’Frisco boats a subsidy.
Australia doesn’t subsidise any trans-Pacific service.
* * * #
“Henry Horsecollar” on a mystery ship:
A military English gentleman named Lucy has
just given to the world the true and complete ex-
planation of the famous mystery ship Marie Celeste.
He got it in 1882 from a survivor.
It was on a fine morning 52 years ago (I don’t
personally guarantee the year) that the erratic and
hesitating ways of the Marie Celeste off the Spanish
coast led to a search. The vessel was deserted.
It was in good order, and no bodies, breakages or
bloodstains were apparent. All hands had left in
the middle of a meal, and, judging from the
entries in the log-book, they were just gone ; yet the
last entry didn t hint that they were just going. As
the boats remained it was speculated whether they
left on wings or went away swimming. The
explanation now given is that the men of the Marie
Celeste sighted and boarded a derelict, among the
furnishings of which they found £3500. What was
wrong with that derelict doesn’t appear very
ele;rly, but its* three boats were intact, as
we., as all this money, and its crew was gone, so
it was the first mystery. The finders divided the
money, the captain getting £l2OO, and so on down-
ward till the common mariners didn’t get much.
Then, having an exaggerated sense of the magnitude
both of their crime and of their fortunes, they sank
the abandoned ship, abandoned their own ship leav-
mg the boats intact, fled to the Spanish shore in the
derelict s boats, apparently taking nothing but what
they stood tip in, landed and dispersed. It seems a
considerable dispersal for a rather inconsiderable
profit.
The explanation leaves several things unexplained.
Thus I can only assume that the captain and
mate skulked about for the balance of their days as
if they wore the brand of Cain, it being dangerous
to exhibit their certificates when applying for new
employment. Their names might be remembered, and
they might not only be refused a job, but might be
invited to explain their conduct in abandoning their
employers’ vessel on the high seas for the first
passer-by to annex. I have a shadowy recollection
that the skipper of the Marie Celeste had his wife
and child with him. If so, the lady, thrown by
Circumstance upon an alien shore, probably dyed
herself brown and opened a boarding-house.
The explanation also makes it necessary to assume
that in all the succeeding years no seaman of all the
crew became drunk enough to blurt out the story at
large, or sufficiently hard-pressed to raise a little
money on a really saleable narrative, in which a mere
A.B.’s share of guilt would be hardly worth a
mention. Even the alleged babbler who talked 10
years after the crime stipulated that silence should
be preserved till he was dead and money had ceased
to be of use to him. He even suppressed the name
of the mystery within a mystery—in other words,
the name of the derelict which the Marie Celeste
found before turning derelict itself. Truly has it
been said that spoof is stranger than fiction.
My simple idea has always been that there was a
scientific and homicidal madman on board the Marie
Celeste; that he drugged all hands at the unfinished
meal; and that he then tied a bag of coke or the like
to each, and dropped them overboard. Finally he
went over himself. That view would explain why
the boats and the crew’s spare clothes remained on
board, and probably no one searched the ship to
ascertain if any coke was missing.
* * * *
“Loud.” : An unusual crash in finance is
that of the Crosse and Blackwell jam and
pickle co., which has just written off
£4,625,000 of its capital as lost. Half a
million sterling goes to the single item of
“depreciation on fruit.” The drastic
remedies to be adopted include the cancelling
of all old dividends on preference shares,
and a writing off of portion of each share
held. Incidentally, the country factories are
to be closed, headquarters to be back again
in London, as in the old days when the firm
made good money.
* # * *
Henry Fletcher proposes a! new currency :
Forty-seven years ago, near Hoffnung’s, in Pitt-
street, a French chef kept a grill-room: chops or
steaks, chips, French bread, tea or coffee, salad,
etc., neatly served, sixpence. Twenty years after,
for a meal of the same grade, a shilling. Present
time, chase around and you may find a duplicate
spread for 2s. In all the years that feed has not
changed its real value. It is worth no more and
no less to a hungry man. And the process continu-
ing, in 1944 it will cost 45., and in 1964 Bs. If
I had had a fixed income 47 years ago of a pound
a week—sufficient at that date to buy all necessaries
—it would now buy only five bobs’ worth. Both
grills and gold are commodities, but they differ in
detail: while we are regularly hungry and can eat
a grill, so that it is in constant demand, for gold the
demand is decreasing and it is not consumed.
Forty-seven years ago Brickie or Chips was paid
16s. for an eight-hour day—price of a week’s board,
lodging and laundry. After half a century of shadow-
sparring, strikes, solidarity, class war and class
consciousness, Labor has quick-marched without gain-
ing ground. Consider the position of Brawn if, 47
years ago and since, he had been paid 32 meal-
tickets for a day’s work. He would know now just
where he was; while, with sovereigns shooting the
shoot, where is he? With gab, grab and go-slow,
he has evolved “the basic wage”—literally, the
current cost of chops and accessories for five. A
learned Judge consults Mrs. Brawn, ponders on the
right use of kitchen scraps, and the utility of drip-
ping, and how many chips go to the nipper, when
the obvious automatic, self-acting remedy is pay-
ment in meal-tickets. For appetite (in the bulk)
never varies, and a meal-ticket is at all times worth
exactly the same.
* * * *
“Cuzenos”: What strikes me most in
North Queensland is the magnificent waste
of territory. In the interior not 10 per cent,
of the rich, natural pasture is turned to com-
mercial account. Of the fertile agricultural
land around Innisfail, not more than 5 per
cent, is under cultivation. There seems to
be a wicked illusion that this country would
be no good for pasture. The sugar farmer's
cow is a case of condensed milk; and all
State experimental work —along the wet
area, at least —has been confined to sugar.
Hitherto this fertile district lias been isolated
for want of railway connection; but now
that the North Coast line is nearing com-
pletion, there is some hope that a change
will come. It seems absurd to say that there
can be no other production but sugar. We
know that the excessive wet is supposed to kill
sheep, and put water in the cow’s milk. But
a man named Alexander, at Clump Point,
made a timid attempt with sheep, and is
highly surprised at the result. His wool has
not turned into floorcloths, and his lambs (a
splendid average) still retain the full num-
ber of legs. Amongst dairymen, however, the
experience has not been satisfactory. De-
pending on the watery native grasses, how
could they be successful? A selection of
cattle and the use of suitable artificial
grasses would make all the difference. In
the early days coffee and tobacco were tried
with more or less success ; and there must
surely be other profitable products. In view
of such a wonderful area of rich land, with
unfailing seasons, there certainly is great
scope for experimental stations. And their
establishment is a national job.
“Nakhoda”: A fine old warrior is Prof.
Macmillan Brown, M.L.’s great authority on
Polynesia, who refuses to look back on his
lifetime of strenuous research and travel.
Though well in the seventies, he set out two
years ago to solve the mystery of Easter
Island, the lonely rock in Mid-Pacific whose
huge stone images still present a baffling
problem. A Chilian warship dropped him on
the island amongst a few half-savage indi-
genes, and six months later an accidental
schooner tore him from his researches. Since
the, tiny fragment could never have sustained
sufficient humanity to make the building of
these monuments possible, and as the nearest
big land is two thousand miles away, his
theory is that it was the burial-ground of
a master-race inhabiting an archipelago long
since collapsed beneath the waves. Magni-
ficent apples grow like standard roses in
Brown’s front garden in the Cashmere Hills
overlooking Christchurch. He says they con-
tain Ms secret of perpetual youth.
CLIPPER SHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The hour is sunset’s memoried hour,
The tide is nigh the full
Oh, many tides have ebbed and flowed
Since here with leisured blades I rowed,
While clipper ships came through the Heads
To take away our wool!
With canvas looped on mast and yard
And tarnished sides and rails,
Stout tugs in charge, upstream they’d creep
By sandy cove and timbered steep,
lo berth awhile by blackened wharves
Heaped full with golden bales.
To berth awhile at yonder quay
They came; but soon again,
The port behind, the Heads behind,
Full-dressed they challenged wave and wind;
For they were rovers of the deep,
And manned by roving men.
They’re gone. With them the winds and waves
No more shall war and toy.
They’re gone, with hull and mast and sheet—
Gone like the ships of Phillip’s Fleet;
Gone like the flagships of old days
That lay at yonder buoy.
For hereabouts the flagships moored,
And here at set of sun,
Fre rose and gold grew dull and grey,
They bade their farewells to the day
With falling flag and bugle-call
And loud, red-flashing gun.
Flags fell, and riding-lights shone out—
Such memories are mine
As here I rest upon my oars
And watch the high-set northern shores
Take fire, while all the Harbor seems
Brimful of purple wine.
The hour is sunset’s memoried hour,
The tide is at its full
Oh, many sunset skies have glowed,
And many tides have ebbed and flowed,
Since clipper ships came through the Heads
To take away our wool.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


HUD
Su p e
SON
r-S i x
The
Speedster
ay
» / rV' /"/
i*s
mniiiiiniini
jinn
lIIIIMn
Greater Value Than Ever
In The New Super-Six
For nearly nine years the Hudson Super-Six has outsold all fine
cars. That wide preference, in this territory as in other parts of
the world, rests altogether on the superior value it affords. Every-
one knows Hudson’s reputation for performance, reliability and
enduring, trouble-free service.
Now, with more beautiful body lines and a new Super-
Six chassis it is the greatest value Hudson ever offered.
Retaining all the old qualities of power and performance for which
Hudson is celebrated, the new chassis gives greater economy in
fuel, oil and maintenance, as well as added smoothness in every
phase of operation. The low cost of replacement parts is another
outstanding advancement in economy that you will appreciate.
The Hudson is built by the Hudson Motor Car Co., the
sixth largest producer of motor cars in the world, and with
14 years of successful automobile manufacturing experience.
You will appreciate such advantages of stability, as well as the
mature Hudson service policy—a real factor in the lasting enjoy-
ment of your car.
sx?
mimarn
OMn
72
The
Coach
(H-FC-1013)
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
WESTRAL.IAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DAEGETY & COMPANY, ETD.,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
88-60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.


ii
iiL
Announcement!
LANDERS, FRARY & CLARK,
Manufacturers of the well-known
UNIVERSAL
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES
including
Ranges, Stoves, Cookers, Toasters, Coffee Percolators, Coffee Mills,
Tea Pots, Kettles, Chafing Dishes, Meat Choppers, Grinders, Waffle
Irons, Ovens, Grillers, Urns, Urn Sets, Samovars, Hot Plates,
Griddles, Water Heaters, Vacuum Cleaners, Laundry Washers,
Irons, Washing Machines, Soldering Irons, Immersion Heaters,
Heating Pads, Glue Pots, Curling Tongs, Radiators,
Have pleasure in announcing that they have appointed as their
Agents and Distributors for Australia and New Zealand:
W. G. WATSON & CO., Ltd.
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
A full range of the world-wide UNIVERSAL lines will be
carried in stock, and efficient service and guarantees given.
Ask any Electrician, Department Store, Ironmonger, etc.
W. G. WATSON ca CO., LTD
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
{Branches and Agencies in principal centres.)
Darwin After Many Years.
IT is 17 years since we were first in Darwin,
and perhaps 12 since we were last there ;
so we had some standards of compari-
son when we returned the other day. The
last time we saw her she was a blushing
Eastern bride, in all the pink, white, scarlet
and heliotrope panoply of ponciana, poin-
setta and cascara bloom. Yesterday she was
arrayed in sober green. The spindly-legged
jetty still stuck into a harbor big enough
to shelter the marine of half the world, but
which is now only asked to accommodate
the monthly steamer of a single firm. The
tide still rose and fell in its spectacular way,
so that, disembarking, we had to climb down
an almost vertical gangway, and, returning,
search for our vessel below the level of the
pier. The red cliffs still bled into the sea,
and the sunset still blazed over wastes of
empty land. A couple of black luggers
drowsed at moorings, and a shag drooped
upon a buoy. A solitary Malay fisherman
brooded over the shallows, standing for long-
intervals statnesquely, like a kookaburra
watching its prey; then suddenly, with a
complicated and graceful movement of the
arm, lie swept his jala net over a wide area
of water and drew up a catch of silvery
sprat. A cloud hovering over Yestey’s chim-
ney momentarily excited our interest, but
it proved to be a bush fire in the country
beyond.
The blast of our whistle, echoing with a
hollow sound, knocked at the front door of
the Commonwealth, and one by one white
figures emerged from the direction of the
HER OPPORTUNITY.
THE BOSS : "There's a swagman down at
the home-paddock wants some tucker.”
HIS DAUGHTER (lonely country girl): “Oh,
father, do ask him if he plays tennis!”
town and drifted down the pier. Two ex-
commissars of the late Soviet Government
of the Northern Territory pushed a truck
along the rails, and a distinguished member
of the pandanus totem clan, who was sitting
on the pier, lifted his legs to enable us to
berth. Leaving our ship to unload her bales
of precious Eastern merchandise marked on
the outside “Watson’s No. 10,” we accepted
the kindly offers of a local White Australian
to show us the wonders of the town.
Perfume from hidden blossoms hung heavy
in the air. The latticed bungalows dreamed
in their gardens of exotic flowers. No smell-
ful motor-cars or straining bullock-teams dis-
turbed the pastoral beauty of the streets.
Whatever might be said for the grazing
qualities of the back country, there was
enough grass growing in Darwin’s thorough-
fares to fatten 100 sheep. Green parrots
fighting and arguing amongst the melancholy
spotted gums gave life and movement to the
scene, and three stout philosophers seated
upon a bench opposite the Secretary’s office
added an intellectual charm.
We inspected the war memorial, a new
tennis-court and other unobtrusive evidence
of civic spirit. It gladdened our hearts to
see that all the treasure lavished on her
by a paternal Commonwealth had not de-
bauched Darwin’s soul, that she had not
sacrificed for mere industrial progress her
rural charm. We did not renew our
acquaintance with the Botanical Gardens.
We feared the spectacle of GOO tropical
plants, of cotton, cocoanuts, nibber, cocoa,
coffee and tobacco flourishing there in mani-
fest exuberance while the rest of the coun-
try confines its exports to Government offi-
cials, would sadden us.
After the calm and dignity of the Euro-
pean quarter it was distressing to go into
the bustling sordidness of Chinatown. We
only did it in order to pass the time of day
with our old friend Ping Wong T’ai. Ping
is, according to his alien lights, a worthy
soul. He has no Sydney or Melbourne home
to go to, no hankering after a climate other
than the climate of the north. Ping’s only
home is Darwin, and the only seasons he
is familiar with are the “wet” and the “dry.”
He makes white suits, and his father made
white suits before him. Old Ping immi-
grated from Canton to Darwin before the
White Australia policy had taken shape. The
New Gold Mountain, as Australia is called
in Chinese, was reported to be almost en-
tirely composed of the precious metal. Old
Ping did not make a fortune at mining, but
he succeeded in making a very comfortable
competence out of white suits. Young Ping,
his son, was born in Darwin. He has been
making white suits since he was five. De-
spite his yellow skin, almond eyes and dis-
tressingly prognathous face, he makes white
suits extremely well. He has sat in liis
shop, making white suits for white men
who come and go, for close on 40 years. Dur-
ing those 40 years he has never once been
drunk and disorderly, joined in a riot, struck
for higher wages or broken any of the white
man’s laws—except a very partial one con-
cerning games of chance. He has never
asked a favor of anyone, and least of all
the State. He has stitched white suits be-
hind his counter from dawn to dusk, and
from dusk to close on midnight behind his
shuttered front. He has agreed to every-
thing that was ever asked of him. He has
promised a dozen suits in 30 hours or even
in six, and has always kept his promise.
Allowing five suits a day and 360 days to
his working year, he has cut out, seamed,
stitched and button-holed 54,000 coats and
54,000 trousers to shelter the White Aus-
tralian from his native sun. A notable
achievement! Perhaps of more service to
the cause of White Australia than pouring
loan money into the absorbent sand!
There are people who would even claim
that Ping is a good Australian. He does
not complain even about his son. The
grandson of the elder Ping is a pretty little
boy, nicely arrayed in a well-pressed suit
of Shantung silk, silk socks, bright yellow
shoes and Stetson velour, all miniature. He
is dressed to go on a journey, his father ex-
plains. He is a modest, nicely spoken child,
aged 13, which means 12. since the Chinese
in their logical way include the period of
gestation. He has been staying with his
father on a six months’ visit. He would like
to be a good Australian like his parent, and
live his life in Darwin, making suits for
white men; but he is not allowed to. Un-
fortunately for him his father, in the heyday
of his lusty youth, took a trip to China
and caught sight of Yang K’uei Fei, his
mother, swaying on her lily feet on the
battlements of Wu Yuh Hsien. The young
Ping is thus only half an Australian, and
citizenship is denied to half-Australians with
yellow skins.
Strolling back to the steamer through a
darkling landscape which was mainly sky,
along a street which ran briskly round the
corner of a house as if it were on its way
to South Australia, we listened to our White
Australian expatiating on his favorite theme.
The sky, giddy with stars, looked down on
us disdainfully, and ten million empty acres,
having nothing better to do, crowded around
to hear what lie had to say. There were, if
we remember rightly, 19 points to his dis-
course. The first was that the Government
was ruining the country with loan money;
the _ second, that it must spend more money
on it; the third, that all white workers were
born loafers ; the fourth, that the Pongs did
white men out of jobs and ought to be ex-
pelled. At this point the ten million empty
acres withdrew, fed up, and we came out
upon the beach. The Northern Territory
fish industry passed us with his catch in a
basket on his back. The two luggers still
drowsed over their anchors, and the same
shag sat on the buoy, saving Government
stores. All Darwin was down to see the
steamer off. It was an animated scene.
Our White Australian was a little over-
come, and clung to our hands at parting as
if we were the last links between him and
George-street. “I’ll be down myself in a
year’s time, thank God —my term’s up then,”
he shouted as the steamer began to move
away. “You’ll meet the wife in Neutral.
She’s got the boy down there, y’ know. Dar-
win’s no blanky place for kids or wimmen.”
We noticed Ping Wong T’ai’s bland face
among the crowd on the diminishing wharf.
He was smiling a stoic Confucian farewell
to his son, who was going south to catch the
boat at Brisbane back to China. His term
was already up.
FENG-SHUI.
A deputation of Drys that waited upon
Prendergast, the Vie. Premier, the other day,
to complain that pub-keepers were flagrantly
breaking the law and selling liquor at any
old time, filled the Minister’s room and the
Cabinet chamber, and then blocked up the cor-
ridors. Still it was a small affair compared
SHIFTING AN IMPEDIMENT.
“Your income wouldn't provide me even
with hairpins!”
“Ah, darling, is that why you bobbed your
hair?”
with the crowd Bent could draw. Two thou-
sand water-waggoners called to see Tommy
about 18 years ago. Not being able to accom-
modate them at the Treasury, Tummas led
them over to the Exhibition, of which he
was a trustee. Of course Bung couldn’t
take that lying down, so a week or two later
lie mustered a counter-crowd of 4000, which
Bent also marshalled to the Exhibition. £ x
Smith, chairman of trustees, threatened to
bill Bent a termer for each demonstration,
but he didn’t, as Tommy said he would “stop
the 20 quid” out of the State subsidy.
Dr. Norman Dunlop, now on the retired
list and doing research work in the Mitchell
Library, is digging out the records of Dr.
Wm. Bland, a surgeon who arrived in N. S.
Wales in 1814. Bland came under a sen-
tence of seven years for killing his opponent
in a duel in India. Macquarie gave him
a job as a surgeon, and within two years
emancipated him. He returned the compli-
ment by composing verses, etc., that libelled
Macquarie, and had the hard luck to drop
a copy. .It was picked up and sent to
the Governor, who got him 12 months’ im-
prisonment. His convictions for shooting
and libel, however, were only slight set-
backs. He and W. C. Wentworth were the
first two men Sydney elected to Parliament.
And, by the way. his body was the first ever
taken from the Mortuary Chapel for burial
in the Necropolis.


kM
OMY
40
US
|S°*l
0
09
&
plea
sant run —
the motor turning smoothly over,
speeding the miles quietly behind
without fuss or effort. Then to
observe how economical is the con-
sumption of Shell Motor Spirit
gives an added sense of satisfaction.
SHELL
is so economical because it possesses
m pre-eminent degree the aromatic
hydro-carbons upon which most
largely depends the efficient and
economical production of power and
the resultant increase of mileage.
Shell Lubricating Oils
are equally economical m use. Each
grade is specially selected and refined
for its particular purpose from the
best crude, is of correct viscosity,
and will function exactly as intended
under the heaviest stress of service.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL
OIL COMPANY LIMITED
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
S.S. 15


The
blurred
Windshield
ix vsx^
. '
s
3U
m*
n S .■
afr
vr:
Windshield Wiper
Car owners who have to be out and about in wet weather know only too well the additional strain they are called upon to bear through their view of the road being
interfered with as a result of water on the windshield. Just when extra care must, of necessity, be exercised because the road is “greasy,” the windshield becomes
blurred! Is it worth while to continue courting trouble through your view being obscured? Do you not agree that the moderate expenditure necessary to keep the
glass clear in rainy weather would be money well spent? Windshield cleaners are rapidly coming into use because they satisfy a long-felt want.
THE STEWART WINDSHIELD WIPER
is the very latest, and is a most efficient and reliable cleaner. It operates automatically, its quiet running, constant-speed electric motor drawing current from the
car battery. Because of this there is no slowing down or stopping of the motor when the engine is suddenly speeded up, or is pulling heavily. The splendid little
motor of the Stewart Windshield Wiper drives the wiper arm through a set of reducing gears that convert the rotary motion of the motor into the sweeping motion
of the arm. These are the only moving parts. The reducing gears are packed in grease when assembled, so that no further lubrication is ever necessary. The
wiper arm is of steel, and pressure of the rubber cleaner blade on the glass is regulated by a simple adjusting screw. On the neat, black-enamelled case of the wiper is
a handy on-and-off switch.
PRICE, 57/6
STEWART PRODUCTS ARE SOLD BY ALL ACCESSORIES DEALERS, including the undermentioned Service Stations: —
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., Adelaide;
Arthur Christian, Perth.
The Flying Squadrons.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rTM line that held them long at bay
as stormed with hoofs at dusk of
day,
On sands whence joy had fled
From sleepless nights of black distrust,
h rom restless days of doubt and dust
And savage squalls of lead.
They hailed the last mad gust of strife
\\ ith hearts that woke to stronger life;
Their speed resembled flight
Fp climbing roads that paved the course,
Through shrouded hills, for man and horse
To pierce the falling night.
In scabbards then tire steel was pressed,
Forgetful years to lie at rest;
Calm skies would dawn again
\Vhen they had crossed those slopes that run
Strange miles to meet the morning sun
Beyond the purple plain.
Dawn woke- —and found them unafraid—
In robes with lavish colors laid,
That faded one by one,
While east the ragged skyline seemed
A host above whose ranks there gleamed
The lances of the sun.
Now down the stony slopes ahead
The mellow light of morn was shed;
The distant hills were calm.
How fragrant was the healing breeze
That loitered through the olive-trees
And played with pine and palm!
They drifted on, their goal unnamed,
Through haunts where red hibiscus flamed,
Where singing gardens shed
The perfume of a lavish east,
Of wine and meat for joyous feast—
Gold fruit and wlieaten bread.
By terraced steeps, through long defiles,
Swift hoofs flung back the measured miles
In hours with zest alive.
They crashed through alleyways unclean,
Through reeking streets of houses mean,
Where filth and squalor hive.
' /ark eyes through darkness pried and peered,
Lean children from the doorways leered,
Fleet goats and fowls a-wing
Found cover from the column’s head,
Or fell beneath the ruthless tread
That made the cobbles ring.
In order, as on dress parade,
They streamed through avenues where shade
Wove magic down the track,
Shot with alternate gleams and glooms;
While drooping leaves caressed the plumes
From helmets falling back.
At noon, beyond a covert green,
Smoke pillars from their fires were seen
Above dark groves of lime.
A moment’s halt, once more astride,
The fair, abandoned miles to ride
Down vales of blowing thyme!
White ramparts rose above the stems
Where olives hung like clustered gems
On trees along the steep.
Afar the glowing domes were set
With many a slender minaret,
The soul of prayer to keep.
How free, how fair to speed at last.
To fling behind the sordid past,
The lines of endless strife!
This conquest was a wild surprise,
Its goal the pilgrim’s paradise
Of wine and love and life.
High walls with flashing windows glazed,
Above the sombre hedges raised
Tall spires and ruddy roofs;
And women watched with shrewd surmise.
Or heard, with wonder in their eyes,
The gale of falling hoofs.
And thus the flying squadrons came
From years of woe on sands aflame,
Their weary limbs to spread
In shrouded gardens of the east,
With store of wine and meat for feast,
Gold fruit and wheaten bread.
N.S.AV.
GERARDY.
Mr. Hennesy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Mr. Hennesy, of Terence Plains,
is a pleasant-mannered and courtly
ancient who is well endowed with
this world’s goods, an instinct for hospi-
tality and a Past. The latter is so unlike
the sort of history that might be expected
to attach itself to this dear old gentleman—
one who has always been looked upon by the
generation that is now getting on to middle-
age-and-a-half as the very example of re-
spectability, decorum and conventionality—
that the following extract from it, told to
me by himself one summer evening on the
wide verandah of the Terence Plains home-
stead, as the moon rose over the round
shoulder of Quart-pot Mountain, was more
than astonishing. To me he had always been
a delightful old gentleman who was distin-
guished for thinking, saying and doing the
Right Thing. But since I heard this par-
ticular chapter of his early career I have
had it confirmed by an old lady who was a
girl when he was a boy, had never ceased
to love him, and whose only regret in a long
life was that he had not asked her, sixty
years ago, to become Mrs. Daniel Hennesy.
“No, they are not imaginary—you may
believe them, absolutely —any yarns that
Daniel spins you,” my old lady said to me.
“He never was a liar, and I don’t think he
ever had any imagination worth speaking
of. By the way, has he told you how he
came to leave the Royal Navy?”
“No. He wasn’t in it long, though, was
he?”
“Oh, hardly two years—he only served
in one ship for part of her commission, I
believe. You know, his mother —a Miss
Planter —was the daughter of a Navy cap-
tain, and never thought much of anyone but
sailors. After Major Hennesy died —she
used to call him a ‘leatherneck’ —and the
management of Terence Plains came into
her hands, she would never allow anyone to
be employed there who had not been a -sea-
man of some sort or other.
“Her father’s people in England, who had
a good deal of influence in Admiralty circles,
obtained admission for Dan to the Royal
Navy as a midshipman, and he was thirteen
when he joined H.M.S. Authority at Chat-
ham. For a little over two years he saw
a good deal of cruising off the American
coast and in the West Indies, and although
he was generally in hot water, his natural
aptitude for seamanship, great natural
ability and impudent daring in any sort of
risky situation stood to him so well that he
was not far from promotion to sub-lieutenant
when the end of his naval career came.
“It happened that he was ashore, without
leave, in the company of a young subaltern
of the garrison, and the two of them were
dining, a little more than discreetly, at a
leading hotel in Halifax. Unfortunately,
his own captain and the Admiral were also
dining there, seated behind our two young
gentlemen, of whom the one most concerned
had no notion of the august presence in his
near vicinity. A little noisiness drew the
attention of the great man, who did not
know ‘the Pirate,’ as they called him in the
gunroom of H.M.S. Authority. But his own
commanding officer knew him very well in-
deed and somewhat disapprovingly, and hap-
pened to be aware that, for some minor
offence, his shore leave had been suspended
by the Commander.
“This Captain Du Larie was a tactless
person and a strict disciplinarian. He eyed
our young hero’s back for a few moments
when he discovered him, and then spoke to
the Admiral.
“ ‘One of my young gentlemen, sir,’ he said.
‘No business here. Leave stopped. With
your permission I’ll go and speak to him.’
“ ‘Oh, never mind him, Du Larie,’ the
Commander-in-Chief said. Sir Thomas
Small, Dan says, was a genial soul. ‘Un-
less, of course, you think it’s necessary.’
“Captain Du Larie rose to his feet and
precipitated a crisis. The Admiral saw him
walk across to the two boys, demand his
midshipman’s attention, and address him for
half a minute in what were, apparently,
somewhat scathing and peremptory terms.
Sir Thomas I have heard described as an
officer who well knew when to look through
a blind eye, and secretly he deplored his
subordinate’s lack of this useful knowledge,
feeling—in his capacity of a man and a
brother —that his sympathies were rather
with the gunroom officer than the post-
captain. But all his sensibilities as Admiral
commanding the North American Fleet were
very properly outraged when, clearly and dis-
tinctly, not to say loudly, his astounded ears
were smitten with the terrible words:
“ ‘Oh, you go to Hell, old Ghiclcweed!’
Captain Du Larie, I must tell you, was a
famous breeder of canaries.
“That was practically the end of young
Dan's career in the Royal Navy. The Court-
martial decided that perhaps the Navy could
get along without him. He was dismissed
the service.
“Since opportunity of further serving her
Majesty was denied him. Dan very kindly
offered himself to the navy of the Confed-
eracy, where his offer was much appreciated
and his services fully made use of. At the age
of 17 —the Southern States were already
‘robbing the cradle and the grave’—he was
a full lieutenant. He had a varied and excit-
ing career, of which I have only heard him
speak disconnectedly; but I know that he
was gunnery-lieutenant of the Alabama when
the Kearsage sank her in the English Chan-
nel.
“For a year or two after the surrender of
the South he was with one or more of the
navies of the South American Republics, and
in ’7O he joined the French Foreign Legion,
and fought through the war with Prussia.
He had a thrilling career, and came home to
his mother to Terence Plains after being
away eight years or so.
“But the management of Terence Plains
was a little too slow for Master Daniel, and
he went off to the islands with Bully Hayes
—you’ve heard about him? Well, he knocked
about in all sorts of disreputable adventures
in the Pacific, after he’d had a row with
Hayes and parted from him —I believe he
had to dive overboard and swim ashore with
Hayes shooting at him with a Winchester.
But, you must get him to tell you himself.
He likes you, I know. Try to get him to
spin you a yarn or two. lie came back at
last and settled down. Married. And I
nearly broke my heart over him. Well, well
—all for the best, perhaps. All for the best.
Get him to talk—and then come and
tell me.”
* * * *
“You didn’t know. John, did you, that I’d
once been a pirate?”
“No, I’ve never heard that, Mr. Hennesy.”
“Oh- well I was. Might lia’ been quite
a Captain Kidd if I hadn’t lost my ship.
Well, well —a long time ago! The years go,
don’t they? With Bully Hayes—you’ve heard
of him?”
“Yes, I knew Louis Becke.”
“Oh, he’d know him right enough. Well,
if I’d been with him long enough I’d ha’
probably become the sort of pirate he
was—as well as an embezzler, a swindler,
a sneak-thief, a confidence-man, which he
also was. He was a pirate right enough.
And there was one navy captain would have
thought little enough of swinging him to a
yard-arm—my old first-lieutenant of the
Authority, Martinsyde-—and he nearly had
him once.
“Oh well, I left him, at any rate, in Savan-
nah Harbor, and lived with a missionary for
a bit. I had plenty of money—a draft on
Bobby Towns, good at any of his trading
stations- —which, fortunately, I hadn’t left
behind on Hayes’s brig. So when a trader
ran into port, very sick, and dying of malaria,
and wanted to sell out before he_ died, I
made a deal with him, and bought his cutter,
(Continued on page 3J/.)


DON’T ARGUE!
Hutton’s Pineapple Brand Hams and Bacon are the Best.


THE WHISKY
FOR CONNOISSEURS
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
Scotch Whisky
<&ran&
Eli®
UQ
Beautifully clean, soft and mellow.
WILLIAM GRANT AND SONS, LTD.,
Distilleries—
The Glenflddich and Balvenie- Glenlivet, Dufftown, Scotland.
•/,
'/Ft
The Song of Your Nock 8 Kirby Mower-
is happy, even, and uninterrupted by any harsh gratings and
knockings which betray badly-cut cogs and faulty workmanship.
You will feel the need of a thoroughly dependable mower, now the
warm Spring weather and rains have arrived —the sort of weather
that makes your lawns put on a new coat of tender, rapidly-growing
grass that needs frequent mowing.
Nock & Kirby’s sell many reliable makes of mowers and other garden-
ing necessities. You’ll be pleased with the large variety and the low
prices.
Visit the Garden Tools Section and have a look around.
The “Sydney Mystic” Mower,
65/-
“SYDNEY MYSTIC”—Sin. Driving Wheels, four 12in. Cutting
Knives, Ball Bearings, Adjustable Roller.
Price 65/-
“STYJ/E O” —Din. Driving Wheels, four 14in. Cutting Knives, Ball
Bearings, Adjustable Roller.
Price 86/-
60ft. Garden Hose—complete for 38/6.
60ft. iin. 3-ply Garden Hose, manufactured from highest-grade
materials, complete with all necessary fittings.
Price 38/6
60ft. fin. 3-ply Garden Hose, complete with fittings.
Price 48/6
Mail Orders must include cost of freight.
NOCK&KIRBY
188-194 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
the Sydney Belle —a sweet little lady she
was, too. As good a little craft as ever I
handled —with a turn of speed that wasn't
half bad. I took over his boys, and set out
to see what I could pick up. I wanted to
see the islands —that's why I went with
Hayes—but I also wanted to pay my ex-
penses, which weren’t small. Didn’t wish
to run Terence Plains into paying for my
sight-seeing.
“At Gavutu I came across a young chap
named Ilardiman, who was Government
Agent, and we chummed up a bit. I got
him to chuck his job, and he came with me
as mate. You see, I only had New Hebrides
boys for a crew, and I used to get a bit sick
of them sometimes and feel the want of a
white man to talk to. A good fellow, Charlie
Hardiman —he’d been in an English cavalry
regiment, but had to clear out over some
trouble with long hair on its head. He’d
been up in the Dutch East Indies, where
they’d been doing a good bit of pearling
before it ever attracted the attention of
Englishmen and Japanese and the all-sorts
who follow it now. He told me he knew
where there were some mighty good patches
of shell in shallow waters, where we might
pick up something in the way of a pearl or
two that would pay for the Sydney Belle.
So we up’d stick and cleared for Batavia,
where he said we’d be able to pick up a
few divers.
“We had to go pretty careful, seeing that
\ye proposed to poach on the Dutch preserves.
They seemed a bit suspicious, and came pok-
ing round a good lot. More than we liked.
We thought we were putting them off bur
lay by posing as two English amateur artists
—both of us could draw a little —and Charlie
helped himself to liis, cousin’s title, and let
on he was Lord Pulleyne, of Mabstead, in
Berkshire, travelling for liis health. Any-
way, we managed to ship a few native divers
and got away quietly.
“Our diving-boys were just some of those
long-winded niggers who go down with a
net bag in shallow water, picking up the
shell off the bottom, and remain below be-
tween two and three minutes. Nothing up
to date about our little lot. We were a bit
short-handed, having allowed most of our
boys to take advantage of a trading-brig
that was going down to the Hebrides, whose-
skipper was willing to let ’em work their
passages. So we were able to ship the
divers as ordinary deckhands. Presently
we sailed out of Batavia Bonds, and east-
ward along the north coast of Java, and
coasted along the islands that lie between
Bali and Timor. Here and there we struck
a patch of shell. But the infernal gunboats
and sloops-o’-war that were liable to turn
up anywhere—there seemed to be a round
dozen or so of ’em cruising round! So we
had to be pretty careful. We weren’t inter-
fered with, though, till we came down to the
sou’-west end o’ Timor. In a little bay
thereabouts we had a bit of luck, and picked
up a couple oi pearls that must have been
worth two or throe hundred apiece.
“That’s one day’s work. Next morning a
little cranky old paddle-boat man-o’-war—
whose skipper we’d met in Batavia, and
found a very decent sort of chap—comes
puffing round the point, and drops anchor
two hundred yards from where we lay. Our
friend Van Sclireven conies aboard, and of
course sees what we’re at —the deck’s covered
with shell. As a matter of fact, he told us
he’d been sent out to watch us after we left
Batavia, but he’d had a breakdown of his
old engines, and was delayed at Sourabaya
having ’em tinkered. He’s very polite and
jolly, and glad to see us again, and asks us
to dinner; but, all the same, he lets us know
the Sydney Belle’s under arrest, and says
it’s his painful duty to take us back the way
we’d come. He’d trouble us to go with him
next day—in tow.
“Well, lie gave us a very good dinner,
which was rather a treat after weeks of
tinned stuff, and the wine and liqueurs were
pretty abundant, and Lieutenant-Commander
Van Sehreven gets very mellow and gener-
ous. He was one of those fat, good-humored
sort of Dutchmen. Charlie asks him whether
we were to stay on the Benkulen or sleep
on the cutter. ‘Oh, certainly—ja,’ he tells
us, beaming benevolence upon us. ‘Stay on
your own ship, by all means.’ Anything to
make us happy. We were unfortunate, he
said, but he meant to treat us as gentlemen
and ex-officers, the same as he knew we’d ha’
treated him. Lord! I wonder what he
thought of our gentlemanly behavior in the
morning!”
“Why, what did you do?”
“Well, we weren’t very nice to him, I
grieve to say. We treated him shamefully,
considering that he might have had us in
irons and have condemned and burnt the
Sydney Belle off his own bat. He had a
sruard-boat out all night, tied to our stern —
he explained that this was a matter of form
he was bound to carry out, but his men had
orders not to come aboard the cutter.”
He paused a moment, and chuckled.
“There was an old brass gun on a wooden
carriage aboard, which w T e’<l picked up in a
junk-sliip at Samarang—a nine-pounder—
a: J we had it mounted on the poop amid-
ships, just for’ard of the wheel, so it could
traverse. A little pile of round-shot had been
thrown in by the dealer, and we had plenty
of powder, so our ammunition supply was
all right. We could make a fight for it at
any rate. Good old Hendrik wouldn’t have
it all his own way.”
“Lord, you weren’t going to fight the
Dutch navy!”
“Oh no,” laughed Mr. Hennesy. “We
were, only going to give him the slip—to try
and run down to the nor’-west coast of Aus-
tralia. We made a few cartridges, and
loaded the old gun with one of the nine-pound
balls—very quietly and gently, so as not to
wake the Hollanders sleeping in the boat
astern. Then we got everything ready to
slip our cable first thing. Our own boat
was alongside, and we made it up to tow
the cutter out to the mouth of the bay when
the —what d’ye call it? —the psychological
moment arrived.
“Dawn came all of a sudden —like it does
in the tropics—and there was the old Benku-
len’s big white paddle-box two hundred yards
away across the still waters of the pretty
little bay. I knew I couldn’t miss—l. who
had been gunnery-officer of the old Alabama.
It was like firing into the side of a house
across the street. Outside the mouth of
the bay the sea was blue, with the ripple of
a breeze, and we reckoned that if they didn’t
sink us before we reached it we’d get off all
right. That is, if the nine-pounder crippled
’em properly, as we were hoping it would
do. We were not going to fire until we’d
towed out a bit, so as to get as much start
as possible. There were only four men in the
boat astern of us, and they were all asleep in
the bottom of her; so one of the boys swam
alongside and got the oars out of her. Our
Malays didn’t love the Dutchmen, and we
knew they’d stick to us—especially when we
told ’em how many years’ gaol would be
coming to ’em if our caper didn’t work.
We had ’em in our own boat, all ready to
start towing so soon as we should have
slipped the cable. We had to lose the anchor,
because they’d have hoard us getting it up
with the capstan. But we had a spare one,
so it didn’t matter. When it was clear day
light I gave the word to slip, at the same
time cutting the painter of the guard-boat
with my knife. Our boys pulled the cutter
round till my gun bore on the Benkulen, and
Charlie came aft with the poker, red-hot,
from the galley fire.
“Well, I felt a bit mean, you know. As
I squinted along the sights of the gun—bit
of a knob on the outer rim of the muzzle, and
a notched line on the breech —I thought of
good old Van snoring in his cabin aft, sleep-
ing off the effects of his hospitality to us two
ungrateful hounds, who very likely were go-
ing to bust his old boiler in a few seconds,
and scald some of his engineers and stokers
to their death. It was a bit low down. How-
ever, we’d certainly have been gaoled and
heavily fined if he’d got us to Sourabaya, so
I gulped down my qualms, and, when the
sights bore on the paddle-box, I touched her
off.
“You’ve no idea what a fearful row the
old gun made in that quiet little bay, echo-
ing amongst the hills on shore! I could see
white splinters fly from the paddle-box—my
gunnery was all right—and a big lot of
steam belched up just aft of the funnel, so I
reckoned I’d got the boiler, or the main pipe,
and that the Benkulen was a cripple.
“As the smoke drifted away over the
glassy water we could see fellows running
about the decks like ants in a hurry, and pre-
sently a fat chap in pyjamas—poor old Van
Selireven —comes on to the poop, and a
bugle blows, a bit quaveringly. I knew what
that was. Action! The guard-boat had
drifted a good way off, but our gun had
wakened the men in her, and they began pot-
ting at us with their rifles. Charlie was in
the bows of the cutter, urging on the boys
towing us out to the mouth of the bay, and
they were right ahead of us, with the cutter
between them and the marksmen behind, who,
anyway, were terribly poor shots, so they
were all right and quite safe from bullets.
I sang out to Charlie to set the jib, whilst I
got busy with the mains’l. My word, the
bullets fairly hummed, and they began to fire
rifles at us from the Benkulen, too. But I
wasn’t minding the bullets so much—though
Charlie had his pipe knocked out of his
mouth—for they wore going a bit high.
’Twas their gun I was in a funk about.
THE CONNOISSEUR.
COLUMBIN E: "I've kept a look in which I've
jotted down notes of all the really in-
teresting rows I’ve had with my
husband.”
PIERROT : “Jove, a regular scrap-look—
what!”
“We’d just felt the first of the breeze, and
the mains’l was shivering and flapping, and
the jib beginning to draw, and the towline
to slacken. I sang out to the boys to come
aboard, and, just as I yelled, a puff of smoke
rose over the four-inch Armstrong in the
gunboat’s bows —Van had shown it to us,
ouite proudly, last night—which was their
only gun. Then there’s a howl over our mast
and a big splash away out at sea, where
the projectile hit the water and spouted up
a column of foam into the first rays of the
rising sun, which was peeping over the green
hills and purple mountains of Timor behind
us. A good miss ! But the next wasn’t so
bad. It hit the water twenty yards astern,
and richoehetted through the mains’l. Then
we got the breeze, and there wrnsn’t another
came near us.
“The last we saw of the poor old Benku-
len—until next day—was a cloud of steam
mixing with the smoke from the Armstrong,
and drifting across the woody hills—very
X>retty. Then the southern point of the bay
shut us off from them, and we opened up
the sea, and—well, now, what d’ye think?”
I shook my head. Mr. Hennesy put his
head back and laughed.
“We opened up twmlve months’ imprison-
ment in Colombo. There were three British
men-o’-war—a training squadron on _ a voy-
age round the world. And who was in com-
mand of them, d’ye think? Why, Rear-
Admiral Sir Oswald Du Larie! Oh, yes, he
remembered me. Very well!”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


FOR YOU!
If the name you sug'g'est
is adopted.
The name “Camp Pie” appears on the register of Trade-Marks as our
property, but the Courts recently held that we had not the exclusive right to use
it; their judgments did, however, protect us against the deliberate imitation of
our label by a certain competitor.
To protect fully the hundreds of thousands of users of “REX Camp Pie
throughout Australasia, we have decided to change the name.
We offer a cash prize of £lOO for a new name on these conditions:—
1. The name must be capable of registration as a Trade-Mark; it must
not be descriptive of the goods.
2. It must be distinctive, yet easy to pronounce.
3. For preference it should consist of not more than seven letters—a
hyphenated name is permissible.
4. The competition is open to all, except members of the staffs of Foggit,
Jones, Ltd.
5. Write clearly your suggestions (more than one may be sent by one
person if desired), attach to a “Rex Camp Pie” label, together with
competitor’s full name and address. Enclose in an envelope endorsed
“Competition for new name,” place this in another envelope addressed
FOGGITT, JONES, LTD.,
Sussex Street, Sydney.
6. Competition closes December 6; prize will be awarded and result
published on or before December 31, 1924.
7. If more than one person supplies the adopted name, the prize will
be divided.
8. The decision of the Directors of the Company must be accepted as final.
In the meantime say “REX Camp Pie,” and it will ensure
your obtaining the genuine article. “Rex Camp Pie is made
from a secret recipe solely in our possession. It has won its
way into thousands of Australasian homes. The reason is
that the raw materials in all “Rex” products are superior to
those used in any factory in the world, and there is nothing
lacking in skill and experience in their preparation.
REX CAMP PIE is all meat —the daintiest treat cooked
ready to serve —packed in clear jelly. It is the most
economical meat meal possible to obtain.
FOGGITT, JONES LIMITED,
Curers of the Choice Rex Hams and Bacon
?URr
JELLY _
POO OS
Ck
E


Twin-bed Dialogues.
THE NAME UPON HER LIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOW many husbands have lain awake
at night in the big double-bed, or in
the more discreet twin-beds that have
but a single thought, and wondered what this
half-tamed, half-wild creature so near to him
was thinking about?
I confess that on some of these winter
nights, when even a scientist would admit
that tw r o bodies are warmer than one, I have
often wondered what that even now strange
female, Babette, my ten-year wife, is think-
ing about. There she lies, closely cuddled
and warm, except for her feet—why do all
wives have cold feet? And no husband can
overlook them. At any rate, with the callous
and implacable cruelty that is found in the
gentlest and most lovable of women, Babette
will confide her freezing toes into my keep-
ing, planting them firmly in the middle of
my back, until they have absorbed the neces-
sary warmth.
In the period that elapsed before we both
dropped off to sleep, I with my arm around
her and she snuggling up like a cosy cat,
diffusing that sleepy warmth so delightfully
feminine, I often caught myself wondering
whether I really knew anything at all about
this strange animal that I called my wife.
How did she regard me? As a rather ordi-
nary sort of husband, able to provide her,
not with extravagant luxuries, but with a
fairly comfortable living; a dull chap, with
hair thinning and quite grey on my temples?
True, like all women, she liked grey
temples—they pointed (quite wrongly) to
experiences with other women, which added
to the attraction she felt for me. “No bride,”
as Babette said to me, though not on her
honeymoon, “likes an amateur bridegroom.
Men don’t know many things, but any nice
girl expects them to know that. In a way
it is their profession, isn’t it?” Of course
as Babette candidly admitted, she had long
got over the hero-worshipping stage. In-
credible as it seems to me now, when Babette
first met me she regarded me as a romantic
being which few men, and no husbands,
ever are. She confessed that I had appeared
to her as distinguished looking and very keen
In other words—hot stuff. And she was just
a teeny bit afraid. Disillusionment came, of
course; no husband could live up to any
girl s anticipations. lam afraid, speaking
tor husbands, that we disappoint them. If
it is somebody else's husband, a wife might
preserve her illusions about him through a
lifetime—or until she married him.
As Babette lay in my arms I vainly tried
to picture her thoughts and her reflections
ot the day. Was she thinking of her child-
ren and the new party dresses she was mak-
ing tor them? Was she blissfully consider-
ing a new hat for herself? More likely; for
Babette by this time fully realised the im-
portance of a new hat. Other charms had
faded, but the obsession of the new hat re-
mained and burgeoned in her agile mind. In
the old days she used to buy any flimsy and
impossible thing, and once she had done her
again, and put on the right dress to go
with it, and assumed the right facial expres-
sion before her mirror, she looked bewitehinglv
smart. ‘ It’s different now, dear,” Babette
said. Any old thing would suit me in the
old days; but now that I’m getting into the
thirties, a woman must be careful. I used
to be able to carry off any sort of hat; but
now my hat has to carry me. I must ready
spend money on my hats—and, of course,
my shoes and my dress and my undies and
my gloves. I must have the latest thing, or
people will begin to think that I’m getting
on. lou don’t know how important a hat
is to a woman of my age. It’s even more im-
portant than a husband.”
There were other and more important sub-
.lects that I speculated upon. In that wilful
little head of hers were there no regrets at
having married .just me? Were there other
men whom she. in those sleepy hours, wished
that she had married? Or, worse, was there any
particular man among the many she so deli-
berately yet so lightly flirted with for whom
she had a deeper feeling? Had I, in the re-
cesses of what Babette called her soul, been
mentally displaced by a dangerous rival?
\\ as she as true to me now as she was on
her marriage night? Was she, after ten
years experience with one type, now seek-
ing another?
At this stage a chilling thought occurred
to me. More than once, of late, Babette had
laughingly expressed her liking for men of
the bull-necked type. Needless to say, I was
not of that type. I had no roll of fat pro-
truding over my collar, nor did I take a siz-
seventeen. Instinctively I regarded this
common modern type as coarse and gross.
But what if Babette, the dainty and flirta-
tious Babette, was attracted to that type?
Did she like them coarse?
There was the case of Desdemona and
Othello ; but Babette is no Desdemona, and
I lones is no valiant Moor. Still, there is
the authenticated attraction of like for un-
nke. You find it in all married women.
James Branch Cabell, in “Jurgen,” shows
that the human male is attracted throughout
his life by only one type of woman. How-
ever true this may be of the male (for it is
certainly true of me ; if ever I wanted an-
other wife she would have to be the twin of
my present one, with, perhaps, a few im-
provements ). this dictum is not true of wives
You never find a wife getting into trouble
with a co-respondent who is the replica of
her husband. Women like to change the
objects of their affection as they like to
change their hats.
“Oh no.” Babette would say. “if ever I
have the luck to be a widow I’ll try some-
thing quite—well, differently flavored. We
have only one life, but there is no reason why
we should have only one husband. And when
I marry again I would like to keep your
memory sacred and distinct. It would be
most confusing if I married somebody so like
you that I mixed you both up. No, my dear,
you’ll see—or, rather, you won’t see —that
my next is of an utterly different type. Some-
thing more crude and brutal. You know,
dearest, that you aren’t exactly brutal. I’d
love something elemental (with a good salary,
of course) ; something that would gruffly
say, ‘Come here, woman, and I’ll learn you!’
But there, it is no use my dreaming these
beautiful dreams! You’re bound to last for
years and years yet. Since you got your
new teeth you’re so healthy that it’s no use
looking forward. But in my day-dreams I
often wonder whether I shall ever have a
change of husbands, and I often find myself
planning all sorts of delightful menus.”
And the dear girl would sigh and gravely
face the prospect of one interminable hus-
band.
With these thoughts in Babette’s mind I
felt somewhat apprehensive about her grow-
ing liking for Pjones. He had the overlap-
ping neck that she admired; he had the
seventeen-and-a-half-size collar that she
doted upon; and he fulfilled in other ways
her dearest desires. Her theory it was that
the bull neck implied the successful business
man; all millionaires, she aptly pointed out,
have bull necks. It was better for a child
to be born with a bull neck than with a silver
spoon in his mouth. Other qualities, such
as decision, brutality and unscrupulousness,
went with the seventeen-and-lujf collar. And
Babette confessed that there was something
about Ernest Pjones that attracted her.
The matter seemed to be becoming serious.
I had to act.
“Your cavemen, my dear,” I remarked one
evening from my twin-bed, “is not at all
cave-ish. Here you have been imagining him
as a hefty brute, smashing his way through
life, scorning conventions and building up
his large fortune by unscrupulous cunning,
while all the time he is the meekest of men.
While his wife lived he was horribly afraid
of her; and though he has certainly made
money, he made it because he had got the
agency for a make of corsets you used to
wear before you discovered you didn’t need
them. And that bull neck is merely fat.”
Babette was much affected: she declared
that she had never been so disappointed in
her life, except, of course, on our honeymoon.
I produced facts for her. She was quite
THE BARE TRUTH.
“You will ruin me with your extravagance!”
“My dear man, no one wears fewer clothes than I do."
convinced. But are women ever quite con-
vinced?
“There’s one thing about him that I
adore,” she declared. “It’s not his neck but
his moustache.”
“His moustache!” I sneered. “You call
that a moustache, that short-clipped thing
one inch across below his nose? It makes
me think he hasn’t washed.”
“All the same,” sighed Babette, “it is a
new sensation—at least, it would be a
new sensation—to be kissed by those bristly
lips. I’ve never had a kiss like that, dearest
—and I would never think of allowing
Ernest”——
“You call him Ernest?” I exclaimed.
“Only in my mind,” Babette replied.
So I knew one thing that Babette had in
her mind when she lay so sleepily by my
side. The thing was called Ernest.
That Babette was sitting up and taking
notice of toothbrush moustaches I soon had
further evidence. The poor girl needed ex-
citement, and, as she gently reminded me, a
husband wasn’t very exciting after ten years
of consistent husbanding; and supposing she
got interested in another man, that would at
least provide some excitement in her life.
A telephone always helps. Once I entered
the room as Babette was ringing somebody
up—one of her feminine pals, I thought.
She did not notice me; but I was struck by
the new telephone voice that she had acquired.
Of course, I did not listen to what she was
saying—no husband ever does; he has to do
too much listening to her all his life without
taking on the extras that she pours into the
telephone. I could not help noting, however,
the appealing sweetness of her remarks to a
notoriously unsympathetic instrument. There
was a daring cajolery in her tones that
equalled the intimate inflexions with which
she drags from me a new Spring hat. What
He said in response I do not know; but I
admit that if a voice like Babette’s rang me
up and poured all the warmth of her insidi-
ous personality through a telephone ear-piece
I would rush to the nearest taxi to reach her
—or, maybe, merely proceed to the nearest
hotel bar.
After the cajolery her tones changed. That
wife of mine was delightedly flirting with the
unknown male at the other end of the wire.
Babette is uncontrollably daring when a wire
separates her from the man site is flirting
with. It aroused in me a horrible suspicion
that when she met him —as she evidently in-
tended to at the first opportunity—she would
receive a surprise. Poor Babette still goes
about the world on her mission of brightening
up the lives of bull-necked and moustached
men without the remotest suspicion of the
danger she runs.
I gathered that it was an intimate con-
versation, and I judged from Babette’s
chuckles that the other party was manfully
doing his share. It seemed to me that she
was regretting that she could not see “him”
at some time or place unknown to me. Still,
she gave him a faint hope.
Of course, I trust Babette. She knows
that. I wonder if she regrets it?
I had come home earlier than usual, thus
disturbing Babette’s innocent conversation,
because I had an important announcement to
make. My firm had entrusted me with a re-
sponsible negotiation, which would necessi-
tate a fortnight’s absence from home.
When I coughed to announce my presence
Babette hurriedly rang off—in the midst, I
am afraid, of a desperate appeal. And she
was not perturbed. After ten years any
wife takes her husband for granted. They
have been through all the quarrels and sus-
picions and jealousies ; and what once brought
tears no longer conjures up a smile. So
now she lightly remarked that she had been
having a yarn with Ernest. He had rung
her up to ask her to have afternoon-tea at
a well-known hotel —all quite above-board
and perfectly safe. She would have loved to
go, and she knew that I would not deny her
this simple and harmless pleasure; but, then,
she was my wife, and, really, it would never
do. If I went away and left her lonely, she
remarked, it would be a different matter;
but there!
I am sure that when I told her of my forth-
coming trip she was miserable at the thought:
but I am not quite so sure that she did
not perceptibly cheer up later on. Still,
when a husband trusts a wife he has to
keep on trusting and hoping for the worst.
Nothing could have exceeded her grief
when I said good-bye, though on the railway-
station platform she really needn't have em-
braced me so warmly. We had got over the
final farewell the previous evening. It
struck me on that crowded platform
that several men could not help notic-
ing how bewitching Babette could be
in her grief-stricken kiss. And I am not
so sure that Babette was not altogether un-
conscious of the devastating effect her kiss
had among her male audience. Being the
recipient, however, who am I to object?
So, with frequent and adoringly frank
letters, confessing her dreadful loneliness
and recurrent longings for me, I managed
to get through my banishment.
She wrote delightedly of a surprise she
would have for me on my return ; and I in
turn promised her a surprise. As Babette
was so infatuated with bristly moustaches,
I sedulously grew a toothbrush moustache
myself, I tested it—they both seemed to
like it. It was possible that Babette would
have got tired of toothbrush moustaches by
my return, but I had to take the risk.
I found at the last that I could return
a day earlier. I had the shortest notice of
my opportunity; but as I hurried from my
hotel to catch the train I did two foolish
things in my haste. I forgot to tip the hall
porter and I gave him a shilling to send a
wire to my wife. Subsequent events led to
the suspicion that the porter, making the
best of a bad job, had pocketed my shilling
in lieu of my tip. So it was that I arrived
at my flat to find it in darkness. Babette
must be in bed, dreaming, perhaps, of her
husband. I took care not to disturb
her, slipping my key into the keyhole with-
out making any noise. I put my hand up
to find the electric-light switch; but there
was no light in the hall. The electric light
had failed. In my own dressing-room, to
which I felt my way, there was no light
either. The light must have failed all
over the flat.
I managed to undress in the semi-dark-
ness, for a vague illumination from the
street lamps faintly lit the room. I found
my pyjamas neatly folded on the pillow of
the seldom-used spare bed in my dressing-
room; and made ’my way cautiously to
Babette’s bedroom. By this time my eye-
sight had become accustomed to the semi-
darkness. I tiptoed over to the bed, and dimly
made out dear head on the pillow
of the twin bed. As I bent to kiss her 1
got the shock of my life. This was not
Babette! There, asleep on Babette’s own
bed, lay a fascinating stranger, a sweet and
alluring profile surrounded by a head of
shingled hair! The school-girl pigtail that
always adorned the pillow, and frequently
got into my mouth, and always tickled me
when I was just getting off to sleep, had
disappeared. Who in the world was this
strange female? And where was my Bab-
et.te ?
Then it flashed upon me. All these flats
were alike in construction, all replicas of each
other. How many flights of stairs had I
come up in my eager haste to see my wife?
Had I got by mistake into the wrong flat?
I had had no light to distinguish the differ-
ence between the interior *of one flat and
another. Still, there were my pyjamas wait-
ing for me on the spare bed; but was 1
sure that they were my pyjamas and not the
sleeping-suit of some other man? Certainly
they seemed a bit too big for me. And there
was the strange female’s head on the pillow!
I bent down to scrutinise the features of
this unknown girl with the shingled hair.
In the darkness all I could make out was a
mysterious face and the dark cloud of her
hair. Indistinctly I made out beneath the
bedclothes a figure that seemed dimly to re-
semble Babette’s, but I reflected that most
women’s figures, seen through a covering
of bfankets, would appear the same.
And then as I bent nearer the unknown
opened her eyes, put sleepily forth two
dimly gleaming uncovered arms and drew
me down to her!
I confess that I was, for that moment,
untrue to my Babette. Here was a strange
girl embracing me in a strange flat. She
was still dreaming; her encircling arms were
stretched to me in an instinctive movement,
with the innocent unconsciousness of a sleep-
ing child. She must have mixed me with
her dream; I was only a figure of her
imagination, a vague desire come half-true.
I have no excuses. Put yourself into my
place, if you can, and what husband would
not? With those soft white arms gently-
drawing me to this seductive stranger in the
darkness, I did not even strive to resist. I
remember thinking, in a flash, that it would
be pretty hard to explain all this to Babette.
and still more difficult to convince her; but,
for the moment, Babette seemed a million
miles away. A man can only kiss one girl
at a time—if he means to make a thorough
job of it. I felt myself being dragged to
her, and then her soft lips eagerly-
rushed to mine, and I knew myself being
kissed with a warmth and a delight that
reminded me—of what? Though no other
tnought should have been permitted to in-
trude upon that perfect moment —or was it
a perfect eternity?—-there flashed through
my mind a million' memories of strange and
assorted embraces. I forgot them all. When
you are on a good thing, don’t weaken.
Ah, well, women will forgive me; but
it would be difficult to explain to a wife.
It was a luscious and seductive kiss; but
when I in turn pressed my bristly tooth-
brush moustache upon her neck, the unknown
girl thrilled at the contact; and with a
sleepy content she murmured one word.
“Ernest!”
Ernest? So her man’s name was Ernest?
Curious! My own Babette in exactly the
same-shaped room, a storey above me or a
storey below, had an Ernest, too. I wondered
if he was kissing her now. But I reflected
that there were plenty of Ernests in this
world ; and if this strange female pardonably
mistook me for one of them now, I would
be at least impolite to disappoint her. Nor
did I, I hope and believe.
Still half-way between dream and reality,
she clung to me and unconsciously put her
fingers up to caress my absurd lip-adornment.
I didn’t in the least mind.
Lightning flashed! The world blazed!
The whole room was illuminated in every
corner! I blinked dazedly. The electric
lights in the room were all alight. The
electric current had returned ! I looked down
upon a beautiful woman in her night attire,
with the sleepiness and the dream still in
her soft eyes. She blinked in dismay, and
stared at me with a desolating incredulity.
It was Babette —my Babette! She had
shingled her hair. That was the surprise
she had promised me.
“Oh ! It’s you!” she gasped, sitting up.
“Who else did you expect?” I sternly re-
torted.
“I’m so glad, old thing!” she smiled. “Oh.
for goodness sake turn out those awful
lights. I must look a perfect fright. I must
have been dreaming!”
Later, in the darkness, we talked. I ex-
plained how I had come home without warn-
ing.
“I knew it was you instantly,” Babette
said, snuggling down. “The moustache
didn’t deceive me an instant. It has a differ-
ent feel to the other toothbrushes: it's
hardly bristly enough yet. But I like it.
All the same, my surprise was a dud. I
thought that with my hair shingled you'd not
recognise me on the railway platform. Fancy
you recognising me at once —and in the
dark!”
I gently pointed out to her that it wasn t
in the least likely that I should mix her up
with anybody else with shingled hair. It
was easy to recognise her; for what husband
returning home would expect to find another
woman in his wife’s own twin-bed, even
though there wer« no lights to identify her?
Naturally a husband would take for granted
that his wife would be in her own bed. Be-
sides, I added, was it in the least conceiv-
able that I could mistake my wife’s kiss for
any other lips in the world? Shingled hair
or bobbed, the way she kissed me was over-
whelming proof of identification.
I convinced myself that my explanation
was altogether convincing; but as I lay
awake after Babette had gone to sleep 1
unhappily wondered. There was, I remem-
bered. that bristly-moustached, bull-necke:
bounder Ernest.
She had not screamed when my new mous-
tache had touched her neck. Had her imagi-
nation gone so far as to accept that mous-
tache? And. after all, who was this Ernest
that visited her in her dreams?
These women of ours, these loving ana
faithful wives, who would shrink with a
wifely shudder from any contact with a
strange admirer, what are their secret
thoughts ?
Yes, and we husbands, when, we kiss our
wives, do we ever try to deceive ourselves
that it is some other lips that meet ours :
Let’s cry quits!
JAMES JAMES.


Great Flight Round Australia
oat"^
m
m
m
J %’•
*»*
{ IgA
A as "% : 'MI
v VS if
dhaJti
*♦
Wg
Ord RiuS
4#
***
/ "3
w.Ci
CQ
>3
5,
rt-
p <?4
m
♦♦
°*7
s*
?»Wi
3ES
*
11
%•• 5
a®*
4hc/
Zi . • ’ l .w- .-«»• v •
o*isl ov/ . '"'.
T:
Bourke
jx>
Ita.^
Ncvrromine't
.0
96A
% IsC-
•A^
A
H
MS
vo®
»*•
V ' ■
l.s
SMS
:K A
« •
*
.
v*
*• arsv^cS**
"A.
r-a
Lieut.-Col. H. C. BRINSMEAD (Director) and
Capt. E. J. JONES (Pilot) of the Civil Aviation Department
'jpHE aviators were delighted with the
smooth performance of their De
Haviland 50 aeroplane powered with
Siddeley Puma engine. No engine
trouble marred the steady progress
of the flight a great tribute to the
engine itself and to the motor spirit
and lubricating oil used.
For this important undertaking and
severe test a flight of 8,000 miles in
23 days Plume and Gargoyle Mobiloil
were selected.
PLUME AND MOBILOIL
Once again played an important part in
A Great Australian Achievement
Colonel Brinsmead expressed his appreciation of Vacuum Service
“All your petrol and oil arrangements to date perfect,
by railway, steamer, horse, camel or donkey teams,
when leaving Melbourne. Thanks.”
as follows; —
whether forwarded
Engine as good as
Famous aviators use these products and tens of thousands of Australian motorists
also find that Plume and Mohiloil can be relied upon to bring out the best in their
engines.
Aviation Motor Spirit
Prove for yourself the out-
standing merits of
Plume and Mobiloil
tMIPIIIF®, •
I~ I l<jj> RJO?
Mobiloil
Make the chart your cjuide
M
mm* K
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, P'JA UP.


THEV
i uEVERPf^
The Onoto Lever model has put
old lever pens out of date.
The Lever movement is a' new
improved patent with a parallel
Remarkable
Ink Capacity
This diagram shows ab-
proximatcly the amount of
ink held by the new Onolo
Lever in comparison with
other lever pens.
action which ensures a
perfect vacuum when
compressed, and this
enables the pen to take
in so much more ink
than any other lever
pen—see diagram.
Ask your stationer or
jeweller to show you
the Onoto Lever Filler.
Examine its perfect/
balance, the graceful streamline
with its easygrip chasing—these are\
some of the features that combine to
make’it the most exquisitely designed
lever filling pen you can buy.
Onoto
LEVER
FILLER
There are Onotos
of all types to meet
everyone’s require-
ments. From 15/»
to £lO 10 0.
ONOTO tke Ink for
all pens.
Blue Black I/-.
Other Colours 1/3.
Thomas De La,Rue 4 Co., Ltd., 110, Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I,
fttpreaentatlrei: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST LTD,
Sydney, Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
[oNOTI
V,
Onoto
Lever
Model
From
15/-
m
: 9 •
CcOve V-S4ibC
behind. —•
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
is the Aeascnfot tkeih, q^iaiitu
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes and
Mailed to You the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
CksiwJt i&ilieA
EJ3 St-.r-Ufli -
162-166 PITT Street
It Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
SOME FRIVOLOUS VERSE.
A Successful Eden.
THE haunted lawns of Paradise,
With angels fluttering near,
Were let to Adam at a price
On tenure long and clear;
His job was doing nothing much,
His rent a peppercorn
Of strict obedience —“Do not touch
The tree the angels scorn.”
Lay out a garden wide to-day
And plant a tree therein
Whose fruit is knowledge, sad and gay,
Whose taste is deadly sin,
And I will find of Adam’s race
Enough good men and true
To simply sit and own the place
With nothing else to do.
They will not climb the knowledge-tree
For all the serpent's wiles,
But simply loaf about and be
A butt for angels’ smiles.
As sinless as a bar of soap,
As ignorant as string,
These timeless strikers ask but scope
To hear the angels sing.
And there would be no fall of man
In all the happy days,
Nor any thought of pain or ban
About the flowery ways ;
But all would rest with peaceful brows,
Their slumbers pure and light.
Like soft, contented, holy cows
That chew the cud by night.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Bound for Baltimore: A Chantey.
THE Truelove is a tight tub
As ever keeled the foam,
(So lay aloft to’gallant hands
And haul your lee sheet home.
The Channel lights have faded out,
]No more the foghorns sound;
bring her weather braces in
To take the outward bound.
Oh, I can’t marry you, my dear,
Until we get ashore;
Come, slack the weather lift, my son,
And lio ! for Baltimore !
Aye, ease the lee brace off my lads,
And hey ! for Baltimore !
Ali! Alo ! But let her go—
There’s ’bacea in the chest,
The old man’s nose it tells a tale,
Her bowsprit’s pointing west.
Oh, sigh it up, my yaller gals,
Until we gets ashore ;
Come loose her jib an’ staysail, men,
And ease the sheet once more;
Now haul it aft like sailormen
All bound for Baltimore.
Old Nelson was a hero, but
He flogged his pigtails hard;
And Benbow hanged his handymen
Upon the crojeck-yard.
So wake her up, my bully boys,
We’ll drive her aft and fore,
With stunsail and with martingale
To Hell or Baltimore.
I used to know a nigger wench
Way down in Mobile Bay,
She danced a Carolina reel
Upon the steward’s tray.
(As naked as a codfish on
The banks of Labrador;
As wicked as the seas that make
The road to Baltimore—
The road to Baltimore, my lads,
The road to Baltimore.)
Old Woodget is a mighty man,
He drives the Cutty Sark;
But you an’ me are just A.B.
And food for Johnny shark.
So brace her yards and overhaul
Your buntlines, boys, once more;
We’ll beat the black September gales—
We’ve beat ’em oft afore —
And see the lights that glitter in
The streets o’ Baltimore.
We’ll beat the damned Atlantic yet
(Oh, steady-in the boom!) ;
Come, overhaul the loo’ard lift
And give the hussy room!
Yeho. ye silly sailormen,
V.'ith ivives and kids ashore;
God give ye comfort on the road
That runs to Baltimore;
God save us single sinners, too,
An’ bring us safely o’er
To blow our hard-earned dollars in
The drums of Baltimore.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
When a Man Marries.
WITH nodding head and closing eyes,
Fair dying for my rest,
I have to sit around and yawn—-
The bed is not undressed!
I tell you what: it riles a man
VVitn drowsiness near dead
To see a lot of blooming frill
between him and his bed.
First from each pillow must be drawn
A fussy pillow sham;
It seems to me it’s not by chance
Those fakements rhyme with “dam.’ :
And then there is the big, white quilt—
Y’ have to take the cow
And fold it in its creases, or,
By jingo, there’s a row 7 ;
And lay it in the bottom drawer
As sm-o-o-th as sm-o-o-th can be!
Some day.. ..1 will. ■. .I’ll lock it in
And go and lose the key.
I feel I’ll have to go on strike.
Fed-up? I’m overfed
Witn all this bally dressing
And undressing of the bed.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Shifting.
THE eaves are dripping drearily,
The house is all commotion;
Where any single thing may be
We haven’t got a notion.
Intolerable is the din,
Distracting is the muddle.
Out in the yard the eldest twin
Is sitting in a puddle.
The furniture is heaped about,
Profanity provoking,
And deaf’ningly the vanmen shout,
They’re very busy—smoking.
They smoke the fags and drink the beer,
A pleasing pair of bar pets.
The other twin is sprawling near,
Half-smothered by the carpets.
The old man on a bulky bale
Is busy with a hammer;
He drives his dexter finger-nail,
And raises wrathful clamor.
About the ornaments and things
The house-fluff’s softly drifting;
To Minahan’s moustache it clings.
In point of fact, we’re shifting.
We’re moving out of No. 2,
With noise and great confusion;
Not one of us but brings to view
A wound or a contusion.
We stub our toes and bark our shins,
Or pinch our swollen fingers.
We ate our luncheon out of tins,
And now tea sadly lingers.
The rolls of bedding tumble round
In curious distension,
And for. a bath I’d give a pound—
A fact I often mention.
Through all our clothing all the day
The misty dust’s been sifting.
Oh, things are very far from gay
When families are shifting!
The plaster falls and all goes wrong
With sideboards outward steering;
The pictures upside down along
The walls are quaintly leering.
The facts most pert’nent to the case
I have no means of proving,
But still I hold that Hell’s a place
Where folks are always moving.
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.
A Pastoral Paradise.
I KNOW a run wlicreon the sweetest herb-
age grows,
High up among the hills where drought
ne’er holds its sway.
And in its sheltered vales, safe from maraud-
ing crows,
The wliite-fleeced lambs leap high in joy-
ous play.
Sleek cattle chew the cud in every river
bend;
Fat sheep camp, snug and warm, in pockets
’mid the hills.
And horses browse and roam o’er grass that
lias no end,
And every farmer’s soul with deep content-
ment thrills.
No wombats dig, nor any rabbits burrow
there; .
No hawks swoop down upon the timid
ewes and lambs.
There are no Bathurst burrs, nor any prickly-
Pear, .
And no weak sheep are ever bogged in
muddy dams.
No hungry dingoes slink across those pleasant
fields; ,
No foxes prowl around the homestead,
murdering sheep;
Only its choicest blessings kindly Nature
yields
To those whose happy fate it is those
lands to keep.
Envoy.
Alas! outside this run old Peter sits in state,
Shaking his keys at Bushmen, with a frown
severe
Who linger sadly, staring at the notice on
the gate: „
“Only selected immigrants may enter here.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
A Frustrated Idyll.
S.HE stands, her arms akimbo, in a
kim....
And I must leave her there, because I
know no
Authorities that definitely tell
Whether ’tis short, the second syllable,
Or if the word should be pronounced kim-
oh-no.
The very dictionaries, I find, neglect
To indicate which is (or isn’t) correct.
She stands, her arms akimbo, in a kim...•
Come, will no bard instruct a stumbling
brother,
No draper put me wise to this at least:
Whether the garment is an anapaest
Or one spondee complete, and half an-
other ?
Will no professor rise to tell me where
The accent goes? Then I must leave her
there.
She stands, her arms akimbo, in a kim....
So far so good. But though a doggerel-
pedlar, , , . .
Forced (with a Gradus first) my thoughts to
clothe . . A
In verse, I came false quantities to loathe
As bitterly as Praed’s Etonian “Medlar.
I will not chance it. There she needs must
stand , . ,
Until I’m certain how the word is scanned.
She stands, her arms akimbo, in a kim
I doubt I ever saw her looking sweeter,
p,ut until some accommodating Jap
Tells me precisely how they sound the wrap
X’m a—a if I pursue the theme m metre.
’Tis fifty-fifty, ’mid the shopping throng,
Whether that middle o is short or long.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


»*»ww*
«•
:irrr^
m
v*' ■
r*
>3
#
Hr
I
Ml
Obtainable Men's
Stores Everywhere
COPY RIGHT
PARIS
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on your pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
\J(ds is tKeSottfe
i
you want
ne
p^ter
Dawson
Scotch Whisky
f DISTILLER*
J ®UFFTOWN o GLASGOW
THE new
bottle
Peter Dawson
has been
“ brambled ” and
“ dimpled ” in this peculiar
manner because the whisky it
holds is so good that it needs to
be protected against imitation.
Whoever wants fine whisky
now has four different ways of
seeing that he gets it.
He can ask for Peter Dawson
by name. He can see that this
peculiar bottle is brought. He
can taste the P.D. quality.
He can mix the whisky with
soda, and discover for himself
why a P.D. and soda is
recognised as the best thing in
whisky-and-soda.
Peter dawson
Scotch Whisky
Guaranteed Pre-war Quality
fts easy fo SOAP'D
Its tuwifc Wusfy
Cloudy in the North.
ON general principles retaliation may
be bad policy. But it works like a
shark’s appetite. It is irresistible.
It is an instinct that surges into action. In
places where grace does not get a look in,
the animal instinct has it all its own way.
One does not need to be long awake to sense
the indubitable fact that the field of inter-
national relations is as devoid of grace as
the overcoat of an egg is of grass. Here it
is that resentment and retaliation and simi-
lar graceless emotions emerge violently and
continuously, even though, as a Manila paper
cheerfully observes, “In international affairs
it is dangerous to play the races.”
The question is how not to play the races.
When a free-born Australian’s first contact
with Uncle Samuel introduces him to a
hardened buccaneer who says “Your money
or your room!” the said Australian blinks
fast and swallows hard. He awakes to the
fact that he must place eight dollars or their
equivalent in the unmagnanimous palm of
Uncle Sam or remain from under the U.S.
flag. Of course, it is not the loftiest emo-
tion, but in that dark hour the hapless pil-
grim wishes that he might possess the seats
of the Mighty, so that he might dose Cousin
Jonathan with his own medicine. Human
nature being what it is, the righteous soul
learns with satisfaction that the American
has a pretty bill to pay at IBM. Consulate
for a British vise to his passport.
The ungracious discrimination reaches into
other activities. Manila has just made avail-
able to deep-sea shipping a new pier, which
is said to be the finest and largest in the
Orient. The best ships on the Pacific are
the Empresses, running between Vancouver
(Canada) and Manila. For them the new
pier is not available. It is reserved for the
quaint, but massive, President boats from
’Frisco and Seattle (U.S.A.). Besides, dis-
criminatory U.S.A. shipping legislation makes
so much difference that for a year the big
Canadian ships abandoned Manila, and have
only tackled the contest anew in March of
this year.
Evidently the self-satisfied Republic is
determined to regard nothing but her own
interests. Her tariff stands like adamant.
Yet a host of Britons appear incapable of
seeing the truth. Such fantasies as a cheap
breakfast are luring the Old Country to the
abyss. It would seem as obvious as Kos-
ciusko that Protection could not create more
unemployment in England than is there
now. Yet the removal of the duty on motor-
cars is sustained by this sort of argument—
it will provide income for British ships and
seamen! As if one car would reach Eng-
land in a British bottom if the U.S.A. could
avoid it! And as if money made by shipping
magnates were more sanctified than that
won by manufacturers in the country where
the product is used!
However, there is another matter to be
considered. A vast movement is in evidence
of revolutionary significance. It ought neither
to be ignored nor minimised. Tremendous
racial re-alignments are impending. The
signs are ominous and of increasing momen-
tum and frequency. While these words are
being written, more than 200 Filinino sol-
diers are on trial at Fort William McKinley,
a large U.S.A. military establishment just
outside of Manila. These natives perform
duties precisely similar to those of U.S.A.
soldiers. In the Fourth of July parade at
Manila their snappy, military precision was
in strong contrast with the Yankee lurch
and slouch. The day was made a day of
goodwill and reconciliation by the U.S.A.
authorities. A Filipino, in the uniform of
the revolutionary army of war times, had the
place of honor, surrounded by officers of the
U.S.A. army, at the head of the procession.
Four thousand Filipino veteranos, also in
light-blue cotton uniform, taking part in the
parade, were feasted by Uncle Sam before
being dismissed. But within a week of
this effort at pacification the khaki-clad
modern Filipino soldiers struck for pay equal
to that of their U.S.A. confreres. In mili-
tary parlance an uglier word than “strike”
is used for this sort of thing. In the present
instance the men were headed off barely in
time to obviate the use of machine-guns. This
demand for equal treatment becomes more
insistent and pathetic. Teachers in the
Philippines receive many compositions from
their students complaining earnestly against
a Christian nation such as the U.S.A.
disregarding the Gospel teaching and the
assertion of her own Constitution that
all men are created equal. Japanese
hara-kiris and other demonstrations tell
their own story. The white man’s
hauteur of color is kindling a terrific
blaze the world around. At Shameen, the
foreign section of Canton, the servants have
resisted the methods of identification imposed
upon them when entering or leaving that
sacrosanct area. Following the banquet of
French people which led to the wiping out
of several lives with a bomb, it was deemed
necessary to impose the inquisitory method
of protection. All China felt it had been
slapped in the face. And the flat refusal of
the celestials to serve in the face of that
indignity brought about another strategic re-
treat to the better-behaved adjacent Hong
Kong. _ The foreigners did the retreating.
So it goes on. Everywhere it may be
heard—the murmuring of millions of resent-
ful hearts. Retaliation is meditated. Japan
is working to establish a league of Russia,
China and Japan against the western world,
and wishes to conciliate Sinim to that end.
Filipinos enthuse over the idea of their
friendship with Japan and proclaim the
necessity of their 'co-operation with Japan,
recently humiliated by U.S.A. restrictive
enactments! It is not merely idle to belittle
these facts: it is dangerous also. The move-
ment has only begun. It will continue. These
Oriental peoples are acquiring strength. They
are learning how to organise and use their
mighty potentialities. Great Britain and the
United States cannot afford to vex each other
unduly. There is needed a consolidation of
the white English-speaking peoples. Asia
has ruled this world before. Who will dare
to say that she cannot come back? She is
thought to be mystical and impractical,
lagore and other of her sons affect to depre-
cate western civilisation as “materialistic.”
put what is the meaning of those great
’Sincere” department stores of Shanghai n-d
elsewhere? They are materialisHe enough,
though under Chinese control entirely. And
Japan seems to be fairly sophisticated even
to a westerner. Possibly Tibetan lamaseries
dream romantically and stagnate mystically.
Otherwise this Orient is awake. And in the
awakening is being wrought an aggressive,
resentful, determined nationalism that will
not be downed.
English-speaking whites must do more than
consolidate. The day calls for apostles of
reconciliation, leaders in a new democracy.
We must aim at a democracy on a larger
scale, with nations as units instead of men.
For unless some such democracy on a grand
scale ensues, the future of the race is dread-
fully dark.
Manila (p.i.)
ALEX FARMER.
The Top of the Sea.
rno live by the sea is like living on the
edge of a great forest, from which at
any moment strange things may issue
unexpectedly.
A while ago the crew of the Narua, on a trip
from Auckland to Newcastle, sighted a white
object which rose and fell with the heave
anu tall or me waves. Tmnking it nngbt be
wreckage, the Narua was Drought rounu on her
course anu neaued for it. in cue wane mass
were two btucii dots whicli resembled the
enus ot a spar, and. as tue ship approacneu
the hopes or solving some ocean mystery or
other grew. Then came the surprise, when
they were within a mile of it, the whole
mass rose into the air. It was something
none of those on board had ever seen before
in those waters —a ciose-packed nock of
albatrosses floating on the surface. The dark
dots were young; for, snowy white as tae
older birds are, the chicks are almost black.
.Loiterers on the sands north of Manly
(N.S.VV.) the other arternoon found some-
thing scarcely less curious. Out from tue shore
iney were amazed to see a hock of two or
three dozen teal. The birds were not feed-
ing, but seemed simply to be resting, as
though they had come a long way and grown
tired. Why hud they alighted on the wide
Tacilic when within easy reach of them
were lagoons where they might have floated
at ease, and which one would think would
be much more to their liking? Whence had
they come'/ Whither were they going t
A week or so ago at (Shelly Beach, south
of Manly, men from shops and counting-
houses, who had put aside pens and measur-
ing-tape for an hour, had their attention
caught by a curious commotion no more than
20 or 30 yards from the rocky shore. Circling
in the water, as sheep ring when they are
tired or over-heated or over-thirsty, was a
shoal of great tunny. The water displaced
by their bulky bodies as they circled rolled
in waves on every side of them, and their
hns, as long as a man’s forearm, stood up
above the surface, cleaving it like broad-
bladed knives. Old fishermen who have
watched the waters there from boyhood on
say that it was the first time in their lives
they had seen the deep-sea tunny in the little,
yuiet bay. The fish did not seem to be feed-
ing either, and in their movements there
was not the haste, the tumult of pursuit.
Round and round they swam, with lazy,
leisured motion, as though they had come in
from the sea for an hour or two of play j
the calm waters of the cove.
Lately, on a clear blue morning, charac-
terised by that sweetness, that softness of
atmosphere which Hilder got on to his can-
vases and which generally follows a lifted
mist, fascinated eyes looked down into the
water from the seaward end of the Manly
passenger pier. They were waiting for their
boat, and Nature was showing them some-
thing to help them pass the time. It was
high tide, almost a king tide, and the water
was so clear that one could see to the bot-
tom. Between that and the surface, lying
layer over layer, the Harbor was thronged
with different kinds of fish. On the surface,
or so close to it that they sometimes broke
its evenness, moved a scnool of gar, span-
gling it with silver. They passed to and fro
with a leisured motion, as though with them
only life and the loveliness of the morning
mattered. Under the garfish lay yellow-tail
—a slow, pulsating shoal that seemed also
to have given itself over to the witchery
of the moment. Under the yellow-tail
cruised a shoal of blackfish, their banded
sides showing clearly as they lazily turned
them upwards. Beneath the blackfish, weird
looking as a fleet of lateen-sailed craft on
an Oriental sea, lay a shoal of “old wives.”
Lowest of all, uncouth and unlovely, lurked
a catfish, and he alone of all the floating
host seemed inspired by any malign intent.
It seemed as though each shoal, moving in
its own sphere, was utterly unconscious of
the existence of its neighbors, mingling not
with them, and fearing them not at all. It
was like a truce of the Deep.
Even the strand is not without its robbers,
its piratical, plundering hordes. The worst
of them are the silver gulls, as depraved as
they are beautiful. The bird they plunder
is the swift-winged, black-headed “beaky
diver,” said, popularly, to be a tern. The
beaky diver is a keen, swift hunter, and when
he makes a capture—garfish or brit—rises
in the air to swallow it. But as he dives
the hungry eyes of the silver gulls watch
him. Should he fail to make a catch they
remain motionless, uninterested. But should
he rise with a fish he becomes the object of
a screaming fierce pursuit. Gull after gull
enters into the chase, endeavoring to flurry
him into dropping his capture. But mostly,
unless the morsel is too large to swallow,
he manages to bolt it in mid-air. In that
case the robbers return to watch and wait
for a further opportunity.
On a trip in our northern tropic seas re-
cently the ship was moving slumbrously some
days out from land, when those aboard saw a
great turtle paddling its way along the surface.
As the ship passed it raised its wise old head
and gave it a look as though to show that
it saw and heard the ship, and understood
that it, too, was a voyager. The turtle was
of a great size and doubtless of a great age
and too wise surely not to know whatsit
was doing there in the middle of the sea
and where it was going. Like some comet
of the skies, showing itself to planet after
planet, after a oyc’p of years it was visiting
island after island. A missionary perhaps
—who knows?
RODERIC QUINN.


11
'■x|
i
§■9
2
S
V.'
Mpimmic
i
I
■ *t
5 •'
assl
fe
.
ii fietm
I LOTT
rmTcgnmnniigg^niM
~ ;S|
'W
81.
gw*
"The Magic Fifty”
A CHEQUE for £5O is a “ magic carpet” which can carry you
to one of the most wonderful beauty spots in the world,
give you two weeks of joy and happiness in the sun-bathed
Alps of New Zealand and see you safe home again. Only £5O.
You will have riding, motoring, fun and frolic amidst scenic grandeur which
has no parallel in any part of the globe. You will stay at a luxurious,
wonderfully equipped hotel (all the world’s most famous travelle-s know the
“Hermitage.”) You will meet the happiest crowd of holiday makers south
of the line. Music, wine, laughter, surrounded by giant snow-clad mountains.
Write to the New Zealand Government Tourist Bureau, or call at the Sydney or
Melbourne branch of Thos. Cook & Son. Remembering that .Mount Cook is
only five days away from Sydney, ask them to tell you about this wonderful,
economical trip. Make it the principal item in your tour of beautiful New
Zealand. Get the booklets which are waiting for you.
The journey to and from Mount Cook is a very simple mattei. Absolute
comfort every mile of the way. We are offering you a holiday which will
be a pleasant memory all your life, and only £5O.
MOUNT COOK MOTOR COMPANY LTD.
Dept; B, Timaru, N.Z.
A Matter of Honor
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HORPE, manager of Traders, Ltd.,
one of the big New Guinea firms,
had resolved that the task be-
fore him called for the exercise of consider-
able diplomacy.
For some time past Traders, Ltd., had
been endeavoring to purchase the copra sta-
tion of Harry Grenville, on X) Entrecasteaux
Island—a station in so commercially stra-
tegic a position that in the hands of an en-
terprising company it could be worked up
into a very large business. But though
Traders, Ltd., had several times written
offering a handsome _ price for the property,
Grenville’s 1 communications in reply con-
tained nothing more definite than that he
was “considering the matter. ’ This 4 con-
sidering'’ continued for so long that at last
Thorpe concluded that either the trader was
negotiating with another firm for the sale
of the place and pitting the one against the
other, or that years of living on an isolated
island had developed in the man a certain
nnpracticality. Wherefore, thinking the
“personal touch” might succeed where let-
ters had failed, Thorpe boarded one of the
firm’s schooners and went to D’Entrecasteaux.
Ho would humor the man, he told himself,
find out what it was that prevented him
accepting the firm’s offer, and then, with the
difficulty clearly before him, overcome it.
So it was that, when he was seated with
the trader on the station verandah, he with
much circumlocution worked toward the pur-
pose of his visit. It was a long verandah, so
deeply shaded by a lattice of jungle-canes
that the interior of the house —which Thorpe
could see through an open doorway—was in
semi-darkness.
Grenville, a frank-faced man of maybe
forty years, with skin much yellowed by
fevers and eyes that had in them more than
a suggestion of tiredness, sat with his back
to the doorway, and for a time listened in
silence. Then he broke in:
“You’ve come about buying the property
—is that it?”
Thorpe nodded. “It’s a very good price,
too —enough to keep you comfortably for the
rest of your life, if you invested it with rea-
sonable care.”
As he spoke he happened to glance at the
doorway and glimpsed the white of a woman’s
dress just within the half-darkness of the
house#
“I know,” said Grenville jerkily. “It would
pay me to take it. And I’d like to take it,
too ! By God, I would!” An impassioned
note entered his tone. “I’m fed up with
this life, Thorpe! Fed up to the neck with
it. The fever and isolation are getting me
down. It’s a time-wasting life. I’m dying to
get away from it, and return to civilisation
and the bright lights and comforts, and live
a white man’s life. I’ve had enough of the
Islands to last me for ever. Your money
would enable me to get away”
“Then why don’t you take it?” Thorpe
put in.
“Don't tempt me! Ever since I got your
first letter about sellinsr the place I've
thought and thought—l found out what
temptation was.”
A native servant placed before them
whisky, a siphon and glasses. Grenville
poured himself a drink and swallowed it.
Then he put down the glass and stared
straight before him, the lines of trouble
creasing his face.
“Why don’t you take it?” Thorpe asked
again.
“Because,” Grenville answered at length,
“because of Olama.”
"Olama?”
“My wife.”
Thorpe looked again at the doorway. The
dress had moved a little closer.
“What’s she got to do with it?” he asked.
“Everything,” said the trader. “If I went
away it would mean leaving her behind. I
can’t fancy myself settling down to city life
with a half-savage wife.”
Thorpe looked at him in surprise.
“You mean that you have such a great
affection for her that”
“No,” Grenville interrupted. “It isn’t
that. See here, Thorpe. Many a man would
jump at your offer and clear out, deserting
his native wife—particularly when lie’s only
married in the native fashion, as I am. A
native wife wouldn’t stop him.” He gripped
the arm of his chair tensely. “But I can’t
do it. A white man’s a fool to take a native
wife. It’s a terrible mistake. But that
doesn’t relieve him of his responsibilities.
Olama is my wife. Her father, from whom
I bought her, is dead. I’m all she’s got. It
would break her heart if I deserted her. I
can picture her sitting on the beach day
after day, looking out across the sea, hoping
against hope I would return. No, Thorpe,
I’m dying to clear out; but I reckon I’ll
have to carry on as I’m doing. It’s up to
me to play the game.”
“I see,” said Thorpe, and for a moment
was silent. Then he asked: “Have you
sounded her as to how she would take it if
‘you went away?”
“Once —when I got your first letter. I put
it to her in the most off-handed fashion. She
became greatly agitated at once, asking when
I thought to go, and if I meant never to
come back. I was sorry I had spoken, so
pretended I was joking. But I didn’t allay
her suspicions. Later I heard her asking one
of the houseboys if he had heard I was going
away, and many times she’s been at me
since, trying to find out. I just kept telling
her the whole thing was a joke, and that she
wasn’t to think any more about it. Poor
little kid ! It was no use making her alarmed
for nothing.”
Thorpe looked at him quizzically.
“So you’re turning down my offer just
because of a native girl!” There was more
than a hint of disgust in his tone, Thorpe
being one who didn’t allow matters of pri-
vate morality to interfere with material ad-
vancement. “And you sick of this country
and anxious to get away! I think your
sense of honor is a little too acute.”
“I can’t help it,” said Grenville. “It’s
just that I happen to be built that way.”
A hail coming from the compound, he
glanced through the lattice toward the store-
room, which stood among the cocoanut-palms
a little distance from the house. He rose
“If you'll excuse me a few minutes, i 11
go and attend to some natives I see coming
to trade." he said, and went along the veran-
dah and down the steps. .
Thorpe poured himself another drink. His
task was proving harder than he had thought.
He had not calculated on the difficulty being
the man’s quixotic nature. He doubted
whether he would be able to overcome a
difficulty like that. Frowning, he put down
his emptied glass.
Then, at the sound of bare feet on the
verandah boards, he looked towards the door-
way. Out on the verandah had stepped a
native girl, pleasing of features, clad in a
one-piece white dress —the usual garment of
native wives of white men and something in
the nature of a badge of their raised estate—
with a scarlet band about her waist and
another in the frizzed blackness of her hair.
“I am Olama,” she said in the island
tongue, which Thorpe understood. "Yours is
not the boat that comes for the copra. Do
you bring storesV”
"No,” Thorpe answered.
“Then what do you do here?"
“I —I come on business with your hus-
band.”
“What kind of business?”
“Oh —about selling him a schooner. Yes;
that is it—selling him a schooner.”
She fixed him steadily with her eyes.
They were big eyes, brown, and filled with a
deep intentness.
“Are they true words you speak? Listen.
I was by the door when you and Harry, my
husband, were talking. I know a little of
the white man’s talk. A little —not much.
Maybe I did not properly understand. May-
be I made a mistake. But” she stopped
and it seemed to Thorpe that the intentness
of her eyes had deepened.
“But what?” he asked, though he guessed
what she was about to say.
“It seemed to me that you were asking
Harry to sell this place—this house, the land
from here to the village. Is that true?”
Thorpe made no answer; and she went on :
“It seemed to me also that Harry wished
to sell it all, so that he could go away to the
land of white men, that he was tired ex-
ceedingly of these islands and wished to live
in them no more. Is that true? And it
seemed to me that he said he would not go,
for the reason that he feared I would grieve
for him. Why do you not speak?” she cried
as Thorpe remained silent. “Oh, that I
properlv understood the talk of the white
men! Then would I know for myself. Tell
me—does Harry want to go away?” The
words were rushing from her. “I must
know! I must! For long have I thought
that maybe it was so. Once he made to
speak to me of it, and then said he joked.
Maybe he did not joke.’’ She glanced
through the lattice. “Quick! He comes
back. Tell me before he comes!” And she
laid a brown hand upon his arm.
Pitying her, Thorpe nodded. “Yes. He
wants to go, but is afraid of grieving you.
You heard rightly as you stood there by the
door.”
“Oh!”
At ouce a strange excitement came to her.
The intentness in her eyes gave place to an
unwonted brightness, and, to Thorpe's aston-
ishment, she cried in a tone as of relief: “It
is true. True!” Then, running, she went
along the verandah to the trader, who had
ascended the steps and was coming toward
them.
“Harry, my husband —you want to go
away ! He lias told me. You want to go
away!”
“She overheard us,” said Thorpe in re-
sponse to a frown from Grenville.
The trader' put an arm about the girl.
“Do not be alarmed, Olarna,” he said
soothingly. “It is true that I want to go.
But it is true also that I never will go. I
will stay with you always. Never will I
leave you to grieve for me. I have told
that white man so. Do not be alarmed."
She pulled away from him and laughed.
The scarlet band had fallen from her hair,
and with her toe she picked it from her.
“But I want you to go!” she cried. “I
would not grieve! No! I would rejoice.
I want you to go.”
“You want” the trader began, aston-
ished, and was interrupted by her laugh, the
joyous laugh of one who is suddenly rid of
a heavy trouble.
“When you bought me from my Lather I
did not want you for my husband. I wanted
Koto. For long had we been sweethearts.
But my father said you had asked for me,
and that I must go to you. You had many
things with which to buy me. Koto had
but few. I had to obey my father, as is
the fashion of native girls, though it made
my heart sore and the heart of Koto sore.”
She began to fumble with the buttons at
the neck of her one-piece dress.
“So I became your wife without wanting
to become your wife, and many times did
the young man Koto come to me asking that
I should run away with him. But I told him
no. Though I loved the young man Koto and
wanted him always, and though my father
was dead and there was none to say me
nay, I could not go. Some girls would have
gone. But not I. I was your wife. I could
not do that which would cause you to grieve."
Her dress was open at the neck now, and
she was wriggling her arms out of the
sleeves.
“It is strange,” she cried. “It makes me
laugh. Each of us wished to go, and each
feared the other would grieve. Now we
know that neither would grieve. Harry, you
go back to the land of your people and be
happy.” „ ,
Her arms were free now of the sleeves, and
the dress, with its scarlet waist-band, dropped
about her feet, revealing her clad only in
the loins-to-knees fibre skirt of her race.
“And I will go back to my people —and
Koto —and be happy.”
And with a quick, light walk she went
along the verandah and down the steps, to
vanish in the direction of the village show-
ing brown amid the green and silver of the
palms along the beach.
JACK MCLAREN.


0
l
&
/
-
Q.
0
«9
0
0
i
>
0
0
Aw
0*
V
A Sensational Improvement in Tyre-Making!
Goodyear Balloon Tyres.
The modern low-pressure balloon
tyre is made with thinner side
walls, to give greater flexibility,
than tyres of an earlier type.
These characteristics involve new
problems in design and important
special requirements in materials.
Doubtless the most essential re-
quirement of the successful
balloon tyre is a new kind of cord
material of extreme elasticity and
endurance.
No ordinary cord material can
properly withstand the balloon
tyre’s continuous and repeated
flexing, and, at the same time,
victoriously resist severe road-
shocks.
In its laboratories and its own
cotton-mills Goodyear has solved
this urgent problem—by perfect-
ing a remarkable and exclusive
cord material called SUPER-
TWIST.
Tests made with tyres embodying
this new material showed that
tyres made of SUPERTWIST
delivered in excess of 100 per cent,
greater service than those contain-
ing an equal number of plies of
standard cords.
SUPERTWIST is greatly elastic,
and its power to flex enables it to
distribute the shocks more widely,
which results in greater freedom
from stone bruises and like in-
juries.
Goodyear balloon tyres of both
types—Goodyear small diameter
balloon tyres for new wheels and
Goodyear Interchangeable balloon
tyres for wheels now in use on the
majority of cars, embody this in-
comparable new cord material.
See the Goodyear Dealer in your
town about Goodyear Balloon
Tyres for your car.
In Balloon Tyres,
as in others,
Goodyear means
Good Wear.
BALLOON
TYRES


A. Saunders’ 4-cup Egg Stand and
Spoons, with round base, gilt-lined
cups and spoons, pure silver-plated,
\1 quality, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver-plated, hand
burnished, 20/-
Round shape, smaller, 15/G.
A. Saunders’ Tantalus Frame, pure silver-plated, Al quality
mounts, hand-cut English crystal glass bottles, in fumed
oak frame, £lO/10/-
With two bottles, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
“QUALITY” SILVER-PLATE.
A. Saunders’ Sugar
pure silver-plated,
design, 30/*
Scuttle,
engraved
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish and
Knife, pure silver-plated, ■ satin
glass lining, 12/C.
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Sweet Stand, pure silver-plated,
pierced design, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 70/-
SENT POST FREE .
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 George Street (opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream Stand, pure silver-
Olated, highly-burnished frame, assorted fancy floral
china, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, blue-
or henna-shaded china, with floral shoulders,
pure silver-plated mounts, 30/«
. Saunders’ Fueled Oak Salver, nickel-silver rail, handles and
fittings.
19-inch, 25/-; 21-inch, 30/-
Attractive Walls & Roofs —
All Built of Durabestos
Before you decide on a material for Walls, Ceilings and Roof, look
into the merits of Durabestos, the Wunderlich Asbestos-Cement. loi
Durabestos is a rock-like, fire-resisting, vermin-proof material,
which makes exceedingly attractive Walls, Ceilings and Roofs, readily
and at very low cost. We offer sheets 3-16th of an inch thick, for
External or Internal 'Walls ; and sheets 5-32nds of an inch thick, for
Plain Ceilings. These Sheets are perfectly weatherproof, extremely
durable, may be fixed quite simply, and do not need painting.
We manufacture, also, Durabestos Slates, which provide an inexpen-
sive, artistic and effective roof to any structure.
We will gladly, on request, send you samples of
Durabestos, and a copy of our Free Catalogue D. 8.3.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, MANUFACTURERS,
FACTORY & SHOWROOMS : Corner BAPTIST & CLEVELAND STREETS, REDFERN.
Showrooms:
SYDNEY:
Baptist St., Redfern
PERTH:
Lord St.
MELBOURNE:
243 Collins St.
HOBART:
139 Macquarie St.
ADELAIDE:
113119 Currie St.
LAUNCESTON:
71 St. John St.
BRISBANE:
Amelia St., Valley,
NEWCASTLE:
63 Hunter St.
durabestos
(ASBESTOS \
CEMENT )
BUILDING SHEETS AND ROOFING SLATES.
Genuine
\
/
*
ROBERT BOSCH
-
i
mm
1 I iX
Sparking Plugs
Do
Make a Difference in the
running of your engine.
As everlastingly dependable as
the Genuine BOSCH Magneto.
Melbourne: Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
256 Latrobe Street.
Sydney: Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.,
199 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide: Duncan & Co., 104 Pirie Street.
Brisbane: Elphinstones, Ltd., 87 Creek Street.


m
i niminn
n
£2.
Single Room, with Break •
fast, from 13/6; Luncheon
or Dinner from J f f-; Light
Luncheon in the Winter
Garden from 2/6.
Write for magnificently
illustrated 20-page folder if
you intend visiting Sydney .
THE SPRING MEETING—HAVE YOU
RESERVED ACCOMMODATION?
For this popular season the Hotel's extensive accom-
modation is being rapidly reserved.
Intending visitors, particularly our regular patrons,
should therefore notify the management at once to
avoid disappointment.
The
Ausi^
C
ii
let
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.
cPrice, 431-
Deck Shoes
'with crepe rubber soles.
Farmer’s feature men’s exclusive sports or deck shoes, in
white nubuck; nigger-brown saddle, toe-strap, and heel-
strap; invisible eyelets. Welted soles of genuine A r I
1/4-inch crepe rubber. Sizes, sto 10. Price, pair, • "
Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney. Carriage paid.
Fa Y Ifl € Y s —" The Store for Men.”
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
Dame Nellie’s bronchial attack having
pushed the Disabled Soldiers’ benefit from
Thursday night to a matinee in early Octo-
ber, Grand Opera failed to finish on a trium-
phal top-note. However, “Tales of Hoff-
mann” provided the public with an oppor-
tunity of lavishing farewell applause on the
three imported feminine favorites, Dal Monte,
Scavizzi and Phyllis Archibald. A gross
of laurel wreaths were broadcasted among
the masculine stars, and flowers were
heaped around the ladies. There is
no foolish modesty about the Latin
temperament. No blush tinged Dino
Rorgioli’s dusky cheek as he fielded a
hurricane of applause with arms hooped
round with floral quoits and posies clutched
in both fists. The Governor and Lady Strad-
broke. with an unofficial-looking help and
daughter Helena, were in their usual front
circle seats, the sunburned Countess wearing
black velvet under the bronze glitter of her
cloak. The Russell Clarkes and the decora-
tive George Chirnside matron fed musically
in the same gilded pen. William Baillieu
convoyed a brace of daughters and son-in-law’
Rob Ramsay. Mrs. Stanley Hammond
brought her trio of small daughters with
faces framed in dark side-plaits. Mrs. Philip
Russell was with her sister, Ella Guthrie.
Mrs. Geoff Syme had daughter .Toan and
her own young brother, Tom Garnett, who
lately crossed from England.
After the musical hors-d’oeuvre, Phyllis
Archibald spread supper at the Oriental,
which, already crammed with her friends,
spilled over when “The Lady of the Rose”
and “Old Bill” poured in their audiences.
The naval, military and air forces tapped
their annual canteen brew of jazz in the
St. Kilda Hall. The interior decorations
shouted their patriotism in red, white and
blue, and golden anchors and machine-guns
added a martial and nautical note. The blaze
of uniforms and chilfonery on an under-wave
of khaki and black made a fine effect. The
Stradbrokes were half-expected, but chose
grand opera; wherefore the Admiral Hall
Thompsons were the star guests. The matron
trailed black velvet, while pretty Valerie
foamed in creamy silk. Amongst a platoon
of generals were Johnstone, Tivey, Jess and
Smith, with a regiment of colonels, majors,
captains and loots; while Commanders Bin-
ney and Sliand led the naval contingent.
At the Palace Theatre on Saturday night
an overflowing house welcomed Seymour
Hicks, fiercely moustached as Old Bill.
Mione Stewart and Betty Hicks came in for
special rounds of noisy praise, and a group
oi Norman Lee’s Melbourne intimates were
there to cheer him on his way. Betty looks
more grown up, and ever so much more on
intimate terms with her profession, than
when she was last here—she was then play-
ing her maiden over in “Scrooge.”
£he W. J. T. Clarke pair were
boxed with daughter Wilma. madame
coated in white fur and Wilma cur-
tained in sea-green. The Barry Thomp-
sons sat in an opposite box with son Jack,
who is booked for a trip to Italy, where
he will get some fresh mpsical polishing be-
fore setting out on a stage career. Ellaline
terns, in a white silk shawl, beamed at
daughter Betty and her dad from a stage pen.
Having unsuccessfully grappled with the
demon Drink, the reformers of Unctuous
bham s country have gone off on a fresh
crusade, this time against the lip-stick and
the powder-puff. On these weapons of sex-
wartare, and their ammunition of face
enamel, depilatories and rouge, the American
Happer spends annually over $750,000,000. As
mercury, lead, arsenic and other deadly in-
gredients enter into the composition of Ameri-
Pan ? eau ty preservers, the amount of poison
she draws into her system must be consider-
aa' i 6 e^ ec *-’ the reformers say, is
gradual, but in the end is often serious and
sometimes fatal. One patient was operated
on 4 _t°J’ a PPendicitis when the colic she was
suitering from was actually due to lead-
poisomng, incurred through daily use of
tace-cream. The new crusade ’ has this
chance of success—bootleg complexions can’t
be hid.
„Alee McCrackens conspired with the
.>tan \\ inter-Irvings the other day to provide
u^, land ‘; d .gentry in and around Nagambie
, a thrillful outing in a tliree-acre pad-
loek. lokels who sighted the queer proces-
ion hurried off to spread the glad news that
the circus had come to town. Harry Le
Roux, Jim Officer and one of the Mulder
tribe sat in judgment on the competition
events, which started with a motor bending
race, in which cars of every age aiiH weight
were tested against each other, and ended
with the kiddies up in a pony welter. The
kidiets voted the jollo the greatest ever, and
their parents and guardians prophesied that
if this sort of thing is encouraged the squat-
tocracy will close their town houses to settle
back on their sheep-walks. Mrs. Norman
Falkiner and her big quiverful, the John
Winter-Irvings and their trio of girls, Tom
Dasken, the Jimmie Officer pair, with the
latter’s niece. Pearl Smith, the Frank
Clarkes’ second girl. Pat, the Campbell Chom-
leys, Mrs. Stanley Elder and lan Currie
were amongst the revellers.
The medical Atkinson Woods, who fled
from the giddy metropolis some time back
to the more restful spaces of Metung, per-
mitted Kenneth Davis (his parents live in
the Mother State) to meet their second
daughter, Nancy, at the local Anglican
Church the other day. The bride had given
the customary white veilings a miss, and
breathed her vows in mauve under a black
hat. Sister Margaret provided a blush of
pink as attendant maid, while brother Ernest
looked after the ’groom. Dr. and Mrs. Wood
served wedding food and jazz at their Metung
homestead, Allambee, and the newly-weds
duly ran the confetti gauntlet to board a
motor-launch for Kalimna and the honey-
moon.
The newspapers described as “sensational”
the police admission at the inquest on the
murdered child Irene Tuckerman that sus-
picion pointed in two directions, but that no
action had been taken regarding either of the
suspects beyond bringing them to the court
as witnesses. “Scandalous” would have been
a better word. Unable to definitely indicate
the murderer, the police adopted .a method
which placed the smear of suspicion upon
several people, and most of all on two, one
of whom at least must have been innocent,
and even the arrest of one of the men has
not rubbed out that smear. Actually, the
Melbourne evening press, instead of .protest-
ing, assisted the wrong by broadcasting photo-
graphs of people who have suffered an in-
jury for which they can never be compen-
sated.
His Majesty’s was brimful on Saturday
night when “The Lady of the Rose” en-
tered into possession. The gallery girl who
comes to see fashion’s latest forecast gasped
audibly to find every feminine player, from
star to ballet-girl, wearing her waist-line
a few inches below the armpits, and her hair
bobbed, with little curls escaping through
the knobs.
This is Rembrandt’s presentment of Alba
Zacutti, a Melbourne elocutionary damsel,
who, when in her early teens, was described
by Guy Bates Post as having the best voice
for her age
he had ever
heard. She
comes of an
artistic family
on both sides.
II e r Italian
father is an
artist and her
mother, who
was a Curtis
and has many
relatives in
Sydney, is a
prof essional
pianist. Alba’s
talent has
been shaped •
by Mrs. Maur-
ic e Dudley,
and at a reci-
tal last year
she made a
fine Juliet to
Allan M u r-
ray’s Romeo. At the request of the Shaks-
peare Society the act was repeated at the
society’s last meeting. Her stage flair has
been further evidenced in several Pinero and
other modern plays staged by the Railway
Institute Dramatic Society.
Interest in the libel action by Captain Shir-
ley Falcke against the Herald for cutting
him up on his claim that pictures he showed
at an exhibition were by Old Masters was
almost as great as when Pat McCaughan
sued the Argus at the end of last century for
some Passing Show verses. Even the distrac-
tions of Royal Show Week, the Tuckerman
murder inquest and a supplementary policy
speech by Premier Prendergast could not
divert attention from the case. The public
evidently thought that whatever it was cost-
ing the parties the entertainment was worth
the money. Falcke is a dapper little man
who caused a mild sensation some time ago
by damning Australia’s collections of alleged
Old Masters. He visited M.L. last year with
possibly the same intention, but there he
found no Old Masters to damn. His imme-
diate consolation is a verdict for £BOOO with
costs.
A Russian Jew, only a couple of years in
Australia, has sued in a Melbourne court
for the return of presents given to his
affianced. The first rift in the lute appeared
when the lady’s father declined to establish
his prospective son-in-law in business. The
Russian Jew would naturally be puzzled;
indeed, even in Australian Jewry the idea
that the man who marries deserves specially
well of his father-in-law still prevails. The
shadchan, or marriage-broker, is a powerful
factor in the social life of the Chosen : he
arranges marriages, and always bargains for
substantial marriage portions with the bride.
If the bridegroom is a “man of learning”
parents’ ambitions for their daughters often
undertake to provide for the couple’s keep dur-
ing the years of study—many Jewish scien-
tists, philosophers and musicians owe their
opportunities to this. Alternatively the mar-
riage-broker will stipulate that pa-in-law
shall set his daughter’s husband up in busi-
ness. Some of these customs still linger in
local Jewry, but chiefly amongst those de-
spitefully known by the proud Britons as
“foreign .Tews.” The Chief Rabbi of the
Empire, Dr. Hertz, has denounced the ten-
dency of young Yids to remain unmarried
until a bride with money can be captured.
Still the indignation of a recently arrived
Russian Jew is intelligible; more especially
when his bride-to-be broke the engagement
—such breakages being certainly no part of
the bride’s rights in a contract which in Jewry
is held almost as solemn as the wedding
ceremony.
This is Broothorn’s nice way of introduc-
ing Mrs. Newton Lees, the Geelong player
whose capture of the ladies’ open champion
laurels at last week’s inter-State contests
on the Sand-
ringham links
is stirring
golfing circles.
She further
d i s tinguished
herself as one
of the win-
ning quartette
in the four-
some competi-
tion. The lady
champ, was a
Geelong Aus-
tin, and comes
of a squatting
clan noted for
its sporting
prowess. I-Jer
sister, Mr s.
.Tames Gate-
house, is a
former cham-
pion, and no
one would
have been surprised if she had carried away
the 1924 honors; but she was off her stroke.
A Bertie Austin daughter, Mrs. William
Bowie, now in England, might have rivalled
her cousins had she stayed here; and another
cousin, Ernie, is starring on the sporting
side at Cambridge. Mrs. Newton Lees does
not pursue the little white ball all her days,
but leaves time for philanthropic work, and
is a prominent headlight of society.
At South Yarra’s Christ Church the other
day, the Charles Lyons, of Sale, handed
daughter Lylah over to Roy Harvey to
cherish. The snowy bridal hangings glit-
tered under the lacy folds of a Limerick
head veil. Sister Pearl Harvey, Margaret
Drummond and Phyllis Inglis ’maided in
rainbow colorings, while Mersoft Inglis best-
manned the ’groom, helped by M. Norman and
Charlie Lambert. The jollo shaped as a
dinner-dance was sheltered in Carlyon’s ball-
room, where a fountain played joyously
amongst the table decorations. Mrs. Lyons
toned down green-and-gold brocadings with a
black hat.
Helen Panter, youngest daughter of the
late Captain Panter, R.N., will shortly fare-
well her native gumtrees to brave the Mali
.Tong-infested jungles of Malaya as the wife
of an English planter, Edwin Kirby.
The Stradbrokes have slipped back quietly
into vice-regal harness, after being two
months out at grass in the wide spaces of
Australia. Outdoor exposure has baked the
complexions of the,pair to gypsy brownness.
While his Ex.’s appearance suggests the loss
of a few pounds of avoirdupois along the
overland. Lady Strad has plumped noticeably
under the tan.
On her return the vice-regal Countess,
with daughter Helena, hastened to the Alex-
andra Club to sample the tea brewed by
Admiral Hall Thompson’s dame. Priminis-
ter Bruce’s wife, Mayoress Brunton, Mrs.
Harry Payne, Mrs. Tlieyre Weigall and other
of our best-known matrons also took a cup.
Colonel Mclnerney’s 17-year-old daughter
Aileen now limps on a crutch after being
a-bed for some painful days. She was stand-
ing on the kerbstone at a city-crossing battle-
front when a packing-case, perched on a
lorry, nose-dived from its lofty summit on
to her foot. Another victim of Melbourne’s
deadly streets who has just emerged after
months of suffering is barrister W. P. For-
longe. As a baby a Chinaman must have
looked sideways at him. Some years back
lie was severely injured by a fall from a sea-
side boarding-house balcony, the rail collaps-
ing as he leant over to admire the view.
Maybe “the Crown” had heard of Forlonge's
uncommonly bad luck, as well as his uncom-
monly brilliant brain, before it briefed him
for the defence of Deeming in the long ago.
Acting-Chief Justice Cussen opened the
Arts and Crafts display in an upper room
of the Town Hall. It is easily the best to
date; in some sections astonishing progress
is shown. One exhibit is a knitted shawl
worked by Mrs. Caddy, who spun the wool
from the backs of her own sheep. Another
interesting item is a model nursery, designed
by Mrs. Geoff Walker and Miss Alsop, the
walls blue and sand color, frescoed with the
adventures of three story-book heroes, the
furnishings inlaid with nursery rhymes. No
sphere of Art or Craft is wholly unrepre-
sented.
The death of Roy Simson —suddenly, while
judging at the Showgrounds—has put more
than one Victorian family into mourning.
The second son of late woolgrower Colin
Simson, he left Melbourne many years ago
as managing trustee of his father’s N.S.W.
run, near Hay, lately acquired by Anthony
Hordern. Ilis own property, Nyingay, is
in the same district. His widow is a daugh-
ter of Bishop Anderson. Three sisters—
Mrs. Tom Fairbairn, Mrs. Bob Kent and
Lady Heath, wife of an admiral—live in Lon-
don. Another is Mrs. Ernest de Little, of
the Western District; a fifth was the late
Mrs. George Officer.
The silver-haired Millie Carter died with
tragic suddenness at her Mayfair flat on Sept.
12, leaving her inseparable pal, the C. M.
Lloyd widow, inconsolable. The two have
been like twin sisters ever since the passing
of Miss Carter’s father, over 30 years ago.
The dead spinster, who has always been one
of our society headlights, leaves a great host
of grieving friends here and in England.
Dick Casey has been acknowledging con-
gratulations ever since the news leaked out
of his appointment as chief clerk in London
of the Prime Minister’s Department. A pro-
duct of Melbourne Grammar and Cambridge,
Dicky is elder brother to Dermot, who lias
hurried off to Washington to help Trade
Commissioner Elder at his job. The pair
are the only sons of the Richard Casey
widow.
The flapper was pointing out celebrities
at the Opera to Cousin Wayback. “That girl
in the second row of the stalls is the best
dancer among our crowd.” Cousin craned his
head. “Which girl?” “That one in blue vel-
vet with the shingled head.” Cousin made a
survey of the blonde head. Then “Shingled
be blowed !” he snorted —“that’s corrugated !”
At least one very well-known and learned
Melbourne citizen has reason to curse the
popularity of Mahjong. He was returning from
a party at a doctor’s home the other night
with a box of the fascinating counters under
his arm when a policeman bailed him up and
inquired suspiciously what he was carrying.
Explanations were given, but the John, whose
mind was set on opium and stolen property,
snorted that he’d never heard of Mahjong.
And it wasn’t till the suspect insisted on a
return to the medico’s house for identifica-
tion that his character was re-established.
Adelaide’s budget:—
Adelaide girls who have their noses to the musi-
cal grindstone in London are lucky in the friends
they’ve left behind them. Helene Taylor’s sponsors
are indefatigable in plotting good turns for her —
hence a monster bridge party at the Town Hall to
raise funds. Mayoress Glover, with Mrs. Lesley
Lathlean and Mrs. Albert Conrad as A.D.C.’s,
headed the committee, and the booking for tables
was brisk.
The Army Nurses’ Fund surveyed its year’s work
with the Mayoress in the chair and Lady Bridges as
one of an interested audience. Nearly £3OO has
been spent during the year to provide rest and
holiday for army nurses at the Lady Galway Home.
The fund’s expenses work out at a mere 3d. in the
pound, thanks largely to the efforts of the hon. see.,
Mrs. Wilson, now holidaying in England.
A pair of mallee hens, donated by his' Ex. and
reared by Bell chambers at Humbug Scrub, are to
be added to the royal sanctuary at Windsor.
The Women’s Non-Party Association is exercised,
not without reason, over the condition of half-caste
children in the Far North. The Federal Government
is to be asked how far (if at all) the Committee of
Public Works’ recommendations, which are two years
old, have been put into effect; and a request is to
be made for a woman, as well as a male, protector
at Alice Springs.
The Melrose 25-guinea prize for portrait-painting,
given in connection with the Society of Arts exhibi-
tion, goes this year to Alec Pauli for his “Portrait
of A.V.P.”
One of the most popular of the younger set —
Barbara, second daughter of the M. A. Goodes, of
Medindie —has pledged herself to the second of the
W. G. Auld sons, and her friends rolled up in force
to see the wedding. A white-arid-gold church formed
a delightful setting for her own white-and-gold frock
and her Nattier-blue attendants.
Heavy rain washed the glamor off the Cheltenham
races and the last day of the Show. Women who
were lucky enough to get into the stands anchored
themselves, and the less fortunate dodged the drips
from their neighbors’ umbrellas in the 'open while
their shoes pulped on their feet.


The Hall-mark
TON
of Quality.
Memories that Time
Can Never Dim.
The real pleasure in photography lives long
after the actual “snapping” of the picture
with a 2|B
Popular Ensign.
British made.
For Roll Films or Plates.
Daylight Loading.
By the refinement of its quality the
2.]8 Popular Ensign makes a (list inet
appeal to the sense of luxury which is
common to all. Every detail of con-
struction is perfect, whilst the Lens,
the British F 7.7 Aldis-Plano. Anas-
tigmat and the Shutter, the "Ilex
General,” are superb. At a small
price, it places within your reach a
camera to he proud of.
COMPLETE WITH ALDIS-
PLANO F 7.7 LENS,
£6/2/6
Postage 1/3.
THE HOUSE FOR GOOD CAMERAS,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
BRANCHES at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Katoomba, Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland (N.Z.). Representatives Everywhere.
Jfzmt
p; - ,|- [~ i' 'i~ i;" r 'i'll . f nit, jl. ir.ii ,
acEasl!
mm
ziissib:
ra~ I;> -Ei ::::; i::3ek^:^
2Vew Model Zeiss Glasses of great power and exceptionally fine field,
of vision. Prices from £ Hi.
Zeiss Field Glasses
for the Racing Season.
r; lELD GLASSES by Carl Zeiss are
1 acknowledged throughout the world as
being the finest quality obtainable. Hardy
Brothers now offer, for the coming Racing
Season, a specially fine selection of these superb
Binoculars at a wide range of prices from £1 6.
Racegoers should make a special point of
seeing the new Zeiss Models, or write for a
selection to be sent on approval.
An attractive Catalogue sent, anywhere on request.
Goods forwarded on approval throughout Australia.
HARDY BROS LTD
‘ The Houye of Exclusive Jewellery"
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON.
IJ6-IJB Queen St,,
BRISBANE.
The Ideal Endowment Investment
BEFORE PLANTING.
EIGHT YEARS AFTER.
NEW ZEALAND PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
CAPITAL: £35,000.
DIRECTORS:
DOUGLAS STEWART WYLIE, Public Accountant, Auckland.
WILLIAM FRASER. Company Director, Dunedin.
HENRY LANDOX SMITH, Company Manager, 'Wellington.
HARRY JOHNSON. Forester, Putaruru ,
('HAS ALBERT CROSHER, Electrical Engineer, Auckland.
JAMES SPOTTER BROUN. Solicitor, Auckland.
ROBERT BRUCE GAW, Public Accountant, Invercargill.
BANKERS AND REFERENCES:
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, * Auckland and Sydney.
r> (; i>UN & CO.. Auckland, Sydney and Melbourne. .
PUTARURU CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, Putaruru, N.Z.
SOLICITORS:
'MELVILLE & FERNER, Short's Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
AUDITOR:
J. A. DUNCAN, F.S.A.A. (Eng.), F.P.A. (N.Z.). Auckland.
SECRETARY AND OFFICE:
A. ,T. NAPIER. 408 Smith's Buildings, 0-11 Albert Street, Auckland.
MANAGERS AND BROKERS:
SMITH. WYLIE & CO.. LTD.. Auckland. Wellington, Dunedin, Christ-
church and Invercargill: also at 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES:
11. P. CHAPPEN CLARK, Master Printer, Auckland.
W. H. N. AMOS. Company Director, Wellington.
WILLIAM GOSS. Timber Merchant, Christchurch.
11. L. TAP LEY”, Dunedin.
J. M. MELVILLE, Solicitor, Auckland.
FREDERICK T. SMYTIIE, Public Accountant. Sydney.
h
ISSUE OF 50,000 BONDS OF £25.
6000 Bonds have been sold to 31st August, 1924.
£25 is estimated to produce £500!
Easy Instalments. Special Death Benefits.
Write for full particulars from the Brokers:
Smith, Wylie & Co., Ltd., 407-40 S Smith’s Buildings,
9-11 Albert Street, Auckland;
or
Smith, Wylie & Co., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
,0'
V * P V .
•••
//’ ..• , •
<?v ••
“t>-


CHARLES
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1914
cmipm'
NE PLUS ULTRA
h
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
&
vs
PAC rce_
7091
RAISINS
Stemmed- Cleaned
v and Seeded-Ready
for Use
Obtainable
Grocers
Nothing in Any Way Equals
■m
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 12; Sat., till 1
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri.. 15/6 '
Suppers from 9.30, 10/6.
rhur., Dinner de Luxe, till 12, 21/-
Sat., Dinner Revellion, till 1 a.m.. 25/.
Supper, Thur., 9.30, 12/6; Sat.. 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA
7 TILL 9.
RALTON’S FAMED HAVANA BAND
9 TIED 12.
Saturdays. 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF READ
DISTINCTION.
Luncheons, 5/-, or ala carte. Equals
London’s best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra 1 till 2.30.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours'
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain your friends at The Ambassadors,
which provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see Miss
Barker, in Palm Court; or ’phone M 3666, The
Ambassadors, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Early in the week, before the vice-regals
went off to Armidale, Lady de Chair said
she would like to see the art show; and,
although they had only four days to do it
in the society got ont gilt-edged cards for
a special afternoon party, and thereby
secured a rally of the best hats and frocks
to support whatever was on the walls. The
Governor’s lady, who was aided by Captain
Coote, wore black velvets served with pearls:
and after president Syd Smith and Then
Proctor had worded her she carried also a
posy of pink carnations and purple pansies.
Norman Lindsay was absent, but Mrs. Nor-
man contributed her fine eyes and a frock
of many colors —it was of the Oriental sister-
hood—to the gathering. Hugh McCrae
escorted Mrs. Hugh, who looked demure
under a tight Quaker-like hat. Mrs. Jamie-
son, Mrs. Vivers and Mrs. Jimmie Burns
were among those who trailed clouds of sar-
torial glory. Margaret Preston came in
sable garments, the sunburn of her sketch-
ing tour still upon her. Hera Roberts
turned up in a magenta frock; George Lam-
bert; veteran Fullwood, sculptor Rayner Hoff,
Norman Carter and the Lane Mullins family
were other Casabiancas on deck.
Woman got the tip of her shoe into the
Commercial Travellers’ Club on Saturday
night. But, of course, the brutes had re-
moved the body and wiped up all the evi-
dence of their crime. Would you believe it?
—the place looked exactly like a well-run
family hotel, whereas, of course, we all know
that such haunts were invented by man that
he might indulge in things too dreadful to
practise under even a wife’s nose. No price-
less Persian rugs or incense or playing foun-
tains greeted the visitor —nothing but respect-
able Axminster and a capital dinner that
started with oyster cocktail and went along
the familiar path to the coffee rest-house.
Accompanying the food rhapsody were insinu-
ating chamber music, more obvious community
singing—“ Barney Google” nearly lifted the
roof—and some pleasant solo numbers by
Dorothy Rudder and Victor McMahon, to
which pianist Thorman supplied the keyboard
parts. Secretary P'eisley and the debonair
T. W. Spencer saw that all things worked
for good.
The Country Women netted a big fish for
the lecture on old china in the interests of
the Bush Nursing Association. For weeks
a committee had busily collected old pieces:
Darling Point and Point Piper contributed
precious fragments that have been in their
families since the Conquest—some of them
a long while since. Unfortunately it is old
china of Old China that is Dr. Fox’s speci-
alty, and most of our best families had sent
along glazes and pieces of the West. The
lecture was in the Education Gallery, in the
midst of the Society of Artists’ show, and
there foregathered an audience, mostly femi-
nine, of about 200. Mrs. James Ashton made
a capable Master of Ceremonies. She herded
the lecturer to the straight path for home
whenever the poor dear pointed his nose
towards some flowering byway of the Kang
Hsi or Ming periods, when a man would
sit by his kiln for a lifetime content if he
evolved a sky-after-rain blue or a flower-
ing peach. But the lecturer nearly let an
immemorial glaze crash from his caressing
fingers when Mrs. Ashton’s voice smote him.
"The ladies would really like to know, Doc-
tor, to whom the pieces belong.” Presently
came a moment when the ignorance of Dr.
Fox on the subject of Western porcelains
was revealed. Then Judge Hamilton was
dug out from the audience and became ex-
ponent ; but he, too, showed the same regret-
table tendency to talk about the china. So
the lecture wasn’t over till 10.30, and most
of the listeners had expected to have com-
pletely digested the Eastern and Western
dishes and to be turning their latchkeys by
10 o’clock.
Two interesting bits were lent by the
.?A ate Excellency’s lady. One was a saucer
200 years old, salvaged from a wreck in
Table Bay; the other a Dutch piece fashioned
300 years ago and re-decorated in Holland
a century later. Ethel Stephens, the Women
Painters’ president, contributed an Omar-ish
water-bottle.
The ballroom, balconies and palm court
of the Wentworth were brimming over with
girls and boys at the combined flutter of the
Sydney High Schools’ not-so-very-Old Girls’
and Boys’ unions. It was a good idea to
have the double event on the one night; and
if faces can tell, the schools have not pro-
duced a strong-minded Feminist or a thor-
ough woman-hater in the last decade. Miss
Campbell, president of the Girls’ Union, and
Mrs. Vick, whose husband bears the same
responsibility towards the Boys, were pre-
sented with posies of pansies. Secretary
Nancy Norris wore golden-brown georgettes,
and Mrs. Vice-President Read rich silver
and' blue brocades.
The Sydney doctors put vim into their
dance at the Ambassadors last week —on the
sordid side its purpose was to swell the
funds of Sydney Hospital. Veteran Dr.
Thomas Fiaschi jazzed untiringly all the
evening, and always with the prettiest girls.
Dr. and Mrs. A. J. Brady watched the dan-
cers, the lady smart in black. Dr. and Mrs.
Howard Bullock brought a large party. Pier
black satin gown with black lace apnlique
was very eye-filling. Mrs. George Flannery,
smart as usual in black panne, with dia-
monds, also hostessed a big party, in which
were Dr. and Mrs. John Morton and Dr.
and Mrs. McPhee. Mrs. Blackburn, in black,
brought her physician ; and the George Wad-
dells, Shands, Macks and John Magneys
were members of the legal profession who
came to give their friends “the Butchers”
moral and other support.
Andy Watt. K.C., was a proud father the
other night when he walked up the aisle of
St. Martha’s, Strathfield, with pretty daugh-
ter Dodo in her wedding finery on his arm.
At the right moment he passed her over to
the keeping of John Francis Irving, of Wool-
lahra, and Father Kerwick drove the rivets
home. The bride’s frock was of crystal
crepe, and drew a long train of silver moire
sprayed with orange blossom. Over this
cascaded a Brussels lace veil, while a sheaf
of arum-lilies in the crook of her arm gave
the finishing touch. Sisters Nell and Betty
’maided in georgettes that were a whisper of
lilac. A monster rally of friends and rela-
tions offered congratulations at the Strath-
field Town Hall, where bride’s parents did
the honors.
Artist Syd Ure Smith helped young brother
Stanley to get married one night last week.
The girl in the case was Evelyn Howie, of
Maoriland, and Canon Bellingham gave his
blessing in his stronghold of St. Philip’s.
The bride stood up in an evening frock of
turquoise velvet and golden chiffons, with a
black hat of the picture family. The toasts
were drunk at the Wentworth.
The pleasant lady in this picture is artist
Margaret Preston, whose still-lifes in the
Society of Artists’ show refuse to be still, but
laugh and chuckle and sing at you from their
frames. An
Adelaide girl
who first
studied her art
in Melbourne,
she later
ranged Europe
in search of
a t m o s phere
and “round-
ing-off.” Spain
and Hungary
and Russia are
a few corners
of the earth
whose color
the lady now
draws on, in
addition to the
wonder - light
of her own
country. It
was Margaret
Preston who,
c o mmissioned
to buy something new for the Adelaide
Gallery, sent the wildly-argued-about “Sow-
ing New Seed,” by Orpen. Mrs. Preston,
who lives and works at Mosman, spent the
war years in England teaching maimed sol-
diers to make pottery. Her exquisite “Flan-
nel Flowers” in the present exhibition has
been bought by the Teachers’ College.
Police Inspector-General Mitchell went to
a wedding on Monday night. It was step-
daughter Kathleen Grayson’s alliance with
Frank Talbot, of Bondi, and it was ratified
at St. Stephen’s by Padre John Ferguson.
The ivory brocaded wedding frock was built
with three tiers —each tier boundary worked
with marabout; the same feathery crop out-
lined the square train, and a tulle veil foamed
over all. The party afterwards was at the
Wentworth.
Nellie Stewart’s Nancye was married early
in the week to Mayne Lynton, an American
actor, who has appeared under J. C. Wil-
liamson management. He also played lead
with Lady Forbes Robertson in “Bluebeard’s
Eighth Wife.” Nancye, of course, follows
the profession, too.
Little Mrs. Bertie Nelson arrives home
with her lord after their discovery of
America. Her particular thrill came from
sitting in the poet Longfellow’s chair before
a log that burned in the fireplace at which
he warmed his toes before attacking the
“Wayside Inn.” The Wayside Inn itself, an
old-fashioned homestead 20 miles from Bos-
ton, is now the property of Ford, the motor-
man, who bought the property and maintains
it as a rest-house for tourists, handing the
administration to three charming women who
act as hostesses and reveal to visitors the
interesting bits of the wide-stretching gar-
dens. Elinor Glyn was staying there at the
same time as the Sydneyites; also Harrison
Fisher, who sketched feverishly from moim-
ing till the last bit of twilight faded —and
that was about 10 o’clock.
Hilda Lilian, the second daughter of the
A. R. Warrens, of Avondale, Hillston, has
promised Keith Yagg, of Maxwell Braes,
Booligal, to buy a trousseau and make the
usual responses this year.
Twenty-odd years ago the Academie Julienne
was the Mecca of the art student of Aus-
tralia : it was the sign of the workshop of
Julian Ashton. In and out of school this
groat teacher
preached hard
work and the
truth - seeing
eye. Every
day at lunch-
time he remin-
isced, or criti-
cised some
p r e t e ntious
fraud in paint
that was in
the public eye.
11 was his
honest hand
that dealt the
knock - out
blow to Hol-
ma n Hunt’s
“Light of the
World,” which
rested from
its world-
travels for a
while in the
Sydney Gallery, Lambert and Gruner are
two of the old Academy's students, and most
of the present Society of Artists graduated
from its classes. Time lias changed even
the name and address of the school: it is
now the Sydney Art School, and it lives on
the top floor of the Q. V. Markets. But the
students of other years like to remember the
smaller academic where they learned to draw
from such fascinating models as the enor-
mous ebony negro and the old soldier whose
body was peppered with bullet-holes. May
Moore made this picture of the artist, who
is still vigorous at 73.
The withering and debilitating climate of
Queensland seems to be good for basket-ball,
too; and a team from the north beat the
N.S.W. players by 11 to 4. The first inter-
state match took place on the University
Oval, and the visitors, in their scarlet and
navy, wiped the field with the Sydney girls.
The Bananalanders have a mascot with them
—a pretty little girl, who is quite the' pet
of the parties arranged in the visitors’ honor.
These kicked off with a reception by the
Mayoral Gilpins, and have included every
form of cheerio afloat and on land in this
city’s repertoire.
It was at a school re-union that a busy
committee-woman noticed the remotest part
of a balcony in darkness. Thinking that
something had gone wrong, or even that flirta-
tion might be afoot, the lady hurried for-
ward. Just as she was about to put her
nand on the switch a reproachful voice ex-
claimed : “If you’re a lady you’ll wait till
I count four!”. She wasn’t a lady, and snap
ping on the light found herself confronted
by a grinning row of girls and boys. It took
the amazed lady a minute to realise that
hers was the leg that had been pulled.
Songbird Emily Marks and her pupil Wil-
liam Green are trying something new at her
recital on Saturday in the King’s Hall.
She will have the player-piano as her only
accompaniment. This is the first time in
Sydney, at any rate, that this instrument
has been chosen to interpret a programme of
classical songs.
That astonishing young artist, John
Richard Flanagan, who went to America
from Sydney five or six years ago, is now
a Benedick. One of his early jobs in New
York was illustrating a novel by a girl
writer, acquaintanceship discovered affinity,
and propinquity resulted in marriage. An-
other Julian Ashton student is making his
mark in Yankee land. He is Edward Burne,
of Centennial Park, and he is kept busy
illustrating; for Scribner’s. It was in this
magazine, incidentally, that The Bulletin’s
own “Hop” got some of his earliest laughs.
Artist Joseph Salvana had the best of all
compliments paid to his big bush canvas
shown in the Royal Art Society’s exhibition.
At 125 guineas it was bought by an English
collector, a stranger to the artist, who is
taking it to show to the Cold Countries as a
typical bit of Australian bush. A quiet man
this Salvana, with a sun-steeped brush. He
and his wife go off on a caravan trip once
calm October is ushered in.
Yal Jamieson has published another of
her Magpie Ballads. It is a homely song,
“Dad.” Both words and music are simple,
direct and sincere.
Mrs. R. R. S. MacKinnon has turned aside
from Red Crossing to strike the lyre in aid
of the University Carillon Fund. The result
is a book of pleasant verse and rhymes
modestly priced.
Also in aid of the bells the French stu-
dents at the Uni. produced “Les Vivacities
du Capitain Tic” at the King’s Hall on
Saturday. The Labiche comedy proved an
amusing. trifle, though the young things
handled it rather like a football. However,
who wants amateur players to be Marie
lempests and l)u Mauriers? The irrespon-
sible Captain was portrayed fairly well by
J. Harding; and Claire Mooney, Marcia
Turnbull and Dora Hollingshead were the
girls in the case.
The Braddon lady is president of the dance
at the Ambassadors on the 26tli. The tak-
ings will pay for recent improvements and
extensions at the Blinded Soldiers’ Cafe.
The dance committee is made up of such well-
known people that, smiling at their little
joke, they call themselves the Incognitos.
One of the final efforts of the dancing sea-
son will be put into the Novelty Ball at the
Palais on the 30tli. This is to enable the
naval cadets to rock more easily in the cradle
ot the deep. Society will see that the reefs
and shoals are made as smooth as a newly-
barbered lawn.
North Shore Grammar is still shooing the
woft from the gate of its memorial playing
fields; and if the yearly fete in the school
grounds has its usual luck, neither wolf
nor baniff will ever as much as pull up the
bobbin at the entrance. The great event
happens on Saturday. If Keith Smith and
ins lady can they will open the fair • if they
can t it will just hatch itself.
They were guided by a star. The Rev.
Uox, ot the Bourke-street Congregational
Church, put mi up-to-date construction on
tins, and invited Louise Lovely to talk to
his congregation last Sunday 'on the sub-
ject of the movies. Considering the Holly-
wood scandals and the kind of shriek film
that has the longest run, you’d think the
Church would ask for a clean bill of health
before lending itself to be an advertising
hoarding for the silver screen.
Brisbane’s social miscellany;—
n marriage of Berenis Garrick, daughter of, the
Cadell Garricks, of Dalmeny, and one of the Prince’s
favorite dancing partners when he was here, to Geof-
frey Archbutt, of Hong Kong, was this week’s
choicest event. The pretty bride, armed with a sheaf
of white lilies, was cased in white kitten’s ear satin,
with a court train of silver tissue and ivory silk
tulle, lined with pale pink georgette. Her sister
Cecily, Feo Beith, Nancy McGowan, Beryl Collins
and Nanette Bruxner, uniformed in powder-blue with
ostrich feather trimmings and helmet-cloches of ivory
erin and silver, formed her bodyguard; and Hunter
Cadell-Garrick best-manned, with Captain Turner,
A.D.C., Major Davies, G. Larritt and B. Carson’
usheiing. St. John’s Cathedral was crowded inside
and out to see the tying. Dalmeny was garbed for
the occasion in white and pink blossomry, pink and
powder-blue decking the marquee where the wedding
feast was spread. Sir Matthew proposed the bride ari l
groom, and among the guests were George Nathan,
Pamela Nathan, the De Bavays, Victor Bells, Mrs. Wil-
liam Collins, Dalzells (Sydney), Mrs. Arthur Clark, the
Lachlan Wilsons, Ross Munros and all our fashionable
folk. The bride’s mother was in cinnamon brown.
In the evening the Garricks had a dinner party and
a ball at Lennon’s in a setting of red roses. His Ex.
gave the bride a very charming painting by Bustard*
Sir Matthew, with George Nathan and Jack Turner,
A.D.C., went to the Movie Ball in the Trocadero.
Tom Mix, Mary Piekford and the other celluloid
deities dear to the heart of the Australian flapper
came down to earth, and Amy Rochelle and Gale
Wypers from the Empire gladdened the air with
music.
A Mah Jong afternoon to aid All Saints’ was held
at Merthyr. The Cecil Palmer, T. H. Brown and
R. J. McNab matrons were hostesses, and amongst
the gamblers in a good cause were Mrs. Stuart Leish-
man, Mrs. J. T. Beil, Mrs. W. H. Brodie, Enid North
and Alice Hawthorn.
The Fathers’ Association has held its first ball in the
South Brisbane City Hall in aid of distressed Diggers.
Boronia from Stradbroke Island was a feature of
the decorations.
On the 26th there is to be a big Maoriland night
at Cremorne. Digger Hanna runs the show, and a
crowd of Dominions men will dine at Lennon’s before
proceeding to the theatre.
Queensland is proud of its ambulance service—easily
the best, it thinks, in this hemisphere. And it can
be proud, too, of the fortitude of some of the people
the ambulances serve. For instance, the other day
a drover named Madgwick had his thigh fractured by
a horse falling with him. He was then so far from
help that the poor chap had to spend two days in
a buckboard before he could reach Onoto station and
a telephone. He survived it, however, as well as
the subsequent long trip by ambulance to Longreach
through flooded creeks and boggy plains. The whole
nightmare journey occupied eight days.
Percy Tighe, a popular Ballina (N.S.W.) solicitor
and Deputy-Mayor, well known in connection with
J«ew State activities, last week quietly appropriated
the charming dark-eyed little Ryan sister of Luck-
now Downs, who cuts a dashing figure in the motor
world, and has no end of other accomplishments. The
ceremony took place at St. Stephen’s Cathedral, the
knot being tied by the Rev. Father Kelly. The event
was rounded off at Lennon’s. Afterwards the bride
took the wheel and motored her ’groom via the
Northern Rivers to Sydney.


RESCH’S
lager, pilsener,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
I
..
.
HI
.
i
EDGEWORTH
Extra High-grade
Burley
Smoking Tobacco.
Plug Slice or
Ready Rubbed.
Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
After the Camellia Stakes at Rosehill
(N.S.W.) the Epsom Handicap problem was reduced
to a question of whether anything can beat Black-
adder at the weights. With 151 b. more than his
Epsom burden (Bst. lib.), the brilliant son of The
Welkin —Wilari’s Sister made hacks of a field which
included Otaere, King Carnival, Trimacre, Farceur,
Valdoona, Honey Bee, The Dancer and Collaroi, all
of whom he will meet on better terms at Randwick
on October 4. He was going easily at the finish,
nearly a length ahead of Valdoona, who had her neck
in front of Trimacre, yet the watch recorded lmin.
25-Jsec. for the seven furlongs. Trimacre was favorite
at 7to 2 ; Blacka'dder was a point longer. Valdoona,
who was backed at a long price, finished better
than anything bar the winner, but she goes up 81b.
in the Epsom, and one bump would be enough for
so frail a little mare. Trimacre ran respectably,
and Honey Bee’s good fourth suggested that he might
be worth a Tote bet in the Epsom; he is certainly
looking better than he has (lone since he was a
representative three-year-old in a very good year.
But King Carnival cut up badly, and Otaere was
never sighted. And Collaroi ran no better than was
expected by the stable, his Epsom preparation having
been interfered with, if not ruined,, by an accident.
The Heroic people withdrew their colt from the
Rosehill Guineas, and Nigger Minstrel (10 to 9 on)
had things all his own way. Though not very big,
the brown is built on more substantial lines than his
sister, Desert Gold, and he is certainly a lovely colt.
His only rival in point of looks was The White Dia-
mond, who was at forlorn odds ; and with a strong
boy atop, for once, The White Diamond ran a really
good race. But nothing had a chance with Nigger
Minstrel. Leaving the field at the distance, the
All Black —Aurarius aristocrat won, pulling up, by
four lengths in lmin. 53sec., which equalled the
course record for nine furlongs. He was slightly
lame after the race, having struck himself, but his
trainer has no doubt that the even-tempered fellow
and sweet mover will be fit to take his place in the
A.J.C. Derby field and to account for Heroic —an
opinion which this page shares. Last at one stage
of the journey, Solidify finished a meritorious second,
and Bonaparte shaded The White Diamond for third
place. Leslie Wallace (second favorite at 4’s) shaped
poorly.
Stony gave his Metropolitan backers an unpleasant
shock by running last in the 11-furlongs Rosehill
Cup, for which he ruled as favorite until weight of
Melbourne money advanced Purser to that position.
Mirthmaker made most of the running and sailed
into the straight with a good lead, but Polycletan
(B’s) threw out a challenge, and Purser (4’s)
joined in the argument, with Spearfelt (s’s) coming
fast. The iudge placed them Polycletan, 1; Purser,
2; Spearfelt, 3; Mirthmaker, 4; and there were
only heads between tho four. Polycletan carried 7st.
131 b., and will have 91b. less in the Metropolitan,
but the extra two furlongs will trouble him, although
he has won over the distance in slow time. Spear-
felt’s finish was very impressive ; in another hundred
vards he would indisputably have been first instead
of third. But he looks more like a Melbourne
Cupper than a Derby colt.
Barrels of money were lost rn Gloaming (at 5
to 2 and 3 to l on) in the Hill Stakes, and very
unluckily lost. The ancient is not tho marvel he
used to be, but if Young hadn’t tried to steer him
through an impossible opening he would have landed
the odds right enough. As it was, the fading Bedonia
(supported at 6’s by a multitude of mugs, though
he was racing out of his class) interfered with the
old fellow, who had to be pulled to the outside
and sent in pursuit of Ballymena when that good
horse had established a substantial lead. In tho end
Ballymena (10’s) got there by a neck from Gloaming,
with The Hawk a fair third (he is not quite ready),
Braehead and Bedonia next and Serelot last. The
Queenslander is a decent cut of a horse, but the
distance was too short and the company too select.
Valiant (5 to 4) won the first division of the
Highweight Handicap for the Victorians, Tye and
Corteen, who had bought the handsome neddy a few
da vs before —for 2000 guineas, the story goes ; and
Cliffdale (s’s) never gave his numerous backers a
moment's uneasiness in the second division, Pike
riding one of his artistic waiting races in front.
Valiant has Bst. 41b. in the Epsom ; Cliffdale, Sst.
71b. Newcastle has a great fancy for the Shepherd
King gelding, but perhaps seven furlongs is as far
as either cares for, although both can get a mile
in second-rate company.
“X.N.0.”: About two years ago a friend
of mine—call him Jones—had a good win on Julia
Grey at Rand wick. On September 12 he and 1
visited an old astrologer in Sydney whom we con-
sult fairly frequently. Jones mentioned to him that
he had a ticket in Tatt.’s for the meeting on Septem-
ber 13. The old man immediately deduced from his
astrological figure that September 13 would be
a lucky day for him where horses were concerned,
the day being ruled by Saggitarius, a being repre-
sented in mythology by a creature half-horse and
half-man. Now 1 bet on a system—no, I’m not
going to inflict it on you—and my system told me
to back Julia Grey. I mentioned this to Jones later
on in the day, and he decided to follow the old
astrologer’s tip, combined with my system. Result,
we each had a win, at 15 to 1, and we still have
to hear from Tatt.’s.
* * * *
Metollus, who is—or was—fancied for the
Caulfield Cup, failed to stay in the 10-furlongs handi-
cap at Aspendale Park, for which he was a 0-to-4
favorite. He made most of the running, and was
first into the straight, but was unable to come on.
Wallarak (7 to 2), getting a nice run on the rails,
fought out an exciting finish with the useful Pengarie,
and beat him home by a head, third place going
to Tommy Sanders’s old meal-ticket, Wildun. Dun-
can, who 'is to ride Highlander in the Metropolitan,
had the mount on the Woorak —Sessa four-year-old,
whose third successive victory it was. With only
6st. 121 b. in the Caulfield Cup (he had 121 b. more
on Saturday), the honest chestnut must have a
great chance if he isn’t asked to do too much before-
hand. The Wooraks are
a great tribe, but they
are not exactly glut-
tons for racing, as
David was before he lost
his form. Sir Andrew,
another Woorak chest-
nut, and a four-year-
old at the time, put
up a magnificent per-
formance in the Metro-
politan last year, but
went to pieces after-
wards. A reasonable
amount of preliminary
racing is good for a
Cup candidate, but it
can be overdone in
the case of a young
horse 'like Wallarak,
who may not be a
hardy sort.
PAT KELLY, sec.
of the Vic.
National Coursing
Club, calls the card.
The Deacon”: Sydney racetracks have
not yet seen the advent of the lady jockey, there
being 1 a certain amount of uncivil feeling among the
heads in Australia and Maoriland to the effect that
the alleged weaker vessels lack nerve or some such
necessary commodity in a crisis. However the tracks
outside the metropolitan area are regularly patronised
by a lady rider—Mrs. Moulds, the wife of a returned
soldier, who trains trotters for a living. Though the
prejudice of metropolitan bodies has not yet been
overcome, the lady appears regularly on her husband's
horses at Londonderry and Menangle, and, what is
more, is rarely out of a place.
Goodsell. the Parramatta River sculler,
had cruel luck in his championship match with
Paddon on the Richmond River. The pair hadn’t
gone quite a quarter of a mile when the challenger
tried to displace too great a quantity of water with
one oar and his shell capsized. Swiftlv righting it,
he went in pursuit of the astonished champion, who
had slowed down, and finished within 12 lengths of
him—quite a good performance considering that
Paddon, with wind and tide in his favor, sculled
the 3 miles 330 yards in the world’s record time of
17min. 7sec. There is talk of another race on the
Clarence River.
* * * *
“Three”: “Toosday” (R. 11/9/’24) is talk-
ing through his hat when he says that the 1920
Leander crew was the best that ever left England.
Individually the men were good, but they had only
worked together for three weeks when they were beaten
by the Yanks, who had been together for months.
(Incidentally, the Englishmen lost by a mere six
feet.) Last year Leander defeated the finest American
crews over their own courses in record time. “Toos-
day” can’t teach Leander much: all his suggestions,
or most of them, are stale to them. I admit however,
that Australian rowing may benefit from (1) longer
sliding, (2) swivel rowlocks, and (3) stretcher clogs.
Younger oarsmen are also essential, but weight
doesn’t count.
* * * *
“11. Hardunp”: The sacredness of Mel-
bourne’s most select golf links was recently violated
by a well-dressed individual very much on the jolly
side. He was allowed to decorate the landscape
because it was judged from his condition that he
was a convivial friend of some of the members;
but he certainly made a nuisance of himself. When
angry golfers shouted “Fore!” he waved a hand
courteously and encouraged them to do their best,
adding, as an inducement, that he would stand by
and “see fair.” Presently he coincided with a pair
on a putting-green; and, with the fatuous gravity
of inebriety, he got on hands and knees, leaned
his head on the ground and squinted at the ball. The
first player holed nicely, but the stranger,’ who
insisted on calling the game “table hockey,” was
grieved. “There,” he said pityingly, “you’ve lost
your ball down that hole! Never mind, though,
ole feller, I’ll buy you another”; and shoving an
uncertain hand into his hip-pocket he fished out a
halfpenny. It was this crowning outrage that caused
the caretaker to be summoned, in cold fury, to sweep
him off the ground.
“.Taembi”: “Nakhoda” (B. 18/9/’24) exag-
gerates the advantage possessed by the server in
tennis. Doleful remarks about the invincibility of
that person have been frequent since McEoughlin
blazed “the comet of a season,” but Brookes showed
that the Californian’s hurricane service could be
mastered, and R. N. Williams punished it severely.
Patterson’s service is easy meat to men like Johnson,
Tilden and (in a lesser degree) Anderson. Tilden's
service, perhaps the most effective in the world, de-
pends for its success as much on placement and
variety as on speed. And men like Richards and
Manoel Alonzo have demonstrated that it is by no
means unconquerable.
There is not much difference between ama-
teur and professional form in the track-cycling busi-
ness, but road-racing is another story. Thomas, a
25-minute man from Liverpool, won the amateur
handicap from Goulburn to Sydney, 124 J miles, and
Kerz, who chased him home, established fastest time —
7hr. 34min. 35sec. But Opperman, who won the
professional race from the scratch mark, covered
the journey in 7hr. 3min. 35sec. —-an average of nearly
18 m.p.h.—and had to tarry for two punctures at
that. He finished 31 minutes ahead of the second
man, Butler, who comes from Parramatta. Opper-
man belongs to Malvern (Vic.) and is only 20.
“Milt”: Arthur Postle, great Queensland
sprinter of 20 years ago, reckons he has a future world's
champion in Tommy O’Halloran, a 14-year-old
student at the Gregory-terrace Christian Brothers’
school. At a recent sports meeting' the youngster
won the 100 yards’ college championship in 10 3-ssec.
a 100 yards handicap from scratch in 10 2-ssec.,
the 220 yards’ championship in 24sec., and a handi-
cap over the same distance in 25 2-ssec. Three
watches timed the remarkable infant, whose father
could run a fast hundred in his day, though he
was never quite in Postle’s class. The kid is worth
keeping in mind for the Amsterdam Games in 1928.
There’s nothing like catching ’em young.
* * * *
Harry Young, the Rozelle welterweight,
whipped Dave Ross, the Victorian, with one punch, a
right on the chin. It knocked David “out on his
feet,” and while in that condition he was felled
three times. Then the police stopped it. Sydney
Stadium was the scene of the violence; and the pugs
divided £l3B for their brief show.
Kid Lewis, who visited Australia in 1914
and served in America during the war, is a conspicu-
ous example of the thriftlessness which few bruisers
avoid. When he went bankrupt in London recently
he stated his liabilities at £3200 and his assets at
£2O, apart from a claim against some fight pro-
moters for £9O0 —a liability that is denied. A
demand for £lBOO by the income-tax people m
respect of the years 1921-22-23, was the immediate
cause of bankruptcy ; and the Kid referred dolorously
to losses at cards and the races. But his wife’s taste
for finery had something to do with the catastrophe.
Her outfit for America, when the interesting pair
crossed the herring-pond, was packed in 37 trunks.
“Flicker”; The Christian Brothers' team
certainly won the intercollegiate boxing competition
at Adelaide, bufi the 15st. champion referred to (B.
11/9/’24) was not a C.B. He came from the new
Scotch College, and knocked out the Christian Bro-
there* rep., who was only a 10-stoner. It was the
only defeat the Brothers suffered, and their points
gave them the championship. Incidentally, the unco’
guid, headed by veteran John Blackett, have
been protesting against the “brutal business and
severely criticising the soldier Governor for patronis-
ing it. What with prohibition and boxing, his Ex.
may be soon wishing he was back cn the Somme.
‘ In the second Miller-Limutkin wrestling
match at Melbourne Stadium, Limutkin never travelled
like a winner. Miller, on the other hand, comported
himself like a skilful general who had studied his
opponent’s methods and was confident of the ou.-
come. In the seventh
round Miller developed
a kneehold which com-
pelled the 511 b. heavier
man to concede the
fall rather than retire
with a broken limb.
After that, the eighth
round being the last,
the Californian Pole
was content to remain
on the defensive and to
grin at the big fellow’s
vain attempts to turn
him over.
PETER
LIMUTKIN, who
has lost both his
wrestling matches
with Walter Miller.
“Trekle”: Alick Bannerman, dead in Syd-
ney at 65, was the greatest o' stonewallers, and tt"■•re
have been few cleverer mid-offs. And he could slog
on in ’7B, in the first of the now time-
honored games with Thornton’s XI, he banged up
71 like a Bonnor. But his usual progress was not so
exciting, particularly in Test matches. At the
Oval in ’B2, he followed nine runs in 65min. with
13 in 70min. At Melbourne in the same year iie
took lhr. 55min. to make 14. At Sydney in ’B6
his contributions were 15 not out in 2hrs. and 4 in
SOmin. In another international game at Melbourne
in ’9l his scores were 45 in 3jhrs. and 41 in 4hrs.
In the next Test at Sydney his 91 took T-lhrs.
He plodded on for three days, and scored from only
five of the 204 balls the great Attewell sent him.
Alick was a tower of strength to Australian cricket
in his time, and no better-hearted fellow ever played
the game. He will be sorely missed from the
members’ pavilion at the Sydney C. G.
“S.T.S.”: Anyone having a fondness for
catch wagers might get one on the batting averages,
in Test matches, of Emery and Mayne. The answer
is that the former played in two matches, and the
latter in one, without ever handling a bat. All
kinds of odd things come up out of the past in
the new book, by W. P. H. Sparks, of London, deal-
ing with every detail of the 104 games played so
far. Some forgotten names: For Australia —Cottam,
Allen (besides Allan) and Hodges; for England —
Hone, Absolom, Vine, and a second Wood. One
Smith has played for England, and one for Aus-
tralia. England has had two Browns, Australia none.
The best represented name seems to be Gregory, with
four members, Grace and Gunn having three each.
Sparks’s compilation is a wonderful portmanteau of
information, ranging from the obvious to the un-
expected. The one outstanding point is that Aus-
tralians have lasted longer, and thus far fewer of
them have been required. Gregory’s appearances,
Hill's runs, Trumble’s wickets, and Noble’s all-round
performances each overtop in bulk anything the other
side lias to show.
* * * *
“T.P.”: One of Glover’s drawings (B.
21/8/’24) took me back to the days when George
Giffen wouldn’t go to England with an Australian
N 1 unless Walter Giffen went too. I re-
call a packed house at a pantomime in the Mel-
bourne Princess’s, and the principals about to enter
the magician’s cave. Hollow groans are heard in the
sulphurous atmosphere, and Teddy Lonnen shrinks
back. “No, no,” he cries in a thin falsetto, “1 will
not enter. Not unless Brother Walter comes too!”
The house rocked with laughter, and it vvas minutes
before Lonnen could get on with his fooling.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Tlie removal of the useful Hen-
dry to Victoria, adds to that State’s chance of re-
taining the cricket supremacy it won last year. Hen-
dry has been appointed coach to the Melbourne
team. There is a good deal of shuffling in the per-
sonnel of the various competition clubs. The im-
perturbable Woodfull is the most important of the
transfers ; he goes from South Melbourne to Carltdn.
* * * *
“Gas” (London) : The Weekly Des-
patch, in urging the M.C.C. selectors to accede to
Hobbs’s terms for inclusion in the team for Aus-
tralia, asserts that Hobbs’s health broke down dur-
ing the last ramble. An Australian cricket tour,
the article assures its readers, “entails long and
intensely wearying journeys over endless miles of
wretched loads, often in jolting, bumping, springless,
covered carts.” I showed this to Greggo, a fellow -
exile from Sydney. “I suppose when Jack eyas in
Melbourne,” Greggo grunted, “he used to ride to
and from Jolimont on the dummies of those cable-
cars.”
Crowds of 35,000 and 26,000 at the two
Melbourne semi-finals contributed £2500 to the
League exchequer, and saw proceedings advanced io
such a stage that if Essendon beat Richmond next
Saturday ’Don will hold both major and minor
premierships. The larger crowd watched Essendon
assert their superiority over South Melbourne, by
10 goals 12 behinds to 4-15 —72 points to 39. But
the other match provided plenty of excitement. Be-
fore the last quarter commenced, Richmond were lead-
ing by 49 points to 38, and within a minute of
resuming their advantage was increased to 1/ points.
But Fitaroy came down like a wolf cn the fold and
their cohorts gleamed brightly with kicks neatl.'
goaled. Whilst the Tigers could only raise one more
point, ’Roy put on 6 goals and 2 behinds, winning,
by 76 points to 56, a match that had seemed hope-
lessly lost. In their agon.y of mind, supporters of the
striped animals behaved like a Labor Opposition aftei
the closure has been applied.
In the Association final, Footscray proved far too
good for Williamstown, scoring 72 to 22. Footscrav
will thus represent the Association in the match
with the League premiers, and half ’Scray has alread'
been heard asserting that it will risk its week s
wages if it can get a shade of odds.
Sixteen thousand people are alleged to
have witnessed the uninteresting game between South
Sydney and University which brought the Rugby
League season to a close. The students did pietti
well in the first half, but after that Holder,
Wearing and Carr proved much too fast and clever,
and South gained possession of the City Cup by 2,1
points to 2. Evervone was glad when the curtain
dropped, for it was a most disappointing football
year. In fact, the League is going to have the devil s
own job to recover the ground it has lost.
* * * *
“Nitric”: According to Rugby Union
rules, anyone playing with a football team consisting
of less than 15 men is a professional. It is also
generally accepted in sporting circles that anyone
who competes with or against a professional tor any
prize (or has taught, pursued or assisted m the
practise of any game as a means of gaining a liveli-
hood) is a pro. Lawton was accounted a professional
in England for having played with a League All!
(Brisbane ’Varsity). Following on this argument
other members in that XIII would be pi os. a>
also would all whom they played with or against.
Lawton played with Oxford and Blackheath, so hove
do those members stand? V. Graining, anothei
Bananaland Rhodes scholar and a Leagueite, played
with the same teams —what is his status and that
of his team mates? When the British warships weie
in Australia a team of officers and men met a
representative Brisbane League team. They played
15 a side to preserve their amateur status, but League
rules were followed. If “Past Grammar (B.
18/9/’24) will explain these puzzles, as well as
the fact that the “All Blacks” are receiving a daily
allowance, more footballers than 1 will be giateful.
Apropos of the latter point, the origin of the pro-
fessional game in Northern England was the breach
caused by the N. Union clubs paying players for
“broken”' time. The Rugby Union then set its
face against the introduition of such a system ol
“allowances,” but see what it is doing now. 1 ast
Grammar” will have to think hard to convince me
that his lilywhite amateur cuticle is any purer than
my own skin, which is alleged to have been be-
smirched by professionalism.
SCALED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He stood beside the Quay. Upon bis face
A violent struggle ’twixt emotions twain
The least observant could distint tly trace ;
Rage at being taken down and shame-cwm-pain
Over his own credulity. His race,
Judged from the burr of his remarks profane,
Was Scotch. I think it would have hardly been
Wrong to assume he came from Aberdeen.
You know that look, compound of rage and shame?
You may have come upon it, or its twin
On chaps inveigled to a poker game
Who, after they have done their money in,
Awake to circumstances that proclaim
They never had. a Buckley’s chance to win.
It is the way that any pigeon looks
Who drops to it that he’s been plucked by rooks.
You’ve glimpsed it on the racecourse, I suspect, '
Worn it yourself, perhaps (I wouldn’t swear
I haven’t), when on going to collect
You found the Ike you bet with wasn’t there.
Humiliated thus, few can affect
A bravely careless and indifferent air.
The face of him who’s fall'll —and knows he fell —
Among the sharps is unmistakable.
The visage of-the welsh’d!« The bilk’d man’s eye!
Here ’twas as plain as ever yet I’d seen.
I hailed him, full of kindly sympathy:
“Buncoed,” quoth I, “it looks to me you’ve been.”
He groaned assent. “I put,” he said, “forbye
A penny in that try-your-weiglit machine
And stood upon the plate”—his accents shook—-
“Only to find the flaming thing is crook!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


:
m
v?
a
t
a
-ffl
*5l
««
m
>,■«***;
JggS
M
r
m
< :> >i
K
-22
m
3fes
ffll
MS
1
w
te
lrn
i#
1
»i
4«3
22
v
ia
i
.., -><V:
£ S
r m X^-
gr’' *•% (Jpg
fMm
M 3
tS!
gtjßfejl
jf/ g^*-^-“S*sy
m
wz
a
.
HI
SSs
!:mm
11
31
w*S
.
>5
I» I
i
£ 2zL£L* 2
£
Sfi!
The most fascinating centre of Sydney's wonderful harbor is Clifton Gardens,
where holiday-makers have bathing, fishing, boating, golfing and motoring all
at their immediate command. In order to accommodate visitors the Clifton
Gardens Hotel, in its beautiful surroundings, have extended their premises, making
it particularly homelike and comfortable, where evenings of informal ease
follow days of true pleasure. A particular feature is the new dining-room, whose
clief was carefully chosen. Catering for people of refinement and families, the
tariff is from five guineas per week with special rates for prolonged stay. Twenty-
five minutes by special ferry service from Sydney, the location is ideal for easy
pleasure and enjoyment without the cares, worries and noise of the city.
All inquiries apply
MANAGER,
Clifton Gardens Hotel,
Clifton Gardens, Sydney.
More Australian Records
for
WAKEFIELD
1
Reqd.
Q
G
0
MOTOR OIL
Newcastle-Sydney by Delage Car.
Ist Sept. A Standard Sports Model Delate, driven by O. W. Lingham,
reduced the standing record by 34 minutes. His time was 3 hours
57 minutes.
Brisbane-Sydney by Douglas Motor-Cycle.
14th Sept. Jack Harris, riding a standard 2f-h.p. side-valve Douglas,
reduced by 3 hours 8 minutes this 645 miles’ record, which had previ-
ously been held by a high-powered machine also “Castrol” lubricated.
- AND BIG SUCCESSES OVERSEAS
Belgian Grand Prix by Norton,
ridden by Alec Bennett —he and all other finishers used “Oastrol.”
Swinemunde Races by Zenith, Thevis and Imperial J.A.P.
Tourist Prize of Germany (Grosser Wanderpreis)
by Zenith J.A.'P.,
ridden by Zuendorf.
In every case regular grades of “Castrol” were used, obtainable
from leading garages. When not available locally please write
advising us-
C C. WAKEFIELD & CO. Ltd.
Atlas Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney. Tel. 87465-6
Every Engine Fully Warranted.
The Rosebery
Kerosene Engine
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
h
This Engine has our new and improved Throttling Governor,
and the heavy fly-wheels ensure constant steady power.
Run on Kerosene, it is specially well adapted for use on the
Farm, or in Shops, Elevators, Mills, Electric Light Plants,
Creameries, etc.
Cost of running is very small; the engine is easy to start and,
like* all Rosebery products, vital parts are easily accessible.
Made in sizes 3, 3 and 7 h.p.
ii
The Rosebery Pumper
A Complete Independent Power Plant.
The Rosebery Pumper is self-contained
and complete. No 'extras,” no
“accessories” required. Nothing to
buy but petrol. It makes a power-
pumping plant out of any windmill
pump by simply fastening it to the
standard of the pump. When four
nuts are tightened the engine is ready
to start.
It needs no special., foundation—no
apparatus of any kind. All you need
is a wrench, and that is supplied with
the engine.
Prices are uniform in all Australian capitals.
ROSEBERY ENGINE WORKS, LTD.
Rosebery, Waterloo, N.S.W., Australia.
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal and Power
Pomps, Cylinders, Hand and Power Sprayers, Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and toe will put you in touch with the nearest distributor.


r
SS67
.mi
SELF-ALIGNING
BALL BEARINGS
A Safeguard Ag'ainst Breakdowns
Breakdowns make serious inroads into indus- Plain bearings, on line shaftings, that have
trial profits. With any section of the plant become overheated on account of friction, are
idle, not only is production reduced, but paid invariably the cause,
labor “standing by” also represents a dead los3. The solution is in the fitting of
SKF
BALL BEARINGS
which eliminate friction almost entirely, reduce the possibility of breakdowns to an
absolute minimum, save up to 35 per cent, of the total power supplied, and between
80 and 90 per cent, on lubrication costs.
Let us Demonstrate These Claims at any of our Showrooms.
Our representative will gladly call upon your request.
Gardner, Waern &. Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—■
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street. PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street. 377-391 Murray Street.
ADELAIDE—Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 157 Way- HOBART—Charles Davis, Ltd.
mouth Street. B.b. 13/23.
g
Dddbe Brothers
COMMERCIAL CAR
There is but one answer to the fact that
102,000 Dodge Brothers Commercial Cars are
in operation to-day.
The answer is that owners, more than satisfied
l
with results, make it their standard equipment
after the initial purchase.
Moreover, they commend it unhesitatingly to
others—and thus the market for the car enjoys
a steady, uninterrupted growth,
Dqs6e Brothers. Detroit
U-
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
(Victoria) Pty., Ltd,, Melbourne,
25/9/’24,
THE INKY WAY.
Marie E. J. Pitt, who has produced some of the
finest verse written in Australia in the last 15 years,
has got a collection of her work in the printer’s
hands ; the delay has been largely due to ill-health.
William Wills Davies, an Australian journalist in
New York, collects £5OO of the annual £632 which
Australia Spends on publicity in the U.S.A. Davies
is a very capable journalist, formerly of the Arc,US,
who went to America in the first place for an Aus-
tralian newspaper syndicate.
Came to the last milestone on the Inky Way in
Maoriland the other day, Bismarck (“Bis”) Shannon,
aged 50. Theatrical gossip in the Wellington Even-
ing Post and Times was his specialty. A brother,
Percy, is on the Sportsman (Sydney); and another,
Ulic, is also w’ell known as a sporting writer.
“Hamer”: A plain resident of Footscray, one S.
Ford, is doing his bit to keep the memory of Henry
Lawson green. On the anniversary of the poet’s death
he gathers together a band of Lawson votaries and
holds a commemoration service in the Footscray Park.
Victoria keeps the Gordon pilgrimage going every
year; it seems likely that the Lawson commemoration
will be another annual event.
“A.J.A.”: Melbourne journalists are preparing a
new home for themselves in the Empire Arcade,
Flinders-street (where The Bulletin’s Melbourne
office used to be). Federal and State offices of the
A.J.A. will be brought together, and there will be
assembly rooms which enthusiasts hope to develop
into a thriving press club. The housewarming is
listed for the end of this month.
P. I. O’Leary has the distinction of being a high-
priced poet. “Romance,” a collection of his verses
(some of which had appeared in The Bulletin),
was issued in an edition de luxe, with; illustrations
in color by John Shirlow, at three guineas a copy.
As the edition was limited and the cost of production
high, neither poet nor artist made a fortune out of
the book. O’Leary edits the Melbourne Advocate, a
Catholic weekly, for which he writes a literary and
critical page that is eagerly read by many outside
the fold.
Sydney Press Club is losing its hard-working presi-
dent, Harold Burston, and the members have given him
a fine gold watch to tick off their regard and grati-
tude. Burston, after serving as secretary to various
members of The Bulletin's editorial staff, passed on
to the “Wild Cat” department, and has done very-
responsible work there for the past seven years He
goes to Melbourne and the Herald. Norman Free-
burg, who takes his place in The Bulletin office,
succeeds him also as president of the Press Club.
John Dailey, another old member of The Bulletix
staff, is likewise leaving the Sydney office for Mel-
bourne. He is to take charge of the local Punch.
“Big Circulation”: Just before the news of Joseph
Conrad’s death reached here the English P a P cr ?
announced that his last novel, “The Rover, hail
reached in the U.S.A. alone a sale of 70,000 copies.
The royalty will amount to about £7OOO, for Con-
rad reached that pinnacle where he could demand
two shillings a copy. Years ago he was captain
of an ocean tramp which set out from Sydney' with
one passenger. They fraternised, showing each
other their attempts at writing. That passenger was
John Galsworthy, who issued his first book, “Jocelyn,
in 1898 when'he was 31. Conrad was the elder
by eight years, and had to learn English before he
published “Almaycr’s Folly,” in 1895. His rise was
slow at first, but later became meteoric.
“Cosmo”: “Cablerk’s” par re over-condensation of
cable messages reminds me that, when rates were
higher than now, simply the placed horses in an
important race would be wired. Even the name of
the event was omitted, the receiver consulting a
Turf Guide for further details. A new man on one
of the Melbourne dailies was dealing with a speech ot
Gladstone making an attack on Parnell and came to
the words; “Voracity Tyrone Lobster.” The novice
did not hesitate for a moment, and next morning
the readers of his paper, instead of being informed
that the City and Suburban (or whatever the race
was) had been won by Voracity with Tyrone and
Lobster second and third, were met with the follow-
ing : “The right lion, gentleman concluded by declar-
ing that Mr. Parnell had all the voracity of a
Tyrone lobster.”'
“C.McL.”: “R.S.R.” (R.P. 11/9/’24) practically
challenges me to write something about Shaw s
“Saint Joan.” Well, I know what I think of Joan
of Arc myself—that she was a sick little maiden
whose sex was knocking at the door of her _conscious-
ness and came to it in the form of visions; but,
having formed my own opinion, I am not m tne
least interested in what Shaw thinks of her. ln< ;
last play of his that I saw was “Pygmalion, ani
that was really chieflv remarkable because a prett.
woman said “bloody.” This epic feat having been
achieved, the glory departed out of Pygmalion,
and most of the rest of it seemed to descend into
drivel. It showed how utterly lacking in dramatic
sense Shaw really is that he did not see this point,
and make his heroine descend from bad to worse
until she ended up in a blaze of glorious profanit
worthv of Fleurbaix. Since Shaw so egregiouslj
missed that point I have had no time for him and
quite see why rival dramatists have said that hi
prefaces are better than his plays. J ust
a ladv being made to say worse than commonplace
“bloody”! Men, being so degraded a sex, would
have rushed the doors to hear her. Cleariy Stow
writes his plays for women only, and that is wny
they are not really interesting.
THE SUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It sometimes comes into my mind
The job we show our art on
Is labor of the very kind
That Bully Stryver once assigned
To shiftless Sydney Carton.
Through piles of briefs the latter tore
Extracting for his boss
Each particle of precious ore
And tossing out the dross.
He dipped and gripped and ripped and stripped,
The toughest bones lie shattered
And gouged therefrom, for Stryver’s use,
The pith and marrow, meat and juice—
Aye, everything that mattered.
We subs have much the same to do;
We wash the spuds, and peel them, too,
We ope the oyster for the stew
And cleanse from fat the kidney.
An i looking on the stores of mush
That into shape you have to brush
’Tis possible to feel a rush
Of sympathy for Sydney,
Who, it will doubtless still be fast
Within your recollection,
His jackal’s job complete at last
Would serve the lion a brave repast,
An elegant refection.
Yet there’s a cliff. Those twain would hug
E’en o’er their briefs the booze ;
No midnight bowls of steaming grog
Availed their faculties to fog
Their senses to bemuse.
Each mopped his whack in turn of tack
By Pussyfoots abhorred ;
His wits at fault when Sydney found
(Or felt, mayhap, the room going round)
An ither towel he drenched and wound
About his steaming forehead.
Were heads more hard, I’m wondering;
Or hadn’t punch such serpent's sting
When good old George the Third was King?
Nay! Wedged these MSS. amid,
I reckon Dickens’ tale was “kid.”
None ever “subbed” like Carton did.
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


m
'.ir
\:o.
i.i.,. -
>v L-;.
iMalr
V/^
II
*+ -
LL/TV
? r ©
oC
0:
Ci^f&rS’ssjsy
C §D
lust like we heard
,j /v frr
at the Opera /
IF you live in the city, perhaps once or twice in a season you
may have the opportunity of seeing grand opera, of listening
to a few world-famous artists; if you live in the country per-
haps such an opportunity may never come to you.
Yet any evening, in the comfort of your own home, if you own
a Rexonola you can conjure up at will the music of your
favourite opera —the songs or instrumental music you love best —
not once only, but as often as you wish ; not only the living but
those who, like Caruso, have passed, yet live again in the records
they have handed down to us.
This priceless heritage of music would be of little use were it
not for an instrument like the Rexonola, which will interpret it
faithfully—play for you as the artist intended.
cßexonola No. 1
(as Illustrated)
The ample, yet graceful proportions of Rexonola
Number 1 allow of a sound chamber larger than
usual, giving magnificent volume and richness of
tone. Its design, its finish, and its musical qualities
make it a favourite from both a musical and an ar-
tistic point of view.
CABINET. —Selected Queensland Maple, finished
Dark Mahogany, full polished, brilliant finish, or,
Selected Oak, Golden or Mission Finish. Size,
46 x 23 x 19$ inches. Hand-carved and shaped
front corner posts and rail. Doors to Record Com-
partment, which is fitted with shelves for record
storage ; domed lid ; removable motor board ;
automatic lid support; needle cups for new and
used needles ; hinged frame grille front to Rexonola
Patented Reflector Sound Chamber ; reproduction
of magnificent volume and beautiful tone quality.
MOTOR.—Powerful double-spring, highly-
finished worm-drive Motor of finest Swiss manu-
facture, playing about four 10-inch records with
one winding.
TONE ARM.—Swan neck with tapering arm, full
length, nickel-plated.
TURNTABLE. —Twelve-inch, nickel-plated and
polished.
SPEED INDICATOR.—Numbered Speed In-
dicator.
SOUND BOX. —Rexonola Grand Aluminium.
Golden Mission Oak, £29
Mahogany £37 - 10-0
Here is the complete range of
Rexonola Models from which to
make your selection
LOUIS PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35 inches ;
in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark Ma-
hogany. Price (Type A) £52/10/- ; (Type C) £62/10/-
(with rich hand-carving).
JACOBEAN PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35
inches ; in Selected Oak, Dark Jacobean Finish. Price
(Type B) £35; (Type C) £46/10/- (with rich hand-
carving).
REXONOLA No. 1 (Cabinet Model), Size 46 x 23 x
19. J inches ; in selected Queensland Maple, finished
Dark Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or
Selected Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak)
£29 ; (Mahogany) £37/10/-.
REXONOLA No. 2 (Cabinet Model), Size 46 x 23 x 194
inches ; in selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark
Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or Selected
Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak) £22
(Mahogany) £3l/10/-.
REXONOLA No. 4 (Cabinet Model), Size 41 x 194 x
17 inches; in Selected Queensland Maple, finished
Dark Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or
Selected Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak)
£l6/10/-; (Mahogany) £22/10/-.
REXONOLA No. 5 (Table Model), Size 22 x 17 x 17
inches; in Golden Oak, Mission Oak and Mahogany.
Price (Oak) £l2/10/-; (Mahogany) £lB.
REXONOLA No. 8 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x
144 inches ; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £lO.
REXONOLA No. 10 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x 13
inches ; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £B/5/-.
REXONOLA No. 15 (Table Model), Size 18 xl4x 84
inches : in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £6.
REXONOLA No. 17 (Table Model), Size 16 x 12 x 8
inches ; in Mission Oak. Price £4/5/-.
THE REXOPORT (The Portable Rexonola), hand-
somely constructed of Imported Oak, dark finish. As
easy to carry as a small suit case. Price £5,
If you can, ask any of the hundreds of
Rexonola dealers throughout Australia
to show you the full range of Rexonolas
—to play for you whatever music you
wish. If there is no Rexonola dealer
near you, use the Coupon at side.
The Importance of Correct "Tone Focus”
Just as, in a camera, the light rays must be correctly focussed, so, in a talking
machine, correct “ tone focus ” is of the utmost importance. The special
construction of the Rexenola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber has solved
this difficult problem ; every Rexonola is built on these correct principles,
making the tone full and rich, and entirely free from distortion. Listen to a
Rexonola playing, close your eyes, and you will find it difficult to realise that
the living artist is not in the room.
REXONOLAS for Tone
Every Rexonola is constructed to play all makes of disc records ; whatever your
musical tastes, there is an almost inexhaustible repertoire from which to
choose. There is a Rexonola for every home from the simple and sturdy
Rexonola Number 17 to the richly carved and beautifully finished Console
models —the Jacobean and the Louis.
COUPON
Messrs. JACKSON & MACDONALD
454 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
lam interested in a talking machine which will play exactly as the artist intended. Please send
me full particulars of the complete range of Rexonola models.
Name...
Address.


ĝ
; i
(!)
i /
jy.
vtO
1
If* Huff
iffSP
WORKS AT SOUTH KENSINGTON.
Linseed Oil—Linseed Meal
What it means to this State:—
MEGGITT LIMITED announce that three months ago they began a new industry in Victoria, namely, the production of LINSEED OIL and
LINSEED MEAL. Plant of the most modern and improved type has been installed in the Mill at South Kensington.
We guarantee our LINSEED OILS absolutely pure, thoroughly filtered, tanked and matured, and equal in every respect to any brand of
imported Oil.
We will appreciate your request for a sample to be mailed to you. We invite you to honestly compare it with any other oil. We say positively
that, judged on quality and price, there is no need to import LINSEED OIL into Victoria.
MEGGITT’S have been producing Oil in Australia for fourteen years. Their last year’s sales from their Parramatta Factory exceeded one
million gallons.
The technical skill employed and the machinery used are unsurpassed, and the standard set for quality of their Linseed Oil is recognised as
equal to the best produced in any part of the world.
The price is invariably lower than imported Oil.
What this Industry means to the Man on the Land:—
We are offering you LINSEED OIL MEAL, known throughout Australia as MEGGITT’S MEAL, or “MEGGITT’S,” for £lO/10/- per
ton f.o.r. Melbourne. LINSEED OIL MEAL is the highest grade concentrate known to the world for the feeding of stock. It is
extremely valuable for calves, cows, sheep, poultry, pigs and horses.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED MEAL has a guaranteed Oil content of 9 per cent., and with digestible protein totalling 30 per cent.
The price of LINSEED MEAL in Victoria to-day is £4 per ton cheaper than it is sold in England, where the annual production is 500,000 tons
We are selling the finest single ingredient which can be used for all classes of stock under all conditions.
MEGGITT’S SHEEP NUTS are invaluable when pastures are dry and sheep out of condition. No studmaster can afford to be without them.
The highest price for wool in N.S.W. sold this month was from sheep fed on Meggitt’s Sheep Nuts.
To enable us to continue to sell you CAKE or MEAL at this price we ask you earnestly to consider buying only MEGGITT’S LINSEED
OIL, made in Victoria. When your home is being painted see that MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL is used. Greater production means
lower cost.
Grow LINSEED for profit. This Mill will buy Linseed to the value of £1 00,000 in the first year. Produce for us the raw material to manufacture
LINSEED OIL, and return to the man on the land the LINSEED CAKE or MEAL so necessary as a concentrated food.
Call and see us at our Works.
Insist on MEGGITT’S OIL and MEAL, and help us to make a success of this great Australian industry in your State,
If your distributor cannot supply you write us direct. Send us his name, and we will undertake to see that you obtain your supplies promptly.
TRADE-MARK. —The brand “MEGGITT” is the sole property of Meggitt, Limited. MEGGITT’S products, both OIL and MEAL, can only
be sold as manufactured by this Company. Refuse all substitutes.
THE BEST BY TEST.
MEGGITT LIMITED
Box No. 4510 G.P.0., Spencer St., Melbourne. Office § Works: Hobson’s Road, South Kensington, Melbourne.


A
«BCTS
| Always
® Refreshing
An “ Alston ’Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
ft
Km
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Whirled into Happiness”
< riterion “The Old Soak”
Royal “The Cousin from Nowhere”
“ E "' Palace .. Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Productions
•jßand Opera House “Little Nellie Kelly”
■Uvoli Celebrity Vaudeville
* uller’s Theatre The World’s Best Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s “The Lady of the Rose”
Royal Vaudeville
i> ING ’ s “East of Suez”
Palace “Old Bill, M.P.”
1 rincess’s “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly”
Ijvoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
HoyT s Moving Pictures
A hundred years hence the language Shak-
speare wrote will probably be as unintelli-
gible to a theatre-going public brought up on
American jazz comedy as the classical drama
ot‘ Java is to a modern Javanese audience.
The Javanese producer gets over his diffi-
culty by giving his characters well-defined
peculiarities: a golden body for nobility, a
rounded eye for cunning, a hairy chest for
amorousness; and his plays retain their
popularity. Wilkie bribes Ms audience into
listening to Elizabethan patter they do not
understand by introducing knockabout farce
not contemplated by the playwright; and it
is a pity he has no Stiffy and Mo to co-
operate with him in his wise endeavor. With
the notable exceptions of Plumpton Wilson
as Launcelot Gobbo and Vincent Scully as
Launcelot’s father, there was a vacuous ring
about the merriment of “The Merchant of
Venice” on Saturday night, at the Palace,
Sydney, and though there was plenty of
laughter a lot of it came from the wrong
side of the footlights.
* * * *
Nevertheless the giggling vivacity of Irene
Webb’s Nerissa and the unsophisticated
freshness of Jean Athol, Miss Hunter-Watt’s
golden-haired understudy in the part of
Portia, made up for much that was lacking
elsewhere, and elegantly framed Wilkie’s
strong dry-point etching of the infamous
Jew, whose splendid greed for vengeance
dominates the lesser greeds for pleasure, love
ai )d money among the frivolous Christians.
Wilkie’s powerful intei’pretation is consis-
tent with itself on the whole, but it would
be more consistent still if he took further
liberties with Shakspeare’s text and left Shy-
lock, who prefers his ducats to his daughter
and revenge to ducats, defiant to the last and
ready to lose his life rather than give his
racial enemies the satisfaction of seeing him
accept the religion of the detested Gentile.
(The theatre-goers of the future, by the way,
may be as little able to understand the char-
acter of Shakspeare’s mediaeval Hebrew as
his language; the modern international
Israelite gets his pound of flesh, but lets
other people shed the blood for him.)
Augustus Neville forcefully portrayed the re-
served Antonio, whose dislike of taking in-
terest from a friend is quite unfashionable
“THE RISE OF ROSIE O'REILLY,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Eddie Russell and Eddie McLean, two of the
specialty dancers in the show.
in these days; and William Lockhart, as the
Luke of Venice, conducted the proceedings
against the Jew with a bias and a disregard
of the dignity of the bench which would
profoundly shock a country J.P. Kiore King
made a charming Jessica, who took her apos-
tasy very easily, and Leslie Manners, as
Bassanio, made a substantial suitor for the
thin, frail hand of Portia. De Bourguignon
provided the solo accompaniment, and “Tell
Me Where is Fancy Bred” was pleasantly
sung by Jessica Dale.
An audience largely composed of small boy
followed the martial fortunes of Harry of
England, on Monday night, and did it
with enthusiasm. Supported by a cast much
more wisely arranged than in “The Merchant
of Venice,” Allan Wilkie, as Henry V.,
nobly spurned the gift of tennis-balls slight-
ingly sent him by the French Dauphin, and
after lopping the heads of three English
traitors corrupted by enemy gold proceeded
to France with an expeditionary force con-
siderably smaller than the Army of Mons
but more than equal to it in elocution. The
cast was excellent. Augustus Neville was
as fantastically blackguardly as Pistol ought
to be, and Hamilton Henry, as the pedantic-,
valiant Fluellen, forced the leek down his
throat with delightful volubility. Witli touch-
ing eloquence Irene Webb, as Mrs. Quickly,
conjured up the fat knight Falstaff dying in
the wings, in the spirit as he lived. Alto-
together u satisfying performance and a
splendid evening’s entertainment, with more
life in its little finger than there is in the
whole body of “full-blooded” American drama.
Of Ference Molnar’s “Liliom,” produced
by the Sydney Repertory Society on Satur-
day, it can be said that the writer spoiled a
good poem to make a poor play. It is a
drama of character, and the central figure is
Liliom. This a programme note reveals is
Hungarian for Lily, and so, by an ironic
twist, the slang for larrikin. Liliom is
Dennis’s Sentimental Bloke embittered by
more vicious, more sordid surroundings. The
play is written in a prologue and seven
scenes, and reveals all the weakness of the
method from a constructive point of view,
while emphasising its suitability for the play
of whimsy or fantasy. There is no real con-
nection between the scenes; they don’t dove-
tail smoothly, but they unfold the character
of Liliom —unstable, brutal, lovable, pitiable.
When the play opens Liliom is a very
dashing manager of a, merry-go-round in
Buda Pesth’s White City. He is a glarl-eyer,
and two little servant girls, Julie (Doris
Williams) and Marie (Stella Marina), fall
under his spell. In a fit of jealousy the lady
proprietor of the merry-go-round (Erna Liv-
ing) sacks Liliom, who thereupon, because
he is penniless and out of a job, marries
Julie. It is summer-time, and they live in
a photographer’s shelter in the park. Liliom
is too artistic to work at anything that holds
nothing of the carnival spirit, and, homesick
for his merry-go-round, takes it out of his
miserable little wife by thrashing her. But
he isn’t always like that. One day he learns
he is about to become a father. Standing
in the opening to the studio-—it boasts no
doors —he shouts the news aloud like a pfean
of triumph. Then to provide for the child’s
future he falls in with a plan to rob and
if necessary murder a cashier of a near-
by factory. While waiting for the victim he
gambles away his share of the spoils—and
then the cashier turns the tables. Liliom
kills himself, and is then transported to a
kind of heavenly police-magistrate’s court.
Here he is told that after burning for 16
years he can go back to earth for one day to
do a good act for his little daughter. In the
last scene he is revisiting the earth. He has
stolen a star from Heaven as a gift for his
little girl—and ends by giving her only an
angry smack. To follow Ary de Leoni’s
Liliom was like watching some dumb thing
being driven irresistibly to the slaughter-—-
it was a capital bit of work. Of the rest
of the fairly long cast, Stella Marina as
Marie stood out well. Her voice reflects
light and shade like a clear stream. Doris
Williams’s Julie was another capital study.
Indeed, these two look like the two younger
finds of Gregan’s flock. Erna Living is
always good, and she handled her small part
capably; Bessie Camper, as Mother Hollun-
der, did likewise; and a cheer goes to Cam
Marina for his Sparrow.
“Little Nellie Kelly” is in her seventh
witching week at Sydney Opera House.
On Saturday next “The Cousin from No-
where” (a piquantly expressive title) arrives
at Sydney Royal, with Claude Flemming,
Arthur Stigant, Marie Le Varre, Floie Allan
and a host of others to put spurs on the fun.
At Sydney Cri. John D. O’Hara goes on
demonstrating in “The Old Soak” those kindly
impulses in the human heart that cannot be
drowned in bootleg whisky or dried out by
the absence of it.
Numbers of delightful persons continue to
be “Whirled into Happiness” at Sydney
Majesty’s, where nothing is more uproariously
received than Frith’s catchy “Shall I Have
it Bobbed or Shingled?”
* * 5;: *
Sydney Tivoli is doing its bit to help the
“Made in Australia” campaign by re-introduc-
ing Albert Whelan, a home-grown entertainer
whose quiet artistry and clever patter have
put him among the first flight of English-
speaking variety artists. His act is a re-
freshing breeze, from the opening whistling
solo to a novel variation on the usual encore
practice. Marie Burke and Arthur Klein
continue on their bright musical voyage ; and
Bert Errol and violinist Maggie Foster, new-
comers, help in making the bill the best the
Tivoli has known for a long time.
** * *
In troublous times in Italy (the time
chosen being naturally one which allows
the chorus to get into picturesque apparel)
Count Adrian Beltrami, called to a council
of compatriots in Milan, is unable to get
away, owing to the arrival of invading forces.
To help his departure (and the plot), he
and a wandering silhouette-cutter, Suitangi,
an old servant of the Countess’s family, ex-
change identities, so that when the young,
cocksure and autocratic Colonel Belovar,
commander at 29 of the crack regiment of
the invading army, swanks into the castle,
he finds a beautiful young wife apparently
married to an elderly and ridiculous hus-
band, and, seeing a chance for an intrigue,
decides to dally awhile. The arrival of a
ludicrous opera-director with the ladies of
his ballet, who have been held up on the
road and seek the shelter of the castle, pro-
vides the necessary pairs for the officers of
the Colonel’s staff. So you get a bright musi-
cal background for subsequent developments,
in the course of which the Colonel’s opinion
of woman is improved by his encounters
with the steadfast Countess and by the dream-
intervention of her ancestress, “the Lady of
the Rose,” who, 150 years before, was tradi-
tionally in a similar position, and saved both
her husband and her honor. The play,
which arrived at Melbourne Majesty’s on
THE SYDNEY REPERTORY THEATRE
SOCIETY IN “LILIOM.”
Cam Marina as “The Sparrow,” and Ary de
Leoni as “Liliom,” a Don Juan of Hun-
garian toughs.
Saturday, is so well constructed that the
humorous exploits of Suitangi, as the pseudo
Count, do not detract from the interest of
the story in chief. The proceedings are
further punctuated by several bright musical
numbers, “With Me,” by Nellie Payne and
the male chorus ; the trio, “When Men Grow
Older” (Bryl Walkely, Blake .Adams and
Leslie Holland) ; and “Land of Mine,” by
Howett Worster and male chorus, being the
best.
* * * *
The first act dragged owing to the almost
amateurish showing of some of the princi-
pals ; but the action of* the last two was
swift, and the co. did' much better. Howett
Worster, as the swanking Colonel Belovar,
performed some droving tricks with a whip
after his first entrance into the castle. It
was a painful exaggeration, altogether super-
fluous ; and it was a relief when the whip
was thrown away. Apart from that he gave
a robust, convincing performance, with an
attractive sincerity in his love-passages. As
the Countess (and in the dream business, her
ancestress), Edith Drayson was obviously
over-weighted, but she looked charming, and
succeeded unexpectedly in her indignant re-
jection of Belovar’s overtures. Blake Adams
had his best opportunity to date as Suitangi,
and made good use of it; but it cannot be said
of any of the others that they were distin-
guished, and far worse might be written of
at least two.
*•* *!» •!*
Seymour Hicks has worked into the
weird story he has built around the civil
life of Bairnsfather’s “Old Bill” a lot of the
bathetic tricks which appeal to the Great
Heart of the Public; and a packed first-night
house at the New Palace on Saturday laughed
heartily in the right places and provided
sustained applause frequently. It seems
necessary to say this because the play sup-
plies the audience with a certain amount of
excuse for laughing sometimes in the wrong
places. The compote of humor and drama
MELBA-WILLIAMSON GRAND-OPERA
SEASON—NOW AT ADELAIDE .
“DON PASQUALE.”
Dr. Malatesta ( Apollo Granforte) lets Don
Pasquale (Gaetano Azzolini) have a
peep at Narina ( Toti).
is wholesome and amusing, and Seymour
Hicks shows himself a master of theatrical
caricature. The most notable change since
the bill made its appearance in Sydney
is the absence of Fred Lloyd, who has gone
back to England. Frank Hatherl'ey (form-
erly Bert) has Lloyd’s part of Alf, and Bran-
don Cremer fills Hatherley’s old place, the
work of the pair being not up to the former
standard, but quite passable. Vivian Edwards
as Captain Bruce Bairnsfather is responsible
for a painstaking and sincere study.
“House Full” goes up frequently at the
New Princess’s in Melbourne —a certain sign
that the houses are anything but full of
Rosie O’Reilly.
** * *
Only managerial arrangements fixed long
ahead are likely to make an early finish of
“East of Suez,” now in its sixth week at
Melbourne King’s.
The only change this week at Melbourne
Royal was the addition of Renie Riano’s
legs to a show which was running very well
without them. The gap Hetty King leaves
is to be filled to-day (Thursday) by Harry
Weldon ; and, if he has not deteriorated in
the last few years, Harry is “a scream.”
Bert Levy stepped into the shoes of brother-
in-law Albert Whelan at Melbourne Tivoli
with a lightning-sketch act on lines that pre-
vent the boredom frequently associated with
such turns. Seated beside a powerful lantern,
Levy does his work on a smudged lens, and
it is thrown on to a screen behind him; and
all the time the artist keeps up a stream of
engaging anecdote. Ted Marcel, who chatters
and skates; Eve Lynn, who was with the
“Lilac Time” co.; and Scott and Whaley,
negro comedians, are new arrivals; and
Beryl Beresford still causes the big laughs.
Two good Melbourne shows:—
From Tom Roberts’s little show at the Fine Art
Society’s Gallery you wouldn’t guess that the artist
has reached his 68tli year; and if any of the
earlier vim is missing, there is more than compen-
sation in the certitude of his work. Only 28 pictures
are shown, and some of the smaller are gem's. A
big canvas, “The Two Roads to Monbulk,” shows
strong treatment of a subject that lures the imagi-
nation ; and there is vigorous expression with a
fine value in the contrast of the shadow and light of
hollow and ridge in “Ploughing in the Dandenongs.”
The only real shadow on the exhibition is the
occasional flatness of the skies. In his English
’scapes Roberts makes no attempt to give them
Australian atmosphere, as English artists have tried
to fasten English atmosphere upon Australia. Some
very small canvases are cameos; the red tab on
many of them shows how quickly they have been
appreciated. Exhibited with the pictures are deco-
rated porcelains by Jessie W. Simpson—some of them
very dainty.
If Louis McCubbin had left figures alone his exhi-
bition at the Athenseurn Hall would have had a
higher average value. “The Pink Dress” is obviously
a girl sitting in a dentist’s anteroom, in which a
careless attendant has forgotten to leave the illus-
trated papers, and the indefinite face, as far as it
shows anything, has an appropriate anguish; but
there is also craftsmanship which makes the crudeness
in others amazing. “In the Heart of the Bush” is a
beautiful subject beautifully painted ; so is “A Quiet
Backwater, Warrandyte” ; and there is fine work in
“Winter, Looking North from Mount Macedon.” The
war pictures are chiefly interesting historically; the
harsh treatment appears to be intentional. “Autumn
Tints” is an example of the artist’s failures, the
composition of a subject which should be delightful
being neither pleasing nor truthful. An unequal
exhibition, but the good work outweighs the bad.


It,
pnmj
In Men’s Wearing Apparel
The New SHIRTINGS
These Shirtings are undoubtedly the finest we have ever shown. The
magnificent range includes the very newest in designs and colorings. All
Leviathan Tailored Shirts are fitted with soft gauntlet cuffs, reinforced
inlay fronts, split sleeves and sleeve lifts, and all are double sewn through-
out and gusseted in all seams.
Duro” Blue Zephyr Shirts
With 2 Collars to Match.
11/6
A distinctive range of blue grounds with White and Colored stripes.
(3 for 33/-). With 2 collars complete.
‘ Taffasylk Shirts
With Collar to Match.
17/6
This shirting has the appearance of best Fuji Silk, neat stripe effects of
various shades on rich cream grounds. Fast colors.
Permatwill” (Reg’d) Shirts
With Collar to Match.
10)6
I (
ONLY OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEVIATHAN.
In Blue, Black or Helio designs on plain cream grounds. Fast colors.
New Range of PYJAMA CLOTHS
Just to Hand
We have the finest selection of smart, and serviceable Pyjama Cloths in
Melbourne. The utmost service is assured with Leviathan Pyjamas, for
they are all double sewn throughout, and have excellent hems on sleeves
and trousers; coats have turn-down collars and best pearl buttons, and
trousers have woven girdle.
Confidence” Pyjamas
Only obtainable from the Leviathan. Our famous “Con-
fidence” Pyjamas are in double Wrap Winceyette, in all
■wanted colors.
12/6
Duratex” (Reg’d) Pyjamas
An exclusive Leviathan material, having stripes of silky
appearance, on cream grounds. Fast colors.
16/6
‘ ‘ Shadowsheen ’' Pyjamas
A fine range of newest designs in attractive colorings.
Fast colors.
18/6
Superior
FOOTWEAR
The Footwear Department is under the
management of Mr. L. C. Trezise.
Famous
"Confidence
mi
••fciunto
Brand
ONLY OBTAINABLE EROM THE
LEVIATHAN.
These lines are made from Genuine j
Calf Leathers (not yearling or hide, as ■>
is so often the case). They are fitted 1
with Goodyear Welts, and show perfect ankle
fitting.
Oxford Shoes in Box Calf, Nigger Brown Calf,
Glace Kid, on fashionable lasts.
Balmoral or Derby Boots
A smart, comfortable and service- n/\l/t
able boot, in finest Tan Willow Calf,
available in half-sizes and graduated fittings.
Brown Calf
Smart
HAT
Arrivals
i i
Confidence”
New shipment of these Famous
ğ
rM c * ■*■!,,
Latest
Shapes
Hats
Hats just to hand. Only obtainable from
the Leviathan. Best English make, avail-
able in all the latest shapes and shades of Spring
lined and fitted with sweat leathers.
27 16
wear. All are silk-
Original Borsalinos
We’ve just opened a complete new range of these
distinctive hats. A magnificent range of attrac-
tive shades and shapes, featuring the 'cut or
bound edges. Available lined or unlined, fitted with sweat leathers.
32/6
GOLFERS’ NEEDS
GOLF SUITS
Ready to Wear.
Golf Suits, specially imported by the Leviathan,
fashioned on latest lines in All-Wool Tweeds, in
fancy lovat and heather shades. Coat features the
new plain back and waisted effect. Without belt.
All sizes.
67/6, 75/-, 84/- to £7/7/-
GOLF COATS
Expertly cut and tailored in Scotch Tweeds, in
smart Donegal effects and various fancy shades.
Fashioned with half-belt and pleated back. All
sizes.
30/-, 32/6, 42/-
Golf
Shoes
Featuring full-
welted soles,
fitted with pure >
crepe rubber,
giving a per-
fect grip.
35 1-
Ln
tm*.
W>k
m
W 4.
tr
f\
h
'in I
it
9
f.t
«(W'
S.N&W
SfT
TAILORING TO ORDER.
Huge Shipments of Finest WORSTEDS just to hand.
Your Spring Suit to Order.
£B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
Patterns, Special Self-measurement Chart and Tape on request.
ORDER BY POST. ’PHONE 9840. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
(3 Lines.)
0S
The
%
*J
Ta
&Et
¥'
ft
e
i
&
w
Pty.Ltd.
Or. Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
Pullover
Sweaters
These smart
Pull-overs are
absolutely in-
dispensable for
golf, motoring
and general
wear. They are
all Wool and
fit you per-
fectly. No tight-
ness across the
shoulders or
under the arms.
In fancy shades
with various de-
signs in con-
trasting colors.


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
3EENER
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
m
mL
vm
W. W. GREffltfif
CBNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
r
Australian Representatives (.Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY. f
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
MARTELLS
For- Every 0
Occasion
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
Shipped, Solely from the
Cognac district
ġ
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges lor Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
ahona
gz.
Tariff —Write for descriptive Folder.
Address. Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brishare.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBCURNE
“Hamer’’: Pratten’s idea of assisting pic-
ture-production in Australia will, I hear, be
embodied in a measure making it obligatory
on the showman to exhibit at least 20 per
cent, of Commonwealth-made films. Bet-
ter than nothing, of course, but surely a
very modest assertion of the right of the
struggling Australian industry to live. They
order these matters more wisely in Germany.
American films enter that country only on
the understanding that an equal quantity
of German films is taken by the Yanks.
Australia, a far more extensive purchaser
of U.S. stuff than Germany has ever been,
ought to insist on a similar arrangement.
Six copies of an Australian picture are
sufficient for the home market. If a foreign
sale could be secured as well —as it could by
adopting the German policy-—the Australian
producer would be enabled to increase his out-
lay, and better pictures would be the result.
“Hamfat”: “B.B.” (B. 4/9/’24) ques-
tions the accuracy of my yarn about Eddie;
McLean. On the word of the young man
himself, his first appearance took place dur-
ing Christmas-time IS9B. at the Sydney
Lyceum. He gave a songandance turn,
the song being “I Tickled Her Under the
Chin” ; and figured in a Maypole dance with
a lot of girls, one of whom he had to kiss.
Eddie remembers that he selected the same
girl every night, and regrets to add that he
has forgotten who she was—certainly he
hasn’t kissed her since. A year later, in
“Australis,” Eddie and Decima appeared to-
gether in a country dance, and there was a
subsequent engagement in panto. But I
made a mistake about the whirling couple’s
advent as “The Little Dartos.” That did
not occur until the “Alice in Wonderland” _
production at Sydney Royal in 1901-02.
Daddy Edward McLean, known on the Aus-
tralian stage for many years as harlequin,
ballet-master and manager, took the pair to
England in 1905 ; but they were called back
for the J.C.W. “Mother Goose” panto of
1906-07. As Decima wasn’t born until June,
1895, she would be very young to be appear-
ing in panto in 1897, as “B.B.” asserts.
“Yarra Ben” : It takes a lot of pluck to
run a Shakspearean co. in this country.
Allan Wilkie, on his last night in Melbourne,
acknowledged that in his five previous sea-
sons in the Vic. capital he had lost money.
The smaller towns rally round, but the big
cities don’t. Wilkie, however, goes ahead, in-
tent on educating the public taste above jazz
bands, movies, vaudeville and musical com-
edies.
“Second Murderer”: “F.L.H.” (B.
18/9/’24) says he saw Paolantonio conduct
an opera—“Aida”—without referring to the
score, and has never seen it done before.
I’ve seen Leon Caron do it. Also Luscombe
Searelle, Alfred Cellier and Harrison.
Harrison, indeed, did a still more wonderful
thing. On the opening night of “The
Mikado” in Australia, at the T.R., Mel-
bourne, Boyle, the tenor, took suddenly ill.
Harrison at a moment’s notice dropped his
conductor’s baton and slipped, into Nanki
Poo’s clothes, playing the part without a
mistake, and with singular ease and aplomb.
“R.K.D.N.” : Experience doesn’t count for
much on the musical-comedy stage —on the
female side, that is. Passably good looks,
a decent singing voice, and the young lady
jumps from behind a counter to behind the
footlights. Which means that producers are
a lot cleverer than many people think. The
other day a meteoric mummeress who had
severed her connection with the Firm com-
plained in the newspapers that she had not
been given the principal part, to which —so
she insisted —she had a prescriptive right.
She had been on the boards for a whole three
years and a half!
“Hamfat”: Dave O’Connor’s melancholy
monologue in the Sydney Bankruptcy Court
indicates that Cow Flat and Tallow Creek
have lost their taste for canned musical
comedy, which Dave has been giving
them for year’s. The O'Connor was
understudying Andrew Iligginson, who had
made a hit in “The Merry Widow,” and
stepped inta his shoes when Higgy met with
an accident. His performance was so good
that J. C. Williamson was moved to thank
him publicly—a tribute which would seem
odd nowadays, when letting a minor actor
do the star’s work without giving him credit
for it has grown into a habit. After that
O’Connor toured the “smalls” with boiled-
down musical successes hired from the Firm.
George Castles, Amy’s tubby brother, was
his partner for a time. Presumably the pit-
chers have spoilt Cow Flat's taste for song-
andance shows—or perhaps it is that Cow
Flat has a frugal mind and pitchers come
cheaper.
“F.L.IL”: Fanny Liddiard (B. 4/9/’24)
lives in Calcutta ; she is Mrs. Warren now.
1 first saw Fanny at Melbourne in the initial
showing of “The Pirates of Penzance” in
1881. A year later she was in the first local
CRITICISM.
“What’s the song out of?”
“Tune, I should sag.”
staging of “Patience.” One of licr numerous
characters in comic opera was the name-part
in “Paul Jones” ; I think she followed Marian
Burton. Tom Liddiard, a brother, died in
Melbourne recently, aged 70.
“Orb”: I think it was that same Chinese
opera, referred to by “Centurion” and “Ham-
fat,” which I saw at Townsville (N.Q.)
about ’95. I was with the Alfred Dampier
co. at the time, and when our show was
over half a dozen of us went round to John’s,
which kept going nearly all night.
Being mummers, we tried to get in on the
nod, but Sum Kum Fat, the house-manager,
no savee-ed actors or drama or Dampier.
Then one of our crowd had an inspiration.
Fitzgerald’s Circus was in the town, and our
man said, “You savee? We belonga circus.”
That did the trick, and we were given seats
in A row. Ah Sing dearly loves a circus.
“T.P.”: In the days when we gazed in
wonder at the big circle of gasjets on the
ceiling of Melbourne Royal, with their pilot
light which never went out, there were two
of Dampier’s daughters—Lily and Rose, I
think —playing the infants in the pantomime
“Babes of the Wood.” Old .T. R. Greville
was the Dame, Wilhelmina Wimple. I can
see the kiddies prancing before Greville and
singing a light-hearted lyric, “Miss Wil-
helmina Wimple has a pimple on her beak.”
A brilliant theatrical future was predicted
for them in those days. I wonder what be-
came of them.
“Thersites”: “Hamfat” (B. 18/9/'24)
quotes the cast of Rignold's production of
“Faust” at 11. M. Theatre, Sydney, on
Easter Saturday, 1888, and numbers Joe
Tolano among the dead, doe looked lively
enough when I saw him in Pitt-streer the
other day. But the “Faust” memory interests
me, because in that piece with Rignold at
H. M. Theatre on Easter Saturday, 1595,
I made my first appearance on any stage in
the small part of Peters. Others were Rig-
nold, Mepliistopheles ; Stirling Whyte, Faust;
Scot Inglis. Faust (after the metamorpho-
sis) ; Valentine, Harry Plimmer: Siebel,
Cyril Keightley: Brander, Harold Carr:
Burgomaster, Harry Hodson ; Conrad, Frank
Harcourt; Landlord, J. W. Hazlitt; Priest,
Clifford Barker: Eighel, R. D’Orsay Ogden ;
Heinrich, George Marlow; Marguerite,
Agnes Knight; Martha, Kate Bishop;
Rachel. Lily Rochfort. This last-named lady
is—and was then—Mrs. Rock Phillips.
George Marlow and Cyril Keiglitley have
risen to prominence since then. Harry Hod-
son is with Philip Lytton’s co.
“F.L.H.”: The Melbourne production of
Giardano’s “Andrea Chenier” brings to mind
another work of his, “Fedora,” which the
1901 Italian co. brought to Australia. It
seems to have dropped from memory, but
was successful in that period. The little
soprano Vaccari made a hit in the part of
the shallow-pated Olga, and Bassich was
striking in the name part; she also intro-
duced Mimi and Desdemona to us in that
season. Harold Elvins, the Melbourne
pianist, made his one and only entry into
opera in “Fedora.” But not to sing. He
played a chune on the instrument in the
drawing-room scene.
“P. Pawnticket”: The Commonwealth
Photographic Department houses some first-
class travel and nature films. A picture of
a kangaroo hunt which I sampled recently
is as thrilling a bit of work as I wit-
nessed ; in fact, the two hours I spent in the
department watching Australian films —some
of which Yankee-controlled showmen refuse
to exhibit even when offered them gratis—
were more interesting than any ten I have
put in at shows alleged to be “sheikicr
than ‘The Sheik’ ” or “more flaming than
‘Flaming Youth.’ ” For the kangaroo-hunt film
substantial offers were made by two distri-
buting firms, but not for first exhibition in
Australia. America, it was insisted, would
have to see it first, and perhaps it would be
returned from that country with a barbarous
story interpolated and imbecile travesties on
Australian life added. No business.
“Wodgil”: The M.L. Government is in-
troducing a law to prohibit children under
1(5 from entering a cinema theatre unless all
the pictures on the programme are war-
ranted to contain no suggestion of rape,
adultery, miscegenation, murder, burglary,
highway robbery and other favorite Holly-
wood themes. It will come to that in Aus-
tralia unless the morons who make such pic-
tures and the imbeciles who write the ads.
for the evening papers are speedily sup-
pressed by their employers at this end.
Apropos, Frank Brennan, Queensland Min-
ister for Public Instruction, is inviting the
other State Education Ministers, a repre-
sentative of the Commonwealth Government
and the chief censor to meet him in confer-
ence to discuss the effect American pictures
are. having on the Australian kid. “Why
should we go to America for subjects?” asks
Brennan. “There is a sufficiency of Austra-
lian subjects to fire the ambition if we want
to make this a great nation.” Three din-
kum Australian cheers for Brennan !
“F.N.W.”: Years ago I extorted money
from British managements for singing comic
songs. Probably with the hope of getting
me destroyed, my agent fixed me up for a
number of Scottish music-halls. At Glas-
gow Barney Armstrong, hearing I had the
next week “out,” offered to put me on at the
two local halls of which he was, at that
time, part-proprietor, but before accepting
I had a look at one of them —the Queen’s —
while a show was raging. The interior of
the theatre was adorned with bills headed
“Notice to Throwers of Missiles.” Followed
a formidable list of recent convictions, one
of which was for “throwing a ginger-beer
bottle at Alec Hurley, music-hall performer,
during the course of his performance on the
stage, and assaulting a theatre attendant.”
I stole quietly away looking as unlike a
comedian as possible, while I tried to figure
out what I should collect if Hurley was wel-
comed with ginger-beer empties. However,
I played Barney’s other hall—the Tivoli—
and found it quiet enough ; the audiences were
so scanty that the theatre staff could have
overwhelmed them by sheer weight of num-
bers if they had tried to get uppish. The
Queen’s made money, but the Tivoli lost it
again, so Barney Armstrong resumed life
as a performer, and toured Australia with
a partner—Armstrong and Kelly. At the
time of his death he was managing halls at
Dublin and Edinburgh.
“Nero” : “Ex-Englishman’s” story of Beer-
bohm Tree and the scenic artist Harker (B.
7/8/’24) brings to mind an old yarn of Henry
Irving and his painter, Hawes Graven. It
was the morning of the dress rehearsal of
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” and Irving was
scanning the scenery and effects with a criti-
cal eye. Among the effects was a large cage
for canaries. “Ah, Craven,” said the actor,
“don’t you think it looks a little new? No
appearance of having had birds in it. eh ?
Lacks a little something, eh?” The painter,
a trifle short-tempered, hastily seized a brush
and plentifully bespattered the floor of the
cage with whitewash. “Ah, yes, Craven,”
said Irving. “But canaries, boy, not eagles!”
“Lud” Like the workman who fell from
the top of a four-storey building and re-
marked when picked up that he was “coming
down, anyhow,” Charles Cochran, the Eng-
lish theatrical magnate, whose affairs have
reached the Bankruptcy Court, was getting
out of the business —or, at least, thinking
about it. Coclirau attributes his failure to
run six London theatres simultaneously to
“enforced absence” from the scene. That would
hardly have mattered if the dashing specula-
tor had been lucky enough to hit upon attrac
•tions that filled his houses. But no im-
presario can hope to get even three successes
running at once (the average is much lower,
in fact), and, with rents as mountainous sis
they are in London at present, the result
was inevitable.
“Caesar’s Ghost" : An age-old theatrical in-
ducement, pretty generally banned elsewhere
but revived by Melbourne picture-shows, has
received notice to quit. On a certain night
prizes are given to the holders of tickets
which correspond with numbers drawn from
a hat, the trophies of luck varying from
quilts and blankets in thrifty suburbs to
watches and bangles in haunts of the elite.
Haled to court for conducting these illegal
lotteries, as they w r ere called, two showmen
were fined; and the intimation that they
were liable to a penalty of £2OO, which might
be inflicted in future cases, has made the
picture people feel so cold that they will pro-
bably decide to keep their blankets. Dan
Barry used to have gift nights at which he
recklessly distributed “solid gold watches”—
he bought them in job lots. I was with a
show which, in the middle of a bleak South
Maoriland winter, warmed itself momentarily
at the fire of affluence by giving away a bike.
Houses had previously averaged £l7; on the
bicycle night £l4B came in ; and as the jigger
was bought for £lO, while another tenner
covered the fine, costs and advertising, the
lawlessness paid. But £2OO is a bit too much
to risk.
“Borom” : The day of the horse-drawn cir-
cus is passing in Australia. Its successor is
the show which is transported by motor-
trucks, the members travelling in ordinary
cars. One of the advantages of motor-trac-
tion. the proprietor of a petrol circus con-
fided, is that it is possible to visit a different
town every night, a feat beyond the capacity
of Dobbin and Ginger.
A little show in Melbourne: —
John Hennessy’s show ;it the Sackville Gallery
contains nothing likely to make any reputation
glitter. The titles are such commonplaces as “Pick-
ing Flowers” and “Paddling at Chelsea,” and the
ordinariness of most of the pictures is to match.
“Wattle” (No. 14) is as good as anything; but there
aie several that will make acceptable wall-decorations
for suburban homes.
A show in black and white: —
Interesting, artistically and historically, is the
collection of drawings and cartoons by Bullettx
artists, past and present, now at the Hordern Gal-
leries, Sydney. There are to be seen “Hop’s” refined
cannibals, memories of a world of urbane jesting
which the war partially destroyed ; Norman Lindsay’s
great war cartoons, full of raging anger ; and David
Low’s brilliant satires expressed with a strong and
humorous line. There also is work by artists who
rutiled it but a short time on the Australian stage:
Ruby Lindsay, since dead in London, whose delicate
line gave promise of great development ; and AVill
Dyson, who put more soul into some of his cari-
catures than any man before or after him. There
also is work by present-day contributors, among them
Hugh McCrae, quaintly individual; D. H. Souter,
with his fine line and his amorous cat; Bertha
GO WHILE THE GOING’S GOOD.
“It’s a charming portrait, but I don’t know
that it’s particularly like Estelle!”
“She shouldn’t he done any more — I’m sure
she’ll never be so lucky again.”
Bennett Burleigh, whose vigorous draughtsmanship
gets sounder every year. There is more seriousness
in some of the work of these professional funny
people than in much of the work in more sanctified
mediums which decorate our Galleries. In Paris
the Salon des Humoristes helps to rescue the news-
paper artist from an often undeserved oblivion, and
some such show as this ought to be an annual affair
in Australia.
A PICTURE POSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky pale pink, the sea bright green
On which a phantom ship is seen.
The hero, with a fearsome frown,
Is knocking fourteen pirates down.
But one the hero fails to see
Is crouched behind a purple tree,
And in his fist he grips a “gat”
Which soon would lay the hero flat j
But, looking like a poet’s dream,
The heroine unlocks a scream.
The hero hears it just in time
To duck, and so prevent the crime.
But retribution follows fast:
The leading villain’s die is cast.
For in that gorgeous colored sky
A crimson aeroplane flies high,
And from it shoots a splash of red—
A bomb falls on the villain’s head.
Perchance it merely spoils his hat
“On Thur. and Fri. and twice on Sat.”
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


s*o ft 6
ON WOOD
>I^OCI
The
WORLD-FAMED
PAINT
Ripolin Paint goes farther,
lasts longer, and gives a
better finish than any
other Paint.
Ripolin Paint is ready
mixed for use, and can
be obtained in 100 shades.
Please note the only Paint
like Ripolin , is Ripolin ;
do not be put off with a
substitute.
This world-renowned Enamel,
among other uses, is Ideal
for Motor-Car Painting.
Write or ’phone for Color
Card, Booklet, etc., to
THE STANDARD
AGENCIES PTY.,
LTD.,
379 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Agents for Victoria.
INIVd
NllOdld
Legal Notice.
TN THE MATTER OF THE ESTATE OF JESSIE
x FRANCES RAVEN late of the South Australian
Hotel Adelaide in the State of South Australia
married woman deceased.
PURSUANT to “The Trustee Act 1893” and the
direction of the Deputy Master of the Supreme Court
made in the matter of the estate of the above-
named Jessie Frances Raven deceased NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all beneficiaries creditors
and other persons having claims against the estate
of the abovenamed Jessie Frances Raven deceased
who died at Sydney in the State of New South
Wales on the sth day of July 1924 and' whose will
was duly proved in the Supreme Court of South
Australia in its Testamentary Causes Jurisdiction
on the 7th day of August 1924 by Bagot’s
Executor and Trustee Company Limited whose regis-
tered office is at No. 22 King William Street Adelaide
the sole Executors of the said deceased ARE HERE-
BY REQUIRED to send their names and addresses
with full particulars of their claims to the said
Bagot’s Executor and Trustee Company Limited cn
or before the 20th day of October 1924 after which
date the said Bagot’s Executor and Trustee Company
Limited will be at liberty to distribute the estate
of the said deceased having regard only to the claims
of which it shall then have had notice and the said
Executor will not be liable for the estate or any part
thereof so distributed to any person of whose claim
it shall not then have had notice. Dated the 12th
day of September 1924.
'VARLEY EVAN & THOMSON,
22 Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Proctors for the said Executor.
Amusements.
g \U N I'j V'» t. u i »•, I TIIISAT H E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
CRITERION: THE OLD SOAK.
ROYAL:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
DICKA R I) S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
rllE ALLAN WII.KIE S II A KS PEA K ISA >
PKODI 'OTIONS.
SYDNEY SEASON,
NEW PALACE THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 Castlemign Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batvn.
pCLLEKS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hmrh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED. and SAT.
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Wellington District. No. 2624.
IN DIVORCE.
To SYDNEY ALBERT 4 CHRISTIAN
BEDELL formerly of Wellington but
now of address unknown printer.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation lias been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear
and (answer the petition of LAURA
BEDELL of the City of Wellington
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of deser-
tion for a period of three (3) years and
upwards and such citation intimates that in
default of your so doing the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence: Now therefore take notice
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
forty (40) days after the date of the publi-
cation of this advertisement in this news-
paper to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the Supreme Court office at Wellington
and there to enter an appearance and file
an answer without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of
the proceedings.
A copy of the said petition and citation
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court office at
Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 6tli day of Sep-
tember, 1924.
E. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward him the fore-
going advertisement.
PATRICK JOSEPH O’REGAN, Esq., is
the Solicitor for the petitioner, whose ad-
dress for service is at the office of the said
Patrick Joseph O’Regan, Barrister and
Solicitor, 324 Lambton Quay, Wellington,
New Zealand.
THE
Commonwealth 6 per cent. Loan 1930-1935
WHY THE INVESTMENT IS RECOMMENDED.
Because the security is a gilt-edged one.
Because Interest is at the rate of 6 per cent., and is free of State Income
Tax.
Because Bonds or Stock of the face value of £lOO will cost only £9B/10/-
This means that for each £9B/10/- lent to the Commonwealth the investor
will receive £lOO from the Commonwealth when the Loan matures. In the
meantime, he will receive £6 as interest each year for each £9B/10/- lent.
The average annual income from the investment will be about £6/7/- per cent,
in the case of the loan maturing in 1930, or about £6/4/- per cent, in the case
of that maturing in 1935.
Because instalments may be paid monthly from October, 1924, through
to February, 1925.
Because this deferred payment scheme gives the chance both to save and
to invest.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank, at any
Money Order Post Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
T 3
Commonwealth Treasury,
September, 1924.
ZEISS FIELD GLASSES
ARE SUPREME IN ALL RESPECTS.
No other makers have achieved such perfection in brilliance,
definition and wide field of view. Every sportsman should possess
a Zeiss Race Glass.
OBTAINABLE OPTICIANS AND JEWELLERS.
Catalogue from
E. C. HEYNE & CO.,
247 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
100 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELKOUKNK
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE LADY OP THE ROSE.
Theatre roy a l, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. c. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
SUPER,IOR PRESENTATION.
Ten Great Acts. Plan at Allan’s.
ING’S THEATRE, M K LBQU It NE.
MURIEL STARR in
EAST OP SUEZ.
KIN CESS’S Til EAT ItE. M ELKO URN E
Proprietors: Fullers’■ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
THE LAST WORD IN MUSICAL COMEDY.
Plans at Glen’s.
PA LA C E TIIEA T K E. M ELKO II RN K
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR lIICKS in
OLD BILL, M.P.
Plans at Glen’s.
Amusements.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
1 * Also SYDNEY.
MATT MOORE and MADGE BELLAMY in
NO MORE WOMEN.
SYLVIA BREAMER in
THE WOMAN ON THE JURY.
Prices as usual.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
BEBE DANIELS in
DARING YOUTH.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
OPEN-AIR THEATRE,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
AUSTRAL GARDENS THEATRE
TO LET
for the Coming Summer Season.
Apply early for particulars and terms—
H. L. MORRIS,
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
SEDGWICK. —-Wanted information of
GEORGE WILLS SEDGWICK.
Wife or Children, by his sister Kate, of
Manchester; last heard of at Phelps Street,
Surry Ilills, Sydney.
By Appointment to
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales
Whyfaktchcuuxs?
THE choice of a dentifrice
is no small matter. It will
make all the difference to the
well-being of your teeth and, con-
sequently, to your general health.
Ask your Dentist what he recom-
mends. He will tell you Kolynos
because he knows its wonderful
efficiency and that—unlike so many
—it is entirely free from all grit.
Grit wears away the enamel and
speedily brings pain and decay.
That’s why you mud be so
careful. Take your Dentist’s
advice and start using Kolynos
now. Pleasant, economical, effi-
cient, it will keep your teeth in
perfed condition.
I lIM f:f*A R
. **ss^
TAL CREAM
DELiaOII!
V*
7/5
'T/\/1..1/»A'''
ujjjM
1! Il <iiii""ii ln iii llmlinn „^


Rexona Soap
for Health
and
Beauty
*
*
a
Mi
A
“I have always user! Rexona Soap, and I
consider it most excellent for the skin and
hair.”
Miss I. VANDO,
523 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
K
D
0
M
“Rexona Soap is absolutely delightful for
the skin and haw, and those desiring to look
,f Rexona’—it ea i« h » Bhoul , d not look further than
Rexona—it 19 a genuine skin beautifier.”
Miss LELLE CARSON,
Castlereagh Street.
Sydney, N.S.W.
X
:m
0
aiMT
Illllllllllllllllliwilllllllllllllllli
rellL* e yB , USe . Rex « na Soap. It is really ex-
ke ®I >ln S the complexion in perfect
fluffy” " a,U makes the hair so soft and
Miss NOl<A CASELLI,
2 Henley Street,
Parnell, Auckland, N.Z.
Are You Satisfied
with Your Looks?
Why Not Be a
Rexona Girl?
REXONA and Rexona Soap are the Rexona Girl's aids to beauty. With
then assistance she rids her skin of blemishes and pimples, keeps
11 l £. , SCa Pln sucll perfect condition that she is the envy of
all her friends. The Rexona Girl is not selfish—she does not keep the secret
to herself, but wishes all the world to rejoice with her. Over 5000 girls
have written to the Company the glad news that they are Rexona Girls, and
hnd the Rexona Products the most wonderful aids to health and beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap keeps their skin and hair healthy arid
beautiful and should be used by every girl who values her good looks. They
say they are ahvays finding new uses for Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and many
of their letters contain a photograph which shows, by its beauty that these
users are getting the best results in health and happiness. Are you satisfied
with your looks? Why not become a Rexona Girl, too?
Rexona
Soap
sS
#:
sa
As
AN
'S*
AN
AN
AN
NN
AN
ffl*
P
■naSNA
v$A
NN
NAA^
A
NA
AAA


"With Due Deference."
“Sir, there are some things which one can
treat, so to speak, with familiarity, and some
which command respect. Anyone can place
the bottle of Bordeaux upon the table, but
the crusted port demands that I, who know
its worth, should bring it. It’s with some-
thing of the same feelings that l present
the Kensitas—t h e
cigarettes which share
the qualities of vintage
. port—luscious and soft
to the palate, sir.”
yr
Kensitas
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
CixfaAe&eJ SVi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturer!:
i. Wix & Sows. Ltd., London.
4>
9
I 1 The SUPER
CIGARETTE
Made from Pure
GOLDEN VIRGINIA
The Coolness and Sweetness
in Smokinq are enhanced
by the OVAL Shape & CORK TIP
20 for 2/-
Shave in Comfort.
g
If you could sha'-’e
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred—you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE. and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Puls* you m touch
with the heart of ,
the WORLD!]
Opt?*
■J'O
JV > 'J''
PPICE
COMPLETE
CAPPIACt EXT C
INCLUDING LOUD
i SPEAK EC? I PQ PHONES
VALVES, BATTERIES
W IRE AND
insulators roc
AE Rial
g
THIS 4-VALVE LONG RANGE
RADIO RECEIVING SET
Puts you in touch with Sydney’s
Broadcasting Stations —no matter
where you live —5 or 500 miles
distant
It brings across the air the finest
entertainment and educational in-
fluences of the world besides
“ picking up ” Sydney, it’s real
fun “tuning in” with other
stations.
Mail your order to-day—demand is
great —stocks are limited.
iTHE GLOBE EADIOCO/
SO PITT ST .S'YDIMEl'r'
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BFJITISH
MADE
Perfection
rush: rubber
i A
When
out of
sorts —
Beriger
Food.
Not ill, but not well.
Food disagreeing-nerves
jangled. This is the time
when a change of d.et,
a rest from the ordinary
food for a few days, will
work wonders.
Benger’s Food gives the
needful digestive rest with
complete nourishment.
You prepare
g
Food
with fresh new milk. It is
dainty, light and satisfying,
being the most highly
nutritious of foods. It
soothes internal distress,
is the food most easy to
assimilate, and the mo=t
interesting to prepare.
THE BOOKLET OF BENGER’S FOOD
contains dainty recipes which
give relief from the aamen ss
of milk and similar diet. The
recipeß are so light as to give
nourishment with digestive rest.
Post free on request from
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd., 117 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bole Proprietors and Manufacturer*:
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd.. MANCHESTER, Eng.
MOON
** < Tjhe Six Supreme ”
MOON supremacy was never more strikingly evi-
denced than in the three-passenger Roadster
illustrated below. Your inspection of this
attractive model is earnestly invited.
The mechanical excellence of MOON Cars has been
still further enhanced by the adoption of the new ROSS
CAM and LEVER STEERING GEAR —the “lightest”
operating and most responsive steering gear ever
embodied in a Motor Vehicle.
Communicate with your Local Agent JVOIF
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth
St.. Adelaide
New South Wales.
Locltett’» Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Motors Pty. Ltd.
Temporary Showrooms
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
Roadster
passenger
Queensland:
Johnston's Motors Ltd.
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
334 Beaufort Street
Perth
g
If you shun the Commonplace —
Buy a Moon
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Aussie Cocky: Nothing of the sort. Ttif.
Bulletin's grievance against its friend the cocky is
that he wants a whole lot of protection for himself
while trying to stop everybody else from having
any; and instead of helping to build up a big
local market he seeks to squeeze what little local
market there is in order to get means to build up
a foreign one. . . .Nelle T.: Not badly done, but it
lacks sincerity... .Florence T. M.: Too much pre-
liminary talk ; the only thing that matters much is
the fight with the fish. .. . P.G.: Artistic; but you
hardly make us believe it’s true... .Tannock: Miles
under the mark. Only extraordinarily good work
could carry such a subject through. .. .W.N.H.:
Remembering your friend “Kelly” we only say “No.”
. ...F.R.K.: You dish-up as modern mental food a
thought as old as Malachi. . . .N.A.E.: Story of
Brown’s sugar and Smith’s dog is vivacious, but you
don’t make it look veracious... .A.V.G.: Keep it for
the smoking-room ; not enough in it for publication.
. ...G.W.M.: The “delicate fair-haired girl” who
“at every word from her angry parent seemed to
grow paler and more delicate,” till “having grown
as pale as it was possible she burst into tears,”
would never stand the rude pressure of these columns.
. ...E.D. (M.L.) ; “A shudder rippled down her olive
shoulder.” She will find lots of sympathy where
she’s gone.... J.E.P.: Your “Ratty Romance” is too
much rat and too little romance... .M.L.S.: Has
merits but not quite enough... .F.T.M.: Well writ-
ten, but more atmosphere than incident. Cannot see a
way to us* it....T.W.: “I wonder why.” So do we.
It is prose, and not too good at that.... Will Reade:
It would eat too much space.... Mimosa Sen: There
is some music in it. But that sort of thing ought
not to be so niggardly with rhymes.... Ripponlea:
That sizzling fizz earns a place here: —
When th’ Moon is as elusive as th’ sounds
Of a distant organ-grinder’s barrel
A* it emits a quavering melan holy , carol,
And th’ sky is crawling with clouds,
’Tis then bucolic gents take pails
And go and gather myriads of snails.
When th’ Moon squints out with an insipid beam
And th’ Rain for a while has stayed where it is,
You can hear a sort of sizzling fizz,
And you think you can hear th’ poor things seream
As portly gents put salt on th' tails
Of hundreds of thousands of innocent snails.
. ...H.C.G.: Not a bad idea, but there are too many
halting lines.... Ngaire; All quite hopeless.... tty Ida
W.: We can't find a good word to say of either! of
them. .. .Nellie G.; None get through, but there is
sincerity in some of them, and “A Legend” is tune-
ful enough to make us look at it twice. You’ll
probably do something yet. . . .T.A.M.: Poor common-
places. .. .C.L.R.: Afraid it isn’t. .. .McPhat: Starts
well, and goes to pieces. Get to work on it....
Eric H. F.; You’ve made poor use of rather good
material... .The Coot; Just so-so. .. . A.8.C.: Too
many lines call for plane and sandpaper. .. .Over-
lander; No, it won't do. ...P.G.; That “withered”
is one of the things that spoil it... . Arundel D.;
If she’s a girl like that she deserves something better.
, ...T.T.T.; Sorry, but we can’t do it.. . . E.M.H.;
Too many good ploughmen have turned that furrow.
....Charles C.; Your ear wants sharpening; some
of your rhymes are desperate.... Burrum: Foin 1 this
the most thrilling part of the epic:—
Drinks they came freely, till a hum among them
lobbed,
And si < mg Swaggy up to cash, he nipped him for
a bob.
Swaggy didn't believe in nips, and his anger rose ;
He swung a deadly left, and punched him on the
nose.
This was the beginning, that started the brawl
He swung in right and lefts, banging one and all.
Every punch found its mark upon a Boozer Jaw,
And it wasn't many minutes they were lying on the
floor.
Bung rushed from behind Bar, “Here, you clear
out.”
Swaggy let go a deadly right and bashed on the
snout.
Bung now was smeared with gore, cried out for cops,
And wasn’t many seconds there arrived three John
hops.
This is the tale of swaggr, so ends mv tale—
If it hadn’t been his Birthday he wouldn’t be in gaol.
.... Bamps: Thank you for the marmalade. But you
don’t want us to spread it in public, do y0u?....
E.M.E.: A dull draught... .A.Y.H.: Shows a gleam.
But you really mustn’t jump about from the second
person to the third so casually. . . .Admirer: Memorial
poem interred with due solemnity.... M.W.: Try
again. But first get your thought. . . .G. B. Man-
darnah: Try again, and stick to the little things you
know about.... W.L.: You have nothing to say and
shape badly in trying to say it. ... F. J.S.: The most
touching instalment of your ode: —
The blowflies seem to say,
“Look, Spring has come this way!”
And every girl mosquito
Will do her best to eat you.
It’s just as I suppose,
The moths have ate my clothes.
... .W.J.D. (N.S.W.); “Rippling Waters” damned.
... .R.M.: Your horse is a non-starter in the Publicity
Stakes....T.S.: Now and again it falls with a bump
into prose... .J.E.P.: It doesn’t run smoothly enough.
....Sector; Couldn’t possibly do it. If we said what
was wrong with every par we didn’t print, the whole
paper would consist of reasons why we didn’t print
anything. Approximately one contribution in 10 is
printed—of verse one in from 20 to 25.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.C.: You say you gave up house-painting to take
up art. But it’s never too late to repent. As
Milton might have said: —
He clutched his brushes as they fell
And saved his soul’s descent to Hell.
. ...L.P.N.; Your undertaking not to offend
again for six months cheers U5....C. Mac.:
Drawing has promise, but joke pointless. .. .9.9.:
You are the Bcllerive of Art; we wish we had space
to star you... .0.W.T.: Faint pencil useless... .8.L.:
The second jigsaw puzzle is more difficult than the
last one... .E.J.0.: A heavy atmosphere of decay
hangs about that horseflesh joke... .C.M.: Feeble
to the nth degree... .M.M.; Your drunk lady can
almost be heard to hiccough.... G. de G.: You are
on the way L.E.C. and S.P.: Not up.... Whisk:
No need to send rough sketches with your suggestions.
There is always a market here for them in their
raw state, so to speak.
“P.M.”; The “Chinese Corps” helped to
lighten the monotony behind the lines in
France. One night a bomb raid badly
damaged the fences of a Pagan compound,
and sent a mob of screaming Confucians
tearing across the countryside. Two days
later I re-encountered the fugitives. Behind
them was a Light Horseman, stockwhip in
hand. “Yairs,” he drawled sententiously,
“I’ve rounded up wild bullocks in Queens-
land, and they weren't half as much trouble
as these chaps.”


osts less
'/m
tm
more
1 ccording to experienced Farmers, a team of 12 Horses will
| cost in Feed alone for 12 months •
To maintain ONE CASE Tractor in Fuel and Oil during the
same period, and give results such as appear in the following
table, cost a South Australian Farmer in 1923 • • •
A saving by comparison of • . . . » •
g
The figures shown in the above table convey their own significance to any experi-
enced farmer* Yet this is not all* Look at the economy in labour costs, A
CASE 15/27 Tractor will do the work of two 8-horse teams, yet it can be
operated by ONE man, and all the work associated with horse teams eliminated.
Moreover, horses must be fed whether they work or not. With the CASE
Tractor —no work, no fuel.
Then, again, see the reserve of power you have always at command, and the
advantage of being able to use that power just when, how, and where it is needed.
Not so with horse teams —they must be rested after heavy work, perhaps when
conditions make it almost imperative to follow on with the job.
The CASE can be worked day or night—in hot
or cold weather, in very heavy soil, wet or dry,
on heavy grades and stiff rises. It offers numer-
ous advantages over other tractors of similar
power—it is specially adaptable for ploughing,
discing, harrowing, seeding, etc.; it delivers
maximum pull at the drawbar, and, as shown
above, is very light on oil and fuel.
For easy manipulation and general usefulness on
the farm, it excels in all classes of work.
Investigate the CASE Tractor proposition. It
is power you need to ensure better results,
bigger crops, and larger profits.
Write for Catalogue,
£240 0 0
£137 10 0
£lO2 10 0
Kerosene Farm & General Purjiuselraclur
?m&a
rr-i
? JE
f £§
r .<£*=--
rs*
s*»
Nj:
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
Branches t
4
QUEENSLAND : Bowen Street (off Ann St.), BRISBANE.
Box 1036, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 7591.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Ix 4 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Box 2664, G.P.0., Phone, M 3764.
VICTORIA: Corner King & Flinders Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 3049, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 3x24.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street, ADELAIDE)
also Graves Street, KADINA.
Sole Agen.j in West Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS LTD., 569 Wellington Street, PERTH.
Box 674, G.P.O.
Head Office: Richards Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Phone, Cent, 6870


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
bi'oiir^
DTM,
By building; your new home with
Exterior nnd Interior AValls and Ceilings
of “FIBROEITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Koof of “FIBROEITE”
Slates, you can reduce your costs and
secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs no more than weather-
boards and lining boards and is superior to
either in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is
fire retardant, white-ant proof and improves
with age. Not only are “upkeep” costs elimi-
nated but big concessions are secured in in-
surance rates. Before building, send for full
information.
Write for Free Catalogue “10."
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York &. WynyarrJ Sts., SYDNEY.
A.IVt.P. B'd’grs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins Bt., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
V.C 5, X
A
LIFT YOUR
RETURNS FOR
FOX AMD ALL
OTHER SKINS
by the surest possible means to the highest possible
levels.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
RABBIT
ĝ
Nulite Double Mantle Table
Lamp Matchlighter, 400 C.P.
110 M. Price, 59/6.
Same, with Smaller Font, 55/-
Lanterns, 58/- and 55/-
Comfort Irons, 37/6.
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MAN NEWS
Hi
iAi>
V'
n
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt ;
leaf 3in. wide —
will not sag; High
Crown, will stand all
weathers.
p ost p re3
30/-
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
RUPTUREI
A FREE TRIAL.
If Jreu are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will tend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
c x
e
,
e
tu
o
W
Nothing is Richer in Vitamins than Cod Liver OIL
IS COD LIVER OIL—MADE PALATABLE.
This Rich, Creamy Emulsion Banishes
Chest Ailments, Strengthens the System,
Increases Weight.
is a Genuine Restorative for
Building Up Sick People —a
Food, Tonic and Healer in one.
Hypol
To Feel Better, Look Better, Work Better-
Take HYPOL
SOLD EVE RIY WHERE
Made by FELTON, CRIMWADE A CO. PROP. LTD., Mel*rt»rn»
lESISTERR*
TRAD* MAR*
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
ğ
ġ
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
SKANDIA
Constructed especially for Pump-
ing Plants, Sawmills, Electric
Lighting Outfits, Chaffcutters,
Shearing Machines and all Farm
Work.
£B5
Complete as illustrated,
with Accessories and
Spare Parts.
STARTS IN Yt MINUTE.
RUNS FOR 2d. PER HOUR
Larger Powers in
Stock.
Also
MARINE
ENGINES
from £95.
Further Particulars
obtainable from
the Australasian Agents,
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Kerosene and Crude Oil. Stationary.
4-5 HORSE-POWER.
ģ
Alfred Baldey, who has died in Maoriland,
aged 89, was another of the million who were
at the Eureka Stockade. He crossed to M.L.
in 1856, took up farming, prospered, and
was made an M.L.C. in 1903.
Mrs. Alfred Swaine, a sister of Captain
W. R. Randell, a pioneer of the River Mur-
ray trade, is still living in S. Aus., aged 97.
Iler brother's memory is being perpetuated
in the Blanchetown (River Murray) lock.
The old lady’s faculties are splendidly pre-
served.
Australia has acquired a wealthy immi-
grant in A. C. Anderson, who intends to be-
come a squatter in Queensland and visit
Britain once a year or so. He is a director
of the Caledon Shipbuilding Co., and of the
Caird JuL Mills. His controlling interest in
the latter cost him, it is said, three-quarters
of a million.
Dr. Cockburn, ex-S. Aus. Agent-General,
has outlived all his Ministerial colleagues
who were the political giants of his time. He
celebrated his 74th birthday recently in Eng-
land, where he has resided for more than a
quarter of a century. He was Premier of S.
Aus. in 1889-90, and for nearly live years
held office in the Kingston Government.
“Alwyn” : Gcorge-street North, in Sydney,
has a number of records to its credit. Not
the least startling was chronicled by the S. M.
Herald on February 12, 1858: “The wife of
a publican in George-strcet North gave
birth a few days ago to her fourth child
within IS months. The little family is
healthy and strong, and consists of three girls
and a boy.”
“Cartot”: The familiarity of infants with
the “pictures” has produced a new terror for
teachers. Many youngsters have become so
expert at reading the movements of the lips
of characters on the screen that they can
communicate easily with each other during
school hours, which makes it much harder for
those in charge to maintain discipline. One
teacher tells me that most of his class can
lip-read more or less.
“T. 0.1.”: Ormond House, Paddington,
Sydney, has been up for sale. The old build-
ing on Oxford-street was erected a century
ago by Robert Cooper, of the gin and whisky
distillery in Parramatta-street (now George-
strect West), where the Blackfriars Schools
stand to-day. The tenement was appropri-
ately named Juniper Hall. It has had a
variety of tenants since Bob Cooper’s time;
until recently it was the Metropolitan Shelter
for Girls and Central Depot for State
Children.
The Rev. D. Hirscli is the new shepherd
of the Adelaide Hebrew flock. During the
war lie was chaplain to the 8.E.F., and later
went through Germany with the Army of
Occupation. . A great worker amongst the
Jewish lads in London, he was tutor at the
Harrow and Chean Colleges, and was exam-
iner for the London College of Preceptors in
Hebrew. Theology runs in the family—his
father was the late Dr. S. A. Hirsch, Emeri-
tus Professor and senior theological tutor
of the Jews’ College, London.
Bailey, who is shaping well as Vic. Min-
ister for Lands and Water Supply, beat
Webber in the Labor Caucus ballot for the
sixth salaried position in the Cabinet by only
two votes. When it came to choosing two
honorary Ministers from the Assembly,
Webber topped the poll and was made sec.
to the Cabinet, Beckett, the magnificent
M.L.C. whose car is the envy of members
of both Houses, was for a moment nettled
because McNamara beat him for the second
salaried job in the Uppali Chambah, but
cooled down, and has now sought consolation
in the Fitzroy mayoralty.
“Cartot”: In a Sydney bookshop a few
days ago I came across a cheerful little
periodical published in America in the in-
terests of the Revolution. Wedged in amongst
the customary articles on “working-class
economics” and similar subjects was one
which mentioned how the wagepayer might
be harassed by a kind of guerilla warfare
the principal features of which were the
disabling of machinery by tools dropped
“accidentally” into delicate mechanism,
waste of power and light by means of
switches left on, and other varieties of sabot-
age. Evidently the inane Customs Depart-
ment doesn’t object to the circulation of
this delightful literature. But it proudly
announced the other day that it had seized
copies of publications whose revolutionary
tendencies arc of a purely academic nature
and arc given to the world in German.
A note from Newcastle:—
If the N.S.W. Government dockyard at Walsh
Island lias slipped a bit from its shipbuilding status,
a lot of work is still on hand and in sight. The
engines for the three steamers ordered by Dorman,
Long and Co., contractors for the Sydney Harbor
bridge, are getting ready for the hulls, which will
be started as soon as the material arrives. Other
jotis include cylinders for the Katherine Creek
(N.T.) bridge, steelwork for the new open-hearth
furnaces at the B. H. P. Steelworks, bogies for Bris-
bane tramways, gas condensers for Maitland, and
minor shipping repairs and overhauls. The pipe out-
put includes the 6-feet mains for Sydney Water Board
(100 per week), 12in. steel pipes for Melbourne Board
of Works (100 per week), 15in. pipes for a Vic-
torian company and others for the Rockhampton
(Q.) Water Board. Altogether, Walsh Island is by
no means in so distressful a condition as the Foreign-
trade push would like to see it, albeit that myopic
mob, by sending orders abroad and girding at the
national fiscal policy, are doing it all the harm they
can.
Both Melbourne and Adelaide are thank-
ing their lucky stars their position with re-
gard to city street traffic isn’t so bad as
Sydney’s. In Sydney the trams are State-
owned, and the trail of the vote-hungry poli-
tician is over them all. In the other two
cities the governing body is a Board or
Trust independent of the Government. Syd-
ney is on the horns of a dilemma. If it
encourages motor-’buses, it knocks dowm one
of its own businesses. If it insists on a
State monopoly of ’buses the same as of
trams, then it lets in the politician and
the over-manning and the go-slowing and
a dozen other features of State ownership
and control. To save the capital sunk in
the N. S. Wales trams it looks as though
the system will have to be handed over to
trustee-Commissioners a hundred times
farther removed from political influences
than the present Commissioners are. Then
there wouldn’t be so much peril in giving the
Commissioners a monopoly of street traffic
—’bus as well as tram.


B
Australian.made Weighers.
imTE
oS
\CX
SESBSSTi
L
i.
L_
3:>
y
Pleas* communicate with our
nearest branch Showroom.
'J'HIS "Asco” Portable Platform Weigher is
as familiar a friend in Australian City Ware-
houses and Stores as it is outback on the Wheat-
farms and Stations. Its rugged build gives it
a constitution that stands up to heavy work
under severest conditions ; while its consistent
and minute accuracy make it the most satisfactory
and safe Platform weigher for the City Store.
Capacity II cwt. by lb. and 4-oz. divisions.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
217-219 THOMAS STREET. HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
BJUUtaiiES
a K JJ£JT ER STREET 255-7 WILLIAM STREET
NEWCASTLE MELBOURNE
133-4 CURRIE STREET 389 CEOROE STREET
ADELAIDE BRISBANE
S ® ®TR E E T SB-61 CUSTOMS ST. EAST
VELLINOTON NZ AUCKLAND. N 2.
Ad. 133.
i
o.et
|. 120
o| tk»*« coupon* *»•
wttt • ■>*•' >•“'
, ü b«rlplio. «»» A*
wtlUuMwn bumorou*
, Journal* tko ** P***'oB
Sko*" (pobUokw •"
■ (at 13 week*;.
'UcnM 4mCh
sr& -■ —*
PASSING
SHOW
VIFLOINIA
CIGARETTES’
20 A l'6
MADE IN LONDON
by
CARRERAS, LTD. (Est. 1788),
55, Piccadilly, LONDON, W.
LONDON’S BEST HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY-' 1 PASSING SHOW’’-WILL BE SENT
YOU POST FREE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE COUPONS ENCLOSED IN EVERY PACKET.
Hydro Extractors and Improved
Drying Apparatus for Every Industry
m.
THE need for thoroughly up-to-date
machines in Laundries, Dry-cleaning
Works, Manufacturing Chemical
Works, Sugar Mills, Textile Mills, Meat-
preserving Works, Wool-scouring Works,
and many other industries is felt more and
more as competition demands lower pro-
duction costs and more careful and
efficient handling of material.
To meet this demand we can supply
Improved Drying Apparatus embodying
the latest and most efficient designs.
HYDRO EXTRACTORS,
DRYING TUMBLERS,
CABINET DRY ROOMS
AND DRYING APPARATUS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Let us quote for your requirements.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And ac Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Newcomen Street, Newcastle.
Victorian Agents: ROBERT BRYCE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents: THE QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO., Albert Street, Brisbane.


g
Merit tells. The
sales of no other
laxative medicine
sold in Australasia
have increased so
rapidly the last
few years as those
of Chamberlain’s
Tablets.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
&
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health and strenfth nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUCH. BUCKS, ENG.
INV*O»*
-
In 4 sizes ; of all\
Chemists and
Stores.
g
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
64,
ĝ
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 25/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Beil Cigar Factory.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872. _
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, tsq.,
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE _••••; BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
In the Esteem of Overseas Motorists
the 20/60-h.p. six-cylinder Sunbeam holds a
very high place. Recognised as a superb pro-
duction of British engineering, it has proved
itself a car of outstanding value by its con-
sistently high performance and economical
running costs.
The 20/60-h.p. and the 14/40-h.p. models incorporate
the most advanced chassis design, including the four-
wheel braking system. Its coachwork provides luxurious
comfort. Its durability is that of supreme quality.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
Export Dept.: 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
Cable Address: “ Sunbeamoco, London.” England.
Authorised Dealers:—■
WILLIAMS BROS., 255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne.... Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide ... Arthur Glover.
Brisbane ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
fi
M
'jj
\=
ft
/.*k\
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
HEAD OFFICE —278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund Account • •
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
. .£10,000,000
£3,690,880
2,133,176
1,419,567
Total
Total Assets, 31st March, 1924, £38,209,226.
£7,243,623
Directors :
SIR JOHN GRICE. Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, 11.L.C.
BOWES KELLY.
H. M. STRACHAN.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector : J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept. : E. J. OSBORNE.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 27 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S Cowley Kt Chairman; William Dav.es;
E. H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Ihynne, jvl.lj.c..
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Principal Office, King William Street,^g^anches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— Principal Office, St. George’s terrace,branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporal)
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand. , Jt ..
Agents throughout the World.
Ben Watkins, who was for a dozen years
a Labor M.L.A. in the Speck and has been
a close-up candidate for several Federal
seats, recently hoisted his name as the
licensee of the caravanserai at the Fern
Tree, one of the Speck’s most attractive
tourist resorts.
Frank Brennan, Bananaland’s pacifist
Minister for Education, believes in Young
Australia singing its way to nationality. He
visited nine schools recently, and in only
two were the children able to sing an in-
digenous ditty. Whatever he teaches them
to sing, however, it won’t be martial ballads.
“H.”: Amongst curious pub-names include
the Commotion Hotel in Fitzroy (Melb.).
One might assume in haste that the proprietor
had sought to give his tavern a special adver-
tisement for liveliness in a none too placid
neighborhood; but really the Commotion is
named after a racehorse which made some
in his day.
The portion of Geelong that counts came
up to Melbourne the other day to shake
hands with one of its boys, A. V. Galbraith,
on his appointment as Forestry Commis-
sioner. When Galbraith first spread liis
wings and flew from the Pivot to the city
he became sec. to the Country Roads Board,
and went afterwards to the same job on the
Forestry Commission.
“Phoney”: The Ancient Mariner rarely
forgets an old friend. The steamers in- charge
of old sea-captains which pass Somerset,
Cape York Peninsula, signal by whistle blast
in Morse code the initials of the skipper and
greetings to the old Jardine homestead on
the mainland. In days gone by it was no
uncommon thing for steamers to call in for
fresh meat, vegetables, etc., and the old salts
have not forgotten the hearty welcome that
was always theirs.
“Septimus”: Re mariners snatched by the
sea one moment to be restored the next (B.
4/9/’24). Canon Dawson, in his “Bishop
Hannington’s Life,” tells of a similar inci-
dent. When Hannington’s yacht Zelia, cruis-
ing in the Baltic, was pitching in the trough
of a heavy sea, three men who went forward
to clear up some damage were washed over-
board. Hardly had they disappeared when
the whole three were caught on the crest of
another wave and re-delivered on the yacht's
deck.
Latham, K.C., looked very pale and thin
when he defended the Government in the
Reps, against Hughes’s disingenuous attack
relative to ex-enemy ships, for which pay-
ment has had to be made in accordance with
a Privy Council judgment. The member
for Kooyong has had a severe illness. Max-
well, another lawyer member, has also crept
in muffled up to the ears during the last
couple of weeks. Their poor attendance
records are excusable; not so those of Bill
Lambert, the Sydney alderman. Occasion-
ally Lambert remembers that he is member
for West Sydney, but the pressmen look at
each other in surprise when he strolls in.
Following up a proposal put forward by
Argyle when Vie. Chief Sec., Tunnecliffe, his
Labor successor, has arranged for 10,000
acres to be added to the French Island penal
settlement. Instead of merely nibbling at
afforestation, the penal branch will go in for
it on a fairly extensive scale, getting all the
guidance it can from the Forestry Depart-
ment. Prisoners will, of course, continue to
escape occasionally, but they will be caught
again ; and, anyhow, it is worth risking in
order to establish forestry and similar
healthy and useful jobs in place of put-in-
time-anyhow and strike when you like.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
Apropos George Black and Dan O’Connor (B.
11/9/’24). George, in making his canvass for Dan,
explained that he did it because the old Hibernian
Demosthenes had fathered Payment of Members.
Henry Parkes was Premier ; he was opposed to pay-
ment, but gave permission to his Postmaster-General,
who was Daniel, to bring in the bill. Incidentally,
the first time I saw George was on the hustings out-
side Sydney Town Hall, in 1891, when he, J. D.
Fitzgerald, Andy Kelly and T. M. Davis were elected
for West Sydney on the Labor ticket. The scaffold
broke down, precipitating the occupants, including
Tom Playfair, Dan O’Connor, Francis Abigail and
others, in a heap to the ground.
The widow of Charley Rasp, the dis-
coverer of Broken Hill, lives at Medindie,
S. Aus. She arrived with her father in
South Aus. from Germany in 1882. A few
years later she married the Silver King,
and they honeymooned at Broken Hill. Those
days most of the journey was made by coach
through desert country, and “the dust was
awful.” Some years after her husband's
death Mrs. Rasp went to Europe, where she
married Count Yon Zedtwitz, a Bavarian
junker. The Great War caught her at Carls-
bad, and at one time she was on the verge of
starvation in her native land. Her second
husband died in Germany, and she returned
to Adelaide.
Australian musicians are complaining bit-
terly about the competition of American
bands. Four Yankee jazz bands, drawing
between them about £lOOO a week in salaries,
are now playing in Melbourne and Sydney
(two in each city), while Australian pro-
ducers of melodious noises are looking for
work or taking odd jobs at picture-shows. A
deputation from the Musicians’ Union asked
Pearce to use the Immigration Act to block
the invaders. The only satisfaction they got
was that the Minister promised to block
negro jazz bands; he had refused two appli-
cations already, he said. The next move will
be to have the whole tribe declared a thistle
under the Noxious Weeds Act.
“Galleryite’s” comparisons:
Whatever may be the shortcomings of the Vic.
Leg. Assembly, it compares more than favorably
with the Ma State’s Lower House, if I may judge
by a few weeks’ contemplation of the latter. The Sydney
Chamber has 25 more members than the Melbourne
House, but the average attendance in Macquarie-
street is no better than that in Rathdown-street.
The calibre of the Sydney members is certainly not
superior, although it may be conceded that they
are far more garrulous and ask at least three times
as many questions. In the matter of housing, neither
crowd has anything to crow about. The Victorians
hold forth in an old annexe of the Exhibition where
the annual dog-show used to be held; the N. S.
Welshmen in a barn of old-fashioned design mas-
querading as a modern law-making factory. Per-
haps I expected too much, but I looked for some-
thing markedly better than I got from the popular
chamber of a Parliament which is this week cele-
brating the centenary of its establishment.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•ORAMA 20,500
•O RONS AY .. 20.500
♦OTRANTO .. 20,500
•ORMONDE .. 14,853
Tons.
♦ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12,133
OSTEREEY . . 12,129
ORSOVA 12,036
♦ORCADES 10,000 tons.
♦First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY. 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OUARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH. 624-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499)435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.IV.: \V. G. IIULL,
HEAD Oi i ICE, SYDNEY George and King
Streets').
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rnndle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS f" A " s,ralia ’ New Zea
Britain and Ireland,
and, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
•*ansacts all other usual Banking business.
Regular Tourist
Excursions.
Bulli Pass, by Motor, Daily.
Fare, 22/6.
Jenolan Caves, by Rail and Motor,
Daily. Three days, £4/7/-
Extra days, 18/-
Jenolan Caves, by Motor, all the
way, Daily. Three days, £5/12/-
Hawkesbury River, Windsor,
Wiseman’s Ferry, Daily (exe.
Sun.). Fare, 17/6.
Hawkesbury River-Newport-Manly,
Daily. Fare, 8/4.
Mount Kosciusko, Daily (exc.
Sat.). Seven days, £lO/18/-
For
Full Information and Literature
apply at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:. Sc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU TILL 18th DECEMBER.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) SEPT. 25
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) OCT. 23
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Hie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.)
MAUNGANTJI. . . .(11,350 tons disp.)
QCT. 9
NOV. 6
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M ( WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
I S LAN D TOU RS
V
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of ii to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS. PHITiP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
°, Ul ' T°F K , IST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
ot the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES)
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE,
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.”
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
by the
Sailing
£9O,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
■
m*
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
ğ
ġ
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD
BARRABOOL
BALLARAT .
BARADINE .
BENDIGO .
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. . 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3: 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White. Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUE\ IC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
"DIOGENES 12,500 tons
"New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
ģ
g
ĝ
- - - - - £6,000.000
- 4,050,000
- - - - - 6,000,000
£16,050,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Ihe Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
M.L.C
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
■r , General Manager: OSCAR LINKS
London Office—29 Tlireauneedle Street EC
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London!
Cable
nesotiated
remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DTRFCT
and collected, betters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout' the World.'
Foreign Rills
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
ZEALANDIA7
(All Ports)
WYREEMA. .
(Melb. only)
ROMBALA. . .
(Melb. only)
KANOVVNA. .
(Melb. only)
KATOOMBA. .
(All Ports,
ine. Albany)
Sails from j Sails from I
Sydney, j Melbourne
Sydney Agents.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Marvborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker Lisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA.
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOIS
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., !Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Hlackheath Collieries, L.td., and Caledonian
Collieries, L<td.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Mavitimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income £7.865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H, W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on aii classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furm-
Marine Risks
Accident and
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels. Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Other Insurances
of various classes,
‘United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.


im,
St
■w*
ssoiae
o step oiSeWI
Let Your Dreams
Come True!
All your dreams of far-off lands, of snow-capped
peaks and shining lakes, of golden prairies and
blossoming orchards, and of quaint old towns nest-
ling along the banks of a rippling river.
Let all these dreams come true as you travel across Canada,
Via the Canadian Pacific Railway.
Through tickets can be procured in conjunction with the
Canadian-Austrnlasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver, 8.C.,
and the Union-San Francisco Line.
Full information and descriptive literature can be obtained
from any office of the Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand, any
Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Representative, Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney.
g
R
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH'
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE i
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph \
Dealers or from \
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane X
Nicholson & Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
ğ
*S/v2 s&jqM AadeTHu&ie
wfafeoe*sAa
ġ
Self-Filling Type !
From 17/6
Standard Type
From 12/6
Sumi'tfie {ifittomc pen.
,c Swan ” Pens are famous
throughout the world for their
reliability and lasting wear and
the 14 ct. gold nibs are the
finest it is possible to produce.
The fact that “ Swan ” Pens
have held undisputed sway
over other makes for more
than thirty years is solely due
to the excellence of the pens
themselves.
"SWAN’
FOUNTPENS
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS AND IMPORTERS.
Cata’ogue post free.
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133 & 135, Oxford Street, London, W.l ;
and at Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich,
Johannesburg, Barcelona, Sydney, Well-
ington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative:
J. A. Burke, 5, Primrose Buildings,
255 a, George Street, Sydney.
1
r
Mick Simmons’
Men’s Wear.
Shirts.
SMART Fancy-stripe Zephyr Shirts,
with collars to match,
fast colors
811
Plain White Mercerised Golf
Shirts, with collars 0/1 1
to match O' 1 1
Black and White Stripe
Cambric Shirts, with col-
lars to match; fast e/i 1
colors O/ 1 1
White Mercerised
Shirt, with latest sports
collar
Sports
7/6
White Rep
with latest
collar
Sports Shirt,
sports 8/6
Oream Wyncette
Shirt, with collar and
pocket
Tennis
7/6
Khaki Working Shirt, with
collar and pocket, 12/6 8/11
Men’s Hats
Australian Fur Felt
Hats, with bound edge,
in light grey and dark 15/6
Australian Fur Felt Hats,
latest nail curl, with bound
edge, in light grey, mid -t O/f*
grey, dark grey & myrtle 10/ O
Australian Fur Felt Hats,
with bound edge, in latest
shapes, light grey and ni /
dark grey £t\./ m
Woodrow’s and Borsalino
Hats, in latest shapes /C
and colors O
Stetson Hats, in all the
latest shapes and colors
52/6
Caps.
Navy Flannel Cricket A h
Caps
Men’s Pyjamas.
MEN’S Pyjamas,
cotton Taffeta,
in fancy stripes
cream
10/6
Men’s Flannelette Pyjamas,
fancy stripes, good wearing
qualities, Q/1 1
12/11 and
Collars.
Arrow semi-soft
lars, in the latest
shapes, 2/6 and
Col-
l/9
Arrow Satin-stripe
Collars, in latest
shapes
Stiff
1/9
Braces.
ALIi-RUBBER Braces,
Washable and A! CL
hygienic \j
0.8. French Braces, 4/0
French Braces, 0/11
4/6 and *
Leather-end Braces, o in
4/6, 3/9 and
President Cord Q/11
Braces, 3/11 and *
Belts.
Suede Tennis Belts, in
brown and nigger; also
ber Belts, in Black and
grey
grey,
Rub-
-1/6
Men’s Half-Hose.
BOND’S Silk-Arto
Hose, in blues,
greys, brown
Half-
-5/6
Bond’s Triple-wear Artificial
Silk Half-Hose, in A/C
black, grey and nigger.. ”
All-Wool Cashmere
Hose, 6/6, 5/6,
4/6
Half-
-3/6
Plain Black All-Wool Cash-
mere Half-Hose, English
make, O /(*
3/6, 2/11 and ”
Dream All-Wool Ribbed Half-
Hose, 9/11
3/11 and 1 1
Plain Cream All-Wool Cash-
mere Half-Hose. .. . 3/9
AERTEX Cellular Under-
vests, and Knee >7 //»
Pants to match • / O
The Beaucell Cellular Under-
vests, and Knee Pants c/C
to match O' O
CREAM Serge Tennis
Trouse rs, with belt
loops, side straps, hip pocket,
permanent turn-up.... 27/0
A ertex Cellular Athletic
Singlets ... 6/9
White Gauze Athletic
Singlets, 34 to 40 0/1 1
inches ** r
Cream Cotton Gabardine
Trousers, with belt loops, side
straps, hip pocket, per- 1C /
manent turn-up A O' m
id
ICi
» •
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: CITY, SUBURBS, NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers.
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Backache
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will
refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly wliat
they say.
, T>r. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if you suffer from Back-
ache. Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
e do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles would deny the
benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
\\ e are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of alcohol,
of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a
remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles,
hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that
if they do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles —at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding more
than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thirds of the
bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle to the
chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will refund the
money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Go., Limited, 131-35
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles.
Unequalled fcr School Outfits
Soon the children will be off to school
again. This time give them clothes they
will like for their smart appearance, and
you will like because they wear so well.
Ask for Fox’s All-Wool Cheviots, and
look for the Fox Mark.
There is a wide range of delightful
patterns from which to select, and—the
Fox Cloth costs no more than all the un-
known and unreliable cloths.
FOX’S IS THE BEST
ALL Fox’s Cloths are guaranteed to
be all pure wool, and will not shrink or
fade by land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. LTD.
WELLINGTON, SOMERSET
ENGLAND
You can recognise the good
FOX BLISS Cloths by the Trade Mark,
stamped in gold every 84 in. on the
reverse of the cloth.
ajest of England 7/iglest Quality
ALL WOOL CHEVIOTS
fANCV WORSTEDS • FUNNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • TWEEDS AND
FOX'S IMPROVED PUTTEES
TQADE MAfiK
FOX
The Southern Ocean.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FREE and exultant in the liusli of noon
The wide blue plains of radiant
waters glow,
Where rollers rise and arch and, breaking,
swoon
In swirl of vibrant spray, like flowers of
snow.
A gay wind rises and in sport dishevels
The white-capped waves amid their dancing
revels.
From Polar regions, charged with wild white
fire,
The Southern Ocean thrills with memories
Of isolated visionary seas
And age-long peace that is her heart’s desire.
Long heavy rollers sweep and fall and break
With sound of thunder, an unending host
Of rushing, living waves that, clamoring,
make
A glittering sea-road to this guarded coast.
Unstained by smoky traffic, sunshine-
brightened,
With flying spindrift all the way is whitened.
Remote and splendid, from the world apart,
Among her glistening waves, where no port
hums
With busy clanging quays and no ship comes,
The Southern Ocean keeps her virgin heart.
No Jason sailing for the Golden Fleece
Nor bold Odysseus returns again.
Her seas preserve inviolable peace,
And voyagers adventure there in vain.
Round her lie wrecks of desperate sea-rovers;
The Southern Ocean wants no human lovers.
Old ships/ old captains, Spanish, Portuguese,
Or Dutch or English, long-forgotten lie ;
And still her guardian rollers thunder by
To keep intruders from her jealous seas.
And this great Southern Land, that fronts
the sea
With amber beaches, rock-pools, fragile shells,
Enrapt with beauty, dim with mystery,
In silence and seclusion ever dwells.
Eternally the ocean tides are keeping
Watch on the land in strange enchantment
sleeping.
Rock rampart, granite cliff, untrodden sand,
The waves’ immutable monotony.
Such is the tale of their long history—
A virgin ocean, and a virgin land.
Where the Pacific in a jewelled blaze
Of beauty rolls to meet the rising sun
Sydney and San Francisco hymn her praise,
And every coast round which her bright
waves run.
Yet from the Spanish Main the wind breathes
stories
Of treasure-hunts, blood, gold, Conquista-
dores.
And though her azure sea by coral isle
And reef and golden atoll gently glides,
Men are afraid the calm Pacific hides
Some threatening storm behind her treacher-
ous smile.
Slumbrous with hazy heat and poppied spells
In tropic trance beneath old Asian skies,
Lulled by the drone of Shiva’s temple bells,
A lotus-flower, the Indian Ocean lies.
In search of holy shrines, with Brahmins
praying,
She sees long lines of faithful pilgrims stray-
ing
Over her unchanged, changeless, occult seas
Of palms and pearls and perfumes, lit with
gleams
Of Vedic sun and moon, and drugged with
dreams
Unconscious of the passing centuries.
Strident and hoarse the grey Atlantic roars,
Thick-strewn with sea-beasts, ships that
dominate
A sullen waste between man’s conquering
shores,
Hostile, but made to serve his will or fate.
A strong young god, man chains Poseidon’s
forces,
And tames and harnesses the wild sea-horses.
His potent engines throb through day and
night
Across the Northern Ocean that repeats
With billows thundering in rhythmic beats
His chant of progress, steel and speed and
might.
The South is free. No power of steel or
steam
Subdues her elements to human will,
Captures her Siren smile or Brahmin dream;
The Southern Ocean keeps her secret still.
Only the great sperm-whales and sea-birds
calling,
Only the tides, forever rising, falling,
May know the magic of her wild heart’s
home.
But pure as ether, sparkling from the Pole,
Magnetic waves in exultation roll
To strew the land with flowers of snowy
foam.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.
Justice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH his back to a shut door in the
dark room behind Nah Ping's
chandoo-shop, a boy crouched, fac-
ing three men, who looked in the smoky
heat like three djinns out of a bottle. One
was lithe and half-Indian like the boy;
one was the putty-colored mongrel type fami-
liar to the South Seas. The sleek, yellow one
with distress in his slant eyes was Nah Ping
himself, plaintively desirous of averting
trouble.
As he had already found to his concern,
even in the remotest part of the Fijis the
most inconspicuous chandoo-shop is liable to
such dangers as inspections and licenses and
laws. At any time a sahib, finding all his
coolies suddenly incapable and the cane un-
harvested at the beginning of the rainy
season, was apt to rouse himself and talk
cleaning up the town. And Nah Ping
had been cleaned up out of so many towns
now.
“You go outside, Peto,” he commanded tlm
putty-colored man. “I not ’low flightee in
here. Paul, come ’way flom dat door. Git
hack to skittle-alley now. See? No flightee
in here.”
The boy felt over the greasy door with
S hnnds behmd him. Nah Ping knew
that presently ho would wrench it open and
flash out into the dusk. And then these
two who had promised to smash him in re-
turn for his assertion that they had stolen
his money would have a stern chase and a
long one in and out and round about the
tar-paper and frame and grass hovels of the
native quarter of Pa.
“I goin’ up to Longleet,” cried Paul in his
sweet, throaty voice. “Goin’ see my father,
Mr. Holt, the magistrate, what’ll put you
in gaol.”
The men laughed. Even Nah Ping cackled
like a hen until his loose body shook. He
lit a taper, and a red streak lay like a scar
across the boy’s thin, dark face and grey
eyes. Except for those grey eyes and his
powerful build —Indians are usually spindle-
shanked —there was nothing to define the
boy as a half-caste. He had lived with Nah
Ping for the last five years—ever since Holt’s
Indian wife died, in fact, and Holt, wearied
of the old associations, made a clean sweep
of them all, including Paul.
Paul preferred the native quarter with
its dusky nights of song and love-making and
freedom, its powerful mixed smells and
crowding animals and humans, its lazy sleeps
in the hot mid-days, its glorious purple even-
ings when the canoes went out after bonito.
Put there were times when he loved to brag
about his father, and he had simply been
bragging now until that sneering laughter
touched the perverted streak of English pride
in him.
“I will,” he yelled. “I’ll go to him. I
will have justice.”
He darted out and raced barefoot up the
dim street,. over the dried litter of leaves
and fruit-rinds and everything else which
the native quarter had finished with. The
thick, sour-sweet odors of evening cooking
and turning-over of moist wai*m straw and
fruit which had rotted through the day
greeted him friendly-wise, and there were
gay little lights in the slatted dwellings
where people were going to bed without
reserve.
He repeated the word “justice” (he pro-
nounced it “joostiss”), and felt happier. He
thought of the law as some material sub-
stance which his father kept in one of those
great airy rooms up at Longleet. His father
brought it down sometimes and used it in
the white stone courthouse at the other end
of the town. He would have to bring it
if Paul asked him to. for the missionary who
gave Aramoana’s mother the Bible which
she read aloud to them every night had said
that the law was for the brown men just as
much as for the white. And so Peto and
Hakim would certainly go to gaol.
Passing through the mountains to Long-
leet he would probably see pigeons in the
rice-fields. It would be well to take his
old shotgun. He turned down a side alley
among new smells of fermenting straw,
horses, goats and ammonia, and entered the
open front of a low hovel half-smothered with
the huge scarlet blossoms of poinsettia.
“Aramoana,” he called, on a new and
tender note.
There were five people in the hut. Or
six. if you include the baby, which, to Paul
and Aramoana, mattered considerably more
than Aramoana’s father and mother and
grandmother and great-grandmother. These
elders lay on their string beds watching glow-
worms crawling on the ferny bank opposite,
and smoking in fathomless content. But
Aramoana was hushing the baby to sleep
among the colored grass-mats behind, and
Paul went over to her, pouring out his wrongs
and decisions in his headlong way, while she
nodded a wise, sleek head and patted the
baby.
“I shall make them sorry,” he bragged.
“My father, when he see me, lie say, ‘Git
out, nigger.’ But he will have to give me
joostiss. You see he will.”
Aramoana hugged Paul’s son close to her
slender body. “I think your father a hard
man to you,” she said consideringly. “I
would not like you to be hard like that to
Tin when he is grown. You will be a kind
father to him. Paul? Give me that bit of
taro-root.” She rubbed the baby’s gums with
it. looking at her husband anxiously. “I
wish you would not go to your father. Paul.
He might be ugly to you, and the money was
not so much. You can earn two dolla’ nex’
time any boat come in with tourists.”
“I not afraid of my father,” boasted
Paul. He got the old shotgun out of its
corner and ran his slender fingers over it
lovingly. “If he talk ugly to me I show him
this. That scare him, I bet.”
“But you mustn’t shoot it off. or people
will do things to you.” Aramoana’s placid
cheerfulness was momentarily disturbed.
“You put it away and come to bed, Paul,
and I give you two dolla’ I make washing
for the hotel las’ Friday.”
Paul looked at her with his thin, mobile
face twisted. He was struggling to pierce
what he sometimes felt to be almost visible
veils between himself and her. He loved her
with the fierce appropriation common to the
youth of eighteen in the tropics, and he loved
his baby. And he hated his father. Gen-
erally he knew these three things quite
clearly, and then they dissolved like sugar
in the coboi-tea, and he ached for the feel
of the tall, wide rooms at Longleet and his
father’s, musical English voice, and a chair
to sit in, and the heavy silver forks and
spoons with his father’s crest. At those
times he crept from the grass* hut with a
strange dull loathing and threshed about in
the sea: daring the sharks and the great
dabea eel, whose bite gives lockjaw; uncom-
forted by the splendor of sunset or moonrise
across the endless flow of blue Pacific waters,
or by the tender fragrance on the wind blow-
ing off-shore. Sometimes it was as much
as twenty hours before he could come back
to the native quarter.
“I don’t know,” he said now. “I can’t let
people be ugly to me. I can’t let people steal
from me. I don’t know.”
“Well, do be careful,” said Aramoana. She
began singing a meke to the baby, and the
old people about the door joined in. And
presently Paul got up and went out to the
steamy, windy night, taking the gun with
him.
As he passed the bakery where Wing Low
was handing out the crisp, brown loaves
under the crimson light of swinging Chinese
lanterns like round suns, Paul saw Peto and
Hakim there buying bread. And with his
money, he thought, outraged. He lurched
up. tall and muscular, out of the gloom.
“Gimme my dollas, you durned niggers,”
he shouted.
(Continued on next page.)


V
9
L 1
V',
m
9*.
vr
HI!
i
m
Every Mother Should
Keep ZAM-BUK Handy
ROMPING children seem to have a special
weakness for knocking and burning their
little limbs, and all mothers know the
worry and suffering that begins with the scrapes
and bruises the youngsters get at play.
No matter how careful mother herself may be
when ironing or in other household duties she, too, cannot
escape burns, cuts, or scratches.
Zam-Buk is renowned as a speedy and sure first-aid
dressing because it quickly
SUBDUES PAIN and INFLAMMATION
The healing qualities of Zam-Buk are derived from its
herbal character—its absolute freedom from the animal fats
and poisonous minerals present in common ointments. With
a box of Zam-Buk on the handiest shelf you are always
assured of instant and permanent relief in every emergency
of injury or skin disease.
This Might Happen Any Day.
“ I tonched the handle of a pot of coffee which was standing on the
stove ” says Miss M. L. Miller of 4 Gilbert Street, Norwood, s outh
Australia. “ The boiling coffee poured over my nrm and part of my
hand, severely scalding the flesh and raising blisters. Fortunately for
me I was advised to try Zam-Buk. which I did, and I am very pleased
to say that it was instantly soothing and within a very short time the sore
parts healed perfectly.”
fsr
m
mi
h
DC
,
Qooau
QPonac
A Surgery in
Your Own
Home.”
All Chemists & Stores
sell Zam - But, at
1/6 and 3/6 per box.
Biik
am
A
✓
J 1 Lovely Complexion
Is assured by the regular use of this fragrant
non-greasy Ven-Yusa Cream.
By virtue of its rare Oxygen property,
Ven-Yusa is endowed with remarkable
beautifying power. It restores charm and
freshness to the skin by freeing the pores
of obstructions and by impaiting vitality and
healthy tone to jaded tissues. It lightens
and refines the skin, giving it a velvety
softness and a new youthful transparency.
A little Ven-Yusa smoothed over the face,
hands and arms before going out keeps the skin
soft, cool and agreeably dry under the most trying
conditions. It safeguards against sunburn, shiny
skin, irritation and other complexion evils.
Obtainable of all Chemists
and high-class Drapers
in dainty opal jars at 2/-.
The (Jxygen Cream
He must have raised his gun, for Peto’s
yellow face looked frightened. “Put that
thing down,” he said, and snatched at it.
Paul looked along the barrel of the gun.
He seemed to see himself as he had once
seen his father, standing up with a rifle in
a room full of men and looking along the
barrel with his grey eyes half-shut and very
hard. Then someone had struck the rifle up,
and it had gone off, and Paul had run out
in terror to hide in the orange-trees. He
could remember the sharp, sweet scent of
the crushed flowers to this day, just as he
could remember his father’s attitude and
face. They had been his idea of Power
then, and they were still. He. felt as big
and grand as his father, the magistrate, hold-
ing the gun.
As Peto snatched at it, with his yellow
face close to the barrel, the gun went off,
and there was no yellow face any more.
Only a dreadful something toppling back into
the street.
Paul flung down the gun and ran from
it screaming. The whole night seemed to
be screaming, too. It was full of round
eyes and white teeth, pouring after him round
where the bakery wall slanted down into
Keretani’s garden-patch, over the pumpkins
and taro and mealies, and among the little
water-runnels between the rice-beds beyond.
Dusky grass huts and platforms where string
beds floated in dim shadows erupted more
eyes and teeth and screaming throats. Near
P.lack Sam’s cabin a Fijian policeman laid
hold of him by the leg.
Paul, struggling, hitting out wildly, felt
the huge muscles, the rasp of the coarse blue
cotton singlet, the greasy softness of the
scarlet sulu. The policeman’s wreath of
fresh wild gardenias fell off, drenching Paul
with the strong perfume, blinding him
momentarily. Then he was bound and
dragged back through the buzzing streets to
the little square stone gaol. The policeman,
still chewing a bit of sugar-cane, flung him
in. “Now they can’t hurt you,” he said
kindly, and locked the door and went off.
Paul sat on the earth, dazed and sick. The
black, musty place reeled round him. Pres-
ently a vision steadied on the night. Again
he was seeing his father’s furious white face
looking along the gun-barrel, ready to shoot.
“Mebbe someone man steal dolla off him,” he
thought, and felt comforted. His father, the
magistrate, had almost done just as Paul had
done, and so it must be all right to shoot a
man who stealed dollas off of you. “I want
joostiss,” he muttered, and that made him
feel better still. His father, the magistrate,
would understand and see that he had justice.
Mebbe if Peto was dead and couldn’t pay up,
his father would make Hakim do it.
“Joostiss,” he murmured, and stretched on
the dank earth and slept, while the huge
winged cockroaches ran over him all night
long, and in the hovel by the poinsettias Ara-
moana rocked the baby and cried.
* * # •
In clubs and drawing-rooms, before the
case came on, people were talking, of course.
Because everyone bets about everything in the
Islands, a good deal of money was laid on
Holt’s probable behavior. “Hang it,” said
Jessop, over the tiffin cocktails, “a man is re-
sponsible for his follies. Holt should have
looked after the boy. He’s bound to get him
the best counsel the Islands can provide.”
“Not he. Glad to get rid of Paul, he’ll
be,” said another man. “Paul has always
been a thorn in his side. He bears Holt’s
name, you see, and Holt’s rather proud of his
name. He’s one of the Holts of Gloucester-
shire.”
“Proud of his name—good Lord!” said
Jessop. “Well, I won’t lose faith in him
yet. I believe he’ll do what he can for his
own flesh and blood.”
Then the other man laughed.
* * * *
The hot, low courthouse buzzed with talk
and flies. In the tiny, unpainted, ant-eaten
dock Paul stood beside the huge policeman.
He looked very Indian—dirty and crumpled,
and shambling about the knees, with the
ankle-callouses of the sitter-on-floors gleam-
ing as he rested his aching legs. His long
black hair fell over his dark thin face, and
he peered through it like some cornered wild
thing. He had felt quite brave and cheerful
until they had stood him up here to be stared
at by a lot of white folk, and there was his
father, Mr. Holt, the magistrate, sitting in a
big chair behind the table, and looking at
him as though he’d never seen him before.
On the table stood a big bunch of wild gar-
denias, and their heavy, sweet scent made Paul
feel all sick and helpless as they’d done
when the policeman caught him.
The place was intolerably hot and airless.
Mr. Holt, the magistrate, kept putting his
long slender fingers into the pocket of his
white linen coat as though he were feeling
for a cigar which he was very anxious to
smoke and couldn’t. The gesture had once
been very familiar to Paul. His father was
always pulling cigars out of that pocket and
smoking them, and he got terribly angry if
anyone prevented him doing it. Paul began
to feel humble and frightened because he was
evidently keeping his father from doing
something which he wanted to do.
Outside Paul could hear the turn of the
tide on the reef and the shouts of boys
going after crabs. One sweet salty little
puff of wind came cool on his neck, but the
room seemed to get hotter and hotter. Some
white ladies were using their fans, and men
were mopping their red faces with big colored
bandanas. A little man was talking, talk-
ing. Paul understood vaguely that he was
“stating the case.” Jessop, watching Holt
rather closely, got the bones of it something
like this:
Prisoner had accused deceased of stealing
money from him. He had seemed unable to
give proof. Prisoner had later met deceased
in the street, pointed a gun at him and de-
manded the money. When deceased
attempted to divert the aim prisoner had
fired. “To my mind, your Honor, there are
no extenuating circumstances whatever.”
Jessop saw no change in the magistrate’s
flabby, rather handsome face. “By Jove, the
fellow’s got cold eyes, though,” he thought.
Paul heard the words without the least
understanding of them. He saw his father,
Mr. Holt, the magistrate, stop feeling for
his cigar and sit up eagerly as though he
was glad the little man had finished talking.
For just an instant he looked straight at Paul.
Now Paul ought to speak to him, to tell
him all about it, to explain that he only
wanted joostiss. But lie never had been able
to explain things to bis father, and bis tongue
was quite dry in his mouth, anyway. His
father looked away as if he’d never seen
him before. He began to speak in his beauti-
ful musical English voice. Again Paul heard
those strange words: “No extenuating cir-
cumstances whatever.” • Then : “Commit
him. He’ll be sent down to Suva in the
morning.”
Now his father was gone, and the people
were gone, and Paul was back in the cell
with the cockroaches. He asked the police-
man: “Why do I have to go to Suva?” The
policeman said : “They try the capital charges
there.” Paul didn’t understand that, but he
asked: “Can I see Aramoana?” And the
policeman said “I don’t know,” and locked
the door and went away.
So Paul beat his palms on the sweating
earth and cried “I want joostiss.” But the
policeman had gone, and there was.no one
to hear.
Only one woman dared to speak to Mr.
Holt, the magistrate, about it. She mur-
mured prettily out of her chiffons that she was
sorry for him. It must have been very pain-
ful for him to have to condemn his own son,
even though the boy had reverted to type and
become entirely without merit. Mr. Holt
(he was smoking his cigar now and had one
of the courthouse gardenias like a splash of
blood in his white button-hole) caressed his
smooth, fat chin and frowned a little.
“I couldn’t do anything else. lam merely
the organ of justice,” he said. “The boy
killed in cold blood, and he’ll have to take
the consequences. It has nothing to do with
me, and I would consider it a perversion of
law to bring any undue influence to bear.”
He let a smile crease round his cold grey eyes.
“Besides,” he added frankly, “I can’t say
that I’m sorry. I never did the boy any
harm, but since he chooses to run his neck
into the noose—well, it saves a good deal of
trouble all round.”
“There’s a child, isn’t there?” asked the
woman.
Mr. Holt frowned again. “Really, Daisy,”
he said. “I don’t see why we should be ex-
pected to have any knowledge of that.”
G. B. LANCASTER.
Pye.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY uncle used to tell that when he
was a very young man he fell into
conversation with a stranger wait-
ing upon the “carriageway-pavement,” as
they called it in the ’fifties, for a ’bus into
town. There was at that time no gas out-
side of Melbourne; but the waiting-slied had
been fitted with an oil-lamp, the light of
which, hanging like powder in the fog, first
revealed to him the subject of his adventure:
a man well on in the seventies with-
out a hair upon his face—a circumstance
remarkable in days when beards and mous-
taches were universally worn. He had on
a blue serge shirt with a belt round the
waist and corduroy trousers; while his straw
hat, which sagged on account of the wet
atmosphere, threw a shadow over the upper
part of his features, thus losing the eyes, but
accentuating the stretched-out nose until it
became like a padlock to the box-lid mouth
underneath.
Nearly three-quarters of an hour went by
without conversation. Then a boy tumbled
in from the dark to say that the ’bus had
had a smash-up and the driver been killed.
Upon my uncle asking “Which driver?” the
boy replied, “Mr. Buckley.”
“Hobarton Buckley,” added the stranger.
“The only Buckley in the business.”
“That’s right!” exclaimed the boy. “ ’E’ll
be cornin’ along this way presently, an’ you’ll
see it’s just as I’ve told you.”
My uncle, always a silent man, looked up
the road and said nothing. Then the child
continued on his w T ay, his thick half-boots
making a clatter on the river bridge like a
plough-horse going home to stable.
“Heigh!” says the stranger. “Have you
ever heard of William Buckley?”
“The wild white man?” replied my uncle.
“Of course; everybody has.”
“Well, Hobarton’s liis kid.”
The old man put out an arm to keep his
listener’s attention: there was no hand at
the end of it, and the stump was polished
and as shiney as a cucumber.
“Mind you,” he resumed, “William was a
much better cove than people would make
him out to be. And ’e ’ad grit, lots uv it.
When you come to think ’ow ’e give Collins
the slip and stuck it out for thirty-two years
in the bush, you can get an idea of what
sort of a man ’e was. ’E ’ad the blacks
scared stiff. An’ ’im on ’is lonesome, too.
Or very nearly!
“ ’E was a tartar for discipline, old Wil-
liam ’e was. ’E ’ad all sorts of laws made
wiv rewards an’ punishments. Stealin’ a
man’s wife was punished by adultery.
Murder ’e treated more light, on account of
it not resultin’ in babbies; so ’e on’y chopped
off the right ’and for that. On a repetition
of same charge left ’and forfeit. And so on.”
My uncle looked up the road and down the
road, but nobody appeared in sight. The
stranger rubbed his nose with the smooth
end of his muscular right arm, and listened
for the bearers bringing the corpse through
the fog.
“William was always particular,” he said,
“in what ’e was give to eat.”
“For God’s sake,” exclaimed my uncle,
“don’t tell me any more. It’s common his-
tory how r he killed Marmon and Pye!”
“And ate ’em —so people said!”
“Devoured his own fellow-beings!”
“I was just sayin’ William was from
Cheshire; and in con-se-quence particular as
to ’is diet.”
My uncle shuddered so much that his hat
dropped off.
“I arsk you, as a reasonable creatur,” con-
tinued the old man, “do you fink it likely
that a cove of such refined and eddicated
tastes as William Buckley would have stooped
to stick ’is fork into so coarse and common
a kind of meat as them two sojer-fellers,
Pye and Marmon, must ’ave bin? ’Owjer
like (yerself, f’rinstance) to ’ave a slice outer
me —fried or boiled, whatever way you wish?”
“Good evening, Mr. Pye” said the police-
man who had come down about the accident!
HUGH McCRAE.


ģ
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear ; —
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
S" een ®]? mi Agents—-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
«o»
r- I '.
fAO^
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitacroy, Melbourne.
/
%08-k
GOOD STEEL
KEEPS GOOD
Steel of suitable temper, for chisels, must be good, high
quality steel to avoid constant re-forging and sharpening.
It is more economical to pay the price of such high
quality steels as
AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRAND
DOUBLE EXTRA STEEL
BEST WARRANTED STEEL
and
WARRANTED STEEL
Suitable Temper for Chisels.
All these “Eagle on a Globe” Brand Steels will give
economical results, longer life, and not break down under
the strain of exacting service.
Ample compensation for a small extra cost.
Ask for our special book, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,”
post free, and consult with us on all matters relating to
steel for any purpose.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
Sydney 379-381 Kent Street
Melbourne ; 342-348 Swanston Street
Newcastle Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
Brisbane ... John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Adelaide ... Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Hobart R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
g
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay,
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of TariS
and all particulars posted on application
t 0 The Manage*.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- — .think of
V
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridie Srreef, Sydney.
11
Rmingtgtj,
m
Remington
«SvFS-
Remington: s
4 Companions
REM OIL
A lubricating, cleaning and polishing oil
for use in the home, office or on the farm.
Especially suited for firearms, sewing
machines, bicycles, typewriters, etc.
POWDER SOLVENT
For cleaning and removing powder resi-
due and metal fouling from the bores of
firearms.
GUN GREASE
Protects firearms and all metal surfaces from rust and cor*
rosion. Particularly useful in damp climates.
RUST REMOVER
Attacks and removes rust and corrosion. Will not injur*
metal surfaces.
Sold by Remington dealers
Wrtte us for descriptive leaflet
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
E-14 G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
ĝ
t'Before retiring for the night,
‘Preserve your health and appetite*
I
<l*
Don't put off till to-morrow what you
should do to-night. “Now” is the time to
treat the many ailments of the digestive system.
Declining appetite is often a sign of poor health, and when
accompanied by headache, biliousness, sleeplessness or loss
of energy, the cause of the trouble is generally a disordered
digestion. Beecham’s Pills will soon set matters right. They
speedily bring about a change for the better.
Before YOU retire be sure to preserve your health
BY TAKING
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prtse Medal&
Workai airmingham, Englandi
ğ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pendL
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSXOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
V :
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.K. Forced
Lubricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
AGENTS.
[MELBOURNE;
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London


"Born 1820
Still going Strong l
g
.•Vj
w
r_
s*
of
HP
■ .
Kfrih: jg|g mhifem 1 1 M&Mi
;mm
hi h
o
r.%-%/i;
;*&sfev?
: *v
g£HE
jSt.Kto
• V/,D'
M*
Guaranteed same quality
all over the world
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotlan*
