

hbkjlmjklmkl
6
%
X
"3^
\ \
v JK
s*'
n
;^i
<<A
V
•V
4V
For the days
out-of-doors
For the coming months out-of-doors will claim every spare moment. You will enjoy yourself
in many ways—but most of all if you take a Kodak and bring back your happiness
in pictures.
Kodaks are priced from 42/- and Brownies from 1 1 /3 —and look for the words ‘‘Kodak
Print” on the back of your snapshots; they are your guarantee of best results.
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; and Melbourne.
The Valley. 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
672 Hay Street, Perth.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Rnthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street. To misrUIe; East Street,
Rockhampton; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Eambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
■>
&
The Bulletin
Vol. 45. —No. 2327.
Thursday, September 18, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George Street, Sydney.
“The Master Car of Prance.”
Sole Concesslonnaires
In Australasia:
Lawrence Morton & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
482-84-86 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Continually Proving
its Title
GRAND PRIX 1924
Cottins first and second in their
class, out of twenty-seven entries.
Also second and third in the general
class, out of forty entries, which included
thirteen higher-powered cars.
LYSAGHT
o
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
§ V
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
IliiiSgg
BBS
lisll
iSw
\
SiSiifiinsisisiSslis!!
An outstanding feature of the continued success of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is its exceptional freedom from breakdowns due to careless
workmanship or faulty materials.
Rigid supervision throughout every process of its manufacture
has established a high standard of efficiency that is maintained
in every belt. Consult our engineers on all belting problems.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
IUISTIMt
rttAOt un
Guaranteed.
II IJ.W'no* fi^**^ 1 * I ****^
§£®®'t
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longliurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
STEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
e
malt
/
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60/-
For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
makes it dust and damp proof.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
( 185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
(412 George Street, Strand Corner
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited fop old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
552
CTHU
YO^
DSON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet :
“Proved to be as effective bactericidallp as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAV
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6
Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
Louis Couperus
Apart from his literary achievement, w<j
Dutchman Louis Couperus deserves the con-
sideration of Australians for the sturdy fight
he put up to prove to his countrymen that
they had a language worth writing and worth
reading.
In a commercial age a small nation speak-
ing a difficult language does not tend to
shine in letters. The graphic arts may flour-
ish because they are expressed in symbols all
men may understand—in that sense, Rem-
brandt, the Maris brothers and Raemakers
used international ideographs—but a writer
w-hose potential public is limited to a few
million Dutch and Flemings, and who must
reach the outside world through the medium
of more or less inadequate translations, is in
the same position as the Australian writer
whose indigenous wild flowers are snowed
under by the blizzards of imported best-sellers.
AVhen the snow melts his posy may still be
there, but the thaw is not likely to be much
good to him if it does not come in his own
metime. The tendency, therefore, of the
Australian writer is to look for his market
abroad; the Dutch author exploits a larger
reading public by writing in French or Ger-
man, getting known to his compatriots only
through the medium of translations. It
speaks well for the permanent qualities of
Couperus that he wrote in Dutch and ac-
quired fame in Holland before he was known
abroad.
Incidentally, his belief in the potentialities
of his mother tongue had profound results.
He has in a measure done for Dutch what
Shakspeare did for English, releasing the
qualities of melody and rhythm that were
latent in it and which the previous prose
classic of the Netherlands, the "Camera
Obseura” of Hildebrand (1SB9), had failed
to do.
The small Dutch nation is dominated by
its immensely populous Eastern colonies in
a far greater measure than the English are
by India. Couperus himself came of an
old East Indian family with a long tradi-
tion of colonial administration. He went to
Java at the age of 10, and his youth was
moulded in the atmosphere of paternal des-
potism of old Batavia. His two greatest
works had their inspiration in the Dutch
colonies. “Stille Kracht” is a story of Java.
A reviewer in the Manchester Guardian
complained that this book, translated into
English under the title of “The Hidden
Force,” lacks the true tropical atmosphere.
Having breathed the self-same air in the
same little coastal town which Couperus
camouflages under the name of Labuwangi,
I find the reviewer’s statement very interest-
ing. AVe all base our judgments on stereo-
types, and the Manchester critic’s stereotype
of the tropics is probably as unlike the real
thing as singing in a musical-comedy milking
chorus is like getting up at four in the
morning in midwinter to attend to Straw-
berry at Jamtin Flat. In Couperus’s book
one can smell the atmosphere‘permeated with
the odor of blatchan drying on the foreshore,
can hear the sibilant hissing of the bats that
make the evening air like a river of crazy
ghosts, the flying-foxes at their uncleanly
wrangling in the jambu-trees, and see the
sullen dawn grow out of rotten mist —it is
only on the stage that one sees sunrises and
sunsets as conventionally tropical as those
of, say, Botany Bay.
“Stille Kracht” is the story of the slow
intimidation of a stolid, unimaginative Dutch
administrator by the occult, atmospheric
influences with which the white communities
in Java are perpetually surrounded. The
hidden power with which every Dutchman
credits the natives is impotent against this
simple man’s armor of self-respect, uiifcil it
finds a weak link in the venality of his wife,
who spends her afternoon siestas in a liaison
with her half-caste stepson. The native
Regent, through whose agency the Dutch
administrator rules, has been reprimanded
for his vicious habits, and uses the knowledge
of the wife’s infidelity to obtain his revenge.
Strange things happen to her. Although
her bath-house is carefully guarded, her
beautiful body is befouled with the blood-
red spittle of the betel-nut chewer. The wife
leaves her bewitched husband. The mysteri-
ous persecution, which seems to emanate
like a miasma from the somnolent body of
the Regent and his sleepy court, continues
and the Dutchman’s servants leave him. But
it is not until he has discovered his wife’s
unfaithfulness that his spirit breaks.
One must have breathed this subtly degene-
rating influence, which the Dutch community
in Java meets with a mixture of heavy practi-
cality and timid credulity, to appreciate this
story, whose literary merits are obscured by
its seeming improbability. In his greatest
book. “Oude Menschen en de dingen de
voorbygaan” (“Old People and the Things
that Pass”), Couperus turns to the frozen
landscapes of the Netherlands. In this re-
markable novel there is no character, with
the exception of two adolescent onlookers,
who is under the age of 60, and the hero and
heroine are over 90. The two young people,
modern aesthetes, see this ancient fraternity
of aunts and uncles, great-aunts and great-
great-grandmothers. sitting in invalid chairs,
staring out of windows, being helped by their
aged servants up and down stairs, paying
calls on each other at which no words but
greetings and farewells are spoken; and they
believe that for these old husks of humanity
with the smell of cerements about them,
life is already over, passions are burnt out,
and even memories have decayed away.
Couperus shows with great simplicity and
power that the real life of the old houses
is in the senile hearts and brains of the older
generations. _ A terrible secret, of a murder,
a crime passionel committed 50 years before,
on a night of rain in Java, is harbored by
those minds that have almost lost the power
of speech, and their tottering steps are being
hastened hy the constant dread that exposure
may come before they reach the silence of
the grave. The drumming confusion of that
night of rain recurs throughout the story
like a strange refrain. There is the quality
of Greek tragedy in this novel, on which
Couperus’s fame will, probably rest.
His countrymen have patriotically labelled
him the Dutch Anatole France, but there is
little of the ironic Frenchman in his psycho-
logical make-up. “The Voyage,” an attempt
at re-creation of the Graeco-Roman period,
cannot be compared with “Thais.” “Ost-
waarts,” his last book, contains some of the
71 letters he contributed to the Haagsche
Post in the course of a few months’ tour
around the world. This effort in pure journ-
alism doubtless cost him his life. He fell ill
in Japan in 1922 and died in Holland last
year at the age of 60. The book added noth-
ing to his reputation.
M. G. S.
Art and Life
Richard Middleton, whose short life and
tragic death place him among The most
pathetic figures of modern literature, once
wrote this thought-provoking passage about
the people of his craft: —
While ordinary efficient men and women are enjoy-
ing the promise of the morning, the fulfilment of the
afternoon and the tranquillity of evening, we are still
trying to discover a fitting epithet for the dew of
dawn. For us Spring paves the woods with beauti-
ful words rather than flowers, and when we look into
the eyes of our mistress we see nothing but adjectives.
Does a handful of love songs really outweigh the
smile of a pretty girl, or a hardly written romance
compensate the author for months of lost adventure?
We have only one life to live, and we spend the
greater part of it writing the history of dead hours.
The intrinsic inferiority of art to life was
never more powerfully or beautifully ex-
pressed. As a rule, the artist is so obsessed
with the importance of his function that he
forgets that art is only art —the expression
of life, not life itself; the pale shadow of
reality, not the living, breathing thing it.
seeks to portray by word or pigment. The
just claims of art are considerable, incon-
trovertible ; the claims frequently advanced
on its behalf by art fanatics, whose powers
of expression are generally in excess of
their powers of thought, are but the bray-
ings of asses. Art is for life, not life for
art; and those who fail to see this are guilty
of misreading both art and life.
The paradox of AVilde that life is an imi-
tation of art is but an empty fatuity decked
out in fine words. A moment’s serious
thinking reveals its shallowness. What man
amongst us would take the slightest interest
in art—in pictures or plays of stories or
poetry—did he not take a still deeper in-
terest in life? Just as there would be no sex
love if there were no sex, so there would
be no interest in art were it not for man’s
passionate and undying interest in the great
adventure we call life. No doubt this is
all pathetically obvious. But, unfortunately,
in these days of artistic sophistry, it is just
the obvious that is overlooked, the simple
that most requires explanation. In nisi
‘ Decay of Lying” AVilde seeks to prove that
art is greater than life by showing that one
time certain ladies tried to look like the
ladies Rossetti used to paint. What utter
childishness! One might equally contend
that fashion-plates are greater than life
because millions of women spend millions
of money trying to look like them. Besides,
even the faces of Rossetti’s women had to
be taken from life. They had to have the
essential qualities of the faces with which
Nature provides womankind —one nose and
two eyes, for instance. The artist may
modify and select. He may tone down some
features and exaggerate others. But un-
less his artistic imagination is sternly
limited by Nature, his work becomes a mon-
strosity destitute alike of truth and of
beauty. Romance, if it is not to become a
meaningless abortion, must have a core of
realism. Life must be the master. Art is
but the servant.
How poorly, after all, is life represented
by the greatest art! Compare the finest
landscape ever painted with a really great
scene as we sometimes see it in Nature—-a
riot of color, of movement, of life. But for
the influence of convention on our minds
we would perceive at once that the one is
but a travesty of the other. How can the
motionless represent motion? How can death
represent life? To say this is not to dis-
parage art. It is but to classify it and put
it in its proper place. I love beautiful pic-
tures. I am not blind. I hope, to the merits
of great paintings. But I frankly confess
that they appeal to me primarily, not as
copies of Nature, which they can never be,
but as revelations of the soul of the artist.
But if the painter fails to represent objec-
tive Nature, how much more must the poet
fail to do so! There are two kinds of
poetry—the poetry whose beauty is in the
words, and the poetrv whose beauty is in the
idea. The beauty of the lines of Tennyson,
Break, break, break,
At the foot of thy crags, O Sea!
is in the words, and would probably dis-
appear if they were translated into another
language. On the other hand, the beauty
of Wordsworth’s line on Milton,
Thy soul was like a star and dwelt apart,
lies in the idea, and, therefore, could be
translated into any of the great languages
of the world. AVhile I freely confess that
poetry in this latter and higher sense is by
far the highest form of art known to man,
I still hold that it is a poor thing compared
with life. A moment of real love is worth
all the love-songs ever written, and I ven-
ture to say that if Robert Burns had been
compelled to choose between writing love-
songs and hugging to his heart a desirable
woman some of our sweetest songs would have
remained unwritten. Burns found inspira-
tion in life and love. He was the world's
greatest, writer of love-songs because he was
its greatest lover. Perhaps no greater proof
could be furnished of the truth that Life is
the master of Art than that Shakspeare and
Burns, two of the most amazingly vital of
our poets, were the least literary. Both
found their inspiration, not in literature,
but in life.
Let us by all means admire art and cheer-
fully recognise that it plays a valuable and
desirable part in the lives of civilised men.
Let us honor our great artists for the ser-
vice they render us, for the beauty with
which they help to adorn our lives. But
let us bear in perpetual remembrance that
art is but the expression of life, not life
(Continued on page 3.)


JL
a
Incomparable Value in Sports Wear
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
First in quality, first in service, first in value.
The items that comprise this list will prove
striking—yet they are only typical of the
values offering throughout the departments.
Scan this list, compare prices—the result will
show you the way to substantial savings on
your purchases.
Men’s Cricket or Tennis Shirts.
CRICKET OR TENNIS SHIRTS, with collar
and pocket attached. In White Mercerised
Twill.
Prices . . 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6 each
In White Matt—
Prices . . 6/6, 7/6, 8/-, 8/6 each
In Cream Twill Flannel—
Prices 17/6, 18/6, 25/-
TITF SPORTS SHIRT, made with smart roll-
back collar.
In White Mercerised Twill— Price . . . 7/6
In White Matt— Prices 6/6, 7/6, 8/-, 8/6
In White Drill— Price 9/6
In White Kepp— Price 7/6
In Cream Flannel —
Prices 17/6, 18/6, 25/-
In Natural Fuji .... 21/-
In Cream Fuji Silk, best quality—
Price 21/-
Cream All-Wool Sweaters.
MEN'S SPORTS SWEATERS, in Cream, with club
sports colors, in open V-neck. Sizes, 34 to 40 chest.
Prices 14/6, 16/6, 18/6 each
CREAM ALL-WOOL SWEATERS, in Summer weight.
In Cashmere, with Diamond Front, with roll collar.
Sizes, chest 34 36 40
Prices 21/6 22/- 24/-
MEN'S CREAM PESCO SWEATERS, fancy open knit,
Scotch make, with Polo collars —
Sizes, chest 34 36 40
Prices 25/6 26/6 29/6
Cream Half-Hose.
In Plain Cashmere. All Wool.
Prices 3/6, 3/9 pair
In Ribbed Cashmere. All Wool.
Prices 4/3, 4/11 pair
We Pay the Carriage
on Men’s Wear and
Footwear in N.S.W.,
and to the nearest
Port on Interstate
Orders.
T&
'fa
Seasonable Sports Suits.
THE COAT has four patch pockets, belted back.
THE TROUSERS are made with side and hip
pockets, loops for belt, cuff bottoms.
AUSTRALIAN TWEED, in Grey and Brown
effects, specially woven for our f* f* /
exclusive use. PRICE 00/"
Others values 84/- 95/-
L '\\ \ 1,. \
fs hW 4
4t»
*-rnm
Men’s Sporting Trousers.
MEN’S CRICKET OR SPORTING TROUSERS, in
White Drill.
Prices 12/6, 13/6 pair
In Cream Gabardine —
Prices 17/6, 39/6 pair
In Cream Serge—
Price 37/6 pair
YOUTHS’ CRICKET OR TENNIS TROUSERS, in
Cream Gabardine.
Prices 15/6, 16/6, 33/6 pair
Men’s Belts.
SPRINGBOK BELTS, Grey or Brown Suede, with
elastic and spring at side.
Price 3/6
Tennis Blazers.
MEN’S TENNIS AND CRICKET COATS patch
pockets, cord edge.. In Navy Flannel.
Price 25/-, 29/6
ROYS' OR YOUTHS’ TENNIS OR CRICKET
COATS.
Prices i.,. . . 13/6, 14/6, 19/6
Sporting Footwear.
MEN'S WHITE CANVAS CRICKET BOOTS, stout
sewn soles.
Price * 21/- pair
MEN'S BEST QUALITY WHITE CANVAS CRICKET
BOOTS, stout welted soles, cap, and strong leather lined.
Price 28/6 pair
MEN’S FINE GRADE WHITE CANVAS TENNIS
OR BOWLING SHOES, stout Crepe Rubber soles.
Price * 16/9 pair
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440


NEW
Todays Mo
Every Unit
CHANDLER
odern Car
ved by Use
THE 1925 Chandler now offered to the public
represents the splendid result of eighteen
months’ development.
No other car is more clearly abreast of the times.
None contains so many recent developments of
established merit.
A big, beautiful, modern car, it carries an as-
surance of master performance and sound service.
Exhaustive experiment has preceded each of
the improvements that have been steadily added.
Many of its features have been proved in the
service of thousands of owners. Their worth is
known beyond all peradventure.
Traffic Transmission
This exclusive Chandler feature is a thoroughly
perfected unit. Other manufacturers are in the
midst of ambitious experiments with the princi-
ples it involves. Chandler success has brought the
subject of better gear speed changing into national
prominence.
Already thousands of Chandler owners are
familiar with the safer, more delightful driving
made possible by the Traffic Transmission.
Flawlessly smooth as the result of recent refine-
ments, its performance supremacy is more pro-
nounced than ever before. One ride will reveal
its wealth of power on hills and its mastery over
the problems of traffic.
Genuine Balloon Tires
(No extra charge)
On the 1925 Chandler, genuine super-size
balloon tires are offered as standard equipment
without extra cost. Combined with Chandler’s
scientific spring suspension, they provide a marvel-
ous, cushioned riding ease over roads of every
sort. Regular size cord tires are obtainable as
optional equipment.
Thanks to the sureness of the downward shift
with the Traffic Transmission, Chandler owners
have long enjoyed the security of stopping short
without skidding or swaying. Now, in the 1925
model, this valued factor of safety has been aug-
mented by the addition of
4-Wheel Brakes
These are of Chandler design and are optional
at a very moderate extra cost. Their simplicity
and eas of maintenance are assurance of un-
It makes clashing, rasping gears an
impossibility. All drivers make a silent,
flawless gear change from high to low
or low to high regardless of driving
conditions.
Yet the driver handles the Traffic
Transmission exactly like the standard
gear shift. In its use there is absolute-
ly nothing new to learn.
Pikes Peak Motor
Built to master a mountain, this
famous Chandler power plant has
mastered the affections of thousands of
motorists the world over.
As attested by the longest string of
high gear records ever held by any
stock car, it still stands as the ultimate
in engineering achievements.
Agents throughout
1925 Features
Balloon tires standard on
all models.
4-Wheel brakes optional.
Pressure chassis lubrica-
tion.
Handsome hew instru-
ment board.
Advanced force-feed mo-
tor lubrication.
Larger vacuum tank.
Cylinders honed to flaw-
less finish.
Newest type headlamps.
Efficient cowl ventilation.
interrupted service.
We urge you to see the 1925 Chand-
ler—ask you to drive it yourself. There
are nine types with bodies of unusual
beauty. All are priced to establish
impressive values. All are endowed
with the master performance which
only Chandler’s exclusive features can
provide.
The summer touring season is now
definitely here. Wisdom dictates buy-
ing at once if you would fully enjoy
your new car.
Be sure it is a genuine 1925 model.
Be sure that it is modern in the strict-
est sense. Make certain that it will not
be made obsolete by another model
in a month or two.
Choose the 1925 Chandler—and
be safe!
the Commonwealth
(The Traffic Transmission is built complete in the Chandler plant under Campbell patentsj
CHANDLER
the CAR. OF THE V e a r.
NEW SOUTH WALES
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.
244 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA
Marcus Clark (Vic.) Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St.,
Melbourne.
s, AUSTRALIA
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd*
125 Currie Su»
Adelaide,
W. AUSTRALIA
Sharpen & Riches,
1001 Hay St.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND
Hobsons Ltd.
284 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA
Williamsons Motors Lt(f, r
Collins St,
Hobart


Iflbur Shirts are made of
T
X
jj yf I > )
' ■ / si* h
Sfcssg;
, fw*
m
'\M
v\ \ v'X
AVV
V •
i ;// •.
\ H! /
x mj
J V \4v It t ■
A-
, \\
f j -"SS
. Z
- ' *
J/ieif are
better
than Silh
P/poij
;t for
fhejjibel
Eve me n t
<tusSORA
Guaranteed
*§««
For a typical Summer Shirt “TUSSORA”
experience teaches the wearer that they are
superior in every detail. Scientifically cut
with tailored sleeves and reiniorced necks.
Absolutely Fadeless Colors. See that your
next shirt is “TUSSORA.”
Obtainable from all Leading Mercers and Drapers.
itself; that the function of the artist is
not to reveal to us new truths, but to min-
ister to our sense of beauty; that the great
thinkers, the great investigators the men
who widen the intellectual horizon of the
world and give us practical guidance in the
difficult ways of life—are as much superior
to the poet as the poet is superior to the
mummer who months his lines.
WALLACE NELSON.
The Psychology of Laughter
Freud was the first psychologist to
attempt to formulate a theory of humor.
With characteristic ingenuity lie has con-
structed a theory of wit, but lie lias done
little more than explain why certain types
of jokes are amusing; the larger problem of.
laughter he has left alone. J. T. Y. Grieg,
of the University of Durham, has now
attempted to explain its genesis and mean-
ing in The Psychology of Laughter and
Comedy (Allen and Unwin). At the end of
it all one feels that the author has been
extremely clever and admirably industrious,
but one is not convinced by his eloquence.
Laughter seems, at first, to be a simple
thing. We laugh because we are pleased.
But we sometimes laugh when we arc being
hurt, and often to hurt others. It would
not be a difficult or an unpleasant task to
explain why we weep, but this laughing pro-
cess seems to be one of those primary things,
like God or freewill, that must be taken for
granted by everyone except the metaphysi-
cian. As a matter of fact, until the arrival
of the Freudian psychologists, to whom no-
thing is sacred, laughter was left entirely
to the philosophers. From Plato to-Berg-
son most of them had something mystical
to say upon the subject. And when they
had spoken Laughter still held both her
sides and renewed her paroxysms.
Grieg, of course, adopts Freud's principle
that all human activity may ultimately bo.
ascribed to sexual motives. lie traces, the
genesis of laughter in the child, and then
analyses a group of laugliter-produjeing
stimuli, showing that his theory is able to
explain how and why they are amusing. His
thesis is briefly this. All energy is love
energy. “When behavior containing love as
an element within it is interrupted, energy
is mobilised against the interruption; when
the interruption is suddenly removed, or
weakened, some of this energy becomes sur-
plus and escapes in the laugh.” His testing
of this principle is ingenious hut uncon-
vincing. He discovers that most comic situa-
tions have a sexual significance, which may
sometimes be disguised by symbols. The
listener or the spectator takes sides with one
actor in the incident, identifies himself with
that actor, and laughs when the obstruction
to the “love energy” has been removed. His
examples are many; Falstaff is laughable
because wo are at heart vicious, and enjoy
rumbling through ale-houses us Falstaff did.
\Ye laugh, says Grieg, when .Uncus whips
Dionysius and Xanthias in "The Frogs"
because we are at heart sadistic. Grieg lias
placed Freud's theory of humor upon a
broader basis, but in essentials the two
theories are the same. Laughter is to them
akin to the dream, a method of expending
love energy without encountering the resist-
ance of the censor.
It is difficult to watch their theory being
applied to the laughter of children at play
or the laughter that greets some simple comi-
cality. But they have certainly approached
more nearly to a satisfying explanation than
Bergson with his “laughter as a social cor-
rective.” Let us dilute Grieg’s theory until
the Freudian ingredient becomes less apparent,
and it says that laughter is the dispelling of
surplus emotional energy when that energy
lias been concentrated in greater strength
than the situation demands. Bt. George
would certainly have laughed if the Dragon
lie had gone out to meet had turned out to
be a little bit of a lizard that ran away as
be approached. Tlie child laughs happily
because it is so pleasant and so easy to
rattle down a hill on a scooter. lle would
like to devote more energy to the game, but
no more energy is needed, and his superfluous
joie de vivre is dispelled in laughter.
Laughter at what is seen or heard seems
always to be inspired by a situation contain-
ing an element of bathos. When the stream
of emotion is precipitated from a high level
to a lower one laughter is stimulated. To
undergo, even passively, an experience a cer-
tain amount of emotional force must bo ral-
lied. When the object of our attention sud-
denly becomes less serious the surplus of
emotion is discharged in a laugh. Thus,
when the preacher commits a spoonerism
we laugh. When a funereal gentleman walks
solemnly on to the stage, slips and sits upon
his top-hat. we laugh. Ridicule is tho
act of converting an object of hatred or con-
tempt into the object of others’ laughter. It
is forcing the dignified gentleman to sit on
his top-hat.
As to the man who smiles as he mounts the
scaffold, he has discovered that even the
unfortunate chief actor can step down from
tragedy to comedy. He is ridiculing his per-
secutors. “Pity that should be cut.” said
Thomas More, as he removed his beard from
the block; “that has never committed
treason.”
G. M. L.
Ships That Have Passed
Within sight and sound of the North Sea.
in a hollow of the Northumbrian coast, there
stood an eighteenth-century cottage. The
family inhabiting it drew into their char-
acter something of the austerity and elemen-
tal simplicity of their surroundings. In
this home, as spotlessly clean as the hearts
of the couple who reared in it their clutch
of sea-tanned youngsters on an income so
small that ha’pence counted where to-day
we reckon florins, a lad of 12 tossed on his
bed. The roar of the sea was in the boy's
ears, its call to travel and adventure in his
thoughts—always in his thoughts. He was
the youngest son but one, and came of a
long line of men whom the sea had claimed.
"At o'clock in the morning I gently
opened the door and slipped out. made my
way to the, beach and commenced my jour-
ney to the nearest port.” So ouens tbc story
of Walter Runeiman who. in 1859 beginning
life as a cabin-boy, 55 years later was able
to place at the disposal of his country a
fleet of 40 line steamers fully equipped and
manned. (Before the 1 fast and A]ter, by
Walter Runciman: Fisher Unwin.)
It was not without difficulty that “young
Walter” found a ship with a skipper pre-
pared to take a boy of his years as one of
the crew. But the resolute spirit which in
after years made him the head of a great
shipping firm attained its end. “Take him,
John,” said the owner of the brig Ilarper-
ley to its captain, his son —“take him and
make a man of him.” Thus he was launched,
and set sail with a cargo of coal for
Mozambique. He had bound himself to
au apprenticeship of six years, and during
that period suffered in common with the rest
of the crew all the hardships and .abuses
which were reckoned as necessarily inciden-
tal to a sailor's life. “Strange though it
be,” says the author, “nearly every abuse
(and until recent years they were many, and
some diabolical in their character) lias been
removed, and reforms instituted, by ageucies
that were in no way connected with sea-
life.” The sea-going man of that time knew
nothing of unions or combinations to hotter
his lot. and it was not till later years that
lie realised the hardships of his calling were
not inseparable from all sea-going. He was,
or the greater number of his kind were, un-
educated and inarticulate. His only remedy
was mutiny, and that on the high seas was
too grave an offence to be risked. The “old
man” was an autocrat more supreme than
any despot of the land. The brutal heroics
of captains on Yankee and Liverpool packet-
ships were notorious, and service under their
command became the supreme test of a sea-
man’s endurance.
From deep-sea ships young Runciman
turned to Scottish coasting clippers and
North of England schooners and brigs. “Most
of these vessels were manned by seamen who
were without doubt the salt of the earth,
from the captain down to the cabin-boy.”
The scale of wages is interesting in compari-
son with modern rates. The payment was
per voyage, whose length depended on the
weather encountered, and in the coal trade
was as follows: Captains, £B, or at the most
£9; mates. £5 to £6: A.IVs, £4 to £4 10s. :
cooks, £5 to £5 10s. (with “slush” as a per-
quisite). Apprentices received £5O for five
years, beginning at £8 and rising a pound
a year till their time expired.
The old-time sailors who commanded collier brigs,
brigantines and schooners that ran between the North-
East Coast coal ports and London, the French ports
and Holland, knew every inch of the road with per-
fect thoroughness. Nearly all of them were quite
illiterate, and never doubted that God was an
exalted compatriot of theirs, and in relation to
favors they believed that foreigners should be ex-
cluded, • and that they should have the first call on
His beneficence, nautical and commercial.
This liuking-up of Providence with the Brit-
ish mercantile marine is illustrated in the
story of an old captain nicknamed Barley
—on account of his rotundity. A Dutch
galliot, which lie had made up to and weath-
ered, got. the first of a leading wine, and
was swept by wind and tide far ahead of
Barley’s craft. Under this insult _to the
old man’s pride of race and ship, his natu-
ral dignity and inarticulation suffered a sea-
change. He cursed so fluently that th ■ mate
interposed. “Swearing like that for!” he
replied. “Are you blind? See where that
galliot is now! That’s a fine thing for
God Almighty to give a leading wind to a
Dutchman and let His own countryman be
left on a lee shore!”
Sir Walter lias a profound belief in the
P.ritish-lmilt ship: but even the British pro-
duct is not lmilt for all time, and for a class
of owners of those days—and a few still
survive—he lias nothing but indignant con-
demnation. If the Turk massacred by cut-
ting men's throats, the British Government
was equally guilty of massacre “by allow-
ing rotten, ill-equipped, ill-designed vessels
to sail under the rod ensign and carry to
their doom shiploads of the finest seamen in
the world.” In Gladstone’s day “we ‘God-
damned’ the Sultan of Turkey or anybody
readily enough, but I have known the
time when poor sailors might, and did.
with equal justice ‘God-damn’ the Brit-
ish Government.” These owners, he remarks
bitterly, “squared their conscience by throw-
ing the responsibility of the seamen’s safety
on to God Almighty. They wearied Heaven
with prayers for the safe keeping of their
ships and crews, while they neglected fun-
damental precautions for their safety.” In-
deed, it seemed to be an idea of the. time that
drowning was not a possible contingency of
the sailor’s life, but its natural end.
After these years of coastal work he re-
turned to the high seas, his choice of a
vessel falling on the Bondicar, a barque said
to have been the first vessel to carry gold
from Australia. Some years later she was
wrecked on the Norwegian coast, only one-
man and the captain’s Newfoundland dog
being rescued. Reference is made to many
Australian traders of the early days: the
Marco Polo, regarded as one of the fastest
vessels then afloat; the Lightning, the
Schomberg and others. The ancients among
the shipping men may still remember that
brilliant, dare-devil commander. James Nicol
Forbes, to whom was due a large share of
the credit for throwing enthusiasm into the
Australian passenger trade. Nor is the
Cutty Sark overlooked. In 1921 the old
clipper rested in the Surrey Commercial
Dock, and Sir Walter was asked to interest
himself in her purchase, the idea being to
buy her as a national relic from her then
owner, a Portuguese :
There she lay, still a magnificent accomplishment
of British naval architecture. I know that she had
been changed from a full-rigged ship to a three-
masted brigantine, but the first glimpse at her dilapi-
dated condition made me feel that those responsible
for it should be hung at the fore yard-arm. We
were all depressed. I had seen her spinning up
the English Channel about 48 years ago, a matchless
thing of beauty, not a rope-yarn out of order, the
pride of the Mercantile Marine; and the contrast
made me glad, after looking through her, to get
away from the misery of it.
The first captain, of the Cutty Sark died
only recently. He had known lior from the
time of her launching in 1869. After over
half a century off life she has been recondi-
tioned and restored to her original rig.
If this book is a record of adventure on
the high sea it is no less a record of the
indomitable heart that carried a child of 12
years from the cabin of a sailing vessel ty
the ownership of a fleet of steamships, to a
place in municijpal life, a seat in Parliament,
a baronetcy and greater honor than these,
the respect of 3iis fellow-men for those ster-
ling qualities of character that the open
spaces of the sea seem to breathe into the
sailorman.
T. B. C.
Granville Barker
Granville Barker told me that up till 1905,
although he had written a fair number of
plays, he never made out of any one of them
enough money even to pay for the title.
Forty-live pounds would cover the lot. But
that old fox Bernard Shaw had his eye upon
him; and he himself, having published a
hook, sent Barker an advance copy with the
following inscription : “To Granville Barker,
the captain of that younger generation at
whose doors these plays are knocking.” The
compliment set Barker’s heart beating; and,
with both sleeves tucked to the elbow, lie
went about the New Theatre enterprise. A
devil for technique, this youthful manager,
after a careful perusal of Shaw’s book, hit
upon a comedy which he considered might
possibly, by a little alteration, be brought
into acting range for professional production.
Shaw wouldn’t stir, so Barker, between inter-
vals spent in looking for financial assistance,
tackled the job on his own responsibility. “I
re-wrote the parts, and didn’t think much of
it.” But the people with the money-bags
weren’t “taking any.” If you said “Shaw,"
they replied “Scaramouch.” And, after all,
their cash was their own, to do what they
liked with. Barker persisted; he absolutely
refused to be put down. And then, at last,
one tallow-merchant called out: “Give it a
fly! We'll see what can be done!” This
was the first play which met with any success.
Shaw, chuckling amid advertisements,
screeled off more comedies; and, in a spurt
of the sap, suddenly produced his famous
Harley-(Street)-Quinade, “The Doctor’s
Dilemma.” Meanwhile Galsworthy had
barged in, bringing variety, which was added
to by a couple of two acters from the pen of
the indefatigable manager himself. The busi-
ness side had all the attention generally given
to a blood-horse, and the whole stable-full
flourished. Actors walked familiarly with
the Ghost, and Bernard was often seen wring-
ing Shaw’s hand in ecstasies of admiration.
Then one night, over a great porter-house
steak. Barker evolved a new thing, which he
christened “the short run.” And this was the
way of it. “When we decided to do a show
it became our policy to announce a run of
three weeks; and even then, in the event of
a frost, it was always safe to bet on its
still being able to go the complete distance.
But if the play proved to be a success, we
would either put it on again or continue it
right along, so that the public were always
kept guessing as to box-office results.” After
this fashion, the Court Theatre began to
show its colorful flower above the great
whirligarden of London entertainments.
Three years went by—spasmodic years—
during which time writers and actors exerted
themselves to the utmost: and yet, in spite
of this, there was trouble in the camp. Too
many dogs' heads in the porridge-pot! The
directors were beginning to argue about how
things ougnt to be done. “We had tried
to mo as economical as we could, but it took
a great deal of monev.” Barker went to
New York. and. with the brains and bullion
of Charles Frohmau to comfort and stay
him, gave shows in America which remain
unforgotten to this day.
It was during Barker’s second visit to
America that I ran across him in a little
office in the Knickerbocker Building, close
against Broadway, in New York. I was
introduced by O. P. Heggie, who explained
I was anxious to try for an understudy in
“Androcles and the Lion.” “What experi-
ence have you had?” “None.” “Why do
you want, to go upon the stage?” “Because
I am out of work.” When I said that,
Barker took me by the hand, and, shaking it
warmly, assured me of a job. In less than
seven days from the time of that interview
I was rehearsing under his direction in
Wallack’s Theatre, then a notable landmark
and one of the oldest playhouses in New
York. Those performances were the last
ever given within its memory-crowded walls.
There were in the company five Australians
—O. I*. Ilcggic, Green, Arnold Lucy, liuby
Blythe and myself.
I have always admired Barker because lie
picked me out of the gutter, and continued
ids interest in me, even after I had begun to
taae on the appearance of a stalled ox. I
fatten very quickly, but I never forget a
friend.
HUGH McCRAE.
“Etho”: Zora. Cross’s description of tlie Austra-
lian Bush as “a. green prison of silent scrub” sets
one wondering - if it were so to I). 11. Lawrence when
here, and what that writer of the dark pit will make
of it in his new novel of Australia, ‘‘The Bov in
the Bush.”
From Arthur Lynch, M.A. and C.E., Melbourne:
L.R.C.P. and M.R.C.S., England; ex-M.P.; author of
40 books, more varied than any other living man has
put his name to:—
A Red Page notice of my last book, “Seraph
Wings,” has reminded me to say a few words, which
1 beg you to hear sympathetically. When I left
Australia for Europe—first for the University of
Berlin —I did not know a. soul in the Northern Hemi-
sphere; but I had projected a course of study, prin-
cipally in science (and here we are on facts), more
extensive than any man had undertaken, it was a
wrench far more severe than I realised to leave my
home in Australia, but one thought that always
braced me was the hope of doing something that
would tell in the history of thought, and that
consequently might bring honor to my native land.
The great discoveries I believed to be those of the
mind; a new thing brought to man’s intellectual pos-
session is greater than the pomp of Empires. 1 will
not labor this question now, but leave my books ro
answer for me. And, moreover, 1 write in a mood
of sadness, for my name in Australia, the one country
whose praise meant all for me, has been vilified,
covered with lies and dragged through the gutter.
Yes, it is said, but you fought for the Boers. True,
and, dear to me as is the goodwill of Australians,
I would not wish to gain, it by expressing contrition
or begging forgiveness. The South African War was
one of the vilest acts in the history of the spoliation
of a small nation by a greater Power. 1 fought there
on the side of right, though had Australia declared
war on the Transvaal I would have cut off my right
hand rather than have taken up arms, but Australia
remained neutral. I fought as a Republican, because
from the principles I imbibed in Australia of justice,
of independence—let me say in a word, manhood —
I could not be anything else. There is tbe beginning
and end of my offending. When a few years roll by,
and Australia has achieved a. .yet higher destiny in
the roll of nations, these matters will be looked at
in another light, for my acts will appeal to what is
best in the Australian spirit. 1 hare written rather
a dull letter, but remember that for years 1 have
been misrepresented and abused and ostracised, and
this is the first time that I. an Australian of the
Australians, have hail the chance even of reply.


1
Trade Mark
$
m,
A
fi |.
<*//
s.-<
r^A,.
rl
S«3' -
'W*
v»
sfex
Royal Cord Tyres Are
Now Made by Three
New Processes Which
Have Revolutionized
Tyre Making
THE development by the United States Rubber Company of
three remarkable new processes of rubber manufacture now
gives to Royal Cord Tyres a quality never before reached by
any tyre.
1. The New Sprayed Rubber. A method so effective that
a virgin rubber ol a quality never known until now is made
available to the world.
2. The New Web Cord. • Of Specific application to the art
of cord tyre making. A process of treating fabrics and cords
with latex, making if possible to manufacture tyres and other
articles with a degree of strength hitherto unattained.
3. The New Flat-Rand Building Process. A method of
building cord tyres which is revolutionary. Finally and at
last assuring uniform cushioning and resistance in cord tyres.
Taken alone, either of these new discoveries would be regarded as
of the utmost significance, but together they are hailed as the most
important advance in the field of rubber manufacture since the
discovery of vulcanization nearly a century ago.
These three basic discoveries, fully protected by patents in the
U. S. A. and other countries, are the exclusive property of the
United States Rubber Company, makers of Royal Cord Tyres.
Obtainable at all Garag'es.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth. Northern Motors Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
F. W. Heritage & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
North Queensland: Rees & Tice, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns.


HART-PARR TRACTOR
Built by
HART-PARR
Company.
POWERFUL STURDY KEROSENE TRACTORS /
mi
FOUNDERS OF TRACTOR INDUSTRY
Founders of the
Tractor Industry
and Largest
Exclusive Builders of
Kerosene Tractors
in the World.
IS THE
DADDY OF THEM ALL.
The true test of a Tractor is not in the results it gives in a so-called “field demonstration
of short duration, but in its endurance and continued satisfaction to owners under practical
working conditions on the farm.
In this respect
The HART-PARR TRACTOR Stands Alone.
THESE OWNERS SPEAK FOR THE HART-PARR:
Western Australia.
Marchagee, W.A.,
18tli July, 1924,
To Malloch Bros.,
In answer to your inquiry for par-
ticulars of work done by my "Hart-
Parr” Tractor, 15/30, purchased 21st
February, 1923, I have pleasure in
stating that my Tractor is giving
perfect satisfaction, and I sincerely
claim that she has ploughed over 1000
acres of land besides all belt work and
haulages on the place, and at present
is scrub rolling in heavy scrub land.
To date the Tractor has cost me 7/6
for spares, which, no doubt, you
already know, as spare parts are not
purchased from anywhere but your
Firm for “Hart-Parr” Tractors.
I highly recommend her for scrub-
rolling. I can 4-011 20 acres per day
with a 7ft. 6iny roller, costing about
2/- per acre for kerosene and lubricat-
ing oil. My costs for ploughing in
stiff gimlet and salmon country is
3/7 per acre for kerosene, lubricating
oil and grease, including labor.
With regard to delay in work: as I
have had no breakages. I have had no
stoppages, nor have I had occasion to
call for your expert. I have cleaned
the engine out twice, and on neither
occasion have I obtained one ounce of
carbon, and I claim my compression is
as good as the day I purchased the
Tractor.
I have ploughed with the Tractor
after sundown, and have done as much
work before midnight as the horses
would do in a full day. I am still
using the original pinions and bull
gears, and these will easily do another
500 acres of ploughing. 1 do not
recommend overloading a Tractor in
heavy, stiff ground. I find a 6-furrow
mouldboard is the most profitable load
to pull. In lighter ground, of course,
I can pull up to 10 furrows.
(Signed) F. R. BRYANT.
New South Wales.
“St. Elmo,”
Coobang,
Parkes.
Dear Sirs,
My opinion about the Hart-Parr is
that it has proved itself absolutely
satisfactory with all work done. The
tractor worked throughout the harvest
without a hitch, and I feel sure that
it would have pulled a 12ft. header
without trouble. In my opinion the
life of the engine will be long with
reasonable treatment.
Yours faithfully,
R. JOB.
With his Hart-Parr Mr. Job put
up a World’s Harvesting Record dur-
ing last harvest by taking off 302 bags
off 30 acres with an Bft. header in
one day. With this tractor Mr. Job
took off the whole of his harvest, 3700
bags from 530 acres in a little over
four weeks, during which time the
tractor was also used for chaffcutting
and sawing.
Queensland.
What the HART-PARR can do is
clearly stated by Mr, John Kallaris:
I hauled 560 tons of cane on port-
able rails, and find the Hart-Parr just
the Tractor for this job. The grades
on my farm range 1 in 12 to 1 in 0.
I have let down four loaded trucks on
the 1 in 9 grade, and have pulled as
many as five loaded trucks up the
same grade. I have 83 chains of port-
able rails, and have trucked out 40
trucks of cane in seven hours. I had
four hills to climb, making eight differ-
ent grades. The time was taken from
when 1 coupled on to the empties to
bring them into the paddock until I
had the last of the 40 ready for the
mill loco. I had only one man and
myself on this job, and the fuel con-
sumption when trucking out was eight
gallons of kerosene per day. I have
pulled 40 full trucks on the level. To
do the same work with horses it would
need two teams of three horses pull-
ing up the hills, and one team letting
down, and two men to each team, to
do 40 trucks in 12 hours.
Before buying a Tractor
Investigate the HART-PARR.
Then you will buy a HART-PARR.
America.
Hallock, Minn.,
March 31, 1920.
Hart-Parr Company,
Charles City, lowa.
Gentlemen,
Just thought I would let you know
that I sold Old Hart-Parr No. 5 last
fall to Stromgren Brothers, of Kennedy,
Minn., who are now operating it.
This old Tractor was bought in
the Spring of 1903, and has been
in operation every year since. The
last four seasons I operated it with
practically no expense, except for
fuel and oil. I liked the old Tractor
and was really sorry to let it go.
I understand it is operating in fine
shape for Stromgren Brothers, and
they are thoroughly satisfied with it.
Yours truly,
OTTO NYGAARD.
May 1, 1924.
Old Hart-Parr No. 5, which is with-
out doubt the oldest operating Tractor
in the world, is still being operated by
Stromgren Brothers in 1924. They
insist it is good for many years, of
farm work yet.
Old No. 5 Hart-Parr is equipped
with a two-cylinder, slow-speed, heavy-
duty motor. It is absolutely the same
motor with which this Tractor was
equipped when it left the factory. It
is governor controlled.
HART-PARR COMPANY.
Further information and all particulars and specifications of the HART-PARR will be supplied
gladly by the undermentioned Australian Agents and Distributors:—
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
37 Pitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset, Ltd.,
73-81 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros.,
50-54 William Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
T. Robinson & Co. Pty„, Ltd.,
Spotswood.


! ISvQQ
o
o^aa
ra
p
fistfff
The Heart of a Lighting Plant
WHATEVER make or type of lighting-plant you
install, the service it will give you will depend
most on the ENGINE. A lighting-plant is only a machine
for converting the mechanical power of the engine into
electrical power for light and heat, and if your engine fails
there s an end to your light, power, heat and everything.
Your battery will, of course, see you through for a day
or two, but the Engine is really the Heart of a Lighting-
plant.
That being so, how important it is, when selecting your plant, to see
that the engine is sound in wind and limb, to be sure that its reputation is,
above all, for RELIABILITY! In other words, the engine that is to generate
your electric current must be one that you would confidently select to drive
your shearing-machines, your pumps, your milking-machines or any of your
profit-earning operations. There is no more reason for “chancing” some
untried engine for your light plant than for any other job.
Past performances in all parts of the world have made the dependability
and durability of the Lister Engine so proverbial that it is known as “the
Rolls-Royce of Farm Engines. Over and over again users report after
several years use, “never touched with a spanner so far.” That’s the engine
you need, that s the engine you want, and that’s the engine you get in
r isYer-/itei
Dynamo, Battery and Switchboard are kept up to the same high standard.
The whole plant, in fact, is designed for the use of the “man out back,” for
v horn breakdowns mean so much more inconvenience than for others nearer
civilisation. There are several styles of plant and a wide range of sizes.
Whatever your needs, write for full particulars about the Lister-Lite, and
you 11 find a plant to suit you.
One of the many types of “Lister-Lite.
hl-b.h.p. Twin-cylinder Lister Kerosene
Engine, direct coupled to 6-k.w. dynamo.
For N.S.W DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney
For Q’land WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane
For Vic A. P. SUTHERLAND, South Melbourne
For S A HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD., Adelaide
For W.A MALLOCH BROS Perth
For N.Z LEVIN & CO Wellington
a a a a a a a
flHfl
R. A. LISTER
VVW VVgVWW VVVtfVWVVw B¥
C? LTP DURSLEY ENGLAND.
b w d w t/ awvtav w vy wvyFwyy w wtrg'v


j^oßakeb'
* TEt
Cabinets
of
Cutlery.
100—W. .IXO BAKER P RESENTATION
CABINET: Polished Wood Case. Size
8 x Hi x 2} inches. Containing W. Jno.
Baker Stainless Cutlery. 6 Stainless Table
Knives; 0 Stainless Dessert Knives, com-
plete. Fine Finish, Oval. Grained, Xylo-
nite Handles, £B/17/6: or Extra Fine
Finish, Bevelled Xylonite Handles, Octa-
gon Bolster.
£4/15/- Complete.
Postage, 1/(5 extra.
106—W. JNO. BAKER PRESENTATION
CABINET; Polished Wood Case. Size
about IS x 6 x 2-J inches. Containing W.
Jno. Baker Stainless Cutlery. 6 Stainless
Table Knives: <5 Stainless Dessert Knives;
1 Stainless Meat Carver; Nickel-plated
Fork: 1 Sharpening Steel. Fine Finish,
Round. Grained Xylonite Handles.
£6/2/6.
Extra Fine Finish. Bevelled Xylonite
Handles, Octagon Bolster, £7/10/-
Postage. 2/- extra.
IB
108— XV. JNO. BAKER PRESENTATION
CABINET; Polished Wood Case. Size
about 164 x 121 x 34 inches. Containing
W. Jno. Baker Stainless Cutlery. 6 Stain-
less Table Knives, Grained Xylonite
Handles; 6 Stainless Dessert Knives,
Grained Xylonite Handles; 1 Stainless
Meat Carver; Nickel-plated Fork; 1 Stain-
less Poultry Carver; Nickel-plated Fork:
1 Sharpening Steel; 2 Table Spoons; 6
Table Forks; 6 Dessert Forks; 6 Dessert
Spoons; 6 Tea Spoons. Spoons and Forks
plated with Sterling Silver on Fine Hard
White Metal.
Cabinet and Contents Complete—
With B Quality Spoons and Forks, £l2.
With A Quality Spoons and Forks,
£l4/10/-
Carriage extra.
Ill—W. JNO. BAKER PRESENTATION
CABINET; Finely Polished. Half-circle
Wood Case; length when closed. 20in.:
width. lOfin.: height, -Win. Containing
W. Jno. Baker Stainless Cutlery. 0 Stain-
less Table Knives, Fine Finish, Grained
Xylonite Handles; 6 Stainless Dessert
Knives. Fine Finish. Grained. Xylonite
Handles: 1 Pair Stainless Carvers; 1
Sharpening Steel: 6 Table Forks; 2
Table Spoons; (i Soup Spoons: 6 Dessert
Spoons; 6 Tea Spoons; 6 Egg Spoons;
1 Sugar Tongs. A 1 Quality Sheffield Plate.
Plated with Sterling Silver upon Fine
Hard White Metal.
Cabinet and Contents. 21 Guineas comp.
Carriage extra.
Monogram engraved on Cabinets from
.“>/- each.
Initials engraved on contents from 3/6
per dozen.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
The House of Steel,
3 Hunter Street, Sydney,
BOSTOCK
- Shoe Paste ~
ii£®>
EX
a
8
13015°
OF UNEQUALLED QUALITY
Preserves the Leather and imparts a
brilliant and lasting shine to distinctive
footwear. In Black, Light Brown,
Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
Price (id. per tin. Obtainable everywhere.
VZZW (W
m
0
lWa
1
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—-p erm a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Urey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied-
waterproof. All Chemists.
V
MEXICAN
Beauty Of Skin And Hair
Preserved By Cuticura
Use Cuticura Soap for daily toilet pur-
poses, with touches of Cuticura Ointment
as needed. It promotes fresh, clear skin
and thick, glossy hair. They are ideal
for the toilet as is also Cuticura Tal-
cum for powdering and perfuming.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment ls.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S. W.”
9PMF** Try our new Shaving Stick.
Back from the laundry
-and Every tiling Right
1
When you have all
Linen Marked
with the Noted Reliable
CASHS <®> NAMES
They are a great convenience, because
your Name (woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color) is always ready to
attach to any Garment of any material.
They are invaluable to the Housewife,
Traveller and School Outfits.
hbkjlmjklhbkjlmjklmklmkl
Actual Size, Name Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices: 12 doz. 716, 6 doz. 51-, 3 doz. 316
Write for Style Book to
J..Bt J. CASH EK:
85 Cubitt Street. Richmond, Melbourne.
Ihe Cigar of generous size
Supreme in flavor and
and weight,
aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 ( posted 6/-)
-5 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
oO „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars
1 - Post Free.
i
-1
si
1
I
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS for
CUJB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Written in a Copy of Musarum Delicite.
What joy to think, mayhap, that once
My book, before it reached this dunce,
Were throughly fished in, ev’ry page,
By some old can die-win king sage,
Who privately might smile to see
Such leaping wits as herein be.
So shall I love the same, and guess
Where he applauded, and impress
My bitten thumb-nail down the rime
Scored by his own in Charles's time.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Flower-time.
All ye that long for wholesome air
Put work aside, I pray ye.
And let no petty task nor care
From holidaying stay ye.
For fool is he who never knows
That there’s a time for playing,
And happy is the man who goes
At whiles a-holidaying.
’Tis wattle-time, ’tis wildflower-time;
The bush is hung with splendor.
The thrushes sing; the bellbird’s chime
Rings silverly and tender.
Too crammed is life with aches and ills.
Too charged with griefs that smother.
To take the tracks across the hills
I’m one—who’ll make another?
Blows warm the wind that late blew cold,
And pleasant is the weather;
To follow ways of floral gold
Let us fare forth together.
Green frond and blade, green bush and tree
Forbid all thoughts of sorrow ;
Take what the present offers ye.
And fear not for to-morrow!
Why crave for silver coin ? Why itch
Life-long for gold man-minted?
Great nature is a banker rich
With stores of gold unstinted.
'Tis wattle-time, and blooms a-glow
Make all the land a garden ;
Who will not now a-roving go
For him there is no pardon.
When he is teased by troublous hours,
And care his spirit crushes,
He shall not see remembered flowers
Nor hear remembered thrushes.
Wherefore, all ye that long for air
Out-breathed by flowers, I pray ye
Thrust work aside and let no care
From holidaying stay ye!
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Return.
Paulina rides along the wind.
But I —l sit and wait inside!
The sea-rain slants across the door
And riven boughs are reeling o'er
Black fingers of the tide!
I sit alone and hold my hands,
Blue-veined, upon my thin old knees.
The white ash smoulders heap on heap.
The dogs stir whimpering in their sleep
When torment takes the trees.
'T shall come back from death,” she said,
■‘ln wind and wet the long nights through.
I loving, who have loved in vain,
Still undesired, shall come again,
Calling, and calling you!”
The door is clamped with iron bars,
And fastened close each rusty catch ;
The window-panes are shuttered in.
Yet ghostly fingers twirl the pin
And fumble at the latch.
I sit inside with whitening locks
Clutching the past: but. wild with dread.
Some night unto the door I’ll go
And shout: “Why do you trouble so.
Paulina, cold and dead?”
Down oozing step and path I’ll lurch
To where Paulina stands and waits,
Her black hair on the dark a-stream,
And looking backward in a dream
Pass through the rotten gates!
There’ll be a laughter from the beach.
A calling and a crying there....
And in the dawn you’ll find me pale
Beneath a kelp and brown-weed veil.
Drowned in Paulina’s hair!
Victoria.
MYAR MORRIS.
He Died Young.
He died young; pray for the dead.
Thus and thus and thus they said....
He died young; his soul has fled
Adventuring among the dead.
He has wilted Heaven's bars :
His low laughter rocks the stars.
He is king of the tall towers.
In his hands are the bright floAvers.
From all the tricks the fowler shaped
Like a bird he is escaped.
He died young, and now is he
A captain of God’s chivalrie.
He died young: pray for the dead.
Thus and thus aud thus they said. ...
Fools! Pray, pray for the dead. . . .
Mark you where the young god sped?
He left a gold footprint there.
And the fallen glitter from his hair:
The star-dust from his hair will shine.
He left the sting of lips on mine.
He died young; pray for the dead.
Thus and thus and thus they said.
MAORILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


9
a
&
m
WtK
:
H
H
HHSE
.
?V
«f


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sjdney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45—No. 232 G.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924.
Pbicb 6d.
THE ALLIES.
THE CHIEF FINANCIER: “You’ve made yourself too unpopular for a while in Europe. Be off to China and get busy for us there.”


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Australia for tile White Man.”
anc * Published by William Macleod, of
«us B iave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
i-0., 1 14 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
elbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly;
months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
lo ANT ADDRESS OVERSEAS; 12 months. £1 10s. ; 6
months, 16s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
yhec/ues, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all IS usmess Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused,
'1 he contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pai t of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
///e Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Corres-pondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
T) “ n °l exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
8010 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. AH communications
rr he ,guarded as strictly confidential.
liie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
i' te odtfress, is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ISlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous ' or other, topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for' same
oil acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but. unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Tj. St. C. Grondona. Australia House. Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” ran he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. : E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 5S Gracechurch, Street, London, E.C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Hhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., ffil Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. A’. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 J Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West Jjlst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty Neivs Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Rovpt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. p. Pereia, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Parker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.i).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: '/ to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional J/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: '/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER IS, 1024.
REFORM —HONEST AND OTHER-
WISE.
The South Australian Labor Government
met Parliament with a programme whose
most important features are intentionally
provocative. There is nothing violent about
the measures of which Collier has given
notice in Westralia, or Lyons in Tasmania,
or Pbendergast in Victoria, or even Theo-
dore in Queensland; but Gunn and his col-
leagues are looking for trouble and will be
disappointed if they don’t strike it. “I
anticipate that Another Place will throw out
nearly all our legislation,” said Attorney-
General Denny, desire of battle shining in
his eyes. Then, remembering that “our
legislation” included proposals as innocuous
as that hardy annual in State Parliaments,
a Bill to Consolidate the Law relating to
Unregistered Dogs, he restricted the joyous
prophecy to “our first five bills.” One of the
five is an elaborate plan for reducing mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly from 46 to
35 and ushering in proportional representa-
tion. Redistribution is to be effected by
adopting the Federal boundaries and estab-
lishing seven electoral districts,_ each with
five members. Incidentally, it is proposed,
sensibly enough, to let the Commonwealth
department control the whole machinery of
State elections, from roll to ballot-box. The
Government’s plan would give Adelaide 15
members and the rest of the State 20. Con-
sidering that 52.67 per cent, of the popula-
tion lives in the metropolitan district, or did
when counted in 1921, and that the Labor
party is stronger there than elsewhere, the
arrangement is not devoid of generosity, pro-
vided the Government is sincere.
The method of filling casual vacancies is an
interesting attempt to solve the unsolvable:
After the five successiul candidates in a district
have been ascertained, the returning-officer will re-
count the ballot-papers in order to find, in each case,
the candidate next in order of preference to the person
elected. That candidate will be the member’s emer-
gency, and if the member’s seat becomes vacant and
the emergency is duly nominated for the vacancy
he will be declared elected. But if the emergency is
not nominated—if he has died in the meantime or is
unavailable for some other reason —an election will
be field to fill the vacancy. In that ease the dis-
trict will be considered as a single electorate, and
the votes will be cast and counted on the preferential
principle.
Very ingenious, no doubt, but in circum-
stances that might arise it would be a tra-
vesty of proportional representation. Such
a position would occur if a Blue M.L.A. re-
signed in a district where the other four
members were Buffs, and if another Buff
were elected for the vacancy (the Blue emer-
gency having disappeared- in some fashion)
with less than a four-fifths majority. In
N. S. Wales the only Nationalist M.L.A.
in a three-member constituency was raised
to the Bench, and the sole remaining Nation-
alist candidate at the general election took
his place. That candidate dying, a man who
hadn’t stood for election was appointed at
the instance of the Nationalist leader with-
out reference to the electorate. In the sup-
posititious South Australian case the minor-
ity would be robbed of representation granted
to perhaps smaller minorities in other parts
of the State; in effect, there would be pro-
portionalism in six of the seven electoral dis-
tricts and preferentialismin the other. The fact
is that there is no way of filling casual vacan-
cies under proportional representation with-
out depriving some portion of the electors of
prescriptive rights. Neither is there any
way of securing intelligent representation for
remote and sparsely inhabited settlements
whose voting power is negligible in prodigi-
ous multiple electorates, though it wouldn’t
be negligible where single electorates and
preferentialism obtained. It has been pointed
out that one of the proposed S.A. electoral
districts reaches from Spencer’s Gulf to the
W.A. border, and from the Southern Ocean
to the Northern Territory, and is about three
times the size of Great Britain and Ireland.
The pastoralists on its northern fringe would
have a poor chance of getting members atten-
tive to their opinions and local requirements
compared with bodies of voters in the larger
centres of population—bodies of prohibition-
ists, perhaps, or Bolshevists, or clericalists.
As to that, N. S. Wales may wake up some
morning and find that, thanks to the pro-
portional system, the political balance of
power is in the hands of Skelton, the Pro-
testant member for Newcastle; or Fallon,
the R.C. member for Eastern Suburbs; or
Ness of the L.0.L.; or some fanatic of
compulsory abstinence. Elective Ministries
would be a safeguard against this menace,
but the election of Ministries is on no party
programme, either in N. S. Wales or in
South Australia.
* * * *
Preferential voting, with single electorates
honestly distributed, is the only democratic
system for popular assemblies in countries
like. Australia, providing as it does for
majority rule and for by-elections involving
no departure from principle or sacrifice of
rights. Proportional representation, if re-
sorted to at all, should be restricted to cases
where there is no danger of the majority
being victimised by a corrupt or mischievous
minority, and where by-elections and the area
of constituencies don’t greatly matter —in a
word, to second Chambers. Oddly enough,
the Leg. Council is excluded from Gunn’s
proportional-representation and reduction-of-
members scheme. 'He has introduced two
bills dealing with his Upper House, one sub-
stituting adult suffrage for the property fran-
chise, and the other incorporating the British
provisions whereby measures passed in three
successive sessions of the popular Chamber
automatically become law, Another Place
notwithstanding; but no information is fur-
nished as to liow the reformed body will be
elected, liow many members it will have, how
much thev will be paid, or how long they
will hold their jobs. In the circumstances, the
Government is suspected of an ardent hope
that Another Place will fulfil Denny’s pre-
diction. It would be disconcerting to be de-
prived of the present electoral distribution,
the first-past-the-post system and 11 political
billets; and the democratisation or destruc-
tion of a Chamber which can always be
blamed for heaving out Labor bills which
were never intended to be passed would be
a calamity. In fact, the Council could not
embarrass Gunn and Denny more than by
accepting their constitutional amendments.
But it isn't likely to do so.
NEW FACTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF
OLD FOOLS.
The search for “new markets,” or the de-
mand that they should be searched for, is
the passion of the old Freetrade which
is a city and importing institution living in
an office, and of its new and misguided ally,
the Country party, which is supposed to lead
the simple life in the bush, and watch the
sun arise behind the gum-tree. In this con-
nection foreign markets are always meant.
The idea is good enough for the man in the
office, who collects his commission on foreign
trade both going and coming; but it is a
crazy business for the man on the land, who
is invited to give up the substance in return
for the promise of the shadow, and that a
very old shadow which he had in other days
and found of small value. What he has
really got into his simple cranium is some-
thing to the effect that
If he can contrive to destroy or greatly damage
the local manufacturing industries which furnish the
“primary producer” with his best market (a sure
market, for competitive food substances can be shut
out) ;
And substitute imported for Australian goods;
And sell his surplus to artisans in Germany instead
of to artisans here, provided the way isn’t blocked
by marine strikes, or war, or by a glut in the
foreign market, and lose, say, Is. 3d. per bushel
on his wheat in freight;
And if he gets a new land-tax to make up for the
loss of customs revenue (for losses have to be made
good somehow)- —
Then he is told by interested parties that he will
get his corn-scratcher or his reaper and bagger a
trifle cheaper, if the importing interests don't make
a combine, in which case he may get it dearer.
Tlie old Freetrade party had practically
passed out of v notice, for, though it sat at
the old address, it had, like Bunyan’s giants,
Pope and Pagan, almost ceased from
activity. But on these theses there arose
the Country party, to which the old gang
cheerfully attached itself. The combine is
nowhere strong enough to make a complete
Government, and in various places it will
begin to flicker out when constituencies are
readjusted according to population. But it
is helpful for putting Labor in power; and if
State Labor has no authority to remove the
duty off the corn-scratcher or the reaper and
bagger, it can at least oblige with an agri-
cultural basic wage and a 44-liour agricul-
tural week.
The Federal department has just done a
little by way of bringing the public store of
information up to date. It reckons that the
value of everything produced “on the land”
last year was £219,199,171. Of this lot
some 5J million Australians bought
£121,000,000 worth, while 1638 million
people (a recent estimate) outside bought
£98,000,000 worth. On this basis the local
market, which hardly receives a mention amid
the clatter of Freetraders and Country party
cranks, is worth consideration, especially as
it is capable of indefinite expansion. Aus-
tralia’s best customer, which is Australia,
can easily grow in population by 1000 per
cent., while its second-best customer, Great
Britain, is more likely to decline, being rather
crowded already. The gross output of the
Commonwealth’s factories last year is offici-
ally set down at 326} million pounds, which
compares rather well with the “primary”
business. The manufacturer, besides being
the best customer of the man on the land, is
twice as good a customer as the land person
to the machinery and implement maker, for
lie uses 86 million pounds’ worth of appara-
tus against the other man’s 40 millions, yet
he doesn’t put up the same pathetic wail
about being an injured old woman when he
isn’t allowed to import his apparatus free of
duty. Then, in addition to being a better
wagepayer than his agricultural relative, he
shows a capacity for expansion which the
other greatly lacks. During the past 13
years the number of persons to whom he gave
employment increased by 26 per cent., so he
more than kept pace with the growth of popu-
lation. On the other hand, employment in
rural jobs of all sorts, despite the scores of
borrowed millions spent on coddling processes
of one sort and another, expanded to the
extent of only 1} per cent. If Australia had
depended on “the land” and on “primary pro-
duction,” as fools, Freetraders and Country
parties would have it do, it would be an ex-
porter of population, and in the same cat-
egory of misery as Ireland, or, in a less
degree, Scotland.
* * * -*
Part of the explanation may lie in the
fact that the Australian manufacturer is a
fairly versatile individual. He is still a
long way from supplying the country’s
entire needs, but he is making progress
that way. lie is probably more perse-
cuted with awards and double awards
(State and Federal) than any other man
of his class on earth, and has to reckon
with a larger number of trades-union secre-
taries, considering the population of the
country, than any other man. Yet lie tries
his hand at many things. There are bright
exceptions, of course; but the aggregate man
on the land has been described, on the other
hand, as a dull dog in a deep rut, and The
Bulletin is sorry that it cannot quarrel very
actively with the description. It hopes to
do so later on. Australia is far from being as
large as iis fervid young patriots imagine;
still its most southern State is habitually
included in maps of the Antarctic, while its
most northern Possession is within shouting
distance of the Equator. It has many cli-
mates, and is all suitable for white men and
white industry, barring a few deserts. There
are still old-fashioned fools who write of
Tropical Australia, which is the best part of
Australia, as a place where “the white man
can’t work,” because it is tropical, in which
matter they ignore the fact that the white
man has lived in the tropics for over 300
years. Brazil, the fourth for size of the
white-man countries of the globe, is almost
wholly tropical, and partly equatorial; that
it has just accomplished the feat of raising
its population from 17:} to 30} millions in
20 years, and lias 23 inhabitants to the
square mile in a province almost beneath
the Line, is a fair argument that North Aus-
tralia is a habitable land. But so' little does
Australia’s agricultural class diversify that
the last complete year’s statistics showed that
the Commonwealth paid away £10,660,009
for vegetable substances which it could have
produced for itself, and if liquors, which
are certainly of vegetable origin, were added
the bill would have been almost £2.000.000
larger. A very stolid grower of wheat for
export is the Australian agriculturist. This
grain covered 70 per cent, of the cultivated
area at last report. Sometimes so much is
grown that two-tliirds of the crop has to
hunt for a foreign market, being carried to
the seaboard at great cost, and then started
on a voyage which is quite capable of eating
up one bushel out of three. If the Country
party showed half the versatility in think-
ing out new crops that it does in thinking
out new ways of getting in. on Freetrade
principles, imported Yankee implements, made
under High Protection, agriculture might
really make a move.
THE CONFESSION AND THE
“CONFESSOR.”
A cold, business-like man enters the witness-
box in the criminal court. The prisoner
turns a shade paler and his counsel quickens
to attention. This incident is usually re-
ported by the newspapers merely as “Detec-
tive gave evidence ot' arrest.” The man
in the dock might well hope that it meant
only that. What is really happening is that
the witness is giving evidence of what the
accused said to him immediately before the
arrest. There often follows a desperate
attempt to get this deadly evidence shut out,
but the nlain-clotlies division is shrewd nowa-
days and astute to avoid the pitfalls of pres-
sure, or “inducement” to talk. In this matter
of compelling, admitting and rejecting confes-
sions the English law has acliieved in its
time a remarkable volte-face, with a swing
back to the primitive state. Down to Tudor
times torture was permissible to extract con-
fession. When that was abandoned as a
barbarism, prosecutor and judge both took
a hand at browbeating, cajoling and threat-
ening the unhappy wretch, with the same
object. Nor was he entitled to give evidence
on his own behalf. To get over that, well-
advised prisoners made statements of fact
to the gaoler, who was competent to testify
to the alleged “confession.” The amazing
wave of liumanitarianism which characterised
the first half of the nineteenth century saw
not only the abandonment of these methods,
but a protection extended to accused men,
particularly against self-incrimination, and
carried in some cases to almost absurd
lengths. Thus arose, among other benefits,
the new rule of law rejecting admissions
obtained from the accused by any “person
in authority” by means of any “threat, pro-
mise or inducement.”
Old Jeremy Bentham, in his pungent
way, analysed the new jurisprudence, find-
ing at its base two sentimental reasons : “(1)
The old woman’s reason. ’Tis hard. ’Tis
hard to compel a man to incriminate him-
self. (2) The foxhunter’s reason. This con-
sists in introducing upon the carpet of legal
procedure the idea of fairness as understood
by sportsmen. ‘The fox is to have a fair
run for his life.’ ” But the moral bases of
the rule are more convincing: (1) The
danger of inducing the suspect to talk with-
out full responsibility, under the belief that
it does not matter. (2) The danger of
accepting confessions made to persons with a
personal interest in the conviction. The rea-
sons are sound enough, but liumanitarianism
and technicality combined have carried them
so far that the least suspicion of inducement
from any person with a shadowy “authority”
excludes the testimony. Thus, in general, a
master or mistress, a parent, a woman’s
husband, a female searcher, a magistrate’s
clerk, to say nothing of policemen, are held to
be “in authority,” and leading remarks like
“You had better tell the truth,” or “The
right thing is to make a clean breast of it.”
have been treated as unlawful “inducements.”
There is now a distinct and very rational
judicial tendency to swing the other way;
and, police witnesses having become, as we
have said, wary, the principal blunderers are
the innocents with their “You had better
confess” and so forth, who in all good faith
prompt confessions, made without any real
expectation of advantage, which are never-
theless inadmissible. Overhead police admin-
istration does not fail to impress upon con-
stables and others the duty to make the
evidence in their cases perfect, with all the
loopholes of escape closed up. Thus the
value to the officer of making the defendant
an involuntary witness against himself. What
happens in most cases where the offender has
not been taken red-handed is that the suspect
finds himself waited on by a more or less
friendly man in plain clothes, who announces
his business something like this: “I am
Detective , investigating the case of So-
and-so. I think you know something about
it.” If the interrogated man hesitates, his
visitor is ready with a string of searching
questions : “Where were you on the night
of the lOtli? Who were with you? When
did you last see the dead man? Is this your
hat? Were you wearing those clothes?” The
man who has not yet been charged or
arrested feels impelled to offer explanation.
Incidenta ly, he may deceive himself about
the intention of the detective to give him im-
munity, or help in some way, if he talks:
but that is his own funeral. In this way
the sort of defence which might afterwards
be cooked up to meet the evidence presented
to the Court is addled before the shell is
broken, and a clever officer gets his meed of
praise from his superior. Herein, of course,
lies the danger—the strong personal interest
in a conviction. Judges have in recent years
frequently commented on the impropriety of
these extra-judicial examinations; but they
are powerless to exclude the evidence so long
as the interrogator steers clear of the “in-
ducement” bogey. Moreover, police officers
are not necessarily accurate in their reports,
and they are not trained in the taking of
testimony. Often the accused is heard to
protest, but there is usually the second con-
stable as a stand-by for the purpose of cor-
roboration.
The good results of the practice might
justify it were it not for the sinister possi-
bilities. But there is a remedy—an alterna-
tive —if our insular conservatism would let
us make use of it. Among British jurispru-
dents it lias always been the fashion to sniff
contemptuously at the French juridical sys-
tem, especially as relates to the examination
of suspects before a minor judicial officer,
the jugc dc paix. The French certainly do
carry their practice to great lengths; even
holding their man a prisoner indefinitely and
submitting him at intervals to a searching
interrogation accompanied by all the appeals
to shame, horror, remorse and so forth that
suggest themselves to the Bailie tempera-
ment. But it is to be noted that all this is
done by a judicial officer with no interest
other than as an administrator of justice,
and the proceedings are accurately recorded.
The best feature of that practice is open to
us. There is no good reason why our sus-
pects should not be taken promptly before,
say. a special magistrate and submitted to a
brief examination by him, limited mainly to
an inquiry as to the suspect’s whereabouts
at the critical time and his knowledge of
others concerned, with a special view to the
anticipation of that bad product of our pre-
sent methods, the tainted alibi. No direct
question of guilt or innocence should be per-
missible, and no compulsion to answer at all:
but the interrogated person should be made
to understand that, if innocent, he would have
everything to gain by an early and truthful
statement. If -we could achieve that much
we could safely consent to the exclusion of
all statements made to police officers before
trial.
The course indicated is not to be confused
with the ordinary hearing before a magistrate
when a charge is laid, and it seems to go
without saying that there is no place in it
for Messrs. Brief. Fees and Co. Their
proper function is the conduct of the defence,
not the baulking of inquiry or assisting in


the manufacture of alibis. And they ought
to be grateful for the change, for a com-
parison of their “instructions” with their
client’s statement on the examination might
often lead to the throwing of an unsavory
and leaky alibi into the discard and the
search for a better line of defence. Nothing
annoys Mr. Briefs natcher so much as the
discovery at the trial of a large hole in an
alibi.
BILL O' COSTS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
China and Some Predatory Paws.
The Peace drive iu Europe registers the in-
creasing reluctance of Hans and Pierre to
cut each other’s throat in the sacred cause
of High Finance: the War drive in China
indicates that Wing and Wang are still pre-
pared to burn joss-sticks to the shiny top
hat and the predatory paw that own no
country, but pervade the ether of inter-
national credit. The generals who lead the
. armed coolies of China wear their finger-
nails long, write verses and have names like
Ciiang and Wu, and they believe themselves
to be sturdy patriots; but the real force be-
hind them lias names like Schneider, Ivrufp
and Silas P. The wars of China are not
China’s wars, but represent the commercial
rivalries of the aforesaid predatory paws,
whose address is New York, Paris, Berlin
or London, not far from the respective
Foreign Offices of each. These international
missionaries sell munitions only as a side-
line ; their chief purpose is to exploit in the
interests of their own pockets the lashings
of human raw material running to waste in
Asia. They export capital from the coun-
tries of their adoption, where there is a
danger of its being usefully employed in
supplying the needs of their fellow-citizens,
to countries inhabited by cheap and docile
multitudes who have no needs at all; and
they teach coolies who have never practised
washing to use soap, and induce whole
nations to give up opium and go in for cigar-
ettes instead. The history of the inter-
minable Chinese Revolution which has now
been rotating on its axis for a dozen years
shows the truth of this. The one straight
thread running through it all is the deter-
mination of foreign interests to profit by in-
ternal disorder. When the Manchu rulers
showed they were determined to protect
China from alien domination other than their
own, their dynasty was doomed. The camp-
followers of the Revolution were the horde
of concession-hunters of every European
nation, plus Japan; and, like camp-followers,
they quarrelled over the loot. The diplomats
of democratic Britain backed the absolutist
Yuan Siiiii-k’ai because he was prepared
to pledge the resources of the country to their
nationals: when he fell from power a
£3,000,000 railway loan was transferred
from a British to a German syndicate, and
the London Times reflected diplomatic and
financial opinion when it said that China
could no longer depend on British diplo-
matic support in her troubles. Japan
fished in muddy waters and brought up some
queer specimens that did not cook as well as
anticipated: she backed the democratic Sun
not from an inborn love of constitutionalism
but because, if Sun ousted Yuan, Tokio
would get the concessions that Yuan was
handing out to Lombard-street. Wu, one of
the leaders in the present dispute, succeeded
to Yuan as Britain’s protege, and Ciiang
became the white hope of Japan; while
America backed Sun, and hoped the divi-
dend would not have to be shared with Soviet
Russia. All the spectators being in the
game, there is nobody to keep the ring, and
awkward “incidents” are of daily occurrence.
In a country in which foreigners are tried
by their own laws, are allowed to fix the
tariff on their own goods and to collect the
Customs dues on them, there are boundless
opportunities for applying diplomatic press-
ure in suitable directions. The splitting up
of China into a multitude of warring seg-
ments increased the number of rulers from
whom concessions could be obtained. The
astonishing result has been that, in the dis-
ruption and anarchy of revolution, China has
developed into an industrial nation more
rapidly than she would have done under the
Manchus’ centralised rule. But in the pro-
cess she sold herself. The brethren of the
predatory paws calculated shrewdly. Whether
Wang beat Wing, or Wing Wang, they
stood to profit, anyhow. They now stand
entrenched behind the serried ranks of mil-
lions of yellow workers, to whom factory
legislation and 44-hour weeks are not even
opium dreams; and from that position they
menace the institutions of every white man’s
country.
♦
The Squalid Side of Politics.
The Fuller Government, instead of taking
a vote at the first opportunity to discover
whether the N. S. Wales secessionists really
want to secede, still keeps an expensive
Judge on duty listening to the opinions of
busy talkers and limelighters with time to
waste. Little David Hall, who fell between
two stools when he gave up his seat to
become Agent-General, and then had his
appointment cancelled by a new Pharaoh
who knew not Joseph and didn’t intend to,
was a peevish witness the other day:—
It would be inopportune to create new Parliaments
at a time when public life was becoming increasingly
unattractive to men of ability.
Since the Northcliffe press taught the world that
the way to get newspaper circulation and dividends
was to attack public men rather than discuss public
questions, they had plenty of imitators everywhere.
The man who came into public life now had worse
things said about him by the press than ever before,
and the men in public life said worse things about
each other. One had only to see what the Industrial
section of the Labor party said about the leaders
of the Political section, and what the Progressive
section of the anti-Labor party said about the National
section, to wonder why so many people were out
of gaol.
This New State proposal was merely an effort to
create more members of Parliament, have more
speeches, more Hansards, more public servants, more
taxation, more Government offices, and no more
efficiency.
The political world is in a bad way, but
little David is no reformer. Because the
only Parliaments with which he was con-
nected were a scurrilous lot, and as a Minis-
ter he did nothing to improve them, he holds
that other people should not have a Parlia-
ment with which he is not connected, and
which might not scurril. The world swarms
with possible members who will say horrible
things about each other in Parliament so
long as they are exempted from responsi-
bility to the civil and criminal law, just as
the roll of attorneys swarms with the names
of men who would charge each other in court
with every possible crime if similarly
exempt. If the doctrine of immunity was
extended to cover personal violence as well
as violent language, the removal of dead
attorneys from the courts and dead politi-
cians from the Legislature would also become
as common as thistles. A certain hope is
entertained that a new State, making a new
start, might herald a new era by dispensing
with this old evil so far as concerns the
privilege of members to make scenes among
themselves akin to the McGiRR- Davidson
uproar, and might not hang out the familiar
sign on the legislative door: —
Sanctuary for Blackguards.
People who are sensitive about being accused of
crimes and loathsome diseases are warned off.
Certainly few things are more badly needed
than a new era. Under the present regime
it is typical of the Parliamentary habit of
mind that an old hand like David Hall
should be quite sure that there isn’t one
decently honest or unselfish or patriotic
motive among the advocates of New States.
As he can’t know them all personally the
inference is that he regards that kind of
thing as never-existent or out of date, in
which case and in which respect he might
be classified with such darkly suspicious
characters of fiction as Jonas Chxjzzlewit
and Young Smallweed. It is the easiest
species of criticism going, but it isn’t digni-
fied, nor is it intelligent.
1
Jutland.
“Vereco” puts the case for the other party:
“X.N.0.” (B. 28/8/’24) makes this statement:
“The German fleet never moved after Jutland.” This
is contrary to all records. Actually the High Seas
Fleet put to sea on August 18, 1916, less than three
months after the battle, with the object of bombard-
ing Sunderland. It included the new battle-cruiser
Bayern, which had not taken part in Jutland, and
only the Derfflinger and Seydlitz were left behind
under repair. On the way over the British sub-
marine E 23 torpedoed the Westfalen, which limped
to port; but the Germans managed to torpedo the
light cruisers Nottingham and Falmouth. The latter
was hit while doing 23 knots, and Von Scheer
claims that, had it not been for the rashness of a
German submarine captain, Jellicoe’s fleet would
have been bagged. On November 5, the same year,
the Dreadnoughts Grosser Kurfust and Kronprinz,
while helping submarines which had stranded off
Denmark, were damaged by British submarines. Again,
what of the very successful operations in the Gulf
of Riga? A big fleet of 19 transports was con-
voyed to Riga, and, in spite of the fact that the
Bayern and Grosser Kurfust and later the Markgraf
struck mines, and the Konig Albert, Konig and
Kronprinz were attacked by British submarines, the
Gulf was forced in face of a Russian fleet fighting
behind minefields, and the battleship Slava sunk.
Again, in November, 1917, battle-cruisers, including
the Renown, while attacking German mine-sweepers
in the Bight of Heligoland, were driven off by the
Kaiserin, Kaiser, Moltke and Hindenburg. The last-
named and the Renown were both post-Jutland ships.
The last and final flutter of the German fleet was
on April 23, 1918, and the amazing thing about
this “immobile navy” was that it then went north of
Jellicoe's main base at Scapa Flow, or about four
degrees north of where Jutland was fought. Scheer,
moving along the Norwegian coast, passed Stavanger
and reached 60 degrees north; the Moltke lost a
propeller, dropped out, and, crawling home at four
knots, was submarined, but still reached port. Surely
if the supremacy of the British fleet was as suggested
Beatty’s dashing cruisers might at least have sunk
this lame duck!
To sum up, the German fleet, after Jut-
land, made two raids into the North Sea and
carried out a naval operation in the Gulf of Riga
which compares favorably with the Dardanelles cam-
paign ; it had six Dreadnoughts torpedoed or mined
(one twice), and post-Jutland battle-cruisers ex-
changed shots in the Bight of Heligoland. Yet
“X.N.0.” has the gall to say that the German fleet
“never moved after Jutland” !
The truth is put in the following statement from
the “Encyclopsedia Britannica Naval History”: “The
immediate result of the failure of Jellicoe to strike
a decisive blow was that the German High Seas Fleet
remained intact to be a bulwark to its submarines
and, by barring the Baltic, to hasten the disintegra-
tion of Russia.” Further, as the disintegration of
Russia was by far the most important result of the
war, socially, politically and economically, the his-
torical truth remains beyond all cavil that Jutland
was by no means a British victory, and, ere the
curtain of history is rung down, may be acclaimed a
German one.
«
On Making Things “Sacred” by Law.
The tenacity with which some good people
cling to the notion that right sentiment can
be induced by Act of Parliament is awe-
inspiring. A deputation waited on N.S.W.
Chief Secretary Oakes last week with a re-
quest that Anzac Day should be placed in
the same category (in the ecclesiastical
sense) as Good Friday and Christmas Day.
Now, modern research into the mysteries of
mind has revealed that there is one member
of the human body which the ecclesiastical
courts have never been able to stretch upon
the rack or confine within a creed, and that
is the subconscious mind. That it is a
law unto itself can be seen at any wedding,
public meeting or funeral. The more solemn
the occasion, the more capricious is its
behavior. The Indian fakir spends a life-
time with an arm stretched above his head
or sitting naked on a couch of spikes, in
his endeavor to exorcise the freakish spirit,
but without success. The yogi, by staring
fixedly at his nose, attains to such mastery
over his subconscious that he can concentrate
his attention on a single object to the exclu-
sion of all others. But that this achievement
is beyond the power of ordinary people is
shown by the sorry farce of the three-minute
silences which have been made a feature of
Armistice Day anniversaries. The spectacle
of a streetful of people stricken suddenly into
immobility has just that air of the unusual
which is most damaging to our sense of
propriety, and the knowledge that any ani-
mals which happen to be in the landscape
cannot be drawn into the enchanted circle
deluges one with a feeling of terrified expect-
ancy. In a crowded office the effort to
strangle a cough or tlie sound of a dropped
hairpin is sufficient to destroy the atmosphere
of awe. If the average human animal is
unable to centre his attention on a worthy
object even for three minutes, he is not likely
to maintain an attitude of awe for an entire
day. The French, who, in spite of much said
to the contrary, have a high record for private
virtue and public behavior, recognised this
long ago. It is a heartening spectacle to
see the Parisan flapper, with her picnic-
basket on her arm, run up the church steps,
dip her fingers in the holy water, make a
simple genuflection and depart for an after-
noon’s enjoyment at Versailles or the Bois
de Boulogne. Her devotion is none the less
sincere because of its brevity. The surest
way to make Australians forget that
their forebears fought at Gallipoli in the
cause of liberty is to impose upon them rigid
rules for the observance of a day of gloom
in celebration of it.
Queensland Cotton.
Queensland set out a few years ago, with
some flourish of trumpets, to bear a hand
with the supply of cotton. The results have
not been all that could be wished for, and
certainly not all that was expected; never-
theless the industry has kept moving forward
with the support of a Government price-
guarantee. So far, however, the State has
been called upon to make a contribution
every year, according to figures supplied by
Minister-of-Agriculture Gillies :
Paid by
Acres Planted. St ate. Paid per Acre.
1920.. 166 £206 £1 4 9
1921.. 1,967 5,317 2 14 1
1922 8,176 23,016 2 16 3
1923.. 28,695 40,700 1 8 4
1924.. 50,000 --
1925.. 60,000
The loss, if any, for 3924 is not known yet,
and the planting of 00,000 acres in 1925 is
only an estimate. Nor is it known whether
the loss, which has begun to diminish, will
continue on that commendable path. Things
may improve even more rapidly now that the
dispute over ratoon cotton ( i.e the plant
which is allowed to remain in the ground
indefinitely, the same as an apple-tree) has
ended very much in favor of the ratoon. In
the earlier stages of the business the Govern-
ment became so filled with the idea that the
cld plant is a breeding-ground for pests that
it not only disqualified the ratoon, but made
it a crime, like bigamy. One result of the
Ministry’s climb-down on that point should
hi to give the industry an air of permanence.
It can hardly be here on a large scale this
year and gone the next. The Queensland
wheat area sprang up from 21,637 acres in
1919 to 177,320 acres in 1921, and sprang
down again to 41,202 acres in 1924. That
was because the agriculturist forgot to sow 7
the annual in 1924. If wheat could have
been ratooned it would have borne a crop
without being sown, and a catastrophe would
have heen averted. In Queensland livestock
tends to diminish, mining is under a cloud,
and factory industries are feeling none too
good—between 1921 and 1923 the factory
’ands of Victoria increased by 11.882, those
of N. S. Wales by 7255, those of S. Australia
by 4265. while Queensland's increase was
207. A State in that position requires to
ratoon something.
—— ♦
The Australian Utility Horse.
From an expert in the business : —
To begin with, two breeds of horses—the thorough-
bred and the heavy draught—are improving in N. S.
Wales. The general-utility horses—saddle and light-
harness breeds —are admittedly deteriorating, but
not for want of legislation. The principal reasons
are shortly these: (1) The motor has destroyed the
need of the 70- or 80-mile-a-day horse in the Back-
blocks, and without demand there is no supply; (2)
sheep have largely replaced beef-cattle, and whereas
any three-legged moke will now serve on a sheep
station, a man had to be well mounted to wheel the
lead in the days when our beards were black; (3)
the trotter has come with his cow heart and his
unspeakable legs; (4) the rabbit has eaten out most
of our natural grasses and herbage, the finest stuff
in the world to make horseflesh (the thoroughbred
and the draught are chiefly raised on rabbit-free
country) ; and (5) closer settlement is fast obliterat-
ing the big station horse-paddocks where the young
stock galloped themselves into shape. Records show
that in almost every Pastures Protection district
horses are decreasing in numbers.
The Bulletin’s recent argument directed against
the export of mares is specious, but no more. We
have exported ewes by the thousand and our sheep
grow better year by year. We have almost entirely
kept our beef cows to ourselves, but a peep into
Flemington yards (N.S.W.) will show to what a low
ebb our cattle have come. The Arab may cling to
his mares, but a well-bred w’aler even now will kill
the best Arabian horse ever foaled, from one mile
to a thousand.
As for our neglect of mules, beyond doubt the old
donk is nearly indispensable in, some phases of war,
but his value in peace is more than doubtful. Any-
how, no one but a lunatic would attempt to breed
him—or the horse either —for sale overseas.
In a State where a doctor of medicine, a city
solicitor, a retired milk-vendor and a commission-
agent speak loudest for the man on the land —who,
after all, is the producer of the horse—legislation
may seem the dawn of a new day. It will certainly
mean a few jobs the more, and jobs are believed to
be equal to votes. It will harass the horsebreeder
not a little. But it will effect no more real improve-
ment in the state of affairs that The Bulletin
deplores than an edict against jazz music or red-
headed children.
On which another expert remarks: —
There is no present likelihood, thanks to
the British Navy, of Australians having to
defend their country on Australian soil, but it is the
business of patriots to envisage the future. No army
could achieve mobility on such a terrain as ours
without horses and plenty of them. Every European
nation with an army of any consequence encourages
horse-breeding as a military measure,,' though infi-
nitely more use can be made of the motor on the
Continent than here; and it is significant that France,
which owns State stallions that would bring service
fees of hundreds of guineas here or in Britain, makes
them available to farmers at from £3 to £10 —
provided the mares are approved by a Government
expert.
The argument that our flocks improve though
ewes are exported is not even “specious.” The
sheepbreeder culls by selling his inferior ewes, which
bring as much on the mutton market as good ones.
The local horsebreeder has been exporting his good
mares for generations past—none other being readily
saleaDle at an attractive figure—and breeding from
the culls. It is just because a different procedure is
followed in the case of the local thoroughbreds and
heavy draughts that these classes are improving.
To sum up, there is money in general-utility horses.
The IJ.S.A. sold £74,000,000 worth of them to
Britain and France during the late war, and war-
fare is by no means at an end yet. Nor is the
demand confined to war-time: buyers are looking
for horses continually from all parts of the world
for commercial, agricultural and pleasure purposes.
Certainly “a well-bred waler will kill the best
Arabian horse ever foaled, from one mile to a
thousand.” But it must be well bred —that is to
say, the progeny of a sound dam, no less than a
high-class sire. No other sort will command the
attention of the Indian, Japanese and other buyers
who used to rush the Australian market 30 years ago
when the term “waler” was synonymous with power,
speed and soundness. We can regain the lost repu-
tation of the Australian horse, revive a dying natural
industry, and profit greatly in the process, but only
by realising that animals thrown by culls are them-
selves destined to be culls, and hence worthless. The
key to a sound horse-breeding industry is the sound
mare; and sound mares are rarities here outside
the studs of blood- and shire-stock breeders.
♦
A Slump and an Opportunity.
The flask in the hip-pocket, as part of the
dancing knut's equipment for his conquests,
is an innovation from the U.S.A. Along
with its silliest victim, the sozzled jazzer
with the shingled hair, it has been conspicu-
ous this season in more than one Australian
city, certainly at many more affairs than the
Sydney Arts and Tarts’ Ball; and its vogue
is another disheartening example of Aus-
tralia’s weaki**« for imitating rotten fea-
tures of American life while ignoring those
which are really admirable, such as the pas-
sion for education. The most potent factor
in the corruption and brutalisation of young
shavers is the “screen art” of Hollywood.
From the “pictures’’ they learn, these cock-
erels and flappers, to bandy compliments in
the jargon of the Bowery, to get beastly
drunk at public dances, where decency used
to be the rule, to despise the primitive vir-
tues and regard strong waters, automobiles,
jewels, costly raiment, jazz, loafing and lubri-
city as the ingredients of happiness on earth.
Life as presented in the “pictures” is a
thing made up of slang, slop, smut, self-
indulgence and sloth. And the abominable
rubbish is not improving, however much the
censor may protest that he cut three feet
out of the bedroom scene in “The Dame Who
Did” and moderated the nigger’s voluptuous
kisses in “The Sheik and the Sheelah.” The
public was promised “100 per cent, clean”
productions, and there was to be no more
suggestive advertising. The subjoined fruits
of the moral reformation were garnered from
a few recent issues of a Sydney daily:—
“Second Youth.” —Just as “Flaming” as the other
one. Girls smoke. Some of them take a cocktail
now and then. They all have their own latchkeys,
stay up late and are devils, just the same as the
men. Why, then, shouldn’t they in these days of
freedom and fun go a trifle further and rob man of
Ilia only remaining privilege?
“The Social Code.”- —A sparkling romance of the
social whirl and a reckless girl—a photoplay cf
fashion, folly and passion.
“The Next Corner.”—A love-drama of a woman who
didn’t pause, but took the next corner with a merry
laugh, an inviting glance and a reckless disregard
of consequences. The powerful personality of Juan
Skrafin is too strong for the pleasure-loving wife,
and when her husband returns, to discover but the
wreckage of a once happy home, he takes a hand in
the game of love —and vengeance !
“The Marriage Circle.” —Flirtatious little brides
who don’t worry about the gold circle they wear.
The kev to her flat —and her husband’s friend !
“Passion.” —She was the wickedest woman in
France. “Just one more minute,” she screamed.
“Life is too sweet.”' And even then Armand, the
lover whose life she had ruined, succumbed to her
wiles and luring beauty.
“Lilies of the Field.”—The poignant drama of a
neglected wife, whose husband left her alone night
afrtr night to spend his time with pleasure-loving
lilies of the field —beautiful women who “toil not,
neither do they spin.”
However, the people who trade in this
ordure are defeating their own purpose.
There has been a significant decline in the
local demand for Hollywood stuff. The
slump is so pronounced that there is now
almost as much singing as celluloid in city
cinema-houses, and even the suburban show-
man has to engage expensive vaudeville acts
in the effort to regain his public. Actresses
are being imported to make pictures that
will appease the craving for Australian sub-
jects, instead of stale American themes and
scenery. A company that aims at raising
£250,000 for film production has burst into
life. In fact, the situation is such that if
the Commonwealth Government rises to the
occasion before the session closes and makes
the film duties really protective, Australia
will soon lose the ignoble distinction it now
possesses—that of being the most profitable
foreign market for the wares of Zukor.
Laemmxe, Selznick and the rest of their
tribe. But there can be no Australian film
industry so long as it is possible for the
Zukors and Laemmles to strike off a copy
of a picture which has exhausted the U.S.
market and send it to Sydney in a metal
container for a few pounds, all told. The
Zitkor crowd recently had the effrontery to
boast that the duties on 40 “berrer an’
brighter” films which they intended heaving
at the Australian public would “form an
appreciable addition to the Customs revenue,”
or words to that effect. Actually, the duty
on a “positive” of a 7000 ft. film amounts
to £43 15s. Forty at an average of 5000 ft.
would total £1250. As to the profits—well,
the Zukor syndicate gets the lion’s share of
the £750,000 p.a. which is Australia’s con-
tribution to the cost of maintaining Holly-
wood as a pockmark on the earth —or was
until the slump set in.
+
Syphilis and Cancer.
“C. McL.” sets out some recent conclusions:
The staff of Middlesex Hospital has written a
little book on the cancer-research work done there;
but if you open the pages expecting to find out
what is known about the disease, you will be dis-
appointed. Its subject is not the infinite subject
of the causation of cancer; it confines itself to
the efforts made at Middlesex to find out even a
little about the mystery. The field is endless; it
appears to be true that w 7 hen we find out the
causation of cancer, we shall go very near to finding
out the greatest of all mysteries—the cause of life
itself. That the disease may be due to a germ, as
scarlet fever may be, or measles, is possible, though
no germ is yet known to cause anything like it.
The truth is that all the so-called causes and
cures have been rather of the nature of fairy-tales,
and we cannot look for success until very much more
is known about cell-life in general. It is certain
that a disease very like cancer has been propagated
and transmitted throughout generations of mice and
rats; but it is not even yet certain that that
disease is the same as human cancer. So far we
have to feed on hope; the nearer we get to our
aim the farther it seems to recede. But efforts such


l h J Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co.of
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums .. . . . . . . .. ~ ~ £8849
Seventh year’s premiums.. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. £87,728
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
A
Managing Director,
lU . are being made all over the world by the acutest
minds must lead to something sooner or later. If
one-tenth the energy and skill that are being spent
on the discovery of the will-of-the wisp cause of
cancer were to be spent on the prevention of syphilis,
‘ bout which medicine knows a very great deal but
is not allowed to tell, probably syphilis would lie
entirely extirpated from the civilised world in a
single generation.
1 1 is a strange thing that the very cause of
syphilis is the cause which prevents man from
properly fighting it. It is often the result of impure
relations whilst a man for a moment returns to
the beast; and the factor that is so strongly
against its prevention is, not medicine, but religion,
and the stupid notion that sex is sinful which, un-
fortunately, Christianity brought into the world. It
is entirely due to this wicked idea that syphilis is
now allowed to stalk abroad in every prostitute,
because the strongest factor in keeping her degraded
is composed of the “right thinkers.” Now that doctors
know exactly how to prevent it in the male, and how
easy it is to do it by a careful use of Metsciini-
koff'b discovery, it seems to be simply a crime to
let boys go into the world—a world of harlots
and syphilis—without this epoch-making discovery
being thoroughly drilled into them. Any man who
faithfully uses calomel ointment will not catch
syphilis; that is now the most certain of facts, in
spite of the downright lies that some Parliaments
have been induced to believe.
It is hardly necessary to say once again that, in
destructive power and sheer loss of life, syphilis is
more terrible than cancer. The trouble is that it
is the most secretive of diseases. It kills in ways
as apparently dmerent from syphilis as it is possible
to conceive-—by disease of the brain, the spinal
cord, the heart, the arteries, the kidneys. In fact,
there is hardly a disease which is not positively
known, or at least strongly suspected, to be caused
by syphilis. And such diseases are all mortal. I
remember when a very great artist of the Victorian
ere was dying of a mysterious ailment which had
•lofted diagnosis, and a crowd of weeping young
ladies was gathered outside the door of his house,
the doctor in attendance came out and said to me:
“1 wonder what all these young ladies would say
if they knew that we have just done a Wassermann
test upon old ’s spinal fluid; and it was
positive ! That explains the whole mystery. He
must have caught syphilis when he was a boy and
has been living in the shadow of it ever since.”
Syphilis does not kill as syphilis ; it kills by innu-
merable other diseases, of which general paralysis is
only one and not the most common. And why are
not the boys taught the wonderful discovery of
Metschnikoff and his calomel ointment? If you
protect the boys, naturally you will also protect the
girls; and it is quite true that there need be no
more syphilis in the civilised world within a single
generation.
“Oh,” but you say, “that would lead to promiscu-
ous immorality, and think how dreadful that would
be!” But would it? Surely our young people are
quite sufficiently strong and moral to resist tempta-
tion ; otherwise two thousand years of Christianity
does not seem to have done very much good to the
world.
♦ - .
When W. M. Htjgties came back from the
TJ.S.A. and found Bruce and Page sorely
embarrassed by their misguided election
agreement, he had a great opportunity of
regaining the Nationalist leadership, but
ruined it by showing that he couldn’t take
a beating in good part. His first speech in
the House of Reps, convinced everyone that
lie had never forgiven the Cockies for push-
ing him out of the Priministership or Bruce
for taking his place. Much wiser in his gen-
eration was the other Welsh opportunist.
Lloyd George. When the Conservatives
gave him notice in 1922 the man of Criccieth
betrayed no sign of the resentment he must
have felt. He hadn’t to be dragged scream-
ing from the tart-sliop; he went smilingly,
with compliments for Bonar Law and Bald-
win, and an air of having cheerfully sacri-
ficed himself for the country. And’ in his
subsequent controversies with Labor and the
Protectionists, while waiting for the time
when he might plug one party and ally him-
self with the other (it didn’t matter which),
In- kept his tongue well under control. Always
he has been the embodiment of courtesy and
good-humor. Now, the Clumsy Macstiuffle
Government having fatally compromised
itself by its mad Russian policy, the shrewd
little strategist, the mask of affability thrown
off, strikes with staggering force at Its thick
head. He will probably regain high office;
may even be Prime Minister again. Yet his
chances have been inconsiderable compared
with those which Hughes, in his small-
minded petulance, thrust away.
£
Inquiry is being made into a proposal to
carry to its natural terminus the N. S.
Wales port of Eden, that dead-end line which
crawls ISO miles from Goulburn, passes the
Federal capital at a safe distance, and comes
to an untimely conclusion at Bombala. It is
a dead-loser as well as a dead-ender; but even
a railway from London to the West of Eng-
land might be a chronic bankrupt if, by
reason of the superstitions of parochial
parties in the metropolis, it stopped at
Stonehenge instead of going on to Bristol.
Nor would the biggest liner pay too well if,
in place of going from London to New York’
it turned back 74 miles from the latter city.
The first official witness, the Under-Secretary
for Works, estimated the cost of the exten-
sion as £2,3C>2,800 for between 74 and 75
miles—say £38,600 per mile. Whereupon two
orthodox shrieks may be looked for. One
will be about the high cost of the work,
which bugbear always gets in the way if the
idea is to make a new port accessible and
available, but seldom at other times. The
other will be concerning the possibility of loss
in working, which is the normal condition
of over three-fifths of the Ma State’s rail-
way mileage, and is considered of no im-
portance except when a new port is in ques-
tion. The State has plenty of lines which
cost more than £38,600 per mile; for
example:—
Lidcombe to Regent’s Park .. .. £65,295
Sydney to dead end at Bombaderry .. 54,474
Sydenham to Bankstown .. .. 39,189
Homebush to Waratah .. .. 38,660
Hornsby to Milson’s Point . . .. 65,403
The first of these also contrives to lose
nearly £4OOO per mile per annum through
failure to make ends meet. Practically all
new railways opened for years past have been
a dreadful loss, and no one minds; et quite
recently a whole batch of proposed lines to
connect the tableland with northern ports
was turned down with holy horror for fear
they should share the common lot. And
though the extension to Twofold Bay is the
only visible hope of turning the huge Goul-
burn-Bombala “dud” into a source of profit,
the expectation is that the present proposal
will go the same road, the hair of the Public
Works Committee standing on end while it
gives its verdict.
+
When the world was war-weary President
AVilson tickled the ears of the nations with
a series of phrases of solacing sound. Full-
throated, resonant and because they were
not understood, most people hurried to give
them approval; they smacked of that new
and better condition of things which the war
was popularly supposed to have bred. The
A QUESTION OF PROCEDURE.
“ Th e Prendergast Labor-minority Government escaped defeat last week in connection with the
Police Commission expenditure vote, because the Nationalist-Country party Opposition could not agree
—there are not enough portfolios to satisfy everyone.”
NATIONALIST PEACOCK: “You grab him an ’ I'll grab the beer.”
COUNTRY PARTY ALLAN : “Not on your life, boy. You grab him an ’ I’ll grab the beer!”
(Left arguing).
three most effective the Yankee idealist flung
before a world ready to grasp at anything
were self-determination, freedom of the seas
and down with secret diplomacy. The moral
conviction that the first stirred was soon
seething among the Hindus on the Ganges,
the fellaheen of Egypt, and in the African
kraals further south. The net result has
been to substantiate the axiom that a nation
may be hurried into war by a phrase more
quickly than any other way. The cry about
freedom of the seas has been less mischiev-
ous. but if. it had been adopted the whole
world at this moment would have lain under
the shadow of the German sword ; for what
W ilson meant —and what the phrase still
means in the mouths of the pacifists—is that
wars shall be conducted without resort to
the wmapon of blockade. By a recent de-
velopment in London the theory of silent
democracy—the third of Wilson’s great
peace conditions—has received an enthusias-
tic kick in the ribs, and this from Ramsay
Macdonald, one of the most enthusiastic
claquers for the quaintly impossible doctrine.
The agreement with Russia was fixed up
and roughly, presented to Parliament, after
signature, with a naive assurance that Par-
liament might express its opinion upon it at
some later date!
“Nakhoda” : When I look at the streets of
almost any town in Australia I am reminded
of the melancholy fact that Morse, in
planning his first telegraph line between
Washington (U.S.A.) and Baltimore in 1544,
attempted to lay the wires along the earth,
because he feared that if they were strung
on poles they would disfigure the landscape.
The leakage to earth owing to the poor in-
sulation of those days was so great that he
had to abandon his intention. The first mes-
sage flashed along the wires when they had
been duly suspended was “What hath God
wrought?” Contemplating the vista of gaunt
poles festooned with sagging wires that I
can see from my window, I feel it was rough
on the Deity to put all the blame on Him.
One has only to turn over an album of photo-
graphs of those few and rapidly dwindling
parts of the world where as yet the telegraph
is not, to realise the tremendous loss in beauty
the modern world has sustained. And there
is no reason except utter indifference to
.-esthetic factors why Morse’s original ideal
should not be reached. P’aper-covered under-
ground cables are nowadays perfectly
feasible, and are used almost exclusively in
self-respecting cities with the useful Narcis-
sus habit of looking at themselves occasion-
ally, like Paris. That we are quite habitu-
ated to urban ugliness is shown by the fact
that the advent of so-called “wireless” has
reared a new forest of poles and a maze of
wires over our housetops, although there is
a simple, cheap device on the market which
can be plugged on to the electric-light system,
rendering an outside aerial unnecessary.
“Solomon M.” offers some reflections:—
It appears to me that the controversy between
“Flicker” and “Centurion” about the relative
merits of Spaniards and others would be improved
if a really intelligent person like myself joined in.
There are two damning charges which weigh down
the soul of the Don to Gehenna, and to the place
below that (if any). One is that he went to
America and slew Lo the poor Indian without re-
morse ; the other is that he has degenerated into
a uespicable half-breed because he lacked the gump-
tion to slay the poor Indian. The British Puritan
person (who developed into a Yankee) on the same
continent knew better. “First he fell on his knees;
then he fell on the aborigines.” Wherefore in 1920
the census man counted only 244,437 surviving Red
Folk in the U.S. proper, which is the same size as
Australia. Canada, which is larger, had got its
tribes down to 110,596. “Centurion” says that he
“cannot remember any instance in English history
where the national policy was compulsory infliction
of an alien religion,” etc. It was once the policy
all over the English (afterwards British) foreign
possessions. At that time these consisted of Ireland.
In one earnest spasm of colonisation all the old land
titles were set aside—in fact, the island was confis-
cated afresh and made available for settlement. Then
the people were ordered to adopt a brand-new
rengion of English make on which the paint wasn’t
dry, and the tortures which were employed in the
process were many and wonderful. The Cromwells
(Oliver and Henry) also specialised in the selling
of young Irish women and girls as slaves (Bristol
was then one of Europe’s greatest slave markets), so
that they might not become the mothers of rebels
and Catholics. They were sold for export—as mant-
as 12,000, it is said, in one year. But there is
little satisfaction in digging up any nation's past,
for most pasts were pretty bad. The best thing is
to have a present.
♦ "
‘‘Rio ’: The variety of the opinions on de-
fence matters expressed by politicians and
others who shape public opinion shows such
an ignorance of the principles governing war-
fare that surely something should be done
to educate such persons in the fundamentals
of strategy, especially those preparations
known as peace strategy. Tactics for troops
or ships in actual battle alter with the
development of improved weapons or new
methods of transport, but the principles gov-
erning strategy—that is, the preparations for
war and the manoeuvres or dispositions prior
to battle—are much the same to-day as In
the time of Alexander or Hannibal. To
make party matters out of defence questions
is the best way to invite defeat; so I sug-
gest that the Defence Department should
organise a series o,f lectures to be given by
brass-hats, naval and military, including citi-
zen officers, for the benefit of politicians, edi-
tors and others interested. Something of
the sort is sorely needed when a well-read
™ an ,hke “Wingen” Abbott wants the
Drand Fleet base in Auckland “because it
has a nice climate” ; when J. H. Carruthers
advocates an already overcrowded harbor like
Fort Jackson (as though England used Lon-
don or the U.S. New York) ; and when
Frank Anstey, who may be a Minister anv
day, declares that “the place to defend Aus-
tralia is in Australia.” The sub-heads of
such lectures should include;—
Foreign policy: Its dependence on navel and mili-
tary strength; the foundation of these on mercantile
shipping and manufactures.
Sea power: Its uses and limitations; offensive and
defensive strategy; “interior and exterior lines”;
limitations of roads and railways in transporting
troops and stores ; effect of Australia’s broken gauges;
vulnerability of Northern Territory without rail-
ways and of Commonwealth resources concentrated
in coastal cities.
Importance of rapid mobilisation and of adequate
supply of trained officers, particularly staff-officers:
Repulsing invasion is not victory; indemnity nr
reparations only obtainable by destruction of enemy
forces, with consequent capture or threat of capture
of his peace resources.
These would do to go on with, and their most
elementary study would surely prevent the
absurdities uttered by many of our legislators.
+
' Tomb” : The S.P.C.A. should make a note
n- * LOU 1 par ‘ 14 /8/’24) about long-
distance Queensland consignments of sheep
per train, not with a view to preventing the
man out back from travelling his sheep by
rail, but to using its influence in introducing
a little more humanity into the business. I
saw the middle of one of these “experi-
ments, and the spectacle did not make me
reel proud. It was a huge double-header
train of ewes en route from Longreach to
the Toowoomba country, and when I saw it
the journey was about half completed. The
ewes were lambing in the trucks, which was
strewn with dead and dying ewes and lambs,
and little, weak-legged orphans whose mothers
had succumbed to the cruelties imposed upon
them. God knows what those trucks looked
like at the end of that merciless journey—
-1 m glad I didn’t see them! Surely this
heartless cruelty can be avoided or prevented.
+
Yet another vicious attack upon the Aus-
tralian administration of the Mandated Ter
ritories has been launched in Britain, and
aas many features in common with that
'which attempted to influence the Lausanne
Conference. The author is nominallv
Francis Ahern; but Ahern’s knowledge
of the iniquities in German New Guinea is
confessedly derived from a certain Begley.
who fell foul of the officials soon after his
arrival in the Territdry” in 1919. On the
authority of Begley, the Australian delin-
quencies include, abuse of native women,
ruthless plundering and burning of native
villages, and the flogging of natives of both
sexes; and he submits “that the common
occurrence. of . murder, arson, rape, slavery
and brutality is proof positive that the Aus-
tralian .Government is not carrying out its
duties in accordance with the mandate of
the League of Nations.” If these things
have occurred The Bulletin will admit that
they show" the Government incapabfle of
governing—provided that Mr. Ahern will
tor his part admit that the recent common
occurrence of murder, arson, etc., in the
South of Ireland shows that the Free State
is also incapable of government. Of course,
there was some disorder in the period of tran-
sition in New Guinea: that was inevitable.
But to. bring these things forward now is to
do an injustice to the capable administrators
who, in the teeth of great difficulties, have
restored something like order from chaos.
In the present outburst the hand may be
the hand of Aiiern, but the voice is the voice
of our old friend Jerry the Hun, whose
propaganda, experts certainly launched the
protest against the confirmation of the Aus-
tralian mandates.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
The perfect Dust-Coat
of Steel-g'rey Alpaca, 50/-
Here is a coat that is light, cool and porous
vet thoroughly protective. Furthermore, its
color prevents soiling, although the material
launders easily and well.
It buttons to neck, has two side pockets, and
is cut in full, easy style.
All buttons are detachable.
Utility and strength combined with all the
good appearance of a silk coat.
Peapes pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS.
GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter
Street), SYDNEY.
mm
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Ushers
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Gallery:—•
Talk in the lobbies is that Bruce is anxious to have
the distinction of being the first Priminister to intro-
duce a bill at Dryberra. So next year, regardless of
expense, members will be dragged there for a week
in order that it may be said that Bruce and his coy
partner made history. At least, that is the impression
at the moment.
The controversy as to the Huddersfield,
which has been hurrying (at the rate of one
knot) to the relief of two white women re-
ported to be held by N.T. blacks, has reached
the stage where the usual weekly Royal
Commission is threatened. It has been dis-
covered that Mrs. Pearce, wife of the Min-
ister, holds 50 10s. shares (out of 60,000)
iu an oil-prospecting co. which is somehow
associated with the owners of the Hudders-
field and another boat concerned in the N.T.
coastal service, for which service the Com-
monwealth Government pays them £6OOO
p.a. In the excitement born of these start-
ling revelations, a Labor M.H.R. improved
on the narrative by suggesting that “the,
Huddersfield is partly owned by Mrs.
Pearce,” whose interest in the tub would
perhaps be over-valued at tuppence; and an-
other tribune insinuated that “the lives of
the two women have been jeopardised in
order that grist might be brought to the
Minister’s mill.” There is a case against
Pearce on the score of his inactivity in the
matter —the inactivity of a dull man who
is the slave of routine —but the attacks on
his honor are a low combination of vitu-
peration and inanity; the muddiest imbe-
cilities of a session in which the muck-rake
has been plied as never before.
Stewart, M.H.R. for Wimmera and re-
cently Commonwealth Minister for Works
and Railways, followed his leader to the S.
Aus. Country party conference and unbur-
dened his soul in this strain :
I opposed the arrangement for the composite Gov-
ernment. I would never have joined the Government
had it not been urged upon me that in such a matter
tne majority decision should rule and I should join
and give it a try even if I was against it. For 18
months I tried to do my job, and it is only fair
to say that the Government did its job passably
well. But the pact violated flagrantly the rules of
the organisation to which I belonged. I had com-
promised and compromised, but there is a point
beyond which, you cannot go.
Then the gentleman mentioned one of the
compromises which had grievously offended
him —“when engines were wanted for the
Oodnadatta line the high-tariff party insisted
on their being built in Australia.” It cuts
Stewart to the heart to see the Government
grant a preference to Australian manufac-
turers and artisans, and incidentally strength-
en the “primary producer’s” home market
but he is foremost in the demand that Gov-
ernment loans and bounties should be be-
stowed on his constituents in the dried-fruits
industry, in addition to the High I rotecton
they have had for years.
Grapcgrowers bulk large in the S. Aus.
Country party, and no one can say that the
Bruce-Page Government has neglected them.
So the doctor got quite a good reception
when he spoke at the annual conference m
Adelaide, and his election arrangement with
Bruce was endorsed by 39 votes to 21. Iwo
State organisations have now adopted the
pact, and one (Westralia) has rejected it.
It seems a favorable moment for its authors
to end the discussion —they haven’t so many
friends that they can afford to continue it.
The Douglas Mawson incident shows that
there are thousands of square miles of Aus-
tralia unknown even to one white man, and
if Japan meant business she could secretly
make preparation and land thousands of
settlers, no troops being required. British
Chancellor of the Exchequer Snowden has
written that no nation can have a moral
right to land it does not use, and were the
matter referred to the League of Nations
the verdict then must go to Japan. Our one
hope lies in settling our empty spaces and
developing our engineering and other re-
sources. As long as Australia depends on
others to take her raw materials and make
her munitions, war with a nation that com-
mands the sea, or is even strong upon it,
means ruin.
Baited into giving particulars of his pro-
posal to knock war stories out of the school
books. Lemmon, Vic. Minister for Education,
shamefacedly explained to Parliament what
he really meant to do. It had never been
liis intention, he protested, to destroy the
records of brave deeds, fortitude and self-
FROM THE TART SHOP TO THE TAILOR’S.
“Following upon Mr. Hughes’s attacks upon the Government last week the possibility of his return
to the Labor party is again being discussed.”
SNIPS: “And what kind of a suit shall we make for you this time, Mr. Hughes?"
sacrifice, but he was “determined that the
heroism of fhe soldier should not be used for
inculcating hatred of other peoples or glorify-
ing war.” It required three weeks’ criti-
cism to prize this feeble statement out of
Lemmon. Next day he and his colleague
Slater were present at an A.N.A. parade in
the departments, but neither looked too sure
of himself.
It is cabled that General lan Hamilton
has no faith in the unarmed persuasive and
milksoppy variety of arbitration (League of
Nations brand) as a remedy for murder, rob-
bery, burglary and destruction of property
on the big scale. In his view
War can onlv be overcome by the co-operation of
all soldiers. By refusing to fight soldiers could
prevent war.
To which it might be added that by refusing
to box boxers could prevent boxing. The
bright Hamiltonian idea is really to abolish
sin, a matter which many people have
thought of at different times.
The Navigation Act got itself well cursed
at Fremantle when the Moldavia arrived
from England with an old-lady passenger in
serious need of a trained nurse’s attention.
A nurse had been requisitioned by wireless.
But she could not book from Fremantle to
Melbourne, inter-State passengers not being
allowed on ocean-going boats; and an imagi-
nary voyage—at full passage-money—to M. L.
had to be invented for her before she could
go aboard to tend her patient.
Ex-Premier Lawson was in liis best form
when he stockwliipped the Prendergast Gov-
ernment in Vic. Assembly. How his slashes
told was shown by the squeals from the
other side. The dailies starred Ins speech,
and it was the talk of the city for a day
or two; but it made no impression upon
those office-hunters on his own side who
know there is no place for them if the
Lawson section wins. So the first chance
they got 10 of them voted with Labor, and
Prendergast breathed again.
The S. Aus. Railway Commissioners, Webb
and McGuire, returned a surplus of £50,754
in 1923-24. Pope, the Westralian manager,
who gave his name to a Gallipoli hill, did
even better —his 1922-23 deficit of £02,007
was converted into a credit balance of
£142,170. The only State railway system
that shows no financial improvement is Theo-
dore’s, where the deficit is as regular as the
process of the seasons. Last year it took
£1,000,000 to bridge the chasm between re-
venue and expenditure.
How disorganised the three Opposition
croups in Vic. Assembly are was shown
when a test vote (the first) was taken on
the administrative work of the Prendergast
Cabinet. The issue was whether £lOO should
he voted towards the expenses of the Police
Strike Commission. Peacock did not move
an amendment, but forced a vote on the
Ministry’s motion, with the result that the
Government won by 16—36 to 20. Labor
had only 26 of its own 28 present, as J. W.
Billson and Murphy were sick. It got 10
auxiliaries from the other side, consisting of
the five Liberals (A. A. Billson, Snowball,
Everard, Farthing and Angus), four Cocky
irreconcilables (Downward, Carlisle, Bour-
elder and Lind) and the very independent
Jimmy McLachlan. Peacock’s 15 and Allan’s
five made up the score of “Noes.” At the
time the division was taken there were sup-
posed to be negotiations for uniting the
gentlemen on the Left. The 10 who voted
for Prendergast don’t love him, but they love
Peacock and Lawson less. Not for 35 years
has there been such an indecent scramble
for office by mediocrities and sub-mediocrities
as is being witnessed now. So Labor, with
28, will continue to rule till the other 30
come to their senses.
Prime Minister Clumsy Macdonald has re-
ceived notice from his patron Lloyd George
that he will not be allowed to blew the
scanty capital of England in any big loan
to a Soviet which says its mission is to de-
stroy capital and capitalists, and that its
gospel is not to pay its debts. That set-
back isn’t expected to imply Clumsy’s resig-
nation, of course; but it looks like the begin-
ning of the tail of his Premiership. He has
put himself in the position where he must
be judged not on his own merits but on the
Bolshie’s demerits.
It is still reported that in N. S. Wales
“the Government is experiencing con-
siderable difficulty in deciding the form of
the bill to reform the Legislative Council.”
A Chamber of hereditary nominees is im-
possible, and a Chamber of life nominees
isn’t much better. A Chamber of nominees
in any shape or form is undemocratic, be-
sides being useless and ridiculous if it always
says the same as the elected House and a
breach of the self-governing principle if it
says the opposite. An Upper House elected
after exactly the same fashion as the Lower
one would be a silly duplicate, and no Upper
House doesn’t seem any very great success
either. So by a process of elimination —
well, surely it is possible to arrive at some-
thing.
The N. S. Wales New States Commission
recently wrote to the Newcastle Council, and
the local Chamber of Commerce, plaintively
asking if those bodies wouldn’t like to give
evidence before it. Both refused promptly and
none too politely, and the Commish wan-
dered on, looking for a more hospitable door-
step on which to camp. Newcastle fears that
a new State may mean a new port, at Port
Stephens or elsewhere, and that idea has
to be squelched at all costs. Coalopolis even
gets annoyed when the extension of the rail-
way from Morpeth, on the Hunter tidal
water, is mooted. Morpeth is all right as
a loading point up the river for Newcastle,
but not for Port Stephens.
Melbourne’s police are so lightly valued by
the public that a private-enterprise force is
being formed to protect citizens. Shop-
keepers and householders, in return for a
private tax of 3s. a week, will have their
premises visited every lialf-lmur between
7 p.m. and 7 a.m. Escorts will also be pro-
vided for a small fee for females—and ner-
vous males—over lonely streets at night. The
humorless police chief, Nicholson, has prom-
ised to co-operate with the new body.
Whether the Government will allow a private
force to set out to do the work the regular
force is paid for doing, is another matter.
The intrusion of such bodies has been found
in the U.S.A. to involve a great social
danger.
Hitherto, being united under resolute
leadership, the Sydney A.L.P. executive has
been more than a match for its numerous
enemies. But an internal dispute has now
arisen and its Red and other foes are regain-
ing hope. The trouble concerns Considine.
sometime Communist M.H.R. for the Barrier.
When his constituency was incorporated in
Darling, Considine stood for that electorate
against Blakeley, the orthodox Labor candi-
date, and one of the A.W.U. leaders who
have sided with the A.L.P. executive, and
was beaten. Now. having become secretary
of a Broken Hill Labor union, he wants to
contest the selection ballot against his 1922
conqueror, but to the undisguised chagrin of
his friends on the executive his nomination
has been ruled out. Considine’s case is
pretty well on all fours with that of Grant,
the former I.W.W. leader, who opposed the
selected Labor candidates for Sturt at the
State election, but has been “re-admitted to
the movement with continuity of member-
ship,” and is now after a Senate nomination.
Queensland, with an area of G 75.000
square miles, has a population of 800,000,
or about one to a square mile. But its
northern division, the richest and best-
watered land in Australia, does not count
one person to every two square miles. Yet
of the petty rivulet of European immigra-
tion that is coming to Australia hardly the
tiniest trickle slips through to Mackay,
Bowen, Cairns, Innisfail or the Atherton and
Evelyn tablelands. The great sugar and
maize lands there are capable of supporting
a hundred times their present population,
but prejudice and party bigotry put up a
signpost of warning to a starving world.
The other day a handful of English immi-
grant boys landed in Cairns. So astounded
were the northerners that the youngsters
were given a public welcome and reception,
while the local papers published editorials
of jubilation on the almost unheard-of
phenomenon. What a satire on the deadly
apathy of the present!
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bruce said that Mr. Hughes had pointed out
how admirably he had conducted the affairs of the
nation while he had been in control, and how
lamentable the present Administration was.”
Implacably o’er fancied injuries brooding,
Eager to seize a chance to fan a brawl,
He bides his time, malevolence exuding,
Consumed with bitterness and soaked in gall,
Eyeing vindictively the seat he sat in
Unto another occupant assigned.
Spretae injuria formae is the Latin
Phrase for 1 his frame of mind.
Coined to denote a dame’s chagrin at losses
To rivals of her power to thrill and sway,
It seems as suitable for busted josses
Or any sort of dogs who’ve had their day.
The sometime idol of the toiling masses
(Later, of busy rich) morosely views
Through smoked and steadfastly distorting glasses
Whoever ousted Hughes.
No vehemently acid Opposition
Came to deprive him of his place and pay—
A thing that haps to many a politician,
From Henry Parkes to Raymond Poincare.
His followers stood him down, preferring merely
A chap who cannot perorate for nuts,
Or attitudinise Australia. Clearly
That is the thing that cuts.
Weighed and found sadly lacking, willy-nilly
Deposed, why cannot you, as others can,
Labelled unwanted, O vociferous Billie,
Assimilate your physic like a man?
Spretae injuria formae! I would vary
The classic tag with only one remark:
In the Australian vocabulary
You’re scheduled as “The Nark” 1
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


SHOW DAY AT THE MINES.


hbkjlmjklmkl
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20 F 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“X.N.0.”: Herewith my contribution to
the yarns about sailors dropping overboard
from one ship to be picked up by another,
with or without assistance from Father Nep-
tune. In the Mediterranean Fleet in 1905
or ’O6 12 battleships in single line were
steaming into Marmarice Harbor, in S.-W.
Asia Minor, the entrance to which is long,
narrow and twisty. A man fell overboard
from the second or third ship; instantly the
“man overboard” signal was given and re-
peated all down the line. The next ship
lowered her lifeboat and picked the m.o. up;
the last ship in the procession turned her
own lifeboat in on deck, slowed down, and
used the davits and tackle to hoist in the
rescuing boat. And every ship kept her
proper station.
IN ANTICIPATION.
MRS. SWANK : “My new maid is a treasure —clean and
smart, and her cooking is delightful.”
MRS. SWISE : “Oh, that's good. How long have you
had her?”
MRS. SWANK : “She comes to-morrow.”
“X2X” : Although the claim made on be-
half of the absurd Abrams “electronic”
machine to the effect that it can determine
the paternity of an unborn child is as ridi-
culous as the machine itself, there is a test
of a serological nature which may yet come
to be accepted as scientific proof. It is known
as the Mayoral and Jiminez test; it con-
sists simply of taking some blood corpuscles
from the alleged father of the child and in-
jecting an emulsion of them in an isotonic
saline solution beneath the skin of the pros-
pective mother. Should the man from whom
the blood was taken not be responsible, no
reaction follows ; but in the alternative con-
tingency it is claimed that an erythematous
and irritable patch develops at the site of
the injection within a few hours. The test,
which has been elaborated only recently, is
based upon researches concerning the classi-
fication of the red corpuscles into four
different groups, one of which is specific tor
every individual. So far it has not been
mentioned in courts, but experiments with it
where paternity was known beyond reason-
able doubt have shown its value. It is claimed
that in one series of tests the percentage of
possible error amounted to only about 1 per
cent. * » *
* * * *
“Hamer”: Said Canon Vanston at the
Bendigo Anglican Synod, talking on the
subject of dancing: “Young people all de-
sired amusement, of which dancing formed
a large part.... But he did not want it
thought that Synod was winking at the prac-
tice of dancing.”
Unthinkingly the church will spy
Upon the dancer’s giddy whirls.
Oh, can it be the church’s eye
Is winking really at the girls!
* * » *
“Ilerodot”: An even more careful and far-
sighted lover than ‘Tercy Pawn ticket’s” (B.
4/9/’24) turned up in the Children’s Court
in a N. S. Wales country town not long ago.
The lady was claiming from him the usual
preliminary expenses, as the outcome ot a
week-end trip some months previously. Hon
Juan did not dispute her statements, but lie
produced a neatly-typed document, signed by
the lady and duly witnessed by a J. 1., a
“waiver” by the other party to the contract
of her legal rights in the event of “anything
happening” as a result of their temporary
association. The young man’s look of pained
surprise when the magistrate ignored the ex-
traordinary document and made the usual
order indicated that the bottom had dropped
out of his faith in British law and justice.
* * * *
“Topee”: The other day an old friend sug-
gested that we should be ready for a ‘ cab-
waslier” at the conclusion of a journey we
Avere making. It is 40 years since I had
heard the term, which has fallen out of the
vocabulary. In the good old days, when the
long-beer glass held a pint and cost 3d., many
publicans near the wharves kept a double
glass behind the bar. This was the “cab-
washer,” and would be filled once for 3d. for
any regular client who happened to arrive
with a more than usually pronounced thirst.
As beer then cost less than Is. per gal., Bung
lost nothing by his occasional shout. The
ordinary deep-sinker was known as a ‘ Bishop
Barry,” after the protracted prelate of the
period. The term “butcher” for the same
measure originated. I believe, in Adelaide,
and remained peculiar to S. Aus. for many
J' ears - *
“F. Clinton”: A baker’s carter in a Sydney
suburb, a middle-aged widower, struck a new
customer and unexpected trouble therewith
on his round the other morn-
ing. The lady, also middle-
aged, looked hard at _ him
over his basket, dramatically
declared : “You’re my John !”
and poured hot reproaches
on him for deserting her
some 20 years previously.
Realising that he was being
claimed as a long-lost hus-
band, John (that happens to
be his name) fled inconti-
nently, nor did he deliver at
this house next day. But
the lady was at the bakery
when he returned, and he
soon found that she had told
her tale to the boss and pre-
judiced him in her favor.
Desperately the suspect in-
sisted that the claimant
should describe her John in
detail. Had he any marks"?
Yes, he was tattooed on the
chest. The carter’s heart
fell. He also was tattooed.
Could she describe the tat-
tooing? No, she couldn’t.
Were there any other marks?
Yes, he had gone under an
operation once and had a big
scar in the groin. Before
the boss could prevent him,
the accused man was fran-
tically disrobing. But be-
fore he could submit the
evidence to clear himself,
the lady frigidly announced
that it was unnecessary— her John would
never have behaved like that!
* * * *
“Lexo”: A Melbourne cyclist was knocked
down by a motor-car the other Sunday, and
the inexperienced driver failed to pull up
until he had dragged his victim nearly 100
feet. It was a battered object that was
pulled out from under the ’bus. Ilis clothes
were almost torn from his body, he was
bleeding from several scratches and cuts, and
his head seemed to have been bumped every
sft. along the road. His rescuers laid him
on the footpath, and men sprinted in five
directions for a doctor. It had begun to look
doubtful whether medical aid could do much,
when the injured one opened his eyes and
tried to speak. Eagerly one of the bystand-
ers leant forward to catch the whispered
words; would it be a farewell message to
his nearest and. dearest or a request for a
clergyman? It proved to be neither. With
great difficulty the victim articulated: “Get
liis number; I was on the right side.” and
relapsed into unconsciousness. P.S. —He
l’ecovered.
BY ThE MARK TWAIN.
“Oh, Sam-u-el, you've got two wrinkles!”
“Not wrinkles, darling — they're my marriage lines.”
“Poowong” : I don’t know tlie record num-
ber of casualties from a single shell (B.
4/9/’24), but I think I know the record num-
ber of vegetables demolished by one. At Bail-
leul in March, 1918, a 14.2 hit a garden and
scooped out a saucer about 40 yards in dia-
meter. Our billet was next door, and
enough carrots fell on the roof to feed a herd
of cows.
* * * *
“Light Horse”: Yesterday I met the man
who was acclaimed the champion letter-
writer of the Light Horse. The effusion
which won him his title shook up even the
sophisticated censors when they came to it.
"Unless he has been grossly maligned, it ran
like this: —
Dear Mother,—l am writing this from Bethlehem,
where Jesus Christ was born. I wish to it
was from Raymond Terrace, where I was born. From
your loving son, John.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: A country bank clerk tested
the honesty of his fellow-man the other day
by pinning a corner of a pound-note between
the leaves of a counter blotting-pad so that
it protruded sufficiently to be noticeable. Five
of the bank’s clients pulled at it furtively,
and blushed to find it immovable. One lady
boldly put the pad in her bag and apolo-
gised hurriedly for her absence of mind
—when detected. Three strategists slyly
elbowed the outfit on to the floor, and all of
them glared suspiciously at the innocent-
looking teller when they replaced it. The
only visitor who didn't take the bait seri-
ous'lv was a Chow. He turned un the leaf
that" covered the deception, and with a grin
that exposed all his yellow fangs, remarked:
“O Cli, whaffor you!”
* * «
“Forebridge”: In the early days of the
Great Scrap a British light cruiser and four
large ocean-going destroyers—a detached unit
of Tyrwliitt’s famous Harwich force —hap-
pened on two diminutive Hun torpedo-boats,
accounted for them with a couple of salvos,
and, after gathering up the debris, made for
home, reporting their exploit as they went
by means of wireless. Passing the flagsh.p
on their way up harbor they complacentl./
looked for their superior officer’s approba-
tion. Their superior officer happened to be
a good sport and an angler; and his appro-
bation came in this form: “Admiral to all
ships: Anything under six inches should be
put back.”
* * * *
“P. Pinktape”: Following a fatal accident
in a Yic. country town, the police, thinking
they had fixed the identity of the corpse by
letters in his pocket, sent a notification of his
death and of the funeral arrangements to
relatives. The most astonished person m
the proceedings was a brother who turned up
to pay his last tribute and was met by the
alleged deceased on the station. It was the
old story of another man with the same name.
Now the police are hunting around to find
out whom it was they did bury.
* * * *
“Necros”: “Blank File” wants to know
the meaning, if any, of a table-plate found
on the breast of a long-buried mariner,
lately disinterred in Tasmania. Probably
it contained salt when it was placed there,
said substance being regarded as a protection
acainst witchcraft. It may have some nautical
significance, too; as a boy, 60 years ago,
COMING HOME.
EVE: “You lent her five shillings! Well,
that’s the last you’ll see of it.”
GWEN: “Oh no! You sec, she wants it to
lend to Ethel, who wants to pay Grace
the five- shillings she borrowed from her
that I lent Grace.”
I saw in the west of Scotland a dead fisher-
man with candles at head and feet and a
plate of salt on his breast, but I don t
know whether it was buried with him. The
same thing occurs in Scott’s “Guy Manner-
ing,” where the gipsy Meg Merrilies lays
out the body of one of llirk Hatteraick s
crew.
(Continued on page 16.)
SAGE ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young people spoil one another in the Jays when
they are lovers. The prosaic facts of married life
should be contemplated beforehand, instead of love
being associated with chocolates and ice-creams.”
—Argus.
Be careful when you spoon with May
To give her no delusion
That, conjugally linked, for aye
Through flowery fields you twain will stray
Where care makes no intrusion ;
That married life for her and you
Will be an endless ballad,
With nought more arduous to do
Than mixing strawberry salad.
Let other swains on chocolates spend
For laughing lips their dollars;
Present your love with socks to mend
And make her clearly apprehend
She’ll have to starch your collars.
And if, as is the usual rule,
For outings she is looking,
Why, take her to a cookery school
And break her into cooking.
I did it once. But gall and grit
Were in the cup I tasted
That morning when I got the mitt
And found another chap was It
And all my trouble wasted.
Now I opine love’s dreams are fine
However sore you waken,
And marriage just a medicine
Best gulped before it’s shaken.
VICTORIA.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
CAUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hatless, with his head badly cut and his clothes
covered in blood he had been found unconscious
in a right-of-way and it was surmised that he had
been badly assaulted.” —Newspaper report .
Our bobbies are always astute;
They never make reckless deductions.
They either are guarded or mute,
According to H.Q. instructions;
And they only surmise
When they see two black eyes
That their owner has been in some ructions.
If a corpse on a doorstep is found,
An axe to its top-piece suspended,
To reticence still firmly bound,
With caution and sureness both blended,
They fear that attacks
Have been made with an axe,
And with fatal results been attended.
VICTORIA.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged
Nev. Sturzaker, Kyabli, N.W.Q.
..£322 1 1
3 6
£322 4 7
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“TTenry Lawson Memorial.”
m
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
99
“Lager” means “Storehouse.
LAGER BEER is beer that has been stored long enough to
“ripen” and attain the palatable and refreshing flavour,
tonic properties, and health-producing vigour that have made
“Lager” a household word throughout the world and given fame
to the real original
Holsten Pilsener Lager Beer.
BREWED from Bohemian malt and hops and stored as Lager
should be stored, there is a world of difference between this
famous old Pilsener Beer and all others. Holsten stands
alone. It is pre-eminent. Stocked by leading hotels everywhere,
order the real Pilsener to-day. Sole agents—
GATTINO & CO. LTD., 39=41 York Street, Sydney.
“Rita”: "FiritiV’ 42 casualties from one
shell (B. 4/9/’24) is by no means a record.
In 1918 one company of the 50th Battalion
was resting in a large abandoned aerodrome,
when a 5.9, coming through the roof, hit one
•of the iron girders, and bursting downwards
inflicted over 60 casualties on the troops
beneath. I don’t suggest this as a record:
where hundreds of troops are in an enclosed
space there is no limit to the damage which
a single shell may cause.
* * * *
“G.8.L.” finds a historic ticker:—
A chronometer of special interest to Australia was
presented to the United Service Museum in London
about 1845 by Sir Thomas Herbert, R.N. Six
inches in diameter, with dials on its face for hours,
minutes and seconds respectively, the time-piece fits
into a silver case and has the appearance of a gigantic
watch. The maker’s name is “Larcum Kendall,
London,” and the date inside “1771.” Captain James
Cook had it with him on his voyages of 1768, 1772
and 1776. It then passed to Captain William Bligh,
who took it to Tahiti in the Bounty. When the
mutineers under Fletcher Christian despatched Bligh
and his followers on the longest sea voyage in an
open boat on record, the chronometer went to Pit-
cairn Island. There it remained until 1808, when
John Adams, the sole survivor of the mutineers, pre-
sented it and an azimuth compass to a visiting
American skipper, Mayhew Folger, of the Topaz. He
had it only for about six weeks, when the Governor
of the island of Juan Fernandez commandeered it. The
compass Folger presented to the Admiralty. The
chronometer next came into the possession of Alexan-
der Caldcleuch, of Valparaiso, who sold it to Captain
HIS LOST FAITH.
"Ah, my pore de-ah friend —so it was your companion
in crime who betrayed you! There's no hon-nah
amongst thieves, you know!”
“No, yer quite right, mate — we’re no better than the
rest of you.”
(afterwards Sir Thomas) Herbert, R.X., then com-
manding the Calliope, for 50 guineas, and he took
it back to London.
* * * *
“Percy Pinktape": It has remained for a
Melbourne suburban councillor to find a flaw
previously undetected by lawyers in the Act
of Charles ll.’s time, which forbids people
to work af their usual trades on Sunday.
The body of which he was a member, scan-
dalised by an increase of Sunday labor
amongst market gardeners, took legal advice
and was informed that prosecutions under
the ancient statute could be instituted, and
the penalty of a five-shilling fine enforced.
It was proceeding to carry a motion instruct-
ing its inspector to take the necessary action,
when the objector put forward the view that
if Sunday were devoted to the securing of
offenders, the inspector would render him-
self equally liable to prosecution. Thereupon
the Council hastily dropped the matter and
returned to the consideration of drains and
culverts.
THE TREASURE.
PROSPECTIVE FATHER-IN-LAW: “And, my good young lady, I hope you know the value of
the prize I am bestowing upon you?”
YOUNG LADY (her mind running on the little sheep-station that Dad has bought for
Reggie) : “Yes, twenty thousand, isn’t it?”
"Xex’’ with some war history:—
The record of the doings of the German prisoners
who were interned on Motutapu .Island at Auckland
(M.L.), as related by one of them, makes enter-
taining reading. Under the supervision of the
astute Von Luckner, of Sec Adler fame, the captives
made the most elaborate plans for
escaping, preparing concentrated
foods, nautical instruments, ammu-
nition, etc. They even manufac-
tured bombs, and the O.C.’s sword,
hanging in the guard-house, excited
their acquisitive instincts. A Ger-
man feigning a cold and wearing
a great-coat managed to appropri-
ate it, substituting in the scabbard
a piece of tin, with a jam-tin for
a handle. The O.C. went off next
day quite happily to a review with
the jam-tin sword attached to him.
“We often wondered if he took it
out of the scabbard and what he
said when he saw it,” says the
narrator blandly. The actual
escape in the O.C.’s launch, the
commandeering of the scow Moa in
the Gulf, and the voyage to the
liermadecs, where they were event-
ually caught, is a thrilling piece
of adventure, although they missed
the Wolf, which was to pick them
up, by three days. Their delay
was due to the activity of the
Auckland motor-boat patrol—rather
a joke at one time to Auckland;
but it is frankly admitted by the
Germans that had it not been for
the fussy little launch chugging
around the island the prisoners
would have made their dash for
liberty three days earlier. How
they had managed to get in touch
with the raider Wolf, and make
an appointment with her at the
Kermadecs, is not divulged; but
for some weeks before the escape
Auckland was agitated by reports
of strange lights signalling at
night from the coast and adjacent
islands. The authorities in their
anxiety to discourage scaremongers
probably missed some genuine in-
formation. A woman who insisted
she had seen a seaplane off the
coast—afterwards proved to be that
of the Wolf laying the mines that
sank the Port Kembla—found her
statement dismissed as a “ridicu-
lous story.”
“S.C.M.”: A warrant-officer of our lot
took a damaged German motor-car from a
depot, repaired it, and sold it for 3000 francs.
The car _ was subsequently confiscated, and
the Belgian buyer lodged a complaint, only
to find, of _ course, that the W.O. had given
him a fictitious name. Presently the long
arm of coincidence poked in. The Belgian
was getting his photo taken, when he saw
in the studio a six-months-old proof of the
W.O.’s photo. He bought it, and handed it
to the A.P.M. A couple of months later I
met Private (late W.0 4 ) Blank on sanitary
fatigue in a depot camp. He told me he had
just dodged gaol by forfeiting his deferred
pay as compensation to the Belgian.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The Y.M.C.A. did not always
charge for everything (B. 4/9/'24). They
leased the Aldwycli Theatre, London, at a
high figure, and provided free entertainments
for Diggers on leave, to many of whom
London theatre prices were prohibitive.
Many of the Y.M. huts were well furnished,
and they all provided free stationery. All
the charges for these things had to be met
out of receipt for refreshments. There was
over £2OOO worth of furniture in the huts
on Salisbury Plain alone. As for relaxing
the regulations in favor of the stonebroke, I
know of a dozen cases where it was done.
It is unfair to compare the Y.M.C.A- with
the Salv’army, as is so often done. The Army
had various profitable activities run by cheap
labor for years previous to its war activi-
ties. and was thus in a position to be philan-
thropic.
* * * *
“F.N.W.,” fresh from the high seas:—
About midway between Africa and Australia is
the aggressive snout of rock known as St. Paul's
Island, the top of a practically retired volcano pro-
truding out of the wet. A telescope reveals a hut
and flagstaff placed there, together with a cache of
provisions, in case any shipwrecked mariners may
happen on that particular district. The Sailing
Directory states that crayfish are numerous and a
plentiful supply of boiling water (fresh, but some-
what fortified with sulphur) is available. Amster-
dam Island, a bit to the north, is rather richer in
natural resources, including wild pigs, goats and
cats, and, in addition, a brand of cabbage that can
be masticated after a boiling of not less than 48
hours. But neither island has yet succeeded in
attracting human settlers, though fishermen from
Mauritius sometimes give a look in. Whilst our ship
was passing St. Paul a lady-passenger made herself
eligible to collect the baby bonus at the next port.
When the Chief Officer interviewed her at the earliest
opportunity (for registration purposes) he conveyed
a poetic message to the mother from me; I took
the liberty of suggesting that Paula would be a
suitable name for the youngster (a girl), and ail
the more appropriate because the word meant “little.”
I got my answer later in the day: (1) The baby
was going to be christened Martha Annie; (2) It
wasn’t “little”—it weighed 811 b.! Farewell to
Romance!
* * * *
“Forebridge”: The British Navy could
always show the Army points in “spit and
polish” (B. 7/8/’24). When Admiral Sir
Robert Arbuthnot—afterwards killed at Jut-
land—inspected a ship, his coxswain would
trail along behind him with a tape-measure;
and any man whose collar, cuffs, tapes or
cap-ribbon fell short of regulation require-
ments was likely to remember it. On one
occasion—during a stiff gale in the North
Sea, just before the war—“ Bobby” stopped
the destroyer flotilla which he commanded,
and ordered all the sub-lieutenants aboard
his ship. When they were duly lined up on
the flagship’s quarter-deck, after a damp
and dangerous passage in their respective
pulling-boats, the Commodore (as he then
was) inspected them. They were just con-
gratulating themselves on having successfully
negotiated the ordeal, when Bobby suddenly
ordered them to unbutton their monkey-
jackets, and thereby convicted more than
half of having “dickies” on instead of the
correct regulation stiff-fronted shirt. Very
few sub-lieutenants were to be noticed ashore
in Portsmouth for several days after that
flotilla returned.
* * * *
“Henry Pannikin”: There had. been a
sliivoo with emptying of many demijohns
up at Melton’s place at Wangara. Dad
Melton was “inked” and monotonously re-
peated his old boast—‘l’m the best singer
between Bourke and Sydney Harbor.” Old
Ned Riley wouldn’t have it, and challenged
Dad. “Long” Hayden was appointed judge,
and Dad led off with “The Wild Colonial
Boy,” after which Riley gave “Molly Riley”
a tearing about. Then they appealed for
a decision. The arbitrator tapped Riley on
the head, and certified him “the worst singer
I ever heard.” “Ah,” exulted Dad, “what
did I tell yer? I win.” “Hold on,” said
“Long” Hayden, “as for you—well, you can’t
blanky well sing at all.”
* * * *
“Zanthus” : The White Australia doctrine
owes more to some of the old Imperial Gover-
nors and officials than has ever been acknow-
ledged. In 1837 Governor Bourke remarked
of a recommendation from a committee of
the Leg. Council, that coolies should be im-
ported from India, that such a course would
be “a sacrifice of permanent advantage to
temporary expediency.” When the proposal
came before Lord Glenelg, then Secretary
for the Colonies, he tvrote on December 14,
1837: —•
I cannot but apprehend that the introduction into
the Colony of a considerable body of Indian laborers,
as proposed in the memorandum, would have a pre-
judicial effect both on the interests of the Colony
and on British emigration. Its tendency would pro-
bably be to the creation of a distinct class of persons
separated by origin and habits from the rest of the
laboring population, subject to restrictions not gen
erally imposed, and regarded as of an inferior and
servile description. Such a system could scarcely
fail to be injurious to the parties themselves, and by
bringing agricultural labor into disrepute to discour-
age the immigration from this country of agricultural
laborers.
Governor Gipps, referring in a despatch of
May 1, 1838, to an agitation in Sydney for
immigration from India, wrote: “This means
of supplying labor would, in my opinion, if
carried to any extent, be fraught with evils
of the highest magnitude.” In the same year
J. Mackay, who had imported 41 hill coolies
from India, applied for a bounty of £6 a
head on them. Gipps stated that, concurring
as he did with Glenelg’s views on the impor-
tation of natives of India, he could give the
claim no support whatever.
“Two Seas”: The Melbourne sticking-up
scare has penetrated even to our N. 8.
Wales country district. A few nights ago,
feeling anxious about the safety of his
missus, who was overdue from town, a
farmer went out on to the road to look for
her. Hearing a vehicle coming along from
town at a smart pace, he stepped out into
the road to ask the occupants—two women
—if they had passed his wife. The only reply
HAD HIS HANDS FULL.
“What docs your fiancee do for a living?”
“Great heavens, he hasn’t time to work when
he’s engaged to me!”
he got was a scream and a slash across the
face with a whip. The sulky went on at a
gallop, and if the local rag hasn’t an account
of an attempted outrage it won’t be the
fault of two hysterical women.
CENTENNIAL PARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yesterday at sunset
In Centennial Park,
While alone I wan-
dered,
From my feet upspring-
ing
Soared a singing lark.
Sunset splendor broad-
ened.
Deepened lavishly;
Golden grew lake-waters,
Fretted not with ripples,
Glassing palm and tree.
Then, as there I heark-
ened
To the lark’s loud
strain,
Fancy made me captive—
Sent me musing, dream-
ing
Down an English lane.
There I saw a singer.
One who moved the
throng,
One who still enchants
them,
And it seemed he listened
To a skylark’s song.
Just a moment only
Dreamt I thus, and then,
Thralled no more oy
Fancy,
To the lit lake-waters
Back I came again.
Singing, singing, sing-
ing.
Rose the joyous
bird—
Was it lark or poet,
Shelley’s lark or Shel-
ley
Yesterday I heard?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


6
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
ers
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth.
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monebel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safes/ Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridges
M
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
Milo
In Powder and Liquid Form
Obtainable at all Stores
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturers of 'VALLO* Brand Chemicals* Dips & Sprays
And at Head Office: Correspondence
Sydney & Brisbane 497-603 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE Invited
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tb£ Southern Union General Insur-
ance Co. of Australasia, Utd.:
To Reduce
June, Surplus. Dividends. Deficit.
1802* £3 724 Nil £3,724 98,’486
Additional flotation exes., £86.. 98,572
1923 .. 8,454 Nil 8,454 90,118
1924 10,244 Nil 16,244 73,8*4
*lB months.
At firAt glance the latest Southern Union
accounts suggest that general-manager Bain-
bridge and tiis team had reduced the big
handicap with which the co. began, owing
to the greed of its promoter. Gross premium
income was £236,270 for the 12 months ended
June, compared with £169,789 for 1923 and
£lOB 122 for 1922. But the larger business
gave* no profit. Here are underwriting
details for the three years 1 :
N e t Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1922.. £55,971 £18,753 £4'6,242 33.5 p.c. 82.6 p.c.
1923.. 85,209 46,532 46,356 54.6 „ 54.4 „
1924.. 122,228 71,050 51,904 58.1 „ 42.4 „
Net premiums did not quite meet the losses
and expenses, and the surplus in the intro-
ductory table is what remained of £16,976
of interest earnings when £733 underwriting
loss had been deducted. It may be merely the
co.’s bad luck to have been hit by abnormal
losses; on the other hand, it may be that in
trying to win enough business to pay divs.
on its over-large capital, the co. managed to
get hold of an abnormal lot of rotten busi-
ness. Certainly if the co. was taking any
old sort of business, costs shouldn’t have been
£42 Bs. of every £lOO of net premiums. Even
the £16,244 surplus shown for the year is
illusory, because a larger insurance business
requires increased provision for unexpired
risks, and on a 40 p.c. basis £14,807 of last
year's premiums should have gone into an un-
earned income reserve. The total in that
reserve at June 30 should have been £48,891,
whereas there w r as only £23,125 and that in-
cluded the carry-forward in the Profit and
Loss account. The position as it affected
shareholders at June 30 was as follows :
Paid capital .. .. .. •• £378,573
Reserves and P. and L. balance .. 23,125
Total Funds .. .. .. £401,698
Establishment account .. ~ 97,000
Unexpired risks .. .. .. 48,891
Funds intact .. .. .. £255,807
No less than 6s. 6d. in the £1 of paid capital
is thus represented by nothing more tangible
than the Southern Union organisation.
Actually the position is worse, because for
some hundreds of thousands of the 1,892,864
£l shares subscribed and paid to 45., pre-
miums of from 2s. 6d. to 4s. per share were
paid, and all that money has gone, too. The
disappearance of so much under the impudent
“underwriting” arrangement is not the South-
ern Union’s only trouble. The promoter found
share-selling so easy that capital much
larger than could reasonably be required for
some years was raised. On the generally
accepted basis that funds 1| times under-
writing income is good backing for policy-
holders, the present capital of £378,573 could,
if it were wholly intact, carry a net premium
income of £252.382, which is more than
double last year’s policy-writing. In plain
words, the capital is too big for the business;
and an effort to rapidly increase the business
is likely to land the co. with much that is
bad —there is always plenty of that about.
On the other hand, the size of the capital
may relieve the co. of the need of building
up the reserves which ordinarily are called
for; and that may bring dividends earlier
than would otherwise be warranted. Still
there is no justification for thinking of them
yet.
Because funds are very much larger than
the size of the insurance business requires,
the Southern Union offers exceptionally
strong backing to policy contracts. The
funds intact at June 30. including reserves,
were more than double .last year's net pre-
mium income of £122.228 ; and there is also
16s. uncalled on each of the 1.892.864 £1
shares, so that in the event of serious trouble
proprietors can be called upon for £1.514.291.
Assets at June 30 were made up of £203.562
of Government securities, debentures, deposits
and cash, against which tlij: management was
working on an overdraft of £10.812: freehold
premises. £112.423 (mortgaged for £66.591) ;
mortgages, £34.319; book debts, £492141;
leasehold, furniture, equipment, etc., £7589.
In addition to the overdraft and mortgages.
£12.355 was owing to sundry creditors, and
£12,777 on account of outstanding claims.
Shareholders should consider seriously
whether it would not be better to cut losses
at once by writing Is. per share off ca Pi™ •
Then when real profits show up there need
be no question as to the propriety ot pay-
ing divs. .
* * *
The National Bank of New Zealand :
Net To Re ' Ke ‘
Mireh Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1<)13 £95 492 13 p.c. = £65,000 £30,492 £506,^06
1913 • • Premiums on new share rLsue 125,000 681, ,56
1914.. 120,896 13 p.c. = 94,335 26,061 <08,31^
iqi k i‘>9 *>63 13 „ 9,,500 24,(63 /33,05 u
ISS‘ ioSsm is ;;;; 97:500 9,029 742,109
1917.. 113,145 13 „ „ 97,500 15,645 707,754
1018 115 296 13 ~ ~ 97,500 17,796 /(0,u50
IQIQ 136 882 13 ~ ~ 97,500 39,382 814,932
l*remiums on new shares 250,000 1,064,932
156 299 14 p.c. = 131,658 24,641 1,089,573
’ * 906 321 14 140,000 66,321 1,155,894
1922!! 176:226 14 „ „ 140,000 36,226 1,192,120
Premiums on new shares 200,000
19#3 186 147 14 p.c. = 172,700 13,44< 1,405,067
1924! ! 194:901 14 ~,, 175,000 19,991 1,425,558
A few years before the war the’ National of
N Z. was paying 12 p.c. on £375,000 of capi-
tal, but so great has been its expansion
that for the past two years 14 p.c. (tree ot
income-tax, though presumably that means
only British income-tax) has been paid on
£1250,000, and another quarter-million ot
capital is now in process of being raised.
All the new issues have been put out at a
substantial premium; the latest one
in £200,000. So, while capital is £1,120,0U0
more than it was in 1910, premiums and pro-
fits not required for divs. and tor protect-
ing weaker securities have increased reserves
from £415.000 to £1,625,000. Shortly visible
funds will amount to £3,125,558 compared
with under £BOO,OOO 14 years back. The
next table shows the very rapid growth ot
earnings in 10 years:- Written off
Oi-oss Premises and
Profits. Expenses. Investments.
1914 .. £258,024 £113,128 £15,000
1916 . • 296,555 153,027 2u,000
1918 . 360,748 211,753 20,000
1919 413,490 226,607 30,000
1920 " 511,674 255,375 95,000
1921 :: 645:396 318,575 110,000
1922 595,905 383,178 30,000
1923 " 598 21 f 369,470 20,000
1924 603,335 359,400 20,000
From each year's gross profits deductions
were made for bad and doubtful debts, and
probably also for contingencies; and as the
10-year period has included a boom and a
depression, internal insurances against acci-
dents have no doubt been large. Ihat the
National has pulled through a difficult
period without any serious visible injury
has been made clear by the published
accounts. The inflation of values, particu-
larly of land, which followed abnormally
high prices for produce during the war,
might easily have shaken the foundations ot
the banks in the set-back of 1920. Heavy
losses were incurred by some of them, par-
ticularly those which backed the freezing in-
dustry but in every case
bank managements, most of whom had bitter
personal experience in other booms and
crashes, stood up to the losses without turn-
ing a hair or having to admit in their pub-
lished accounts that they had been reckless
beyond the capacity of their internal re-
serves. ....
Though land values in Maoriland are still
higher than production warrants, the worst of
the post-war dangers which confronted the
banks have disappeared; and though public
borrowing has been prodigiously heavy, the
national finances are in a reasonably healthy
condition. For the first time in the history of
the Dominion exports last year exceeded 59
millions—£sl.6ls,ooo to be exact —and that
was £7,239.000 greater than imports. The
recovery of produce markets —especially, for
wool —lias been responsible for a big revival,
which has been well maintained so far dur-
ing the current financial year. Meanwhile,
after having substantially reduced taxation,
the M.L. Treasury lias kept its expenditure
within the limits of its income, though cer-
tainly it has paid far too much out of loans.
Reduced taxation chiefly accounted for the
National’s latest improvement of profits.
Gross earnings last year were only £5llB
better than for the previous 12 months, but
working exes, were £10,070 less, £165,914
having been paid away in rates and taxes
against £194.776 in the previous year. In-
cidentally, £28,944 of the past year’s earn-
ings was voted into staff funds, the directors
having agreed that the employees who have
made good divs. for shareholders should have
more consideration.
How the National’s business expanded
over two five-year periods is shown by this
comparison of balance-sheet groups:—
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
£ £ £ £
Notes . . 255,899 1,177,271 1,729,434 936,541
Bills, etc... 899,674 951,394 1,422,151 1,701,313
Deposits . . 4,304,654 6,481,558 9,261,899 11,442,153
L assets 2,527,394 4,175,958 5.887,285 7,200,633
Advances.. 4,362.893 5,919,219 8,957,448 9,291.646
Premises . . 85,756 139,977 346,918 392,230
For every £1 of deposits entrusted to the
bank in i. 914, it held 30s. by lt»19 and 535.
2d. at March 31 last. Meanwhile all the
bank’s new funds —fresh capital, premiums
and reserved profits—have fully maintained
the protection for depositors and other credi-
tors. When the newest issue has been paid
up the National will be carrying only about
£4 10s. of the public’s money for every £1
of its own funds. Under normal conditions
the management could become trustee for
about 10 millions more of the public’s money
and maintain what is generally considered
a safe trading basis. Besides the strength
given by the relatively large funds, creditors
can also see 51.1 p.c. of their money in cash
or in assets readily convertible into cash.
At March 31 £6,879,374 of liabilities were not
protected by liquid assets, but they had the
backing of advances and premises written
down to £9,683.876. Therefore, all inner
reserves and £2,504.500 could be lost before
the National’s creditors need feel nervous
about ultimately receiving 20s. in the £.
The N.S.W. Mont dk I'jete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1914. . £16,297 124 p.c. = £13,211 £3086 £43,984
1915 11.792 10 „ „ 10,830 962 44,946
1916.. 13,342 10 „ „ 11,250 2092 47,038
1917.. 13,897 10 „ „ 11,250 2647 49,685
1918.. 14,993 Hi „ „ 12,656 2337 52,022
1919.. 16,038 12* „ „ 14,062 1976 53,998
Reserves capitalised, £28.125 . . 25,873
1920.. 19,621 124 p.c. = 16,023 3598 29,471
1921.. 21,726 124 „ „ 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 124 , „ 23,754 2597 33,855
1923.. 28,834 124 „ „ 25,511 3323 37,178
1924.. 31,319 12* „ „ 28,125 3194 40,372
The N. S. Wales Mont de Piete is a very
accommodating Uncle; while bankers and
most other lenders have been cold-shoulder-
ing the small borrower with limited security,
this one has lent in dribs and drabs all re-
payments during the past 12 months and
£33,732 in addition. To do that it increased
bank overdraft from £19,055 to £37,314 and
there are other creditors for £26,554 against
£16,179 a year ago. x\ few hundreds of calls
took paid capital to £225,000, and including
£40,372 of reserves left after paying divs.
the co.’s own funds amounted to £265,372.
For every £1 of the co.’s own money the
management had the use of 4s. 9d. of bor-
rowed money, and, though that was much
more than the customary borrowing by the
co., its position was still very snug. The
repayment of a little more than one-fifth of
the advances would shake off; all creditors,
so if hard times should suddenly interfere
with repayments the N. S. Wales Mont de
Piete could nurse its clients and their secu-
rities without having any debts of its own
to worry about.
In recent years the business has grown
rapidly: the amount now distributed in divs.
is approximately double the average amount
of profit disclosed a few years back. The
explanation is in the following figures: —
Paid Capital. Mortgages, Pledges, etc.
1914.. £106,250 £140,540
1919.. 112,500 152,859
1922.. 191.797 226,041
1923.. 224,589 276,722
1924.. 225,000 310,453
Since 1914 £90.625 of new capital has been
put in and £28,125 of reserves have been
capitalised. The 124 p.c. divs. are very sweet
for old shareholders, because all the new-
capital w-as subsci’ibed at par, and the bonus
issue of 1919 makes the return more juicy.
If the business continues to grow 7 more capi-
tal will no doubt be called in, but as 100,000
of the 300,000 £1 shares issued are paid to
only 55., probably that £75.000 will be called
before new shares are offered. The only
assets other than the advances at June 30
were: Premises, £28,574; cash, etc., £2810;
and office furniture, £1467. The year's net
pront according to the published accounts
was £29.910; in the introductory table an un-
explained addition to reserves amounting to
£1409 has also been treated as profit earned.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), which sells
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and other sport-
ing goods:—
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1915.. 15.533 10 p.c. = 9,000 1565 4,968 7,966
Added to goodwill, £738 . . . . 8.704
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c. = 9,667 2080 4,419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO . . 14,285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. = 8,800 2215 1,940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £237 . . . . 12,582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. = 11,000 2622 3.608 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 ~,, 11,000 3942 2.856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32,291 10 „ ~11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 .. 19.136
1921.. 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,669 10 ~,, 15,313 2728 5,628 2.136
Reserves.
1923.. 20,034 9 ~,,13,781 2761 3,492 1,356
1924.. 17,297 8 „„ 12,832 2709 1,756 3,112
Down to 1921 Mick Simmons’s chief business
was conducted in leasehold premises. Then,
having purchased the property the co. had
long tenanted, the directors decided to re-
build, and to spare no expense in putting up
“the finest store of its kind in the southern
hemisphere” in the hope of making the house
of Mick the “Mecca of the sporting public.”
Re-building was commenced in January,
1928, and was not completed until June this
year—some weeks after the accounts closed.
Disturbance of business at headquarters,
general depression in trading and heavy
expenses (some incidental to the re-building
operations) are blamed for the further de-
cline of profits, necessitating the reduction
of the div. rate to 8 p.c. Gross profits are
not so good as they were four or five
years back, and expenses have not been got
down in line with reduced earnings:—
Gross Trading
Profits, etc. Expenses.
1912 .. .. £39,955 £28,819
1916 • • 59,441 44,855
1919 . .. 75,943 62,089
1990 .. 106,780 78,178
1921 •• 112,112 87,201
1922 •• •• 102,452 81,592'
1923 . . . . . 101,264 83,861
1924 .. .. 101,598 87,321
Whether the new headquarters will give a
better harvest and whether costs can be cut
are the points of chief interest to share-
holders now that the building contractors are
out of the way. Premises have taken a lot
of money, and the management having gone
outside for much of it, there will be a
pretty stiff interest bill to pay. The rent
bill will no doubt be smaller; but it is
doubtful whether this saving will cover the
extra outgoings. The co. may reasonably
expect big benefits from the change, but they
will come gradually. The co. would now be
in a much sounder position as a div.-earner
if the directors had been less hasty in capi-
talising surplus profits. Since 191(5 £40,625
of bonus scrip has been issued (nearly one-
fourth of present paid capital), and there
are reserves of only £3112 over and above
those covering goodwill and the trifle ol
leases included in that account.
Balance-sheet movements over five and ten
years have been :
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital .. £90,000 £llO,OOO £153,935 £166,202
Liabilities .. 26,271 37,313 115,931 144,206
Freeholds .. 91.012 121,253
Plant, etc. .. 17,136 20,277 13,045 21,951
Stock.. .. 61,699 99,287 131,584 120,049
Book debts .. 21,446 21,861 34,933 36,411
Cash, etc. . . 8,435 6,371 6,771 20,540
Properties were mortgaged to the extent oi
£69,052 and floating debts totalled £<5,214.
Against the latter were liquid assets, includ-
ing “patent rights and sundry assets'' (un-
specified) for £11,605, totalling £177.000. B>o
the co.’s position is not uncomfortable. Last
year ss. per share was got in on 50,000 con-
tribs., and there is still £25,000 callable on
that lot if additional funds are required.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. (Syd-
ney). The co. started in 1909 with a deficit
of £7462, representing patents and other
goodwill items, plus preliminary exes.: —
Paid Net Pro-
for fit avail-
Good- able for Re-
,Tune, Profit. Dividends. will. Reserves, serves.
1914. .£1.3,056 111 p.c £7058 £129 £5998 £4928
1915.. 2,540 5 „ „ 3500 40 3928
1916.. 4,230 6 ~ „ 4200 25 30 3933
1917.. 3,683 6 „ „ 4200 63 3353
1918.. 4,221 6 ~ „ 4200 35 21 3339
1919.. 4,248 6 ~ „ 4200 52 48 3335
1920.. 7,008 9 ~ „ 6300 _ 70S 4043
Co. reconstructed. Reserves capitalised, assets
written up and £7413 added to goodwill items.
Towards De-
Profit. Dividends. Reserves, fieit.
£9044
1921.. £12,282 10 p.c. - £10,501 £l7Bl 7263
1922.. 16,008 10 „ „ 10,501 5507 1756
Loss.
1923.. 871 Nil 2627
Profit.
1924.. 3,731 31 p.c. = 3,675 56 25il
For two years this wood-pipe co. has had a
poor run ; contracts have been fewer, and those
which have been completed have not shown
much profit. For the 24 months ended June
30 this year only £2860 was earned after
providing for depreciation (amount unspeci-
fied), so the 34 p.c. div. recently paid cut
into accumulations to the extent of £Bl5.
The directors no doubt now regret their issue
of bonus scrip in 1920, when business was
good and the political bogey of the period
was that liard-up Governments were contem-
plating a raid on “excess” profits. Austra-
lian Wood Pipe directors reconstructed their
co.; thev wrote up property and equipment
by £22.757, added £7413 to goodwill and capi-
talised these paper reserves and other visible
accumulations. Three £1 fully-paids were
issued for every two previously held, and
paid capital was thus increased from £70,000
to £105.007. The genuineness of profits since
disclosed depends entirely on whether book
values of assets have been written down hard
enough since the reconstruction, and on
whether goodwill (patents and trade-mark)
are still worth the £B2OO at which they are
valued. After payment of the recent div. the
book value of these intangibles was £2571
greater than accumulated reserves. The
security for capital also depends on works
and equipment being fully employed and
thus maintaining the value of these assets
at the £60,183 at which they are shown in
the books. Contracts at prices from which
the management can squeeze a profit count
more than any other factor in considering
the Wood Pipe’s merits as an investment.
And as work available is variable and the
future to some extent in doubt, the directors
should lose no opportunity of writing down
assets (instead of writing them up, as they
did in 1920) and strengthening finances to
tide the co. over dull periods. Lately pros-
(Continued on page 19.)


Even Devil s pool might be exalted
«f the Bishop and the Vicar had a
uttle side-wager on the game
CAM OH
/ JOE Stipend
/ h OL V S*OK£ 7/o /
I
l0<1f » / / j j
And what a
difference there
would be in
horseracing if the
Canon took the
bag!
A little flutter with the three cards might
be tolerable were the prize a hymnbook.
And there seems a possibility of
the public getting all the sweeps
that are needed on the numbers
of the hymns
You’ll notice that poke* has a
different tone when tho Church
collects a “full-hand” out of the
jack-pots.
And even the coins might have
haloes if it was the- Curate who
headed ’em
t
WHEN THE CHURCH BECOMES A SPORT.
“An effort Is being made at Christ Church, West Hawthorn to combine sport and church work. Champion billinrdist Geo. Grav gave an exhibition on
the new table there the other night, and spoke about the uplift of billiards.”


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR SEPTEMBER.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Bank of Com-
merce
Australian Drug Co.
Automobiles, Ltd.
Ballarat Trustees
Bank of Victoria
Broken Hill Proprietary
Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney
Commercial Bank of
Australia
Cox Bros.
Emu Bay Railway
Equity Trustees
Federal Guarantee Corp.
Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co.
Geo. Farmer
Goodlet & Smith
Gypsum & Salt Supplies
Pty.
Home Recreations, Ltd.
Intercolonial 1 nvestment,
Land & Building
Mercantile Mutual Insur-
ance
National Housing Asso-
ciation
Newcastle County Mutual
Building
New Era Insurance
New Zealand Insurance
Co.
North Coast Steam
Navigation
Phoenix Films
Pitt, Son & Badgery
Port Jackson & Manly
S.S.
Port Jackson Investment
and Insurance
Queensland Brewery
Queensland National Bank
Queensland Trustees
Queensland Woollen
Manufacturing
Simpson, H. L. & S.
Vale of Clwydd Coal
W ege Motor
Wollongong Brick & Tile
W. R. Carpenter
Increases of Capital
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Prospectuses
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin OHice. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/0 per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—-thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type ot
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
The use of Pioneer Wood Pipe makes practical
saving now, and ensures economy for the years to
come. For this adaptable modern, conduit is cheap
to buy, light to handle, simple to install, will safely
carry all classes of fluids, and its entire freedom from
corrosion prolongs its life enormously. Write for
our book of reliable information. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * •
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multijiix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered bv
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. J. CONFOY, A. AUBREY,
Governing Director. General Manager.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
hbkjlmjklmkl
0 O ORD&S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney .
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual S ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary. Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at *.«west Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED. TnWNg
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPP, General Manager.
. hriditened: “substantial orders”
poets States, and as the co.
2S Zee tintS “ 48-llotir working week
b stead of 44, perhaps contracts m sight will
show a better protit margin. Competition
has of course, become more severe since the
reinforced concrete pipe has been exploited
P™,'lv financed cos.; but the wood-pipe
has not been pushed out altogether: the 200
miles of it in Victoria alone, where it is
officially assumed to have a life of 27 years
at least ” are an advertisement which help
this co to book orders in these strenuously
competitive times. The share market is not
impressed by prospects: buyers limit lately
has been 10s. 3d. per fl-paid, and there are
sellers at 10s. 9d. ...
The next table details balance-sheet move-
ments over ten and five years, but the figures
must be considered in conjunction with the
1020 reconstruction: —
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital .. £65,728 £70,000 £105,007 £105,007
liabilities .. 33’,613 3,087 27,124 16,303
Properties and g 4Q ?90 60 . 000 60 ,183
" 52 079 21,981 20,226 29,878
Book debts ' ‘ 25,655 14.463 45,772 28,152
Deposits .. 2,176 1,288 4,507 4,201
The co. is financially comfortable; at June
30 there were more or less liquid assets for
£62.231 to set against £16,303 of outside
debt. After paying the little div. the sur-
plus of liquid assets over and above all
accounts owing represented Bs. per share.
* * * *
Two or three gold-mining cos. which made
fortunes in Westralia. and have lately been
whining about excessive taxation and oner-
ous working conditions there, are negotiating
for interests in Ontario. The title in On-
tario is fee-simple, compared with leasehold
and the obligation to conform with labor con-
ditions in the West, and taxation is levied
only on net profits. If a mine is unprofitable
or its profits are less than 10,000 dollars, it
pavs nothing. A tax of 3 p.c. is levied on
profits from 10.000 to 1,000,000 dollars and
5 p.c. from 1,000.000 to 5,000,000 dollars.
There is. in addition, an income-tax levied
by the Dominion Government, but allow-
ance is made in assessments for the exhaus-
tion of the mine. A small tax of 5 cents
per acre is also levied on mining lands in
territory without local municipal govern-
ment. In all other respects the Ontario
mine-owner is practically relieved of taxa-
tion.
• # • *
Brown’s Reward Central (W.A.) has been
exhibiting a few gold specimens in support
of its claim to be included among the new-
rich. These specimens form part of small
coarse gold patches recently struck in the
Monte Carlo Bank mine, Cue, on which the
co. holds an option, and in which the public
is being pressed to take shares. But rich
dabs count for nothing in the West; they
frequently occur where the quartz reef junc-
tions with a lode, and apart from these dabs
values are generally poor. The Monte Carlo
shows no evidence to prove that it is an
exception to the rule, and further develop-
ment is badly needed to establish whether it
has prospects.
* * * *
The kidney reefs of Edjudina (W.A.),
once the Mecca of working parties, are to be
operated by Dorrie Doolette’s crowd. This
field has 10 miles of workings and a high
average yield to its credit. A mile of ground
on the north end. including the Senate,
Geneve, Gawler and Fingall mines, has been
selected for the trial. Values in the hard
schist at 200 ft. in the Gawler and Senate
were around 2oz. for 6000 tons extracted,
and a winze to 2Soft. in the Senate shows the
gold to be living down.
* * * *
Pilbarra, Westralia’s furthest-out produc-
ing goldfield next to Kimberley, is giving its
prospectors and claim-holders a bad time.
Scarcely any rain has fallen there this year,
and in some parts water is scarce, and in
others unobtainable. To make matters
worse, transport costs are mountainous, and
foodstuff prices have risen to dizzy heights.
* * * *
Mararoa has shown its faith in the Emu
group, near Cue (W.A.), by completing its
purchase and taking over the vendor’s lia-
bility to the Government for cash advanced
for mine development. The first move will
be to provide an adequate supply of water
for crushing.
* * * *
Having been equipped with additional de-
velopment plant, disappointing South Luck-
now (N.S.W.) is opening up the bodies it
found in its long search for bonanzas. The
footwall has been located a few feet from
the bottom of the monkey shaft, and two
shifts are following the contact to seek the
spur which carried streaks of high values
80ft. above. Meanwhile the 200 ft. level is
being connected with earlier workings. From
the beginning the prospects of this show de-
pended on locating spurs which on the
contact of diorite and serpentine might carry
riches such as made the old field world-
famous. So far nothing except a rich dab
here and there and the opening up of a block
of fair average value, though of no conse-
quence in establishing South Lucknow as a
mine, have encouraged shareholders to go
on paying calls. However, as most condi-
tions are identical with those which pro-
duced millions of pounds’ worth of gold in
the old Lucknow field, there is always a
chance.
* * * *
The first “reefing claim’’ granted in N. S.
Wales was probably that to Sargent, a
solicitor of Bathurst, and to a miner named
Collison, of Hill End, in 1852. Previously
only "licenses to dig’’ (that was, for alluvial
gold) had been issued. Collison had been
dollying quartz specimens containing coarse
free gold and had been disposing of it as
alluvial. Sargent’s appeal to the authorities
resulted in his being given the right to seek
“gold in matrix.” His “claim” ran north
from the Turon River through Hill End for
approximately seven miles, and there was
apparently no limit to width. Little did he
suspect that subsequently more than 30 tons
of the precious metal would be recovered from
his holding and that small claims would be
pegged on it by the thousand.
Queensland gold returns for August showed
a decided increase on those for the same
month of last year; 89470 z. (fine) compared
with G5270z. The chief contributors were Alt.
Morgan (6G480z.), Gympie (12300 z.) and Mt.
Coolon (7310 z.). For the January-August
period this year the total was 60,7G00z. (fine),
as against 53,9930 z. for the same period in
1923. The position is not as healthy as the
figures look, because Mt. Morgan has been
responsible for most of the increase. Mt.
Coolon has not come up to expectations,
Normanby has so far proved a dud for pro-
duction, and Charters Towers’ output has
dwindled almost to vanishing point. Gym-
pie mines have distributed £5625 of divs.
so far this year, most of it from the No. 4
North Phoenix. Despite this year’s improve-
ment, the outlook for gold mining in the
Northern State is not bright.
* * * *
Queensland Government Geologist Dun-
stan is on the Mt. Isa field carrying out a
further examination in conjunction with an
aerial topographical survey. Difficulties re-
garding suitable machines and cameras de-
layed the starting of the job, which is ex-
perimental in geological survey work in the
Commonwealth. General-manager Ernest
Bails is, on geologist St. Smith’s recommen-
dation, getting a couple of shafts to
the sulphide zone, and this side of Christ-
mas should see them down to 300 ft. The
Black Star and the Black Rock are still the
most lustrous in the firmament of Isa Mines,
Ltd. The Prop, has been encouraged by de-
velopment in the Ibus. which has rather
dimmed the Out-on-Her-Own.
* * * *
The Aberdare seam, which is the mainstay
of the Ipswich coalfield (Q.), appears to
have been located in an entirely new area
west of the* big Ipswich fault. Hinckley and
Bryan, formerly with the City of Ipswich
Colliery, have located a sft. seam which they
consider is a continuation of the Aberdare
as worked in the City. The seam is cut off to
the west of that colliery by the fault, and
it is a matter of considerable importance to
locate it to the west in practically virgin coal
country. Boring is being continued, and
preparations are being made to sink a shaft
and strike the coal at a depth of about 200 ft.
The next point to decide will be whether the
area is not too much faulted to allow the
seam to be worked successfully.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford’s opinion about it: —
A recent “Wild Oat” par. about Blair Athol,
Baralaba and Styx coal (Q.) doesn’t put the position
fairly. The State mines at Baralaba and Styx at
present supply mostly to the Queensland railways,
and if the business were transferred to the privately
owned Blair Athol, it would simply mean a transfer
of the scene of /operations, and in that case would
“badly pinch good unionists” at Styx and Baralaba.
Incidentally, Baralaba is not now working at a loss,
and as soon as new equipment is ready the cost of
production will be lower than at present. Styx No.
2 must still produce so as to give the correct mixture
for the most economical result, and as soon as the
new shafts are down and opened out costs will be
reduced and coal won profitably also. Further, Styx"
coal is the most flexible coal we have in Queensland,
and presents possibilities for export if properly mixed
with Baralaba ; any loss at Styx for the present is
quite justified with a view to maintaining it on the
market until Styx No. 3 mine is read}' to operate
on a settled position of the field. Blair Athol coal
cannot compete with Styx and Baralaba at the same
prices owing to the much lower calorific value of
the coal; 100 tons of Baralaba and Styx mixed in
proportion of 50 p.c. each is equivalent to approxi-
mately 125 tons of Blair Athol, and as the cost
to the Railway Department is 20s. 6d. for State
mines and 20s. for Blair Athol delivered at
Rockhampton, it is obvious that the State coal is
more economical.
* * * *
A Charters Towers syndicate has purchased
the Mt. Coolon (Q.), which hitherto has
been worked on a small scale. The change
should be for the good of the field; the Bear
and the Coolon are on the best gold lode
worked in the State at present, yet returns
have been much below expectations. Dave
Barclay is content to work his Native Bear
mine on a very limited scale in comparison
with its possibilities, and the Coolon has gone
at an even slower pace. The lode outcrops
for 700 ft., and down to 100 ft. averages 6 or
7 feet wide, and makes as much as 25ft. in
places. Although it has been worked
for years, it has not yet been touched at
noun. Crushings have averaged about
BOdwt. along the full length of the lode. It
amalgamation of the claims could be brought
about, the Mt. Coolon field would be a pro-
position for company development, and out-
put, instead of a few hundred ounces per
month, might run into thousands.
* * * *
Clark’s, the last important producing mine
in Charters Towers, went out last week.
Altogether £38,250 was paid in divs., equal
to Bs. Gd. per share. As they could be bought
at 3d. in 1914, and as nearly all the divs.
were paid since, there were some lucky
Towers speculators. Clark’s never had much
of a reef for size, but the ore was worth
up to £24 a ton. The last div. was paid
in September, 1921, and since then the mine
has had a lot of cash, including a Government
subsidy, spent on it without any return. Billy
Clark was hopeful to the end, and it was due
to his dogged persistency that prospecting-
work was kept going so long.
* * * *
Alligator lliver Syndicate, in 300 shares
of £lO each, has been floated by Cairns share-
broker Arthur Clarke to prove the gold find
made by George Laurie at Yemelba (rs.l.).
Preliminary work has given encouraging sur-
face results, and the syndicate proposes to
spend up to £2OOO on learning what lies
below. On a western lease of 20 acres a
sft. lode has been traced for 30ft. and there
are indications that it runs 10 times that
distance. Two bulk samples tested by the
Government assayer at Chillagoe went (1)
1.40 z. gold and .GSoz. silver; (2) 4.90 z. gold
and 1.930 z. silver. To the east a foot ot a
4ft. lode outcropping 200 ft. in length gave
bulk samples assaying 4oz. to 6oz. gold and an
average of 2oz. silver. Laurie’s latest uis-
covery is a silver-lead proposition showing
three separate ore-bodies, and he lias already
dug out a 5-ton parcel for Chillagoe to
sample. # * #
Dereks, Stannary Hills (N.Q.), which
closed down last May, is giving its mines an
overhaul with a view to hopping m on the
good tin market. A heap of cash has been
put into mines and plant, and only this year
a 20-head battery was completed just prior
to the mines closing down. The trouble is
the low grade of ore: the March crushing
of 760 tons averaged 495. per ton, but the
April lot of 400 tons dropped to 40s.
* * * *
Prospecting on the Mauretania lode. Stan-
hills (N.Q.), during the past two months has
given great promise. The mainsliaft has
now readied 100 ft., and from a width of a
foot at 80ft. down the lode has made 3ft. at
100 ft. Vallies between these levels average
20 p.c. tin. Drives are now to be put in to
determine the lateral extent of the ore-
body, and on present appearances the show
looks like making into one of the best little
tin properties in the North.
* * * *
“0.M.”: There are two known deposits
of radium-bearing ore in South Australia.
One is at Radium Hill, near Olary, and the
other at Mount Painter, near Copley. Re-
cently I obtained twenty-one specimens ot
radio-active ores from the latter mine, I hey
comprise uraninite or pitchblende (brownish-
and velvet-black), torbernite (emerald and
grass-green) and antunite (citron-yellow).
They, are extremely beautiful, resembling the
most delicate filigree work, and it is hard
to believe that the artist and the jeweller
have not combined to produce the master-
pieces of color and design. Specimens from
Mt. Painter were sent to some of the prin-
cipal museums of the world by the manager
(the late 11. G. Stokes), and they were
unanimously described as most beautiful.
Some of the ore from Radium Hill was sent
to Sydney, and radium was extracted from
it by S. Radcliff, an experimenter. Ore
from the Olary field was also sent overseas.
It is not generally known that radium ex-
tracted from S. Aus. ore is actually m use
at the Alfred Hospital, Melbourne. The
main source of the world’s supplv is
the Belgian Congo. The ore is mined at
Katanga, and shipped to Belgium for refin-
ing. Prior to the discovery of this held
supplies came from Austria ami Cornwall,
and deposits were also worked in Colorado.
“Aurum”: It was during the early days of
Hill End (N.S.W.) when specimens of gold
associated with a little quartz were more
plentiful than wireless-sets are to-day. Gold-
stealing was rampant, and evidence which
would succeed in convictions was hard to
obtain. But a newly-appointed sergeant of
police decided to “clean up” the industry.
On the outskirts of the village was a gal-
vanised-iron building used as a place of wor-
ship. The sarg. had noticed that a persistent
metallic thumping appeared to be more pro-
nounced than Hallelujahs at the meetings,
and he decided that the dollying of gold
samples formed an important part of the
service. Consequently he arranged a raid,
and took a local potentate as witness. The
rhythmical sounds were pronounced as he
demanded admittance, and he had visions
of an easy conviction. As the door was
being unlocked, the congregation, both male
and female, rose to their feet, and the welkin
rang with the strains of “Abide with Me.’
No sign of pestle and mortar or bags of ore
could be seen, and a much discomfited officer
of the law made himself scarce. It trans-
pired some years afterwards that each woman
had either her quota of ore or a pestle and
mortar attached to the waist by a short
strap under her skirts, and all evidence dis-
appeared under voluminous clothing when
“crushing” was suspended for the next
hymn.
* * * *
A “by-product” of steelworks, slag screenings,
has come into favor in some Sydney munici-
palities as blinding for tar-roads instead of
disintegrated granite or blue-metal screen-
ings. The slag is a little rough on rubber
tyres at first, but it is soon ground fine by
the traffic, and it does not aid and abet the
dust nuisance like other blindings, particu-
larly granite. The felspar crystals in the
granite also give off a disagreeable glare in
summer-time, but the dull green or grey of
the slag is not nearly so trying on the eyes.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
• The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, lave Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
■
• .V ;V ?/
EDGEWORTH
Extra High-grade
.Burley
Smoking Tobacco.
Plug Slice or
Ready Rubbed.
Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service ft la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
won
Tarifi—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cate and Hotel Proprietors,
Rrishere.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
J. D. Connolly, wlvo is trying to interest
the Commonwealth Government in a scheme
for establishing a new shipping service be-
tween Australia and Britain, used to be a
builder in Coolgardic. One of his friends
there was a certain young Charlie Rosen-
thal, who worked in an architect’s office and
rode in cycle races against the cracks of the
period. Presented with a new jigger by
Connolly and other admirers of his track
achievements, the youngster tested it by plug-
ging all the way from the Old Camp to Syd-
ney. The pair didn’t meet again till Armis-
tice Night in London, 28 years afterwards.
Then ,T.D. was Westralian Agent-General,
and Charlie had become Rosenthal of Mont
St. Quentin—Major-General, K.C.8., C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., Legion of Honor, Belgian Croix de
Guerre, French C.d.G. with Palms, seven
times mentioned in despatches, and five times
wounded.
The Speck is short of Judges just now.
Judge Crisp has been granted six months’
sick leave, Judge Ewing is convalescing from
a serious operation, and the Chief, Herbert
Nicholls, was recalled a few months ago be-
fore the completion of a health holiday. The
Speck being short of first-rate lawyers, the
job of selecting an Acting-Judge will not be
easy. E. W. Turner, police magistrate, has
been mentioned, but his quarrel with Attor-
ney-General Ogilvie may not help him.
Tom Tait, one of the pioneers of the Bar-
rier, lias passed out in Adelaide at 67. He
landed in Australia, a young Scotch carpen-
ter, just as Silverton was put on the map,
and went straight there, moving across to
Broken Hill when that developed. He built
the first hut erected on the Proprietary mine,
and several hotels. Later he had large in-
terests in Queensland copper, including the
0.K., which turned out well, and Chillagoe,
which didn’t. Always a prominent sports-
man, when he retired to Adelaide he bought
the Oaklands paddocks from the Croziers,
and founded a stud there, with St. Spasa
as chief sire.
The Commonwealth struck a loser when
it sent its dairy expert, M. A. O’Callaghan,
on a 13-montlis’ trip to inspect the dairy
methods of the world. When his request
for another six
months’ leave (still on
full pay) to go to the
Argentine was refused,
he resigned. He ex-
pects to make £2500
per annum in the
Argentine out of
butter-making machine
patents ;• his Common-
wealth salary was
under four figures, and
if the Government had
been prepared to lift
it to £l5OO Australia
could have kept him
and his patents.
G. V. BROOKS,
Director of Education
in Tasmania.
September 22 is the 135th anniversary of
the birth of the first female white child in
Australia—Rebecca Small, who afterwards
became Mrs. Francis Oakes, of Parramatta.
She had 14 children; Archdeacon Oakes, of
Bathurst, is probably the best-known of her
descendants.
Labor-member P'rice, son of a former Pre-
mier of S.A., has made a further step up,
being appointed president of the party in
that State; O’Halloran and Lundie are the
vices. Price is a determined little chap with
a mania for asking questions; and in his
first Assembly term a strong effort was made
opponents to treat him as a merely comic
character who need not be taken seriously,
cut he comes out on top like the supposedly
weak hero in an American novel. He sur-
Vl ™d a Party plebiscite at Port Adelaide
which sent his colleague Verran, son of a
/ ex 'Fremier, to hunt for another seat
(and Jose it) in Sturt. And now Labor has
declared him its non-Ministerial head.
For its new Chair of Commerce the Mel-
bourne Uni. has secured Professor D. B.
Copland. Just SO, Copland is probably our
second-youngest professor—Johnnie Hunter,
>r t Sydney anatomist, is an easy first. In
M.L. Copland studied in between jobs oil
bis father’s farm, took his degree at the
Utago University, and wrote a book on
" b°. a t Growing in New Zealand” —a very
practical work. It is only a year since he
got his professorship in the Speck, but in
pat period he has told the ancients of the
island some truths about wliat the State
education system ought to be and isn’t.
Adelaide Uni. couldn’t make up its mind
whether to have for its new Peter Waite re-
search an agriculturist who knows some-
thing of chemistry, or a chemist who knows
something of agriculture, so it got one of
each. A. E. V. Richardson will be called
Professor of Agriculture, and be in charge
of the suburban institute at Urrbrae, while
the imported J. A. Prescott will be Professor
of Agricultural Chemistry. Prescott has
been chief chemist to the Royal Agricultural
Society m Egypt: irrigation and the grow-
ing of cotton are his strong suits.
Sydney Edward Hutton, passed on at 61
made , a Government Department pay. A
Maorilander who crossed the Tasman early,
lie became manager of the N.S.W. State
Brickworks 14
years ago, and left
it one of the best-
paying concerns
operating unde r
the State Indus-
trial Undertakings
Act—-a monument
to his enthusiasm
and organising
capacity in an
industry of which
in the beginning he
had only the most
superficial know-
ledge.
Judge EDWARDS
(N.S.W.), ap-
pointed a Royal
Commission by the
Federal Govern-
ment to inquire
into the charges of
non-payment of
taxation by Sid
Kidman, Jowett
and other large
landholders.
An echo of an old mild sensation was heard
in _ Melbourne when Joseph Taylor, having
paid 55.-odd in the £, obtained his certificate
of discharge. It was Taylor—“ Joe Taylor,
the tailor” —who provided the garments which
impelled Jowett, to call Parliament’s
attention to his upholsterings as a sample of
wliat could be secured in Australian material
without paying excessive prices; and Joe
Taylor for a week or so became a sort of
national hei*o. He maintained the r6le until
the day he declaimed that he had received an
offer of £2OOO to spoil the “clieap-suit”
scheme, and hinted darkly that the man who
cut the trousers had been bribed to ruin him,
and that the coatmaker had been doped. He
owed nearly £32,000 when he called in his
creditors, who made no objection to the issue
of the certificate.
Filed his last suit, at 70, C. T. Hargrave,
a member of the legal firm of Knox and Har-
grave, who had been practising for 49 years.
The Hargrave family are born lawyers: three
sons are members of their father’s firm, and
three brothers practise in Vic.
Adelaide lost its R.C. Vicar-General and
Archdeacon when Monsignor T. F. O’Neill
passed over at 71 recently. A Limerick
man, he came to South Aus. in 1880 and took
up duty under Archbishop Reynolds. The
sole survivor of four brothers who wore the
collar buttoned behind, he had been on the
easy list for some time prior to the end.
John Macleod, passed out at Ballarat re-
cently at 82, had no time for imported brains
or capital, and didn’t believe in spoon-fed
enterprises. He was founder and chairman
of the Ballarat Trustees Co., one of the few
inland city concerns that can call their Mel-
bourne stand a branch office.
A hard-living Scotchman, who at 94 could
sit a horse as well as the next, was Roderick
McLeod, passed on recently at 97. A
boy when he came to Queensland, he grew
up with Alex. Ross, the first settler on the
Dawson River, who was later speared by
the blacks at Walloon. McLeod drifted into-,
various occupations, managed Tucka Tucka
and Boonal stations, and eventually bought
Terica station, where he bred sheep and very
fine Aberdeen Angus cattle.
Matt. Baird, a former Chief Sec. of Vic.,
told the Assembly the other day that he
had never known a policeman who hadn’t a
grievance. In his time one J. Hop’s pet
trouble was that he had only 11 children and
there was no hope of his owning any more.
Apparently Baird could never make out what
he was expected to do about it.
Another relic of the Kelly episode has
passed into the great museum. When the
gang rode into the back yard of the National
Bank, Euroa, in the guise of fanners and
rushed into the banking chamber, William
Bradley, a junior clerk, was just about to close
the doors. After robbing the bank the out-
laws drove Bradley, with the manager and
his family, to Faithfull’s Creek station and
locked them in a stable. Bradley was a
manager of one of the bank's branches until
his death at St. Ivilda a few days ago.
Marketed his last clip, at 70, William
Boss, one of the best respected wool kings
in the Harden district (N.S.W.). He was
a director of the Co-operative Wool and
Produce concern and a fine bushman. Almost
the last thing “Bill” Ross enjoyed was the
wonderful riding of his four sons (who com-
prised the Harden polo team) in the Dudley
Cup tournament this year. A brother was
the late Alexander Ross, M.L.C.
Died lately in England, at 80, William
Pritchard Morgan, who made a name for
himself by promoting a co. to work a gold-
mine in Wales. After practising as a soli-
citor in Queensland, he returned to the Cold
Country, and advertised himself and his
mining venture so well that Merthyr sent
him to the Commons as a Gladstonian in the
late ’eighties. He didn’t stick there, how-
ever, but he kept up his connection with
mining, and several more or less historical
trinkets used by the Royal family were made
of Welsh gold which the family accepted
from him. lie had a good practice as a
mining lawyer, and had interests in mines in
China, but he never made a million out of
any of them.
“Teddy” Mulcahy, most consistent trier
among Australian politicians, is a very sick
man these days. First elected to the Tas-
manian Assembly in 1891, he was Minister
for Lands 1899-1903, and resigned to con-
test the Senate. He won, but was tossed
out in 1910. He returned to State politics,
and two years later was again Minister for
Lands. Once again lie resigned to contest
the Senate, but was rejected by the electors.
Back again to the State House, he stayed
there until Parliament elected him to a
vacancy in the Senate. At the next elec-
tion he finished fourth on the Senate poll,
which entitled him to retain the seat for
the remainder of the term —only a few
months. He ran again for State politics,
but was beaten at the last general election.
Since then he has had a go for the Reps.,
and was beaten after a great fight by D. J.
O’Keefe.
. After a half-century of general storekeep-
ing, Josiah Ebenezcr Taylor, 74, has put
up the shutters finally at Cowra (N.S.W.).
Bee-keeping was a hobby, in pursuit of
which he travelled far and wide. Besides
being a lecturer on the sweet subject at the
Cowra Experimental Farm, he was also
known as a trustworthy judge of his sub-
ject where cockies foregather at a hundred
agricultural shows.
William Patrick Cahill, dead at 90, was
a Tipperary man who pioneered the Molong
district of N. S. Wales. He succeeded so
well that after 40 years he was able to buy
the North Sydney property originally
granted to Billy Blue.
When Peter Ferguson went west recently
from Gulargambone station, the Dubbo
(N.S.W.) district lost one of its most pic-
turesque figures. A pioneer pastoralist, he
specialised in breeding show horses and
cattle, and especially the trotting-horse. An
idiosyncrasy which made him popular was
his practice of paying all fines that he in-
flicted as a ,J.P. He was 72 at the end.
Sir Charles Fergusson, Maoriland’s new
G.-G., came to Adelaide in 1869 as a young-
ster of four with his Governor dad. His
mother, Lady Edith, daughter of the Mar-
quis of Dalliousie, died at Adelaide in 1871,
and the widower’s four children were looked
after by their aunt, Helen Fergusson. The
dad found his second wife in Olive Richman,
a S. Aus. girl. There was a third later on.
“Phoney”: A few days ago a stranger who
rode into the telegraph station at Cape York
had us mystified; the verdict wavered
between a Bolshie and a Bible-banger. It
turned out to be Captain Wilkins, chasing
bugs, etc. He is one of the few men who
really know the Peninsula, having criss-
crossed it many times. After a few days ho
pushed off towards the east coast of the N.T.,
a part never before travelled by whites.
A. E. (“Texas”) Green, Kalgoorlie’s con-
tribution to the House of Reps., is a Vic-
torian native and was a bricklayer. He got
his sobriquet from an early expedition he
made into the Land of the Screaming Eagle.
Texas was the State which Green roamed
most assiduously in search of tucker and
adventure, and “Texas” he has remained ever
since. There is also a legend that he drifted
down to uentral America and participated in
a revolution, albeit a more peaceful citizen
never liurled denunciations at bloated capi-
talists from the tail of a cart. It is long
since “Texas” has done anything so muscular
even as bricklaying; for nearly a dozen years
before he arrived in the W.A. Assembly in
1911, he served the Postmaster-General in
the money-order office at Kalgoorlie with
zeal: even the hottest weather or the most
exasperating clients never affected his cheer-
ful grin. As a postal official “Texas” pro-
bably did better work than he ever did as a
bricklayer or ever will as a Parliamentarian.
ARTHUR
WADSWORTH,
Federal Par-
liamentary
Librarian, after
to years in the
public service.
One of the last persons to have speech with
the lost explorer Leichhardt was Hugh
Campbell, of Ipswich (Q.). In 1847 Camp-
bell was the only blacksmith in the town:
his shop was at what is now the One Mile.
Just before the exploring party arrived in
Ipswich, the axle of one of the drays broke.
After repairing this, the blacksmith rode
some miles out -with Leichhardt, and a num-
ber of the inhabitants of the village followed.
It was the first thing in the nature of a
procession held in Ipswich.
Dr. Clarence Godfrey, Government Medi-
cal Officer, has replaced superannuated
C. A. Topp on the Vic. Indeterminate Sen-
tences Board. A few years ago Godfrey
was in charge of the mental observation hos-
pital at Royal Park, and he will be ex-
pected to give special attention to the men-
tality of those who come under the jurisdic-
tion of Sam Mauger, W. R. Anderson and
himself.
In these pernicious days of jazz the whole-
some pleasures of former times are mostly
forgotten. But an old lady of Petrie-terrace,
who arrived in Brisbane 80 years ago at the
age of three, retains a keen memory of one
of them. She was a sweet little girleen of
seven when she took an illicit holiday to
see. a blackfellow hanged in Queen-street,
Brisbane, the gallows being erected outside
the old gaol, which stood where the G.P.O.
is now.
A recent addition to Maoriland’s popula-
tion is Joseph Mercier, grand-nephew of “the
Lion of Malines.” Joe, whose father is a
member of a big Belgian firm dealing in
timber, was 14 when the war broke out, and
the family took to the cellars while the sol-
diers and later the Crown Prince and suite
dug themselves in in the best rooms of the
Maison Mercier. The young man’s mother is
English, and he says the great Cardinal gave
him the tip that M.L. was an ideal place to
emigrate to.
Passed from the scene of much philan-
thropic labor, at 97, Mrs. Henry Reed, of
Mt. Pleasant, Northern Tas. The Reed
Memorial Church, Launceston, which the
Reeds built and endowed 30 years ago, will
be a monument to the just-dead lady and her
long-dead husband. Mrs. Reed was the
Speck’s Eadith Walker, though specialising
more in religious institutions than in con-
valescent homes and the like. Many nota-
bilities have been royally entertained at the
fine. Mt. Pleasant homestead. A son and
three daughters are left.
“Trevdee”: Mingling with stock seems to
induce longevity. At Newmarket yards
(Vic.) Frank Mortison still cuts out bul-
locks and works amongst sheep—age, 95!
“Uncle” Parsons, an active drover, is well
over 80; and there are half a dozen 70- and
60-year-olds working as well and as hard
as they ever did. Bill Hill, a butcher, is an-
other one over 90 often seen at the yards.
Getting up at 4 a.m. to work is nothing to
him. He looks 60, and says he feels nearly 40.
When Shiels was dropped 30 years ago to
make way for Turner as Vic. Premier he
became a sort of Parliamentary ghost. He
flitted through the House occasionally, but
seldom raised his voice. Lawson, in the same
position, will not allow himself to be sup-
pressed, and to see him speaking from the
Opposition side —in fact, leading off—on
grievance day makes the cynics smile. It
seems but yesterday that he was deprecating
this every-third-Thursday display as merely
a wasteful means of advertising nonentities.
BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, to be a boy on a summer’s day,
Cricket-cool and whistling all the wav!
Hat set right, sport-white, play-clean,
Springing to meet some mate upon the green.
Girls go gallantly, bare-armed, brown,
Tennis-trim in linen, through the town.
Off to the dances, pearls tip-tap!
I’d rather be a boy in a new school cap!
Men may swagger, golf-slow, bowls-old;
Women chatter, croquet-prim and cold.
Pluto, let me be, for one hour’s joy,
Football-free and daring—a rough-souled boy!
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


It's the flavour you’ll favour
■i
Main -Top
i
Tobacco Competition
£IOOO
IN PRIZES
SAVE THE COUPONS.
-THE sum of £lOOO will be divided in prizes in connection with the
I FIVE TEST CRICKET MATCHES, England versus Australia, to be
played between November, 1 924, and March, 1925.
In connection with each Test Match prizes will be given for the correct or
nearest forecast of the result of the match as follows:
Ist Prize
2nd Prize
3rd Prize 20
10 Prizes, each £2 20
Tobacconist’s Prize 10
£2OO
Coupons are placed in each tin or packet of “Main-Top” Tobacco, and full
particulars of the Competition are printed thereon.
Each Coupon entitles the holder to send in a forecast to enter the competition.
DIAID
44 99
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
MADE
briar*


BSB
8
'
A
FOUR.
HORSE-
POWER
ENGINE
The Wade
Does the
Work of
Ten Men.
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
Sole Australian Agents:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. AND AT
632 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE. NEWCASTLE.
Agents for S. Australia : A. NOBLE & SON. Chesser Street, Adelaide.
“NOXALL” HATS.
MADE in Australia, expressly for Lowe’s.
from the highest quality materials.
As illustration, in shades of light grey, dark
grey, slate and green; beautifully lined
with silk and finished with snake-skin head
leathers. This hat is easily w T orth 25/-, but
advantageous buying due to
big and regular contracts
enable Lowe’s to sell it for
18/9
SENT POST FREE.
swe
BOX 1622 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
\
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
CAREFUL WHAT HE RAID.
ROSENBLAMM : “Oh, veil, I never set alight to my house."
SNIDERKOFF : “Here, vat you mean? I call the vitness. Rebecca!”
ROSENBLAMM : “Call all the family! Vat for? I say I never
burn my house down. Vot YOU make der fuss about?”
“Gouger” : A mate of mine was galloping
after part of a split-up mob of steers recently, when
one rogue “broke.” As the man rounded after him
with the whip, a sapling root upended the horse
and it crashed with a snapped fetlock, pinning the
stockman beneath it. Some inexplicable trait in the
excited steer’s brainbox caused it to wheel and
charge straight at the fallen prad, which it gored
again and again, the pinned man writhing his body
like a jambed centipede to keep clear of the horns.
The screams of the horse caused the mob to wheel and
they came back at the gallop, ringing round the horse,
rider and steer. Knowing what would happen when
the mob inevitably charged, the frightened man by
a superhuman effort got his leg clear and sprang
for the sapling, with the upward thrust of the steer's
horn tearing a long strip from his thigh. At the
same moment the mob charged, and trampled the
horse literally to squashy fragments. Maddened by
the wfrm blood scent, the beasts struggled around the
sapling, and it was the queer noise of the crash of
their skulls against its butt and the harsh bellowings
that caused the rest of us to leave our mob half
a mile a way and make for the disturbance. When
we got there the sapling was partly uprooted and
leaning perilously. Five of us with whips had a
stern job to force the mad cattle to break from the
tree and the very badly scared man perched therein.
* * * *
‘‘Morob”: An experiment recently con-
ducted in a Sydney garden seems to bear out the
theory long held by some biologists that certain
plants have well-marked reasoning powers. A vine
that grows best on supports was planted alongside
a wall up which its tendrils were trained. Supports
were placed a little ahead of several of the tendrils,
and almost immediately the vine started to extend
itself towards them. When the tendrils were within
six inches or so the supports were moved a foot to
one side, whereupon the tendrils changed their
original courses and started to grow in the new
direction. As this occurred in nine out of eleven in-
stances it certainly suggests that the plant was con-
scious of the shifting of the supports.
* * * *
"Trevdee” : I don’t know what the highest
price is for an Australian sheep-dog (B. 28/8/’24),
but. I reckon the lowest is £lO. Last year i wanted
to buy a dog, and every owner of every good, bad
or indifferent barker 1 came across asked for a
tenner or more. Not one went lower. The tyke
I eventually got at the price was worth £2O, 1
reckon.
* * * *
“Aricurra” : Re a recent query as to where
termites get the necessary moisture for building dur-
ing droughts. In 1917 “Trot” (Harry) Kunoth,
manager of Bond Springs station (C.A.), was having
a. well sunk, and near the site were several white-ant
nests, one being quite close to the edge of the well.
As the shaft deepened “Trot” noticed that the nest
was deepening too, and when I last camped
with him the well was down 80ft. and so was the
ant nest. That night he advanced the theory that
the termites would be traced right down till water was
reached, and suggested that possibly the groups of
white-ant nests which are a noticeable feature in the
country between the Macdonnell Ranges and Tennant’s
Creek would be good spots to choose in sinking for
water. While isolated nests are common, these groups
(looking for all the world like cemeteries with red
tombstones) are so remarkable for the huge numbers
of nests that the theory is probably well grounded.
Anybody got definite proof?
* * * *
"Ragar”: Where did the idea originate of
catching swimming
ducks by going among
them with a pumpkin
over the head? The
dodge is as old as, the
hills, and has been in
common practice in
China since the year 1.
I have eaten duck
caught in the same
manner in both India
and Africa, the only
difference being that
in the former ease one
or two old and out-
sized pumpkins were
kept anchored and
ready during the duck
season, whereas the
Africans used large
dried gourds. The
chances are that some
member of “Gouger’s ’
abo. tribe (B. 24/7/’24)
harvested the idea from
one of China’s slant-
eyed sons whom he may
have met during a visit
to the nearest settle-
ment. The trick can
be played only in fairly
muddy water, and even
then not always with
success if the sun is
very bright. Ducks
are not the blamed
fools some people seem
to think them, and
when some strange-
looking body, white or
dark, looms up towards
them from under the
surface, they not un-
naturally give it a wide
berth. Even in muddy
water the trick takes
some practice, and is
not as easy as it
sounds. I’ve tried it, and the ducks always looked
sideways at my vegetable.
* * * ' *
“Xex”: The week-old calves of a new-
chum settler in the Waikato (M.L.) annoyed the
neighbors with their noise, and a near-by fanner called
in to investigate. “I dunno wot’s the matter with
the things,” said the owner, indignantly. “What arc
you feeding them on?’’ asked the investigator. “Well,
there’s plenty of grass,” replied the man from Man-
Chester. When things were explained he seemed sur-
prised. However, the calves no longer clamored for
food. “You’ve quieted your calves all right,” re-
marked the neighbor a day or so later. “Oh, yes,”
said the owner, casually, “I shot the dam’ brutes.”
* * * *
“Mimax”: “Larrapinta’s” instructions (B.
31/7/’24) for removing an obstruction from a rifle
—by filling the barrel with water and then inserting
a cartridge with a third of its powder-charge, and
firing—do not apply to all rifles. With the ordinary
THE INTRO.
“Miss Mary Ann Treweek. will note sing ’Horah pro Nobis.’ Note,
p'raps ’ec daren't knaw what ‘Horah pro Nobis’ do mean.
It do be French for ‘Consider the Lilies,’ yon.”
.22 the method is safe—it is even unnecessary to
remove any powder from the cartridge at all —-but
with other rifles the quantity of powder to be removed
depends entirely on the thickness of the barrel. Two-
thirds removed should be safe for the .32 Win-
chester or similar weapon, and might be for the .44,
provided that it is fired per medium of a string.
For h.p. rifles, the smokeless powder should be
replaced by a small quantity of black, and the best
thing to do is to try a small charge first. If it
does not shift the obstruction, it can do no harm. If
unsuccessful, a larger charge can be tried. But if
the obstruction is far from the breech, it is possible
that no charge will ever shift it, as the inertia of the
column of water may be so great as to cause the
barrel to burst before the full pressure is transmitted
to the obstruction. Incidentally, it is a good tip
never to use a pull-through with rag on it. I strictly
reserve a pull-through for removing earth that plight
accidentally get down the barrel, and never attempt
to thoroughly clean a rifle with one.
* * * *
“Mary Scott”: Tell “L’Fou” (B. 24/7/’24)
that a rooster’s preference for birds of opposite
hue is a partiality not always shared by the ladies
themselves. Two years ago I set a white near-
leghorn hen on 12 eggs, chosen at random from
the yield of a mongrel flock. The hatch was five
black and seven white chicks. I took Biddy from
the nest and placed her and her brood in a coop.
Returning later with feed and water, I found the
unnatural female picking to death the last of the
five little niggers.
* # * #
“LBK” : Re “FY7’s” remarks (B. 15/5/’24)
about the savage Clydesdale at Terrick (C.Q.),
it may interest him to know the horse was the
blood stallion Chuxter, who ran second in a
Melbourne Cup. The brute, after pulling the man
(“Wingie”) off his mount and damaging him severely,
was driven off by Wingie’s mate and taken with his
mares to the next paddock. The mate then raced
to Thornleigh out-station for assistance, and when
he returned found Chuxter had left his mares and
returned to where he had attacked Wingie, and was
prancing round the tree that the man had managed
to climb.
-x- * * *
“Lee Q.”: “Rua’s” wedding breakfast
story (B. 28/8/’24) reminds me of a Fremantle knot-
tying a few years ago. One of the boys induced a
half-Chow girl who had inherited her father’s fortune
to share it with him. At the wedding—a swagger
affair—-everyone became none the better for drink-
ing. Full of envy and alcohol, someone reflected upon
the motives of the bridegroom. That gentleman
directed a right swing at his calumniator. He missed
and his fist went clean through the wedding cake.
The bride fainted, and in the disturbance somebody
stepped on her face.
‘'Bill Beetlecrusher” : A valuable pedigreed
Jersey cow at Toora North, Gippsland (Vic.), has
supplied the latest Queer Accident. While grazing
she sprung a rabbit-trap, which gripped her tongu’
When seen, apparently some hours later, the greater
portion of her tongue had been pulled from the
mouth in the animal’s futile attempts to extricate
it. A bullet from a pea-rifle fired by Alf Handgurry,
the owner, ended poor Strawberry’s agony.
*** ‘ *
“Kepoka” : A variety of native sarsaparilla
is used in Papua with
much success lor
dysentery. In the days
before doctors, a decoc-
tion of the roots and
leaves kept many good
Austral-Papuans from
an untimely entrance
through the Pearly
Oates. The creeper
grows all over the
Territory, and is not
unlike the species men-
tioned by “Te W.”
(B. 19/6/’24), as it
has the same purple-
blue flowers. Brown
Brother used it for
stomach worries, and
passed on the glad tid-
ings to his white cob-
bers. 1 have seen
extremely bad cases of
dysentery yield to this
drug in two days, and
in no instance has it
failed. Another ereepc;
extensively used in
Papua for various ills
is the blue-flowered con-
volvulus which grow.-
along the beaches. A
decoction of the leaves
is extremely good for
sore eyes ; and, used
a poultice, the young
leaves soon clean up a
deep-seated New Guinea
ulcer. Brown Brother
also uses the decoction
internally for stomach
trouble and for the ill
that polite folk term
the “red plague."
Whether it is really
helpful in the latter
complaint is a matter
of controversy among
the old hands, but the
brown folk swear by it.
* *■
Tell “Oxmead” (B. 3/7/’24l
that wild camels are south of the East-West rail-
way, but not in the part he surmises. At a
place called Urabi, which consists of malice
country broken by 7 arid plains, there exists a
well providing water for squatters’ sheep. In this
locality, 120 miles south of the East-West and
about 40 miles north-west of Fowler’s Bay, wild
camels have existed comfortably for a number of
years. Having been allowed to roam in one of
\ alata's 70-square-mile paddocks at a sub-station
(Colona), and not often brought in to take their
places in the numerous teams on the run, these ani-
mals became wild and shifted to Urabi, where qu. 1
ness reigns supreme, except for an occasional muster
of sheep, etc. Urabi is excellent camel country,
while the ball tap at the well keeps a plenthul
supply of water available. Many miles would have
to be travelled northwards from here to get on
to the Nullarbor Plain, which is camel country, but
THE TIME MACHINE.
DOCTOR GUFFEM (to poor-pay patient):
“You’ve got a lovely pulse. Why. it’s
as regular as a clock.”
POOR-PAY: “Fes, hut that’s me wristlet-
watch you’ve got a holt of!”
without water. Several times the part owner of
Yalata, G. W. Murray, offered bounties for the cap-
ture of the camels, and although attempts were made
few have been caught. Their numbers are doubtful,
for they are never all together, but the estimates run
to 30 or more. Being demolishers of sheep-fences
they could be well done without, but no one seems
to care to take any responsibility with a rifle.
(Continued on page ,?.}.)
THE HOUSE ON THE HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know a white house < n a round yellow hill
At the end of a long dusty road;
Ihe summer is silent and waiting and still
And the morning seems bent with its load—
ith its heavy sweet fragrance of rushes and hay
And the lark-song that falls from the sky—
llut. a wind lifts the willows, the green wheat fields
play
And the river-bed boulders are dry.
It is thirty-five years since 1 walked on that road,
Hut 1 know that the house is still white ;
I know that the river in torrent has flowed
With voices 0 f storm in the night.
1 know that the trees on the hill have grown tall,
Hut the soft yellow tussocks remain;
And the stream of lark-music falls over it all
And the paddocks are greening with grain.
And the dust is still deep by the hedge and the gate,
But; I wonder what voices are there;
I wonder what lips at the dark staircase wait
Kor lips that are ready to dare.
They still feed the horses beyond the same wall.
And the windows flame red in the sun ;
And the same well-rope creaks and the same shadows
fall,
And perhaps the same tales are still spun.
Hut I fancy the rooms are now peopled with ghosts
Ghosts of quiet long evenings and sweet—
Where the heavy verandahs still lounge on their posts,
With the sheepdogs asleep at their feet;
And it may be old women and still older men
Sit under the plates on the shelves,
And wear tne old names that I called them by then—
And these are the ghosts of themselves.
I think I can hear them recall the old days
And pause to remember one name.
Now who was that youngster who forked to the
drays
The 3 r ear that old Nugget went lame?
If none can recall it the moon will still rise
And the sun keep his white morning trust,
n 1 the white house keep smiling and quiet and wise,
Though the hedges are thick with the dust.
Jf.S.W.
D. M. W.


¥ r
r
•; s .;
I A
'***»#<«
m
ss«t:f
iter'
N®
fcvi
Iflgg
EEEEESeE »*|■ :EE EEeE ippgglgg EE 'illgg E! ! 111® gigiE : EeE:E;EEEE: EE;ESE eEEE'EE |gigt||®§g |ll|p|Slif
I I
'
•>..
/- ■
ds
r.
ill
;■■: I-'ee-v :;
punlop
Tyres
are
helping
to open
up
jtfustralia!
What the above Overlanders
The Dunlop Rubber Co. of Aus/ia Ltd.
27/33 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
say about u &un/ops”:~
SYDNEY, September Ist, 1924.
Dear Sirs :
.On the completion of our long journey to Darwin and back in the Bean Car
we beg to testify to the wonderful services provided by Dunlop Cord Tyres.
The route covered was from Sydney through Bourke, Longreach to Darwin and
return via Katherine Waters, Alice Springs, Oodnadatta, Broken Hill,, and
Cobar to Sydney, a total distance of 6314 miles. It consisted to a great
degree of rough bush roads and tracks, although for many hundreds of miles
we travelled over virgin country devoid of track altogether and covered with
many obstacles such as anthills, small outcrops of stone, tree stumps, and
the like, the obstacles often being hidden in the grass thro' which we were
travelling. The track also included several hundred miles of heavy sand.
Needless to say that in spite of careful driving the tyres received many
crashes and hard knocks, and the brakes on very many occasions had to be
severely applied. When the extraordinary conditions combined with the undue
loading on our Bean Car is considered, it is certainly a testimony to the
quality of the Dunlop Tyres, which were only 31 x 4 size, that they so
effectually withstood the enormous and continuous strains placed upon them.
The Bean Car weighed as a maximum loaded 51 cwt., which is a big weight for
the size tyres used, but they carried us faithfully and well, and. the whole
undertaking was made successful by the sturdiness of the combination of Car
and the Tyres on which we rode.
Yours faithfully,
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
of Aust. Ltd.
All State*
And N.Z.
m
DUNLOP TYRES ARE MADE
fess. •
■ : T : -
Dunlop Rubber Mills - Largest in the Southern Hemisphere


You are abjured in. every bottle
of tKatj-elfjrauve rtandaj-d of
excellence which. hap made
GEORGE IV
KING
m
!§£.
FAMOUf THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconnoifjeurp to be
JCOTLAND^iOUNDEjTiTIMULANT
hbkjlmjklmkl
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., D. S. EVANS. Australian Manager. CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
“Phoney”: What is a fair daily average
for a walking tour? I have just completed one of
200-odd miles, and it worked out at 18 miles a day
for 13 travelling days. I was not out to break
records and had a rest when I felt like it. The
track was from Coen telegraph station (Q.) to
Cape York telegraph station, following the line.
An obliging Government had numbered the poles,
10 to the mile, and there were horse tracks all
the way. In places there were straights of 10
miles. I found that I averaged 3A miles an hour
for each first two hours, 3 miles an hour for the
next two, and then 21 miles an hour. The greatest
mileage for one day was 27 and the least G. The
greatest distance for one hour was 5 miles (chased by
cattle) ; the least, half a mile (severe cramp). The
pack weighed 201 b. including Bully, blankets and
bark bedstead. I lost 71b. in weight on the trip.
* * * *
“Pick”: These blacks recently mentioned
by Abos., who stuck their heads in pumpkin shells
or swathings of reeds to catch ducks, were only later-
day hunters. The old-timer operated entirely under
water. With a long hollowed reed in his mouth,
through which he drew his air, he waded below, and
the unsuspecting game took no notice whatever of
the erect reed stalk floating among them. Some-
times, though, they got the start of their lives, when,
owing to the reed becoming submerged, Binghi
suddenly shot up among them for air.
OCEANS OF EXPERIENCE.
EMPLOYER: “What do you know about, salesmanship?”
APPLICANT: “ Well, at home I always skippered the pater's
yacht.”
“Larry Longun”: “FY7” (B. 24/7/’24)
thinks I’m mistaken in saying I saw flocks of 50
spoonbills feeding in a lucerne patch a mile from the
nearest water in S. Queensland. I was never more
correct in my life, except in one detail, now that I
come to remember—there was a small “melon hole”
about 2 ft. deep when full at the edge of the lucerne
paddock, in which the birds used to wade. On our
way home from school we would see the birds even-
ing after evening at certain times of the year, and
the coming of the “spoonies” was always an event
of interest to us juveniles. “FY7” can rest assured
that intelligent school boys (the best of all nature
observers) would hardly mistake a white ibis for a
spoonbill, as he suggests. And the birds were feeding
in among the lucerne and not on it.
“Two Seas”: Re ewes looking for their
misplaced offspring, “Bill R.” (B. 21/8/’24) remarks
that “as a matter o’ fact, the ewe seeks her lamb
neither by sight nor by scent, but by hearing.” A
long experience convinces me to the contrary. When
a ewe is looking for her lamb in a scattered mob
she naturally answers the bleating of any stray.
So far as the lamb is concerned, any mother with a
THE NEWCHUMS—OFF TO THE RACES.
well-stocked larder will suffice; but although, as
“Bill R." remarks, a ewe runs to meet a lost lamb,
she will butt it away before it can get down to
business if her nose doesn’t confirm the hopes aroused
by the lamb’s bleating. The answer to “Why do
ewes and lambs continuously bleat?” is that the
lamb is sending out SOS signals for tucker, and the
ewe, not being a wireless smeller, seeks to bring
the lamb within reach of her nose.
“.Tae”: Re Binghi as a sailor. Some years
ago I happened to have business on a British steamer,
and the Customs officer, after going through the
ship’s papers, asked if there were any prohibited
immigrants aboard. He was told by the master that
one black man was among the crew. This sailor
t urned out to be a full-blooded abo. from the Hunter
River (N.S.W.). The Customs officer and myself then
looked through his discharges and found he had been
many years at sea (steam and sail), and had been as
far north as Archangel, North Russia. He was said
to be an excellent sailor.
* * * *
“Police Patrol”: To any cocky who lias
blackberry-infested land I introduce Mr. and Mrs.
Goat as the best eradi-
cators of this noxious weed.
F. Barton, of Paynesville
(Vic.), who has a herd
of 500 Angoras and mix-
tures, does a brisk turnover
with landholders who have
badly-infested blackberry
land. Billy and Nan live
almost entirely on the
young shoots, and many
fertile acres in the rich
East Gippsland country
have been reclaimed for
despondent owners by their
ravenous appetites. They
also keep scrub land open,
and many a cocky has a
regular herd of Angoras
roaming over his country.
Besides being dressed in
saleable flossy wool they
provide good meat, milk
and butter. They are also
mixed with sheep in the
lambing season, as no fox
can get to work on the
young lambs when Nan is
about. She will face and
fight Reynard. On the first
cry of alarm, the sheep
will bunch together and
Mrs. Stinker will take up a
position on the outside —
whereupon Brother Fox
will pass on to unprotected flocks.
“Nitric”: Tell “Osie” (B. 21/8/’24) that
the S. Aus. turnip of 54in. girth and 281 b. weight is
a mere marble compared with a Swede produced on
the Darling Downs (Q.) and lately exhibited in
Brisbane. It had a girth of 65in. and weighed
3841 b. Placed beside it in the same exhibit was a
cow pumpkin that stood nearly 3 ft. high.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Natara” makes an error
when he says (B. 28/8/’24) that the Papuan was a
very ingenuous person when the white “lobbed into
Port Moresby.” Such a thing as an ingenuous
Papuan is not known to ethnologists. Even mis-
sionary Dr. Lawes had some pained comment to
make on the Hannabada Papuan’s insistence on
being paid cash in advance for being converted, as
well as his uncurable tendency towards ly'ing and
thieving. The miners who came to the Port at the
end of the ’eighties were well and truly “worked”
by the savage for most of their possessions, and
even poor Sir Peter Seratcliley and William Mac-
gregor, both staunch upholders of the Papuan’s virtues,
have not dwelt so much on his ingenuousness as on
his ingenuity. Indeed, Macgregov's story of how
a Mamba native sold him a stone club, and then
stole and sold it to him three times S.over, is
one of the most heartrending bits of literature in
the archives of the Colonial office—a living present-
ment of a strong Scotsman in his agony.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Ways of preventing sand-drift
have been discussed by an Agricultural Bureau con-
ference at Pinnaroo (S.A.), where sand is a great
nuisance. Three schemes, all used with success
locally, were described; (1) Drill in 11 bushel of
an early' variety of oats, with some lucerne seeds
mixed, and l iewt. of superphosphate to the acre;
then when the sheep are put on the fallow to clean
it up they will have good feed on the sand; the
droppings will much improve it, and in time it will
become just as productive as other land. (2) Sow
oats on the sand, and feed it off to sheep; their
walking over it helps to consolidate it, and the
roots of the oats will hold it during the summer
months. (3) Grow lucerne for five or six years, seed
at the rate of Blb. to 10lb. to the acre, with an
occasional application of lcwt. super. The lucerne
can be followed by a sowing of Wimmera rye grass.
Avoid cropping as much as possible.
* * * *
“Parama”: “C. Coral” affirms (B. 7/8/’24)
that 1 am wrong in saying there are scores of posts
cn Darnley Island marking the graves of Japs who
have come t 6 grief through deep diving in the
vicinity'. Whether those posts are there to-day I am
unable to say; but unless the white ants have
finished them, or they have been consumed in the
annual burning off on the island, there should be
enough left to convince “C. Coral” that 1 was not
drawing a long bow. Twenty years ago he would
have found the posts without trouble; every one of
them bearing, in Japanese characters, particulars
about the body below. “C. Coral” should have a
yarn with some of the older members of the com-
munity on Darnley Island regarding those graves—
Wakaishu, Koko Lifu, Bogo and Spia are all
fairly ancient by this time, if they are still above
ground.
* * * *
“Lindesay”: lam backing up “D.M.” (B.
14/8/’24) re carnivorous horses. On Palparara sta-
tion (W.Q.) in ’96-’9B the manager bought some
saddle-horses, and one of them, a mare, loved mut-
ton. After a w’hile she was turned out in a sheep-
paddock, and later we noticed that the jumbucks
were disappearing. Dingoes w T ere blamed for it
until I was sent out to w'atch and came, across the
mare having dinner. The manager nearly sacked
me on the spot when I told him, but I persuaded
him to go out and see for himself, as the mare made
a daily stunt of the sheep-killing. He sold the
meat-eater shortly after to a passing cattle-drover
who was on the look out for a cheap horse, and I
often wondered if he was very many cattle short on
delivery.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: “Bioko” (B. 28/8/’24)
certainly would get the sack on most stations in
N. S. Wales if he left two inches of tail on his
lambs. I can give the lie to the yarn that the
shorter you dock the tail the less the bleeding; but
a 2in. tail like “Bioko’s” is too great an attraction
for flies. Moreover, the “gun” shearer isn’t pleased
when you pen him up sheep with 2in. tails. By the
bye, has anyone noticed that a long-tailed sheep is
always ostracised by his fellows? I have seen long-
tailed jummies chased for hours round the mob by
the bobbed variety.
“Melos”: Instead of attempting to intro-
duce phosphorus to the earth-worm, “Kaituna” < B
21/8/’24) should breed a luminous type. Let him
dig up a plot of rich, loamy soil—preferably in a
moist and shaded situation —and, after putting in
the stock, cover with wet corhsacks, the under''sur-
face of which has been well sprinkled with stale
milk. This sprinkling must be repeated from time
to time. Certain kinds of luminous worms lose their
luminosity with marriage (there’s a human parallel
there, isn’t there ?) ; but this needn t worry the
breeder, as the method I have described will produce
enough eelebates to supply any Isaak Walton.
* * * *
"Colub”: Despite “Keyway's” emphatic
disbelief in the goanna’s immunity from snake venom
(B. 28/8/'24), the thing has been proved by experi-
ment. Some years ago a worker in an Australian
scientific institution kept five goannas for about a
week, then gave all of them except one (kept as a
“control”) doses of tiger- atrd black-snake venom
ranging from about three cubic centimetres to seven
or eight c.c’s, the latter being more than the aver-
age snake injects. Of the four so treated one died
within 24 hours, but the others were apparently
little the worse. It is significant that the one which
died was a young go., while the others were all fully
grown. This suggests that (like the venom glands
in many species of poisonous snakes) the immunity
is not in full working order until the reptile has
reached a certain age; so that the one “Keyway”
saw die after having been bitten might have been
a youngster in which the protection was not fully
developed.
* * * #
“FY7”: “Panchaz’s” male scrub-turkey
which carries the young birds away from danger on
his back (B. 28/8/’24) must have escaped from a
circus. Mound-building birds don’t care a tinker’s
dam’ about their offspring’s affairs. All competent
observers say that the young bird, which is fully
fledged when hatched, legs it for cover as soon as it
emerges from the mound, and thereafter fends for
itself. The male scrub-turkey is said to keep the
mound raked over, digs the holes for the hen to lay
in, and afterwards places the eggs big end up in the
holes and covers them. The chick comes head-first
from the big end, and always going straight ahead
makes his way easily through the loose stuff abovi
him. Presumably' if the egg was planted big end
down he would have to sink a shaft through the
earth to reach daylight.
* * * #
“Nikko” : Re “Uramao’s” story of tin
tame eels (B. 21/8/’24y. The eel is apparently ol
a docile and friendly disposition. While boating
on the Hacking River at National Park (N.S.W.)
the other day, a girl, trailing a hand in the shallow
water, was bitten gently on the finger. She sus-
pected a snake, but investigation proved the atten-
tion had come from a large eel which came along-
side the boat and graciously accepted crumbs from
the picnickers. It was a long, brown thing with
large ey'es of vivid blue, and seemed quite prepared
to join the party for the •afternoon. When we had
to move downstream it swam with us for quite a
distance before turning home again.
* * * #
“Uramao”: Several finds of tusked rabbits
m Maoriland have raised a discussion. One authority
points out that the teeth of rabbits, like our finger
nails, are continually growing, but are always being
worn down. They are sharp and chisel-like, and ai
their base is a gelatinous substance which hardens
SHE FANCIED SHE’D HEARD HIS
NAME.
HUBBY (after climbing National Pass ):
“Strath, I wonder who the bloke was
who started this idea of going to the
Mountains?”
WIFEY : “I think it teas some chap the name
of Mahommed, my dear.”
into tooth structure. Thus the four teeth are kept
even by wear. Should an accident occur and a
tooth be put out of alignment with its opposite, it
will continue to grow unchecked. Some teeth hare
been known to sprout in a spiral and others in
half-circles. Cases of growth to the extent of an inch
and a half have been noted.
THE SONG OF THE MOTOR. HOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I ran across a man in Juhe, two others in July;
made a fat old lady swoon by' swooping closely- by;
I maimed a fellow name of Rudd,
And, whetted well my taste for blood,
I tore a Chinky down, and mixed his “callots” with
the mud.
1 squelched a side-car, too, to-day—it served the
beggar right;
He was as crazy as a loon. I bust him with delight.
hey' say that I have broke his bones
And ground them in the cobble stones.
1 wonder why they greeted me with threats and
bitter groans ?
I hare great sport with dogs and geese—my week-end
bag was ten.
(This shows lam a man of peace—not always killing
men.)
I tap the drunkard for his sins—
You'd love the way' the beggar grins—
And yesterday I wrecked a pram containing some-
one’s twins.
I like to see the footpads jump when I swoop out at
them ;
You’ll notice I don’t get the hump when they mv
ways condemn.
I am in truth a cheery soul
As over litle girls I bowl—
It is a kind of giddy time I fancy, on the whole.
I have been called a motor-hog by’ common walking-
men.
I‘ill me about half-full of grog, I’ll go the whole hog
then.
There’s mention in the book divine
Of devils cast into our line—
In fact, we’re those identical contaminated swine.
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


BLACK
WHITE
■
If
I
m
r\
m
■
■
*
11
s*4
Hi
I
&
-4
W,O
m
m
m
1
H
M
■
m
■
T •< ;■
■
* :
•• .;•
m
i
11 883
m
mm
mm
i
Cl
Nff
:
is
•\I I
i a 1
. .V
i K
1
a
m
/\
as
>»%!
'C : "
r
i
i
I
MS
M
22b
-
mmm
« P 3
- V- -
ifti
' & •*
Ms
IK
5
mzzm
*qgm
M
m
m
mm
***
*S>
SCOTCH WHISKY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, and their
Associated Companies are in the predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards
of 29,000,000 GALLONS of Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks of this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky.


>
* ■«
<
\
■ ■
WAX Your Floors
and they'll be beautiful
easy to take care of
will not heel print
Won’t be .slippery
\3I7ITH waxed floors expensive refinishing is
* » never necessary, for walked-on places can
be easily and quickly rewaxed as worn spots
appear without going over the entire floor.
JOHNSON’S
Pasfe ** Liquid ~ Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
Johnson’s Polishing Wax imparts a hard, dry, velvety
finish which is impervious to water, dust, scratches,
heel-marks, finger prints, etc. It cleans, polishes, pre-
serves and protects —all in one operation.
JOHNSON’S LIQUID WAX is the ideal furniture polish.
It imparts a hard, dry, glass-like lustre which will not
gather dust and lint, or show finger prints. Johnson’s
Liquid Wax takes all the drudgery from dusting. It
adds years to the life and beauty of varnish.
YOUR LINOLEUM will last longer—look better and clean easier
if polished occasionally with Johnson’s Paste or Liquid Wax.
PREPARED WAXin
Polishes EvEimmNGfct;^;;'
FLOOR S-LINOLEUM
WOODWORK JjjjS
FURNITURE
SHOES |
YAtrrp M O BIL ES^
CJOHNSON&SOM
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia—
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
from your local dealer—write us, mentioning his name
and we will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.
Characteristic
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
♦
It is a noteworthty fact that Australians are intense lovers of sport. The late
Nat Gould recognised this trait when he turned his talent to the writing of
racing stories. Nat Gould has passed, but his place has been filled by
ARTHUR WRIGHT,
a sporting writer better than Nat Gould at his best. Wright’s stories are splen-
didly virile—pulsating. With the thrill inseparable from the great game, the
roar of the Ring, the flash of silk, the battle royal between gallant thoroughbreds,
interwoven with plot and counterplot, making them the finest racing stories
ever written.
TEST THEM
by reading any one of the following
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING NOVELS
A Colt from the Country.
A Game of Chance.
A Rogue’s Luck.
A Rough Passage.
Ross o’ Yedden.
Fettered by Fate.
Gambler’s Gold.
In the Last Stride.
Over the Odds.
Rung In.
The Breed Holds Good.
The Outlaw’s Daughter.
The Sport from Hollow-Log
Flat.
Under a Cloud.
When Nuggets Glistened.
PRICE 1/- EACH Postage extra 1 Jd.
Write for Catalogue of 150 Bookstall Novels.
ME AN’ TH’ SON
A NEW STEELE RUDD SUCCESS.
ME AN’ TH’ SON adds another laurel to the crown of Steele Rudd’s successes.
Brimful of humor from beginning to end the reader will have many a hearty
laugh at the doings of the pair of unconscious humorists who, straying away
from their native town, find adventure in the big city.
ME AN’ TH’ SON.
Cloth Library Edition, Price 3/6. Posted 2d. extra.
On Sale at ail Booksellers and Bookstalls.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
a
*4
fail
; '
m
a
H
» ■,:v :
H
• ■ HttW*
if. d «**"*
MtisSar" j
OB
HW" . ' 'lll
■
:'r.
h
..'... ■■' :■ ■
—a
IRi
» i
BH
HMI
I a ipimiiii
||fc Jgg
:: '
lilli
■
M
1
8 ■
■fill
■
■B
lIS
ragfc ,' ,-
IB
m
ilflilSP
■ ■
Diamond and Onyx
Bayonet Broochj £45.
Diamond and Pearl
Drop Pendant, £350.
Diamond and Pearl
Drop Earrings, £l3O.
Visitors to the Royal Show are cordially invited to inspect Wm. Drummond
and Company’s Choice Selection of Diamond and Pearl Brooches, Earrings,
Necklets, etc. No selection of Diamond and Gem Jewellery offers so
distinctive an array of exclusive designs as that to be seen at the Firm’s
Showroom. Every article is made in their own workshop on the premises.
Fully illustrated Watch dr Ring Catalogue sent post free to any address.
W-? ©rum in o n & & G
The Collins Street House for Jewellery,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Everybody Appreciates **
Obtainable
All Grocers
VI
v
• •
Smartly-striped
Golf Shirts, 7/6
Farmer’s announce a special offer
of zephyr Golf Shirts, in white,
with smart coloured stripes ; linen
neckbands, and double cuffs. 7/6
Art. silk Knitted Ties, with col-
oured block stripes on medium
grounds. Special value at 4/6
Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney
FARMER’S
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cotral 1532, 1533.
Great changes are taking place. The
average good jazz band is getting rid of its
old deafening shriek for something more
musical. The trots have speeded up from a
languorous shuffle to a comparatively brisk
canter. The pained stare of the dancer is
changing to a joyous twinkle. Cigarettes
puffed by cherry lips no longer fog the ball-
room, although a few brisk flappers still
light up ostentatiously in the offing. Much
to the relief of most dancing men, girls are
again inti’oducing corsets between their jazz
georgettery and the filmy layer of ci-epe de
Chine beneath. But lip sticks, rouge and
face powder are still part of the local dam-
sel’s outfit not to be laid by for a moment.
Possibly it is these aids to beauty which pro-
duce that family likeness among Melbourne
damsels so often remarked by Cold Country
visitors.
The Lawn Tennis Association’s jazz, turned
on in the Kooyong Club House for the Amei-i-
-can players, drew the usual cheery crush of
expensively chiffoned gii’l. Drizzling rain
put the garden-seats oixt of bounds, but failed
to scare the young things off the shower-
sprinkled porelies. The quartette of star
guests are typical Amurrican boys—all are
still short of their twenty-second milestone. In
the whirl were the American Vice-Consul
Cotes and his beauty, she like a young
Diana in lilac georgette, its belt-ribbon strad-
dling the left hip in a triumphant bow; Dr.
.MacArthur and his wife, the lady in an unin-
terrupted expanse of blue silk like a summer
sky; the Jack McComas pair; ex-politician
Edmund Jowett, who forgot his tax worries
in the breathless moments of the Blues ; Mrs.
Owen Joixes, who shimmered in gold tissue.
Some of the two contrasting-material frocks
were tei-ribly suggestive of a brace of gar-
ments “made over” as one.
Numbers of people who attended Robertson
and Mullens’s art showrooms to inspect Nigel
Brock's Chinese antiques nibbed shoulders
with fox-tune without knowing it. There was
one bit of crockery of the Ming period which
had been priced at 200 guineas; but after
the Chinese Consul (himself a connoisseur)
had viewed the masterpiece of a long-dead
artist, and there had been, as a result, some
hasty conferences, the ticket was changed,
and a new label announced that 5000 would
purchase the rarity! By the signature, and
the “key” wox-ked into the design on the vase,
it had been identified as the work of a Celes-
tial Murillo whose masterpieces are rare
and command fabulous prices.
The Ladies’ section of the Royal Golf
Club, presided over by Mrs. James Gate-
house, provided jazz and jollity for the inter-
state visitors (and, incidentally, themselves)
;it the Black Rock Palais —the jollity includ-
ing bridge for the few \Vho don’t take kindly
to one-stepping. Included among the Adel-
aide visitors were Mrs. Clive Milne, Mrs.
Julian Ayers, Dr. Nott, Mr. Gunson, Dr.
Brittoix Jones and Dr. Brian Swift. With the
local lot were Mona MacLeod, Dorothy
Mollison, the medical Garnet Leai-ys, Euphie
Bell, Mrs. T. Trumble and daughter Nan.
Melboui-ne’s most indignant citizen is an
old chap who loves every brick of the south-
ern city and is prepared to match its beau-
ties against those of any city in the -world.
Particularly is he proud of St. Kilda-i-oad,
which in his idea should be taken as a model
for the main street of Paradise. It is his
practice to take his aftenioon walk there
and to grow -indignant when he finds its
sanctity desecrated by dropped cigarette-
boxes or papers; and there, in its most per-
fect part, opposite the Domain, he met the
other day a man who looked astray. The
man stopped to inquire his way to a certain
warehouse which is well in the city; and the
old chap pointed out that he was far out of
his latitude. “Oh, I thought this was Little
Bonrke-street!” explained the stranger*.
Royal Park’s pretty girl Beryl Wilson
suggested a sunset cloud with a silver lining
the other night when she kept her appoiiit-
ment with Norman Russell at the Collins-
street kirk. Her snowy bridal txxlle drifted
from aix anchorage of orange flowers over
white georgette, backwashed with silver bro-
cade. Sisters Barbara Wilson and Ethel
Russell helped Jessie Shand to tend the bride,
all three in silver armor, side-sashed with
coral pink, with more silver and pink txxrban-
ing their heads, and rosy blossoms posied in
their hands. Clive Heatley best-manned the
groom, aided by Reg Russell and Ilari-y
Watt. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilson spread
the bridal feast in No. 9 Darling-street,
where the tables glowed with pink lights and
flowers.
Jack Arnold, an old Melbourne Grammar
boy, who wrote his name brightly in school
annals and was a shining light of the dark
blues’ dramatic society, returned to the old
school eliapel the other afternoon to have his
contract with Mavis Ellery sealed by Padre
Arnold. The bride, who is the only
daughter of a former Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne, the late T. G. Ellery, was handed
over by brother Reg. Dispensing with the
usual orange-blossom fripperies, she fare-
welled her spinsterliood in a straight-cut
jacket of cinnamon georgette, a little hat to
match carrying a huge ribbon bow in front.
The bride walked unaided, but the ’groom’s
pal, Oliver Williams, saw him through the
crisis. None but relatives and a few extra-
special intimates were asked in for the cake-
cutting, at the Lyceum Club parlors. Jack
is the second hope of the Elsternwick Sydney
Arnolds.
The whoopings over the sins of the local
jazz flapper have swelled from a breeze to a
cyclone of protest, levelled, not at the indif-
ferent little person herself, but at those re-
sponsible for her defective upbringing. Parents
with nerves and banking accounts worn
threadbare by the giddy expensiveness of
their offspring lay the blame on scholastic
heads; while the school marms retaliate that
the fault lies in lack of home training, and
the maternal encouragement to daughters to
“have a good time.” The burning question
of the hour is the identity of the lady who,
writing as “A Toorak Mother,” cites her
own daughters as illustrations of the dread-
fulness of the 1924 young person. The
writer naively absolves herself and her hus-
band of all blame, on the false premise that
parental duty consists in always allowing
your children to keep step with the social
bell-wether.
The Alliance Franeaise held a cheerful
meeting in the Victorian Artists’ galleries—
a joyous blend of culture and amusement.
The evening hopped off with a lecture by Mr.
Rouel, lately back from across seas, on the
works of the French dramatist Pierxe de
Marivaux, who, although not a literary giant,
is deserving of a niche in Gallic literary
history, if for nothing else, then for creating
a new type of comedy. The talk prefaced a
delightful reading of the De Marivaux
comedy. Supper and talks in French, English
and both P.S.’d the programme agreeably.
Eric Fyffe and Moira Finlay were made
man and wife at East St. Kilda All Saints’,
and vicar Jones spoke the words. The
bride, who was handed over by brother Ken-
neth, wore white brocades with Brussels lace
entanglements, followed by a train with a
lining which blushed pink under the foamy
cataract of a tulle veil. Fred Farwill aided
the groom, while Ivatli Mailer, in salmon-
pink glittered over with crystal embi-oidery,
’maided the bride, wliose widowed mother,
Mrs. John Finlay, beckoned her guests to
the jollo at Hadliegh Hall, South Yarra. The
bridegroom, who is the son of Dr. and
Mrs. Charles Fyffe, of Brighton, defied the
family tradition last year by throwing in
his forceps to join the ranks of business men.
Brootliorn made this picture of Milly Ryan,
star trainee at the Gaston Mervale Academy
of Acting, who was such a charming Young
Person in Pink at the Playhouse on Thurs-
day night. A daughter of R. A. Ryan, of
Elwood, who owns large pastoral interests in
the Ma State and S. Aus., Milly is a ’way-
back by birth
and upbring-
ing, but the
footlights
lured her
early. Her first
part was a
small one with
Emelie Polini
in “My Lady's
Dress,” which
only whetted
he r appetite.
She learnt the
technique o f
her craft in the
Academy mill,
which, like the
mills of God,
grinds slowly,
but grinds ex-
ceeding well.
She was
chosen for the
Young Person
on account of her quickness and dramatic
aptitude; she is equipped as well with youth,
good looks and that undefinable thing known
as charm. She is further gifted with a nice
literary talent that nearly drew her from the
theatrical track to the Inky Way; but she
changed her mind on the eve of the intended
crossing.
Capt. Leonard Lawrence’s widowed mother
crossed to England some time back to see
her only son, and now the news comes that
he has been killed on Perim, the lonely
rock which mail-steamers pass on entering
the Red Ska. The fine young Australian
linked up with the British Army after the
war. Another tragedy was the death of
Pcrcival de Jersey Grut’s son-in-law, Guyon
Purchas, killed last week in a motor-acci-
dent in Canada. He was a nephew and
namesake of a well-known Victorian archi-
tect, and a cousin of Dame Nellie Melba.
His little wife crossed to her native Aussie
last year for a few months’ visit, which was
saddened by the loss of her mother shortly
before the daughter left America.
Eileen Wright is another bright little Aus-
tralian with a nice singing voice who is hunger-
ing for the applause of the multitude. She
ha s already
had several
unde r study
jobs in musi-
cal comedy,
and is now
acquiring ex-
perience of a
different kind
as understudy
with the Muriel
Starr co. She
set out to
make her pre-
paratory work
thorough and
comprehensive,
and to that
end she
learned danc-
ing first with
Minnie Hooper
and then with
Alice Parkes;
and now Theo-
philus Roberts is training np hpr voice in
the way it should go. Ruskin made the pic-
ture of the little trier.
The Norman Brookes pair, having stayed to
see Australia lose the Davis Cup, have coo-eed
their intention of returning to their home
and three small daughters. The ex-cliampion
found his 40 years too great a handicap for
the roping in of fresh tennis honors, and a
suggestion that he might partner Suzanne
Lenglen in European contests did not materi-
alise.
The Eye and Ear Hospital will take the
financial results of the Mervale Academy
students’ version of “The Young Person in
Pink.” Gaston Mervale was dragged on after
the final curtain, rather perturbed at being
caught in his workaday tweeds. lie eulogised
the surprising talent and adaptability of
young Australia, and forecasted the rise of a
dramatic school, with theatre attached, where
the trainees would be tested in plays of the
best type, although not necessarily of the
highbrow order. The bright stars of the
present show were Milly Ryan, Mardi
Dillon and Louise Badger—the last as an
old-clo’ lady with social ambitions and a
leaning to the whisky flask. Among the men
Robert Ogg’s Oxford bleat and easy self-assu-
rance well fitted the part of Lord Stevenage.
While Dr. Cameron, of our farms depart-
ment, is gathering agronomic information in
California, his wife has been inquiring into
living conditions. She thinks the vogue of
fruit-eating is largely due to the high cost
of meat. Lamb —there is no mutton—is 45
cents (Is. lOid.) a pound. Roast sirloin is
the same, rougher cuts run down to 25 cents.
The cheapest meat appears to be rabbit and
chicken. In the rabbit line there are cotton-
tails, Belgian hares and just rabbits, the
last-named from Australia. These cost 45
cents each. House servants (white) are
paid £25 a month; black, two to five
dollars a day. Washerwomen get five dol-
lars a day—when the housewife can catch
one.
General Harold Grim wade and his wife
landed back from their American jaunt the
other day. The lady’s home-coming was sad-
dened by the death of a brother, Herbert
Thornton, who passed out at his Western
District homestead while his sister was on
her homeward voyage. The General has come
back armed with infoi-matiou about Ameri-
can methods of dealing with traffic problems;
since the awful facts don’t move our local
authorities, he will have to talk his loudest.
Melbourne has lost one of its nice girls,
Muriel Higgins, to a young American, Brad-
ford York Earned, eldest son of a Michigan
business man. The wedding was on July
21 in California. Father William, of Mai-
vern, who has large brewery interests in this
State, was anchored here by his business, but
his wife went over to superintend the daugh-
ter’s orange-blossoming. The young people
met on a Pacific liner. A year later the
Earned people beckoned to Muriel to spend
six months with them at their home in
Detroit; and during this period young Brad-
ford persuaded her to make a matrimonial
date with him for the following summer. The
elder Higgins girl is Mrs. Ted Ilollingdale,
of Sydney; and there is one Higgins son,
Bertram, settled in London, where he is mak-
ing a name in Fleet-street.
Bright little Melbourne pianists Doris
Madden, now on the teaching side of an
American Conservatorium, crossed back to
her native sunshine the other day for a chat
with her people, and prefaced her Australian
farewells with a recital in the Assembly Hall.
The attendance was small, but the audience
made up for the lack of numbers by
the fierceness of its enthusiasm. “Schu-
mann’s Carnival” was her best item,
although her playing of some Mozarr
and Percy Grainger’s “Country Gar-
dens” was decidedly interesting. But, like
so many of our musicians, Doris Madden
seems to have sacrificed much of her tempera-
mental ability on the altar of “technique.”
The Artists’ Society has a building of its
own and looks prosperous, but it has its
troubles. Professional artists have a quarrel
with it because of its habit of giving much
space to casual amateurs, and the pros, dis-
guise their anger under a scorn which seems
only natural towards a “suburban affair.” Now
the principal professional artists are getting
a gallery of their own. It is to be at the
top of the building of Robertson and Mul-
lens, who are installing the proper lighting
effects. There arc already many art show-
rooms in Melbourne, but the light in most of
them is bad. The new room will supply a
want; but it also defines the unfortunate
breach between the V.A.S. and the pro.
artists.
The Diggers in Victoria, who keep their
war-time friendships better than those of
N.S.W., find Melbourne Show Week the best
time for holding their annual reunions. Seve-
ral units will celebrate, including the 4tli
Artillery Brigade, which will smoke and
reminisce on September 23 at the London
Tavern—the name no doubt appeals because
it is a reminder of a well-known old A.I.F.
meeting-place in Victoria-street.
Mrs. Reggie Power came down from the
Albnry squattage last week to give dad joy-
ous greeting when he stepped ashore from
the mail steamer. S’Rupert is a traveller in
a hurry: he has left his dame and children
in London while he takes a survey of ihis
Aussie business interests. But he may con-
voy his household back to their native gum-
trees in the near future.
After a visit to the August Garden Party:
Three thousand Americans were there, and got full
value. Usually when their Majesties enter the gar-
dens, the guests line up on either side of the broad
walk, kind of respectful; but the Americans simply
surrounded the party, and gobbled over them, and
attendants had to force the crowd back. Finally
the Royalties reached the haven of their private
marquee, where, after tea, they received the people
important enough to be presented. These palpi-
tating ones were in a queue, the rest being pushed
back into a semi-circle to watch. Considering how
republican we all are these days, it was amazing to
notice how many perspired in their efforts to get
the glad grip from George and Mary. It was a.
showery day and the Prince carried an umbrella —
nothing royal about it: just the kind that is left
behind when one’s best birthday present disappears
from the hallstand. Uncle Sam was quite correct as
to garb, only he looked sometimes as if his suit
had been hired for the occasion; but his womenfolk
displayed much jewellery. One had the band round
her cami-superfluities decorated with a crescent oi
sparklers at the back, and another had a priceless
diamond pendant slung on the hip draperies. In
contrast one dame came in a much-worn steamer
coat; another donned a sports coat; a third swanked
in a mac.
The Country comes to town in Adelaide:
Show Week —with the ill luck to strike only one
really decent day—brought the usual rush to town
and the usual piteous tales of trusting souls who
booked no rooms in advance and walked the streets in
fruitless search of where to lay their heads. There
has been the customary unloading of unsaleable
atrocities by the shops—“the season’s latest and just
from Paris”—and the annual “fat stock dinner” at
Government House, this time reserved for males.
The Keith Sheridan bequest has showered riches on
the Kindergarten Union, which is to have £2OOO if
the lad3'’s name is attached to the particular school
for which the cash is used.
Passed through Adelaide this week, Admiral Cres-
well and his wife, bound for South Africa, where
daughter Keel is to be married to one Yigne, of
Kimberley. The Admiral’s lady is a daughter of the
late Justice Stow.
The £ll3O which the women have collected for the
Light Horse Memorial is only £7O short of the
estimated cost. The memorial, designed by E. Gavin
Lawson, whose design for the Suez Canal memorial
ran into second place, is to be a Grecian column
topped by a light that will always burn o’ nights.
The mother of airmen Ross and Keith Smith has
been a keen worker for the memorial. Her youngest
son, Colin, was one of the earliest of this State's
Light Horse casualties.
Emma Temple spent her first Saturday here peace-
fully in the hills at Upper Sturt, with half a dozen
women—most of them school marms—as her joint
hostesses. Sliq fell a ready prey to the beauties of
hills that are “far too little advertised.”
The Yacht Squadron gave its ball at the Palais
the other night, with Commodore A. G. Rymill and his
wife to do the honors and give the glad hand to
Lady Bridges when she arrived in black chiffon
velvet with brilliant and crystal embroidery. Colin
Duncan, Mrs. Cecil Fisher and a hard-working com-
mittee pushed the show to success. Ship models,
bunting and life-buoys gave the nautical touch, and
golden galleons, heavily cargoed with sweet-peas,
cruised about the supper tables. Of the youngest set,
a frock of white and silver and another of silver
grey and violet held their own for smartness, and
two young matrons were delightful, one in daffodil
georgette with gold lace, and the other in white
and silver.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s double-cut Diamond-set Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever movement,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
and Sapphire Ring,
18ct. flold, real
Platinum set,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, set
real Platinum,
18et. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, sot real
Platinum, 18et.
Hold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Marquise Ring, set
real Platinum,
JBct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled movement, £lO.
Exclusive DIAMOND JEWELLERY
Hill
m
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Watch, jewelled lever movement,
Silk Ribbon Wristlet, Gold Mounts and Buckle, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-out Diamond
all Platinum-set
Ring, £9O.
A. Saunders’ I6et. Gold
and Platinum Ear-
rings, set double-cut
Diamonds, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £3O, £4O.
A. Saunders’ Real Pearl
Necklet, Diamond Cluster
Snap, £5O.
Larger Pearls, £75,
£B5, £lOO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£65.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Earrings,
set real Platinum,
£l5.
13/
s?
05
ss>
Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Watch, jewelled lever movement,
Silk Ribbon Wristlet, Gold Mounts and Buckle,
SENT POST FREE, £6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders' Lady’s 9ct. Gold Octagon-shape Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
dduble-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £2O,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Bing, 18ct.
Gold, real Platinum
set, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond, 18ct. Gold,
Pleonist Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady's 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, jewelled lever movement, £3/10/-
others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
Secrets of Beauty
The Cream of Modem Beauty Advice
By “MIMOSA.”
A PERSISTENTLY shiny nose or a dull,
lifeless complexion drives many a woman to
cosmetics and consequent despair. This is
easily remedied, as you need only to get from
your chemist a package of cleminite, and add
just suflicient water to dissolve it. A little
of this simple lotion is Nature’s own beauti-
fier. It is very good for the skin, and in-
stantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety,
youthful bloom that any woman might envy.
It lasts all day or evening, renders powder-
ing entirely unnecessary, and absolutely
defies detection.
* * * »
COSMETICS can never really help a poor
complexion; often they are positively harm-
ful. The sensible, rational way is to actu-
ally remove the thin veil of stifling, half-
dead scarf skin from the face, and give the
fresh, vigorous and beautiful young skin
underneath a chance to show itself and to
breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way.
by merely applying mercolized wax at night,
like cold cream, and washing it off in the
morning. It absorbs the disfiguring cuticle
gradually and harmlessly, leaving a brilliant
natural complexion. Of course, this also
takes with it such facial blemishes as red
blotches, tan, moth patches, etc. As a freckle
remover and general complexion beautifier
this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
* -* * *
BLACKHEADS, oily skins and enlarged
pores usually go together, but can be in-
stantly corrected by a unique new process.
A tablet of stymol is dropped in a tumbler
of hot water, which will then of course
“fizz” briskly. When the effervescence has
subsided the face is bathed with the stymol-
eharged water and then dried with a towel.
The offending blackheads, of their own
accord, come right off on the towel, the large
oily pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should be taken at intervals
of three or four days thereafter in order
to ensure the permanence of the pleasing
result so quickly obtained. Stymol tablets
can be obtained from most up-to-date
chemists and stores.
* * * *
BEAT’TIFUL hair adds immensely to the
personal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look-out for any harmless thing that will
increase the natural beauty of their hair.
The latest method is to use pure stallax as a
shampoo on account of the peculiarly glossy,
fluffy and wavy effect which it leaves. A
teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax granules
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is moi'e than
sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair, apart
fi'om its beautifying effect.
* * * »
IT is astonishing the number of women
who suffer from the humiliating affliction of
superfluous hair, and I am sorry to say
that through ignorance or wrong treatment
the majority of them have made matters con-
siderably worse by causing the hairs to grow
more quickly and stronger than before. It
only requires a little thought to realise the
folly of it all. Removing the surface growth
for a few days may give temporary relief, but
in order to obtain permanent results the hair
roots must be killed. Apart from the elec-
tric needle, which is a painful process, any
chemist will tell you that the best home treat-
ment is pure powdered pheminol, which has
a devitalising effect upon the hair roots, in
addition to which it removes all trace of the
objectionable hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but
surely, dissolves out the hair follicles, which
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement. Pure
powdered pheminol also will be found admir-
able for removing hair from the underarms,
a present-day custom much in vogue.
Barri-agar, the New and Better Face Powder. All Chemists, 4/- box. (AW t.)
Unequalled lor School Outfits
Soon the children will be off to school
again. This time give them clothes they
will like for their smart appearance, and
you will like because they wear so well.
Ask for Fox’s All-Wool Cheviots, and
look for the Fox Mark.
There is a wide range of delightful
patterns from which to select, ana—the
Fox Cloth costs no more than all the un-
known and unreliable cloths.
FOX’S IS THE BEST.
ALL Fox’s Cloths are guaranteed to
be all pure wool, and will not shrink or
fade by land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. LTD.
WELLINGTON. SOMERSET
ENGLAND
You can recognise the good
FOX BLISS Cloths by the Trade Mark,
stamped in gold every 84 in. on th«
reverse of the cloth.
(iJesl of Sng/anjT/tghest Qyality
ALL WOOL CHEVIOTS
FANCY WORSTEOS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • TWEEDS AND
FOX'S IMPROVED PUTTEES
FOX


Under
Royal
Warrant
hbkjlmjklmkl
hbkjlmjklmkl
CHAMPAGNE
tl
CHAMPAGWt
Qarkslleidsie*
Reims
k I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
FRIDAY, 31 st OCTOBER,
HALLOWE’EN SUPPER DANCE
An Evening of Charm and Novelty,
and, yes of Mystery!
Depicting the beautiful qualities of Scottish
tradition, but with the cuisine of Wentworth fame.
TICKETS 30/-
Must be procured from the Wentworth, when a
Mystery Hood will be presented with each ticket.
For Reservations and Inquiries ‘Phone City 9931.
Nothing in Any Way Equals
m
fii
$
sv
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 12; Sat., till 1.
Mon., Tues.. Wed. and Fri., 15/6.
Suppers from 9.30. 10/6.
Thur., Dinner de Luxe, till 12, 21/-
Sat., Dinner Reveliion. till 1 a.m., 25/-
Supper, Thur.. 9.30, 12/6; Sat., 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA,
7 TIED 9.
BARTON'S FAMEI) HAVANA BAND,
9 TIER 12.
Saturdays. 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF REAR
DISTINCTION.
Euncheons. 5/-. or ala carte. Equals
London’s best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra 1 till 2.30.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain vour friends at The Ambassadors,
which provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see M,as
Barker in Palm Court : or phone M3G66, The
’ Ambassadors, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
Lupins and delphiniums on the stalls in
Market-place; soft winds, pittosporum-
scented nights; and in the mornings the
Adam in the garden opposite makes sleep
impossible after six o’clock. It is Spring.
The vanity of the male has had a wliole
week’s pampering. On his pedestal the boy
has grown in chest measurement several
inches as he has had thrust upon liis notice
his importance in the worlds of to-day and
to-morrow. Many a small sister has pro-
bably wept the bitter tears of the future
Feminist over the extra jobs she lias had to
do because Johnnie was practising lus sing-
ing, arranging his hobby for the I own 11 ai L
exhibition, or out helping the Cause of Man-
hood by selling bonds. One small boy wasn t
exactly clear as to tfliere the week s doings
were leading him, but big brother explained,
with a condescending wave of the hand to
the platformed Prominent Citizens who were
exuding wisdom and advice. “You see, he
said, “they want to give us a chance to be-
come better men than they ever got the
chance to be!”
The concert filled the middle of the week
and the Town Hall with a tide of sound as
unceasing as the ocean wave since Byron
incited it to perpetual motion. A thousand
healthy Australian lads let loose in song
make the big organ’s thunders a mere pian-
issimo. Being Australian kiddies their voices
were clear and melodic; and being under
the leadership of a Cornishman —Treaherne
by name—their time was a miracle of pre-
cision, and the shading of tone values was
capital. The Mendelssohn number was the
most impressive, but Berger’s “Night, Lovely
Night,” would have incited Boy de Mestre
to one of the Color Nocturnes he used to
paint before he moved his studio from Little
George-street to Paris-. The afternoon pro-
duced two silvery-noted boy sopranos; and
small girls all over the house sat with motion-
less jaws while the high, clear notes trembled
through the air—one plump girleen let her
last life-saver fall from between her lips
in her delight.
(This concert recalls a letter from a Syd-
ney girl in Wales who tells of a choir of
20,000 voices let loose over the hills and
vales of Harlech. Now we know why the
Men of Harlech marched —there was no room
for mere man and the male songbird in the
same hamlet.)
The young-at-forty-five boys got their lick
of fun out of the Man of To-morrow cam-
paign at the Palais midway through the
week, when the burll in aid of the new Club-
house at Prymont was staged. Evidently
fancy costumes still smell of the Artists’ Ball,
and the mere thought of donning them caused
a curl of horror along the spine of the Up-
lifters ; so there was a mere handful of
entrants for the bagful of prizes that had
been garnered by the committee before the
Basement became the Pit. _ But the dancing-
ring still claims its champions; and the lithe
stepping and free action of Bronzie Cion an
and her partner, Jack Lyons, carried off the
ten-guinea jazz prize. Bronzie and the
young man ran very close to the Palais
Royal winners the other week. Dr. Bill
Mackay had a night’s fling, and Mrs. Sep
Levy was one of the best-groomed lookers-on
who occasionally swung a languid slipper
according to the best-set jazz formula. Mrs.
Claude Reading, president of the money-
raiser, emerged radiant from a sunset in
satin that she had swathed and draped about
her slimness; and when the Chief Justice
Cullens arrived to smile good wishes, she
extended greetings in the usual way, and
thrust an armful of pink roses on the lady,
thereby adding the right note of color to soft
black frocking. Knight Braddon’s wife came
sheathed in silver-grey velve.ts. Mrs. Colin
Stephen (secretary along with Mrs. W. P.
McElhone) wore a futurist’s garden embroid-
ered on the pinny front of her black dress;
her colleague wrung a plutocratic effect out
of gold tissue and lace wrappings. Miss
Fairfax, vice-president, was in black vel-
vets, and the Arthur Eodys—boys and other
wild flowers are his hobbies —added weight
to the jag. The Kelso Kings and the artistic
Souters added a twinkle to the night, while
the ypunger things like Lesly Reading. Janet
Harvey, Barbara Laidley, Ruth Worrall
(just off for a tour of the Arid States) and
Bettine Browne (Melbourne) were respon-
sible for the dimples.
The Exhibition of Boys’ Hobbies in the
Town Hall produced an extraordinary crop
ot‘ trays. Most of them were carved out
of Australian woods, polished and even had
little handles —a clear case of mother-sugges-
tion. Of course, there were other things,
such as model homes, with tennis court,
chicken-run, washing on the line and gar-
dens, both flower and kitchen —just like the
Hugh D. Macintoshes’ at their ancestral Eng-
lish home. (The home is theirs, if not the
ancestors.) There were also aeroplanes,
model yachts, Radio sets and all sorts of
carven gods and little fishes. And large
screens on which school-kiddies’ representa-
tions of a slice of water-melon or father’s
discarded breakfast-egg occurred with in-
triguing frequence. There was marvellously
good work in everything but the drawings:
they were poor.
And just one boy story as the last bead.
Father had taken the heir and little sister
to the opera to hear Melba in “Boli&me.”
They’re a gold-embossed family, and the
kiddies had the contents of a small conser-
vatory between them to cast from the box
at the diva. Little, brother kept on eagerly
imploring: “Shall I throw mine now?” But
“Not yet” always came back the reply. At
last poor Mimi staggered into the attic to
die amid her Bohemians. With long drawn-
out sweetness Mimi Melba breathed her
last. “Now,” cried small big-sistrr excitedly,
flinging her bouquet on to the stage. “Did
she really die?” whispered the l(t>y, his eyes
big with wonderment. “Yes, : (fs, you can
throw your flowers now,” pro mpted father.
“Oh no,” came the shocked Answer; “I’ll
save them for the funeral!”
Sydney composer Arthur Benjamin luis
been busy since his arrival in London. His
String Quartet has been chosen by the Car-
negie Trust for a special performance; Cur-
wens have
published five
’cello pieces,
two songs with
piano accom-
paniment, and
three songs
with quartet
a c c o m p ani-
ment; and
Elkins have
four of his
songs among
their new
season’s goods.
And the other
morning he
found a letter
from the
Oxford Uni-
versity Press
asking him to
submit some
of his works
to them for
publication.
The opening of the Society of Artists’
Show on Friday wasn’t such a cloth-of-goid
airair as usual. The committee had better
be careful; to open two years running with-
out the aid of a Governor looks like wallow-
ing in the trough of Demos. A mere
Director of Education, one of the great
Smith brotherhood, did all that was neces-
sary on Friday with neatness if not with
despatch, after the president of the society
—lie's a Smith, too—had gone through an
address that was surely compiled by ex-Town
Clerk Nesbitt. Then somebody presented
Julian Ashton with a silver medal from a
design by Ilayner Hoff for good service to
Art in Australia —rather like father getting
a prize from Johnnie for being a good parent.
After that the crowd el Do wed or butted
its way to the walls. Lambert’s works, of
course, were in the most striking positions,
tns portraits of Neutral Bay girl Hera
.Roberts and Mrs. Yivers excited a strong
undercurrent of controversy, the esoterics of
the society standing before them as at a
shrine, the mere Philistine refusing to see
that a litter of well-painted accessories make
a good portrait if the likeness isn’t there.
In the case of Mrs. Vivers the pale gold
hair and the texture of the skin have eluded
the artist’s brush. “Hera” suggests an in-
ability to say boo to a goose, while the
Italian Renaissance hands seem to drip
inanities. • Actually, the sitter, who came
along in a green checked frock and a black
hat of the kind that obscures all but the
tip of the nose, is a bright, healthy-looking
Australian girl who probably practises jiu-
jitsu every morning and plays Mah Jong
every evening to acquire a fluency in foreign
languages. “Well.” murmured one woman,
after gazing a long time at the two portraits,
“mustn’t they be glad that they knew God
before they knew Mr. Lambert?”
A laughing lady in black velvet by Mclnnes
took the female eye; but the most artistic
thing this Letter saw at the show was Mrs.
George Vivers’s hat. It was built of crino-
line as blue as the waters by Cremorne Point
on a midsummer morning, and it had
drenched ostrich feathers of the same shade
laid flat upon its crown and brim. Daryl
Lindsay was over from Melbourne squiring
cousin Jean. Lionel’s daughter; and Percy
Lindsay introduced another generation (f
Lindsays in son Peter. The Hugh McCraes
were among tiiose present; pianist Muriel
Fletcher looked in, and Thea Proctor’s black
hat wore a ribbon bustle in the centre back.
Bernard Hall and McNally were others of
the Brush who mooched about; and Adrian
Feint turned a Byronic gaze on his world,
while his companion, the volatile John l'yo,
radiated sunshine. Maud Sherwood, who shows
some tine canvases, peeped in; and Squire
Morgan came and went like a gentle whisper.
Mrs. Sep Levy, in compliment to the Nether-
lands—one or her company was its Consul —
sported flesh-colored stockings. The Lane
Mullinses came; and artist-in-clotlies O’Keefe
had a look in her eye as though fitting out
Bernard Hall’s nude with the latest thing
from Paris.
There was wild excitement at the Palais
the other night when the final heat of the
contest between the Sydney and Melbourne
champion dancing couples was jazzed off.
About 3000 people looked on, and after the
last beat of the band a ballot gave the inter-
state championship to the Sydney girl and
boy—Dulcie Culnane and Monder.
The Barellan Country vVomen’s Associa-
tion is full of ginger. It organised concerts
and held bazaars until it raised enough money
to Duild a pretty cottage as a club house in
the main street at a cost of nearly £6OO.
The men, after sitting on the fence during
the first part of the proceedings, have now
made a gift of the furniture; and the
I'anko Shire Council gave a long lease of a
building block at a nominal rental. Women
coming into the township to do their shop-
ping now have a comfortable reading-room,
a dressing-room to change in when attending
entertainments, and a pantry where a cup of
tea can be brewed at any old hour. And
there’s a netted-in verandah for the kiddies
to play on while mother goes shopping. All
ior a membership fee of ss. a year.
This has been also a Sonata week. First
pianist Myrtle Meggy and violinist Elise
Steele allied their pet instruments and gave
Conservatorium audiences a draught of
beauty in a Mozart and a Brahms, and the
new-to-Australia Medtner Sonata in B minor.
The three beautiful movements of this work
are “Canzona,” “Danza” and “Ditirambo”;
and of these the middle proved on first hear-
ing the most interesting. The music of
Myrtle and Elise melts together even as the
hand and the glove; and the girls deserved
the masses of flowers and the storms of
applause that rounded off their performance.
Later in the week Gerald Walenn’s violin
and Bessie Robertson’s keyboard resurrected
the Kreutzer Sonata. Tolstoy’s novel gave
it such an advertisement in the dead years
that every sort of indifferent player essayed
it; people dragged it by the back hair into
magazine stories, and soulful girls produced
loose copies at thickly populated moments.
But the other evening it sang itself on Mr.
Walenn’s fiddle in a quality that was
99£ per cent. pure. Breadth of treatment
added to sincerity and finished craftsman-
ship made the Beethoven work a joy.
The Con. Orchestra provided a new dish
for its enthusiasts at its concert when Eng-
lish composer Maurice Besly conducted a
fantasy from his own pen, "Chelsea China.”
It’s an orchestral suite in porcelain, and it’s
the sort of thing Austin Dobson might have
written in sound if he hadn’t painted in
words. Violinist Florent Hoogstoel was the
evening’s soloist.
Brenda Deloitte, who marries her padre,
Newton Stephen, of St. Matthias’s, Padding-
ton, next month, will take with her a
great stock of handy utensils from a kit-
chen party given by Mrs. Scrivener to-
morrow (Friday) in the Blue tearooms.
And on the 29th, at. the Book night for the
Rawson Institute. Brenda is to be handed
a souvenir of the musical services she has
given to the Institute.
Connie King, whose parents are well-known
Bananaland folk, is wearing an engagement
ring given her by Dr. Sydney Iceton, of
ricton. The wedding is to take place early
in the new year, when Connie comes back
from Honolulu.
A Sydney woman came back from Europe
and U.S.A. the other day wearing an entirely
different design in noses from that which
Nature had erected —and Nature had been
improved on quite a lot. Voronoff is in the
field with his eternal-youth philtre, and thy-
roid will tighten up Voronoff’s loose ends.
Bui all these are mere also-rans when in an
evening paper here at home one can read
the name and telephone number of the wizard
who baldly advertises himself “Builder of
New Bodies !”
Poor May Beatty, who collapsed suddenly
on Monday night after her Bullfrog number
in “Nellie Kelly,” is still an inmate of Omrali,
the private hospital opposite St. John’s in
Darlingliurst. Meantime friends and admir-
ers are beggaring themselves in the determi-
nation to keep the popular Maorilander’s
room looking like a flower-farm. May’s
daughter. Bunny, is putting up close by, and
Belle Bellecliambers is carrying on in May’s
old part.
Here’s a visiting English artist who has
painted more Royalties than possibly any
other living man of his years. He is
R. Jerr o 1 d
Nathan, now
o f Elizabeth
Bay, and lie
arrived in Syd-
n e y two
months ago,
with a young
wife and a
large cargo
o f reproduc-
tions of the
portraits h e
has handled.
The Duke of
York was one
of his sitters—
“one of the
least preten-
tious and tem-
peramental of
them all.” The
sittings hap-
pened just
when 11.R.H.
was about to have a holiday, and no clerk
could have talked more eagerly about being
let off the chain. The Shall of Persia (who
lives much of his life in Paris and the
Riviera) was another of Mr. Nathan’s sub-
jects. A very faddy dresser, and “fright-
fully English in his clothes, except that lie
would wear white gloves with morning dress.”
His astrachan fez with its diamond crescent
might be overlooked by the footmen and
butlers of Mayfair as foreign heathenism,
but they refused to swallow the white
gloves, even though they were worn to draw
attention to the smallness of the wearer’s
hands. The King of Iraq, a young man
with an Old Testament face and a head-
dress like the Good Samaritan’s, woven in
white and gold, was introduced to the painter
bv Haddad Pasha, who was on Allenbv’s
staff. He is in Mr. Nathan’s gallery. The
Crown Prince of Sweden,, who talked mostly
about the bringing up of children, a Japanese
prince or two, Justice Sankey, some of the
Asquiths, Queensland Premier Theodore and
Sam Hordern are a few of a long list of
celebrities brushed up by Mr. Nathan, who.
incidentally, was student of Cope, R.A., and
won a five years’ Royal Academy scholar-
ship.
Mrs. Keith Davison —until a week or so
ago she was Dora Macdougall—is settled
in her new station home in the Harden
district. The house agency which she and
her sisters started when they dropped in on
Sydney from the Northern Rivers has been
taken over by younger sister Jessie.
Ursula Faucit (Mrs. Leonard Shoemaker),
well known behind the footlights in England
and U.S.A., left last week for the other side
of the Pacific with her 74 inches of American
husband. She hopes to come back some day
in Shakspearean roles.
Brisbane feels the Spring:—
Before leaving Toowoomba for the capital his Ex.
went out to the Simla convalescent home, and had
afternoon tea and a pitch with the sick Diggers;
after which he gave a dinner at Rathdonnell to the
Walkers, Mrs. Willie Kent, Miss Robinson and the
vEneas McDonnells. A dance at the Masonic Hall
finished up the evening; the ballroom was gold and
tangerine, with purple and gold for the vice-regal
table —that color scheme was carried out in lilies
and violets. English primrose posies edged with
forget-me-nots were part of the delectable costuming
of the committee.
The Commonwealth Bank’s Brisbane staff took the
Trocadero for their ball. There were paper streamers
and gay balloons, with spring flowers for the supper
table, and rose-shades dimmed the electric bulbing.
A tuckshop full of things to eat, garnished with
wild flowers and other things to look at, brought
a nice sum into the furnishing fund of the Anglican
Grammar School. Bishops, canons, University dons
and- society folk abounded.
On the tenth, Cyril Rae, son of Alec Rae, of
Bungunya, preceded Florence Crothers, of Moor-
enbah station, up the aisle of All Saints’.
Pink and white was the frocking of the
kirk, and Farnham Maynard tied the knot.
The bride was sheathed in ivory satin charmante, with
silver tissue and orange blossoms. Edith Pechey
and Jean Rae bridemaided in blue. The Gresham
saw the feasting.
The Forth matron reserved the ballroom and winter
garden at Lennon’s for her farewell shivoo to daughter
Edris, who was married this week to one of the Alloms
of Clayfield. The hostess wore black and the bride-
elect royal blue. In the evening the L. H. Alloms
dined the bridal party at the same hotel. Red roses
and ranunculi decorated the table. The knot was
duly tied in St. Agatha’s, Clayfield. The bride was in
Carrickmacross lace with a veil of Brussels. The
wedding feast was at Dursley, and the honeymooners
go to North Queensland.
Margaret Wilson entertained Berenis Cadell Garrick
with more Mah Jong at Montpelier. The bride-elect
will live) in Eastern Asia, so it is as well to know
the game. Mrs. A. H. Whittingham gave her a
lunch at Lennon’s.
The East Brisbane assemblies finished their 1924
season with a big muster of dancers, amid gum leaves
and red and pink roses.
Sr. Stephen’s staged the marriage of P. E. Tighe,
Ballina (N.S.W.), to Myn Ryan, of Lucknow Downs.
Father Kelly tied the knot, and the bride wore grey
silk rep.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Florsheim
AT MACNAUGHTS
Shoes
FLORSHEIM SHOES repre-
sent the highest standard of
American footwear manufac-
ture. They are smart, distinc-
tive shoes made in styles that
appeal strongly to the man who
seeks exclusive attire. A new
shipment just received includes
the very latest creations in Flor-
sheirn Footwear. Men are in-
vited to come in and try on.
ORDERS BY MAIL given
immediate attention.
d*
WE PAY
POSTAGE
N.S.W.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 Pitt Street, 135 Kins* Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
how of those who had seen Heroic’s
horrible exhibition in the Warwick Stakes at Randwick
on Sept. 6, after being friendless in the ring, were
prepared for his being backed to beat Gloaming in
the Chelmsford Stakes a week later, with nine fur-
longs to travel instead of sixf Backed, however he
was (Gloaming was 10 to 9 on and the colt second
favorite at s’s), and, coming with a great run when
Gloaming had settled the others—ll of them —he
won by a length and a half in the Australian-record
Him of lmin. 50jsec., with Wallace Mortlakc in
the minor position, 21 lengths away, and the pace-
making Ballymena a good fourth. No questions were
asked by the stipendiary stewards. Admittodlv, the
chestnut dawdled at the barrier in the Warwick
Stakes, and the fast work he got subsequently doubt-
less brought him on, but in view of his rapid im-
provement in pace and manners, together with the
remarkable difference in the odds, a “Please explain”
would have been in
order. Mason wasn’t
quite satisfied with
Gloaming’s condition,
and perhaps the old ’un
will show in the Hill
Stakes at Rosehill that
he needed the race.
Though not exactly
the wonder he used to
be, he is still a good
horse. In any case,
it was a great perform-
ance on Heroic’s part
to beat him so deci-
sively, and the meeting
of the Valais colt,
Nigger Minstrel (shap-
ing brilliantly on the
track), Leslie Wallace,
Spear felt, Serelot,
Windbag and Arendal
in the A.J.C. Derby
will be full of interest.
Dr. G. G. HESLOP,
the new V.R.G.
stipendiary steward.
Triniacre was an even-money favorite for the seven-
furlongs Tramway Handicap, but she met with
interference, and old Julia Grey (14’s) and Honey
I! ee (33’s) beat her home. Valdoona and Otaere
were marketable at 7’s; the disappointing mare
was never prominent, and Otaere, after leading
at the distance, faded out at the finish —a rare thing
with him. Rahiri was another disappointment, -and
The Dancer; first at the half-mile post, was last at
the judge’s box. With a clear run, Trimaere should
turn the tables on Julia Grey, and account for all
the others mentioned, in the Epsom, but Blackadder
is a more attractive proposition at the moment, as
also is Collaroi.
The Heroic party put some of its winnings on
Purser in the 10-furlongs Spring Handicap, and
there was also good money for David and Dighton.
Purser was always conspicuous, and when he shot
up on the rails about a furlong and a half from
home it looked as if the stable would collect again,
but weight told a little further on, and in an exhila-
rating finish Prince Charles (10’s), vigorously ridden
by Munro, just got his head in front of the 50-to-l
chance Sardine, with whom Brown Rajah (50’s also),
Sea Risk, Purser and Pennybont were almost on
terms. It was the first stake Prince Charles hsftj
landed since the 1922 Sydney Cup, and he was the
first winner to bet saddled up by Albert Wood. He
has Bst. 31b. in the Metropolitan (2lb. less than in
Saturday’s handicap), and must be given a chance,
but this page woubV rather have something younger
and more trustworthy—Highlander, for instance.
Highlander ran pretty well in Prince Charles’s race,
and if a stronger jockey than little Fielder is given
the mount he should do better still in the Rosehill
Cup.
Honest little All Home (6’s) added another mile
Welter to his score after an exciting struggle with
the good-looking English horse Cistercian, whose
party unavailingly protested. Mont Clair, the tubed
favorite, cut up badly, and Dreblah. the next in
demand, was left at the post. As generally happens
at Randwick MeShortodds had a profitable day; the
only favorite to get home was Troubadour (2’s),
who won another hurdle for his youthful trainer,
J. Kelso.
* * * *
In the Budgeree Handicap at Moonee
Valley (Vic.), San Antonio (3’s) did not repeat his
Caulfield performance of staring contemplatively at
the barrier when the others had hopped away. On
the contrary, he began with the rest and galloped
generously for little Bastian—so much so that when
the youth lost a stirrup-iron the eccentric nag put
his head down, threw out a resolute challenge to
Easingwold in the straight, and beat that unlucky
chestnut home by a head in 2min. Ojsec. for the 10
furlongs. He has inherited the unruly disposition of
his sire, St. Spasa, but if tie takes it into his head to
do his best in the Caulfield Cup, he will make things
lively for the opposition with 6st. 101 b. Spearage
was a fast-finishing third, and another who was doing
well at the end of the race was the English horse
Backwood—his first good public gallop in Australia.
But Tookarby’s showing was not very impressive,
although he was just cut out of a place. The old
chestnut, Irish Rufus, got away with the £lOOO
Steeple after another thrilling struggle with Jolly
Phast. He is the gamest of the game.
* * * *
S.A, Jockey Club has tackled boldly the
situation that lately arose when officials of other rac-
ing clubs stood, as such, for places on its committee.
Some argued that the other bodies ought to be repre-
sented on the ruling body ; others said that nobody
should be an official of two clubs. The difficulty
arises from the Jockey Club having always had
supreme control, while it remains a race-promoting
institution with strong rivals on that side of its
activities. The special meeting of members was
nearly unanimous in passing a new rule barring com-
mitteemen of other clubs; but it added a special
clause allowing Dr. Benson, of the Port Adelaide
Dody, who was successful at the last election, to serve
out his term.
-* * * *
“FY7”: In Brisbane the other day the
humble prad of unknown antecedents which comes to
the rescue of the hero in many a sporting novel and
fillum stepped out of the shafts of a butcher’s cart
into real life. Twelve months ago “Young John’’
Stone, the Brisbane trainer, bought a decrepit pi’ad
from his butcher for menial tasks about the stables,
and paid a whole 55 bob. Rest and good tucker
caused the one-time crowbait to blossom as the rose,
and, after some trials, “Young John” slipped him
into a £45 Maiden at Kedron Park, under the name
of Resurrected. The unknown won well, and the
stable took up a good collection at 6 to 1.
* * * *
“Chiron”: Samuel Hordern’s bad luck in
selling Wingen before that 'aristocratically-bred
deceiver won a £3OOO Cup (B. 4/9/’24) was no worse
than that of a young Tasmanian 1 know. The youth
owned a good sort of trotter that was just coming
l'ight, but, as he wanted to get into double harness,
and couldn’t support a missus and a utility ’orse as
well, he sold the ’orse for £BO. Before the honey-
moon was over the ’orse had placed three substantial
stakes to the credit of the new proprietor. Then he
ran away with the Richmond (Vic.) Thousand. And
now I see by a Maoriland paper that be has been
adding to his successes in Massey’s islands.
* * * *
Although there were 17(> starters in the
10-mile cross-country championship of Victoria, it
proved a one-horse affair so to speak. The runners were
spread over 100 yards when 440 had been covered ; but
at the first hurdle Du Bois took the lead and held
it until near the half-way, when Bell and Kohlman
passed him. After that Kohlman went ahead; and
although Bell made a game attempt to bridge the
gap, Kohlman won by 10 yards, with Bell 100
yards in front of Du Bois, and the rest nowhere.
The time. fiOmin. 57see., was 2min. 53sec. worse than
Bell established last year, when Kohlman was fifth.
The latter won the race in 1921 and 1922.
While Kohlman was triumphing at Caulfield, Harold
Hayden was donkey-licking a big field in the “Modi-
fied” Marathon at Manly. Though years, older than
most of the starters, Hayden ran the 12 miles in
tSTmin. 54sec., and was looking for his clothes when
A Gainford, the 10-mile champion, got second place,
with M. J. Mackenzie following him. Hayden won the
event in 1913-, and repeated the offence in 1919
and 1920. He pleads guilty to 32.
* * * #
Alee Bussell failed in his attempt to be-
come amateur golf champion of the continent as well
as open champion. After a match that was interesting
always and exciting at times, Harry Sinclair, of X. S.
Wales, beat him bv 2 up and Ito play. Whereupon
a thrilled “gallery” hurried away to get out the
whiskv-bottlcs and drink Henry’s health.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: “Hamer’s” report that
Bcaurepaire is bringing back some new ideas as to
swimming baths (B. 4/9/’24) is good news, for we
arc years behind the othersiders as far as pukka
enclosed swimming pools are concerned. Snow-white
tiling lined the bottom and sides of the baths in
which Charlton beat Borg and lost gloriously to
Weissmuller, and strips of black tiles, 9in. wide, indi-
cated the track each contestant had to take. Then
there were float lines on the top of the water. As
a result, each swimmer was able to keep a perfect
course, instead of losing yards by erratic swimming,
as is so often the case in the Domain baths and
other enclosed stretches of fluid in Australia.
* * * *
Fired by a report that Hughie Dwyer had
discovered a punch and would employ it with
devastating effect on the dial and' torso of
Charlie Pilkington, of New York, a fair-sized
crowd went to pay at the Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night and remained to scoff
at the press-agent. Dwyer boxed as carefully
as ever, and as Pilkington found his defence im-
pregnable it was a most tedious exhibition until
New York was disqualified in the 15th round for
hitting below the belt. Then Pilky rushed at the
winner and'a real fight was beginning when—much
to the annoyance of the baekseaters—stern-faced men
prized them apart.
* * * *
Having acquired the residential qualifica-
tion, Joe Fox, the veteran Englishman, went in
pursuit of the Australian featherweight championship
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night : but failed
to wrest it from Billy Grime. Fox forced the fight-
ing, but Grime boxed skilfully on the retreat, and
the balance of points was in the Australian’s favor
when, in the 19th round, he collected a clip on the
chin and spent a meditative nine seconds on the
floor. William came back strongly in the 20th, and
was compelling Joe to realise that life had its bitter
moments when the clock gave the hour for retiring,
aim the referee placed a ham-like hand on Billy’s
head.
* * * *
“Baro”: I dissent from the opinion (B.
4/ 9/’24) that wrestling should not be decided on
points. Tue last two bouts in Melbourne seem to
have had something of the vim and sparkle of a boxing-
match —something outside my experience, though 1
have seen most of the wrestlers who have come
to Australia during the last 20 years. That speeding-
up, I maintain, was due to the method of deciding
the winner. The division of a contest into rounds is
an improvement, but it will not eliminate the deadli-
ness of a man clinging to a mat (while the other
exhausts himself in the effort to turn him over) if
by doing so he can escape defeat. On the other
hand, if the mat-hugger wants points he has to
resuscitate himself and strive for them. Neverthe-
less, there were some who were diverted by that
sort of thing. I remember, at a Scott-Groth match
some years ago, seeing a barracker who worked him-
self iiito a foam of excitement. “Stick to ’im,
Harry; stick to ’im,” he yelled. Groth must have
thought he was a compatriot speaking in his own
idiom ; for he stuck to it —the mat—like a postage-
stamp. The lights made rainbows in the mist that
my vociferous neighbor projected around him. 1 was
wearing a new suit at the time, so l went out to
evade the excessive humidity.
* * * *
The TJ.S. victory in the Davis Cup compe-
tition was dreadful in its completeness. As in the
affair at Auckland in 1920, the Yanks won all five
matches ; Tilden and Richards beat each of the
Australians in straight sets, and the doubles were
almost as easy for Til-
den and Johnston. Only
one set went to Aus-
tralia —the first of the
doubles. The moral is
that it is no use send-
ing a team that doesn't
include Anderson.
O’Hara Wood is a
sound player, but he is
not quite in the same
class as the three great
Americans. Patterson
is too careless, and his
backhand is a tragedy.
HARRY NOTT,
the Adelaide
doctor, who repre-
sents S.A. at
tennis and golf.
‘Nakhoda”: The reports from Philadelphia suggest
that in future* there will be no need for the cham-
pions tp leave home. “Tilden won his service. ...
Johnston was unable to handle Patterson's service
.... Johnston had the opening service and the first
ejght games went with the service” —doesn’t it all
suggest that it would save time to let the referee
spin the coin and mail the trophy to the winners of
the toss ? Evidently the cracks have reached the
point when their respective services are practically
unplayable. Fifteen years ago, when Brookes and
Wilding beat Long and McLoughlin in Sydney, cham-
pionship tennis was still a game in which the
spectator could find pleasure. All the players used
the ball as something to be played with ; not as
a torpedo with which to hole and sink the enemy
at the first delivery. It was pretty to watch how,
after the ball had been thrown into play, the two
Australasian champions, with the deliberate fore-
thought of chess-players, dictated the various moves,
so that after a rally of six or ten strokes they
were up at the net and their opponents were away
over the rim of the horizon ; whereupon the dancing
sphere received a death-knock. By 1920, however,
when Patterson and Tilden met at Wimbledon, the
game had completely altered. At the commencement
of each stroke there was a patter of rubber-soled feet,
a smack, a furry whistle, another smack, and the
umpire called the score. There was so little enter-
tainment that spectators were inclined to drift away
to lesser matches, where the ball was kept in play
long enough for the fine points of the game to be
appreciated. Ping-pong was faced with the same
dangerous development, when champions of the eye-
wracking indoor game evolved a service which was
not only unplayable but quite invisible. The game
was saved by the institution of a now rule providing
that the service must first touch the table on the
side nearest to the server, before falling into the
striker’s court. Some such innovation may yet save
ping-pong’s big brother.
* » * #
Melbourne’s only two League games on
Saturday were alike, yet different. Alike in that
both matches were won before the last quarter began,
and different in that the South-Richmond engagement
was fast, skilful and attractive, while the Essendon-
Fitzroy argument was tame even to weariness. Some
45,000 barrackers, most of whom were vastly more
excited than the players, coughed up £lB9O to
view the ’Dou-’Rov display, which was courteous
enough till ’ltoy, realising that they had no hope,
enlivened the business with a few uppercuts. At the
finish ’Don had 58 points to ’Roy’s 18. South Mel-
bourne and Richmond made a close thing of it up
to half-time, but in the third quarter the Tigers
simply galloped over South, piling on 43 points to 1.
Az the end it was Richmond, 85; South, 57.
“Trekle”: The League has agreed at last to aid
Melba’s appeal for the limbless soldiers' by allowing
its premier team to battle with the head of the
Association list —if a suitable ground is available,
and subject to the approval of the Australasian Foot-
ball Council. This is a triumph for the Dame, as
the League has vetoed such matches since St. Ivilda
encountered the now defunct Essendon Association
and crashed horribly. That was long before the war,
but there are still Leaguers who haven’t got over the
blow to their body’s prestige.
* * * *
“H. Harrlupp” : A Tiger enthusiast at the
Richmond-South match attracted attention to himself
by the picturesqueness of his oaths. They were
beautiful in their originality but beastly in their
conception, and a small man in their neighborhood
decided at last to put in a remonstrance. “Eh, mate,”
he suggested mildly, “ain’t yer afraid of suffering
from clergyman’s sore throat?”
“Flicker”: I was watching the Norwood-
West Torrens match in Adelaide, with a Torrens
supporter alongside and a Norwood barracker nearby.
Bent, a fine footballer, was playing splendidly for
Norwood, but the Torrens man couldn't see it. Pre-
sently Bent took a beautiful high-mark. “What about
that f” shouted the Norwood chap deliriously. “Wasn't
it a beaut 't ’ “A beaut'!” howled the Torrens man.
“Why, it came right at the feller. If ’ e ’adn't ’ad ’is
false teeth in ’e’d ’ave swallowed th’ ball.” It cost me
the price of six beers to avert the fight.
* * * *
As a result of Saturday’s matches, Univer-
sity and South Sydney, the fastest teams in the
competition, will contest the City Cup final. The
Uni.-Eastern Suburbs affair was a duel between the
students’ five backs and East’s forwards, and Uni.
prevailed—B points to 5. South Sydney were perhaps
lucky to down North Sydney. Fourteen to seven at
half-time, they were outplayed in the second term,
but opportunities were missed by the men from
beyond the harbor, and a favoring breeze forsooK
them at the crisis, so South closed with a balance of
4 points—l 4 to 10.
* -X- * #
“Past Grammar” : The All Blacks do not
seem to have impressed the critics in their opening
match in England, when they beat Devon by three
tries and a goal to nil. Press judgments are quite
superiah. The Sunday News will be surprised if the
team even approaches the record of its predecessors.
The Observer thinks the forwards were not as good
as those of Devon, which suggests a rude awakening-
later. As a Bulletin paragraphist prophesied, the
All Black wing-forward antagonised press and crowd
from the opening whistle, and the old controversy
promises to rage again. But in view of the fact that
the team is only a week ashore after a six weeks'
voyage, the other criticisms carry no weight.
“Jacky Roo”: It is early to forecast, but I can't
see the All Blacks beating the English XV, who
hold the Calcutta Cup. With the finest forward the
Cold Country has seen for many a day in Wakefield
(Cambridge) to lead them, and a fast lot of backs,
England should win on the All Blacks' Australian
form. Scotland, too, with Grac-ie (a great centre),
Liddell (the Olympic streaker) and “John” Wallace
(if he is back in time from S’Africa), might beat
them. A combined British XV would be almost in-
vincible these days. I should like to see the Maori-
landers against a French team. The Froggies (1
saw them in Paris), play a rattling game. Their
backs were the fastest I had witnessed for years, but
they lost their heads too often.
“Past Grammar”: I cannot see any
“innuendo” in the par. which moved “Nitric” (B.
4/9/’24) to “violent protests.” Lawton’s offence
against amateurism was a technical one only, and so
the English Rugby Union eventually regarded it.
But that body has expressly stated that it doesn’t
intend to leave the door open in future for even
technical • infringements. Whether Lawton received
money or not matters nothing. He admittedly played
a game that is rated professional, and lost his status
as an amateur by doing so, as did the remainder of
bis “old ’Varsity team” (in this case, Brisbane Uni.)
when they took to the League brand of footer.
Indeed, much as it pains me to point it out, and at
the risk of inducing another “violent protest,” I
riiust add that “Nitric’s” confession that he “ran” the
Brisbane ’Varsity League team puts the brand of
professionalism on his own clear skin. I refer him to
the R.U. rules as to professionalism, accepted and
endorsed by the Amateur Sporting Federation in
Australasia and the committee of the Olympic
Games.
* * * *
Adelaide City Corporation, which has a
general overseership of the Oval, the same being a
slice of the park lands, has been discussing the pro
posed charge of 2s. to the ground, and 2s. more to
the stand, for this season’s Test match. It was
suggested that the match might as well not be in
Adelaide at all if the workers were frozen out by
high charges. But even the Labor members were not
unanimous on the point of two bob being too high,
and, after a review of the higher prices charged
nearly everywhere else, the figures were approved. It
was mentioned Incidentally that the Cricket Associa-
tion has spent £25,000 on improvements in the past
year and a half.
“G.0.R.” : Hobbs’s score of 211 in the recent
Test at Lords equals the record W. L. Murdoch made
against England at the Oval in 1884. Hobbs, against
“pussy” bowling, gave no chance in his four hours
40 minutes, and hit 15 fours. Our man hit 24 fours,
but nevertheless took 8 hours 10 minutes, and gave
three chances. He had as opponents, however, such
trundlers as Ulyett, Peate, A. G. Steele, W. Barnes,
Barlow and W. G. Grace himself.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp” : The V.C.A. has some justi-
fication for its refusal to let Victorians appear in
the Howell testimonial match at Sydney. Its season
does not start until a month after the sound of the
ball on the wood is heard on the park lands of
N.S.W., and those Melbourne men who would be in-
vited to play in the first week in October would
therefore be out of form. Anyway, the N.S.W.C.A.
is not in a position to throw stones. Placing the
testimonial match in the forefront of the season,
before public interest in cricket has been awakened,
is certainly not the best way to make it a success.
* * * *
“Cartot”: One of the oldest riflemen in
Australia is Captain William Taylor, of Mandurama
(N.S.W.), who, at the age of 78, recently won the
Fagan memorial trophy at a Lvndhurst club shoot.
Taylor began as a marksman in 1864, when he was
serving in the Royal Navy, and was amongst the
prize-winners of the “Queen’s” at Bislev, then known
as Wimbledon, in that year. After leaving the Nave-,
he became a trap-shooter in N. S. Wales; on several
occasions he defeated the champion of 30 years ago.
W. W. Earles, who used to compete under the name
of “Nyngan.” Despite the old man’s age, his eye-
sight is as good as that of many a younger man. and
he looks forward to competing in plenty more contests
before he is too old to draw a bead on the target.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The checkmate of death has
com: to Charles Gilbert Steele, three times chess
champion of Victoria and a regular representative of
the State during the 20 rears he lived there (he was
a Tasmanian) —invariably on one of the leading
boards. He was a “strong” player, one of infinite
carefulness, who seldom made mistakes; and it is
a curious reversal of chess form that an accident
should have been responsible for his death. He
slipped on the Balaclava railway station, fell under
the train and was killed instantly.
ANNO DOMINI.
[FOR THES BULLETIN.]
It must be regretfully admitted, judging by his
iorm in the U.S. National Singles, that Norman
Jirookes is no longer the giant he was.” — Tilden.
Eves were as keen and arms as strong
And legs their owners bore as stoutly
W hen Brookes, in any tennis throng,
Was worshipped as a god devoutly.
At thirty-forty none was faster
Than he who then was hailed as master.
The heavy years have slowed the feet
That once so speedy were and tireless,
And dimmed the eyes that were as fleet
And ready for their job as wireless—
And wise men of their strength are thrifty
When they draw near to fifty-fifty.
There was a time when Brookes could face
The hardest, headiest of players;
Could wear down, dazzle and outpace
The fittest and the gamest stayers.
Last month he patted, missed and faltered—
Yet nothing but the man has altered.
N.S.W.
D.


Seenis a, j
to leave sucJj
Comfort/"
m
/
Wfr"* 60
„
t
ro
1 If |
OOUGHhhh!! What man cannot,
from his own experience, echo the
expression of our awakening friend,
yawning off the last drowsy spell of
his long restful slumber—not for-
getting the extra five minutes
snooze? OOUGHhhh ah!!
This yawn, though, is a yawn extra-
ordinary, and will terminate in a
deep sigh at the thought of separating
from the additional comfort contri-
buted to his night’s rest by “Relova”
Pyjamas—they’re Comfort Cut.
There’s a world of difference in that
phrase—all the difference between
restless and restful sleep.
A host of improvements in designing, cutting,
seam-making and finishing, make “Relova'’
the ideal sleep-suits of to-night. Made in
Australia from the best of English materials;
available in profuse variety of attractive
patterns.
If you’re not buying pyjamas just now try
“Relova” Shirts or Collars —they’re Comfort-
cut also..
AT ALL QUALITY MERCERS.
Ask for “Relova” for
your “Comfort’s” sake.
Hi
il—ifli
B
■
e
m
iisii
I ■ ipili
-
|g
111 Ilflfllll
jIJ ...... v ■■■ V . .. : ' I
—f*V > ■;. j"
:K:
1
D CO. LTD. - SYDNEY * MELBOURNE
I 1
M A Ui ;
• ■ " '>■ . . • .." ‘
, • .
• •; ‘ . ■■ ,'. -■ ':■ • •
■ ______
COLLARS
MBIII I.SHUH!. IIS ... .■ I i »HlHi 1 I


L\
>»*
A Good Old English
Custom.
“Keeping the port travelling- round the table
is an old custom still maintained by a few
English clubs —like Kensitas Cigarettes, sir,
always passing round good company.
“The soft, mellow-smoking qualities of
Kensitas Cigarettes make you want to keep
on enjoying them, and
the last smoke is as
good as the first, be-
cause all Kensitas are—
‘as good as really good
cigarettes can be.’ ”
hbkjlmjklmkl
Kensitas
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
CtqaAj&t&J SVi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
3. Wn & Sons, Ltd., London.
AFFORESTATION
WILL GIVE YOU
201-
FOR
IN TWENTY YEARS.
The smallest investor can make
20/- for every 1/- invested in tree-
growing in New Zealand on modern
commercial lines. One £25 Bond in
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.—pay-
ment for which can be spread over
four years if desired—should show
in 20 years a minimum return of
probably considerably more.
Inquiry costs nothing, it commits
you to nothing, and will bring fullest
information concerning this proposi-
tion, and many interesting facts on
tree-growing in Australia and New
Zealand. Write or call to-day to
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD.,
24 Bond Street, Sydney,
Agents for
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
~iT#
va
/%•
*
THOSE SHINGLES!
THAT VERANDAH!
THAT SHED!
THAT FENCE!
THAT FOWLHOUSE!
THAT GARDEN BORDER!
ETC., ETC., ETC.
DO IT WITH
hbkjlmjklmkl
The Perfected Stain that imparts to timber
the artistic effect and mellowness of age
that paint cannot give, and, at the same time,
absolutely protects from damp, white ant,
dry rot and borer.
Anyone can use it. Quicker drying than
paint, much more effective and cheaper.
Millions of feet of timber and thousands of
pounds saved annually by its use.
Stocked by-Anthony Hordern, Eassetter’s. H. H Groth, James Sandy, Hoblsworth
Macpherson, Major Bros., Williamson Croft, G. E. Crane & Sons, 1. W. Williams.
Guaranteed Product of Major & Co., Hull, England.
W. PLANT CO. LTD., 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A Delightful, Appetising Food
For building up brain and body and repairing the waste of fatigue
or illness. It represents concentrated nourishment, easy of diges-
tion. Gruel in 10 minutes. Particularly valuable for invalids
and young children.
SOLD EVERi WHERE
Manufactured by CLIFFORD LOVE & CO., LTD , SYDNEY
Rumfords Groats
✓ v .v- \t*s. ’
PROS
S
IcMzL.&
' I wkk ~ 1 f■ ?
|§g| w
j/-
THE
WAY TO
WEALTH
** The Way to Wealth in ax plain ax
the road to market It depends
chiefly on two Words—industry
and frugality ” ( Franklin)
not
as
many persons sup-
pose, by fortunate
speculations and splendid enterprises, but by the
daily practice of industry, frugality and economy.
He who relies upon these means will rarely be found
in want. He makes the Savings Bank his guardian.
Start your account to-day!
Interest at 4 °/ 0 up to £5OO, and 3'i% on excess to £lOOO
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF N. S.W
Head Office: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
WTEALTH
W nrvnnrv
IS
acquired,
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney FERniES^IJWt^fL-—^ .
“P.M.”: Air service was upsetting work.
I remember an Aussie pilot landing on Savy
aerodrpme. He had been in a bit of a scrap
over the line, and must have got a touch of
shell-shock; anyway, instead of going to the
orderly-room to report, he went to the work-
shop for a saw. and proceeded to detach the
blades from his propeller.
Died at Katoomba (N.S.W.), where he had
been living for some years, Fred Broomliead,
one of the last and most informative of old
Charters Towers (Q.) hands, lie came from
Yorkshire as a youngster, and saw the
Towers in all its phases. Not much of its
gold stuck to his fingers, though he tackled
everything, from mining to journalism. The
journey ended at 60.
“Baarmutha”: The real pioneer of tanning
in Australia was not Governor Hunter or
Caley (B. 4/9/’24), but a son of that Cap-
tain Kent, of the Reliance (1796). whom
Captain John Macarthur commissioned to buy
wool-bearing sheep at the Cape of Good
Hope. An obituary notice in a Sydney news-
paper of the early ’thirties is the best testi-
mony to the younger Kent’s work. It runs:
‘‘On Thursday, 29th March, 1832, at Princes-
street, Sydney, Tlios. Kent, Esq., the dis-
coverer of the tanning qualities of the
mimosa (wattle) bark in this colony.”
“C.N.”: For the sixth year Dr. W. H.
(“Gallagher”) Russell has been elected pre-
sident of the Hospitals Assoc, in S. Aus.
Under his presidency the Assoc, has evolved
a fine system, based on the rating of district
councils and the co-operation of ratepayers,
with, of course, a Government sub-
sidy. Under it country patients have all
the advantages of up-to-date hospitals at
nominal charges. Russell, who is mainly
responsible for the success of the scheme,
was a notable athlete in his ’Varsity days,
being the Slip Carr of his time.
“Nom”: Lionel Courtenay, the irrepres-
sible Sydney Reform alderman, at whom ex-
Town Clerk Nesbitt has been directing a
bombardment of all the longest words he
could lay hands on, has been pretty well
everything in R.C. affairs. This is worth
much more to him in Phillip Ward (some-
times called St. Benedict's) than the “re-
form” part of his outfit, and will probably
enable him to beat the recently-arrived Scot,
Arthur Rutherford, sec. of the Saddlers’
Union and selected Labor candidate for that
division, at the next elections. It was Phillip
that used to elect Dan O’Connor for the
length of his whiskers. Once he lopped them
in imitation of Abraham Lincoln —and that
was the end of him.
“Chancery Lane” : The Judge’s black cap,
recently mentioned as having become obso-
lete in some Australian States, dates back to
the reign of Henry 11. When that monarch
started the system of itinerant Justices, a
great rivalry sprang up between the King’s
and the Ecclesiastical Courts. In time most
of the jurisdiction of the latter was absorbed
by the King’s Courts; occasionally, however,
the King’s Courts were unable to cope with
all the work remitted to them, and a Judge
of the superseded Ecclesiastical Court would
hear certain cases, wearing a black cap over
his wig or coif as an indication that he was
exercising an extraordinary jurisdiction.
Ultimately this cap was reserved for special
occasions.
Two S. Australians who were for many
years connected with the public service
arrive at the four-score age-mark this month.
One is Lionel Henry Sholl, born at Perth,
Sept. 15, 1844, son of Dr. W. Horatio Sholl,
and Under-Secretary at Adelaide from 1890
to 1916, when he retired. The other is John
Cummins Morpliett, born at Morphettville,
near Adelaide, a day later. Morphett is the
eldest son of the pioneer John Morphett, who
landed in 1836. was the first Speaker of the
old Leg. Council, and later President of the
Upper House under responsible government.
John, the son, went to Oxford, was 17 years
Clerk of the Assembly at. Adelaide, and re-
tired as Clerk of Parliament in 1920. Both
octogenarians are hale and hearty.
“Tren”: Has chimney-sweeping come to
be scorned as a degrading occupation that it
is so hard to get an Australian to tackle it
in Melbourne? My chimneys became filthy,
a menace to the neighborhood. Despite
advertisements and heavy bribes, no Aussie
would tackle them. At last a Pommy right
off the boat had a go. He admitted he was
not wise in the mysteries of the craft, but
offered to do his best with branches cut from
my fruit-trees. I agreed to that—fruit-trees
will grow. He made a good job of it, how-
ever, and liked it well enough to adopt the
calling permanently. Now he is becoming
richer every day, and, as he has no opposi-
tion, is quite unable to cope with his orders.
“Hamer” : Melbourne is entertaining three
affable visitors from Nippon who are mak-
ing inquiries into the Australian sheep-breed-
ing industry. There is a guileless simplicity
about them which undoes us all. Japan has
long been a buyer of Australian wool _ for
the manufacture of fabrics; and now Little
Brown Man has conceived the idea that in
his hilly districts a new use can be found
for the land. And once the industry becomes
self-contained no chance is to be given to
foreign traders to destroy it. By way of
encouragement, they already talk of a 100 per
cent, ad valorem duty on wool, wool-mixture
fabrics, knitted fabrics containing wool and
similar items. And simple Australia, with
its half-baked tariff, is again to be the goat
by supplying the stud sheep.
Harry Leon Wilson, the U.S. novelist, has
been writing his impressions of Australia
(lie spent a week or two in Sydney) for
the Satubday Evening Post, and for the
most part they were hardly worth writing.
But there was one significant paragraph :
Australia, empty and incredibly rich, is a tooth-
some morsel dangled before the imminent agape
jaws of certain land-hungry Asiatics. Yet Australia
is not afraid. It is the fixed belief of every one of
its 6,000,000 that, if the rich bait were snapped at,
a powerful nation would hurry to fight their battles.
Not England—the United States. This is important
if true....lf it is true that the nation lately named
would hell Labor to keep Australia empty, how did
Labor find this out? Who started the rumor?
Perhaps it was McHugh, Labor Senator
from South Australia, and author of this
priceless contribution to the debates on the
Defence Equipment Bill: “I do not think it
wise for the Commonwealth to hurt the
feelings of the representatives of other
nations by engaging in naval construction.”


SPORTS WEAR
at Gowing's’
Gowings* Sports Clothing will stand all
the hard wear given it by the strenuous
athlete. It is designed for unhampered
freedom of movement, and this without
the slightest sacrifice of style.
M
X
U
l
mt
IP
v
rate
itif
lill
4|Mw
sSli«
\
gy
MS$O?
m&
V-
;".■■■?;
i
.oiW
i
«
i 'Q
Kgfc :•< S i
i'- ---.--'
Sfi : f i
r&'t:
mmi
am
m
m
'tl ' $Mi -I
:■«
v v .
M,
■ 111
sr
i n
I Lf
?mmm r
% gf?
. a., ‘ *■
m
EtfW
A •&&«
■
Sports Shirts
Scientifically designed to give that freedom and comfort so essential
to the sportsman. Sleeves are made so as to stay permanently in
position when rolled. Fabrics are such as will stand the most strenuous
wear.
Mercerised Twill Sports Shirts, with Tennis Collars,
Other qualities 7/0, 8/6, 9/6
5/9
Mercerised Twill
Shirts, with Sports
Better quality
Sports
7/6
collars
8/6
Cream Taffeta or White Oxford
Sports Shirts, with either *7 /Q
Tennis or Sports collars..
Cream Ceylon Flannel
with either Tennis or
Sports collars
Shirts,
14/6
All-Wool Cream Taffeta Shirts,
excellent, lightweight material,
guaranteed unshrinkable. *y% /q
Tennis collar only <6l/*/
Sports Trousers
Faultlessly cut, with straight tops, five belt loops, side and hip pockets and
cuff bottoms. Braces buttons are sewn inside.
Cream Gabardine,
ready-to-wear
White Drill, ready-
to-wear
16/6
Cream Wool Serge,
L o a d o n shrunk,
ready-to-wear
35/-, 40/-
Cream Wool Herringbone, Af\/
London shrunk, ready-to-wear '
Cream Wool Gabardine, A*y
London shrunk, ready-to-wear
Sports Trousers, t o
measure, All-Wool Cream
Serge
Of Cream Wool Gabar-
dine . . -
42/-
50/-
Sports Footwear
White Canvas Cricketing
well designed, with toecaps,
and stout leather soles and
heels
Men’s Canadian White
Tennis Shoes, with White
soles, reinforced at edges and
at heel
Canadian White Canvas
Shoes, “Golfer” brand, with
two-piece uppers
Boots,
, straps,
21/-
Canvas
Rubber
8/6
Tennis
11/6
Extra Heavy White Canvas Ten-
nis Shoes, Canadian manufacture,
with White Rubber soles, edges with
either White or Red Rubber. These
shoes are Derbv cut and
have heavy insoles
12/9
Men’s White Canvas Sports
Shoes, with toecap and strap, have
thick cr§pe or thick Red Rubber soles,
and stitched toe and heel for •» /r*
added security. Sizes sto 10 1/ / O
Blazer Coats
Men’s Blazers, with corded edges, in all
the popular color combinations
Men’s Blazers, with bound edges, in all
the popular color combinations
32/6
37/6
Sports Socks
Men’s Cream All-Wool Cashmere o U
Socks «5/ *
Men’s Cream All-Wool Cashmere a/.
Socks, fancy clox t l / '
Sports Belts
Leather Belts, tin. wide, in Grey, Tan, i /,
Lizard Grey and Nigger Suede I'*
Rubber Belts, White, Grey, Brown and i /,
Black 1/1
Sports Sweaters
Pull-over Sports Sweaters, All-Wool,
fronts, either plain White or with colored
V-neck. Slender and Men’s size
O.S
with V-
. 25/-
27/6
White Coat Sweaters, “Wolsey” brand, well
made, excellent quality. Have V-neck o*7 /ct
and patch pockets. Slender and Men’s sizes ”
O.S 30/-
Write Section B, Go wing Bros . Ltd.
Carriage Paid on all Goods throughout Australia .
GOWING BROS. LTD
486 George Street, Sydney. Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.


A Valet Auto Strop
razor set complete^
3ft
Spend Three and Sixpence on a “Valet” Razor.
To-morrow and the next day and for forty or
fifty days more you will get a per ectly comfort-
able shave with the blads that is in the new
Every “Valet” blade gives several wee s’ perfect
shaving. How ? By automatic stropping.
Every morning you slip the strop thro gh the
razor head. Then you run the razor up and
d wn for ten seconds the blade auto natically
turns over and over and gives itself a fine new
edge. Then you shave.
To clean the razor is equally simple. A rinse under the
tap, another run up and down the strop, and the razor
goes back into i's case. No unscrewing, no fiddling
with naked blades. Try a “Valet ’ Razor to-day.
British Made
Of all dealers
TKs Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., L l d.,
197-207, City Road, London, England.
THIS IS THE NEW THREE AND
SIXPENNY SET.
Contains the essentials for a perfect "Valet”
shave. — the Razor, one Blade and Strop in
a neat Case. If your dealer does no'. :tocfc
it, the Agent , as at foot, wi.l send it ost
free on receipt of a postal order for 316.
m
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY .
Dominate/
Thau
the
Spo
ting
/
SPOUTS
IHOEf
LEATHER TO THE FOOT
RUBBER TO THE GROUND
/o/'
Tennis
Cricket
Bowls'
Golf
Croquet
Holidays -
NEXT time you buy Sports Shoes ask to be
shown Carubos. As soon as you take this
shoe in your hand you will realise that
here is the only REAL Sports Shoe.
It is properly lasted to fit like a leather Shoe, and
has a double sole of leather and rubber. It fits
the foot and grips the ground. And it can be
resoled like new when the time comes.
Carubo Shoes give to both men and women firm footing
for the game—plus absolute comfort. Plain or Crepe
Rubber Soles. Get a pair!
All Good Shoe Stores Sell Them.
TAILORING OF RENOWN
A Magnificent Range
of Latest
SPRING
SUITINGS
For Your
Selection
THE
‘QUALITY
SUIT
The “Quality” will
appeal to men of good
taste, and it is ex-
tremely suitable for
wear all the year round.
Even though the price of
Woollen Suitings has in-
creased considerably, we are
-x
m
x.
~«Vl
i|B
%
' U!
'/^
: Ilf
W’: , ,',r ■■■ //
still offering materials of the #
same high quality as previously. The range includes finest All-W 00l Austra
Tweeds, and specially imported English All-Wool Suitings, in every latest aesi„
and color, including special Heavyweight Indigo Navy Twills.
To Order, £7/17/6
A Magnificent Range of Newest Worsteds, All-Wool English Tweeds and Beal
Scotch Suitings. To order £B/8/-, £9/9/-t £l9/ '
Special Self-measurement Chart and Tape Post Free on Request.
RIDING BREECHES
Riding Breeches, mounted-service style, with pockets, « gr"% / f
loops, and lacing at knees. In very strong Olive I
or Khaki Suede Drill. Sizes 3 to 7 and 4J to 7£. t
Order by Post —We Pay Carriage.
THE
LEVIATHAN
PTY., LTD.,
Cr. Swanston & Bourke Streets
MELBOURNE.
ets^
&
O
&
o
&
*
aw
&
&


NEW GUN
LONG-DISTANCE SHOOTING
34in. Barrel. 2J Cartridges.
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country
in the world, requires a gun strong in the
breech, because our varying temperatures
generate such high pressures in explosives.
Having a long experience of sporting condi-
tions here, we have all our Huns made to
suit these requirements, and the latest addi-
tion to SPECIALLY-MADE MODELS is the
Long-distance REINFORCED BREECH
Single-barrelled Gun. It has full choke,
finely-bored o4in. steel barrel, snap fore-end
lever, automatic ejector, half-pistol grip.’
Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price i*> /-. Postage 4/- all over Australia.
GUN CARTRIDGES freshly loaded on the
premises give best results. Write for list.
Gb.
GUN & CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
FoY'e!
Abbots
lager
09
Is Aliyaijs ToHie Fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
INSECTIBANE
KEEPS INSECT
PESTS AWAY
BUY A TIN
TO-DAY.
i/-1/-1/-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Whirled into Happiness”
Criterion “The Old Soak”
New Palace .. Allan Wilkie Shakspeareari Productions
Grand Opera House “Little Nellie Kelly”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Culler’s Theatre .... The World’s Rest Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBonm: snows coming week
His Majesty’s “The Lady of the Rose”
Royal Vaudeville
King’s “East of Suez”
Palace “Old Bill. M.P.”
Princess’s “The Rise of Rosie O'Reilly”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Olympia Buckjumping, etc.
The horrid consequences of prohibition
that doesn’t prohibit are portrayed with
humor, pathos and a Yankee accent which
gets mislaid in places, by John D. O’Hara
in “The Old Soak,” at Sydney Cri. The
ancient toper, whose regular potations at the
village pub have been interrupted by the
Volstead Act, resumes in the privacy of his
own home his downward course, helped
thither by the maid of all work, Lorna
Helms, and George Blunt. Maggie Moore,
the Old Soak’s wife, watches with plaintive
lamentations the insidious demon of badly-
brewed whisky pulling her nest to pieces.
The old man, the bar-tender, the maid of all
work and the pet parrot get hilariously
drunk; and in the midst of the confusion
Reginald Long, Maggie’s son and the apple
of her eye, steals his mother’s scrip and sells
it to Leslie Victor, the village banker, a
distant relation of Maggie, who has never
had a hard drink in all his eminently re-
spectable existence. The horrors of too much
booze in the first act are eclipsed by the ter-
rors of too little in the second, when the
Old Soak goes to his bottle in' the family
coal-scuttle and finds it empty. The death
from alcoholic poisoning of the unoffending
parrot adds to the gloom, and when Ailsa
Grahame arrives in a fur coat bought with
the stolen money, and it is revealed that
the Old Soak’s son has been robbing his
firm as well as his mother, the atmosphere
of gloom appears to be impenetrable. The
sterling worth which is known to lie, how-
ever smothered, in the heart of every habitual
drunkard, comes to the rescue, and the Old
Soak takes on himself the suspicion of having
stolen the scrip. Pulling himself together,
in the absence of a prairie oyster, by moral
force alone, he sallies forth and extorts
the money realised on the scrip from the
scoundrelly banker. In a glad spirit of
virtue triumphant the play closes, but as the
curtain descends the maid-of-all-work enters
with the news that fresh supplies of bootleg
whisky have arrived in the kitchen, and a
joyous smile of expectancy spreads over
the features of the Old Soak.
* * * *
O’Hara as the bibulous Clem Hawley sus-
tained with force and humor the part of the
drunkard with the core of gold, and wonderful
Maggie struck oil once more in the guise of
his distracted but still loving wife. Leslie
Victor, as the desiccated banker, was not a con-
vincing screw, and more stirring love-making
than was provided by Mary MacGregor and
Raymond Lawrence can be seen on any
Manly ferry. Ailsa Grahame, as the vamp-
“MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Benedick (Allan Wilkie) and the Friar
(Augustus Neville).
ing Ina, discharged American aphorisms
with the metallic rattle of a cash register, and
Lorna Helms’s description of how the parrot
drowned itself in drink deserves to rank with
the Queen’s picture of Ophelia’s death in
“Hamlet.”
Benedick and Beatrice of Padua re-enacted
their wild-honey courtship at Sydney Palace
on Saturday night. This is, according to
one advt., the first time in 30 years the
Bard’s comedy has been performed in Syd-
ney, and Allan Wilkie as the dashing wit who
ever sharpens his tongue on Woman, and
Miss Hunter-Watts as Beatrice who will
have none of Man, brought the talkative
couple into high favor at once. The play is
brilliant verbiage, with a nearly-fatal wed-
ding worked in for those who even in Sliaks-
peare’s days liked a bit of plot to bite on.
As a wife Beatrice didn’t give birth to an
ordinary child, but she mothered the whole
family of epigram- and paradox-stuffed “con-
versational'’ novel that threatened to inun-
date the world a decade ago. Dogberry and
Verges were capitally handled by Eric Donald
and W. Lockhart, and were responsible for
much of the evening’s fun. Francis de Bour-
gignon supplied the music.
About a very hardy Sydney annual
The Society of Artists hus travelled far and to much
profit since the famous secession 20 years ago. The
first show was dominated by the pen drawings of
Norman Lindsay, the insolence of whose leprechauns
and satyrs made Sydney’s matrons wonder whether
they really oughtn’t to have left their daughters at
home. In this show the only trace of Norman is
his bronze head by Rayner Hoff, which grins impishly
at a Hans Heysen land-
scape populated by
nothing more disquiet-
ing than cows. But
Lindsay’s absence is
perhaps really a good
thing. His genius best
displays itself, in one-
man shows. In his
absence one is better
able to appreciate the
aspect of the everyday
world pictured by
soberer souls.
George Lambert’s
meticulous technique
shows in the details of
his huge canvas of the
Light Horse charge at
Gallipoli, commissioned
by the Commonwealth
for the Australian War
Museum. It is a truth-
iul satire on modern
war which crowds men
into khaki and then
stamps them casually
into brown mud. Lam-
bert’s portrait of Mrs.
George Vivers is at
least full of exuberance.
But, though the flowers
held in his “Hera’s”
hand are alive, the
lady’s face is not; and
the traditional Aus-
tralian atmosphere is
missing from his land-
scape, “The Squatter’s
Ray Walsh, a
founder of the
Adelaide Repertory
Theatre, and still one
of its prominent
actors and producers.
Daughter,” which recalls the Italian primitives.
The show is unusually strong in portraiture. There
is a vague- charm about the sulky face of William
Rowell’s “Olive” : and in his portrait of Mrs. Chatles
Dennis, W. B. Mclnnes makes the paint laugh with
the sitter. Florence Rodway shows quiet capability
in “Mary.” Fred Leist sends “Dawne,” but the face
is out of drawing. In his catlike “Pattes de Velour”
and his elderly “Lady in Black” James Quinn stopped
just where he should have stopped, leaving a vivid
impression on the canvas. J. Muir Auld contributes
an “Australian Girl,” and if her lassitude is typical,
the country will never succeed in paying off its war
debt. Norman Carter’s careful portrait of Rayner
Hoff in the act of knocking the right arm off his
statue of “Gael” hangs opposite the bronze replica
of the sculpture itself, which is a strong piece of
work, although the calm expression of the lady’s face
appears to be somewhat divorced from her body's
agony; also it is questionable whether, because m
their ignorance and zeal the Huns broke limbs off
ancient statues, our modern Myrons should do the
same to obtain a meretricious impressiveness.
Hans Heysen is the only landscapist who knows
that gumtrees have souls ; his groups in “Light and
Shade” have more individuality than a tramful of
suburbanites. John D. Moore’s tones may be faulty,
but his houses in “The Hilltop” romp around in a
manner that would warm the heart of G. K. Chester-
ton, who always feels when entering a building that
he is walking into the bowels of a grim or amiable
giant. Moore’s sky in “Contrasts” is also full of
tumult, menacing the indifferent crowd of merry-
making mannequins on the lithosphere below. K. R.
Mac Queen, who farms somewhere in Queensland, knows
what the soil looks like, and his version in "The
Mirage,” “The Hillside Paddock” and “The Young
Crop” differs profoundly from those of the city artists
who take their paint-boxes into the country for
the week-end. G. K. Townshend would do better
work if he would look for unity in design.
Thea Proctor has some of her elegant fans, with
refined ladies to match. Margaret Preston has a
number of fine flower studies, her flannel-flower har-
mony being especially delightful; but in her “Park
Avenue, Mosman,” a landscape, she carries her strong
line principle out of doors without success. A
charcoal drawing of Brooklyn Bridge by A. Devereux
is the best thing amongst the black-and-whites.
Sydney Ure Smith contributes his customary quota
of sound etchings. Lionel Lindsay’s woodcuts get
richer and silkier every year, and various other
members of the wonderful family are represented by
clever work in different mediums.
In sculpture, with the exception of a well-bred
polo pony by George Lambert, Ravner Hoff has the
mausoleum to himself, with the one-armed and leg-
less casualty already mentioned and a number of
vigorous groups.
Hamilton Mack leads the vanguard of the New Art
cohorts with a nude drawing and some gypsies; but
the citadels of orthodoxy are not likely to be shaken.
Mamie Watson and Mark Daly continue
to mix fashion and frivol, humor and hum-
bug in “Little Nellie Kelly,” now in its
sixth week at the Grand Opera House,
Sydney.
Assisted by Alfred Frith, Maggie Jarvis
and Winnie Collins, “Whirled into Happi-
ness” continues to rotate furiously at Sydney
Majesty’s, with Cunningham and Clements,
dancing dervishes, to intensify the dizziness.
* * * -f
Josie Melville and. her engaging friepds
will say “Good Morning, Dearie,” for the last
time at Sydney Royal this week.
Marie Burke and Arthur Klein claim
the Sydney Tivoli electrics this week. Their
musical act is both original and tuneful,
which, for a vaudeville turn, is saying a great
deal. Rene Riano is back with the old goods,
Du Calion maintains a precarious balance and
an endless stream of chatter with equal ease,
and Ireue Franklin demonstrates the wonder-
ful carrying capacity of a stage personality.
Stiffy and Mo are still at Fullers’
Theatre, Sydney. Mo and the stiffies are at
Randwick; but they have no connection with
the other firm.
Last week’s work in grand opera at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s was an exhausting one for
Toti dal Monte, who showed signs of wear
and weariness when the end of Saturday
night arrived. Her brightest and best work
was in “Lucia,” whose third act especially
gives splendid opportunities to one of her
capacity. The stage was peopled for the
occasion by Scotchmen whose kilts looked
more like petticoats, and who could not by
any stretch of the imagination be associated
with bagpipes; but in the melodiousness that
point was overlooked. The stiffness of ges-
ture which spoils some of the work of Dino
Borgioli (Edgardo) was not so apparent in
“Lucia,” in which he was in splendid voice
and always on the note. Grandini (Lord
Enrico Ashton) was a good selfish old man;
but the useful Luigi Cilia gave an indifferent
interpretation of Arturo Bucklaw. being
strangely unmoved while the angry Edgardo
lugged his (Bueklaw’s) new-made bride up-
stage, and made disdainful remarks to her.
Paolantonio had more regard for the vocal
section than he sometimes has.
* * * #
At the matinee on Thursday IJhyllis Archi-
bald scored a first-rate success as the lady
who leads Samson to a haircut; but she did
not get all the support from Antonio Mar-
ques that a lady who vamps so well and
melodiously might expect. Marques was
excellent enough in his own vocal efforts, but
failed to blend with the lady in their duets:
and as a lover he would give any flapper
the pip.
* * * *
Borgioli was a tired singer when “Tales
of Hoffmann” took the floor on Friday night.
But it was not his singing that was at fault,
although once or twice it showed a flaccid
quality. An ardent Hoffmann is necessary
to knit together the three episodes of a pas-
sionate young man’s pursuit of love: and
Borgioli’s acting was uninspired. Whilst
vocally denying the accusation, he seemed
almost relieved when Antonia (Aurora Ret-
tore) died mournfully, and so finished off
the third and final episode. As the Doll, Dal
Monte gave a performance which justified
the thunders of applause of a city which
spoils the compliment by being prepared to
thunder at every thing that Toti does.
Phyllis Archibald had another show as
Giulietta in the second episode; but the part,
does not give much opportunity. The seduc-
tiveness of the false-hearted lady was well
expressed. Distinguished work was that of
Alfred Maguenat as the evil genius who
wrecks all the prospects of Hoffmann; and
Scliiavoni deserves warm thanks for the
way he controlled the orchestra.
* * * *
Apollo Granforte, who through all his
exacting work lasts wonderfully, had an-
other triumph in “Rigoletto” on Saturday
night. Actor as well as singer, he bril-
liantly developed the soul of the Jester,
whose cynicism is redeemed by passionate
love for his daughter; his scene with Gilda
in the garden of their house was full of a
wonderful tenderness. As Gilda Toti dal
Monte sang well, better even than usual in
places, up to the third act, when a tired-
ness in her note became evident. Borgioli
was to have been the Duke of Mantua, but
Alfred O’Shea took the part. His fine stage
presence, appealed to the house, and his sing-
ing, which earned him frequent ovations,
notably in the “La Donna e Mobile” melody
was at times brilliant. He was inclined now
and then to be too detached as a lover.
* * * *
On Monday “Don Pasquale,” which a
rough plebiscite of regular attendants votes
teire, had an airing; repetitions of “Andrea
Chenier” and “Rigoletto” occurring on Tues-
day and Wednesday nights, with “Butterfly”
for the Wednesday matinee.
After being dark and deserted for over a
week the New Palace is to open on Saturday
with “Old Bill, M.P.,” who will proceed to
BERT LEVY, artist, author, journalist,
international vaudeville star and good
Australian.
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
show Melbourne bow the spirit that won the
war continues to battle to win the alleged
peace.
The ripples on the stream of prosperity
that has flowed at the New Princess's, Mel-
bourne, ever since Itosie O'Reilly danced on
to the boards are purely musical; and Rosie
appears likely to go her winsome way to
happy matrimony for some time to come.
There are managerial hints of a fresh
company coming to Melbourne King's in
a week or so; but the box-oflicc re-
marks with an air of satisfaction that the
Muriel Starr of “East of Suez" will prevail
without change until she and her company
are called elsewhere.
Kitty Reidy is disturbing the quietness of
the “silent drama” at Hoyt's (Melbourne)
with some bright incidental matter. After
her quarrel with the Firm, Kitty made some
bitter and gloomy remarks; but there is
nothing but sweetness and radiance about
the turn she presents at Hoyt's, and which
she is to continue for a week or so. The
Ince picture, “Anna Christie,” is sharing star
honors with her this week.
Arriving without much preliminary cackle,
Beryl Beresford provided the first Melbourne
Tivoli audience introduced to her with a sur-
prise packet. Displaying rare humor, she
got off the beaten track in patter, delivering
it with inimitable insouciance until even a
sparse matinee audience woke up and gave
those loud and iujjg sounds of approval which
indicate that future audiences are not likely
to be sparse. Certainly in this humorous
little lady the Tiv. has struck a winner of
rare quality. Winter and Bunny provide a
nice act which is rather dimmed by compari-
son; but the Hilo Duo (in “Hawaiian
music”) are no more distinguished than
similar performers have been.
The chief addition to Melbourne Royal
programme is Edna Thomas, who in a well-
dressed act delivers negro plantation melo-
dies in accurately simulated coon dialect. But
Hetty King is still first past the post in the
Popularity Stakes, with Bert Errol and
Walter Weems fighting it out for second
money, and several others bunched close up.
The house’s forecast threatens a storm of
laughter, with Harry Welton in the centre of it.
Seymour Hicks has found his “Old Bill”
so successful that he relies on it to see his
season through at Adelaide Prince of Wales's,
and Show Week has seen big business. A
“Merry Widow” revival at the Royal is not-
able for giving Bryl Walkley a well-deserved
chance in the title part, in which Adelaide
lias seen some misfits in the past. Andrew
Higginson comes back in his original part,
bringing with him a marked personality
rather lacking in the younger singing heroes;
and Blake Adams, Herbert Browne and
Nellie Payne show out in a pretty strong co.
The Sole circus and all the picture-houses
have had a great Show Week, and Arthur
Tauchert, at West’s, is more satisfying than
a host of highly-paid Americans elsewhere.


SuOUiB
sqopSigife ao>P[[uastAQ 6?&s>yc
99
THE Oshkosh Overall offers
the extreme limits of com-
fort, wear and value. It
is the ONE work suit that en-
joys the unanimous approval
of men in all trades. Every-
where you go in the Common-
wealth you see men wearing
OSHKOSH —the guaranteed
overall.
Wholesale only from
ROBERT REID & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Adelaide.
The Famous Oshkosh
Bib Overall
Made of extra heavy Navy Blue Drill of
the stoutest texture and greatest
strength—material woven exclusively
for OSHKOSH, Fast, Fadeless Dye.
Comfort-fitting and roomy—designed
for freedom of limbs and body. Easily
laundered —OSHKOSH always appears
neat, fresh and clean. Riveted but-
tons, non-rustable clips and buckles.
Double-sewn seams, reinforced at points
of strain. Stayed crotch piece, six
stout canvas pockets, adjustable bib,
shoulder straps.
OSHKOSH WORK GARMENTS art-
made also in COMBINATION SUITS.
2-PIECE SAC SUITS, and PAINTERS’
SUITS, in Blue, Khaki and Cream.
Sizes and cross sizes.
%
Wil
/
h
\
'Cv
>v
%
(T
it
m&m
w
1
*1
'£
*2
m
!IVI
iif
u
I
m
•~b
■V
hbkjlmjklmkl
all Good Meris-Wear Stores
I
DANCE ANY TIME
“His Master’s Voice'
GRAMOPHONE
is always ready.
WE SELL ON
EASY TERMS.
Ready with lively one-steps aqid fox-trots and fascinating
waltzes that make you forget every care, that make you
want to dance on and on.
Music that inspires you to dance your very best—the
perfect playing of bands and orchestras renowned for
their splendid dance music.
Loud and clear enough for a whole roomful of dancers
—and yet easily adaptable when only a few want a
quiet little dance, and when the dance is over—think of the
beautiful songs that will make the night still more pleasant.
Visit Paling’s and hear this beautiful instrument.
PRICES FROM 11 GUINEAS.
Catalogue and Price List Free on Request.
338 George Street
SYDNEY.
“Quality our
Keynote since
1853/’
And at Brisbane,
Newcastle,
Toowoomba,
m
liismore and
Rockhampton.


7F
i®
You Obtain the Benefits of Co-operation when Assuring with the P. 8 C.
No one knows more fully than the man on the land the
benefits of co-operative dealing. His own co-operative
bodies include the most reputable and substantial
members of the community. The same principle of
“mutual benefit” is the basis of the P. & C. This Com-
pany is associated with the most important co-operative
bodies in each State, and has thereby obtained their
support and confidence, and the hali-mark of their
approval. The remarkable progress of the Company is
undoubtedly due to the fair dealing and generous terms
the co-operative principle permits, and to the progressive
aims and sound financial policy of the management.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE
Co. of Australia, Limited, 114-120 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART, BRISBANE.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
Will Lawson from California: —
Nance O’Neil’s deep voice suited the theatre and
the part when she played the title-role in Maeter-
linck’s “Mary Magdalene” at the Greek Theatre,
Berkeley. Nance is a big woman, as Australia
knows, but she and the others players seemed
midgets to the 7000 people who sat in the open-air
amphitheatre and looked down upon the stage with
its tall Corinthian pillars and walls. In this type
of theatre there are no entrances from the wings to
the stage. Wonderful effects are achieved by spot-
light men placed on the tops of the wing pillars.
The play opened with the entrance of the rabble
from the prompt side. In the darkness they paced
OBSTINACY.
THE EDITOR : “Why do you persist in bring-
ing me these old jokes?”
THE ARTIST: “Well, you know, I must live.”
THE EDITOR : “Now, now— don’t be pig-
headed.”
iio\vn the path from the side to the central steps
loading to the stage, crying “Where is He? Where
is He?” Then the lights went up and disclosed
them on the steps, looking for the Redeemer. In
the scene where Mary Magdalene is roughly handled
by the mob Nance was magnificent, her passionate
tones ringing clearly to the topmost row of the
amphitheatre, where Australian gum-trees waved In
the electric light and a soft wind came from the
sea. How long is it since Nance was in Australia?
Twenty-four years, I fancy! She is to do “Hamlet”
otxt—will have done) it, in fact, before this reaches
Sydney.
“Topee”: Re Chinese opera. In Novem-
ber, 1881, a gang calling itself the Hongkong
Opera Co. (probably recruited in Little
Bourke and Lower George) opened in the
lecture hall at the Sydney School of Arts.
It was the usual howling, banging performance
described by “Centurion” (B. 11/9/’24),
with the addition of prizes of silverware in
a free lottery at the end of the show. I, the
only successful Occidental, gained a pewter
salt-cellar. The programme stated that the
opera was entitled “Plots in the Palace,”
and some of us were in hopes that the plot-
ters might murder the orchestra, but there
was no such luck. During the drawing of
prizes the leading musician tried to play
“My Grandfather’s Clock” on a Chinese
banjo. About the fourth night members from
the reading-room above surged into the hall
in search of his blood, and the season ended
in disorder.
“Hamfat”: When Jack Waller, now doing
well in London, was engaged for a return
season by Melbourne Tivoli a few years ago,
a difference of £3O per week in salary was
settled over the telephone by a toss of a coin.
Bob Grcig acted for the Tivoli, which had
occasion to fill in some blanks caused by
various accidents, and got in touch with
Waller, who happened to be in Adelaide,
over the wire. Waller asked for £5O a week
more than his show had got previously, but
came down to £3O additional. The argu-
ment having reached a deadlock, Greig sug-
gested leaving the decision to the coins—old
terms or £3O a week extra. Waller to call.
The coin was spun at the Tivoli end and the
Tivoli won. Waller never raised a word of
complaint.
“F.L.H.”: At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
the other night I saw Paolantonio, the con-
ductor, do something I haven’t seen any other
musical director attempt—take “Aida”
through without referring to the score. He
never opened the book, and never seemed as
if he needed to.
“Stung”: Those who attended the final
matinee of “Tales of Hoffmann” in Sydney
had an even thinner time than has been men-
tioned (B. 4/9/’24). Before “Hoffmann” com-
menced we were given the choice of having
our money refunded or remaining to hear
Act I of “Hoffmann,” plus Acts I and 111
of “Rigolctto.” All we got of the latter
were Scene 1, Act I, and Scene 1, Act 11.
The show started at 2.15, and everything
was over by 4.10.
“J.D.”: Young Joe Clark (Anthony on
the stage), whose dad is the village doctor
at Richmond (Tas.), has jumped into promi-
nence on the London boards. At latest he
was appearing with Sybil Thorndyke in Ber-
nard Shaw’s “St. Joan” at the New Theatre.
He started in small parts with Allan Wilkie’s
Shakspearean show in Hobart a year or
two ago.
“Hamfat”: Mention of J. W. Sweeney (B.
4/9/’24) recalls his appearance in a version
of “Faust,” arranged as “a poetical and
supernatural drama,” by Gilbert Parker, and
produced at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Easter
Saturday, 1888. Rignold was Mephistophelcs,
with Kate Bishop as Margaret, Stirling
Whyte as Faust, the aged scholar; Brian
Darley as the rejuvenated Faust; Teddy Cor-
lesse as a soldier ; Joe Tolano as Rubens, an
auctioneer; J. W. Sweeney as a landlord:
and Frank Ilarcourt as Conrad. All the
foregoing are dead, but “Jimmy” Hazlitt,
who played Valentine, and C. B. Westma-
cott, who had a small part as Peter, are very
much alive. Gilbert Parker was on the S. M.
Herald about that time. lie returned to
England soon afterwards to become a best-
selling novelist, an M.P. and a baronet.
“O.B.B.”: Changes in the publicity depart-
ment of J. C. Williamson, Ltd., have resulted
in a welcome alteration of theatre pro-
grammes ; the old 3d. book of ads. has been
replaced by a magazine with something worth
while inside it. But hoary-headed first-
nighters, with pre-war recollections, are still
looking forward to the time when the bill-of-
fare will be presented free of charge.
“Second Murderer”: Talking about long-
distance engagements (B. 4/9/’24). When
George Rignold opened His Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, with “Henry V.,” on Sept. 10,1887, J. W.
Hazlitt, Stirling Whyte and Frank Ilarcourt
were in the cast. When Rignold closed down
with “Clancarty” on September 21. 1895,
Stirling Whyte and Frank Ilarcourt were
still in the cast, and J. W. Hazlitt was stage-
manager; they had been with him all that
time. To-day J. W. Hazlitt is business man-
ager of that same theatre.
“Nox-bell”: The barring of Rann Ken-
nedy’s “Chastening” (B. 11/9/’24) reminds
me of a play Dan Barry took to Bendigo in
the ’nineties. Dan called it “The Carpenter.”
and played the central character himself.
It was about the most ambitious of his
many dramatic explosions, and I have an
abiding memory of Dan being wafted to glory
surrounded by four angels. No censor inter-
vened, but Dan would have welcomed such
a splendid advertisement. I met Dan in
the street, and he asked me what I thought
about “The Carpenter.” “It’s pretty tame,”
I ventured. “Tame!” echoed Dan indig-
nantly. “Why, it’ll eat out of your hand!”
He never tried it anywhere else.
“Second Murderer” : It was Arthur Garner
(B| 7/8/’24) who bought “The Silver King”
for:the Firm, and he engaged George Tither-
adge on a three-years’ contract to play Den-
ver. Phil Day was brought in to play Daniel
Jaikes and Arthur Redwood to do Eliah
Coombe. The first performance was at the
Melbourne Royal on October 27, 1883; Gar-
ner himself played Captain Skinner, the
Spider. At the end of his engagement
Titlieradge took a benefit as Hamlet, and
Garner led him forward to make the inevit-
able “curtain” speech.
“Hasen”: I had a belated view of the
“Cruise of the Speejacks” film at our subur-
ban theatre recently, and was struck most
by the foolishness of the show people in
having allowed the slushy “titles” to go on
record. All the touching references to
the devoted lovers, the owner and his bride,
the “honeymoon cruise,” the doting husband’s
wonderful gift to his beloved (he “gave her
the whole wide world”), the “love-boat’.’ and
all the rest of it read rather curiously now
on top of the cabled news of the divorce pro-
THE SUBSTITUTE.
“Flossie’s got a splitting headache and can’t go out to-day.
I’m her understudy.”
ceedings that happened at the journey’s end
or soon after.
“Norbell”: What names these mummers
invent for themselves! A few years ago
someone cited in this column the nom de
theatre of one stormer, Ardly Real, as par-
ticularly apposite. I now notice (B. 4/9/’24)
a mention of a vaudeville double, Steppin and
Scea, which strikes a new note of invitation.
But in a welter of Sardine Sisters and Bandy
Brothers, the pun-name of a couple now
playing in the Sydney suburbs has a particu-
larly meaty tang, eminently suitable for a
vaudeville menu. They call themselves “Mutt
and Chop.”
“T. 0.1.”: Regarding W. J. Wilson, the
scenic artist (B. 4/9/’24). The first time
I saw him was in 1859, when George Coppin
re-opened the Olympic Theatre, in Lonsdale-
street East, Melbourne, after his dissolution
of partnership with G. V. Brooke. The play
was Falconer’s “Extremes, or Men of the
Day.” Wilson was the Lancashire yokel,
Robin Wildbriar, and Richard Younge took
the leading part, that of Frank Hawthorne
—stage-name of Wilson’s clever son, who did
such fine work in “The Faithful Heart.”
Wilson’s grandfather was one of the foun-
ders of the Society of British Artists, and
was for a time a scene-painter at Astley’s.
He had two sons, William and John; the
latter was a landscape and marine painter,
and William (father of W.J.) was a scenic
artist at Drury-lane, Covent Garden, Her
Majesty’s and other theatres, where the son
was his assistant. In 1870 W. J. Wilson
and Ilabbo, a Dane, opened the Victoria
Theatre, Sydney—McCathie’s is on the site
—with the Gregory troupe.
“F.L.H.”: “Norbell” (B. 4/9/’24) forces
me to contradict a lady. I repeat that “The
Fairy Circle” did not follow “Struck Oil” at
Melbourne in 1874. Nellie Stewart has made
a slip. Easy enough after 50 years.
“Kerry” and “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” came next
after the money-making “Oil.”
“Skyrider”: Alfred Dampier had already
apprised Goulburn (N.S.W.) of his intention
to commit “East Lynne” at the local Odd-
fellows’ Hall when the mummer who was
to impersonate the policeman fell ill. Dam-
pier proposed securing a local substitute, but
Ned Holloway, who was cast for Sir Arthur
Levison, stepped into the breach. “I will
double the part, Al-fred,” he said in his deep
bass voice. “I will put on a helmet and no
one will know muh.” Dampier had his
doubts, but Ned got his way, and a police-
man with Sir Arthur’s voice carried out his
duties admirably. Next morning Ned was
at breakfast at the Royal Hotel. Opposite
him was seated a lady from the country, with
her two daughters. They were speaking of
the play, and Holloway, who had no small
conceit of himself, pricked up his ears. “Yes,
my dears,” said the patron of the drama, “it
just shows how one can come down in life
by being a wrongdoer. Look at Sir Arthur
Levison. He was utterly bad, and how did
he finish? By becoming a common police-
man !”
“Hamfat”: Dave O’Con-
nor’s melancholy monologue
in the Sydney Bankruptcy
Court indicates that Cow
Flat and Tallow Creek have
lost their taste for canned
musical comedy, which Dave
has been giving them for
years. The O’Connor was
understudying Andrew Hig-
ginson, who had made a hit
in “The Merry Widow,” and
stepped into his shoes when
Higgy met with an accident.
His performance was so
good that .T. C. Williamson
was moved to thank him
publicly—a tribute which
would seem odd nowadays,
when letting a minor actor
do the star’s work without
giving him credit for it has
grown into a habit. After
that O’Connor toured the
“smalls” with boiled-down
musical successes hired from
the Firm. George Castles,
Amy’s tubby brother, was
his partner for a time. Pre-
sumably the pitchers have
spoilt Cow Flat’s taste for
songandance shows —or per-
haps it is that Cow Flat has
a frugal mind and pitchers
come cheaper.
“F.L.H.”: Fanny Liddiard
(B. 4/9/’24) lives in Cal-
cutta; she is Mrs. Warren
now. I first saw Fanny at
Melbourne in the initial
showing of “The Pirates of
Penzance” in 1881. A year
later she was in the first
local staging of “Patience.”
One of her numerous char-
acters in comic opera was
the name-part in “Paul
Jones”; I think she followed
Marian Burton. Tom Lid-
diard, a brother, died in Mel-
bourne recently, aged 70.
“Leuc”: Yes, “P'antagruel” (B. 28/8/’24)
is wrong in saying that E. J. Carroll brought
Harry Lauder and the “Peg o’ My Heart” co.
to Australia. J. and N. Tait were respon-
sible for “Peg” (with Sara Allgood) and for
both Lauder’s visits.
“Hamfat” : When I hear chorus-gents, com-
plaining of their miserable £5 15s. a week,
my mind goes back to a case in which Mabelle
Morgan gave evidence —a fine figure of a
woman, and an uncommonly good singer.
In 1908 Mabelle was playing in “Mother
Goose,” and had to take Flo Young’s place
on tour. Under oath she declared that her
salary was £3 per week, but was about to
be increased to £4, and that the Firm had
tli6 option of renewing her contract for 12
months at that figure. Of course, expenses
were not as massive in those days as they
are now; still, Mabelle said that it cost her
£2 2s. for board and about 7s. 6d. per week
lor gloves and fal lals. Nowadays if a man-
ager mentioned £3 a week to the goose-girl
in the mannequin parade she would throw
her complexion at him.
“Luthier”: “Abbot Park’s” recent refer-
ence to Devereux, the Melbourne violin-
maker, reminds me that I first heard one of
his instruments in 1880, its fine tone easily
distinguishing it from three others. The
player was the old-time favorite, Nick Le
Feuillade, then musical director for Hiscock
and Hayman’s minstrels at the Academy of
Music, Castlereagh-street, now the Tivoli.
Devereux’s violins were generally stained red,
and his atelier with its sign of a golden fiddle
was in Collins-lane, opposite and a little
above Howgate’s Rainbow Tavern.
“F.L.H.”: It was in “A Winter’s Tale”
that Ellen Terry earned her first salary—
-15 shillings a week for playing Mamillius at
London Princess’s, in 1856. Father Terry
drew £1 155.; Kate Terry the same; J. F.
Cathcart £4, and Mrs. Winstanley £6. The
Keans headed the list with £3O each. Inci-
dentals included £2l for supers and £l6 10s.
lOd. for extra gasmen. Times have changed,
and expenses with them.
WHICH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Rosalind upon the stage is what her boys call
“rawty”—
Inclines to sprightliness and songs that are distinctly
naughty.
She dances quite a giddy dance, then giddily she
goes off
To find behind some good excuse for taking further
clo’es off.
Yet Rosalind upon the street is a judicious dresser,
And twill not wear a bob-tailed skirt no matter how
1 press her,
And in her heart it seems to me the awful fact
would rankle
Should she perchance display her calf an inch above
the ankle.
Upon the stage she revels in sly words of double
meaning,
And all her songs appear to have a rather wicked
leaning;
Not ever quite judicious is her celebrated patter—
In fact, distinctly bluish is the bulk of Rosy’s
matter.
“O£E” should you hint at wickedness by Rose you’re
reprimanded,
And bear the flush upon your cheek where Rosy’s
palm has landed.
Now I am much perplexed to know —the problem is
distracting—
Which is the real Rosalind and which the Rose that’s
acting.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Amusements.
g YI) N E Y’S CIII IS F 'l' II IS ATIt E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
CRITERION: THE OLD SOAK.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
|T ULLE R S’ THEATRE, SVI)N E Y.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Ptv., Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED. and SAT.
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE LADY OF THE ROSE.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
SUPERIOR PRESENTATION.
Ten Great Acts. Plan at Allan’s.
ING’S THEATRE. M E L HOUR N E
MURIEL STARR in
EAST OF SUEZ,
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
THE LAST WORD IN MUSICAL COMEDY.
Plans at Glen’s.
► ALACK THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Diretcion Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 20.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
OLD BILL, M.P.
Plans at Glen’s.
H
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
BLANCHE SWEET in
ANNA CHRISTIE.
BILLY SULLIVAN in
THE LEATHER PUSHERS.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
MONTE BLUE in
HOW TO EDUCATE A WIFE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
WIRTHS’ OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE.
SHOW WEEK, SEPT. 20 to 27.
AUSSIE ROUGH RIDERS.
BUCKJUMPING
CHAMPIONSHIP OF AUSTRALIA.
WHIPCRACKING CONTESTS.
LASSOING AND ROPE-SPINNING.
FUN IN THE STOCKYARD.
£2OO IN PRIZES.
Admission 6/-. if-, 3/-, 2/-, including tax.
OFFICE : 410 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE Ml AKS I'EA I'KIN
PRODUCTIONS!
SYDNEY SEASON,
NEW PALACE THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagii Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
OPEN-AIR THEATRE,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
AUSTRAL GARDENS THEATRE
TO LET
for the Coming Summer Season.
Apply early for particulars and terms—
H. L. MORRIS,
Cavendish Chambers,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
DEATH.
MOYLAN (nee Kenny).—On Bth Sept., at the resi-
dence of her daughter Margaret (Mrs. Smith),
“Padua,” Gillies Street, Fairfield, Elizabeth, relict
of the late John Moylan and loving mother of
Bridget, James, John Joseph, Patrick (dead),
Stephen, Margaret (Mrs. Smith), Sarah (Mrs.
Kelly), Lizzie (Mrs. McAllen), Joseph, Patrick,
John (South America), and Annie. May her dear
soul rest in peace. American. papers please copy.
For Sale.
BLOCK OF LAND, Ocean Beach, Manly.
The last block available, 40 x 125.
Price, £l2OO cash.
Apply J. T. HAWLEY, 112 Pittwater
Road, Manly. ’Phone, 749 Manly.
Deep-water-frontage bunga-
low. “Warrane,” Princess Street, New-
port, via Manly, containing 4 Bedrooms, Living-
room, Breakfast-room, Kitchen, Bathroom, Laundry,
two wide enclosed Verandahs. Baths 50 x 145.
Wharf, Boatshed, Garage. Fruit, Vegetable and
Flower Garden. Land 66 x 420. Price £2700.
H. O. CHIDGEY, 56 Market Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Ralph. Charles albert, formerly
of Melbourne, communicate with
Septimus, reference English estate.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
, THINK OF
/TAa\
f SCHUTE,
BELL& O Lta.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
s
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Commonwealth
6 per cent. Loan
Provides an Investment in a Gilt-edged Security.
The amount required is £10,300,000. Issue Price, £9B/10/-
RATE OF INTEREST—6 PER CENT.
The interest is really at a better rate than 6 per cent., because for each £9B/10/-
paid into the Loan in cash, the investor receives £6 as interest each year, and on maturity
of the loan he receives £lOO in cash in lieu of the £9B/10/- originally lent to the
Commonwealth. Moreover, the interest is free of State Income Tax.
The subscriber has the option of lending his money either for five years or for
ten years—until 15th March, 1930, or 15th March, 1935.
The loan is to provide moneys for carrying on the public works of the State
Governments.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank, or at any Money
Order Post Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Commonwealth Treasury,
September, 1924.
:
EARLE PAGE.
Treasurer.
hbkjlmjklmkl
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
12c
.POST FREE
hbkjlmjklmkl
hbkjlmjklmkl
SB?
m
THE
IDEAL PAINT
J
ffi
1
1
For
V.;J
m
WOO
TONE
For Indoor or Outdoor Work.
Withstands the ravages of climate.
m
gViJ
mi
■m
RIPOLIN
PAINT
■•x-.-.v*
Send for Color Card and Booklet.
A. CORMACK, Factory Rep.,
4 UNDERWOOD STREET
(Off 35 Pitt Street),
V SYDNEY.
Telephone B 3284.
(S'-fl
L.
00000
*JV
I
. WS?
2 METAL r>
0(1000 0000
/ c<
CEMENT
ETC
m
vs
i
&
■m
KJk*tSb£
fifth#
GBD
w
Shape
No. 4373
Quality Tells
Pipe satisfaction is dependent upon pipe
quality. GBD pipes are made from the
finest French Briar that money can purchase.
They are shaped by experts in London
and faultlessly finished in every detail.
Many shapes to suit all tastes.
Sold everywhere.
Grade enquifies invited to— >
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney
Note the very fine'
quality of Grain of
these “ pipes with a
pedigree.”
The world’s standard
of pipe perfection.
Motor in Safety
EQUIP your motor car, front and rear, with Weed
Bumpers and you can feel secure. In collision, Weed
Bumpers, made of spring steel, absorb the shock protect
the car and its occupants. They make motoring safer.
Their handsome appearance adds distinction to your car.
For safety’s sake, have your accessory dealer attach Weed
Bumpers both front and rear.
Weed Bumper, Sturdy Type
for heavy cars
Weed Bumper, Sentry Type
WEED BUMPERS
(§{§) Made by the makers of the famous Weed Tyre Chains
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representa rive:
Edward G. Vaughan, P. O. Box 845, Sydney, N. S. W.
E 10-3-24
EUGENE RIMMEL
LONDON and PARIS, LTD.,
Perfumers by appointment to H.M. Queen Alexandra, to H.M. The King of Spain, and
H.M. The Dowager Queen of Holland.
’ fStUb
&“*mi
Hwm.
-Ritwn m
lS*»on
PiKIM
ROYAL SHAMROCK—a favorite
most delightful perfume.
and
hbkjlmjklmkl
EAU VELVETIS —for whitening the
skin. A soothing essence of absolute
purity.
hbkjlmjklmkl
BATH SALT TABLETS.
One tablet added to the water pro-
vides a softened and beautifully
perfumed water.
Makers also of the celebrated
LAVENDER WATER, TOILET
VINEGAR, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.,
ADELAIDE
Brisbane
Melbourne
berth
SYDNEY ..
ARTHUR GLOVER.
GREGORY & COLLINS.
BALDWIN & SLATTERY PTY..
L. M. CULLEN & CO.
JONES & JOSEPH. LTD.
LTD.


Legal Notice.
TO JOHN PETTIGREW, formerly of Brisbane,
Queensland, but present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action was on the
Twenty-sixth day of July 1924 commenced against you
in the Supreme Court of Queensland Brisbane No.
304 of 1924 by your wife PH(EBE MAY PETTI-
GREW that the Plaintiff by her Writ of Summons
claims a dissolution of her marriage with you and
by the Petition filed in this matter on the Twenty-
sixth day of July 1924 the Plaintiff alleges that
in or about the month of June 1907 or at some
later date {frior to the First day of July 1919 you
deserted the Plaintiff without cause and have never
returned to cohabit with her.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by
Order dated the Twentieth day of August 1924
authorised service of the said Writ and Petition on
you by fixing on the Notice Board in the Registry
of this Honorable Court at Brisbane a copy of the
Writ of Summons issued herein and a copy of the
Petition filed herein and the insertion of this notice
once in the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published
in Svdnev in the State of New South Wales and
once in the Melbourne Argus a newspaper published
in Melbourne in the State of Victoria and also by
posting a copy of such notice by prepaid letter
addressed to your brother at Wyarra Ivillarncy
Railway Line.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
within three calendar months from the latest act
done in compliance with the said Order to cause an
appearance to be entered for you in the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane
and that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff
may proceed in this action and that Judgment may
be given again-t you in your absence.
Dated this third day of Scomber 1924.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
HOURS OTTRNOW FLEMING & CAINE,
Solicitors,
Preston House,
Ouocn Street, Rrisbane.
Missing Trlends.
ANY person having information regarding
the following:—
RICHARD MURPHY, who was last heard
of at Waverley, Sydney ;
JOHN MURPHY, who was last heard of at
Preston, Melbourne; and
MICHAEL MURPHY, who was last heard
of at Cloncurry, Queensland;
all of whom are sons of JAMES MURPHY,
laborer, who died at Dunedin, New Zealand,
on 6/9/T9, is requested to communicate with
the District Public Trustee, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
Legal Notice.
SAMUEL STODDART Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated 31st October
1921 and made in an action in the Matter of the
Estate of SAMUEL STODDART deceased (late ot
34 Alpha Road Marylebone in the County of
London who died on the 7th October 1861) Wilson
against Macrae (1888 S 2688) WHEREBY the fol-
lowing inquiries were directed viz.: —-
(1) Who upon the death of the Princess Alexis
Dolgorouki on the 23rd August 1919 became bene-
ficially entitled to any real estate of the Testator
Samuel Stoddart as to which he died intestate and
if more than one for what estates or interests and
whether any such persons are since dead and if
dead when they died and who by devise descent or
otherwise have become entitled to the real estate
to which such person so became entitled.
(2) Who upon the death of the Princess Alexis
Dolgorouki became beneficially entitled to any per-
sonal estate of the Testator as to which he died
intestate and if more than one in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are since
dead and if dead when they died and who are their
Legal Personal Representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
to bn entitled under the said inquiries are on or
before the 17th January 1925 to send by port pre-
paid to Robert Large of the firm of Bartlett and
Large 61-2 Chancery Lane London W.C.2 England
their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or Judge
on application otherwise orders.
CLAIMANTS are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before Master Hamnett at the Chambers
of the Judge Room No. 163 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London on Tuesday the 27th January 1925
at 12 o’clock noon being the time appointed for
adjudicating on the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in England or Wales to
whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 24th day of July 1924.
J. A. HAMNETT, Master.
BARTLETT & LARGE,
61-2 Chancery Lane,
London, W.C.2, England,
Solicitors.
Agents for Horace J. Fisher of Oxford England
Solicitor for the Plaintiffs.
NOTE. —The said Samuel Stoddart was the son of
David and Elizabeth Stoddart who lived at South
Audley Street St. Georges Hanover Square London
England and he had two brothers Charles and David
Stoddart and three sisters Elizabeth who married
Thomas Barlow Harriott who married James Marks
and Sarah who married Thomas Kent.
!Leg;al Notice.
ELEANOR MARIA HUMBERT
Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order cf the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice England dated
the 30th day of July 1923 made in an action in
the matter of the Estate of Eleanor Maria Humbert
deceased Spinster (late of Cluny Lodge West Hill
Bournemouth England formerly of 24 Fitzwilliam
Street Cambridge who died on the 2nd day of March
1923) —HAKES v. ROME and Others 1923 H. No.
2571. 'WHEREBY the following enquiry was
directed viz.:— .
1. Who udoii the death of the said Eleanor Maria
Humbert who died on the 2nd day of March 1923
became beneficially entitled to any personal estate of
hers as to which she died intestate and if more than
one in what shares and proportions and whether
any such persons are since dead and if so who are
their legal personal representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said enquiry are on or before
the 24th dav of November 1924 to send by post pre-
paid to Brian Grierson Bailey Esquiro of 5 Berners
Street London IV.I England their full Christian
and surnames addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default thereof
they will be precluded from the benefit of the said
Order unless the Court or Judge on application
otherwise orders. ,
Claimants are to attend personally or by Solicitor
before Master Hughes-Onslow at the Chambers of
the Judge 'Room No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London aforesaid on Friday the 28th day of
November 1924 at 11.30 o’clock in the forenoon
being the time appointed for the adjudicating upon
the claims.
Any claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in England or Wales to
whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated this 28th day of July 1924.
H. HUGHES-ONSLOW,
Master.
NOTE.- —The said Eleanor Maria Humbert was
the only child of George Humbert and Eleanor
Flockton who were married at Paddington on the
3rd July 1841.
B-iilevs Shaw and Gillett, 5 Berners Street, London,
England, Solicitors for the Plaintiffs and Defendants.
LIGHT AND POWER
'J PLANTS for Country Homes. Write for
full particulars. Demonstrations given.
GEO. MARR,
Chamber of Commerce Buildings,
233 George Street, Sydney.
Power at Ones Finger Tips
THE controlling device may well be called the brains behind
the motor for, by its use, the many functions of a motor may
be automatically performed without human operation other than
the pressing of a button.
Westinghouse controllers have been tried out under the most
severe service conditions in every industry. They are giving the
greatest satisfaction in wood-working, machine works, sugar mills,
textile mills, steel mills, cement mills, and many other works where
uninterrupted production must be maintained.
The name Westinghouse on a controller is a guarantee of the
highest quality of materials and workmanship entering into the
product.
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Westinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company Ltd.
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sjdney
- T“
a
miniiiiiii/r
■»
Dm
gully
m
T\
C 7
WESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
Legal Notice.
TO ALICE DOWNS, formerly of Maid-
stone, Kent, and of Fetter Lane,
llolborn, London, niece of tlic late Alfred
Elliott, deceased, and to all persons claim-
ing by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
2Sth day of July 1924 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of January 1925 your
claim to the estate of Alfred Elliott deceased
who died at Wellington in New Zealand on
the 11th day of January 1922 failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
DATED at Wellington this 29th day of
July 1924.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Accurate-Enduring
-and Low in Price
FROM butt plate to muz-
zle nothing is left un-
done to make every Stevens
firearm thoroughly depend-
able and accurate. You will
get a lifetime of use from a
Stevens
Years hence it will be
round just as accurate, just
as dependable as it is to-
day—a Stevens simply can’t
shoot loose, the design of
its construction prevents
this
Then there is the price,
moderate yes but you
cannot buy better shooting
qualities than you will
find in the Stevens.
Ask your dealer
to show you
Stevens guns.
Send us his
name and we
will send you
copy of our
new cata-
logue.
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
P. O. Box 966 Sydney. N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO.
SO Church Street, New York, U.S. A.
MODEL 330
Double Barrel,
Hammerless Shot-
gun. 12, 16. 20
and 410 gauge.
Weights 5Vi to
7Mi lbs. according
to gauge and barrel
lengths.
All Stevens
Shotguns are
Nitro Proved
MODEL 17
Single Shot Rifle.
.22 L. R.. .25 R.
F., and .32 Long
R. F. Weight 4)4
lbs. Round 24"
barrel. Also sup-
plied with 24" full
Octagon barrel.
Model 27.


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
jOnCH
t
ir&k
m
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
350 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
Tlie best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GODROCK
KOPEWOKK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Shave in Comfort.
&
&
Tf you could slia’e
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving' within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred—you
can't hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE, and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.
Dept. 11-
-4 Bridge Street, Sydney
l2
hbkjlmjklmkl
piertofld
hbkjlmjklmkl
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write ui and
wo will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we slat*
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing, it is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price ia within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Ouaan Street, Melbourna
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tne
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
£l4/5/
Our Latest Park
I Saddle.
The WINDORAH
The “WINDORAH” has been designed to
add to the comfort and pleasure of riding. In it the usual
skirt is dispensed with, and a combined flap and skirt is
used, sewn direct on to the seat. This gives a narrower,
non-chafing, comfortable grip. The kneepads are the popular
Queensland shape, and the tree and materials throughout are
first class. Folded girth, leathers, and solid nickel stirrups
are included.
Freight paid for
Fash with Order to
X.S.W. Railway
Stations.
BLUE NETTING FLY SHEETS.
JUST WHAT YOU WANTED.
These Fringed Fly Sheets are not made of
flimsy cheese-cloth, but Special Netting,
strong yet cool. Navy Blue, 25/-;
White, 22/6; Cream, 20/- Post, 1/-
each.
'Mino'ivxv,)
Jlo.-I M.I.IMU
Walther 8 Stevenson ut.,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
hbkjlmjklmkl
EVANS OILSKINS
THE
Celebrated “PLATYPUS”
Brown Lightweight Oiler.
GUARANTEED
WATERPROOF.
With Riding and Pommel Flaps.
5716 -h
EVAN EVANS PTY., LTD.,
680-2 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
a
i
Tank Type Tractor.
k
m
I
///
Qefrac
3.
m
wm
(iyAtty, tufMity, tvtt -wyfand -ij^umd.
V'
w*
• \
K
WHY IS THIS MAN STUCK?
Because the ground has been ploughed and
the wheelbarrow loaded with cement is heavy,
the wheel has sunk in the loose soil. It is
only natural that it would, owing to the
heavy pressure and the small bearing surface
of the wheel.
NOW HE IS ACTING SENSIBLY.
He has laid planks down to act as a track,
and is pushing the wheelbarrow quite easiy.
That is the sensible way, and it is m tins
way that the “Cletrac” goes over newl>
ploughed ground laying its own carbon ste 1
tracks without packing the soil.
So you see the great advantage Cletrac has over Wheel Tractors.
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
383 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 469 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO., LTD.,
Light Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.,
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEEN SLAND.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Privateer: Your figures are no good. It
is no use arguing anything from the fact tha*
only 8 p.c. of births are within nine months of
marriage. The disquieting fact is that over 38 p.c.
of first births occur within less than nine nionths
of marriage... .H.M.J.; The man who looks “with
his whole soul in his eyes” at the “plump enough”
daughter of a fat Chinese mother is lost. So is
your story. .. .11. T. (M.L.) : The adventures of Joe
Brown’s spirit in Heaven arc not illuminating. Still
we’re glad to know it found “the scenery very good
and the’ people sociable”... .C.C.: Graphically slangy
description of the fight which resulted in the twins
having each “a face like a poisoned pup” might
suit some sporting paper.... J.R.: Sin and satin
versus purity and a pastoral life is a world-old
conflict. Try some new interest.... Dave R.: “By
the livin’ death of a dog's tail” it will have to go
back, David.... H.E.R.: A most unconvincing narra-
( tive. Not a member of this staff so far cpnsulted
would put up the ghost of a fight against a
pretty girl kissing him. Study human nature and
try again... .H.G.F.: Your domestic drama of a
fat wife and a sonnet makes no appeal.... M. 8.:
The heroine is not worth printer’s ink—a “sawdust
soul” makes poor literary kindling... .Liza: Try
the local church magazine, if you have 0ne....
Hathern: Another man cover# the ground. .. .McA.P.:
Of course no such agency will give you a candid
opinion. Nine people out of ten wouldn’t take it
if it wasn’t candied,.. .North Terrace: Quite right.
Adelaide Mayor C. R. J. Glover is not a member
of the Hebrew community'. The contributor’s in-
clusion of him in the list (B. 4/9/’24) was wrong.
T.A.E.: In “National Literature” you run to
words. “My Position” is not interesting. The
other is better... .E.J.G.: The thought is fair, but
the writing is p00r... .Anaxagoras: Others got in
first... .Woolblind: It was the Dead and not the
Red Sea the argumentative Scot was thinking about.
....Karma: Don’t wait another 30 years....
Ivan 11. ;j Your yarn calls in at too many pubs on
the way... .Leeton: Don’t worry so much about
crudeness. Sincerity eovereth a multitude of literary
sins... .K.J.: Too artificial. You have the power of
expression. Use it on something nearer earth....
J.M.C.: Description of a barmaid as a “blonde Deity
of the beer pump”, suggests that your style is all
that a style ought not to be.... P. 1,.: It would
take genius to lift the life you describe to the
plane of romance... .1.G.: Well, we’ll think it over:
I’m writing in protest. I’ve suffered for years
From the fervors, the sentimentality, tears,
The hotly erotic, the faintly moonlit,
The bibulous splurge, and the rest of the kit
Of that poisonous blight—the spring poet.
They sigh and they moan and they 7 sob and they
bleat;
They babble of love and of “daffodils sweet” ;
They yap at the stars and they yearn o’er the sea;
They moon about death, and they “roam o’er the
lea”—
These pitiful, puerile spring poets.
They mourn the old love and they rage for the new ;
Then in ecstasies yelp, and they’re frequently blue;
They drivel of that and they drivel of this ;
They write a whole lyric on somebody’s kiss—
These damnably sloppy spring poets.
Mr. Editor, sir, will you please have a heart ?
If you can’t knock ’em dead, sir, at least do your
part
Towards stopping their cackle. Perhaps they would
hush
If you charged them space rates when you printed
their slush.
They’re over the fence, these spring poets.
. ...E.G.M.: You seem very young; but your ear
is all right.... Magpie: Every other bird lias sung
your song....Calidore: Your pegasus comes some
awful croppers.... Behind the Screen: Interest much
too local. Nine-tenths of the people who read Thk
B. never heard of that crowd.... Lloyd M.: Even
Kipling never tried it in this shape:—
ALONE.
When you’re away, deaf,
The night
Seems still and fraught
With shapes,
And queer thin sounds,
As if
They knew
You were away, dear.
The gate will creak so.
The horse
.Stands still, then kicks
And champs.
Night’s full of ghosts,
I fear.
They know
You are away, dear.
....Vigil; Passable; but a thousand more than
passable verses have been written on the same watery
subject Eric F.: A fine canter about the lines.
But your rhymes are drought stricken.... Elizabeth
E.: No merits at all. Kaj 7 : Only a notch or so above
the doggerel 1eve1.... Paul: Your rhymes are un-
certain, and your metre has spasms; and, anyhow,
she’s probably got another comforter by this time.
.... Hesperian: We like your politics, and loathe
your verse. ... M.L.F.; “The dawn peeped o’er the
silver shining sea” —what, again?. .. .Adelaide H.:
lc might have done if you had given a bit more
of the man’s work.... Eric L.: Very unsatisfying.
... .Carcoar Charlie: Whistle it, Charlie ; one couldn't
possibly sing it.... P. Benn: They hovered 0 n the
brink, and their unpleasantness pushed them over.
....8.F.5.: You have ideas, but you get tangled in
expressing them.... Pen Wiper: One stanza at any
rate shall have immortality :—r-
Tliere is no staff, however watched and tended,
But some Smith will be there;
No city firm, howe’er select and splendid,
But Jones holds down a chair.
. ...L.V.8.; A man who speaks with some authority
has said all that need be said about it. . . .A.D.M.:
Sorry, can’t give him any more space at present.
... . Jabberwock: Your ear needs tuning.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
M.G.; Jigsaw puzzle returned unsolved. .. .C.F.:
You certainly didn’t steal that cat from Souter....
J.N.K.: Shows promise.... J.G.: Your pugilist takes
the count and your lawyer gets no brief from us. . . .
G.H.D.; Learn to draw from life with a charred
sticic before you meddle with wash.... F.L.H.: Flat
as the Nullarbor Plain... . J.E.0.: Still in the kinder-
garten. .. .W.T.: Your casualty doesn’t even limp
home.... J.H.C.: Joke has no meat on it... .R.E.P.:
Nightmares never did agree with u5....C.M..: They
lack experience... .99: You say you spent £3l ss.
on our advice in learning to draw: spend a thousand
and then try again. .. .M.D.8., A.J.W. and W.A.H.:
Not up.


iJOITN*
$
OD
©
ftr
/L
X*
-.(T,
rf*
}SjS v
a
/#
k£=s«fe*
Wfe ?
/''Mlf'!'
I(P
✓
*N>
fir- 1 1
Six Handsome Designs in white
enamel and nickel to choose from.
Come in and see them. No obliga-
tion to purchase.
hbkjlmjklmkl
hbkjlmjklmkl
A lady writes: “No heat is felt from the range with
the current full on, a great consideration in Summer;
another advantage is saucepans do not get a scrap
dirty on the outside.”
Every Woman Wants—
Good Cooking with Leisure.
Both provided by
MXlarys
Electric Range
The only range with McClary's doubly- The only range with
insulated, porcelain-enameled, seamless, McClary's Tor-Red
round cornered, heat-retaining oven Protected Elements.
Leisure because the oven and boiling plates are so well insulated that they
retain heat like a fireles cooker or baker’s oven. Once the range has been
heated you can cut the current off, and the stove goes on cooking or boiling.
Cooks while you go shopping or play tennis. More flavor, too. The oven
does not require air for combustion, with the result that meats and joints do
not become hard by shrinkage or lose weight, but cook to an appetising
tenderness. With power for cooking at the present reasonable prices the
“McClary” makes electric power as cheap as any other fuel and cooking better.
The Range for Homes, Hotels, Cafes, Tea-rooms, etc.
324-330
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
*JOHN
391-403
Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
Dependable Hardware since 1859.
Since
builder
1852-
fine vehicles
TO fully appreciate the development of vehicular
transportation during the past seventy-two years
one has but to study the history of the House of
Studebaker. In the famous Studebaker Museum
at South Bend may be found historic relics illus-
trating each successive chapter in vehicle history.
For Studebaker has been prominently identified
with the manufacture of quality vehicles since 1852.
IN the development of the motor car Studebaker
quite naturally assumed and has maintained a
leading position. Today , 600,000 Studebaker cars
are in sendee, and 150,000 additional are being dis-
tributed annually. Tomorrow , because of our long,
successful experience and our rigid adherence to the
policy of quality construction, it is safe to assume that
Studebaker leadership will continue as in the past.
To sum up—from the 'viewpoint of past performance, present accomplish-
ments and future prospects, your investment in a Studehaker is secure .
Australasian Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth St., Sydney TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY, (Q’land) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48-Franklin Street, Adelaide ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Ind., U. S. A
G 8613
STUDEBAKER
THE WORLD’S LARGEST PRODUCER OF QUALITY MOTOR CA R S


9
: ju ;
KXTUA i
SUTOI
A - i
cqmebacM
203
v&tmmmMMf
Wool on the Scales
and its weight, like ils handling and all other par-
ticulars, will be found correct. It is in the wool
stores of
WINCHCOfIfIBE, CARSON
Sellings Brokers. LTD.
Accuracy throughout and top market results charac-
terise the firm’s work.
Consign Wool: Winehoombe, Carson,
Ltd., Sydney or Brisbane.
POWER
Transmission
X
V?
%
ENCIRCLES
AUSTRALIA
%
Tanned and professed under the most
improved methods of manufacture
HARDIE’S LEATHER BELTING en-
sures the most dependable and
economical service in the efficient
transmission of power.
Holy specially-selected bends arc used in the
manufacture of HARDIE’S LEATHER
BELTING, with the result that there is no
stretching-, and consequently no loss of
power through slippage.
Specialising in everything used in the trans-
mission of power, we can quote for all vour
requirements at absolutely bedrock prices.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C'li'r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART !)7 Collins Street
FIRTH STEELS FIRST
FIRTH STEELS were used in
the famous BRITISH BENTLEY
which won the 24 hours’ race for
the Rudge-Whitworth Cup at
Le Mans last June.
A Race to Destruction
.This event was the most gruel-
ling contest for standard cars
ever seen in Europe, for out of
the 4 1 starters only 1 4 survived
the course, and the roadside at
the end was literally strewn with
wrecked machines.
MOTORISTS.
Insist upon having FIRTH HIGH-
GRADE MOTOR STEELS put in
your replacements. We carry large
stocks. Please send us your inquiries.
Thos. Firth & Sons
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
314 Spencer Street, MELBOURNE.
5 Royal Bank Chambers, PERTH.
191 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
P erry House, BRISB A N E.
[l
4LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander. 6d. Weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
W&W26.
mummmm!
ME
London OfTlec:
"Gresham House,”
Old Broa<l Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
A-Z.
brand
Containin'? about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Hoard of Trade.
rOLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
1!) YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
ill /iWATT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —•
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington ( N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
A n Id e til 7
weeks' Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Pare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
motor-trips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice verm.
'
m
Splendid 6000-ton Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOTJTMAN.
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent b y
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 "William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. DAEGETY & CO., Brisbane.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID—32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“.Max M.": llow's this for optimism in
excelsisV During the recent floods in Vic.
a 50-acre block at Ivoo-wee-rup Swamp, then
4ft. under water, was sold for £4O an acre
in an office the floor of which was six inches
submerged.
* * * *
“Flicker": To an Adelaide Arm from an
old customer:—
Please send me 4 bags cement. 1 have been asked
if you Keep wooden legs as a friend of mine has had
a bad accident and is frightened that he will have
to have his leg off and doesn't like crutches.
I will be over for the .Show in September and will
come and see you. And six bags super, any
brand il it’s good and two horse collars for draughts.
* * -X *
“Axholme" : "Royal" (15. 3 1 /7/’24) and
"The Old Chook" iB. 14/8/’24), while dif-
lering on other points, both assume that two
or two and a half petrol-tins of grapes equal
one case. After the rough usage dealt to
tins by contract pickers, four or five of
cm might fill one case. This is why most
grape-growers now stipulate for the use of
cases when making contracts with pickers.
* * *
"White Cap”: The running of refresh-
ment-room services by Vie. Railway Commis-
sioners is such a big proposition that the
takings for the year ended June 30 totted
up close on £321,000. Charges are, it is
claimed, more moderate, and quality and ser-
vice much better, than they were under lessees.
Now Premier Prendergast wants tea and a
snack made available on trains at current
rates; and ways and means are being dis-
cussed.
* * * *
"Clement R. d’Uppe": If the beer were
half as strong as some of tlie brewery com-
panies, there would be fewer complaints. I
know a N.S.W. publican who went into his
house five years ago. lie paid £250 to the
brewers who owned the property as goodwill
for a five years’ lease; the rent was £2 10s.
a week. He went to renew his lease last
Aveek and was politely asked, for another five
years’ lease, £2750 goodwill and £6 a week.
And he has not a black mark against him!
* * * *
"The Jumper”: “Ringer” (B. 24/7/’24)
must be qualifying for the old age pension
if lie cannot earn £1 a day at cane cutting
m D. 1135. . While cheques of £l5 a week
are collected only by a few “gun” cutters,
any healthy knife-swinger cutting on con-
tract should without any. special effort be
able to clear on an average £1 a day.' Last
season three "gun” cutters in N.Q. pulled out
at the end of the season (17 weeks) with
a roll that averaged £2 12s. a day per man,
clear.
* * * *
“Mol' : The insurance superintendent was
indignant when tlie new canvasser threatened
to throw up his job because he had been in-
sulted by harried housewives. “Look at me,
sir, roared the super. “I’ve been in. tlie
insurance business for 30 years, and I’ve never
been insulted. I've been called all sorts of
names. .I’ve liad the door slammed in my
face. I’ve been pushed out. thrown out.
knocked out, banged out with a broom. I’ve
even had .a hose turned on me. But I’ve
never been insulted—no. sir—never—and I
never intend to be.”
* ... * * *
"Verri” on M.L.'s kauri-gum industry: —
the twenty-odd mill ions which have been dug
out of the Dominion s kauri forests, and which should
have loaded and bridged North Auckland—kauri-gum
is wholly a product of an area which extends only
a few miles south of Auckland city—benefited chiefly
the foreign buyer. The market is wholly abroad.
America has always been tlie largest buyer of the
best gums; in pre-war days Germany bought largelv
of the poor qualities. It is often asserted that “there
is more of the stuff in the ground than ever came
out of it.” There may be, but it now takes getting.
Ibe digger with his spear and spade no longer turns
over the ten-pound patch in an afternoon. The
Austrian invasion of the fields has shown the possi-
bility of obtaining payable gum from the lower
levels, and from swamps previously considered un-
woi table ; with modern machinery these aliens exploit
leases practically under water, and manage, by hard
and systematised work, to make the thing pay. The
gum so obtained is not the hard, amber-like sub-
stance, but dark rough stuff which takes weeks lo
d'J ■ Ihe beautiful clear gum, known as rescraped,
or “red rag” (in the early days the Maoris tied
the sacks containing it with a red string), is to-day
\ery rare, and commands for best quality £3OO.
per ton and over. Exceptionally good pieces find a
ready market as specimen stuff, and pass into col-
lections. Recently the Government, suspecting a
gum ring, took a hand, and having a long purse
and a meagre knowledge of the American market,
managed to spend thousands in accumulating stocks
at inflated prices, with every prospect of a heavy
loss. The high prices demanded for kauri sent the
American buyers into new fields, and Aarious rivals,
such as Congo and other African gums, China nut
oil, etc., came into competition, though in the best
varnishes a proportion of kauri is still indispensable.
Kauri gum is remarkable in that it contains no
deleterious matter; most of the other gums have
various acids that reduce tlieir value. New Caledonia,
tor instance, produces a fine-looking gum which has
been known to sell as kauri, but is of little value
on: account of the acids it contains. The only wav
by which a MaorilanLindividual or syndicate is likely
to make money now out: of the gum country is by
annexing the GoAernment reward for a means of
extracting kauri-gum oil from the peat in the great
swamps of the North, and though several in\entors
have tried none has yet been successful.
SPLICED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YK'TONI A.
Trottin' aff to market —
Man. but she was gran' !
Trottin' atf to market
Wi’ siller in her ltan';
saxpencc for to squander
Hang ! in wantonness ;
Trottin’ aff to market
<>nce a week, nae less!
(hue a week to market,
Trottin’ gey and gleg
Till, by some bra’ mercy,
She fell an’ erackt her leg!
bosh, it was a blessin’ !
Now she eanna roam,
Hut the sonsy gudewite
Hides wi’ me at home.
s. c.


li
I
71 U
P
j k
• I
zi
tcupr
, '™* : 7r'~ t r ?W,
-mm
r*r>
JfPqfehl
jstrxj
Attractive Blinds
add Distinction to the Home
as well as providing a cool,
comfortable spot on warm days
Canvas Blinds mean comfort and coolness in Summer: good blinds lend
an air of prosperity and add distinction to your home.
MOCK & KIRBY’S blind-making service is perhaps the most efficient in
Sydney. \Ye have on our staff of experts men who will visit your home
in the City or Suburbs, take the measurement of your verandah or porch,
and submit you an estimate without any cost to yourself.
Country residents can send their own particulars by mail.
All our blinds are made from the very best of materials that will retain
their colors, give years of service and always looks well.
Nock & Kirby’s also make to
order any kind of window blind.
’Phone, CITY 9980. PRICES ON APPLICATION.
NOGK&KIRBY’S
Yours faithfully,
188 GEORGE STREET—in the Quay Zone—SYDNEY.
Whiter Teeth in 10 Days
Make this free test. Combat the film
This is how countless people get the
whiter teeth you admire. They com-
bat the film that makes teeth cloudy.
Millions do it daily. And so will
you when you make this test and see
what it means to your teeth.
It hides the lustre
Film is that viscous coat you feel.
No ordinary tooth paste can effec-
tively combat it, so much of it remains.
Soon it becomes discolored, then
forms dingy coats. That is how
teeth lose their beauty.
Film also ruins teeth. It holds
food substance which ferments and
forms acid. It holds the acid in con-
tact with the teeth to cause decay.
Germs breed by millions in it. They,
with tartar, are the chief cause of
pyorrhea.
Few escape such troubles when they
brush teeth in the old ways.
Dental science has now found two
ways to fight that film. One disin-
tegrates the film, one removes it
without harmful scouring.
Able authorities have proved these
methods effective. A new-type tooth
paste has been created to apply them
daily. The name is Pepsodent. Lead-
ing dentists everywhere advise it:
Now careful people of some fifty
nations use it every day.
Watch it act
Send the coupon for a io-Day
Tube. Note how clean the teeth feel
after using. Mark the absence of the
viscous film. See how teeth become
whiter as the film-coats disappear.
You will always be glad that you
made this test. Cut out coupon now.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a
film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
Made in Australia
wnqt mmmmmmtamrnammmmaßanm mark |
PgpsQggAl
TRADE i——— I it 1 " 111
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold in two sizes,
Price : 2/- and 1/3
A 81483
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20,139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family
Gilbert and Sullivan Operas
may well be called immortal, for their appeal is irresistible and each revival
is a triumph.
The most popular operas of the series have been recorded exclusively for
“His Master’s Voice” in complete form, under the personal supervision of
Mr. R. D’Oyly Carte, and provide an endless source of pleasure to all lovers
of Gilbert and Sullivan.
The following complete Operas are obtainable at REDUCED
PRICES, and with each an Artistic Album is GIVEN FREE.
Yeomen of the Guard, Eleven I 2in. d.s. Records £4 8 0
Pirates of Penzance, Eleven 1 2in. d.s. Records . . £4 8 0
lolanthe, Ten 1 2in. d.s. Records £4 0 0
Pinafore, Eight 1 2in. d.s. Records £3 4 0
The Gondoliers, Eleven 1 2in. d.s. Records . . £4 8 0
ARTISTIC ALBUM FREE.
li*
Qf}s
TtO&
(164)
vP
SAW
Of
wY'-
«\'V
Go
S&*»*
0^
«0»
*&?>
6se
‘llis Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“His
Master’s
Voice”
Instruments from llGns. to
£94
The Gramophone Company, Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
'Hi* Voic«
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark,


Good
Quick
Sure
• a ounces.
COUGH
Coughs. Colds
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUCIf.
COARSENESS.
KE THROAT
TLUENZA
«nO*jTh(B ArfICT'ONS of trie
THROAT and LUNGS
Soothes
Bronchial
hs
Con
BRITISH EVERY
STITCHg^g
C.B.
. British
Every
Stitch.
The Secret of
looking your Best
A LITHE, graceful figure
demands proper support.
Your C.B. CORSET will mould
and coax away figure-imper-
fections —rounding off here,
smoothing away there, with
just that perfect understanding
of the requirements for comfort
and stylish appearance.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch.
are the outcome of over fifty years'
progressive improvement in the art
of corsetry. Although moderately
priced, they maintain an unequalled
reputation for quality, perfection
of line and finish.
Obtainable at all the best Drapery
Emporiums and Stores at prices from
6/11 to 63/- per pair. Should you ex-
perience any difficulty in obtaining
the correct C.B. Model write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO., LTD .
Macdonnell House, Pitt St. Sydney.
179-181, FlindersLane, Melbourne,
for name of nearest agent.
x9*BRITISH EVERY STITCH”&ri
Business Notices.
“HOW TO WRITE PHOTOPLAYS.”
Price 1/1, post free.
Miss MARION MAUDE, 3rd Floor, Mockbell’s
Building, 21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
You need not be a writer to make money writing
“movies.” The above book gives full instructions,
with a sample scenario for your guidance.
%
mb
Iff
m
51m
C
is
ia
wo^ii^iPs 1
AR.OMATI™ SCHIEDAI
SCHNAPPS
"qA blessing to Humanity”
"A Drop of WOLFE’S
with Dot Water, a
Squeeze of Lemon, and
Sugar to Taste ” —veri-
tably this is the “ne
plus ultra” of cold
weather Nightcaps,
as you’ll immediately
agree the first time
you try it, for this
truly judicious mix-
ture makes the most
enticing and health-
fully justified bever-
age ever created by
the beneficence of Nature
and the Art of Man.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne. Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —-M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and S 5 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
bankincr business.
The clean, fresh taste of
this rich, creamy Emulsion
makes it as pleasant as it is
healthful. In the treat-
ment of Serious Chest
Complaints, Debility,
Wasting-Diseases,
“HYPOL” has achieved
remarkable results.
Very pleasant to take. Try it !
Substitutes are not as good or nearly as good.
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Felton Griifcwade & Co. Pty Ltd.
Melbourne
BEST BRITISH BRIARS.
Finest Dark Finish, Gold Mounted.
BB
hbkjlmjklmkl
At AH First-class Tobacco Stores, 21/-
If unobtainable, write Box 171 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“Ashmead” : Here’s a striking example of
adhesiveness among Diggers. In the Ringa-
rooma municipality (Tas.) the warden,
Alan Wardlaw, M.L.C.; the treasurer, J. B.
Fenner; the council clerk, George Gandy;
and the inspector, Bill Hammersley, were all
members of B Company of the 12th Batta-
lion, A.I.F.
Having missed the third Commissioner-
ship, M. J. Canny has snapped up the next-
best thing in the Vic. Railway Department
—the job of general superintendent of trans-
portation. Twenty years ago, Thomas Tait,
the hustler from Canada, whom the Iceberg
made chief, picked Canny, then a stripling of
22, as his sec. His screw is five times as
big now as it was when he caught Tait’s eye.
A. T. Saunders, the recorder of old times
in Adelaide, has just passed his 70. What
Fred Johns knows about living personalities,
A.T.S., by means of carefully cross-indexed
newspaper files, can tell of the past. Any-
one wanting information as to the opening
of a bridge, or the arrival of some sailing-
ship in 1848, with the name of the captain
and the passenger list, has only to apply to
him. The Register sees most of his writing.
Much-travelled Percy Hunter is coming
on another trip to Australia, the necessity
for an inspection of immigration activities
in Australia coinciding with the oncoming
of the winter in England. It was Hughes
who gave this good journalist an appoint-
ment as Director of Migration in England at
a salary of £2OOO and exes.; and a job that
allows you to chase summer round the world
on £2OOO a year deserves some little grate-
ful return. But how Percy can help Willie
this time isn’t yet clear.
“Saaedi”: One weapon used in the Pales-
tine campaign that was exceedingly liable to
stoppages through sand (B. 21/8/24) was
the Hotchkiss automatic rifle. Being a com-
paratively light weapon and capable of fir-
ing an astonishing number of rounds per
minute, it would have been invaluable to the
horsemen otherwise. As it was the slightest
sandstorm (and there generally was a sand-
storm about in those regions) put it out of
action. The Vicars machine-gun, though
vastly weightier, was much more reliable in
this respect.
“Machete”: The malefactors’ graveyard in
old Melbourne Gaol, with its long list of
executed murderers’ initials chiselled on the
lower stones of the adjoining wall (B.
21/8/’24), is quite i n accordance with prison
traditions. The idea seems to have origi-
nated in old Newgate (London), and was
perpetuated in the building which suc-
ceeded it. In this last I have spelled out
the initials of the “Flowery Land” pirates,
about the last body of men executed cn bloc
in Britain for piracy on the high seas. The
executions took place in the ’sixties, if
memory serves, and a generation later the
initials were a standing show' to visitors,
though many a notorious wretch beside had
found a last resting-place there, “each in his
winding sheet of flame.”
“Cartot”: Few gambling games contain
such a chance of winning a lot by risking
a little as pak-a-pu, which possibly explains
why its devotees continue to risk fines and
gaol. The game is simple, and consists
only of the player trying to mark the
sequence of Chinese characters that has
already been marked by the bank on a ticket
containing about a hundred such characters.
The odds depend upon the number of marks
made; but a player on whom fortune smiles,
may win anything up to £BO for a shilling.
Lately the popularity of the gamble (one can
hardly call it a game) has been increasing,
and in Sydney and Melbourne there are fac-
tories wliere employees each week mark
tickets brought around by itinerant agents
-in the guise of hawkers.
“T. 0.1.” : The late Theodore Napier’s dad,
Thomas (B. 4/9/24), purchased the Mel-
bourne Argus site at the sale held in Sydney
on September 13, 1838, paying £129 4s. for
the half-acre. At the same sale Dr. Thomas
Black, of Penrith and Mulgoa, bought the
next lot eastward for £167 4s. and the cor-
ner of Swanston and Collins streets for
£129 4s. The now famous corner was a
square half-acre with no back entrance and
two frontages, while the lots acquired by
Napier and Black higher up the street had
frontages to what became Flinders-lane.
Thomas Napier at the first land sale on .Tunc
1, 1837, bought for £2O the half-acre midway
between Queen and Elizabeth streets on the
south side of Collins-street, and at the sale
held at Melbourne on November 1, 1837. a
corner lot was bought by J. Brown on his
behalf for £4O.
“Privatter” : I don’t know what has been
the result of the latest Brazilian insurrection
—the cables broke off at rather an interest-
ing stage, owing probably to press censor-
ship—but I can give a shrewd guess at the
cause. The present President. Arthuro da
Silva Bernardes, was elected in 1922. He
received support in two States, but the other
19 were against him, and both he and his
opponent claimed a majority. The quaint
electoral system of the country allowed them
both to give logical reasons why they should
be declared elected, but Bernardes won
through without much fuss. He has fallen
foul of the army more than once since then,
but his main claim to unpopularity goes far
deeper than that. He introduced Brazil’s
first income-tax. Such a measure as that
would precipitate a revolution in any South
American Republic.
It is hard to please some people. Gov.
de Chair, of N. S. Wales, having given a
hand to the movement which is trying to
popularise Australian products, the eternal
A. G. Huie has sent him a letter of stern
reproof. The Australian-made Preference
League is, Huie says, “a thinly-dis-
guised Protectionist stunt.” Yet the
now-kniglited W. J. Sowden, of the
S.A. Register, the most thorough-going
Freetrader in the six States, spent
half a lifetime calling on Australians to
give preference to their own products: and
lie became president of the A.N.A. mainly
with- that campaign in view. His idea was
that Freetrade might have a chance of win-
ning if people could be induced to buy Aus-
tralian goods from patriotic motives. With
that in mind The Bulletin has thoughts
of writing his Ex. de Chair a stern reproof
for being a secret supporter of A. G. Huie,
and really engaged in a plot to undermine
Protection.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
•ORAMA 20,500
‘ORONSAY .. 20.500
‘OTRANTO .. 20.500
‘ORMONDE .. 14,853
Tons.
*ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 13,133
OSTERLEY .. 12,129
ORSOVA 12,036
*ORCAI)ES 10,000 tons.
*First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 03 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m,
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGI-I. 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000.090
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619,518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,499,435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, 1v.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Clnej Inspector jor N.S. IF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets').
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,98S
Preference Shares .. . . .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3.000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also. Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. . •. £875,000
Reserve Fund ... .. .. .. 750,000
£1.625,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvideivtSotiety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed fbr single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping:.
Canadian-Atistralasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU TILL 18th DECEMBER.
SAILINGS: —
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) SEPT. 25
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) OCT. 23
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ean be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) OCT. 9
MAUNGANUI. . . .(11,350 cons disp.) ... NOV. 6
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply-
T’NTnv stpam STTTP PO J UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION SIEAM SHIP CO., ’ WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
L :
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful • holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. I’HILP & CO.. LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
4jf''
HKgls*
5 V® JR--
a*
MH
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALKS.
hbkjlmjklmkl
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 4.050,000
- 6,000,000
£16.050.000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer. Esq. ; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR I.TNF.S.
Head Office—George Stre2t, Sydney. London Office — 29 Threauiieedle Street. E C.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
\"-ents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,476,287 10 0
RESERVE FUND 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
lO 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.:
Sir WILLIAM VICARS. C.B.E.
General Manager; H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYLIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings. - )
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mack ay. Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker LiM
, Magnificent
■ Fast Passenger
: Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND. ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA. HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia.
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.'’
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., L,t<l.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries. Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOB
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd.
P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Scottish Shire Line
Queensland line of Steamers.
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand. Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker.
Ltd London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/ > per day inclusive;
10/6 Red and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135.00 to
$1,550.00
f.o.b. Detroit.
Mich.,TJ.S.A.
.
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Kepresentatl ve:
luirbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
25-27 Clarence Street. Sydney, Australia.
ICERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Deiroit, Michigan, U.S. A. Cable Address, Kermath
For these reasons “Rex” Concrete
Mixers are most efficient
The bigger blades and buckets of
Rex Concrete Mixers ensure faster
charging, mixing and discharging—
and more batches per day.
Extra large drum openings save time
on each batch, because the material
can be got in and out more quickly.
The engine is reliable, with an ample
reserve of power. The 7 cubic feet
size, No. 237, illustrated above, is
driven by an 8-h.p. Le Roi twin-
cylinder hopper-cooled, vertical kero-
sene engine. With a power unit of this
capacity no emergency need be feared.
Distinctive features of
the “Rex” Mixer.
It is the shortest and most compact mixer of its type,
and lightest in weight.
It has automobile type clutches—for the first time
on small mixers.
The high countershaft has self-aligning adjustable
bearings.
The drum rollers are self-oiling.
The “Rex” Chain drive, with take-up adjustment,
minimises friction, absorbs shocks and uses less
power.
Rex Mixers are constructed of certified malleable
iron, in place of cast iron.
We can supply Rex ’ Mixers in standard
sizes—3, 4,7, 1 4, 2 I and 28 cubic feet concrete
capacity, for electric, kerosene, petrol or steam
power. Write to nearest address for details.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), Ltd., 1.15 Clarence Street, Sydney. Victoria Chambers
Eagle Street, Brisbane. 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) ’
Pty., Ltd., 495-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Darling Buildings’
Franklin Street, Adelaide. Cr. Collins and Elizabeth Streets. Hobart’
Also from J. R. \V. Gardam, Perth, \V.A.
Start the Season Right by Using
MS.
CRICKET
Equipment
<2r '
7^
&
so^fX
Club Secretaries and others interested in the “King of Outdoor
Games” are advised to make an early selection from our
magnificent new season’s stock.
“Made for
Better
Service.”
Men’s Cricket Bats.
(Carriage Paid.)
BY THE WORLD’S RENOWNED MAKERS.
M.S. SPECIALS.
■)*' Cane, special practice
Colonial Driver, single rubber..
-Marvel Driver, double rubber....
Connl.v Driver, single rubber
County Driver, double rubber
County Driver, treble rubber
16/6
20/-
32/6
40/-
42/6
HAY3IARKET DRIVERS.
Single Rubber 33/3
Double Rubber ..’ 'lO -
Treble Rubber ...!!!!!!!. 42/6
C. AMD s. SPORTS CO.
F. H. AYRE S
International 43/.
International, Improved 50/-
International, Improved Selected . 51/6
.Macartney’s Autograph 50 -
SHAW AMD SURE IV SR CRY’S
Practice 30/-
Cnion "' 33 4;
Club 31 _
Autograph 45/-
Australian Test 50/-
Demon
Demon
Demon
Driver.
Driver
Driver.
III'ISSEY
Xo. 4 ..
No. 2 ..
No. 1
’S
Cyclonic
42/-
47/6
55/-
45/-
SVM ME It’S DROWN
Force, X
Force, XX
Force, XXX
Force, XXXX
Hurricane, X
Hurricane, NX
3R/0
40/-
47/6
50/-
40/-
50/-
NICOLLS'
Champion Practice 25 -
Automatic, Selected 32 fi
Automatic, Special, Selected ...... 45-
Veiocity Driver 37 0
Perfection 50 -
STUART SURRIIJGE
Oval Driver 22 0
Daisy Cutter 27 0
Standard Driver 23 0
Lightning Driver 35 -
Rapid Driver 37 <i
Rapid Driver. Special. Selected .. 42/0
Rapid Driver. X Special Selected 50 -
Rapid Driver. “Tile Perfect” 63/-
Invincible Driver 45/-
GUNN AND MOORE'S
Cannon 35/-
Autograph 45/-
Autograph. X Special 50 -
Autograph Star 57 (i
Interstate, Special 42 -
Interstate. X Special 50/-
A DYE'S
Champion, Selected 85/-
Champion, Special Selected 42/-
WINDUTT AND SMITH S
John Dull. Selected 35 -
John Dull, Special Selected 37/0
John Dull, X Special. Selected 45/-
DUK E’S
Warren Dardsle.v Autograph 52,0
WISDEN'S
Crawford Exceller 42 C
Crawford Exceller, Selecled 45 -
Crawford Exceller, X Special .... 50/-
Crawford Exceller, de Luxe 60 -
WARSOPS
Century 47, G
Conqueror 42 0
LILY WHITE AND FROWDE'S
Ilendren Autograph 42 6
SPECIALISTS IN BAT AND BALL REPAIRS.
Leather Cricket Balls,
(Carriage Paid.)
ALL MATCH WEIGHT, viz., ozs.
Treble Seam Practice 2/9
M.S. Match 10/6
M.S. Special .Match 31/6
M.S. Extra Special Match 12/6
Duke’s Club 15/3
Duke’s Match 16/-
Duke’s P.K.D 16 9
Wisden’s Match 15 -
H'isden’s Crown Match 16 9
Stokes’ Victor Draetice 10 6
Stokes’ Vietor Hatch 11, 6
Stokes’ Victor Special 12/6
Men’s Gauntlets.
(Carriage Paid.)
Tan, ventilated, very strong 10/6
White Suede, extra padded 10/6
Gold Cape, padded, ventilated 13 o
Gold Cape, ventilated, rubber palm 16 6
Gold Cape, superior, rubber palm 18/6
All England, padded fingertips,
rubber palm 20/-
Inner Gloves, buff padded 4/3
Pair
M.S. Luttle Giant, selected leather,
padded finger tips, paddled rub-
ber palms 22 «
M.S. Giant, extra large, padded
fingertips, leather thuanb-cups
padded rubber palms, finest
glove made 25. -
M-S. Giant, as above, bi<t with
finger and thumb cups 27 6
“Perla” Cricket Mats.
Finest Imported. Color Green. Two-Piece 6ft wide
(Freight paid to nearest railway station or port in N.S.W. Y nearest port
Double Wicket .Mat, full size, metal eyelets and spikes enmnioto-
Web Bound £B/7/6. leather Pound
other States.)
.. £B/17/6
For full particulars of all Cricket Requisites, get a copy* of our Money
Saving Price last, Post Free.
id
r IC
■a * *
The Worlds Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
-202-12 Edward Street. Brisbane.
Hunter Street, Newcastle-


Rexona Will Drive
Away Spring Skin
Troubles.
In the Springtime we are all troubled more or less with some
skin eruption, such as Rashes, Sores, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, or
perhaps even Eczema. These Spring Skin Troubles are
dangerous if neglected, and might become chronic. You must
give them careful attention. What you need is a really reliable
remedy which is easily applied and can be depended upon to
heal quickly. Rexona fills this need. There is no better treatment
than to apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer, an antiseptic ointment,
containing just the right cooling, soothing and healing properties
that are needed to rid your skin of all impurities. Rexona soothes
pain, builds new tissues, and renews and heals the skin. Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, unequalled for all Skin Troubles, sold only in
triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-
Rexona —
The Rapid
Healer.
/f
M Cooling I|S.
w/HSoolhind -
jf Healing m
“rinliseptic Omtrnenl.%
-S
5 iil
SB /£
=■ 1/
Du rii' es -P Absolutely
r „ Hoaic Reliable
Heals
ft
i\\*m liirnErreii
A Reliable Healer for all Eruplions
and Irrifalions of ihe Skin. Eczema. Sores. Oils
Burns. Bruises, Sores. Sciatica, Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C° L t ?SyDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to
you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia,
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
dwSttitfila
102-16(5 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
Lovely !
i \ws
\
o
Polestar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABOVE bmhed and Jjnrt,
N\ here soundless tides ol shadow
meet,
1 see one tiny golden stain —
l ove's window shining through the rain.
The blind stars spin in trackless flight
With chaos ringed and awful night;
t . . r lf n i nrn h
Yet I care not what gulfs thej plumb
While Loves lit window beckons Come.
I see her lips, more fair to me
Than dawn upon a sapphire sea;
Her happy eyes wherein there gleams
A paradise beyond my dreams.
And what reck I. who breathe her //'l,'/'’
Though, like some dreadful wraith ol flame,
Below the hill the cit;y broods
Mid nights phantasmal solitudes;
, . , , „
A wraith that stretches hands ot pain—
Tormented hands that grope in vain—
And seeks with dull and anguished eyes
A dawn that haply will not rise!
, , , , ,
Yet I have stretched my hands to grope
In dust above the graves of hope;
And still at heart an undersong
Cries through my passion, "fool, how long.
. ,
My heart recks not. Alone it knows
How through the murk Love s window glows,
Come well or ill. when joy is spent,
If Love keeps tryst I am content!
Queensland.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Pyzer’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OX the way down Logan River the
thoughts of Mat Conyers were stray-
ing back across the range, and he
was wondering if Charlotte Pine was think-
ing of him. When he reached Dulla home-
stead he looked as cheerful as if he had .just
returned from his uncle's funeral. But at
tea-time he met a flash of laughing eyes that
anted on him like a magic tonic, and his
condition improved at once.
The owner of the laughing eyes was pretty.
She was a new 7 girl at Dulla, a sparkling
little maid, with a fluffy mop of yellowy
aair, whose name was Selina Saddler.
Mat knew all the men at Dulla, but on
diis occasion he saw r them in a new 7 light.
They lingered over their meal, each trying
to be last to have a chat with Lena over
the washing-up. They were still sitting at
the table when she had cleared away. So
was Conyers; but, then, he was waiting to
see the boss about the cattle that he and
thirty Brown were to lift from Dulla.
Then Sam, the blacksmith, seized a towel
and said he would wipe up for her. To
checkmate that move, Nugget, the hullock-
ilriver, offered to w 7 ash up; and Freckles,
the rouseabout, volunteered to put the things
away. They wore all in love with Lena.
She left them at their self-allotted tasks;
and while they worked overtime in the
kitchen, as amiable as three tomcats. Lena
sat down in the men’s dining-room and
talked to Conyers.
That move defeated the ends of the whole
hunch. They were annoyed, and made un-
necessary noise with the crockery. The
thought that he was also washing up for
the base usurper was particularly annoying
to Nugget. In his vimful hurry he broke a
plate. The crash affected Sam’s nerves, and
lie dropped a cup. As Lena rushed in from
the dining-room, and Mrs. Carson came
stamping out from the house. Freckles swung
found to escape, and knocked over a soup-
tureen that Sam had stupidly set down on
die edge of the table. There was a stormy
interval, during which C’onyovs sneaked out
and went in search of the boss ; then Sam
and Nugget were ordered to leave the kit-
ehen. and Selina was lectured for encourag-
ing the men to hang about the premises.
The crestfallen pair retired to the men's
hut like two whipped dogs, snarling at each
other, and with mutual recriminations that
sundered a long mateship. Sam said it was
Nugget's clumsiness with the plate that had
not them into trouble ; Nugget, retorted that
Sam had made more clatter with the cup. and
it was that, followed by Freckles’s con-
tribution. that had brought the missus
out. When they found Freckles laughing
over the tragic circumstances in the hut
with Murty Brown, they joined in denounc-
ing him as a blundering idiot. The only
point the three agreed on was that Conyers
was the initial cause of the unpleasantness.
He had wrecked the social atmosphere by
hutting in.
Conyers had really taken no intentional
part in the competition beyond making him-
"'lf agreeable. Lena hailed from across the
range, and. knowing people that Conyers
knew, naturally wanted to hear about them.
That gave him an advantage over the Dulla
trio; and the humiliation they had. been
subjected to incensed them against the visi-
tor. They wanted to get back on Conyers,
lmt having fallen out among themselves
they did not talk about the matter any
more. Each took his own course, with
mutual designs against each other.
Mat and Murty had to wait Some days at
Dulla. as the mustering was not completed.
They were quartered in a room adjoining
the store, which was near the kitchen. That
was another aggravation to the occupiers of
the isolated hut. as it enabled Conyers to
see a lot more of Selina than was good for
the rivals.
Sam and Freckles were rather cow-like
in their mental faculties. They had not
got half-way to a workable idea when Nug-
get. who was the brains of the hut, strolled
down one evening to Cayter’s pub for in-
spiration—and got it. Cayter’s was a way-
side house, facing the nearest boundary of
Bulla rim. There he found a tliib, hard-
faced woman who had drifted in tin/ day be-
fore, and bad been doing the family wash-
ing. Her name was Mrs. Pyzer. /Her hus-
band, George Pyzer. had left two years be-
fore to go shearing, and had not been heard
oi' since. Being ;i woman of determine-'!
character and embittered nature, she had
set out to find him. and ‘‘Lord help the,
freckled cow when I do find him!’ “he
had tramped a good part of the _ way to
Gayter’s. The slow, hard travelling was
wearing out her patience, and she wanted to
earn some money quickly so that she could
rush by train and coach to the big sheds
that were then shearing farther west.
Nugget heard this sordid domestic story
with deep interest. He showed great sym-
pathy for Mrs. P'yzer, and over a glass of
gin. repeated several times, he propounded
a little scheme to help her. He painted a
harrowing tale of the interloping Conyers,
who had left a wife down-country, in the
same way that George P'yzer had left her, and
was masquerading at Dulla as a single, man,
and by various false pretences was insinuat-
ing himself between the honest Nugget and
the innocent Selina.
“It’s not so much for myself I care.” said
Nugget. “I don’t like to see any girl bcin
fooled by that sort of person."
“Of course not,” Mrs. Pyzer assented. “If
I had my way there’d be lynch law for the
likes o’ them."
“I always try to prevent it when I can,
continued Nugget.
“Quite right,” Mrs. I’yzer approved.
“You’re a man of honor, which I respects.
But the likes of that man. spoony winkin’
when he ain’t his own property, has got no
decency. He ought to he p'oleaxed.”
Mrs. Pyzer had a lively imagination. She
thought the elusive Pyzer might be doing the
same thing somewhere, and felt righteously
incensed against the unscrupulous Conyers.
Nugget explained how she, could do a good
turn for two wronged women, and earn a
coach-fare at the same time; and eventually
Mrs. Pyzer agreed to seize on Conyers as
the base deserter for the sum of £2.
Nugget congratulated himself, as he
stumbled home that night, that lie had
found such a simple and effective means of
outing Conyers and recovering the prestige
h,e had lost through the intervention of that
person. He even thought of continuing the
eliminating process by similar scandalous
inventions against Sam and Freckles. W hen
he looked at their sleeping faces he decided
that they were already sufficiently handi-
capped.
According to agreement, Mrs. Pyzer ap-
peared at Bulla before breakfast next morn-
ing, and asked for washing. She was sent
to the kitchen, where she introduced her-
self to the girl whom she had come to save.
“There’s a flash drover bloke here that
calls himself Mat Conyers?” she said inter-
rogatively.
“Isn’t that his name?” Selina questioned.
“No, my girl, it ain’t,” said Mrs. I’yzer.
“An’ don’t you be deceived again by a ’eart-
less brute that puts a new handle to himself
an’ makes out to be single when lie’s a
quitter.”
“Whatever do you mean?” cried Lena
in astonishment.
“His name's George Pyzer, an' I'm his
lawful wedded wife,” said the hard-faced
woman. “lie ran away from me, an’ I’ve
run after him. Just you wait till I meet
him.”
Selina stared. “"When did you see him
last?” she asked.
“Two years ago, when lie pretended to be
goin’ to a shed to earn a cheque. I’ll shear
the quitter if he’s got a cheque about him."
“How do you know it’s Mat Conyers?"
asked Selina.
“I was told confidential by someone who
knows him, an’ who has regards for deserted
wives an’ girls that’s bein’ deceived,” said
Mrs. Pyzer. “I suppose he’ll be cornin’ in
to breakfast soon?”
"The men are coming across from the
hut now." Selina informed her.
"I’ll ask you to point him out to me, my
dear, as my eyesight is bad.” Mrs. P'yzer
requested.
A quick glance from Selina expressed sur-
prise and doubt. Her first impression was
that somebody had made a mistake. Act-
ing on a sudden impulse, she said, point-
ing to Murty Brown : “That's Mat Conyers,
that last man."
Mrs. Pyzer stood straight, her hands on
her hips, and fixed her gaze on the inoffen-
sive Murty. as though she was afraid she
might lose him if he got mixed up with the
rest. Freckles was not among them ; he had
not quite finished milking when the bell rang.
He was cultivating a habit of being late for
breakfast, so that he could have Selina to
himself when the others had gone. He had
bought a watch for the purpose, whereby
he knew to the minute what time she was
finished with the “inside table,” and sat
down to her own meal.
Sam led the, way in, followed by Nugget
ami Conyers. As soon as Murty entered,
Mrs. Pyzer confronted him with the air of
a tragedienne. _
“Good mornin', Mr. Pyzer!” she said,
mockingly. “Didn’t expect to see me here
this mornin', did you?”
“You’re rankin’ a bloomer, missus,” said
Murty, staring.
“Oh, am I?” cried Mrs. Pyzer, while Nug-
get was making facial contortions and trying
to draw her attention to Conyers. Selina
was restraining a quivering lip with her
teeth. “Don’t know my runaway husband
—him that’s give me cause enough to know
his worthless hide if I saw it hangin’ on a
fence?”
“Well, by cripes!” gasped Murty, staring
harder.
“Makin’ love to girls an' leavin me to
starve!” continued Mrs. Pyzer. “I suppose
you’ll have the hide to say I’m not your
wife?” ~X T
“My wife!” gasped Murty, recoiling. 'No
mistake, you’re the dizzy limit.” He glanced
round at the grinning audience with rounded
eyes. “Do you know anything about this.
(’onyers?”
At the name Mrs. Pyzer turned sharply.
Convers shook his head. “L never suspected
it of you, Murtv." he answered, and grinned
across at Nugget. But Nugget was blushing
confusedly into his cup. He wished the boss
would call him. or that something would
happen outside, so that he could rush away
to investigate. Murty was eyeing Conyers
resentfully, while Mrs. Pyzer looked from
one to tlie other, too embarrassed to know
what, to do next.
“You’ve bowled yourself out. Mrs. Pyzer,
Selina said coldly. “You’ve fastened on the
(Continued on next page.)


A Fair Warning
One That Should Be Heeded by All
Frequently the first sign of kidney trouble is a slight
ache or pain in the loins. Neglect of this warning makes
the way easy for more serious troubles—gravel, dropsy,
rheumatism, and other serious forms of kidney disease.
Tis well to pay attention to the first sign. Weak
kidneys generally grow weaker, and neglect is often
M
w
M
*\
*Every Picture
Tells a Story ”
m
m
m
X
dangerous. People in Australia place reliance in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This tested remedy
has been used in kidney trouble for years, and is recommended all over the civilised world.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. S. Drew, 28 Briggs Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:—“Some
kidneys were in a seriously disordered state and in consequence
1 suffered terribly. My back never stopped aching, and I was almost crippled
vith the ailment. Dropsical swellings showed on my legs and ankles, and
there was puffiness under my eyes. The state of my health worried me
embly, and as I liad taken all sorts of remedies without deriving any
benefit, I was beginning to think I would never be well again. However, at
last I got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they proved a godsend. The
first couple ot bottles eased my suffering a little, and seven bottles of the
pills cured me completely.’
Five years later Mrs. Drew says“l have had no return of mv old
complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over live years ago!”
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. ,Tas. C. Struck, Yugilbah, 4 Eurella Street, Bnrwood, Sydney, says:
“Seven years ago I was very ill with a bad attack of disordered kidneys. I
suffered excruciating agony from backache and was at times so bad that I
could hardly move. Everything I had to do was a trouble, and I was miser-
able and depressed. The kidney secretions were thick and cloudy and
contained a red sediment, and my ankles swelled to twice their usual size.
T went on suffering in this way for a long time, nothing I took doing me any
good, but at last I got the right remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. After taking two bottles of these Pills I felt much relieved,
and by the time I had finished eight bottles I was completely cured and felt
a different man.”
Ten years later Mr. Struck says:—“Thanks to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills I am still free from backache and kidney trouble.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
wrong man, and you don't know any of the
others from a crow—unless it’s Nugget.”
Sam guffawed—the first sound lie had
111 «xr find Selina tried to keep back a smile.
t U think it’s funny, I suppose,” said
Mrs. Pyzer, nastily. “But perhaps we ain’t
such fools as we look.”
„ ' ou ve been fooled, anyway,” returned
Selma. ‘I don’t know what the game is,”
she continued, looking at the men, “but
there’s a plot behind it somewhere. Perhaps
you'll explain yourself, Mrs. Pyzer?”
Mrs. Pyzer held herself erect, and her head
oscillated for a moment as she looked disdain-
fully at the girl. Then her gaze shifted to
Nugget. He was sugaring his tea for the
third time, and striving to maintain a strictly
neutral attitude. He might have been deaf
and blind for all the apparent notice he
took of her, and that not only annoyed Mrs.
Pyzer but engendered a suspicion that he
had been purposely responsible for her
ludicrous position. She made a quick stride
towards him. and rattled her knuckles on the
table.
“Here, you pay me that two pounds you
owe me,” she demanded. “I’m not makin’
any mistake about your identity, anyway.”
Nugget started so violently at the sudden
attack that he spilt his tea. and. with all
eyes turned inquisitively on him, he looked
abashed and fumbled helplessly about his
pockets. Recovering himself a little, he said,
with an attempted show of indifference that
was a glaring failure:
If that s your bill for the bit o’ wasliin’
you did for me, you can have it.”
“I never did any wasliin’ for you,” said
Mrs. Pyzer, bluntly, as she clutched the
notes. “You can get your fine lady here, as
yon reckon you’re engaged to, to do that.”
“Me!” cried Selina in shocked tones. “Hid
you say that?”—to the blushing bullock-
driver.
“N-no.” stammered Nugget, shuffling un-
comfortably.
“Don’t you make a liar of me,” rasped Mrs.
I yzer, “or I might say something you won’t
like.
"I wouldn’t be found dead with him,” de-
cl®red belina, turning up her pretty nose.
\\ ell, that settles your hash,” said Mrs.
I yzer, nodding decisively at Nugget as if it
was a satisfaction to have got something back
on him the humiliation he had led her
into. “And as for what you said about
her and the blacksmith”—-
Sbe broke off as a cheery whistle reached
her. There was something familiar about it
that recalled a scented bush-track where she
used to meet George Pyzer in her courting
days the same track that he took when he
left for the sheds of freedom.
Freckles, who had been making himself
presentable after finishing his morning’s
work, came briskly to the door, carrying his
hat in his hand so as not to spoil "the nice
curl be had put on his forelock.
On the threshold he stopped short with
a startled look, and his face blanched as if
he had been suddenly overcome witlT a deadly
plague. For a moment lie seemed to sag
as lie stared with a horrified expression
at the visitor. Mrs. Pyzer appeared to be
just as much stunned as Freckles. She
glared at him with her mouth open, in an
attitude that suggested to Murty Brown
that she had been struck stiff.
Freckles was the first to recover from the
temporary paralysis. He turned abruptly
and ran for his life. With a shriek, Mrs.
I’yzer leaped after him. and they disappeared
in the timber down the paddock.
Freckles was George Fyzer.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Tale of a Faithful Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f sparrows were chirping in the trees.
The novelist was in his kitchen,
lighting a cigar. Although extremely
popular with the sentimental portion of the
general public, his popularity with the more
sentimental of his acquaintances was not
so marked.
lie was a bachelor. A cynic might be
tempted to say the ladies had given him up
as a bad job. Even his housekeeper, a
stoutish, raucous-voiced woman of 50 winters
or more, after endeavoring for something like
a fortnight to suit him, had that morning
abruptly abandoned the job. He had there-
fore been obliged to prepare his own lunch.
He had enjoyed it, however. It was a
change.
A heavy step sounded on the asphalt out-
side. The novelist rose. Evidently a trades-
man—the butcher, maybe.
“Bite of something to eat, boss?”
No, it was not the butcher.
“Sorry, old man. Just finished off every-
thing myself.”
The eyes of the out-of-work brightened at
the kindly voice. “I’m absolutely down and
out. boss,” he said.
The novelist was silent for a while, then
broke out vehemently. “It's all this trousers-
for-womcn idea, all this rotten government-
for-wretched-people policy. I, too, can find
no useful work to do. Here I am left, aban-
doned, cast aside like a bad half-crown. And
they sent me my income-tax assessment this
morning, too.”
“We all have our sorrows, boss. Take me.
I’ve never been able to afford income-tax.”
“Same here. Same here. It’s this con-
founded idea of labor, these strikes, lock-outs,
all these material, money-grubbing ideas of
getting everything for nothing that has
brought you and me where we are. Look at
the idle rich. Look at their idle wives,
swanking about in motor-cars, nursing poodle-
dogs, and treating the rest of us like dogs—
plain dogs.”
“Boss, you wouldn’t let a dog starve.
You’re not that sort.”
The novelist brightened. “Have you got
a dog?”
The dead-beat became gloomy. “I can’t
afford to feed my dog, boss.”
“Fetch him in. Fetch him in. I’ll try to
dig up something for the poor devil. I expect
he’s starving, too.”
“Yes, boss. He’s so bad he may have
passed away while I’ve been here.”
“Good Lord ! Bring him in and bury him
then.”
The dead-beat turned sadly away.
Fifty yards round the next corner he
abandoned hope of possible bumpers in the
gutter, and stopped abruptly. A strange mon-
grel on the opposite kerb was making frantic
efforts to subdue his army of fleas. The dead-
beat scratched his head, and after a moment's
consideration crossed over and stooped down
sympathetically. The dog growled.
* * * #
The sparrows were still chirping in the
trees; the novelist was still sitting in the
kitchen, still smoking his cigar.
"Ah, come in, come in.”
The dead-beat and the dog entered.
“Took me some time to get him, boss.
He's got a habit of limping after tradesmen’s
carts —butchers and that. It makes me ’art
bleed to see him.”
The dog, scenting the remains of four loin-
chops on the table, wagged what was left of
his tail expectantly. The novelist threw him
two of the remains.
"By Jove, you were right. He’s hungry.
I’ll pour him out some milk.”
"It's terrible to be starving, boss.”
“I know what it is. old man. In my
early days I was a journalist.”
A silence, expectant on the dead-beat's part,
followed.
"Watching that dog.” broke in the novelist
at length, "reminds me of one I used to know
called Squidge. Squidge was a Yorkshire
terrier, rather a pretty little thing. I sup-
pose you know them. Very small, hair all
over their eyes and trailing down everywhere.
He was owned by a lady as beautiful as
himself —more beautiful, in fact. Squidge
loved her —dearly, very dearly; and”
He took out his pocket handkerchief, re-
moved his cigar, blew his nose, and handed
the remainder of the remains of the chops to
the dog.
“I, too —I, too, loved the lady. What —
what put me in mind of Squidge was the
faithful way your dog sticks to you. Though
you can’t afford to feed him. he still remains
with you. Squidge was like that. I don’t
mean he was ever actually hungry. In fact,
the veterinary surgeon attributed an attack
of eczema the little fellow went through in
his earlier days to overfeeding.
“I know I’m not much of a talker. I
suppose I'm reserved —quiet. But I feel—
feel deeply. And I understand life. At
least, I understand dogs. As I said, I loved
the lady ; and since Squidge and I had this
characteristic in common I disliked him,
greatly disliked him —at first. I would sit
and brood, and hope—-vainly hope—that some
day the lady would learn to admire and love
me as she admired and loved Squidge. I had
my moments of temptation. At times I felt
like shooting Squidge. But my conscience
and my nobler self said ‘No. Don’t shoot
him. It will make a noise. And in any
case she will probably buy another.’
“But the idea persisted. One morning
I gave a small boy ten shillings to kick
Squidge into the harbor. I had a secondary
motive in this. I knew the lady adored heroes,
loved them; and so I decided to be a hero.
“We were standing on the Manly wharf
waiting for the Balgowlah—she. Squidge and
I. The small boy (lid liis part, and, mind
you, did it well. It was a convincing acci-
dent. I, too, did my part. Tearing off my
coat, and handing it to the boy, I leapt into
the water. Unfortunately I miscalculated
the depth, and struck my head on the bottom.
Breathless, panting, splashing, struggling for
breath, I rose to the surface. The dog was
nowhere to be seen. I dived. Five times I
dived, and I was feeling hopeful"
He handed the residue of his apple-pie to
the dog.
"As I said, I was hoping, when I saw what
had happened. Squidge had swum ashore. I
scarcely seemed to notice it at the time, but
an over-dressed, dapper young man was stand-
ing on the beach by the side of the lady. It
appears, from what I afterwards heard, that
the dapper young man had extended his walk-
ing-stick, and in this way assisted Squidge to
land.
“The lady thanked him, and asked him to
pay a visit to her flat for afternoon tea. She
said I must have been drinking.
"And now I come to the hideous climax.
The young man, more dapper than ever, and
still more dapper every time, visited the lady
at the flat. I am no fool. I saw what was
happening. Squidge, too. with fine instinct,
saw it as well. One day he growled at the
man as he was gnawing a bone—Squidge 1
mean. From that day all my antipathy, all
my hatred towards the dog' vanished. We
became drawn together—drawn together, as
it were, by ties of sympathy.
‘‘Gradually, as the days wore wearily away,
I saw the change in the little fellow. I—l
can scarcely describe it all. They—the lady
and the dapper young man—they were mar-
ried. I even believe they lived happily to-
gether. Squidge—Squidge she gave away—
to me. Compensation, she said.
“I—l did what I could for him. I cared
for him. He W'ould come to me, put his
little paw in mine. That is—never mind,
never mind. He would look up in my face.
Yes. He —we understood each other.
“My friends said he needed a vet. When
he broke out in a rash all over, one of them—
lie owned a sheep-dog—advised me to coat
him all over with tar, sulphur and lard. He
told me to keep it on for a fortnight. It was
like him. I was not at all surprised when he
said he considered the dog had distemper and
was developing cancer.
“But I knew. We knew —Squidge and I
knew —what was the matter. And so for
days I sat by his little bed, and held his little
paw. I gave him nothing to eat. What was
the use? What good would food have been
to him? I—l gave him what he wanted. I
gave him what he needed. I gave him sym
pathy.
“And so, still holding his little paw, and
still looking down into his little face. I sat
by his bed, and watched him die.”
The dead-beat’s dog, having finished the
remains of the apple-pie, wagged the remains
of his tail anew.
The novelist shook his head.
“Good-bye, old man,” he said. “Good-bye.
Any time you happen to be passing don't
forget to drop in, and I’ll see what I can do
for your dog.”
PETER PRETTY.


mm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J. Wildridge $ Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228*30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
*
GOOD STEEL
KEEPS GOOD
Steel of suitable temper, for chisels, must be good, high
quality steel to avoid constant re-forging and sharpening.
It is more economical to pay the price of such high
quality steels as
EAGLE ON A GLOBE’’ BRAND
DOUBLE EXTRA STEEL
BEST WARRANTED STEEL
and
WARRANTED STEEL
Suitable Temper for Chisels.
All these “Eagle on a Globe” Brand Steels will give
economical results, longer life, and not break down under
the strain of exacting service.
Ample compensation for a small extra cost.
\sk for our special book, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,”
post free, and consult with us on all matters relating to
steel for any purpose.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
Svdnev 379-381 Kent Street
Melbourne 342-348 Swanston Street
Newcastle Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
Brisbane ... John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Adelaide ... Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Hobar t R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
hbkjlmjklmkl
hbkjlmjklmkl
hbkjlmjklmkl
THE best blade steel
is used in Reming-
ton Pocket Knives.
They cut keenly.
This General Utility
Knife will serve you in
a dozen different ways.
No. R-3843
Two Cutting Blades
Screw Driver
Cap Lifter
Tin Opener
Punch or Reamer
Corkscrew
Ask your Dealei
o'
'/a
fiF
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
i G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
hbkjlmjklmkl
#
Avail yourself
of the experience of others.
The reputation of Beecham’s Pills is built
upon the experience of many thousands of men and women
who have found this specific of incalculable value as a
safe, speedy and pleasant tonic and corrective in cases of
digestive disturbance. There are very few people who
are not at some time troubled with loss of appetite,
irregularity of the bowels, sluggish liver, biliousness, sick
headache, heaviness, depression of spirits and want of
energy. Beecham’s Pills are a reliable remedy for these and
other ailments arising from dyspeptic derangement.
Everyone needs a corrective medicine occasionally and
there is nothing more generally suitable than Beecham’s
Pills which, taken as directed, soon right the wrong and
restore a natural, healthy action to the organs of digestion.
A fair trial will soon convince you of their outstandiiwj
merits and you will find that they are always dependable
and of unfailing efficacy. To keep yourself fit and wclJ
you cannot do better than
TAKE
Yd
Vi
ill
a
'm\
IL 1
A
IS
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELE S SOD I AM O ND
<£ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
SCOTTISH HOUSE
9O WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
Nobel Industries Limited are Exhibitors at the British Empire Exhibition.
Prestige
LODGE
The highest development of sparking
plug design! and construction is
represented by the name
hbkjlmjklmkl
Correct design, highest quality material
and a high standard of workmanship,
together have produced the plug that has
considerably the largest sale in the world
of all British-made plugs.
Made in different models to suit all makes of
engines and obtainable from all accessory dealers
garages and stores. Just mention name ot
engine when buying.
Every part of every model of the
Lodge plug is entirely British made.
LODGE PLUGS LTD.
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
Illustration shows metric single point (model
TS3) for American engines screwed metric.
Price 5/6.
Packed in sealed metal box.
LODGE PLUGS
STAND N 2 103
MOTOR SECTION
BRITISH
EM PI RE
EXHIBITION
io
WEMBLEY
April Oct 1924
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
WOLFFS cgl
m
m
M
0
EMrifa
.....
W.
*,«gb' ■"' ~"i . '> *n , n ,v 5®
tin « VRQVAt-
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT


For
the Spring Races!
A Faultlessly-tailored
Murdoch Suit
THE Man of to-day buys his Clothes with
the same keen business acumen as he
runs his business—the same sense of
VALUES, of INVESTMENT, of regard
for TIME—
And all three points focus at Murdoch’s.
MURDOCH S “Mill to Wearer” Policy is sound
business. By it Murdoch clients are saved at
least two costly Middlemen’s profits. As con-
clusive proof Murdoch’s will supply you with a
HAND-FINISHED SUIT
in English Pure
Wool Worsteds
to measure for
*% 4*
"C* / |
I JL \Jr
Ur< h C / h t'n S up re me Attainment! A Hand-finished Suit to Measure
tor £6/10/-. Take your choice from these Fabrics: English or
Australian Pure Wool Worsteds of surpassing excellence. Attractive
plain shades of Grey, Brown or Blue; also smart Herringbone
designs. Pencil Stripes, Glen Checks and Sprightly Mixtures; also
lghtweight Worsteds and Flannels. Murdoch-Tailored to vour
Measures, and HAND FINISHED.
hbkjlmjklmkl
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL VALUE.— A choice
Pilin’ 1 ot ah-Wool Tweeds of surpassing
vnrflft nCe ' i 12 col ? nngs and designs are of a
iwSL and „ attra ctiveness to please the most
fastidious, lo your measures
Wool Australian Tweeds and
English W orsteds, in a choice showing of
IJain Colorings, Stripes, Pencil-lines and
Checks, Grey Herringbones and Pinheads ; also
Isavy and Grey All-Wool Flannels. To your
Another Splendid Value—Liaht anrl
assembly S “^ in S s ».' comprising a select
assembly of Choice Weaves in Tweeds, Woollen
Worsteds, or Fine Twill Genuine Indigo Serges,
Guaranteed. To your measures .........
Super-quality Suitings, in the latest and most
exclusive weaves. Pure Wool Worsteds and
irst-grade Fine Twill Serges. To your
measures and hand finished
£4- 2-9
£4-18-9
£5-13-9
-£7/10/- a,d £BllOl-
73&tte r i'
I
n
if
a
KSSS
ii
'
$i
wx • &XsS9Bxß«e&
m
m
xmm,
mm-
mm
f / i ' '
wimimMm
■M
f¥:¥:S
H
■
■j.:
/Atl
'
SSH
iiW
m
The genuine WORTH of Murdoch Fabrics
and faultless Tailoring is strikingly evident
in this Guarantee Card, which conies with
your suit.
GUARANTEE
J/j/E guarantee this Suit against flaws in the material
or making, or against any imperfections in the
flt, and if it is not satisfactory we will make another
Suit Free of Charge or refund the full purchase price.
(Signed )
MURDOCH’.S IN PARK STREET, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
DESK R,
MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me, free of all cost, a complete range of your New Season’s
hinting Patterns, also free measure-form outfit. It is understood this places
me under no obligation whatever.
Name
Address
Sept. 18/’24.
Send this Coupon for Patterns
It will bring you a Book of 75 Patterns to select from, together
with simple Measure Outfit—no obligation whatever.
There is also a splendid range of Riding Trouser Patterns— ■
mention if you wish these included.
When writing kindly address your letter to
DESK R.
Orders by Post receive prompt
and efficient attention by
Murdoch’s experienced Mail
Order Staff.
m
r
“The Worlds Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
POSTAGE PAID ON
TAILORING TO YOUR
