

LI NOON A
ALL
BRITISH
mm
m
mm
m
«
S
e
:
I
GENUINE
BALATA
STRONG • SILENT • SMOOTH
LINGONA
IS THE
o
o:
T
LT MA®
A Full Range of Stocks is carried throughout Australia by the following Sole Agents:
S. Aus.: A. Noble & Son, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
Vic.: Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd., Victoria St., Richmond.
Ta 3.: Chas. Davis, Ltd., 60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
N.S.W.: James Mimday & Co., 230 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Q’land: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Cr. Charlotte & Edward Streets, Brisbane.
West Australia: Gibbs,
Street,
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2325.
Thursday, September 4, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. , Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


mfiE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
J . 3 , 924 J s ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with fall
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTT>
428 George Street, Sydney. "
Ci
A
The New 6-Cylinder
20 40h.p.
(23.9 li.A.C. Katins).
Luxurious—Powerful—Dependable.
You could not wish for a finer Oar than this
new “Gottin” production—every detail bears the
imprint of the master hand. It is most modern in design,
with a strength in every part that ensures long, efficient service under
all degrees of use. Brakes on All Four Wheels and Overhead Valves are two
of the many outstanding features.
Apply for Literature and Full Details Now.
Lawrence Morton (St, Co. Pty. Ltd.
Sole Coneessionnaires for “Cottin-Desgrouttes” in Australasia,
353 Flinders Kane. Melbourne. ’Phone, Central 2956.
SYDNEY AGENT: Walter H. Smyth, York Chambers, Market Street. (V
LYSAGHT
o
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
LysaghCs Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
immm
m
li!lh
aaiiiaißß
liSilli
*
1*1:
I
A big factor in the continued success of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is the rigid policy behind its manufacture. We have studied
the wants of Australian engineers, and as a result Mangrovite
is eminently suited for local conditions, invariably giving
better performance than the imported article.
Our engineers are always at your service. Consult them
on all belting matters.
MANGROVITE- BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Ivean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
Sjriurf
Super Quality
CIGARETTES
Fine Old Virginia
Cork Tipped Ovals
re**?.
C/
c
n
>N
CO
Co
H/
L>
<>
Of ail Stores
and Tobacconists
C.J
(K6ISTERKB
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
!«*r.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY withthenew
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
,a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
•V
nko wjtASwn aamiaci
HU
SON
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/®: or forward l/« in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
The Red Page
Eugene O’Neill
This erratic young dramatist —lie is only
110 this year—most uneven in his flight across
the theatrical heavens, has been generously
represented in the New York theatre of the
dying season. No less than three new pieces
of his have been put on. None has been
an outstanding success, though the last has
been more successful than the other two,
and the critics have seen fit to handle him
rather ungently. Dramatic criticism in
New York is another thing from that tolew-
ant, cotton-wool handling that most things
receive in Australia. The bulk of the plays
have never previously been performed any-
where. Thus they represent the unknown —
one attends their opening nights without
preconceptions or bias either in favor of or
against. The critics are the jury; and they
mostly regard it as their duty to be as defi-
nite as the panel in a court case.
Originally regarded as a possible vehicle
for Ethel Barrymore and held for some time
with that in view, O’Neill’s "Welded” was
eventually put on with Doris Keane, heroine
of numberless performances of "Romance,”
and Jacob Ben-Aini, originally of the Yid-
dish theatre, in the leading roles. Even
with the advantage of the personalities of
these two, “Welded” had a short life. The
romance, without sentimentality and almost
without sentiment, was a realistic envisag-
ing of two volcanic temperaments —an actress
and a playwright—who, childless and five
years married, were welded by a relation-
ship of unqualified eroticism. That was the
bond. The very intensity of their impulses
imposed a servitude and engendered mutual
hatred. Rebounding, the wife felt the call
of the outside world ; the husband found old
friends knocking at the door. The interrup-
tion of the passionate idyll led to disruption,
recriminations, lies, self-torture. But morn-
ing found them at home again, reunited by
the passion that is indistinguishable from
hate. Audiences, however, felt that the play
lacked contact with' normal experience, that
it was out of touch with the common human
lot. As one critic said: “Human as they
undoubtedly are, this pair is not generally
recognisable as such.”
The second O’Neill opus will strike a more
familiar chord, since it brings back school-
room memories. The dramatist considered
Coleridge’s poem “The Ancient Mariner” a
fit and proper subject for the exercise of his
art, but he was practically the only person
who did think so. Almost to a man the
critics were unfavorable. The “dramatic
arrangement” adopted by the author
possessed one unique quality: he added not
a single spoken word. Naturally there was
beforehand some speculation as to his actual
contribution. The New York Times gave
a few pages of the O’Neill manuscript, from
which I quote. The production brought
forward another distinctive feature: the
actors wore masks. The critics referred to
these with unkind adjectives—they ' were
“gangrenous masks,” flanked by “the pink
ears of the actors, which give a ready lie to
the imagination.” Now for the extract:—
The Mariner stands at the foot of steps. His
long hair and beard are white, and his great hollow
eyes burn with fervor. His hands are stretched up to
the sky, his face is rapt, his lips move in prayer. ...
The three Wedding Guests enter arm in arm. They
are dressed identically in their festive proper best.
All are comparatively young. Two of them have
mask-like faces of smug, complacent dulness; they
walk like marionettes. The third, with the same
type of face, is nevertheless alive.
They stop before the Mariner, who is blocking their
way. He stares They enter the house. A blast
of music. He fixes his eyes on those of the third
guest and grabs him by the shoulder.
Wedding Guest:
By thy long grey beard and glittering eye,
Now wherefore stoppest thou me?
. The Bridegroom’s doors are opened wide
And I am next of kin:
Tlie guests are met, .the feast is set:
May’st hear the merry din.
He holds him with his skinny hand. The chorus—
six old sailors wearing the masks of drowned men—
bring in the ship from the left. Two carry a section
to indicate the bow, one the mast, and one the stern
and tiller.
Mariner:
There was a ship
Wedding Guest:
Hold off ! Unhand me, greybeard loon!
EftsOons his hand dropt he. He holds them with his
glittering eye.
And so on. Scarcely even a succSs d’estime.
In Ms third work O’Neill jumped to the
heart of present-day American condi-
tions. For so long that one sickened of
the very sound of the words, the (town was
plagued with the phrase “a drama of mis-
cegenation.” This was the febrile catchword
of some unhappily suggestive press-agent—
one met it everywhere; it dripped out of
every newspaper one took up. Unhappily
suggestive—for with this to damn it in
advance, “All God’s Chillun Got Wings”
drew around it ere it had begun a miasmic
breath of dubious public opinion. I was
privately informed by one of the company
that Mix O’Neill was greatly perturbed in
mind. Even in this country, where notoriety
is universally considered as good as celebrity,
there is occasionally a suspicion that it isn’t.
When it is explained that this work in-
volves a white woman married to a negro,
and that the woman has to kiss the hand of
her black lord and master, the reason for
high feeling is evident. Mixed-color mar-
ly age is ever a subject of angry dispute in
the States, becoming fiercer the further south
one goes. Hence the storm. Women’s clubs
passed resolutions that to a woman they
would stay away. The actress who had
accepted the leading woman’s part resigned,
affrighted. Another took her place, only to
find herself between two camps—those who
regarded her in the light of a womap lost
to all shame, and those to whom she was a
martyr, suffering in the sacred cause of art.
Game the first night. Then the change.
That which began in tension ended in nor-
malcy. The monster had given birth to a
kitten. ’ Next morning the critics were very
divided; but in their disagreement they were
agreed that the play was no prodigy. Fanned
by newspaper breezes, they, being still more
or less human, had been led to expect some-
thing exceptional; and they hadn’t got it.
One of the best-known critics went so far as
to say that if the play had been produced
without the preliminary blare of publicity it
would have died of inanition.
Granting the debatable point that the
theme is one worth writing about, or advis-
able, the play failed at first to receive the
approbation it surely merited. It lookeu
its though .much good work would meet
with little reward. This, being so, a shrewd
move was decided on. The Proyincetown
Theatre, which produced it, and with which
O'Neill has been bound up since the incep-
tion of his career, revived his fine play deal-
ing vfith the night in a forest passed by one
“Emperor Jones,” a negro who is ex-
emperor of a Pacific isle, and previously
Pullman porter. The two plays were given
on alternate weeks. The scheme worked;
antagonism melted away, and now the “drama
of miscegenation” alone holds the boards. The
chief role was in each case taken by a negro
actor—a strange sight to Australian eyes—
a young man named Paul Robeson, possessed
of a splendid physique and a beautiful voice.
Parenthetically, the beautiful voices possessed
by many of the negro porters on Pullman
cars—certainly the pleasantest voices in the
States—are frequently commented upon by
travelling Australians. Robeson’s is a fine
example.
In the long and disillusioning wait of the
first entr'acte, while the forest was- being
put into position, the unbelievably hard
benches of the Provincetown Theatre made
themselves felt. My companion grumbled.
“That,” said I, thinking of the six intervals
to come, “is the price of art.” “No,” he
corrected me, “the price of art is two dollars
twenty.” Which, for New York, is quite
cheap.
ERIC MILLS.
Some Varying Conceptions of Art
A general review of the poetic art of the
world discloses a somewhat surprising like-
ness in conception and treatment —with one
or two outstanding exceptions—so that it is
possible broadly to regard the whole output
as though it were the result of’onfe great
inspirational urge. If it were possible for a
single translator to give us the bulk of the
world’s poetry in a single medium, such as
Esperanto, without inequalities of transla-
tion, a trained Esperantist, unfamiliar with
the originals, would, I think, even though he
"'ere a keen stylist, have great difficulty in
correctly assigning either race or century
to a vast majority of the poems. It would be
difficult to classify such a poem as
Night is at hand; the night winds fret afar,
The North winds moan. The waterfowl are gone
To cover o’er the sand-dunes; dawn alone
Shall call them from the sedges. Some bright star
Mirrors her charms upon the silver shoal;
And I have ta’en the lute, my only friend:
The vibrant chords beneath my fingers blend;
They sob awhile, then, as they slip control,
Immortal memories awake, and the dead years
Through deathless voices answer to my strings,
Till from the brink of Time’s untarnished springs
The melting night recalls me with her tears,
which was written about a.d. 720 by a
Chinese poet, one Ch’ang Ch’ien, and is part
of a longer poem called “A Night on the
Mountain.”
Again, what should we say of the following
lullaby?—
Sleep, baby, sleep! On mountains steep
The children of the hare are straying.
Why are their soft brown ears so" long and slender,
Peeping above the rocks where they are playing?
Because their mother, ere yet they were born,
Ate the loquat leaves in the dewy morn,
And the bamboo grasses slender—
That is why the ears of baby hares are long.
Sleep, baby, sleep, to the lilt of my song!
This was the work of a Japanese poet who
lived about thirteen hundred years ago. It
might as conceivably have been written by
an Australian of to-day.
But there seems to have been a steady re-
cession of purpose in poetic art throughout
the ages. The Rig Vedas of India, the oldest
literature known, were metrical hymns, in
which every sound was designed to fulfil a
definite mantramic purpose. This was in
addition to the specific purport of the hymn
as a whole. Some Hindu poems are said to
have seven separate meanings, each related
to a particular phase of consciousness. Our
own early mystics speak of three definite and
distinct meanings underlying their words.
If it is safe to generalise at all it is surely
justifiable to remark that the tendency has
been for the poetic content to grow less and less
throughout the ages, and for the form to be-
come more and more important, until we
arrive at the comparatively modern idea of
art for art’s sake,” a conception which has
been designated by certain Asiatic thinkers
a symptom of a psychological disease.
Though the foregoing remarks are broadly
true of the bulk of the poetic output, there
are certain startling exceptions, which spring
from fundamental differences in viewpoint
There is .a - Sanscrit word which has no
equivalent m our language. That word is
Rasa. Its usefulness may be gauged to some
extent by the number of words required to
define it m English. Rasa is the effect pro-
duced by a work of art upon the beholder.
It is partly mental and partly emotional. It
may be moral or immoral; pleasurable or
PJ 11 ?,^ 1 •’ f. ra . v , e ? r £>ay. It is the response
of the individual to the underlying thought
of. the artist. Art, per se, succeeds or fails
in proportion to the Rasa which it produces
in the beholder. In itself, Art is merely a
means to and end. Like a pickaxe, it may be
put to a good use or an evil one. It is not
sufficient to please, or- to entertain, or even
to aim at absolute truth. To induce any
emotion for the mere pleasure of feeling it
is worse than useless, in the Hindu view
To feel even such a “good” emotion as com-
passion is not enough. Pity, indulged in for
its own sake, and not as a spur to action,
degrades, and does not unlift. It will per-
haps, be easier for us to grasp the idea under-
lying Rasa if we compare the effect of poetrv
upon our minds with that of melodrama
upon an emotional woman who thoroughly
ejws areally good weep, and then press
the idea further still, and see the same desire
for emotional satisfaction impelling the mor-
bidly-inclined towards the scene of some
atrocious murder. The difference, in the
(Continued on page 3.)


'ace
Your Search for Efficient Firearms will end
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
In considering the choice of a con-
sistent shopping place, you must
consider just what a store gives.
First of all, it must give absolute
value for your money —and then
it must give something more. The
House of Economy comes up to
this standard by giving, not only
absolutely reliable quality—at the
lowest possible prices—but by
offering universally wide assort-
ment and efficient service, also.
YT 45.
Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-Hammerless
Ejector Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel. Choke
Bored Top Lever Action, Nitro Proved, Walnut
Stock, Half Pistol Crip, Splendidly Balanced,
English made throughout. Weight about 61b.
Price £6/5/-
YT 101.
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12-G. Anson & Deeley Pattern
Hammerless D.B. Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt.
Steel Barrels (both choke), Automatic Safety
Bolt, proved for Niti'o Powder, chambered for
2jin. Cartridges, high, hat, dead-level File-cut Bib,
Walnut Heart Stock.
Price £27
YT 100.
Hollis & Sons’ Anson &< Deeley Pattern Ham-
merless D.B. Gun, Treble Bolted Action on the
Cross Bolt principle. Left Choke Bored, Auto-
matic Safety Bolt, Walnut Heart Stock, Half-
Pistol Grip, Deeley-edge Fore-end Fastener.
12-G. 20-G.
Prices £lB/17/6 £25
YT 61.
1. Hollis & Sons’ 12-G. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun,
Treble Bolted Action on the Cross Bolt principle,
Steel Barrels, Left Choke Bore, good Steel Be-
bounding Bar Locks, well-grown Walnut Heart
Stock, Half-Pistol Grip, Snap Fore-end Fastener,
Engine-turned Bib, proved for Nitro Powders.
Price £l2
YT 436.
Hunting Knives, made of finest Sheffield Steel,
Heavy Blade, adapted to sticking and skinning,
in leather sheath.
Prices sin., 8/-; 6in., 8/6; Tin., 9/-
GUN LICENSE ACT.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
To avoid delay when ordering Revolvers
and Pistols a Gun License must be sent
with order. This does not apply to Rifles,
Guns or Ammunition, which may now he
purchased without license.
GUN REPAIRS
In the Repairing of Guns as much skill is
required as in their manufacture. We have
Expert Gunsmiths constantly employed on Re-
pairs, and every appliance most suitable for the
work.
Restocking-, Rejointing and Rebolting
Gun. —This work must not be confused with
the “tightening-” usually applied to loose actions,
which is generally nothing more than a ruinous
hammering of the lumps or body of the gun.
These so-called Repairs are a source of constant
danger to the man who shoots. Guns “tight-
ened” by the “Hammer Method” are generally
found, after firing a few hundred cartridges, to
be worse than before. By our method any loose
Gun can be made as sound and tight at the
Breech as when issued by the Maker. We use
.Joint Pins and Bolts made only from the
Ilighest-gradc Crucible Steel.
Stock Repairing is: carried out without the
use of plates, or disfiguring the Stock in any
way. The Repair, in addition to its durability,
is usually quite invisible, even when the Stock
is completely broken in two places. Our method
leaves the Gufl* with precisely the same feel
and balance. This is .readily recognised as a
most important matter to shooters who have
become accustomed to their Guns.
Stocks Bent or Straightened.—Special
and Difficult Spring Making, New Extrac-
tors, Hammers, Strikers, and Limbs of
Every Description,, Removing Dents and
Bulges, Barrel Browning, Blueing and
Polishing, Correcting Mis-fires, and Slaking
Bins Strike Centre illy.
All our Repairs acre guaranteed, but in order
to get the benefit of! our guarantee sufficient of
the Gun must be stmt for us to test the work.
For instance, if new Strikers are required,
unless the whole Grin is sent we cannot guaran-
tee proper firing, although the Guarantee would
hold against the breakage of the Strikers.
Remember, it is nearly always necessary to send
more than the broken sample when wanting one
“to match,” for obviously the part would not
have broken had. it been correct, and an
incorrect model is not a proper model for us to
work from. The Safest and Best Way is to
send the Whole Gun.
t
Guns for Repairs' should be sent carefully
packed, by Parcel Post or Passenger Train,
freight paid, wiitli a letter of advice stating how
the Gun has b een forwarded, and what Repairs
are needed.
Write for the illustrated “Shooters’ Guide.’
‘A copy will be posted free.
YT 223.
H. & R. Premier Double-action Revolver,
.22 calibre, 7 shot, 3in. barrel. Weight
13oz. Blue or Nickel finish.
Price 50/-
H.
YT 237.
& R. Self-loading (Automatic) Pistol,
.32 (7.65 m/m) calibre. Capacity of maga-
zine, 8 shots, 34in., barrel. Weight 220 z.
Price £5/10/-
*3?
m
d .. J
Ml
YT 361.
Paper and Brass Shell Set, in partitioned box.
comprising Loader, Closer, Re-capper. Shell
Extractor, Powder and Shot Measure,
Cleaning Rod and Implements.
12-G., 16-0., 20-0. Price 10/-
.410-0. Price 12/6
YT 441.
The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Knife is a
real knife, built for real service—sturdy,
efficient and rustless. The keen, hard-
tempered, substantial blade, measuring 4fin.
in length, makes quick work of underbrush
or the toughest job of skinning. Is a pro-
duct of the great cutlery house of Wade and
Butcher, manufacturers of the finest cutlery
for 200 years. A veritable masterpiece of
the knife-maker’s art. Handle of variegated
segments of richly-colored leather, brass
and bakelite, with a nickel-silver hilt and
polished aluminium head. A knife every
hunter and outdoor man may well be proud
to own.
Price 10/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440


A *
w
£
m
rs
m
* » V' :
■
■
:
■
11!
Cleanliness demands
more thanHathing^
HOW EASY and pleasant is
bathing! Now that nearly
every house has the mod-
ern bath-room, external cleanli-
ness is a national habit. But there
is another habit, the habit of inter-
nal cleanliness which is far more
important to your health and
well-being.
Doctors will tell you that internal
cleanliness means keeping the
food waste moving regularly
out of the system. A clogged in-
testinal system is a disease-breeder.
Here start first such ailments as
headaches, bilious attacks and in-
somnia- —each of which takes toll
of your health and vitality. Poi-
sons flood your system. Vital or-
gans are affected. Your power of
resistance is lowered. Health,even
life itself, is threatened. In this
clogging, say intestinal specialists,
lies the primary cause of more
than three-quarters of all illness,
Nui ol
TRADE MARK
For Internal Cleanliness
including the gravest diseases of
life.
Thousands of healthy men and
women have learned to prevent
illness by maintaining internal
cleanliness through the regular
use of Nujol. Nujol is not a laxa-
tive and cannot cause distress,
Nujol prevents intestinal clogg-
ing by lubrication , the method now
employed by medical authorities
throughout the world. Nujol lub-
ricates and softens the food waste
and thus hastens its passage
through and out of the body.
Don’t give disease a start. Take
Nujol as regularly as you brush
your teeth or wash your face.
Nujol is not a medicine. Like pure
water it is harmless. Nujol estab-
lishes the habit of internal clean-
liness —the healthiest habit in
the world.
If you would maintain health,
good looks, and youthful energy,
adopt this habit of internal clean-
liness. Nujol will make every day
brighter and your
enjoyment of life
more keen.
For Sale at all Chemists.
OCffMwL
mm
4fcS
P
wttj
Faulty Elimination
Everywhere physicians are sounding urgent
warnings of the growing menace of faulty
elimination. A health official of one of our
leading cities recently declared that not only
serious bodily diseases but many nervous and
mental ills are founded on clogged intestines.
Too many people are miserable, he states, due
to this condition. They are too tired to begin
the day, nervous, gloomy and apprehensive.
In fact, the continual absorption of poisons
from sluggish intestines may cause the break-
down of the entire system and the early wan-
ing of youth.
Why Physicians Favor
Lubrication
Medical science, through knowledge of the in-
testinal tract gained by X-ray observation and
exhaustive tests, has found at last in lubrica-
tion a means of overcoming faulty elimination.
The gentle lubricant, Nujol, penetrates and
softens the hard food waste. Thus it enables
Nature to secure regular, thorough elimina-
tion. Nujol is not a laxative, and cannot cause
distress. Nujol hastens the rate of flow through
the intestine,preventing intestinal sluggishness.
Nujol is used in leading hospitals and is pre-
scribed by physicians throughout the world
for the relief of faulty elimination in people of
all ages.
Complexion Troubles: Science now knows
that poisons from intestinal sluggishness are
the chief cause of personal unattractiveness.
Carried by the blood they reach every body
cell, the millions of cells that compose the skin,
the roots of the hair and the eyes. No wonder
that through faulty elimination the skin be-
comes sallow, muddy, roughened, blotched or
disfigured with pimples or other blemishes. It
is not strange that the hair loses its sheen and
the eyes become dull.
Nujol should be taken regularly for the com-
plexion. Nujol overcomes, and prevents intes-
tinal sluggishness. It thus keeps the body free
from poisons which are the principal cause of
complexion troubles.
Nujol is the most effective aid to a clear,
healthy, lovely skin.
Elderly People. In youth and perfect health the in-
testine supplies a natural lubricating liquid in sufficient
quantities to soften the food waste and hasten its move-
ment out of the body. In advanced years this lubricant
decreases in quantity. Hence the need for something to
give assistance. The action of Nujol so closely resembles
that of Nature’s lubricant that is especially beneficial to
those in advanced years. Nujol softens the
waste, thus enabling the intestinal muscles
to move it along and out of the body.
Nujol, Grosvenor House, Sydney, N. S.W.
Please send me your 16-page free booklet: “ 1 he
Dangers of Constipation.”
Name
Address . -——


Iffbur Shirts are made of
TUSSO^
7/tey are
better
thanSilh
f/bofcJ
for
4
x.y-
A I if
'S'
*5 ,'ISK
■ l v;:
////
/ ///
S, ,1
LIT,
«s
//// 7'fe >
F* J
IllV:
%7'U
\A ■■
!fl -A
V -,\\ \\\ \. •'
\ $» /
.V 7
£/j\ y| $
'Mj , Vi ,
' ■/%)/' i : {lili A'"f J
\m 4%
Every
Garment
Guaranteed
“TUSSORA” Shirts are Fadeless, and can be
had in Fancy Colored Stripes or Plain Colors.
Whether you want a shirt for “sporting or
everyday wear be sure you get ‘‘TUSSORA.
Obtainable from all Leading Mercers and Drapers.
Hindu view, is one of degree and not of
kind. The Hindu artist aims neithei at
beauty nor at truth. He makes even his
representations of Deity often hideous, th
men may not be led into the tolly of mistak-
ing the image for the reality. He gives his
gods many arms or many heads, not because
lie thinks of them in such a form, but as sym-
bolising the spiritual attributes of power,
knowledge and so forth. A Hindu artist
may deliberately exclude beauty from his
work of art, lest men should make the ratal
mistake of valuing the form rather than
the underlying spiritual conception.
The Japanese view of the purpose ot
poetry is as far removed from the Hindu
conception as it is from the Western. lhe
Hindu method is essentially explanatory.
Evervthing is chronicled, sometimes at exces-
sive length. As far as this aspect of Sans-
crit poetry is concerned, little is left to the
imagination. Hindu poems contain as many
ns 100,000 verses, packed with explanatory
detail. Japanese poetry finds itself adequately
expressed in tiny poems of 31 or even of 17
syllables. A Japanese poem, says Yone
Noguchi, one of its most able and noted ex-
ponents, is
A moth-light playing on reality’s dust.
The Japanese are a diminutive people, and
like to have many familiar things upon. a
tiny scale; their trees and shrubs, for in-
stance, which we might call the Utas and
Hokkus of the vegetable kingdom. The pro-
vince of their poetry is to inspire the imagi-
nation, not to give it expression. There is
nothing explanatory about a Japanese poem.
So little is said in it that the hearer must
virtually reconstruct it in his own mind, and
so become in a sense its creator. The idea
is that he will come by this means to have
almost as intimate an attachment to the
poem as the author himself. The true poet
is therefore one who is a creator of poets.
What will our critics say to all this who
complain that Bernard O’Dowd is not clear?
Noguchi says: “it is my opinion that the
real test for poets is how far they resist their
impulse to utterance.”
Japanese poets love to sing of. silent
things, in the contemplation of which the
soul may learn to realise itself. The moon,
the stars and flowers, and, as Noguchi
quaintly puts it, “a bird or a waterfall for
the noisiest.” “What lam thankful for,”
he says again, “is that Japanese poetry has
never degenerated into mere literature.” For
those who live in poetry there is little need
to express it. It is a bigger thing than. words.
Japanese poetry is an art of suggestion for
those who are susceptible to its influence.
“If you have this quality,” says the Japan-
ese poet, “I will point the way where the
sunlight falls on the laughter of woods and
waters.” Each poem aims at the production
of a mood —a moment of psychological inten-
sity :
To be a poet is to be a flower ;
To de a dancer is to make the singer sing.
Beauty calls to beauty to make itself known
to men. Some of our own mystical poets —
particularly Blake—must have felt them-
selves very much in harmony with this con-
ception, though their method of voicing it
was different. With the Japanese, as with
our own true mystics, beauty is. not. a mere
cultural satisfaction, but something inherent
in things, which may be contacted by all
upon the inducement of the right psychologi-
cal mood. The aim of the Japanese poet is
to suggest a thought by means of which such
a mood may be attained. He knows full
well that the actual attainment must be
achieved by each man for himself. If we
have not developed this power within our-
selves the most sublime poetry will leave us
untouched.
MARY E. WILKINSON.
Asceticism Made Hideous
Raphael Sabatini has written an account
of the most terrible incident in the whole
ghastly history of mankind : Torquemada and'■
the Spanish Inquisition (Stanley Hall and
Co.: Angus and Robertson) ; and the man
who can read it and still retain his belief in
the godlike nature of his fellow-man has yet
to be born.
Tomas de Torquemada, Dominican monk
and Prior of the Holy Cross, was born in
1420 of a learned and priestly family. At
that time Spain was beginning to rumble
with religious borborygmi, and naturally the
Jews, being the only really clever and sav-
ing people in the world at that time, were
accused of being robbers and capitalists.
Torquemada became confessor to Queen Isa-
bella, wife of Ferdinand of Aragon, who, for
all that Sabatini seems romantically to
admire her, is generally thought to have been
a fanatical and vindictive sort of woman;
the better horse of a pair which did rather
more harm than good to Spain, although
they did send Columbus on his voyage of
discovery and ultimately turned the Jews out
of Spain—much to the loss of that indolent
country—leaving a legacy of hate behind
them.
Torquemada awoke to the fact that, the
Jews having crucified Christ, every member
of the accursed race should be burned in
expiation, and he induced the Queen to allow
him to accept from the Pope the position of
Grand Inquisitor. Previously Innocent 111.
had established a glorious Inquisition, which,
though indeed noteworthy—for had it not
massacred the Albigenses?—yet failed in its
duty towards the Jews of Spain, for it
allowed them to flaunt their ill-gotten gains
while godly Spaniards walked about in rags
owing to their own indolence. Thus the
power of money combined with a horrible
asceticism to form the most ruthless engine
of persecution that has ever been upon this
earth. To go through its whole history
would make a story as repulsive as the life
of the crowned lunatic Ivan the Terrible;
it would really be a sort of blubbering bellow-
drama like a modern Italian opera. It was
literally true that any perfectly innocent man
might at any moment find himself seized,
and the next thing that his friends would
see of him was that he walked gloomily
attired in a hideous sanhenito in a proces-
sion of other perfectly innocent men and
women that invariably ended in the stake,
after all modes of torture had been applied
to him to wring lies out of his tortured
mouth. The lurid account of the Spanish In-
quisition given in Voltaire’s “Candide” was
not one whit over-drawn ; and the evil spirit
of the fanatical Torquemada enthralled
Europe until the Nineteenth Century.
Sabatini, quoting from contemporary
authorities, and endeavoring to be as fair as
lie can, gives a full account of the method
of procedure, with a literal translation ol
the instructions to the inquisitorcs issued
by Torquemada himself, and the methods 01.
torture employed by them in the gloomy dun-
geons in which they examined their patients.
Were they the greatest criminals unhung,
or as innocent as the babe unborn, Torque-
mada had them either way, for lie devised
methods of twisting their replies into a con-
fession of guilt. That the agonised people
ever put up with it seems incredible. -Lhey
made many attempts to break loose from
the spell, but, the Pope, the Queen and reli-
gion combining together to lash them, they
were powerless. Once a conspiracy was
formed, headed by a certain Don Susan, to
murder the Inquisitors, but_ Don Susan s
daughter, a very lovely girl, in love with a
Christian, betrayed them; the conspirators
were burned, and the girl, maddened by re-
morse, went from one lover to another trying
to find rest for her soul until she died , the
mistress of a grocer, and left instructions
in her will that her skull was to be nailed
over the door of her house.
I give a little of the sort of nonsense for
which many a Jew was burned. It is told
by one Martinez, parish priest:—
The Jews kidnapped a little four-year-old boy
named Juan, and flogged him. After 5500 lashes the
little boy began to cry. “Why are you crying, boy i
asked a Jew, in amazement. “I am crying because 1
have received five lashes more than my Divine
Master!” said little Juan, surprisingly, for the legend
was that Christ had only received 5495 ! . .
Then they crucified him and a Jew made an incision
in his left side and “roked” about among his vitals
for the heart. .
“Jew,” said this astonishing little hero, if you
are seeking for rnv heart you will find it on my other
side.” for the little boy knew that he had transposed
viscera.
And they believed this rubbish, and many
thousands of Jews were burned on the evi-
dence of similar nonsense! Finally, owing
largely to the eloquence of the fanatical Tor-
quemada, who was confessor to the Queen,
Spain expelled the whole brood, and thereby
ruined herself for all time.
Finally Torquemada died, full of years and
honor, at the age of 75, and still lies at
peace with his God so far as we shall ever
know. In old age he was a martyr to gout,
and one hopes to an enlarged prostate,
which would represent, in the absence of
surgical treatment, the nearest approach to
Hell that man could devise. Surely the in-
creasing savagery of his “instructions” . as
he grew older represented the increasing
mental torture caused by the arteries becom-
ing thickened with his gout! But one thinks
that possibly, if he had not always been so
ascetic —if occasionally a naughty girl had
sat upon his knee in his youth—he might
not have become so fiendish in his old age.
But. then, that would have been wicked.
This is the most painfully absorbing book
that I have ever read.
c. Mel.
Archer Sums Up
William Archer, about the most repre-
sentative of English critics, has _ embodied
his opinions of plays and players in a book
of 400 pages, The Old Drama and the New.
Now in his 68th year, Archer has been
writing about the drama (incidentally, he
has written two or three plays himself) for
nearly half a century. His translations of
Ibsen, particularly his verse renderings of
“Brand” and “Peer Gynt,” show fine scholar-
ship as well as insight; altogether he is the
sort of man whose knowledge of the theatre
makes his opinions worth while._ And he
has an interest for Australians in the fact
that his father was Agent-General for
Queensland about 60 years ago, while other
members of the family have performed many
services for the northern State.
“The Old Drama and the New” brings
the position down to the beginning of last
year. It opens with the early Elizabethans.
Its sweep, therefore, is fairly wide. One of
the really pleasant things about its writer
•—though it robs the book, to some extent,
of the element of surprise—is his evident
determination to give the new men credit in
their lifetime. He is none of your destruc-
tive critics; unlike Addison (if the Pope line
is not libellous) he neither sneers nor teaches
the rest to sneer. He gives a lot of space
and a lot of appreciation to such utterly dif-
ferent and contrasted people as Pinero,
Shaw, Barrie, Wilde, Haddon Chambers,
Galsworthy, Granville Barker and the Irish-
man Synge—this last being spoken of as a
rare genius. He can find virtue of a theatri-
cal sort even in Grundy, Robertson (author
of “Caste”) and Henry Arthur Jones.
He declares that “since the begin-
ning of the century a greater number
and a greater variety of plays have
been produced in the English language than
in any other.” That is a statement worth
remembering when the alleged decadence of
the drama is harped on. Further, he apolo-
gises for not mentioning “quite a score of
writers who have done notable work—far
above the level of the best that was
being produced 30 years ago.” So there
are “also rans” who would have been giants
if they had started earlier. Much of his
book is taken up with reviews of the Eliza-
bethans, and he maintains, in opposition to
Swinburne, Lamb and most of the other
critics, that with the exception of Shaks-
peare they have been greatly over-rated.
Webster’s “Duchess of Malfi” he cannot
abide —though it has been gushed over by
most critics since Hazlitt, and particularly
lauded by so sensitive a soul as Rupert
Brooke. “So long as people behaved in a
sufficiently violent and sanguinary way,”
writes Archer, “Elizabethan audiences did
not insist on their having any particular
motive for so doing.” He protests that the
coarseness which marked the whole lot of
them —Ford, Massinger, Beaumont, Fletcher,
Middleton, Ben Jonson and co. —is not re-
deemed, or rendered bearable, by poetry, live
interest or dramatic possibility. He thinks
the real brilliance of Shakspeare has thrown
a lustre over them not deserved.
His view of the Restoration drama is what
might have been expected. “The very
essence of social comedy is to present a cer-
tain criticism of life. Restoration comedy
acutely realises this; and its criticism of
life, whether explicit or implied in action, is
stupid, nauseous and abominable beyond
anything else that can be found in the
world’s dramatic literature.” In the prece-
dence list —a rather appalling list—he agrees
with most reviewers in putting Wycherley
first, and his play “The Country Wife” first
among the first, or rather most outrageous
among the outrageous. It is, as Macaulay
pointed out, protected from criticism, as the
skunk is protected from approach, by the
nature of the thing itself.
Emerging into the present day, Archer
finds a lot that it evidently pleases him to
write about. Two of the men, whose work
is now being starred in Australia are Pinero
and Galsworthy. You would expect that a
man who has soaked in Ibsen, and who con-
siders Shaw “the most powerful intellect at
present expressing itself in dramatic form,
not only in England but in the world,” would
not have much time for Pinero. But no ;
he finds two of the Pinero plays—“ The
Thunderbolt” and “Mid-Channel”—“above
criticism” and “perfect things of their kind,”
“Mid-Channel” is his favorite, and he holds
up to ecstatic admiration (and also quotes
in full) the scene in which the middle-aged
Blundell, after separating from his wife, is
interviewed by the society adventuress, Mrs.
Annerley, with whom he has had an affair,
and who suggests that he might now riiarry
her—after certain divorce preliminaries have
been gone through. Archer admits that
Pinero has “not shaken off certain limita-
tions of thought and style” (a slight con-
cession to those of us who find the Tan-
querays and Ebbsmiths impossible victims of
an out-of-date environment), but stoutly
asserts that “in so far as one man can be
called the regenerator of the English drama,
that man is Arthur Pinero.” Of Wilde you
are told that he is “the most exquisite stylist
that has written for the stage since Con-
greve,” and that his wit is “copious, auda-
cious and occasionally profound.”
Between a writer like Wilde and a writer
like Galsworthy there is a great gulf fixed,
but the catholic taste of Archer is able to
bridge it. He declares “The Silver Box,”
“Strife” and “Justice” to be “three of the
finest plays of our time,” and “The Skin
Game,” which lately had a fair run in Mel-
bourne, “a little commonplace in texture, but
of extraordinary theatrical power.” From
all of which it; is evident that his 50 years’
watching of plays, and his lifetime spent at
the centre of the world’s stage, has not soured
the veteran, nor converted him to the belief
that the lamp of drama is any dimmer than
it used to be.
A. J. B.
“A.D.M.”: T. Jasper in “Genius and Cruelty’’
(R.P. 31/7/’24) writes; “Of European nations, Eng-
land, France and Germany have been of late years the
most prolific in the production of great minds,” and
again: “On the other hand nations such as Russia,
Spain, Norway and Portugal, noted for the severity
of their laws or their climatic conditions, have shown
themselves somewhat scanty in creative capacity.”
At a time when Spain was noted for the severity of
her laws she produced Cervantes. Norway, with a
population very little larger than Australia’s, has
given the world Ibsen and a few other writers of
high standing. And apart from her painters and
musicians Russia has Tolstoy, Gorky, Turgenev,
Tchekhov, Kurprin, Dostoieffsky, Merejowski; and Rus-
sia has a very small educated population. In a dis-
cussion with Dr. Brandes regarding Russia, Ibsen
happened to mention “the brilliant oppression there.
On Dr. Brandes expressing astonishment at the use of
such a phrase, Ibsen said, “Only think of the glorious
love of liberty it produces. Russia is one of the few
countries of the earth where men still love liberty
and make sacrifices for her. For this reason the
country stands so high both in poetry and art.”
Which seems to suggest that one genius, at any rate,
would not have agreed with Mr. Jasper that cruel
conditions do not make fertile ground for the germin-
ation of genius.
“Iford”: Hugh Medi ae tells (R.P. 21/8./’24) that
Fitzgerald’s “Omar Khayyam” remained hidden from
Australians for so long that “Lionel Lindsay’s dis-
covery of it in Queensland was accounted an event of
the greatest importance” among poetry-lovers of that
era. The date he assigns is “towards the end of the
eighteen-nineties.” I can well remember my first
taste of Omar; it was in 1896, when extracts from
the poem appeared in the same Red Page on which
Hugh McCrae writes. But many Australians must
have been familiar with it long before then ; I once
heard Professor David say that his acquaintance with
the rolling quatrains datdd from his undergraduate
days at Oxford, at the end of the ’seventies.
“Cartot”: Hidden in the archives of some of the
South American republics, particularly Chile and
Peru, there is historical material of great value
about early-day navigators who came to our coasts
In Lima there are complete journals of the voyages
made by Spanish seafarers to Australia, New Guinea
and the Solomons between the middle of the sixteenth
century and the close of the seventeenth. Many of
these were compiled by persons who were actually
on board the cessels. Of some of these documents
there exist no copies, and their contents are always
in danger of being lost entirely. It is probably too
much to suggest that the Federal Government should
send abroad a Historical Commission, as the U.S.
Government has several times done, to obtain valu-
able material %r the country which it most con-
cerns. But Private Enterprise might do something, if
such a thing exists in this connexion.
“0.K.M.”: “Zanthus” (R.P. 7/8/’24) asserts dog-
matically, as a counter to my attempt to vindicate
Cook as the foremost figure in Australian discovery,
that the South Land which Cook set out to find was
not Australia at all, since Tasman had in 1042
“sailed clean round Australia, and so showed that
it could not be connected with the great continent”
-of the uncharted antipodean seas. If Tasman cir-
cumnavigated Nova Hollandia, and “Zanthus” can
produce documentary evidence thereof, he might pre-
sent it and destroy what he apparently regards as a
popular error, viz., that Tasman’s two voyages of
1642 and 1644 embraced no more than the southern
coast of the Speck and the north-western sea-
board of the mainland respectively. No one contends
that Cook discovered this country ; the point is that
he rediscovered it and advertised it.
— ♦
The Pocket Oxford Dictionary (Oxford University
Press). Another of the admirable series of Oxford
dictionaries compiled by the Fowlers and based on
the monumental Oxford English Dictionary. Wita
over a thousand pages it will, however, be rough on
any pocket. The price (3s. 6d.) has far more con-
sideration for the tailor.
Sanctions • A Frivolity, by Ronald A. Knox (Meth-
uen). Father Knox is one of Britain’s recognised
clerical wits. He is the man who pictured himsejt
arriving in Heaven and saying, “Well, and now
where’s Pickwick?” “Sanctions,” which is an
account, in novel-form, of a fashionable house-party
in Scotland, is full of such quips. The guests talk
with incredible brilliancy and good humor of reli-
gion, but the R.C. ones always win. This, is to De
expected, since the book is really an elaborate tract.


H
; <^!S5?55^ t - - ~i9SSS!%
mmmmmmmim
| \ ’ ~f
t=72E™3
s
|T““1
ft .
IM
pi |\ \m\\\\\
-
iprr’w* 1
V
wmm
-, ■ \ :'
.
v-**
R
I! ’ v
•w
»;*•!
a
■
i BSImP
*«•
■ ? - &■ Jpy. / 7 **“"*
u
\ wwms r -■ ■* -• y:
.1)1.11;aBMrl'
Mmmmmm j*Pw
.
Hi
■ »>
■
«>*■»
4 ' .i.v. ■
m
Economic Stores Ltd., Perth, Western Australia.
Architects : Messrs, Hobbs, Smith & Forbes .
Contractor: C. Arnott, Esq -
Reinforced Entirely on the B.R.C. System.
Concrete Reinforcements
B.R.C. fabric is unequalled for wall and slab
reinforcement, being easily and accurately
placed in position, and by virtue of the welded
joint minimising cracks due to shrinkage and
temperature stresses.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861.
Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . .J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND. .A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston St., Wellington.
;Wi
Bffiffiffl
m
Fabric
1
-X


Besides building complete motor cars and trucks, General Motors produces parts,
accessories and equipment which contribute to the merit of fine cars the world over.
Used by the world’s motor industry
SATISFACTORY performance by a
motor car depends largely upon the
quality of the parts, accessories and
equipment used in its construction.
The General Motors Corporation has
within it a score of divisions which spe-
cialize in the production of essential
parts and accessories for the cars and
trucks which it builds.
So high is the quality of these acces-
sory products of General that
they are recognized as standard by the
entire motor industry and are used on
cars the world over.
Included in these General Motors ac-
cessory products are electrical starting,
lighting and ignition systems, horns,
steering gears and wheels, radiators, ball
bearings and roller bearings, wheels and
rims, differential gears, speedometers
and spark plugs.
As well known as Buick, Cadillac,
Chevrolet and the other General Mo-
tors cars are Delco and Remy electrical
equipment, Harrison radiators, Fisher
bodies, Klaxon horns, Hyatt roller bear-
ings, New Departure ball bearings and
A-C spark plugs —all products of Gen-
eral Motors, and all contributing to the
merit of other fine cars.
By co-ordinating the purchasing pow-
er of its car and accessory divisions, in-
terchanging their specialized knowledge
and experience, and providing limitless
research facilities General Motors is
able to build the utmost value into each
of its products—be it a complete limou-
sine or a tiny ball bearing, a huge truck
or a spark plug. And so throughout the
world the phrase, Product of General
Motors, has become a double warranty
of high quality at low cost.
Further information regarding General Motors may he had hy writing to
General Motors Export Company, M.VJ.0.0.F. Building, Castlcrcagk
Street, Sydney; or General Motors Export Company, B our Ice House,
Bourse and Russell Streets, Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick . Cadillac . Chevrolet . Oakland
New York . London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay
Sydney » hlelbourne • Wellington » hfladrid ■ Johannesburg
Oldsmobile . GMC Trucks
Calcutta . Shanghai . Manila . Honolulu
Mexico City . Sao Paulo . Buenos Aires


Support
Australia
But/
Australian— Made
Goods
New Australian Suitings
at GOWINGS’
.You’ll Get Better Value
That Australian Suitings are equal in value to the world’s best is proved
by these at Gowings’. Both in appearance and wearing quality they
compare favorably with the products of any other country, and the prices
are exceptionally moderate.
Tailored to your measure by Gowings’ in accordance with the highest
standards of the tailoring craft, you’ll have a suit you’ll be proud to
wear, and also the satisfaction of knowing you’re helping Australia by
patronising Australian industry.
All-Wool
Australian Tweeds
Sturdy, attractively patterned and hard
wearing. Stripes, Herringbones and Diag-
onals in Light and Dark Greys and
Browns.
To Your Measure
£5/5,
All-Wool
Australian Saxonys
Wonderfully soft in texture. In popular
designs, including Herringbones and
Stripe effects, Fawns and Greys, also a
fine range of new Brown shades.
To Your Measure
mi-
All-Wool
Australian Worsteds
Smart, shape-retaining, hard-wearing—ex-
cellent for that new Spring Suit. In Pin-
heads, Small Checks and Stripe Effects.
To Your Measure
Other Qualities, £7/7/-, £S/£S/-, £9/0/-.
£66-
All-Wool
Australian Serges
Fine Twill Serge of excellent texture,
guaranteed fast dye and will not shine
easily—a suiting for every occasion.
To Your Measure
Other quality Australian Serges of dif-
ferent weights and textures, £5/5/-,
£7/7/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-.
£6/6/-
SEND FOR PATTERNS—Posted Free on request. Carriage Paid on all goods throughout Australia.
Gowing' Bros. Ltd.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian-Made Goods,
486 George Street, Sydney. Branches 304 and 454 George Street.


VENUS
V PENCILS
r 7Ae> largest selling
quality pencil
in the world
:
11 degrees Black
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
for ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere
Ip-ryu'-E' 12 Beautiful Bound SKETCHES
* XL* XL* 0 f London’s Historic Buildings,
Monuments and Bridges, drawn by a celebrated
artist, with the 17 grades of Venus Pencils, posted
on receipt of 6d. to cover postage. Address J. A.
Burke, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Get Rid Of Dandruff
By Shampooing With
V
Cuticura Soap
At 1 night lightly anoint the scalp, espe-
cially spots of dandruff and itching, with
Cuticura Ointment. Next morning sham-
poo with a suds of Cuticura Soap and
hot water. This treatment does much
for dandruff and itching scalps, the cause
of thin and falling hair.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3t1„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W
§3fiS§r"* Try our new Shaving Stick.
No more blunt
razors
&
<?c
With the aid of a Per-
forated Hone you can
put a keen edge on the
dullest razor in a few
minutes.
A few strokes every
week or so, and the
razor is kept in per-
fect cutting condition.
No barber’s skill or experience
is necessary. “It’s all in the
holes” —they absolutely dispose
of wire-edge.
THE PERFORATED HONE
lasts a lifetime. All Hardware
Merchants, 5/-, or Post Free
from us for 5/6.
If it doesn’t make your razor shave
to your satisfaction return it to us
within 30 days and get your money
back.
THE PERFORATED HONE CO,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
4]
IS&j * ,i*'
m
11
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
DR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless—
Waterproof—Permanent!
All Chemists.
Make every lb.
of coal count.
TRADE
, . . MARK
dfc
MECHANICAL
BOILER DRAUGHT
The efficiently-operated Power Plant must get the utmost
out of every ounce of fuel used. “Sirocco” Meehan cal
Boiler Draught assures the thorough combustion of
so that the absolute limit of power is extractec
every pound of coal. Increases the steaming capacity
of boilers, and abolishes black smoke. Full particulars
on request from any of our Agents.
DAVIDSON & CO., Ltd., BELFAST.
.... . - AGENTS i
HEW SOUTH WALES—Fenier «r Dickinson. Ltd-
Royal Exchange, Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd-
-100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND— Engineering Supply Company ol
Australia, Ltd., BRISBANE**
VICTORIA—Fy vie & Stewart. 360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
WEST AUSTRALIA— AcUroyd-Stuarts, Ltd., PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND—John Chambers & Son, U&,
WELLINGTON.
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Riding Trousers
Ready 15/6 to wear
Months of mustering and general station
work is what these Belgian Saddle -Twist
Riding Trousers will give. They re built to
give it, and, without chafing or losing their
color. Stockman’s cut, with belt loops, side
or cross pockets; easy to wash. In grey or
dark fawn. PRICE 15/6
Lowe’s
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
STORES ALL OYER TOWN.
To
r
Uncle Toby’s Oats is the greatest food that
grows concentrated nourishment in fact, that
costs only 3d. to feed four persons.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by Clifford Love & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Uncle Toby’s
Oats.
piub tkil
= ® &W 2
&
\m
mm
B
m
mil
*
il
fe
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, IZ/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tramps.
The grey old tramps come thudding through
The waters of the Strait;
They never need to hurry, for
They always come in late.
The skipper stands upon the bridge
And gazes out to sea.
He’s very far away from home,
Where every man would be;
And, left alone with his own soul,
Fear plucks at memory.
The goodly lover I had once
Sailed forth in one of these;
It went down in a little storm
That scarcely roughed the seas.
So when I hear the grey old tramp
Come thudding through the Strait,
I kneel and ask the Lord to give
One ship a fairer fate.
N.S.W.
S. S. SEVERN.
The Earth Jade.
The pine-trees now are grey as owls,
The chill airs whine and creep;
The grass grows pale, the gum-tree scowls.
The blue acacias weep ;
The hairy spider on the rose
Mopes with his web half-spun ;
The whistling birds are glum as crows,
And stop their cheery din.
In fact, Earth’s dull when my Lord Sun
Goes in !
Brown crickets chirp, the greys turn green,
The staid pines nod and kiss;
The wattles, dressed in silver, lean
To tell the grass their bliss;
The spider turns his spinning wheel
To build his airy den ;
The madrigals of blackbirds peal,
The hidden star-folk shout;
For Earth is sweet and gracious when
My Lord comes out!
VICTORIA.
LLEWELLYN LUCAS.
The Ringers.
The studded door is arched and old
And shuts out w: rmth and day;
The belfry steps are worn and cold
And shadows in the corners fold
Their shadow hands and pray.
Throw wide the door and climb the stair,
Each step on hollowed stone.
The belfry loft is high and bare ;
The circled bell-ropes hanging there
Move, by the chill draught blown.
And presently the ringers glide
Each to his place and stand.
Their leader glances round with pride,
Nods to the ringer at his side ;
And all the listening band
Bend on the ropes. The sound comes slow
From far and far away—
Ghosts of sweet melodies below,
Changes and chimes of long ago
With phantom echoes play.
A youth there is with merry eye,
At the fifth rope he stands:
He glances at the window high
And sees a song-lark in the sky
And laughs, with gripping hands.
The bridegroom, in his wedding peal,
Rings blithe and debonair,
Sure of his love, of future weal;
And from the vaults the dead men steal
To watch him, unaware.
A slim, pale spectre lurks beside
The big bell-ringer strong—
The spirit of a sweet young bride —
Her longing eyes are fixed and wide;
The grave has held her long.
The greybeard leads by word and look,
The ghostly bell-ropes sway;
But in the stair-liead’s gloomy nook
Death, grim and stark, with open book,
Calls one by one away.
One up, one down the belfry steep!
I ring my change and pass,
And join the shadows as they creep
Or lay me down in earth to sleep
Beneath the churchyard grass. •
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
Panache.
Panache with silver on her hair,
Panache with silver on her feet!
Divinely careless of her youth,
Panache is dancing down the street; ■
And she is lissom in the wind
And cool as dewdrops in the sun,
For Panache plays a merry game,
And plays for fun.
Panache has Heaven in her eyes
And Hell between her scarlet lips;
A dangerous fire is always there
To scorch the soul of him who sips.
But who would cry if he be hurt
By such a fierce unconscious flame?
For Panache knows that Pan’s a fool,
And life’s a game.
Who plays with fire must needs get burnt-
You shrug and tie the bandage up!
Panache is just a heady wine—
Who would not drink from such a cup?
But if Panache has broken you
And all your heart is in her hand.
She’ll nod and smile and pass you by,
Nor understand.
She is the slender stuff of dreams,
The moment’s song, the fleeting kiss.
Panache is far too frail to know
The tragic bitterness of bliss.
I had. not learnt,_the lilting game,
The silver-footed passion-play
Till I was burnt by gay Panache
But yesterday.
maoriland.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


9
m
m *
*4 -■
in
1
■
m
I
s' ■!
j. j
n
ii
r 7/
b-*' 8
'
"7
■
■iiii
■ .
i
a m
mm
VM ;
wmbbks
IMlllill
.
■
HI
H
.
■
:
■ IWSIIH
/


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2325.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
THE SHOWMAN.
“The Democratic candidate for the United States Presidency (Mr. J. W. Davis) boldly revived the League of Nations as a popular issue. ‘I do not believe that America’s
entry into the League can occur until the common judgment of American people is ready for that step. We awaited the ripening of this judgment before entering the war. I
am content to wait until it speaks for the agencies of peace.’”
UNCLE SAM (to League of Nations): “No, girlie, I can’t adopt you, but you can play leads with my Election Troupe.”


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Piinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
00., 214 George Street, Svdney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUE SORT HERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overshas; 12 months. £1 10s.: 6
months, 15s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
17ie contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
17)e Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
Inn n °t excee ding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or newspaper Clippings. All communications
mil be regarded as strictly confidential.
1 he Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current, event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London Is
Ij. St. C. Grondona, Australia House, Strand.
W.C.3. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/8 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Grace church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hbl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 V’est Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and Jt2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West f/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley Neivs Co., 70b Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.- — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Raw a.—Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.b.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: .} to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional boz.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: bos. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1924.
THE LEMMONISED HISTORY OF
THE WORLD.
“That no article regarding or extolling wars, battles
or heroes of past wars be printed in the State school
papers or books, and that peace and international
brotherhood be inculcated in the minds of all child-
ren attending State schools.” —Labor planlc.
The new Victorian Government has installed
Lemmon as Minister of Education, and that
faithful but ordinary man has issued instruc-
tions that this plank shall be got into work-
ing order as early and as thoroughly as pos-
sible. If the children, he says, are brought
up to ignorance of war and to faith in peace
and brotherhood this will be a world of peace.
And it might be so if other people’s children
were similarly brought up, and if other
nations didn’t upset the early training by
roping their 18-year-old boy into the army
and teaching him war, and if some few
alterations were made in human nature. Sup-
pose, by any chance, the Prendeegast
Cabinet, or any one like it in Victoria or
elsewhere, contrived to dig itself in as the
Queensland Ministry has done, and stuck to
its creed, the results should be notable. On
the Theodore precedent it would already
have trained a generation and a half of child-
ren in ignorance of almost everything of im-
portance which history teaches, and the
State would be flooded with educational books
from which education was almost omitted,
and be almost empty of any other kind. The
system of suppression would be extended to
the university and to private schools, or at
least a strenuous effort would naturally be
made in that direction, and it would be only
natural if the Index Expurgatorius and Index
Ltbrorum Prohibitorum followed, to prevent
the minds of students and readers of all
ages being corrupted.
* * * . *
Labor’s educational plank covers plenty of
ground. To effectually shut out “the heroes
of past wars” it would be necessary to shut
out the wars, even if they were wars of
liberation based on the noblest motives, and
that would involve shutting out the causes
which made these wars inevitable. As an
instance, the greatest event of last century,
and almost the only great event which carried
with it no taint of crime, was the making
of united Italy. These are the principal cir-
cumstances which an Italian Lemmon,
endeavoring to teach the next generation to
be good and great, would have to leave out:
The outstanding features of much-divided Italy
about 1858 were that the microscopic kingdom of
Sardinia was 50 years ahead even of the average of
Western Europe in freedom, good government and
enlightenment, while the rest of the Peninsula was,
in the main, 10 centuries behind. It was a saying
in the South that “To think is to be suspect, to
speak is ruin, to act is death.” The Neapolitan
prisons were crowded with everybody of importance
who was known or believed to aim at some measure
of freedom, except those who had died and made
room for others. Some of them had been chained
to common convicts for 30 years, and still lived.
Outside, thousands of people, who were not exactly
suspect but looked as if they might become so, were
under orders not to move more than a small and
fixed number of miles from their homes under pain
of joining the prison gangs. The power of the
police was unlimited except in dealing with organised
crime, and all sentences were indeterminate. When
a petty offender had finished his 30 days or so he
remained under lock and key until the “force” re-
ported that he was a safe person to be at large.
Yet an institution was proof against the law —•
the Camorra, a vast and wonderful secret society,
which levied tribute on all and sundry under pain
of violence or death, taking Id. out of the cab-
man’s fare and M. out of the price of a cabbage.
It was one of the props of the throne. The Papal
States were sometimes alleged to be worse than
Naples, and the people were too crushed for revolt
without outside aid.
The Lemmons would presumably omit all
this. If they didn’t, and couldn’t mention
war, how would they explain why the con-
ditions no longer exist? And as the war
couldn’t be mentioned, two men would have
to be completely wiped out of the Lemmonised
history of the world —Garibaldi and Cial-
dini who, except as great soldiers, have no
record at all. With them would go two
dozen or so respected but less important
names. Cavotjr, who organised armies and
planned campaigns with one hand, and with
the other wrote despatches which fooled hos-
tile Europe till hostile Europe missed the
’bus, might get a place by reason of his
domestic improvements; but Victor Eman-
uel, shorn of his story as a man of war,
would be an ordinary king who couldn’t be
trusted too freely with his neighbor’s wife.
One way and another Lemmonised history
would make Italy, from 1815 to 1860, prac-
tically a blank page.
* * * *
This is only one illustration out of many
possibles. History will look different some-
how with Wallace and Bruce and Joan
of Arc and William Tell and Kosciusko
and Washington and Miltiades and a
thousand other inspiring figures out of it.
In fact, under the. new regime, if it comes
off, there will be little history left, and not
much Old Testament, and what there is
will be too dull to be read. But if
the ground can be cleared in the
manner proposed there will begin to be room
for the self-edited records of the Lemmons
and the Prendergasts, just as there is more
room for the thistle when the cedar is cut
down, and for lack of the odious comparison
it looks a bigger thistle. The great practical
use of historical records is to make it un-
necessary for any community to make the
same ruinous blunder over again in each
generation in order to know that it is a
blunder. They help to show that unlimited
paper money, basic wage for the unemployed
and the _ won’t-works, the mixing of human
colors (in the name of brotherhood or any
other name), disarmament and other blatant
nostrums of the day have had a long and
disastrous run; that Communism has been
experimented with from the time when it led
to Ananias being wiped off the slate to
the retreat of the tattered New Australians
from Paraguay and later, always with no
success; and that Liberty is easily lost, either
to an oligarchy of nobles or to one of shabby,
vulgar, intolerant city demagogues, and is
not easily regained. Naturally, the shabby
demagogues who preach peace combined with
unrelenting class war have no use for the
printed lives of great apostles of freedom.
The Australian generation reared under the
Lemmon system, if the system takes root
and lasts long enough, will at least be cal-
culated to excite interest abroad. Its igno-
rance of Australia’s fighting record may
attract little notice, but when it asks what
and where the Great War was, who
Napoleon might chance to be, or what race
Cromwell was entered for, the shout will
go round that a new aboriginal tribe has
come to town.
NORTH AUSTRALIAN CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO PROGRESS.
During a recent visit to Queensland Henry
Jones, the Tasmanian jam-manufacturer,
referred to the sugar industry in terms
which must have astonished those southern
writers who have regarded him as one of its
unrelenting opponents. Addressing the
Mackay Chamber of Commerce, he said that,
while the people in the north were benefiting
from the growing of cane, the people in the
south were reaping their harvest through
the settlement of the sugar country in
accordance with the White Australia policy.
Recognising this the southrons “approved of
the embargo on foreign sugar, and acknow-
ledged that it was no use expecting to hold
Australia under white-labor conditions with-
out giving the grower sufficient protection to
enable him to produce his sugar and still
live” ; and that correctly states the attitude
of all good White Australians. For his own
part. Jones thought that “it would be to
the benefit of all concerned to adopt a sys-
tem of stabilisation, covering a period of
years, so that the grower would know what
was ahead of him,” aud that, “to assist stabil-
isation, the southern fruitgrowers and jam-
makers manufacturing for export should be
represented on the Sugar Tribunal.” It is
not a bad idea.
* * * *
From the White Australia point of
view there is no disputing the import-
ance of an industry which supports
5500 farmers and from 25,000 to 30,000
wage-earners in the exposed North-East,
and which can be extended in the same
quarter as the demand for sugar and its
derivatives grows. But those engaged in the
business have other claims on the nation
whose vanguard they are in a sense. Being
prosperous, though not excessively so (the
president of the State Arbitration Court
was express on this point in rejecting a
wages claim), they buy manufactured goods
and cargo space on a considerable scale.
Next to wheat and hay, sugar-cane is the
Commonwealth’s most valuable crop. This
year’s yield is expected to be worth
£10,500,000, or three times the value of the
Australian gold output for the latest re-
corded year, and probably 50,000 tons of
sugar will be available for export. To pro-
vide against losses on foreign sales £1 per
ton is being withheld from the price (£27
per ton) fixed by the Tribunal for raw
sugar of standard quality. Bast year, when
there _was also an exportable surplus, no
deduction was necessary, the world price
soaring above £27 per ton for a time. Had
the Hughes Government been more liberal
with the growers when it assumed control
of the industry in 1915 and paid £l5
per ton for raw sugar, which skimpy
Price ruled till 1917, production would
doubtless have overtaken consumption
long ago. In that case there would have
been no necessity to buy feverishly in Java
and Mauritius at up to £9O per ton, and lose
about £2,000,000 in the process. It was
because of those foreign purchases
(4(5,947 tons, averaging £37 19s. per ton,
whereas 1,412,000 tons were bought in
Queensland at an average of £25 17s. ild. per
ton) that the community had to pay 6d. a
pound retail for a period of three years.
Even so, it has fared better since 1915 than
the consumers in many other countries.
►Senator Ogden, now visiting S’Africa with
the Parliamentary delegation, is recorded to
have expressed his astonishment at black-
grown sugar being no cheaper in that country
than white-grown sugar in the Common-
wealth. According to the Queensland Sugar
Board, the ruling retail prices in March were
sid. a pound in S’Africa, the same in Canada,
(d m Britain, 91 cents (4|d.) in the U.S.A.,
and 4|d. in Maoriland, as against 41d.
here. During the 6d.-a-pound period in this
country the U.S. cash purchaser was paying
Is. 3d., the British Is. 4d. and the French
Is. 6d.
.** * »
And m addition to 300,000 tons of sugar
which cannot be intercepted by foreign war-
ships or rendered prohibitively dear by a
post-war shortage of shipping, the cane crop
yields from 10 to 12 million gallons
or molasses. About half of this quan-
tity j s , variousl y sold for household
use, fed to stock, and converted into
rum, industrial alcohol and manure.
Hitherto, unfortunately, there has been
no sale for the other moiety, which has
accordingly been burnt or otherwise de-
coyed ; but before long this waste product
will be increasingly required for industrial
alcohol, which the rum distillers aim at
producing. A Commonwealth factory has
been established for the same purpose ; and in
that factory yeast and other ferments are
made out of molasses, together with the motor
spirit now used in the Government cars.
Hitherto, moreover, the tough cane fibre, or
meg as, of which there are enormous residues
at every mill, has been consumed merely as
fuel, for which its value is small. But a
group of American manufacturers has solved
the problem by turning the stuff into the
building material known as celotex. So
great is the demand for this article, which
is light and durable and unattractive to white
ants, that the U.S. Celotex Co. cannot fulfil
orders, and with the view of establishing a
factory in Queensland two American experts
arrived the other day with Jones, the State
Minister of Mines, and Ashbolt, sometime
Agent-General for the Speck, who is inter-
ested in the project. Unlike timber, celotex
does not require seasoning, and it can be
used for packing cases and butter boxes as
well as house construction. In other words,
the manufacture of celotex will materially
lessen our dependence on foreign countries
for softwoods. Incidentally, it will render
it difficult for the most rancorous provincial-
ist to argue that the greatest of North Aus-
tralian industries—our one successful attempt
at settlement in the tropics—is not worth
preserving oy scientific protection.
CO-OPERATION AND FREEDOM.
“He hoped that when they confronted these prob-
lems again in a year or two the Irish people would
not be ready to buy a fallacious peace. Every Irish-
man detested Imperialism, and they did not wish in
their turn to dominate or exploit the people of
Canada, Australia or South Africa.”— De Valera.
With the perversity of the Biblical person
who said peace when there was no peace, the
Irish republican leader continues to repeat
“Ourselves alone!” though it grows increas-
ingly obvious that no institution can stand
alone nowadays, and least of all a small and
wealthy or potentially wealthy State. There
is something characteristically Irish about
this craze for isolation, an unconscious re-
action, maybe, to the nation’s seven centuries
of servitude under Britain. It was another
son of Erin (Sir Edward Carson) who
argued in the House of Commons, towards
the end of 1916, that the Government should
wage the war for its own hand, so that
“whatever advantages may accrue shall accrue
to this country and empire, and to no one
else” —a stirring if unedifying ideal, but
wholly impracticable. Ireland can no more
live without England than England can live
without the world. In the last year for
which figures are available (1921) Ireland
exported goods to the value of £129,621,000,
and 127 millions’ worth went to England.
Its tourist trade runs to as much, and is
mostly English. Although the Army claimed
£10,664,500 out of an estimated Free State
expenditure of £42,000,000 for 1923-24, the
island is in no present danger of foreign
attack. The Free State is driven to this
ruinous expenditure chiefly on account of
the activities of patriots of the De Valera
stamp, and the same applies to Northern
Ireland, which is spending even more per
head of the population in order to keep the
separationists of Tyrone and Fermanagh in
subjection. Both sections are at liberty to
waste their energies and money on prepara-
tions for civil war because the security of
their native land, as a whole, is guaranteed
by the British Navy.
* * * #
If the De Valera policy prevailed, and
Ireland got out of the British Empire, the
North-South dispute would presumably con-
tinue, calling for expenditure, at the very
least on the existing scale, on military anil
quasi-military forces, and compensation for
property losses —which latter item stood the
Free State in the sum of £10,385.000 this
year. In addition, the island would have
to undertake a national defence policy
Britain is spending £55,800,000 on navai
defence this year, and 14 i millions on the
Air Service. In order to be reasonably safe
from invasion (which might be described
more accurately nowadays as occupation,
since it is led up to by a trade blockade, as
in Germany’s case, and is unaccompanied by
land fighting), Ireland would need, to estab-
lish a navy at least the equal of Britain’s At-
lantic fleet, and an air force of proportionate
strength. And the population is a little
over 4J millions! All this for that much-
discussed but little-understood asset which
politicians of the emotional, blithering type
call liberty. During the debate on the South
African treaty five years ago, Prime Minis-
ter Smuts said of his Dominion:—
We have reached a position of absolute equality
and freedom, not only among the other States of the
Empire, but among the other nations of the world.
He might have added that, thanks to the
pax Britannica, South Africa, like the rest of
the. white autonomous Dominions, had been
delivered from militarism. Militarism is the
price of liberty in this unregenerate world;
but, as the late war proved, it is also liberty’s
bane. Not without reason did the freedom-
loving English of Charles ll. ’s day declare
against standing armies. They had had ex-
periences with the New Model, both in action
and on the home front, which differed hardly
at all from the experiences of the British
of this century with their army authorities.
Courts-martial, by means of which the death
penalty was prescribed for trivial offences
in the field, and an ever-growing arrogance
and tyranny directed by officers against civi-
lians, had. distinguished the Cromwellian
period, as it did the years during which Aus-
tralia’s only real charter of government was
the War Precautions Act. Britain and the
Dominions put up with such afflictions while
Germany was unbeaten as a sick man goes
through with an operation—because the poli-
tical doctors were agreed that the case was
desperate. Ireland had to endure the same
agonies in the years following the World
War, when “black and tans,” British regu-
lars and Irish Republican troops killed and
ravaged, in the names of duty and patriot-
ism, 'with results that are still being felt in
economic losses and quenchless hatreds. But
why any nation should desire to perpetuate
such a state of affairs is a mystery. There
is no sounder method by which a small or
under-populated country can enjoy all the
blessings and dignities of freedom with the
lightest possible. contact with freedom’s an-
tithesis, militarism, than by joining the
League of Nations comprised in the British
Empire. There is no surer way of becoming
unfree, poor and eventually perhaps enslaved,
than by attempting to face a well-armed
world which is continually growing hungrier
for food-producing territory with no other
defence policy than fine phrases about self-
determination and the rights of the weak.
* * * *
_ Australia is cursed with theorists of the De
I alera school, though their illogicalities
take a slightly different form. On the one
hand are the internationalists, who claim
that all men are brothers, and will be ready
to fraternise as soon as scheming Capitalism
stops setting them by the ears; and on the
other those who repudiate pacifism but in-
sist that Australia is capable of 1 defending
itself with aircraft, submarines and other
economical contrivances. As to the first sec-
tion, it. is a curious fact that, while they
have faith in internationalism involving the
acceptance of a White Australia by nations
to whom the doctrine is an affront, they have
nothing but scorn for inter-imperialism,
which, anyhow, amounts to an alliance with
races who have no wish to infringe any of
our declared rights. (A like point of view
may be identified in Ireland: De Valera is
ready to believe that no continental race will
ever assail an Ireland lacking both a navy
and an air force, but admits that standing
armies are required to keep the people from
one another’s throats.) The fact is that,
while co-operation between units having com-
mon . interests is a universal rule in - world
politics nowadays, as it is in commerce, there
can be no lasting association between bodies
which have something to gain on the one
side and lose on the other by a disagree-
ment. A humble. example is afforded by the
Patrick Steamship Company, which went
into liquidation in Sydney a few days ago
after a gallant struggle with the combine
companies. The Patrick Co. adopted the
slogan, “Sinn Fein!” or words to that effect.
It stood outside the empire of Lord Inch-
cape and defied the wide world of transport.
There could only be one end to such an enter-
prise—-the end that has befallen Korea,
which is now suffering for its ancient super-
stitions regarding the advisability of trust-
ing to the goodwill of mankind, and economis-
ing on defence ; the end that will certainly
befall Australia and Ireland if they are ever
sufficiently besotted to do the same. All self-
respecting nations naturally aspire to be free
as the Dominions are, and in addition to
possess those indications of power, in the
shape of battleships and armies, which are so
many warnings to outsiders against affront-
ing the nation’s dignity in any way. It
is only given to a few, however, to own
Rolls-Royce motor-cars and steam yachts.
The first requisite is to be rich enough to
afford them. And it is the same with defence
arms, which are the extravagances of the
nationally great. Under a system of Im-
perial co-operation it is possible for the
poorest of the Dominions to share in the
protection afforded by the Imperial Navy,
with all that it means in security of trade


and credit in peace and in war. OutsicL
the Empire there is not one Dominion that
could be sure of a continued national exist-
once of a quarter of a century. The small
fertile nation that attempts to . stand alone
in the present acquisitive era virtual!ly asks
one of the large food- and land-seeking
nations to knock it down and out.
DEMETER AT COONAMBLE.
“Rice has been grown successfully at Coonamble.
When Christianity ousted paganism the
Greek gods went into exile. Mars became
a common soldier, and served under Frouds-
BEROx at the sack of Rome; Apollo, who hat
once tended the cows of AdmetuS, became
a shepherd in Lower Austria; Mercury
concealed his quicksilver in the shape of a
Dutch merchant; Bacchus became the
superior of a Franciscan monastery m the
Tyrol; Jupiter, the father of the gods, fled
from Christian wrath to an island in the
Frozen North, where he lived alone with his
cade eking out a miserable existence by
trading rabbit-skins with brutish Esquimaux.
From time to time after this debacle the
gods were heard of, and there were people
iu plenty who had seen them or spoken with
them. Apollo, because of his sweet singing
while he tended his flock, brought down on
himself the suspicion of the ecclesiastical
courts. He was arrested, confessed on the
rack his pagan divinity, and was executed,
Mercury earned a meagre living ferrying
faithful pagan souls to Hades ; and Bacchus
scandalised the pious people in the neighbor-
hood of his monastery by conducting annu-
ally a secret orgy, in which Fan, Silenus
and all the fauns, nymphs and satyrs ot_ an-
tiquity, throwing off their various disguises,
joined. .
Nowadays we would not know the ancient
gods even if we saw them. Whether their
miserable sojourn is ended, or whether they
still wander furtively round the broken
shrines where they were once adored, no-
body knows or cares. Demeter is the only
one whose subsequent career has been defi-
nitely traced: the Corn-mother of Europe
fled to Asia. .
Dewi Sri, in whom you may recognise the
Latin Ceres, is the Asiatic goddess of the
rice. She is not merely the deity who must
be propitiated; she is the rice itself. She
is the semangat, the vital essence of the
grain. She is a wayward spirit and must
be treated with traditional respect, accord-
ing to her own peculiar adat, or she will
fly the farmer’s fields and may never re-
appear in them. The planting season must
be reckoned according to the ancient rites.
The pawang, the witch-doctor, at 4.80 of
a morning when the Pleiades are in a favor-
able position, goes out alone into the fields
and points his arm at the constellation. _ If
his bracelet slides down his wrist, it is time
to commence. In Malaya a bcrhantu is held,
at which all the ills that beset the young
rice—smut-fungus, the mole-cricket and the
padi- borer —are placed on a raft and floated
down to the sea; in Java the farmer and
his people perform a scdelcah, at which
a simple meal of traditional ingredients is
eaten, the spirits partaking of its spiritual
essence, the smell. The seeds are planted
in the nursery by hand, and left there for
the same number of days as a woman is
tabu after child-birth. At the expiration of
this period the seedlings are planted out.
Only women may do the planting. They
must work in silence, keeping the tongue
pressed against the roof of the mouth while
they thrust the seedlings, in batches of the
sacred number seven, into the soil. M hen
the transference is finished the owner fumi-
gates his field against disease by scattering
incense and muttering simple invocations;
and a berhantu ceremony completes the
planting operations. _ ...
The harvesting is the padi- planters
Saturnalia. The grain is now ripe. The
farmer holds the same selamatan or festival
as is held when his wife becomes with child.
He keeps open house in turn with his neigh-
bors when they come to help him beat out
his grain. He holds a sort of court of mis-
rule; there is competitive verse-making and
a good deal of gentle license. But the har-
vesting is also the most critical period m
the farmer’s year. The soul of the rice must
not be frightened away from his fields, so it
is cut with the tuai, a knife so small that
it can be hidden in the hand. The Mother
of the Rice-soul has previously been sought
and identified through some eccentricity by
a female witch-doctor. A little bunch of
seven ears is selected from this sheaf,
anointed, tied with parti-colored thread, fumi-
gated with incense, wrapped in white swad-
dling-clothes and deposited in a basket-
cradle. These seven ears are the infant Soul
of the Rice. The Rice-child is carried to
the farmer’s home under the shelter of an
umbrella and laid on a new sleeping-mat
with pillows at the head. The farmer’s wife
for three days must observe the rules which
are observed by women after the birth of a
human baby. The sheaf from which the
Rice-child was cut is left standing in the
field, but, like a new-made mother, it is given
special things to eat. The Chinese thresh
the padi against a tub ; but the Malay prefers
to tread his out, for fear of offending the
Rice-soul. Some grain from the Rice-soul
is mixed with the seed which is to be sown
the following year.
By these simple devices has continuity
been assured through countless ages. With
pious ceremonies the shrewd peasant has
kept the vital essence of the grain alive from
season to season, and transferred the daugh-
ter of Demeter from one field to another,
until all the moist lands of Asia have been
covered with the crop. Adam and Hawa,
our first parents, had two sons and two
daughters. The earth did not yield enough
food for the subsistence of mankind: Adam,
therefore, by Divine command, took one son
and one daughter into the fields, and, having
sacrificed them and chopped them into small
pieces, he scattered them over the soil. On
his return home, Hawa inquired what had
become of the two children. Adam replied
that they were abroad in the fields. Six
months afterwards she again asked where
they were. Adam said, “Come, I will show
you.” They went into the fields, and Hawa
beheld with wonder the wide plain waving
with the golden harvest. Adam called the
children by name, and suddenly the grain
became instinct with life, and, rising in the
air like swarms of bees, poured onward with
a loud buzzing noise until it entered the
granary of the first man and woman from
whom it had its birth. Hence it is incum-
bent on cultivators to treat padi with respect.
How is it being treated at Coonamble in N.
S. Wales? “Three plots,” says the official re-
port “were sown on October 27 with a 15-hoe
wheat-drill. On April 2 the plants were tied
in sheaves, allowed to lie for a day or two,
and then threshed with a harvester, driven
by a seven-horsepower steam-engine. Arte-
sian bore-water was used. An average bore
giving 370,000 gallons daily should irrigate
100 acres. The yield was excellent.”
Science has done Demeter to death at
Coonamble!
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Immigration Tomfoolery.
It is reported from London that a hitch
has occurred in the negotiations for “the
new migration agreement,” by virtue of
which Britain is to lend up to £34,000,000
and contribute part of the interest for a
term of years, while the Australian Govern-
ments are to “absorb” 500,000 British set-
tlers, mostly on the land. Just as the cables
were buzzing with the intelligence, Victoria,
which was supposed to have the best or least
harrowing of the soldier-settlement schemes,
was pondering on the results thereof, as dis-
closed by its new Labor Ministry. Of
10,565 Diggers “settled” at a cost of
£20,000,000, 1267 have quitted their farms,
and 1500 irrigation-blockers would have to
leave also if the Commonwealth Government
wasn’t advancing them money on next year’s
crop, and if the State Government wasn't
exempting them from payment of land rents,
water rates and so forth for an indefinite
period. And arrears of interest, instalments,
etc., exceed £3,000,000. Such is the dismal
record, and the position in other States is as
bad, if not worse. In view of these facts,
and of the gloom already enveloping Mit-
chell’s group-settlements in Westralia, any
proposal for supplying farms to novices with-
out capital, and strangers at that, should
be regarded with deep suspicion, _ and news
of further hitches in the negotiations be-
tween the Australian and Macshuffle Gov-
ernments will be received with joy. The pre-
sent difficulty has arisen, it seems, because
the Bruce-Fages want Macshuffle to
waive half the interest for ten years, whereas
Macsiluffle’s best offer is “half the first
five years and one-third the second five.” This
the gentleman describes as “a free gift of
over £7,000,000”; but considering that his
country would get rid of perhaps 100,000
unemployed now on the dole (it wouldn’t
take 100,000 unemployed long to eat up
£7,000,000), and that a large proportion of
the £34,000,000 would be expended in British
goods and services, the donor wouldn’t suffer
for his philanthropy. There are indications
indeed that he is not nearly so anxious
to assist Australia as he is to sell
goods and services on the instalment
plan and relieve himself of surplus popula-
tion, or to confer favors on impenitent Ger-
many and repudiatory Russia. On this last
point Angwin, the Westralian Minister qf
Lands, himself an Englishman by birth, bit-
terly remarks that “the British Government
is offering millions to foreign countries, and
taking great risks, but where its own people
are concerned it haggles and squabbles until
its money is not worth taking.” The same
Angwin has also been talking about “free
gifts” in connection with migration agree-
ments, but not in the vague Macshuffle
way. Subjoined is the substance of several
statements ho has made in the Westralian
Assembly and elsewhere: —
In September, 1922, Mitchell entered into his
group-settlement agreement with the British and
Commonwealth Governments. In consideration of
receiving a loan of £6,000,000, each of the other
parties to the contract furnishing a third of the
interest for five years, he undertook, on Westralia’s
behalf, to settle 6000 families on the land at £lOOO
a family. Each migrant was to get a farm with a
£2OO house (they have cost more than that), a
fence, 25 acres of clearing, plant, seed and stock,
and any outlay in excess of the £lOOO was to be a
charge against the State. A large proportion of
the newchums came from places like Birmingham,
and what they didn’t know about the preliminary
bushwork (for helping with which each settler gets
10s. a day out of the £lOOO advance) would fill the
Encyclopedia Britannica. Costs have likewise
mounted up because the unwilling and incapable
loafed on those who showed aptitude and zeal, and in
sor e cases at least the latter were goaded into
retorting in kind. The scheme has reached the
point at which there are 2287 dairy farms in the
making (incidentally, 737 of the original settlers have
cleared out), and estimates of the expenditure, based
on actual experience, have been prepared. In every
ease the £lOOO limit will be greatly exceeded. Farms
in heavy forest country are now expected to cost
£l7OO apiece, and the average in districts where the
timber is lighter is set down at £l6OO. And every
£1 in excess of the stipulated £lOOO will be a
load on the Westralian taxpayer. “It will increase
the taxpayer’s burden by £250,000 p.a.—one-fourth
of the present revenue from income-tax —for the next
30 or 40 years. And then there are railways, roads,
schools, hospitals, police stations and law courts to
be provided for. The Pemberton railway extension
alone is costing £12,000 a mile.”
Angwin says that from what he has heard
of the new agreement it is nearly as un-
favorable to Australia as the one which has
landed his State in the mud. If that is the
case it is earnestly to be hoped that the
hitch in the negotiations will become perma-
nent. Australia needs immigrants, and
would rather get them from Britain than
from any other country. But it has no
use for city-bred tyros without knowledge
or capital; the immigrants it requires are
workers capable of turning out manufac-
tured goods—woollens, glassware, paper and
stationery, rubber, foodstuffs, machinery, etc.
—for which there is a magnificent Austra-
lian market. Britain has a surplus of such
workers, and if its Government is prepared
to help the surplus to start in this country
the thing can be arranged. But the suc-
cess of such a scheme would depend upon
politicians being resolutely side-tracked. The
less politicians have to do with the immigra-
tion business the better for everybody.
A Century of Moss-Growing.
The Legislative Council of N. S. Wales,
which has just been celebrating its cen-
tenary, has converted to its own view of
itself several members who a dozen years
ago held the popular opinion and lost no
opportunity of denouncing the institution as
obsolete. By the sheer weight of its hundred
years it has converted these people; and
they are now anxious to show the value and
beauty of the Chamber. Their eloquence
in such a cause is not likely to provoke
anything except a smile, but their attitude
proves that, as a means of subtle bribery,
the Council still has its uses. To sit with a
group of dull old men in a dull old room
may not in itself appear attractive; but to
be a part of any exclusive group, which
holds its place till death, creates a sense of
superiority that is intensely gratifying to a
certain type of mind. Mediocrity loves the
suggested pomp of an official status, and
naturally clings, to an institution which can
give it; so the Council becomes a kind of
school of Bumbleism, heavy in thought and
intention, and as proud of its century of
inanity as the charlady is of her rheumatics.
No one in the present Leg. Council rose at
any time much above political mediocrity,
though some members were once, and a few
still are, useful in the wider fields outside.
Almost all by the weight of their ponderous
comradeship have lost in human values since
their appointment. There are many things
to be said against a nominee chamber of the
kind. At worst it thwarts the will of the
democracy; at best it merely duplicates the
work of elected representatives. But a
further charge against it is that such a body
can never maintain the level of active
thought which might enable, it to render
some useful service in the revision of legis-
lation. Select three or four dozen of the
best brains in the State, form them into a
permanent Council, and by the end of a
decade much the same dull level of preten-
tious ineptitude will have been reached as if
the usual batch of political nonentities had
been chosen. Moral fungus and intellectual
lichen grow thickly in the atmosphere
created; public affairs become a far-away
murmur; an even contentment that is really
death rests on the whole.
♦
The Roacl to Temperance.
If an expert were to give his impartial ver-
dict on the chief inducements to drunkenness
in Australia, he would certainly put the
quick-drink bar first. The wineshop, which,
even in those States that fiirbid compart-
ments and other devices making for furtive
liquor-consumption, is neither more nor less
than a private bar, does a good deal of
damage, too, chiefly among women. And
where 6 o’clock closing prevails, the ravages
of both classes of resort are particularly
marked. To cut off all alcohol in the neigh-
borhood of the hour when thousands of city
folks are making for their homes, or arc begin-
ning to think about their evening meals, is to
put a premium on what may be called an-
ticipatory drinking. The patron of the estab-
lishment loads up against the dry hours
ahead, and in the process is betrayed into
competitive drinking—a social habit that
tangles more legs' and befuddles more brains
than any other. The Bulletin has often
criticised those restaurants and dance-halls
which “send out” for liquor for their fre-
quenters, but only on the ground that the
procedure is an injustice both to the tax-
payers and to the hotels which have to pay
thousands of pounds yearly in licensing fees
and amusement taxes for privileges that
their competitors are able to enjoy for no-
thing. It is the rarest thing to see an in-
ebriate in an unlicensed restaurant or danc-
ing-resort. This is not that there is a
scarcity of drink in such establishments.
most of them flow with it, day and night.
The explanation is (1) that alcohol is not
the only attraction offered, and (2) that the
drinking is done before women and children.
The average man thinks twice, or oftener,
about exceeding his carrying capacity m the
presence of his wife and offspring and their
friends, whereas he might approach the ad-
venture with a clear conscience where the
only spectators were men, of tastes and
habits like his own, and case-hardened bar-
maids. Similar considerations influence the
women who celebrate in wineshops: they
like the winei and its effects, but an equally
powerful attraction is the knowledge that
no eyes are on them save those of people
who see no shame in boozing for boozing s
sake. The gospel these preliminary obser-
vations are intended to drive home is that
the surest way to promote temperance is to
decentralise the drink traffic. It is an
absurd fact that the hardest place to pro-
cure a glass of wine with a meal in most
Australian cities is a park or botanical gar-
dens or zoo kiosk —places where 99 citizens
out of every hundred would no more think
of overstepping the alcoholic mark than they
would at a child’s birthday party. Con-
trasted with the complete aridity of these
resorts is the teeming wetness of the. bars dur-
ing specified hours —a condition that assumes
torrential dimensions, with the attendants
working the beer-pumps and pushing the
spirit bottles about with demoniac energy, as
closing hour approaches. If Parliament had
gone out of its way to invent a system mak-
ing for excess it could hardly have done
better. It is as fatal an enemy to decency
and restraint in drinking as prohibition
itself. The true path to temperance reform
lies in discouraging all bars, “saloon, pri-
vate” and “public,” and legislating so, that
whatever drinking is done may be performed
in the most public possible fashion, and pre-
ferably as an adjunct to some other relaxa-
tion, such as music, dancing or eating.
Opposition is only likely to come from two
sources, the habitual bar-loafers and the
irreconcilable prohibitionists—in short, from
the nation’s intemperates.
An “Archaic Survival.”
Acting-Chief Justice Isaacs, of the
Federal High Court, recently did N. S.
Wales the good service of showing how far
that State lags behind every other British
country in the tremendously important mat-
ter of legal procedure. The case was one in
which Hazeldell, Ltd., a N. S. Wales co.,
claimed from the Commonwealth certain
money which it alleged was due on account
of a land resumption, the land containing a
limestone deposit in the neighborhood of
Canberra and required for cement -making.
The Commonwealth offered £l2OO for the
property; and as that presumably was less
than the owners’ experts advised that the
deposit was worth, the co. asked the Court
to fix a fair price. The subsequent proceed-
ings were reviewed by the Acting-Chief
Justice: —
The action was commenced as long ago as 1916.
Issue was joined on October 27. To-day, in August,
1924, nearly eight years afterwards, the case is still
awaiting trial, unless we can dispose of it. In the
meantime there was a trial before Ferguson, J.; a
motion for a new trial to the Full Supreme Court,
which directed a new trial; an appeal to this
[High] Court, which affirmed the order for a new
trial; then an appeal to the Privy Council, which
upheld the judgment of this Court. The Privy Coun-
cil decision was given in July, 1921, and the re-trial
began before Ralston, J., on March 12, 1923. The
formal transcript of the proceedings, evidence and
exhibits contains 646 pages of printed matter, besides
hundreds of pages of other voluminous printed docu-
ments.
And, as his Honor observed, there is no sign
of finality yet. lie proceeded:—
Must we allow this huge ball of litigation once
more to go spinning on its apparently interminable
course of doubt, delay and expense ?.... It means
another protracted and costly trial —the third; prob-
ably another motion for a new trial —the third;
possibly another new trial, the fourth ; with another
appeal to this Court. In every other State of Aus-
tralia such a legal calamity is amply provided against.
If, as the Acting-Chief Justice declares, such
“legal calamities” as this case represents are
“amply provided against in every other State
of Australia,” it is a scandal that such
instruments for the oppression of the finan-
cially weak litigant should exist in N. S.
Wales. For of course any legal system
which will permit of interminable litigation
must result in the oppression of the poor.
It is the obvious duty of the Attorney-Gen-
eral to proceed to amend what the Acting-
Chief Justice of the High Court referred to
as “an archaic sui'vival that still exists
in N. S. Wales, though abandoned over 40
years ago, as unsuited to a progressive social
system, in England and Ireland, and soon
afterwards in every other Australian State.”
— : — «
The Question of “Boost.”
W. M. Hughes, returned from the U.S.A.,
where he heard more noise of sounding brass
than of tinkling silver, announces his great
discovery that Australia needs boosting. The
verb belongs to the vocabulary of Puritan
America and is used by the older writers of
New England to express the idea of an
artificial exalting of the claims of something
unworthy. That Plughes did not mean it
in that sense, but had borrowed it from semi-
illiterate America, is likely enough; but used
even as he uses it it has still very much
of the old Yankee significance. Hughes, in
fact, advises us to make a noise about Aus-
tralia, quite regardless of what impression we
are likely to create. The ex-Prime Minister
has himself been making just such a noise;
and on all appearances the echoes travelled
a very short distance from his platforms.
In previous years he made far louder noises
of a similar type in London; and although
war-maddened duchesses are said to have
shrieked applause, the addition to Australia’s
fame was scarcely greater than that made
by a single consignment of frozen mutton. He
now tells us that our country is unknown
to Americans and that they have no notion
of the extent of our territory and resources.
This is probably true. Very few of the
people of any laud are yet sufficiently edu-
cated to take an intelligent interest in any
country more than 50 miles from their own.
How many people in Hughes’s electorate
of North Sydney could give an intelli-
gent account of South Carolina? How
many people in Melbourne know the funda-
mental differences between California and
New Hampshire? The honors in ignorance
probably stand about equal; and the mere
shouting of the area of Australia in American
ears could be little more exciting than a
declaration of the size of the Belgian Congo
to the people of Northern Armenia. The
world’s faith in advertising is, no doubt, very
great; but that faith is soon shaken if the
goods are not produced or are not up to
standard. An immense amount of adver-
tising of Australian land settlement has
been done in England and the results have
been very meagre. The Canadian has stated in
exact terms the thing he has to offer, while
Australia has made offers of something which
tens of thousands of her own people are striv-
ing vainly to secure. Within a few days of
his landing the immigrant to Canada is in
occupation of the thing promised him ; after
many years the person lured to Australia is
still painfully aware of splendid things, far
beyond the promise of any advertisement,
which he is still unable to touch. So the
“boosting” which W. M. Hughes advocates
is the very thing we have been doing, and a
poor thing it has proved to be. The pessi-
mistic tendency to decry everything Austra-
lian which once marked our attitude towards
our own manufacturing industries, and which
has not wholly disappeared, is scarcely worse
in its results than a loud boosting which we
cannot live up to. The best advertisement
for any country which desires to increase
its population from the best stock is its
national earnestness. Twenty years ago the
Commonwealth, in taking over the Northern
Territory from South Aus., pledged itself to
a railway which would open up the largest
portion of the continent still available for
settlement. No effort has yet been made to
redeem that pledge, and the intermediate
time has been largely spent in argument as
to whether the country is good or not. The
non-existence of that north-to-south railway
is the answer to all our advertising of the
prospects of the Commonwealth. Does it
matter how we boost while the proof is
there —very nearly the most conspicuous
thing about Australia, and visible even from
Britain and America—that Australians have
not shown faith in their own statements
about their own country?
4
The Case of Mars.
All the efforts of the hopeful speculators,
especially strenuous in the U.S.A., have
failed to draw one word from Mars, lhe
planet climbs the sky every night in a ruddy
glow, but the most the astronomers have
noted as it made its closest approach
to the earth is an increase of darker color on
what is guessed to be a great desert. _ A
o-ood deal is guesswork; but some things
stand out as facts. Mars is distant a life-
time from the earth at any conceivable speed
at which man could travel: the atmosphere
is very rarefied; the force of gravity is much
less than on the earth; the temperature is


Ti e Farmers'& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMENS COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums
Seventh year’s premiums..
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
£8849
£87.728
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
A
Managing Director.
always wintry, and only crawls a few degrees
above freezing-point at the equator. That
life could exist there is possible; that human
life is found there is exceedingly improbable.
If men of some sort exist there they must
be very large and very hairy to make use
of the thin air, maintain their poise on a
lighter sphere and resist the awful cold.
They may even have supported themselves
for countless ages on a worked-out world by
highly scientific use of the few materials
left them • but if they have done so there
is very little likelihood of such a people
wasting time in making signals to the earth.
Growing fungus for a living in an icy wind
is likely to turn all their scientific energy
in one direction alone. To be thoroughly
expert in keeping warm on a famine diet
is not conducive to fine speculative thought.
But the human idea in relation to that small,
red world is difficult guessing, anyhow. A
super-worm is far more likely at any time
than a super-man. The whole notion that
Mars might have something to say is based
upon the fact that the planet is older than
the earth. When Captain Cook found Aus-
tralia it had been on the map, as viewed
from Venus, a good deal longer than Europe;
but the remarks of the natives added little
to the sum of human knowledge. If Mars
did speak and spoke in American, its first
request might reasonably be for a few tins of
bully-beef. Consider the awful knowledge
that might then come to us of hungry worlds
waiting in agony for the physical relief we
could never send them!
— : ♦
The Red Herring of Party Government.
The Royal Commission which is pending in
connection with the Kidman taxation matter
and the one which sat recently on the N. S.
Wales pony-racing industry are samples of
this institution in its most pernicious forms.
If Mr. Kidman has not paid his lawful dues
owing to the laxness of taxation officials,
it is a case for departmental action; if there
appears to have been evasion, without the
connivance of anyone in the pay of the
Department, then the next and only move
should lie with the courts. The first effect
of trailing a Royal Commission red-herring
is, of course, to present the Federal Govern-
ment in the creditable light of a body in-
stantly repudiating a reflection on its honor.
But the Government cannot fairly be blamed
even if the Department turns out to have
been at fault, and in either event the report
of the Commission will be useless. The situa-
tion bears an interesting resemblance to
the one that arose out of the Mesopotamian
scandal during the war. There was a clamor
for blood when the mismanagement of the
Ivut expedition became known in England.
The . Government appointed a Royal Com-
mission to silence its enemies, though no
one but a party propagandist could have
blamed Downing-street for what was obvi-
ously due to laxity in India. The Commis-
sion reported, as expected, that there had
been negligence, and the Government took
no serious action: indeed, Lord Hardinge,
the chief offender, was presently made Brit-
ish ambassador at Paris. F. E. Smith, M.P.,
who was eventually to become Lord Chan-
cellor, pointed out, as a lawyer, that the
Government could not do anything except by
legal process, and that the derelictions of
duty disclosed afforded no basis for a crimi-
nal prosecution. The N. S. Wales Pony-
racing Commission was also appointed to
still public clamor. But, whereas the Kid-
man Commission will presumably ventilate
questions on which the public is at present
completely ignorant—the legal significance
ot the taxation measure which is at the
root of the trouble, for example—the pony-
racing investigators failed to elucidate a
sungle fact that was not already notorious.
And while the Federal Government will have
no . more power ipso facto to take direct
action of a punitive nature against anyone
who may be declared at fault by its Com-
missioners than Downing-street had eight
years ago, the Fuller Government has and
always has had power to deal drastically
with pony-racing. To that extent the an-
pomtment of the N. S. Wales Commission
was more unjustifiable than the one so defi-
antly promised last week by Prime Minister
Bruce. But the public has the best of
rights to resent both varieties of the article.
Royal Commissions have their uses when
properly applied. They can do excellent
work as instructional agencies. To employ
them to stir up ancient odors, the means of
abolishing, which are well known, or new
smells which, if deleterious, call for depart-
mental attention, amounts to a waste of
time and money. And it is no excuse that
the good of a party or the safety of a Gov-
ernment demands such extravagances.
♦-
Teaching the Admirals Their Jobs.
A total inability to understand how modern
wars are waged is a distinguishing mark of
most of those Australian writers who talk
down to sailors like Jeeeicoe. For example;
In Pemberton Billing’s scheme, the average
Australian will realise with a glad shock that here
lor the first time, is an intelligible proposition for
the self-defence of Australia. If there were a war
and a fleet tried to come to Australia with transports
carrying 300,000 Japanese, or Kamschatkans, or
Tahitians, why should not an air fleet throw that in-
vader into hopeless disorder?
Plainly the idea is that an enemy will risk
transporting to these shores an army of
300,000 men (accompanied, necessarily, by
motor-lorries, field guns, A.S.C. waggons, food
supplies, ammunition and army and medical
stores), while the British Navy is afloat!
Though the writer evidently does not appreci-
ate the point, an effective air fleet pre-sup-
poses open sea-routes, and that is a condition
which can only be secured by sea-power.
All the aeroplanes in the world would be of
no avail to Australia without the power to
import, for example, petrol. In this connec-
tion Geokge Knibbs made the following re-
marks at the Adelaide Science Congress on
Friday last: —
Petrol imports, including petroleum spirit, benzine,
benzoline, gasoline, pentane, petrol and naphtha, in
1910 were 2,923,161 gallons, valued at £121,129,
and in 1923-24 tentative figures estimated the im-
portation at 66,618,252 gallons, worth £4,207,512.
For all their important liquid fuels they were at
present practically wholly dependent upon outside
resources of supply. No commercial petroleum pools
had yet been discovered within Australia, so that even
in time of peace Australia was in an unenviable
position. In times of war the position was posi-
tively dangerous.
And even supposing we struck oil, there
would still be the necessity of making and
repairing the aeroplanes. With an Imperial
fleet in command of the sea Pemberton
Billing’s air fleet would, of course, be
superfluous. The notion that any invader
would despatch an army of 300,000 with
THU LANDING AT THE GULF.
“The relief auxiliary schooner Huddersfield is making the voyage to the Gulf at the rate of a
nautical mile an hour.”
From the CARPENTARIA GAZETTE (1960): “A party-of wild looking men, armed to the teeth, arrived
in an obsolete schooner this morning; they made rambling-statements about being an expedition to rescue
two white women captured by blacks. They are being kept under observation.”
so much as a single enemy raider on the blue
water is one to reduce the naval and mili-
tary heads to laughter—or tears. The
A.LF. authorities never dared from the be-
ginning to. the end of the late war to send
even a division in one convoy ; and this was
a war in which the enemy had its head well
down at sea, while the British and their
allies had plenty of t.b.d.’s and bases all
round the world.
*
“T.P.”: A year ago The Bulletin, follow-
ing the tradition of the paper for (to my
knowledge) 30 years, appealed against the
iniquitous overseas traffic in our fauna.”
Quoting a University Extension lecture by
Dr. J. A. Beach, president of ' the Orni-
thologists’ Union, and a report published by
the American Museum on the “appalling de-
struction of marsupials in Australia, which
is losing its native animals more rapidly
than any other country,” The Bulletin
pointed out that the overseas fur trade was
responsible in 1919-21 for 5,968,505 Aus-
tralian skins, 208,671 of them the coats of
the harmless, typically Australian native-
bear. The Minister of Customs listened, and
at the end of last year issued a proclamation
that no wild birds could be exported without
a special permit. But the new Minister has
decided, off his own bat, that each passen-
ger may take just a few pets! Of course
A. T. Latham, secretary of the Society for
the Protection of Animals (Vic.), is on
the warpath. Gamage’s Zoo Dept., Lon-
don, announced in 19:23 the arrival of 10
kinds of Australian birds. This year ST
varieties are billed. For June a large col-
lection of Blue Mountain lorries, scaly t
breasted lorrikeets, rock peplers and rose
cockatoos were to arrive on s.s. Emlynian ;
a large collection of rare Australian animals
and birds by s.s. Persic; a collection of Aus-
tralian birds, parrakeets and animals per s.s.
Barrabool; 27 wallabies and rare Austra-
lian parrakeets and finches by s.s. Beltana
—and so on through newspaper after news-
paper. Dr. Leach says that a warning
has been issued in America to collectors to
stock up, as the choicer Australian fauna are
doomed to early extinction. It is known
that collectors from overseas, not for
museums or zoological gardens, but for the
general trade, are landing and working in
batches, anticipating the finish of our fauna.
Practically each district lias its local “sports-
man” making a living at the pernicious
game. Thousands of the poor beasts are
killed in the snaring, and tossed idly aside.
Tens of thousands perish on the voyage.
What a complete devil-of-a-muddle these
Parliamentarians of all parties make of
things that really matter! Abolish the bird
life of the world and in seven years human
life would be extinct also. It is dishearten-
ing that Pratten, of all Ministers, should
have loosened the restrictions. In Victoria
great things are, however, expected from Dr.
Leach, who, as the Education Department’s
new Chief Inspector, has now to move all
over the State. He may be able by lectures
to arouse a public conscience. If he and
his Bird Union cannot, then Gan help our
fauna!
O
This was the opening dirge of a recent S. M.
Herald leader:—
In sheer desperation, if from no more statesman-
like prompting, the Federal Government may soon
have to call a big national conference, not merely
of State Premiers., but of all interests in Australia,
to discuss the hopeless drift of what passes cur-
rent for our “immigration policy.”
It seems curious that this perennial wolf
should be howling at the door, when the
United States, much more densely peopled
than Australia, has just legislated with a
view to keeping out one or two million folk
per annum who would otherwise break in.
paying their way, and bringing money with
them. The British Government is ready to
advance us a big immigration loan at low
interest, knowing that this country will have
to take it out in goods, which will tend to
keep John Bull’s mills going and our mills
stopping, but that is no help. . Some mat-
ters for the proposed conference to consider
are that there seem to be no places here
for a stranger except Brisbane, Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide or Perth, and there
is hardly a house to rent in any of them.
There doesn’t seem to be another'town with
a future anywhere, and it is mighty difficult
to rent a house even in a town with a dead
past. Nobody proposes to supply the want
of houses, for it doesn’t pay. Nobody is
building a new town, and least of all a new
seaport—the sort of place where the enter-
prising arrival would rush to buy his allot-
ment, with an intention to spend his life
there and grow rich. Not being there him-
self, he naturally doesn’t write to all his
friends to come there and join him. Nobody
is making a new State as a matter of course.
Nobody belonging here ever has. Nobody
is building a mile of railway leading to any
place of hope and interest. In reality Aus-
tralia is getting 38,000 or 40,000 new set-
tlers (surplus of arrivals over departures)
every year—enough to make another West-
ralia every seven years, or another Tas-
mania every five years. But settlers who
are swallowed up in one or two big cities
don’t make settlement, and they don’t make
Empty Australia any fuller.
+
“Housky” has an idea:—
Ever since Australia- was refused preference by
England on wines, dried fruits, etc., the Common-
wealth has been searching for other markets, and,
by virtue of an offer of reciprocity, Canada has been
the great hope. But Canada wants to send us her
manufactured goods. The duty on these is a source
of revenue to the Commonwealth, and, besides, we
want to foster our own industries. If, therefore,
terms beneficial to Australia cannot be arranged, why
not give a “drawback” to those industries which are
sorely smitten, through no fault of their own, and
which have to pay higher prices for their require-
ments, even on stuff manufactured in the Common-
wealth,. without receiving any direct benefit from
the tariff wall? Canada offers us, in return for cer-
tain concessions, preference to the extent of £l4 on
every ton of raisins we send her. Instead of getting
a benefit from Canada of £l4 on raisins and giving
her a similar or greater benefit on a line of her
manufactured products, thus exposing some of our own
secondary industries to severe outside competition, let
us take the £l4 per ton of raisins exported to
Canada out of revenue, give it to the industry,
and keep our benefits to ourselves. AVhere it can be
shown that any industry is in need of assistance and
worth saving, it should be helped through its crisis
with a “drawback.” In this way a needy primary
industry could be saved without weakening the wall
protecting our secondary ones. After all, the object
of the tariff is firstly to assist certain industries
which could not survive if left open to outside com-
petition. Revenue is obtained from the duties im-
posed, but its value is small compared with the
value our fostered secondary industries will be to
the country once they become established. Therefore
if we can continue to foster our secondary industries
and at the same time help our weak primary indus-
tries with portion of the revenue received in the
process, surely the “drawback” is the right thing to
adopt lather than an ill-balanced reciprocity!
The little co. _ which has been formed in
Sydney to provide a means whereby the dead
may be cremated has now got its site at
Itookwood, and tenders have been called for
the buildings. At .Tune 30 the co. had in
hand £1 <72, and had paid £lOBB on account
of construction ; and as the funds will permit
only of the provision of the bare furnace and
stack, an appeal is being made to those who
approve of this sanitary method of disposing
or the dead to take shares in the co.—enough,
at any rate, to put up the chapel, if not the
whole _ building. The office of the co. is at
3 Spring-street, Sydney.
“Nobong” : The news from America that the
U.S. Expeditionary Force is to get a war
gratuity, having applied the requisite amount
of pressure to politicians who are soon to
go electioneering, is really immense. I
haven’t been so thrilled since the Portu-
guese planted their Unknown Soldier in the
Pantheon at Lisbon. The fine soldierly
qualities of the Yanks who fought at
Chateau-Thierry and St. Miliiel are indis-
putable, but their numbers were small in
proportion to the masses of gum-chewing
tourists who never heard a shot fired in
anger. At the end of February, 1918
nearly a year after they entered the war—
the Americans had only one division in the
line. On November 11 their rifle strength in
T ranee was only half that of the battle -worn
armies of the British Empire. In the inter-
vening period they lost 36,154 men bv deaths
roJww, e ’ ~w her, e as the Australians lost
08,460, the Canadians 56,119, and the Maori-
landers 16,13_. For the vast majority of
the Doughboys the war was an ecstatic break
in the monotony of existence. They were
mindsomely paid, sumptuously fed and lav-
ishly entertained. Their heroism was cele-
brated in innumerable moving-pictures.
Myriads of girls petted them—American
girs- British girls, French girls, Flemish
gills and Italian girls. After the Armis-
tice the entire army migrated to Paris in
search of more girl, and made the greatest
eirort on record to drink the place dry Yet
the trippers, equally with the fighters are to
draw the war bonus —a bonus so huge in
the aggregate that the mere decision to grant
it has brought about an industrial slump and
the dream of tax-reduction will have to be
abandoned for years. The meek may in-
herit the earth, but only when the fruits
thereof have been exhausted by the other
sort.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers aii classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A
n
Give Preference to Australian Goods.
You may safely do this when they are of such quality as
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Tweeds
which Peapes offer under their own registered trade-mark —
a guarantee of excellence and all-Australian production.
Peapes quote these seasonable-weight Tweeds in
SAC SUITS TO MEASURE AT £6/6/-
Many original colorings and patterns are featured, which
will tailor admirably for Spring and Summer wear. The
quality makes the value most exceptional at this price.
Patterns and simple self-measurement form promptly on
request.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opp. Hunter Street), Sydney.
Remember Boys’ Week—Buy Boy Bonds
Usher's Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A brief disarmament item by cable: —
One of the most terrible of new war inventions is
said to be an incendiary bomb which causes an
inextinguishable fire.
Ah, someone has invented Hell at last!
As a result of the Adelaide Science Con-
gress, Australia is to have an Economic
Society, with a branch in each University.
Such a society could do a power of good by
demonstrating that there is no warrant for
the vague belief that there would be an easy
and luxurious living for all if wealth were
seized and divided. In a paper read by C.
H. Wickens, the Commonwealth Statistician,
it was shown that the private wealth of
Australia amounts to £2,165,900,000, and
if it were possible to distribute it in equal
parts, the share of each inhabitant would
l)o a mere £397 —less than two years’ earn-
ings of a laborer on the basic wage. The
same authority reports that there are 699,743
trade-unionists, and that the wealth
produced in 1922-23 totalled £382,208,000.
Could the 699,743 trade-unionists have seized
the lot, each unionist’s cut would have been
roughly £lO 10s. a week. And out of that
lie would have had to pay, among other things,
the entire cost of government, interest on
about 800 millions of Commonwealth, State
and municipal debt, and the expense of
slaughtering about 4,000,000 non-unionists
and burning the remains.
Lemmon, Vic. Labor Minister for Educa-
tion, has instructed the conductors of school
journals to cut out all “articles relating to
or extolling wars, battles or heroes of past
wars.” No doubt every potential enemy of
Australia is doing the same thing in its
schools. Presumably Lemmon lias seen to
that; wherefore no doubt the following cable,
printed last Saturday, is a joke:—
A definite step towards military training for the
nation has been taken by the Japanese War and
Education Departments. Officers are to be attached
to each of the middle and higher schools to super-
vise the military training of students.
The N.S.W. State Governor has roused to
fury a curious sect known as Freetraders,
which was thought to be extinct. All his Ex.
did was to become patron of the Australian-
made Preference League, which seems a
harmless proceeding. The act, however, dis-
closed to the keen intelligence of the appa-
rently immortal A. G. Huie that the Gover-
nor is taking a hand in party politics. Huie
thereupon acted with decision. He wrote a
long. epistle to the Governor lecturing him
upon his misdemeanor. They are evidently
accustomed to such freaks at Government
House, for in answer a courteous official
acknowledgment was sent. Instead, however,
of this act of politeness calming the storm
in Huie’s tumultuous breast, it only made
matters worse. Admiral de Chair is now
suspended under this terrifying threat: “As
you treat this matter so lightly, we shall
send a protest to the Premier of N. S. Wales
and bring the matter under the notice of the
Secretary of State for the Colonies. Further,
these letters will he published.” And may
the Lord have mercy upon De Chair, for it
is clear Iluie won’t!
Australian manufacturers of linseed-oil
and meal announce their willingness to buy
home-grown linseed to the extent of £lOO,OOO
p.a. Considering that there were only 715
acres under flax at the latest calculation,
they are unlikely to be promptly accommo-
dated. Australia, agriculturally considered,
will really have to abandon its absurd con-
centration on wheat and fruit and go in for
crop diversification, as farmers in other coun-
tries have had to do. It is preposterous to
be growing precarious crops for foreign mar-
kets and at the same time to be sending
eight or ten millions p.a. abroad for things
like flax (fibre, tow and seed), tea, coffee,
tobacco, rice, hops, dates and nuts.
The good-natured but muddle-headed Jimmy
Mitchell has been harshly criticised in Wes-
tralia since it leaked out that his £lOOO farms
for immigrants were costing £l6OO and £l7OO
in improvements alone (no charge is made for
the land), and that the community would
have to pay the difference. Millington, a
dour humorist who represents Leederville,
described the offending Government as “the
most incapable Administration with which
this country was ever cursed.” Then, paus-
ing in liis philippic, the orator said that per-
haps a man oughtn’t to be too hard on a
well-meaning bloke like the ex-Premier.
“We on this side of the House owe him a
debt of gratitude for his services to the agri-
cultural industry. At least he made two
Country parties grow where one grew
before.”
THE CHALK LIKE.
“Just bow long- the Liberal-Country Party Opposition will suffer the Prendergast Labor Government
to occupy the Treasury benches depends on the palatability of the legislation the latter brings down.
THE POLICE : “The slightest deviation, my friend, and your name’s Mad."
Morose insinuations that the Queensland
taxpayer has been billed for part of the cost
of telling the world about the genius for
statesmanship of Theodore, his Premier, have
made their appearance in the State Assembly.
One charge is that there was an arrangement
for contributing £6 a week “out of the special
contingency fund” towards the salary
of a journalist whose paper has been foremost
in the erv that Theodore unites the talents of
Disraeli ‘and the two Pitts. The allegation
could have been answered with a simple Yea
or Nay. But neither monosyllable was
forthcoming when the matter Avas brought
up on August 19, or when it was revived
eight days later.
Hughes’s first act on returning to Parlia-
ment after his long absence on “urgent pri-
vate business” was to criticise the Govern-
ment ; his second was to vote with the Labor
party. He was in such a _ hurry to snipe
at the Government —“a Ministry such as
this” was his expression—that he didn’t
even trouble to inform himself of the facts
of the subject under discussion, although he
could have got them' by reading Hansard
for ten minutes. A politician who hopes to
recover a lost leadership should assume the
virtue of magnanimity even if he has it not.
The fatal thing is to show anything of the
nasty little mind of the rat.
Canada is one of our bad customers: in
one recent year he deftly sold us 15 times
more than he bought from us. Still, in-
terested parties are always breathing into
Australia’s copious ear that it would be a
brotherly act to lower our duties on things
which Brother Kanuck sells us in great
quantities, on condition that he lowers his
duties on things which he wouldn’t buy from
us under any circumstances. Trade figures
for 1923-24 are just out so far as concerns
flour, wheat, wool, beef, mutton, lamb, tinned
meats and butter. Canada bought £162,709
worth in all, which was £27,000 less than
the record of the year before. It wasn’t
much out of a total sale of £82.997,333 —in
fact, it was less than 4s. per £lOO. Com-
pared with microscopic Belgium, which sent
us £5,175,505 in the same year, Canada
seems ridiculous. The idea of tangling our-
selves up in alliances with such a cus-
tomer is ridiculous.
While in Opposition the Vic. Labor party
was very scornful regarding Royal Commis-
sions, calling them (at least, one young lion
did) “sidetracking expedients of an effete
Toryism.” In six weeks of Labor adminis-
tration, however, three such commissions
have been set going to save the Government
the trouble of thinking out a policy of its
OAvn. Sutcliffe, the Bread Commissioner, has
lodged an interim report suggesting a com-
pulsory wheat pool and price-fixing. When
the document was read to the Vic. Assembly
one of the Labor members, pointing to the
Cocky corner, gleefully observed, “I notice
there" is no cheering over there.” And there
wasn’t. The farmers have had bitter ex-
perience of commandeering and city-fixed
prices.
Dr. Neville Howse told the House of
Reps, the other night that there had
never before been so much venereal
disease in Australia. Why don’t Labor
Governments of the up-to-date type try
the same remedy for it as for an-
other great evil? They propose to prevent
all teaching about war, so that a generation
will grow up which won’t know that the thing
exists, and then it will cease. In the same
way they might prevent all teaching about
V.D., and by the same logic it would
cease. (P.S. —There never before was so
much prickly-pear in Australia. We might
try the new remedy on that, too.)
Freights on timber cargoes are given in
the Navigation Commission’s report as
follows:
Tasmanian ports to Melbourne, per
100 feet super .. .. .. ss. 3d. to 7s. oa.
American ports to Melbourne, per
100 feet super .. .. . . 6s. Od. to 6s. 3d.
Baltic ports to Melbourne, per 100
feet super .. • • . . 3s. 3d.
The easy thing to say is that that shows
the need of High Protection for Australian
timber. But Protectionists have got to see
that their policy is not used as an ambus-
cade by highway robbers; and it looks _as
though something of the sort is happening
here.
Senator Gardiner was once defined in less
than a dozen words (and the definition would
fit the whole tribe of Gardiners) as
That roaring lion of debate
Who always roars a trifle late,
and the belated animal lias been doing it
again. The other day he came out with a
statement that “the time is almost ripe for
a no-borrowing policy.” The Bulletin
lias been hammering at it for 33 years; but
borrowing looked so easy, and the easy way
was taken. As a matter of fact, it is a
desperately hard policy; instead of saving
taxation, State taxation has been increased
tenfold. Australia never settled up for its
new coat, and now the struggle to meet the
interest on all the bills for all the old coats
it has worn since childhood has become so
intense that even a Gardiner begins to take
notice.
“0.P.H.,” from the Gallery:—-
Whoever prepared Prendergast’s policy speech, all
who heard him deliver it agreed that it wasn’t the
alleged author. The deliverance was a model of
conciseness. The only thing that has matched it
in the Vic. Assembly this century was Iceberg
Irvine’s manifesto 22 years ago. It almost took
one’s breath away to hear the ancient Prendy, so dis-
cursive when leader of the Opposition, reading a
statement of policy through in a trifle under 15
minutes. He crowded in 27 items, and made inci-
dental reference to others. With the exception of
the 10 p.c. reduction in the railway rates on agri-
cultural produce, every item of the policy was
anticipated, even the Royal Commission respecting
the police strike, although its personnel (Monash,
McPherson, the Public Service Commissioner, and
Police-Superintendent Martin) was a surprise. When
Peacock secured a week’s adjournment, doubt gripped
the House as to whether Prendergast would get the
chance of giving effect to one bill named in it. There
is a growing impression, in fact, that the head of
another Composite Ministry will respond to the politi-
cal toast at next month’s Flemington show.
The flock which met the other (lay in
Sydney to plan the Bolshevik revolution
arrived at three far-reaching decisions: —
The basic wage to be £5 15s. per week.
Said basic wage to be paid in full to the sick and
the unemployed.
The week’s work to be 40 hours, less meal-time
and time spent going from home to the job and
from the job to the home —possibly 35 hours net.
The value of all the work done in Australian
facto ides (full difference between value of
raw material and finished goods) is £6 10s.
Od. per worker per week, but the cost of
fuel reduces this to £6 3s. Even if the out-
put kept up with the reduced hours, which
it wouldn’t, the Ss. margin wouldn’t go far
for taxes, repairs, interest, discounts, light-
ing, bad debts, etc. No. 2 would, of course,
abolish the vagrancy charge, for every vag-
rant would have £5 15s. per week of “lawf’l
visible.” And it would greatly help the
criminal and the sexual pervert—especially
the latter, whose business of lurking after
small girls would no longer be interrupted
by the need for earning a living.
The Vic. Labor Government is the latest
to get the send-for-Monash habit. Anxious
to reinstate the Melbourne police strikers,
but more anxious to avoid being kicked out
for reinstating them, it lias shoved the re-
sponsibility on the inevitable Royal Commis-
sion, of which the A.I.F. commander is named
chairman. A droll feature of the appoint-
ment is that Monash was bitterly denounced
by Labor politicians for having organised
the defences of Melbourne when the ,T. Hops
quitted. Lambert, M.H.R., was so wild about
it that he refused to join in a municipal wel-
come to Mon ash when the latter visited Syd-
nev for the first time since the war. Lambert
is the extraordinary person who contrives to
be more interested in the affairs of the Sydney
Council, of which he is an unpaid aider-
man, than in those of the nation, which gives
him £lOOO p.a. and various privileges. His
name is seldom written by the Hansard
men, but in the last municipal report he is
said to have attended 63 meetings of the
council and its committees. Naturally a man
used to dealing with the thrilling grievances
of the Sydney blockboys would find defence
and the tariff and the North-South railway
dull.
THE POLYSYLLABIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sydney’s retired Town Clerk, T. H. Nesbitt, in
the course of a final exchange of amenities with
some of his ex-employers, taxed Alderman Courtenay
with ‘monumental and excruciatingly irritating in-
capacity. self-pronounced infallibility, pronenebs to
unmitigated mendacity and attempt to encase himself
in the pachydermatous armor ot miserable medio-
crity.’ ”
I wander in no fields of speech by common persons
tillable,
My custom’s to annihilate by ponderous polysyllable.
To call an alderman a fool may suit blunt chaps and
tacit; he
Becomes to me a chunk of monumental incapacity.
Von never saw a noun of mine arrayed for fight,
I’m bettin’ you,
Without a huge adverbial and adjectival retinue.
I wouldn’t give a foe the lie. But who with such
facility
Can pillory mendacity and scourge infallibility?
My controversial javelins, my rhetoric scorbutica),
Will penetrate, however pachydermatous the cuticle.
in choicest jointed Johnsonese I heap the scorn of
Socrates
On miserable charlatans and worthless mediocrities.
My simmering antipathies, my fierce anfractuosities,
Erupt in multitudinous Vesuvian verbosities.
My ban on Bumbles all, and one par excellence ! And
dodgin’ his
Retorts Ito my tub retire —a modern Manx Diogenes 1
sr.s.w.
IFORD.


THE DREAM THAT WENT WRONG.
"On the recent arrival at Sydney of the Commonwealth Government liner Fordsdale, which cost £858,000 to build, the familiar hold-up occurred... this time beacuse the crew had manned it in defiance of the Seamen's Union's policy of job-control. During the
last two recorded years the admitted losses of the line amounted to £2,961.000 and about half the steamers are laid up."
THE TOILER: "There lies my job."


33
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20 c, ¥6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Hasen”: Melbourne hold-ups? A few
nights ago in our southern suburb Mrs. L.,
on her half-mile walk from the station to
her house, saw a man crossing the road to-
wards her. He looked furtive in the half-
RATHER OUT OF PRACTICE.
MRS. MOSMAN: "I've taken up fencing to reduce my weight. Have
you tried it, Mrs. Woop?”
MRS. WOOP: “Yes, when I was first married. But it's years since
I split a post.”
light, so Mrs. L, slipped hack to the station,
breathing easily again only when she was
hidden in the ladies’ waiting-room. It was
a half-hour or so before she ventured out,
again to be chilled by glimpses of the same
vague, sinister figure in the shadows ahead.
The man wrns walking away from her now,
hut slowly, and often looking back over his
shoulder. Even as she watched he stopped
and started towards her. MTs. L. gave one
gasp and flew along a side street. Right
around the block she sped, until she came
back into the main street opposite her home.
And there before her, not ten yards from her
own gate, was the man. With a last squeal
she dashed for the gate, sobbing and panting.
Then the villain spoke. “Good God!” he
said. “What’s the matter, Jennie?” For
three-quarters of an hour a thoroughly scared
matron had been running away from her
husband, whose uneasy mind had sent him
down to the train to meet her.
“Piriti”: What is the record number of
casualties from a single shell? In December,
1917 s a stray 5.9 was responsible ijor killing
or wounding 42 of the Ruahine Co., 2nd
Wellington Battalion, N.Z.E.F. Eighteen
were killed outright and 24 more or less seri-
ously wounded. At the time the company
was laying cable on Anzac Ridge, about a
mile behirtd the Butte, an ill-omened land-
mark in the Ypres salient. When the shell
landed the officer in charge was stepping
out each man’s task, and the boys were
crowded round him. Only eight of us an-
swered my own platoon roll-call that night;
the strength of another platoon was reduced
to 15. It was a pure fluke on Fritz’s part,
for that shell was the only one to come near
us the morning the ghastly thing happened.
* * * *
“Cartot”: I know of a sailor who had even
better luck than the one who was washed off
one destroyer on to the deck of another (B.
21/8/’24). The Sierra, which was then on
the regular run between Australia and Cali-
fornia, met some very rough weather when
outward bound from Honolulu. One pitch-
dark night a man fell off the forecastle head
during an exceptional roll, and with the
tremendous sea running his fate seemed
sealed. A few minutes later the amazing
news was passed round that he was safe on
board again, another sea having delivered
him on the stern-deck, exhausted and only
partially conscious. He soon recovered, but
when the steamer reached ’Frisco four days
later he was one of the first off her, and he
never went to sea again. Luck like that, he
reasoned, was too good to hold.
“Pinktape”: A letter recently came back
through the Dead Letter Office to the branch
of the Victorian Lands Department dealing
with soldier settlement. A country widow
with a property she was willing to offer for-
warded, by request, full particulars of the
farm, with an inventory of the stock thereon.
After appending her signature, she found
she had omitted one important item, and
accordingly added at the tail of the letter:
“P.S. Jersey Bull.” The offer was minuted
for acceptance, but a harried correspondence
clerk, glancing at the end of the lady’s com-
munication to ascertain to whom he should
send the official notice of acceptance, mistook
the postscript for the writer’s signature. The
envelope showed that the Postal Department
had made some desperate efforts before it
gave up the endeavor to find “Mrs. P. S.
Jersey Bull.”
* * * *
“Van Cat”: One street, at least, was re-
named by the Aussies in Charleroi —the cele-
brated “Combien-street,” where brisk business
was done until
supplies ran out.
Diggers with bulky
parcels would
saunter along the
thoroughfare, and
when a possible
customer hove in
view would whisper
“Combien?” Blan-
kets brought 15
francs, dirty socks
one franc, clean
ones two francs.
In a tram running
from Thuilles I
once noticed that
the conductor was
wearing a pair of
Aussie boots, and
three ladies had
hoods and coats
made out of Aussie
blankets. Indeed,
of the 15 occupants
of the tram nearly
everyone had some-
thing “Australia”
on the outside of
him or her, and
there was probably
more underneath.
The old lady where
I was billeted used
to wear a pair of
over-size Aussie
underpants that
hung about her
lean shanks like
the skin of an underfed elephant.
* * * *
“Tuart” : There is nothing so preposterous
in the way of cant as the cant of Bohemian-
ism. When it was whispered that Governor
de Chair would object to being impersonated
at the Sydney Artists’ Ball by a blatant
comedian (he didn’t, as a matter of fact),
and when the executive committeemen
thought of vetoing the impertinence, the
young lions of the press committee “deplored
this narrow attitude,” and declared their
“emphatic belief that if this sort of thing
is permitted it will signify the end of the
Artists’ Ball as a national occasion of
Bohemian merriment.” No one who read
this priceless resolution could have been
wholly unprepared for what took place when
Youth hiccuped to Youth in the Town Hall
basement —for the “blood, liquor, broken
bottles, hooliganism and young girls drunk
and sick everywhere” mentioned by the
Mayor’s orderly, along with even more riot-
ous examples of “Bohemian merriment,” in
his report. As usual, “criminals and pick-
pockets who came uninvited” are blamed for
this high-spirited frolicking. My theory is
that the rise of sensational journalism and
illustrated advertising is chiefly responsible.
Youths who in former days would have served
behind counters or driven carts now draw
large salaries for embellishing corset ads.,
faking caricatures from photographs and
writing for the gutter press. “Artists” and
“Bohemians” all, they reckon it the summit
of human gaiety to get drunk until they
vomit. With this idea in their minds they
sally forth to the Artists’ Ball, accompanied
HER BUSY WEEK.
“I say, Mabel, it’s too bad — don’t you think that you might
LEARN to love me?"
“ Really, Bert, I'm learning Mah Jong, a new jazz step, and
thinking about having my hair shingled. I don’t see how
I could spare the time.”
by their silly little friends from the sundae
shop, the millinery and the ’aberdash, and
endeavor to live up to their reputation (sedu-
lously created for them by the divorcc-and-
homicide section of the press) of being Ter-
rible Fellers. They are honest chaps, really,
if a trifle thick-headed, but the cant of
Bohemianism has a lot to answer for.
* * * *
“Xex” : Misplaced human organs are com-
moner than most people think: many a man
lives and dies quite comfort-
ably unaware of the fact
that there is something un-
usual about his anatomy.
An old lady called at Mac-
quarie-Street with a poisoned
finger. The doctor became
much interested in the fact
that the big vein of her left
arm ran down the wrong
side and then crossed the
wrist at right-angles to tra-
vel up the thumb; had she
ever had a severe cut on the
wrist she would have bled
alarmingly. She had never
known this. A man called
not long ago with an old
war-wound, and discovered
that his appendix was on
the left side. Another found
that he had only one lung.
How or when the other dis-
appeared he has no idea,
though he remembers that
as a small boy he was sub-
ject to severe colds. Mis-
placed hearts are usually
discovered during an exami-
nation for something else,
and the chances are that even they are a good
deal more common than is generally sup-
posed.
* * * *
“P.X.”: For over 20 years the Sydney
Ferries hadn’t had a fatal accident, and all
the while the P. and O. and Orient liners
were berthed in Sydney Cove, and allegedly
turning the eastern horn into a death-
trap. Then the Harbor Trust ordered the
ocean liners away, and within a few weeks
there was an accident that cost three lives
—a great-grandmother, a mother and an in-
fant : a country family party on its way to
the Zoo. Of course, the accident wasn’t
directly due to the removal of the P. and O.
obstruction at the point. But if the old
obstruction was still there, it is certain that
ferry-masters would have given the point a
wider berth than, prior to this accident, they
had been doing 20 times a day. Incidentally,
mixed with the shocking bad luck which pro-
duced the accident at all was the remark-
ably good luck that the Kareela was so
lightly loaded. She happened to be on one
of the half-dozen trips of the day which cater
exclusively for picnickers and connect with
no trams.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Stated that swimmer Beaure-
paire has been studying baths in Europe and
intends to recommend
some innovations on his
return to Australia. I
am wondering if he will
have the champagne
baths of Paris in his kit
of ideas. A late arrival
to the A.1.F., who lin-
gered after the war was
over, gave a new setting
to the old story. He
eventually, he said,
arrived in the French
capital on leave, and
placed himself in the
hands of an informative
and patriotic guide.
Obstinately the visitor
refused to be thrilled by
cathedrals and art gal-
leries, persisting that he
saw nothing which
couldn’t be bettered in
Australia. Finally, so
he told us, to shatter
this illusion, the guide,
by this time rather fed
up, took him to tlm
champagne baths. Those
accounted the most
luxurious were on an
upper floor, where the
( price asked for admis-
' sion made the Digger
open his eyes. They
were less expensive on
the next floor. “You
see, m’sieur,” it was ex-
plained, “the champagne
from the top baths is
run into these; down
below, again, there are
baths into which the
champagne from these
is run. There it is
what you call popular
prices.” The visitor
ventured the suggestion
that the wine had had
sufficient use by that
time. “But no, m’sieur,”
said the guide. “After
that it is run into bottles to be sold in Aus-
tralia.”
* * * *
“Tombs” attends a council meeting:—
The Mulga Ridge civic fathers were just settling
down to municipal work when the first squall of
the impending thunderstorm rattled on the iron
roof. Followed a commotion in the doorway, and
some half-dozen goats propelled themselves into the
room, seeking shelter from the rain. A gust of
wind shut the door with a slam. The Mayor’s blue
THE BRUTE.
“We've been five years married. Doesn't it seem a
time?”
“Yes, my dear. A h—ll of a time.”
cattle-dog, which had been sleeping under the coun-
cil table, immediately saw a chance of distinguishing
himself, and the intruders began to circle the room
in wild confusion, upsetting chairs and aldermen
to the accompaniment of yells, bleats and barks. A
big nanny, hard-pressed by Bluey, sought a short-
cut under the table without dropping to her knees,
and upset and smashed the lamp, adding darkness
to the pandemonium. A flash of lightning through
the half-open window showed the leading goat a
means of retreat, and the mob took it in their
stride, scattering broken glass everywhere. Nothing
but curses and heavy breathing enlivened the next
few minutes; then came an anguished voice from
somewhere in the vicinity of the rafters. “That’s
the first blankety blank Freemasons’ meetin’ I’ve
ever been to, and 1 hope to Gawd it’s the last!”
(Continued on page 16.)
TO LIZZIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love you though your radiator’s busted,
I love you though your gudgeon pins are worn;
I love you though your piston-rings all rattle,
I love you though your hood is frayed and torn ;
I love you though your carburetter hisses,
I love you though your wheels won’t run in line;
I love you though your oil tank’s always leaking
I love you, yes, I lpve you, Lizzie mine.
I love you though your steering gear is faulty,
I love you though your body creaks and groans;
I love you though your hooter’s ceased from hooting,
I love you though your differential moans ;
I love you though your big-ends all are knocking,
I love you though your tail-light fails to shine;
I love you though your cushion’s hard as blazes —
I love you, yes, I love you, Lizzie mine.
1 love you though your king bolts need rebushing,
I love you though your wind-screen lets in rain ;
I love you though your clutch is always slipping,
I love you though to start you gives me pain ;
I love you though your generator’s crippled,
I love you though your intake pipe* does whine ;
I love you though your spark plugs all are missing--
I love you, yes, I love you, Lizzie mine.
I love you though your brushes do not function,
I love you though your valve springs all are pocr ;
I love you though you’re fused in both your headlights,
I love you though I cannot shut your door;
I love you though your paint has lost its lustre,
I love you though your nickel’s lost its shine;
With all your faults, you fickle jade, I love you—
I love you, yes, I love you, Lizzie mine.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
COUNTRY TRAVELLER.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount
Counter
acknowledged .. .. ..£323 0 1
.. 10
£322 1 1
Contributions should be addressed to Tite
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
£
A®
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
Look for the
Warning
Red Arm.
£7O
ttgS
MOTOR METER
THIS useful accessory will
forewarn you of all dangers
from overheating that
threaten the engine of your
motor-car. Differing from
ordinary motor-meters. by the
conspicuous red arm, visible day
and' night.
The Thermomanometre Indicator
is a handsome mascot as well, and will add finish and grace to your car.
a §'°°fi. garages. Ask to see one to-day. v Price £3, complete
with bright silver wings. If you have any difficulty in obtaining, write
direct to the sole agents.
•CATTINO g CO. LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
‘Machete”: Condensation is carried to a
fine point in some of our country centres. At
Ivurri, in the Maitland (N.S.W.) district, a
place where the industry of going on strike
is relieved by occasional bursts of coal-
mining, there is an organisation styled the
Kurri Horticultural Bird, Dog and Fine Art
Society. A pity some of the more special-
ised metropolitan institutions are not organ-
ised on these catholic lines. More than one
art-society show I know would be brightened
by a display of turnips au naturel, while
any debating society, not forgetting Parlia-
ment itself, would be none the worse for the
inclusion of a dozen belligerent dogs. A bird
section would fit in well with the activities
of many amateur dramatic companies.
* * * *
“Two Seas” : You can still find among the
Southern (N.S.W.) settlers an oldest inhabi-
tant here and there who can talk of the
pubs they used to put up at when they
drove to Sydney in their own gigs. Tlu>
Woolpack was kept by Tim Lacy, and was
on the site which now bears some of the
weight of Anthony Horderns’. The Black
Boy was another favorite: David Jones’s
now occupies the place where it stood. The
Crispin Arms was kept by Davis in Clarence-
street, where now the Grand. Central
nourishes. The Dog and Duck was in the
Haymarket, and there the Humes often
housed their high-powered gig after the long
trek from Gunning. Wool in those days
was about 6d. per lb., and had to be dragged
to Sydney by bullock teams; so there wasn’t
a fortune in it for the old pioneers. But
most of their descendants can afford to flit
to Sydney in their Rolls-Royces to cheer
their representatives at the Dudley Cup.
And they no longer shout a rum at the Dog
and Duck.
* * * #
“Swiss”: Talking of queer pub names,
there used to be two of the Never-never
variety on the Normanton-Cloncurry road,
known respectively (I nearly wrote dis-
respectfully) as the Blanker on the Hill
and the Blanker in the Bend —-only blanker
was not pronounced as written. Which
Blanker it was that kept “Bobby” Byrne I
don’t know. Some little while before I
passed that way he had left for Brisbane,
where he started and for years ran a society
journal called Figaro. It was on that quiet
track that I met another youngster, Ernest
THE BILL-HOUND.
"You sa he only barks at the postman when he brings
you a bill? But how does he know when the post-
man is bringing a bill?”
“Oh, he just barks every time the postman comes.”
(“Chinese”) Morrison, who was destined to
rise high on the ladder of fame. He was
doing a lonely tramp from Normanton to
Melbourne! “See Australia first” was Morri-
son’s motto.
* * * *
“H.H.”: The Melbourne police are dis-
covering that women ready to act as con-
federates in securing evidence of lawbreak-
ing against clubs and hotels are unlikely
to be epitomes of all the womanly virtues.
Two police officers had just made things
right for a scoop the other night, when one
of their feminine co-workers took umbrage
AFTER THE QUARREL.
“Rut, Cecil, though we are not to he sweethearts, you will always
remain a friend, won’t you?”
“Yes; hut your father won’t still have a claim to borrow money
from me, will he?”
at the hauteur of another woman who
objected to be addressed as “dearie.” “ ’Oo
th’ ’ell is she, anyway?” this instrument of
the law inquired of the establishment gener-
ally, and, possibly with the idea of solving
the problem, began a direct assault on the
disdainful one’s beautifully-dressed hair. By
j I ( ne disturbance had been quelled
‘ lr, d _ the virago quietened, the opportunity
lor the coup had vanished; and the police
party, with its tried-and-found-wanting
womankind, faded out in a shamed and
apologetic fashion.
* * *
“Reka”: A tragedy of the
sea was revealed a few years
ago when attempts were being
made to recover the gold that
went down in the Elingamite.
A well-known diver was en-
gaged to locate the wreck and
secure the treasure, and liis
report was that he was unable
to get at the bullion owing to
the vessel being nearly full of
sand and covered with an ex-
traordinary marine growth.
another diver took the
contract, and after securing a
portion of the gold he stated
that the wreck was easily
worked, and the hull particu-
larly clean. Diver No. 1, with
his professional reputation at
stake, insisted on going down
again, and it was then ascer-
tained that on his first attempt
he had located the wreck of
another steamer, about the
size of the Elingamite, which
must have lain at the foot of
the Big King for over 30
years. It was impossible to
discover the name of the Old
wreck, but all the indications
suggest that she struck the Big
King on some foggy morning
and sank with all hands, leav-
ing her fate a mystery in ship-
ping circles to this day.
“H.F.”: Talking of narrow war escapes,
not many would care for anything closer
than that of two Auckland (M.L.) privates.
In April, 1918, their company had captured
a line of trench, with the result that their
“bivvies” were wrong way on, the mouths
facing Fritz. During the morning a shell
lobbed clean into the burrow where the pair
were sleeping side by side, and finished be-
tween their heads, which were about 2ft.
apart. It was a dud.
“M.D.”: A Maori-
land woman has been
awarded the full
£2OOO she claimed
against a doctor with
an American degree
for unskilful treat-
ment in a case of
breast carcinoma.
The doctor—not a
B.M.A. man, I am
glad to say—prac-
tised the Abrams
“treatment,” with re-
sults so disastrous
that the nonsense
isn’t likely to thrive
much in the Do-
minion for a while.
The Scientific
American has had a
committee making ex-
haustive inquiries
into the whole busi-
ness for the past
nine months, and its
conclusions are just
as damning as the
M.D. jury’s. The
basis is a diagnostic
“box” of miraculous
power. Put a drop
of blood in it. and
the “box” tells you
the sex of the person
from whom it was
obtained. The com-
mittee, at this point
in one of its tests,
was assured that the
specimen came from
a male. When told
that actually it was
from a female, the
“operator” wasn’t
abashed. “A female
physically,” he said;
“but a male morally
and mentally.” In
the M.D. case the
Judge was informed
that the machine
could tell the sex of
an unborn babe.
“And the paternity,
too, perhaps,” said the dry old cynic on the
Bench.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: An unusually care-
ful lover cropped up in a Melbourne court
the other day as the claimant for the return
of an engagement-ring. The evidence dis-
closed that he had even foregone the pas-
sionate ecstasies usually associated with the
presentation of the token, to extract from
his beloved a receipt for the due delivery
of the goods. But I knew an even more mer-
cenary sweetheart —and a young woman who
finally tired of being reminded, night after
night, how much the rapture of being in her
company had cost her escort that day. When
she transferred her affections elsewhere, a
new swain, built on more generous lines, in-
dignantly declared that rather than have
an ex-lover grumbling about what the girl
had cost him, he would give his predecessor
a cheque for all he had spent. The account
having been duly rendered with every item
complete down to the last tram fare, No. 2
sarcastically added a small sum to his cheque
“as interest.” Promptly came back a letter
expressing the opinion that if the gentleman
who was clearing off encumbrances really
wanted to do the thing properly he would
also pay something for lost time.
* * * *
“Schnorrer” : Melbourne Jewry is indulg-
ing in whatever is the modern equivalent for
rending its garments (garments are too dear
nowadays to be rent) over the question of
proselytism. Judaism is one of the few reli-
gions in the world which have no hunger
for converts, one reason being that he or she
is usually the husband or wife of a member
of the persuasion which is forbidden to make
such marriages. Hence, before admission the
proselyte is submitted (or should be) to a
severe catechism, chiefly as to motives. But
recently a batch of ex-Christians (or pos-
sibly ex-Nothings) were admitted to “the
heritage of the Law” at the East Melbourne
Synagogue ; and the result has been stormy
meetings, heated criticisms of the Beth Din,
and references to a resolution passed in 1911
that no more Gerim or Geyuroth (men or
women converts) should be admitted. The
Beth Din is the highest authority on religion
in every Jewish community, and in Mel-
bourne consists of Rabbi Dr. Abrahams,
liabhi Brodie and the Revs. J. Danglow and
S. Mestel. Yet, although bitter and discord-
creating remarks have been made, it is signi-
ficant that the turmoil is almost entirely
confined to the East Melbourne Synagogue,
The Bourke-street congregation (largely com-
posed of Jews whose business interests march
with those of Christians) and that of St
Kilda (which has learned that persons of
different faitlis can be congenial jazz part-
ners) are collectively unconcerned, although
individual members are taking part in the
row.
* * * *
“Consomme” : Even in Sydney some queer
dishes are obtainable by gastronomists witn
exotic tastes who know where to look for
them. Shark’s-fin and bird’s-nest soup, as
well as other Chinese delicacies, are, of
course, procurable in most of the larger
Asiatic restaurants, but these are rather
costly luxuries. In some of the. smaller
cafes the menu includes many items that
the ordinary person has never heard of, such
as eggs cooked with bamboo sprouts, a kind
of sand-worm which is dug up on Chinese
beaches and preserved in oil, and small, soft-
shelled crabs, no larger than a sixpence,
which are tinned and eaten shells and all.
A delicacy much sought after by foreigners
from south-eastern Europe is a peculiar fish
from the Levant with a powerful salty flavor
repugnant to palates encountering it for the
first time. One restaurant in the water-front
district specialises in cooking with Mediter-
ranean herbs. The majority of the customers
hail from the same countries as the dishes,
but occasionally one finds among them an
Australian or Britisher with acquired tastes
for such fare.
* i. * * *
“Peter Blue” : A returned soldier recently
applied to the Brisbane branch of the War
Service Homes Department to have his front
room made higher; the novel ground alleged
was that he couldn’t get his war souvenir
into it. The souvenir proved to be the pro-
peller blades of a Fritz ’plane which he had
“souved” in France, cut into seven pieces,
wrapped in rugs in his officer’s valise, and
shipped across to Blighty as officer’s luggage.
The seven pieces had been joined neatly in
Brisbane, and in the hole at the junction of
the two blades the drawing-room clock was
fitted. The young architect to whom appli-
cation was made was a Digger himself. So
the wall went up a couple of feet.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : A Melbourne bank has
had a morning’s excitement quite unconnected
with the hold-up epidemic. The doors had
scarcely opened when a furtive individual
sidled to the counter and presented an open
cheque for £5. Tile signature was not known;
but as the cheque number identified it as
having come from a book reported lost, the
manager took a slightly embarrassed stranger
into his office and elicited an altogether un-
believable story about an old man who had
approached the narrator in the street, told
him that he had owed his father five pounds,
and insisted on paying the debt to the son.
The manager was just reaching for the ’phone
and police co-operation when an excited clerk
dashed in and whispered in his ear that more
cheques from the same book had arrived,
each for a fiver. The holder of one off-
handedly declared that lie had received the
slip of paper “in the ordinary course of busi-
ness” ; but the first man’s story was repeated
by others. Subsequent inquiries showed that
BOGGED BY BAD LUCK.
"Hoots, just ma dam’ harrd luck again!
Here's medicine advertised at half-
preece, and I'm in peerfect heelth!”
an amiable lunatic had chanced to get astray
at the same time as the cheque-book, and,
finding it. had amused himself by acting as a
five-pound philanthropist to entire strangers,
most of whom had decided to give the paper a
fly for its apparent value. One managed to
work the oracle with a confiding publican;
but apart from Bung's Joss, and the half-
crown casualty sustained by the owner of the
cheque-book, no one is any the worse off,
save perhaps in anticipation.
THE EPIDEMIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It’s not the stress
Of winter air
That’s caused depres-
sion everywhere.
It’s not that Par-
liamentary squab-
bles greatly jar
Upon the mob.
And yet it’s plain
We’re in the grip
Of some dull pain,
And have the pip.
What is it that,
Like weight of doom,
Has caused this at-
mosphere of gloom?
Why is it that
There’s much amiss?
To put it pat,
The truth is this:
The knowledge wracks
Both me and you
That Income-tax
Returns are due.
VICTORIA.
PURSKOLE.


A
M
N
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
!\voastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fum
Detonator*
Cartridgo*
THERE’S A FEELING OF ABSOLUTE SECURITY
IN THE USE OF
‘VALLO’ DIPS
SHEEP DIP
(Powder & Liquid)
II
CATTLE DIP
(Powder*
TRY THEM. OUT
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE. OBTAINABLE ALL STORES.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.,
Ltd. —For the 12 months ended May 31
general-manager Essington Lewis and his
capable team were given th'eir first real
opportunity of showing the possibilities in the
great iron-and-steel enterprise which is the
offspring of the old silver-lead-zinc wonder-
mine at Broken Hill that had given more
than 10 millions of divs. in a little more than
a quarter-century prior to the laying down
of the works at Newcastle in 1912. Last
year was the first in which steel-making was
continuous: in every other one outside influ-
ences—coal and shipping strikes, and dis-
turbances of the war and post-war period—
had affected output. The enterprise had
also suffered from mistakes inevitable in the
establishment of a big, new industry and its
development ill a period of world-wide indus-
trial disorder. Most of the earlier mistakes
were rectified during the nine months’ shut-
down in the 1923 financial year, and this re-
organisation of the works and the%r continu-
ous operation resulted in the biggest output
for any year. In 3921 the blast furnaces
produced 220,700 tons pig-iron; in 3922,
235,105 tons ; and for the 12 months to May
31 last, 300,258 tons. Here are comparisons
for various intermediary and finishing de-
partments :
1921. 1922. 1924.
Open hearth (steel Tons. Tons. Tons.
ingots) . . . . 209,458 219,799 284,669
Blooms and billets.. 189,597 204,551 263,649
28in. mill . . .. 84,070 110,226 165,569
18in. mill . . .. 81,179 67,071 73,873
12in. and Bin. mills. . 36,934 27,333 49,572
Rod mill . . . . 42,631 30,168 63,243
Fishplates . . .. 3,009 3,231 5,529
Coke . . ', i 240,905 191,038 305,084
Sulphate ammonia .. 3,385 3,201 4,545
Gal. Gal. Gal.
Tar .. .. .. 2,456*960 1,890,485 3,574,341
It has been a great achievement, particularly
as selling was done in competition with
cheap-labor countries, which for a time
seemed to give the B. H. Prop, little hope of
profitable marketing. In that matter the
directors pay a well-deserved tribute to the
splendid type of workers whb are helping to
develop the enterprise: “relations with the
employees are good,” they say, “and the
management is being backed up by the men
in their endeavor to produce at economical
rates.” Marketing at profitable prices is
still the big problem, because steel produced
under Australian working conditions lias to
compete with less costly products from over-
seas, particularly those which slip in under
the preferential tariff as British goods,
though British manufacturers, to win this
concession, need add only 25 p.c. to the value
of partly-finished products bought in Conti-
nental works where cheap-labor and depreci-
ated currencies give them a big advantage in
prices.
That the B. 11. Prop, steelworks have
made a great financial as well as a manu-
facturing recovery is obvious from the
accounts. But it is quite impossible for the
outsider to ascertain the extent of the profits
from steel. The co. is still a silver-lead pro-
ducer, though now in a comparatively small
way, at the old Proprietary mine and the
adjoining Block 10, which it purchased last
year; but income and expenditure are so
presented as to conceal actual results from
silver-lead mining and from steel-making.
The next table gives a general view of all-
in results, and shows liow sales have ex-
panded to record size and how profits have
recovered: —
1921. 1922. 1924.
Sale of mine pro-
ducts and steel
and stocks .. £3,735,977 £3,566,071 £4,040,002
Working exes. . . 3,040,752 3,143,571 3,510,218
Working profit .. £696,225 £422,500 £529,784
Interest, etc. .. 102,961 79,826 100,166
Gross profit .. £798,186 £502,326 £629,950
Sales were down to £1,663,580 and gross
profits to £249.282 for the 1923 financial
year, but for nine months of that year the
steelworks were shut down. At Broken Hill
61 months’ extraction last year gave 36,392
tons ore (output has lately been increased to
2300 tons weekly) , and 2158, tons lead concen-
trates were won from crudes and 12,011 tons
more from treating slimes, which also gave
25,464 tons zinc concentrates. The zinc
flotation plant, which finally shut down in
September last, contributed 6148 tons zinc
concentrates. The sale of the products in
very favorable markets had a big influence on
the figures for the period, though owing to
the cost of producing tonnages on a limited
scale, and under unfavorable conditions due
to re-opening levels which had been under
water for six years, and to costs of treating
small quantities in large-capacity plants, the
silver-lead-zinc contribution to profits may
not be so large as the tally of concentrates
and their market worth would suggest.
Other outgoings and charges for the three
years have been :
1921. 1922. 1924.
Depreciation .. £161,756 £154,244 £156,154
Office and other exes. 155,953 78,771 73,366
Debenture interest 76,391 131,143 121,546
Income tax .. 62,755 34,868 20,89 j r
Net profits were: 1021, £351,331; 1022,
£103,300; and for the past 12 months,
£257,089, though the accounts show £279,339.
The difference in the figures for the past year
is accounted for by adjustments which affect
the net earnings disclosed for previous years.
Negotiations with taxation departments
brought £149,314, hitherto treated as a lia-
bility, into the latest revenue account; also
£15,000 provided for law costs in the fight
with the Junction North Co. has been re-
credited. Profits for the period have been
inflated by £21,349 of 'the total, but the whole
of the balance (£142.905) has been struck off
as special depreciation on mines, quarries,
plant*and miscellaneous assets. Altogether
£299,11S was visibly struck off book values
during the 12 months, and there may have
been more written off which is not visible.
The behavior of the sinking funds which are
redeeming debentures suggests that some-
thing more than ordinary and special depre-
ciation is being provided when adjusting these
accounts. The allowances made to and move-
ments in these sinking funds cannot be fol-
lowed, in detail, and. therefore, they do not
reveal what is actually happening. Anyway,
it is clear that the hard-headed crowd who
control the Prop, are not sacrificing a sound
balance-sheet position in order to make a dis-
play with profits which might be misleading
and perhaps necessitate later on.
An examination of the liquid position sup-
ports the view that the big cq.’s finances are
being carefully nursed :
More l or less 1922. 1923. 1924.
liquid assets .. £1,769,412 £1,648,348 £l,
Floating debt .. 560,339 598,399 674,089
Surplus .. .. £1,209,073 £1,049,949 £1,300,466
Debentures .. 2,109,300 1,962,200 1,833,400
Excess liabilities £900,227 £912,251 £532,934
That shows an improvement of £367,000-odd
in two years, although only £7500 was got
in by way of new capital and premiums to
help the co. secure its own collieries. The
figures are the more remarkable because the
directors admit that “substantial sums” have
meanwhile been spent on steelworks plant, on
steamers (three of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s “E” vessels were purchased last
year), and on prospecting for coal. So there
is every reason to believe that the Broken
Hill Prop, has done considerably better than
its admitted profits.
All going well, the Prop, should soon be
on the div. list again. Apart from shares in
other cos. (principally Associated Smelters)
at May 31 the surplus of liquid assets over
and above all liabilities (excluding £1,833,400
of debentures) was approximately £1,030.000.
No less than £183,548 was in cash, £125,000
in Vic. Government debentures and £36,000
in Commonwealth securities. The develop-
ment and equipment of collieries and plant
additions which will enable the co. to cope
with demands from subsidiary industries will
require a lot of cash, but finances are so
snug that even now a div. could be squeezed.
Shareholders, by the way, have not had any-
thing for three years. After restoring
£lOO.OOO to the reserve fund (making it 14
millions again) £201,166 was held in the
appropriation account at May 31, but the
directors have decided to make certain of
the future before recommending a div.
Paid capital is £2,460,736 in £1 fully-paids.
Debentures tot up £1.833,400, and all floating
debt and all except £532,934 of the debs, are
covered by liquid assets. The next table
shows movements in assets groups in the
dozen years since the Prop, decided to go in
for steel: —
Book Debts,
Mining Stocks Metals In-
Steel Equip- and Steel vestments,
Works, ment, etc. and Stores. Gash, etc.
1912.. Nil £556,548 £709,170 £249.666
1915.. £1,283,000 532,038 482,545 350,513
Port Pirie Smelters sold.
1917.. 2,369,600 163,738 778,084 679,942
1918.. 2,845,400 113,288 929,224 760,323
1919.. 3,365.000 97,388 1,006,924 1,189,724
1920.. 3,974,846 83,388 1,147,306 862,470
1921.. 5,039,107 93,988 1,544,433 1,377,886
1922.. 5,783.800 258,088 742,592 1,026,820
1923.. 5,698,279 249,546 705,135 943,213
1924.. 5,646,651 237,408 681,186 1,293,371
Allowing cover for the debs, not protected
by liquid assets at the latest balance, there
remained more than 54 millions (book value)
in steelworks, silver-lead mines, iron and
limestone quarries, mining plant and machin-
ery, ships, coal properties and all equipment
to support and work for 2| millions of capi-
tal. Approximately not more than £300,000
is involved at Broken Hill —of course, not
counting £200,000 in the Associated Smelters
at Pirie. So, apart from silver-lead interests,
the B. H. Prop, is now well dug-in in iron
and steel. Its Newcastle enterprise has come
through a most difficult period with colors
flying, and there is now hardly a doubt that
its future is safe.
The Australian Drug Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1914.. £8,875 10 p.c. = £7,1500 £1375 £12,368
1915.. 8,921 10 „ „ 7,500 1421 13,789
1916.. 9,885 10 „ „ 7,500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 „ „ 7,500 2485 18,659
Premiums on new shares.. 170 18,829
1918.. 17,084 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ „ 10,000 2010 29,173
1920.. 13,939 10 „ ~10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ „ 11,250 221 33,333
1922.. 9,438 10 „ „ 12,500 30,271
1923.. 14,010 10 „ ~ 12,500 1510 31,781
1924.. 12,500 10 „ „ 12,500 31,781
This drug co.’s statement of earnings is com-
pressed into the tiniest tabloid possible: “Net
profits after providing for all trading exes.,
bad and doubtful debts, depreciation of plant
and fixtures, and taxation, etc., £13,353.”
The directors repeat the dose in the same
way every year, and the shareholder is not
given a hint of the ingredients. However, as
10 p.c. p.a. has been paid consistently for a
dozen years, shareholders are satisfied rto take
their divs. without demanding a glimpse of
the prescription. The market also accepts the
accounts at their face value: with a 2s. div.
ahead, buyers offer Ss. premium for the £1
fully-paids. Whether Australian Drug is
really earning much more than the 10 p.c.
div. cannot be ascertained by the outsider. In
the introductory table only the exact amount
required for the latest distribution is shown
in , the profits column, the whole of the
£853 balance in the accounts having been
transferred to a bad and doubtful debts re-
serve, notwithstanding that Profit and Loss
had announced that provision had already
been made for uncertain accounts.
Disclosed earnings for some years have
been erratic. During the war years! excep-
tional profits were made on rising prices and
in a less severely competitive market. The
management took advantage of the oppor-
tunity of the abnormal conditions to widen
manufacturing interests, and £50,000 of new
capital was introduced. Evidently values of
stocks had been well protected during the
period of high prices, because, though profits
declined in a couple of years, any inside ad-
justments at stock-taking did not affect the
div. rate. Lately, however, the balance-sheet
position has altered considerably, owing to
the directors having sunk a lot of money in a
new warehouse without calling in additional
funds. The next table shows how figures
at June 30 compared with those of 12 months
ago and five and ten years back: —
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Capital .. £75,000 £lOO,OOO £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities . . 49,570 65,646 62,029 123,905
Premises and
plant .. 20,061 17,627 35,528 93,883
Stock .. .. 75,111 123,229 102,208 95,784
Book debts .. 46,335 58,659 87,370 100,265
Cash and invest-
ments .. 2,931 5,304 6,205 4,108
As the building is only now being completed
and £12,500 is payable in divs., the balance-
sheet has undergone further change. Outside
liabilities at June 30 were grouped in one
entry: “Sundry creditors and bills payable,
£123,905,” so it is impossible to ascertain how
much was fixed debt or of a floating nature.
The new premises are much larger than
are requii’ed by the business; consequently
future earnings depend a lot on the co.’s luck
as a landlord. Though lettings so far liavq
not been brisk, there should be no troubles
in that respect later on owing to the
building being adjacent to one of the stations
of the city railway now in course of construc-
tion. However, owing to the meagre infor-
mation supplied by the accounts, Australian
Drug must be measured by the investor by
the consistency of past div. performances, and
by any information ho can glean as to man-
agement and as to the co.’s hold on the trade.
* * * *
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Policy- tOiße- and Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 32.045 13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 4,148 183,897
New capital .. .. £l2 '183,909
1916. 13,985 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 189,510
1917. 14,812 10 „ „ 12,500 181,816
New capital .. .. £99 181,915
1918.. 39.450 14,593 12* p.c. = 15,625 9,232 191,147
1919.. 37.323 15,243 12* „ „ 15,625 6,455 197,602
New capital .. .. £25,000 222,602
1920.. 469 16,998 12* p.c. = 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital.. .. £77,983 307,306
Premiums on new shares 27,408 334.714
1921.. 50.887 16,413 10 p.c.= 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital .. .. 127 339,028
Premiums .. .. 85 339,113
1922.. 519 16,957 10 p.e.= 30,305 257 339,370
1923.. 902 17,597 7* „ „ 22,733 334,942
Assets written up, £56,950.. 391,892
1924.. 53.648 17,967 10 p.e.= 30,311 5370 397,262
The credit at Profit and Loss for the 12
months to June 30 was the co.’s best, but it
was not quite all that the accounts and intro-
ductory table suggest. In the long ago this
office set out to do business on co-operative
lines; then others did the same thing, and
for many years it has shared no more profit
with insurers than the rest of them. As a
“tariff” office, and one of the associated
underwriters that agree not to cut rates, it
cannot, indeed, make more than the usual
rebates. The allowances to policy-holders in
the second column of the table are, therefore,
merely the customary 10 p.c. discounts on
renewal premiums, and the actual surplus was
£35,681. Even so, the 10 p.c. div. (£30,311)
would seem to have been comfortably earned.
But premium income expanded considerably,
and the year’s surplus included much of the
additional premiums ou new risks, many of
which had not expired at June 30. If the
management had laid aside 40 p.c. of the
extra premiums as a reserve against unex-
pired risks, the latest accounts would have
shown much less profit. Not for many years,
however, have this co.’s directoi’s held a re-
serve of unearned premiums adequate to re-
insure risks which had not run out at any
balancing date. Instead, bonus scrip has
been issued out of reserves, not all of which
could be reasonably regarded as profit defi-
nitely earned, and on capital so inflated the
directors have been endeavoring to maintain
high div. rates. As a result of _ the bonus
issues and consequent large div. distributions
at June 30 the accumulation of underwriting
surpluses and investment earnings was
but £37,200, or only 11.4 p.c. of the
past year’s net premium income. Where-
as on a 40 p.c. basis £123,500 should
have been stored. During the year the direct-
tors evidently realised the weakness which
had developed—at any rate on paper—owing
to so much profit having been distributed in
divs. and bonus scrip, and decided to give
the accounts credit for portion of the appre-
ciation of property values. Expert property
valuers estimated that premises in three capi-
tals were at present worth £85,275 more
than book values, so they have been written
up by £56,950 and reserves have been in-
creased by that amount. Even then reserves
fell about £29,000 short of a 40 p.c. allow-
ance for unearned premiums. Still, there is
the internal reserve represented by the dif-
ference between the full market value of assets
and the written-up book value, so the direc-
tors can reasonably claim that, under normal
conditions, capital is not exposed to risks
under unexpired policies. Nevertheless, it is
unusual for an underwriting conceni to write
up assets; generally managements prefer to
safeguard their shareholders’ interests by
writing them down, thus providing a second
line of defence. Insurance is a business in
which results must be averaged over long
periods, and in which the greatest strength
possible should be developed against all com
tingencies, including possible slumps in pro-
perty values.
These matters, however, are entirely the
concern of shareholders. It matters not in
the least to insurers whether too much profit
has been distributed or bonus issues have
been over-liberal so long as funds are avail-
able to give adequate backing to policy risks.
For nearly a half-century the Mercantile
Mutual has been a thoroughly correct office
which has never failed to meet an obligation.
At one time it was an ultra-conservative
underwriter: only within comparatively re-
cent years lias it been seeking profits from
classes of insurance which for a long period
it shunned as not ultra-select. When it did
take off its coat figures moved very rapidly:
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.e. 41.8 p.e
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1915.. 136.85 S 50,664 61,458 37.0 „ 44.9 „
1917.. 153,702 70,090 71,709 45.6,, 46.6 „
1920.. 194,681 67,212 94,083 34.5 „ 48.3 „
1921.. 216,774 74,751 105,564 34.5 „ 48.7 „
1922.. 241,281 92,815 116,156 38.5 „ 48.1 „
1923.. 257.511 124,233 112,623 48.2 „ 43.7 „
1924.. 326,786 157,301 132,674 48.1 „ 40.6 „
Losses last year were still abnormally heavy,
but exes, were substantially reduced. Inci-
dentally, premiums include the 10 p.c. to be
rebated, and the claims and cost percentages
are not quite so large as they would be with
the bonuses deducted. After providing for
the rebate, the year’s underwriting surplus
was only £18,844. Interest contributed
£17,337, and after voting £5OO to a staff fund
a net surplus of £35,681 remained. The en-
larged income has also affected the relation-
ship of funds to risks. Usually managements
strive to maintain funds of at least 14 times
net premium income, and, deducting the re-
bate, at June 30 the Merc.’s funds were only
a little more than 14 times net premiums.
If the business continues to expand as it has
done recently, the directors may have to con-
sider whether it would not be advisable to
get in additional capital. At present there
are 404,147 £1 shares paid to 155., leaving
£101,037 callable to support £397,262 of vis-
ible funds in hand. Assets were: Premises
(as written up), £221,550; War Loan, de-
posits, cash and debentures, £219,775; mort-
gages, £17,806; agency balances and book
debts, £58,449.
As an investment Merc, shares offer pros-
pects of good average div. rates under normal
underwriting conditions, but owing to the
heavy flow of bonus scrip in the past not
much more can be expected in that way until
the balance-sheet position has. been strength-
ened to make shareholders’ position as strong
as that of policy-holders.
(Continued on paye 19.)


THE DEADHEADS.
"Minister for Custorns Pratten has announced that tariff concessions to State Governments and other public bodies are unauthorised by law and must cease.”
THE HOUSE-MANAGER: “Read the notice, gentlemen, read the notice. It's the boss's orders, and he didn't put it there for fun.”


READY ON FRIDAY.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR SEPTEMBER.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Bank of Com-
merce
Australian Drug Co.
Automobiles, Ltd.
Ballarat Trustees
Bank of Victoria
Broken Hill Proprietary
Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney
Commercial Bank of
Australia
Cox Bros.
Kmu Bay Railway
Equity Trustees
Federal Guarantee Corp.
Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co.
Geo. Farmer
Goodlet & Smith
Gypsum & Salt Supplies
Pty.
Home Recreations, Ltd.
Intercolonial Investment,
Land & Building
Mercantile Mutual Insur-
ance
National Housing Asso-
ciation
Newcastle County Mutual
Building-
New Era Insurance
New Zealand Insurance
Co.
North Coast Steam
Navigation
Phoenix Films
Pitt, Son & Badgery
Port Jackson & Manly
S.S.
Port Jackson Investment
and Insurance
Queensland Brewery
Queensland National Bank
Queensland Trustees
Queensland Woollen
Manufacturing
Simpson, H. L. & S.
Yale of Clwydd Coal
Wege Motor
Wollongong Brick & Tile
W. R. Carpenter
Increases of Capital
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Prospectuses
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/0 per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any' type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. 1,t.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Apvt.
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.- — Advt. [2
Municipal engineers, looking for permanency in
water-main construction, find Pioneer Wood Pipe their
best investment. Its capacity never decreases, even
after long years of service, for its smooth interior
bore allows no foothold for choking growths, neither
does it pit nor corrode, nor does frost, electrolysis or
“bad soil” harm it. Learn fully from our free
interesting book the advantages Pioneer Wood Pipe
offers. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colli son St Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers an.l Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrougli House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * •
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur it is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND & SOUTH AFRICA.
THOS. CQNFOY, A. AUBRKY,
Governing Director. GenferaL Manager.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \ SI- 1/6 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN I 15/-, 20 words)
iVeelc-end 71d. (minimum charge 12/6 20 words)
FRANCE '
HOLLAND
Week-end'SJd. (minimum charge 9/7 20 words)
U.S.A. . . 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
Argentina,Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346.
Queen’s House, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central '.084
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
&
l
P o OgRA.S OK
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
fie
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26. 30 Clarence St., Sydney
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
33 TO 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C. (Chairman) ; T. H. Kelly, Sir Samuel Hordern,
Dr. Robert L. Faithfull, Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght.
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL?
THIS COMPANY is Specially Qualified
to Act as EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
Among its advantages are SECURITY, CONTINUITY OF MANAGEMENT
(it does not die), ACCESSIBILITY (it is always available to its clients),
EXPERIENCE (it has handled almost every class of asset), its CHARGES
ARE MODERATE.
Trust Funds now under the Company’s control exceed £23,683,000.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET, giving full particulars. R. Copland Lethbridge, Manager.
The Queensland Woollen Manufac-
turing Co. (Ipswich, Queensland)
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
-1 Jlfi 8 888 10 ~ 2:450 4000 2388 12,527
io’aqi 90 ’ 0,410 2000 2074 14,601
loir-• s’oio ;;;; mss 1595 - 13,733
1918.. 6.506 7* „ „ :2,953 1271 { __ i 2 ,480
1916 war-time profits tax £3535 1 ia „ n
1919.. 16.259 15 p.c. = 5,906 4533 5850 18,330
Dividends forfeited .. ’ ki 18,130
Reserves capitalised .. Lla.'oo i 3,915
1920.. 19,694 15 p.c. = 8,859 1600 9235 1
Dividends forfeited
1991 16 264 20 p.c. = 11,953 1544 2.'6i IR^o
192 i:: 11,523 13i P „ „ 7,968 1653 1902 13,697
Taxation reserve taken 111 .. 1211 14,mis
1923.. 7.817 Ilf p.c. = 8,004 1699 13,022
Dividends forfeited .. .. 72 13,094
Loss. . ...
1924.. 1,936 If p.c. = 1,254 9,904
This Queensland woollen-mill began nearly
a half-century back, and has had an erratic
career. It had such a bad run in competition
with almost duty-free imports after Federa-
tion that in 1906 one-half of the old capital
was written off, and not until the war
brought a rush of business was it able to
pay reasonable divs. on reduced capital. The
prosperity during the war period and just
after seemed to have given the old mill new
life, and the directors were encouraged to
proceed with an ambitious programme of
factory expansion. The following compari-
sons show how capital has been trebled in
10 years (with the aid of only £18,750 of
reserves transferred) and how balance-sheet
groups have expanded over two five-year
periods:—
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Capital ..£23,339 £37,500 £70,363 £70,964
Liabilities . . 15,929 3,470 5,024 11,606
Buildings, etc.. . 9,836 14,150 14,497. 14,601
Plant, etc. . . 21,548 25,000 25,032 31,591
Stock .. 12,868 13,153 32,410 27,389
Book debts . . 8,212 10,935 13,147 14,894
Cash and in-
vestments . . 7,000 4,000
The outstanding feature of the 10 years was
that reserves at the end of the period were
less than those at the commencement;
almost all earnings were distributed as they
were made, and most of the little that was
left was converted into bonus scrip. The
directors are probably now sorry that they
rushed the div. rate up to as high as 20
p.c., because the co. has had another set-
back, and some of the cash scattered in the
boom period would be very helpful now, even
if it saved only a little of the interest on
overdraft which is necessary to enable the
management to carry stocks.
Latest troubles have not been caused by
any difficulty in finding a market for the
output of the greatly enlarged mill; in fact,
the directors admit their woollens have been
“well in demand.” But during the past 12
months, while overseas mills have been en-
deavoring to re-capture the market with
goods manufactured by cheaper labor work-
ing longer hours than Australians will toler-
ate, the Queensland Arbitration Court re-
duced the working week in the mills. In
addition, the co. did not anticipate the
hardening of prices of wool, and while hav-
ing had to pay more for its raw materials
it was unable to get compensating prices
for its goods. How figures in the manufac-
turing accounts have behaved is shown next:
Materials and All
Sales. Manufacturing Exes.
1910 .. £24,682 £17,605
1915 .. 46,116 30,581
1916 .. 68,134 48,715
1917 .. 51,426 48,391
1918 .. 50,145 37,175
1919 .. 75,177 54,289
1920 .. 125,182 91,783
1921 .. 148,213 111,404
1922 .. 128,136 104,523
1923 .. 109.978 104.468
1924 .. 100,248 88,893
The figures are not a reliable guide to profits,
of course, because they do not take into
account the variations in stock-taking. Last
year, for instance, opened with £32,410 of
materials and manufactured goods, and it
closed with £27,389. Only £6334 surplus on
manufacturing showed up for the period, com-
pared with £17,793 for 1923 and £26,050 for
1022. The accounts show a loss for the year
amounting to £1936, but as a 3d. div. was
paid in March, the co. went £3190 to the
bad. Meanwhile, however, nothing had been
visibly allowed for depreciation; and as plant
was added to considerably during the period of
high machinery prices, if no special allow-
ances were made in the previous years the
matter of writing-down values may now be
a \ e ry important one. The balance-sheet
position is not uncomfortable, though ; against
£10.109 bank overdraft and £lOB6 of sundry
creditors at June 30, there were £4OOO of
War Loan, stocks valued at £27,389, and
£14,894 of book debts. Moreover, assum-
ing that plant has not been Written down
hard enough, the £9904 of reserves should
assure full protection for capital, provided
the mill can continue to find a profitable out-
let for its goods. What counts most, of
course, is the earning capacity of the plant:
and the problem for the management seems
to be to so CIU4 costs as to compete success-
fully with goods from overseas.
* * * *
Westralian _ Mines Department spent
£2OOO in cutting a track and sinking wells
on the 100-mile dry stage between Laverton
and Jutson’s Rocks, where a new goldfield,
styled Jones’s Concessions, was alleged to
have been discovered. Subsequently the Mt.
Shenton Co. spent £3OOO on the field.
Almost every penny has been lost; the
liquidator of the co. has since accepted a 30s.
tender for “everything.”
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) gold production
for 1923 was worth £167,414, and £32,687
of profit was made. Divs. totalling 2s. 6d.
per share were distributed. Ore reserves are
estimated at 195,000 tons “actual,” assay-
ing 9.07dwt., and 76,000 tons “probable”
of an estimated value of 6.42dwt. The year’s
best developments were in the opening-up of
new shoots at 1350 ft. and 1700 ft.
* * * *
Brown’s Reward Central, one of the many
Adelaide cos. with little cash and lots of
assurance, has taken an option over the
Monte Carlo Bank mine (W.A.). The
show is situated at the north end of the
Cue town-site, near the rich alluvial finds
of the early days. About £4OOO has already
been taken out by the vendors. The price
asked for the property (£11,000) is claimed
to bo in sight.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Westralia is smiling at Dr. F.
G. Clapp’s claim that ’Murkan geologists are
the 'best white buslimen in the world, and
that at time of writing he had crossed
deserts no white man had faced. He in-
stanced Jugurra Creek, which is only 100
miles from Broome and contains plenty of
water. From Jugurra Creek to Joanna
Springs, the next point, is another 100 miles
to water, and Godfrey’s tank is 130 miles
further on, with water along the track.
Warburton went through this “desert” in
1873 without tractors; Rudall. Government
surveyor, followed in 1897; and Talbot jour-
neyed as far as Jugurra Creek in 1923 with
one white man, a black, horses and mules.
Dozens of prospectors and stockmen have
been over this country with practically no
equipment.
Local oil ventures being now unattractive,
Perth speculators have turned their atten-
tion to Dutch East Borneo. Mick Williams,
formerly manager of the Edna May, has
acquired options on two concessions in which
coal and oil are declared to be plentiful, and
a geological report is being obtained. A co.
with a capital of £25,000 in 10,000 50s.
shares has been formed.
* * * *
A few months back the Morning Star,
Wood’s Point (Vic.), seemed to be on a
good wicket. But having worked out the
floor of quartz, it may soon have to revert
to calls. It wasn’t a bad patch:
£187,000 of gold and £67,000 of profit. The
State got back its £15,000 loan, £25,000
equipped the mine and £27,000 went into
the pockets of the Miller crowd who follow
Geo. Dickenson. But more than divs. was
made by the early birds when the market
tumbled over itself to buy because of the
luck that befel the same sporty lot at A 1
Gaffneys. The shaft is to go down to 1000 ft.
on the hunt for additional floors. Mean-
while, crushing will be reduced to 1200 tons
a month to try to keep up grade and avert
calls. Unless gold won meets expenses calls
are a certainty. The Morning Star has'run
the usual course of Vic. mountain mines:
a patch of gold, a market flutter, a few divs.
and then calls.
New Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, ran
17,000 tons through the battery at an aver-
age cost of 235. 6d. a ton. a cut of 10s. in
costs. This was accounted for by 3000 tons
more going through the mill. It is a
clear tip that if Bendigo is to get costs down
it must open up mines ahead of the battery,
then send more stone to the mill, and
carry on proper sampling so that non-pay
dirt shall not be lifted to the surface. Share-
holders had two Is. divs., and that was not
bad going out of Gdwt. ore. The balance-
sheet shows the mine £llOO in debt, but with
about £2500 to come in as gold premium
the co.’s position is fairly snug again.
Including gold premium. Rose, Thistle
and Shamrock, Harrietville (Vic.), has
rocked £B32S out of gold for a six months’
campaign, 2421 tons sent to the mill averag-
ing almost an ounce. However, the profit
was only £952, which was too small to give
a div. and only about enough to put in plant
that will allow other lifts to be opened. The
mainstays of the show are the short shoots
on the Shamrock and Land Tax runs of
stone. East on the Shamrock a second
lense is being opened up, but it is small.
North-west a 44ft. shoot is giving good stone,
and there is a chance of another patch being
got south of the vertical shaft; but it is all
small stuff. Altogether about 7500 tons
stone are in sight, approximately of ounce
grade. But if 2400 tons can give only
£950 of profit, what can be expected from
7500 tons, especially as shaft-sinking has to
be provided for?
* * » *
Poor markets, consequent small output and
low values left the Antox Co.’s antimony-
gold show at Costerfield (Vic.) £BOOO to the
bad on the past year’s work. The output of
concentrates stuck at 800 tons instead of
reaching 1400 tons. Besides, gold contents
fell away, so that concentrates were much
lower in grade, and with an antimony pro-
duct it is the precious metal that counts.
The making of antimony paste did not answer
well, and the Sydney works are shut, leav-
ing the plant at Costerfield to carry on. A
gleam of better days is in sight: values in
the ore have recovered to the old level, and
the St. Helens Smelters, at Manchester, are
willing to buy concentrates till the end of
this year, and probably longer. Only the
opening up of markets and better grade raw
material will save a solid calling-up lof
capital.
* * * *
Lake Bunga (Vic.) find, with its con-
flicting reports from chemists and experts,
has divided the Vic. Mines Department into
two camps. Up to a point the Government
officials who superintended and drilled the
hole agreed that they had struck the first
true crude petroleum ever brought to sur-
face in Victoria. There was no discord in
official circles, because there was the oil
and Government men had found it with a
Government drilling outfit. Then Barag-
wanath, Director of Geological Survey,
arrived at the hole to make a final test.
He was accompanied by a Dutch oil expert
from Borneo, E. M. Di Villa, who dis-
puted the conclusions arrived at, and soon
it. was being suggested that perhaps the oil
might be axle-grease.
* * * *
A co., composed chiefly of Inverell
(N.S.W.) men, has taken over the Three
Castles tin leases and dredging areas at
Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.). This property in-
cludes 235 acres of dredging ground, and
has been worked on and off for years. The
cost of securing a good water supply has
been the drawback. The new co. proposes
to pump its supply from Oakey Creek. If
this scheme is successful the Three Castles
will probably develop on a large scale. In
places 40ft. thick of tin wash suitable for
sluicing is claimed to be available. Castles
himself spent £2OOO-odd a few years back
on endeavoring to treat the ground, but the
proposition was too costly. In 1922 another
syndicate turned the area down in favor of
other options.
* * * *
Returns for the past few months on the
Etheridge field (N.Q.) have been the best
for years, and there are prospects of a
further recovery. F. W. Cuthbert, formerly
of Croydon, considers he has a fair winner
in the Mt. Jackson mine, and is making
arrangements to work on a larger scale. The
promising Finger Print gold lode should
show a few good crushings as soon as the
erection of the battery from Ortona is com-
pleted. Jack Candlish still perseveres with
his old love, the Dry Hash; the last 55 tons
averaged over loz. gold, which is unexpected
good fortune in a silver-lead ore.
* * * *
Oil-prospecting on the areas taken up
north of Mitchell and near Orallo (Q.),
which geologist Jensen considered had
chances quite as good as the Lander area,
has fallen through for the present. Queens-
land has gone cold on oil, a policy of wait-
and-see having succeeded the enthusiasm
created by happenings at Lander. The
A.O.C. has an area in the same district, but
it is confining its attention to Beaudesert.
Arthur Moore is keen on the Mitchell area,
and the first good news about oil in Queens-
land may revive interest sufficiently to give
him his chance.
Latest from Dr. Jensen at Beaudesert is
that gas and oil are again showing at 230 ft.
Heavy rains have interfered with work, but
the bore has been cased, and drilling is in
full swing again without any trouble from
water.
* * * *
North Phoenix No. 4, Gympie (Q-.), paid
a div. of Is. 3d. last month, making 2s. 3d.
from the last two crushings. The old mine
has just had the best crushing for more than
12 months, and further good returns are in
sight. The latest parcel of 75 tons gave
14400 z. worth approximately £5OOO. The
monkey-glanding of this ancient has been
one of the gladdest things in Gympie mining
for years.
* * * *
Though the Scottisli-Gympie Co. has been
buried, there will probably be more pickings
from its old mine. A local syndicate bought
the plant at No. 1 shaft, and Alec Corbet,
after making an inspection of the upper
workings, anticipates that a couple of blocks
of pay ore can be taken out. The option
over the mine is being exercised, and work
is going ahead. Operations will probably be
of local interest only, and large returns are
not expected.
* * * *
Prospecting work at Mt. Clear View, Cape
River (N.Q.), is being actively pushed ahead
by a new co. which is out to get the junction
of the main and hanging wall reefs, expected
somewhere between 200 ft. and 250 ft. Sampl-
ing on the 158 ft. level gave assays ranging
from 7dwt. to 4oz. over sft. intervals and
averaging under 30dwt.
* * * *
“Xex” : Probably the most disastrous strike
on record for those who started it was the
Waihi (M.L.) affair a few years ago. The
immediate cause was the action of a donkey-
man at Waikino, who refused to do some-
thing that it is not exactly Labor etiquette
for donkeymen to do. The whole of the
Wailii miners walked out, and few of them
ever walked in again. Unknown to the em-
ployees the lower levels of the Martha reef
were not paying, and once watered up it was
not worth while spending thousands on mak-
ing them workable again. After some months
most of the miners drifted away, and Waihi
became almost a city of the dead. Lately
many of the houses have been demolished and
the timber trained to Hamilton to help out
the building shortage there; and although
the mine is pulling itself together slowly, the
day of the big and prosperous town is ended.
* • * *
Transvaal gold-mines produced 4,704,0000 z.
in the six months ended June 30, compared
with 4,516,5000 z. for the first half of 1023.
If this improvement continues during the
current half-year the total gold output for
1924 will beat the record of 1010
(9,296,6000 z.). The div. record of £9,500,000
in 1909 seems certain to be bettered.


'Rodgers Stainless Cutlery
Made from the best grade of stainless steel,
scientifically tempered and ground. Maintains
its edge in use—a great advantage over inferior
grades of stainless cutlery. See that the genuine
Joseph Rodgers mark appears on
the cutlery you buy.
Famous since 1682.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Victoria Chambers F a „i P
Street, BRISBANE. 17 Bolton Street, NEWCASTLE. tMELBOURNEIPtv
Ltd., 493-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. Darling Buildings Franklin Street’
ADELAIDE. Corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets, HOBART Also from
J. R. W. Gardam, PERTH, W.A. Also trom
k
mors
Alway
714 3
A
PERSONAL.
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Two of the outstanding pioneers of Mil-
dura—William Bowring, the merchant, who
died a few weeks
ago, and Elisha de
Garis, who now re-
presents in Lon-
do n the dried-
fruits firm that he
founded in Mildura
- —wore born in the
Channel Islands,
the one of pure
English stock, and
the other with
more than a drop
of French. Both
were good Meth-
odists, and both
made money, Wil-
liam Bowring was
a man of big bene-
factions, mostly to
objects having a
religious com-
plexion.
A. R. BLUETT.
Sydney's authority
on local
government.
"G.R.”: Hardly a ripple of interest
marked the reappearance of Hughes in Mel-
bourne. Only one of his old lieutenants was
waiting at Spencer-street to give him the
glad hand; that was Massy Greene. On
the previous day a Nationalist member in
the Reps, had inquired of Bruce if the Gov-
ernment proposed to do anything in the way
of a reception to the little man. No answer
was given. Hughes arrived at 1 o’clock, and
two hours later stole into the House and
took a seat near Austin Chapman on the
second cross Ministerial benches. There
was a moment’s silence, broken by Bren-
nan’s “Mr. Speaker, I see a stranger in the
House.” Then a titter went round, and so
Billy came home.
“F. J.”: It was 27 years on September 2
since the second session of the National Con-
vention which drafted the Federal Constitu-
tion opened at Sydney. Only 14 of the 50
delegates survive—J. 11. Carruthers and Wm.
McMillan (Ma State) ; Justices Isaacs and
Higgins, John Quick, Alex. Peacock and
W. A. Trenwith (Vic.) ; Dr. Cockburn,
Josiah Symon and P. McM. Glynn (S. Aus.) ;
Elliott Lewis (Speck) ; and Walter James,
W. T. Loton and A. H. Henning (W.A.).
Cockburn and Henning are in England.
Half of the Vic. delegation is alive, and
three of the five are Federal Court Judges.
“Ex-Dig.” : Vic. Diggers have done honor
to two old friends by erecting a memorial-
stone to Alfred Thomas Sharp and his wife.
Sharp was the Vic. Immigration Commis-
sioner in London, but when the war came he
and his wife gave all their time to the sol-
diers. They had their share in establishing
the Anzac Buffet and keeping it going; but
Sharp’s great work was in bringing together
Digger friends who were in hospital and did
not know one another’s whereabouts, tracing
the burial-places of dead soldiers, and supply-
ing relatives with information. After a life
of real partnership in kindliness and good
acts the pair died within a month of one
another at the end of 1922.
Among the guests introduced to the Gover-
nor-General on his recent visit to Kempsey
(N.S.W.) was Hughie McMaugh, who has
lived in the dis-
trict for 74 years.
The veteran said
he had told an
aborigine, who was
probably o 1 d e r
than himself, that
the Governor was
coming to Ivemp-
sey, whereupon a
light of reminis-
cen c e came to
Binghi’s eyes.
“Ah,” he said,
“that feller Gubner
him bin berry old
feller now mine
tinkit. Me bin
hear about him
w hen me little
feller piccaninny.”
Australian artist
TOM ROBERTS,
who is going to
have a show in
Melbourne after
spending 17 years
away from it—
mostly in England.
General Sir Charles Fergusson, who, all
going well, will follow Jellicoe in Maoriland,
belongs to a family which has touched the
Dominion at several points. Both his father
(Sir James Fergusson) and liis father-in-law
(Lord Glasgow) were Governors there before
him —-the one in the ’seventies, the other in
the ’nineties. Probably such a thing as that
has never happened before in British Gov-
ernorships.
Dead in Adelaide, after a long illness,
Ainslie Caterer, who, son of a schoolmaster
himself, gave his whole life to St. Peter's
College. Close on half a century ago lie was
one of the first students to enter Adelaide
’Varsity and to take a degree there. Then
he became a master at S.P.S.C., and, being
a slow bowler of inter-State form (he once
bowled Murdoch first ball), was made sports-
master, and, later, was in charge of other
sections. On the retirement of Girdlestone
he acted as head for four years till Biekers-
teth came—only for the rule that the head
must be a C. of E. clergyman, Caterer might
have got the job permanently. Till his
health broke down a year or two back he
was a moving spirit in the S.A. Cricket
Assoc.
Counted his last sheep, Frank Alleyn
Edols, of Burrawang, Forbes, the home of
one of the best-known merino studs in Aus-
tralia. Ernest is now the only surviving
son of Thomas Edols, who founded the stud.
General Birdwood, who took an interest
when visiting S.A. in the hills township
named after him—it was Blumberg before
the war—has not forgotten it, and writes
from his Northern Command camp in India
that he proposed to send £5 a year (and
double for the first year) for the local boy
found “most likely to grow up a good citi-
zen.’’ i
Captain Patrick had the worst of luck
when the bank called in towards the end of
last month and said it couldn’t support his
steamship co. any more—which meant liquida-
tion. llow glad the “associated” cos. were
to get rid of him was shown within a fort-
night by their announcement of a 10 per
cent, rise in freights. Had he been able to
hang on for another couple of months he
would nretty certainly have been able to
avoid a complete wreck. Patrick himself is
still young enough to wear the medal which
speaks of service in the Great War: some
of his best work was done as a naval-
intelligence officer. Born in Scotland, he
came to these parts as a youngster, and there
are not many jobs he hasn’t done aboard
ships in every part of the Pacific. But he
never had such a tough one afloat as he had
gamely tackled ashore during the last three
or four years.
The Australasian Science Assoc., with
Knibbs as chairman at the opening in Adel-
aide, appointed as vice-presidents all the ex-
presidents living in Australia, plus Prof.
Liversidge, whom it acknowledged as its
founder. Dr. Barrett, of Melbourne, and
Prof. David, of Sydney, were prominent in
the discussions. Knibbs retired from the
presidency in favor of Monash, whose official
oration was all on the value of electricity
and the overmastering importance of power
development. Perth secured the next meet-
ing for 1926. The president then will be
T. It. Lyle, Dublin trained, and for many
years Pi'of. of Philosophy in Melbourne.
“The Deacon”: The Ma State lost pro-
bably its oldest apothecary when Robert
Brown Armstrong put aside the pestle lately.
A Scot from Dundee, he made Australia 66
years ago, and was in the gold rushes of the
’sixties at Iviandra, Forbes and Gulgong
(N.S.W.). Then he settled down in Young,
built its first brick house, and soon became
the local Bumble cle luxe. Eventually he made
to Sydney, established a manufacturing chem-
ist’s business in Castlereagh-street, and was
on towards 90 when the shutters went up.
The newly-promoted Captain J. E. T
Harper is the first Maorilander to be a
Rear-Admiral in the Royal Navy. He is the
son of Leonard Harper, late of Christchurch,
was educated at Christ’s College in the Flat
City, joined the R.N. in 1888, served in the
Boer War and with the Somali expedition,
and commanded lI.M. yacht Victoria and
Albert, 1911-14. Harper was president of
the committee which drew up the official
account of the Jutland battle, the suppres-
sion of which aroused a tornado.
Charles A. Coghlan, solicitor and M.L.C.,
of N.S.W., died while the Council was cel-
ebrating its centenary. He was a Sydney
native, born 48 years ago, and was appointed
to the Legislative Council in 1921. A sister
is Dr. Coghlan, and brothers are Dr.
Coghlan, K.C., who was “called” 44 years
ago, and Agent-General Timothy. Though
Charles had a considerable law practice—
especially in industrial matters —he found
time to concern himself with many financial
and business propositions, and had been con-
nected with many big deals in Pitt-street.
Under a commission granted by the late
Queen Vic., amended by letters patent issued
by George V., Leo Cussen, Acting-C.J., con-
stituted himself Administrator of the Gov-
ernment of Vic. the other day. Stradbroke
found he had to exceed his month’s leave to
see the N. Territory properly, and that was
the reason for Cussen taking full command.
The proclamation was quite in the old-
fashioned manner, and, after “By his Excel-
lency’s command, G. M. Prendergast,” came
“God Save the King”—which people seemed
to notice more than usual.
“Ululah” : The new Earl of Ducie, a 6ft.
Bananalandcr, who was born in Maryborough
in ( 1870. is known in his native town as
“Shark” Moreton. Nicknames are queer
things: this “Shark,” for instance, is a most
amiable person, and Maryborough has no
more popular son,
R. H. Croll, whom Prendergast has made
sec. to his Police Commission, is registrar of
the Council of Public Education, and does
his utmost to disguise the fact that the body
is the fifth wheel of a coach. He has had
previous experience of Royal Commissions,
particularly one in relation to fish. He has
a literary touch, and the report of this
latest trawling excursion will have one re-
deeming feature at least—it will be in read-
able English.
The old Adelaide legal firm of G. and .T.
Downer has gone out of business after
handling briefs for more than half a cen-
tury. Of the two brothers, John, a some-
time State Premier and a prominent figure
at all the conferences that preceded the
drafting of the Federal Constitution, was
the more widely known. Since the death of
the two original members of the firm some
years ago, a nephew, Frank Downer, has
carried on under the old name, but has now
retired from practice prior to touring the
world.
“T. 0.1.” : Died last week in Sydney, at 84,
the widow of Fitzwilliam Wentworth, second
sou of W. C. Wentworth. She was a daugh-
ter of George Hill, of Durham Hall, a stately
house at the top of Albion-street. They had
four sons and two daughters—-the elder girl
was born in Maorilaud in 1870 and died at
sea the following year. All four sons are
living—W. C. Wentworth is a barrister,
D’Arcy a mining engineer, and Fitzwilliam
and George pastoralists. The Hills date back
to The earliest days of settlement: William
v* , ls p understood to have been superinten-
ds ° f r w l uraber yard which was on the
con er of Bridge and George streets. Daniel
Cooper, the first baronet, married one of his
daughters.
~ E ; r 1; Quayle, who recently retired from
the Meteorological Department (Vic.), where
very valuable work, commenced as
a State School pedagogue. Grey-headed men
in Horsham remember his teaching them
in the senior class ol
the local school. When
the young villains
"wanted to dodge work,
one would come along
with a question like
"Please, how do you
know a comet will
appear at a certain
time?” That was
enough. Weird para-
bolas commenced to
patrol the blackboard,
masses of figures
drifted into being, an.]
the urchins had a
spell-oh. He was
born for the Observa-
tory, and his work
there was a delight
to him.
Professor BRAILS-
FORD ROBERT-
SON, of Adelaide Uni.,
who has been help-
ing to entertain the
Science Congress there.
J. H. Champness, dead in Adelaide at 71,
sold papers as a youngster of nine on the
Castlbmaine and Eaglehawk (Vic.) gold-
fields. After a long spell of storekeeping
in S.A., lie took Yarrock and Tatiara sta-
tions in Vic., and claimed to have been about
the first to introduce share-farming in the
mallee country. His old age was spent in
S.A., where he was born.
W. R. Finlayson, a Progressive candidate
of Caulfield (Vic.), claims to be the first
candidate in Australia to broadcast his
address to the electors by wireless. It being
well known that there is an abnormal num-
ber of wireless enthusiasts in Elsternwick,
he recently used a friend’s transmitter to
unburden himself of his speech to a large
audience of unsuspecting and inoffensive
listeners-in. If the practice catches on in-
terest in wireless is likely to sag at the knees.
R. D. Meagher, now nearing the 60th
milestone, after an eventful career in law,
politics and civics, sailed the other day for
America in the Niagara. It is the first time
he has been outside Sydney Heads.
Collin s-street, Melbourne, will miss James
Dent Oswald, who went west recently. He
was the eldest sou of Robert Oswald, of Mal-
don, who raised two million pounds’ worth of
gold from a true-fissure lode in his Oswald’s
mine. “J.D.” was once manager of the Q. N.
Bank, but left to act as executor of his
father’s estate.
Just-dead Theodore Napier, although born
on the site of Melbourne Argus office 7b
years ago, was more of a Highlander than
mony a native-born Scot, and loved to appear
in kilts and cockade. His dad landed at
Hobart in 1832, and coming to Melbourne
in 1837 was shrewd enough to buy the Argus
site at the first land sale and passed it on
to his son. While sojourning in Scotland
and espousing the cause of the Jacobites,
Napier promoted the big petition of 100,000
to Queen Vic. protesting against the use of
the word “England” in official documents
instead of “Great Britain.” The benevolent
old fellow will always be kindly remembered
by Essendon, to which suburb he presented
a park.
The Hebrew community in Adelaide, never
large in numbers, has figured very promi-
nently in municipal life. Its contributions
to the mayoral chair are ,T. Bazar (1855-581,
J. M. Solomon (1869-71), Lewis Cohen
(1889-91, 1902-04, ’O9. ’ll and ’2l-23). I.
Isaacs (1911-13) and C. R. J. Glover (1917-
19 and ’23-24).
“Stellsby”: An Australian who has dili-
gently pushed the sale of eucalyptus-oil in
London for the past quarter of a century
is one Ponting, sometime cook and sole sur-
vivor of the Huddart-Parker Co.’s Alert,
which foundered outside Port Phillip in the
’nineties. Ponting has never earned a crust
on the sea since that Sunday morning when
a dog raised the alarm after finding him.
lashed to a spar and unconscious, washed up
on the back beach, Sorrento. Mention the
ex-cook’s name to any middle-aged salt who
has sailed consistently out of the Port of
London, and he will remark, “Yes, I know
’im, the bloke wot cashes advance-notes and
sells eucalyptis.” Ponting’s method is to
cash advance-notes only on the understand-
ing that a bottle of eucalyptus is traded on
the transaction, irrespective of his 5 per cexit.
commission. By these means he has disposed
of vast quantities of oil in addition to find-
ing a ready sale for it among passengers.
THE ORDEAL BY WATER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie London Daily Mail publishes, from the pen
ot a travelling Englishwoman, an appreciative article
on the ‘charm and daintiness and winsome grace’ of
Sydney girls. Special admiration is expressed for the
prevailing ‘milk-and-rose complexion—applied cer-
tainly, but with rare skill—the Australian girl’s pale
olive skin of the finest texture presenting an ideal
base for cosmetics.’ ”
O Phyllis, I need reassuring;
Denounce it as false, I beseech!
Your cheeks with the contours alluring,
As smooth to the touch as the peach,
Are they only a base for cosmetic
Adornments from puff and from pot ?
She says your complexion’s synthetic—
Oh, tell me it’s not!
Your gait, with its grace and its vigor,
Excites her delighted surprise;
Your beauties of form and of figure
Enchanted her critical eyes;
She has praise for your blousing and skirting ;
What use such admissions to make
When she calmly concludes by asserting
Your face is a fake?
She writes—to a man’s stupefaction—
As her bite were a gentle caress ;
As if ’twere an added attraction
Herself would be charmed to possess,
A skin such a texture affording
And color so neutral and faint
That it couldn't be beat as a hoarding
For powder and paint.
O dealer in pats that are feline
From hands where a hatpin is hid,
Did you make for old Blighty a bee-line
Ere you let yourself go as you did?
Your subtly malevolent tittle
With scorn I would like to repel,
But I own that it leaves me a little
Uneasy as well.
('ome, Phyllis—your cheeks where reposes
’Neath soft superficies of silk
The pink of the daintiest roses,
The white of the creamiest milk,
Your cheeks but a base for cosmetic!—
No, no! You shall prove to me that
This penwoman peripatetic
Is simply—a cat!
To Bondi or Manly or Coogee
When summer arrives we’ll away,
With couples, athletic or smoodgy,
To sport in the spindrift and spray.
When you’re clad in the surfwoman’s vesture
The larrikin winds shall depone
.-vnd the sham-smashing billows attest your
Complexion your own!
A.S.W.
T. THE R.


■
M
&
WMI
m
■
1
llgg ■
■
■HH
:
11
H
V
aswik
■
raw
■
■
111#
H
■
:
ft
II
Hi
HI
HI
'slim if
ny"*y Ip '
U\J\J i
%"WITHOUT TLC : SHADOW-?OF "A
A WONOPOLE UZ.Z92 TROUBLES OUT"
MONOPOLE
MAGNUMS
I®
o
a
o
<u
PAT ON


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service il la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
-4k.
em
WON
Tariff—Write for descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caf6 and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
9
m
FOUR-
HORSE-
POWER
ENGINE
The Wade
Does the
Work of
Ten Men.
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
Sole Australian Agents:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. AND AT
632 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. NEWCASTLE.
Agents for S. Australia: A. NOBLE & SON, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
NEW GUN
LONG-DISTANCE SHOOTING
34in. Barrel. 2f Cartridges.
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country
in the world, requires a gun strong in the
breech, because our. varying temperatures
generate such high pressures in explosives.
Having a long experience of sporting condi-
tions here, we have all our Guns made to
suit these requirements, and the latest addi-
tion to SPECIALLY-MADE MODELS is the
Long-distance REINFORCED BREECH
Single-barrelled Gun. It has full choke,
finely-bored 34in. steel barrel, snap fore-end,
top lever, automatic ejector, half-pistol grip.
Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price 75/-. Postage 4/- all over Australia.
GUN CARTRIDGES freshly loaded on the
premises give best results. Write for list.
GUN & CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“A.A.”: I have never seen a dingo-fox
fig!;', but I will back a Tasmanian lightweight to
knock out both —in fact, will back him against any
Australian animal irrespective of size (Rafferty rules).
My nomination is the Tasmanian devil (Dasyurua
ursinus). While prospecting on the West Coast years
ago I witnessed a dandy scrap between a devil and
a Tasmanian tiger (Thylacinus cynociphalus). I was
awakened one bright moonlight night by sounds of
"BILL, OL’ MAN, YOU’RE GETTIN’ QUT’ BALD!”
strife, so, grabbing a pick, I went along to investi-
gate. Viewing the affair from the shelter of a
large log, I saw that .the iron jaws of the devil
held one of his enemy’s front legs in a vice-like
grip, while the tiger kept snapping at his opponent.
Over and over they went till “stripes” appeared
unable to rise; then in a flash the devil shifted
his grip to the brisket. There followed a crunching
of bones, and the thylacine took the full count. The
point of ray pick introduced between the shoulders
of Mephistopheles ended the show. On examination
I found one of the tiger’s forelegs completely
shattered.
» * * *
“Arilourra”; Notwithstanding liis critics
“Kurrajong” was right about abos. from the interior
not being able to swim—at any rate, those away from
the big rivers. I, put in five years Detween Beltana
(S.A.) and Tennant’s Creek (N.T.), and don’t remem-
ber ever hearing of a nigger that could swim.
They didn’t all object to bathing, however, pro-
vided the weather was warm enough. I remember
ramping with a mate for a day or two during a
hot spell on a waterhole in the country 150 miles
west of Oodnadatta. There was a camp of blacks
near by, and a number of the lubras were employed
shepherding several small mobs of sheep. “You bin
makem swim longa waterhole, Mary Ann?” I asked
one of them. “No more swim longa daylight—me
too shy,” she replied. These lubras used to wait
till dark and then go in—but they first built a
big fire to undress and dress by. Within the
circle of firelight they couldn’t see anyone outside
it, therefore nobody could see them, and so was
their dusky modesty preserved.
* * * *
“Wee Bobbie”: Re “D.S.’s” par. (B.
14/8/’24) about ’roos tackling a man on horseback.
In my young and foolish days I could never resist the
temptation of giving a real old-man ’roo a flutter if he
iiopped up close enough. One neddy I had was a
beauty—he would run up on them as if he were
shouldering over a breaking steer. Our method of
throwing the kangaroos was to take a foot out of
tile stirrup, get it under the ’roo’s tail just as he
jumped, give a lift with the foot, and over he’d
go. I’ve had my shirt torn a couple of times, but
have never been dragged from the saddle while
chasing them. Once I got dragged out of the saddle
after chasing one when I should have been looking
after the lead of the cattle. But that time it was
my own old man who bailed me up.
* * * *
“Nanangoat”: In support of “Wee Bob-
bie” (B. 7/8/’24), let me remark that while scrub-
falling on the Cooyar Range (S.Q.) I came across a
comparatively small carpet-snake engaged in swallow-
ing a large black scrub ’possum. The wriggler had
a couple of turns round Brer ’Possum’s forequarters,
and had the head, neck and part of the shoulders
already inside his widely-distended jaws. The two
turns were made by that part of Hie snake which
is a little abaft his main hatch, and with his tail
lie had secured firm anchorage in some exposed roots
of a small shrub. On being chopped in two by my
axe, the reptile’s foremost portion rapid!}' disgorged
the prey. Although the hinder end of the ’possum
was perfectly fresh, the part which had been enclosed
in the carpet-bag presented a putrid appearance.
Apparently the snake’s digestive juices start work
immediately the guest is received in the interior.
There was absolutely no sign of sliming.
* * * #
“Parama”: The Southern Cross pearl, ex-
hibited in the Australian pavilion at Wembley, is
said to have been found in its present form at Roe
bourne (W.A.) in 1874, and to con-
sist of nine pearls attached to one
another in the form of a perfect cross.
According to Henry Taunton, the freak
was found in 1883 by one Clark, who
was working for Jas. W. S. Kelly. It
was handed to Kelly in three pieces,
containing eight pearls, and did not
then resemble a cross, there being no
right arm. Kelly sold it to another
pearler named Roy for £lO, and he
sold it to one Craig for £4O. Later
on Craig sold it to a syndicate. To
make the fragments into a properly
proportioned cross another pearl of
suitable size, shape and color was
secured from Cossack, and the four
pieces were then fastened together
with diamond cement. That opera-
tion made the “Southern Cross.” It
has been said that these joins are so
perfect that they are not discernible.
Craig, apparently, chose to say noth-
ing of the cluster being in three pieces
when he bought it from Roy. The
original “Southern Cross” was exhi-
bited at the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition in London in 1886 and
again at the Paris Exhibition in ’B9,
where I examined it. I heard of it
again in ’96, when it was offered for
sale at £lO,OOO, but failed to find
a buyer. It was then lost sight of by
the public until the opening of the
Australia pavilion at Wembley, and it
has sin e been whispered that some
think the present bauble is an imi-
tation of the original fake.
* * *
“Verri”: The enterprise of
some children turns in remarkable
directions. I met lately a 12-year-
old girl who made a hobby of
collecting double-yolked eggs and
hatching them. The results she sold
to various freak-collectors, and her
four-winged, double-headed, three-
legged monstrosities, preserved in
spirit, adorn sundry laboratories - and museums. it
seems a queer fancy for a child, but ,as she comes
of a long line of doctors and scientists I suppose
the craze for experimenting was born in her.
* * * *
“’Erbert” : Joe Tizzard, of Mildura (Vie.),
holds a better grape-picking record than “Royal’s”
(B. 31/7/’24). In an B}-hour day he has picked
830 dip-tins of sultanas. While dip-tins hold
slightly less than petrol-tins, sultanas are much
more difficult to pick, having more foliage and less
fruit, than doradillos, and the bunches are smaller.
While doradillos bear as much as 20 tons to the acre,
fresh, or about 34 tons dry, sultanas very rarely,
bear more than two tons to the acre dried, or ten
tons fresh. In fact, the average for the district
up till last year, which was exceptional, was less
than a ton.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : “M.S.” (B. 7/8/’24) says that
bandicoots do not eat sweet potatoes, but only
dig holes in the mounds in search of grubs. As
one who helped to feed millions of bandicoots on
sweet spuds in Papua, I beg to join issue. The
kumara were grown with the intention of aiding the
rations of Government prisoners and police, but the
bandicoots got the middlemen’s end of the stick,
and waxed as fat as if their address was Sussex-street
and not the Mamba River. They were trapped by
the hundred, and as they were exceeding good to eat
post-mortems were frequent. There may have been
grubs in their innards, but if there were I can
assure “M.S.” they were well mixed up with sweet
potato.
* * * *
“Parama”: “Gouger” says he has known
the niggers get an occasional pearl from the fresh-
water mussel (B. 7/8/’24).
There are as many pearls
worn to-day that came
from the fresh-water mus-
sel as from the pearl-
oyster. The Chinese have,
since the fourteenth cen-
tury, used selected fresh-
water mussels for their
pearl culture operations,
preferring them to the
oyster. Pearls up to 25
grains have been found in
the fresh water mussels of
Great Britain —pink, light
violet and other exquisite
shades with good lustre. I
remember a pale blue pearl
of wonderful lustre found
in one of the Scottish rivers
being sold in Perth (Scot-
land) for £BO. In many
of the N. American rivers
there are regular pearling
industries, in which hun-
dreds ,of, men and women
are employed. There the
fresh-water pearls run from
pure white to bright pea-
cock-green, and include
brown and other unusual
shades. A wonderful
copper-colored 30-grain
pearl was found in a Can-
adian river, also in the
fresh-water mussel. It
sold on the spot for 50
dollars, and when mounted
and sold again some months
later in New York fetched
five times that amount.
I have often wondered
whether it would be worth
while making a systematic
search through some of our
own fresh-water streams,
as I have seen more than
one fairly good pearl said
to have been found in the smaller rivers along
the Queensland coast.
* * * *
“W.J.8.”: I also would like to have a
word about swamp-cancer. “Jcobb” (B. 7/8/’24)
is quite right about removing horses to dry country ;
but that will not save prads already affected. 1
had a horse myself which got the disease while
spelling at Ulmarra (Clarence River, N.S.W.). The
trouble started on the fetlock, in an old wound caused
by brushing. I took the animal home to dry country,
but the cancer spread right up to the body. The
prad died. Another gpt the disease at the same
place, so I took him off the swamp country, and
the late Joe Kemp, of Kangaroo Creek, undertook
to cure him. lie did it, too, with arsenic. I kne?/
Joe to cure half a dozen or more badly affected
animals with this remedy.
* * * #
“Yarrum”: Recent references to animals
jumping from a height remind me that I was once
talking to a man in the street at Q.ueanbeyan
(N.S.W.), when his dog, spotting him from a hotel
balcony, jumped the 4ft. rail and landed on the
THE BRIBE.
“And did she pass away peacefully?”
“Oh yes, quite—we promised her a motor
funeral.”
roadway 15ft. below the balcony floor. He came
to earth cleanly on his feet. Again, at Coomealla,
on the Goulburn River, I once saw a cow leap
down to its calf from a rock 20ft. high. But her
effort was not so artistic—she landed in a bed
of sand on the broad of her back. I went to assist
the lady up, but she charged—and l did my
fastest 100yds.
THE LITTLE ARISTOCRAT.
“But are you sure he’s highly bred?”
“Tghly bred! Why, mum, ter get the best hout of this little dorg
yer husband will 'are ter wear spats an’ a tall ’at.”
“Xakhoda” : Anthropologist A. C. Haddon,
who lived among the Torres Strait islanders; the
Cambridge Anthropological Expedition which went
to study them; and J. G. Frazer, author of “The
Golden Bough,” who collected most of the available
information about them, all disagree with “Cartot’s”
assertion (B. 7/8/’24) that they have no idea of
a future state. According to these authorities both
the Eastern and Western tribes firmly believe hi
the existence of the human spirit after death, and
are horribly afraid of him. The land of the dead
is a mythical island called Kibu or Boigu, lying
somewhere to the north-west, whither the ghosts of
the departed are carried on the wings of the south-
east trade, which blows steadily for seven or eight
months of the year. The islanders cut off and
preserved the heads of the mummified bodies so that
the deceased could still, by divination, give the
tribe the benefit of his ripe experience.
“Fordson”; “Pinnacle’s” whip par (P>.
24/7,/’24) recalls the time when a bloke here got
lot in the eye by a knot off the end of his whip.
The incident caused him the loss of his eye. 1
know this is true, because I’m the bloke.
* * * *
“FY7”: “Yarrum’s” stockwhip duel (B.
7/8/’24) recalls an incident not far from Charters
Towers (Q.) about 15 years -ago. Inter-station
duffing was a recognised sport, but one squatter,
instead of balancing his losses in the accepted fashion
by branding a few' of somebody else’s stock, turned
nark. He and the local constable watched, and,
following a mob of cows and calves which had been
personally conducted by some neighbors, arrived at
the other people’s yards in time to catch them put-
ting the irons on the calves. The bobby arrested a
couple of the men; and as the pair were moving off
with their prisoners the two daughters of one of
the arrested men—big, handsome lasses—took a hand.
Mounted and armed with stockw'hips, they rescued
the prisoners, and flogged the unhappy intruders twe
miles to a boundary gate. The arrests w'ere com-
pleted later, and the two men stood their trial at
the Towers. The jury acquitted them after a long
hearing, but nothing happened to the amazons.
* * » *
“W.J.G.”: “The Jumper” offeins to lay
odds that no one can produce a dog that can’t
save himself when tipped head-first into a waterhole
(B. 31/7/’24). Well, I owned a pure-bred bulldog
w'hich I often took into water (not threw) when
trying to teach him to swim, and each time he
had to be rescued. Depth of water, about 4ft. I
mentioned this to a friend while out walking, and
he took the dog into a. pool, but he also had to
do the roseue act, as Jerry promptly went to the
bottom.
(Continued on page 2't.)
THE FOG-KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From swamps and marshy places
Where chilly dampness lies,
In squadrons, pale and spectral,
The midnight mists arise.
On road and field and river,
With icy breath they swoop;
O’er mountain crest and hollow,
A sheeted host, they troop.
Adown the coastal sea-roads
They trail, like drifting smoke,
While warning bell and siren
Alarm lone fisher-folk.
With menace in their voices
The hidden breakers roar
When from th%ir marshy strongholds
The midnight mists outpour.
Fear walks upon the waters,
And peril sails the coast,
Where stealthily the Fog-King
Leads forth the midnight host.
N.S.W.
R. Q. B.


TlieWfiife Horse Cellar
BY ROYAL
APPOINTMENT
m
TO H.M.
KING GEORGE V.
The White Horse Cellar
:
SCOTCH WHISKY
mu
:
' fl H
wMmm
w
n
■
11
The Old IVkite Hunter “ Creeper ”
(FROM THE PAINTING BY F. C. TURNER.)
21 ft
The wfiife Horse Cel
ar
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD
Glasgow & London.
The White Horse Cellar


NOW is the time to destroy
those Rabbits!
FUMO
BRAND
Now, before their increasing numbers in the Spring demolish
your Summer feed. Use the certain destructor,
CALCIUM CYANIDE.
It makes every opening visible, and makes it impossible for the
rabbits to escape, however deep the dead-ends.
The Minister for Agriculture says:—
“CALCIUM CYANIDE can be transported, handled and
applied, for the purpose of rabbit destruction, with almost
complete safety.”
It is economical, non-explosive, non-inflammable, simple and easy
to apply.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VICTORIA. —Leighton, Simpson & Co.. 486 Collins Street. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. —S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND. —Buzaeotts (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA. —Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
REMEMBER THAT MALTHOID
is not a generic term for any old roofing,
but a proprietary name for the BEST
ROOFING and owned exclusively by the
MALTHOID manufacturers
The PARAFFINE COMPANIES Inc.
(I). S. Evans, Australasian Manager),
Original Manufacturers of
P & B MATERIALS.
Challis House,
Martin Place,
Sydney.
MALTHOID ROOFING
THE NON-EXISTENT.
“What is the age of discretion?”
“There isn’t any. I know a man over seventy who married his fourth wife the other
day.”
“Mnlga”: “W.C.M.” says (B. 81/7/’24)
a ewe will take a strange lamb if both she and the
lamb have kerosene on them. Well, a goat won’t
take even her own kid that way. I found a little
kid looking for his ma, so 1 brought him home and
started to poddy him. A couple of days later the
mother turned up with a second one, but wouldn’t
have anything to do with Poddy. After reading
“W.CJ.M.’s” par. we decided to try kerosene, but it
was no good—she had disinherited him for life, so
he still depends on Strawberry for his breakfast.
* * * *
“Wee Bobbie” : “Ringtail’s” par. about the
horse that turned on the light (B. 14/8/’24) reminds
me that horses, whateVei they may be like on shore,
object to the dark at sea. If they are in the ’tween
decks and the lights go out they become very un-
comfortable—especially if it’s heavy weather. If
there is no one to say a soothing word to them
they become almost like lost children. They stop
their nonsense once the lights go up again.
* * * *
“Pick”: Before reading “Fana’s” par. (B.
14/S/’24) I hadn’t heard of a fox-dingo cross;
but such a mating is quite probable. Bob Hartnett,
a Bungendore (N.S.W.) drover, owns an unmistak-
able dog-fox hybrid, the pro-
geny of his well-bred collie slut.
Apart from the constant trouble
it creates by an incurable pre-
dilection for killing wayside
poultry, Bob reckons it the
most useful sheep-dog in his
droving pack.
* * *
“Keystring’'’: “ Jeobb”
(B. 7/8/'24), in his learned dis-
sertation on swamp-cancer—
which I don’t attempt to dis-
pute—says, among other things:
“The general impression up here
[Darwin] is that a mare badly
infected will invariably pass it
on to her offspring.” My first
attempt at horse-breeding was
with a mare which developed
swamp-cancer in a most aggra-
vated form just in front of her
udder when about “half-gone.”
Fearing frightful consequences
as a result of the hideous thing,
my dad ordered the mare’s de-
struction, but, later, allowed me
to treat her. The liquid dress-
ing which I procured from a
Sydney vet. would, when applied,
produce quite a smoke; and as
the animal seemed to have no
feeling in the growth, 1 con-
ceived a fresh idea. Getting a
piece of flat iron, and making
it red-hot, I used to burn off a
lump of the shuddersome excres-
cence daily, and continued to
do so till the mare showed signs
of feeling. After this I treated
her with healing and antiseptic remedies, and had
effected a complete cure before the mare foaled.
The foal lived to be 27, and never showed any signs
of the disease.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Lao-dah” says (B. 7/S/’24)
that beche-clc-mer, “the Malay trepang,” creeps at
this time of the year into N.S.W. bays and harbors
“in millions, feeding on the young weed of the
ocean spring.” Beche-de-mer is not a sea-slug, but
a beast all to himself, and his * family name is
Holothuria. He is never found outside tropical
waters, and he dwells on coral reefs or on the sand
patches among the reefs. Being just a hollow pipe,
tie doesn’t eat seaweed or anything else, but pumps
sea water through himself, and lives on what he can
get out of that. As the best varieties are almost
worth their weight in silver Sydney Harbor itself
could not hold the beche-de-mer luggers if Uolo-
thuria came there in numbers. Whatever slug “Lao-
dah’s” friend at Bronte collects and sends home to
China, it is certainly not beche-de-mer; probably
it is one of the many marine snails, some varieties
of which the Chinese cure as described. Lastly,
bfiche-de-mer is used not as a substitute for the Cray,
but as a foundation for soup. It furnishes the
clearest and most velvety golden stock known to
those who live to eat.
* » » &
“Nebraska”: A while back, while sitting
on the beach near the R.C. mission station on Bath-
urst Island, off the coast of the N. Territory, I
witnessed an incident which will serve as another
proof that the kangaroo can swim. A ’roo with
two Manilamen an 1 about six dogs in pursuit came
down on to the beach quite near to me, and the
hopper, after a momentary hesitation, took to the
water. I watched him swim out about 400yds.
and then turn and swim up against the tide which
was running out fast. After about five minutes of
this battling he disappeared. I don’t know whether
he became exhausted and drowned or whether an
alligator got him ; but he made a good attempt at
swimming, I thought, and the blacks with 'me
thought so too.
* * * *
“FY7”: Toll “Russ” (B. 7/8/’24) that
the electric eels which he says are becoming common
in Northern Australia have been there for some
time; varieties of them are in all tropical seas.
There is no record of an Australian fresh-water
electric fish or eel, though we have an electric ray
on our southern coasts. The South American fresh-
water eel “Russ” refers to, the gymnotus, has a
cousin in Africa, but none in Australia or Papua,
I think. 1 know North-
ern Papua as well as
most people not now
on the spot, but I have
cudgelled my brains in
vain to recall “Russ’s”
abandoned road where
the electric eels gave
horses crossing the ford
such a bad time that
they were paralysed
and drowned. Still
more cudgelling has
failed to bring back
any recollection of
horses to paralyse m
Northern Pap u a—
always excepting the famous one at Tamata - ; and
he never went near water if he could get beer. j
* * * *
“The Apostle” : Re “F.T.C.’s” fishy holo-
caust (B. 14/8/’24). A party from the Amatjeur
Fishermen’s Association, Sydney, out recently in a
launch aoout 10 miles off the Heads, met with
what seemed a vast shoal of dead flathead—many
thousands. The air bladders of all we examined were
inflated. The fish were quite fresh and we gathered
20 large baskets full without making any impression
on the shoal. On another occasion Hobson’s launch
from La Perouse ran into the same sort of thing
and gathered in 17 baskets of splendid fish, accepting
them as gifts from the gods. The solution of the
mystery was that the State trawlers had had huge
hauls and the trawl-net burst, liberating the fish,
which the vessels couldn’t stop to pick up—maybe
they wanted to get in before the pub shut.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Collingwood (Melb.)
has produced a story of dog-mateship. Two tykes were
playing in the street when a motor-car sent one to
the place where fleas cease from troubling and claws
are at rest. The other dog furiously attacked the
car, biting at the tyres and trying to get at the
driver; then it returned and remained by the
mangled body of its mate. It bit the arm of
a municipal employee who tried to remove the corpse,
and forced all vehicles to make a detour. The
canine’s fidelity won it a home with a dog-lover; but
even now it sounds a nightly requiem for its’dead
mate.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Jesmond” need not go as
far as the Congo to find radio-active mud (B.
31/7/’24). At Muekadilla, on the Roma (Q.) line,
radio mud-baths and mineral-springs have been cur-
ing cripples and invalids of various sorts this £0
years. In my day the only deadly things to face
up that way were the charges at the Government
Hostel.
* * * *
“Adamaseus”: A Rockhampton (C.Q.)
man recently dug up a family of nine snakes measur-
ing from loin, to 18in. which had black heads inter-
sected by red, and were reddish-brown on top and
slaty-grey underneath. The colors on the head were
so placed that there was a strip of red between two
strips of black. Can any member of the Council
give them a name?
* * * *
“Max M.”: A benevolent lady who has
taken to feeding seagulls on the beach near St.
Kilda (Vic.) knows her regular customers by name.
She has been running her scrapateria for ’gulls for
about six months, always at the same time and
place. About 30 birds constitute her “regulars” at
mealtime. They arrive punctually, eat out of the
lady’s hand, and, as an act of courtesy, escort her
to her hono when the feed is finished.
* * «
“ J.G.”: Doheney Bros., of the Innisfail
estate, near Bolinda (Vic.), owns a comeback ewe
which last year dropped five live and healthy lambs,
and followed this up by giving birth to four this
season. Nine lambs in 11 months, all aiive, ought
to be pretty nearly a record.
* * * *
“Ioma”: I rise to support my cohber
“Bouragi” (I knew him two decades ago when he
was exploring and laying the foundations of civilisa-
tion on the Mamba, Gira and Ope Rivers, of the
old Northern Division of British New Guinea) in
his remarks anent burial customs in Papua. (Inci-
dentally, it is as well to remember that there are at
least three main groups of peoples in Papua—
Malayan, Melanesian and Papuan.) “Homfrey Beale”
apparently referred to the Toaripi and Uaripi tribes
of the Gulf littoral in describing their practice of
burying in the village squares, though where he got
the “squares” I don’t know. The Melanesian custom
was to scoop a hole in the ground either before
the deceased’s front door or under his hut, hunch
up the corpse with his knees under his chin and
arms clasped around his shins, set him upright in
the hole, lay a few mats or cocoanut leaves over
him, shake some sand or earth over the leaves, and
leave the widow to sleep on the grave. A small
hut was built over the grave, and the widow had to
remain there until the corpse was “ripe,” so that
she could anoint herself with the resultant juices. It
was a horrible custom and has now vanished. The
weapons, drums, nets, paddles, baubau (bamboo pipe),
dancing regalia, etc., of the deceased were placed
over the grave and allowed to remain until the ele-
ments finished them. In some tribes the widows
were killed to accompany their husbands to the
Spirit World; but the usual custom was for them
to marry again, for women are valuable property
in most Melanesian districts, as they tend the gar-
dens and do other work that their haughty men
folk have a distaste for. (Still, as it was the daily
routine of the men to be ever on the watch for the
tribal enemies, the women were only doing their
share in thus leaving the men free to guard them.)
Some of the Melanesian peoples “buried” the departed
FINE—AFTER A WET WEEK-END.
on platforms, under which the near relatives sat and
allowed the drippings to course down their sorrowing
bodies. This pleasing practice was supposed to trans-
mit to the mourners the valor, wisdom, etc., of the
deceased. Along the Owen Stanley Range the moun-
taineers often kept their dead in leaf-wrapped bundles,
which they hung . from the ridge-pole inside the
departed’s house. In other upland districts the body
was planted in a shallow grave in the middle of
the village street —and the citizens promptly re-
moved their village to another site to avoid the
malign influence that had caused the deceased’s
passing. Away in the far interior, among the
ravines around Mounts Essie and Murray, the corpse
w r as kept until the decayed flesh could be washed
from the bones, when the nearest relatives smoke-
dried the relics and carted them about the country
in net-bags. These folk were clubbed “walking ceme-
teries” by Pearson Chinnery, one of the very few men
to enter the distant region. Again, in some other
inland parts the corpse was hidden away in a
cave, a hand or a jaw-bone being detached from
the deceased, smoke-dried, and worn as a souvenir by
the widow or widower or other close relation.
Volumes could be written about burial customs in
Papua, for nearly every tribe differs in many respects
from its neighbors—-and there are hundreds of
tribes.
BENEATH THE SIX-BY-EIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We heard the call for rovers fit, for stalwart men
and free;
We heard the call and answered it, though sadly
shod were we.
The cities throbbed behind us far, the townships
in the west
Slept soundly on, nor did we mar the sweetness of
their rest.
In weal or woe our stubborn hearts would dare the
hostile fates
And blaze a track for cars and carts beneath the
six-by-eights.
Cur march was not a victor’s ramp by flying squad-
rons led,
A'or did we move as Guardsmen tramp with measured,
stately tread ;
Our goal was hidden in the haze where treasure
since was found
And followed deep in after days through drilled and
blasted ground.
We dined on worse than prison fare, served up on
makeshift plates,
And many times the board was bare within the
six-bv-eights.
Our course was marred by scrub and stones, with
pointed thorns between,
Where perished souls had laid their bones unheeded
and unseen.
No horse might live where, lame and spent, we
labored through the heat,
With shoulders wrung and garments rent, on blistered,
burning feet.
The furnace blasts that round us swept were charged
with many hates
As through the wild unknown we crept beneath the
six-by-eights.
How dry and speechless were the treks through
days of cloudless dream,
By ridges flecked with spinifex and broken quartz
a gleam!
O’er brooding hills that frowned defeat we climbed
for treasure’s sake,
While trodden dust of other feet rose redly in
our wake.
Fair sunsets lured us ever west where woeful famine
waits;
And weary was the endless quest beneath the
six-by-eights.
We tramped long miles in Mulgaland when all the
waste was swept
By bitter winds that piled the sand around us as
we slept.
When winter skies were overcast and bare were
hill and plain
We bent against the fitful blast and faced the
stinging rain ;
We plodded on through mud and mire, a band of
famished mates,
Too limp and lame to voice our ire beneath the
six-by-eights.
How magic were the August days in wooded hills
and strange,
The thrushes’ liquid notes of praise that called us
on the range !
As morning shed its mellow sheen on prospects that
were new,
NATURAL EFFECT ON A MELBOURNE MAN PRO-
DUCED BY OVERHEARING A SCHOOL MARM GIVE
THE COMMAND “HANDS UP!”
The bloom and frondage, gold and green, were
starred with silver dew.
Our loads seemed light as eiderdown that were as
leaden weights
When torrents fell the world to drown and soaked
the six-by-eights.
White metal paves the miles we tramped by timbered
range and plain,
Green fields are planted where we camped in days
of storm and rain ;
And many hosts of man and mate have gone that
way since then
Weighed down beneath the six-by-eight, crushed by
the eigiu-by-ten.
Ah, if we had our youth once more we’d gladly dare
the fates
And seek the hidden wealth in store, bearing the
six-by-eights!
N.s.w.
GERARDY.


-1
.cv
V
A\
tkoA
X>X\
-7, 2
MS
W A\.
k‘‘
■ii>v\
k»‘‘
yivfcwtv
Kvs
fc
m
Pv
\\
rfl
Cv
ILL.
ai
imhimiiiii
iiimium Mi i
' '•MM»I*I1»U/Sjf.v\
' x \
Kv\\%w v\.‘- v
cRS
s*
\
'V
vjULli
X
OnSs
\
g ' n Hn gJLJ *m
sj'ta&i ifouti new worn plow !
Don’t wait until you are in the middle of the hot weather
and your garden and lawns begin to suffer—before purchasing
your new hose—you can now secure from your ironmonger
that can be purchased—with the utmost confidence of getting
from same many years of satisfactory and economical service.
Its remarkable wearing qualities, its value and its freedom from
giving trouble, are features that will appeal to all users of
Garden Hose. Made in three brands - 4 Dunlop,” “Oceanic”
and “Federal.” Your storekeeper can supply-Look for the
brand, it’s your guarantee of long service.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE FOLDER ON APPLICATION.
* * *
ALL STATES
Dunlop rubber co. of aust. ltd.
AND N.Z.
Mttßti
o*
«
s®
SHI
®o
sSi
M-S
&
m
9> V
OF
AUS»
i&P
S^NaV&SwBS
£Hi
iS&S
3fc&
m
m
m
?%/
m
**


SILVER-PLATE TABLE APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Cake Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand pierced, 40/-
With Handle, 42/-
A. Saunders’ mue or Henna-
shaded China Biscuit Barrel,
Silver-plated Mounts, 21/-
A. Saunders’ 4-bottle Dinner
Cruet, Cut-glass Bottles, pure
Silver-plated Stand, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit or Sand-
wich Trough, pure Silver-
plated, 15/6; A 1 quality, 20/-
With handle over centre, 20/-
£. jd
SPECIAL
VALUE,
£4/10/-
«l
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set, A 1 quality, pure Silverplated, Gadroon design.
All Orders by Mail Receive Our Special Attention
and Prompt Despatch. WE PAY POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, colored
English China Bowls with floral shoulders,
pure Silver-plated Mounts and Servers, 30/-
sgMHgj»sa?
lIHS
.
A. Saunders’ Hot. Water Jug,
Al quality, Silver-plated, en-
graved bands. In three sizes,
30/-, 33/-, 42/-
A. Saunders’ Hone.y Jar, pure Silver-
plated, English Floral China Jar,
25/-
Dearborn (Australia) Limited
Guarantee the Purity and Efficacy
of their well and favorably-known
Toilet Specialties
MERCOLIZED WAX The Pre-eminent Skin Cream
STALLAX GRANULES Delightful Hair Shampoo
BARRI-AGAR Orange Blossom Face Powder
COLLIANDUM Rose-tinted Cheek Color
PROLACTUM Soothing Lip Stick
PILENTA Orange Blossom Skin Soap
You have possibly been given to understand that these Toilet
Specialties are expensive, but this is not right, as for Quality and
lasting properties they are unequalled. Example: a 1/6 pot of
ordinary Face Cream will last only one week, while a 5/6 tin of
Mercolized Wax lasts from six to eight weeks when used in the
ordinary way.
25 YEARS
of world-wide experience enables us to give you what we know
to be the best possible in Toilet Preparations, and we desire you
to try them on our recommendation, when we are certain that they
will become welcome additions on your Toilet Table. In bona-fide
use by World-famous Theatrical and Society Folk. Dearborn
testimonials are genuine and not given for monetary consideration.
Obtainable in original packages from reliable chemists and stores.
Dearborn (Australia) Limited
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
FOR THE
SHOW
Special
Importation
of
SPRING
SUITINGS
Just to Hand
Our magnificent range
includes the very new-
est in Worsteds, show-
ing the smartest effects
and most distinctive
colorings. We have also
a fine assortment of at-
tractive All-Wool English
Tweeds, together with a
wide range of the ever popular Indigo Navy Twills, of unsurpassed quality,
featured among the Spring Materials are real Scotch All-Wool Suitings, m
fine Saxony finish, manufactured specially for the Leviathan.
; ,
%
\
V.
SAC SUITS TO ORDER,
*B/8/-, £9/9/-, £10(10/-
CALL IN & BE MEASURED TO-DAY!
Or, if unable to call, send for our SPECIAL SELF-
MEASUREMENT CHART AND TAPE, which ensures
an accurate fit.
We guarantee you perfect satisfaction, or refund vour
money in full.
Order by Post—We Pay Carriage,
THE
LEVIATHAN
PTY., LTD.
Cr. Swanston & Bourke
MELBOURNE.
&
&
O
0*
o
c
*
w c ;w' +r r


The princely gift bearing the message of love and warm friendship— romantic envoys of
affection, in fact.
• , kafaye are known as the gift supreme —they have rightly acquired n all their own
m the eyes of those who know quality jewellery.
IDENTICAL, IN APPEARANCE WITH A £5OO STRINfi
OF REAL PEARLS
u ith their soft hues, perfect graduation and rich lustre.
x From £2/3/- for 16in. Necklet,
uthers at -various prices.
from ? mo ' ln^ec * as Ring*. Brooches, Earrings, Pins, Studs, etc.,
Tlie only Scientific Pearls in the whole of Australasia,
hold under a guarantee for all time.
Customers own Necklets accurately reproduced.
Obtainable ONLY at
“Lafaye,
99
SCIENTIFIC PEARL AUTHORITY,
irst Promenade, City House. 161 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
First Floor A, Block Arcade (Collins Street Entrance),
r_x , , MELBOURNE.
Thi e «° f i cla ’ ’ ' I Old Bond Street, LONDON.
Only Firm of Artificial Pearl Specialists in Australia.
W-McK
Farmer’s
ff The Store for Men ”
Price 63 [-
Exclusive Imported Shoes
The distinctive note in the new shoes, made by Bally’s to Farmer’s
orders, will please discerning men. AH the smartest shapes, in
patent leather, black box, or tan willow calf. Price, pair, 63/-
Box 497, G.P.O. FAR MER * S Carriage paid.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume.
P[?] [?]
MISS[?] MONK & DOVLE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
After several months in the making, _ the
Civil Ambulance Ball came to a brilliant
issue in the Town Hall on Friday night.
Acting-Excellency Leo Cussen and his dame
made one of their rare social appearances,
and the Mayoral Bruntons and the Harry
Chauvel and Hall Thompson matrons were
others who sat in the high places. A crowded
poster gallery occupied the balcony front
right up to the dizzy overhead entanglements
of colored flags, balloons and lighting effects.
Crowds collected appreciatively round The
Bulletin poster, in which Denis Connelly
with happy inspiration had gathered Nor-
man Lindsay bears, Souter cats and other
familiar friends with skilful penmanship.
In the supper-room cabaret trifles fluffed on
the table damask with the floral dressings,
and Mrs. Gilbert Lodge, as food director,
saw to it that there was a bulging menu.
The big thrill of the evening was the Shawl
and Poster Pageant, in which art and com-
mercialism joined forces with admirable
effect, though the banners borne before the
dailies did suggest an unemployed demonstra-
tion. Mrs. Gayer Phipps, w T ho led off the spec-
tacular event at the head of the Argus group,
Huttered like a brown moth with colored eyes
gleaming from filmy wings. A Peter Pannish
tunic just hit the knees of her shapely silk-
clad legs, and her squaw head-dress flew
argus pheasant plumes. The Age saved all
further argument as to the possible prize-
winners when its covey of bewitching early-
Yictorian maidens tripped in demurely, dimp-
ling under black poke bonnets that topped
crinolined magpie effects. Each girl held a
tiny parasol aloft, and was squired by a
gallant with side whiskers, black stock and
so on. Even little Felicity Syme, with shorter
hoops swinging over uncompromising calico
pantelettes, seemed to bring with her the
romanticism of the period. Mrs. Geoff Syme
had got back cleverly on the carica-
turist who presents the family jour-
nal as an early-Victorian dame in
coalscuttle bonnet and full skirts. Stately
Mrs. James Angus, as The Bulle-
tin leader, demonstrated that graceful walk-
ing is, after all, not a lost art. Her black
silk was inset with Bulletin advts. and let-
tering on a white satin backing, while yards
of printed matter trailed astern. Her beau-
teous trio of girls, Maisie Bennett, Ida Pal-
liser and “Gint” Aberfoyle, fluttered pink
covers cameod with printed extracts, and were
attended by three top-hatted squires. The
feminine quartette flew a gold-lettered Bul-
lktin, from black bands girdling white wigs.
They had artfully called in a beauty specialist
for their make-up, whereas quite half the
fancy-dressed showed the disastrous conse-
quences of an amateurish lick of the grease-
stick in conjunction with a high light.
Mrs. Henry Rosenthal, as Lafaye pearls,
wore ropes of them over a snowy frock.
Mrs. Russell Jackson browned her fairness
to star as the Queen of Sheba. Gertrude
Rennie, who was chiefly responsible for the
evening’s successful issue, and had further
organised the winning Champagne group, was
herself got up as a twin water-lily by a
South Yarra florist. Helen Rennie’s Cottage
set just missed rivalling the Age lot in their
early-Victorian attractiveness. One of Gen-
eral Coxen’s girls was betwitching in her
coalscuttle bonnet. Hoyt’s “Ashes of Ven-
geance” set, led by Valerie Hall Thompson,
was charming in middle-century trappings,
and there was a cleverly-conceived Ice-Cream
set. Wolfe’s Schnapps’ brace of Hollander:;
provided another attraction, and Stan Cole-
man and Norma Tiernan stepped it out in
their little wooden shoes as if they had worn
them all their lives. Ex-Mayoress Stein
managed to look like Queen Elizabeth with
red wig and gown shading to the palest
pastel tints. Among those who looked on
were ex-Agent-General Connolly, of West-
ralia, who came with the Austin Wilson
pair, Mrs. Gilbert Lodge, the W. J. T.
Clarkes, Mrs. Dick Turnbull, daughter
Dorothy Bridges (just back from a Ma State
visit) and the Harry Payne daughter, Eliza-
beth Weigall.
The most sensational thing about the Der-
mot Casey-Gwynnedd Browne wedding was
the fierce splash of color made by Mrs.
George Chirnside’s coat of shimmering gold
enmeshed with rose and mauve, though, of
course, the uncommonly good looks of the
contracting pair attracted some attention.
The Everard Brownes being on an English
trip, George Cliirnside led niece Gwynnedd
to the altar, and he and his wife uncorked
the health-drinking fizz at the Brownes’
former South Yarra home, White Lodge, lent
for the event by the Harry Whitings. The
bridal satin was first in with the said-to-be-
coming craze for page-boy buttons—little white
globules which trickled down the side of the
wrap-over gown, and along the lower sleeve
from the elbow to the back of the hand.
The satin draperies, after bunching on the
hip, trailed their length along the aisle under
a velvet bow and ends; a misting of bridal
tulle floated from a mooring of orange blos-
soms at the back of one ear, and a sheaf of
rosy rhododendrons interrupted the virginal
whiteness of the outfit. The Melba grand-
child, Pam Armstrong, with the Gordon
Chirnsides’ tiny tot, Judith, provided an
advance guard for the two ’maids, sister Bet-
tine Browne and the Andrew Chirnsides’
Joan. This quartet fluttered foamy sea-
green silk, and had pink frilling the front
pinnies, bare arms and leghorn hats wreathed
with green and silver, while pink roses
dripped over the left brims, and more rosi-
ness wandered over the gold muffs which re-
placed the usual posies. John Cliirnside
and Dick Casey looked after the ’groom, and
Alan Ritchie, Dr. A'. Davenport and Naval
Captain Seymour fitted the guests into the
pews.
A downpour washed half the expected
crowd back from the annual gathering of the
Toorak and South Yarra group of Alfred
Hospital workers. It sheltered in the
suburb's Peace Memorial Hall, where nod-
ding daffodils and other harbingers of Spring
did their best to brighten the rain-sodden
atmosphere. Mrs. W. Quick chaired the
meeting, and General Brudenell White, chief
of the Auxiliary forces, handed verbal posies
to all who have helped this branch. (During
the past year the chain of branches have
dropped £5OOO in money or goods into the
exchequer.) Among those who paddled into
the hall were the White, Bob Knox. Hubert
Parker and Goulburn Brooke matrons, John
Monash’s daughter, Mrs. Gatehouse and
daughter Beryl, and hard-working lion. sec.
Phyllis Walsh.
Mrs. Lionel Wilson (Millie Tree Chap-
man), Mrs. Pauli Carter and Charlotte Hem-
ming were the chief conspirators behind a
celebration party for Rosina Carandini
Palmer’s 80th birthday on August 28. The
Town Hall has sheltered no more charming
event. Victoria’s one-time sweetest song-
bird has always been among our best-liked
artists, and, incidentally, one of the most
generous. Mayoress Brunton, in a magpie-
frock, was there to welcome the star guest
and hand over the £2OO birthday cheque.
George Allan, whose friendship with the
lady is 50 years old, reinforced his felici-
tations by reading a congratulatory coo-ee
from Nellie Melba and John Lemmone.
Numerous other wires fluttered in, and pre-
sentation flowers came in an avalanche from
all quarters. Smiling down some threaten-
ing tears, Mrs. Palmer managed to remark
that the day was one of the happiest of her
life. A contingent of musical pals pro-
logued the presentation with a bright pro-
gramme, among them Ida Osborne, Charles
Cunningham and Charlotte Hemming.
This is Violet Ewart, the musical Mel-
bourne < girl who side-tracked a professional
pianist’s career a few years back to marry
H. E. Spry.
She finished
up at the ’Var-
sity as Bach-
elor of Music,
and, the war
having ruled
out a pro-
jected course
of European
experience, she
went off to
N’York for 12
months. Here
Harold Bauer
frowned dow r n
her intention
of taking les-
sons. “Hear
every body,”
he urged, “and
grab from
every!) o d y
worth while.”
Having
adopted the suggestion, she set out to pay
her way as accompanist to a recording co.,
played at Aeolian Hall recitals and so on.
Then she made her way to London, where
she taught for several years—until she became
scared that the ceaseless grind would dull
her own talent. This sent her to Billy
Murdoch for some coaching in modern music
—she hoped it would spur her to practice. It
was after this that Harry Spry, a well-known
Melbourne business man and amateur pianist,
came along—and there were tickets for two
on his return trip. Now the lady is too
busy looking after a couple of fascinating
infants to keep her baby grand properly exer-
cised. Yet a brilliant performance at a
recent Music Club meeting showed that her
musical genius still burns brightly.
Dorothy Druitt, youngest daughter of a
late Mentone doctor, exchanged vows the
other day with Hugh McEachern, who grazes
his flocks on Jocalora, in the Mother State.
Prof. Adam linked the pair at the College
church, Parkville, and J. P. Adam handed
Dorothy over. The bridal hangings of silver
brocade trailed under a cascade of bridal
tulle, while peach-blossom pinked the white-
ness of a posy—this latter in a silver holder
which is said to have run down the bride’s
family for centuries. Marjorie Crooke
’maided in filmy blue and white topped by a
snowy picture-hat with white flowers, and
arum-lilies were crooked in her left arm. The
ceremony was followed by a cheerio at Drum-
albyn, Ormond College, the home of Professor
and Mrs. Adam.
Looking out at you from this page is
Broothorn’s presentment of Maisie Bennett,
daughter of Mrs. .T. 11. Wearne, of Brigh-
ton. She made
up her mind
when still in
the pinafor'-
stage to be-
come a drama-
tic actress;
and put her
self into train-
ing in Nor-
man Sim p-
son’s Reper-
tory nursery
soon after she
took to hair-
pins. Judging
on her form
as a society
matron in a
recent Re p.
School presen-
tation of “The
Young Person
in Pink,"
Simpson decided to push her a step nearer
the professional footlights hy giving her a
nice fat part in the Mermaid Reps.’, forth-
coming production of Barrie’s “Dear Brutus,”
at the Playhouse.
The first unit of the projected fleet of
ambulance cars which are to transport Mel-
bourne Hospital convalescents back to their
homes was handed over the other afternoon
in the courtyard of the institution by Mrs.
Stanley Bruce in the name of the Hospital's
League of Social Service. President A. T.
Danks took delivery of the vehicle for the
committee, and there was a lively inter-
change of verbal bouquets. A special posy
went to the Sep Miller pair for donating a
second car, and there were three cheers
for Hansford and Cannon, of the Civil Am-
bulance Association, for designing the gift
car and undertaking to garage it for six
months. Afternoon tea in the Board room
postscripted the proceedings, among the tea-
drinkers being Dr. John Quick’s lady (she
presides over the S.S. committee), Mrs. Kent
Hughes (lion, sec.), the Robert Hunter and
11. I. Cohen matrons (vice-presidents), Mrs.
Gilbert Lodge, the Reggie Wilmots, Dorothy
Mollison, Mrs. Neville Rowlands, Mrs.
Brodie Ainslie, and so on.
Geelong’s social Best spilled a ton or so
of confetti when Barbara Ilickie and Ernest
McKewan sealed an engagement at All Saints’
altar. The bride trailed snowy georgette
under the folds of a lace veil ‘moored with
orange flowers, and cuddled lilies in her spare
arm. Sister Betty and Claire Salmon ’maided
attractively, in maize-colored georgette and
picture-hats to match, with ribbons tied be-
low their dimpled chins, while peach blossom
flushed rosily in their hands. A tiny cousin,
Cara Holmes Hunt, who supported the
bride’s train, was in yellow frillings and
poke bonnet, and carried pink blossoms in
a little basket. Keith McKewan looked after
the ’groom with the assistance of Jack Ilickie.
Afterwards the Hickies (she in black silk
with hat to match) had a health-drinking in
their Newtown home, Coorabelle. Mrs. A. C.
McKewan was there in black and grey to
greet her new daughter-in-law, and the bride’s
maternal grandmother, Mrs. Cripps, also
sported black drapery. A whole crowd had
motored up from Melbourne, and a second
lot congregated from the ends of the West-
ern District. The newly-weds are steaming
off in the Mongolia to India, where lie is to
undergo a year’s military training.
The Women’s Hospital linen shelves will
carry a new lot of sheets and pillow slips as a
result of a tea-drinking in the Hotel Windsor
dining-room tin; other afternoon. Pastel-
tinted vegetation splashed the table-middles,
and Mrs. J. S. Oliver, of Essendon, brought
a basket of posies for the hostesses and the
star guest, Mayoress Brunton. Mrs. Pirie
Beyer, the Amurrican woman who is intro-
ducing Chautauqua to this city, had a little
say between song items. The latter were
provided by a constellation of Albert-street
Con. stars, under the direction of Mrs. Fritz
Hart.
The Gerard Tuckers’ only daughter, Hilda,
has confessed intending matrimony with
W. .T. Cramer, of East Malvern. She is the
popular damsel who spent a couple of years
or so at Government House with the vice-
regal Mnnro-Fergusons as governess to the
little Blackwoods, and was entrusted with
the job of returning the little pair to their
parents in England.
The Presbyterian Girls’ Association at
Wodonga issued invitations to the ladies of
the district to attend a “social,” forwarding
with each invitation a paper apron and an
intimation that a charge of a ha’penny
per inch of waist measurement would
be made for admission. The sum of £4 5s
lid. was collected, and as SO ladies attended
the average circumference of feminine
Wodonga may be recorded as approximately
a neat 25in. Probably tli e arm of the meen-
ister checked the measurements—but this
Chatterer wasn’t told about that.
When the Hyams sisters had their annual
crowded ball at Carlyon’s the other night the
joint hostesses looked their very best in smart
black chiffonery with entanglements of lace
and jet. Of the competitive events the steer-
ing stunt —the latest from London—was
won by Mrs. Val Macdonald and her jazz
partner.
„ A society matron walking up a South
Yarra thoroughfare the other day gasped at
the sight of a trio of best-known women
solemnly fishing with hook and line in a
sewer-drain. “Sharks or minnows?” de-
manded the matron. “Both, maybe,” mur-
mured the fisher-ladies. “Some wretches,”
added one in explanation of their seeming
madness, ,“r,ifled our letter-box, and, their
being a birthday in the family, we know that
it must have been stuffed with parcels and
things.” At this stage one fisher drew out
a packet of letters which the others pounced
on joyously, only to find that they had been
emptied before being thrown into'the sewer
The postman earns his share of blame for
lost letters in these days; for, boxes being
obligatory, he rarely uses his whistle now.
Some philanthropic workers are asking
when our Governors’ wives are going to get
back to their pre-war practice of serving as
patrons of local charity appeals, leaving the
presidential work for others. The vice-regal
presence, they say, cramps plain speaking,
more especially with a petticoated committee.
Few of the sex would have the courage to
wrangle with a Governor’s lady—in fact,
many would look upon the mildest contro-
versy as a dreadful impertinence.
M. P. Adams —“Storky” in his old athletic
days—who is doing well in America with
lectures and Australian travel-pictures, has
been trying to persuade the U.S.A. scientists
to send an expedition to Northern Australia.
A New York group has promised to consider
the matter within two years. There is a
young Miss Adams now, to whom the fond
parents have given the name Blossom:
but she is good enough not to interfere with
mother’s broadcasting recitals. Mother, you
remember, was Irma Caron.
Some Adelaide gossip :
The £750 collected for the Elizabeth Jackson
Memorial Fund has been handed to the ’Varsity to
buy books on psychology (particularly abnormal
child psychology), with the suggestion that some
of it might be set aside for the purchase of appara-
tus for practical psychological experiments. The
original intention was to earmark the money for
buying apparatus for a psychological clinic, but
this has been abandoned, partly because the Educa-
tion Department has announced its intention of
adding a trained psychologist to its staff.
This has been a highbrow week—science sessions
and science lectures; men of great learning as thick
in our streets as farmers in Show week; lunches,
dinners and tea-parties, with the conversation keyed
to intellectual planes that made the layman dizzy.
Socially, the three biggest flutters were the reception
at Government House and the tea-parties given by
John Monash and the Glovers in the Town Hali.
Guests at all of them were mostly visiting scientists,
local ditto and Uni. men, with a sprinkling of the
unlearned by way of background.
The Government House affair overflowed from
the ballroom and drawing-rooms to a marquee on
the southern lawn, but the lists for the Town Hall
parties were smaller—small enough when John Mon-
ash was host for all to take their tea at small
tables scattered through the! main hall, with a song
or two from Melbourne visitor Amy Fuller to break
the babel of chatter.
For their tea-party the Glovers thrust all food
into the banqueting-room and the southern annexe,
scattered groups of chairs about the hall for the
guests, • and bade sweet-voiced Hilda Gill sing to
them at intervals.
’Flu has attacked the staff of the Adelaide Hospital
with such vigor that the authorities have thank-
fully called in outside help—members of a V.A.
association organised by the Moulden dame and Mrs.
Wellington. Sixteen of the younger set are now
busy sweeping floors and washing dishes —among
them one of the Hackett daughters, Katie Teesdale-
Smith, Marjorie Verco, Molly Page and Joyce Hom-
burg—-and there are plenty more ready to follow
them if they’re wanted.
An entertainment at Woodlands, with their own
daughter as one of the performers, took the Bridges
to Glenelg a few evenings ago. The show included
extracts from “Hiawatha,” a war-time skit with a
London basement as its setting, and a dualogue.
The Bridges maiden figured in the skit as a gentle
and most convincing curate, and had with her in
the cast Ursula Thomas (Bishop Thomas’s daughter),
Josephine Samuel, Marjorie Pappin, Marjorie Riseh-
bieth and Helen Seeek


A NEW STEELE RUDD NOVEL
“ME AN’ TH’ SON”
The advent of “ME AN’ TH’ SON” adds another laurel to the
crown of Steele Rudd’s successes. “Me an’ th Son is brimful of
humor from beginning to end, and the reader will have a
hearty laugh at the doings of the pair of unconscious humorists
who, straying away from the monotony of their native town, find
adventure in the big city. Steele Rudd has written a great book,
which tops the high standard set in his earlier works.
“ME AN’ TH’ SON.”
Cloth Library Edition, with artistic three-color
Picture Jacket. Price 3/6, postage 2d. extra.
ON SALE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
INTERIORS.
HAVING BUILT YOUR BUNGALOW
its interior will now claim your attention. The magic witchery of an artistic
interior can only be achieved by study and careful planning.
INTERIORS BEAUTIFUL
will pilot you upon a sea of perplexities, guide you along paths bordered by good
taste and simplicity, will reveal to you in all its entirety the charm of an artistically-
designed home. “INTERIORS BEAUTIFUL” illustrated m a manner m
keeping with its artistic aims.
PRICE 12/-, Postage extra 6d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
PRESENTS FOR MEN.
PEARL
SCARF PIN/
FROM £5.
Platinum and pearl
LINKS. £5.
©
DIAMOND
SCARF PIN..
sdf
sd
' SET OF 3 PEARL *
EVENING ORESS STUDS.
FROM £3 EACH.
fds
GOLD AND ENAMEL LINKS,
£4/10/-
GOLD AND ENAMEL LINKS.
£.4/4/.
G®
a
©
©
GOLD WRIST WATCHES. FROM £lO.
THE ARTICLES ILLUSTRATED ARE OF THE HIGHEST
QUALITY. AND OFFER THE BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE
A COMPARISON OF PRICE ANDVALUE IS INVITED BEFORE
PURCHASE. SELECTIONS WILL BE FORWARDED ON
APPROVAL AT THE FIRM’S RISK
Srummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
For Every Occasion
the Autotone Player Piano excels in providing the music needed,
especially for dancing—it is a perfect orchestra. Young and old
alike find delight in playing the “Autotone,” it has such a beautiful
Tone, is so easy to operate, and the expression devices help ALL
to express themselves just as the mood dictates. The Autotone
Player Piano is
SOLD ON EASY TERMS & FULLY GUARANTEED
Answer the impulse and obtain particulars to-day!
AUTOTONE
Player Piano
The Perfect Accompanist
For accompanying vocal or instrumental
solos—the same unvarying blending of
tone and expression which forms a
perfect background to either, is always
at hand on the “AUTOTONE.
There are exclusive features embodied
in the “Autotone’ ’ not found in other
Player Pianos which make this glorious
instrument supreme as an accompanist.*
Visit Paling’s and inspect this beautiful
Player Piano.
Catalogue and Price List free for the asking.
“Quality our Keynote
since 1853,”
338 George Street,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE (SL ROCKHAMPTON
And at


Royal
Warrant
fsd
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
PS
u
Champagnc
UtuifisHeidsie®-
Reims
WT#
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
DINNER EACH EVENING, 7.30
Dancing till midnight (Saturdays 11.30 p.m.).
ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31,
HALLOWE’EN SUPPER DANCE
Tickets 30/-
must be procured from the Wentworth,
when a mystery hood will be presented
with each ticket.
HALLOWE’EN NOVELTIES AND MENU.
’Phone, City 9!)31.
Nothing in Any Way Equals
ff
SV
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 13; Sat., till l
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., 15/C
Suppers from 9.30, 10/6.
Thur., Dinner de Luxe, till 13, 31/-
Sat., Dinner Revellion, till 1 a.ni., 25/-
Supper, Thnr., 9.30, 13/6; Sat., 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA,
7 TIED 9.
RAET'ON’S FAMED HAVANA BAND,
9 TIDE 13.
Saturdays, 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF READ
DISTINCTION.
Euncheons. 5/-, or a la carte. Equals
London's best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra l till 3.30.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours’
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain your friends at The Ambassadors,
which provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see Miss
Barker, in Palm Court; or ’phone M 3666, The
Ambassadors, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
GLOVES
The girl in the fiat opposite says the next
time she goes to the Artists’ Ball she’ll take
a prize-fighter, a glass blower and a sausage
king—the prize-fighter to act as a battering-
ram against the mob in the basement, the
glass-blower to waft her an occasional goblet,
the sausage king to provide a saveloy apiece
for the company. She says she sighs not
for grandeur hut for comfort, and all she
brought home from last week’s savage enjoy-
ment was the foam off somebody else’s beer,
the brand of a dill pickle on her flounces
and a harvest of bruises that are laying the
foundation-stone of fortune for the chemist
at the corner. Her last murmur was that
George Lambert had told the committee the
Governor would be hurt if they gladdened
the night with a skit on the vice-regal en-
trance, but that it was now considered just
blind fear on George’s part lest the Common
Herd might go a step higher and blaspheme
the dignity of an R.A. From which prattle
you can gather that Sydney has had its
yearly hectic night. The Artists’ Bawl has
again torn a hole in the city’s social struc-
ture, and Mr. Carrick, the Town Hall
orderly, has once more had his photograph
attached to his strictures in the dailies.
If you were at the whirl of girl and curl
on Friday you are still trying to sleep it off.
If you weren’t, imagine a Town Hail
patrolled bv six-foot cardboard kewpies—
they were really intended to stand on guard
in front of every pillar around the hall, but
after the first two hours they glode and
slode together in sly groups of twos and
threes. The galleries wore giddy nursery
rhymes concerning fantastic people like Billy
Hughes. Aloft magic vines bloomed with
millions of balloons, and whistles and rattles
could be bought from Swiss toy-sellers. By
8 o’clock the hall and galleries were filled,
by 9 they were overflowing, by 10 things in
the basement were pretty willing. The
ball’s motto about Time turning back in
its flight was taken full advantage of. Rom-
pers replete with girl arrived by the shoal;
and your romper-full of Australian girl is
guaranteed to give Man (especially at 13
p.m.) a strong objection to Victorian dress
for Woman. Men, too, came in the same
absurdity, showing the best they had in furry
legs and gorilla chests. Men as babies in
long clothes, with dummy and rattle ; men as
Eastern princesses; men as baby dolls and
Mother Hubbards and ladies who live in
nursery rhymes; men as nurses, the dizzy
limit in thesh being Albert Collins, made up
to look like a secret drinker—just that ruddy
glow about the nostrils, the right shade of
redness in the eyelids; this under an absurd
shingle and above the severity of a nurse’s
collar. Girls with curves that could be de-
scribed as callipygous came as Boy Blues
and pages, ’prentice lads and other dashing,
roystering characters. Surely every peg in
every fancy-cdstume loan-shop in town was
empty! Chinamen danced with dazzling
rainbows. A big jazz pierrot of five-foot-
nothing attracted a seven-foot golliwog’s
attention by playfully biffing him with a
bladder on a stick, with results satisfactory
to both.
Sailor boys with the giddy little straw
hats of Ye Old Time Navee were much on
deck. Dave Souter was a cross between
these and a small fisherman wagging it from
school. He dangled a fish that was Jonah’s
whale when it was a baby. His two pretty
daughters he brought with him looking like
two sonsy bairnies from Bonnie Dundee.
"Bubbles’’ came to life again in musical-
girl Trixie Tange—she has a natural thatch
that is an exact replica of the dreamy-eyed
boy’s. Secretary Gladys Owen, as a black-
satined pantaletted girleen of “Nicholas
mckleby’s” set, made the hit of her life.
Finey hid behind the bulwarks of a bib and
tt Sid Ure Smith looked like
Hop’s little boy from Manly gone wrong.
Gayfield Shaw was a ringleted Boy Blue
whom everybody suspected of being the
bloodthirsty Judge Jefferies; his lady, as
Miss Muffet. looked fearlessly upon creatures
beside which her spider was a gentle pet.
I ullw’ood was there, and Lister Lister
brought his daughter in a cloth of gold
sheath gown. John Moore was in a grass-
green velvet coat, primrose breeches and a
head like a hayrick, in which two birds
nested. Leon Gellert hid behind moustaches
and beard, and E. ,1. Tait pretended to be
George Lambert.
A few Darling Pointers looked in. The
ladies came as themselves—it is no good
being able to afford imported frocks and not
display them. And the function went its
way to the artillery of broken glass, an
extra-power jazz band, drums, motor-liorns,
whistles. Quiet little family parties with
many hand-pattings circulated the cheering
liip-flask in corners of the ballroom. Pluto-
crats sustained themselves with champagne
in the same manner. Louise Lovely, in a
wonderful black and silver setting for her
blonde beauty, made a vice-regal entrance
with her husband. A bodyguard of pugilists
kept the way to the dais clear. The funeral
of Constable Chuck was an original, almost
aboriginal, stunt, the only funny thing about
it being the real Chuck’s presence among the
mourners. Writing-girl Blanche D’Alpuget,
as a dash of Holland, explained the hole-in-
the-dyke mystery—some passing Ulysses
bored it to peep, at the Lowlands lasses.
And the honors for one of the best-carried-
out costumes went to a Kate Greenaway
girl, complete from hat to toe, even to her
paper-bag of comfits. John Lane Mullins
was a Sheik, and Henry Braddon sat in a
corner with a peach, and was not Jack
Horner, as reported; and a giddy young
thing who steadied herself by grabbing the
starred shoulder of an Eastern potentate
brought down her part of the house by re-
marking owlislily—“Mr. Hennessy, f I be-
lieve !”
With some idea of training for the night
after, the Itoyal Art Society held its conver-
sazione on the Thursday before the Artists’
Ball. In the big gallery lined with master-
pieces small tables were distributed, and by
8.30 only the smile of Aphrodite would have
won a chair in the tightly-packed throng.
It was one of the jolliest evenings the
society has known, embroidered with beauti-
ful music by Frank Hutchens. Faithful
R.A.S. customers, like Aubrey Halloran and
Howard Hinton, were in the gathering. Mrs.
Minns and her tall water-colorist held court
ia one corner, and Will Moore and his wedded
poetess, Dora Wilcox, were another popular
pair. Artist Charlie Bryant was the even-
ing’s laugh-raiser with a group of absurd
songs sung with the solemnity of the real
leg-puller.
William Robinson, of Myee, Inverell. came
to town last week to claim Beaupre Waddell
from the hands of Canon Wilton, of Bathurst.
St. Andrew’s never saw a daintier bride. A
foam of white georgettes and tulle swished
about her small feet, and a billowy tulle veil
was moored to the brown hair by a silver
bandeau. Sister Thelma, wearing a souffle
of apricot georgettes and Brussels lace and a
nimbus of rosy tulle about her locks, embel-
lished the wedding group. The guests
gathered at the Wentworth, where mother
and singing sister Leila did the honors. The
presents stretched from here till to-morrow,
and included such trifles as a Sunbeam car
and a dream of a pink-enamel and gold-
embossed dressing-table outfit —these from
him to her.
If you’ve a radio set then you know Kath-
leen Jansen by
ear, for she’s a
favorite broad-
casting artist.
After some
training
in Wellington
(M.L.) she
went to Eng-
land, and for
two years
studied with
Dr. Keightley,
of Manchester.
Her Sydney
teacher is Dr.
C. Sauer,
some of whose
com positions
she will sing
at a recital
at the King's
Hall on Sep-
tember 9.
Through the fragile richness of Venetian
point pretty Mary Bridge’s golden head
gleamed under the full-power lighting of St.
Mary's the other night when the Lionel
Bridge chick linked up for life with Dr. John
Flynn of Macquarie-street. The slim bride
also trailed to the altar a picturesque creation
of ivory satin glittering with silver embroi-
deries and a silver tissue train. Bride’s sister
Marjorie and groom’s sister Florence, who
’maided, added to the picture ethereal frock-
ing in pastel tones of blue and sunset-gold
topped by silver-lace headwear. The bride-
groom, who has medicine in the blood- —his
father is Dr. John Flynn, of Centennial Park
-—was supported by brothers Leo and Jim.
The cake was cut at the Savoy, in Darling
hurst.
Another well-known girl who last week
exchanged this freedom for a wedding-ring
was Marjorie Brierley, of Kirribilli. She
accepted it at the hands of Roy Lindeman,
of Exeter, while Padre Russell kept track
of the “I wills,” and a full-bodied choir raised
its voice in sacred song. Following the bridal
train of ivory brocades were Phyllis Keep,
Nerida Sly and Marjorie Lindeman, sugges-
tive of the Spring song in faint lilac and
shimmery lace frocking. Gordon Brown,
Monty Brown and John Stephenson sup-
ported tlie male lead, and the Cavalier rang
with the post-nuptial congratulations.
You’d have thought the Australian Navy
had heard Drake’s drum, judging by the rally
of brass buttons at St. James’s on Monday
afternoon. Really the roll-up was due to
the linking of Isabel Garland, of Bellevue
Hill (father was the well-known M.L.C.),
with Commander James Cantrell John-
stone Soutter, R.N., now of H.M.A.S. Platy-
pus, his dry-land heritage being in Kent
and Warwickshire. Padre Russell tied the
knot with the help of Padre Fattison, of
the Platypus. St. James’s wore palms and
white lilies in its hair, and the bride rustled
in white moires and tulle. Cousin Mary
Mort ’maided in fuchsia marocain frocking
and gold lace millinery. The quarterdeck
formed an arch of steel, and a company of
Jack Tars drew the bridal car across the
road to the Queen’s Club, where the bride’s
mother extended the glad hand from a gown
of sand-colored marocain and lace.
Herbert, a medical son of late eye-
specialist Odillo Maher, was married the
other day at Woolwich to Molly Swinford
Edwards. It was a family affair, and the
bride forsook the traditional ivory satin and
tulle for honey-colored soufflg of georgette
and lace, with a leafy crinoline hat of the
same golden tone and a sheaf of yellow roses.
If you have ever been to an exhibition of
the Royal Art Society in Sydney during the
past decade you are sure to have seen and
admired the
work of James
R. Jackson,
the little artist
with the big
stock of
energy who is
pictured here
by May Moore.
His brush
ha s touched
all sorts of
subjects, but
his popularity
rests largely
on those bits
of the Harbor
which he has
painted under
all atmo-
spheric condi-
tio n s. His
latest success
was scored
with “Dawn,”
a figure subject, but with a bit of his be-
loved Harbor in the background. This fine
study had hardly settled itself upon the
walls of the recent Art Society’s show when
the Gallery red-tabbed it.
The Moriartys, one of the oldest families
on the Monaro. are excited over a double
engagement in the Cooma branch of the clan.
Charles Merion, their eldest son, who turned
his attention to sheep and lucerne after a
few years with the Light Horse in Pales-
tine, has got the right word from Marjorie
Row, the medico’s daughter in Adaminaby;
and Annette, the daughter, hopes to make
George Russel King happy. He is the son
of the legal family who live at Rose Bay.
Margaret (“Daisy”) Mcßobert (she’s a
daughter of the late James Mcßobert, of
the Robert Harper firm) left Sydney with
mother and sister Helen in the autumn
exodus to England, and six wmeks ago mar-
ried the man for whom she had made the
journey. He is David Williams, and he
kept tryst with his Australian bride at
novelist lan Maclaren’s church in Liverpool.
Ivory marocains and Lyons lace formed the
wedding garment, which was enriched by a
cascading Brussels lace veil. Sister Helen
’maided in sand-colored georgettes heavily
beaded. The Carlton sheltered the cake-
cutting ; and the subsequent honeymotor-
moon was spent in Wales and Devon’s de-
lightful Clovelly.
The punts had to buckle-to on the night
of the Mater Misericordiae Ball at the
Palais, for the north side is very proud of
this splendid pain-killer. Capable Mrs.
Leahy, whose wing is always spread over
the hospital, organised the function and
notched another success. She wore sable
georgettes, on which a large crop of sequins
gleamed merrily. State Treasurer Cocks’s
lady was skipper of the dance committee,
which was manned by a splendid crew of
vice-presidents, topped by North Shore’s civic
lady. Mayoress Watt. The hospital’s big
chief, Dr. Dan Kelly, and his slim wife
came with a party. Mrs. Dan danced
in rose du Barry marocains, and her sister,
Mrs. James Hughes, ruffled in blue brocades-
their aunt, Miss Coffee, was the belle of the
ball, in grey and opalescence; and Mrs.
Regan, just back from her travels, aired a
stunning sky-blue outfit.
When Maorilander Dr. Truby King hit
upon “humanised milk” as the correct diet
for baby, he little dreamed of the Great War
and the baek-to-Zion movement. So, of course,
he couldn't know that his baby culture would
spread to Palestine, and there nourish the
tiny Jew whose mother and father had
escaped from a Europe running red. But
the Plunkett system (christened so after a
Maoriland Governor’s lady) is already in full
swing- in the Bible country, Mrs. David
Nathan, of the Auckland merchant firm, being
mainly responsible. The Jewish women in
Maoriland have established a baby-welfare
centre in Jaffa; now the Jewish women of
N. S. Wales are raising money to extend the
good work. The Colorland Pair in the base-
ment of Sydney Town Hall was the first big
effort; and Dr. Fanny Beading got off a neat
little speech when introducing Mayor Gilpin
to the spendthrifts in front. The basement
was a mosaic of streamers, gay lanterns,
pretty Plebrew sellers, and sympathetic
buyers. A mere £2600 was the Fair’s objec-
tive, and probably when the last shekels
dribble in that amount will be well in hand.
Sydney is determined to speed soprano
Ethel Osborn on her operatic career. To
this end the ballroom of the Australia was
commandeered one afternoon last week, and
musical celebrities swore a deep oath to have
the highest finish put on Ethel’s amazing
top notes. Alfred Hill presided, and a com-
mittee of the kind known as rich and influ-
ential was formed, having for patron Dame
Nellie and for president Minister for Edu-
cation Bruntnell. The Beales came up with
a cheque for £lOO, and with Herbert Marks,
Arthur Rickards and Ernest Wunderlich
among the enthusiasts, Melba might just as
well write out the cheque for £lOO she
promised to given when nine other centuries
were in the hat. A testimonial concert in
November has been decided on.
Mrs. W. P. McElhone, who hostessed the
Repertory at-home on Friday, had grand-
opera singer Phyllis Archibald as her guest
of honor. The pretty rooms of the Garrick
Club had been turned into a bower of earth-
fragrance, as the poets call it. Stocks and
roses swooned their hearts away in the
drowsy Spring air that was made more sen-
suous by streams of song. Mrs. McElhone
wore smart navy blue, and Phyllis trailed
soft grey georgettes surmounted by black mil-
linery of the picture variety.
Any Friday morning you may see a little
group waiting to interview the secretary of
the Fresh Air League. They are often old-
age pensioners, or tired-looking women, and
most of them have come because their doc-
tors have told them to apply for three or
four weeks of country air to help their con-
valescence. Dr. Lucy Gullett was eloquent
on the good work of the League at its 33rd
annual _ meeting, presided over by Mayoress
Gilpin in her rooms. During last year nearly
200 sick and worn people had been given a
holiday; and this year the committee, of
which Lady de Chair is patroness, hopes to
extend its work.
In raising its quota for the University
Carillon fund, the Women’s College refuses
to minister to the popular appetite for jazz:
a show of art treasures on loan is the means
the heads propose for meeting their bond.
From October 1 to 21 the Feminist Club
will house the exhibits, which will include
a collection of Japanese prints lent by Pro-
fessor Sadler. And do you know that the
Really Best people are now boldly making
these War Memorial bells rhyme with mil-
lion ? It’s too bad —just when ordinary
people had managed “Carri-yon” nicely.
The Children’s Hospital cafe distilied a
cheering draught the other afternoon to the
glory of Mrs. May Mercer. The members of
the Sailors and Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers’
Association had engineered the gathering in
recognition of the great service Mrs. -Mercer
has given the Association. Mrs. Osbourne
England did the honors, and the guests in-
cluded Billy Hughes and his Dame, Mayor-
ess Gilpin and the sympathetic Commander
Grant couple.
Mrs. Maclurcan, the intrepid chatelaine
of the Wentworth, sailed for Japan and the
States early this week. Her principal object
is to bring back last-minute ideas in lighting.
Dame Alice Chisholm goes for a jaunt-
round the world with her family in a few
weeks. Archdeacon Ward, who married one
of the clan, is of the party; and they travel
on the Port Sydney.
Next Tuesday the Palais Royal will stage
the Boys’ Week Ball. A ten-guinea jazz
competition, fancy sets and posters will put
a glow into the night.
A lady who is running a model kitchen in
Sydney was presented the other day by a
neighbor, whose business is health foods, with
a quantity of wholemeal, wheatmeal and
other lines. The lady forthwith made some
scones and small loaves, and, calling her little
handmaiden, bade her carry a few of each
across to the giver of the meal. The neigh-
bor, ten minutes later, busy in his shop
expounding the purity of his' diet, was flat-
tened out by the sudden apparition of a
small girl who, thrusting a parcel towards
lum, gasped breathlessly: “Mr. Brown, Miss
Jones’s compliments, and to tell you this
is what she’s made out of your wild oats !”
The Navy League Ball is dated for Sep-
tember 30, and will be at the Palais. The
principal attraction will be a surf-costume
competition—they must be built on the Deau-
ville plan, with skirt and sunshade complete
Mrs. Venour Nathan and Miss Austin are
the secretaries.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
To tko CWwrogrt of
li/t 4miti to <Oll m> Sftcl«i oamsoo to
™ memm’imc® netwowu**-"
*0»8»> M am te tsxto. 'XiV
S(o«rt Klißtlaa? a* !»* >t-H
* «»«»•»>*» »*.« * *•»-.
«e«> «<* to tott* lit :»«W‘:
aid to <M s«isfeo»a j
to* *0 ><**■ ->
«*x. *W*wi<&<#< **>«£.***
goi
*J
f -1
Ready Rubbed
or Plug Slice.
EDGEWORTH
Extra High-grade
Burley
Smoking Tobacco.
Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SNORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Apart from Pteropod and Pcnnybont,
nothing above the plater class started at Canterbury
Park (N.S.W.) on Saturday. Pteropod was a 5-to-4
favorite for tlie Flying Handicap, six furlongs, but
the weight (9st. 111b.1, the pace set by Orage, and
perhaps the lack of a race bothered him, and he
finished third to little Rendezvous (6’s) and Foxy.
Donnelly rode a strong finish on Rendezvous, who
looked hopelessly out of it at the turn; and Broad
Veglia (s's), a rather nice bit of stuff by Broadsword
—Veglia, gave the promising youngster another
winning jockey’s fee in the second division of the
Highweight Handicap, six furlongs. Pcnnybont, who
carried 9st. Sib., was in no condition to do himself
justice in the Canterbury Handicap, If mile and
100 yards, but there were mugs who backed him at
4 to 1. Lexy (s’s), a fretful little mare by imported
Chipilly—Lexie, was in front all the way, with Esme
Dighton and Doris Lynn in the places. The only
favorite to get home was Lakawanna (5 to 2), who
beat the unlucky and badly treated Girton Girl
and the pony Science in the first division of the High-
weight. A good-looking brown mare by Beragoon—
Marasea, Lakawanna was placed last season, when a
rather green three-year-old, in races won by The
Monk and Trimacre, and she may be worth following
in six-furlong sprints, as she is obviously very well.
Samuel Hordern has had cruel luck with
Bronzino and bis progeny. The costliest bit of
horseflesh ever imported to Australia, Bronzino failed
dismally at the stud, and Wingen, the result of his
union with the flying Istria, proved a shocking dis-
appointment when raced in the Hordern colors. The
only time he won at Sand wick the owner hadn’t a
bean on him. Yet, sold out of the stable and
taken to the “ponies,” the erratic brute has landed
a big prize at the first time of asking. The race
was the Rosebery (N.S.W.) Cup, woith £2224 to
the new owner, one Kcppie, and Samuel’s cast-off
was so enthusiastically backed that he went out at
7 to 4 in His heat and even money in the final. The
brutality of it!
* * * *
The A.J.C. has uphold the 12 months' dis-
qualification imposed on Jones, the Maoriland trainer,
and McCarten, his jockey, over the running of
Royal Despatch at Canterbury Park on August 9,
and the horses previously under Jones’s care have
been transferred to Price’s stable. This suggests
that Ballymena and Glentruin and the rest will
race at Randwick, according to the original plan,
but H. A. Knight’s decision has yet to be announced.
Someone started a story that the M.L. racing bodies
would sever relations with the A.J.C. as a result
of the Royal Despatch business, but this is absurd. The
committee’s decision will be recorded and acted upon
in Maoriland just as M.L. disqualifications are
recorded and acted upon in New South Wales.
The regulation of racing would be the sorriest of
farces if sentences imposed in one country were
subject to review in another.
* * * *
Wlmt slight interest attached to the rac-
ing at Mentone (Vic.) —the first down-the-line meet-
ing for two months —centred in the Mentone Handicap,
the field including several Cup candidates. In spite
of recent disappointments and his 9st. 131 b., Easing-
wold was again at odds on, with Drongo and Beeline
second favorites at sevens; but the Westralian failed
once more, and perhaps he has grown cunning after
the fashion of some stallions. . Anyhow, Melbourne
punters have become weary of backing him at
dynamite odds. Beeline had a comfortable gallop,
Answer and Pengarie chasing him home. The
Three-Year-Old Handicap went to the consistent Nalpa
(7 to 2), who bounced out of the barrier and
lasted long enough to beat the fast-finishing Metellus
by a head. Nalpa had 9st. 41b. and Metellus 41b.
less. The latter is a Valais and is trained by Holt.
Kidlaw failed to act up to expectations in the Open
Handicap, in which Sweet Bomb (5 to 4) was first
and Chelidon second. On his good race in w.f.a.
company at Williamstown the three-vear-old looked
a fair thing, but perhaps the effort to pace it with
King Qarnival and Whittier did him no good.
“Hasen”: He was one of the big book-
makers. His bag, his voice, his nose, everything
about him was big—except his odds. He started
them very small and lifted them a point or so with
an air of reckless abandon that was very enticing
to mugs who didn’t know him. And there was
nothing gigantic about his operations. At his cry
of “All right, then : four to one Dolly Mine,” there
was a mild rush. He took a few of the offered bets
—very few—and then closed down. At this there
were moody protests from those who had missed. “It’s
all very well to say ‘Come on, Joe!’” he retorted.
“S pose 1 was caught through over-laying the ’orse,
what'd you say then?” The reply came in a tired
voice. “We’d say, ‘Come on, Joe! Wake up!
That was a bad dream you had!’ ”
Miller’s Sporting Annual, as indispens-
able as ever to those seeking light on the Epsom and
Metropolitan, the two Cups, the Derbies and other
abstruse problems, contains 224 pages this year. A
list of aviation feats is included in the 36 pages
dealing with records, and if ever there is a demand
for a form-at-a-glance section devoted to birdmen,
the industrious compilers may be depended upon
to supply it.
* * * #
“Bildad”: The eminent “Squizzy” Taylor,
brought before Melbourne Criminal Court on one of
the numerous side-issues of his numerous cases (it
wa.s a question whether he should be “indeterminate”
or not), was asked about his means of support, and
attested that he was clerk to a bookmaker. Whether
bookmakers have criminal clerks, or whether they
simply lend their names to help criminals to evade
the law, I don’t know; but if every bookie who was
proved to have a criminal clerk was called upon to
show cause re losing his license, I suppose we would
find out.
* * * *
“The Deacon”: They breed their steeple-
chasers tough in Maoriland. At a recent Christchurch
meeting, the three placed horses in the 24-miles
flutter over the big timber were saddled up later in
the afternoon for a three-miler. And first and
second in the 24-miles were first and second again;
the other was fourth. They were over the 10-stone
mark, too.
* * * #
Gerald Patterson seems fated never to beat
Bill Johnston, of California. In the U.S. National
Singles at Forest Hills, New Jersey, the Victorian
played great tennis against Watson Washburn and
George Lott, the junior champion, defeating both in
straight sets, but when he met the little Californian in
one of the semi-finals he was appallingly licked. The
figures tell the melaix holy story better than any
word-painter could do it: G —2, 6 —o, 6 —o. Previ-
ously Johnston had beaten Schlesinger and Lacoste,
the scores in each case being o—3, 6—3, 6—3.
O’Hara Wood was ousted in a five-set match by
Hennessv, a youngster from Indianapolis, who sub-
sequently eliminated Borotra in four sets. On this
form it is a toss-up whether Australia or Gaul will
have the right to meet the holders of the Davis
Cup, but neither team has more than an outside
chance of lifting it.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: Ilarry Moloney, who
is managing the Stanford Uni. tennis team during its
visit to Australia, was pained to find that sport
was not compulsory at Sydney University. At Stan-
ford it is part of the curriculum, and every student
has to devote five dahlars per annum to the Ivause.
The Californian temple of learning has 11 grounds
for American footer, five for Soccer and three for
Rugby Union. There are 26 tennis courts, a
stadium, a swimming pool and a gymnasium to
accommodate 4000 people. The only thing which
seems to be lacking is a pony-racing course.
A. L. HOSIER, secretary of the Williams-
town Racing Chib.
Harry Young’s trusty right has earned
him another k.o. entry in the Book of Stoush. For
live rounds ho had been industriously thumped by
Frank Locke, but, coming out for the sixth, he
swung tiie right for all he was worth, and it landed
on the Queensland welter’s chin. Before Locke could
recover, another right arrived, and down he went.
Staggering up at “two,” the game Queenslander was
felled again and then knocked through the ropes;
and though now incapable of defending himself, he
was still shaping up when the referee waved Young
to his comer. Sydney Stadium was the scene of
hostilities and there was £3ll in the plate.
It would have been a hungry crowd that
wanted more than was supplied at Mel bourne Stadium
when Peter Limutkin, the Finn (15st. 81b.), wrestled
Walter Miller, the Pole (list. 111 b.). The bulk
of the big audience had a notion that the remarkable
science of the smaller man would make the mountain
of brawn look foolish, but Limutkin soon showed
that he was no mug at the grappling game. Under-
neath for the most part, he grinned good-naturedly
at Miller’s futile efforts to move him, and once he
broke a footgrip neatly with his disengaged foot.
Limutkin got the first fall in the fourth round;
Miller, in going for a kneehold, left an opening,
and the giant soon had his shoulders on the mat.
After the spell the lighter scientist attacked vigor-
ously, but it wasn’t until the seventh bout that be
made the scores equal by securing a toehold which
MARK TARDY, centre of many football
arguments in Melbourne.
compelled the agonised big man to capitulate. Lim-
utkin was limping when hostilities were resumed,
but no fall occurred in the concluding ten minutes,
whereupon Miller was awarded the verdict on points.
These points decisions in wrestling matches are
ridiculous. Each man having secured a fall, it
should have been a draw, and so it would have been
in other days. The preliminary was a slashing
20-round boxing bout between Teddy Green (N.S.W.)
and Young Ferris (Vic.), both 7st. lljlb. Green
boxed tile 20th round as if he were just beginning
the contract, and the referee laid a massive paw on
his boyish head.
“Trevdee”: Melbourne Stadium patrons can’t get
their tongues round the name Limutkin, so the Finn
floundered about the mat with the cry of “Pump-
kin” ringing in his ears. Miller is affectionately
known as “Spiller” and the courtly Weber is
“Squeezer” to the back-seaters. Other sobriquets
which disturb the placidity of the West Melbourne
atmosphere are “Eyebrow” (Whybrow) and “Fish-a-
da-prawn” (Ristuccia).
* * # *
“Harold Hardupp” : A popular member of
one of the Melbourne cricket clubs was missing
from his usual haunts last season. It transpired
that he had married and gone to England for the
honeymoon. This year no application for member-
ship has come along, and a committeeman volunteered
to ascertain the reason. As was feared, it proved
to be skirted and shingled. “I’d have been glad
enough to let him join six months ago,” the bride
defiantly explained, “but 1 know now that a man
only joins a sporting club to get an excuse for
drinking, drinking , drinking.” The committeeman
hastened to assure her that alcohol had nothing to
do with the activities of a cricket club. “I know
better,” was the scornful reply. “Six months ago 1
let Jack join a golf club.” And she said it in
a manner which suggested that she had fathomed
the dark secret of the popularity of golf in Melbourne.
* * * *
Although Duncan Thompson and Sigley
were missing from the Queensland XIII in
the third inter-State League match at Bris-
bane, the home team made the Ma Staters
look cheap. N. S. Wales did fairly well in
the first half, thanks chiefly to the veteran Horder
and to Carr, the young South Sydney forward, but
after that it was a massacre, the Northerners ending
with 36 to 6. Aynsley got half their points, and fie
must now be regarded as the best League winger in
Australia if not in the world. Spencer (who replaced
Paten on the other wing) also played finely, and
Gorman (centre) and A. Edwards (half-back) ran
rings round the Blues after their forwards had
pushed the N.S.W. XIII to shreds.
There has been a remarkable slump in the popu-
larity of the professional code in Sydney. The crowds
attending the City Cup tussles are the poorest in the
history of the game. Added together on any Satur-
day, they wouldn't equal the attendance at one
match in Melbourne, and that not the principal match
of the day. No doubt the wretched performances of
the Sydney men against the'-Queenslanders and in the
third game against the Englishmen have chilled the
enthusiasm of many, but the falling-off is too great to
be attributable to one cause alone. There may be a
revival next season, and perhaps there will be, but
the suspicion grows that only that winter monopoly
of the Sports and Cricket Grounds —monstrous as
regards the latter—stands between the League code
and disaster.
* * * *
“Nitric”: I protest violently against the
innuendo in “Past Grammar’s” par. (B. 28/8/’24)
concerning Lawton, the Queensland Rhodes scholar.
Lawton never received cash or kind for playing
footer. The youngster’s only offence was to figure
in bis old ’Varsity team, no member of which ever
received a bean. I know, because I ran it.
* * * *
Saturday’s matches practically decided the
final four in the Vic. League competition, the same being
Essendon, Fitzrov, South Melbourne and Richmond.
The last-named met Collingwood, and as the Magpies
still had premiership hopes the game was strenuous.
With but two minutes to go, only 4 points separated
them, and the barrackers were raving. Those two
minutes were mostly occupied by the Tigers in
plugging 1 at ’W ood’s goal, and when the bell rang
they owned 61 points to ’Wood’s 49, and the Magpies
definitely passed out of the argument for this season.
Over on the Carlton Oval the Old Blues, donkev-
licked last week by South, avenged themselves on
Geelong. It served Geelong right, for the kicking
of their forwards was villainous—6 goals 18 behinds to
Carlton s 9 goals 7 behinds. Two ridiculously easv
shots were missed just on time. ’Don and St. Kilda
indulged in a scuffle in which the man got vastly
more attention than the ball—’Don 83 points anil
the others 59 ; and ’Roy outed Melbourne with ease
and 110 points to 67. The redoubtable John Moriartv
collected 8 goals, and now boasts 72, with four
(perhaps five) more games to play. Stockdale's last
year's record was 68, two better than Dick Lee’s
previous one.
The Association premiership will be fought out by
Footscray (defeated on Saturday, for the first time
this season, by North Melbourne), Williamstown,
Brunswick and Northeote. There is a proposal for a
match between the winners and the League premiers,
but the League authorities got so wild when a
Perth team played combined Association without
permission that they are unlikely to sanction a repe-
tition of the “offence” on the part of one of their
own clubs, even though the idea is to hand the
proceeds to maimed soldiers.
“Tren”: Tandy, of Stoush Melbourne, got out of
his bit of trouble (B. 28/8/’24) and was lucky so to
do. The victim (Eicke, of St. Kilda), a comrade
and spectators gave evidence that in the run for the
ball “Napper” would have lost by a tick had he
not put in the elbow with splendid effect. The
umpire who saw the incident did not appear, but
doctors testified that Eicke was “out” for a quarter
of an hour, and awoke with two severe fractures of
the cheek-bone. Tandy denied the impeachment, but
called no evidence. The League then discussed the matter
in camera and surprised the football world by taking
no action. “Napper” made his mark in more senses
than one in the desperate carnival game at Hobart
against W.A. One Groper, speaking for the crowd,
put it this way: “ ‘Napper’s’ only a tomtit, but ’e’s
rougher than Jack Dempsey. An’ language!” Yes,
“Napper” is an eloquent footballer.
* * * *
“Country Pod”: Mention of “Napper"
Tandy (B. 7/8/’24) reminds me of a game he and
some other football stars played in a few years
back. In a Vic. mid-northern football association, the
final, which was held after the Melbourne League
premiership had been decided, was between the Townies
and the Countrylads. The Townies sought the help of
some champions from a larger town further south, and
duly won. The Countrylads protested, and the Asso-
ciation declared it no match, adding that the first-
past-the-post rule would obtain next Saturday. Accord-
ingly the Townies took the field with their usual
team, and violent was their indignation when the
Countrylads’ captain, from a closed car, led Tandy,
Cazaly and two other League champions on to the
ground. Tandy is still remembered locally as the
bloke who ran with the ball from full-back position
and kicked a goal.
* * * »
“Gobble”: An old-timer who is a land-
mark, so to speak, in the evolution of Australian
football is J. V. Dunkinson, who is now 89. In
the ’fifties, before players were hampered by rules, he
bogged in for Melbourne, and in later years he was
the city's star umpire. Then each side had a
referee, who, from a stationary position between
the goal-posts, controlled half the ground by word
of mouth. When definite rules were introduced,
Dunlunson umpired the first game, between Melbourne
and Carlton ; and it was he who introduced running
with the players and blowing the whistle—now the
bane of the business.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : One Melbourne foot-
ball star is well looked after by his wife. He played
so brilliantly the other day that a parcel of admirers
waylaid him as he left the dressing-room and sug-
gested drinking his health. When he diffidently
indicated that the missus was in the offing and thaf
he did not like to keep her waiting, a delegation of
two was told off to placate her. It came back, look-
ing sheepish, with the lady herself. “I understand
you boys want to entertain Tom,” she said, sweetly.
“We’ll be delighted to have tea with you.” And
tea it was, spirituous and fermented being vetoed by
the strong-minded matron, who exhibited a remarkable
appetite for fruit salad. “Three bobs’ worth she
scoffed,” said one of the victims, telling me the
story; and there was a world of meaning in his
ejaculation of “Blime!”
“Feng-Shui” : By ” curious coincidence the
name of the primitive Malay game of football, raga.
is pronounced in precisely the same way as the
English “rugger,” but as in playing it the foot
has often to be brought up to a level with the
breast, it is a game few Rugbyites would rare to try.
I have seen it played by Filipinos in the roomy
waterside godowns or warehouses of Manila, and in
open fields by whole villages in Province Wellesley,
Malay Peninsula. The game is to keep the ball, a
small one made of plaited rattan, in the air without
touching it with the hands. The nether limbs of
the Malay are so supple, however, that after watching
a dozen players tossing the ball to and fro for 50
or 100 times, I fancied half of them were standing
on their hands and waving their feet in the air.
The highest record I ever heard of was 420 consecu-
tive kicks put up by a team in Nebri Sembilan.
* * * *
“Pnntagruel”: Recent mention of abo.
football teams reminds me that Cairns (N.Q.) had
one a couple of years ago, and for all I know may
have it still. "What impressed me about the Cairns
combination was the hardness of its feet. Unshod,
the bucks could punt as well as the booted whites
they played. Also, they kicked their opponents’
shins with the utmost fervor.
* * * *
“Nicanor”: A ball driven from a tee on
the Cammeray (N.S.W.) links landed in a player’s
pocket near the next green. I saw it done, and
there is nothing at all the matter with the club
whisky.
* # * *
Tn a five-mile race over the jumps at Rand-
wick racecourse, Frank Bailey easily retained his
title of N.S.W. cross-country champion. Content
to let others make the pace, Bailey, who is still
a youngster, headed the field in the straight
and won by a dozen yards from M. J. Mackenzie,
with A. Gainsford and veteran Hayden next. Bailey s
time was 28min. 22sec —62sec. slower than his effort
last year. Botany Harriers (4th, sth, 6th, Bth, 9th
and 14th) were, as usual, the successful team.
THE LORE OF THE LINKS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Most, matches are won with mashie and putter.”
—Points for golf novices in a contemporary.
Where the watchful, wiry younkers hump the bags
across the bunkers
Or coagulate about the greens to stare,
Quite irascible orations and profane ejaculations
Will occasionally agitate the air.
Players who have sliced will splutter and inconti-
nently mutter
Comminations on a stroke they reckon trashy,
But you’ll never hear a splutter from an expert with
the putter
Or an undisputed master of the mashie.
Guileless novice, tyro tender, do you crave the crown
of splendor
That attends the holing out in three or four?
Do you yearn to best the fogey known elusively as
Bogey
And account for cups and handicaps galore?
Whether turf be firm or splashy—if you’re feeling lit
and “slasliy”
Or your inexperienced nerves are in a flutter—
Leave recondite clubs and flashy ! Concentrate upon
the mashie
And learn all there is to know about the putter!
Not for inexperienced strivers the intricacies of
drivers;
Let the subtleties of witching niblicks wait.
Get a grip of elementals ere you tackle incidentals,
Or you'll queer your little pitch as sure as Fate.
From tiie level of the gutter you may rise to realms
of utter
Fame —as high as any Governor’s attache—
But your bag with clubs don't clutter. Focus firstly
on the putter
And get wise to what’s expected of the mashie.
x.s.w.
PIPARDS.


rr
. ■
<l*
■
>w
%
!
i
m
-'
■ :
:
m
m
/
/
i
s
7
I
sj
i
/
*2? ..
Si
T
j
v
*****
£7
The new ideal in
Men’s Shirts
Good durable materials selec-
ted for their soundness in
weave ; thoughtfully chosen
for their attractiveness in
pattern, and made on a prin-
ciple that goes many steps
further than the ordinary
shirt, the “Relova” principle
of COMFORT-CUT from
collar to cuffs, from yoke to
gussets. Examine the details
illustrated. No more in price
—just something more in
comfort and wear.
From all leading mercers
and men's wear stores
Made in Australia
R. 5.7.
Bias Yoke.
Unhampered play for
the shoulders ♦
Comfort-Cat Sleeves.
Cuffs at side of wrists,
always.
Comfort-Cut Collar-
Band provides utmost
ease for the throat ,
Pronounce it
Rell - over
-
Comfort- Cut
WHOLE Sif'A. L. H ON LT
ROBERTREID & CO. LTD. MELBOURNE *>- BRISBANE ADELAIDE


HOPE or CURIOSITY?
“I think sometimes the word ‘curiosity’ is
just another name for ‘hope.’
“You might fancy that it was curiosity that
made you smoke your first Kensitas. No, sir,
it was really hope, the hope that you would
find Kensitas a really good cigarette, better
than the' kind you had been smoking.
“But it is a fact, sir, that after you smoked
that first Kensitas, and experienced the cool,
rare old blend of prime
Virginia, you con-
tinued to smoke Ken-
sitas, because you found
that Kensitas are—‘as
good as really good
cigarettes can be.’ ”
fsd
Kensitas
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
GiqaAjz&eJ sv£
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
SO for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
3. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
viuiS
'"'UtirT
mIl'tCD
f
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng
sdf
"THE MAJESTY
OF SIMPLICITY”
H ,7N, m
mMm
m
%
f
W
MPOLW
.PAINT
READY
FOR use
PROTECTS
K AKD
P BEAUTIFIES
Write or telephone for Color-card, Booklet, etc., to
The Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd.,
379 Flinders Street. Melbourne,
AGENTS FOR VICTORIA.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CHOCOLATES.
52166 Pitt ST
& Ca Gjo.sKing S
SYDNEY. .
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per VJP. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
(Xn&St HitiUk
102-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
Business Notices.
“HOW TO WRITE PHOTOPLAYS.”
Price 1/1, post free.
Miss MARION MAUDE, Srd Floor, Mockbell’s
Building, 21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
You need not be a writer to make money writing
“movies.” The above book gives full instructions,
with a sample scenario for your guidance.
Position 'Wanted.
SOLICITOR, 14 years’ standing, last sis
years engaged Company Law exclu-
sively, wishes position in Australia. For
further particulars apply 11.H.F., Box No.
2521 G.P.0., Sydney.
tT!
m
n
TV
fll
111
SH
'll
II <|
111
111
II
111
w
w
w
11 Till
jmjJlP
5| *1 S
m
p
u
LET THIS BANK BE YOUR
BULWARK I
WE want you to look upon this
Bank as yours-it is open for
your benefit, to render you every
possible service, to offer every facility
for saving. In every way, this institu-
tion will encourage and aid you to
become financially independent! * *
BEGIN AND BUILD YOUR FORTUNE
TO-DAY!
4% interest up to £5OO, and
3 1 A% on excess to £lOOO
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
Head Office: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE
SYDNEY
161 Branches and over 500 Agencie*
BEST BRITISH BRIARS.
Finest Dark Finish, Gold Mounted.
'B s
BB
m
At All First-class Tobacco Stores, 21/- each.
If unobtainable, write Box 171 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mrs. Elizabeth Mills, just dead at Ben-
digo, aged 92, was the widow of the man who
founded the first Rechabite “tent” on the
goldfield. They arrived in Vic. in 1852, and
he died about 10 years ago.
The presidency of the Lib. Federation in
S.A., vacant by the retirement of Uppill (who
was never in Parliament), goes to G. F. Jen-
kins, a farmer of 40, who was Minister for
Agriculture and for Public Works under Bar-
well, but lost his seat in the Assembly at the
general elections in April.
“Rita” : Motor-cars are not the only things
that may apparently be utilised without crimi-
nal intent. In the Adelaide Police Court
a youth was charged with stealing a phono-
graph, the property of his employers, llis
defence was that, being an enthusiastic
dancer, he had borrowed the machine and
intended to return it unobserved when oppor-
tunity offered. Dismissed.
W. Crow, just retired from Maoriland’s
public service, was private sec. to 12 Minis-
ters. including Dick Seddon, whom he accom-
panied to Queen Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee.
He was also sec. to the M.L. rep. at the
opening of the Commonwealth Parliament,
had a similar job at the birth of the Union
Parliament in S’Africa in 1910, and was
attached to the High Commissioner’s office in
the Fog at the finish.
“Clerk” : Pars concerning swindles by the
use of cancelled stamps recall a neat dodge
worked by a couple of railway booking-clerks
in the Melbourne suburbs. When a suburban
ticket is issued to a child, it is cut up the
centre, with the result that only half of
the name of the destination station appears
on each portion. The enterprising pair when-
ever asked for a half-ticket to a distant
station called “Edithvale,” would issue one
to the handy “Ascot Vale,” the passenger
receiving the part with “ vale” only on it.
The manipulators, netting over sixpence on
each ticket, were doing well out of the game
when the railway 5.1.0.’s dropped on them.
Queensland’s expert has issued a warning
that artesian water is no more inexhaustible
than gold or oil, and that the supply isn’t being
replenished by soakage nearly fast enough to
meet the demand. In view of the diminishing
flow he even recommends that bores should
be licensed, the same as pubs. Recent figures
showed that out of 4160 Australian bores
(not including Freetraders) 2829 are in
Queensland, which has also the deepest bore
(possibly the world’s record bore) and two-
thirds of the aggregate depth. Most people
suspected the permanency of some at least
of the artesian wells (the original well,
in France, started with 700,000 gallons per
day and has since declined 90 per cent.), but
the painful subject has rather been avoided.
The position is another reason against too
much dependence upon “going on the land.”
“Clinton”: There are all kinds of work-
ers on the waterfront, and most races are re-
presented, but only once have I met a Jew
wharfie, and that was at Newcastle. The
gang was getting to work on the old Namoi’s
cargo as it left the slings, when a portly
figure with gold-rimmed spectacles emerged
from the shed pushing a truck. There was
no mistaking that nose—one of the Chosen
was doing manual work for a crust! He
worked hard, too, and never slackened,
though the perspiration dripped from him.
Occasionally somebody flung a gibe his way,
but he merely smiled and pushed his truck
the harder. “The union took him on more as
a joke than anything else,” one of the gang
toid me. “But that was six months ago,
and, blime, he’s stuck to it. He must be
saving up to start as a bookie.”
“Vanikoro”: Every now and again there is
a yell about the spread of industries round
the foreshores of Port Jackson, and the need
of preserving the waterfront from pollution
by workshops and factories. But the tend-
ency is not always for new industries to
block up more waterfront; sometimes
the tide sets the other way. Mosmau Bay
has no industries round it now except keep-
ing boarders and letting flats, but it started
as a whaling station in 1830; in the ’forties
a copper-smelting works for ore from South
Aus. was set up on the Cremorne side; in
1860 a tallow-candle factory was started at
the head of the bay and ran for three or
four years; and there was a tannery, too.
In 1873 the creek that runs into the head of
the bay was used for tin-streaming, and it
also served about that time for wool-washing.
“Topo”: Jim McLachlan, once more tiie
elect of Gippsland North (Vic.), is built
on the devil-may-care lines of Walt Whitman,
and ploughs a lonely furrow in the State
House; but Gippslanders call him “Ole
Jim,” don’t worry about his politics, and vote
for him. In his campaign the women rolled
up to his meetings, while the men slumbered,
and on polling-day they drove cars, chased
men to the polls, looked after rolls and gen-
erally saw to it that Labor was nowhere,
while the Cocky candidate lost his £5O.
“When Jim first stood he was running a
shorthand class, and generally brightening
up the youth of Sale,” said one of the crowd
while tiie returns were being posted. “He
ordered us to sit in the two front seats, take
notes of his maiden speech, write up in long-
hand and send all the stuff to him for correc-
tion. When the crowd started heckling the
class looked around. But Jim settled us with
‘Now, lads, keep to your work. Don’t try
to report silly interjections. Stick to main
facts. Be careful of figures. You are not
here to play the fool like some people are.’ ”
“Hamer”: A queer impression the new
arrival in Melbourne gets is that its people
are afraid of the city’s vaunted broad streets ;
and spacious thoroughfares, however admirable
in theory, certainly have their disadvantages
in practice. In the narrow streets of Syd-
ney, which carry a greater traffic, it is rare
to see the congestion that occurs at Mel-
bourne’s busy city intersections. For one
thing, the traffic has a much longer distance
to go to get clear of traffic travelling at right
angles; it banks up whilst it waits, and.
after every “all clear,” cross-streets traffic
begins to pile up again. The pedestrian
procession, too, congests at the street corners
in a manner hardly known in Sydney. If
you decide to make a dash through the whirl
of wheels (as is natural to the well-trained
Sydney traffic-dodger) there are invariably
alarmed cries of “Look out!” from all direc-
tions. The Melbournite, having a wider
street of moving danger to cross, prefers to
wait and cross in a stream ; and that stream
means, of course, a further delay, the longer
because of the street’s great width.


m
mam
i - W«Wf;, ,-.?
&Qi
C 3
£2S
a
• 4 .
144.
*//
■■■•■
' -• f-i!
«s>
•4g^
ao
»\» i
1111
4;¥|.
mam
SS»
■ ■‘i.'&>. | ; ;|i
■r ; f if
,
.
W I
A 1 '*>*■
1 •■• *:«
viJM»Kft
1 IN
\
,- a
M—l
;
a&&** '.....i
v |
,*✓<**" - - Mill HP
. 1 i
. •■ -JrrJ *
mm .-VH
.-■-•■■
®f§!
mg t K
': : 4444- '4 4 : 4;-:'
-f
t Is,
.
■. ' W II
1
■ mstfe; ** s
jS
• SWH
-
m ;, r T In, , 1 I ioo
,%{ Hi
jßr ® $ $
m
tf: •|*i
1 i
m
ffjiSJ
WgSfm
m
lUHLH
■
Ml
I—ll M
iis
H
IF*“
am
■
%
# i ;:
Ml
fc
.... » < •
1
anH
SH
mm
a
yfaftt
■a
f^.
... .
■
I
■n
»rV
i ,
1
O
I
I
!!>■
H
' i
gs
Hi
r
P
Models and Prices:
501 . . Tourer . . £450
501 . . Saloon . . £650
510 . . Saloon . . £l2OO
519 . . Tourer . . £1350
THE. FAVORITE OF A FAMOUS FAMILY
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd. .......... Melbourne, Vic.
Garratts, Ltd Sydney, N.S.W.
Adelaide Motors, Ltd Adelaide, S.A.
Arthur Anderson, Ltd Perth, W.A.
FIAT Sales Agency, Ltd Brisbane, QMand
Robert Nettlefold Pty., Ltd., sub-agent ......... Tasmania


Me Jfaior that Jack bought
sd
This is the razor that Jack bought.
&
This is the enterprising blade.
Shiny and sharp, that’s specially made
To fit the razor that Jack bought.
Containing the essen-
tials for a perfect
“Valet” shave—Razor,
Strop and Blade,
in neat
No. 99
case.
3/6
Razor, Strop and three
Blades, in japanned
metal case, with
hinged container
for strop
7/6
Heavily silver-plated
Razor, Shell horse-hide
Strop, and twelve
Blades, in
highly - embel-
lished case ..
25/-
9 s
This is the time (ten seconds a day),
Spent by Jack in stropping away
With the strop that hangs at the foot of his bed.
That, slipped through the slot in the razor’s head,
Sharpens the persevering blade
And keeps it as keen as when it was made
To fit the razor that Jack bor ,ht.
This is the strop at the foot of his bed'—*
That slips through a slot in the razor’s head,
And keeps the ever industrious blade
As sharp for weeks as when it was made
To fit the razor that Jack bought.
“VALET”
JUiVto
Safety Razor
£
And this is J-ack’s face, all shaven and shorn,
As smooth as the face of a babe new-born,
That proves that the odd ten seconds a day
Spent by Jack in stropping away,
With the strop that hangs at the foot of his bed
And slips through the slot in the razor’s head,
Has kept the pertinacious blade
As sharp to-day as when it was made
For the “VALET” razor that Jack bought.
British, made —of all dealers, from 3/6 to 57/6. Managing Agents for Australia: Phipson & Go., Ltd., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
%
Mill’s Hats
for Australian Heads
T HE . MILL’S selling policy
of Mill to Retailer dired,
eliminates all Middleman profit,
and in turn benefits the man
in the street by offering a hat
unequalled for style, appearance
and wear at a very low price.
Made in all fashionable shapes
in three distinct qualities.
21/- 25/- 32/6
If you have any difficulty in securing a Mill's
Hat, write us direct and we will supply you
through your nearest Hatter.
ANDERSON’S INDUSTRIES LTD.,
Factory: Albion Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
Wholesale Showroom: Eagley House, 143 York St., Sydney,
fl ■ -■,
■*v r?*jr ,, * > *.'V'*
.
:
mm
*


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
Everybody Appreciates
PLUM PUDDINGS
Obtainable
All Grocers
M
KEEP YOUR BLOOD IN ORDER
TAKE
GOLCRYST
IT’S SOLD
AT 4d., Bd. and 1/3.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “Whirled into Happiness”
CiiiTEitiu.N “iYempy’
Koval “Good Morning, Deane 1
New Palace “Climbing Mt. Everest”
Grand Ori;nA House “Little Nellie Kelly”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre The World’s Best Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Mier.nnrHNK snows for coming wf.f.k
His Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Vaudeville
King's “East of Suez”
Palace Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Productions
Princess's “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
The Sydney opera-goer is having a thin
time of it with changes in the bill-of-fare
even while the first course is being served.
Matinee-goers on Saturday started with
“Tales of Hoffmann,” but after the first act
they were told that Hoffmann had throat
trouble, and that two acts of “Rigoletto”
would next be given. It was another case
of no understudy, presumably, though why
the melodic O’Shea couldn’t have done that
duty for the great lover is another of the
great mysteries. Little Toti, after doing her
bit as the doll, came on uncomplainingly as
the tragic Gilda. Toti is about the only
one of the prima donnas who has not de-
veloped something or other during the season.
At Sydney Palace Colonel Pottinger is still
conducting absorbed houses through Indian
jungles and past Thibetan temples to the
topmost peaks of sky-stabbing Everest.
“Good Morning, Dearie!” pursues its sun-
shiny way at Sydney Royal—a whirl of en-
tirely radiant beings to more or less enrap-
turing strains.
** * *
They sang of dancing nymphs, in lines that glow,
Blithe Keats and glorious Shelley.
Withal their coryphees found clothes de troy,
One fancies. Sydney Opera House can show
How gorgeous frocks set off the heel-and-toe
Of “Little Nellie Kelly.”
At Sydney Cri. “Kempy” is in its seventh
week, and that rare laugh-maker, John D.
O'Hara, is lifting audiences into their seventh
heaven.
Irene Franklin, a star who glittered here
in the days of Harry Rickards, has returned
to Sydney Tiv. She is a vivacious artist,
and inspires every part of her turn with
"EAST OF SUEZ,” AT MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Arthur Styan as Lee Tai Chung;
John Fernside as Wu.
a fascinating personality. Her character
studies of American life are faultless; but
re-writing would improve some of her songs.
Du Calion has come back; and Peter Donald,
a comedian of the Harry Lauder school,
extracts great fun out of a nautical turn.
English panto-artist Victoria Carmen is
still among the placed runners.
Duncan Macdougall produced “Masses and
Man,” by Ernest Toller, at St. James’s,
Sydney, on Saturday night—a hysterical in-
coherence unworthy of the work put into it
bv the Playbox circle. The leading woman
(Sonia), a symbol of the Soul of Man, was
impersonated by Macdougall. tie acted with
sincerity and dignity, and imbued his long
speeches with something of the poetry he
claims for them. The lady who believes that
Love will find a way, and that you can't
fight war with war, is finally shot off-stage
for Red tendencies after having been cast
aside by her former comrades, for whom
she forsaken her husband (William
Hume), he being a dyed-in-the-wool bureau-
crat who refuses to bite the hand that pays
him his weekly wage. Of the seven scenes,
the second, fourth and sixth are supposed to
be Sonia’s “dream pictures” ; the third, fifth
and seventh are “visionary abstracts of
reality.” In the sixth scene, incidentally,
the heroine is enmeshed in a red wicker
cage—this symbolises the cage of flesh in
which the soul is caught. The First and
Second Workmen, Arthur Reardon and
Arthur Morris, were forceful, and their deliv-
ery excellent; but in the fourth picture, a
courtyard at night, the speakers blushed
hotly through the murk while aspersing their
own ancestry.
* .fc sfc i|:
Zacharewitsch-Cimara-Cellini gave Sydney
audiences a last earful of melody on Satur-
day night when the tenor made the Town
Hall ring with “Celeste, Aida.” “On with
the Motley” and the Drinking Song from
“Cavalleria Rusticana” were sung in fine
style. The violinist gave his listeners a help-
ing of the Cesar Franck sonata, and in obedi-
ence to General Request played his own
exouisite “Imagination.”
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) Steelworks Band
placed another feather in Australia’s cap by
winning the open championship of Great
Britain against all-comers at Manchester
this week. The enterprising Novocastrians
were among the first of oversea musical com-
binations to secure an engagement to play at
the Wembley Exhibition. George Portus is
their business manager; Bert Baile their
conductor. Since the Wembley season the
band has been touring the U.K., and reaping
a harvest of public patronage and apprecia-
tion ; prior to the Manchester contest it had
annexed the Empire championship at Halifax.
** * *
Annette Kcllerman is home once more;
this time at the Sydney Lyceum as “Venus
of the South Seas” —really a pearl-trader’s
daughter in love with a dapper young’yachts-
man. and in effect much the same mermaid
as of old. The extra, “The Marriage Circle,”
is innocuous foolery wherein a jealous wife
unsuspectingly throws her husband into the
cage with the vamp. “The Arizona Express”
is tearing across the Lyric’s screen in a race
with a motor-car full of commandment-
breakers, and a town is practically removed
from the gazetteer in a clash between oppos-
ing forces at the Empress, where “The Heri-
tage of the Desert” is showing. “The White
Shadow,” at the Crystal Palace, is pretty
rough on Georgina, the better of two sisters:
anyway, in the end it is Nancy who gets the
fatted calf. Jackie Coogan has dropped his
gutter-urchin manners to become the Crown
Prince of a Balkan State at the Globe. The
whimsical nipper just manages to make the
picture climb above the average. In “Pas-
sion,” at Hoyt’s, Pola Negri plays Du Barry,
the little French milliner of the Revolution.
“Galloping Fish,” the additional at this
house, has for its star a trained seal, and
the Strand has “The Eagle’s Feather” in its
hat.
** * *
No pair of fun-makers have a larger Syd-
ney following than Stiffy (Nat Phillips)
and Mo (Roy Rene), who are back at Ful-
lers’_ after 18 months’ absence. In their
less indelicate moods the pair produce rollick-
ing mirth that shakes the house. “The
Sailors,” their present number, is a noisy,
broad-humored affair that will attract those
who are fond of a liberal sprinkling of cay-
enne with their entertainment. Other draws
are Niblo and Owen, Alec Regan and Step-
pin and Scea.
A note about Bacchanalias, b.c. and a.d. :
Of course, the truth about the Sydney Artists’
Ball is that you cannot graft the Bacchic ritual on
to a modern million city without inviting trouble.
The Bacchanalia is alleged by some to have been
the sublimated expression of the Greek spirit. As
a matter of fact, the frantic mysticism and pious
debauchery of the new religion, which originated
amongst the notoriously savage and drunken tribes
of Thrace, inspired the clear-thinking and temperate
Greeks with horror and disgust; but the mob’s
reversion to original savagery was too strong for
the philosophers and artists, who had the mortification
of seeing their wives and daughters swept by the
Dionysiae frenzy into the secret woods, where the
tearing of live bulls to pieces with the teeth was
one pleasant feature of the imported ritual. The only
person of consequence who appears to have opposed
the innovation was Pentheus, King of Thebes, and
h.e was violently dismembered by his own' wife and
daughters for his pains. In fact, the rending to
fragments and devouring of goats, calves, pigs and
any other livestock that came in their way seems
to have been customary with these respectable Greek
matrons when the Orphic spirit seized them, and
there is little doubt that the dumb-animal sacrifices
were only substitutes for human ones, any passing
male person being liable to be seized and converted
into handy-sized fragments by the excited ladies, for
distribution over the communal fields as fertiliser
for the crops. There is not this agricultural justi-
fication, however, for what took place in the base-
ment of the Town Hall.
It is all very well for responsible matrons and
their offspring to study, in the hushed atmosphere
of an exhibition, satyrs and sylphs doing unusual
things in less than the conventional clothing; it is
quite another to organise a sort of mild tableau of
tne same, sell 5000 tickets to all and sundry, leave
ladders about for the convenience of the lascivious
and criminally-minded to effect an entrance, pour
over the whole superheated mixture unstinted rivers
of the sacred juice, and then expect the succeeding
events to conform to the community’s idea of decency.
It is a far cry from the haunting music of the
Bacchas (405 b.c.) to the report of Inspector Mankey,
and from the pictorial representation of a good,
“ANDREA CHENIER,”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Luigi Cilia as a moth-eaten dandy, and
Gaetano Azzolini as a well-fed revolu-
tionary.
hearty old-fashioned Bacchanalia to its practical
realisation in an untidy roomful of intoxicated people.
Fortunately, or unfortunately, our modern stomachs
are not strong enough to stand either the spirits or
the spectacle.
By the time this paper gets into its pink
nightgown Frith and Winnie Collins will
have ceased having “A Night Out” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s. The theatre saw the last
of that couple and the amorous leg of Cecil
Kelleway last night, and is having a couple
of days’ rest before welcoming the Grand
Opera co. on Saturday night. That co. will
stay a fortnight and then give Adelaide a
dozen shows.
Great congregations have met at the New
Princess’s, Melbourne, to see the melodi-
ous scenery and other trimmings amidst
which Rosie makes her rise under the
Hugh Ward management. Now that the
show has got into its stride, the
frivolity frivols more ripplingly than on
the first night; and Bob Morgan’s idea of
declaring his love in a public place has in-
spired at least one Melbournite to do like-
wise. In a bibulous mood he poured out his
amorous feelings in Bourke-street; but an
unsympathetic Bench called it insulting be-
havior and inflicted a fine.
There is no indication that Muriel Starr
will need to find any new method of going
to her last-act doom for some time to come,
the success of “East of Suez” being such
that a glad management is able to inform
hungry deadheads that there will be no room
for them at Melbourne King’s just yet.
The Allan Wilkie co. has been repeating
some of the best known of the works of one
of the numerous immortal Williams, and is
finding that the best known titles pay the
best dividends. The repetitions are, more-
over, making the season less strenuous for
the co., which is giving better performances
on ground with which its members are
familiar. _ But Wilkie made a mistake in
casting himself as Mercutio in “Romeo and
Juliet”: he lacks the light touch which can
turn the cheerful babbler into the star char-
acter. “Much Ado” is repeated to-night;
‘As You Like It” to-morrow; and “The
Taming of the Shrew” is Saturday’s bill.
Then _ “The Winter’s Tale” (in which the
co. gives a sterling performance), “King
John” and “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
follow; and that will be Melbourne’s last
chance to see Wilkie for some time to come.
There is no reason in the wide, greedy
world why a musician should give overweight
any more than a grocer; just because admira-
tion is expressed for his tea, he isn’t expected
to respond with a pound of sugar, and, when
that is appreciated, follow on with two
pounds of sago and a tin of curry powder.
Munz takes that view; and although his con-
certs hardly run to a full two hours, he has
more than once declined to give anything bet-
ter than his own rather awkward bow in re-
sponse to frequent recalls. After the last of-
these Munz said good-bye to Melbourne last
Saturday. On the previous Thursday, with
the aid of the Symphony Orchestra, under
Alberto Zelman, lie introduced Rachmaninoff’s
Concerto in C minor, a clamorous work full
of weird changes. It was a difficult per-
formance to put up, and the orchestra may
be forgiven for a few passages in which it
failed completely.
Hetty King was put to a test of popu-
larity when, only a few weeks after closing
her season at Melbourne Tivoli, she was
placed last Saturday on the Royal pro-
gramme. The warmth of the reception of
her old songs left no doubt about the pub-
lic’s esteem of the imitative lady. A dif-
ferent sort of triumph was that of Bert
Errol. While Hetty earns applause for imitap
tion of mankind without deceiving anyone
about her sex, Errol, dressed as a woman,
has the audience guessing. Later, discard-
ing the robes of femininity, he sings operatic
selections, the interval for his change being
filled in by some graceful dancing by. his
wife—a sister of Jennie Hartley. It is f
clean and clever act, the best in the com
pletely changed programme, in which Waltei
Weems makes a re-appearance with sonu
patter which would “go” better if he did no;
overdo his quiet method of delivery.
Melbourne Tivoli has not introduced any
body to shift Albert Whelan from the star place
and he would confer a favor by introducing
a change in his act. The arrival of Kath
leen Parry, announced as “a Protean act
ress,” revealed a lady who, representing fm
entirely dissimilar characters, made some re-
markably quick changes, and presented an
artistic act. Another couple, Key and Key-
worth, add nothing distinguished to the en-
tertainment—their turn is just good enough
to take the place of something that is no
better. The rest of the programme is much
as usual, with Rosie Lloyd, who sings about
things turning up, in popular demand.
* * ;J:
Seymour Hicks is at the Prince of Wales’s
in Adelaide. He has much ado, even with
his art, to make the young “Dress Clothes”
Frenchman, who sheds tears when his wife
is unkind, acceptable to an average audience.
Similarly, his wife, an English rose if ever
there was one, hardly represents the French
lily of the cynical author’s imagining. Both
will be welcome in a better play. The Royal
is just starting on “Lilac Time,” and at the
Majestic the aerial Rice and Elmer arc the
brightest turn in a well-mixed bill. In pic-
tures the York has good old “Trilby”
in a fresh form; also “Arizona Express”
(thrills). Wondergrapli has “Hearts Aflame”
(more thrills —these in a blazing forest).
West’s feature, “If Women Only Knew”—
but fortunately they don’t.
An odd medley of pictures:—
Variety is the main feature of a small show at
the Sackville Gallery, Melbourne. A frenzied Ameri-
can artist has painted an iceberg which he thinks
is a white cloud, at the back of some vivid streaks
which are understood to represent the distant world.
He calls it a “Decorative Landscape.” There is
a Streeton dated 1887, useful as showing how far the
painter has gone. The show is dominated by a big
canvas, “Canberra,” done in 1913 by W. Nicholls
Anderson. The treatment is good, especially the
foreground. This artist, at one time president of the
“THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Rosie O’Reilly (Dot Brunton), Buddie, her
brother ( Monty Wolf), and Cutie
McGee, her little friend (Sadie Gale),
before they begin to rise.
Victorian Artists’ Society, is unfortunately partially
paralysed, and does little, if any, work now. There
are a few appealing items—W. D. Knox’s “Nocturne”
(No. 7) ; “Pastorale,” by F. G. Reynolds; a couple
of nice English landscapes by Reynolds senior. And
Taylor Ghee looks on the world from a height in two
canvases painted with a conscience and some inspira-
tion.


£ f: S
\
*-
i
m
9m
m
I
mi
• .
Conveniently put up
in Paste, Liquid and
Powdered forms. Use
the Powdered Wa»
for dancing floors.
r',TOHNSON % S^|j^^
PREPARED WAX
PREPARED WAX
t LIQUID
Polishes EvEinfTHiHGl^n^l
| FLOORS-LINOLEUM ||£.JOMNSOM«<SW|
WOODWORK
- SHOES
AUTOMOBILES*
Enhance the Charm of Your Home
THROUGH all their centuries the beautiful interiors of famous European castles
and palaces, have known no finish but wax. Perfectly preserved—the waxed
wood mellows and glows with the years. This same beautiful finish can be easily
duplicated on the floors, woodwork and furniture of any Australasian home with
Johnson’s Wax is the proper finish and
polish for all your floors. It will make
them beautiful —easy to care for—they
won’t be slippery—and will not heel-
print. And WAX is, by far, the most
economical finish and polish for floors
and linoleum. With waxed floors expens-
ive refinishing is never necessary, for
walked-on places can be easily and
quickly rewaxed as worn spots appear
without going over the entire floor.
Your Linoleum will last longer—
look better and clean easier if polished
occasionally with Johnson’s Paste or
Liquid Wax. It prevents cracking, brings
out the pattern and colour and Drotects
linoleum from wear.
The easy way to wax floors
and linoleum is with a John-
sonWeightedPolishing Brush.
It spreads the Wax evenly—
polishes the floor easily—and
is an ideal floor duster.
fsd
Johnson’s Liquid Wax is the ideal fur-
niture polish. It imparts a beautiful, hard,
dry, glass-like lustre which will not gather
dust and lint or show finger prints.
Johnson’s Liquid Wax takes all the
drudgery from dusting. It adds years
to the life and beauty of varnish. Easy
to apply and polish.
Johnson’s Polishing Wax comes in three
convenient forms. Use the Paste Wax
for all floors —wood, linoleum, tile, etc.
We recommend the Liquid Wax for
polishing furniture, phonographs, wood-
work, linoleum, leather goods and
motor cars. Johnson’s Powdered Wax
will immediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is
manufactured in Australia —
by Australians. Insist upon
your dealer supplying you
with Johnson’s Polishing Wax.
For sale at leading stores.
ASB-6
Manufactured by
S. C JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S.W.


41X
StoiybPf
cfattb zy/juU/.
B!r a
3|”-;
SSout. or scor*-*^
ill!!!!
or
H
ffij&SssS
me
THE WHISkV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
'QUALITY TELLS”
Ladies’ Riding Boots
of quality 59/-
Here are Riding Boots that excel for quality, finish
and the service they will give. Made of specially-
selected Calfskin, tanned into leather of unquestion-
able quality. Particularly well cut. and finished with
extreme care for everv small detail. Fitted with
light welted soles and stiff tops. Black or Tan.
Sizes 3 to 6 in stock.
We recommend these boots for absolute service and
comfort. If unable to call in, send for a pair. We
pay postage N.S.W.
Gent.’s Riding Boots, 84/-
Macnaughts.
Macnaught Shoe Stores, Ltd.,
189 Pitt Street, 135 King Street, Sydney.
f
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
■‘Yarra Ben”: The Firm has fallen into
line with its only competitor, the Ward-
Fuller proprietary, and cheaper prices for
matinees at its Melbourne theatres are to
rule henceforth. The dear children are at
the same time being specially catered for.
Pieces like “East of Suez” are hardly food
for infants, but I suppose they are no worse
DELAY IS DANGEROUS.
"hike a look at Mars, sir? Magnificent
view in its nearest position to earth.”
"No, no — haven’t got the time.”
"If you miss this chance, sir, it’ll he a hun-
dred years before you get another like it.”
than the general run of pitcher-plays. And
the kiddies are weaned on pitchers nowadays,
poor little wretches!
“The Dickens”: Bransby Williams, good
artist though he is, has had trouble with his
Australian audiences. At all events, he has
been moved to “speak” to them wherever
he has appeared. In Melbourne some impati-
ent galleryites were angrily rebuked by the
Dickens entertainer, who offered to return
them their money. Something similar hap-
pened in Sydney, where the chief interjector,
on being asked to leave, hit the management
with a bottle before he did so. In Adelaide
(B. 28/8/’24) the difficulty seems to have
been that the audience wasn’t there, for the
entertainer “spoke mournfully of poor public
support.” It all shows that the average
vaudeville patron doesn’t want Dickens —or
speeches.
“T. 0.1.”: Mrs. Annette Marion Wilson,
who died in Sydney the other day, was the
widow of W. J. Wilson, a leading scenic
artist of his time. He came to Melbourne
in the mid-’fifties and got a job from George
Coppin at the Olympic Theatre, then being
erected in Lonsdale-street, and later known
as “The Iron Pot.” Wilson’s cloths were
exhibited in almost every one of the old play-
houses in the Australian capitals. A daugh-
ter and a son survive, the latter known on
the stage as Frank Hawthorne.
“R.Iv.D.N.”: Is “Pantagruel” quite sure
that it was E. J. Carroll who introduced
Plarry Lauder and the original “Peg o’ My
Heart” co. to Australia (B. 2S/8/’24) ? Most
people understood that these two money-
making attractions were under the manage-
ment of the Tait brothers; certainly their
names were on the bills. One never knows
who’s who in the Australian theatrical busi-
ness nowadays, but it seems safe to bet on
the Taits every time.
“Pipkin”: Fayette Perry and Gus Mae-
naughton are members of Lee White’s “Come
In” co., referred to in several recent pars.
Fayette played here with Barry Lupino in
“Very Good, Eddie”; and Gus was Ada
Reeve’s leading comedian in “Spangles.”
Lee White and Clay Smith are now on tour
in England. They contemplate returning to
Australia with their new company and new
material if theatres can be hired.
From a London first-nighter:—
Although London is overflowing with visitors, half
the theatres are closed. Nine put up the shutters
in one week, and during four weeks the only new
play produced was a thing called “The Creaking
Chair.” As predicted by Oswald Stoll, of the Coliseum,
the crowds sampling the wonders of Wembley all
day are too tired to go to the theatre in the evening.
Then there is the competition of the night-clubs and
the midnight cabaret performances—all the leading
hotels are now licensed to retail cabaret stuff in
their dining-halls from 11 p.m. until 1 in the
morning.
The British National Opera Co.’s latest production
is “Hugh the Drover,” a capital countryside opera
composed by Dr. Vaughan Williams, who has been
hailed as a second Sullivan. It contains some
delicious music, and a competent critic calls it “one
of the only two really important English operas pro-
duced during the last 20 years.” Vaughan Williams
is certainly a very clever man. His last work was
a mass which has been sung several times in Cardinal
Bourne’s Cathedral. I have heard it twice, and it is
unquestionably a splendid addition to the store of
devotional music.
St. John Ervine, the Irish playwright, some of
whose works have been seen in Australia, has
trodden on many corns in his book “The Organised
Theatre.” In the preface he announces that he
“will not waste time in being polite to persons who
are not entitled to politeness,” and he is as good
(or as bad) as his word. One of his aversions is
Oscar Asche, whose offence is that he produced “Chu
Chin Chow” and made money out of it. “When we
remember the kind of plays which have been popular
in England during the past 10 years,” remarks the
bitter chap from Belfast, “we may well wonder
whether we are fit to exist at all.”
“L.L.”: In her “Daughters of the Seven
Mile” —she captivatingly presents four gen-
erations of ’em—Zora Cross (or her pub-
lisher) makes a textual slip only likely to
be detected by Poverty-Pointers of long
standing. Ann, honeymooning in the Bris-
bane theatre, was “enthralled with the charm
of Essie Jennings in ‘Romeo and Juliet,’
and captured as all the people of her day
were by the acting of ‘handsome George Rig-
nold.’ ” If it is suggested that these two were
stage-paired it is incorrect. It was W. J.
Iloiloway—“plain Bill” —who was with
Essie, and her other name was Jenyns. An
artist to the fingertips she was, too, ever to
be remembered as queen of Portias and prince
of Violas. Rosalind’s words “I am more
than common tall” fitted her compelling
beauty to a T.
“T. 0.1.”: Charles Kean had other peculi-
arities besides diet (B. 14/8/’24). He did
not attend rehearsals in Australia; J. F.
Catlicart and Everett looked after that part
of the business. Kean was not exactly
popular in these parts. Ellen Tree was;
and another factor in the success of the tour
was George Coppin, who w r as making a heroic
attempt to regain his old financial position,
and whose old friends rallied to his support.
Again, Barry Sullivan, at the Royal, was
playing the same pieces as Kean, and theatre-
goers crowded both houses to compare notes.
At Ballarat Kean was so annoyed by the
shuffling of men’s feet on the stage that he
bought carpet slippers for the stage-hands.
Another time, Sydney’s weakness for pea-
nuts got on his nerves so much that he
bought up every peanut in the neighborhood
of the theatre. But the device was ineffec-
tual, for peanut vendors were soon around
with fresh supplies.
“Makira”: I presume “Dido’s” par. about
George Rignold’s Orlando (B. 14/8/’24) was
written hen trovato. But, seriously, did G.R.
ever do “As You Like It” in Australia? He
staged “Henry V.." “Julius Caesar,” “Mac-
beth,” “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “Merry
Wives of Windsor,” “Othello” and “The
Tempest,” and played in them, and he pro-
duced “Romeo and Juliet,” but I have no
recollection of his having staged anything
else by the Bard.
“R.”: Bryl Walkley’s appearance in Bris-
bane Summons Court as defendant in a
charge of assault made by Howett Worster
was only for a moment. Solicitors on either
side made withdrawals, and that ended the
matter. But the Australian public is en-
titled to know something of the life of the
Australian actor or actress in companies
with imported principals or leads. The rule
is that the Australian women in a musical-
comedy cast make the imported actress look
like 24 roubles. It is natural that the in-
ferior importations should dislike the Aus-
tralians who make them look like 24 roubles;
but they are surely foolish to permit them-
selves the dangerous gratification of showing
resentment while in the hated country that
at the moment feeds them.
“Thersites”: “S.T.S.’s” reference to a
lamentable dramatic outbreak in London, all
FIRST SIGNS.
SHE: “They say that he showed signs of being a
musician when he was a baby.”
HE: “Good Lord! Did he howl to music?”
SHE: “No, but he looked quite pleased with himself
even then.”
about an Australian millionaire (B. 7/8/’24),
set me thinking that the Australian plays
which have emerged in the Fog were ill
calculated to enlighten the natives. George
Darrell took “The Sunny South” to Isling-
ton, Alfred Dampier tried “Robbery Under
Arms” at a West End theatre —lie told me
that the Cockney who played Warrigal per-
sisted in calling Starlight “Massa”—and
Bert Bailey put up “On Our Selection.”
Not a particularly inspiring trilogy, one must
confess. Also, John Coleman perpetrated
“The Duchess of Coolgardie” at Drury-lane.
There was never a manager game enough to
try “The Duchess” on Australia.
“A.P.”: English files report the death of
Nora Desmond, who toured Australia with
the Abbey Theatre co. and shared its unlucky
experiences. She appeared as Honor
Donagliue in that rather frail comedy “The
Workhouse Ward,” and as Kate Geoghegan
in “The White-headed Boy.”
“B.B.”: “Hamfat” (B. 21/8/’24) writes
that Eddie McLean made his first appearance
in a J.C.W. production of “Dick Whitting-
ton,” in which Harry Shine w r as the Dame.
The production was not J.C.W.’s but the
McMahons’; it was the Christmas bill at
Sydney Lyceum in 1897. “Hamfat” assorts
that the boy worked by himself at first, being
eventually joined by his sister. Well, I can
remember the twain since one was six and
the other three, and I cannot recall an occa-
sion when Eddie’s bright little copper-top
was not partnered by the equally bright
strawberry blonde of Decima. By the way,
Fanny Liddiard was the Dick of the produc-
tion alluded to. What has become of Fanny
in these lonesome latter years?
“Bill Bile”: There are over a score of
Chinese appearing in “East of Suez” at Mel-
bourne King’s.
Once, it is said, the hash-house dame would cry,
“Take in the washing—actors come anigh!’’
But now I question not you’ll hear her shout,
“Here come the actors —hand the washing out!”
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: According to the affi-
davit of Alec Carroll, now in charge of Mel-
bourne Bijou, it was in the city alleged to
be washed by the Yarra that Albert Whelan
first took Girard’s place as Bronson in “The
Belle of New York” (B. 28/8/’24). So ex-
cellent was his mimicry of the American that
during a whole week only a select few knew
of the substitution. Whelan, when a boy,
used to entertain patz-ons of the old Prin-
cess’s with imitations of stars during the
intervals. His reward for these exez-tions in
the cause of Art was a half-crown a night.
“First Old Man”: In the well-remembered
Bland Holt days Arthur Styan played
“heavies,” and on occasion showed what he
could do in colorful character pai’ts. Nowa-
days ho is always the heathen Chinee. He
played “Chu Chin Chow” here before Oscar
Asche did it, and previously he had been
Mr. Wu in the play of that name. At present
he is sporting a saffron complexion in “East
of Suez.”
“Second Murderer”: Some years ago a
syndicate of three publicans ran a dramatic
show in Rockhampton (Q.), and changed the
bill twice a week. I was one of the over-
woi-ked co., and, Heavens! what a strain
that bi-weekly change involved !
For one thing we were hard
put to it to get new plays. We
tried all the old-timers from
“Colleen Bawn” to “Camille.”
and at last we perpetrated “Ten
Nights in a Bar-room.” That
temperance shriek was an odd
sort of play for three bungs to
finance, especially as the enter-
prise was intended to liven up
their bar trade. I commented
on this to one of the dauntless
three. He winked at me, and
propounded a great truth. “My
son,” he said, “a teetotal play
like that—and the way you play
it —will drive more people to
drink than all the corkscrew
comedies ever written. Take it
from me, ‘Ten Nights’ puts the
dram in melodrammer.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Harry
Sweeney, now appearing in
comedy with Margaret Anglin,
has achieved an American suc-
cess of which his native land
has heard too little. Son of the
well-known J. W. Sweeney ami
of the lady who was Molly
Brown before marriage, lie
started his theatrical career
with the Tittell Bruno co. in
“Sunday,” and when Tittell
tackled Shakspeare he had the
odd experience of playing a part
which each of his parents had
taken under the Williamson
management—Paris in “Romeo
and Juliet.” In Melbourne,
moreover, Harry appeared at
two theatres in one night.
Shot as the Stool Pigeon in
“Within the Law” at the Royal,
he was revived in time to dash
round to His Majesty’s and
figure in a dance with Genee.
Cyril Maude took a fancy to the
young actor and carried him to America, and
there he remained when the Maudes re-
turned to England.
“A.P.”: There is a reference in a recent
London theatrical notice to Robert Cunning-
ham : the writer regrets that he “was not
in a singing part.” Cunningham left this
country over 30 years ago to take up singing
in the Old World. He appeared with the
Carl Rosa Co., and was in comic opera with
D’Oyley Carte. Then he came back on a
professional visit as one of the Esty-iMarsh
concert party. In the first English showing
of Puccini’s “La Bohfeme” he was the Ru-
dolpho. ARGUS-editor Cunningham is a
brother.
“Norbell”: “F.L.H.” (B. 28/8/’24) says
that I was inaccurate in asserting that “The
Fairy Circle” followed “Struck Oil” in Aus-
tralia when Maggie Moore and .J. C. Wil-
liamson broke out 50 years ago, and that
“The Fairy Circle” thudded. But I speci-
fically stated that I was quoting “My Life’s
Story,” by Nellie Stewart. That lady says
(p. 34) : “He [J. C. Williamson], was over-
ruled by the management’s better judgment,
and it was just as well. ‘The Fairy Circle’
was the next production, and it failed badly.”
Anyhow, who has ever heard of “The Fairj
Circle” since? And “Struck Oil” is a house-
hold word.
“Orb”: Mummers are a superstitious lot.
While some plays are recognised Jonahs,
“East Lynne” is a mascot always affection-
ately referred to as “Good Old Mary Ann.”
Twenty years ago, when the late Wilson
Forbes was in Kalgoorlie, someone induced
him to try his luck in the local sweep—
“Squash’s.” “Put me down for a ticket in
the name of ‘East Lynne,’ ” said Forbes;
“Mary Ann’s never failed me yet.” The old
girl stuck to him, for he drew a £7OO prize.
Since then I’ve sent scores of “East Lynne”
applications to Tatt.’s, and I’ve tried every
play in French’s list from “Plamlet” to
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” but the charm has
consistently misfired. But, then, I’m not
superstitious.
THE HIGHER CRITICISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met Winstanley in the bar,
One of the old-time actors he
Who punctuates with “Er!” and “Arrr!”
Each condescending speech to me.
I asked him if he’d try a spot.
“Er —laddie —arrr I” said he, “Why not?”
And having quaffed his pot of beer,
He elocuted with an air
Designed to thrill the barmaid’s ear
And fill with awe the proletaire:
“Still scribbling for the Press?” he said;
I nodded, so he went ahead:
“I count most pressmen scallywags
Who prostitute their pens for pay;
I seldom read their filthy rags,
Nor care I what the critics say;
Why, here to-day some sjmophant
Praises Carew, but says I rant I
“Still, I confess I’m gratified
To see Nokes get it in the neck;
The bounder’s got an awful hide—
He thinks Art follows at his beck.
Ten years ago —l’ve not forgotten—
The caitiff called my Hamlet rotten!
“And now the Stifler gives him gyp,
Calls him —arrr —‘stilted,’ ‘mediocre’ ;
His reading ‘shows poor scholarship’ ;
His style’s— er— ‘rigid as a poker’;
He mouths his lines, the critic said,
And shouts as though he’d wake the dead.
“I—er—confess I quite concur
In all they say in his dispraise.
Or nearly all. I think they err
In one objection which they raise—•
I’ve known Nokes twenty years about,
But never have I known him shout.”
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


sdf
EVANS OILSKINS
THE
Celebrated “PLATYPUS”
Brown Lightweight Oiler.
GUARANTEED
WATERPROOF.
With Riding and Pommel Flaps.
57(6 each
EVAN EVANS PTY., LTD.,
680-2 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
Amusement*.
VI)N K VS Clll E I TIIISAT It IS S
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
CRITERION: KEMPY.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE:
CLIMBING MT. EVEREST.
DIOKARDS' TIVO I. I TII EAT RES.
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pOLLBRS’ THEATRE. SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Ptv., Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED. and SAT.
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOUIIM
■ ATTRACTIONS
HTS MAJESTY’S;
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
TH EA T ItE It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
BERT ERROL
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
ING’S THEATRE, M E LBQU It N E
MURIEL STARR in
EAST OF SUEZ.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Proprietors: Fullers' Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
THE LAST WORD IN MUSICAL COMEDY.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
COLLEEN MOORE in
PAINTED PEOPLE.
HOOT GIBSON in
RIDE FOR YOUR LIFE.
Prices as usual.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
CLIMBING MT. EVEREST.
REMARKABLE OFFICIAL FILM.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KS PEA It E.i
PRODUCTIONS
MELBOURNE SEASON.
PALACE THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagn Street, Sydney
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Legal Notice.
TO FRANK GORDON TOLLEY formerly
of Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia Solicitor.
TAKE NOTICE that by direction of the
Supreme Court of South Australia dated the
12t.h day of August 1924 made in the matter
of the estate of Frederick Osborne Tolley
deceased No. 311 of 1924 the Supreme Court
will be moved on Tuesday the 7th day of
October 1924 at 10.30 a.m. by Counsel on
behalf of the Law Society of South Australia
Incorporated that you show cause why you
should not be struck off the Roll of Practi-
tioners of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia and for an order that you be struck
off such roll and ordered to pay the costs
of and incidental to the application on the
ground of your conduct appearing in the
said matter as trustee of a fund of £6OOO
provided under g codicil to the will of the
said Frederick Osborne Tolley deceased And
further take notice that a notice of motion
has been filed accordingly in the Supreme
Court in this matter.
DATED the 22nd day of August, 1924.
(L.S.) F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
GEOFFREYSANDFORD REED,
29-32 Exchange Buildings,
Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Law Society of South Aus-
tralia Incorporated.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Ms
Collisions! What precautions are
yOUL Equip your motor car, front and
rear, with Weed Bumpers and
prevent the costly results of inevitable collisions.
Weed Bumpers protect your car —protect you.
Handsome in appearance, they are worthy of the
finest motors.
Let your accessory dealer attach Weed
Bumpers front and rear today.
Weed Bumper, Safety Type,
for light cars
Weed Bumper, Sturdy Type,
for heavy cars
E 9-3-24
IMM
WEED BUMPERS
Made by the makers of the famous Weed Tyre Chains
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative: Edward G. Vaughan, P. O. Box 845, Sydney, N. S.W.
Missing Friends.
FREDERICK GEORGE MATTHEWS.
FORMERLY of Port Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Last heard of in New Zealand.
If the abovenametl Frederick George Matthews
or anyone knowing of his whereabouts will com-
municate with the undersigned, something will be
heard to his advantage.
DOYLE & KERR, Solicitors,
413 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia.
Missing: Friends.
WILL JULIA and CATHERINE
SHAW, married names unknown,
correspond with their step-sister, Miss A.
CLAPIIAM, Public Hospital, Wairoa,
Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
Wm
m
me
-(5
OP
illf
ij—
a
v=
Dl 1
Be
n n>T
innoffiiEiog
JHBQttiBUU
iDrjo?
ejfggS?
II
E
W
95
WESTINCHOUSE
ELECTRIC^
r
The Motor
Is as Good as Its Maker
WHEN thinking of motors which perform their work many
miles from the source of power, one must think of Westing-
house. It was the efforts of this firm; its unfailing research and
tireless experimenting, which made possible motors for the direct
driving of machines as they are used today.
Individual motor-driven machinery makes for a saving m power,
creates finer and truer work and besides, is safer for the workman.
Small motors make possible many household comforts and too
little thought is sometimes given to the maker of them. The name
on the motor, after all, is the assurance whether the motor will fit
aptly the particular task for w r hich it is intended.
Westinghouse builds motors of only the highest standard.
In arranging for the distribution of its products in Australia,
Westinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors.
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company Ltd.
Cathcart House,
11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
J


Melba.
Dal Monte.
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
Every Big Event in Music is a reason for having an
“His Master’s Voice” Instrument
Each season in succession new artists create a sensation
through their portrayal of famous operatic characters,
and old favorites add to their multitude of admirers
through their achievement of still greater artistic accom-
plishment. Outstanding features of the present Operatic
Season are the performances of “Elis Master’s Voice’’
artists. So it is year after year and has been for two
decades. So it will be next year.
“His Master’s Voice’’ Instruments are made especially
to reproduce the marvellous variety of “His Master’s
Voice’’ Records by the world’s greatest artists.
Instruments are available in twenty-two styles at from
1 1 guineas to £94 —all identified with the trade-mark:
“His
Master’s
Voice”
Complete Catalogue of Records and
Instruments gladly posted free on request.
Library Grand.
Tasman.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney,
" Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
11.4% Less to Rim
The Studebaker Light-Six
5-Seater—Australian Body
Imported Body HB5
Read the proof at the right.
The Studebaker Light-Six is built by the
world’s largest producer of fine cars. For
72 years the name of its maker has stood
for quality and value.
High value at medium price is possible
in the Light-Six because of large scale
production in modern, efficient factories,
representing an investment of £10,275,000.
The same steels used by Studebaker in
its costliest cars are used in the Light-
Six.
See the Studebaker Light-Six. Learn
why more than 200,000 buyers have named
it their choice of motor cars !
Studebaker also builds the Special-
Six and the Big-Six. Special-Six
models range from £565 up; Big-
Six, £695 up.
G 8612
a
It pays to pay a little more
when you buy a motor car
THE real cost of a motor car, experts have
agreed, is determined by the original
price plus the cost of operation for 25,000
miles or more.
An investigation was recently made by a group
of Los Angeles (U. S. A.) fleet owners. The
purpose was to determine which make of car
is most economical to own and operate. Some
startling facts were disclosed. The operation
cost records of 329 cars, comprising six
different makes, were examined by auditors.
Their figures revealed that the Studebaker
Light-Six is the most economical car in the
long run, even though its original cost is more
than some other cars.
How the survey 'was made
25,000 miles of service was set as a basis for
all comparisons. Since the 329 cars under
survey were operated by business concerns,
accurate cost records were available. These
were scrutinised. Every item of expense was
considered —petrol, oil, tyres, repairs, original
car cost and depreciation.
To make the comparision fair, the cars were
classified according to their selling prices in
Los Angeles.
What the auditors found
When every detail was checked it was found
that the Studebaker Light-Six, after 25,000
miles, cost 11.4 per cent less, on the average,
than all other makes. Cars that cost on an
average of £45.15.6 less than the Light-Six
when purchased showed a total cost of £46.2.3
more after 25,000 miles of service.
And the lowest priced cars —those that would
sell for between £2OO and £3OO in Sydney or
Melbourne. —showed an average cost of only
£2.4.5 less than the Studebaker Light-Six at
the end of 25,000 miles!
Pays to pay a little more
The tell-tale figures revealed by the Los Angeles
investigation prove very conclusively that it
pays to pay a little more for Studebaker
quality. The extra quality in the Light-Six
may cost a little more in the beginning, but this
is offset in the end through lower operating
and repair costs and smaller depreciation.
Doesn’t it pay then to spend a little more and
secure the pleasure and comfort of this world-
famous six-cylinder car?
All cost figures referred to above are based upon the auditor’s exact figures
in dollars, converted at the rate of UVz dollars to the Pound Sterling
The Studebaker Corporation of America, South Bend, Indiana, U. S. A.
Australasian Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth St., Sydney TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY, (Q’land) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48-Franklin Street, Adelaide ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
STUDEBAKER
THE WORLD’S LARGEST PRODUCER OF QUALITY MOTOR CARS


Can You
DRAW 7
Would you like to be able to make bold, free
sketches of people and scenes that surround
you every day?
Would you like to properly develop your talent
for black-and-white work?
Would you be surprised to know that anyone
who can write can draw, if they only know
the right way?
The Weston Method
will enable you to learn without drudgery. It
will become a source of great pleasure; and,
above all, it teaches you to draw—NOT to
copy.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward Mr. Weston’s interesting book-
let, “There’s Money in the Pen,’’ which tells
all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
369 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd.
20/-
FOR
1/-
IN TWENTY YEARS.
The smallest investor can make
20/- for every 1/- invested in tree-
growing in New Zealand on modern
commercial lines. One Bond in N.Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd.—payment
for which can be spread over four
years if desired—should show in 20
years a minimum return of
£.500
probably considerably more.
Inquiry costs nothing, it commits
you to nothing, and will bring fullest
information concerning this proposi-
tion, and many interesting facts on
tree-growing in Australia and New
Zealand. Write or call to-day to
SMITH, WYLIE & CO., LTD.,
24 Bond Street, Sydney,
Agents for
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
4
%
. , tvtwT 1
sd
Electric light and power
PLANTS for Country Homes. Write for
full particulars. Demonstrations given.
GEO. MARR,
Chamber of Commerce Buildings,
233 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
RUBBER-GRIP RACE BRIDLE
No. 430, Race Bridle, as illustrated, is_ made with
ringhead white front, half-inch cheeks, fin. rein with
patent, non-slipping rubber hand parts, and a Meyer
bradoon bit. Fitted with a dee bit the price will
be the same.
42/- each, Postage 1/-
\
w
rd
%■
spy /
%
J-
kl:.
Bridle No. 430
“TASY”
EXERCISE SADDLE,
DOUBLE PLATED.
The “Tasy” is exceptional
value, and, being built on a
tree plated top and bottom,
will last considerably longer.
It weighs about 7|lb.,
mounted with leather girth,
surcingle, leathers and n.-p.
irons.
£5/7/6 Post Free for Cash.
Thel “Tasy” Race Saddle is the same Tod Sloan style as
the Exercise Saddle, and weighs about 441 b., mounted with
white web girth, surcingle, leathers and irons.
Price £5/7/6 Post Free for Cash.
WRITE FOR
NEW
CATALOGUE.
Walther 8 Stevenson
Ltd.,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
|5.
YSa
Y
s
THOSE SHINGLES!
THAT VERANDAH!
THAT SHED!
THAT FENCE!
THAT FOWL HOUSE!
THAT GARDEN BORDER!
ETC., ETC., ETC.
DO IT WITH
fsd
The Perfected Stain that imparts to timber
the artistic effect and mellowness of age
that paint cannot give, and, at the same time,
absolutely protects from damp, white ant,
dry rot and borer.
Anyone can use it. Quicker drying than
paint, much more effective and cheaper.
Millions of feet of timber and thousands of
pounds saved annually by its use.
Stocked by—Anthony Hordern, Eassetter’s, H. H. Groth, James Sandy, Holdsworth
Macpherson, Major Bros., Williamson Croft, G. E. Crane & Sons, E. W. Williams.
Guaranteed Product of Major & Co., Hull, England.
W. PLANT (Si. CO. LTD., 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE MARK OF .
A GOOD RAZOR
\ PLUW
Atk any man you know who use* « PLUM—
• ask him if he doesn’t think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!”
-V'
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
WAR DECLARED
on the High Cost of Production.
TheTomks of Wat' -
become the Tanks of Peace
andPletily,
***\\ ■ 'i l ! "■
' l‘ ll Ji lir C
..i’.lli'.t l?&
mi 'mzw.
!!l!llj! Jil >’!s,
u
■■iw
#lw - J
m
m
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
Reduces the high cost of production,
for it enables the Farmer to cultivate
more land in quicker time than with
Horses or any wheel Tractor. The
guaranteed Carbon Steel Self-laying
Tracks, which were so successful on
the War Tanks, enable it to work
under any weather conditions; in short,
it means Labor Saving, Time Saving,
Money Saving and Lower Cost of Pro-
duction for the Farmer.
Literature with pleasure from: —
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
383 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 469 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Chas. Atkins & Co,, Ltd.,
Light Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
Australian Machinery Co.,
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Fritz A.: (1) Afraid the policy is quite
valueless. You are in the position of hundreds of
thousands with “fixed” incomes from German sources.
The co. contracted to pay you in marks—and no
doubt still will. That is to say, it will pay you
in something that is practically valueless. (2) On
the basis of assets they stand in this order: A.M.P.,
Nat. Mutual, M.L.C., and T. and G W.R.8.: Un-
suitable. ... H.D.: No depth in “Words” ... .H.J.G.:
Rather a poor collection- —a Book of Quotations should
yield you a hundred as good and mostly better....
W.E.S. : Reviewed at some length four months ago.
.... Galen: He was given some attention a few
issues back... .Cream Cart: Take it away and fumi-
gate it. .. .C.R.C.: Hardly of general interest....
Y.8.H.: If the paragraph is yours, cut it out and
forward to accountant. .. .Tamerton: Article on “How
a Bachelor or Spinster can manage severally witli
If 141 per annum” has come to the wrong lodgings.
... .Bertram I.: We don’t want blank verse unless it
is of very high quality. The stuff you send is not
bad, but it is not good enough.... Dartos: You’re
following a poor track. Read good verse—soak
yourself in it... . Twyford: Haven’t an idea what all
the jolts are about.... Daisy G.: Hopping verse that
sticks hard to the. commonplace and drops out the
articles... .S.J.'M.: No g00d... .G.N.M.: Verse new,
yarn old. Both bad. .. .H.A.M.: Nothing there....
Ixion (this is a guess): Not nearly up....Cea Saer:
Very frail little mite... .8.F.F.: You make too
much of an effort of your pursuit of mirth....
Playfair: Shocking.... Alan : It jolts and bumps a lot
and doesn't get to much, after a11....M. Lead:
You’ll never catch the “fleet hare” or any other re-
spectable animal in verse as lame as that. . . .Vida K.:
Even for thirteen it is not good. .. . J.D.F.: Bald
prose with rhymes. .. .C.H.C.: You need more than
your present acquaintance with English.... Joe:
“Plain rotten” has it....D.V. (Garden Vale): Too
poor. .. . W.M. J.: No life in it.... Thomas D.:
“Chappie,” it doesn’t get near... .E.L.W.: So thin
it would almost do for a picture of Famine....
J. : It isn’t a sonnet; but it is horribly bad verse.
. ...H.K.: No good at all. .. .M.C.D.: Very lumpy.
. ...P.R. (Waihi) : Subject, method and versification
are all indifferent... .S.S.T.: No yarn there. But
the writing is not so bad.., .K.S.H.: Must go back.
. ...R.T.K.: “Voyage” sonnet misses.... Oliver B.:
“Batchelors’ Ball” stands alone in Australian litera-
ture :
Come on Jim, it’s our greatest chance to-night,
One never knows what’ll ’appen;
We may meet one at first sight,
And won’t their ears be a-flappin’!
Too-right, Wally! we may have a chance yet,
Only wants a little pluck ;
Then, then I’ll reckon we’ll be set.
Well, well, we’ll chance our luck.
Right! Off we go to the Batchelors’ Ball;
Another chance we may never see.
Girls young and sweet, maids big and small,
’Twill be the making of the likes of we.
Wally, Wally, what ! I do feel a bit queer.
Look ! look! how they’re looking at us.
Yes! yes, but —but they’re lovely little dears,
An’ an’ they’re bound to make fuss.
Everything in order. Music starts.
Jim forgot all about feeling queer.
Gee! Oh, what a rush for tarts,
As he made a bee-line for Molly Steer!
Ladies’ choice. What a commotion!
Never was there such a go;
Jim and Wally had no option,
Simply said “Oh, how nice we didn’t know!”
....Lone Hand; You work up no interest in the
hat... .L.C.M.: Not enough there.... Stephen S.: It
might have made a better yarn than that.... Mar-
jorie W.: You may have worked at them, but you
hadn’t enough to work on. . . .Sulcus: Old idea. And
what you've made of it is not so much a yarn as
a yawn... .A.T.A.: No use at a 11... .1.M.8.: Poor
attempt at a wretched sort of verse.... Alfred J.:
Dull stuff badly constructed... .J.K.W.: Improbable
and uninteresting.... Tesse J.: Falls down badly....
K. ; The worst seen for 24 hours. .. .V.M.T.: Too
slight. . . .M. (Launceston) : Horrible.. . .John M.:
Not the sort of thing we care much for. ... J.H.F.:
‘Anarchy” stirs in us a tumult of incomprehension:—
When Rule and Power
Like glass shall break
O’er the scenes our sorrows have haunted,
Humans an end of prejudice make;
On my life, you will find him undaunted.
In the Old and New World,
In word and in deed,
You will witness, true to his vow,
On the wreck of authority,
In the midst of the free,
The Anarchist who greets you now.
1....W.H. (Brisbane): “Ave er drink” is a poor
sketch. . v .H.0.P.: The “Violets” are too wilted and
pale... .U.M.C.: Has a sort of hysterical vigor, but
the verse is poor. .. .Violet S.: “Father Time” and
“Dame Nature” are dreary old abstractions. .. .C.S.
(North Brighten): “Mum” is not for us. .. .Red-
mond D.: None of it is any use. . . .T.A.C.: Misses.
. ...L.O’N.: Not up.... Paul N.: There is work in
it, but it is wasted on such a subject. .. .Hill H.:
Furious attempt at mirth, and nearly as interesting
as an empty kerosene-tin. .. .W.R.R.: Moral verse on
“Patience,” “Hope” and other tired subjects is as
bad as it might reasonably be expected to be....
C. 8.5.: A waste of perfectly good words. .. .Eric F.:
Thin and with no kick in them —a combination
common enough in verses to Spring. .. .S.J.S.: The
color is not true. .. .Alary S. (Mackay) : A very well
written sermon. But it left us wondering what
lesson it was intended to teach.... Interested: Obvi-
ously the proper place for the reply is in the paper
which printed the original article. .. .N.H.: Nothing
regular ; but we are always glad to hear when any-
thing happens of general Australian interest
T.H.D. and G.A.0.: Pushed out. The quantity of
good matter submitted for the Red Page is nowadays
overwhelming N.L.H.: All said before Philip
L. : But surely he made it plain that he didn’t mean
to oe taken so seriously as that....P. Pilate: Too
obviously artificial ; in literature nothing can take
the place of sincerity.... Amber: More synthetic
poetry—pretty words without real feeling.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M. 8.: Don’t know what it’s all about—do you ?
M.T.L.: Like the meanderings of a river of ink.
. ...R.D.: Thinking of giving up? Better late than
never. .. ,S.R.: Black spodges merely irritating
C.W.; Method too mixed. .. .N.E.H.: Not quite
F.P.: The copyright of that gag hasn’t expired yet.
. ...J.R.W.: Sketches in shiny pencil ruled 0ut....
R.P.: Your ship is doubly wrecked.... M.M.: Not up
to the mark. . . .11.W.T.: Hardly worth it. . . .R.M.:
Senile humor. ...K.W.S.: Sheep joke dead as mutton.
R.D.: Were you sober when you drew that
drunk ?


You can lay odds on a Willard
Threaded Rubber Battery, that
it will not need re-insulation.
The Willard Service Policy for
the Car Owner makes this a safe
wager for this policy plainly
states, “Threaded Rubber Insula-
tion in Willard Batteries will last
the life of the plates or it will be
replaced by any Willard Service
Station without charge.”
The only genuine Threaded
Rubber Battery is made by Wil-
lard. Know it by the Willard
Trade-mark and the Willard
Service Station sign shown in
this advertisement
STORAGE
BATTERY
ifcggiff : ; bk« • ftn. vnl : 1 : |«
lUillliiilli mmnimia ifimmißa
m • n IS
mßn winmumr
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.


fsd
LIFT YOUR
RETURNS FOR
FOX AND ALL
OTHER SKINS
by the surest possible means to the highest possible
levels.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
RABBIT
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY It. A ./. DICK, INC.
The “BARRY” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest and strongest metal
pulley made. Its tubular construction
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARRY” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for
your requirements at the most favorable
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & VVynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
lIOBART 97 Collins Street
Ofcy^.c^ta^te
f
Mark your
Linen with
c
SHS
ES
They are a Safeguard
against Loss. They indi-
vidualise your property
Beat Marking Ink. Any
Name Woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast
Color. “A Few Stitches
and they’re on.”
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6 , 6 doz.
51-, 3 doz. 3/6.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. Cash
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond, Melb-
RUPTURE i
A FREE TRIAL.
II yen are troubled with the complaint, write u> and
W* will lend you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortabfy under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street. Melbourne
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
iM'
B
a**
V.
I &
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
FURTHER PRICE REDUCTIONS
IN THE WORLD-FAMED
WALTHAM LEVER WATCHES
M
ACCURATE and DURABLE
STEWART DAWSON’S
DIRECT IMPORTERS
Prices from
£4:4:0
Sterling Silver Hunting Cases £4/10/-
10 Year Gold Filled „ „ £4/4/-
20 <* <> pv n H £6/-/
25 „ „ £7/-/-
Solid 9ct. Gold Hunting Cases £l l/10/-
Solid 14ct. „ „ „ £l6/-/-
Solid 18ct „ „ „ £22/10/-
Also WALTHAM OPEN FACE RAILWAY LEVERS
In Strong Nickel Screw Case. Price £3/5/-.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 1871 (N.S.W.) LTD.
Two Sydney (412 George Street, Strand Corner
Establishments i 185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sierra” : The launching of the 20,000-ton
motor-ship Aorangi for the Union S. S. Co.,
recalls that the old Aorangi, built in ISS3,
was taken over by the Admiralty during
the war, and sunk at Scapa Flow to block
one of the entrances against submarines.
The new ship will, of course, be oil driven
—on 55 tons of oil she is expected to do
her 17 knots for 24 hours.
* * * *
“Borom”: Australia does its bit, too,
in the direction of supplying Uncle Sam’s
most pressing want; I know a Sydney syndi-
cate which recently cleaned up a nice little
sum from the proceeds of a shipment of
whisky smuggled into the United States
at San Francisco. It was bought for about
£6 a case, and disposed of for something like
£25. Australian whisky it was, too, by the
way.
■X •* *
“Sturt”: E. H. Bakewell, the Adelaide
financier—authority on ostriches, among
oilier things—tells the newspapers that the
birds have now ceased to be a financial pro-
position. Before the war the plumes were
worth £1 an ounce; but the war and the
spread of motoring among the women who
w'ould wear ostrich feathers have knocked the
price out. A big flock is still maintained
at Noarlunga, 20 miles south of Adelaide,
but revenue comes mainly from the smaller
feathers used in dusting-brooms.
* * * *
“FY7” : The famous Wanganella (N.S.W.)
stud put up another world’s record the other
day when one of the McCaugliey family paid
5000 guineas for a ram, a price which has
never been approached for a sheep in Aus-
tralia or elsewhere. The beast is the sire of
the ram which brought 3050 guineas at the
sheep sales last year, and, if he can get a
few more like that, even his huge cost should
soon come back to his new owner. As
befitted such a patrician, he went to his new 7
home in his private car.
* * * *
“Ashmead”: Though most of the Speck's
inter-State mail and passenger traffic passes
through Launceston, there is no wireless
station there to keep in touch with boats.
The only way a vessel making for Laun-
ceston can speak to the port is to call up
either Hobart or Melbourne and have the
message sent over the wire or cable. Con-
sidering that the Tamar is a tidal river, and
a boat sometimes has to transfer its passen-
gers to a tender, wireless connection with
Launceston is urgently called for.
* * * *
“Boronia”: The idea of linking up local
industry with school work (B. 7/8/’24) is
practised in Westralia. For several years past,
at special rural schools, boys have been
taught rope-making, blacksmithing, wood-
work, bee-keeping, fruit-preserving, harness-
repairing and other subjects likely to be of
use to them. The girls take a practical
course in home economics. Of course
specially trained teachers are required, and
the Department’s chronic shortage of funds
has checked the expansion of the scheme
for the present.
“Adelaide”: Electricity for lighting and
power is creeping all over the southern part
of S.A. The Adelaide Electric Supply Co.
got an Act in 1922 for the extension of its
operations. It has now worked up to the
summit of Mount Lofty, and is crawling
down the other side towards the Murray.
Northwards it has superseded the local elec-
tric works at Gawler (20 miles out), is in
the neighborhood of Angaston, and hopes to
be lighting Ivapunda (50 miles out) some
time next year. Meanwhile the “mid-north”
is developing an electric scheme on its own
account.
* * * *
“Namron”: “Ringer” (B. 24/7/’24) is
taking a long time to learn to cut cane. Here
in the Mulgrave mill area two seasons ago
cheques of £l5 per w 7 eek per man were not
uncommon ; one gang, cutting at Riverstone,
made £2O per week per man. This season the
farmers are keeping the men as near to
schedule as possible, but, early as it
is, some tidy cheques are being made.
My pay-sheet on June 30 for seven
men for 'seven days was £9l Os. 3d.
Six did the cutting, and that works out at
over £2 per day fpr each man cutting. The
cane cut was Badilla, and not “good going.”
The schedule rate is Bs. per ton green. If
there is any little defect, such as a few weeds
oi- bent cane, the cutter gets Is. or so over
schedule ; he can’t get less than Bs.
“F. Clinton”: The history of tanning in
Australia dates back to the time of Governor
Hunter. In 1800 one Caley wrote to Sir
Joseph Banks, who had sent him here to col-
lect botanical specimens : “Tanning of leather
ought to be much in practice here, for there
are so many different barks that are very
strong astringents.” His opinion was con-
firmed by Hunter, w 7 ho, in 1802, after his
return from Aiistralia, wrote to the Home
Department: “Most of the trees in N.S.W.
afford a bark which is strongly astringent
and answers well for tanning leather. This
I have tried in the Colony and found it suc-
ceed well.” But the first commercial tan-
nery was James Wilshire’s, on Brickfield
Hill, although already, as Governor Darling
reported (1828) “several of the more opulent
settlers in the interior manufacture leather,”
using black wattle for the purpose.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: There are some ecclesiastical
traditions about the Queen’s Arms Hotel,
Flinders-lane and Swanston-street, where
the Yorick r ’lub (Melbourne 1 is finding
sanctuary. The kitchen of the old hotel
built by Tom Monahan in the ’forties was
the first Metliodist-Wesley Church in Mel-
bourne. When moved on, the congregation
acquired the n.-w. cornqr of Queen and Col-
lins streets, and built half a meeting-house
there, the intention being to extend it when
funds were available. The corner had pre-
viously been knocked down to a Sydney man
named Bowerman for £80; but, repenting of
his bargain, he forfeited his £2 deposit, and
sailed for England in a little vessel that was
never seen or heard of after leaving Port
Phillip Heads. Later the Methodies sold
the corner for £40,000, and built the Wesley
Church in Lonsdale-street.


judg es of shirt quality—men who
demand value and know style—consistently
choose Pelaco because it exemplifies the highest
degree of Shirt-craft. Experience has taught them
that Pelaco’s are the only shirts which meet all
their requirements—high-grade fabrics, fine, color*
fast patterns, correct fit, and long service.
If you haven’t worn Pelaco Shirts, ask your
friends about them. Or, better still, drop into
your Mercer’s to-day and buy one. There’s no
risk of disappointment; the guarantee protects
you against an unsatisfactory garment.
SMade by
PELACO LTD.
RICHMOND, Vic.
and all states
sdf
V.
m
sy
m
ms-
m
m
SHI
ftlqcb ii^Q
■ :■}
i
mi-
/
V
*1
<
f i
EVERY PART IS PRAISEWORTHY
AND ALL COMBINE TO MAKE
A PERFECT MILL
And it’s Made in Australia.
Send for Descriptive Folder.
“Billabong”
Windmills are sound in construction—the materials
and workmanship which enter into their manufacture
are Australia’s best. To be abreast with the times the
users of Windmill Power ought to inquire into the
merits of the World’s Most Modern Mill—the new
Enclosed-gear
“BILLABONG.” This is a great Windmill Engineer-
ing achievement, which gives to the man on the land
a most reliable pumping plant in which the first cost
will be about the only outlay needed. In the New
Enclosed-Gear “BILLABONG”
Windmill
weather influences cannot affect the working parts,
and with its unsurpassed oiling system, friction and
wear and tear is practically nil. The new
“BILLABONG” is undoubtedly a very superior Wind-
mill.
John Banks 8 Son Pty. Ltd
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Quick
ounces
PHAMBERIAIHJ
COUGH
Coughs. Colds
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUCH.
HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS.
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
no o»"t° *»hctions or inf
THROAT and LUNGS
EFFecrive
roi
hoopin
Cough
“BRITISH EVERY STITCH']
Those graceful, slender
lines which perfect
taste demands.
'T'O make you look correctly slim
your corset must be scientifically
proportioned—easily, naturally, to
follow the lines of your figure,
There is a “C. 8.” Corset model to
correct every figure imperfection-
one which will satisfy the most fas-
tidious and exacting requirements.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch
are cut and constructed with un-
approachable exactitude of design.
All the most up-to-date drapery
emporiums and stores stock them at
prices from 6/II to 63/- per pair.
Should you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining the correct C.B.
Model write direct to
Charles Bayer & Co., Ltd.,
Macdonnell House, Pitt St.,
Sydney,
179-181, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne,
tor name 01 nearest agent.
‘BRITISH EVERY STITCH’
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British: Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated 'under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18/2. _
Directors— James Milne. Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
\ c Luva. Esq. : M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. •• •• •• •• •; BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and S 5 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia am
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
sd
Pipe Satisfaction
is dependent upon pipe
quality. £S.g Pipes are made
in London by experts who
know how to achieve pipe
perfection in " pipes with a
pedigree."
Made from the tinest French
Briar that money can purchase,
every pipe shaped with skill and
faultlessly finished in every detail.
A wide range of popular shapes
for your selection.
All
shapes
now ,
im
V ,vvV
Shape
No
909
Many shapes to please all tastes.
Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P.O , Sydney.
a
:
Each and every Win-
ter’s morning will find
you glad to be awake,
fit and ready for what-
e’er the day may bring,
if you make an unfail-
ing practice of having,
last thing at night,
A DROP OF WOLFF'S with
HOT WATER , A SQUEEZE
OF LEMON, and SUGAR TO
TASTE. Try it this very
night. You’ll find it a
“medicine” after your own
heart.
pi
'2£
r*
1
m
m
wo l f e f, s
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
"qA blessing to Humanity”
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
motor-trips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
■
M Ms
ii-M
m
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
t„ U.K. and
Continent by
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney •
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l-
- Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO.. 171 William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. DAEGETY & CO., Brisbane. .
Died at Rotorua (M.L.), Dr. A. B. Crow-
tlier, son of a one-time Premier of Tasmania.
He was 71, had served as surgeon-lieutenant
with the Australian Forces during the Boer
War, and had been 12 years in the thermal
district, where his nephew is Clerk ot the
Court.
“8.5. A.” : Adelaide’s first post-office(18:*))
was a hut on the park lands; two years later
a small building was constructed on the
corner of King William-street and North-ter-
race. From there “Henry Watts, Postmaster-
General,” signed the official documents and
looked after the young province’s correspon-
dence. His salary was 130 per year.
“8.5. A.”: G. W. Goyder, one-time S. Aus-
tralian Surveyor-General, who marked om
the famous Goyder line of rainfall, was a
calm old chap in his later days. Once a very
perturbed officer rushed into him and splut-
tered : “Sir, Blank has just told me to go to
Hell. What shall I do?” Goyder looked up
calmly, said “Don’t go,” and went on writing.
Professor Le Gay Brereton, who will
have his 53rd birthday on Sept. 2. is son of a
doctor who practised homoeopathy in conjunc-
tion with Dr. Ebenezer Atherton half a cen-
tury ago in Sydney. The Professor was a
Sydney Grammar boy who finished up at'Syd-
ney Uni., where he took his degree and was
made Assistant Librarian in 1902. He has
a wide knowledge of literature; his “Notes
and Studies,” published in 1909, were capital
reading.
“.Tesmond”: A neighbor of mine spent
weeks scouring the district buying Leghorn
fowls, until he had hundreds of birds in all
degrees of condition. By careful feeding and
attention he had them all in good nick by
the time an egg-laying competition- —in which
he won a first —was finished. Two months
later his runs contained only his original
birds, the others having been sold in lots of
three, “all prize-winning strain,” at 50s. or
so a time. There’s money in fowls, after all!
“Sixenate”: Sydney’s cool thieves have
varying fortune. One man who was caught
calmly walking out of a city store with a
valuable carpet failed to carry off the
situation with a yarn about a carter who
had offered him two bob to put the goods in
his dray: he is now in gaol reflecting on
his bad luck. Another man went into a
shop, asked casually “Where’s the stuff for
the cart?” and took out to a waiting van
the articles various shophands pointed out to
him—they even assisted him in carrying. It
wasn’t until the rightful carter arrived that
it was discovered an impostor had got away
with over £lOO worth of goods.
“P.M.” : When in London shortly after the
Armistice I met a cobber whom I hadn’t seen
for years, with his Cockney bride in tow. The
lady went into a draper’s shop and left us
talking outside, giving Ginger an oppor-
tunity of informing me that the missus was
“a holy terror to keep a bloke waiting around
shops.” He further volunteered to accom-
pany me to a picture-show, for which I was
bound. “How about the wife?” I asked.
“Well, I reckon she needs a lesson for keep-
ing me hanging about all night.” We had a
few drinks after the show and then separ-
ated. I never saw Ginger again till I met
him last month in Bourke-street, Melbourne.
“How’s the wife?” I asked. “When did you
meet her?” he countered. I reminded him.
“I’ve never seen her since then, either,” he
admitted.
“Skipper”: Pongo had 4S hours’ leave to
Boulogne; and 14 days later he returned
from Paris —under escort. Colonel Stun ter
was a wicked old man who had known his
Paris well in pre-war days. “Have a good
time?” lie asked kindly when the charge had
been read over. “Too true,” said Pongo
smiling brightly, and eliciting a roar of “Say
‘sir’,” from the It.S.M. “Moulin Rouge?”
“My oath, sir.” “Montmartre?” “Bonzer,”
and losing himself in happy memories the
culprit leaned familiarly on the table and
told the story of his exploits. Both the narra-
tor and the Colonel laughed heartily as the
tale was unfolded, and even the R.S.M. snig-
gered apologetically behind his waxed mous-
tache. “Want to be dealt with by me?”
asked the Old Man, smiling sweetly, when at
last the mirth had subsided. “Too true, sir,”
grinned Pongo. “Twenty-eight days’ No. 2
Field Punishment. Ha, ha, ha —we have to
pay for our fun. don’t we?” But his laughter
awakened no echo in Bongo's heart.
“Ex-Dig.”: Many Diggers will say “Hear,
hear” to the criticisms of the Maffra (Vic.)
parson on the Y.M.C.A. in war-time. The
organisation's excuse for making a charge
for everything was that the army heads in-
sisted upon it. Still, the Y. Emmas, if they
had inclined that way. might at least have
been as philanthropic as the Salv’army people,
who were always ready to relax the regulation
in the case of Diggers fresh from the line or
stonybroke. But the worst grievance against
the Y.M.C.A. was that it was a refuge for
a number of strong young men who shirked
a more robust way of doing their bit. Men
unfit for soldiering who took to the business
needed no excuses, but it rasped the nerves
of trench-worn Diggers to be handed their
cocoa by healthy heavyweights who went to
London on regular leaves and talked about,
helping to win the war. None of those shirk-
ers went to the really-advanced posts, either :
those places were put in charge of Diggers
who. although not sick enough to be sent out,
were bad enough to be on “light duty.”
“Lexo”: When Gripman Howard refused
to teach an ex-special constable how to drive
a Melbourne tram he did more than start
a strike : lie turned the first sod of a revolu-
tion. While the trams were idle the
people found that there were other and
better ways of getting to work than by
means of the obsolete and funeral-paced
vehicles which they had put up with for so
many years. Now they want motor-’buses,
and Private Enterprise has rigorously set
about the. job of giving them what they want.
While the Tramway Board fumes and threat-
ens. the ’buses grow in popularity; the only
way that the Board can hope to keep its
end up is by going in for ’buses, too. A
year ago Carre Riddell, chairman of the
Metropolitan Board of Works, prophesied
that within seven years Melbourne would
have no trams —the ’buses would push them
out. That prophecy has a good chance of
being fulfilled. The "bus service will be more
satisfactory to the passengers because it is
very speedy; but it is going to mean a big
loss on the scrapped trams, and a huge ex-
penditure on roads to make them fit for the
new traffic.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
Tons.
*0 KAMA 20.500
♦OROXSAY . . 20.500
"OTRANTO .. 20.500
'ORMONDE . . 14,853
Tons.
*(> RMUZ 14,588
OBVIETO ... 13.133
OSTERLEY .. 13.139
ORSOVA 13,036
*ORCAI>ES jO,OOO toils.
*First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SiERRA-
io,ooo Tons 17 Knots-
-VENTURA.
—Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
ANY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
•S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY'
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised _ Capital .. .. £2.000 000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. 619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14’490|435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Hank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson;
11. R. LysagHi’, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
hieut.-Col. 1. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
Chief Inspector j or A’..S'.lt ,; w. G. Hull.
IIhAD OFFICE, SYDNEY i.Corner. George and King
„ , . _ Streets!.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New Somli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
tine) Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and Now
Aealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
i l .'pry description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WI N YARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares 1,500’000
Ordinary Shares 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS 011 Aust ralia, New Zea-
Britaiii AT . U ! ° la,ld - Samoa, Great
ntain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS 2* , Interes , t
„ , w ‘ w faxed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle. W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Rcaori- UP T' Ca ? ital £875,000
Reser\e Fund 750,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,625,000
875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103 220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds £53 000 000
Annual Income .. £7,865i000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:. *c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
I assengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA (13,000 tons clisp.) SEPT. 25
NIAGARA (18,000 tons rlisp.) OCT. 23
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Hie Oreat Cities of the United States can be seen on the Journey across America; also
tne Brand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
(.11,350 tons clisp.)
TAHITI (13,000 tons clisp.)
SEPT. 11
OCT. 9
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM ;SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION SIEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
u
X
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Si to 5 Weeks.
Affordin'; a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, r 111 IP & CO.. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book voui- Passage Overseas under Our Auspices
Our TOriUST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
ot the following- routes to England:—
Via SEES' CANAL.
„ America (Canada and united states)
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—-
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE bv the
magnificent steamers “MAREUT.A” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthlv.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
V* r ' ..V*S
*
I 4*.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fsd
- £6,000,000
- 4.050,000
- 6,000,000
£16,050,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. s. Falkiner,
lhe Hon. Reginald J.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Esq
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua andLondon.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.’
Foreign Bills
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
COITAL PAID UP £3,476,287 10 0
RESERVE FUND ------- 2 700 oon n n
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
Directors:
£9,676,287 10 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES MT P n
Chairman; O. E. FRIEND; Hon. JAMES ASHTON MT p C " DepUt *
Sir WILLIAM VICARS. C.B.E. ’
General Manager; H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYHURST
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other nart«
the World. l aits of
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANrLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
KANOWNA. .
(Melb. only)
KATOO MBA.
(All ports inc.
Albany)
WVANDItA..
(Moll), only)
CANBERRA. .
(Moll), only)
COOMA
(Melb. only)
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
/rn , TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
( Irnnshipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
be '-g ant l Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Macka.v. Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLi^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N.^o7ud.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for tha
comfort of passengers, maintains a service everv
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
Tile round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
Eor all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street!
Melbourne; or Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ctd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAJSHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars applv,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton % Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackbeatli Collieries, Etd.. and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co , Etd
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O. S N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire'Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shippim- Co
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union SS Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker.
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide Pori
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary,
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/> per day inclusive;
10/6 Led and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Osed by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
\
$135.00 to
$1,550.00
f.o.b. Detroit,
MicluAJS-A*
GOBI
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representative:
falrbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
£5-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Detroit, Michigan, U, &A» Cable Address, Kermath
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. -Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Ivillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Svdxkv Fru.uf.s, Limited.
TRIAL
TUBE
FREE TO MEN
SEND
FORM
What We Were Up Against
To sell a Shaving Cream
When we started to make a shaving cream we realised that we
were faced with especially difficult conditions. Nearly every
possible customer was already using some shaving soap. Most
of them were satisfied. Our only possible chance was to P ro ’
duce a shaving cream which was so superior that they would no
longer be satisfied once they gave our cream a trial. After
eighteen months’ work, during which 130 formulas were tried
and tested, we produced Palmolive Shaving Cream which offers
these five supremacies— ■
(1) It multiplies itself in lather 250 times.
(2) It acts quickly, softening the beard in one minute.
(3) The lather maintains its creamy fullness for ten minutes
on the face. .
(4) The bubbles are strong, they support the hairs for cutting.
(5) The blend of palm and olive oils makes the after-effects
delightful.
We ask you to test this Shaving Cream as millions of men have
done. Accept the free test that is offered. Cut out the form now.
PALMOLIVE
SHAVING CREAM
On Sale Everywhere at IJ9
Follow with Palmolive
visible powder for men.
After-Shaving Talc —a scientific in-
It assures that well-groomed look-
10 SHAVES FREE
Simply insert your name and address and post to
THE PALMOLIVE COMPANY
(Australasia) LTD., Dept. 260, . Sydney
Name
Address ....
p.s.c 22
Haymarket Extra
Special Racket
70/-
YOU play tennis at your best when
you have a Mick Simmons racket,
for you can feel full confidence in
its reliability. The Haymarket Extra
Special Racket offers exceptional value
at..... 70/-
The C. 8.8. Double Strung Racket is
available at 27/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple Centre, with cork
handle 25/-
C. 8.8. Special Practice, with concave
throat 18/6
C. 8.8. Practice Racket 10/6
M.S. Conqueror Racket 25/-
M.S. Special or Premier 21/-
M.S. Special School Match Racket 8/6
Write for Price List.
The well-known Spalding’s, Ayres and Slazenger s
Rackets are here in a wide range. Write for complete
price list, sent post free.
M.S. GOLF CLUBS
LATEST BULGER PATTERN.
As used by all Professional Golfers.
DRIVERS 21/-
BRASSIES 22/6
Clubs by such famous makers as Cann and Taylor,
A. G. Spalding, T. Stewart, W. Gibson, are here in
variety wide enough to satisfy the most exacting
requirements.
GOLF BAGS
LADIES’ BROWN CANVAS 15/-, 17/6
With Cane 20/-
FAWN, with Cane 25/-
BROWN LEATHER, with Cane, with White
Piping 37/6
GENT.’S BROWN CANVAS 15/-, 17/6
With Cane 20/-
FAWN, with Cane 25/*
SOLID LEATHER 32/6
SOLID LEATHER, with Cane 37/6
FAWN, with Patent Hood Cover 50/-
Golf Balls are here in all the standard makes at prices
varying from 3/9 each down to as low as 2/-
Golf Taught.
Will Corry, expert golf professional, has been specially
engaged by us. He will give private lessons (secluded),
with the use of clubs and halls, on our Roof Sports Ground
by appointment. Morning and Afternoon Tea provided
gratis. ’Phone City 3436.
Mick SirnmonsfiH
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St., Brisbane.


Girls! The Use of
Rexona Soap Ensures
Beauty to Skin and Hair.
Thaf -natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be
obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps
do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to
dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can
only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections
is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and sec if it does not quickly soothe ahd cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave the complexion clear, fresh
and velvety.
“1 think Rexona Soap
a delight.”
—-Mrs. Dorothy Davies,
“Menevia,”
Ballast Point Road.
Snails’ Bay.
m
Rexona
l
Soap
The Aristocrat
of Soaps
i/-
per
Tablet.
!?
TRADE MARK
FOX
W
PICKS
and SHUTTLES
As the good Fox Cloth
is woven the Shuttle
drags its thread back-
T wards and forwards, over
and under threads running the
length of the piece. It travels
over 43 miles in making a suit
length, and every single crossing
of the threads is known as a
“pick.”
Yet if the cloth is good, every
inch of yarn must be perfect, and
every “pick” exactly according
to the cloth design.
Fox skill has made FOX reputa-
tion, which is backed by this
guarantee:—
Fox's Cloths are all pure wool,
and will not shrink or fade by
land, sea or air.
Insist on having them.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84ms. 00
the reverse of the cloth.
ujest of England Highest Quality
CLOTHS
FANCY WORSTEDS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS ■ TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
The Isle of Damn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
day was faded and a trifle worn
About the edges where it swept
the sea;
Twelve melancholy wings appeared
to mourn
In solemn flight the lack of fish for tea.
Far out a slow and smoky vessel crawled
Through languid waves that splashed its
wet, salt side;
And all the simple island, granite walled,
Clung with dank seaweed to the falling-
tide.
The capes to north and south had wrecks
attached
Like ragged tassels on a cushion green ;
On either point were palm-trees nicely
matched,
Tall palms like sentries placed to watch
the scene.
Upon the south cape stood a lovely girl,
Upon the north cape stood a stalwart man ;
One with great effort taught her hair to curl,
The other watched a lonely frying-pan.
These two were sole survivors of two wrecks
Which both took place last Tuesday after
dark;
The waves had washed all others from the
decks,
And fed them to the hungry, waiting shark.
But John and Mary by the strangest chance
Had landed about midnight on the shore,
He swimming like a hero of romance,
She clinging to a broken cabin-door.
And now like two horns of a lonely snail
They stood upon the island’s granite ends
And sadly watched the sunset brightness
pale
Without a word from mother, homo and
friends.
They saw the smoky vessel pass away.
Blind and unkindly as a snorting train
That will not stop for all the prayers men
pray,
AVho run with zeal to catch it in the rain.
Mary had dined on prawns she boiled at
noon,
.Tolm fried small fishes in a battered pan;
Then up above the sea arose the moon,
The palm-trees whispered and the night
began.
It was a very pleasant night for love,
Full of calm radiance and of warm, sweet
air;
The pallid stars were winking far above,
The moonlight fell on Mary’s curly hair.
They were three thousand miles from any
port;
Their rescue seemed a most unlikely thing;
The little breezes kissed their lips in sport;
The man was quite as handsome as a king:
The girl was very, very nice indeed ;
From palm to palm the island stretched
a mile;
The man had nothing he could smoke or read ;
The girl had nothing she could do but
smile.
Thus was the tropic scene arranged and set;
And who should blame if these with
shining eyes
As lovers in some green, dee]) valley met
To share hot kisses none could advertise?
Alas, for all the joys of might-have-been !
The palms were sweet and sweeter still
the sod,
Ihe grass and bushes in the morn were
green ;
And yet the island was a hollow fraud.
Right in the centre was an earthquake
crack,
A split right through from weedy shore
to shore;
John traced it to the western strand and
back;
It must have opened scarce a week before,
-or all the granite of the sides was new,
Stark precipices twenty fathoms deep,
n hat, therefore, could the parted lovers do
kave gaze a hundred yards away and weep?
Ropes, bridges, steps—no possible device
Lould join for love the island’s severed
ends.
They shouted their sweet nothings once or
twice,
had to stay at last as silent friends,
though Mary sighed and John in anger
swore.
The earthquake crack decided to remain ;
And so the moonlight wasted on the shore.
And both decided that their lives were
vain.
Hie httle merry earthquakes came at times
And danced across the isle from front to
The; cr.ek rhythms and curious rockv
my. .M t
I’ n - " thought to close that granite
crack.
Slow ships came up and slowly went away •
the high palms nodded on the high twin
capes;
-W. outlined on the dusk against the grey,
the watchers knew each other by their
shapes.
At last upon a smiling Friday morn
two schooners came at once from north
and south.
felt a joy that he or she was born—
A sail! A sail!” each cried with eaimr
mouth.
Rescued at last, they left the island shore
Just as an earthquake made the palm-
trees dance;
The seaweed seethed, the wind began to
snore,
The waves leaped up and down and seemed
to prance.
Then John out of the south looked swiftly
And gaif ' 7 fr ° m the n ° rth with start led
Dbseiwed the ciosing of the earthquake crack
That paited love for mnety-six sad days
But, moved by subterranean forces deep.
The danced and capered up and
JO And S T fl l? e tiP al “i tre ! S take a suddell leap
And half the island seemed in haste to
drown.
The water jumped a thousand feet in air,
And in its spray the island disappeared ;
But both the distant watchers were aware
Of what had happened when the smother
cleared.
There stood one cape alone where two had
been,
One grassy cape and—oh, the sight was
good !
Upon its top in soft and waving green,
Leaf mixed with leaf, the two tall palm-
trees stood.
John in the north and Mary in the south
Across the water with long sighs looked
back;
Each felt the lack of kisses on the mouth,
And cursed the long capricious earthquake
crack.
And when the captains asked the island’s
name—
The jumping island full of hollow sham —
The answer on each schooner was the same;
And so they charted it the “Isle of Damn. ’
The Isle of Damn lies in the Sea of Doubt,
About three thousand miles from any port;
A frequent earthquake turns it inside out,
And throws its capes and bays around
m sport.
There youth and beauty under separate trees
sighing, waiting, watching every day;
I here is no road across for such as these.
The crack goes through the system all the
way.
Mary eats prawns, and John can fry his fish
A mile apart and under happy skies ;
I.ut both must spend the evening with a wish
And start the morning with unfinished
sighs.
Yet somewhere a good typewriter still clacks,
And merry earthquakes jump and dance
and twist;
The very steepest, island has no cracks
that are not bridged by some bold novelist.
N.S.W.
MARY MOCOMMONWEALTH.
Honor Among Thieves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHARLES DRAYSON strode along the
dingy street, his lunch-tin clinking in
liis hand. A man leaning against a
corner post detached himself and took step
with him. There was a vast difference be-
tween them. Drayson, despite his smudged
working clothes and black shirt, had an air
of clean manliness ; the flash clothing of the
other only accentuated his mean shiftiness.
“Longie’s in the soup, Charlie,” he said
shortly.
“What—Dave Long?”
“Yes, Dave. Over the park shooting.”
“It was him, was it? See they're offering
a reward over it.”
“That’s it. The Johns have an idea it's
Longie, but they're not sure. An alibi's 'is
lay if they get ’im. So ’e’s lyin’ low down
at my place.”
He paused for comment, and as none came
went on: “But they seem to ’ave a derry
about it. My place is being watched, and
they’ve tried a few tricks to get in. If
they come along with a searcher, Longie’s
gone a million —with ’is alibi. We gotter
got ’im somewhere else.”
Only the pad of their feet, broke the silence
for a couple of seconds.
“E was a cobber of yours when you was
kids!”
“I’d be sorry to see Dave in the soup,
Ernie,” said Drayson.
“Thought you would!” said the mean-
looking one. “That’s what I expected you
to say. Well, you can get 'im out. They’re
watchin for ’im too close for us to git ’im
away to the country just yet; but we
could git 'im along to your place. That’d
save .im. The Johns ’ll never think of
watchin there: you got too good a name.”
"he inflexion bespoke a scorn of the man
whose reputation with the police was good.
Drayson stopped suddenly. “Look here,
Ernie,” he said; “I’m sorry for Longie, but
I don’t want to be mixed up with no crook
work. You all know I don’t. With the
missus—why do you want to drag me into
the thing?”
“Because it’s the only way! We know all
about you an the missus, and yer wantin’
to keep straight, of course—good luck to yer,
as fur as that s concerned! But y’ can’t git
over, it that Dave useter be yer cobber, an’
stayin in your place is th’ one way to save
’im.”
Drayson shifted uncomfortably on his feet.
A hat does he want to get mixed up in
a shootin for?” he demanded, querulously.
“I told ’im what it would lead to, but he was
so mighty clever!”
“Doesn't matter why—’e done it!” said
Ernie impatiently. “An' it’s 'anging, mavbe,
it e s caught.”
“They wouldn't hang him.”
“Well', it’s seven years, any’ow. An’
you re ’is cobber.”
There was an embarrassed pause. “All
right. Bring, him along,” said Drayson, and
moved off, with all the buoyancy gone from
his step.
Half a dozen times he paused irresolutely,
as if to turn back, and withdraw his agree-
ment, and then changed his mind and went
on.
The usual joyous greeting awaited him
he reached the little old house in the
shabby street which was “home” to him.
lliere was the. sudden feel in his arms of
ail that made, life delightful and turned that
sordid place into a paradise. Momentarily
he torgot about Longie. But watchful eyes
saw his distraction.
u It s this, way, Ollie,” he said at last,
1 m expecting a friend along to-night—he’s
going to stay for a few nights, an’ nobody’s
to know lie s here. We’ll fix a stretcher in
the back room, but you mustn’t say a word
about it to anyone.”
She sank to her knees on the floor.
• .garlic!” she cried. “It’s nothing crook,
is it? ’
“It’s nothing crook that I’m in,” he said
rather gruffly. “But it’s an old cobber of
(Continued on next page.)


YOU May Have
Kidney Trouble!
W/w,
Tells a Story ”
OS,
"3*
&
m
7/A
n
m
E
There is good cause to suspect your kidneys if
you have any stubborn pain in the small of the
kack; for that is just where the kidneys are.
Heavy, throbbing backache
and sharp twinges when you
stoop or give your back a sud-
den twist tell you of inflamed
kidneys; kidneys sore, over-
worked and tired.
The kidneys have enough to
do when you are in good health
to filter the blood free of uric
poisons. Colds, fevers, over-
work or excesses of any sort
congest and overwork the kid-
neys. Unless promptly relieved,
what was at first a simple inflam-
mation will turn, in time, to
gravel, urinary trouble, dropsy,
lumbago, sciatica, rheumatism,
or some chronic form of kidney
disease.
If your kidneys are weak, take
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
the remedy that has been used
for over fifty years and is so
well recommended by people
from all parts of Australia.
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S.
SYDNEY RESIDENT
CURED.
Mr. A. Bartle. No. 3 Gladstone
Street, Bexley, Sydney, says;—“Off
and on for years I suffered with dis-
ordered kidneys, the result being that
I was tortured with backache. When I
had a bad attack my back used to be
so stiff and lame that I could not even
turn in bed without suffering agony.
The kidney secretions were affected, be-
ing thick and cloudy with a red sedi-
ment. I was also subject to dizzy
attacks, and generally speaking felt far
from well. One day a friend, hearing
of a cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, urged me to try them. I bought
some without delay, and used them with
excellent results. The first bottle gave
relief, and five bottles made a complete
and perfect cure."
Eight years later Mrs. Bartle says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
my husband of backache and kidney
trouble over eight years ago, and he has
had no return of the complaint since.’
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Fills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured
Mrs. Horwitz, Ethel wood, Hayward
Street, Kensington, Sydney, says:—“l
sent for a pot of Doan’s Ointment, and
used it for Eczema on my little girl’s
forehead. The rash covered the brow
and it was around the eye as well. The
itching was frightful, and it made her
very fretful and kept her from sleeping.
I had used several preparations previous
to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none of
them gave more than passing relief. I
am pleased to tell you that this remedy
cured her completely. We have since
used it on another little girl with
equally good results. Doan’s Ointment
is splendid, and I advise its use in all
itching skin diseases.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Horwitz
states : —“My daughter has not suffered
with Eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured her eighteen years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons Road,
Five Dock, Sydney, says :—“Three years
ago I used Doan’s Ointment tor a baa
attack of Piles, and I am pleased to ten
you it completely cured me. Previous
trying this ointment I tried all kinds ot
remedies; but they gave me little or no
relief. I was suffering terribly when l
first applied Doan’s Ointment, and haa
little hope of it doing me any good; but
its soothing and healing effects
noticeable almost at once, and by
time I had used one pot I was
pletely cured. I am a great believ
Doan’s Ointment, and consider it tin
best Pile remedy known. It cured me
after other remedies had failed.
Four years later Mrs. Brown says
“I have had no return of my ol(l c 0“
plaint since Doan’s Ointment cuied me
about seven years ago.”
At all chemists and stores at 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
mine. He has to lie low—over something,
I’m sorry, Ollie. I knew you wouldn’t like
it. But they put it up to me over an old
cobber—and what could I do?”
“As long as you're not going crook,
Charlie.” she said, "it’s whatever you like,
But why not get away from this place—
•iwi.v from it all’”
“That means money,” he said. “But you
need have no fear for me. I won’t do nothing
but keep straight—l’ve got too much to keep
straight for, anyway.” It was spoken in no
empty complimentary fashion, but with deep
earnestness, as lie drew her on his knee;
and she was contented.
t ii i +.n i,,., ~i 1 ,i.„ 11 i/ ( „,.„,i
aboa?hia
“Knew you would always stick to a cobber,
Chiller,” lie said, heartily; and then turned
towards Ollie. “Glad ter meet ycr, missus,
Charlie useter be a cobber of mine since the
time we was kids, but I’ve never ’ad a
chance of seeing yer before. All I can say
is that he ’as a good taste in choosing a
missus.”
Ilis crude gallantry irked Drayson; but lie
soon forgot Ins annoyance and wondered at
the easy mirtlitulness with which Long
pliinged into the gossip of the neighborhood.
Ollie flushed with pleasure when he spoke of
her husband—ot the qualities us a staunch
mate he had shown, and his determination to
be straight; and Charlie, feeling some insin-
cerity in the flattery, something of a scorn-
ful jeer in the references to his straightness,
was yet pleased because of that flush. There
was a cynical look in Long’s eyes as he
viewed them both. For him the world had
but two divisions—preyers and preyed
upon; and whilst he might not prey on
friends like this, they were there to be used.
Three sharp raps at the door startled I)ray-
son, and his look to Long indicated the
advisability of flight to an upper room
but with a cool hat 11 be Ernie Smart
Long remained undisturbed. It was Ernie.
l(rr A 'T " <d 011 ■ l , us 111 . * n , n '+'i f jMne -
They ve been an searched the place: but
they got nothink I moved it in case. , Yer’ll
be sate ere until we bring a car for yer th
night after next. About eight er-clock it’ll
be—Tom’s car. an’ it’ll run yer to Campbell-
town, where yer can start doin’ the swaggie.
We got it fixed to prove yer was in Goulburn
two days ago. Yer lucky to be ’ere. Most
of the blokes in the game,” he said with
bitterness, “seem to be pimps nowadays; an’
that hindered pounds reward”——
-ii+iii- i
Drayson s hand touched Ins arm sharply as
he uttered an almost inaudible S-sli! His
wife had approached and was staring,
large eyed. .
“Don t she know? Ernie whispered after
s + °i 11C '+ , i , ! ci ,
No. I don't leant her to. know She goes
dead-sore against crook business. .
The next two days were full of anxiety for
Drayson. He was relieved when, in the
mist of the night, a car purred softly up the
lane at the back of the house, and Long
slipped out and was gone. Tie was beginning
to regard the episode as closed, when one
evening as lie reached a darkened corner,
coming home, the figure ot Ernie broke away
from a shadow into his path Simultaneously
two other figures loomed from nowhere m
particular.
“Y’eard Dave Long’s been took?” asked
jr -iv, m ° liaCe 1U hls to r- ««v
Drayson was amazed. You
**z»*™* been caught.
You know e as I came from the bigger
of the. two men behind Ernie. You blanky
IUI ? T P ■ , , , ~ , -.
Ik recognised Jumbo Duneen and Dud
( offey, who, like Ernie, were satellites ot
I m no damned crook, thank God! he
said hotly; "but I’m no pimp! Anyone who
says I am is a liar! Anyone who says I
put Dave”
Hot as he felt, Drayson was not blind to
his danger and was ready for the coming
rush Ernie was no fighter: and the frontal
attuclc was left to the massive Jumbo. But
Drayson knew their methods. Instead of
meeting the heavyweight s charge, he side-
stepped; and, as a well-directed right met
Coffey’s chin the bottle he had been pre-
narino- +o wield flew from his band and
pann„ to wield tie\v tiom ins liana ana
caught Duneen on the side of the head. It
was a lively couple of seconds, but. helped
by the paralysing effects of the opening
incidents, Drayson found himself clear of his
attackers. With a few yards between them,
~ i . , r- . i . i i .
hf, :
ISe - *.+■•,! T ,
"I' 11 - eave ff ' y<>u .Vr 11 - Lons l e • I C ,? mes ’ y
cow! said Coffey He s on bail.
Drayson knew that his life was m danger.
Suspected of being a pimp who had betrayed
one of the men of the district, he would have
JSHJt’SS
tlionghts that chiefly worried him, but the
accusation that he had betrayed a friend.
Brought up in a neighborhood which had be-
come so much a part of his life that, even
first; 1 iDiffS afhis Zme it
had watched it grow into a thieves’ warren
still remaining friends with men who had
become thieves. He had kept apart from
them to the extent that he had gone straight ;
T ’., W i no k + o Tw° • thell ' doin / s A he had
never dreamt of betraying one (if them. It
was a point of honor. To be charged as a
pimp would have infuriated lam, even if the
man he was supposed to have betrayed had
not been a friend.
* i . . e , . , ,
Alarm showed on Ins wife s face when she
sa )T + vrn + • •+<}» 1
liat is it, Charlie. Vi hat is it. she
QU ®mi lo , ’ it i • r» i . j ■
They ve called me a pimp. he cried, m
a voice choked with fury. llie Johns
have got Dave Long, and they say I put
him awav. I ll make them”
“Charlie!” she cried, and hid her face;
and at once he knew
m i • 1 f t -t +i c.+ „ fl i c
lo him it seemed as if the most awful of
all things had happened. His wite had
been a traitress to the friend who had taken
refuge under their roof! He was too
wroth to notice that it was not all terror at
his discovery that her face showed, but
srsfite Hc storrf “
“Charlie!” she tried, “I’m sorry-I was
sorry directly I’d done it; ashamed of it!
But it kept coming to me to do it while I
was sitting here, thinking—with him in the
house. It kept coming to me that you
would do anything for him because he was
your friend, and then you would get into
trouble, and all the life we hoped for would
go to pieces. It made me mad to think of
it. I felt I could do anything to prevent
that; and it seemed that if Long was caught
it would stop it. And then the thought
came—kept coming—that the reward would
give us the money to get right away. It
kept coming, Charlie; till all in a moment I
decided to go to the police. I know it was
a terrible thing to do, Charlie; and I’m
ashamed. But you don’t know what awful
thoughts drove me to it —thinking here alone.
Charlie! Charlie! Don't look like that —
speak to me!”
He did speak to her. as if he had not heard
her shamed explanation, forgetting all his
tenderness, making no allowances. He spat
words of hateful reproach at her. Did she
think it ever possible to make the foundation
of a home on blood-money—the price of a
friend’s liberty? Ilatlier, it would wreck
the home they knew. He had nothing but
loathing for a traitress —one who had marked
him for ever as a traitor.
When she put her arms out imploringly to
seize him and stop the channels,of his anger
he threw her from him; and finally, dis-
traught with the frenzy of his feelings, he
dashed out of the house.
Sobbing on the floor where he had left her,
with the thought that the romance of her
life was killed for ever, she heard the door
swing open again. Hoping that compunction
had come to him, and that with a caressing
hand he would raise her, she sobbed on. At
last she looked up, and saw that it was Long
who stood in the doorway, gazing down on
her.
“Where’s your husband?” he demanded.
“He’s not here.”
“I want him.”
“Yes —you want him!” she blazed. “I
wish to God you had let him alone, left him
out of your affairs! Now I have lost him
because of you—because he thinks he owes
more loyalty to you than he does to me, his
wife!”
“A lot of loyalty lie’s shown me!”
“He has! If you think he put you away
you’re wrong. / did it—l! And because he
knows it he has left me.”
He made a couple of steps towards her,
and, terrifled, she screamed and retreated
around the table.
“Why did you do it?” he asked unbeliev-
ingly.
“I’ll tell you ! I wanted to get him away
from this place with all its thieves and its
thievishness. He was always straight, but
I was afraid of him: afraid he might be led
into something. And he always said he
would go when we could get the money to
pay a deposit on a place. When he brought
you here with him I was terrifled. It looked
to me as if he was getting mixed up with
crook business, and I felt that I would do
anything— any iking /—to get the -money to
take us away. And then I heard there was
a reward.”
“So you sold me —for cash,” he said drily.
“It wasn’t only that. I felt that he
looked upon you as a friend, might get
mixed up with you again. I wanted the
police to get you so that that couldn’t
happen.”
“You slie-cat!”
The steely control he had hitherto main-
tained was broken by a blaze of ferocity as
he stepped towards her. Sweeping despe-
rately around the table, her hand met a
work-basket, and she scrambled desperately
amongst its contents for her scissors. As
she drew them out the work-basket strewed
its contents on the floor.
Standing at bay before him, with the scis-
sors dagger-like in her hand, she was sur-
prised to see the ferocity soften out of his
face. Ilis eyes were on the litter on the
floor.
“I'm sorry, missus,” he said suddenly.
“Were you making the in?"
Off her guard, slit 1 followed his eyes to
where the little garments lay. With a poig-
nant recollection of her griefs, and perhaps
with some intuitive knowledge of the drama-
tic effects upon the man she had betrayed,
she stooped suddenly, and seizing the small
articles pressed them, sobbing, to her breast.
“I'll tell you why this gets me, missus,”
he said. “I ’ad a missus once—she was as
good as a missus, anyway, though I couldn’t
marry ’er, having another one. But she
didn’t want the kid to be born unless I got
work and we could be married, so—well, it
wasn’t. And she died. You done me in;
but it can’t be helped now. And Charlie —
I'll fix up Charlie. Only you bear out what
I say. Hist!” lie added suddenly.
He had caught a sound. Charlie appeared
and threw himself protectingly near his wife.
“Dave, I know why you are here,” said
Charlie hoarsely. “You think I put you
away. You ought to know me better! 1
didn’t; but you’ve got to think what you
like.”
“I don’t think you did.” retorted Long,
with the easy humor he had shown when
he first appeared as a fugitive. “It was your
missus.”
“That’s a lie!” cried Charlie.
“No need to get hot,” said Long calmly.
“Your missus did it because I told her to.”
Charlie stared at him; then he looked at
his wife, but she hid her head in his shoul-
der. And a great elation came to him with
the thought that she was not the traitress
he had fancied.
“It’s this way,” said Long. “I reckoned
I had no chance of getting away really, an’
I found out that your missus wanted money
to get a house away from here. So I says
to myself, ‘I don’t owe the police nothing;
why not make ’em pay a friend, since they
must have me?’ It took some argument to
make ’er see the point—but don’t you see
I'm getting one over the Johns?”
“If I’d have known” —began Drayson.
“That’s just it,” said Long airily. “That’s
just why I told ’er on no account to tell
you.” He moved jauntily to the door.
“Good-bye, old pal; and so long an’ good
luck, missus. I’m going out to tell the boys
in case there should be any misunder-
standin’.”
And with a jaunty walk and a laugh
meant to indicate his appreciation of the
joke he was putting over the police, he went
Into the darkness.
HAMER.


rn
I
♦ >* I
i
m
m
W
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Srnsla'ul Agents—HOLMES & CHUIiCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Fentberston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
BITUMASTIC
ENAMELS
Unequalled as a protection against Rust.
Extraordinary properties of Elasticity and
Tenacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented.
SOLE AGENTS— *
J. WILDRIDGE g SINCLAIR, LTD,,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants.,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL
STANDARDS
heat 1 ™ W ° rld Can easily be spoilt if
SrvfcPT PLUS CORRECT TREATMENT
MEANS 100 PER CENT. EFFICIENCY.
We guarantee
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
BRAND CAST STEELS
sa “ d we wm
SFS d E.^ 00t LiSt ” *• “ Htate
Free on application.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
SIDNEY MakCrS ° f High-Speed Steel.
MELBOURNE 1 ’ •• • 279-381 Sent Street
AEWCASTT e 342-348 Swanston Street
BRISBANE ' W’• Y V S au J * t* ra 3V Ltd., Scott Street
4DELATDE R^\ d - & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
HOBART '• Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
at K - Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
_ALSO AX FREMANTLE AND KALGOOBLIE.
%
om ►
Speed up your riflel
with Remington.
Hi-Speed Cartridges
LOADED with progressive powders and a new copper
Section
jacketed bullet developing high velocity and
power. A bullet which mushrooms effec-
tively after striking the game.
Neiu Loads for alt standard rifles
in the following calibres
•25/20 Win., Mar. & Rem. .32 Spec. Win & Mar.
, • «
.25 Rem. (Rimless)
•25/35 Win. & Sav.
.30/30 Win., Mar. & Sav.
•30 Rem. (Rimless)
.32 Rem. (Rimless)
.35 Rem. (Rimless)
.38 Win., Mar. & Rem.
.44 Win., Mar. & Rem.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. BRYANT, Representative /
686, Melbourne, v
1
t.
prompt measures to
correct disorders of a dyspeptic
nature such as Sluggish Liver, causing bilious-
ness ; Disordered Stomach, with its attendant
sick headache, indigestion, loss of appetite,
flatulence; Inactive Bowels from which
constipation, impure blood and languor arise.
There is nothing more beneficial for the
purpose than a course of Beecham’s Pills, a
medicine of proved utility, safe and certain in
effect. A high percentage of all general illness
has its beginnings in irregularities of the
important functions of nutrition —the cause of
much suffering, lack of energy and depression.
The remedy which has proved efficacious
in many thousands of cases
is the world famous
f
Shoot to kill with
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HO
?77 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
OBE
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
Nobel Industries Limited are Exhibitors at the British Empire Exhibition.
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
fi
WOLFFS
0
r«
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN’* HB
MADE
sdfsd
Your engine will run at its
best if it is fitted with
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
They give maximum power and con-
sistent service under all conditions.
ODG
Every part of every model
of the Lodge plug is of
British manufacture
All Lodge plugs are packed
in sealed metal boxes•
Refuse otherwise .
*
Lodge plugs are obtainable
from all accessory dealers,
garages and stores, in different
models to suit all makes of
engines. State name when
buying.
Illustration shows
7/8-in. regular
(model CT3).
Price 5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
LODGE PLUGS
STAND N 9103
MOTOR SECTION
BRITISH
EMPI RE'
EXHIBITION
WEMBLEY
April—Oct 1924


59 orn 182 o— ——
Still going Strong !
The big recommendation
for “ Johnnie Walker ” is
inside the bottle. Purity
and maturity are the
main essentials for
Whisky you will
always find them in
“Johnnie Walker ??
1
l
f ’Xaf
A
V
If
Guaranteed same quality
all over the world
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
John Walker & Sons, Ltd.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland
