

mmim/miiiiiiii
'Miffifiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiimiififiiiiiiijiiiirf/niiiiifiiiii
1 11 1 11 1
V.
r
: 3
X
nntii&ui
imiiiirili
J
-
.
m
aV:
i
BgMil • £
W 1 I
' -W .• W#
' 1 - - *
v ■ B ■ o#i if
■ : ' . ■
■ .
X :
X
• . -XX
:■
*
\
IliillllllllllllftlllllllllllllllllllllllllllK
\
jiiiimiimiiiiimiiinmm=
A
K
U
KUBRA HATS
EEP THEIR
SHAPE.
P TO DATE,
gEST QUALITY,
R
A
ELIABLE
COLORS,
USTRALIAN
MADE
V/
HATS
Australian*Jsieide
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2302.
Thursday, March 27, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for our Library Catalogue, also
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,’ LTD.
428 George Street, Sydney.
MANGROmE
Mangrovite Belting
Conserves Power.
The tireless efficiency with which Mangrovite performs its
djuly task stamps it as one of the most reliable beltings
on the world s market. Built by experts for unequalled
service it is one-of the most economical to use. Trv it nn
your mam drive. u
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director, '*
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY,
Engineers and Colliery Supplier Co., Ltd.
: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane
SOUTH E AUSTRATTA F ' T a K P ’ Street, Christchurch.
bOUIH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA : W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
«*
?9
Self - filler
The strongest and
most reliable self-
filling pen offered
at a low price . . .
The new “ Blackbird ” Self-
filler has a chased vulcanite
holder, a safety screw-cap, and
is fitted with a 14-ct. gold nib,
tipped with iridium ; supplied
in any style of point to suit
your individual requirements®
Self-Filling QffL .
“Blackbird ’ >*/0 (postage extra)
Non-self-filling 7/6 ~
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS
AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue Post Free
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House, 133 & 133,
Oxford St., London, W.l. and at Manchester;
Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Johannesburg, Barcelona,
Sydney, Wellington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative ;—
J. A. Burke. 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George
Street. Sydney,
*«*» 3
lA*'t
•••
?* 000
00*1
the supreme
Sunbeam
NEW MODELS
14/40 h.p.—
Four-Cylinder
20/60 h.p.—
Six-Cylinder
SIB
20/60-h.p.
Six-cylinder Touring,
Both these Mode/s are Equipped with Six Brakes
(System patented.)
biiilt in the heart of England, this super-excellent Gar, of
- 1 Phenomenal speed, is designed to withstand the wear and tear of the
J oads - SIX BRAKES (system patented) OF PROVED
are standardised, and the whole ensemble typifies the
thoroughness and excellence of British Workmanship.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO. LIMITED
Works: Wolverhampton.
EXPORT DEPT.: 12 Princes St., Hanover Sq., London, W.l, Eng.
™tJ 1 . oriBe d Dealers : —Adelaide Motors, Ltd., 173-175 a, Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
® ros -> 822 George Street, Sydney. The Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd.,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne. Howard Motor Co., Ltd., 376-378 Queen
Street, Brisbane. Arthur Anderson, Ltd., 1056 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
sd
QISEH&
THEY COME AS A BOON S A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK. THE CWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
fsd
fd
••
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
a
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price 1/.
The Red Page
Pierre Loti’s “Journal Intime”
From the time of leaving L’Ecole Navale
and setting out on his first cruise to the
ends of the earth, Pierre Loti religiously
jotted down his thoughts, copied out every
letter received or sent, and described scenery
and incidents wherever his ship might be —
Tahiti, Senegal, Stamboul, Japan—and from
this treasure-house he drew most of his pub-
lished work without having to alter his prose
to any appreciable extent. Having even as
a very young man a genius for word-painting
and for economy of language, his colorful
and vivid early romances still maintain their
savor and interest; and in order to appreci-
ate Pierre Loti ; Fragments de Journal
Intime, arranged by his son, Samuel Viaud
(Calmann-Levy), it is necessary to re-
peruse four of them, viz., “Aziyade,” “Le
Roman d’un Spalii,” “Le Manage de Loti”
and “Mon Fr&re Yves,” which were pub-
lished in that order, though “Le Manage de
Loti” was written first —when he visited
Tahiti at the age of 22 as an “ aspirant de
la premiere classe” on the frigate La Flore,
in 1872. He might have let his readers
know why he dedicated this island romance
to Sarah Bernhardt; but the diary is silent
on the subject. There is nothing about the
joys and penalties of literary composition:
no mention of books, or contemporary
writers, and no elation at launching a first
book on the world.
His early romances are terribly tragic in
their endings. Aziyade dies of a broken heart
in Stamboul, Rarahu perishes miserably of
phthisis in the streets of Papeete, Fatou-
Gaye dies horribly in the African desert
after having choked her baby with sand; the
only one that finishes on a note of hope is
“Mon his lovable sailor cre-
ation Yves Kermadee, conquering the demon
Alcohol and living happily with his wife
and children. There is an entry at the end
of the book notifying that Yves gets promo-
tion through the influence of the writer and
in spite of the black mark against him for
assaulting the master-gunners of the Medea.
Although the _ keynote of Loti’s romances
is tragedy—he is always reflecting, too, on
the brevity of life and the vanity of human
purposes—there is occasionally an almost
childish delight in the joys of existence, and
he has always a tender heart for all living
creatures, with a true sailorman’s extrava-
gant predilection for cats. (And what names
he gave the endless number he had at Roche-
fort! I remember M. Souris, Dame Gre-
biche, Baronne des Gouttifcres, and his special
favorite, La Supr€matie. His favorite cats,
when they died, were always solemnly buried
in the courtyard of his house under a rose-
tree.) Over all he wrote there brooded a
gentle and wistful melancholy that he was
unable to shake off for any length of time;
there was a strong tincture of Oriental fatal-
ism and mysticism in his character which
deepened with years. He loved the Turks,
too, and hated the Greeks. Of the dozens of
his pictures that remain in the mind the one
that first springs forward is of Achmet,
Achmet a real Turk, and Loti dressed as
one, immoderately laughing in the streets of
btamboul over a jew de mots in Turkish, to
the horror of passing Turks, who excused
the scandal by regarding them as children.
From Tahiti his ship sailed to Senegal,
where he remained for a year, and where he
occupied his time gathering material for his
terrible story, “Le Spahi,” besides engaging
m a very sentimental interlude with a mys-
terious European lady who departed sud-
denly for Paris, leaving Loti heartbroken
and a prey to gloomy thoughts. The records
in the diary dealing with this episode were
destroyed by the author; but we are told
that there was an interview with the lady
afterwards, near Annecy, in Savoy, which
resulted in an estrangement for ever. To
get over this affair Loti sought distraction
m violent exercise and a mild form of
Bohemiamsm as the leader of “La bande h
Goto, at Joinville. Here he put in a course
or gymnastics and found great amusement in
the company of circus clowns and female
bareback riders. The circus life appealed
so strongly to him that it was not long be-
fore he made his debut as a clown, with a
large and admiring audience of friends, who
bombarded him with bouquets as big as
Breton cakes, oranges, cats cut out of card-
board, and other toys as a tribute to his ver-
satility in the ring. The description of his
get-up—the tights came all the way from
a fashionable maker in Milan—is in Loti’s
very best pictorial style. The spoils were
afterwards collected and transferred to his
cabjn on the Couronne. He was mightily de-
lighted with his success in the circus, but
his mother damped his ardor —she had “ex-
pected better things” of him. “La bande a
Golo (the Monkey Push would be the Eng-
hsh equivalent) met nightly at a low tavern
called Le Lapin Saute, which was situated
at the bottom of a garden smelling of syringa
roses. Disguised as policemen, impos-
sible dandies, sham sailors, they indulged in
frivolities and horseplay till all hours, and
became a terror to peaceable folk.
When the French and German consuls
murdered by the Turks at Sajonica in
1870 Loti s ship, the Couronne, was ordered
there, and his first job was to take out to
sea in a boat, under the eyes of the Turks, a
dead body sewn up in a sack. Here he had
a brief love episode with Aziyade, whom he
immortalised in his novel, and whom he wor-
shipped to the end of his life. Many years
afterwards in his series of dwellings at
Rochefort —Loti bought up the adjoining
houses one by one and converted them to
special uses—he had a real mosque sacred
to Aziyade, with two tall tapers burning
before the marble obelisk he had erected to
her memory, and in the adjoining Turkish
salon was her miniature in an exquisitely-
chased gold frame, with a verse from the
Koran underneath. It is quite true, too
that he had her grave cared for by devoted
Mussulmans, and that sweet-scented flowers
from the cemetery were despatched every
year to Rochefort. After the Aziyade
romance Loti became very depressed and
seriously thought of abjuring the world and
entering the monastery of La Trappe. In
fact, he actually lived there for some time in
silence and meditation; but, apparently, the
pleadings of his sister Marie and his mother,
who was a staunch Huguenot, prevailed, and
he left the monastery, and smoked cigarettes
and drank cider in the country taverns in
celebration of his newly-found freedom.
For several years before his death Loti
was in a pitiable condition physically. An
attack of cerebral haemorrhage had left him
with right-sided paralysis, accompanied by
aphasia, which after an interval partially
cleared up, the curious fact about his return-
ing speech being that the first words he
uttered were in the Turkish tongue. In an
admirable article published in the Revue
des Deux Mondes, Loti is seen receiving a
deputation from the Angora Assembly,
headed by Madame F6rid Bey, which had
come to present the friend of Turkey with a
carpet woven by the Turkish orphans of the
war. He was seated huddled up in the dark
mosque lighted only by the two wax tapers,
and had to be raised by two attendants. A
chance remark showed that, notwithstanding
his bodily affliction, he had not forgotten any-
thing about his love romance in Turkey.
Madame Ferid Bey, knowing nothing about
the history of the miniature, said she sup-
posed he had forgotten all about the lady,
which drew a reply from Loti that her name
would be the last thing effaced from his
memory on the approach of death.
L.G.D.
A Book About Mormonism
Stuart Martin, in his Mystery of Mormon-
ism, has had a difficult task to perform in
holding the scales of Justice even as be-
tween the histories of Mormonism written
by biased partisans and the “exposures” of
Mormonism written by apostates and sens
tion-mongers. He shows in the choice of
title the hand of the artist.
Mormonism was evolved at one of tho
numerous times when new philosophiea
theories and religious schisms rent the Amer
can people. Out of these confusions hav
come the grotesque anti-marriage Shaker
the celibate Harmonists, the wife com
munists of Oneida, the Disciples, the Dan
ing Methodists, the Communistic Zionisms
and latterly the Free Lovers, all seeking
establish their kingdoms of eccentricitie
and absurdities. The year 1820 saw th
birth of Mormonism. With the pioneer
who drove their waggons to the Wild Wes ;
went preachers whose missions were a serie
of “revivals” the like of which have seldom
been witnessed. The great camp at Can
Ridge (Kentucky) was typical of the scene
which took place wherever these fanatica
outbursts occurred. In the Cane Ridg
camp nearly 25,000 persons would gathe
to hear the preachers of various sects, anc
it was common for the wave of emotion t
reach such a height that men and wome
fell to the ground moaning and acting as
demented. In these camps there were me
bruised and broken spiritually as well a
physically. This was the soil whence sprang
the cult of Mormon.
In the spring of 1820' Joseph Smith
claimed to have seen two glorious person
ages, in a glade near his father’s home
Manchester(U.S.A.), who assured him all th
then religious denominations were in error
Iu September, 1823, he received his crown
ing “revelation” from the angel Moroni, wh
told him of a “book deposited, written on
gold plates, containing the fulness of th
everlasting gospel,” and then disappeared
‘by way of what seemed a conduit righ
up into Heaven.” Smith professed to hav
dug out these plates, and to have translate!
their inscriptions written in the “reformer
Egyptian.” This was the origin of the
“Book of Mormon.” Since that date five
million professed believers have been bap
tised in the faith.
Like the early disciples of Mahomet, the
Mormons were essentially aggressive, with
the result that their settlements in Mis
s ? ur1 ’ and Illinois were raided, an)
they ultimately found it necessary to seek
a more remote and less vulnerable home
But before leaving Nauvoo (Illinois) Josepl
Smith received his famous “Polygamy Re
velation,” with its (special (injunction to
Mrs. Emma Smith that she should deal in
ladylike fashion with any handmaidens who
might be sealed unto” her husband. This
was the last straw; Mormon intrigue hac
already infuriated Nauvoo, and now Joseph
Smith and his brother Hyrum were done
to death by a wild mob that burst upon
them. The same night the remains of the
prophet and his brother were buried under
the Temple at Nauvoo.
Then rose a new prophet, Brigham Young
whose most notable feat was the leading of
the Mormon bands on their great trek west-
ward. Whatever the faults of Brigham
Young and his lieutenants may have been
it is impossible not to admire the iron resolu-
tion of the men who pushed their way
through sodden prairies, through flooded
streams; who braved cold and frost and
hail and the knife of lurking savages, and
allowed nothing to daunt them. “Scores
died on the way of frost-bite, and the road
V s Wlth graves - In winter quarters
alone 600 graves were dug, but with the
the pilgrimage commenced again.”
Salt Lake Valley was chosen as the goal on
account of its remoteness, and Orson Pratt
the “St. Paul of Mormonism,” was the first
to enter it. Religious services were held •
next day potatoes and grain were planted;
on the fourth day Brigham struck his staff
into the ground, exclaiming “Here we shall
build a temple.” The Great Temple stands
there to-day.
The trail of immigration from the eastern
States to California deeply disturbed the
leaders of Mormonism, and they made vari
ous spasmodic attempts to arrest or divert
it. The Massacre of Mountain Meadows
wherein a party of 130 immigrants were all
murdered save one, really arose from the
fear the Mormons had of an inrush of Gen-
tiles who might upset their social and reli-
gious polity. “Bishop” John D. Lee, a
Mormon elder and politician, was ultimatelv
arrested by the American authorities and
executed for instigating this crime. He left
a written confession of his guilt. Ultimately
(Continued on page 3.)


Jl
V
04
In
d
*
I
IS
* *
S’ ft
K>
A
r*\
M
*7
n&
s\ -
ms
=•' A>J
r
£
EVERYTHING FOR
THE MAN ON THE LAND
COSTS YOU LESS AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS
The low cost of Agricultural Implements at
Anthony Horderns’ is the reason why the
Man on the Land shops there. Not in the
first cost only do you save money, but in the
excellent service that reliable quality ensures.
Compare the prices and the qualities—and
judge the value of such examples as these:
No. I.—CHALLENGE PETROL OR
KEROSENE ENGINE, as illustrated. With
Wizard Oscillating Magneto. Its specifica-
tions are:—l \ H.P., 3f Bore, 5 Stroke, 475
R. P. Min., 6x4 Pulley, 20in. dia. Flywheel,
3001 b. Shipping Weight.
PRICE, Kerosene ... £36
PRICE, Petrol . , £32
CHALLENGE ENGINE, 3 H.P., 4* Bore,
6£ Stroke, 450 R. P. Min., Bx 6 Pulley,
2 2 in. Dia. Flywheel, 3951 b. Shipping
Weight.
PRICE, Kerosene > £44
PRICE, Petrol . . . £42
No. 2.—The “STANDARD” CONCRETE
BLOCK MACHINE, as illustrated, face
down type, makes block Bby 1 0 inches. It
contains no complicated parts, there are no
screws, springs, ratchets, cogs or gears to get
out of order. It is manipulated by levers,
which can be locked or released in a few
seconds. Will make plain or rock-face
bricks.
PRICE £l6/10/-
No. 3.—MAJOR SPRAY PUMP, as illus-
trated, with 12 ft. of Hose and Simplex
Nozzle. The pump sets low in the harrel,
and the cylinder is submerged. The
Agitator is Twin Paddle Type, and the air
chamber is made of 2 fin. wrought-iron cast-
ing, 32in. long. The valve chambers are
bolted, and easily removed. The diameter
of the cylinder is 2fin., and the stroke 4in.
PRICE £5/15/-
No. 4. THE NEW “NORCROSS” GAR-
DEN WHEEL CULTIVATOR, No. 2A, as
illustrated. Its cultivating attachment is the
famous “Norcross,” of extra heavy steel
prongs, admitted to be without equal as a
cultivating instrument. It pushes very easily,
and wing nuts permit raising and lowering
handle to anv angle, without the use of a
wrench.
PRICE : 21/-
No. S.—GRINDSTONES, as illustrated.
Complete, fitted on stand ready for use. A
good grindstone is essential to every man
on the land. Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices enable you to purchase economi-
cally.
SIZES. . Min. 16in. 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in.
PRICES. .41/- 42/- 43/6 46/- 54/6 56/-
No. 6.—THE O.X.D. ONE-HORSE
PLOUGH, as illustrated. Ploughs 7 to 8
inches depth and width. Weight 1 161 b. For
ease of handling, lightness of draft, and
absolute efficiency this plough is unexcelled.
Compare its remarkably low price.
PRICE £7/10/-
‘WIARD” GANG PLOUGH, for Orchard
ind Vineyard Cultivation. Chilled
douldboards, Sloping Landsides and Cutter
3 oints. Three-gang weighs 3001 b. Has
hree Bin. (No. 212) bottoms.
price & 187 ' 6
THE ECLAIR OR VERMOREL KNAPSACK SPRAYING
PUMP —holds about 3£ gallons. It will treat from 2\ to 3
acres per day, delivering from 33 to 70 gallons of solution per
acre, according to the aperture of the jet or nozzle employed.
Packed, 221 b.
PRICE £4/15/6
PLOMBE ACID PROOF. PRICE £5/17/6
BRASS ALLOY. PRICE £5
“WIARD” PONY PLOUGH, wood
beam, weight 401 b., ploughs 3in. to 3in.
deep, 6in. to Bin. wide; with wheel only.
PRICE . 77/6
Extra Shares. PRICE
CANTON GUARD LEVER HARROWS.
Two Sections, with Bar. 50-teeth
PRICE £8
60-teeth, including long bar—
PRICE £lO
BUFFALO PORTABLE FORGES, with
Geared Hand Blowers. Size of firepan,
18in.; height to top of firepan, 32in.;
44in. over all; dia. fan case, 12in.
PRICE ....... £lO/17/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


How Fast Can YOU
This Problem?
2 pcs. stone f 7" x
2 4" x 8" @ 13/6
per cu. ft.
Answer -------
fd
Have you got the answer?
An operator with a Burroughs Calculator
obtained the answer to this problem and
proved her work in half the time taken
by another clerk using pencil and paper.
This is evidence of the great speed and
the great saving in time effected by the
Burroughs Calculator.
You may not have this same problem in
your business, but you do figure invoices,
estimate costs, prepare wage sheets; in
fact you could possibly name a hundred
and one jobs where you must multiply,
add, divide and subtract. These are the
very jobs you can do faster with a
Burroughs Calculator.
If you are interested in saving money, it
will pay you to have a Burroughs Calcu-
lator demonstrated on your own work.
Such demonstration will not obligate you
in any way, but it will show whether
there is a place in your business for this
kind of a machine or whether you are
doing the work more economically now.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. &A. C. BERK LTD.
Challis House, Sydney.
Better Figures
maJce
Bigger Profits
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND
ADELAIDE PERTH
DUNEDIN
HOBART
CHRISTCHURCH
ROCKHAMPTON
WELLINGTON
o
ADDING-BOOKKEEPING-CALCULATING MACHINES
4J41


FOR COMFORT IN TRAVELLING
T
c
&
“ Qibraltarised ”
Wardrobe Trunks
The Hartman Gibraltarised Wardrobe Trunk is a
convenient, durable piece of luggage. Its complete
arrangement of hangers, drawers, etc., and the special
reinforcements of all edges and corners make it a
reliable, as well as handsome travelling companion.
Prices Medium Size
£25/10/- £27/10 /- £35/-/-
a
DAVID JONES
for Service
OPPOSITE G.P.0., SYDNEY
however, they found it would be to their
advantage to enter the Union even at tue
cost of accepting a Constitution prohibiting
polygamy and even bigamy. A convenient
“revelation” arrived which said: "Whatso-
ever I command you, if so be that your
enemies come upon you, so that you be not
able to do it, I will hold you guiltless. 11ns
divine dictum proved to be of immense ser-
vice to Mormonism. But their sincerity
concerning the abandonment of Pmyghmy
may be judged from the fact that in lolz,
the very year in which they proposed to give
it up, they elected to Congress George Q.
Cannon, the husband of four wives. Every
Mormon woman voted for the polygamist.
Brigham Young himself practised polygamy,
but lied about it in public, and had at one
time 23 wives living. Yet Brigham was
henpecked by one wife at least, and the
beautiful Amelia on one occasion threatened
to thrash him.
Mormonism has not really abandoned its
plurality of wives custom, but publicly pro-
fesses to have done so. The church is still
powerful in moral influence, in commercial
standing and in social power. Co-operation
and trading under church auspices became
a mighty factor in Brigham Young’s time,
and the boycott of Gentile firms is an estab-
lished institution. Yet it is impossible to
refrain from admiring the indomitable spirit
of the pilgrims who took up a desert and
made it a garden, who erected a beautiful
city in the middle of a waste and filled it
with fine residences and noble buildings.
P. AIREY.
The Spacious Days
In the Melbourne Public Library there is
to be found the epic story of one Antonio
Pigafetta, who sailed with Magelhan on that
first voyage round the world a little more
than 400 years ago. Of all books of travel
this is assuredly the greatest, for that it is
an eye-witness’s account of the most tremen-
dous achievement, with one possible excep-
tion, in the records of travel. Just 27 years
before Magelhan set out, Columbus had
broken through the veil of darkness that hid
the western from the eastern half of the
world. Columbus, in a five weeks’ voyage,
had discovered America, without knowing it
was America; he died in the belief that he
had struck some outlying islands of Asia.
The Portuguese Magelhan, sailing under the
Spanish flag—the one that the Italian
Columbus had sailed under —cleared up the
age-old mystery. He found out how far
America extended south, and by pushing
through the Straits named after him, and
thence battling across the previously-unsailed
Pacific —a run, as Pigafetta reckoned it, of
about 10,000 miles —gave the world for geo-
graphical purposes the shape it lias to-day.
It was a paralysing feat considering the
state of navigation in those times. The
largest of Magelhan’s ships was 120 tons
burden, and the smallest 80 tons. There
were no means of preserving fo9d such as
we have now; scurvy and semi-starvation
were fairly certain visitors if one was away
from port more than a few months. A really
skilful navigator could find out his latitude
by the sun; but longitude was largely a
matter of guesswork. And always, as night
fell, the superstitious mariners knew they
were getting further into the Unknown —into
a waste of sea believed to be peopled with
devils and like monsters. Even if you did not
believe much in devils (though everyone did
in those days) there was the absolute cer-
tainty that you vrere going to places in which
there was no succor and from which
no one had ever been known to return. Yet
the ships of this Portuguese —reduced from
five to three as he emerged from the Straits
-—pushed relentlessly on.
The Pigafetta narrative has a fascination
all its own. It is simple, matter of fact,
quite artless in its naivety. The writer was a
Venetian of good family and roving disposi-
tion ; not much is known of his antecedents,
but he was born about 1485, and in the
year Magelhan sailed—lsl9 —happened to
be in Spain, on what errand is uncertain.
He heard of an expedition about to sail
“round the world” —the objective must have
sounded to him like a joke—and offered him-
self as one of the company. He was allowed
to go in the captain-general’s ship, the Trini-
dad, as a kind of gentleman-companion and
secretary. He kept a diary which he says
he entered up every day during. the three
years (August, 1519 to September, 1522)
that the expedition lasted. It was from
this diary that his “True Relation” was
written up, and it is the translation of this
relation from the original Italian that the
curious can read in James Robertson’s Eng-
lish version in the Melbourne Library.
If there had been serial rights and lecture
engagements in Pigafetta’s day he would
have done well on his return. The really
remarkable thing was that he did return.
Consider that of the five ships, with 240 men
on board, who lost sight of the Spanish coast
on that far-off afternoon in August, only
one, with 18 survivors, staggered into Euro-
pean waters again. All the leaders, includ-
ing the superman Magelhan, were dead. One
ship, the Santiago, had been lost on the
eastern coast of South America; another, the
San Antonio, had deserted after being 12
months on the way; a third, the Conception,
had been burned after completing the Pacific
voyage, because there were not enough of the
crew left to man her; and a fourth, the
Trinidad, after getting as far as the Philip-
pines—thus touching the eastern fringe of
civilisation, and proving that circumnaviga-
tion was a possibility—failed in an attempt
to beat back across the Pacific to Darien.
Only four survivors of her crew reached
Spain. The 85-ton Victoria, with Pigafetta
on board, was the one that went the whole
round —and the only one.
This Italian must have been, among other
things, a miracle of endurance. He sur-
vived the terrible ordeal of the three months
and 12 days’ voyage from the Straits of
Magellan to the Ladrones, when half the
crews died of scurvy and starvation. He
records in matter-of-fact fashion that “we
ate sawdust,” and “the gums of the men were
so swollen that they could not eat. and so
died,” but “by the grace of the Virgin I was
not ill.” One would like to hear more from
him about Magelhan, whose iron will and
magnetic qualities had made this voyage pos-
sible : Pigafetta remarks of him in one place
that “no one in the fleet endured hunger so
well,” and in another, referring to his death
at the hands of the Philippine natives-—this
with an unusual burst of emotion they
killed our light, our leader, our true guide.
One would like, too, to get an idea of Piga-
fetta's own feelings when, after the unheard-
of voyage and the unprecedented sufferings
and the frightful tale of death, the coast of
Spain again came in sight. But there is no
fine writing in this narrative. The art ol
embellishment was to come later. He merely
records that on September 4, 1522, the Vic-
toria got into port, and on the following day
“1 went to church with the ship’s company
the few that were left —“to return thanks
to the Virgin.’'
A.J.B.
Lawrence and Australia
It is surely a surprising thing that an
English poet and novelist like D. H. Law-
rence, who could have spent only a compara-
tively short time in Australia, should have
felt so deeply and suggested so subtly the
essential spirit of the bush. Other literary
men of more or less distinction, such as the
historian Froude and the novelist Trollope,
have visited Australia and given their im-
pressions of the country and people; but
their books have no more than a slight his-
torical interest now. They were poor
observers and false prophets. TV ithout the
geographical names it would be difficult to
realise that Froude’s and Trollope’s books
were written about Australia at all. Francis
Adams did better; but he was too much in-
fluenced by the alien outlook of Gordon and
Marcus Clarke, who saw little beauty in
what they thought was a land of monstrosi-
ties because it was unlike England. The
outlook of Lawrence, a great English writer
of the modern school, is entirely different.
He entered and left the country quietly.
Few people knew that he had been to Aus-
tralia. It is amusing that when the arrival
of a third-rate commercial traveller is
solemnly chronicled in the newspapers, there
should have been no mention of one of the
most distinguished of modern English writ-
ers. But Lawrence had no desire to see any-
body. He preferred to go his own way in
perfect freedom and say whatever he wanted
to say. When he wrote “Kangaroo” he had
no thought of his Australian sales —or his
English sales, for that matter —but he pro-
duced one of the finest and most significant
books yet inspired by Australia.
No Australian has ever fallen more deeply
under the spell of the bush. To Lawrence
Australia is the most magical and glamorous
country in the world, and different from any
other country, stranger, more mysterious and
more difficult of comprehension than even
Egvpt or India or Sicily. His English hero,
Somers —a self-portrait of the author, per-
haps—has to escape in the end from Aus-
tralia because he has come to love it too
well. It was the country, not the people,
that fascinated him. He found the people
gentle, kindly and good-natured, but super-
ficial. Australia was the most democratic
country in the world, but he had lost alj
faith in democracy, which he thought had
failed miserably in the war. Bottomley be-
came the voice of English democracv, which
was strident, stupid and ignoble. For somd
time, then, Lawrence, or his mouthpiece
Somers, felt nothing but a bitter hostility to
the Australian: he felt he was closer to a
Neapolitan beggar, who at least possessed
something of the old charm of Europe, than
to the uncouth Australian. He felt doubt-
ful if it were possible for statesman or pro-
phet ever to make a great nation out of such
a people. But later he began to understand,
if not to sympathise with, the Australian
philosophy. The Australian had an indiffer-
ence which was something deeper than even
the fatalism of Asia. Nothing really mat-
tered. Deep down, from the very bottom of
his soul, he was indifferent to everything.
And the sensitive English poet felt the im-
pulse to take a little place near a bush
township, and have a horse and cow of his
own, and let everything go to Hell.
Lawrence has done some excellent por-
traits of Australian characters. Jack is a
fine study of a real Australian type. After
all, our critic says that when these men
do talk, they talk like men, not like babies.
But it is rather as a landscape than a por-
trait-painter that he excels. In his earlier
books his impressions and descriptions of
nature were always delicate and poetical.
Essentially he is a poet, and he has done
nothing finer than his evocations of the
Australian landscape. His sense of tone
and color and atmosphere is exquisite. The
description of the dawn coming up over the
Pacific is one of the most beautiful things
ever written of Australia. He sees the
strange mixed colors, never the primary reds
and yellows beloved of bad artists, and the
extraordinary delicacy of the sky, the most
beautiful sky in the world, for which, he
says, blue is too coarse a word.
Australia to Lawrence is a silent conti-
nent. It is a land of enchantment; one of
his characters says, “It is the loveliest thing
I have ever seen.” He writes of the “incon-
spicuousness of the landscape,” its aloofness,
with its beauty just beyond the range of
vision, the gentle animals, the unafraid birds
and the magic and glamor of the deep fern
gullies. He feels that Australia has never
yet been loved enough. So far it has been
treated crudely, more like a prostitute
than a bride or a mother nation. It
is the sphinx among nations whose
riddle is difficult to interpret. It is a subtle
and mysterious land, with an old and abori-
ginal beauty that has no relationship to the
more human charms of Europe or Asia.
What is Australia saying? Lawrence does
not know. Nobody seems to know. Yet
something magical is being said if human
ears could understand it. But it may
be centuries before the inner voice of Aus-
tralia, calling low, meets with a human
response.
LOUIS ESSON.
More Heresies
Jack Lindsay’s rejoinder (this ends it) :
Mueh has been said of the mysterious meanings I
give to words in my peculiar jargon of thought, by
people who give no meaning to any words. Certainly
I see that such denizens of the backblocks of intellect
as “H.S.” (R.P. 6/3/’24) cannot understand a word
I write ; but it is surely not too much to ask of any
critic that he should have a knowledge of the modern
utterance on any subject he treats ; and no one who
has read, even in the simplest relations, Freud and
Croce should have any difficulty in following me.
If he does not know Freud and Croce, then for him
to intrude on a discussion of psychology or aesthetics
is merely impertinent.,
As for the conventionally compiled list of geniuses’
immorality “H.S.” so obligingly gives, with the
addition of a new and deliberate mendacity with
regard to Rodin, I never said that creative minds were
sterilised idiots. Of course Burns got drunk and
seduced girls, but only a base mind could see any
connection between the laughing kisses of this noble
spirit and the febrile ravin of any moron who gets
into the newspapers. That “H.S.” is unable to detect
any difference is a confession that he is unable to
detect any difference between the action of his own
sexuality and that of the moron. He is apparently in
the same inquisitorial area of Time as that curiously
vile beast of prey, Max Nordau, and he carries some-
thing of the same odor of wolfish desire for blood. He is
apparently quite unaware of the new valuations by
Freud, by which all utterances can be traced uner-
ringly to their basis in self; or by Croce, which have
indisputably shown that the artist or poet is the sole
constructive force of all emotion and sensibility, and
of all Life. However, it is of little interest either
to me or to the public that “H.S.” should insist
so laboriously and naively that he is terrified of all
nudity and passion because they arouse in him a
desire to do certain wicked things.
As for the dogma of Beethoven’s religiosity, echoed
by “Hassan” from a thousand other pedants, I agree
completely with him that since he himself is dull and
solemn, Beethoven’s music also must seem dull and
solemn to him. For anyone to bring any emotional
imagery whatever to music must seem fantastic and
arbitrary to a mind that cannot draw any imageiy at
all from it. Since “Hassan” appeals to Beethoven’s
letters, I would like to point out that the only refer-
ences there to the founder of Christianity are jokes.
The letters, however, are filled with reverent and
loving references to Apollo and the Muses, so that
on their evidence we must accredit Beethoven as being
a devout believer in the Olympian hierarchy. What
these pedants mistake for religiosity in such minds as
Beethoven is the deep sense of personal destiny, of
Immortality. That Beethoven wrote the Third Sym-
phony to show how much harmony and counterpoint he
had learnt is an assumption, and I would only indi-
cate that it is a little strange that a man who was
so intensely interested in “sheer mechanisms” should
have though it worth while writing, “He who under-
stands the meaning of my music is-lifted above all
the sorrows of the world.” Still I will make this
concessiop to “Hassan”: there is no danger of his
ever plumbing that meaning ; he will never be accused
of bringing anything to Beethoven.
Moreover if, as has been so often prophesied, the
timidity and tired opacity called Wisdom by man
comes to me with grey hairs, I hereby make pro-
clamation that I will thereupon give all my goods to
the rich and do public penance in every cathedral m
Australia. Till then I hope I will be spared these
sage dissertations on my future repentance.
A Satchel of Books
The Waggon Wheel, by Wm. Patterson \Vhite
(Little, Brown and Co., Boston). A tale of the
wildest west, though quite easily reached by rail,
so that the city lawyer can turn up on short notice at
the scene of most of the butchery. He is the only
character that isn’t clothed chiefly m guns and
bowie-knives. The story has nothing to recommend
it but its slaughterhouse quality.
The High Place, by James Branch Cabell (John
Lane). Cabell grows repetitive. To borrow a phrase
of his fellow-countryman Saltus, whom he so resembles
in style and outlook, his is a Philosophy of Disen-
chantment. He assaults hypocrisy and stupidity
wherever he finds them, and in the world he explores
they are everywhere. On the present occasion the
dream-woman of his atrocious yet amiable hero,
Florian, turns out to be a maddening bore of the
type who figures in “The Cream of the Jest.” Cabell
has evidently suffered much from this variety of
female. The book is not exactly virgimbus puer-
isque; but, anyhow, there is nothing furtive about
its pornography.
The Loving Are the Daring, by Holman Day
(Harpers). A story of the country of rocks and
rivers, of woods and water, from which the 1 reneh
Canadians look across to the “dry” U.S.A., and
occasionally send a few gallons of spirits to keep
their looks company. A wonderful young man is
Jean the hero; but allowing for that, it is a good,
robust, w’ell-coristructed yarn, full of action, with
color and character-drawing, the scene pitched mostly
among an interesting people w'ho haven’t found then
way over-much into fiction.
The Chaste Diana, by E. Barrington (John Lane).
This is a romance written around the first Polly
Peachum. Lavinia Fenton had had very little stage
experience—in fact, she was only 18—when she was
engaged by Mr. Rich to play and sing the part of
Polly in “Mr. Gay’s very droll —what shall I call it?
—a farce, no! —-a comedy? Yes, but ’tis more of
a kind of an opera, so full of songs, only that the
hero is a highwayman, and the ladies —why, the less
said about the ladies and their honesty the better.”
Beyond the fact that Lavinia became first the Duke
of Bolton’s very good friend and then the impeccable
Duchess of Bolton, very little is known about the
lady ; but the author has introduced many characters
of whom something is known, and has thus built an
entertaining story of a period which at any rate looks
picturesque from a distance, though probably it was
confoundedly uncomfortable to live in—or would have
been if the people of the period had known what
comfort was.
Labor in India, by Janet Harvey Reiman (Allen
and Unwin). A study of the conditions of Indian
women in industry ; and that carries the writer into
the housing of the people, their health and their
standards of living. Generally speaking, the condi-
tions are worse than those who have fought for a
White Australia have represented them to be; and the
work of improving them is unbelievably hard. For
example: “During the time of childbirth and for 10
days afterwards, a woman is looked on as ceremoni-
ally impure. Nothing that is touched by her may be
used again. The oldest rags, and those generally
received from neighbors (for no one of her own family
may supply her with anything), are all that the
midwives are expected to use. If there is open
ground round the home, a small rude hut may be
erected for her, but in many cases a strip of the
living-room is walled off, and there, in stifling air,
without light, with no bed, with no sheets, the
midwife has to give what assistance she can. Some-
times a recess is built. The average size is 6ft. x 4ft.
with a roof that slopes from 4ft. in height to 2ft.
Of the midwives: “One thousand cases of childbirth
were investigated. Only 42 of these were attended
by trained midwives or by doctors. A small number
were attended by untrained relatives, and more than
900 by untrained hereditary dhais.” About half
of these dhais were barbers. The book is full of such
pictures; and there are, incidentally, sections on the
cot-ton and jute industries, both of special interest
to Australia.
“Sierra”: If “M.D.” (B. 6/3/’24), who accuses
Conrad of taking liberties with the moon, will re-
read “The Rover,” he will see that the ambiguous
phrase “The day-old moon” means the moon one day
past the full. This is made clear by many references,
thus; “Peyrol pictured her to himself, on the clouded
night, not so very dark, since the full moon was but
a day old.” In Conrad’s books I have never seen
the heavenly bodies mishandled; but his disciple
McFee, in “Command,” has one curious passage.
Spokesley watches the moon setting: “He smiled and
reflected that the moon would be gone in a couple
of hours, a red globe over Cordelia. In a few nights
it would set before nightfall.” A master mariner
who reflects that the full moon will set at midnight,
and that it will set still earlier in a few nights,
seems in imminent danger of losing his ticket.


V
*
d
l
>
*
in
e
M
The name tells you everything
When you buy tyres you want those
that give you maximum mileage at
minimum cost.
If the tyres you buy bear the name
GOODYEAR you are sure of these
things.
To-day the name GOODYEAR is
oji a better tyre than ever before—the
new Goodyear Cord Tyre with the All-
Weather Tread.
Embodying highest-grade long-staple
cotton, improved and long-wearing
rubber, heavier, stronger ply-unions and
other advantages—this new tyre is find-
ing favor everywhere.
With its reinforced All-Weather
Tread it runs more quietly and smoothly,
while preserving in full its celebrated
skidless traction.
It is the tyre for long, reliable,
economical mileages, whether on big cars
or small.
When you buy tyres, buy those whose
known excellence has made them the most
popular in the world. In other words,
buy Goodyears.
Service Stations and Dealers Everywhere .
f


Q
Keep the Soil
in a Retentive Mood—
Cultivate ! Cultivate !
OX)
W.
mi
€( Keep the soil in a retentive mood —if you would
ensure good crop yields.” This is the voice of
ripe experience the whole world through, yet too
often ignored in many parts of Australia. In a
country like our own, with its oft-recurring droughts,
the problem of conserving soil moisture, increasing
the supply of organic matter, and keeping the soil
in a good state of cultivation is recognised by
successful farmers to be an absolute necessity*
It is largely a question of soil tillage, of which the land gets
far too little under the laborious and costly methods of horse
traction. The only reason why better work is not done is
because there is not enough power on the farm to do it. The
Kerosene Farm & General PurposeTraolor
not only solves the problem of more frequent discing and
harrowing, but a much larger area can be placed under culti-
vation —often double as much —in the same time that the
horse team occupies. Moreover the CASE Tractor requires
substantially less labour to operate it, and can be worked for
much longer periods at a stretch. All of which means better
results and bigger profits.
Fallow frequently
—use both plough and disc with the CASE Tractor. It knows
no weariness, and makes all the difference between living to
farm and farming to live. The cost of installing a CASE
Tractor will pay for itself in two seasons.
Case Service
CASE Service is a tremendous advantage
to owners. Spare parts are always available
at all Branches, and being interchangeable
can be put together on the farm with ease*
Write for Catalogue ,
IS
<0
0W"
C3LL!"‘—
iizm s
=p!
Q
■*.
m
i
&Zt
i
Sole Australian Agents:
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
QUEENSLAND: Bowen Street (off Ann Street),BRISBANE.
Box 1036 G.P.O. ’Phone, 7591.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street, ADELAIDE;
also Graves Street, KADINA.
Branches;
new SOUTH WALES: 114 Goulburn Street. SYDNEY.
Box 2604 C.P.O. ’Phone. M3T64.
Sole Agents in West Australia: The
VICTORIA: Cor King &
Box 2049 G.P.O.
W-estralian Farmers, Ltd..
Flinders Streets. MELBOURNE
’Phone. Cent. 2114.
SCO Wellington Street. PERTH.
Box 674 G.P.0.; ’Phones, Central 6870, 8526.
Head Office: Richards Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.


r>— pi .
ho more inks in
f J
o
am
triizt
i
&
/"V %
V s 3
2\ V
PHI
fcffc-r
S: !<•:
& !
C&,
1&'
[HI
:
//j »
k
•VATI
•fes
r
ThelOlinch Foot
is obtainable witb ordin-
ary or Expanding Top,
and in all qualities from
Artificial Silk Le& at
2/11 to Pure Silk Ladder-
proof at 12/11.
The Expanding Top
is featured in Bond’s Pure
Silk, Sylk - Arto and
Heavy Artificial Silk
Hosiery and is embodied
in Stockings of all sizes
at 7/11, 8/6, 12/11.
WOVEN into every pair of bond’s
Australian Made Hosiery is the
earnest desire of its makers to meet
in better and ever better fashion the Silken Stocking
needs of Australian women. SERVICE in the
fullest sense of the term has ever been their watch-
word, and now comes the announcement of two
fresh features which immensely increase the comfort
and wearing, qualities of bond’s Hosiery.
tfkc 10 i inch (^ool
No longer need the woman who takes a larger-than-
average-size shoe put up with the discomfort and expense
inseparable from wearing stockings too short in the foot.
With the 10 ft inch foot ample room is provided and there
need be no fear of the unwelcome appearance of the
toes through the stockings after a few days’ wear.
jkc £xn<mc£i7ig3y
For the substantially built woman who is big above the
knee, the Expanding Top meets a vital need. Its
elasticity of structure ensures close yet completely easeful
fitting, while it greatly lengthens the life of the stocking,
preventing the Ladders and Holes which naturally follow
from an unduly tight top.
If you take a shoe, ask fov Bond’s Hosiery
with the 20j inch Foot.
If you require a wide-topped Stocking, ask for Bond’s Expanding-
Top Hosiery.
YOUR DRAPER WILL GLADLY SUPPLY YOU.
(jfycnihcljS
EOS
rrujc/c fo
or
ALL states & NEW ZEALAND
maids
BONDS HOSIERY - BONDS H HOSE FOR MEN*-BONDS TRu-SIZE UNDERWEAR


The Sign
of Good
Cutlery.
Jnoßak
*. 3
At the
House
of
Steel.
No. 90
W. -I no. Baker
finest Quality
and Finish,
extra Full
Hollow Ground,
Ivory Handle
Razor—
#in. wide . . 17/(5
-fin. „ . . 18/<i
Ain. ~ . . 18/(5
Each Post Free.
No. 77
W. Jno. Baker
Finest Quality
and Finish, Full
Hollow Ground,
Black Handle
Razor—
fin. wide . . 9/6
iin. „ . . 10/6
iin ~ . . 11/6
lin 12/6
Each Post Free.
No. 44
W. Jno. Balter
Good Quality
and I'inishj
Hollow Ground,
Black Handle
Razor —
fin. wide .. 7/6
fin 8/6
Each Post Free.
Many other patterns
from 4/6 each,
Post Free.
W. Jno. Baker Green Velvet and Leather
Razor Strops, worked up ready for use—
-5/ _; 6/-, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6 each Post Free.
Shaving Brushes from 2/6 to 18/6.
Name engraved on Razors, Ivory, 2/-;
Black, 1/- extra.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST
FREE TO COUNTRY ADDRESS.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ii
*
i
That “Well-
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Vilen’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r a d i-
eate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less ! All Chemists.
NSWSSi
MEXICAN |
I WALNUT STAINi
gsi0>2
Comfort and Safety
for the
RUPTURED.
Thousands of sufferers have reason to bless the day
they bought a Denyer’s Elastic Truss. It is the result
of long and careful consideration of the requirements
of ruptured people. It gives all the necessary sup-
port without any undue pressure.
Having no metal springs, being soft elastic, it never irritates, but is perfectly comfortable.
We are Truss Specialists and will fit you exactly. Call in and see us, or send for free Truss
Pamphlet sent in sealed envelope.
DENYERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney.
Marcovitch
\AvW
\\\\
#
#
Ask
t\[e ir\aq
who smokes them
HE’LL tell you that nowhere
can you buy a cigarette to
equal in charm and perfection
CHECK VIRGINIA CIGAR-
ETTES. Made by Marcovitch
of London, and wrapped in
tinfoil to retain their superb
qualities of flavor and aroma,
CHECK VIRGINIA CIGAIi-
ETTES are packed in distinc-
tive black and white check
boxes and sold throughout
Australia at 20 for 2s.
Your Tobacconist Sells Them.
VIRGINIA
Cigarettes
Sole Aaents tor Australia:
Scott. Hendeiison and Company,
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents:
Vic. —Alexanders, Pty., Ltd., Melb.
S.A. —Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide.
20
foir
V-
A ROYAL
SMOKE
df
ACTUAL SIZE
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
l?ost paid to any
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG g AITREN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Alt
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
Dependable
Marine Engines
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich., U. S. A.
ST balanceTo^
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanlcs-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit* MicliJISA
Cable Address-KERMATH —^n———
Edgeworth
TOBACCO
DOCS NOT BITE. THE TONGUE.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Spectral Troop.
Twilight yields the coast to darkness;
Darkness deepens more and more;
Far lights gleam, and, chanting, dirging,
Surges wash along the shore.
Sweeps a restless, roaming sea-wind
Through sand-grasses grey and sere;
Starless, yet with many voices,
Many tongues, the Night walks here.
Dunes upheaped by bygone tempests
Through the gusty blackness loom;
Vast and sullen, black and shapeless,
Break tall headlands through the gloom.
Northward clouds, a stricken legion,
Tattered, routed, panicked, fly;
Lightless, lifeless, lies the ocean,
Shipless, sail-less, ’neatli the sky.
Now or never is the moment
When dead sailors, drowned at sea,
Should arise, and, like the spindrift,
Shoreward venture spectrally.
Weeds and sea-ooze left behind them,
No more current-swept and tossed,
Silently they should re-visit
Lights and loves, long dimmed, long lost.
Hither, thither, they should wander,
Wind-like, to the winds akin;
Peering in through lighted windows
At the sheltered folk within;
Feeling once again old heart-thrills,
Such as oft in life they felt;
Watching women at red firesides,
Wondering much if still there dwelt
In their hearts some dear remembrance,
Some unfading memory—
Haunting, tear-stained, fragrant, treasured—
Of dead sailors drowned at sea.
On the rain-drenched sand and headlands
Wash the surges, dirging drear;
Starless, yet with many voices,
Many tongues, the Night walks here.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Thanksgiving.
And when I come to die at last,
When all the splendor’s done and past
Of Life, and the flame sinks to grey
Ashes, as dies the quiet day ;
When I have done with joy and grief,
Spring’s magic, and the scarlet leaf
Whirled in the w T ind, and the bright play
Of sunlight over flying spray;
When all fair things I love grow dim
To tired eyes—the lovely slim
Young moon ’mid stars, the glimm’ring cold
Twilight before the dawn grows gold—
I shall go, glad that I have known
Color and beauty, and the flown
Wings of delight... .and fall asleep
Glad to have drunk Earth’s glory deep.
FIJI.
A. SMITH.
Tide o’ Morning.
The gold day bathes in shallows pale of
pearl and misted rose;
And, like a poppy silken-white
From lost star-gardens of the night,
A wraitli-moon drowns in color foam where
tide o’ morning flows.
The seas of tide o’ morning break along the
coast of dreams—
Great, surging, silver-breasted waves
That lace the crags and cloudy caves
With spray of quintessential light in myriad
tinted gleams.
The glimmering silver strand of stars is
washed with opal mist—
A lucent splendor, fold on fold,
Shot through with iridescent gold,
A bridal veil for merry Day with elfin scarlet
lust.
A sea-green shadow, flecked with fire, the
fronded forest sleeps ;
And, magian gemmed with red and blue,
The softly-swaying bells of dew
Ring color music, caught from skies where
tide o’ morning creeps!
Last night my heart, a haunted mire, grew
blurred with sorrow’s rain;
Life seemed the gibe of one who mocks,
A fiend-propounded paradox
Etched in, liell-deep, on sense and soul by
fierce eroding pain.
The throbbing of the drums of dream from
valleys green as jade
Lured not, past Lethe’s waters white,
To gardens of the world’s delight,
My soul to which grief’s sleepless imps their
goblin fiddles played.
Stared hour on hour the awful stars, with
faces seared and wan,
Till, worn with thought and passion-spent
With wistful glooms of discontent,
I looked where, flushed with ghost of rose,
the tide o’ morning shone.
Then far and dim, beyond the world, up-
borne on morning’s flood,
I saw, from ports that none may guess,
The homing ships of happiness
Bound for the harbor of my heart with sails
as red as blood.
Then, wraithwise, slowly all dissolved; yet
glad of heart, I know
Some day when Life is lost and won,
Beyond the shadows and the sun,
They’ll come, those ships—come sailing
home with scarlet sails aglow!
Oh, tinted ripples churned to flame! Oh,
curving seas asway!
My heart’s a sunlit mere agleam,
And life a brave and joyous dream
Now tide o’ morning laughs in light along
the coasts of Day!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Svafsital
du
0A& cyuatify of the ttandu
dek&HcU oh, tOUe Mfute item.
- - dL&iitCect.
tifaftU jxtoduct Aw> the
of tb faik
taking jtface in a/iUtotfwtic
4jWUHincU4UM St 44
dldiited f&m. the
ydmita&U StssHfoicL witm
tb TKeii&W' ftuwx Mid
fate tHHUpaefc.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2302.
THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1924.
PaiCE OD.
ABANDONED?
BRITANNIA: “Think again, Ramsay, think again!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
* elbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
months, £ 1 6s.; 6 months, 18s. 6d.; 8 months, Is.
Jo any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, 8s.
Cheques, drafts t etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
V7/e contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly | reserved by the publishers.
I he Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co vmn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
1 optical. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
oi Sketches t those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3UjO words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
. 1 he Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
scma applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention Further, The Bulletin desires those
lending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
tnimorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
T^_St ; __C ; _Grondona J __Australia House, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.CJi; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High llolborn, London, W.C.l; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News . Agency, Salisbury ; Benoni Nev.'s
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s. 5th Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; The Schultz News Agency, 102 West 42nd
Street, New York; Washington: Liberty News
Co., Seattle, California; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— -Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon.—IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metro pole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., lid.; each,
additional 4oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 16oz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: .{oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 2oz., Id.
TTuTfyuileivTi,
THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1924.
SINGAPORE: WHAT NOW?
There is no need for Australia to take last
, i', , v. Tin/,1..
weeks abandonment of the Singapore Dock
project as the final w T ord on the subject. Ihe
new Labor administration which has succes-
sively jettisoned the capital levy, the revision
of the Versailles Treaty and disarmament
. , , , ..
had to make some concession to its sup-
porters, who imagine that a Power like Lng-
land, which won greatness by the sword, can
hold it with the Sermon on the Mount. It is
always easier to refrain than to act. Singa-
. . . T , , ft-
pore is a long way from London, where,,the
nation’s industrial tragedy is most in evi-
dence, and money spent in Malaya would
have done little to relieve British unemploy-
,
ment. In evciy way, , Singapoie was
an ideal site for a pacific gesture. To con-
elude, however, that the decision is final
would be to accent the views (1) that Britain
is prepared to get right out of the Indian
Ocean, which carries so vast a proportion of
its trade, and which washes the countries
tliat supply most of its oil; and (2) that the
British people are willing to see Australia
and Maoriland get out of the Empire.
# * * *
A measure of the rank ignorance in regard
to "the perilous position of the Commonwealth
which prevails even in reputedly knowledge-
able circles was supplied by Joseph Car-
buthers, who lias been a N. S. Wales Minis-
ter off and on for the past 35 years:—
The only satisfactory scheme for the defence of
British and Australian interests in the Pacific is in
the securing of an adequate white population in
Australia. The 20 or 30 million pounds proposed to
be spent on the Singapore base would produce better
results if the same money were spent in settlement
in the northern parts of Australia, or even in any
part of this continent. Until Australia is able to
defend herself, and she can only do that with an
adequate population, no naval base outside of Aus-
tralia will make iier safe. Man power is what we need.
Of course man-power is what we need. But
meantime: —
Experts all over the world agree almost unanimously
as to the capital ship being the kingpin of modern
naval defence. We have no capital ship, and no
right under the Washington agreement to start
building one during the next nine years.
We have no dock capable of taking a capital ship ;
no likelihood without the stimulus of another world-
war of finding a Government ready to build a dock
—an undertaking which at local rates of pay and
hours of labor might well run to the “20 or 30
million pounds” that Joseph Carrutiiers envisages
being spent at Singapore; no oil nearer than the
East Indies; no plant capable of turning out
the most modest type of naval or field gun ; no muni-
tion or small-arms factories worthy the name, and
not enough naval or military stores to last out a day
of warfare.
The position might be sound, nevertheless,
if there were anything in the theory advanced
during the recent defence debate in the House
of Commons by W. H. Ayles (Labor) that
“the nation brave enough to down its arms
iu the midst of an armed world would be the
only safe nation.” 'But if Mr. Ayles were
to insist on his working-class constituents
disarming industrially by disbanding their
unions he would inevitably be defeated next
time he stood for Parliament; and similarly
if the statesmen of Japan were to begin naval
or military disarmament, or, for that matter,
if they were to refrain from arming their
Empire to the full extent allowed by the
Washington agreement, they would be treated
as traitors. In accordance with this rule
Japan on April 1, 1929, will have 40 effective
cruisers in the North Pacific and thereabouts
as against Britain’s 32 scattered over the
oceans of the world, and 79 submarines com-
pared with the U.K.’s 31. Britain will not
be able to send a capital ship to fight east of
Suez till a dock is built to take ships of this
class. As to cruisers, those of Britain, with
the exception of the five provided for in the
latest estimates, will be obsolete in five
years. Japan, on the other hand, is now
building four 10,000-tonners which mount
8-inch guns and represent the limit in destruc-
tiveness permitted by Washington, four 7000-
tonners, and 24 of 1500 tons. The 1500-
tonners are frankly commerce-raiders. It
would be useless to urge on Japan the desira-
bility of abandoning work on these vessels
out of deference to the feelings of Britain or
Australia, whose sea-borne commerce is within
their ambit. The reply would be that the
world-war hinged on commerce-raiding and
a blockade, and that similar developments
must be expected in the next war, which
many good judges consider will be in the
Pacific. Such is the disturbing situation, and
for the Commonwealth to imagine it can be
met either by inaction or by importing immi-
grants at the rate of 10,000 or 15,000 a year
is to court destruction.
Our business and duty—certainly to pos-
terity, possibly to the present generation—is,
firstly, to take the advice of the British
Admiralty and revivify the R.A.N. As
Admiral Field put it, “each dominion should
build up a navy, according to the importance
of its trade routes.” He advanced two
further propositions:—
If there is to be an efficient Imperial Navy there
must be one command and one administration. That
appears to be perfectly true in wartime. If you
have strategical problems you must have one head
to decide the. best dispqsition for the moment.
And: — >tolL
The R.A.N. must see the fleet exercises in British
waters. Otherwise when war came the Imperial
Navy would not be as efficient as it would be if
Australian ships served a term with the British Navy,
when they could learn the latest tactics regarding
attacks by submarines and other forms of attack.
Australians recognised the need for a single
command in Flanders, and fought eventually
without complaint under a French general-
issimo. They will be making no new sacrifice
of national pride if they agree to their navy
being directed by a British admiral in the
event of another war. And this concession
carries with it the implication that the
R.A.N. must co-operate with the Imperial
machine at sea as the A.I.F. did on land.
Ships, guns, educational and training methods
all must be so standardised that at a
moment’s notice a Dominion fleet may be
welded into any part of the Imperial navy
anywhere in the world. This is not to say
that the R.A.N. is to be Anglicised. On the
contrary, the tendency, so evident of late
years, to import P.O.’s and other ratings, and
the disposition to force Australians out of
their navy at 40 while allowing men on loan
to carry on till past 50, will have to be dis-
countenanced, and the service made otherwise
attractive to the native-born. Once it is
understood that the politicians are serious
again on the question of naval defence there
should be no difficulty in attracting R.A.N.
recruits. And it should be equally easy to
create a public for the Singapore scheme,
which is the second great defence issue now
facing Australia. It is not dead, but shelved.
The majority of the electors of the U.K. pro-
bably never intended or desired that the chal-
lenge to participate in the scheme or perish
nationally should have been presented to us
so brusquely. The dock-building project was
to have insured our sea-borne trade as well
as that of England, and given us a Dread-
nought and a re-fitting and re-filling base;
and now that it has been dropped on the
score of expense, we have no excuse for
affecting to misunderstand the position. Like
so many of Life’s problems, it boils down to
a plain matter of money. Our term of loaf-
ing on the Mother Country is definitely
ended. We may elect to do nothing, as of
old, in which case, failing an offer of pro-
tection on terms (and they will not be light
ones) from the IJ.S.A., our existence as a
white nation is likely to be brief. Or we
may make proposals for financial and other
co-operation in the region where the mastery
of the North Pacific must some day be
decided which will by their adequacy and
sincerity sway a considerable body of British
opinion against Labor-pacifism. At the
moment Britain is listening for a message,
waiting for a sign.
HARWELL AND OTHER S.A.
TROUBLES.
In South Australia, where a general election
is due on April 5, half a million people have
contrived to extract a decent living from a
country deficient in gold, coal, tin, forests,
fisheries and natural harbors, and with a
relatively small area of good land. The com-
munity is not rich, but it is intelligent and
efficient, and. immensely proud of “South
Aus.” Strikes are rare, and many of the
wage-earners own the comfortable houses
they live in. There is a Labor party, of
course, but it never mentions “the class-war”
or sighs for the day when a guillotine will he
set up in Rundle-street, and a statue of
Lenin placed in North Terrace. The least
revolutionary of Labor parties, its financial
proposals, as outlined by its leader, John
Gunn, are that the country should live within
its moderate income and extinguish the
public debt by means of a sinking-fund; its
agrarian policy provides for the resumption
of large estates “at the valuation for taxa-
tion purposes plus 10 per cent, and the
value of the improvements,” that small
farmers, a most conservative class, may be
established thereon. And its bitterest griev-
ance against Barwell, the Liberal Premier,
is that he has no more reverence for the
White Australia principle than Garden or
Walsh. But if S.A. is exempt from noisy
bands of communists who communicate with
Moscow, and from quarterly coal strikes and
annual shearers’ strikes, it has other troubles.
The 1921 census disclosed the thought-pro-
voking fact that 51.84 p.c. of the population
lives in Adeliade. Wheat-growers and wine-
producers are vexed with doubts about the
future of their industries. The former are
wondering whether the price of wheat will
fall to an unprofitable level; the latter
whether Prohibition by bare majority w T ill
compel them to dig up their vines, which
yield three-fourths of the wine made in the
Commonwealth. And the soldier-settlers in
the Central State are no better off than else-
where. In the boom days of the Murray
Valley, when De Garis was in his glory, and
there was no thought of over-production or
tumbling prices, many of them were placed
on irrigation blocks to grow currants and
raisins—and to experience now the harshest
effects of the slump.
Largely because of the expenditure on
soldier-settlement the S.A. Government is in
financial difficulties. In 1920-21 it increased
the public debt by £4,890,271; in 1921-22 by
£5,189,119, and in 1922-23 by £4,760,272—a
total of £14,789,662 (£29 4s. per head) in
three years. The loan estimates for the
current financial year reached the dizzy figure
of £7,296,370, of £l4 4s. per head. Portion
of the 22 millions is war-service-homes expen-
diture, which the State is entitled to recover
from the Commonwealth Government, but the
immediate result of Barwell’ s loan-drunk,
as far as the present-day taxpayer is con-
cerned (his children will express their
opinion in due course), is that the interest
bill has gone up £738,712 in three years. In
addition, there has been what the Premier
calls “an enormous increase in the cost of
administration, due to higher wages and con-
siderably higher prices of material,” and
claims for still higher pay have been made
by, or are expected from, about 10,000
manual laborers employed by his Government,
as well as the public servants and the police.
The situation is “increasingly difficult,” as
Barwell admits; but beyond the futile pro-
posal that the Commonwealth should “evacu-
ate the whole field of income-taxation” (and
presumably collect the war interest and sink-
ing-fund payments by means of a tax on
postholes), he suggests no remedy. The
Government, it seems, is “contemplating
further economies,” and is relying in this
connection on Webb, its Chief Commissioner
of Railways; but that gentleman, however
capable, cannot perform miracles even with
the aid of the American railway material
which the Administration is importing, to the
detriment of its own manufacturers, who
pay S.A. taxes —the Americans don’t. And
in anticipation of “the economies,” of which
details are withheld, £50,000 p.a. is to be
sacrificed by the abolition of the tax on
amusements, although it involves no hardship
to anyone and is easy to rake in. Judging
by their policy speeches, the Labor leader
has a much better grasp of the financial posi-
tion than the Liberal Premier, whom he
accuses of having debited to loans what
should have come out of revenue. Gunn
also says he will do away with the amuse-
ments tax, but only when “Labor accom-
plishes its task of adjustment” and “places
the chaotic finances on a proper basis.” He
proposes a graduated tax on land values, a
revision of the income-tax — i.e., increased
exemptions for small incomes and higher rates
on large ones, a three-years’ average to be
struck in every case—and, by way of dimin-
ishing the cost of government, a reduction of
Assemblymen from 46 to 35. There is honest,
at any rate, and the circumstances are such
that increased taxation is probably unavoid-
able. The difficulty about Gunn —it applies
to all Labor parties with a history of ex-
travagance—is whether he can be depended
upon to practise in office what he preaches
in Opposition. .
At the last election, three years ago, Bar-
well’s party had an easy win. On this
occasion it is experiencing a rough passage.
Not only has S.A. Labor regained a lot of
its old strength (that was shown in Decem-
ber, 1922, when it captured the three Senate
seats), but a Country party has arisen, and
the tactless and intolerant Premier has suc-
ceeded in antagonising it. Barwell’s atti-
tude is that the Cockies, being a third party
(he hates third parties), have no right to
exist. Acting on this belief he refused to
introduce preferential voting in place of the
undemocratic first-past-the-post system,
which other States have discarded, hoping
that the Cockies would be crushed between
the Liberal Union and the A.L.P. as the
Labor conscriptionists who called themselves
“Nationalists” were crushed in 1921. But
the Farmers are made of sterner stuff than
the Nationalists, some of whom, being
accommodating gents., are now standing as
Liberals, and Barwell has gained nothing
by his tactics —unless it is the knmvledge
that he has made it impossible for tire
Cocky party to work in with any Govern-
ment controlled by him. The Cockies are
running candidates for 18 seats. Labor is
contesting 36, and four Labor members have
been returned unopposed ; in two constitu-
encies electing four members the issue is
between the Cockies and the Libs. There
is no alliance between the Opposition par-
ties, but to secure a renewal of his Pre-
miership Barwell will require to beat both,
and it will be a very considerable perform-
ance if he succeeds. However, the job of
steering South Aus. through its financial
straits is not one to be coveted to any extent.
A rocky time is ahead of whatever "Govern-
ment issues from the general election, whether
it is a Liberal Government, a Labor Govern-
ment, or a Lib.-Cooky (or Cocky-Lib.)
arrangement, with Barwkli, excluded.
A TROUBLE AMONG CROOKS.
After rather more than 80 years of pre-
selection of Parliamentary candidates by
secret ballot, some Laborites show signs of
being weary of the system, especially in N. S.
Wales, the State where the moral stench is
worst, and also the one where it struck the
human nose first. The revolt inside the party
isn’t wholly ascribed to any desire among
the party bosses to supply the country with
less crooked government, for so long as
Labor is in office there is a general impres-
sion inside the party that the real object of
politics has been achieved. But too many
competitors learned the way of the game.
The skilled little coterie of original crooks
who invented, for their own profit, the
imaginary or ghostly league member, ami
the bogus ballot paper, and the stuffed postal
vote, and the double-bottomed ballot-box,
found themselves swamped by the influx of
new crooks who also wanted the profit. The
cost of managing the secret election became
excessive, and (for the losers) disastrous,
and the whole thing threatened to become a
rich man’s perquisite, if rich men chose to
make it so. .Not only did the w r rong crooks
win, but the defeated ones or dissatisfied
ones began to make revelations, which were
not only likely to scare away the “sympathy”
vote, but might bring down legal interfer-
ence. It was alleged in a casual way that
half or more of the Parliamentarians who
kept N.S.W.’s Storey-Dooley Cabinet in
office (and naturally the worse half) were
usurpers, with no proper right to make laws
at all. The attitude of Labor bossdom was
that it was all a purely internal matter;
that this situation, if it existed, only affected
the right men who would have been in if the
wrong men hadn’t been quicker off the mark;
and that the cleaning of the Labor premises
w r as Labor’s exclusive concern. Even if the
majority section which ran the majority
party which ran the country was made up
of corrupt adventurers, and the power be-
hind the throne which made the policy was
of equally dubious origin, it has been held
consistently that the people who suffer and
pay the bill have no right to complain, save
those who are Laborites themselves —and
they don’t pay much of the bill. No Gov-
ernment has ever laid down the obvious
truth that the State has the same right to
receive the nominations, and issue the ballot-
papers, and supervise the polling and count
the vote at a pre-selection ballot as at the
official poll. Yet in a “safe” constituency
the pre-selection ballot is the real thing, and
the official poll is a mere form.
At the coming A.L.P. Conference it is
known that an attempt will be made to
abolish pre-selection ballots, and it is pre-
dicted that there will be a majority in favor
of the idea. It is also predicted that pre-
selection ballots will go on just the same, for
they are embedded in the Labor constitution,
and a two-thirds majority is required to
drag them out. Therefore, when the party
gets its next turn of office, N. S. Wales may
be governed by the same old secret diplo-
macy, the same swindles, the same midnight
intrigues, and the same crooks —only grown
worse with time and wear, as crooks and
clothes and meat all tend to do. That is to
say, it may so expect unless the community
claims that it is an interested party. And
the Commonwealth may look for the same
kind of bad hick unless it enacts that all
parties, like all States, must cut their elec-
tion methods according to a uniform pat-
tern, and prescribes the pattern. As regards
the A.L.P. Conference itself —the body
which not only attends to matters like the
foregoing, but makes the policy and keeps
the conscience of Labor —it is freely alleged
that all the known dodges of the past and
some new improvements are being employed
to pack it with delegates of a special hue.
The capture of the tame and obedient move-
ment by the Communists is prophesied with
remarkable confidence. And the Commu-
nist doctrine nowadays is a comprehensive
thing, made in Moscow, providing for the
admission of black, brown, yellow and
assorted peoples on a most liberal scale, the
only qualifications demanded being that they
will join the union and the party, and insist
on tbe full white-man’s wage. It doesn t
apparently matter if they come in such num-
bers as to flood the labor market provided
they subscribe to the Moscow faith and
demand the full white-man’s wage. The
idea is apparently to form a colored Bolshe-
vik army of occupation, and if such an army
was warranted not to revolt and hang its
leaders it should be a very serviceable
weapon. How far Communism has got m
the way of “white-anting” the Labor house,
so that it will collapse “all at once and
nothing first,” is a matter of many specula-
tions.
The Communist crowd would look even
worse than it does, supposing such a thing
were possible, if the other two crowds were
less unsatisfactory on the population Q ues "
tion. Orthodox Labor is opposed to colored
immigration, but it is equally opposed to the
encouragement of white settlement. It pro-
fesses to approve of it cordially, but always
with the proviso that the very last local un-
employed must be well and permanently pro-
vided for before the approval begins to work,
even if he be the sort who would rather die
than be employed. The Nationalists of one
sort and another are strongly in favor ot
desirable white immigrants, provided they
are all crowded into the fairly well-filled
south and south-east of the continent, where
the colored danger hardly exists, and where
the hazard of a claim that the place is for-
feit for lack of “effective occupation doesn t
exist at all. But apparently they would


rather see Australia perish than bestir them-
selves to make the North accessible and
defensible, though the South-to-Nortli rail-
way is not only essential for defence but is
an obligation in which the public honor is
involved. The Federal sentiment is such a
feeble thing that because a place like the
Territory belongs to all Australia it is held
as belonging to no one at all. The Commu-
nists, with their nefarious nigger-influx
policy, can at least say that they have a
policy, and one with some energy behind it.
The N.S.W. Government, representing
the State in which the Communist trouble
is most likely to be argued to a finish, issued
a sort of programme the other day against
the time when Parliament loafs back into
session after a good many months’ holiday
on full pay. It contains many odds and
ends, including a Marriage Amendment Bill,
which should be a Federal affair, seeing that
all the local tinkering in the world leaves
the six States still with their six conflicting
laws. Three matters of iirst-class importance
are, however, left out, probably as involving
too much trouble. One is the abolition of
the system, under which casual vacancies in
the Assembly are filled by nominees, so that
an objectionable and undemocratic policy
which the Ma State thought it had got rid
of over 70 years ago has crawled back again
when little expected. The object of a second
measure should be to restore complete State
control over the elections, by putting pre-
selection ballots under the control of the
State returning-officers, and ruling out every
candidate who claims to be pre-selected, yet
is not officially certified as the genuine and
honest article. Even if the A.L.P. Confer-
ence has an idea of ceasing to furnish the
State with crooked rulers chosen amid a
cloud of scandal, it may fail to reform itself,
or it may not stay reformed. Anyhow, it is
more dignified for the community to clean
its own house. And as a third reform, more
urgent than even the promised bill concern-
ing advertising hoardings, there is a call for
a salaried Upper House, elected like the
Senate by the people as one constituency, not
capable of being swamped, and, by reason of
the fixed outlines of the constituency, prac-
tically gerrymander-proof. The fierce demand
for Upper House seats among persons with
little visible means of support except the
honorary billet has become a mystery, and
the continuance in the House of respectable
but wholly uninterested patriarchs has be-
come a scandal. Failing some essential re-
form, even at the risk of delaying the
Advertising Hoardings Bill, an unexpected
development may land the Communist and
Red Objective party in office, and its wonder-
ful double-bottomed pre-selection ballot-box
may fix it there for quite a while.
THE VAGRANT AND THE LAW.
According to Black, stone, the ancient
statutes described the vagrant and his fel-
lows to be “such as wake on the night and
sleep on the day, and' haunt customable
taverns and ale houses and routs about, and
no man wot from whence they come, ne
whither they go.” He has not altered his
habits since those days; he has elaborated
them, but in essence he is the same old
vagrant. Perhaps the psychologist could tell
us whether there lies at the base of life the
instinct of the nomad; probably few of us
but have felt, in time of stress and strain,
some yearning for the open road and the
care-free life of the wanderer. His “tramp !
tramp!” has found a place in music, and
novelists have woven about him much ro-
mance. All the same, he is a nuisance in
our ordered life, and the law has been hit-
ting at him for many generations.
One would scarcely think of turning to
Martin Luther for information about the
rascal; but as a matter of fact he is the
authority for the earliest known category of
vagrants. In “The Book of Vagabonds and
Beggars,” edited by him and published in
1529, he gives a very comprehensive list of
the various classes of vagabonds then roam-
ing the Continent. Many of them we can
recognise, though others, such as "knaves
with falling sickness,” hangmen full-up of the
job and retired, alleged “noblemen and
knights in sore poverty” we do not meet
every day. There is, however, one class,
“goose-shearers,” whose members may still
be met in any of our daily walks. They were
then, and still are, the plausible beggars who
only want a little temporary assistance to
enable them to procure employment. They
are still in search of it—and daily the goose
is shorn.
The Act 5 Geo. IV. c. 83, which embodied
.and extended previous legislation, is the
foundation of our own law concerning
“sturdy beggars.” That Act divided the
whole body into three classes: idle and dis-
orderly persons, rogues and vagabonds, and
incorrigible rogues. For each class the ’
penalty was imprisonment, and for the last-
named there was the addition of a whipping.
The modern Vagrancy Act in force in N. S.
Wales —and other States have something very
like it—has done away with the old classifi-
cation, though embodying its distinctive
offences.. Of course there is here no penalty
of whipping, “at the cart’s tail” or other-
wise, and some of the minor offences are
made punishable by fine or imprisonment
instead of by imprisonment alone. But for
the typical vagrant, the gentleman who has
“no visible lawful means of support,” or
“insufficient lawful means,” and who fails to
“give a good account of his means of support
to the satisfaction of the justice,” the penalty
of imprisonment “without the option” still
remains. Nowadays nearly every other kind
of petty offender gets the cherished privi-
lege of “the option.” To the vagrant it is
denied ; for him it is prison or nothing.
Probably legislators were confronted with the
reductio ad absurdum of fining a man whose
offence was having no visible lawful means
of support, the customary lawful means being
current coin of the realm, or its equivalent.
But it is very futile. Perhaps the whip-
ping. as a sort of physical urge to activity,
might have done something for the vagrant
now and again; certainly prison does not.
Confinement within its walls only whets his
appetite for the highroad, the bush track
and the quenchless joy of the pub.
In the nature of things he cannot be
wholly idle, but he is idle in very large
patches. When the rural vagrant—and he
is the typical wanderer, whom “no man wot
whence he come or whither he go”—reaches
a township, he makes at once, with dry and
lapping tongue, for the nearest bar, and there
be rests so long as beer can be cadged from
the bar’s frequenters. It is there he so
frequently comes in conflict with the police,
often on the petition of the publican, who
has no use for empty pockets. Along his
route there may have been reports of petty
thieving, but there is no proof, so the anci-
ent law of the vagrant becomes useful. Or
it may be that he is found unlawfully on some-
one’s premises; and here there is a touch of
humor in sending him to a fairly comfort-
able gaol for the crime of sleeping in an un-
comfortable shed.
When before the Bench he is full to the
neck of plausibility and innocence. He is
always in search of employment, but it eludes
him like Will o’ the Wisp. Such a heart-
less Avorld ! “Now,” says the magistrate,
seeking the “good account” required by the
laAv — “iioav, my man, how do you get a liv-
ing'? What are your ways and means’?”
“Well,” drawls Wandering Willie, “I ain’t,
so to speak, got no means, but I’ve got ways.”
Unfortunately for him they are ways that
tiie police object to. The constable in the
box deposes that he found “thruppence” in
the man’s pocket; and this fact is seized
eagerly by William to explain that it is the
last of the wages earned by him in doing
Avork for an old lady, to whose place he is
returning for more work; but he never in-
quired her name and can give no recognisable
description of her place of residence. Some-
times the accused is a poet, with Words-
avortii’s love of nature, so he may tell you
—for they are not all without reading in
this underworld —and he will produce some
pieces of soiled paper defiled with doggerel.
These slips he sells from door to door,
tempting soft-hearted women to buy for a
feAV pence. To such base uses does poesy
come! Or he will be an inventor. “There’s
my sliding-handled frying-pan,” said one.
“You can make the handle three foot long or
one, and you can put two plates and a
pound and a half of meat in the pan and
then slide and fold the handle over the lot,
and put it in your pocket. Then I’ve in-
vented a three-legged stool that folds up so
you can put a dozen of ’em in your pocket.
Then there’s my Leviathan pill—and lots of
other things. I’m trying to float myself into
a company, as I ain’t got the capital my-
self.” But the pursuit of the capitalist amid
the liquid assets of the hotel bar does not
appeal to the police. One, who lately enter-
tained a N. S. Wales country court, had, by
his account, been a teacher, a hotel rouse-
about, a sexton and a restaurant dishwasher;
another a politician, a farm-hand, a harness-
maker, and a preacher.
What is to be done with him? That is
an ever-present problem to the magistrate.
The law sits tight and mutters “Prison.”
Like Mrs. Squeers, with her spoonful of
brimstone and treacle, it has one medicine
for all troubles. If the accused be not an
old offender, but with some hope of reforma-
tion left in him, the punishment will be
made to fit the erime by a merely formal
compliance with the statute. Then warn-
ings are thundered at him. He must either
find work, and that speedily, or get out of
the district. If not lie will be “up” again
and no more chance be given him. Prob-
ably he will shift along to the next police
district and come against trouble there, then
do a spell in gaol, and, released, moA’e on in
the old track. There are some who are
born to vagrancy, but not a few have it
thrust upon them. All casual labor has
that element in it. The true panacea for
vagabondage is steady employment. Modern
conditions, social and industrial, do not tend
in that direction. Before the Civil War in
the United States the word “tramp” was not
to be found in any statute; he had not
evolved) distinctive class. To-day every
State .has laws, multiple laws, directed
against him. As we increase in population
so will it be with us. In continental
Europe all sorts of schemes —“home refuges,”
“labor colonies” and so on—have been de-
vised to either help or compel him in the
Avay of honest toil. Here we are content
with our British method of a century ago
and have nothing better to say than “Gaol
the knave!”
T.B.C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
British “Comrades” Not Wanted.
Except for a cordial willingness on the part
of the more “advanced" section of Labor to
welcome international “comrades” from Rus-
sia, and Tom Walsh’s heartfelt readiness
to take Chinamen into the Seamen’s Union,
the policy of the party in Australia is con-
sistently against immigration. It is willing,
or thinks it is willing, to reconsider its atti-
tude at some impossible time in the future,
when there is not one unemployed individual
in the Commonwealth, including the indi-
vidual who has refused work from child-
hood : but that concession is hardly worth a
mention. Consequently British Prime Min-
ister Macdonald will shortly receive, per
medium of an ill-paid postman, a letter from
the A.W.U.. (already published here), about
the bitter lot of the N. S. Wales farm
laborer, and a warning to keep his Hodge
at home in the land of the bishop and the
peer and the squire. After a fairly consist-
ent period of State Labor government,
which began with McGoaven in 1910, and
after frequent Federal Labor government,
which goes back to Fisher and 1908 (the
Watson interlude was too brief to count),
it is seriously alleged that 90 hours per
week for £1 per Aveek and keep is still an
ordinary possibility on the land in the great
Ma State. If it is, though the tale has a
dubious sound, it can be said in reply that
the only serious attempt Labor ever made
to put the matter right was when it pro-
posed to order that agricultural wages should
go up half-way to the sky without providing
any means by which they could be paid.
The letter Avhieh Avill presently drop on the
astonished Ramsay’s table contains the
familiar tale of intense land-hunger, and
“453 applications for one block of land in
the Forbes district.” It doesn't explain that
that kind of block is a sort of lottery
prize, to be immediately sublet, in most
cases, for a big sum, and that even the pub
dog applies if he is a Avakeful kind of dog.
Australia is reallv not the land of great
natural resources that it is cracked up to be;
but the local farmer is free from so much
of the burden of rent and taxation that his
British brother staggers under that it should
be a better agricultural proposition than it
is. In 1922, according to the latest figures
of the invaluable Statistician Smith, SS per
cent., by area, of N. S. Wales’s agriculture
consisted of growing wheat. Over 03 per
cent, of the wheat was grown for export,
so what the Ma State calls agriculture is
mainly the raising of the world’s commonest
vegetable for sale in a competitive world-
market. It was carried by rail for the ridi-
culous average distance of 270 miles because
of the darnfool policy of making no ports
available save one. And such of it as went as
far as England paid Is. 4§d. per bushel sea
freight (the Canadian, Hindu or U.S. farmer
paid 74d., anil the Argentine paid lOd.),
and after that the middleman took some of
the rest. If Australia concentrated on
manufactures, scattered far arid wide in
small manufacturing towns, it might cut out
half or three-fourths of the land distances,
and by shifting the bulk of its customers here
it might cut out most of the expensive sea
distance. Then there ought to be much
money in wheat. But Labor shows the
same hostility to the arrival of-artisans and
factory operatives as to country settlers,
and it lacks enthusiasm about opening up
new ports, decentralisation and Protection
about equally.
Our Fatal Heritage.
Dr. Mayo, a famous American surgeon,
spoke words of wisdom recently to a Maori-
land interviewer: —
The British had inherited a bad hospital system.
It was amazing that a people so shrewd should
confine the benefits of public hospitals to people un-
able to pay ordinary fees, with the result that the
King himself, if he wanted to have an operation
performed, would not have access to the same facilities
as his meanest subject, but must go to a private
hospital, not half so well equipped. The small
private hospitals were doomed, because they could
not provide efficient equipment.
Many private hospitals in Australia and
M.L. have large disadvantages besides inferior
equipment. They provide poor or poorly-
cooked food. Their rooms are small and
under- or over-ventilated; in the cities mere
cubicles are often classed as rooms. The
nurses, while usually competent, are not
always well disciplined, and when their
desire for social relaxation triumphs the
patient is liable to suffer*' And for service
of this class the charges, are*.exorbitant. A
person who lives happily find contentedly
on an income of,, say, .£6OO a year is as open
to be ruined by an operation for appendi-
citis as if he went into a big lawsuit. Pri-
vate hospitals nevertheless persist _ because
those who patronise them must either do
it or die. There is not room in the
public hospitals at present even for
the poor. The remedy, as Dr. Mayo
appears to infer, is public hospitals
for all. Not hospitals run, as now, on
deliberately sordid lines (some up-country
ones pursue the policy of giving the poor
what they are erroneously believed to rather
like, to an extent that calls for the atten-
tion of sanitary inspectors), but places in
which particular attention would be paid
to comfort and cleanliness. Two main ob-
jections are commonly voiced: the thing
would be “communism,” and it would bring
about “the drying up of Christian charity at
its very source.” As to the first, there is so
much sentimental communism, of a sort,
about nowadays, except in Russia, that
dread of a further instalment appears super-
fluous. What is our asylum system but
communism, and what is the postal system
but internationalism V The original pawn-
shop was founded in the sixteenth century
to stop usury: the Franciscans lent at an
infinitesmal rate of interest in their
Montes Pietatis. To-day “Mont-de-Piete” sug-
gests usury. Similarly much of what
was damned as Marxian communism
a few years ago is now seen to approximate
more closely to Spencerian individualism.
If we could only get rid of the spell of
words we would realise that State hospitals
are no more perilously socialistic than State
trains or trams, while the chances are they
would pay an incomparably bigger dividend
in the money that is represented by human
lives, saved energy and averted disease than
any other form of State service. It should
be possible, as on the railways, to impose
a moderate charge on all patrons, and. again,
as on the railways, to divide the community
into two or more classes. As to Christian
charity, it would be offered a splendid oppor-
tunity. There was ample scope for charity
in the socialistic military hospitals, and
there would be an even greater scope for it
in State-run hospitals, which would be bound
to contain a proportion of destitute suf-
ferers. The benefits of standardising our
hospitals, of turning them into places cap-
able of accommodating all the genuine
patients who offered and treating their afflic-
tions by the most up-to-date methods, are so
many and obvious that a community with
a business head on its shoulders would not
endure our present expensive, haphazard and
cruelly-inefficient superstition for an un-
necessary moment.
♦
The Wreckage of the Little Towns.
Another point has been scored for the
N.S.W. policy of depressing and depopu-
lating the little towns so that their indus-
tries may move to Sydney. It is by reason
of this policy that there is not one country
town in 309,000 square miles of space which
keeps even its natural increase of inhabi-
tants, and hardly one that looks as if it
had any more future than a Turkish village,
while, on the other hand, the last census
found the metropolis bloating faster than
any other city in the Empire. Greater Lon-
don not excepted. For very many years
the most widely-known trick of the conges-
tion game lay in the railway wheat-rates.
Wheat Avas, until the other day, carried to
Sydney or in the direction of Sydney at
less than half the cost of carriage. Going the
other way it paid about four times as much,
or a great deal more than the cost of
carriage. This produced tAvo results. One
was that, the wheat-export business was
driven to Port Jackson, over much needless
distance. Another Avas that a country flour
mill Avas safe only Avhile if could draw its
supplies from places between itself and the
border, so that its raw material could pre-
tend it was going to Sydney and had just-
paused on the road. If in a season of local
scarcity it had to dniAv supplies from places
between itself and Sydney (in other words,
to nse wheat that looked as if it was coming
away from Sydney), the railway charge
became so outrageous that suspension was
practically inevitable. Through too many
suspensions mills died one by one, and the
decision just arrived at to close the last one
at Glen Junes promises to practically end the
industry in the North. It isn't safe to be
so far from the city. Some months ago
the Authority which sits in the capital was
persuaded to realise, after some 30 years
of turning a deaf ear, that the wheat rates
were a disgraceful sample of favoritism,
and it promised to equalise them. Where-
upon the remote country millers took a new
lease of life, and said that the Devil had
repented. Then they discovered that a dis-
criminating flour rate would enable the
metropolitan miller to dump his flour into
their territory at rates at which they
couldn’t compete, and they remarked that
the Devil hadn't altered. Another local
industry, the manufacture of baking-powder,
being handicapped by the high freight on
cream of tartar, applied for consideration,
and received a reduction of 70s. lOd. per
ton. But as the freight on the finished
article, formerly just the same as that on
the raw material, was reduced at the same
time by 113 s. 7d., the importer and the
city manufacturer were promptly on the
spot, and things weren’t improved at all.
The policy of thus rooting up the small-
town industries —flour mills, boot factories,
meat factories, tanneries, woollen mills and
everything movable —produces weird results :
In the last 10 years covered by the Statistics the
number of factories in the Sydney metropolitan
district increased by 1221, while those in the rest
of the State decreased by 211. Sydney, at latest
advices, possessed 1588 more factories than all the
rest of the State, Newcastle included.
The money spent on new buildings in the city was
about three times as much as that spent in all other
towns put together.
Partly, at least, through the decay of the country
towns, which should supply local markets in which
the value of the farmer’s produce won’t be eaten up
by cost of carriage, the oceans of loan money spent
on “settlement” fail to settle. In 1922 the peace
debt of the Ma State was £76,000,000' more than
in 1912. In one way and another, this had all gone
to develop the “great natural resources” and the
“primary industries.” Yet the people engaged in
rural pursuits diminished by 4700, according to
Statistician Smith’s estimate, and the people engaged
in all the primary industries diminished by 11,300.
City manufactures grew from the employment stand-
point, but nothing else in the production line grew
save the wrong way.
Owing to the unprecedented influx of population,
Sydney looks as if it might become too expensive
to live in. It also looks like being -almost the only
place fit to live in, so many other towns being un-
comfortably dead.
And if Sydney is very much bigger when the sub-
division of N. S. Wales happens, the fall may be
heroic, like that of Vienna. For if a place is really
too big for its job as capital of 309,000 square miles
it is liable to find a great part of itself superfluous
as the capital of a third or a quarter the area.
In other words, a city, like a Kaiser, may
overgrow itself, and fall over its own feet.
4
The Cotton Cocky and His Troubles.
“Dalma Scrjb” puts the case for Cocky :
There are thousands of men who, like myself,
are beginners on the land, striving to make decent
homes for their families. Owing to want of capi-
tal and the recent adverse seasons we are living
hand to mouth. These men, workers all, are depend-
ing on a good crop of cotton to set them on their
feet and enable them to branch out into other
lines, such as dairying, sheep-raising, etc. Until
they get that good crop they can do nothing. Most
of them were attracted to the land on the wonderful
promise that cotton held out to them. Certainly
cotton is a great drought-resister once it gets a
start. But at the best it is only three in five
seasons that one gets a fair crop, as recent years
show. If one could find a crop that would give
payable returns five times in five seasons, then he
would have a chance of making good. There is
one crop that can be depended upon to do this,
’ and that is ratoon cotton. We farmers know it
and have proved it. The Government ought to
know it, too, by this time. Take' my own case,
which is typical of thousands. 1 have no capital. I wish
to go in for mixed farming, dairying, etc; I must
build a silo (an absolute necessity), hayshed, cow-
bails, yards, etc.; chaffcutter and other machinery
must be bought ; also ploughs and other things too
numerous to mention. How am I going to do this?
I must have money. The Government makes
advances at so much in the £. I am offered 13s.
in the £ to build a hayshed, cut scrub, fence, etc.
I have to find the other 7s. And this is for only
part of the work that I want done. Where am f
to find the money to enable me to go ahead and
realise mv ambition of an up-to-date farm ? I must
grow something. What ? Cotton? Oh, yes, cot-
ton’s all right if your luck’s in and. you strike a
good season from the first go-off. Blit suppose I
have to plant three or four times (by hand
amongst the stumps), and even then do not get a
good strike, and the result be a poor or no crop?
Can I struggle through till next season? Perhaps
I can. But suppose the same thing happens again,
what will be the result? Well, I’ll go out, someone
gets a cheap farm, and I’ll help to swell the un-
employed. But what about ratoon cotton? Would
that help? Now we’re talking. Let us have
ratoon, and we have a sure, crop, and can do some-
thing towards establishing a sound farming busi-
ness and educating the children, besides giving the
wife a good house, with some labor-saving conveni-
ences. In short, ratoon cotton would make life on
the land worth livin'/. Why ? Because ratoon will
give a return of from £l5 to £2O per acre even
in a poor season, when annual cotton may give from
£5 down to nothing per acre. If we get a good
season for annual cotton, then we shall also have a
comparatively magnificent return from our ratoon—
if given a square deal. I know what I write is
true with regard to hundreds of other beginners.
I have spoken to many of them and they share this
view. If we are allowed by the Government to
grow ratoon —and it is only our right-—-there will
be great thankfulness amongst us. On the other
hand, if the Government will not lift the ban
imposed on ratoon cotton, many of us will go off
the land for good. We must. We cannot take the
risk of staying.
The Films that Australia Is Missing.
A tragic feature of the film monopoly held
by the U.S. in Australia is not only the rot-
tenness it. disseminates, but the good it shuts
out. That the Yanks are knowingly at work
on what their fellow-countryman, Ambrose
Bierce, called “the foul business of debasing
the intellectual coinage of this country” is


"AFTER ALL, THERE’S ONLY ONE ‘AUSTRALIA.’ ”
The /Australia
Indisputably FA VO RED.
Travellers from the five Continents, men promiment in the business and pastoral worlds,
those who are foremost in social activities—we have long hekl their preference and are
extremely proud of it. May we commend their choice to you, as a guide,-in choosing
your hotel in Sydney?
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 32/6; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address : “Austraotel, Sydney.”
“THE AUSTRALIA,” The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
virtually admitted by themselves. The
Saturday Evening Post lately said: —
American movie films, many European critics say,
are too shy on plot and too long on custard pie.
Vet up to October 1, this year, we had exported over
142,000,000 feet —27,000 miles of Wild West, society
sin and cross-eyed comedy, pie and all! Of this,
Australia was our best buyer.
Most of those lugubrious efforts at creative
art are as untrue to life as so many night-
mares. Yet from them hundreds of thousands
of Australians have learnt all they know of life
outside their own environment; and the
clothes, and slang, and, as far as possible,
the manners and habits of the characters
have become theirs. The cinema, in short,
lias taken the place of the novel and the
book of travel in countless families, and it
behoves the State, which undertakes the edu-
cation of the citizen, to act logically in the
changed circumstances. Society sin and
Wild West crime should be discouraged by
special duties. The gap would leave room
for better pictures from elsewhere. Eng-
land organised a Film Week last month, at
which only British productions were shown.
It was a tremendous success, and so would
a similar venture be here if such films could
be brought in in competition with the dumped
Yankee ones. Australia never sees a French
film, though France is a nation of actors,
and though the French cinemas are in the
highest degree artistic. Our interest in the
doings of Yankee plutocrats and crooks is
artificial. As against this there is a
ready-made public for screen-plays dealing
with the people and scenes of. the United
Kingdom, which would carry the charm of
familiarity to many Australiair#-; and to a
slightly less extent a re-creation of the
France that the Diggers knew and loved
would be received with delight. Assuming
a local film industry cannot be built up im-
mediately—and till an adequate duty is
imposed it will of course not even be begun
—we yet can broaden the national mind
and improve the national taste by legis-
lating for the presentment of something
better than the thousands of miles of dele-
terious stuff which is pouring in yearly at
present. Nationalist candidates talk a deal
about their love of Empire. The Bruce
Government could both financially assist the
U.K. and weld the Empire more closely
together by a measure designed to substitute
British for American films. Apart from
cultural and ethical considerations the fos-
tering of a taste for the more restrained and
natural work of the European players
would go far towards creating the right
atmosphere for the eventual reception of Aus-
tralian films.
——♦
The Ejection of Mitchell.
The deliriously extravagant Mitchell
Administration has been beaten in West-
ralia, and beaten badly. A few months ago
it controlled 32 votes in ;i House of 50
members, 14 of its supnorters being National-
ists and 18 Cockies. Even after the split in
the Country party it could boast that there
were 2D Ministerialists to 21 Oppositionists
—lB Laborites and three anti-MiTCHELL
Agrarians. What is more, the kind-hearted
muddler at the head of the Government has
received more newspaper support and adula-
tion (from the West Australian, in par-
ticular) than ever even Forrest got. But
the constituencies formed their own opinion
of the Premier and his followers, and ex-
pressed it so forcibly that there are unlikely
to be more than 18 Mitchellites in the next
Assembly. Each of the allied groups suffered
heavily, the Nationalists losing seats to
Labor and the Ministerial Cockies to the
true-blue Agrarians, who established their
right to be regarded as the real Country
party. The Nationalist vote slumped con-
siderably even in Northam, where Premier
.Timmy’s majority was reduced to 147 in
a poll of 2447 —this in an electorate which
he has represented since 1905. On the other
hand, 11 Labor members were returned un-
opposed, the other seven were re-elected by
increased majorities, and at the moment of
writing the party had gained five seats —
Fremantle, Guildford, Menzies, Leederville
and Bunbury—and looked like gaining one
or two more. If Pilbarra and Kimberley
go Labor, Collier may be able to do with-
out a Speaker from the other side. In any
case, being the leader of the strongest party,
he will be called upon to form a Govern-
ment, and if his Government decides to be
as unlike the loan- and land-booming Mit-
chell Cabinet as it can be it will deserve
to last.
«
The Jingellic Man-hunt Continues.
“An Upper Murray Man” rejoins:—
The importance of the issues raised makes me wel-
come an apparently ill-tempered and certainly ill-
mannered intrusion from Melbourne, which can
be taken as a justification for pursuing the subject
into particulars which did not seem essential in mv
initiatory article.
To begin at the beginning, “ILL.” gibes at mv
failure to sign my full name. Do those initials
guarantee anything more than the blankest anonymity
does? Does not this one fact afford the fullest com-
mentary upon the spirit of “H.L.’s” interlocution?
I will only add that I would be indeed “an ass un-
policied” to lay’ myself open to the malice of that
much-privileged organisation, the police, at the invi-
tation of any initials in the alphabet.
“H.L.” goes on to adduce, as the climax of Ins
proof that the reporters were only desirous of the
speediest clean-up, that they were obliged to rise
about 7 o’clock (on summer mornings!). It is
a safe bet that their poor old mothers have often
risen at 3 o’clock, even on winter mornings, to warm
their bottles, in the not very distant past. One has
heard so much of the keenness of reporters to be
“in” on anything which meant cross-headings that
this disclaimer conies with a distinct shock.
With regard to the cavil of my opinion that Batson
was of “very poor intelligence,” I certainly do not
say (as many of his sympathisers do) that he is
mad; but I am not impressed by the rebuttal “that
he has invented a most effective rabbit-poison”:
the asylums of the world are full of the most
extraordinary inventors. Even the reporters on our
evening press can invent things for almost every
issue.
The conduct of the whole bad business was so
futile that one’s gorge rises at having to treat seria-
tim and seriously the comparatively few incidents
that really marked it —it was what didn’t occur
that most alarms me. But such assertions as that
Batson's capture was “virtually a police trap”
seems to confirm my charge that the police took
no risks that were avoidable by even the most
indecent endeavors to use civilians as “fire screens.”
The pregnant weight that “H.L.” lays upon Batson's
marksmanship also points in the same direction.
Concerning the commission of inquiry which I
suggested, my bucolic darkness of counsel makes
THE TRAINING OF THE YOUNG.
“There are still about 50 soldiers’ bands in Sydney and suburbs. Some of them consist of a single
alleged player and as many as three collectors. The only time the once-familiar Digger’s uniform is now
seen is on these street beggars.”
"Mummie says your husband is a returned soldier. Is he?”
“Yes, little sweetheart.”
“What street does he rattle his box in?”
me desire a commission not for any practical results
that might ensue from its findings, but because
the daily press would have to register evidence like,
or worse than, this; A police gang of nine left
Jingellic per car to visit a hut some 10 miles away.
Calling at one settler’s house they got into com-
munication with its owner (a man whom I believe
old enough to be the father of any man in the
party) and wished him to go out unarmed to the
hut and find out if the wanted man were about; if
he were, to get back and report, so that the official
heroes might surround him there, if it occurred to
him to wait for them. Failing in getting this old
bird, they went on past the hut (they could not
rea< h it per car) and interviewed another settler to
the same purpose. He was fool enough to run their
errand; came back and reported no appearance of
the accused, but that the hut-owner was missing,
while all his horses were at home; that he had
coo-eed around the paddocks with no result; and
suggested that the party should at least try to find
out whether the man were lying dead somewhere
about his little property. The nine, however, felt
that it was due to them to get back to Jingellic
for a feed.
Such a commission might also find out who origi-
nated the Napoleonic notion of hiding afar off iuu
riddling apparently empty huts with .303 bullets
to discover whether Batson (or any other bushman)
was reposing therein.
I should gladly mention the names of certain
members of the force whose, behavior was in the
most striking contrast to that complained of;
but so to signalise these men would probably be tne
worst disservice I could do them. However, I leel
that I owe it to myself to attest that I never have
had. the slightest friction with, or grievance against,
any member of the Force, past or present; but am
solely actuated by a sense of the seriousness of the
evils to which I have called attention.
■ ♦
The Commonwealth authorities did the small,
easy thing in the way of relieving the money
scarcity by exercising their powers to the
extent of the issue of £4,200,000 of new
paper. That put a little extra strain on the
gold reserve, but no undue strain. Now they
have a chance to do the larger thing, and stop
the export of the gold yield to foreign parts,
whence the money only comes back in the
form of goods, to the grievous damage of Aus-
tralian industry. The Australian Common-
wealth can afford to make itself sole buyer
of new gold, especially as it is making
£1,400,000 a year out of its notes, and to
pay as much paper money for it as any
foreigner, and then, it would have something
like a gold reserve to issue notes against.
♦
“The Siemens Co. of Berlin has undertaken to carry
out a hydro-electric scheme to supply light, heat and
power to all parts of the Irish Free State by har-
nessing the River Shannon.”
This message supplies the most cheering
news that has come out of the afflicted island
since De Valera was last arrested. The
southern Irish are willing enough to become
industrialised. When Ford . opened among
them he was rushed by m.en whom he de-
scribed as “equal to American workers.”
The trouble has been lack of cheap coal, and
for many years it has been recognised that
the only way to meet it is to harness the
country’s tremendous water-power. The im-
pounding of the Shannon, which has a win-
ter flow at Killaloe of 1,600,000 Cubic feet
per minute, might mean the saving of
1,000,000 tons of coal per annum, and the
high level lakes of Kerry, Wicklow and
Donegal are capable of being exploited on
similar lines. Ireland has already ceased
to lose population to any appreciable extent
by emigration. With an almost unlimited
supply of white coal, and the application of
a high tariff (the right to impose which was
fought for stoutly and eventually conceded
when the Free State Constitution was be-
ing settled), it should attract English and
American capital and blossom for the first
time since 1607 as an immigrant country.
From G. H. Pritchard, sec. Australian
Sugar Producers’ Association: —
“Capricorn” (B. 21/2/’24) says; “Because the
A.W.U. award exempts the employer of foreign labor
of the same nationality as himself, the Australian
sugar-grower in the districts between Townsville
and Mossman is being pushed out by Mussolini's
subjects.” Apparently “Capricorn” is not aware
that the award for the sugar industry does not
exempt foreign labor. The only provision in this
connection which it makes is to permit a farmer who
is a colored man to employ his own countrymen;
but even in such a case the employee. must be paid
the award rate and otherwise enjoy the terms and
conditions of the award. “Capricorn's” observa-
tions refer to the Italians. Actually the award be-
stows no advantage whatever upon them whether
they be employers or employees.
__ +
“W.S.H.” (Kobe) on the domestic problems
of Japan:—
“Professor X.,” commenting (B. 6/12/’2.3) upon
the butchering of 24 Japanese Labor leaders at the
time of the earthquake, and the strangling by Cap-
tain Amakasu, a gendarmerie officer, of the intel-
lectual anarchist Osugi, together with his wife and
a child of seven years of age, expressed the opinion
that such events are apt to leave marks on the
Japanese Labor movement, at present obviously in its
infancy. Let us look at the Court’s decisions on
these cases of cold-blooded butchery. After a trial
progressing through a sordid maze of intrigue and
falsehood, during which the whole case was dis-
cussed and reported in the press in a manner
calculated to influence and intimidate the learned
Judge, Amakasu was sentenced to 10 years’ penal
servitude. (Discussion of matters svb-judice by
parties interested is the order of the day in Japan.)
A sergeant-major who was shown to have acted in
collusion with the captain received three years,
while a corporal and two privates proved to have
been accessories were acquitted. The result was an
outburst of rage at the severity of the sentences,
only appeased to a slight degree when, on the occa-
sion of the Prince Regent’s marriage, Amakasu's
sentence was commuted by Imperial clemency to 74
years, and that of the corporal in like proportion.
Those guilty of bayoneting to death the Labor
leaders, whose only offence was singing in gaol,
passed unpunished. The defence —a patriotic motive!
In one prefecture out of 110 persons found guilty
of murdering Koreans and others after the earth-
quake, 88 Were placed on probation and the re-
mainder received sentences ranging from six months
to three years. One month later, at the time of
the Prince Regent’s marriage, all were pardoned.
There are scores of other examples of a similar
nature. Turn now to the other side and examine the
sentence passed on a youth, charged with attempt
to murder, who sought, to avenge the strangling of
Osuoi and the others by stabbing the younger
brother of the noble Amakasu. He failed in his
attempt, and is now serving five years’ penal ser-
vitude without any Imperial clemency. The pre-
mium placed on one class of political murders, the
violent hatred which the Government is instilling
in the public mind against all Labor leaders, social-
ists and independent thinkers, the honorable recog-
nition and protection granted to the Kokusuikai and
kindred associations of pseudo-patriotic bullies and
ruffians waging war on Labor organisations, is likely
to find expression in anarchism of the most violent
and bloodv nature.
♦
From this paper’s old contributor “Plat-
man” :
1 have just, returned from a close inspection of the
Yarraman Plateau, at the head of the Brisbane
River, where the War Service Homes Commission
and the Repat. put in some of their good work;
and there seems no way to get back on those
officials who were responsible for the (to be very
charitable) mess that was made. Mr. Stewart, the
Federal Minister, in dealing with the question of
the W.H.C., said “contracts entered into were no
credit to the officials concerned” ; but that seems
a very mild way of censuring those who let the
Commonwealth down. Perhaps it was a case of
“Ah, take the cash and let the credit go.” The
soldier settlement is, however, a tragedy. The
nearest water from the selectors on the western end
is between four and five miles away, and how the
official designers came to put men in a dense scrub
that distance from water passes comprehension. All
but four of the original selectors have gone; others,
tempted by the clearing and other work done on
the blocks, have gone in and are plugging away,
stumping and burning, endeavoring to get a bit of
land under cultivation. The Government put down
two bores on “divined” sites, one to 250 ft., the
other 480 ft.; both were failures. The failure of
the farms wasn’t always the fault of the men. One
selector, starved off his waterless block, rented five
acres a few miles away, on which there was a well,
and is growing tomatoes, etc., and making more
than a living. The people who have suffered are
the unfortunate soldiers—and the taxpayer. The
officials responsible still retain their jobs and salaries.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Coni*
Densation, etc., etc.
«S
O
w
xs
c
o »■
5? *«■
o
<U
■.•if^wPSßwaß
>#* m
a
AVi iHMHHMnmimuMUlliUmu i m« • • uiHiiilV
M '"r:'i:;r:h"'-.,l
iSSSMmmumiSmiml^S
M
THE VVMISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Ushers
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Lawson’s third Vic. Ministry is likely to be
the briefest. There will be another month’s
recess, then a half-hearted attempt to con-
tinue the session suspended in December, and
after that an appeal to the country a few
months in advance of the due date. The Cocky
party, which now regards Gnashers as only
distant cousins, hopes to gain strength at the
polls, and Labor is positive it can add to its
present 22. If the Liberal-Conservative
group now supporting Lawson cannot im-
prove on its tally of 31, there will have to
be another non-Labor coalition, and the corn-
coaxers swear they will have nothing further
to do with Lawson. They want him sent
into the wilderness.
With eight candidates out for Flinders,
a two-seat constituency, nine each for Alex-
andra, Burra Burra and Wooroora, three-
seaters, and odd Independents in other elec-
torates, there are pretty sure to be some
minority representatives in the next S.A.
Assembly. A minority party may even fluke
into power. South Aus. still adopts race-
course rules of deciding elections, partly
because it is a conservative country, but
chiefly, in recent times, because Premier
Harwell thought preferential voting would
help the Country party he was keen on
destroying. In his policy speech at Crystal
Brook, Harwell avoided the subject. The
Labor and Cocky leadei’s declared for pro-
portional representation, but neither sug-
gested a satisfactory method (no one has
ever done it) of filling casual vacancies.
The Macdonald Government may leave
Australia to hoe its own row in the Pacific;
but when it votes 34| millions for the Navy
and 45 millions for the Army, and makes a
big increase in the air vote, it doesn’t take
too many chances for its own little island.
Britain is spending three times as much per
head on defence as loafing, Communist-ridden
Australia does. But, then, sane people in
the Cold Country don’t disguise from them-
selves that the last war was a breathlessly
close thing. Britain lost 13 battleships; the
Allies, including Britain, lost 21: Germany
lost o«c. The Prussian made the mistake
of picking a nasty enemy, who had been
practising since the days of Bad King John :
but in the capacity of a soldier at sea he was
probably winning if he had been enough of a
sailor at sea to know it.
Australia’s solitary skirted M.P. was
among the casualties at the Groperland elec-
tion. Three years ago the West Perth con-
test was confined to Nationalists, and Labor
support turned the scale in Mrs. Cowan's
favor. Last week Labor ran a candidate
of its own, and the lady had to share the
Nationalist vote with T. A. L. Davy, who
got the bulk of it, and, with her preferences,
the seat. The winner is a lawyer, was a
Rhodes scholar, and looks like a coming
man.
The unique feature of the second session
of Small Sister’s 21st Parliament is that a
Labor Government, without a majority of
its own, lias been able to carry out practi-
cally every line of its sessional programme,
including severe taxation, and get into recess
without having once to fight for its life.
Probably the fact that the Government dis-
played confidence in its ability to fight, and
a cheerful carelessness as to weapons, had
much to do with its immunity from attack
and its undoubted accession of public con-
fidence. Anyway, Lyons is now free to
tackle several big administrative jobs—the
choice of a new Railway Commissioner, the
salvaging of the State’s capital sunk in the
carbide works at Electrona, the securing of
customers for the 12,000 li.p. of surplus
electric juice now unprofitably held by the
Ilydro-electric Department, and a grant
from the Federal Government. And these
are only a few of the hurdles to be climbed
by the Speck before it gets clear of the bog
of bankruptcy.
A crank with the courage of his cranki-
ness is British Labor-member Ayles, who
demanded that the Armv be reduced from
SoSo office™ and men to 11,000 He found
12 supporters. Ayles alleged that “the
nation brave enough to lay down its arms
amid an armed world would be the only safe
nation.” Presumably the theory of safety
applies to unarmed men as well as nations ;
hut some teachers of peace have had a bad
time all the same, including One at Jerusa-
lem in a.d. 33. Ayles didn’t propose to re-
duce the police force to correspond—none of
liis kind do. Yet it would be a fine experi-
ment to trust our own people first, and if
the experiment answered it could then be
tried on the foreigner.
Reports trom Westralia suggest that most
of Mitchell’s group settlers voted against his
Government on March 22. It isn’t a new
experience for Jarrahland, nor for other
STILL ALIVE .
“The State political crisis, which began at Bendigo a fortnight ago, when the Farmers’ Union con-
vention decided to contest as many Assembly seats as it pleased, and was immediately followed by Mr.
Lawson’s resignation and the formation of a new Ministry without inclusion of his Farmer colleagues,
is regarded by Mr. Lawson as over for the time being. There will be nothing to worry about until
Parliament assembles in the middle of April.”
LAWSON, THE OPTIMIST: “ Anyway , I haven't lost my hat, and we haven’t reached the
bottom yet, so why worry?”
parts of the Commonwealth which have im-
ported adult settlers in bulk. Nationalist
advocacy of immigration is associated with
a comfortable belief that the newcomers will
vote for their “benefactors” when required.
The truth is that 75 p.c. of them promptly
develop grievances and go bald-headed for
the Opposition.
“Xox”: Now that Lister, M.11.R., has
repudiated the tale of his aversion to the
Bruce-Page Government, the lobby fiction-
ist is reduced to suspecting the loyalty of
Pratten and Ryrie. The jam-manufacturer
is ambitious, and there is no doubt he would
lend his aid to any movement that would
hoist him on to the Treasury benches. That
Ryrie considers himself specially commis-
sioned by Providence to put the Defence
Department in order is one of those pleasing
delusions which he is human enough to nur-
ture, and he would also not decline a berth
in a Cabinet. But the yarn that the interest-
ing pair are going about gnashing their
teeth at the Coalition is unworthy of atten-
tion. Further, though an able critic, Prat-
ten lias never been exactly popular with his
°y n . f ide 1 and though Ryrie is well liked for
his bluff good nature, the idea of his causing
Bruce or Page any loss of sleep is merely
humorous.
From the Gallerythe
The Vic. Country party, which resents the way
j ts Cabinet members were sacked by Lawson, has
an additional cause for grievance in the inclusion in
the new team of D.S. Oman. No politician is more
disliked by the Cookies. When a member of the
Lismore (Vie.) branch of the Farmers’ Union, Oman
was chosen as Minister of Agriculture in the Bowser
Cabinet, and enjoyed the confidence of the party until
he left it in a manner that laid the foundations of
a lifelong hate. He is now the Allan crowd’s most
relentless opponent in either House, and his re-
selection by Lawson, after being previously bundled
out to enable the Premier to reconstruct, seems an
invitation to early hostilities. Lawson confidently
relies on Allan to keep him in office, however and
the agriculturist may let the other fellow defeat
himself over the Redistribution of Seats Bill. Allan
well knows that Lawson dare not reduce the number
of rural constituencies, and he is also aware that
the Premier’s w-eak scheme of increasing the metro-
politan strength by adding three or four new mem-
bers to the Assembly is bound to be violently assailed
on account of its extravagance. Wherefore the
Cocky leader can afford to sit back and await events.
Still exercising the faculty he lias for
keeping his ear to the ground, Alec Peacock
went to the A.N.A. conference at Warrnam-
bool (Vie.) as one of 300-odd delegates.
Mixing with them in the role of fellow-
representative, he will be able to go back
and give Lawson a pretty fair estimate of
liow the Government stands in the country;
and his report is not likely to be cheering.
Counting the Speaker as a non-combatant
Lawson’s party is in a minority of 4. To
remain in office after the general election, it
Avill require to come back 34 strong, and the
tide is flowing the wrong way.
Since the end of the war it is estimated
that 6,000,000 British boys and girls have
left school to start life, and owing to the
fearsome slump of industry in Freetrade
Britain only one-quarter have found any-
thing definite to start at. The “happy Eng-
lish child” leaves the Board school at 14, so
the average age of the 4,500,000 for whom
there is no room is about 17:} years now.
In fact, they are just getting ready to be
classified as unemployed. And, by way of
remedy, the Rambling Macdonald Cabinet
proposes to make roads, “investigate” affor-
estation, and “make peace with the rest of
Europe as with Russia.”
Now it is Dr. Ramsay Smith, formerly
chief physician at Adelaide Hospital, at pre-
sent City Coroner, who says it: —
Among all the luxuries one can indulge in in
South Australia, illness is the most expensive.
There ought to be some kind of intermediate
hospitals, above the public hospitals and below the
costly private ones.
The private hospitals are costly chiefly be-
cause they are so small that the overhead
charges are crushing. The public has got to
recast its ideas. Hospitals were established
for the poor because it was thought that
the rich and fairly rich would be treated
in sickness at home. But there are few
people who now want to be treated at home;
and there are few homes where proper treat-
ment is possible. So this new generation
demands not merely public hospitals for the
poor, but public hospitals open to everybody.
Delegates to the Australian fruitgrowers’
conference are to be asked to pass the fami-
liar resolution in favor of “a reduction of
the present high tariff on the machinery
and tools of trade used in primary produc-
tion.” Other motions follow :
That the duty on imported lemons be increased
to lid- per lb. That strong recommendations be
made to the Tariff hoard for their sympathy and
active support in bringing about a high protective
tariff on almonds; that it be raised to 7d. per lb.
on almonds in the shell and lOld. per lb. on kernels.
That the importation of lemons from Italy and
oranges from California be prohibited.
This sort of thing grows tiresome. Farmers
and fruitgrowers are entitled to the benefits
of Protection, but to ask for those benefits
and at the same time begrudge them to manu-
facturing industries (which, incidentally,
furnish buyers for their produce in the best
of all markets) is wearifully inconsistent
and selfish.
Amid the roar of revelation and execra-
tion in the United States the story of the
proposed break-up of Mexico is almost un-
noticed. The next revolution was to declare
Northern Mexico a separate republic, which
was what happened to Texas and California
in the days when they were Northern Mexi-
co. Then the severed territory was to gravi-
tate to Uncle Sam, just as Texas and Cali-
fornia did. Mexico is rich in oil, and Uncle
holds that oil is the supreme essential of
industry, and notices that a lot of his own
wells are drying up.
Herbert Heaton, the Economics expert of
Adelaide Uni., writes that Labor in Britain
(where he is making a short stay) has
shown a “miraculous change since 1914” :
One’s brain reels at the multitude of questions
young Britain is asking. The most amazing thing
about Labor’s victory is that it rests on the en-
thusiasm and wrath of the young, and especially the
educated young.... Labor did a wise thing in 1918.
It revised its constitution to allow the admission of
all “workers with hand or brain.’’ Hence the brains
of England are overwhelmingly with the Labor party
to-day. Scientists, men of letters, educationists,
economists are with it, ready to give their expert
knowledge as required. No other party in the world
has at its disposal such an array of intellectual
eminence.
Almost as much could have been said of the
Australian Labor party shortly after its
birth. But the intellectual soon found him-
self pushed out by the schemer who worked
inside the unions and leagues; and what
was so sound in theory—public ownership
of utilities, for instance —was soon made
very rotten in practice. Evidently Heaton
thinks he sees the same thing ahead of the
party in England. “It will suffer.” he says,
“from the dissensions which will arise be-
tween the intellectuals and the trade-union
men.”
Oil has become a grievance with Samuel,
our uncle. At one time he thought he owned
practically the petroleum supply of the
world, for the ancient show at Baku, though
it dates back to the beginning of the Zoroas-
trians and beyond, wasn’t seriously devel-
oped till 1875 and afterwards. But Britain
went peddling round the world, practising
secret diplomacy, taking places like Burma,
getting leasehold rights on places like Persia
and Mesopotamia, and securing “conces-
sions” from magnates great and small. Now
Uncle angrily declares that .T. Bull has 70
p.c. of the world’s oil supplies in his hands,
and he has a sudden and rooted dislike for
secret diplomacy.
“WAR, GENTLEMEN!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blow hard on your bugles and rattle your drum,
For the glories of past wars and wars that will come ;
And swell out your lungs in the banqueting place,
Where you varnish the filth on the battle-god’s face.
Oh, guzzle your red wine, and guzzle your beer,
And straighten your lead spine, and lift up a cheer
For the battle-god’s glory and battlefields gory,
And Hell take the shadows that lour and leer!
Sing loud of and proud of the worth of the prize,
And smother the other grim thoughts that arise;
And quote from the past of the fight and the stake,
And Hell take the poor hearts that bitterly ache !
You know what a war is, who doubted your ears?
You know what its roar is, O deeply-read seers?
Applaud, then, its glory and on with the story,
And Hell take the eyes that are red with their tears !
Regret not and fret not the shattered and shamed,
But hand on their glory to battered and lamed ;
Assure them beside it the rest matters not,
And Hell take the cripples, they’re better forgot!
A cheer ! On your feet now, and let your lungs roar ;
A cheer for great battles, a cheer, a cheer more!
A cheer for war’s glory and battlefields gory,
And Hell take the tattered poor scum of a war!
N.S.W.
C. MAC.


vONE£/j>
m
%
A
&TABI ls#%
Pioneer Leather Belting
is the standard high-grade belting that has been
specified for a large proportion of the most
important drives in Australian industrial and
manufacturing plants for the past 64 years.
WHERE TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES AND
QUOTATIONS —
C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
' Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J & R. IS. Madder Pty.,
Z.td., 51(i Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Huey. Vry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell ami
Sons, Timpson Street,, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire *
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadheld System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
from the time the original co. was recon-
structed and pastoral properties wore trans-
ferred to the Australian Stock Breeders’
Co., Ltd.:—
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916.. £82,151 8 p.c. = £52,398 £29,753 £104,753
1917.. 77,561 10 „ „ 65,498 12,063 116,816
1918.. 52,719 8 „ ~ 52,398 321 117,137
1919.. 26,585 Nil 26,585 143,722
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 50,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
From its establishment in 1890 this co. had
“Agency” on its brass-plate, and for some
years that had correctly described its opera-
tions. Early in its career good profits were
made, but 20 years ago markets became tem-
porarily unprofitable, mainly through drought
and cattle-tick, and the turnover of the
works in Queensland and at Singapore was
severely restricted. When tlie outlook w r as
wholly uncertain, however, the co., led by
Robert Philp and other men of long vision,
plunged into pastoral properties. Gradu-
ally the trade brightened; the almost world-
wide operations of the American Meat Trust,
instead of crippling the Australian enter-
prise, actually gave it new opportunities and
higher prices. By 1915 the co., besides
greatly improving its station properties, had
visible reserves of £178,800. Paid capital
was £191,002. The directors then decided
to reconstruct; the present co., with a paid
capital of £654,976, took over the meat-
works at Brisbane and Townsville (those at
Burketown had been sold a year before), and
the Australian Stock Breeders’ Co., Ltd.,
was formed, with a nominal capital of a
half-million and £218,330 paid up, to take
over the pastoral interests. The tracks
between the original co. and its two off-
shoots were not clearly defined. Anyhow,
it is not of much interest now to attempt to
unravel happenings which permitted an
enterprise with £191,062 of paid capital to
split into tw’o with a total paid capital of
£873,306.
The new Q.M.E. did well during its first
three years; the £170,294 distributed in
divs. in that period was £14,000 more than
the profits for the previous triennium. Since
1918, however, one trouble has heaped upon
another. Droughts, strikes, ' go-slow pesti-
lences, lack of adequate freight and other
disturbances' severely curtailed operations,
and when the post-war slump in meat and
by-products hit the co., losses of £79,785
were registered in one year. In five years
one div. (0 p.c.) has been paid, and mean-
while reserves have dwindled from £117,137
to £53,126. The position was so desperate
in the year before last that for a time it
was doubtful whether it was worth while to
operate the works at all, but the Common-
wealth Government finally saved the situa-
tipn by granting subsidies on exports.
Even so, handlings for the season were only
half the average. Last year droughty con-
ditions added to difficulties: supplies were
limited and quality and weight poor. South
America at present commands the London
market, and the Australian industry is feel-
ing the competition severely, particularly as
beef-prices are only slightly higher than pre-
war level, while station-to-market costs are
still 80 p.c. larger than they were 10 years
back. The outlook for the beef-exporter is
not cheerful. Still things have looked worse.
So many Australian cattle-growers have
changed over to sheep that the very con-
siderable home market for beef is likely to
improve; and the fact that in the TJ.S.A. the
number of cattle has been reduced by two
millions holds out some hope of a better
foreign market for beef. Meanwhile the
Q.M.E.’s position is not uncomfortable: —
1916. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Capital .. £654,976 £654,976 £654,976 £654,976
Creditors .. 101,093 221,239 124,315 119,806
Property, plant, i
live stock and
shares in other
cos .552,104 500,433 495,852 425,798
Stock . . 270,814 ! 56,029 38,550 85,557
Stores .. 23,128 65,271 55,263 45,865
Debtors and cash 67,173 275,874 239,683 270,688
Investments .. 30,275
At November 30 last stocks, stores, book
debts and cash totted up. £402.110 against
£119,806 of outside liabilities. The surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities equalled Bs.
7d. per £1 share, which is only a- few pence
less than the price at which scrip has been
picked up in the market lately.
The Australian Stock Breeders’ Co.,
Ltd., which took over the pastoral interests
of the Queensland Meat Export and Agency
Co. in 1916 :
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits Dividends. serves, serves.
1910 ..£18,276 8 p.c. = £17,466 £BlO £BlO
1917 .. 24,952 10 „ „ 21,833 3,119 3,929
1918 .. 33,003 10 „ „ 21,833 11.170 10,099
1919 .. 18,423 8 ~ „ 17,466 95rf 16,006
1920 . . 15,494 6 „ „ 13,100 2,394 18,400
Loss.
] 921 .. 4,889 Nil
1922 .. 6,05.3 Nil .
Deficit.
1923.. 15,718 Nil B>2l° 8 > 2 1°
The readings on that barometer record in a
striking way the effect of the very unfavorable
conditions which the Australian meat-grower
has experienced since the Imperial purchase
contracts expired and the bottom fell out ot
the London market. When the A.S.B. took
over the station properties of the Q.M.E. the
demand for beef was good, and so were the
seasons. The directors therefore had no diffi-
culty in increasing the div. rate of 8 p.c. for
the first year to 10 p.c. for 1917 and 1918, on
£218,330 of paid capital. Meanwhile the
management continued to add to the extensive
improvements which the Q.M.E. had made,
particularly in the matter of water-supply.
Also, during 1918, Tarbrax station, near
Maxwelton, was purchased as a fattening
depot for cattle from the Gulf stations. In
the next couple of years, however, droughty
conditions curtailed marketings, and when
the stations had recovered from that setback
beef values had slumped so badly that, though
large sales were made, losses instead of pro-
fits showed up. This has been the experience
for three years, and as costs cannot be re-
duced the ’co.’s only hope is a better market.
Disclosed losses have not been severe, but
the £26,660 total since 1920 has put the Pro-
fit and Loss balance on the wrong side of the
sheet for £B2lO. This is better than might
have been expt-eted, and suggests that in the
period of boom prices the management did
not take the market too seriously wdien valu-
ing its livestock. How book values now stand
in relation to the current market is not dis-
closed, and that is a vital matter wdien con-
sidering the soundness of recent pastoral
balance-sheets.
During the financial year the co. pur-
chased Springfield station, now Windorah,
as a fattening depot from wdiich southern
markets could be invaded, and already the
accounts are benefiting a little from sales at
Homebush (Sydney). Meanwdiile the Tar-
brax property has been turned over to sheep,
and a first clip is on the market. The pur-
chase of new r properties necessitated addi-
tional funds, and at the latest balance 95,371
£1 8-p.c. participating prefs. had been sub-
scribed and paid to £51.329. Nevertheless,
outside liabilities were still large:—
1916. 1920. 1922. 1923.
Capital . . £218,330 £218,330 £218,330 £269,659
Creditors . . 14,015 54,172 106,058 140,464
Property, plant
& live stock 233,637 287,707 324,956 392,794
Stores.. .. 1,660 3,942 2,552 2,958
Debtors & cash 15,324 3,903 4,387 6,161
Investments ". . —8,500
Liabilities exceeded all assets other than pro-
perties. plant and livestock by £131,345. How-
ever, there is £44.042 more callable on the
pref. issue. Incidentally, at the balance,
owing to the generally unsatisfactory condi-
tion of the industry, less than two-thirds of
the pref. issue had been taken up —-the direc-
tors had offered 150,000 shares, in the first
instance to ordinary shareholders, and, when
they did not respond, the lists were opened
to the general public.
* * * *
Huddart. Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the When, as the prospectus put
it. the co. (Md '“reached dimensions too large
for it to lie continued as a proprietary”:—-
r- Dividends. ■, To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1912. . 93,016 28,125 7 p.c.= 33,125 31,766 28.201
1913. . 63,058 30,000 5* ~„ 27.500 5,558 33,759
1914.. 60,460 30,000 5 „ ~ 25,000 5,460 39,219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
ferred from contingency account, 14,136 53,355
1915. . 90,634 30.000 7 p.c.= 35.000 25,634 78,989
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37..140 116,129
1917.. 30,000 10 „ ~ 50,000 60.645 176,774
1918. .220.747 30,000 11 ~ „ 55,000135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ ~ 55,000204,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 ~ ~ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 ~,.70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30.000 15 ~ „ 75,000 100,243 8,00.735
Transferred to Capital . . £250,000 550,735
1923. .159,479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
The presentation of a quarter-million of
bonus scrip to ordinaries 12 months ago—
three fully-paids are now held for every two
previously issued—has been followed by
more gifts. Though the div. rate has been
lowered to 12 p.c.. it cuts up £15,000 more
among proprietors than 15 p.c. did in the
previous year. Ordinaries have not been
called upon to put up any now funds since
the co. took over an old proprietary in
1911, but on account of the issue of bonus
shares a 10 p.c. div. means as much now'
as an 18 p.c. div. would have meant then.
Recent profit-earning has been rather start-
ling considering the depression in the inter-
State sea-carrying trade, which necessitated
tying up so many steamers. But this
co., like Howard Smith’s, is nowa-
days deeply interested in the coal trade,
and it is impossible for the outsider
to discover how much is earned by
ships and how much by other enterprises.
On the coalfields fat returns have been won
by both miners and proprietors since
Commonwealth control during the war
allowed the public to be exploited by what
have practically been mutual agreements
between the two parties. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., has a controlling interest in the Metro-
politan Colliery (Bulli seam) and is a part-
ner in the Hebburn (Maitland field).
Probably the shrinkage of profits last year
—they were down nearly £46,000 compared
with 1922 —was accounted for chiefly by the
strike on the Maitland field, which lasted
from April to August. Besides curtailing
colliery earnings that stoppage also affected
steamship services. In most businesses four
months’ disturbance of trade would dislocate
divs.; but the big shipping cos. seem well
able to take care of themselves even when
the weather is blackest.
For the past 12 months Huddart-Parker
showed 13J p.c. on the bonus-inflated ordi-
nary capital, after providing for deprecia-
tion, and after having dropped £28,642 net
(3.8 p.c. more on ordinary capital) into an
insurance reserve. Profits in the introduc-
tory table register additions to this insur-
ance account, and the £590,214 total of
reserves includes £251,159 accumulated in
the fund. That amount is probably as
much a reserve of profit as the general re-
serves, because it is unlikely that the co. is
not fully protected against fire and marine
risks through the usual channels. In
addition to the general and insurance
reserves, there is another stocking into
which big profits have been stuffed away;
£347.178 is lying in a “reserve for contin-
gencies, taxation, depreciation of invest-
ments, repairs and maintenance, boilers and
renewals, superannuation fund, etc.,” but, as
it is impossible to separate the various
accounts, additions to this heap are not in-
cluded with profits or in the statement ot
reserves in the introductory table. llow the
account has behaved is shown hereunder: —
1914 .. .. £36,185 Increase £5,678
1915 .. .. 63,812 „ 27,627
1916 .. .. 123,117 ~, 59,305
1917 .. .. 131,239 ' 8,122
1918 .. .. 262,089 „ 130,850
1919 .. ~ 292,494 „ 30,405
1920 .. . . 330,385 „ 37,891
1921 .. ~ 324,474 Decrease 5,911
1922 .. .. 358,518 Increase 34,044
1923 . . , . 347,178 Decrease 11,340
The total represents more than 7s. for
every £1 book value of steamships, proper-
ties, equipment and holdings in other cos.
Another view of the co.’s affairs is given by
this comparison
1915. 1922. 1923.
Assets apart from
fixed assets ..£348,517 £1,652,464 £1,616,992
Liabilities .. .. 93,291 313,058 327,021
Surplus liquid assets £255,226 £1,339,406 £1,289,971
Liquid assets are made up of Government
and other securities, stocks of coal and
stores, book debts and cash, and they exceed
all liabilities by more than total paid
capital. Put another way, paid capital (in-
cluding the £2-50,000 bonus addition) is
wholly covered by assets more or less gilt-
edged. On top of that are the steamers,
properties, colliery interests, etc., with a
book value of £964,921. The co.’s position
is, therefore, extraordinarily strong, and,
should opportunity offer, the directors can
add to the fleet and extend other interests
without calling on shareholders for new
funds. War-time earnings and, the sale of
steamships in the boom period''provided prac-
tically all the fattening; previously visible
profits had been disappointing. Half a
million of the 1-J million of capital, by the
way, carries only 6 p.c. p.a.
The Australian Gypsum, Ltd., which
took over the business of a co. of the same
name as from January, 1920:
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1920.. £2,388 8 p.c. =£2,232 £156 £156
1921.. 5,188 10 „ „ 4,938 250 406
1922.. 8,160 121 „ .. 8,089 71 477
1923.. 15,451 121 „ „ 10,812 4,639 5,116
The Australian gypsum industry is another
war-baby which has grown into a lusty
youngster. Prior to the world-upheaval the
Commonwealth imported most of its build-
ing plasters, and probably would still be
doing so had not the Hun given local enter-
prise a degree of Protection which the poli-
ticians had always denied it. Three cos.
now operate on a big scale in S. Aus., and
that State’s production has increased from
1717 tons in 1915 to 50,000 tons last year.
The Australian Gypsum Co. is working de-
posits near Port Le Hunte (S.A.) and at
Trida, on the Hillston (N.S.W.)-Broken
Hill railway, now in course of construction,
and it has works at Auburn, near Sydney,
and has just completed erection of large
works at Cape Thevenard (S.A.). The rapid
expansion of tlie co. is shown by this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Paul capital . . £42,643 1153,558 £72,158 £95,132
Liabilities . . 4,639 10,815 2,581 25,341
Leases, works, etc. 40,000 52,072 62,462 63,964
Thevenard factory 47,319
Stocks .. .. 8,179 19,116 11,098 11,778
Shares in other cos. 7,021 7,021
Book debts . . 1,206 1,721 5,636 6,032
Cash . . . . 52 18 1,657 39
The basis on which the present co. bought
out the old one is not ascertainable, but
some idea of the good luck of old share-
holders was disclosed by the directors’
announcement that the 8 p.c. for the first
year of the new co. gave the former crowd
more than 15 p.c. The revaluation of assets
at the time of transfer explains the labelling
of reserves in the introductory table as nomi-
nal.
The co. has done remarkably well; the
121 p.c. divs. for the past year applied to an
average capital of £86,500, which was
slightly more than double the paid capital
at the close of the first year. The latest
12£ p.c., however, took only 14s. in the £1
of disclosed profits: the earnings on capi-
tal were exceptionally good considering that
much of the funds raised during the year
went into works which did not contribute
to revenue. The directors’ reports each year
have recorded excellent progress in develop-
ing markets for plasters and side-lines—
gypsum is in demand as a fertiliser for heavy
soils, and is also used in cement manufac-
ture. Results have been more glittering, too,
because there has been considerable outlay
on developing deposits and on establishing
inter-State branches and on other prelimi-
naries of a young industry. To meet the
balance of expenditure on the new works
at Cape Thevenard, the co. recently offered
20,036 new shares at par to holders, making
available one new share for every five pre-
viously held.
* * * *
Standard Portland Cement Co., Ltd.—
This proposed co. has been in the public eye
lately because its promoters have entered
into a contract with the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment, which Parliament will shortly be asked
to ratify, to supply public works with 50,000
tons cement annually for three years at a
price approximately £1 per ton less than
the Government now pays. The scheme set
out by the prospectus is attractive. It is
proposed to establish works almost along-
side the Kandos Co.’s, and to tap limestone
deposits which are an extension of those
so successfully operated by that concern.
11. E. Ross, of Ross and Rowe, consulting
engineers and architects, mining-engineer
W. E. Longworth, and Frank Oakden, de-
signer and builder and late g.m. of Kandos
—he has resigned from the Board of that
co. to become superintending consulting-
engineer for the Standard —have worked
out details and attached their seals to the
scheme. To commence with, an ideal site
commanded by gravity delivery for raw
materials, and on the Sydney-Mudgee rail-
way, has been selected for the works. The
limestone leases are estimated to contain
10 million tons above creek level, and there
is no question regarding the suitability of
the extensive shale deposits. For coal the
promoters propose that the co. should pur-
chase the Kandos-Coomber colliery, immedi-
ately' above the works site, and already de-
veloped and equipped to produce 75,000 tons
per annum of fuel described by the experts as
“in every way suitable for cement-making.”
A good water supply is assured. So im-
pressed witli possibilities is Herbert Ross
that he remarks that in many years’ experi-
ence of industrial enterprises “there has
never occurred an occasion in which he can
so earnestly and solidly recommend” a pro-
position ; Longworth adds that “the con-
ditions are as nearly ideal as could obtain
anywhere.” The vital matter of construc-
tion and early management should be safe
in the hands of an expert with Frank Oak-
den’s experience.
Nominal capital is a half-million, and
350,000 shares of £1 each are offered to the
public. This capital is considered adequate
to establish works with a capacity of 80,0011
to 100,000 tons per annum, and the pro-
visional directors (barrister P. R. Higgins;
graziers E. .1. Gorman and W. W. Killen;
merchant J. A. Murdoch, M.L.C.; public-
accountant A. J. Swan : and engineering-
contractor L. Napier Thomson) undertake
not to go to allotment until £200.000 has been'
subscribed, which the co.’s advisers consider
will be sufficient to erect and equip a first
unit of 50.000 tons capacity and provide the
necessary preliminaries for extensions. The
promoting syndicate, Cement Products, Ltd.,
is to take 75,000 fully-paids and £5OOO cash
for freeholds, mining leases, etc., and for all
services to the venture. This consideration
—almost a one-fifth interest on the capitalisa-
tion proposed—looks big. but is relatively no
larger than in a couple of similar floats
which have proved successes. Vendors’ shares
will not be entitled to anything until other
shareholders have had divs. totalling 15 p.c.;
the vendor co. also undertakes to npplv for
20.000 contribs. In the matter of profits the in-
vestor is left mostly to ponder on the earnings


READY ON FRIDAY.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOB MARCH.
Financial Reviews and Other Information-
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Gas Light
Australian Gypsum
Australian Stock Breeders
Australian (Yellow Rock)
Portland Cement
Brisbane Timbers, Ltd.
British Tobacco Co.
City Mutual Assurance
Society
Castlemaine Brewery
(Fremantle)
Commonwealth Life
Assurance Society
Domara River Planta-
tions
F. T. Wimble & Co.
Home Recreations
(Eddys) Ltd.
Huddart. Parker
Industrial Building
Society
•I. C. Ludowici & Son.
Lindley Woollen Mills
Lofts Safety Electric
Irons
London Stores
Mangrovite Belting
Manly Hotels
North Shore Gas
Pijtqkalana Cotton Estates
Prospectuses
Queensland Meat Export
Registrations, New
Sargents, Ltd.,
Siegwart Beams & Cin-I-
crete Bricks
Southland Frozen Meat
Standard Mutual Build-
ing
Standard Portlandi
Cement
Sydney Exchange Co.
Sydney & Suburban
" Hydraulic
Victoria Coffee Palace
■Wellington Trust, Loam
& Investment
Wyper Bros.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Tiie Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydroipeters,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams's Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
» * • »
The installation of Pioneer Wood Pipe overcomes
the problem of decreased flow which is such a serious
handicap to metal pipes' after a few years of use.
Pioneer Wood Pipe does not corrode nor tuberculate,
and its absolutely smooth interior bore offers no resis-
tance to water sliding through it, nor does it allow
any foothold for organic growths or sediment. Other
advantages of Pioneer Wood Pipe are lightness,
cheapness, simplicity, durability and immunity from
frost of electrolysis. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagh Street,
Svdney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Couuison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“Foden” Steam Waggons, “Robey” Steam Road
Rollers and Traction Engines, “Multimix” Concrete
Mixers. Road Graders. “Robey-Leplastrier” Road
Making Machinery, including Rock Crushers, Steel
Moulds for Concrete Pipes, etc., etc. Supplied by
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., Macquarie
Place, Syuney; Collins House, Melbourne; 21 Mor-
phett Street, Adelaide; and Wellington Street, Perth.
—Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reauirements. —Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole ’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Svdney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
WORM
DRIVE
WICHITA
WORM
DRIVE
SPECIAL 'BUS CHASSIS
FITTED WITH ELECTRIC LIGHTING DYNAMO—CUSHION TYRES.
14ft. Wheel Base,
£640
FOR FIRST TWELVE ORDERS BOOKED.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, Parramatta Road, opp. st. John’s (University) college, Sydney.
of other cement cos., except that it is men-
tioned that a net profit of I2s. 6d. on SO,OOO
tons would give £60,000 (more than Ilf p.c.
on total capital), and that the co.’s experts
“disclose a wider margin at current sale
prices, after taking into account the fact
that the contract with the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment is on terms favorable to the State.
* * * *
Alex. Campbell’s raid on the Mt. Isa (Q.)
field for John Brandon’s Melbourne followers
has developed into the co. stage: Mt. Isa
South, N.Li., in 100,000 £1 shares, of whicn
60,000 are offered as contribs. Vendors
take 40.000 fully-paids and £5OOO cash, but
10 vendors’ shares will go as a bonus on
every 100 contribs. taken up. When allot-
ment money is paid (the shares w'ill then
be called to 55.) and vendors have had their
cash, approximately £BOOO will be left for
prospecting and preliminary development.
Four blocks totalling 37£ acres partly sur-
rounding the Rio Grande and Even Break
are included in the leases, and a free option
for six months has been taken over 205 acres
covering the whole of the southern and west-
ern end of the main outcrop. Alex. Camp-
bell, Ambrose Pratt, Peter Sutherland, Wm.
Orr and Andrew McCrae are the directors.
Mt. Isa is likely to have railway com-
munication soon. Surveyors have already
marked out tidal routes, and last week
the Public Works Commission visited
the field. Chief Government Geologist 4)un-
stan accompanied the party in an advisory
capacity^
News of the Lander co.’s efforts to bring ill
an oil-well at Orallo (Q.) is due at any time
now. Cementation of the weii was completed
last -week, and Duncan Milsom considers
that he has 15ft. of promising sands to test
at the lower gas horizon. Geologist L. C.
Ball’s samples of sludge showed up to 1.63
p.c. of free oil, which, he remarked, was
distinctly encouraging under the circum-
stances. C. F. V. Jackson, general oil-
supervisor for the State, is at the bore. If
the present attempt does not prove a com-
mercial pool, it is proposed to continue the
No. 1 bore another 500 ft. at least. One
thing is certain, even if oil is not found,
and that is the existence of a vast gas-field
in the Roma district.
* * * *
The tribute workings on Finney’s Hills,
Indooroopilly (near Brisbane), let to Mad-
den and Barnes in March last by Silver
Lead* Ltd., turned out very profitably. The
tribute covered Moorhouse’s surface and
White’s underground leases, and during the
last six months of 1923 just on 160 tons
of prill ore and concentrates, together worth
£4316, were shipped to smelters. Although
much of the ground stoped went only 5
p.c. lead and Soz. silver, the hand-picked
stuff and concentrates averaged 60 p.c. lead
and 82oz. silver. The tribute has terminated
owing to the amalgamation of the co. with
Finney’s Hill United.
* * * *
Mt. Cobalt, near Mt. Elliott (Q.), now
has its mainshaft down to 212 ft. The mill
is working two shifts, and it is intended to
put on a third. During February 36 tons
ore were treated for 7.5 tons of concentrates
of an estimated value of £1507. The mine
is looking well, and the mill is running
smoothly, so the March output should be much
larger.
• * * • *
Stannary Hills tinfield (N.Q.) has blos-
somed again after a pretty bad drought.
Derek’s is producing once more. The You
and Me turned out 425 ton low-grade dirt
during February for 7 tons of concen-
trates, the ore averaging £3 a ton at present
high prices. The Arbouin yielded 570 tons,
for 23 tons of cones., worth £3335. Flana-
gan Bros, have struck a 3ft. shoot in the
Boulder going about 30 p.c.
* * * *
The old Ravenswood goldfield (N.Q.),
which was discovered ahead of its rich neigh-
bor, the Towers, has turned out another pay-
able mine after being as dead as a door-nail
for a decade. For the past three months
decent crushings have been obtained, and a
parcel of 78 bags sent to Chillagoe for treat-
ment averaged llloz. gold per ton. The ore
carries zinc and mundic. Just before that
380 bags of prill ore went 7|oz. Manager
Jimmy Duncan is optimistic.
* * * *
An Bft.-seam of coal is reported to have
been found in sinking a well at Rocklea, a
south-side suburb of Brisbane. Last year a
4ft. seam was struck at next-door Moorooka,
but it was considered too small to bother
about. The finds are worth investigating,
because the Woolloongabba wharves, where
all coastal bunkering is handled, are only
five miles distant.
The new Styx State Colliery (Q.) has
been christened the Hartley mine, evidently
to commemorate Bob Hartley, M.L.A., who
has been a great for the field. The
Hartley is intended to be the big producer
of the field, as the No. 2 pit, three miles
south, is in such troubled country that it
may snuff out at any time, although there is
a fair amount of coal in sight. The Hartley
is timbered now to 450 ft. It has to go beyond
500 ft. to work a good 6ft.-seam in settled
country.
* * * *
Wild-cats are becoming plentiful at Wiluna
(W.A.), and several Adelaide cos. are aid-
ing and abetting their capers. Gamblers
in Wiluna prospects had better be careful.
# * * *
A Kalgoorlie co. is tackling the Great Vic-
toria, Southern Cross, in good style. The
lode is the bigges't known gold-bearing ore
deposit in Westralia, and good management
may make a paying proposition of it. Be-
fore this stage can he reached, however, a
lot of work must be done. The lode is more
than 100 ft. wide, and 100,000 tons are esti-
mated to be in sight. The average value is
reckoned at 6dwt., and the ore should be won
at low cost, as, of course, it would need to
be. South Africa earns divs. on 4dwt. ore.
* * * *
Improved tin and lead prices are expected
to give base-metal mining in Westralia a
leg-up, and a new copper process recently
installed at the Whim Well is also expected
to help that section. Several tin-bearing
areas at Greenbushes and lead deposits at
Northampton are receiving attention, and an
early revival of mining is predicted. The
Whim Well is banking on a recovery of
90 p.c. copper, and talks of producing, ship-
ping and marketing £5O metal in London.
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is anxious to
have another flutter. The chairman informed
shareholders at the recent meeting that the
co.’s option at Sullivan’s Find, beyond
Laverton. had been abandoned, and that the
Mighty Atom, in which it had an interest,
had been thrown up by the Mutooroo co.
Several other Westralian shows had since
been inspected, but none appeared to be
worth Now that the co.’s only re-
maining holding, the Banker mine, near
Southern Cross, is under tribute, and the
plant has been sold, the Board is eager to
try another property. The Butterfly has
probably juggled with more alleged gold-
mines in the West than any other co.
The Mutooroo co. is considering whether it
will give the Lime Kiln, on the Yilgarn field,
a trial. A shaft has been sunk 60ft. on
kaolin and quartz claimed to be of high
value, and a few tons have been bagged.
The owners are said to want £lO,OOO for the
show.
* * * *
Oroya East, a Westralian weakling which
tried but failed to interest Adelaide, came
up for review by shareholders the other day.
The usual hopes of success were offered as a
bait. However, sufficient funds are not
available for development, and shareholders
do not seem inclined to give the gamble
further backing.
* * * *
London has been asked to buy the old
Pilgrim’s Rest mine, on the West Pilbarra
field (W.A.), from which two working miners
took nearly £lO,OOO some years back. When
the shoot had been mined down to 100 ft.
something went wrong, and operations ceased.
Like many other promising gold deposits in
that country, the Pilgrim’s Rest died young.
Lloyd George tributors (W.A.) treated
860 tons in five weeks for 1730 z., a good
performance for five men. The half-ounce
yield is better than the average prior to the
creep and the disappearance of the lode.
* * * *
Lucknow Mines (N.S.W.), which has
been pottering about on call money in work-
ings abandoned by the English cos. 20 years
ago, has decided to give up. Shareholders
have been tantalised for six months by pro-
tracted negotiations with W. A. J. Marshall
for a reconstruction, in which Melbourne
was to become interested. At one stage
shares were boosted to 4s. 6d. on nothing
more tangible than Pitt-street whispers.
Y.imy Ridge, Bega (N.S;W*), is having
its first crushing, with 5-head of stamps.
C. It. Mackenzie, who will ; shortly take
charge as manager, states that a fortnight’s
crushing saw 40 tons go through for 16oz.
13dw r t. off new plates, and about 4dwt. is
in the sands. A general clean-up will be
made when a bulk test from different points
has been made.
* * * *
At the Morwell open-cut workings, where
the Vic. Electricity Commission will obtain
its fuel for the big scheme, 400,000 tons
overburden were removed last year, and the
coal exposed is estimated at not less than
two million tons. The initial screening
house will have a capacity of 4000 tons per
day, but provision has been made to increase
to 10.000 tons, while the coal storage bins
are 2500 tons capacity, and designed for en-
largement to 7500 tons without interfering
with the operating efficiency of the plant.
To eliminate excess water from the brown-
coal measures, headings totalling 11,000 ft.
are being driven under the coal reserve to
connect with the main underground pump-
ing station.
At the Carlisle, Bendhro. the spurs west
of the Unity bacli at 1264 ft. (practically a
new body of spurs spliced on to the 80ft.-wide
Victory spurs) continue to develop promis-
ingly. The west crosscut in the main body
at 1264 ft. has cut a payable spur that did
not carry to the Unity back, and strong spurs
were found west of the back, witli_ colors
showing. A rise has cut another 15ft. up,
showing fair gold, and it is about 10ft. below'
the 3 to 4oz. spur which has already paid off
£3OOO of debt and put the co. £lOOO in credit.
It is now' proposed to put in a compressor
and pay off Bendigo Amalgamated for plant,
which should not be a formidable task, as
the little work done indicates a large forma-
tion easily accessible, and in which each spur
uncovered so far has shown gold. A local
crow'd is trying to get control by securing
the Amalgamated’s 20,000 contrib. shares.
If the Bose, Thistle and Shamrock, Har-
rietville (Vic.), at 190 ft., has any extent
of the shoot lift, wide carrying payable
gold, or even 4ft. on the footwall of "good
payable gold,” as per F. T. Whimpney, its
garden is blooming. But only 35ft. has been
driven east and 10ft. south, and as shoots
in the old mine have been shorty it is too
soon to pick bouquets out of Wliimpney’s
patch. Anyway, he is frank, for while tell-
ing that the new level has a better outlook,
it is at depth that he expects to get stone.
A swap has been made in control, and
Serjeant, the new manager, is to be let con-
nect with the old tuunel so as to get costs
down. C. F. Proctor, before handing over,
estimated that he had left a block of 5000
tons of 25dwt. stone betw r een 90 and 180 feet,
with gold better distributed than in No. 1
level. If so, the Landtax shoot goes into
the shade.
To drive 2000 ft. to get gold is what old
and new hands at the Oriental, Harrietville
(Vic.), set out to do. They have gone fur-
ther than that, but have not had the luck to
locate the downward continuation of the
formation snuggling in a winze 135 ft. over-
head. The ore-channel has been picked up,
and though there are promising indications,
no gold has come in. Manager Lawrence
wants to go south another 100 ft. to get the
shoot on the pitch. The Board, with coal-
secretary Whimpney in the lead, has put him
on the job of rising to find the gold. When
met, the course of the shoot can be traced
and the mine worked accordingly. In any
case, connection with the old winze is needed
to give ventilation, so no one worries over
the rising.
Although 1000 ft. of development has been
carried out by Ajax North, Daylesford
(Vic.), in trying to pick up flat makes or
fresh shoots at No. 4 level, nothing has
turned up, and work there has stopped. No.
G is still being raked with a small tooth
comb. Black slates looked like furnishing
good gold, but so far only narrow veins
have been uncovered. McMillan’s reef is
being opened up at Nos. 6 and 7, where,
under the big break, 4ft. of stone carries a
little gold. A better prospect is at 40ft.
under No. 7 level; a flat make west of the
drive looks to have more than bare possi-
bilities. As usual, Hansen has got through
a six-months’ campaign very cheaply, but
it is dreary work trudging along everlast-
ingly just inside the profit mark. To date
Ajax North has given £169,000 of gold and
needed £28,799 of capital. All the cash has
gone in this way: Wages, £104,588 ; material,
£24.589: fuel, £22.199: plant and timber,
£8000; and divs., £23,625.
The erection of plant for the Tasmanian
Cement Co. is now nearing completion. It
is proposed to use the Latrobe oil shales in
conjunction with the cement-making; in fact,
the production of fuel oil- —kerosene and
motor-spirit—is to be of primary import-
ance, the waste gasses and some of the poorer
shale only being used in cement-making. The
co. will work the limestone bed by open-cut,
and as bores have proved the beds to be
500 ft. thick, there should be no shortage of
raw material. The capacity of the plant is
estimated at 90 tons of cement and 7200
gallons of oil per day. The whole outfit is
Australian-made.
* * * *
Mersey Valley Oil (Tas.) No. 9 bore has
proved another dud. It was in mudstone
and green clay to 1150 ft., and then ran into
diabase, and work has stopped.
Bux had a field day when R. M. Boyd,
back from Dutch Borneo, had his way about
the 187.240 acres of oil-lands he has pegged
there. That area includes 60,000 acres re-
commended by H. S. Lyne, the geologist
sent to run the rod over Boyd’s first choice.
Bux holdings are “prospecting concessions.”
Titles are promised by the East Indies Gov-
ernment, but the co. has a long distance to
go first. Survey fees of £l6OO have to be
found at the beginning. Then the People's
Council has to be reached, and a proposal
for a royalty, which may be 12 p.c., has to
be submitted, along with a guarantee that
£20,000 cash will be available for operations.
Then, if things go well, the Upper Chamber
in far-off Holland has to set its seal on
everything. Should all intermediate hurdles
be successfully negotiated, a 75-yearS’ con-
trol of a principality will pass into Bux's
hands for a paltry £5OO per year. Lyne
told shareholders that he bad found a dried-
up seepage and traced the structure to the
Bux area. The drill may have to pierce
.‘loooft., a job that will swamp £30,000, and
£9OOO more will be needed for each addi-
tional bore. So to start, Bux has to find
£21,000 for surveys and guarantees and then
risk the outcome of negotiations, not with
the Dutch East Indies, but with the slim
Hollander in his home country. If the Yank
could not bluff his way past the Hague, can
Bux slip through?


CAVALLERIA DOME STIC AN A.
"The decision of the Vic. Farmers' Union to contest Nationalist seats at the next election is causing annoyance in the Nationalist camp.”
BRUCE (to Page): Darling, if you must sing, why not warble the old songs? That bucolic jazz is getting on my G-string!”


Favorite “Smokes” can always
be obtained at Peapes’
In addition to the many specialities which Peapes offer under the
warrant of their own “Warrigal” trade-mark, they stock a com-
plete assortment of all the best lines in Cigars, Cigarettes and
Tobacco.
They have just received a large shipment of thoroughly seasoned
cigars, which they can thoroughly recommend.
Manila Cigars, La Perla del Oriente, Reina Victoria,
24/- per box of 50.
Manila Cheroots, Heavyweight, La Perla del Oriente, Deliciosas,
24/- per box of 50.
These are the mildest Manila procurable, grown from Havana
seed.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opp. Hunter Street), Sydney.
From all good
garages.
r--' >:
POWER
and ready response are afforded your
engine when fitted with Italia Spark
Plugs. ...
These Plugs are finely and strongly
constructed, with solid brass bodies,
on scientific principles.
The laminated mica insulator ensures
a full, hot spark always—making your
engine easy to start and sweet in run-
ning. So well made that years of use
are in each plug; when one part does
wear out. it . may be purchased
separately at a fraction the cost of a
new pliig.
Italia Plugs outlast the life of your car.
GATTINO & CO., LTD.,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S ANKS"
From the Bar table: —
Edward Williams, the Sydney music-teacher who
was sentenced to death on Thursday for the murder
of his three little girls, is the only assassin of
modern times who has advanced a lofty moral reason
as justification of his crimes. Heredity and en-
vironment were in combination to deny his children
any hope of morality in this world or salvation
in the next. “They would be the prey of the first
smooth-tongued villain who came along. I saw it
all, and saw beyond it.” So he cut their throats
for the good of their souls; sent them to Heaven
before they were old enough to qualify for Hell.
SOLD AGAIN.
AFFABLE STRANGER: “Pardon, sir, am I addressin' Mr. Claude
FitzGadget, the famous hactor?”
FITZGADGET ( feeling flattered): “At your service!”
AFFABLE STRANGER: “Exactly, sir; thank you, sir. 'Ere’s a couple
of writs for you!”
If he is a bestial malefactor who deserves hanging,
then some of the most illustrious sovereigns, pre-
lates and statesmen in history are in the same box.
“This hand hath sinned,” said Cranmer at Oxford,
and thrust it into the flame, and, holding it steadily
there, “never stirred nor cried.” How much more
logical if he had destroyed his hand before it was
given a chance to sin! In the eyes of anyone who
accepts the doctrine of eternal punishments and
rewards, Williams has performed a deed of heroic
self-sacrifice. His children are safely in Paradise,
and his heavenly Judge, being infinitely wise and,
therefore, capable of distinguishing between murder
for hate and murder for love, will eventually
receive him there. Society, however, cannot afford
to accept the full implications of the Christian
faith outside church hours, and the result is Wil-
liams is classed with Deeming, and, if Justice
James’s remarks while sentencing him have any
significance, will suffer the same fate.
“Crispie”: Put this against some of those
yarns about Diggers with self-inflicted
wounds. Shortly after the evacuation, while
we were in the Sinai Desert guarding the
Canal, my cobber ruptured himself. But he
refused to see the doc., knowing that he
would be ordered into hospital instead of
going to France with the battalion. Once,
when on outpost duty, his agony doubled him
up. While he was on the ground the Com-
pany O.C. made his rounds and discovered
him, with the result that, refusing to offer
any explanation, he was crimed for neglect
of duty. Only his good record at. Anzac saved
him from a court-martial; as it was, the C.O.
awarded him 15 days’ Field Punishment No.
2. Suffering hell, for his complaint became
worse as time passed, he remained with his
unit until, six months later, he was wounded
in France. On being admitted to hospital
he made known his hernia, and was immedi-
ately operated upon.
“Saaedi” : There were several hundred of
us camped at Moascar, Egypt, going through
a riding-school under Capt. Blank, an Eng-
lish officer of the old school. Most of us
had learnt to ride shortly after we learnt
to walk, nevertheless we had to put in sev-
eral weary weeks being instructed in the
“rudiments of riding” (Capt. Blank’s pet
phrase) after the English fashion. Arrived
the day when we were to be tested over
four three-foot jumps. Individually we sent
our nags round the jumps, while Capt.
Blank sat on hijs charger in the centre of
the circle barking out instructions and re-
bukes. Bill’s horse Was a crazy coot that
charged for one of the side posts every time,
evidently with malicious intent, wherefore'
Bill was mainly occupied in; hauling at his
steed’s mouth to save himself from destruc-
tion. This procedure didn’t meet with Capt.
Blank’s approval. “Give him his head, mair!
Give him his head!” he howled. At,length
Bill rode back to the ranks. “Why the ’ell
didn’t yer give ’im ’is ’ead, Bill?” remon-
strated the squadron hard-doer, in a voice
easily audible all over the parade-ground.
“Yer might ’ave tumbled that ther Captain
wants to show us the rudiments of Funeral
Parade next.”
“Hasen” : It hap-
pened at Singapore
at a time when
executions were
much more fre-
quent in the Straits
Settlements th a n
they are now. Four
Chinese, two pairs
of brothers, were
to be publicly de-
spatched for mur-
der, the executioner
being a big, mat-
ter-of-fact Malay.
Three of the con-
demned went about
the business of
being hanged with
the usual fatalistic
stoicism of the yel-
low man, but the
fourth developed
objections. It
seemed that there
was uncomfortable
doubting in the
soul of him. He
pointed out to the
executioner how his
spirit was troubled
over certain, nice
points of religion,
and suggested dis-
cussion thereon.
The Malay was a
jus t man. He
wished to be fair,
and the matters
mentioned were
knotty and debat-
able. It hurt him
to hinder one in
honest search of
truth. For a mo-
ment he seemed
puzzled, and then
his eye lighted.
“Look, then,” he
said in his lazy,
soft language, “how fortunate it is! You can
now ask God Himself. Come on ; come on !”'
And they went. Few religious debates close
so satisfactorily.
“No Importa”: £2OOO a foot for Ham's
old auction-room in Swanston-street (Melb.)
made me rub my eyes and tui’n up my dusty
records of 1888-93. For some time my
favorite ploy on Saturday afternoons was to
attend suburban property sales and act as
a “buttoner,” or sham bidder. Our best
sales were always accompanied by a marquee,
well fitted up with beer. At one famous
sale, away beyond Coburg, we had a band,
many drags and four barrels. There were about
a thousand people there, and every lot was
sold. My fee that day was a guinea for
being a bell-wether. A Scotch conscience
developed since then leads me to think that
particular guinea, anyliow, was not honestly
earned. Much the same methods are being
used to-day. Subdivisional sales for a long
time past have been attended by mobs of
PERHAPS HE WAS.
“People would only say you were foolish enough to let me marry
you for your money.”
“Oh' no, my dear; they would say that I vas too schmart to let
you get it any oder vay.”
small speculators, buying 40ft. blocks on easy
terms —a pound down, and the balance at a
pound a month on a 10-years’ p.n., at 5 p.c.
Literally we used to get hundreds of these
bills, and most of them were pulped at the
paper-mills.. Then a Yankee insurance co.,
with more funds than sagacity, gave £2200 a
foot for -the Equitable corner of Collins-
street. That deal brought everybody up
standing. The banks closed all overdrafts
overnight, and land sales fizzled out in tents
where there w T as a beggarly array of empty
bidders. The boom was over, and what un-
learned people call the “aftermath,” mean-
ing the liquidation, was begun with much
vigor and scarcely any regard for values or
prices. It has taken exactly 34 years
to get back to high-water mark at £2OOO a
foot. The only test of a land value is its
rent, and unless two bars 100 ft. long can be
squeezed into Ham’s old auction-room the
price seems a trifle, high.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Encounter Bay. just outside
the mouth of the Murray, had a remarkable
bit of luck with the visiting battleships.
Admiral Brand, who had received cabled
news of his wife’s death just before reaching
Adelaide, turned his back on all the festivi-
ties there, and spent a quiet week at Victor
Harbor. Admiral Field was thus informed
that the fleet ought not to miss the bay
where Flinders encountered the French
ships under Baudin in 1802; so after leav-
ing Adelaide the seven ships turned in past
the Bluff (described in Simpson Newland’s
novel “Paving the Way”), and anchored for
the evening, beautifully lit up, in a long
string stretching from Victor Harbor to
Port Elliot, neither of which had expected
to see the squadron at close range.
“Sixenate”: A recent incident in the
N.S.W. Divorce Court was the intervention
of the Crown to secure the quashing of a
decree nisi granted three and a half years,
ago. The petitioner secured her divorce in
1920 on the grounds of desertion, her hus-
band having been interned during the...war.
and deported afterwards as an enemy sub-
ject. But the lady omitted to confide to
the Court that she had entered into a fresh
partnership and borne a child before she
applied to have the first knot untied, so the
decree nisi was cancelled —the casual lady
had apparently funked an application to
have it made absolute. Some women have
better luck. A Digger enlisted in 1914,
leaving a wife and two children behind him.
Returning, nearly six years later, he dis-
covered, after his wife tiad been living with
him for six months as if nothing had; hap-
pened, that the intervening occurrences in-
.:l
eluded two children. The ex-soldier made
no fuss; he merely deserted his wife so that
she might secure a divorce. No question of
her not having clean hands was raised, and
she subsequently married the other man.
That her ex-husband's conduct was not alto-
gether altruistic, however, was shown when,
subsequently, a woman with two infants
arrived from England, married him on the
day of her arrival, and commenced house-
keeping for him as if she was used to it.
* * * *
“Maphen'' (Lond.) : “Plow many Austra-
lians go to Eng-
land to practise?”
asks “Hanno” (B.
8/11/’23), in sup-
port of liis griev-
ance that British
medical graduates
are still settling
in Australia. Well,
I personally know
15 Australian gra-
duates who hold,
or have recently
held, appointments
as resident medi-
cal-officers in vari-
ous British hospi-
tals. Two Mel-
bourne men hold
important appoint-
ments in London :
Dunhill at Barts,
and Ike Jones at
St. Thomas’s. It
should surely go
to the credit of
...London that it is
s o cosmopolitan'
and so generous to
outsiders in medi-
cal and other call-
ings. On one well-
known London hos-
pital the resident
staff consists of
three Australians
(including the
medical superin-
tendent), one Can-
adian, one Maori-
lander, an Irish-
man and two Scot-
ties. There isn’t
an Englishman in
the bunch.
, “D.R.” explains the Jewish calendar: —
•' Apropos “SehnorrerV* statement (B. 6/3/’24) that
‘(the Jewish Leap Year comes so seldom that it
qontains an extra month instead of an extra day.”
This is the way of it. The Jewish calendar year is
composed of 12 moons. Ten of these contain alter-
nately 30 and 29 days ; the exceptions are the eighth
and ninth months, which may contain either 29 or
gO days; hence the year may be 353, 351 or
355 days. Since, however, the religious festivals
have been appointed to occur in certain fixed seasons
—Passover, for instance, in the spring (Palestine),
and the Feast of Tabernacles in the autumn —a
compromise has been made between the solar and
lunar years by adding an extra month of 29 days,
EASILY EXPLAINED.
THE MISTRESS: "However you got a refer-
ence to say you were a perfect lady's
maid I can't make out.”
THE MAID: "Oh, I worked for perfect ladies
once.”
sometimes every three years, more rarely every two
years. In point of fact,; the Jewish Year is lunar
in the determination of the months, and solar in
that it has to agree with the solar cycle of 19
years. Thus, every 19 years the Jewish and Christian
dates coincide ; in such a cycle there are 12 ordinary
years of 12 months and 7 intercalary years of 13
months, the latter occurring five times at intervals
of three years and twice at intervals Of two years.
(Continued on page 19.)
PROPRIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A merry rout, from morn till eye
They woke the echoes;.of the vale;
Each springal wore upon; his sleeve
His heart for public auction sale.
The fiddles widdled and the harp
Played “Round the House” and “Catch me, John”;
While Betsy danced with Squire Sharp
And Parson kissed Miss Barbazon.
All sang that day, all drank good ale,
All clapped their hands save Thomas Elf,
Who sat and pondered, proud and pale,
Apart in private by himself.
Which when they marvelled at he smole
Most ghastlily and told them why—
“ Who in ins trousers hath a hole
Must sit,” he said, “while maids are by.”
N.S.W.
HUGH McURAE.


TKe Fbet would naturally’ be put In fee
Audit Department.
Various experts could be <z,mploy<z.d.
on fee oeilin^rs
Editors 2*n<i
wVio always aim.
ai pr<z,6®»* vll Ys
a.” wda
would
b<z. l 0 * 3
on top.
tk.e
Art Society
Could
fee outside
2*. coat
pa^irit.
directors couU Spend
Soma /’dho.ir o/duiy Vaours
fee- vusb .
jAz-W doZ.*Z-n dl-aop ■WJ>IWg.T , S
could /it in
Irt fa.ci *k little jot* could ba Ju* almost every L ody.
TAKING IT OUT.
"Many requests have been received by the Commonwealth Commissioners for time to pay the income tax.”
The artist, who has always been given the option of working out his fines, thinks that something of the same sort might be done with taxes.


sdf
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO COLTD., LONDON.
“Alwyn” : CampbelltoWn, the quaint old
N.S.W. fruit-growing hamlet where the
coroner’s inquiry into the ghastly Cordeaux
Dam shooting affray was held, was the venue
of the first Circuit Court held in Australia.
The Court was opened by Chief Justice
Forbes in 1820, and there was a large pro-
cession from Liverpool to mark the event;
The judicial party was escorted by a guard
of honOf, consisting of four horsemen with
drawn swords j and behind Came 20 carriages
containing the leading citizens of the district,
40 or .50 gentlemen ondiorseback and upwards
Of a hundred persons on foot. They turned
sdiSfi fjueer things into a picnic in those days'*
“Hamer” : The row raised by some of the
Sydhfey dailies over the arrival from England
of Governor de Chair’s domestic staff reminds
me that i know a man who has kept tab of
a generation 6f vice-royalty’s imported atten-
dants. He was one himself, and has enjoyed
the freedom of the servants’ hall at Gov’ment
Touse ever since his own employer started
him in a suburban business before returning
to the Cold Country. According to his
reckoning successive Governors have been
good immigration agents, since about GO per
cent, of their imported servants have stayed
in the country, .most of the women finding
Australian husbands. Four of his old col-
leagues are now keeping pubs, and one runs
a fish business in which his old association
with the gubernatorial establishment gives
him prestige. And he whispered to me of
one ex-liousemaid who married an affluent
Sydneyite and has become an accepted orna-
ment of a social circle which is smiled upon
A MOVING IMPULSE.
“The Joneses are moving .”
"Why, they've only been here a year! People were just
beginning to get to know them."
“Yes, that’s why they’re going."
by the presiding head of the establishment
where the lady once plied a featlier-dustei.
“Bouragi”: A Sydney landlord bitterly
complained in a lower court the other day
that when he went to collect the rents ot
two Of his houses he found the tenants
vanished and the premises empty. He spoke
as if he could have sustained no more seven;
shock But had lie been landlording on
the slopes of the Hydrographer’s Mange, m
Papua, a few years ago, he might have
found his houses gone too. In those days
the writer, making his first incursion into
those parts, struck a large village of over 50
well-built houses. While not exactly en-
thusiastic. the local mayor and corporation
proved not altogether deaf when improved
methods of hygiene and sanitation were sug-
gested ; and, after intimating what the “big
Government” required, our party moved on,
promising a return visit later. The posi-
tion of the village and a couple of others
Were indicated with exactitude on the map,
SOME PAY Also SOME JUST PAYN’T.
HIS F RIEND: “Any promising students, old boy?
THE ART INSTURCTOR: “Oh yes, nearly all promising; hut there’s
a few of them pay up regularly."
and some months later another magistrate
set off to visit them. He found nothing but
the clearings. Gardens, houses, corpses
buried thereunder —in fact, everything save a
number of postholes—had absolutely disap-
peared. Persistent search at last unearthed
the community, as a going concern, some 1-
miles off, on the other side of a stiff iange.
This Uprooting of whole settlements became
a regular custom of these folk when the re-
fining influences of civilisation got too near.
“X2X” : The evening press has been mak-
ing "a song about alcohol-laden sweets being
sold in Sydney and Melbourne, the excite-
ment having been started by
a cleric who declared that
children of tender years were
being debauched by these
devilish instruments. As a
matter of fact, they have
been on sale in Australia for
nearly 20 years, to my know-
ledge. Three times I have
examined them analytically.
The bulkiest of them contain
only about 10 or 12 drops of
crSme de men the or benedic-
tine, and as these liqueurs
have less than 40 per cent,
of alcohol in them, it would
tax the storage power of the
most capacious flapper to ob-
tain even a moderate stiff-
ener. Some years ago there
appeared on the local market
what was described as a
“compressed alcohol lozenge/'
the effects produced by a
few of these being all that
was claimed for them. Sus-
picion being aroused by the
fact that it is chemically im-
possible to prepare alcohol
in compressed form, they
were examined and it was
found that they owed their
"kick” to the presence of a
minute quantity of a cocaine
salt. That was very bad;
these liqueur chocolates, how-
ever, are just about as harmless as if they
were filled with cold tea.
“Yarrum” : I had charge of the school at
Slapup for a year, and found things dead
slow. One Monday morning, however, there
was a bit of a break. Just after taking-
school in I heard a row in the yard, and
spotted Wire Whiskers, .T.P.., running his
son and heir, aged 15. by the scruff of the'
neck. The bov kicked and tussled, but was
eventually landed at the door, where I stood.
“I want you,” said Whiskers, “to look after
this blanker! Divvle a bit of good can we
get of him at home! Bang hill out of him,
and bilt him to a pulp, so long as you make
a man of him.” With that the old boy made
off; but, before he got through the gate, he
turned and shouted: “But. say, mister, not
the boot, mind—not the boot!”
“Truthful James”: A sinister old lag manu-
factured and sold wine at Picton (N.S.W.)
in the ’sixties. A few' doses of his diaboli-
cal tipple could
generally be relied
upon to sever dip-
lomatic relations
between the fre-
quenters of the
shanty, and in the
end some figliting-
dru n k customer
rooted out the pro-
prietor’s br-ains with
an adze. The per-
petrator of the
crime remained un-
identified for dO
years. Then an old
man residing at
Liverpool, when on
his death-bed, con-
fessed to slaying
the shanty-keeper.
Recently I ha d
occasion to read
the confession to
an old hand of the
district. His only
comment was that
“the bloke must
have had a
good memory to
recollect it all that
time.”
Jji *
“Cutter” : Many
are the excuses the
IvI.L. backblocks
storekeeper gives
for tardiness in
meeting his obliga-
tions to wholesale
houses, but ou r
firm ranks as its
“best yet” a recent
communi cation
from a King Coun-
try resident who
occasionally does a
side-line i n sly-
grog. “You will see
the reason for the delay by the above
address,” his letter concluded. The “above
address” was Mount Eden Gaol.
“Randolph Rentless”: Sydney's biggest
building, when the City Railway is com-
pleted, will be the Commissioners’ offices,
extending from Campbell-street to Goul-
burn-street, between Elizabeth and Castle-
reagh streets—400 feet long and rising to the
height-limit of 150 feet. The pile will be-
stride Hay-street, and the railway will run
through it. That portion of the land which
faces the Grand Opera House represents
the longest-distance debt in connection with
the City Railway. The Holman Govern-
ment. when it opened up the subject, re-
sumed the land at great cost. Then, when
the first scheme was abandoned, it erected
an expensive block of shops and offices.
With the arrival of the Norton Griffiths
scheme the new buildings had to come down
again, and the tenants were compensated. But
no sooner had that and a dozen other blocks
of buildings in other parts been demolished
than the Norton Griffiths scheme was
knocked on the head (also at considerable
cost) ; and the vacant blocks have stood
like toothless gums for 10 years past.
(P.S. —The noise you heard was the groan-
ing of the taxpayer on Whiddon’s rack.)
“Are Weru”: “Te Pana” (B. 21/2/'%$)
is right as to the effect which varying en-
vironment has on the Maori. Not only has
bushwhacking in the Urewera country kept
him fit physically, but it has developed his
finest instincts, the spirit of chivalry in-
cluded. The other day a chief of the Ngati-
Hinekura. a sub-tribe of the Tuhoe clan,
advised the Native Minister that he and liis
people had agreed to slice out of their land
a plot sufficient to enclose the site of the
Orangikawa Pa, near Tatahoata. Here are
buried Captain Travers and his gallant men
of No. 4 Div., Armed Constabulary, who
stopped lead in the scrap with the Hauhaus
in 1869. It is pleasant to find the descend-
ants of some of the rebel warriors of the
'sixties presenting the Crown with the
ground surrounding the spot where the ene-
mies of their forefathers were interred, in
order that, as the refreshingly simple letter
to the Minister sets out, “the resting places
and sleep of the dead who fell there in the
service of their Queen and country may be
undisturbed.” Bravo, Hori!
* * * *
“B.O.B.”: llow about surprises? The
biggest one I ever got in a fairly energetic
life was one night 38 years ago this month.
I was offsider to a platelayer at Normanby
(M.L.), who thought he saw an unautho-
rised train sweeping down on him. But lie
couldn't understand why it should be carry-
ing red and green navigation lights. He
stepped out of his cabin on to the beach
to investigate, and was nearly run over
by the Elginshire, a 5000-ton ship, well
out of her course. We could hear
the throb of her engines and a piano
tinkling, and as we listened the look-
out hit the bell and sang out “All’s well.”
The platelayer shouted a warning, and
presently a hazy “Where are we?” - came
through the fog. “Five miles south of
Timaru,” the man on the beach answered,
“and too close in. Keep out to sea.” Before
they could lug her bows round the, Elginshire
was in behind the Dolorite Reef, which she
struck on the inside. Not being-gay enough
to climb it, she stayed there till she rotted.
Her refrigerating machinery was taken out
and used ashore.
* * * *
“Herodot” : How’s this for insurance en-
terprise? There is an organisation in
Sydney which provides its clients with pro-
tection against the dangers incidental to
playing two-up. The premium is 3s. a
week; in return the insured person can rely
on bail if he is captured during a police
raid, legal assistance in the police court, and
the payment of all fines and costs. Should
the client be unlucky enough to be sent to
gaol without the option, his policy provides
for the maintenance of wife and family.
The insurance syndicate protects itself, as
far as possible, by means of a highly efficient
corps of trained scouts and watchers, who
have enormously increased the difficulties of
the police in suppressing the larger and
more reputable “schools.” The business is
conducted by a syndicate of three, one of
whom is said to be a well-known bookmaker,
and there is no shortage of capital.
HALF-A-YEAR’S RESPITE, ANYWAY.
MR. HENPECK: “My wife’s taking medical
treatment for her stammer.”
HIS BEST FRIEND: “Don’t you think you’re
foolish?”
MR. HENPECK: “Er — no. The treatment
consists of absolute silence for sis
months.”
THE HENKY EAVVSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£283 3 7
Employees Kinchega Station, via
Broken Hill: —
Torn Ryan. 10/-; T. Cochrane, 10/-;
S. Raymond, 5/-; A. Degan, 5/-: ,7.
McVay, 5/-; T. Hannon. 5/-; \V.
Duffy, 2/0; J. Cook. 2/6; M. O’Hal-
loran, 2/6; A. Redshavv, 2/6; W.
Drayton, 2/6 .. .. .. ... 2 12 6
I’er h. M. Donnelly; Murwillumbah: —
.1. L. Banner, .7. I). Kay, L. Don-
nelly, Rex Budd. A. A. Rudd. Miss
Budd, A. B. Budd. F. K. Budd. .7.
Smith, G. Glennie, R; Chacham,
It. Francis, Miss White-Copland,
F. Bowdman, J. McCracken, C.
Beir, G. Sullings, C. Lesmas, A.
Baker. P. Gill. G. Flynn. B.
Holmes. A. Robinson, B. Reynolds,
H. Cramer. Captain Douglass, A.
Koch. V. Honchy, E. Sweetman,
B. Anderson, each 1/-; exchange,
6d. . • 1 11 6
£287 7 7
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bttiaetin Office. Sydney, aud endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
RONDEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ten mutinous officers of the Irish Army were can-
tured on the roof of Devlin's public house in Dublin
after a bloodless engagement lasting 11 hours in which
armored cars and machine-guns participated. Twenty
other officers, including a General, escaped over
adjacent roofs during the siege.”
At Devlin’s pub, armed cap-a-pie,
They staged a new Thermopylae.
At bay between the moonlit aisles
Of chimney-pots they stood in files;
The guns below barked fast and free
And sadly chipped the masonry
And rattled round the peristyles
Of Devlin’s pub.
Where cats disport in amorous glee,
Saved by this stubborn gallantry,
These unsurpassed strategic wiles,
A General crept across the tiles
From Devlin’s pub.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.
THE GLORIFIED HASHTOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Concerning arrangements for accommodation for
Australians visiting the British Exhibition, Senator
\\ ilson says: ‘Two competent officials have been
working for two months, and have liled hundreds of
applications, from peers and generals living in Park-
lane to Bays water landladies, seeking Australians as
gUests, at. from seven guineas a week for bed and
breakfast downwards.’ ”
When ’tis known that earls, barons and knights
And dukes are all offering board, it
Will be rushed by a concourse of wights
Possessing the purse to afford it ;
For to eat where the cook
Is an earl or a “dook”
Gives a chance for the tourist to lord it.
Think of beds that are cosily spread
By a peeress; the warm shaving water
By a viscount brought up to a bed—
The tea by a duchess’s daughter!
If you cannot believe
That the egg you receive
From an earl will be fresh, well you oughter !
When a general answers your bell,
If you ever have carried a rifle
A joy in your bosom will swell;
No thought of the charges will stifle.
When the worst has been said,
For a breakfast and bed
Seven guineas per week is a trifle!
x.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


mmmm
m s?
mi
.v
*£'t
■ ; ■
■
..
f nr
■ ■
m
HLMI
PI
§
■
as
m
ss
caS tlere* gH
STREET’
SYDNEY.
This Hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts -Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room ' for all social functions.
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, M.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141—10 lines.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Everything went Lawson’s way last week.
He was re-installed as Premier of Vie., was
re-elected leader of the Liberal party, cele-
brated his sixth birthday as head of the
Government, danced the lancers without
tangling up the whole show, and saw the
foundry in his home town (Castlemaine)
secure the £130,400 contract for Common-
wealth railway locomotives. lie wound up
fittingly by attending the kirk and joining in
the Old Hundredth. Of course, things may
be different in a month; but his crowded
Fleet Week will remain a precious memory.
A number of very untidy old fellows, a
cut above the usual dead-beat, have kindly
memories of just-dead H. C. L. Anderson,
M.A., N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Agricul-
ture in his later days, but previously head
of the Public Library. His aloofness did
not prevent him from getting into touch
with some of the Library’s habitues, and he
could tell about the brilliant Oxford career
of this very frayed old man, and how that
one graduated from hard toil by first teach-
ing himself to spell out words from adver-
tisements. Anderson was a son of the
police-inspector who retired because he
hadn't the heart to carry out an instruction
'to rid the Sydney streets of various old
blind beggars. There were names to spare
in that family. The son just dead was
Henry Charles Lennox; his young brother,
the war knight, is Robert Murray McCheyne.
David Colvin, who died in Adelaide the
other day at 81, was a brother of Sir Sidney
Colvin, critic of art and literature and
keeper of the prints at the. British Museum.
D -vid came here looking for health about
1890. Accountancy -was his strong point,
ami he combined private coaching with a
lectureship at Adelaide ’Varsity.
"The Deacon”: The writing of reminis-
cences covering nearly 80 years is being
completed by Redmond, the veteran Arch-
bishop of Maoriland. He arrived in Sydney
in the brig Mountain Maid in the days when
the brickfields were in their original position
and Hyde Park
was a few clumps
of gum-trees. Much
water has flowed
into the harbor
since then, but
there is very little
of interest that the
astute scholar has
missed. Inciden-
tally, his newly-
acquired title of
Count of the Papal
Household enables
Redmond to take
up residence in the
Vati c a n if he
wants to. It ranks
him next to a
Cardinal.
MALCOLM
Mclntosh,
leader of the
S. Australian
Country party,
which is in the
middle of a hot
election campaign.
H.M.S. Dunedin, of the British Flying
Squadron, is the floating home of Paymaster
Lieut.-Commander Ricci, better known as
“Bartimous,” the author of “Naval Occa-
sions” and other realistic sea-yarns. He
has lost an eye in the course of his long
service, hut still misses nothing that can
be turned into good, straight prose. His
note books are already bulging with material
for another volume or two when he returns
to the Cold Country, and meantime lie is
feebly waving a white flag in an endeavor
to stem the hospitalities that are being
showered on him. Tie is a short, dark man,
of rather shy ways, and caricaturists have
to take lessons from the C.I.D. to hunt him
down. The other day a well-known black-
and-whiter tried to capture him, but he
escaped by a manoeuvre that would make
Jellicoe jealous.
“Griffith Moses” meets two evangelists:—
Two more of these people have arrived in Australia
from the place where all the good evangelists bloom
the land of boot-leggers, and moonshiners, and oil
scandals, and nasty films, and bogus' colleges, and
the dollar hunt which passeth all understanding. The
name of the one with the least hair is Biederwolf,
and the none of the one with the most teeth is
Rodeheaver. They, come to teach the American canned
way to Heaven, and will collect the usual considera-
tion, of course, ®£>t "if there was ever a gratis Ameri-
can “evangelist” he has been mislaid. Ever since
the time of the pioneer Moody and Sankey, who
flourished in the ’seventies and quarrelled over the
profits, it has been the custom for them to go in
pairs—an expounder and a songster. Rodeheaver
(front name, Homer) is the melody man in the
partnership, and served his apprenticeship with Billy
Sunday—was his Friday, in fact. I have
some ideas of my own about itinerant “evangelists,”
and especially U.S. “evangelists.” I would
first charge Biederwolf and Homer Rodeheaver IS
dollars each to come in. Then I would shut them out
because the quota of “evangelists” was full. If
they got in I would annex 25 per cent, of their
takings for income-tax. To keep them out, however,
I would order that every captain, when approaching
the Australian coast, should search his ship for
“evangelists,” and turn them adrift in small boats.
And I would try them before a jury of bigoted Jews
on a charge of turning religion into a circus and
extracting good money for doing it.
Old Admiral Creswell. wlio was at the
Federal Government’s dinner to the visiting
tars in Melbourne, could have obliged with
some interesting reminiscences. Fifty-five
years ago he entered Port Phillip as a nipper
on the Phoebe, a wooden frigate with small
auxiliary engines, one of a flying squadron
of six, which, all told, amounted to about
half the tonnage of the Hood. Yet in those
days tlie Phoebe and lier consorts were re-
garded as smart young units of the Queen's
Navy. However, Time will continue to
wreak its revenges. Probably the Hood,
the last word in naval construction now,
will itself be outmoded a quarter of a cen-
tury hence by some huge mixture of sub-
marine and seaplane, working destruction by
electricity and poison gas.
_ Gone west at SO, Charlie McDonald, of
Yabba station, Ivilcoy (Q.), one of several
members of a well-known Vic. family who
migrated to Queensland in the early days.
He and his brother, P. F. McDonald, of
Rockhampton, both played big parts in the
pastoral affairs of the North. It was a
boast of the McDonalds that the ages of 10
of the family aggregated 780 years and that
there had not been a death among them for 70
years. The eldest, George, who is in Mel-
bourne, has rounded off his century.
“T.R.H.": Admiral Field did plenty of
good work during the war, but here is the
record of a test of his endurance as a mid-
shipmite. Tie and two older middies had
been skylarking in the alleyway (where they
had no right to be) late at night. Young
Field slipped and fell and it was found that
his left wrist was broken. His two scared
companions realised that they must tell the
ship’s surgeon, so the dismal trio roused up
the peppery med. “What the do you
boys want at this hour?” growled Pills.
“Please, sir, Midshipman Field has broken
his arm.” “How do you know it’s broken?”
snapped the doc. “Please, sir,” was the
reply, “we waggled it!”
“Gallery” : There was an unexpected note
of warm feeling in Frank Anstey’s joyous
greeting to the visiting British Admirals at
Federal Parliament House last week. Anstey
happens to be a Devon sailorman, and when
he meets two good salts like Field and
Brand he can’t help embracing the old pro-
fession in figurative speech. Years ago, as
a child, he went hungry in England, and his
experiences sharpened the edge of his satiri-
cal tongue; but, with all his alleged inter-
nationalism, he is a Britisher at heart. The
way he talked the other night of “our own
flesh and blood” suggested that he still has
Saxon pride. Personally, I think there are
things in his philosophy that the Argus
would be glad to know. Certainly I am
convinced that if a revolution broke out to-
morrow he would perish nobly on the barri-
cades with the Union Jack wrapped found
his chest.
Dead in Adelaide at 57, .T. A. Breaden,
well known in Centralia. He managed or
owned many stations, being on the Finke
River from boyhood, and near Oodnadatta
later. Todmorden was perhaps the best
known of them. Breaden, who was over 6ft.
high and weighed 15 stone in the saddle,
has his best epitaph in David Carneaie’s
book, “Spinifex and Sand,” the record of
an exploring expedition between Coolgardie
and Kimberley in the early ’nineties, of
which Breaden was second-in-command.
Jessie MacDonald, of the N.S.W. North
Coast, and a daughter of the kirk, who died
the other day at nearly 102. was a descen-
dant of the Jacobite heroine, Flora
MacDonald.
When the A.L.P. Conference meets in
Sydney the most notable absentee will be
Senator Allan McDougall. The man who
topped the poll the first time N.S.W. sent
Labor Senators to Melbourne was on the
first A.L.P. Conference, and has been a
delegate to every other one until now.
Engineer L. ENNIS, who is in charge of
construction of the Harbor Bridge for
Dorman, Long d. Co. —the contract was
signed on Monday.
‘'The Deacon”: Of the seven sisters
who originally came from Charleville, in
County Cork, to found the Order of the
Sisters of Mercy in the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
K.t . diocese in 1806, only one now remains,
since Mother Mary Stanislaus Duffy died the
other day in her home convent. She was
dU at the end, and had been for 70 years an
active member of the sisterhood. The origi-
nal arrangement for the Bathurst establish-
ment was with Dr. Quinn, the first bishop
of the diocese.
Vice-Admiral Sir FREDERICK FIELD, in
charge of the special service squadron,
whose hobby is conjuring.
Possibly inspired by Hickson’s tour. Kat-
ana. the Maori faitli-healer, is going to the
Empire Exhibition. The importance of the
visitor will be duly impressed on the Fog by
a dusky retinue 30 or 40 strong under
Pipene Eketone, the Maniopoto chief from
Te Iviuti.
Though Queensland Governor Nathan is
unmarried and childless, his name will be
carried on by an apparently-extiuct croco-
dile, whose fossil remains have been found
on the Clarke River (N.Q.).
A. W. Kinder, the Bohemian medico, once
the darling of the Vic. A.N.A. annual con-
ference and more recently club favorite,
amateur journalist and lots of other things,
passed out the other day. He was a son
of that Samuel Rinder, of Wedderburn. who
used to write to the Argus about everything,
generally in letters half a column long. The
son took life much less seriously than the
dad.
St. Patrick’s College, Goulburn (N.S.W.),
has been celebrating its 50tli anniversary.
Begun under Dr. Lanigan, the secular priests
had charge of it for many years until the
Christian Brothers came. The late Bishop
Gallagher was its backbone for nearly half a
century, and a new wing was opened and
named after him during the birthday cele-
brations. Three products of whom the col-
lege is proud are Dr. Daly, Professor of Rus-
sian at Dublin ; Father Hartigan, author of
“Round the Boree Log” ; and Bishop Dwyer,
of Wagga, all dyed-in-the-wool Australians.
A generation has grown ap that does not
know William Arthur Trenwith, who was
the idol of Vic. Labor from 1885 till 1900,
when he took office * as a Minister under
George Turner. Although he joined
Turner and Peacock with the concur-
rence of Labor (then the tail of the
Liberal party), his pigpularity began to wane
from the moment he the leader-
ship to Bromley. Next came his election to
the Senate, his break with his Trades Hall
comrades, and his retirement into obscurity.
The day the British squadron arrived at
Melbourne Trenwith was seen at State Par-
liament House playing billiards —with him-
self.
The job of administrator of St. Pat’s
Cathedral. Melbourne, will be in request
when John Barry relinquishes it to put on
his mitre as Bishop of Goulburn (N.S.W.).
It is a sort of springboard. Bishop Phelan,
of Sale (Vic.), was the last it helped to a
see.
A John Hop of the old school was Ser-
geant Arlott, who has just had a funeral at
Rockhampton (C.Q.). After three years in
the Dublin force, during which he got a
medal for bravery in some Fenian riots,
he came to Bananaland, where he will be
chiefly remembered by his capture, after a
desperate fight, of Louis Lore, wanted for
breaking into Samuel Allen and Co.'s, in
Townsville. Lore got 10 years, and had only
served a little of it when he was recognised
as an escapee from Noumea. He was ex-
tradited and shot. Arlott had to retire
about 20 years ago through some heavy-
handed gentleman fracturing his skull, injur-
ing his neck and breaking a few of his ribs.
THE RECIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Daily Herald says that Mr. Ramsay Mac-
donald, the Prime Minister, is shouldering the respond-
bility of speaking to the Prince of Wales with regard
to breakneck risks on the part of one in his station
of life.”
The P.M.: Prince, may 1 venture on a warning word
Or shall 1 be presuming?
The P.: Mac., old bird,
You have my royal leave. Your theme,
I guess,
Concerns my so-called “centaur reckless-
ness”
Featured so oft with headlines in the
press.
The P.M.: You’ve hit it, sire. Your loyal subjects
groan
To read of one who’s destined for a throne
doing home upon a hurdle. Oh, forbear
Across the frowning countryside to tear,
O’er water-jump and wall and bullfinch
blind,
As if the Devil himself were hard behind !
The P.: Or Atra Cura? None the less, you know,
This Heir Apparenting is deadly slow.
Fed up with such a stodgy job as mine
A fellow needs some gingery anodyne.
The P.M.: Can you not find it, sire, in careless ease
Where golfers bash their pellets o’er the
leas?
Why risk a “rocker” that may wear a
crown
When you have such a gift for coming
down ?
We tremble for those peerless bones and
joints
Imperilled in these madcap point-to-points.
Are there no other games for gallant souls
That glow with joie cle vivre?
The P. ( satirically ): Mah-jong or bowls?
As well you counselled roundabouts or
swings !
Give me what Jorrocks called the Sport of
Kings.
The P.M. ( more severely ) :
But, Prince, the head of your illustrious
house
Is well content when right-and-left-ing
grouse,
Or potting pheasants for some mammoth
bag,
With, now and then, for fiercer thrill, a
stag.
One seldom saw your grand-dad back a
horse
The P. ( flippantly ) : Excepting with the bookies on
the course.
The P.M.: Queen Vic, as maid, or wife, or widow lone,
Esteemed her life the nation’s, not her
own.
Round Windsor’s or Balmoral’s leafy ways
She drove serenely in a donkey chaise.
Is there no lesson in such care, forsooth,
No pattern for an inconsiderate youth?
Why, ev’n the Georges-——
The P. (o little coldly ) : Their diversions. Mac.,
Presented scathingly, I’ve read in Thack.”
The P.M. ( pleadingly ):
Consider, sire, how many hearts would
ache
That precious neck should you untimely
break !
The P.M. ( yawning ): For pessimism, Mac., you take
the cake.
The P.M. ( losing patience ) :
Well, if o’er hill and dale you must sked-
daddle,
Some fierce untamed Bucephalus a-straddle
What’s wrong with——
The P. ( innocently ) : What ?
The P.M.: Some beeswax in the saddle ?
N.S.W.
T. THIS R.


CAR WENT OVER
. HERE
IPili
m
mm
H
«#
SWt
£
> # •-, &J>£ -
! * ' #'•’ **■’’ ••:•••••• V
IS»k
as?
w:.v.v.>vw*:*sw
This Hudson car, the property of of Mr. Samuel Barret, of Mascot,
was stolen from outside the Empress Theatre last night and was later
found at the foot of Ben Budklerr-Newj, March 4th, 1924.
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
HUDSON
“One of the
Truly Great
Cars.”
Convincing Proof of the
Strength and Quality of
the HUDSON SUPER-SIX.
FROM THE EVENING NEWS. SYDNEY, MARCH 7, 1924.
HUDSON’S MARVELLOUS STRENGTH
The Hudson car that had such a sensational fall of 100 feet or so over the cliffs
a few days ago was promptly hauled up, and is now to be seen at Dalgety and
Company’s works. I went down to see it yesterday at the request of Mr. H.
B. Nash. This is what I found : The four cross-stays intact; offside
main members slightly twisted ; back axle bent but not broken off;
steering section intact; differential right; propeller shaft bent;
gearbox intact; petrol tank a little squashed but only one
hole ; tyres intact and three still fully inflated, one gone
down to about half pressure. The car must have struck
the ground at the end of its fall front on. Notwith-
standing this, no portion of the chassis was broken,
one front dumb iron was twisted badly, but no
fracture of any kind was visible—a remark-
able test of the quality of the steel of which the
chassis was made. Naturally the firm is
pleased at the really wonderful manner in
which the Hudson stood the terrific
shock. It speaks volumes for Hud-
son workmanship. How every-
thing was not smashed to
atoms is a marvel. Dalgety
and Co. have already
received congratula-
tions on this
proof of the
Hudson’s
sturdi-
The Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
.Newcastle Branch: 3 Bolton Street.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building-).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong:,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydneys
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
A Strong Saddle
for £5
as*
PH
Complete with
Fittings.
Wonderful
Value 1
Satisfaction
or Money
Returned.
JOHN BRUSH,
or 434 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
fcensl for Catalog (Free).
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Moe”: In some parts of Dutch New
Guinea there is a firm belief among the cannibal
natives that running water softens and makes human
flesh tender. Accordingly when a captive is destined
for the cooking-fires, both his arms and legs are
broken so that he may not escape, and then he is
placed in the shallow part of the handiest stream
and left there for 24 hours or so, sometimes longer if
special results are desired. Whether this prolonged
immersion does produce the tenderness aimed at is
problematical, but one effect that it certainly has
is to make the unfortunate subject suffer the most
acute agony, for after a time the water begins to
enter his body, with the result that the latter becomes
horribly distended, the trunk and limbs frequently
becoming bloated to nearly twice their natural size.
From an ethnological viewpoint the curious thing
about the custom is that it is found over only a
very small area, the nitives in the surrounding dis-
tricts, although mostly eaters of human flesh, having
no idea of it.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Abo. chroniclers have often
cited instances of wild ducks committing suicide by
diving on to iron roofs and roads, mistaking theii
gleam in the moonlight for a sheet of water; but
here is a case that is probably unique. An opal-
miner (Joe Bridle) and three mates were sitting
around the coals of their camp-fire, on Ivyabra sta-
tion (W.Q.), when a dark object landed smack into
the glowing heap, showering them with red-hot
embers. Their first thought was that it was a
boomerang, and each man hurriedly dived out of the
circle of light ; but, as whatever it was still jumped
about, they returned to find a crippled duck strug-
gling in the ashes.
* * * *
“Parama": Concerning the New Guinea
natives’ method of signalling from village to village
with wooden drums, “Morob” (B. 6/3/’24) hits the
nail on the head when he says the “code” is intri-
cate. Afloat the conch-shell takes the place of the
log-drum, and by the same method, apparently,
detailed messages concerning intimate family matters
are sent and answered. While we were sailing
through Torres Strait one night the “boys” on the
ketch suddenly stopped jabbering and stood quiet
and listened. After a time, under their directions
as to what to listen for, I was able to make out the
faint and irregular thudding of a native drum, away
in the direction of the invisible land. To me it
conveyed nothing, but it informed the crew that the
head man of a certain village had just died. (This
I proved to be correct some days later.) One of
the nigs—a native of the village in question—“rang
up” the village on the conch-shell, and it wasn’t
long before the crew and those on shore were holding
a regular confab, though they must have been at
least five miles apart. I have often asked for an
explanation of how they say what they mean on
drum and conch, but they either fail to understand
what I’m driving at, or else won’t tell.
* {3%% * *
old-time rover on the
Darling (NjS.W.) was Mudbank Charlie, a travel-
ling showman, tinker
and boot-repairer. He
cruised up and down
the river in a boat
which lie had .fitted
with hand-worked pad-
dle-wheels, and his
(rew consisted of his
wife and a dog. The
latter, whose job was
latching rabbits to save
the meat bill, rode in
a dinghy towed astern.
Charlie gave a magic-
lantern entertainment
at small towns, wood-
cutters’ depCts, squat-
tages and rest-camps. At
the end of the per-
formance he addressed
the audience: “Ladies
an’ gentlemen, the show
will be open again to-
morrow night with a
complete change of pro-
gramme. In the mean-
time, if you have any
pots or pans or any
tinware to mend, boots
to repair, or clothes to
wash, fetch ’em along
in the morning, an’
we’ll give you every
satisfaction.” Then
Charlie would bow him-
self off. On the mor-
row, and perhaps sev-
eral morrows, if busi-
ness was good, he snob-
bed and tinkered, while
the missus washed.
“Jimmy Possum”: Who says snakes can’t
back-pedal? More than once I’ve surprised a wrig-
gler in the act of making an exit from a close-
fitting burrow, and on each occasion before I could
collar a waddv he had retreated into safety. If
those slitherers weren’t able to travel backwards,
how did they manage the disappearing trick ? Had
they “doorkeepers” stationed down below to grab
them by the tail and yank them back, or did they
turn round and crawl down? Of course, the holes
into which these particular snakes retreated de-
scended with a fair slope, but that would -aot have
helped them much if, as claimed by some Abo.-ites,
back-pedalling was impossible.
* * * *
“Cam Cove” : While the goat is having a
look-in may I ask why Binghi won’t eat of the
flesh of this mobile garbage-tin. At Mareeba (N.Q.)
in the days when it was famous for abos. and gold,
aiy mother gave an old gin the remainder of a
cooked shoulder of “mutton.” Rosie tumbled to
the joke about half an hour later, and the mater
had to lock herself in upstairs for the rest of the
afternoon. It took Rosie 20 minutes to recite all
she knew about Ma’s antecedents, and she only
stopped then because she wanted all her strength to
launch an attack against me. The spear missed
my head by half an inch, but why she wanted to
throw it I dunno, unless she objected to my swilling
a dish of suds in her face to cool her down.
TRUE TO HIS COLORS.
“Dost ’e ’ear my boay William John ez barman in a pub?”
“Thee dost n’ mean say. I s’poase ’e doan’t go to chapel now.”
“Doan’t ’e! ’E told ’em straight ef it would maake any difference
to un goin’ to chapel they could - well keep their — job.”
“Nitric" : A flock of 3(100 sheep that had
been on agistment at Boggleywallah, near Hugh-
enden (Q.), were on the road to Winton and, while
crossing a -reserve about 400 yards wide,' ate poison-
weed. Within an hour 200 of them were dead ; and,
later, 250 more followed them. This was a loss of
450 at 30s. a head. The damage was probably done
by the “stagger” weed, which I have seen deliver the
knock-out to 50 sheep of a mob of 200 in crossing a
small paddock 200 yards from gate to gate at
Oharleville (Q.).
* * * *
“Jonny Knox": Tell “Luxoui” (B.
28/2/’24) that young Lucius Conolly’s eye is still
in. I joined him on a shooting expedition along
his beloved billabong near the end of last year. We
were using small-calibre rifles, and I did not think
my weapon (a .22 Winchester automatic) was shoot-
ing as straight as it should —I thought that 12
years of more or less constant rise might cause it
to shoot round corners or something. After listen-
ing to my prolonged growl for about three hours he
said, “Here, give it to me!” I passed the gun
over and he took a pot-shot at a crow which thought
itself well out of range. I’d have thought so myself,
but that crow got his issue all right. I stepped it
afterwards —210 paces to the foot of the tree, and I
don’t take mincing steps. I shut up after that.
Wouldn’t you ?
A Couple of suggestions:—
“Biltong”: Doesn’t the name “damper” come
from the very fact that dough is placed in the coals
and covered with ashes f When you want to keep the-
heat in coals overnight you smother them with ashes
-—in a word as old as the hills, you “damp” your
lire. What more natural than that the stick-rib loaf
should get its title therefrom ?
“Chip”: I cannot see any connection between
damper and Dampier. I have an idea that _an early
explorer was responsible for the name, having char-
acterised the stuff as “Dam’ poor bread.”
“Lobjc”: The Minister who mismanages
Papua, and the missions who manage the Minister,
raised a howl of shocked protest the other day when
a recently-returned traveller threw a little light on
Black Brother’s treatment of dumb creatures; but
“Morob” (B. 7/2/’24j quite casually mentions several
even worse examples of their fiendish cruelty. And
one hears the same tale from every source. Isn’t
it about time that something was done about it? 4
little time ago I saw a native missionary’s “gun-
boy” shoot a pig. I took it for granted that the
pig was dead when I saw the hoy lash its feet to
a pole and call a cobber to help him carry it home.
But next day, when I visited the mission, I saw the
pig, still alive, still lashed to the pole, hanging
between two branches of a near-by tree. The
poor beast was in a shocking state. A large hole
through the hindquarters was stuffed with grass, its
mouth was bound, and where the lashings held the
feet to the pole the flesh was terribly swollen and
inflamed. I shot the pig—and would dearly have
liked to shoot the missionary too.
“Kowsara”: Enter this for the Quick-
growing Stakes. A Bowen cane-farmer measured a
stick of cane in the night and again the following
morning, and found that in 15 hours the cane had
grown 6in. .lust over 2in. of rgin fell, followed by
three hours of strong sunshine, between the two
measurings.
“Bourogi": The suggestion by “Cartot”
(B. 7/2/’24) that malaria was introduced to New
Guinea and other islands of the Western Pacific by
the white man will hardly hold water. Malaria is
one of the most widely-distributed diseases known
to science, and its
medical history is
almost as old as his-
tory itself. Wherever
the white man has
gone among colored
races he has found
malaria—in Africa,
India, the Americas,
Asia and the South
Sea Islands —and it has
been in many parts of
Europe from time im-
memorial: I have not
a Prescott handy to
check “Cartot’s” state-
ment that Cortes’s
Spanish troops did not
suffer from malaria in
Mexico, but if they did
not, then those of the
Central American and
West Indian settlements
certainly did, as well
as the crews of Drake,
Hawkins, Raleigh, and
many >■ another free-
booter. While malaria
does attack native
peoples, it is indisput-
able that its effects
are not nearly so dis-
astrous to the black
as to the white. There
seems to be little
doubt nowadays that
a certain immunity is
set up, and this has
been observed in white
men as w T ell as black.
All over Papua, to
quote only one instance,
native tribes may be
found living in com-
parative (immunity
under conditions which would speedily destroy an.'
white settlement.
* * * *
“Belldag": “Pat Busliic” mentions (B.
7/2/’24) that the fat provides an infallible means
of telling the flesh of sheep from that of goats.
That idea is no good here at present, as the car-
cases of either do not contain enough fat to hold a
post-mortem on. The best way 1 know is to note
the coloring of all cup-joints, knuckles, etc. In the
goat they are purple ; in the sheep, white.
•X- * * *
“Wee Bobbie": South Sea natives have
their own way of “playing” a big fish. They use a
light, cheap cotton line (all they can afford) about
50yds. long, and attach .a piece. Of fine copper wire
—if they can get it—to keep sharp-toothed fish from
biting off the hook. The bait is generally two
white strips got from a species of pandanus-tree —
it makes a splendid towing bait, as it wriggles in the
water like a sick sardine. The ' hook used is gener-
ally small. The end of the line is attached to a dry
cocoanut, so placed in the canoe that it will pull
over into the water easily. The nigger shoots his
THINGS NO GENTLEMAN CAN DO
WITHOUT.
“Ah, yes, mum, I wasn't always like this.
I’ve seen better days.”
“My poor man! Wait, and I will yet you
a serviette and a toothpick!”
canoe along in short, fast sprints until lie gets a
bite, when over goes the cocoanut at the end of
the line. The fish sounds bottom in a desire to get
away from the enemy that jagged it. It doesn t
take long for the cocoanut to come to the top
and remain still, with the fish hanging dead at the
end of the line, killed by its own terrific efforts to
escape.
STRINGING BEANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sunset’s colors were squandered o’er
The arch of the western sky,
But the dusk was deep by the old shed dooi
Where the quacking ducks went by.
Your eyes were bright in the afterglow;
And I know what beauty means
When I dream again and see you so,
Stringing the tough old beans.
I am sitting again on the steps with you,
As near as a man may dare,
Telling you tales of derring-do
With little of truth to spare,
Till you say, with a laugh (and who shall know
AYhat the laugh of a woman means?)
“You’re ‘stringing’ me now” —your voice was low —
“While I’m just stringing the beans.”
In your fingers slim each pliant bean
Was stripped and trimmed and cast
To lie in a heap of listless green,
While the quacking ducks marched past.
I took a bean and I thought awhile —
“If this were a man,” I said.. ..
Dim in the dusk I. saw your smile,
And the shape of your lovely head.
“If this were a man” (his ribs are done,
Shaved off by a careless knife),
“Out of old Adam’s rib (just one)
The Lord made him a wife.
If this were a man with ribs worth while
In a woman’s form to cast”....
In waddling march and Indian file
The solemn ducks went past.
The old drake quacked as he went by
And his little wives ducked low.
Oh, bright across the darkening sky
Glimmered the afterglow !
“The ways of man are strange,” jmu sighed,
“For when a maid he woos,
Instead of seeking one fair bride,
He hunts them out in twos.
OH-ER-R-R!
“I had such a curious dream last evening, Miss Potts-Point. I
dreamt er—I was in the, Garden of Eden.”
“Oh, how exciting ! And did Eve appear as she is generally
represented?”
“ I—I— er—that is to say, I didn’t look.”
“Yet if a man with a roving heart
And a roving eye, forsooth,
With every rib in his sides would part
To win him wives, in truth,
He were a ribless, lank old bean
Whose fate were boiling fat”—
Your knife cut swift and sure and keen —
“So that, you see, is that!”
Out west they closed the heavenly bars
And chucked the darkness out,
And told a bunch of the littlest stars
To shine and move about.
Your eyes were stars when the darkness fe11....
Who knows what beauty means?
I only know that I loved you well,
Stringing the tough old beans.
x.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


M
JH C
-$e 9^reparec/-
ABBOTS
LAGER
l/our Gue?ts
%Ji/I SftppreciatQ
BREWED FQOtt
PURE HALT & HOPS' ONLV
JSt
NO RABBIT CAN ESCAPE
No Matter How Deep the Dead Ends.
CALCIUM CYANIDE
gives off deadly fumes over 24 hours. It is blown into the warren
instead of gas! It is in the form of dust, which, as soon as the
rabbits move, generates deadly gas, which kills instantly.
Economical, non-explosive, non-inflammable, non-corrosive.
Harmless to man or stock.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
* * * *
“Dune”: I have alongside me some inter-
esting freaks from a poultry-yard run by W. 11.
Rogers of Bowenfels (N.S.W.). Three chicks were
hatched on Nov. n last, and one, a White Leghorn
pullet, began laying on Feb. 9. Her egg is liin.
long and weighs half an ounce. The second, a
Black Orpington, laid on Feb. 10, her effort being
an egg lin. long and tipping the beam at one-
third of an ounce. The third, also a Black Orping-
ton, began to work on Feb. 29, and produced an
egg l£in. long and weighing a shade under half
an ounce. Now for the contents —the first had
no yolk whatever, the white being contained in a
shell very much thicker than that of an ordinary hen’s
e 8f?; the second (the smallest of the trio) contained a
full yolk; and the third a yolk perfectly formed,
but measuring only lin. in diameter. I’m not
claiming these as record-breakers, but I’m willing to
back them against all-comers as a trio of triers.
* * sjt #
“Darby”: In discussing artesian bores
recently an old hand expressed the firm opinion that
the flow from them varied with the changes of the
moon. He said there was quite a noticeable decrease
in the flow during the new moon compared with that
at the time of tne full moon. Can any Abo. verify
this statement ?
* * * *
“Winconsin”: We were shooting on the
Toowoomba (Q.) range when cne of our party dropped
his rifle. It came to rest on the tail of a death-
adder, which immediately sprang into the air and
nipped the man on the right thumb. Without a
SUSPICIOUS.
“Cripes, I lorst a tray hit!”
“I ain't got it!”
“Well, I dunno — you’re eatin ’ peanuts.”
moment’s hesitation, and before we could prevent
him, he seized the rifle, and, holding the bitten
member over the barrel, pulled the trigger and blew
it off. The trouble now was how to check the flow
of blood. After several ineffectual attempts at
bandaging, one of the party obtained a large piece
of bread, which was placed firmly against the wound
and then bandaged in the ordinary way. The blood
made tne bread cakey, and, the bandage holding it
in position; the flow was checked until we got to a
doctor. There were no noticeable effects of the
poison.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: On Tilta station (C.Q.)
recently a two-year-old colt had been thrown and
roped, and one of the men passed a leg over it
while reaching for the branding-iron. Immediately
the horse seized the calf of his leg with its teeth,
and all attempts to make it loosen its hold failed.
The man was suffering intense pain, so the eolt was
killed; but in its death agony its hold tightened.
Eventually the dead horse’s mouth had to be prised
open with a pick handle before the man’s leg could
be released.
“L.W.S.”: “Two Seas” says (B. 21/2/’24)
that he has £lOO to say that there is no man in
Australia or elsewhere who can put up 200 posts to
conform with the usual specifications for fencing,
and rammed sufficiently for rabbits to scratch them-
selves against. I know a man who will accept that
challenge. He will contract to erect 200 posts in
eight hours, to comply with the specifications men-
tioned by “Two Seas.” The contract to be drawn
up by any solicitor in Roma and the full amount of
the wager to be lodged with the solicitor drawing up
the contract. Posts to be put about 22 inches in
the ground, about 12 feet apart, and in fair average
line, and rammed sufficiently to comply with “Two
UNRECOGNISED.
SPIFFER: “Supposing I decide to let you have the money, how do I know that I shall
get it hack at the time you mention? "
BIFFER: “ I promise it, my hoy, on the word of a gentleman.”
SPIFFER: “Ah, in that case I may consider it. Come round this evening and bring him
with you.”
Seas’ ” requirements; the ground where the posts are
to be erected to be picked by the one accepting the
challenge, which I may state will be on portion of
the Blythedale resumption, about 25 miles from Blythe-
dale Railway Siding, and about the same distance
from Roma. The one accepting the challenge will
pay all expenses incurred in cutting and carting
the posts, which should amount to about the same
as “Two Seas’ ” travelling expenses. The man
accepting the challenge is a contractor; therefore his
time is not always his own. But he will give the
challenger 10 clear days’ notice by telegram before
the day he will undertake to erect the 200 posts.
* * * *
“FY7”: The cat which “A.E.G.” (B.
6/3/’24) saw dive into the sea at Port Adelaide
was probably after fish. The domestic puss fre-
quently takes to fishing, and, once started, becomes
utterly abandoned to the vice. More than one
species of wild cat lives mostly by fishing. There
is a famous one in India and Ceylon, which is big
enough to kill sheep, but its chief food is fish, and
this it catches in the water, a stunt which has
earned it the name of the fishing cat. There is
another wild cat, found in India and South Africa,
known as the ehaus, which goes in for fishing as
a side-line,
“Wee Bobbie": On one part of the island
of Choiseul (British Solomons), if a mother dies
within 10 days after childbirth and the child sur-
vives, the natives think it is useless trying to rear
the infant. If it did live it would be neglected;
so better send it with its mother to the other
happy island under the sea where all the good
things are. So they choke the life out of the young
unwanted and leave it with its dead mother on the
pyre. But if the mother dies more than 10 days
after the birth of the child, the latter is given a
chance, though it often turns out to be not much of
a chance. Sometimes it is amazing how the mites
survive the flies and dirt. They crawl about the
floor worrying dirty bananas or roasted yams almost
as big as themselves, and sharing them with scrub
pigs and mangy, ill-conditioned dogs of the village.
“Look at the happy, care-free savage,” says someone.
Yes, look at him!
Touching a lady’s teeth :
“Tough Mike”: “Tusks?” muttered Old Bill, when
I read to him “Dune’s” par (B. 28/2/’24) in refer-
ence to mares with tusks being barren; “ain’t they
what boars have?” He w’as frankly puzzled over the
term —and he had had 40 years’ experience with
horses. After a few minutes, however, he ex-
claimed, “Perhaps he means a bridle-tooth; and if
that is so, tell him I’ve come across only one mare
that had the extra molar, and, though tried, she
proved no good for breeding purposes.”
“E.M.”: It may interest “Dune” to know that an
aged mare, the property of Chas. Sandies, of Taraha-
road (N.S.W.), broke her leg last November, and she
is expected to be in light work on the farm about
two weeks hence. This mare has tusks —and has
reared two foals to my knowledge.
* * * *
“Zatithus": Whoever gave the Nullarbor
Plain its name it certainly was not Eyre. He
stuck close to the coast on his wonderful journey
from Fowler’s Bay to Albany, and did not see the
plains. It has been alleged that the name was
given by Delissa, who wandered out on to the
eastern end of the plains, to the south of Ooldea,
in 1857, when doing some surveying and exploring
work for the S. Aus. Government. But why should
my old friend “Balbus” (B. 28/2/’24) libel the
Nullarbor as depressing? It is really an exhilarating
place, with more of the sun and the wind on the
heath and saltbush, brother, than any other place
that I know.
* * * *
“Williami”: Tell “Akram” (B. 6/3/’24)
that the 9in. snake his lady friend found in the
hen-egg shell was a slow-worm. The hen must
have swallowed it, and, knowing that the little rep-
tile is very brittle and apt to crack into pieces if
not handled carefully, she built a shell around it
for its own protection. The slow-worm obviously
ate the yolk and albumen of the egg, and then,
attaching itself to the membrana putuminu, died of
loneliness.
* * * *
“Spadger”: Every now and then a wrathy
bushman writes a par. slogging into the artist who
depicts a milker on the near side of a cow. It cer-
tainly does look queer, but why? We approach,
saddle and mount a horse on the near side, drive
it from the box of a coach or seat of a vehicle on
the offside, and drive a team of bullocks or horses
from the offside. In riding the hand most used,
and almost invariably used when the reins are held
single-handed, is the left. The chap who knows
does it all involuntarily, but if he asked himself
the why and wherefore he would be stumped for an
answer; and it must be more than a bit puzzling
to the new-chum who doesn’t know.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: The theory that the brown
snake is the female of the black has, of course, been
lohg since exploded. The first is
oviparous, i.e., reproduces by
means of eggs covered with tough,
leathery skin; the second is vivi-
parous, the young emerging alive
from sacs of skin which envelop
them while in their parent’s body.
But it is nevertheless remarkable
that the black and brown snakes
should at times come together in
amorous dalliance. 1 have seen
them thus, and in this instance
the brown snake was Romeo.
Strangely enough, Peter Cunning-
ham, the old ship's surgeon who
made many interesting and accu-
rate observations on Australian zoo-
logy, noted the same tiling nearly
100 years ago, and says “the
brown and black snakes appear to
me to be male and female. I
have twice met them lying very
suspiciously coiled up together.’’
Some bushmen say that they have
found young snakes of more than
one variety sheltering under the
same sheet of bark; but this is
no proof of cross-breeding. As
regards the black and brown
snakes, at any rate, the differing
modes of reproduction negative the possibility of
hybrid vouhg.
* * * *
“Billy Brolga’’: For long-distanCe eoo-ees
I have yet to meet the one that can give points to
my old dad. When he expands his 40-inch chest
and sends forth his musical “hoo-hoo” (the sound
most bushmen make when coo-eeing), you'd have
to be pretty deaf not to hear him well over three
miles on a calm night. Usually the deep, male
alto or counter-tenor is the best-carrying voice in
the bush, and the binghi who tickled “The Rum-
pus’s” ear at five miles with his screech (B.
21/’2/’24) evidently had a voice of that kind. An
old German bush-worker I once toiled with, by the
way, could make himself heard at a couple of miles
with a deafening “Hey!”
* * * *
“H.L.S.”: Giving a horse one ounce of
iodide of potassium in a bucket of water, at inter-
vals of one week, for four weeks, will cure it of
swamp cancer. The cure is now used extensively in the
N. Territory. I had a mare that I was going to
destroy, but was told about this and decided to
try it, with the result that the prad was completely
cured, only a slight scar remaining where the cancer
had been. Although that happened five years ago,
there is not any sign of the trouble reappearing.
There have been many similar cases to my know-
ledge. To all appearances this so-called swamp
cancer is the same as the cancer that afflicts human
beings. Has iodide of potass, ever been tried for
that ?
“Te Pana”: The octopus figures on the
daily menu of the Tongan. He catches it by beat-
ing the water with a flat-bladed spear. Soon the
devilfish hasten to the concert, and, eager to examine
the musical instrument, closely throw their arms
about the blade and are hoisted ashore. Striking
cocoanut shells on the reef’s edge will draw octopi
close in, when the short fish-spear is used to top
them off. Every Tongan village has its drying-poles
for devilfish, and the dried-up, leathery-looking
horror is as common a sight in the islands as
cocoanut palms.
* * * #
“Morob” : The male hornbill whose habi-
tat is the north-western coast of New Guinea plas-
ters up the female bird in the nest —usually in the
spout of a tree or other similar place—when the
lady is sitting on the eggs. In most nests the open-
ing by which they are entered is from nine to twelve
inches across, and the job of closing this properly
takes some time. It is, done with wet mud, the
material being carried up in the bird’s beak, and in
order that it may hold together it is interlaced with
small twigs and bits of stick. At the top a hole
about 3in. in diameter is left, and through this the
male bird feeds his mate. A day or so before
the eggs are due to hatch out the mud is broken
down, the female bird helping from inside, and
sometimes performing the whole job by herself, which
indicates that she could certainly get out at any time
if she wanted to.
* * * *
“Two Seas” does some barking:—
Herewith my application for the job of architect
for that bark bungalow “Gouger” (B. 6/3/’24) pro-
poses to erect. The best roofing is stringy-bark, and
the best time for stripping is when the sap is well
up. He can ascertain that by taking out a sample
of the bark with his Kelly. If he has had good
rains he should be stripping now. If he meditates
taking the roofing off standing timber, the tools he
will require are a light ladder, tomahawk, axe and
a long-handled shovel with a flat blade—-not the
post-hole, turned-up-at-the-side variety. Select a
straight-barrelled tree with no knobs on it. Cut
round it high enough from the ground to miss the
flare of the butt. Now take the tommy and girdle
the tree about 6ft. up, making the cut like the
missus makes a “herring-bone” stitch. Then, in the
same way, cut down to the butt. Cut as straight
as your eye will allow. Be sure that you cut clean
through to the sap wood, or you may spoil a good
sheet when levering it off. Run the blade of your
shovel up under the edges of the vertical cut, doing
both sides alternately'. If the bark is stripping very
freely, the shingle may come off with a rush, so
FORTUNATE.
HUMORIST (with a grievance): “I don't get what’s rightly
coming to me for my jokes.”
EDITOR (with a liver) : “You're lucky!”
get your ©ffsider to take the weight of it while you;
are levering it loose. When you have captured a
few sheets, and while they are still wet with sap»
build a small fire and lay each sheet over the fire
—not on it —until it is steamed flat. When this is
done, razzee the loose stuff off the sheets with your
shovel, weight them flat with logs and leave them to
dry. When putting them on the roof, allow at least
a foot of lap on the sheets covering the joints, and
don’t nail them, as a Sydney chum of mine did, or
in a month or two you’ll think you are living in a
birdcage. When putting on the ridge-eapping sheets
see that the joins are not open to the prevailing winds
and rain. The pitch of the roof is largely a matter
of taste, provided that it is steep enough to shed the
water quickly. To do that, it should be more than
that of an iron roof.
MATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■‘The man who had suffered a broken jaw and
several fractured ribs said he did not want to give
evidence against the prisoner. It was only a
‘friendly go.’ ”
Although he broke me nose, I know
That in ’is ’eart ’e’s innercent.
’Twas only just a friendly go,
An’ not er bit er ’arm was meant.
What sorter mates d’ye call them men
As can’t take ’idings now an’ then?
Er course, when ’e the bottle swung
The thing was rather overdid.
I yelled: “Yer fool! Yer might be ’ung
If I was killed! ” But on me lid,
Spite of me friendly-meant advice,
’E ’it—but only did it twice.
When on the ground ’e saw me lie
’E kicked me ribs and broke me jor.
“That’s only natteral,” says I-
“Gorblimey, what was boots made for?”
I bin meself in places which
Have give me toes anorful itch.
So there you are. ’Ard as ’e ’it
’E’s only—it is to his praise—
A willin’ bloke ’oo is a bit
Enthoosiastic in ’is ways.
.An’ what is friendship if a mate
Can’t stand some stoush not meant in ’ate?
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


USE THESE GREAT MODERN
KBJlffirti
mmm -
das®
L
Crafor |. »
. ;,-.H •■' > i
I
in
,
I lii"
lH
fMsgj
9B| mES
I
'
SBSI
irapt" '
i"ry A;
I I
; v. -
E
1
s
.
■WMi
•? i', «*'' s '' i'V- \ -
waBM
’ * u
-• * | j b “
:
■
*****• ._ • '\*i
■ .
.
mm
H! ?
iffl
m: v
n
H-' * *. %
*
PARRAMATTA WORKS, N.S.W., LARGEST IN SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
PLANT. —Our Factory is equipped with the most modern machinery used in the manufacture of
Linseed Oil, Linseed Meal and Stock Foods. It compares favorably with any similar type of plant in the
world. We have one of the finest equipped laboratories in the State.
PROCESS.— We use the same process for manufacturing Linseed Oil as England, America and
Continental Europe. In these countries for some years past all kinds of processes have been tried, and the
experience gained has declared in favor of genuine press method. It has been universally adopted by
the most modern mills for Linseed Oils even where other processes are installed.
QUALITY . —We guarantee our quality to be equal to, if not better than, imported Oil, and will meet
any specification drawn up for any English Oil.
FOOD PRODUCTS FOR STOCK. —We manufacture Meggitt’s © Linseed Oil Meal, with a
guaranteed analysis of 9 % Oil Content. The higher the Oil content in Linseed Meal or Cake the greater the
value. Buy on analysis. We manufacture Meggitt’s Stock Foods for Dairy Cows, Calves, Horses, Pigs
and Poultry. All foods made from pure and wholesome ingredients and have Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
Meal as their base.
1
'GGITTS
LINSEED DUMEAI
m
Wrft.
A\EGGITT L TC
Parramatta
KSf-
“The Boy oSTthe Bag’
Guarantees Quality.
MEGGITT LIMITED’S Policy is to supply the finest products at the minimum price. This can only be
achieved by lower manufacturing costs, by the elimination of useless transportation charges, by the reduction
of overhead expenses due to increased turnover, and by the savings effected in a huge buying power in the
Seed Markets of the World.
Support this Great
We are Here
Australian Industry,
to Serve You.
1
Head Office: 26


PLANTS FOR YOUR PROFIT
C - «'<
M,%
MHIBIinM
'
< st<fe|X 4 *>\
■ '1- •■;
*'/' -i \y< I % 'j-t
'* ’Zjf&
5
•r : :
i, J D
W
a
111 111 10
Jrd?
- 1 ’
■
MELBOURNE WORKS.
These Works are just about completed. They are fitted with the most modern plant used in the manufacture of Linseed Oil by the
famous Anglo-American press method. We will produce the finest Linseed Oil made, and will give every possible facility to the trade,
ensuring prompt delivery in sound packages.
By saving in freight and handling charges we will be able to sell our famous ‘'kS? Linseed Oil Meal cheaper than ever before in
Victoria, which will be a great boon to the Dairy Farmer and Stock Raiser in Victoria.
■
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WORKS.
We have just purchased outright from the South Australian Linseed Oil and Stock Food Milling Company their entire business,
includes their patent process for rapid maturity by electricity.
South and Western Australian requirements will be supplied from this Plant.
We desire to encourage in every possible way the growth of Linseed in Australia. For twelve months past
it has been worth 9/- per bushel. We now use 800,000 bushels of Linseed per annum, and with these
new plants we will use more. Write us for particulars.
This
We have a Trade that Quality made.
The Best by Test.
jQlffUtecL
King Street, Sydney.
MEGGITTS
IINSEED oilmEAI
m
MEGGITT L T .?
PARRAMATTA
“The Boy on the Bag’
Guarantees Quality.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1914
C EMM
HE PLUS ULTRA
Sir’)':
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT ft COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WHOLE PEARL NECKLETS,
THE COMPANY HAS A COMPREHENSIVE COLLECTION OP
PEARL ROPES, and PEARL NECKLACES.
ALSO OF LOOSE SPECIMEN PEARLS.
THE VARIATION IN THE PRICES IS REGULATED BY
THE COLOUR AND PERFECTION OF THE PEARLS.
PRICES RANGE FROM £l2/10/- TO £2750.
THE COMPANY MAINTAINS A LARGE STOCK OF LOOSE PEARLS FROM WHICH A
SELECTION CAN BE MADE, AND THEIR EXPERIENCE IS ALWAYS AT THE
SERVICE OF CUSTOMERS.
ESTIMATES AND FULL PARTICULARS SENT FREE UPON REQUEST.
WILLIAM FARMER &C? L TD
Jewellers.Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Nothing of its kind in any way equal*
ill
Consider the harmony of cuisine, beauty and
delightful music, together with the distinction
of its guests, all contributing to the allure of
the Ambassadors.
DINING that delights, nightly 7.30, 21/-!
SATURDAY, 23/-; SUPPERS from 9.30,
12/6; SATURDAY 15/-.
43 to 6 Hours’ Perfect Enjoyment
nowhere equalled.
RALTON’S WORLD-FAMED HAVANA BAND.
Enthralling music, 'cheering the mentality,
and living in memory.
DE LUXE, eminently
superior, from 12.30, 5/-, or Table d’hote.
AFTERNOON TEAS at 3.30 daily, 5/-
Delicious Pastry by French Chefs.
Ralton’s Band in attendance.
Special Note. —For Wedding Receptions, Balls
and Parties, small and up to 700, no place
equals The Ambassadors. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
ROGER
PerFurnes
[?]aps
R[?]ders
BY GALLET
Judging by the poor roll-up of naval offi-
cers at the ball given by Melbourne Gaud
Mayor, such civic attentions don’t appeal to
the visitors. There is still plenty of time
for Sydney’s Municipal Fathers to ascertain
the Fleet’s real wishes. tf it prefers the
private entertainment, there’s no reason why
the community should have its pocket dipped
into merely to bore somebody.
Wahroonga moved the new Viking on
Saturday afternoon to call it “a paradise of
trees and sunshine.” Arthur Rickard's
Beritli Park was en fete for a gathering of
all the Barnardo girls and boys that could
be got together. The youngsters—mostly
girls, the boys being on the land —certainly
looked bright and happy. They greeted each
other with bursts of joy; some had not seen
their companions since their separation after
landing. Two little sisters met with smiles,
but parted in floods of tears, each to go with
her protector. The baby of the crowd, with
cheeks aglow, brown eyes dancing and white
teeth flashing in a wide smile, presented a
bouquet to Lady de Chair, who sat beside
her lord under a hat with a trimming as
bright as an herbaceous border, and gave him
a nudge of encouragement as he got up to
speak. Sir Dudley was frank: he did not
know much about the Barnardo scheme, but
he did know something of how the young
idea was put through its paces on a train-
ing ship, so he told a couple of good sea
yarns. Followed a trinity of knights—
Arthur Rickard, Alfred Meeks and William
Vicars—-after which Minister Bruntnell
lapsed into sentiment and poetry. But their
efforts sank to insignificance when Ruth
Beale took the sward—the meeting was on
the lawns. In a smart brown georgette
gown with a miniature floral decoration, and
a bevelled hat with a knightly plume sweep-
ing back of it, Ruth’s tongue so dazzled the
Governor that he exclaimed: “If I could do
it only a quarter as w 7 ell I’d as soon speak
as pace the quarter-deck.” A little Bar-
nardo lass with the delectable name of Beth
Bunn stepped into the green ring and said :
We. are proud of the name of Barnardo,
and intend to make it honored here” —there
the brave little voice quivered, and Ruth
Beale stretched out a sisterly hand, and a
couple of motherly souls in the crowd
splashed out a few tears. Then there was
tea in a big tent on the lawn. Captain
Coote accompanied the Governor.
St. Vincent’s ball committee holds a royal
flush. The G.-G. and Lady Forster and the
State Viking and Lady de Chair will open
the Autumn effort for the hospital funds. As
usual, it is booked for Easter Tuesday.
There is a suggestion that the Country
Matrons’ ball, booked at the Paddington
Ilall for April 22, will be postponed. This
year it is to be in aid of the Country
Women’s maternity hospitals scheme, so
the committee is rather troubled about it
clashing with St. Vincent’s ball, which has
been an Easter-week feature since cattle
first wandered in George-street; but it is even
more concerned that Joan Edols’s wedding
celebrations will occupy the Golf Club the
same night, and the attention of most of the
notable country clans.
The Children’s Hospital committee puts a
world of kindliness into its work of healing:
and Dr. Clubbe, who personifies the hospi-
tal's best qualities, opened a canteen at the
out-patients’ department last week, where
mothers waiting for the doctors to examine
their ailing little ones may get a cup of
tea and the youngsters a glass of milk. The
annexe has been established by Mrs. Howard
Harrison and the other voluntary helpers who
run the Cafe over Angus and Coote’s. The
Cafe ,by the way, has brought over £2OOO to
the hospital within the year.
The flags were flying in Crown-street for
the annual meeting of the Women’s Hospital
that makes the street, the landmark of Surry
Hills. Not an urchin in the district missed
the chance of seeing the new Governor
and his lady when they descended from the
motor-car decorated with the magic crown.
The Police Band made a bigger noise than
all the newest, arrivals in Australia put to-
gether could accomplish. Lady de Chair
looked absolutely fond of the raw-eom-
plexioned youngest son and daughter of
Sydney, all tied up with blue and pink
ribbons, and presented for her approval.
Judge Backhouse, more than ever like the
most benevolent thing out of Dickens, re-
iterated that Crown-street had the most up-
to-date hospital in this half of the globe, any-
how 7 . The visitors —those w 7 lio could squeeze
in after the quality—got tea in the dining-
room. Lady de Chair sipped hers in rich
autumn-brown upholsterings.
This Lenten season seems to have; estab-
lished a record for big weddings. Strath-
field had its excitement last week, when Rita
Adams —of “Tattersall’s” clan—formed a
Franco-Australian alliance with Fernand
Playoust, eldest son of the wool-buying mag-
nate. St. Martha’s, the home chapel of
the pair, was the scene of the ceremony, per-
formed by Father Richard Murphy, S.J.,
and four assisting pards. There was a
special dispensation for a simple decoration
and a song. The bride’s trappings were
the most sumptuous seen this year, and that
is saying something. Wonderful ivory em-
bossed velvet and beaten gold galloon
enhanced with diamente built the lovely
gown, with its train swishing from the waist.
The arrangement of the Limerick lace veil
was flat across the head, .showing the hair
well, and giving a very girlish look to the
bride. Her bouquet w 7 ould have made an
orchid-hunter gasp. Sisters. Ranee and
Jean and ’groom’s sister Marie Antoinette
were dressed in three-tone georgette. They
cuddled silver baskets of red roses. Their
partners to the Ambassadors were Charles
Playoust, J. Todd and Dr. Vin Goldrick.
About 200 were bidden to the feast in a
garden of flowers. Bride’s mamma received
in a gown of beaten silver lame and black
velvet that almost swamped the richness, of
the gorgeous bridal drapings. The bride-
groom’s gracious mother wore black, and
carried mauve orchids.
All the way from back o’ Bourke came
little Honor Biddulph, of Enngonia, to link
up with Harry Cathie, of Ilaberfield; and
after the ceremony at St. James’s on Satur-
day afternoon the parental Biddulplis and
Cathies, and relatives and friends, to the
number of 90, spoke and looked their good
wishes at the Carlton. The bride doffed
her gold and ivory and tulle wedding gar-
ments for caramel-brown travelling gar-
ments, and set out with her husband for
Jenolan.
Myee Nardle James, of Mpsman, changed
her name the other day tef share the nice
lieatlier-mixture of John Gilroy Muir. Niece
Joyce Crossman ’maided, while John Gilroy
was supported by Alan Lamrock, and Padre
Macdonald recorded the vows. The Mosman
Masonic Hall staged the celebrations, and
Lake Illawarra reflected the honeymoon.
Mira Bull, of Moruya, has joined the
diamond-circled sisterhood. The young man
is Philip Macartney Rooke, the second son
of the James Macartney Rookes of Manly.
Mira’s grand-dad was the late Colonel Bull,
who cut a large military figure in Australia’s
cradle days.
Queensland’s paternal Governor strolled
into the Country Women’s headquarters the
other day, and found a quintette of enthusi-
asts there to receive his congratulations on
the good work the league is accomplishing
outback. And he told them wliat was being
done in Queensland by the offshoot.
The owner of this fine head, of which
May Moore has made a fine picture, is Nelson
Illingworth, Sydney’s veteran sculptor. Over
30 years ago he arrived in the Harbor City,
and since then he has been busy modelling
lions, starting with the bronze ones that
ornament the lamp-posts in Martin Place,
and going on
to the humans.
Some pretty
biglions among
these, as shown
by Mr. Illing-
worth’s inter-
esting exhibi-
tion which Pre-
mier Fuller’s
lady opened in
Anthony Hord-
ern’s ; gallery
the other-day.
Here were life-
like busts of
Henry Lawson,
Victor Daley,
Henry Parkes
and Cardinal
Moran ; an d
George Reid,
Bernhard Wise
and Edmund
Barton all but
speak again, modelled in the dust, .to which
they have returned. And one of the latest
-—and best—is a head of Denison Miller, of
the Commonwealth Bank.
The Union Club is so proud of its recent
improvements, and more particularly of the
big smoking-room, which opens on to the
garden, that it is giving an “At Home”
next month. The members’ lady friends will
be encouraged to penetrate everywhere, as
some slight consolation for the fact that this
year the club is not giving a ball.
The new 7 vice-reine has become patroness
of the Society of Women Painters, and now 7
her engagement book schedules another job—
the opening of the brush sisterhood’s annual
show on May 12.
Politicians are not always mere word-
machines, after all. Mrs. George Aurous-
seau brought a couple to light in new roles
when she called the Cremorne-Neutral Bay
Women Nationalists to her home to have a
talk over a dish of tea and a scone. Ex-
Speaker Elliot Johnson sang a sentimental
ditty guaranteed to secure him more votes
than an hour’s harangue; and General
Ryrie pursed up his lips and whistled as
cheerfully as a truant schoolboy, to his
hostess’s * pianoforte accompaniment. After-
wards the warrior did a lone stunt—imitated
an aviary of bush fowls with the skill of the
lyre-bird. Whereupon all the admiring
ladies whose ears tingled with the shrilling
sounds voted him a perfect duck.
Lloyd Rees, the young Queensland artist,
returned to Sydney in the Orsova the other
day after 13 months in Europe. He spent
a considerable time in London, where he re-
revelled in the
good things
the old town
offered in the
way of archi-
tectural sub-
jects, a branch
of art in which
he has special-
ised ; but he
made many
e x c u r sions
afield, and
though he
found it some-
what difficult
to hold his
brushes in
winter, he
managed to do
much country-
side painting.
A couple of
trips to Paris
had a disas- . .
Irons sequel, for, with true artistic abstrac-
tion, he left his French gleanings on a
London ’bus, and saw them no more. Later
he brought Italy under tribute, and did a
good deal of work in Rome, Siena and Flor-
ence. The best of this, together with many
of his English pictures, will go to make up
a one-man show at the Hordern Galleries
shortly. Meanwhile the young. Banana-
lander has dropped his anchors in Sydney,
and is already planning a series of glimpses
of the city which, he says, has altered be-
wilderingly in his absence.
The Nepean district lost its wealthiest
inhabitant when Sarah Barber died ,at Pen-
rith. She was the widow of a medico who,
after much English and Continental experi-
ence, piled up wealth ,in Australia. He it
was who lent £lO,OOO to the Penrith Muni-
cipal Council when the bailiffs were in pos-
session of the electric-light plant. Mrs.
Barber delighted to play Lady Bountiful
in a rather eccentric fashion, but much good
cash flowed from her to returned soldiers
and various philanthropic institutions. And
there was not a single relation in Australia
to cheer her lonely end, which came at 77.
Mrs. Sep Levy sold Hillside last week to
one of the younger members of the Hoskins
family. She and her husband mean to settle
down at the Australia.
Helen Jerome has had some of her
Bulletin poems set to music by Mana-
Zucca, and one, “Nichevo” —sung by the
great Chaliapin himself —is being broad-
casted everywhere. Another, “The Cry of
the Woman,” has not been so successful.
Beatrice Mac Cue, the contralto, on receiving
it, wrote to Zucca as follows: —
The song and letter caifie this morning, and I
thank you. Oh dear, I don’t like those words of
the song. I wouldn’t sing them for a million dollars.
The trouble lay in the last two lines: —
...v* Let not my dead hands after I depart,
Be sadly folded on a virgin heart.
As Mencken has pointed out in his “Ameri-
can Language,” the 1 word “virgin” is tabu
in the U.S.A.
The “Salonola” Scholarship, presented to
the Conshivatorium b,v Home Recreations.
Ltd., was won by Miss Ivinnaird, w T hose
rich contralto attracted the notice of Dame
Clara Butt last year. ’The runner-up was
Ray Beatty, of Scone.
Mary Hosking and her students are
arranging a night of song and verse and
story |p help the Children’s Hospital along.
St. James’s Hall wRI house the entertain-
ment on April 8. Toys old or new r will be
admitted*without charge, and special seating
arrangements for them will be made in a
basket inside the door. Afterwards they
will pass flair, days cheering sick kiddies at
the Royal Alexandra.
“Peg o’ My Heart” Allgood sends a coo-ee
to the sunshine she loved, and tells of a long-
list of splendid parts in which she has
appeared. Just now 7 she is back at the
Abbey Theatre in “She Stoops to Conquer.”
Sara has got to the point at which novelists
mention her in passing much as old-time
writers might have mentioned Patti or Bern-
hardt. In a January Irish Times, play-
wright W. B. Yeats devotes a half-column to
her art. Yeats thinks the Spaniard Sierra
may give her the opportunity she needs in
his “Two Shepherds,” which is now in re-
hearsal. Irish dramatist Casey has also
recognised her genius as a woman comedian,
and has given her an excellent part in his
new play, “Juno and the Paycoek.”
Mona Daley will want a special trunk to
pack up her parting gifts if presentation
parties do not slacken before April 8. On
the heels of the special hospital-stall shivoo,
the linen auxiliary had a festive tea at
Farmer’s, whereat the committee presented
her with a travelling-rug and words even
more comforting.
The Highland Society has put a reserved
card on the Ambassadors for May 21. The
annual ball will be the fixture.
Nellie McCartney demonstrated how much
sweetness she could wheedle‘out of a piano
when her well-wishers and admirers met to
farewell her at the Cavalier. The Mayor
and his lady, Mrs. Earle Page and Speaker
Levy were of those who added good wishes
to a sealskin purse and a golden ladder,
the latter understood to symbolise the
heights to which Nellie’s talents will carry
her in the Old World. Mrs. W. J. Ford,
who has helped so many young musicians,
sponsored the party. Nellie is a lucky girl,
for when she goes abroad to study she takes
her adoring family with her.
The Shakspearean Society showed the con-,
vivial spirit of the Bard’s works when it
gathered in force at the Wentworth to say
an revoir to Councillor May Summerbelle;
and between jazzes President Jackson handed
over a silver card-case as a souvenir. The
Mayoress sat at one of the carnation-
dressed tables, with the president’s wife.
May kept deserting her place to make her
adieux; and her tall daughter, Mrs. Kenneth
Slessor, helped to hold the farewell posies.
Esther Mitchell, the bright colleen who
did well here as Nang Ping in “Mr. Wu”
recently, struck an embarrassment of riches
in New. York. Offered a 20 weeks’ engage-
ment at “150 dahlers per” she was refused
release by another management, but received
a 43 weeks’ contract by way of solatium.
Another Australian of whom news has come
from Samsland is Marie Narelle, the sweet
songstress who was sister to Jimmy
Ryan, actor and pressman. Marie married
money, but has returned to concert work
with her two daughters, w r ho inherit their
handsome ma’s talent.
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s place on Bellevue
Hill, which has been for sale privately for
months, was offered at auction last week, but
failed to reach the reserve. It is said to have
cost £20,000. Its owner has always admired
the Americans, and Belhaven is a replica of
a TJ.S. suburban home as depicted in the
movies, with electric-light globes along the
drive, ornate garages and elaborate porch
complete. It is full of modern notions:
there is a private cinema hall, and all the
windows are of plate glass. But it is far
from a tram, and that consideration tells
these days w'hen domestics are as rare as
honest politicians and harder to keep than
a changed pound-note.
The Governor and Lady de Chair are due
at Turramurra on May 10. They will be at
a garden-party which Mrs. Walter Swinson
is organising for the Havilah Homes.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Green sward and blue skies made a cheery setting
for St. Patrick’s Day races at Ascot and also for.
the gay frocks of the women. Mrs. J. E. Trude
was in white crepe marocain with hints of Pekin
blue; Mrs. Dudley MeNab in ivory georgette with
green cloche; Mrs. Cecil Palmer in sand georgette
with broideries of jet; Alice Hawthorn in embossed
white marocain ; and Jessie Rhodes in cream organdie
with a red hat. The Whittinghams, Duckell Whites,
Cadell Garricks and Edkinses also graced the lawn
enclosure.
In the evening the Bluff Downs Whites gave a
dinner at the Bellevue amid red roses and golden
tissue-tulle. The Bells and Baineses with their
daughters took part in the eating.
Another race dinner was given by Miss Fitz-
gerald to (he Halfords, Nelsons and others; and
Mrs, Raife Cameron staged a tea in the Eastern
lounge for friends from the west, amid an acre or
so or roses.
The St. Patrick’s dinner of the Hibernians was
held at Finney's cafe, Dr. Morgan Lane presiding.
:.Mick Kirwan, Seal Macrossan and Father Lawlor
did some talking and William Lennon said he
would rather be called “plain Bill’’ than Lieut.-
Governor. But the office itself is no sinecure just
now, as Sir Matthew is in Sydney.
In a ballroom decorated in black and yellow,
Mervyn Dinnes gave a party at Toowoomba to a
big roll up of friends. She wore jade marocain
with silver lace sleeves and her mother was in black
and gold.
The Brisbane Women’s Club has quartered itself
more sumptuously in Albert House. A big house-
warming took place on the 20th. The Authors
and Artists’ Assoc, had a party there, too, a couple
of nights earlier.
There have been more shivoos in honor of bride-
to-be Marjorie Byram. The Harry Mills and \\ hit-
tingham ladies gave a lunch at Lennon’s, the
Unmacks fixed up an American “pink tea” for her,
Nan North staged a bridge party anl she was one
of the star guests at a dinner given by Capt. Turner
at the Bellevue.


JHardij Bros.
V Limited
2MMSS
Ksas
■
S H.
. .
hBh
liiiitj:
Bow Brooch, in finest quality Diamonds.
All Diamond Fancy Drop Ear-rings.
Exclusive Jewellery
HARDY BROTHERS specialise in the manufac-
ture of Exclusive Jewellery, which is character-
ised by a superb quality in the gems and a
wonderful delicacy of workmanship. In beauty of
design and in the finish of the pure platinum mount-
ings, Hardy’s Jewellery sets a standard which is
unapproaehed in Australia.
Five per cent. Discount allowed for cash. Goods forwarded
throughout Australia on approval.
The Company’s illustrated booklet posted free anywhere.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJewellers <&>
“The House of Exclusive Jewellery.”
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
116-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298-300 Collins St,
MELBOURNE
Trade where you see this Sign
j: • : i
SSSSSSS3ssa
m.
.. '*V
• '*'.* J /') »$ ,'S' i
;• 8 !(•• !
sw*
r' t
PHOTO.
SUPPLIES
Hundreds are displayed throughout Australia
and New Zealand, and more are going up
every week.
You are sure to have noticed this sign outside certain shops,
BUT DID YOU KNOW that “Harringtons Photo. Supplies”
means best quality and lowest prices of EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE PHOTOGRAPHIC REQUISITE, including—
CAMERAS.—Latest models from a
Vest Pocket to a Reflex —Ensigns,
Kodaks, Brownies. Carbines, An-
sco, etc.
OPTICAL GOODS.—Lenses, Binocu-
lars and Telescopes by world-
renowned makers.
KODAK ROLL FlL3lS.—Auto-
graphic and Ordinary, to fit ail
makes of cameras.
DRY PLATES. —Empire, Imperial,
Wellington, Ilford and Kodak.
PAPERS.—Seltona, Enitone, Wel-
lington S.C.P., Bromide, Q’tone,
Nepera, Velox, Pearl, Star, Artura,
etc.
CHEMICALS.—Johnson’s world-
famed British Scaloids, Azol,
Amidolj Metol. Hydrokinone,
Packets and Bulk
Harringtons and Kodak Chemical
Preparations.
MOUNTS AND ALBUMS.—The
products of our own large and
modern factories,, which defy com-
petition.
ENLARGING APPARATUS.—The
very latest automatic styles for
Amateur and Professional use.
SUNDRIES. —The largest and finest
assortment in the Southern Hemi-
sphere
RADlO.—Receiving Sets and Parts.
Our famous “Same Day Developing: and Printing Service” is also available.
NEGATIVES ENLARGED. PICTURES FRAMED.
If your Dealer does not happen to have on hand a particular article, it can
promptly be forwarded from the nearest HARRINGTON WAREHOUSE.
Harringtons Warehouses,
386 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba, N.S.W.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
10 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
110 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
El
□
i
nry
■*w «
.\4A\
v\'v;
rr*
uu
J
&
?
as
#
f
6?
fA
MO
,/7 Mainly whiff of pare
delight.
Free from dust and srit
and biter-'P'RIWCe
CHjnMUKQ Cigar-
Met.
Here is a good
Cigarette ——-
made from 16 different growths of the
finest Virginia leaf procurable, ensuring
a palatable smoke right through.
Prince charming cigarettes
represent pre-war Value and Quality—
a revelation nowadays.
10 for9 J 2oforl6
also in 50 s in vacuum tifis & in 100*
in boxes. On sale everywhere.
0
0
CIGARETTES
MUnu'aclureJ by MOUSTAFA LTD., 165 Piccadilly, London, W.l, England.


sd
fflutterick Patterns
for the oAutumn fashions
The new season’s Butterick publications are now obtain-
able from Farmer’s. Butterick patterns include a wide
range of the new frocking modes, which, with the aid of
the famous “ Deltor,” may be cut and sewn by the amateur
dressmaker. The new fashion periodicals illustrate the
tendency of the modes for Autumn. Farmer’s are
Australian agents for the Butterick publications.
Fa rmer’s-Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney.
T
Stemmed, Cleaned and
Seeded - Ready for Use
Obtainable
All Grocers
p
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collin St. Melbourne
P[?]
MISSES MONKE DOYLE
'Phones [?] Centrol 1[?], 1[?].
There are apparently no rules about tlie
attire of Governors and Premiers when wel-
coming admirals. Loungers at Port Mel-
bourne gaped when Lord Forster came down
to greet Admiral Field in tlie full outfit of
a Dominion Commander-in-Chief, while
State Ex. Stradbroke considered that a row
of miniature medals on the breast of his
frock coat would be sufficient to advertise
his position in society. Premier Lawson,
Avho dropped in later, hid his worries under
a shiny hat, with well-cut black garments
to match, whereas Prime Minister .Bruce,
who might have been expected to blaze like
a Christmas number of The Tailor and
Cutter, dimmed his lustre in a hard bowler
supported by a plain lounge suit and the
inevitable spats. Considering the occasion
Bruce might have allowed liimself an extra
helping of spats, at any rate.
Social Melbourne was dizzied with the
crowded thrills of Fleet Week. Tlie wild
time opened Avitli the Queen Vic. Hospital
appeal hall, which will weight the fund even
more heavily than Avas anticipated. The St.
Ivilda Town" Hall was flowered and flagged for
the event, and a battleship surged through the
foam on tlie stage. The end of tlie hall had
been rigged up as a lounge; all the same,
for some obscure reason, tired matrons who
sought sanctuary in the dozens of chairs
surrounding the Government House scats
were incontinently shooed out by over-
zealous committee people. The vice-regal
Forsters and Stradbrokes revived some of
tlie stately circumstance of the pre-war era
by procesliing in after the jazz had got well
started, and leaving again after supper. With
them Avere Admiral Sir Frederick Field and
Priminister Bruce, the latter in swalloAv-tails
which looked as if they liad just, broken
through their Sackville-street shell. His
Avife was in orchid-colored brocade enmeshed
with silver. Lady Forster suggested Lorelei,
in misty pale green and silver. The Countess
Stradbroke, avlio backed her new hair-part-
ing with a glittering Spanish comb, cheered
an inky flow of tulle and velvet with a side-
wash of gold tissue. Mrs. Hall Thompson,
there with her Admiral, had black veneered
with bronze lace.
Everyone who is anyone, and lots who
aren’t, were present. The Mackey lady
brought deb. daughter Joyce, fluttering
prettily in white and silver. Mrs. A. M.
Treacey (handsome in black hangings) and
Mrs. Gilrutii liad an active time as joint
lion. secs. The Gaud Mayor and his Mayor-
ess and the hospital president, Mrs. Cabena,
and Mrs. Harry Emmerton, who headed the
decoration committee, shone in the fore-
ground. Moreover, dozens of naval visitors
turned up, and were as manna from Heaven
to flappers.
The Government House ball opened up
too crowdedly for comfort, but the squash
was less after the official entry, when couples
began to move out to the drawing-room and
fountain court. Nowadays one Government
House function is much like another. Offi-
cial tone has been killed by the shrieking
jazz band and tlie noisy encore calls between
the trots. The Best Known were to be
found as usual at the top of tlie room, and
the lesser social lights at the far end. The
official set was cut out, and, in another
way of speaking, some unofficials were cut
out also. Lady Forster Avas charmingly
gowned in black and gold brocade, weighted
with golden embroideries,- and she had side
Avings of tulle over her arms, and diamonds
on her head. The Countess Stradbroke was
iridescent in sequined peacock blue, and Lady
Dunleath banded lier grey liair with a dia-
mond glitter above a black frock. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers’s silver hangings were patterned
elusively with rosy flowers. A bevy of debs,
included Col. Willie Robertson’s popular
daughter Mary, Fleet-Surgeon Eames’s
dark-eyed Margot (who, by tlie way, has a
middy brother on the Hood), Phyllis Robb
and dainty Vivienne Knox Knight, whose
father, Major Knox Knight, one of our per-
manent officers, fell in the war. Those hop-
ing to sight Princess Pat’s husband, Naval-
Captain Ramsay, searched in vain, as tlie
Dunedin’s commander had ricked his back
on the tennis court the day before the party.
Most of the naval jazzers looked weary, and
a few were openly bored. Dancing all day
and night with a crowd of strange partners
is apt to pall.
The Stradbrokes, for their welcome to the
seafarers, provided a night out for 3000 mixed
citizens at Wattle Path. The St. Ivilda
jazzery—which should get a great lift as
a result of the surprising adventure—sup-
plied rather a comic-opera setting for a
vice-regal function, and a full chorus of
fancy-dressed girls dispensed the soft drink
and programmes. The Government House
atmosphere was restricted to the top of the
room. The intended reception faded away
when it appeared that the surging throng
could not be drafted into the necessary
column. However, the madding crowd was
shut off from the jazz stadium until after the
“official set.” The G.-G. and Lady Forster
missed this function, but there were some
naval heavyweights to hold the feminine eye.
Melba, in white robes, parterned Admiral
Hall Thompson. Lady Stradbroke was
arresting in a brocaded sheath of sapphire
blue encrusted with silver which trailed for
fully a yard along the parquet, and she had
diamonds coronetting her head and blazing
on her neck and chest. Daughter Char-
lotte was in blue taffetas, and daughter
Helena in tender green and silver. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers provided a pleasing study in rose
and silver brocade.
Thirsty thousands nearly clawed one an-
other to bits in the scrum by the soft-drink
counter after the official feed. But the
crowds inside Avere as nothing to the riot
along the Esplanade, which is now Mel-
bourne's equivalent for Coney Island. There
pandemonium slipped the chain. Cars
freighted with guests got tangled up with
thousands of sightseers and loungers in one
terrifying m6lee. A percentage of the in-
viteds were incontinently pushed into amuse-
ment places, while dozens of the hoi polloi
were drafted into the queue for the party.
And later on there Avere seared and tousled
Avomen overworking powder-puffs and lip-
sticks in all sorts of corners, having failed to
discover a dressing-room where they could put
in for repairs.
The Mayor and his wife woke up the old
Town Hall with their ball, a perfectly stun-
ning affair, which easily beat all Fleet Week
records. The ceiling was canopied with
red, Avhite and blue lights winking giddily
at garlands of brown and gold. Golden
laurel wreaths swung betAveen naval ensigns
fronting the balconies, while palms nodded
against the hall pillars and banked the offi-
cial lounge at the end of the room. But tho
real decorative thrill was a stage scene show-
ing a battleship anchored in the bay. From
this a searchlight flashed across the hall
for one dance only. The Mayoress was
effective in a lace sheath with a golden
glitter under clinging over-draperies of
velvet brocade which looked as if woven
from a peacock’s tail. A graceful back-
wash of the brocade swept the floor from a
circular arrangement of ostrich plumes.
Lady Forster’s slim elegance carried filmy
black patterned Avith gol-d and gleamingly
sheathed with green pailettes, while dia-
monds fendered her brown head. Lady
Stradbroke favored a fountain-pen effect.
Daughter Helena wore green and silver;
sister Charlotte, blue silk.
Seeing that the civic heads had staged the
affair at considerable trouble and cost in
response to a request from the State Gov-
ernment, there was a smack of discourtesy
in the brass-caps side-tracking the thing
for a private party and sending along instead
a handful of loots and such-like to receive
the official welcome. Defence Minister
Bowden and Littleton Groom headed a
group of political showcards; Admiral Flail
Thompson, Fleet-Surgeon Phipps and Com-
mander Hyde, with their respective wives,
topped the local navy group, and the Harry
Chauvels and Brudenell Whites led the army
section. Justice Cussen was led by his wife.
There was a strong force of city fathers,
and the theatrical Avorld was also heavily
represented. Turkey and dressings were
spread in several rooms after the official
supper. An oyster saloon, (innocent of “da
steak,” of course) filled in the earlier hours,
and light refreshments were available all the
evening. So no one returned home with a
sinking feeling behind the bodice.
When the visiting Admirals and their
immediate juniors were dined and wined by
the Bruce-Page Government at Parliament
Flouse, some fastidious old hands declared
that the liquor and cigars were just nice
enough to make one forget the viands, and
harked back to the epic gorge when the
Yankee squadron tasted our best cooking.
Still, it was a fair meal, and the gold of
the uniforms, the irreproachable evening
wear of Bruce’s colleagues and the gleam
of pink and red dahlias nestling in silver-
papered models of the big ships, completed
a scene which a crowd of sightseers up aloft
followed like a football final or the Mel-
bourne Cup. There seems to be an increas-
ing number of people who are dying to see
exalted persons eat, for there was about the
largest crowd on record peering . at the
munching below. One young man, perched
precariously on the balustrade, threatened
to drop into the consomme at any moment.
The speeches had none of the after-dinner
esprit with which Deakin and Hughes at
their best could enliven a dull gathering.
The heavily-brocaded commonplaces of S. M.
Bruce were met by a broadside of polite
remarks from Admiral Field, who told one
small anecdote that brought a titter. It was
left to Anstey, as Labor leader in the
absence of Matthew Charlton, to uncork the
suppressed merriment of over 200 serious
soil Is, and, though he wasn’t in his best
vein, he was welcome comic relief.
The naval officers did not rush our
Best Gikleds’ united offers to provide them
Avith bed and breakfast. In fact, most of
them preferred to be towed back to their
ships. The wails of those who dished up
entertainments in their honor, and found
that few or none of the sailormen answered
to the call, are loud in the land. Chief among
the wailers are the Canterbury Returned
Soldiers. They had even gone to the trouble
of bagging Defence Minister BoAvden to wel-
come the sailormen who did not come!
There has been much shaking of heads over
these liaval defections, and a horrible sus-
picion has got abroad that the visitors were
afraid to become acquainted with any but
the Very Naieest, and thought it safer to
keep to Government House and Toorak.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers is to take a further dip
in the stream of stage publicity, this time
for the District Nurses’ cause. The occa-
sion will, of course, be a matinee, and the
G.-G.’s daughter Avill be associated with Sey-
mour Hicks.
The bright Ijttle face looking out at you
hereabouts belongs to Marjorie Whyte, a for-
tunate young lady endowed with consider-
able musical
and dramatic
talent. At
present she is
studying
stagecraft at
th e Mervale
Academy of
Acting, and
ha s already
had some good
limelight ex-
perience in
Mermaid, Re-
pertory and
other produc-
tions. She is
the owner of
a well-poised
lyric soprano
which has been
developed by
T h eo p hilus
Roberts ; and
added to this
she is a clever pianist. Frances Osborne
having been responsible for this side of her
musical development. In view of these
things both teachers and friends have a
feeling that maid Marjorie is one of those
persons who are going to be heard of later on.
During the naval march last week some
of the crowd outside overflowed into the
private apartments of one of the Federal
Parliament House staff, tore aside his cur-
tains. and wheeled up his best table to the
windows to serve as a grandstand from
which to vieiv the procession. Appeals to
the intruders were fruitless; they calmly
maintained their ground, and openly cheeked
the distracted owner when one of Lawson’s
policemen bluntly declined to interfere.
Something like the same outrage was threat-
ened in another part of the House, where
pickets were Avrenclied off a fence surround-
ing the Parliamentary gardens. Like all
big cities, Melbourne has an unruly minority,
and the plain reason why it is more con-
spicuous than elsewhere is that it is worse
controlled. Nothing was more damning to
the city’s reputation than the uproar on
Prince’s Pier, Port Melbourne, on the
day of the squadron’s arrival. Here strong
men and foolish women battled to get on
board the leading warship, and the officers
who watched the turmoil from the decks
saw lioav ugly a Melbourne mob can be.
Later on they Avere to realise the multitude’s
capacity for pilfering and petty mischief,
which the daily press glozed over or ignored
altogether, but which will be reported with
deep official regret on the other side of the
world. The commanding officers of the ves-
sels generously refused to mention the
damage, but it is understood to amount to
some hundreds.
Dr. Charles Ryan, who sailed the other
day to join his son. Col. Rupert Ryan, who
is a Deputy-Commissioner at Cologne, will
find a prospective daughter-in-law awaiting
him —Rosemary Hay, the 20-year-old daugh-
ter of the Rhineland’s High Commissioner,
Lord Kilmarnock, Earl Erroll’s son and
heir. Dr. Ryan’s wife—she, was a Sumner
—died a few months back while visiting
her son in Cologne, but sister Maie is there
with him.
A few days ago Fritz Hart was apprised
by cable that he had been made a Fellow
of the Royal College of Music. Hitherto
there have been no Fellows of that har-
monious institution, but the council recently
decided to elect 50, and out of the many
hundreds of possibilities the Albert-street
Con. director was among the cliosell. The
little enthusiast is greatly bucked up over it.
The visiting naval men will carry away
pleasant recollections of the Harry- Paynes'
cheerful afternoon at home. A mariner bold
remarked that it was the one really home-
like frivol offered in Melbourne. After the
how-d’ye-dos in the drawing-room, formalb
ties ended and all hands could wander
wheresoever they chose. Dancing was in a
specially-erected ballroom leading off a side
verandah, and tea was at small tables set
about the grounds and in a marquee. The
visitors had a great time prospecting in the
park lands and hothouses between whirls.
The informality of the frivol caught their
fancy, and the billiard-table was greeted
with fierce enthusiasm. Mrs. Payne smiled
her welcome in dark blue marocain with
blue feathers wreathing a black hat, while
daughter Ella, in petunia silk, flew roses
on her black hat. The star guest, the
Countess Stradbroke, brought daughter
Helena, the vice-regal presence being
armored in golden bronze lace cloaked with
pewter-colored brocade and topped by a
tissue toque.
Williamstown’s Mayor and Mrs. .1. J.
Liston unlocked the gate to fairyland with
their evening shivoo in the local Botanic
Gardens, the soul of Williamstown being
centred in that picturesque domain. The
moon, shedding romantic rays on the lawns
and floAver-beds, was out-rivalled by fur-
longs of electric lights festooning the path-
ways. The younger generation of the 3000
guests flitted like elves on a ball floor sunk
into a grassy plot. The Mayor and
his lady (who warmed apricot marocain
with a cosy fur coat under a blue-swathed
toque) shook hands in a flowery alcove.
Acres of supper-table foreshadowed that the
guests would be fed abundantly, and the
caterer—God bless him !—saw that the fore-
cast was correct.
The Queen Vic. Hospital appeal’s Market
Fair ran a picturesque course along the
Yarra bank between the city and South
Yarra on Friday and Saturday after being
got well off the mark by Lady Stradbroke.
The fair was heavily stocked with delirious-
delights, but the eyebrow of interrogation
was raised over several booths where shillings
rained in at the rate of one a second on the
offchance of drawing winning numbers for
money prizes. Two-up is but a pale gamble
compared with this. The Seymour Hicks
pair judged a decorated pram competition,
and Mamie Watson, May Beatty and June
Roberts the doll-pram section. River races
and high diving drew the crowds to the
river path, and a gypsy encampment pro-
vided a further thrill. Mrs. Fullarton, the
Jap. Consul’s wife, had roped in a number
of Nippon residents as geishas for her
Japanese village and tea-house. The Mayor-
ess looked after a civic stall charged with
kitchen ware, Mrs. James Angus ran a
basket stall,- and Mrs. H. J. Robertson un-
loaded a ton of stationery. The Tallis lady
and Mrs. Robins were the chief architects
of the fair, with Mrs. Cabena to aid and
abet them, and the financial results will pro-
bably be expressed in thousands,
Adelaide drops a line or two: —
Marie Tuck’s exhibition of paintings, opened by
Chief Sec. Pascoe at the request of Dr. Gertrude
Halley, includes some of the work she has done under
the eye of, Rupert Bunney in Paris and afterwards
while sketching in Picardy and Brittany. Already
there is a satisfactory sprinkling of red seals over
the show.
Chalmers Church bedecked itself suitably for tin
wedding of Mollie, second of the Alan MacFarlane
daughters, to a Londoner, John Maclean Connell. Subse-
quent festivities were at the Fred Porters’ home at Gil-
berton, where Mrs. t-MacFarlane was smart in blactc
and green and her daughter equally smart
in Egyptian red topped by a small black hat; while
the bride was a picture in white georgette that
shimmered with silver beads and trailed a silver
tissue train behind it. The MacFarlanes have been
having a hectic time with weddings, for they have
only recently got back from their son’s marriage to
Miss Nicholson in Melbourne.
A gathering of more serious-minded femininity for
the Conference of the Australian Federation of
Women’s Societies is about to happen here. Among
the delegates are Westralia’s show woman publicist,
Mrs. Rischbieth, and the Mrs. Dale who helped to
keep Australia’s end up at the League of Nations
meeting in 1922. Last year Mrs. Rischbieth was in
Rome for a conference of the National Women s
Suffrage Alliance, and that is to be the subject of
her address.
At time of writing we are in the throes of Polo
Week, with play at Birkalla in the afternoons, din-
ners and dinner-dances at night, and hotels over-
flowing with polo enthusiasts from our next-door and
next-door-but-one States. After which it is to be
hoped that there’ll be a social close season for a
week or two, or our buds will be looking as wilted
as decorations tlie morning after.
Adelaide has had a Romeo and Juliet tragedy of
its own, a girl typist of 16 being shot dead in her
office by her lover aged 19. For once the revolver
was not to blame; the boy had lately returned from
a week in cadet camp, and hail ln'3 rifle with him.
He fainted after firing a single but effective bullet.


SILVER-PLATED TABLE APPOINTMENTS
AT A SPECIAL REDUCTION.
A. Saunders’
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
daintily engraved, 35/.
Pteii
■
miMSalßllmnfl
jg.
A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure Silver-plated frame, hand-
painted floral China Dish, 35/.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished,
20/-
With embossed centre, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Cake or Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, pierced
design, highly burnished, 50/-
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
A, Saunders’ Biscuit Box; pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely decorated,
ornamental feet, £3.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
ALL, ORDERS BY MAIL RECEIVE OUR SPECIAL
ATTENTION AND PROMPT DESPATCH.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER - - JEWELLER - - OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Jug, A 1 quality,
pure Silver-plated, engraved bands. In
three sizes, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-
m
si?
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure .Silver-plated, Al quality,
enamel lining, £3.
Plain design, £2/10/-, £4/4/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
Silver-plated, Crystal Bowl, 25/-
m
*
0
4A
§
k
n ■
,4
I
wmm
up
§§*
4
’<>st Free to any. address in Australia.
Per Y r .P. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
1(52-160 Pitt Street, anti
Corner George and King
Streets, SYDNEY.
\
S 0
Look in Ten Days
See how your teeth improve
Make this delightful test. It has
brought to millions new beauty and
new charm. To careful people of
some 50 nations it has brought a new
conception of clean teeth.
Dental investigators have in late
years made some remarkable dis-
coveries. They have found ways to
whiter, cleaner teeth. It means a new
dental era.
A new-type tooth paste embodies
those discoveries. The name is Pep-
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodcnt disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent
far softer than enamel. Never
use a film combatant which
contains harsh grit.
Made in Australia
mark a
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold everywhere
in two sizes.
Price r 21- and 1/3
sodent. Leading dentists the world
over have for years advised it.
You can see the results wherever
you look. You see glistening teeth
which bring to men and women attrac-
tions which they lacked.
In fairness to yourself you should
learn the way to this new beauty and
new r cleanliness.
Send the coupon for a io-Day Tube.
Note how clean the teeth feel after
usihg. Watch the new lustre that
comes. And all without harmful
scouring.
You will be amazed and delighted.
As long as you live you will want in
your family such benefits as these.
Cut out coupon now.
AB 1383
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family


fsd
Five
Times 1000
in 2k Days!
GREAT MOTORING FEAT by OVERLAND!
Five New Stock Model Cars give State-wide Demonstration Under Official Observation
of Prominent Newspapers ECONOMY and RELIABILITY PUBLICLY PROVED.
3OO Centres Visited in 60 Hours.
Average Petrol Consumption 29.5
(including 7 hours’ standing time each car)
Oil added 3s Gallons in 5000 Miles.
At midnight on Monday, 1 7th March, Overland Sydney,
Limited, despatched five new Stock Model Cars, taken at random
from a recent shipment,. from the Sydney G.P.0., each to travel
1000 miles in a different part of the State without stoppage of
engine before returning to the Sydney G.P.O. 60 hours later.
The Company’s absolute confidence in the cars was
demonstrated by this daring test of the cars’ capabilities, the greater
when it is considered that not one of the cars had travelled more
than 250 miles at the time of the start.
Every part of New South Wales was covered in 60 hours.
Town after town was arrived at on schedule time. The average
speed of the cars works out at 20 miles per hour. During the run
the wheels on every car rotated over 700,000 miles, the total
revolutions of all wheels on all cars , exceeding 14,000,000;
6,000,000 sparks were fired by the plugs. The test was one of
the most convincing and spectacular ever launched in Australian
motoring. Two slight mishaps were recorded. One was due to a
lost road. When an attempt was made to fill the tank from the
spare petrol tin carried, the latter was found to be empty. The
whole quantity had leaked away through a flaw in the tin. Kerosene
had to be procured from a neighboring farm-house at midnight,
and the Overland ran for a time on this fuel. At Tumut a garage
attendant emptied the spare water tin into the petrol tank instead
of petrol. In each case the cars pushed on immediately.
THE CARS CAME THROUGH FAULTLESSLY.
Not one car was sent, but five; not five tried and tested cars,
but five brand new Overlands out of the case. The object was
to demonstrate to all intending buyers, particularly in the country,
the absolute dependability of the Overland under all conditions.
The strains of two months’ average driving were imposed
upon each car in the space of 60 hours.
29 M.P.G. (including 7 Hours’ Standing Time per Car).
The run was officially observed h>y Representatives of
prominent State Newspapers, four observers taking it in turn to
observe. Two drivers attended each car continuously. The petrol
results were as follows:—Car No. 1, 27.6 m.p.g.; Car No. 2, 23.8
m.p.g.; Car No. 3, 34.5 m.p.g.; Car No. 4, 37.6 m.p.g.; Car No. 5,
24.1 m.p.g. Actually, the results were better, for it must be
remembered that each car burned petrol and oil during a standing
time of seven hours, the engine running all the time.
OF THE
ROUTE
NVtPU- V
1,000 MILE
NON STOP RUNS
jiARMIDAIt
nyn MUfijuAlue -
:
T
#WtIU"GTO» /
MArriA**o“
NEWCASTLE
w 3
r
SYDNEY
... •*'i, ...■
*'Vi ‘N, «CwRAi
v \
OVERLAND FIRST AGAIN.
Once again Overland has shown itself to the front in one or
the most striking demonstrations of reliability and economy ever
attempted. Dunlop Cord Tyres and Castrol Oil were employed.
The cars met with a tremendous reception in each of the 3uU
towns visited in the brief space of 2\ days.
What one Overland will do all Overlands will do.
There is No Value Approaching the Overland at its New Price.
Neals Motors Pty., Limited,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
Overland Sydney, Limited,
147-49 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q’land.
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.
If. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.


ca
Fills Itself does not leak
Onoto—Pen
Streamline model, in polished antique vulcanite^
Ihe Onoto Self-Filling Safety Pen fills itself from any ink supply—
mstantly without mess or bother. It has the most effective
self-tilling device known.
And the Onoto cannot leak. It is absolutely safe in your pocket or in
your suit case. It is the only self-filling sa'fety pen that the makers
send out through the post full of ink.
’Thomas De La Rue' & Co.. Ltd.. Ito Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I
Representatives: NORMAN BAKER It LONGHURST LTD..
s -l4!i§y. Melbourne k Wellington (N. 2.).
Streamline model. with 2 narrow 18 ct. gold bands and top
.... "ivu « narrow 10 ci. goiu Danus ana top
Onoto Ink Best for all Pens
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian. Distributors: BURNS, PHILP A CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPROTING
HEEDS
Saturday s racing at Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) wasn’t much of a guide to punters in
search of likely winners at Randwick next month*.
Xaharadan, who has 7st. 111 b. in the Doncaster,
failed badly in the first division of the Flying
Handicap, won by the Collarit mare Colis, a recruit
from the ponies. The Wild Goose, a four-year-
old English grey, with 7st. 121 b. in the Randwick
mile, showed pace in the second division, but gave
no trouble at the finish to Ballante, by Repartee—-
brooch, who will win again presents if judiciously
placed in his class—that of six-furlong platers. Maggie
Trieze, Dialogue and Braille filled the places in the
lanterbury Park Handicap, the company being poor,
'lore light will be thrown on the Doncaster-an’-Cup
the form at Rosehill next Saturday, where a
much better lot of horses have been nominated.
l :lv ]d, who has been galloping, splendidly on the local
tracks, has lOst. 21b. in the 10-furlongs handicap,
and Drongo (Bst. 21b.), Brown Rajah (Bst.), Balaton
and Comptroller (7st. 101 b.) are likely competitors.
J omptroller may prove the best of them at the weights,
other interesting horses with Rosehill engagements
f>re Otacre, Demetrius, Blackadder, Linaway, Bellambi,
damn and Lady Valais, and there will be a rush
to get on Blackadder if he is saddled up for the
Itydalmere Mile.
* * *
A good fancy wager on the Syd-
ney Cup would be a fair price about the united
i lances of imported horses in the first acceptances.
red I ower and Our Prince suggest themselves as
a hkely pan-, Fred being rather well handicapped
n ms English performances and the promise he
Miowed here in October and November last. Our
nnce is a less attractive proposition, insofar that
ics a year older than “Baron” Brown’s importation,
has httle English form to recommend him,
« be was thought good enough to saddle up
or the Epsom Derby. He could only run fourth
,°li 6 . ,?* D ? rb y in th e year previous to Back-
wd actually winning the race. On the other hand,
. 1 nnce has proved himself acclimatised bv win-
..l’j.f. ra ees on successive days last November, at
"nliamstown and Flemington. Sol Green’s six-
)car old has another recommendation. He is by
ic same sire as Backwood, who was an unquestion-
, le two-rniler in England, though up to now he has
performed like a two-dreadful in Australia.
zJfi 0 } °^ teu would a horse running in a
MiUabeer nomination start at 8 to 1 in a field of
, l , tor . a handicap at Moonee Valiev. Beryllia
uptured the principal handicap at the Valley last
Saturday with comparatively long odds on offer,
me Land ol Song mare being “Tich” Wilson's second
r. ining mount for the day. In a preceding event
“f an > °l‘ Kin gmaker, landed aloto 1 chance, so
? hunters who back riders rather than gees,
must have had a good day.
. ‘ s - filimm” ; Those Broken Hill unionists
L ° „ aok hors ® B S -P- (and 98 p.c. of them do it)
.. > ' ,one 01 l strike for half a point more than the
regulation odds in the case of winning favorites
‘■f. T* e has my warmest support; 1 only hope it
un Life 01 '• eVer ' AU the sarne, these punting
umomsts are, in a way the s.p. operator’s employers”
d the odds, as published in the Barrier Miner,
are the fair trade-union price of his labor, such as
it is. Doesn’t it savor of capitalistic greed, of
exploitation, of —all the plutocratic crimes we read
about in the Worker, to boggle at paying the fair
trade-union price?
“0.K.”: This talk of licensed bookmakers
objecting firstly to the competition of “concession”
odds-layers, and then to win-and-“both-ways” wager-
ing, ,is wearisome to the Melbourne public which
wants only a little mild gambling for excitement’s
sake. Why doesn’t the Vic. Government legalise
the totalisator and the clubs and close the dis-
cussion? What the majority of racegoers want is
a choice between 5.0., 1-2, and 1-2-3 betting machines.
Pay your money, take your choice, and devil take
the bookmakers. Let the books fight it out with
those who try to take them down, and usually get
downed themselves.
“Fax”: Some racehorse owners might as
well cure themselves of the tendency to give human
appellations to female horses. One reads such turf
news as “Lady Norman and Spanish Lady will
return to Caulfield next week,” or “Mr. Blank's
Little Sister is said to have been all out at the
finish of a warm go with Rabbit Man.” Time was
when the London Pink ’Un specialised in ribald
allusion to mares with women’s names. Somehow
owners seem more ad-
dicted to humanising
the fillies than the
colts. Yet it should
be easy to fix them
up with suitable titles,
suggestive of sex, which
would not admit of
lewd application. Race-
cards rarely present
such names as Gentle,
Graceful, Gracious,
Fickle, Tender, Timid,
Trustful, Simple, etc.,
or the extensions there-
of. You get Wish
Wynne, named after a
vaudeville artist, but
never a Wistful or a
Winning; Frances
Tressady, but not a
Frankness, or Distress.
Many a Charlotte has
been among the “also-
ran,” hut never aj Chic
or a Sham. . j
THEO MARKS,
Sydney architect
and patron of
the Ring.
‘‘lo 2-4”: Much is written in depreciation
of the Prince’s horsemanship, and by comparison
with that of the company in which he rides it is
no doubt open to criticism. (He practically never
flies lower than the ’Shires when hunting, or than a
military steeplechase or Point-to-Point, at which the
best amateurs turn out, when racing.) Even so,
however, he is never given credit for the appalling
handicaps under which he has to perform. A film
of his last fall indicated, said a Sun cable, that he
“had swerved in order to avoid photographers
standing in the racing track behind the jump.”
His younger brother seems to have collided with a
group of photographers in the same race. Now,
nothing is more disconcerting to a nervous thorough-
bred than to have to face a battery of cameras, as
he lands on the other side of a big obstacle, and if
he has to be pulled out of his line once or twice
to save the life of some venturesome ass in quest of
an unusually sensational snapshot, he will be bound
to show temper or otherwise lose his head before the
race is over. It is likely that fully half the Prince’s
falls this season have been due to his photographic
and cinema value. Considering he has only had
about a dozen, and that amongst “thrusters,” on
the greasy and treacherous Leicestershire fields, two
or three purlers a week are nothing out of the
way, the outcry about his recklessness seems over-
done. With a fair field and no favor —which might
be achieved by making it “offensive conduct” to
photograph him while mounted- —he should have as
good a chance of dying in his bed as the next man.
“Nimslii” : Melbourne Inman (B. 6/3/'24)
owed most of his successes to a knack of throwing
his opponents temperamentally out of gear. His
most famous victim was Tom Reece, the Oldham
pro. —a beautiful player, but a bundle of nerves. By
flouting Tom in print, and teasing him in their
public contests with elaborate safety tactics, alternat-
ing with spasms of strenuous cue-work, Inman beat
the highly-strung Lancashire man time and again.
Each success gave him more confidence in his methods,
and, incidentally, he picked up some of the finer
points of the game from the man he defeated. But
English billiards was the loser, for Reece’s failures
proved a permanent check to his development. John
Roberts, jun., had far more personality than Inman.
Whether deliberately or not, John always created the
impression that he was the whole show.
* * * *
“Andesite” : It took three races to decide
whether Wide Bay or Rockhampton should repre-
sent Queensland in the next inter-State eight-oar
affair. The three-mile course on the Fitzroy
takes in a bend on the north bank, and crews
always make a run for this shore, so as to cut
off the corner. Unfortunately there is a sandbank,
and Rockhampton grounded on it when leading by
a length and a half. The umpires ordered a re-
row next day. In the second attempt Wide Bay
got round the corner first and had a good lead
at the two miles, but here No. 4 broke a roller
in his slide and the boat stopped. Another re-row.
This time there were no accidents to speak of
(although one of the crews is reported to have
got lost in the mangroves for a while), and Wide
Bay won by five lengths. But the race finished
in the moonlight, and such of the crowd as wasn’t
spooning with its girl had gone home for tea.
* * * *
“Tam” : Owing to the annual Tamar (T.)
regatta being postponed and sandwiched in between
the Sandy Bay regatta, on the Derwent, and the
initial Hcnley-on-the-Tamar, entries for all three
were in before the first race was rowed. Some maiden
and junior crews were therefore allowed opportunities
of winning several races of the one class inside a
fortnight. A Tamar R.C. eight competed in the
Maiden at Sandy Bay, the Maiden and Junior at
Tamar, and the Maiden and Junior at Henley-on-the-
T., and annexed the lot. Surely an Australian record.
* * * *
South Aus. took on a large contract in
playing Vie. and N.S.W. tennis at once. The Adelaide
Association has now got its own ground, which is
just alongside the Oval fence, but was glad to
borrow a few extra courts for the less important
matches of the tournament. Vic. sent over Wood
Holland, Rainey, Fitts, Fitchett and Dickinson, and
they beat the best available S.A. six (R. V. Thomas
could not play) by 12 matches to 9. Hone beat
Fitchett, and received a walkover from O’Hara Wood,
who had a mild attack of tcndlitis. The women’s
match was also a close thing, Miss Bo id and co.
winning by 7 to 5, though Mrs. Wood lost both her
singles. The next best local four men took on a
N -S.W. team, Rice, Dive, Fitzgerald and Reid, and
the result was six rubbers all, though the Sydney
men won on sets.. The Sydney women had a walk-
over, 11 to 1. In the championship tournament
O’Hara Wood had a great time, winning the singles
(Hone took a set from him in the final and Rowe
a couple of sets earlier in the piece), the doubles
with Fitchett, and the mixed doubles with his
comely wife.
“15-30”; T. K. Fitchett, who is a nephew of the
famous “Bleeds,” is beginning to make one wonder
w r hy he is never considered seriously for Davis
Cup honors. A left-hander with a reliable backhand,
he had Patterson going for his life in a close match
a few weeks back, and his capture of a 6—l set
from Hone in Adelaide, whilst forcing another to
7—5, demonstrates his capacity to face a cannon-
ball service as well as any of his fellow-citizens,
bar O’Hara Wood. Fitchett’s great weakness, how-
ever, is his temperamental inability to hold a good
lead to the point of victory. He will volley with
the best, and ace his opponent time and again with
backhand swings down the lines; he will score by
courtcraft and excellent overhead work; but, let
him register 5 games and 40 love on his own
service against, say, Patterson, and there is a fair
chance that he will go to pieces and let the big
fellow win. This sort of performance is quite notori-
ous with him, and there seems no remedy for the
defect but hard practice, in concentration.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Suzanne Lenglen’s cabled
announcement that she will not appear at Wimble-
don this year because she objects to English referees
will be chivalrously accepted without comment in
London, but American papers will interpret her deci-
sion as a desire to avoid a match with the young
Californian, Helen Wills. Kitty McKane, who whs
in America a few months back and took a hiding
from Helen with the grace of a good sport, is
immensely impressed with the quality of the little
American, and no doubt Suzanne, who hears and
reads all the gossip about possible rivals, is not
indifferent to the new threat against her supremacy.
Of course, every effort will be made to induce the
French girl to cross the Channel. The Wimbledon
authorities even talk of allowing her to select her
own umpires—an unprecedented concession.
“15-30”: Norman Brookes must have en-
joyed himself at Cannes till he caught the influenza.
In the second round of the mixed doubles champion-
ship Susanne Lenglen and he defeated Madame and
M. la Faurie in two love sets. Then he got into
royal and aristocratic company and was invited to
Stockholm to play with the King of Sweden. Norman
is already booked for Wimbledon, after which he
intends crossing the Atlantic to see his brother-
Australians, as he hopes, in the challenge round of
the Davis Cup.
* * * *
Over 20 nations have challenged for the
Davis Cup this year. Cuba and Mexico have nomi-
nated and the possibility of Siam and Patagonia
joining the procession will have to be reckoned with
in time to come. The Australians have to play
China, and then Mexico. Japan, which is drawn
to lick the winner of the Canada-Cuba fixture, will
probably meet our fellows for the right to tackle
the conquerors in the European zone. Here Maori-
land will make its debut as a separate nation against
Czecho-Slovakia.
* * * *
Policeman W. F. Payne landed the only
“double” on the first day of the N.S.W. A.A.A.
championships at Sydney—the 161 b. shot (37ft.
10ain.) and the javelin throw (166 ft. 5-iin.). The
latter effort was 13ft. 91 in. better than Reid’s last
year, and within Bft.
of the Australian
record; but it wasn’t
necessary for Payne to
over-exert himself. L.
Fitzhenry (Western
Suburbs) showed im-
pressive form in win-
ning the mile (4min.
39 4-ssec.), and his
club-mate, Tom Mc-
Namara, cleared away
from the field in the
440yds. (52 3-10 sec.).
IV. IV. Hunt took the
hundred in three yards
outside even time. He
has done a lot better
in the past, but the
ground was on the
heavy side.
DICK FORD , a
Melbourne cyclist ,
who can both
sprint and stay.
The last two or three weeks of Melbourne
pennant cricket have been enlivened by the efforts
of Prahran to get a place in the final four. A
victory over St. Hilda in the previous round heart-
ened the shopkeepers on Saturday for the critical
argument with Col ling wood, who will have to win
outright to join Saints. Melbourne, and Northcote
in the last struggle for the trophy. ’Wood do not
look like bringing off the coup, but a victory on
the first innings is quite possible. This would make
them level with Prahran, and then averages would
decide it. At drawing of stumps on Saturday, the
Magpies had totalled 183, to which Brown con-
tributed 40 and R.yder 79 n. 0., whilst the others
are 3 for 62. ’Wood’s small score on a good wicket
was mainly due to the bowling of “Clarrie” Grim-
mett, who took 6 for 76.
* * * *
“Tren”: Batsmen of merit are to be had
for the seeking, but the, star howlers nowadays are
all ancients. For instance, Ironmonger, of St. Hilda,
who leads the averages in Melbourne with 49 wickets
at 9 runs each, is the Queenslander who played for
Victoria in the days before the war, and more lately
shone in Sydney. His left-hand bowling is really
first-class, but his batting and fielding are reminis-
cent of Jack Saunders. Trundling from the other
end is Don Blaekie, whom some critics consider the
best medium-paced right-hander in Melbourne. He
is a pre-war Prahran man, who came back success-
fully for the seasiders after a long retirement. Liddi-
cut was discovered at Geelong in 1912. He does
well in big games, yet his pennant figures are
moderate. In six hands for Fitzroy this year he
has totalled only 103, while his bowling average
for 19 wickets is 20. The inter-State veterans,
Ryder and Keating, are still unchallenged at Colling -
wood; and old Tom Carlton and Jimmy Matthews
(who went to England with Gregory’s XI in 1912) have
no superiors at North Melbourne. Hartkopf, who
has represented his State for 11 years, is still
Northcote’s chief destructive agent, and Warwick
Armstrong, when in the field for Melbourne, is
nearly as dangerous as ever. In fact, the only
youngster of real talent is fast-bowler Wallace, of
Prahran, and his club record is inferior to that of
tiie ageing and much-travelled Grimmett, who bowls
from the other end. This season the express has
taken 16 wickets, averaging 12, while Grimino. has
skittled 44 for 10 apiece.
# * * *
“Oxrnead”: A picturesque feature of the
Oval cricket ground in London, 30 to 40 years ago,
was Bob Craig, the Surrey “poet.” Bob was the
most businesslike bard I ever encountered. He
would wait till some player—a popular pro. for
preference—knocked up a century or bagged a heap
of wickets, and then proceed to enshrine tiie achieve-
ment in a form of literary composition that never
failed to appeal to Cockney patrons. Bob sold his
effusions himself, by special permission of the Surrey
C.C., hot from the press at the modest price of a
penny a leaflet. There was a certain sameness about
them, and the Muse was liable to jib and halt, but
sometimes he would hit on a rather happy opening
not altogether devoid of swing, and bits of his
doggerel still stick obstinately in my memory. Like
this, for instance:—
There are scores of good men in every shire
Whose feats with the bat we are bound to admire.
And I don’t under-rate or disparage the rest
When I say Bobby Abel is one of the best.
The bard, doubtless dead this many a year, was the
only one I ever knew who marketed his wares without
the assistance of editors or publishers.
“Adelaide”: The chief discovery made by
South Aus. in a country cricket week was one
Emerson, formerly of Manly (N.S.W.), who shone
as both bowler and bat. He has already been
invited to play for East Torrens, holders of the
city premiership. If he gets into the State XI,
as seems not unlikely, there may be odd complica-
tions. For he is deaf and dumb.
Harry Collfns (lOst. 6-Jlb.) proved too
fast for Tommy Uren (lOst. BJlb.) at the Sydney
Stadium, and earned the decision that went his way
after 20 rounds of boxing that was often brilliant;
and never dull. The Newcastle youth began nervously
and those who laid 3 to 1 against him were momen-
tarily on good terms with themselves. But he soon
got into his stride and piled up points with a
versatile left. Also he beat Uren at Tommy’s own
game in fierce rallies of infighting. Early in the
sixth, a long left swing caught Collins off his balance
and sent him to the floor, but he was up before
the count began and bogging in as hard as ever at
the bell. Thenceforward he was always a bit ahead.
“Box On” : Melbourne has a pieman who
packs punches as a sideline. “Bunny” Whiting he
is palled. “Bunny” often drives to the Stadium in
a pony-cart, containing the paraphernalia of his
calling, and expresses his readiness to fill a hole
in the programme. On a recent Wednesday night
he tied his moke outside, slipped into pugilistic-
attire and took a missing basher’s place, also the
father of a walloping. Having lost on points, he
resumed his white coat and apron, and drove, away
to satisfy the wants of his regular customers.
“Lexite”: There is talk among Sydney
Rugby Leaguers of compelling contending football
teams to sport diverse pants, one side to wear
white and the other black. Towards the end of
a muddy day it becomes hard to say which club
owns knickers which have been well rubbed into
the ground, while a score or so of friends and
foes fought over them, but no amount of damp soil
will make black and white unidentifiable. As
things are, when a pair of pants is flung over the
heads of a gathered pack, the public can’t be sure
which side has suffered—an uncertainty that leads
to betting, which is a sinful practice.
* * * *
“Winkle”: The best-paid footballer in Vic-
toria nowadays is not the muscular hero whose
deeds are cheered by city enthusiasts, but the canny
player who leaves the £2 a week of a League club
for £6 to £lO per week, together with the
best pub’s best room and a job (if he is one of
those strange creatures who like work), in the
provinces. An increasing number of good men
will this year lead the easy life of captain and
coach of a country team. But Collingwood, which
has lost many of its stars to country and city clubs,
is asking that, before a player is allowed to secede
to another combination, he must state his case to
the League and be registered. This, if adopted, will
mean that the leather-chaser desirous of “nickin’ orf
to the bush,” as he phrases it, will have to get a
transfer from his old club, and it won't be easy.
“Ball”: The turnstiles at Wembley Park
will not be crushed flat at this'year’s Association Cup
final. Unless the dour Northerners get more excited
than usual over the destination of “t’ coop” the
accommodation for 90,000 is not likely to be exceeded.
No Southern team has even got into the semi-finai
this time, so London has quite a detached interest
in the greatest of all Soccer games.
A MATTER OF HIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“x irpo feels that the promoters are trying to get
him into the ring with Wills, the negro fighter, who
is too good for the champion Dempsey himself.” —
Cable item.
See where the Yankee heavy-weight
Stalks through the sporting world,
While pressmen recapitulate
The challenges he’s hurled
At other mighty fighting men.
Yet is there one can prove
This champion, with the strength of ten,
A futile sort of cove;
One beside whom, for all his brawn,
This tiger is the merest prawn.
His backers praise his splendid skill;
His hooks and jabs and swings;
The speed by means of which at will
His enemies he brings
To swift subjection when he fights:
And all of it is true
Of course—provided they are whites.
But one of sable hue
Exists whose pugilistic wiles
Out-distance his by many miles.
His ever-swelling bank account
To countless dollars runs;
Yet little of that vast amount
The thought of which half-stuns
The normal toiler, would be there
Had he not seen the light,
And promptly said he’d never' share
A ring with one not white.
A coon can prove, past argument,
He never should have made a cent.
Such is this shoddy championship
Whose holder bears a name
Which springs at once to ev’ry lin
When tales of sporting fame
Are told. He must rely to win
And tread the earth in pride,
Upon the color of his skin—
Or rather, on his hide.
N.S.W.
10-3-4.


r^ran^i
° Pure
SHELL
?%r S
m
■ ■ • ••: •* s
*S
S
7-:-;
!
T
LOOK FOR THE
Shell Disc
T'HE next time you ask for Shell—the
* aromatic, non-pinking Spirit—look
for the new Shell Circular Sign which
will be found only at garages where
guaranteed pure Shell is obtainable
This warning is for your protection, as
other brands of motor spirit are being
sold from some kerbside pumps as
Shell.
The new guarantee sign is attached
to the pump itself except in districts
where local by-laws prohibit signs on
kerbside pumps. In these districts the
sign is fixed on the wall of the garage.
If the Shell Guarantee Sign is
not on the pump nor garage wall,
demand your Shell in Tins .
fsd
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LIMITED
ALL STATES K N.Z.
4P>t
V Q
to Pure‘
SHELL
IXIIUH
f
Dodee Brothers
TOURINS CAR
This new Touring Car is at its best where
road conditions are at their worst.
Not until then can the owner fully appreciate
its luxurious riding ease, nor the full
superiority of the new spring equipment.
All four springs are longer, with more and
thinner leaves, and the rear springs are
underslung. Made of tough, chrome
vanadium steel, they unite maximum
strength with very exceptional resiliency.
Douse Brothers,Detroit
c
I
I
uiiiimiwini
rrfl
IV.VJtmliul
iA
m
m
*• \
1
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
27/3/’24.
. A. H. Merrin has not scored much finan-
cially by being made permanent head of the
amalgamated Vic. Public Works and Mines
Department. He had £750 a year as chief
mining inspector, and drew £2OO a year as
lecturer at the ’Varsity; now he has relin-
quished the lectureship, and draws £lOOO a
year. But he has the added dignity, if that
is worth anything.
A surprise visitor at a recent Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) wedding was 92-year-old John
Roche, of Bowring, near Yass. He was not
expected, owing to his age, but he refused to
let a little thing like that stand between him
and an appearance at a family festivity.
Two years ago he drove in a sulky all the
way from Sydney to attend the funeral of
a friend at Tumut.
“Yardley"; I don't know where Dircke
Jansen gets the nautical tradition that the
illicit imbibing of alcoholic liquor is “tapping
the governor” (B. 6/3/’24). I have been
shipmates with men who were at sea a cen-
tury ago. Those old shellbacks had a yarn
that the victors at Trafalgar stole the rum
which was preserving ' the corpse of Nelson.
Hence, according to these fo’c’s’le oracles,
the stealing of spirits from the cargo became
known as “broaching the admiral.”
When Sydney’s Ancient Mariners took the
opportunity at their annual outing to pay
compliments to Captain James Peter, who
has retired from the service of Mort’s Dock,
a letter was read from Sister M. M. Ceeile,
of the Ursuline Convent, Armidale, recalling
that in 1882 12 nuns who had been exiled
from Germany journeyed to Australia in
Peter’s old ship, the Duke of Edinburgh.
Nine of the sisters have gone; but there are
three who still remember with gratitude the
kindness of the old skipper.
“Xox” : T. C. Maher, formerly one of the
livest of Vic. civil servants, has surprised his
friends by acquiring a pub at Devenish
(Vic.). As a youth in the Post Office he
showed singular . ability, and at 21 became
telephone traffic-officer in the central adminis-
tration, earning more cash for his age than
anybody else in the service. Nearly 10 years
ago he left his job to take over the command
of the Public Service Clerical Assoc. At his
new address he won’t confine himself exclu-
sively to pulling foaming beers for thirsty
farmers; lie lias a taste for writing, and
hopes to do a good deal of it.
“Pedro” : Those new “business girls” who
call themselves typistes and shorthand
writers have very definite ideas of what isn’t
good enough for them, and classify jobs
accordingly. As you would expect, appear-
ances count for a great deal, which explains
why insurance offices are popular. For obvi-
ous reasons the insurance office is laid out
in a way to impress, and the Young Person,
approving of attention to externals, likes
that employ, though often the pay is poor.
A solicitor’s office is considered desirable,
possibly because it is supposed that one will
learn a lot of secrets there. A warehouse
is regarded askance; it savors so much of
mere trade. A place where some girl has
within the memory of woman been asked to
go on an errand, even to buy a paper, is
blacklisted. Bad news spreads fast, and
these things soon get around. The word
“work” has been misused above. No Young
Person goes to work. She gets a Position.
“Wessel”: The first vessel built in Aus-
tralasia of Australasian timber was knocked
together at Dusky Sound, in the South
Island of Maoriland. She was begun by the
sealing gang of 11 men which William
Raven, of the Britannia, left in that damp
spot in 1792 under William Leith. They
started her as a means of getting away if
Raven never turned up. When he did arrive,
after 11 months, she was left on the stocks.
She came in handy when Bampton’s
Endeavor had to be abandoned at Dusky in
the following year. William Hatherleigh,
the Endeavor’s carpenter, lengthened her and
finished her, and she carried a crew of 60 to
Norfolk Island and then to Sydney. She
was named the Providence, but soon came
to grief. Even the Nancy, cited by “Delver”
(B. 28/2/’24) as the first of the line of
which the Fordsdale is the last, was a long
way from the first vessel built in N. S.
Wales. The earliest port records of Sydney
mention the 30-ton schooner Martha as a
Sydney-built craft, and she was in commis-
sion in 1798.
“Cartot” returns to malaria in New
Guinea:—
May I tell “A.L.” (B. 21 /2/’24) that the term
“malaria” was extensively used in Europe in the
time of Hakluyt, and applied to exactly the same'
complaint that it denotes to-day? Later the word
seems to have gone out of fashion, except in Italy,
and was not revived again until about a hundred
years or so ago. My contention is that, had the
navigators of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
encountered the disease in New Guinea, there would
have been some mention of it in their journals,
whereas there is none. Even in such minutely-
descriptive accounts of the New Guinea coast as
those of Ee Maire and Schouten, and the narratives
of the voyages of Juan Gaetan and Ortiz de Retes,
there is not a word about malaria. At the present
time one of the most fever-stricken parts of l' 6 "’
Guinea is the Dutch territory, yet there is no refer-
ence to the existence of the disease in the detailed
reports which Jan Pieterszoon 'Coen, the Governor
of the Dutch East Indies in the early part of the
seventeenth century, sent to Holland concerning
that area. The same applies to the narratives of the
late eighteenth-century navigators; not until com '
paratively recent times are any -references to malaria
found. As for its effect on the,-native population ot
New Guinea and New Britain,', it would be difficult
to find a coastal village in which every child between
the ages of five and ten is not suffering from an
affected and enlarged spleen, giving it the familiar
protuberant-stomach appearance, while the death
rate amongst children from the same cause w
extremely high. This is the reason for my belief that
they have not been exposed to the infection for a
sufficient number of generations to acquire a racial
immunity.
And “Tamornie” gives conflicting evidence:
“Cartot” (B. 7/2/’24) states that malaria is plat-
ing havoc with New Guinea natives. I have eight
years’ experience of that country as plantation-
manager, and sincerely wish that my troubles were
as few as the cases of malaria admitted to planta-
tion hospitals. Furthermore, only in rare instances
have I had a serious case; most of the patients re-
covered in 48 hours. Neither are' the attacks any
more severe where bush natives are concerned.
they have no prophylactics; the only remedy they
use is a tea made from the infusion of a leaf not
known to me by name. It relieves the fever heau-
aches.


tMtnOf
An Ideal
Birthday
Present.
Give both!
EVERSHARP
matched by
WARI PEN
Combination Set
of Exquisite
Beauty !
Obtainable at All
Leading Stores Everywhere.
Sole Distributors for Australia :
STOTT & HOARE & CHARTRES Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool Street,
Sydney.
G
m
Dress Clothes
Correctly Styled—
Faultlessly Tailored.
G OWING S’ Dress Clothes are Correct.
Down to the smallest point every detail
of these Suits is in accord with the
dictates of fashion. Skilfully tailored of the
finest materials, they will hold their smart lines
and give long service.
Evening Dress Suits.
To your measure, from—
£l2/127-
Ready to wear . . £lO/10/-
Dinner Suits.
To your measure, from—
£ll/11/-
Ready to wear—
£7/15/-, £lO/10/-
Write Section 8., Go wing Bros., Ltd.
Carriage Paid on all Goods throughout
Australia.
Gowing Bros. Ltd.
486 George St., Sydney. Branches at 304 and 454 George St.
Ruwolt Road-making Equipments
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
••
:
...... r :
; *2i
. *,
-
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus Marsh
Road—Capacity 90 tons per day.
Some users of our Crushers and Plants:—Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (South Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; J. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St. Albans Quarrying Co. (4)* E. J.
Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool. *
.... . • i
\ ' ' . j
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS—SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161.
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
Willi
'non
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietor*,
Brisbane.
"When They Call lor Brandy
I Know They
Mean Martell s
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
KARTELL'S
BRANDY
sdf
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
IS
w. w, odriflL
CIiNMAKERS, BIRMINGHAM.
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
w. P. THOMPSON & CO* PT¥.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street* Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sybil’'
Criterion “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray
Royal •• • • “Jh® Lie ’’
Grand Opera House Tons of Money
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Op,era Season
Royal “The Cabaret Girl”
King’s “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife’
Princess’s “Little Nellie Kelly’ 1
Palace “The Man in Dress Clothes”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
“The Lie,” in which Emelie Polini and
Frank Harvey were seen the winter before
last, is being re-told at Sydney Cri. iii all
its sliamefulness. There are some changes
in the cast; Letty Paxton has replaced Mira
Ivenham as the girl who fastens .her un-
authorised infant on self-sacrificing sister
Nell, thereby annexing the latter’s lover and,
before being forgiven in the last act, receiv-
ing full measure for her perfidy in the Polini
lady’s most vehement and emotional style.
The difficult part is well handled, and the
same may be said of the Gerald Foster —
masculine victim of Lucy Shale’s deceit —
of Raymond Lawrence. Emelie Polini is as
effective as ever as the devoted, self-effacing
daughter and sister, whose floodgates of re-
pressed passion have to be opened at last;
Frank Harvey plays Noll Dibdin with con-
vincing naturalness; Gerald K. Souper, as
the decayed baronet and self-indulgent
father, is quite as good in his way as any-
thing in the piece; Herbert Leigh’s butler
is humorously portrayed; Lorna Helms,
Desolie Thomas, Katie Towers and Rosa-
monde McMillan contribute their mites to
a well-presented play.
“Sybil” is rounding the turn for home at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. In three more
weeks the Russia of martial grand dukes and
voluptuous opera singers will be swept away
by “The Maid of the Mountains.”
At Sydney Cri., in “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” Irene Vanbrugh continues to pre-
sent, as few present-day actresses could,
most of the emotions capable of agitating the
feminine breast.
“Tons of Money” must be rattling them
into the ticket-office at Sydney Grand Opera
House. The play looks to be in for a long
and merry run.
At Sydney Tivoli Signor Pasinati uplifts
a pleasing tenor in the language of lovers,
and Florence Yaymen gives some full-
flavored character impersonations. Bert
Coote, he of the Toots-like blitlierings and
the crooked stick, is a thoroughly entertain-
“LITTLE NELLIE KELLY,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
MRS. LANGFORD (May Beatty) gracefully
swoons, assisted by Captain John Kelly
(Mark Daly).
ing popinjay. Julian Rose’s Levinsky pat-
ter is excellent fooling, admirably delivered,
but the artist seems to have some of the tem-
perament of a spoiled prima donna. On Satur-
day night lie abruptly stalked off the stage
in the middle of an item: the disturbing
influence, it was subsequently explained, was
merely the rival patter of J. Pluvius on the
roof.
The days when evangelists were common
items in a lion’s dinner are vividly shown
in “Nero,'’ at Sydney Crystal Palace. The
producer displays a lofty disregard for his-
tory, but hopes to be forgiven because of
the spectacular mass-scenes with which the
film abounds. “Sinner or Saint?” is a ques-
tion that is wrinkling the foreheads of
Lyceum patrons. A stop-press view is that
both the lady fortune-teller and her pious
guard are somewhere between the Golden
Gate and the Bottomless Pit. “The Love
Piker” is on duty as the extra, and it might
prove useful to those about to send out
wedding invitations. “Hollywood,” at the
Globe, is a procession of close-ups of a string
of big guns in the movie world. There’s
a story floating around somewhere, but it
is no more conspicuous than the president’s
pocket-flask at a W.C.T.U. conference. Lily-
white cowpunchers, Mexican flapper-snatchers
and the discovery of a lost mine are the
theme of “Desert Gold” at the Strand,
where also cobwebs hang from “The Gov-
ernor’s Lady.” If this particular Governor
is typical, then Heaven save America!
“Sporting Youth,” at Hoyt’s, will probably
be a bit too exciting for those who “head
’em”—it is a mad, reckless affair, strewn
with broken records and smashed cars. “If
Winter Comes” has been moved on again,
and at present is filling the Majestic.
•i’ >!* '!* v
Sydney’s latest hatching:—
The Australian Water-color Institute chicken has
broken the shell with an exhibition at Anthony
Hordern’s Gallery; but, unfortunately, in its anxiety
to lead off impressively, its young enthusiasm has
outrun its discretion. It has achieved a big show
of only fair quality, whereas by pruning it might
have had one that acquired merit in proportion to
its loss of space. A purely water-color society is
a good idea; we have some fine craftsmen in this
medium, and it is right that the public should see
their work free from the flood of oil which swamps
it at the big annual art displays. But nothing is
to be gained by the selection committee being too
conscious of the susceptibilities of men below exhibi-
tion standard. Norman Lindsay naturally stands out
with a couple of his big figure compositions; B. E.
Minns has a fine panel in which is some of his best
work in his later manner; and J. McNally contri-
butes several of the most admirable pictures in the
show. Lionel Lindsay gives more of his Spanish
subjects, with their fine appreciation of sunlight ;
and John Eldershaw and Albert Collins both include
in their groups samples of their .most commendable
efforts. Mrs. M. W. Sherwood has several boldly
attacked subjects, and in a couple of them, especially
“Breeze,” achieves a gratifying success. Blamire
Young’s panel is below his standard. There is an
irritating stiffness about the two main pieces, jn
which the artist has been more preoccupied with
pattern than with paint. Some characteristically
sentimental Tristrams are shown; Hedley Parsons has
a beach scene of considerable merit, and in Herbert
Jarvis, a Queenslander, the society has a promising
craftsman. A number of ancient pictures have been
retrieved from the mists; one of the most interesting
being a study by Hopwood, who left Australia about
three decades ago. Another old-timer is included in
A. H. Fullwood’s panel. It is a large picture of
the rustic bridge, that used to span the head of Mos-
man Bay, and is dated sometime back in the ’nineties
• —a conscientious bit of work which measures up
well with the artist’s later achievements.
* * * *
Saturday at Melbourne Majesty’s is the
night of nights. A gala performance of
“Boheme,” with Melba as prima donna, in-
augurates an eight-weeks’ season of the most
costly grand opera the city has known. The
first week’s repertoire was stated in last
issue, but the names of Toti, Dal Monte,
Lina Scavizzi, Augusta Concata and others
must have time to grow familiar in the
mouths of the masses. Nor can those of the
two conductors —Franco Paolantonio and
Arnaldo Schiavoni —become household words
in a hurry.
Melbourne has presented open arms to
“The Cabaret Girl” and taken the show to
a confiding heart, not on account of its
literary attainments or beauty of dramatic
structure, but because the tout ensemble is
bright, and popular personalities head the
bill. Among them is Frith, and he is so
popular that liis incidental reference to a
fried fislishop causes a section of the audi-
ence to roar like salt sea breakers on a rocky
shore. Also warm approval greets the
advancement of Madge Elliott into the posi-
tion of leading lady with many songs to sing.
Everybody likes Madge. She has a distinc-
tion of attractiveness. When a terrible Jew
man —apparently Field Fisher wearing a
wicked nose—blows into an amazing place
of business, and tries to bully the Cabaret
Girl, the audience has to be pacified by a
violent expulsion of the Hebrew person.
Madge Elliott’s dancing is still her chief
asset, but her singing voice has come along
surely, sweetly and sympathetically. On
Tuesday this week “The Cabaret Girl” moved
from the Majesty’s to Melbourne Royal, and
the other Miss Elliott took her co. across to
the King’s, whence Asche’s incomparable
Petruchio has departed.
At Melbourne King’s the foolishness of
“Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife” will continue its
appeal to such as see humor in pyjamas and
entertainment in an angry husband’s repeated
threats of divorce. The farcical drama from
the French that Miss Gertrude Elliott, has
staged is embarrassing. It impales a gentle
critic on the horns of a dilemma. 4 One must
call the play silly, or accuse it of crude im-
propriety.
At Melbourne Palace tile adventures of
Seymour Hicks as “The Man in Dress
Clothes” will be continued for one more week;
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Julian Rose as Levin sky, and Arthur Lucan
as the Dame in “Come Over.”
Persons who can appreciate a witty, senti-
inental comedy from a new point of view are
advised to seize one of the remaining oppor-
tunities. Among unfamiliar characters in
this strange tale of impecuniosity is a
Parisian broker who masquerades as a dip-
lomat. Frank Hawthorne is the character-
actor.
i- * * A
The versatility of Seymour Hicks will get
a good show in “Scrooge” and “Sleeping
Partners.” In “Sleeping Partners” Ellaliue
Terriss (Mrs. Hicks) wiii take the part she
has played hundreds of times. The ill health
she brought to Australia has improved be-
yond medical science’s wildest predictions,
and while more lately invalided ladies of the
co, are convalescing at Macedon, the man-
ager's wife will be going strong. For Beryl
Bryant* who has been a providential hap-
pening to “The Man in Dress Clothes,” there
is no suitable part in the next Hicks pro-
duction.
* * #
At Melbourne Princess’s, where “Little
Nellie Kelly” is in her second hundred, Jerry
Conroy continues to bring a breeze of
humanity into the home of the millionaire.
The young man from the Bronx is genuine
goods. He may seem absurdly out of place
in the gilded home of make-believe, but while
he’s explaining his presence to shocked in-
quirers his little leaven of truth leaveneth
all the lump.
* * * =:=
The inventors of “When Danger Smiles,”
at Melbourne Majestic, provide a rough life
for the hero, William Duncan. He upsets
the chutney, so to speak, when he steals a
kiss from a torrid Spanish beauty, and his
subsequent diversions are against fantastic
odds in seemingly hopeless situations. Wes-
ley Barry, as “The Printer’s Devil” on the
same menu, is an infant > whose impish humor
remains persuasively juvenile, though no
peace-loving editor would give him a job.
A new divinity,_ Virginia Valli, skips across
Iloyt’s screen in a Queen Anne romance,
“A Lady of Quality,” and has some trouble
over a lock of hair. Colleen Moore, the
“Huntress” of the supporting film, develops
a surprising nose for husbands, and cuts one
out of the mob in true American fashion.
The empty basinette is the text for a pathetic
sermon in “Poverty of Riches,” at the Bri-
tannia. Stifling men are watching “Trifling
Women,” at the Melba. It will make many
a commercial traveller breathe hard.
'!• 'j- '!* 'A'
A pair of one-man shows in Melbourne: —
E. F. Hooton, who has been giving his second exhi-
bition of water-colors at the Melbourne Athenaeum,
shows some improvement, though he still depicts our
landscape in his sedate English manner. Indeed, many
of his pictures of Australian scenes would pass for bits
of the Cold Country, so lacking are they in any
quality that would identify them with the land we
live in. He is very fond of the dim, bosky dells
where pixies hold their annual meetings, and he
also has an array of art-supplement sunsets painted
according to the recipe we know so well. Yet he
sometimes gets a suggestion of depth and atmosphere,
and what seems at first sight an archaic potboiler
holds one on closer inspection with a perfectly con-
vincing foreground. In one instance he has faith-
fully rendered the effect of light on dancing leaves,
and in No. 50 he has caught the wild att l fleeting
color of a threatened stornl. Some gum-trees air
fairly well done, too —the one in “The Billabong’
might have been cut out of an early impression by
Harold Herbert;
Harold Latham, ah Englishman, hung 12 water-
colors in the Decoration Gallery. His cold, cleat
color is most appealing in “Beech Trees, Winter’;
but one doesn’t care so much for a wintry picture
of elms wherein the heaVy sky refuses to keep its
distance. An evening in Suffolk is agreeable in
subject, but it has the flatness of a wall-paper pattern;
Some notes of Assisi include a good study of old
houses, and there is an odd charm about another
wherein leafless poplars seem to eject themselves
from the earth like geysers in a pale landscape backed
by dark blue hills.
Another Melbourne picture-show:—
Stewart Handasyde’s large bushseape (No. 27), ifl
Which the contrast between light and shade seertts
sotnewhat sharp and arbitrary, reveals a group of
sheep that is perspectively faulty. The animals are
poorly drawn, and so are; the horses iil “A Pastoral"
the cows in “Autumn Grey,” and the neddy and
dray that are lumbering along “The Road to the
Ranges;” This last-named eanVas, which is said
to have won a Gold Medal in London, is otherwise
a pleasing picture of country wherein one would
iike to spefid a holiday. In “A -Winter’s Evening,'’
the best in the lot now bit exhibition at the
Athen'cum, the artist is agreeably decorative.
Numerous efforts err on the side of prettiness; but
here and there is a sound bit of painting which
suggests that the artist would do better if he were
more careful and self-critical. The present exhibition
includes many pictures—especially water-colors —that
would then have been left at home.
The Newcastle Steel Band, passing through
Adelaide on its way to London, obliged with
a performance at West’s pictures, where also
is Wesley Barry (whose freckles are traded
on till they grow wearisome) and the “Black
Oxen” study of a woman who is not so
young as she was, and doesn’t like it.
Wondergraph has the same idea, with quite
different treatment in “Only 38.” The York
is giving one more proof that the Governor’s
lady is sister to Judy O’Grady, even as Kip-
ling said. At the Majestic the St. Leons
give a clever acrobatic turn, and Adrian's
performing animals supply variety to the
programme. The Williamsonian “Town
Topics” Go. is nearing the end of its jolly
open-air season, and Oscar Asche is
promised at the Royal. This house has been
reviving the breezy Niblo comedy, “It Pays
to Advertise” ; all the principals took small
parts, and left the hard work to Hewlett.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Another bad theatrical
habit is taking root in Sydney—trafficking
in seats by outside firms. You pay an extra
something per seat, and save the trouble of
waiting at the ticket or box-plan office. The
trouble about these innovations is that
sooner or later they may be forced on
theatre-goers generally. In London it is
often impossible to obtain a decent seat at
the theatre offices; the purchaser must go
“BLUEBEARD’S EIGHTH WIFE,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Mayne Linton as the much-married million-
aire, John Brown; Lilias Waldegr[?]
as Miss George; and Wm. Mollison as
Comte Hubert de Linancourt.
to one of the ticket agencies and part up tl
extra commission charge. Since the w
we have come to accept all sorts of exaction’
with a shrug of the shoulders. _ I suppos
the sub-conscious idea is that we’ll get it a
back again somehow. What a world
sharks it has become!


9!
0
0
0
Mitde foftUaAMt
m
4
oAt last —
oA Suit to
Hand - finished, for £5
Imagine it, a modem version
of the suits of the "good old
days. ” Materials comprise
Tweeds and Worsteds of En-
glish Manufacture ana similar
suitings made in Australia,
but, of a quality unrealized
by the average oAustralian.
Why Pay More?
This is a special attempt on the part of
Lowe's to go one better than competi-
tors; to make a business suit to order
for £5 that men will wear, not through
inability to pay more, but because it will
be the equal of a much higher priced
Suit. Advantageous buying, through a
guarantee of definite yearly contracts
with the mills, is one of the reasons
why this is a quality suit; hand-finished
and of the latest patterns and designs.
Send for Patterns to Dept. FV
GEORGE ST., through to PITT ST.; and Stores all over Town
Box 1622, G.P.0., Sydney
LLLLLLU,
Vi*
1
EP
1
1
3
3
wm
i
m
TSt
. Hi
m
1 ra
H
~im~»
I
■B B
11881
HMpp#
lips*
■Hi
IHli# ?»?
-
Hn
Hi
m
£
ro
: . r,v,«
',„, ;:?'-~<v\ J/\
W/ ■
r-.
e-’^V
L L ?*
,<IV>
Of «t
#>*
% \
'l*l
'X
r'-sr c.
,3' **
Charming Ceilings
at Moderate Cost.
For nearly 40 years our Art Metal lias held pride
of place as the popular Ceiling, whether for cottage
or for mansion, shop or public building.
Variety and charm of design ; simplicity in handling
and erecting; durability and, withal, moderate cost,
are some of the excellent features which have popu-
larised our Art Metal.
Inquiries will be welcomed. Write for our New
Catalogue M2—Post Free on request.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Adelaide, Hobart.
Sunshine Farm Implements Work Well and Last Long.
m
SOW SCIENTIFICALLY
Place the seed and the fertiliser on a level compacted sub-surface, and cover it with a mulch of finely-pulverised soil. This conserves
the moisture, hastens germination, ensures vigorous growth, and increases the yield.
To do this on a large scale we recommend the “Sun-tyne” drill with 17, 25, 29, 33 or 41 tynes, sowing respectively 8, 12, 14, 16 or 20 rows, < inches apart.
Thousands of these are used by farmers who have proved the great advantage of using this modern Australian invention.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD. , Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Branches and Agencies:
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cor. York and St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON.
LIBERAL CASH DISCOUNT OR EASY EXTENDED TERMS.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES OF SUNSHINE IMPLEMENTS AND ENGINES.


ƒsd
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
orJniPM m all Walks*
gs/
oSs
B
862.
An Alston” Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, »nd
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue fret
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen's Bridie, Melbourne. Australia.
am
i
m
LET
%
'a
O
Q
o
A
POLISH
YOUR
FLOOR!
The New Floor Polish with the Reputa-
tion of the World-known “NUGGET”
POLISH CO. behind it.
12
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER.PARIS.
The FACE POWDER.
de Luxe
“Bismuth”: Asche would appreciably re-
duce the fruit glut if he went in for an
extended Shakspearean season. He is fond
of seeing his actors wrestle with orchard
produce. In one scene of “The Taming
of the Shrew” Biondello wolfs an apple: in
another the banqueting table is loaded with
the staples of Mildura and Fiji. And I re-
WELL AND TRULY DONE.
THE CRITIC: “No finesse, no observation, no
atmosphere, poor feeling — no, it is not
nearly well done."
THE ARTIST: “Gripes, it ought to he—you’ve
roasted it enough.”
member the glum looks of the Bardolaters
when Casca, in “Julius Caesar,” sat on the
base of a column sucking a lemon. Oscar
missed a great chance to advertise his
strange fancy in “Othello.” Here was
clearly an opportunity to show off the nigger
in his garden, half-way through a silce of
water-melon, and I’m surprised that it was
overlooked.
“0.K.”: Seeing that Richard Brinsley
Sheridan was no actor, and that his son Tom
was the notoriously non-brilliant son of a
gifted father, the family connection hardly
gives Lady Patricia Blackwood special
claims to histrionic powers (B. 13/3/’24).
It was Tom Sheridan who married Lady
Pat’s great-grandmother. When he remarked
that if he were elected to Parliament he
would write on his forehead “To Let,” his
father suggested, “Add ‘Unfurnished.’ ” But
Tom had at least one brain-wave. His father
told him it was time he took a wife. “Whose
shall I take?” asked the belated bachelor.
“E.F.” : Lawrence Grossmitli, before leav-
ing Melbourne, announced his intention ot
returning in a year or two with a number of
Barrie plays. Why? From the time the late
Harry Rickards dropped a lot of money by
staging “The Little Minister,” this country
has shown little fondness for Barrie plays.
Even “Peter Pan” was coldly received, partly
perhaps for the reason that the poetry and
grace of the comedy were counteracted in a
measure by the far-fetched foolishness of the
last act, where the father of the vanished
children brags of the notoriety his bereave-
ment has excited. Barrie’s play of fancy is
too erratic. He needs a practical, hard-
headed humorist to stand at his literary
elbow and tell him where sweet drollery ends
and tart absurdity begins. Blinded by his
own flashes of brilliance he cannot always
see where his imagination is leading him.
Shaw, in his wildest extravagance of gro-
tesque satire, never for an instant ceases to
excite laughter. Barrie sometimes pokes his
fun at you without tickling your best sense
of the ludicrous.
On a Melbourne playhouse : j
After eight weeks of Italian opera, Melbourne
Majesty’s will be closed for structural alterations,
the sex of it having been changed from female to
male. Between October 1, 1886, and Saturday of
this week, the odd-shaped theatre in Exhibition-
street, Melbourne, has borne at least three titles.
Christened the Alexandra by the Frenchman who
designed and built it, the ill-fated place was called
Her Majesty's in 1897, when the local Caledonian
Society staged “Rob Roy,” with the assistance 1 of
Eloise Juno. In the same year Howard Vernon took
a short lease of the house and called it Queen’s
Theatre (late Alexandra) for luck. It was bad luck.
Later in the same year Wilson Forbes and Erskane
Scott came along and restored the original title,
and the old tomb of hopes remained the Alexandra
until the last lessee, who was Bill Anderson, yielded
up the property to J.C.W., after May 11, 1900. Alf
Woods and Maud Williamson were the last people
who ran the show under Anderson’s management, and
it was one oi the best shows the shabby theatre had
known. Eight nights later, which was Mafeking
night, J.C.W. opened the vicissitudinous premises
under the restored title of Her Majesty’s. Only a
lot of cleaning and upholstering had been done in
the eight days’ interval ere “Pinafore” was staged for
. a week’s season, but four months later the theatre
was closed for a fortnight to admit of considerable
changes in the entrances and d.c. foyer. Other
closings and alterations have happened since Her
Majesty’s was smartened for the production of “The
Rose of Persia” on Oct. 27, 1900, when the manage-
ment laid much emphasis on the fact that “No fees
of any kind were allowed.” But all the time the’
first lines of the auditorium have remained as they
were in the beginning—distinctive. The excessive
Deam of the ship has its recommendations for
grand opera perhaps. But it disqualifies the theatre
for comedy presentation, and the next alterations
will doubtless deal drastically, with His Majesty’s
internals.
“Norbell” : Allan Wilkie goes to Perth and
Kalgoorlie, after a profitable Shakspearean
harvest in Adelaide. His recent production
of “Much Ado” was his 19tli effort at the
list of 37 Bardic plays. He proposes to do
“Cymbeline” to mark his 1000th consecutive
Australasian performance of Shakspeare.
“Second Murderer”: I’m glad The Bul-
letin had a kind word to say about Gregan
McMahon’s production of Drinkwater’s
“Abraham Lincoln.” I read some office-boy’s
notice of the show in a daily, and went to
the Sydney Gonservatorium of Music ex-
pecting to be preached into stony despair.
Instead, it proved a gripping and intensely
human production. Repertory work is cer-
tainly McMahon’s long suit, and he sur-
passed his previous best in “Lincoln.” And
so did George Bryant, who was Father
Abraham. Bryant has done a lot of good
work on the Australian stage—witness his
Cash Hawkins in “The Squaw Man,” and
the Bolshie workman in “Via Wireless”— .
but I declare that Abraham is his best.
From a London first-nighter:—
Somerset Maugham’s latest play, “The Camel’s (
Back,” is a rather thin and not particularly novel <
web of domestic plot and counter-plot, in which an :
artful young woman triumphs over a tyrannical prig,
her husband. Madge Titheradge is the wife, and !
Nina Boucicault is also in the cast. All the critics
praise Madge and Nina, but there is no enthusiasm :
regarding the play. :
Maugham, by the way, has been helping to bring 1
out “The Truth at Last from Charles Hawtrey,” so 1
called because Charles was the most accomplished
stage liar of his time. Hawtrey wrote part of this
life-story, and left notes and memoranda from
which Maugham has written the concluding chapters. •
There are references in the book to Charles’s brother 1
William, who spent years in Australia, and was a {
man of much thg same happy-go-lucky type, but a ‘
much inferior actor. (
A London publisher, Ernest Benn, is specialising j
in the production of the text of plays. The success
of liis first four volumes of “Contemporary British
Dramatists” has been so pronounced that he is
arranging to issue a play every fortnight. Unlike
most London publishers, he will really read MSS.
from Australia and M.L.
Marie Tempest is appearing at the Comedy in a
revival of J. M. Barrie’s “Alice-Sit-by-the-Fire,”
playing the role created by Ellen Terry. It was
tepidly received on its first production, and Walkley,
of tlie Times, now declares it “frankly incredible
and fundamentally impossible.” He adds, however,
that “there can be no doubt about the pleasure of
seeing Marie Tempest acting at her best.”
Some of the Sunday-evening plav-produeing socie-
ties (there are about half a dozen in London) are
in a bad way. Two of them say they will have
to close down if new members and fresh funds are
not forthcoming. By some freak of the law a
play frowned on by the Lord Chamberlain may be
staged by a society on a Sunday evening, and that
in a theatre which would risk being delicensed if it
THE DOMESTIC ECONOMIST.
“I thought I shouldn’t he able to work to-day, I was
right out of canvas; but I stretched a new
handkerchief, and it acts splendidly.”
“But won’t it damage the handkerchief, dear?”
permitted such a performance on a week-night in
the ordinary way of business. But the Lord Cham-
berlain rarely frowns nowadays, however strong flip
meat, so Sunday-evening playgoing has lost what a
cynic calls the “rebellious popularity” it enjoyed
when it was regarded as a “naughty adventure.”
“F.A.” ; I was at the first Sydney produc-
tion of Alf Hill’s “Tapu” (B. 13/3/’24).
Old George Lauri had the part of George
Wright, an Australian politician, who was
simply G. H. Reid dully caricatured, and
the Firm had imported a number of haka
dancers from M.L. to keep things moving.
It was a very hot night, and I had a front
seat. At least I had it for five minutes,
while the sparsely-clad duskies flung them-
selves round to the rhythm of Alf’s stick:
then I moved to the rearmost stalls. Gradu-
ally other boiled shirts followed my example,
and before the end of the first act half the
front row was looking on from the back of
the house. But Alf stuck it out, he and his
orchestra. Heroes all.
“G.M.M.” : Arthur Collins, who has been
writing his reminiscences of actresses who
appeared at Drury-lane under his manage-
ment, places Florence Smithson first among
the singers and Belle Bilton among the
beauties, and pronounces Madge Titheradge,
who was once a Drury-lane panto, “boy,”
“the best actress we have in England.”
Then he goes on :
One of the best principal boys we ever had was
Nellie Stewart. She had a marvellous figure—figures
were fashionable in those days—and was a first-rate
actress into the bargain. Fashions do not change
much in beauty, except as regards the female form,
which seems as plastic as wax. But Belle Bilton would
no more have thought of putting paint on her face
off the stage than of appearing in bare legs on the
stage. If we had allowed women to appear 25 years
ago as they do to-dav the Board <>f Works or the
Lord Chamberlain would have shut us- up.
Still, my impression of one of the costumes
worn by Nellie in jDrury-lane pantomime
is that it would. be considered daring by
a bare-legged ballerina of the 1924 vin-
tage. There was no doubt about the mar-
vellous figure; plenty of it was on view.
“F.L.H.”: “Norbell’s” reference to old
times at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne (B.
20/3/’24), brings to mind a brief period
when it was called the Queen’s. Close on
30 years back I witnessed a production of
“The Grand Duchess” there. Fanny Lid-
diard was. the heroine. Howard Vernon
played Fritz, Millie Young (now Mrs.
Tallis) did Prince Paul, and the General
Boom was Frank Groman, possessor of a
promising bass voice, which he did not live
long enough to put to the best use. Har-
court Lee conducted, and his playing of for-
tissimo cues on the piano for the benefit of
liis forces was a humorous feature.
“Splash”: Muriel Starr (B. 21/2/’24) is
returning to Australia by way of S’Africa,
where she has been playing in “Secrets,” “A
Bill of Divorcement” and “Tiger Rose.”
“Secrets” is remotely suggestive of “Mile-
stones,” the central figure passing from
sweet 17 to 70 in a series of scenes. “A Bill
of Divorcement” has been done here in pit-
chers, and Emelie Polini has given us “Tiger
Rose.” It will be 11 years on May 17 since
Muriel first appeared in Australia —it was
at Melbourne, in “Within the Law.”
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: Dumped theatrical
printing is finding its way into the Common-
wealth. It is sold to tour-
ing shows which don’t care
tuppence whether the pic-
tures they paste on the
walls of Bluestone and
Cliurnaway coincide with
the stuff to be staged, as
long as they are big and
glaring. In years gone by
every new company arriving
from overseas brought with
it tons of printing, and sold
what it didn't take away.
Then it was not uncommon
to see “East Lynne” or
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” billed
by posters of girls in tights
trying to kick the hat from
the head of a gratified citi-
zen in evening clothes. But
since then a tariff has
arrived, and there are sup-
posed to be anti-dumping
provisions. How is the
shoddy getting through?
“H amf at”: The recent
parting between an actor
well known in Sydney and
his employers occurred be-
cause he thinks he is a
comedian and the boss cast
him for a “straight” part.
Even mummers in humble
circumstances are liable to
boil over when asked to go
outside their own line. I re-
member the wrath of an un-
distinguished veteran as he
ran through the old-man
part allotted to him in a per-
fectly rotten play. He read
out some passages in a dread-
ful voice, like an ayenging angel pronouncing
judgment. “These’ are comedy lines, sir—
comedy lines! I was on the boards, sir, be-
fore you were born. Do you expect me to
be funny ? Do you expect me to be funny V"
We didn’t; but he was.
“Fax” on a dramatic parallel:—
“Iris” was at least seven years old when Eugcn
Walter, an American dramatist who had graduated
as a journalist, got “The Easiest Way” staged m
New York as a play strikingly novel in conception,
which it was not. Three of Walter’s characters
had had their prototypes in Pinero’s story—-the
brilliant unprincipled widow who cannot live
without a large bank-account, the cynical sensualist
who takes advantage of her self-indulgent nature,
and the comparatively high-minded young man whom
the woman loves and would deceive into the belief
that she has waited for him while he was battling for
a fortune in the wilds. In both plays the woman
finally disgusts both men by her duplicity. The
American claim to realism is the more superficial,
although “The Easiest Way” avoids the dull theatri-
cal device of reducing people to comparative poverty
through the dishonesty of a family solicitor. On the
other hand, the breakdown of good resolution in the
heroine whom Pinero drew is more subtly indicated.
Walter appears to have sketched some former newspaper
colleague from life and then put a halo round his
head. Thinking that his play wanted “comic relief”
he supplied loose Laura with a looser girl pal, and
wherever he could apply artificial color to the cheek
and lips of his plot he did so. That’s why it was
fairly popular here when Muriel Starr and Frank
Harvey played the leading sinful characters, though
Muriel at that time had somewhat cloyed the public
appetite for the type of heroine she specialised in.
“Norbell”: So Stawell (Vie.) is to have
a new Town Hall (B. 20/3/’24). I was
there with Nellie Stewart during her long
trail through the country towns. Stawell
was full of visitors who had come from far
and near to see “Sweet Nell.” But the
dressing rooms were down in the cellar,
somewhere, and could only be reached by
two stiff flights of stairs, so George Mus-
grove, in his Napoleonic way, said “No.”
He reckoned it over the odds to ask Nell
Gwynne, Lady Castlemaine, the Duchess of
Portsmouth, King Charles and the nobility
to climb those stairs. The people who had
floeked to see the show were notified on the
door that the play was off. and we all
went down to Ballarat to spend the night.
It was treasury day, I remember, and Muzzy
sat at the inner window of a corridor car
and paid us as we filed past.
SHE DANCED FOR THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is written here in the steward’s book,
The coin he paid her the day she danced.
Nothing to tell of her name and state,
But the entry follows that ill it chanced
She should dance the soles of her slippers through,
“Soe the King hath given her slippers new.”
Time-stained is the page of the vellum book
A wheezy seneschal and austere
Had writ with a cramping feather pen—
A grey goose quill from some reedy mere.
Through (he stilted letters there grimly rings
Cold condemnation for girls and kings.
She danced for the King! Were her slippers red !
Did she braid a riband among her hair?
Did she come a-sweeping in broidered gown
Or with shameless shoulder and bosom bare?
When she glanced at him as she floated by
Did the King take note of a lip and eye ?
Little enough was her pay, I wot!
The steward tightened the leathern string
Of the bag of silver, “Moneyes paide
To a wench that danced for m’lord the King.”
Yet she was glad for the ankles’ grace
That bought her bread and some attic place.
The pallid ladies, with smudge of rouge
In their wrinkles, yawned on a feather fan,
With anxious eyes under lofty hair;
For a tavern wench may entice a man.
So they smirked, but watched, for belike the King
Might weigh light coins with a jewelled ring!
She danced for the King! That is all we know
And all, perhaps, that the ladies knew ;
For the years have smothered in level graves
Even the tune that she footed -to.
And earth its sandals of green grass brings
In the place of slippers that danced for Kings.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
i
m.
&
%
m
SN
m
i
%
( LL U
U*
£
'/k
fate
m
s.
Jm
■Hem
W 1
A
X'
SSQ
Exclusive
AUTUMN
SUITINGS
Arrived
Your Satisfaction—Our Gratification
Let us recommend to you these
New Suitings which we are prepared
to TAILOR TO ORDER for
£B/8/
I
1
You must have quality to have economy in
Clothes. Our policy demands that every
garment be made up to the very highest
standard. That means satisfaction to you
and gratification to us.
If you have definite ideas about what you desire for Autumn wear—if you desire a particular
material—your choice is unlimited at the Leviathan. We have the largest stocks in
Melbourne. Our latest importation includes distinctive Worsteds, in latest effects and
colorings, fine All-Wool Tweeds, and the ever-smart and popular Indigo Navy Twills and
Serges.
SUITS TAILORED-TO-ORDER
AT PRICES RANGING FROM
£5/51- to £l2|l2|-
SPECIAL SELF-
MEASUREMENT
CHART AND TAPE
ON REQUEST.
POST COUPON FOR PATTERNS.
TEE LEVIATHAN PIT., LTD.,
Cr. Swanston and B our fee Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Dem- Sirs, —Kindly send me patterns of the new £B/8/- Suitings.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 27-3-’24.
NOW READY:
OUR BEAUTIFULLY-
ILLUSTRATED
WINTER CATALOG.
Write for Your Copy.
ORDER BY POST
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
IOJAIHAN
Cr. Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne,
PTY.
LTD.


THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Ob tain a'. le from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd .George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bcurke St., Melbourne
Nic -olson’s Ltd. - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Lim'ted, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills &. Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
*£&esAa££Aat)e7HuAic
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK - - SYDNEY,
14th to 23rd APRIL, 1924.
NINE DAYS FIVE NIGHTS.
£ll,OO0 —PRIZES—£II,OOO
LIVE stock in the commonwealth.
FINEST DISPLAYS OF AGRICULTURAL iAND PRIMARY PRODUCTS
IN THE WORLD.
ATTRACTIVE RING EVENTS.
THE GREAT WHITE SHOW.
NIGHT TURNED INTO DAY.
GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS BRILLIANTLY ILLUMINATED BY
ELECTRICITY FOR FIVE NIGHTS.
WELL-LIGHTED PAVILIONS AND PARADE RING.
SPACIOUS HALLS OF 108.400 SQ. FT. FLOOR SPACE FOR THE
DISPLAY OF MANUFACTURES AND MOTOR CARS
BANDSTANDS, INCLUDING MEMBERS’ NEW
GRANDSTAND COSTING £90,000. COMFORT, CONVENIENCES
AND ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED ANYWHERE IN THE
WORLD.
Ringside Accommodation for 60,000 Spectators.
Lectures on Subjects of Interest to all Classes Day and Night in the Lecture Pavilion.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERTS
By Professional Musicians’ Band of 35 Performers
DAY AND NIGHT.
ADMISSION: Outer Gates. . . DAY: Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
NIGHT: Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Ocean House, Martin Place,
Sydney.
H. M. SOMER,
Secretary.
Lightness
Strength
Economy
Efficiency
Lightness and strength
are two essential factors
in machine plant, but
strength must not be sac-
rificed in the securing of
lightness—particularly as
applied to Belt Pulleys.
SKF
5*68
SPLIT BELT PULLEYS
arc so unique in construction that they allow of less and lighter material, yet
combine a strength that enables them to carry a much, heavier load in
comparison with the usually accepted ratio of riveted or built-up pulleys.
Not too heavy for lightest loads at high speeds, yet sufficiently strong to
transmit maximum loads on normal drives at reasonable belt speeds.
Accurate balancing and rivetless construction also mean savings in wear
and tear of belts, machiues and bearings.
Write us for Full Particulars regarding all
Transmission Appliances.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 32!) Adelaide Street.
ADEEAIDE: Win. Adams & Co..
Ct<l., 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH : Unhehaiin & .lohnstoiM*
(W.A.), Ltd., 377-391 Murray St.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
S.P.—4/23.
3HHKQOR”
The Perfect Pencil
Sheer merit made the
KOH-I-NOOR the premier
pencil over 30 years
ago. It still retains
that proud
position.
ft
%
From all
Staiioners, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Agent for Australia: J. MACDOUGALL,
G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
Factory Cztcho - Slovakia,
Be prepared for
%
Weed Bumper, Safety Type,
for light cars
Weed Bumper, Sturdy Type,
for heavy cars
Weed Bumper, Sentry Type
collisions
PROTECT your
headlights, mud-
guards, radiator,
petroltank, —by
equipping your
car with Weed
Bumpers, front and
rear. They prevent
costly consequences
of inevitable colli-
sions. Have your ac-
cessory dealer attach
Weed Bumpers today. They add distino
tion to your car.
WEED BUMPERS
Maae by the makers of the famous Weed Tyre Chains
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative: Edward 0. Vaughan, P. O. Box 845, Sydney, N.S. W,
E 5-3-24
s
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL.
Tariff from 16/- per day.
Yours faithfully,
W. DE SILVA, Proprietor.
>S
s *
*'
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.


df
A “Carpet Sweeper”
or a
BISSELL-which?
Housewives soon learn that
there are some things that can-
not be bought on a price basis
alone. Among them are car-
pet sweepers.
When a Bissell is figured at
the cost per year of service it
is the most economical
sweeper made—at any price.
Because in a Bissell “Cyco”
Ball Bearing Carpet Sweeper
you get ten years or more,
on the average, of quick,
thorough, easysweeping. Itis
more than a box, four wheels
and a brush. It is a perfect
mechanism, with exclusive
features ensuring its efficiency
and durability.
Sold by leading merchants every -
where. Booklet on request.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICH., U. S. A.
Export Dept.—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
BISSELLS
Carpet Sweeper
Amusements.
gVl> N |C V’S CIII 15 r TIIISAT Ii E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SYBIL.
CRITERION:
THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.
ROYAL: THE LIE.
Missing Friends.
rp HE late EDWIN SERCOMBE’S, of 41
I Brook St., Grosvenor Square, London,
youngest daughter would like to communi-
cate with the late Mr. Park or Parker’s des-
cendants, also late of London. He was
supposed to go to Australia about 1870.
Address: Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO. f
97 Queen Street* Melbourne
S 3
p/SS
£
*3-
g'tmTuwflgf
n^'lsas-T)!#
*<Ul
HORLICKS x
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
<, Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N S W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
HORL ICK’S
MALTED MILKC*.
SLOUGH. BUCKS.
ENG.
Amusement*.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty.. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.15.
HUGH J. WARD’S New Musical Farce Comedy
Co., headed by DOROTHY BRUNTON and CHARLES
HESLOP, in
TONS OP MONEY.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson's.
D ICKABDS' TIVOLI THEATRES.
■* Lessees —Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
MUSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CABARET GIRL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY OF RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen’s.
PAI. A C E THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
THE MAN IN DRESS CLOTHES.
Plans at Glen’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
11 Alxo SYDNEY.
VIRGINIA VALLI in
A LADY OF QUALITY.
COLLEEN MOORE in'
THE HUNTRESS.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IESTTC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
THE HERO,
WITH GASTON GLASS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
ING’S THEATRE, 3IELBODBN IS.
MISS GERTRUDE ELLIOTT in
BLUEBEARD’S EIGHTH WIFE.
Legal Notices.
■flT - the matter of the estate of
•I PATRICK JAMES PILLION Deceased.
j Notice to Creditors and Beneficiaries.
Pursuant to the “Trustee Act 1893” and to a
direction of the Deputy Master of the Supreme Court
of South Australia made in the Matter of the Estate
of the abovenamed PATRICK JAMES PILLION
deceased NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
Creditors Beneficiaries and other persons having any
Claims upon pr against the Estate of the said Patrick
James Pillion late of Mambray Creek in the State
of South Australia a private in the 32nd Battalion
Australian Imperial Forces formerly Teamster deceased
who died in France in Europe on the 6th day of
March 1917 and Probate of whose Will was granted
to FRANK HAGGER DOWNER of Adelaide Solici-
tor the sole Executor therein named by the Supreme
Court of South Australia on the llth day of October
1917 are hereby required to send particulars in writ-
ing of their claims to the said FRANK HAGGER
DOWNER on or before the 31st day of May 1924
after which date the said Executor will proceed to
distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the persons entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims of which the said Executor shall then
have had notice and the said Executor will not be
liable for the said assets or any part thereof so
distributed to any person of whose claim he shall
aot then have had notice.
Dated this 15th day of March 1924.
G. & J. DOWNER.
Morialta Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the said Executor.
/-r\ O WILLIAM TEICHMANN.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queensland No.
504 of 1923 by Lucy Margaret Teichmann your wife
in which the Plaintiff claims a dissolution of her
marriage with you AND by the Petition filed in
this matter on the eighteenth day of December 1923
the Plaintiff alleges that in the month of June 1917
you deserted her without cause and such desertion
has ever since continued without cause and still
continues and prays to have the custody of the
children to wit William John Teichmann Thelma
Margaret Teichmann and Ernest George Teichmann.
AND TAKE NOTICE that the Court has by order
dated the tenth day of March 1924 authorised service
of the said Writ and Petition on you by filing in
the Registry of the Supreme Court at Brisbane and
fixing on the notice board in the said Registry a copy
of the Writ of Summons and office copy of the
Petition and also by the insertion of an advertise-
ment once in the following newspapers namely the
Brisbane Courier and the Sydney Bulletin and
also by posting a copy of such advertisement by
prepaid letters addressed to your father Tobias
Teichmann of Fernvale and to your brother Ben-
jamin Teichmann at Coominya and that such service
shall be deemed effective after the expiration of two
months from the latest act done in compliance with
this order. .
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required within
thirty days from the last publication to cause an
appearance to be entered for you at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane and
that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff may
proceed in the action and that judgment may be
given against you in your absence.
Dated this fourteenth day of March 1924.
(L.S.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator, Brisbane.
Solicitor for Plaintiff.
B.S.A. Shot Guns
X?
THE B.S.A. Shot Goa is exceptionally
strong, the Action, Barrels, Body, etc.,
all being made of the finest Sheffield Steel.
The specification includes $ pistol stock (fitted
with hutt plate extra if desired); 30" or 28"
barrels, both full choke, or R modified and L
full choke; and 2£", 2 'i" or 3" chambers.
The weights range from 6Jlb. to 81b.
Special attention is paid to the boring of the
barrels, the limits of accuracy worked to
being 1/1,000".
Illustrated, folder post free on request. Send P.C.
sd
The B.S.A. Shot Cun, an ideal sporting
weapon incorporating the very finest
workmanship.
D. Y. RENNIE, Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Representing The Birmingham Small Arms Comany Limited, England.
sdf
Note the very fine quality of
grain and excellent finish of these
“ pipes with a pedigree." They
emphasise satisfaction to smokers
everywhere.
£Made by Experts.
jCbB) Pipes are shaped by skilled
artisans in London, from the
finest Briar root obtainable.
Thoroughly seasoned and matur-
ed, every pipe is faultless—sure
of appreciation by the most
critical smoker
m
All
shades
now
Shape
No 4159
Choose your shape now.
Sold everywhere
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 705, G.P.0., Sydney.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
52-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY £Jatu>n).
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1 /.. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/.. Magic Made Easy, l/». Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS. BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
49
»J.
HO
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/*. Contents —Aoril
Fools; Who Is Who;
Ici on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
lOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from J2/6 to £5.
CO the Stage I/O
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
sd
gUVTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free^
GHEP
c
Ar
to
s:
fsd
TUESDAY, APRIL 15, AT 2 O’CLOCK,
BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
AT SCHOOL. OF ARTS, BOON AH (QUEENSLAND),
THE SECOND SUBDIVISION.
5000 ACRES OF THE FAMOUS
Coochin Coochin Estate
SUBDIVIDED INTO 15 AGRICULTURAL
AND DAIRY FARMS
RANGING FROM 106 TO 870 ACRES.
COOCHIN COOCHIN IS ONE OF THE SHOW STATIONS OF
SOUTHERN QUEENSLAND, SITUATED ABOUT 60 MILES FROM
BRISBANE, 10 MILES FROM BORDER OF NEW SOUTH WALES, AND
HANDY TO THE PROSPEROUS TOWN OF BOONAH.
WELL KNOWN FOR ITS SPLENDID RAINFALL, AND THE
INEXHAUSTIBLE WATER OF TEVIOT BROOK RENDERS THE ESTATE
DROUGHT-PROOF.
IT IS ALSO WELL KNOWN FOR ITS LUCERNE-GROWING AND
FATTENING QUALITIES.
EXCEPTIONAL TERMS OVER 20 YEARS. ONE-TENTH DEPOSIT,
NO PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL FOR 3 YEARS, INTEREST 6 PER CENT.,
PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY.
PLANS ON APPLICATION.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., LIMITED,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
BETTS & BARTHOLOMEW,
BOONAH, LOCAL AGENTS.
C. B. DARVALL, Esq., Boonah,
Solicitor for Estate.
19i17.


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
f l ' /'/>)
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SGHCOL OF DRAWING,
313 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Boiler Scaling' and
Rust Removing'
by the most efficient and economical methods
ever invented. The “SKATOSKALO” Patent
Scaling Tools, Electric, Petrol, Pneumatic.
Write for particulars to the Australian
Agents: A. McARTHUR & CO., 29-33
Clarence Street, Sydney. [l.
*?r
Too Pleased to be
Greedy.
<c \/ ES, sir, I could—of course I
I could—l could have kept
Kensitas a secret, and en-
joyed them myself instead of tell-
ing you about them. And I knew
you’d tell your friends, and your
friends would tell their friends,
and
“Now they all know Kensitas—
and they all keep talkmg about
them.
“That’s just it
—Kensitas make
one too pleased to
be greedy—
“l can’t help
talking about
them any more
than you can.”
yr
Kensitas
CigaAjztfai sv£
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Soxs, Ltd., London.
WHOLESALE:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD,
Box 64 G.P.0., Sydney.
CORNELL. LTD., Adelaide.
Great Austral Art Union
THE BIGGEST ART UNION EVER HELD.
IN AID OF THE LIMBLESS AND MAIMED SOLDIERS.
Every Ticket has a chance to win 210 Prizes and 210 chances to win prizes from £1250 to £5.
Studebaker Car, Big Six Sedan, especially fitted £1250
2nd Prize, Australian Six Motor . ... £6OO
3rd Prize, Dodge Car £4OO. 4th, Foster Player Piano £252
210 Prizes in all, valued at £4016.
Results published Sjdney Dailies May 10. Please enclose stamped and addressed envelope for
result slip. Result slips sent wherever required.
DON’T FORGET! BUY YOUR TICKET NOW. Only One Shilling, from all branches
New South Wales Bookstalls, Tobacconists, Newsagents, etc., in New South Wales; or
direct from the Secretary. C. Drysdale, 10 Bligh Steeet. Sydney.
AGENTS WANTED.
Limbless
0
*
MUCILINE
Sffie IJ^erfecf
©ffffiKßii ■ msm»
CLEANEST.
STRONGEST.-BEST.
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS
%!5^ Ie ALEX Q>wan g) Sons. Lt?
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
\
i
Cuticura Beautifies
Skin Hair and Hands
Make Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Talcum your every-day toilet prepa-
rations and watch your skin, hair
and hands improve. The Soap to
cleanse and purify, the Ointment to
soothe and heal and the Talcum to
powder and „ rfumo.
Soap Is.,Talcum Is. 3 d., Ointment ls.and2B.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
IHF" Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
fsd
W lifelong
Jriend
Once you own a Nupoint you
have a pencil that is sound in
principle, strongly constructed
and exquisitely finished—a life-
long friend! Its lead is firmly
held by a spring clutch, cannot
rotate or jam, loads at the point,
smoothly efficient in use. Its
captive cap, an exclusive feature,
contains rubber and a plentiful
supply of leads. Sizes from large
with clip, to Midget—thin as a
match. Gold filled, sterling, and
silver-plated.
Obtainable at all high-class jewellers,
stationers and departmental stores.
Sole Australasian Agents:
PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD.
56 Market St., Sydney.
JSfupouit
The World’s Best Pencil
IF WE HAD BIG SHOP-RENT TO PAY
we could not possibly sell Watches at these prices. The fact that we
import DIRECT, have no shop-rent to pay, and no heavy overhead
expenses to pass on enables us to sell at these extremely low rates,
and thus save you at least 4/- in the pound off Shop Prices.
A written guarantee is given with each watch, also an undertaking
in writing that we will refund your money in full if you are not
satisfied, or can buy cheaper elsewhere.
D.S.J.
Lever
£2
/
%
r
This Extra Special Quality Watch
in solid nickel, or gunmetal. The
movement is something special;
it is jewelled in 15 holes, has
genuine split compensation screw,
poised balance wheel, spiral bre*
quet hair-spring, all wheels and
pinions highly polished and Cut,
damascened plates, and stem set;
undoubtedly the highest-grade
watch oh the market; will keep
time within three seconds per
month. We guarantee these
watches for three years, but they
will last a lifetime. We are srp.
ing them at the low price of £2.
sd
SILVER,
£2.
9ct. GOLD
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold Luminous ■ Wristlet
Lever Watch, jewelled in 15 holes, com-
plete with strap, and guaranteed for
3 years, £4. In Sterling Silver, £2.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
IT IS
POST FREE.
10/.
for a Oct. Gold
Signet Ring.
In loet. Gold,
16/-
Engraving free.
£5/10/-
This 9ct, Gold 15 jewelled
luminous Level with wide strap,
£5/10/-. Guaranteed tor 5
years. In Sterling Silver, £3.
THE
Direct Supply Jewellery Co.
A. Cohen, Mgr. Reference, Royal Bank.
Take Lift to 2nd Floor ARLINGTON CHAMBERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exeept of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficient ly stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Nc
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
Geo. Damon: That discussion has been
given its parting kick 5.0. A.: We haven't the
heart to shut out one great truth: —
Every ocean has its sharks,
Every lover has his narks;
Girls string you on just for a joke,
Then hitch on to some other bloke.
. ...S.N.M.: True, no doubt; but the subject has
worn out its welcome.... Sydney G.; No interest in
Mason here.... Pozzy: There is no grip in it....
North T.: Don’t think any more is called for. .. .Mac.
Pat. : Seems to be a moral in it, too:
The Thirsty One slithered towards the side of his
wife,
Determined to take her miserable life;
His arm was uplifted, in his hand was a knife.
Just as he was about to deliver the Fatal stroke
He heard outside the voice of a bloke;
And just as his wife was about to step over eternity’s
brink
The Voice whispered, “Bill, come and 'ave a drink” ;
And before his horrible design could reach fruition
His wife’s life was saved, saved because the State
voted against prohibition.
Gouge: That’s an ending that is worth using;
but the chimney incident has been employed too
often.... Lone H.: There’s some real feeling in it;
but the work is too rough S.W.P.: Just fails
R.C.H.: Ditto.... Vermont: Follows too closely on
the heels of McAndrew Sirhe: This one’s a bit
too obvious. But keep going.... Fanuela: With a
little more attention “Wishing” would' get through.
(....Con. K.: It doesn’t look much like a romance
to us Nugget: Not much depth in it 11.E.C.:
Off our beat... .Tasmanian: You have made poor use
of good material Taxi: If that’s verse, then
Noah Webster ought to have been made poet laureate.
. ...R.R.D.; Not improved. You’ll have to get
down to the bed-rock of the business and learn to
write.. . .Ellen D. : Not for us... F.L.M.: What you
say in eight pages would make a good six-line par.
....Michael O. : Pretty dreary R. 5.8.: Not worth
while... .K.M.8.; Nothing attractive or fresh....
L.A.G. New Gase misses. .. .Max W.: Not enough
in them... .H.I. (New Brighton): Too machine-
made. .. .G.E.8.: Don’t care for it....L.L.: “The.
False Alarm” is done regularly once a week; the
other is mere words.... .Ursula 0.: The feeling is
better than the craftsmanship. Keep at it... ;
N. McN.: It shook our eyebrows off to read it....
T-A.C.: Misses... .8.H.M.: Rubbish. .. .Sarpedon:
Cheap abuse of the “Boss” in bad verse doesn’t get
you anywhere A.C.W.: Not well enough done
D.W. (Edgecliff): If you can’t despair in real
verse, try being cheerful.... Kid M.: The last line
is good. Now see if you can’t make some more to
match it.... Geraldine O.: Not quite bright enough.
. ...M.0.K.: Its best lines were unfortunately writ-
ten first by other people E.V.T.: Nothing fresh
in them. .. .R.P.V.; Doesn’t make us believe it's
true... .Cecily U.: Try a change of subject....
Rene C.: They miss, but not by many miles
A.L.H.; Trick verse is generally poor stuff; and
yours is very thin.... V.J.M.: As poor as the hound
of Lazarus.... Old Tom: “Bai’ker” is not interesting.
Mombak: The gore is still rather short in quan-
tity, but as a small splash it may pass:—
The old millionaire,
Sat in the chair,
And said to his son,
“My God! you’ll have none
Of my cash.
Of the value of money you’ve no idea,
Vou spend it on clothes and you spend it in beer
You gamble and smoke,
And think that a bloke
Would leave money for you to splash.”
Said the hot-headed boy:
“Old man, you annoy,
I’ll have what I like;
Say much and I’ll strike
You dead.”
So he grabbed his old man
And the old frying pan,
And he' battered and swore
’Till a big hole he tore
In his head.
. ...L.E.J.: Rather wooden, and without enough
original thought to swear to Pip: Too frail and
young. .. .Arev: Not up....R.R. (Sandgate) : That
“husky” voice of the American magazines may be
a beautiful thing; but don’t mention it more than
2000 times in one story Long Ago: The slow
horse is not exciting W.M.8.L.: For Heaven's
sake get something to write about H.P. (St.
Hilda) ; Both are too weak Frank M.: Terrible.
... .V.J.M.: It wants a shave and haircut... .C.M.C.:
A good try.... Hairie N.; A slight thing of that
kind must be better done Una C.: No good
Beth C.; On the road, but still some distance from
the pub... . R.L.C.: Doesn’t appeal to u 5....
P.D.K.0.: Has a delicate beauty of its own: !
O Love, what dost thou mean?
The strangest pulsations of the mind ; ■
Though it’s like Heaven’s wind unseen,
It is shared by each and all divined.
The youth and maiden both alike
Dost fall prostrate at thy might,
While age likewise escapes it not.
Sweet love that thrills, forget me not 1
As sweet life sojourn goes on
Lo! the flowers of earth look up
And in life’s race sweet buttercups
I know thy worth to gaze upon!
How great the love did my parents call,
My sisters too and brothers all;
Away the old school days have passed
The days of frolic and fun, too, alas!
And now in the' world’s broad path
As I wander and saunter o’er the land,
It’s the fullest compensation I hath
That they and you will call me a man!
... .8.5. H.: “Why? Oh, why?” has most of the
qualities of a shocking example.... F. E. McQ.:
No, that’s only pretending to be verse Vir:
“Manning” doesn’t strike us hard enough J.F.K.:
A bit too melodramatic Wag: Not very amusing!
D.L. (Dulwich Hill); We don’.t like it
E.E.M.: Feebly repeats old commonplaces... .Mar-
garet D. : Not up, but \Vell on the way R.W.8.:
Not quite enough there H.B. (Glen Iris): “The
Shadow” is well enough told, but ought to be made
more convincing M.B. (Forest Lodge): Doesn’t
get to anything, but is on the road M.S.T.:
Good if it had been in better verse.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.J.G.: Don’t see a set of pictures in it....
8.A.R.: Gerry and Jerry both shown the door
T.L.S.: Line work much too finicky.. .. J.K.A.: Come
out in the open with some shaded drawing M.G :
Returned without thanks R.D.L.: Your sense of
humor is badly inflamed D.R.; Much below the
mark....J.M. (M.L.): Yes, The Bulletin will buy
work from anywhere, provided it is good enough.
Yours isn’t W.i.H.: That joke has been terribly
overworked. .. ,M.D. : Your pen seems to fall over
itself.... L.M.: In the beginner’s class L.P.:
Drawing improved; but you’re overloading them with
decorative stuff.


One buyer might
make a mistake-
but not
145.000
§M
ORE than 145.0C0 people
bought Studebaker motor
cars during 1923. In 1922, Stude -
baker was the choice of 110,000
motorists.
Surely when an increasing num-
ber of minds agree each year on
one thing—that Studebaker cars
offer the greatest automobile value
—there must be sound reason for
such opinion.
One buyer might make a mis -
take, but not one hundred and
forty-five thousandf
Your purchase of a Studebaker
car will be a safe, dependable and
economical investment—backed
by Stiidebaker’s seventy-two years
of manufacturing experience and
£18,500,000 of assets.
Before you buy your car this
year, see the 1924 Studebaker
cars. There are thirteen mode's
from which you may make a
selection. Each is a high-grade
six-cylinder car—built to Stude-
baker’s 72-year-old standards of
quality.
ďf
&
Studebaker is the world’s largest
producer of Quality Motor Cars
T _JUL S 1 S ,X, STU DEBAKER
YEAR
ds
Distributers
Cayce-Paul Motors Ltd*
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Turner Brothers
396-400 Swanston St., MELBOURNE
Adams, Limited
152-154 High St., CHRISTCHURCH
New Zealand
The Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agcy.
Hay Street, PERTH
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.
42-48 Franklin St., ADELAIDE
Canada Cycle & Motor Agcy. (Queensland) Ltd.
Creek and Adelaide Streets, BRISBANE >
Corrick’s Central Garage
60A Brisbane St., LAUNCESTON


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
i h r>o liie
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Huild your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FI BROUTE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is flre-
rc-tardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 33 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Building's, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide—Hobart.
-r:
Weight
and
Quality
That is certainly a factor in the
sale of all classes of stock. But
good work in selling at the
yards, like good feed and good
blood, is also a decided influence.
For top values —
Consign Cattle, Sheep and Lambs
to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The “COMPORT” (self-heating) Iron.
n
Simple, safe. Lights
in half a minute. Costs
3d. for four hours.
Clean, beautifully
nickelled. Double-
pointed. Finest iron
made.
Price, 427-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Si
4?
r
©
60
The Entrancing Treasures
of the flowers are preserved in
every tiny atom of
Williams’
Talc Powder
Feminine charm is subtly en-
hanced by the delicate perfumes
—pervasive, yet elusive —of
Williams’ Talc.
Delightfully satisfactory when-
ever and wherever Talc is used.
The hinged cover makes the
container perfect.
»l
ii
Williams'
Talc Powder
Carnation
i 1< \A/ili I»I>
iiiiim
English Lilac
(Williams’ Special)
Matinee
Carnation
Violet
Rose
Baby
(Very Delicate)
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Mature s Loving Proxy —
Qlie
Watchful Mother
and watchful mothers are
cautious mothers, who v?on’t
take risks vJi{h “His
Highness”—the bab$ —but
keep him healdrp and bonns
b$ giving small doses daih?
of
Ts
KRUSE’S .
FhiidMaftBSSia
Bottled in three sizes.
orKis safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises die dis-
tress caused b$ teediing and
vaccination, besides checking
die development of odier
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
Cooling in Summer —Reliable Always.
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {Kan ever, because
it does all {Kat is claimed
for it—and more.
See diat sou get die genuine
Kruse’s, witk our name,
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ps. Ltd., on tke label.
TELEPHONES for STATION OWNERS.
m
. f *
■
mm
Model F 2898. Government approved
Model for country service. 1000-ohm
Ringer. 5-Bar Generator, Long-dis-
tance Transmitter and Receiver.
Supplied from Australian stocks.
KELLOGG
APPARATUS
of quality and 25 years’ experience. Approved
by all Governments.
- you are not on the Government circuits
vhy not construct your own private im •
vill furnish you with guaranteed appa
and full information and estimate .
Will give continuous and uninterrupted
vice. Non-breakable. Withstands h
severe usage.
KELLOGG RADIO EQUIPMENT
has been pronounced as the most efficient and the most attractive ap
put into a wireless receiving set.
ever
US,E IS THE TEST. -dersers, Vario-
Good results are only obtained wi.th good equipment Variable 'S’ foils Tube Sockets,
meters, Vario-couplers, Head ’Phones, Plugs, Jacks, Fixed Condensers, O ’
Dials, Cords, Transformers for Audio Frequency, Terminals, etc. state.
Send for Booklet and Price List to the agent in your
Victoria:
JAMES CHAMBERS & CO., P-ty., Etcl.,
371 Little Collins Street, M elbotirne.
N.S.W.s
BURGIN ELECTRIC CO.,
352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
AMICO LTD.,
Amico House.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
S.A. i
NEWTON McEAKEN ltd.,
Leigh Street, Adelaide.
A •
C p. KNAPTON,
93S Hay Street, Perth.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Blick”: “Centurion” (B. 28/2/’24) is
astray regarding the alleged obliteration of
the pencil industry at Keswick (Eng.). The
Cumberland Co., which started to make pen-
cils there in 1832, is still able to pay good
dividends. Any good Australian stationer
will supply a Cumberland pencil, and the
man who buys one will get an article equal
to the best Austrian or Berman.
* * * *
“Uramao" : When he sets himself to it in
earnest the Maori can pump up some ideas.
Drovers passing over a certain road where
a rather rickety bridge spanned a creek fre-
quently found their flock a couple short at
the end- of the journey, despite the constant
watchfulness of shepherds. One day a drover
noticed a loose board on the bridge after
the flock had passed over. He lifted it and
found two Maoris astride the beam under-
neath nursing a plump lamb apiece.
* * * *
“McNorth” : From a Thursday Island (Q.)
shop window: —
NOTECE:—Shop Orders. Ladies Shoes Will Be
Repaired here if the ladies that' is the Wearer of the
Shoes Brings them to Me And Intimates if I Will
repair her Shoes I Will tell her When her Shoes
Will Be Repaired And that Will be the Onely Ladie
that will Get the Shoes When Repaired. Ladies
Shoes wont be Repaired here is they Sends them to
Me by their Acquaintances Or Servants. Their Are
So Many Ladies Wishes to buys their Shoes Else
Whare but they like to get their Shoes Repaired here
When they get Some Body more forward than t'bem-
selves to come in here. All of this Class of Ladies
Are requested to keep their Shoes OUT OF MY SHOP.
Japanese, of course.
“Adamascus”: Thus far molasses in Aus-
tralia has been absorbed by distilleries,
utilised as fuel, turned into stock fodder
or simply wasted. Now the Federal Gov-
ernment proposes to employ some of it in the
production of power-alcoliol in the acetate
of lime factory at Cannon Hill, Brisbane.
It is hoped to treat 4000 tons annually for
an output of 260,000 gallons of power-
alcohol, and there is enough raw material
to give about 10 times that much.
* * * #
“G. Ron”: The shops which for their
size are doing the best business in London
are those which are still disposing of “Sur-
plus Government Stores.” The articles
offered range from aeroplane propellers for
ss. to gas respirators for tuppence. Issue
knives—the sort which combine pincers,
toothpick, corkscrew, crowbar and pick and
shovel —are sixpence a time. Signalling sets
with buzzers complete (perhaps) are 2s. 6d.;
army riding-breeches, 55.; entrenching tools
complete, and shovels (unused), 6d. A man
can fit himself out for a private war for
about 15s. But the average individual who
goes in to buy something useful generally
gives way to his souveniring instinct. I saw
one little man struggling to the door with a
gas mask and an aeroplane propeller. He
might have been going to meet his mother-
in-law on even terms for once in his life.
* * * #
“Spectioneer” : I suppose a man can be a
pacifist and hate war—that is to say, the
dangerous part of it—without surrendering
his right to grab any profits that can be got
out of it. Nicholas Everitt, in “The British
Secret Service,” relates that the exports of
cocoa and chocolate hy British manufac-
turers to Denmark and Sweden the year be-
fore the war (1913) totalled 394,3551 b..
whereas in the second year of the war
(1915) they had jumped to 25,222,1821 b.
Lord Lansdowne, speaking in the House of
Lords on January 13, 1916, admitted it was
reasonable to suppose that the most of this
had found its way into Germany. Everitt
states further that when the Admiralty tried
to check this business, the Foreign Office
over-ruled it and permitted the traffic to con-
tinue, merely stipulating that the Quaker
notables who control the cocoa business
should give an undertaking not to send the
stuff to Germany. Probably it didn’t go
direct, but the chances are it went to other
traders and they sent it over the border into
Germany.
THE REBEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The indignation in my heart rose frothing to my
tongue.
01 profiteers and other men deserving to be hung
I had to talk, or burst; so, like an engine full of
steam,
I spouted out a lava-flood of anger in a stream.
The passengers upon the train stared as the torrent
ran,
But all were silent as they stared except one little
man
Who from his corner seat put in: “Yairs! Damn the
profiteer!
They want to put a penny on the price of (here’s-
luck) beer.”
I spoke about Caligula, and noted tyrants slain
By peoples made insurgent by oppression and by
pain ;
Of vengeance draping lamp-posts with a decoration
grim—-
I spoke of Whiddon fiercely, for this fate seemed
meet for him—
The carnival of death that comes when mad rebellion
strikes;
And when 1 spoke of bombs, and fire, and gory heads
on pikes, -
The little man up-spoke again—his voice rose like
a cheer:
“There’s them would put a penny on the price of
(just-so) beer!”
From King-street unto B®ndi Beach I gave my wrath
its vent:
I damned rapacious landlords with their hunger for
more rent ;
The tyranny of capital that makes the worker sweat;
The grasping lords of meat and grain on gain unholy
set;
The Government that, helping wealth, stacks loads
upon our backs,
Until beneath the fearful strain the public patience
cracks.
“They should be burnt alive,” 1 cried —“no fate is
too severe! ”
And ever spoke the little man: “Yairs! Damn the
profiteer:
Tney want to put a penny on the price of (help-us)
beer!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Gay Glimpses
rf
fsd
fH
$
Guaranteed
Pure Scotch
m
4 >/*s
JP
SSI
pira
i, -
I
H
SHMI
■ ■ ... . .... ■ .■■;
m i
■ i u
m
mm
■i—i-
NEW EDISON
triumphs in amazing iesi
Stella Power’s voice matched perfectly.
On February 7 over a thousand music lovers crowded to the Masonic Hall, Melbourne, to hear Miss Stella Power. On a
bare stage the artist stood and sang beside the phonograph. Read what the papers said:
“When Miss Stella Power was singing ‘The Cuckoo’ (Lehmann) the
lights were lowered and she escaped from the stage. But her voice was
heard to the end. .. .it was a puzzle to know when she left the stage....
no more exacting test could have been given.”
—Melbourne Herald.
“....a notable success. .. .Gounod’s ‘Serenade’ showed admirably
the degree of perfection.... the Edison Company proved the complete
confidence it has in its productions.”
—Melbourne Argus.
“Miss Power would sing one phrase, the machine would continue
with another... .were mystified as to when Miss Power was actually
singing in Nevin's ‘One Spring Morning,’ so close was the approxi-
mation.”
—Melbourne Age.
“Miss Power would sing.... and then the phonograph.... at first
the audience sat puzzled but critical, then applause broke vigorously
and spontaneously.”
—Melbourne Sun.
1
■
K
i
l
::
Sa m
The New Edison
alone dares this
test—it is the only
phonograph you
really want.
DEMONSTRATIONS AND
CATALOGUES AT—
SYDNEY—
The Edison Shop,
51 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE—
Wills and Paton Ptv.,
Ltd.,
238 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—
South Australian Phono-
graph Co., Ltd.,
7 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE—
W. H. Paling . and Co.,
Ltd.,
86-88 Queen Street.
PERTH—
Phonographs, Ltd.,
653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON—
Wills and Co., Ptv.,
Ltd.,
7 Quadrant.
Or Your Nearest Dealer.
Wholesale Only:
THOMAS A. EDISON,
LIMITED,
364-372 Kent Sti-eet,
SYDNEY.
m
■ .‘jsj
.' k. I ' & -
ma % k
f . J
s


%
ROSY
CHEEKS.
To acquire that rosy
clear complexion and
sparkling eyes take
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They promote proper
digestion and assimil-
ation of food. This
means rich, healthy
blood. Sparkling eyes.
Bright, clear complexion.
In short —perfect health.
Every Tablet a Live one—-Brim
Full of Health and Happiness.
Easy to take. Pleasant in effect.
fsd
D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
Che most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
Sill
29/6
PAIR
The New
MEXICAN
(Reg. No. 4322)
Riding Boot
Features a patent two
fold Strap top to fit
closely at ankle —gusset
Sides to prevent sand and
grass seeds getting into Boot.
Low Heels, pointed toes.
In Tan Calf and Black
Wallaby—All Sizes.
Mail to Desk “SB” stating Size
PIKE
BROTHERS LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
“K.LG.”
SPARKING
PLUGS.
For perfect ignition and long
service.
A type for every Engine.
Smith, Sons 8 Rees
Limited,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. DAYMEN,
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 84 Branches in Queensland , also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
The
Quality Creams
for Quality Shoes
They replace the natural oil in
the leather—keep it soft and
flexible, easy on the feet—and
give a radiant, all-day shine.
Put up in bottles and tubes.
In all colours.
Bostock’s Polishes Ltd.
Box 91,
Haymarket,
SYDNEY
\y,\
/'ll, l *
m
&JI4L
OSTOCK
Jos
SHOE CREAMS
© ©
470 INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO £5OO AND
3 KZ ON ANY EXCESS TO £IOOO
Cheque Recounts opened for Individuals, dr ms. Companies or Institutions.
fixed"deposits accepted.
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
f 56 Branches and 512 dqencies in 7\T.S. W.
Agents for Australia:
LyallWillisSCo.Ltd
Melbourne. . Baldwin & Slattery.
Sydney .... Jones & Joseph.
Adelaide ...Arthur Glover.
Brisbane... .Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullin & Co.,
1-3 Selbourne Chambers,
Howard Street.
Every man
should use
ANZORA for his hair, because
it is the only preparation that will
effectually keep the hair neat and
in position throughout the day.
Just rub a little into the scalp each
morning and brush the hair well.
Gently yet firmly refuse proffered
substitutes. There is nothing “as
good as” ANZORA.
Anzora Cream is suitable for greasy
scalps S Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers,
Stores, or from any of our Agents.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Manufactured by the
ANZORA PERFUMERY CO. Ltd.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER
MADE SPECIALLY FOR
STEWART DAWSON’S
BY THE
Ml
%
/
W
M
KEYSTONE-ELGIN
WATCH COMPANY
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE
Price 60/-
<For solidity and strength this Watch
stands alone. It is specially suited
to the requirements of Bushmen or
Railway Men, in fact, any man who
finds the ordinary watch too fine and
light. It has a Jewelled Movement,
and a Solid Nickel Screw Case which
wakes it dust and damp proof.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
N.S.W. LTC).
Two Sydney f 185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
Establishments (. 41 2 George Street, Strand Corner
Portly Bill Houeybone, who closed a long
innings as town-clerk of Bendigo (Vic.) at
the year’s end, is now running an estate
agency. lie saw 36 mayors come and go at
the Town Hall.
“Huffin-Guflin”: The old-lady music-
teaclxer in our northern Vic. township was get-
ting beyond her job and losing all her pupils.
So it was decided to get up a “grand con-
cert” on her behalf. The affair was a great
success, the proceeds, after paying expenses,
totalling £5O. The chairman of the commit-
tee was our leading storekeeper, and on him
devolved the pleasant duty of handing the lady
her cheque. But he happened to be her biggest
creditor, too. So he compromised by pre-
senting her with receipted bills for £4B 10s.
and a purse of a sovereign and a half. Gold
was plentiful in those days.
“Schnorrer”: Marcus Einfeld, the red-
bearded Cantor of the Sydney Great Syna-
gogue, is off on a six-months’ holiday after
15 years’ service. This Jewish minister is
a large-souled man who, though he has little
money himself, knows where to find it. A
newcomer, “broke” and with a family, put
his case to Einfeld, hoping for some tempo-
rary assistance. He got much more. Battling
among the financial stalwarts of Sydney
Jewry, Einfeld, in a single day, raised
enough money to establish the new arrival
in business. That man is now prominent in
Sydney, and his is another place to which
the minister knows he can safely go when
he wants to get a lame dog over the stile.
“Blue Deed” from Kenya Colony, Africa:
I am paying a long visit to this colony, and to
me one of the most surprising things is the large
number of Australians here. I have met dozens of
them. Malcolm Cramer, an old Geelong Grammar
boy, is sheep-farming out in “the hlue” (which
corresponds with our back country) ; W. Hutton,
from Van Rook station (N.Q.), is one of Nairobi’s
best-known citizens; and at Mwani there is a
whole colony of Australians busy under Myers (Q.)
with the largest and most successful sugar-mill in
Africa. Major H. D. White, whose father owned
Bluff Downs (0.), is at Gil Gil, and runs a large
cattle-station, and has the finest dairy stock in the
country (Ayrshires imported from Victoria). Percy
Flint, a surveyor from W.A., is in the Government
service. Then therd is Digger Leonard Allen, who
is in business in Nairobi. He is of the Gurner
clan of Melbourne, and is the finest athlete in Kenya
—represents this country at cricket. Soccer (which
he picked up here) and Rugby, and was the only
man in Kenya- to get his three games against the
Empire Squadron. Other Australians are Tyson,
head of the police; J. Walker (Northern N.S.W.
Rivers) ; and more Australians are in the force.
“A.D.” : More than 12 years ago a young
Newcastle (N.S.W.) dentist gave of his
skill to an apprentice on a visiting Nor-
wegian sailing-ship from whom there tvas
small prospect of payment. The dentist
has long since left the coaly city for the
land where incisors cease from troubling
and molars are at rest, but the other day
this letter came to his executors: —
Yet a boy, in January, 1910, I visited your
town as apprentice on board the Norwegian sailing
vessel Daghild, and thus it happened that I came
to you for toothache. You were kind enough to
cure my pain ; but as I had no money, you very
generously told me to write my father and ask him
to settle my account.
However, it hurts me that you were without any
answer, as I feel convinced that you a long time
were looking for remittance. 1 know that you never
got the money, and I will be pleased if you will
now let me hand you £1 10s. I remember the
amount; it was £l. I believe the enclosed will be
correct, allowing for interest. ...
It happened quite by chance that I discovered 12
years after that the money had not been sent; but
I hope now that my sending it will encourage you
to bring help to another countryman of mine if
he should be in need of your assistance.
About some well-known Yanks :—-
Gaston B. Means is incorrectly described in a
cable.of last Sunday as “an adventurer.” For about
10 years he.has been head of the William J. Burns
Detective which ranks for importance in the
U.S. with Pinkerton’s itself. Though these insti-
tutions are nominally private-enterprise concerns, the
Government makes free use of them. Their undesir-
ability from a national point of view, and the feature
which should warn Australia against countenancing
anything of the sort, is that other Governments use
them as well. During the war Means and a son of
William J. Burns were admittedly in the pay of
the Hamburg-American Steamship 00. and of Count
Bernstorff. Latterly he appears to have worked for
the Mitsui Company, which does Japan’s underground
work in America and elsewhere. The piquancy of
his devastating revelations concerning Attorney-
General Daugherty is a matter chiefly of the latter's
smug self-righteousness. He has smelt out more
working-class sedition and Labor-union villainv
during the past five years than any other man in
the L T .S., and his efforts in the cause of Prohibition
have by his own showing been tremendous. If Means
is even approximately truthful, Daugherty is a prince
of bootleggers, a bribe-taker and -giver, and an unmiti-
gated ruffian otherwise. On the other hand, the
master-detective is admittedly something of a
scoundrel himself.
“R.G.N.C.”; Despite official reluctance to
encourage immigration of Russians en
masse, numbers of Jews from Ukraine and
South Russia have come, and are coming, to
Australia, helped by an excellent organisa-
tion of the Faithful for assisting poorer
brethren. Working through a central office
in Paris, a relief fund is constantly in opera-
tion, and there is a regular passage of
Ukrainian and other Jews to London and
thence to Australia. Wealthy sons of Judah
lay up treasure in Heaven by subscribing
to the fund, and less wealthy ones strain
their resources to rescue friends and rela-
tives from life under Bolshevik rule. There
is, however, many a slip between the Aus-
tralian bank-draft and the delivery of
Abramoffski to his new home. Peasants
have been robbed and stranded in famine-
ridden Odessa; there have been pathetic in-
stances of Australian relatives’ funds run-
ning out when the rescued have reached
only as far as London; tragic instances
where a receipt from Paris is the sole tid-
ings. There are also cynic touches.* Two
or three hundred pounds of good Australian
money in a Galician village is quite enough
to turn the recipient into a bloated capital-
ist, ahd the careful scrapings of a Melbourne
artisan may merely make the home relative
a choicer temptation for the next pogrom
or provide means for a glorious vodka-
fest. It says much for the brotherhood of
the Despised Race that, despite these known
risks and despite many an unhappy example
of lost money, Jews in Australia are pour-
ing hundreds out every week in the hope of
relieving their Russian kinsfolk.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
via
SAMOA - - HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
QUICKEST
OF
ANY
LINE.
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons-——l 7 Knots- —-—Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
City 2282 ’’
"fHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
beautiful tweed river.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
g.S. WOULONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
.-aloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Hail, £3,5/6
For further particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO LTD
MELBOURNE AGENTS: 11. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1 570 960
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £l4’] 48 754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman;’ Frank
h. Hiiwood, F.C.P.A. ; Georue F. Touman •
Duncan Carson; H. R. Lysagiit. 0.8. E. ; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
nr.n IY.S.JF.: W. G. Hull.
READ Oil ICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Ivin"
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
, BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Unet Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Randle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairrairn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Bvery description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares . . .. . . 1,500 000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland,
and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking
business.
Jenolan Caves
for an Enjoyable Holiday
Three Days;
£4/7/-
Four Days:
£5/5/-
Five Days:
£6/3/-
Six hours’ delight-
ful journey by train
and Motor-car
through gorgeous
mountain scenery.
Round ticket covers
first-class travel
throughout and
accommodation at
Caves House—re-
plete with every
modern comfort.
TOUR PROGRAMME & BOOKING
at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping:, Ac.
Camdian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) APRIL 10
NIAGARA (13,000 tons disp.) MAY 8
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,600 tons disp.) APRIL 24
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) . MAY 22
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
r UNION STEAM SHIP CC., UNION HOUSE.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBER
247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
S. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOUIIN
E.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON k CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
la
if#
A
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3a to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. PHI UP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
BOOK your passage to LONDON for the
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924, with our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
We offer the following attractive tours: —-
(1) TO JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, bv
the magnificent Steamers “MARELLA” and “MONTORO,”
sailing ffom Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane everv month
7-weeks trip for £9O Ist-class return.
(2) SYDNEY TO COLOMBO (Ceylon), £65 Ist-class return
(3) SYDNEY TO HONOLULU, via N.Z. and Fiji.
£B5 Ist-class return.
Special round Eastern Tours, calling JAVA, SINGAPORE
CHINA, JAPAN, MANILA. BORNEO and QUEENSLAND PORTS.’
From £129 Ist-class return throughout.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
A API L
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
14,500
14,500
10,000
NESTOR
ULYSSES
.(ENEAS
Tons.
ANCHISES .. 10,000
ASCANIUS . . 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
P. & O, via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD
BARRABOOL
BALLARAT .
BARADINE .
BENDIGO .
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. BG/01-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
RUNIC
SUE VIC
MEDIC
PERSIC
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
aisu creamers at rrequent intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11.250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11)250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve
mjgm}
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Foreign Bills
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports: at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
HOCK HAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
J n 0 Magnificent
llle Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars applv,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Huddart Parked
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blaekheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922 £1,826,924
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £62,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,800,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
ALI. AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The-
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


fs
df
r=
a
i {>
u
rex
The
Happy Warrior
—A.D. 1835
The Officer of the
“GREYS” depicted in
this homely scene knows
the social value [in those
days a very great one)
of a man looking very
tall. This is due in no
small measure to the un-
dress uniform of the
period, which the picture
shows .
nPHE perfect cigarette for an imperfed: world.
1 That means "GREYS” for all of us. "GREYS”
are such companionable cigarettes, full of the most
wholesome tobacco grown, choice Virginia,"GßEYS”
are cool and satisfying, firm to the lips and clean to
the palate.
7/Ce
GREY
SjJJc Cut Virginia
GREYS, 20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 /or 2/-
Manufadured by MAJOR DRAPKIN &L CO., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Limited
*B*
CUT
VTRG mu
This reduced reproduction shows
the famous pale green packet of
20 “GREYS”
BESS
HEHawro
111.
FOODS
PURE
i
U
im
N 5
MOTHERS
may find it difficult
to get food that is both nourishing and easy for the
young digestive organs to assimilate readily.
REX HAM PATE
Just try it
in the
lunches
of all the
family, and
get their
opinions
as a sandwich spread meets all such require-
ments. Active children like it, and eat their
lunches with avidity when other sandwich
spreads fail to tempt them.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made of Rex Ham cook-
ed in a manner to retain the savoury
flavours. It is prepared in an easy to spread
consistency— the appetizing flavour being
the secret of the Country famed Rex
Chefs.
You could not possibly get a sandwich
spread which enables you to more satis-
factorily solve the problem of “ringing the
changes” in sandwiches.
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
FJ2S
RELIABLE GUNS
BY FAMOUS MAKERS.
Mick Simmons’ carry in stock the Finest Range of
Firearms in Australia, and can supply suitable
weapons for all classes of shooting.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free on request.
Owing to market fluctuations, prices here quoted
are subject to change without notice.
THE CERT CO.’S D.R.B.L. GUNS.
Bl4—A reliable 12-gauge gun, fitted with 80-inch steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding
locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip and walnut stock; weight
about 71b. Price, delivered
Gun, as above, but of superior quality and finish.
Bl6—The “Cert’
Price, delivered
£5)12/6
£6/10/-
sdf
REMINGTON BROWNING AUTOMATIC
REPEATING SHOT GUN.
B4 —A strong and well-built 12-gauge gun, fitted with slide grip, take-down system and
steel barrel. The magazine holds six cartridges; weight about /lb. jQ *J n 10l
Price, delivered A* JL Mj 1 m
B2—Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, six shot;
weight about BJlb. Price, delivered
£l5/151-
A handy
top lever
stock ; w
barrel g
STEVEN’S 5.8.8. L. GUN.
and thoroughly reliable gun, reasonably priced, 12- or 16-gauge, automatic ejector,
action, solid case-hardened frame, 30- or 32-inch steel barrel, pistol walnut
eight about 6ilb. Can be taken apart same as an ordinary double- rr I
un. Price, delivered j
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY
POWDER.
AUSTRAL lb * 4/6
DIAMOND GRAIN lb - 5/6
DUPONT’S SMOKELESS FOR RIFLES lb. 8/6
AMBERITE SMOKELESS - lb * 10 / 6
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
j,. i 1 /« i« V Si vv
SUNDRIES.
Reloading and Cleaning Sets.
12-, 16- ol 20-gauge. Price 10/6
(Postage, lj- N.S.W. ; 1/8 Interstate.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
strongly reinforced. Price. 5/-
(Postage paid.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
with Steel Spring Clips. Price.. 10/-
(Postage paid.)
16in. Canvas Game Bags,
with net, very strong. Price.... 12/o
(Postage, 6d. N.S'.W.: Sd. Intel state.)
Union Duck Call,
made of cocobolo wood, metal end and
band; natural and lifelike tone; lengtn
4Ain. ; weight lAoz. Price o/a
(Postage paid.)
Perfect Pocket Oiler,
nickel-plated; very compact. Price 1/O
/Postage paid.)
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Guns and Rifles without
first obtaining a license.
Jbficfz SinuhonsP?
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St., Brisbane.


Mother Called Her Little Girl
Little
Miss
Rona
Burnett.
After Rexona.
Rexona Children are famous the world
over for the beauty of their skin and hair,
and one of the prettiest Rexona Children
in New South Wales is Mrs. Burnett s
little girl, Rona, of 5 1 Holmwood Street,
Newtown.
Mrs. Burnett has used only Rexona
Soap for her little girl, and writes us as
follows:
“I am so fond of Rexona Soap that
when my little girl came I named her
Rona, and I have always used Rexona
Soap for her since birth, and consider it
a par excellent Soap for children.”
Rexona Soap—Best
and Purest Soap Known.
A child’s chief charm lies in her soft, lovely
skin. To keep that purity and delicacy of skin
health, use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Wash-
ing with Rexona Soap first takes away all impurity
and dirt, then softens the skin cells, and acts as a
tonic upon the cuticle, so that the elasticity is
strengthened, and the result gives the soft bloom of
health that we see in early youth. Rexona Soap
prevents roughness, beautifies complexions, soothes
tender skin, protects from infection and diseases.
Nothing so promotes and maintains the purity of
the complexion as does Rexona Soap. It excels in
purity, delicacy and fragrance, for it is medicated
on the same principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment.
Rexona
Soap—
nmt.
« v
m
!/■
ttC!STKM»
rlf ADC MARK
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
;****£? ?»»»»
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
You Can Depend
on the
Reliability
of a Watch
*6:
j
m
from Fairfax 8 Roberts.
“The Omega.” A
man’s fully jewelled
lever, Gold Wrist
Watch.
£9 9 0.
Over eighty years’ experience of all makes of time-
pieces qualifies Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd., to fairly
appraise the merits of any watch. We heartily
endorse the claims of the “Omega.” It is a fully-
jewelled lever watch of fine accuracy and reliable
workmanship.
Our Optical Department, on the first floor, is in charge of Mr.
Gardiner, M. 1.0., who justly enjoys a wide reputation for
skilful service.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fairfax&Roberts i T ?
Zb bZb Hunter Street Sydney
Dream Pictures.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
I DREAMED I walked in half-forgotten
place's
And saw the long light of the morniug
break
Over the mountain and the green-lipped lake.
I went where sedge frills and green ferny
laces
Drooped to the wash of rivers and the faces
Of the high cliffs glowed red for day awake.
I found old sights, old sounds and strange
old graces
That trembled into sweetness for her sake.
The little town of gables and high towers
Woke to the chirrup of a thousand birds,
With voices at the casements full of sleep.
Bloom fell on the grey terraces in showers
When the wind moved; and there were
sudden words
Tossed through the willows in their long
green sweep.
il.
I saw the blue smoke from the turrets flying
Like thin and tattered banners on the air;
There came a sudden glimpse of yellow hair,
A white hand fluttered through the sunshine
lying
Like a great ribbon the brown shadow tying
With knots of brightness to the curving stair.
And on a sudden a shrill bell was crying
To clamorous echoes of the hour of prayer.
Under the willows whipping the dark stream
I passed by broad stone flags the whisper-
itig marge
To the bent bridge, all damp with clinging
moss
And swaying weed below the weir’s white
gleam
Of foamy water, till I found the barge
Moored by the gateway under the black cross.
ill.
Up the broad pathway, with swift sheen
of gold,
Scarlet and green and white, I saw them go
In light and gloom. Now they passed on
below
The flying buttress, where the dragons hold
The massive stone with thin, grey talons
cold,
Winking from sun to shadow in the flow
Of silk and velvet, till the wall’s grey fold
Wrapped them from sight—sweet friend and
smiling foe.
The bell had ceased its clamor. Like a spear
The high sun leaped a turret and smote down
In yellow flame across the ancient yew.
I waited in a pride of hard-held fear
Where under dusks of ivy day was brown,
Save for the gold the lisping leaves let
through.
IV.
And now along the path they came again—
Footsteps and voices, scarlet, gold and green.
A peacock strutted eager to be seen
Along the narrow grass; and like a stain
The yellow lichen in the hard stone’s grain
Burned orange in the light. I saw her lean
Like a slim, golden lily on the vain
Old prelate’s arm the sunlit walls between.
Near still and nearer. Then her cheek
flushed red.
A trinket dropped unnoticed to the grass.
She did not seem to look upon my face;
The peacock cried, with all his feathers
spread;
I saw the four tall gallants pause and pass;
Then kissed the trinket of her secret grace.
V.
But when the western mountain hid the sun
And the blue mists came swimming up the
dale,
Behind a long, age-scented ivy-trail
I waited, while a fat black spider spun
A web to snare the white moth blindly won
From the still evening. One star, lone and
pale,
His watch above the river had begun ;
And the far mountain dropped a purple veil.
Like a w r arm whisper through the dusk she
came—
Grey robed as sorrow, fluttering, sweet with
fear.
We passed like shadows to the river’s marge;
A oiceless as evening mist we breathed no
name.
Only the clanking chain fell sharp and clear
Against the stone as I unmoored the barge.
VI.
At that loud summons there were lights and
sound.
The flaring casements shuddered to a cry;
Hoarse voices called. A warning seemed to
fly
from wall to wall the soaring turrets round.
Red torches streamed like meteors from the
ground:
We heard bows twanging and an arrow’s
sigh
-^ n d the great baying of the dungeon hound,
enchained from darkness when some doom
is nigh.
But we were dipping under the green willow.
Lightly we felt the brown barge glide and
sway
Down the swift water to the ghostly lake;
And lying on my heart as on a pillow,
W ith sudden speech she laughed her fears
away—
'The wise Lord Cardinal is now awake!”
vn.
A hat more? I know not. Is it only
dreaming,
The memory of a memory somewhere read?
Like shadows out of Shadow-land we fled
\Y ith all the brass horns of their hatred
screaming.
Loud voices and the angry torches streaming,
And the pale starlight on her golden head.
1 know not if the tale be truth or seeming,
let lias it strange warm life among the dead.
For in my dream, stone by grey stone, I
trace
The bridge, the walls, the chapel and the
towers.
I count the steps to left, to right: the grass
I measure to the yew-tree, pace by pace.
And in the ivy I can tell the hours..
Only her eyes are veiled... .and the dreams
pass.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
Plato and the Canon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PROVIDENCE, assisted by the Arch-
bishop, had given to Canon Upright-
ley the cure of the butterfly souls of
a fashionable suburb. Saint Aidan, the
parish church, was built of stone, Gothic in
design, but Vandal as to its fittings of
stained pine. An early-day benefactor, per-
haps as an expiation for his sins, had given
it a peal .of bells. On a quiet Sunday morn-
ing you could hear their mellow notes across
the waters of the harbor. The Canon was a
widower, and childless. It is meet and
right even for curates to take unto them-
selves wives, and in those far-back days on
which, and especially in Lent, he sometimes
cast a retrospective glance, and shuddered,
he had entered into the bonds of holy matri-
mony with a country maiden. She was much
given to good works, both at home and
abroad. Low living and high giving, or as
high as you could make it, was the rigid
principle of her life. During the one year
of his married life Spriglitley went through
such privations of an ill-filled pocket, and
such domestic censorship of his innocent
young life, that thereafter he held emphatic
views on the celibacy of the clergy.
It remained for Cynthia Simpson, a vir-
gin of thirty-five years, to awaken in the
Canon the sentiment of love, platonic. Cyn-
thia, an only child, was not without attrac-
tions ; she was wealthy in her own right, and
had a much-belauded Greek profile. The
latter was, obviously, the weak point in her
citadel at which designing man might attack
the safely-guarded riches within. She was
tall and slight—“willowy” her friends de-
scribed her —her face ovalled, her cheek-
bones (at thirty-five) a trifle sharply defined.
But it was her nose, distinctly her nose, that
was so straightly Greek. When she raised
this cherished feature her eyes glanced, down
disdainfully. It was Cynthia's conception
of high tone in a classic profile.
The Canon was now fairly prosperous, as
canons go; but appetite grows on what it
feeds upon, and visions of fine equipage
sometimes came between him and the rou-
tine offices of his calling.
Miss Simpson believed in a fit setting for
the gifts of nature. One could no more
think of a Greek profile in a “parlor” than
associate a “Scotch and soda” with the Canon
in a bar. The lady’s home was an ample
bungalow so replete with modern conveni-
ences that residence in it suffused the in-
mates with inertia. It stood for twentieth-
century alchemy, where all tire base uses
of personal exertion were transmuted by a
touch of something electric into a surfeit of
conveniences. Surrounding the bungalow
was a delightful space in-filled with lawns
and shrubs and flowers. A group of trees
at one angle might have been a grove in
which to worship the goddess Cynthia.
To this delightful spot, so remote from
the bustle of the mart and the vulgar struggle
for life, the Canon found the urgencies of
the spirit frequently impelling his feet. Some
of his most ecstatic moments were spent in
sweet discourse with the fair lady of this
little demesne, upon such transcendental sub-
jects as the efficacy of the stole. He sang
to her like any ecclesiastical nightingale.
From stoles to souls was an easy transition.
By the Spring-time Cynthia and the Canon
had bared their souls, in mutual confi-
dences, to the extreme limits of spiritual
decency. Moving in such a rare atmosphere
it was inconceivable that platonic love could
be resolved into the physical union that the
Anglican marriage service so bluntly con-
templates. Indeed, the Canon, in his study,
sometimes felt a shade of regret that the
affair had been lifted to such high level. It
suggested the crescendo note of a tenor
mnting itself into thin air. After all, feet
of clay have their uses.
Then Cynthia fell ill. The sickness began
with that obscure pathological condition
named neuritis, which seems to cover all—
and sometimes none —of the pains and aches
known to humanity. Probably Cynthia’s
mother, a plain Anglo-Saxon pioneer, would
have diagnosed it as rheumatism, and have
wrapped her daughter in red flannel. To
contemplate a goddess in red flannel! The
very obscurity of the trouble intrigued the
dear lady. She pictured herself “fading
away,” glimpsing the setting of the sun at
the close of a beautiful day. From this
onward the soul-union of Cynthia and the
Canon spiralled upward till gross earth was
lost to sight. The flight often left the Canon
breathless, and with an odd sinking at the
pit of his stomach. From time to time came
vagrant lapses into mundane thought. Little
devils who popped their heads into reveries
suggested worldly hopes. They fluttered be-
fore him on wings of crisp new notes of the
Commonwealth —beset him on every side till
even the bell that rang for evensong clanged
“Bonds, bonds, bonds.”
Cynthia grew ever thinner, ever more
sharply-boned in the face. The Greek nose
now suggested birds of dominant beak. Her
spirit shed the last vestige of fleshly appe-
tites. She became almost ethereal. The
Canon, on the other hand, did not show any
outward and visible sign of the immaterial.
His round and well-shorn face still shone
rosily. Indeed, as she waned feebler, he
waxed sleeker —after the manner of 45 un-
hampered by the quiverfull.
At last the end, long drawn, approached.
Cynthia took to bed, and to the chaste
privacy of her room came the Canon in pas-
toral visitation. He was announced to the
nurse in attendance. She was dubious, but
concluded that the doctor’s injunction of
“No visitors” could not be held to exclude
clergymen. They were more in the nature
of visitations. So she consulted her patient,
who eagerly assented to his admission. She
was returning to the maid, waiting outside
the door, when Cynthia recalled her.
(Continued on next page.)


3)
P
You need ZAM-BUK when
your skin is “below par”
IF you have a tendency to skin trouble of any sort you should dress your
skin daily with Zam-Buk. Pimples, blotches, rashes, etc., are apt, if
neglected, to develop into serious skin disease.
Zam-Buk is the one remedy you can rely upon to keep your skin clear
and healthy. This rare herbal balm sinks into and purifies the inner tissues,
and acts as a tonic for the sluggish skin.
ZAM-BUK SOAP
(Medicinal).
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL SOAP is
more than ordinary soap. Its medi-
cinal quadities penetrate through the
pores, uproot disease, and improve
the functions of the skin on which
the bodily health so largely depends.
For the housewife whose hands and
fingers are sore with domestic duties;
for baby’s chafed and tender parts;
for the daughter who would preserve
her skin clear and fresh ; and for the
husband needing a refreshing wash
after the day’s work, ZAM-BUK
MEDICINAL SOAP is the purest,
most healthful, yet withal the most
economical soap to use.
1 /- per tablet of all Chemists,
2/10 box of three.
Whilst there are valuable
emollient qualities in Zam-Buk
that are good for the skin at any
time, it is essentially a real cura-
tive skin medicine, and not an
article of mere toilet value only.
No fatty ointment or salve can
possibly do your skin the same
good as this pure and highly-
refined Zam-Buk.
There is nothing to equal
Zam-Buk for Eczema, Ulcers,
Ringworm, Piles, Rashes, Cuts,
Burns, Poisoned Sores, etc.
INSIST ON ZAM-BUK.
There’s Nothing “Just as Good.”
1/6 and 3/6 of all Chemists
and Stores. Get a box to-day!
PAINFUL SORES ON FINGERS HEALED.
“I found in Zam-Buk a soothing remedy for my
painful skin disease,” writes Miss Dolly Southon,
Goulburn Street, Singleton. ‘‘For months three or four
lingers on both hands were affected with nasty blisters
and sores. I dare not put my hands in water, and the
itching irritation was so severe it kept me awake at night.
As I began to fear the trouble was a form of eczema, 1
consulted a doctor. His special treatment, however, did
no permanent good, and a friend persuaded me to get
Zam-Buk. This balm soothed and purified my skin
splendidly and soon wrought a permanent cure. Zam-Buk
cured me six months ago, but since then there has been
no further sign of the trouble.’'
CONTMNS
HO
oa
AT
HO«
o«*°°
»T
1
oU
cu^
<8
Sts
BRVJ
BU«>*S
RtS
icw« k
p Lts
P\M
LIS
LtOS
sc»m»cr
bm>
a
M»SM
tUM
LLNHOS
OH
BACKS
HE. (LOS
SORE.
<&l c PSyl&
m
■Si?
UNEQUALLED
■‘~T~S rri
cu ~7;
FOOTBALL
■
cycL
eNEKALLy
. IS » — ■
SPODTSMEN
*
Hri
i
“The mirror? Yes, of course! Can you
see there? Certainly! Let me do it”—and
she deftly powdered the Greek nose.
The Canon entered on tiptoe, bending for-
ward with upraised hand.
“Don’t move, pray, don’t move. Thanks
so much!” and he took the proffered chair.
The silent-footed nurse left them. The
bedroom of the spinster had become a taber-
nacle, and convention was suspended.
She waited near at hand, and after a not-
too-protracted interval met the Canon at the
door. He bowed to her —bowing had become
mechanical to him.
“I trust I have not been too long? The
dear lady....a sainted 50u1....h0w sad,
how sad indeed!” and he walked to the
hall, a little book of comforting aphorisms in
liis hand, a beatific expression of Christian
resignation on his face.
Three days later Cynthia presented her-
self at the Dark Door with powdered nose,
and the Canon committed all that was left
of “our dear sister” to the dust from which
she had sprung.
Over a week elapsed, and Canon Spriglit-
ley received through the commonplace
medium of the post a foolscap letter inform-
ing him that he was, under the will of the
late Miss Simpson, the recipient of a legacy.
He put the large sheet of paper before him on
his writing-pad. He stared at it unbeliev-
ingly. To stay his nerves he took some
whisky—a medicinal dose—but the docu-
ment suffered no sea-change under the stimu-
lant. It was too much for him to realise.
He walked up and down the study staring
blankly at the backs of the sermons and
apologetics that stood in dusty files upon
the bookshelves.
* * * *
A week later Canon Spriglitley’s friend
Golightly had a letter from him:—
Dear Gol, —Awfully sorry, the much-planned trip
to the Holy Land and Paris stands cancelled. Doubt-
less you have read of the death of Miss Simpson.
The dear lady did not forget me. She left me,
besides a fragrant memory, her morocco-bound copy
of Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s “Sonnets from the
Portuguese.” “Soulful” she used to call them, and
marked this passage:—
“ Oh, to shoot
My soul’s full meaning into future years,
That they should lend it utterance, and salute
Love that endures, from life that disappears.”
After making a few other bequests, doubtless of equal
value, she left the residue, practicallv the whole
of her property, to the Sustentation Fund for the
Widows of Deceased Clergymen, “in which,” she
was pleased to remark, “my dear friend Canon
Spnghtley has always evinced the deepest interest ”
Dear old man, death has its sting.
T. B. CLEGG.
The Taint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. GOLDIE, who in youth had de-
spised respectability, was now re-
spectable, and strangely happy to
be so. Well-to-do, and much esteemed in
his circle, he prized the position he had carved
out of the moral wilderness of his former
days. He was proud of his ordered ways,
of his family—in fact, of everything that
pertained to the stout, complacent, affluent
Goldie of 50. Proud also of his religious
standing. It was his wife who had first
taken to churchgoing, and in the beginning
he had smiled tolerantly at her efforts to
interest him in the habit. Then he had
begun to accompany her every Sunday, and
by and bye had found himself filling minor
official positions, and being pressed to take
others. And now he was intensely proud
of being a leading churchman —deferred to
by the parson, looked up to by the flock.
A knock sounded at the door. Something
inspired Goldie to answer it himself. It
was a rainy, blowy afternoon, and the two
men who stood on the front steps wore
dripping waterproofs.
“Mr. Goldie?” said one.
“That’s my name.”
“It will be your son —Arthur Goldie —
we’re looking for. Is he at home?”
“No. He left on a holiday a week ago.
What do you want?”
“Where has lie gone?”
“He didn’t say. What’s it all about,
man ?”
“We’re very sorry to trouble you, Mr.
Goldie. That is, we’re detectives. Brown s
my name —this is O’Brien.”
The man’s manner struck Goldie with a
sudden chill of apprehension. Before he
knew what lie was doing he had asked the
men in, and with the door closed so that a
prying world would not see them and wonder
at their business, was appealing for an ex-
planation. Still with that hurtful, apolo-
getic sympathy, they explained. It was a
pity that young Mr. Goldie was away-—he
would probably have a good explanation and
could clear himself; but, as a matter of
fact, they had a warrant for his arrest.
Embezzlement was the charge—a matter of
£4OO.
Goldie’s brain was whirling. His son a
thief! The son of John Goldie, church-
warden and alderman, would be tried. Per-
haps convicted and sent to gaol. A Goldie!
Scare headlines danced before his eyes:—
Son op a Churchwarden.
Embezzlement Charge.
But he gripped himself.
“He must face it, of course,” he said
firmly. “If I have any knowledge of my
son, he will face it. His mother may know
where lie is, and if you will excuse me I'll
ask her.”
He was amazed to find her door locked.
The rattled handle brought a response that
she had a headache and wanted to be alone.
No, Arthur had not said where he was going,
but he was to be back that day.
The detectives dismissed, he had time for
other thoughts. He recalled that his wife's
voice had been as though strangled with
tears when she had answered him. Did she
already know? Hurriedly he returned to
her room. This time the door opened.
“I was coming to you,” she said. “It’s
a thing you have to know. It’s about
Muriel.”
“Muriel!” he cried, and followed her, for
she had flung herself on the bed, and was
weeping hysterically.
“What is it,” he gasped—“about Muriel?”
“She’s in trouble.”
“You don’t mean?”
A despairing nod was his answer. A great
wrath swept over him.
“Who is the man—by God, I’ll kill him!
WhQ is he?”
“She wouldn’t tell me. She said it would
be all right. I don’t know—she wouldn’t”—
she stopped in a chaos of sobs.
Goldie paced the room in anguish. Both
of them—son and daughter. Even his little
daughter, Muriel. The position which he
and his wife had built up until it seemed a
solid, unshakable structure was tumbling
like a pack of cards.
He became aware that his wife was talk-
ing and turned to find her sitting up, curi-
ously calm. .
“You must find the man and make him
marry her,” she said. “It will be all right
if people don’t know. I think it’s young
Payne.”
A gust of rage swept him.
“That young waster!” he cried. “I’d
rather see her dead than married to him!”
“Whatever you think of him, it is what
will save her that we have to consider,” she
said. “I know you dislike him, but if he’s
the man you must get over it! Remember
your own young days. Many people would
have called you a waster then? Remember
how we”
He shivered. He did remember. Remem-
bered something that latterly they had tried
to forget. The old memories flashed back
with such force that he almost hated the
woman before him. Whilst he was still
undivorced from his first wife, Emma and
he had lived together, thinking all things
justified by their love. Now he saw the
affair in another light. Their weaknesses
were coming out in the children. The sins
of the fathers....
“Yes, I remember!” he cried, bitterly.
“We sowed and never thought of the reap-
ing ! Now it is upon us. There is a taint
on the children. This happens to Muriel —
and our son is a thief.”
“A thief !” she repeated with wild eyes.
“He has- embezzled £400.”
“Don’t call him a thief!” she cried, pas-
sionately. “You shall not call him a thief !
I don’t care what he has done, he is my son
- —and yours. And what of yourself when
a boy? You stole”——-
“Stop! I was poor; I needed money.
Arthur had all he wanted.”
And then suddenly he broke down and
sobbed, crying about his little girl, Muriel,
and his son, Arthur. At which Emma woke
from her helplessness, her passion gone, to
comfort him. For a while they sat there,
two broken old people with all the dreams
they had built up vanishing about them,
facing problems to which they could not find
an answer, so that they could only comfort
one another.
Tainted! The thought came back to
Goldie, as his wife, worn with grief, dropped
off to sleep. He stole downstairs, still brood-
ing. He and she were answerable for the
failings of their children, whose faults were
the past faults of Emma and himself. The
taint had been passed on. And now his
son and daughter were’ spoilt for him, and
nothing but disgrace was around him.
The telephone rang and he walked heavily
to it.
Brown speaking,” he heard. “Yes—
Detective Brown. I thought I’d let you
know at once. That warrant has been with-
drawn. Some mistake, I suppose, in the
first instance. I'm very glad to be able”....
He stood dazed, so that he scarcely heard
the motor-car stop outside, and only turned
when the door opened. The spectacle of the
two young men and the happy-faced girl in
the doorway gave him a sensation as though
a nightmare had suddenly ended. It did not
surprise him when his daughter ran to his
arms with a cry of “Father!” and then led
Payne to him. His eyes, cleared by trouble,
now saw in Payne an honest, pleasant-faced
young Australian. He hearkened to a deluge
of explanations; of how, fearing his hostility,
Payne and Muriel had secretly married;
of how Arthur had misguidedly decided to
help them with enough money to begin house-
keeping. Payne took up the story here:
“Of course Arthur did more than a good
mate should have done—for his sister’s sake
and mine too. But directly I heard how he’d
got the stuff I went to his firm, and put the
whole position before them. They’re pre-
pared to let my people settle up, and Arthur
has dropped into something better.”
“But he did take the money,” said Goldie
miserably.
“He meant to repay it, and it’s going to
be repaid.”
# *■ * ♦
“And so everything is right and beautiful,
and nobody will ever know anything,” mur-
mured Mrs. Goldie happily after the young
people had gone.
But in Goldie’s heart there lingered a sense
of irreparable loss. They were fine children,
fine young Australians, Payne included—
finer and freer and more upstanding than
the young people of his own generation. Yet
the taint remained, the taint of old, half-
forgotten sins; and maybe it would show out
again to the destruction of them all.
And then, because all life is like that, he
reached after the sun again and was able to
lose himself in the hilarity of a happy even-
ing.
HAMER.
The Holy Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY feared the friar in the hall,
A holy man and grim;
But when the little princess came
She only smiled at him.
The friar preached the life austere;
The princess did not care—
She saw the kisses in his eyes
A woman had left there.
And when he died of fast and prayer,
And men from north and south
Made pilgrimage towards his bier,
She set upon his mouth
A damask rose her garden grew....
They blamed such worldly wile,
Then trembled at the miracle
Who saw a dead man smile!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


lIS
M
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
the WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOliMlSS Sc CHURCH, Brisbane.
«.Z. Office—B3-10,7 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
rrtGCf
fVfc
m'tS- 9
The ATC6 MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
The File that gives Service.
“An Eagle on a Globe’’ Files are made for hard work. The high quality
Sheffield Steel used in their manufacture means a great economy in
their use.
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
ENGINEERS’ FILES
Are subjected to scientific inspection before leaving the
Sheffield works. Study this workshop economy and insist
on the best files—and the best are branded “An Eagle
on a Globe.”
Send your specifications and orders for any quantity,
and KNOW this superior file service. Ask for
“Balfour’s Hints on Steel.” Post Free.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Company
Limited, Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
SYDNEY: 379-81 Kent Steeet.
MELBOURNE: 342-48 Swanston Street.
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray, Ltd.,
Scott Street.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Atkins & Co.,
Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
HOBART: R. L. Milligan, 32a
Argyle Street.
Also at FREMANTLE
and KALGOORLIE.
yr/jffh
VV//////,
k&m
3T
\\
jj\
7
s>
>NN-Ti>
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain ant! Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
sd
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cut*
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Wetproof Shotgun Cartridges
“Never mind the weather”
UNIFORMLY GOOD during the rainy
season or when it’s hot and humid.
Climatic changes do not affect Reming-
ton Cartridges.
No swollen cases to spoil sport by “jam-
ming” at a critical moment.
Remington’s patented exclusive wet-
proof process seals and protects the car-
tridges; they are air and water tight.
Examine the head for REM-UMC
It means factory loaded .
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
_E3
%
AFantm
0 ’0
G
OOD HEALTH, no doubt, is often a heritage, but
it is just as often a matter of cultivation.
Many healthy families have not been endowed
with exceptionally strong constitutions and the fact that
their members keep remarkably free from disease and
live to a good old age is largely due to the sensible way
in which they attend to questions of health.
They keep their digestive organs in good order. Any
sign of stomach trouble or constipation is immediately
dealt with by means of the World’s Family Medicine.
Keep a box of Beecham’s Pills in the house and
make use of them whenever your health or that of any
member of the family needs attention.
9
Sold !n boxes, labelled
) 10id, ls-lid and 2s-9d .
(original English prices).
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 8C276 (4 lines).
Sydney Ferries, Limited.
THOMPSON S CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
"THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIILIAMSI’OWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Cliancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SIDNEY:
L. Dinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PEBTH:
Jas. Hayden.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.


-A J
i
Q
1\
l
%
m
to
m
“ >jT
/
W\ \
/
W\A
<
HI
The spirit of our mariners in olden times laid the
foundation of the greatest Empire the world has
ever known. And no less fine a spirit animates
them to-day—
DEWAR’S
U
99
