

{
Same Day
CEDVirr
SfiKV
L eloping and Printing
Leave spools before 10 am .
-prints ready 5 pm, .
Secure the best possible results from your holiday pictures by y
using the “Kodak” Service—available at all Branches (over the
counter or by mail) or through your local “Kodak” dealer.
The words “Kodak Print” on the back of each are a guarantee of
quality and permanency throughout the Commonwealth —insist on
seeing them.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
379 George Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders ~~
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., 672
Perth; “The Kodak Comer,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, We 11
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2290.
Thursday, January, 3, 1924.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
HilhltiSiiil
r
w
mm
milium
VI i.
m
Mangrovite Leather Belting
is manufactured in grades and sizes
FOR ALL KINDS OF DRIVES,
and every inch is guaranteed.
Exact engineering science, long experience, special tamil S
process and expert painstaking care in ev . ery , +he
manufacture, go to make this high-grade, popular belt■ « t
most reliable and most economical proposition on the
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNE .
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Lt .
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co..
QUKENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co Ltd.,
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann. 5 Bedford How. Oin.te r „
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, uren
Street, Adelaide.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
A British Triumph! further successes
GRAND PRIX
DE FRANCE,TOURS
JULY 2
6 cylinder
SUNBEAM
Ist, 2nd & 4th
Driven by H. O. D.Segrave.
Albert Uiv3 and Lee
Guinness respectively.
QN JUNE 23rd, AT FANOE.
Denmark. Captain Malcolm Campbell,
driving a SUNBEAM, fitted ■with Dunlop
Cord Tyres, broke the world’s speed record
for one mile from flying start in 26.14 secs.
137.7 m.p.h.
fAN JUNE 29th, AT PORTHCAWL.
A-' Captain Malcolm Campbell, driving a
6-cyl. SUNBEAM, covered the mile fiom
standing start in 47.2/sths secs,, passing the
winning post at
110 m.p.h.
1912. COUPE de l’Auto France.
SUNBEAM Ist, 2nd & 3rd
1914. TOURIST Trophy, 1.0. M,
SUNBEAM FIRST
1922. TOURIST Trophy, 1.0. M.
SUNBEAM FIRST
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LIMITED
WOLVERHAMPTON - - - ENGLAND
Export Dept.: 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, England
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco," London.
r. . MntnK Ltd 173-175 a Pulteiiey Street, Adelaide:
Authorised Dealers. Adelaide Motors. Jj t > industries Ptv Ltd 104-112
MelboSf Motor W? Ltd., 376-378 Queen Street, Brisbane;
Arthur Anderson, Ltd., 1056 Hay Street, Perth.
1
u
For e ? ery ,Toc7a^ onS -
and f°r ° U
!B=J
r
***t,£U*“** , otio o* tt,G \
flla® e
&c.
u
VI ies fees
WACDO
r 165
i«G /v Vb, r - G: - c ‘“ l “ , ' sl ” v °
poeloftf ‘
*
it/
l
I
&
hi
Agents for Australia:
LyallWillisSCo.Ltd.
Melbourne. . Baldwin & Slattery.
Sydney .Tones & Joseph.
Adelaide ...Arthur Glover.
Brisbane... ..Tones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullin & Co.,
1-3 Selbourne Chambers,
Howard Street.
Every man
should use
ANZORA for his hair, because
it is the only preparation that will
effectually keep the hair neat and
in position throughout the day.
Just rub a little into the scalp each
morning and brush the hair well.
Gently yet firmly refuse proffered
substitutes. There is nothing “as
good as” ANZORA.
Anzora Cream is suitable for greasy
scalps & Anzora Viola for dry scalps.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers,
Stores, or from any of our Agents.
MASTERS THE HAIR
Manufactured by the
ANZORA PERFUMERY CO. Ltd.
Willesden Lane, London, England.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
MUSTDIE.
THE GROT INSECT BESTKOytI
BUS
flies.
Fleas.
Bugs
Mo-Vmitooi
- V-
mote effectively, and we
wallfc you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. I*
The Red Page
Nietzsche for the Young
If I were asked to prescribe a course of
reading for Intelligent Youth, I should see
that biographies of such vital, creative spirts
as Goethe, Balzac, Heine, Stendhal, Nietzsche
and Wagner were given prominent place. -
work of literary art demands for .its tuii
appreciation the critical understanding that
comes with' the sobering years that folio
the early twenties, when pros and cons nay
been to some extent sorted out, and the con-
flict of one’s ardors alid prejudices begin to
settle into a point of view. But a desire to
hear and sing the praises of great men is
part of the heritage of all noble-minded
vouth. Whether Wagner spent the -Nth ol
Mav in Vienna or Sorrento matters no*
thing; a chronological table of Nietzsche s
many movements is equally of no consc
quence; but that the brilliant young pro-
fessor of Basle was admitted to \\ agners
confidence when that piussant artist was a
the zenith of his powers, that the two
became close friends, and that, after an
idyllic interlude, to which Nietzsche ever
afterwards referred as the only really happy
episode of his life, they became, estranged in
sympathy, taste and aspiration—here is
biographical matter of the most engrossing
description. This chronicle ot a saulai
friendship”—Nietzsche’s own phrase is
now made accessible for English readers in
a translation, The Nietzsche- Wag net; Corres-
pondence (Duckworth), with an introduc-
tion by H. E. Mencken and a running com-
mentary from the indefatigable pen of the
philosopher’s sister, Elizabeth loerstei-
. g clear 1 y established by the pub-
lication of these documents is that posterity
must overhaul its estimate of N\ agner s
loyalty to Nietzsche. Like all creative
artists, he was mainly concerned with the
exploitation of his own personality. i e
was, also, the victim of a megalomaniacal
dread of rivals; and he must have sensed
before long the potentialities of Nietzsches
mind. But it takes two to make an
estrangement, and Nietzsche was the most
fastidious and exacting of men. fco tnat,
while it is obvious that Wagner was unable
to gauge at its true value his disciple s ex-
traordinary significance as an original intel-
lectual force, one is yet driven to the con-
clusion that Nietzsche was in any case
doomed by his thirst for the unattainable to
life-long solitude. He w r ould have become
estranged even from Plato and Da V inci
had they been his contemporaries. It was
this .thirst for the unrealisable that taught
h's maturing faculties the profound ditler-
- nee between the Wagner of his own crea-
on and the living being—part divinity, part
: ountebank—that was to profess satistac-
on” at the vulgar atmosphere in which the
hirst Bayreuth Festival (1576) was cele-
rated Earlier, in those wonderful lnb-
flien days, they had looked to Bayreuth as
. ailors in a waste of seas look for land.
Vhile he was still living at Tribschen—
surrounded by an enchanting landscape ot
hill and wood and lake, whose very spirit
fives for us in the “Siegfried Idyll —Nietz-
,che had declared that Bayreuth was to be
‘a union of all really creative persons:
artists to come with their art creations,
authors to produce their new works, re-
formers to present their new ideas. It will
be a universal soul-bath, and a new realm
af untold blessing will be revealed there.
Vlas! Four years later, thanks to an elabo-
rate machinery of canvassing, patronage and
advertisement on the one hand, and the curi-
osity and simulated enthusiasm .of the
entire leisured rabble of Europe” on the
other, the function actually resembled a
fashionable race-meeting: carriages, display
of jewels, dress, flaneurs, a parade of intel-
lectual snobbery, the blue-stocking as courte-
san (or vice versa), and nowhere —not even,
it would seem, in the breast of the master
himself —any sense of failure or disappoint-
ment, much less disgust. But for the
hyper-jesthetic young professor the experi-
ence was a devastating one; and ever after-
wards, in speaking of Bayreuth, his words
come as it were in paroxysms of shame and
bitterness. .
(I wonder, by way of parenthesis, what
Cosima thought of it all. She was a “blue-
stocking” in the best sense, and could have
held her own at any period in the most ex-
clusive salons of Europe. Her letters to
Nietzsche are documents of considerable cul-
tural significance. Few people at that time,
for instance, could have written more intelli-
gently than she did of Nietzsche’s profound
essay in creative criticism, “The Birth of
Tragedy.” What did she really think of
Bayreuth? Perhaps, being a daughter of
Liszt, she too had a streak of charlatanism
n her make-up. Be that as it may, she must
lave shared something of Nietzsche’s mis-
giving at sight of this vulgarisation of an
deal. But women are cryptic creatures:
hey lack tongues to reveal themselves.)
As a counter-irritant to the smug and
lendacious poison of the average “standard
ife,” I should certainly include this book
a my Course of Selected Biography for
lie Use of the Young. Nietzsche’s incal-
ulable contribution to thought is the food
ram which the youth of the future must
raw sustenance, if the world of ideas is to
s saved from decadence and exhaustion.
He stood (as we still stand, timorous lag-
gards that we are) at the dawn and thres-
hold of a strange new world in which the
idols of the past must either be transformed
and given a new iridescence, or tumbled
from their solemn heights and exposed to
the fast-conquering erosion of scorn. Let
youth take heed! The significance of human
life and the interpretations that have been
put upon our destiny have suffered such
changes within the last two generations that
only a pedagogue could any longer imagine the
world as a sort of international playing-
field or “moral gymnasium” wherein Angli-
can virtue meets and throws all comers,
without ever infringing the gentle rules of
the game. And though the ideal of a
dense optimism, with its myopic eyes forever
“on the ball,” may have helped to make the
British Empire what it is, it seems never-
theless high time that we began to query the
assumption (so dear to our athletic peda-
gogues) that the three R’s and lots of sport
plus such a philosophy of life as is summed
up in the motto ‘‘Play the game” is all-
sufficient to keep the Empire where it was
before 1914 and save it, ultimately, from
total disruption and eclipse. .1 ensli the day
when sport shall be put away finally asa
childish thing! But its cultivation at the
expense of really serious things, sucn as
music, philosophy, art and poetry, is a mis-
take that has surely never been made on
earth before. . . ..
No; it is by the tragic view of the
world —cheerfulness in the Greek sense
that the soul of man is best tutored. Is it
not better to go from ‘‘The Birth of lra-
gedy” to “Zarathustra” than from “Tristan
and Isolde” to “Parsifal”? Nietzsche s life
was indeed a progression, a self-surpassing;
but Wagner’s was merely a retrogression : m
the end lie collapsed like a. drum-banging (Sal-
vationist who abjures his own prime and
falls into self-slandering hysteria. Wagner
was the General William Booth of Germany,
as Tolstoy was that of Russia. But moral
and intellectual values are undergoing a
radical revaluation, and it is unlikely that
the world will ever be “saved again by re-
ligious hysteria. It is useless to expostulate.
Sooner or later we must doff the shabby
cloak of Nazarenc morality. Let us see that
the youth of the future is decently capari-
soned. Let us see that he gets a copy ot
Nietzsche on his 18th birthday.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
The Seal
En-lil, brighter than the dew-star, stronger
than the sea, calmer than the desert and
fairer than the river between green banks,
rose from his couch on the Mountain of the
World and gazed out over the lands. Once
in ten thousand years must he rise and look
upon his work; for he had made the will of
man when man was yet less than the worm,
and the thing that he had made was forever
in his keeping. But this was the method of
his guardianship. Always, as he slept, the
Tablets of Destiny were at his right hand;
and the wind, coming up with the breath of
men when they breathe hard at their work,
wrote upon them in a language older than
the stars. But En-lil might not look upon
the tablets; for he and all the gods had
forgotten that language until the East Awak-
ening. Only he slept for ten thousand
years, lying dead as stone and breathing but
one breath to the day and one breath to the
night, that he might be refreshed for his
awakening. But when the sleep went from
his eyes his soul was for an hour like calm
ightning, eager and seeing and wise, so that
his time of knowing was more than the ten
thousand years that he had slept. Thus he
lived under the shadow of Anu, with Ea of
the wonders stirring life forever at his feet.
En-lil gazed over the lands that he had
given to the will of man. Very beautiful
they were with rivers and seas and hills
fringed with olive and vine ; but he had not
given them to man for their beauty. Very
rich they were with corn and hive and fruit;
but he had not given them to man that man
might be fat and contented. The purpose
of the lands was that man might grind his
will upon them, as a sword is ground on a
whetstone, to cut out the thing he desired.
For En-lil had made it so, when man was
less than the worm, that the thing of man’s
desire should b<} the thing man was, but
never fixed and surely himself until En-lil,
in waking, set his seal to it. So the desires
of man ebbed and flowed and seethed and
bubbled, going backwards and forwards; but
always the will of man grew sharper, being
ground to a fine edge on the lands where he
lived.
And now, while yet high up on the Moun-
tain of the World, En-lil saw moving over
the surface of the earth great caterpillars
that snorted smoke, howled at the rivers
and barked like wolves at the heels of the
steep hills. On every side were these strange
creatures, crawling fast upon wheels; and
En-lil marked that the will of man had made
them. “Surely,” he said within, the, cloud
that was his beard, “the worm returns to
the worm that twisted to answer its first free
I impulse.”
But En-lil went afar and saw under the
smoke of cities wheels upon wheels doing
the will of man ; and he said: “The will is
not to the worm, but to the wheel. It is
to the wheel that his desire goes, and he
shall make of himself a wheel, crawling or
standing.” But while yet he thought on set-
ting his seal to this, that a man should be
a wheel to his will, he saw an implement that,
rising on wheels, soared upward. As it
soared and dipped and dived lie marked that
man flew faster than the bird whose will was
of Ea; and he said: “His will is not in the
wheel nor in the wings but in the fast going.
His will is to speed, and he shall be faster
and faster till he is speed only and move ever
like the swift lightning beyond time and his
own thought, but never beyond his heart.”
And En-lil was sorrowful; for he remembered
how his brothers of the gods who loved swift-
ness above thought had worn themselves to
stone, finding the utmost of speed in utter
nothingness of being—become a gem of flying
atoms in an orbit so small that men framed
it in gold and wore it in a ring, knowing no-
thing of the will that burned without thought
to its flashing. So En-lil did not yet set
his seal to speed in the will of man, hoping
that there was more to see.
Then En-lil talked with the hearts of men
and aske.d them of the purpose of life; but
to most it had no purpose save to eat and
drink and rear children that might eat and
drink. But there were many ways of the
eating and drinking; for they had studied
economics and the words made them feel
wise. So En-lil was sorry and went on.
Afterwards he came to the artists and writers
and publishers of daily newspapers, and
talked with their hearts; but they said only
that this was fine and that was beautiful,
and that advertisements and circulation were
pleasant things. So En-lil went on and was
more sorry. The farmers’ hearts talked of
markets, the merchants’ of gains and the
manufacturers’ of unfair competition ; so En-
lil grew weary of the multitude and went
forth again to quiet places. On the side of
(Continued on page S.)


IP
f
me
Reliable Firearms Will Cost You Less
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
If you would obtain the utmost
satisfaction and economy in Guns,
Revolvers and Ammunition, make
Anthony Horderns’ your shopping
headquarters. There you will find an
unrivalled assortment of high-grade
Firearms to choose from widely
varied in type and design, but uniform
in the one respect of representing the
greatest possible value for the lowest
possible price.
REPAIRS.
We undertake
Repairs of all
kinds to any
make of Gun,
Rifle or
Revolver. New
barrels and
other parts
fitted to Rifles.
Sights fitted
and adjusted.
120. The B.S.A. 12-Bore Hammerless Duck and
Pigeon Gun, chambered for 2 fin. cartridges.
Specially designed for Australian conditions. An
all-British production.
Price £l5/15/-
ORDER BY
MAIL.
You can, with
all confidence,
post your
orders. Our
expert Mail
Order Staff will
give faithful
attention, and
ensures prompt
despatch of
your goods.
YT 36.—Winche ster
Se 1 f-loading Shot
Gun, Model 1911 —the
Ideal Duck Gun. Will
handle 2|in. 12-gauge
Cartridge. It is a re-
co i 1-operated 5-shot
Repeater, firing 5 shots
in less than 5 seconds;
takes apart for carry-
ing. The Barrel, Re-
ceiver and all working
parts are made of
Nickel Steel. Perfect
Balance. Weight about
81b.; solid Walnut
Stock.
Price . . £l5
¥T 101.—Hollis & Sons’ 12-g. Anson &
Deely Pattern Hammerless D.B.
Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt. Steel Barrels
(both choke), Automatic Safety Bolt,
proved for Nitro Powder, chambered for
23in. Cartridges, high, flat, dead-level,
File-cut Rib, Walnut Heart Stock.
With 32-incli Barrels and Sid | Clips.
Price £^S/10/-
61.—1. Hollis & Sons’ 12-g. Top Lever
D.8.8.L. Duck and Pigeon Gun, Treble
Bolted Action on the Cross Bolt principle,
Steel Barrels, both Choke Bore (right modi-
fied, left full), high flat dead-level Bile-cut Rib,
o-ood Steel Bar Rebounding Locks well-grown
Walnut Heart Stock, Half Pistol Grip, Deely-
Edge Fore-end P’astener, specially built tor
heavy charges, proved for Nitro Powders,
chambered for 2Jin, Caitiidges.
Price £l4
ffiafirfSrSgl PI
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
K
m
ffi
BB
i
i
YT 420. —Brown
Waterproof
Check Cart-
tridge Bag,
with Leather
Sling. To hold
50 Cartridges.
Price . . 7/"
To hold 100 Cart-
ridges.
Price .. 0/-
SHOT GUN CARTRIDGES.
Eley’s 12G. x 2% in. Gastight, Steel Dined,
Diamond Smokeless Powder.
Price 30/- per 100
Eley’s 12G. x 2% E.R. Nitro, Diamond Smoke-
' less Powder. _ „ „
Price 25/- per 100
Eley’s 12G. x 2y 2 Grand Prix, Diamond
Smokeless Powder.
Price 20/- per 100
Eley’s 12G. x Universal, Black Powder.
Price 18/- per 100
Kynoch 12G. x 2}£ Bonax, Smokeless Powder.
Price 20/- per 100
YT 426.—Leather Cartridge
Belt, 2iin. wide, with Steel
Clips, Copper Riveted,
Leather Straps at bottom,
12G, to hold 25 Cartridges.
Price 17/6
YT 129. —W. W. Greener’s 12G. D.8.8.L.
Hammerless Duck and Pigeon Gun, 30m.
Special Steel Barrels, Treble Wedge i ast
Action, Independent Side Safety, Pull Choke
in both Barrels, Chambered for 2Jin. Cart_
ridges, Engine Turned rib, Walnut Stock.
Price
YT 130.-—-W. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammer-
less Gun, made on W. W. Greener’s Facile
Princeps system of breech mechanism.
Safe 30in. Steel Barrels, both Choke, Engine
Turned Rib, with Greener’s Patent Treble
Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, chambered for 2f in
cases! proved for all Nitro Powders, Walnut
Heart Stock, neatly engraved, a good Buck
gun. Weight 7to 8 pounds.
Price
YT 411. —Strong Can-
vas Game Bag, with
Loop, Runners and
Strong Web Sling,
18 x 16 inches.
Price .... 12/6
With Net.
Price .... 17/6
YT 166. Remington
Auto-loading Rifle,
Model 24A, easily
assembled and taken
apart for cleaning or
carrying, solid breech,
hammerless, will fire
Rim Fire .22 Calibre
Short Smokeless Cart-
ridges of any make,
20in. round barrel,
weight 4ilb., Maga-
zine holds 11 cart-
ridges.
Price £5
1
YT 391. —Gun Cases,
for 30in. barrels.
Price
Blocked Solid Leather,
4O-
/ 386. Brown Canvas Gun Cases, lined with
cloth. Spring Cloth, Leather-bound ends and
Price «*/•
ANTHONY HORDERN
& Sons Limited.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


Here’s the Key to Really
Great Mental Power—
m
Wzik
mgr.
*
mmu
umum
in
H9HB
m
m
mmm
ni .<
mm
v'
I ms
sm m
i/V
mm
m
mm
j/Mm
vm
&
S«
An-!
sssfcaisg
■HMH
iifSfeS*
awfeaaßß
Published by Fun,.
i Vagnails Co., New York and London. Publishers of “Th Literary Digest
Synopsis of Ten Volumes
POISE: How to Attain It
Here the immense value of poise is explained,
with instructions for acquiring the ability to be
thoroughly at ease and self-controlled in all situa-
tions, even under the most trying circumstances.
A clear explanation is given of how one man can
dominate a situation without appearing to do so;
how to rid yourself of uncertainty; how to hold
an individual or an audience; how to create the
favorable first impression that counts for so much
in business and social life, etc., etc.
TIMIDITY: How to Overcome It
This volume shows you how to get rid of doubt
of yourself which is the cause of all timidity.
It describes the way to attain thorough self-con-
fidence; how to develop moral courage, courage
of your convictions; how to develop physical
courage; how to gain the power that will give
you mastery of yourself and mastery of others.
It explains the handicap in business and society
that timidity places on you, and how to over-
come it.
PERSEVERANCE: How to Develop It
Of all the modern “keys to fortune” none more
easily turns the tumblers of the lock than Per-
severance. This volume analyses this quality,
points out all the factors which contribute to
great perseverance, and then shows you how you
may develop it in yourself. How to exercise
self-control; how to throw off worry and fatigue;
how to keep fresh, keen and enthusiastic for
your job; how to train your mind to concentrate,
create, apply itself to any task you will—these
and many other phases of the subject are
explained for you.
OPPORTUNITIES:
How to Make the Most of Them
This is an inspiring j and suggestive branch of
mental efficiency which shows how fortune and
good luck are nothing more than seizing oppor-
tunities that present themselves, or going
ahead and making the opportunities yourself.
How to know a good opportunity and take the
fullest advantage of it; how to acquire resource-
fulness; how to handle every situation so that
you may make of it an opportunity to gain some
advantage; how to develop the winning combina-
tion of audacity and good judgment, etc.
PERSONALITY: How to Build It
The important part that personality plays in all
the activities of life is described. You are
shown the characteristics that make up the man
or woman of personal magnetism and power, and
how you may develop them in yourself. Habits
to cultivate, mistakes to avoid, qualities needed
and how to acquire them—every phase of per-
sonality building and exercising is explained.
Remarkable suggestions as to how to “arrive” in
society or business are offered.
INFLUENCE: How to Exert It
r P ersor ial influence on your associates
that determines your place in life, and to be
successful you must exert it intelligently. This
volume explains how to concentrate all the laws
ot mental efficiency in the building and exercis-
es of your personal influence; how to assume
and hold authority; how to develop personal
magnetism and self-confidence; how to com-
mand your associates, sway an audience, per-
suade those you meet to your way of thinking-
how to exercise your influence wisely and to your
greatest advantage in every situation.
COMMON SENSE: How to Exercise It
This volume shows why simple common sense is
such a rare quality—and such a valuable one.
And it gives thorough instructions for develop-
er it. How to see all sides of everything and
then take the wisest course; how to weigh
advice and judge its value; how to dispel illu-
sions and overcome unwise impulses; how to
analyse evidence and make intelligent deduc-
tions; how to train yourself to be governed in
all your actions by common sense—these and
many other phases of the subject are explained
fully.
PRACTICALITY: How to Acquire It
This volume explains how you may control all
your thoughts and actions so that they may be
of practical advantage to you. How to acquire
the knack of easy application to any task. How
to break up bad habits without difficulty; how
to get the substance of a book from one reading-
how to use your full strength and overcome
your weaknesses; how to know false practi-
cality, and avoid errors in foresight; the stock
in trade of the practical man and how he uses
it, etc.
SPEECH: How to Use It Effectively
The expression of many of the powers of the
mind depends largely upon your ability to use
speech effectively. This volume shows you how
to talk to win in every phase of life —whether
in a dinner-speech, in a social conversation, or a
platform, in a business interview, or anywhere
else. It gives you the secrets of appealing to
the fundamental instincts of human nature; it
shows how to present your facts and opinions to
the best advantage; it explains how and when
to arouse the different emotions, etc.
CHARACTER: How to Develop It
Only by intelligent development can the full
force of your character be put into play. This
volume explains the best methods of develop-
ment. How to make the most of your strong
points and strengthen your weak ones; how to
conquer fear and foolish sentiments; how to see
things clearly and make wise decisions; how to
concentrate; how to develop the reasoning
powers, the analytical powers, the creative
powers, and co-ordinate them all to work to
your greatest advantage.
Here at last are the laws of the mind so pre-
sented as to be intelligible to all, useful to all
who wish to make their efforts more productive.
Here are the means for knowing yourself as
you really are. Here is the guide to enable you
to make of yourself that which you would be.
These ten handsome, handy and durable
volumes are not a cyclopaedia of the mind or a
series of text-books on psychology. To be sure
the men who compiled them had to understand
psychology; but in them you are enabled to
get the benefit of a profound knowledge of
psychology without going through the drudgery
of making it your life’s study. These books
tell in clear, simple, non-technical language all
that we know about the operation of the human
mind, but their really important function is to
show you how you can apply that knowledge
to your own great interest and profit. For
example: What a tremendous asset is perfect
poise. How priceless it is to the business man,
the host or hostess; yes, even to the burglar.
How few possess it. Yet it is purely a mental
product. Well, volume one of this series
makes a special study of poise because our
authors recognised what a tremendously im-
portant quality it is.
Knowledge is Not Power
Despite an old adage to the effect that it is.
But knowledge may be transformed into power,
and that’s what these books will show you how
to do.
Do not confuse MENTAL EFFICIENCY with
study courses or books on so-called “efficiency.”
Their idea of efficiency is teaching a bricklayer
how to lay more bricks, or a stenographer how
to get out more letters, or a machinist how to
make more automobiles. It is good as far as it
goes, but it’s like a railroad that dropped pas-
sengers for ’Frisco in the middle of the Great
American Desert because the rails hadn’t been
laid any further. It’s fine as far as it goes, but
nowadays people are taking through trains.
MENTAL EFFICIENCY, as these books
explain it, is much more than this. It doesn’t
try to teach a bricklayer how to lay more bricks,
but it shows him how to teach himself, so, if he
should quit bricklaying, the knowledge would
still be of use to him. Instead of wasting time
with a mere result, it goes to the root. What
would be the use of showing a timid person how
to avoid situations in which his timidity was a
handicap, when we can just as easily show him
how to cure his timidity? MENTAL EFFICI-
ENCY does that sort of thing. It is ordinary
efficiency carried out to its logical conclusion.
The Reason for Success
In these books you see, probably for the first
time, the reasons for success and failure. Why
do some apparently brilliant individuals never
get anywhere, while dull John Brown amasses
millions; or quiet, self-effacing George Smith
achieves a world-wide reputation in letters or
art or medicine or religion? Well, you see and
understand why because the reasons are pre-
sented to you in an intelligible manner. You
do not have to be a philosopher or a psycholo-
gist. You just have to possess common sense
and a healthy curiosity on the subject. Per-
haps John Brown with all his quietness had a
natural force of character and an amount of per-
severance that is given to very few of us. Well
the next thing to having those qualities is learn-
ing how to develop them. And teaching you
how to develop them is the big service the
books perform.
These Books Show You How to
Win by force of character.
Create opportunities and
make the most of them.
Analyse and solve the
problems of your daily
life.
Organise all your facul-
ties and use them to
your greatest advan-
tage.
Speak with greater
power.
Be always self-confident
and at ease.
Impress and influence
those you associate
with.
Develop executive ability.
Judge and use advice.
Banish fear and worry.
Appreciate, develop and
use your strong points.
Overcome foolish senti-
ment.
Avoid all kinds of ex-
cesses.
Banish indecision.
Overcome nervousness and
lack of balance.
Understand and overcome
your weak points.
Arouse enthusiasm in
yourself and others.
“Size up” an audience
and determine upon the
right appeal.
Develop business instinct.
Weigh the practicality of
any plan.
And hundreds of other
equally important sub-
jects.
Ten Handsome Volumes.
These masterly guides to individual suc-
cess and all that it implies, with their skilful
and practical application to the everyday
afFairs of the average man or woman of the
cream of scientific knowledge on the subject
of human nature, can be had in two distinc-
tive bindings. In strong but dainty pearl-
grey cloth with stamped titles and decora-
tions in dark blue, £2/10/- the set of ten,
plus 4/- for shipping. In fine luxart bind-
ing, semiflexible, of a rich brown, with em-
bossed titles, books that are a pleasure both
to look at and to handle, £4 the set of 10,
plus 4/- for shipping.
Sole Australasian Distributors:
Personal Efficiency Institute,
62 Ritchie Buildings,
121 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 405 G.P.O.


“Wireless and Ethics.
In a leading article in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” of Saturday, 15th December, atten-
tion was drawn to the remarkable evidence
of two scientists, Mr. F. H. Marriott, one of
the British representatives to the Pan Pacific
Congress, and Mr. F. Basil Cooke, who
recently spoke on this interesting subject to
the Institute of Journalists.
Both these gentlemen wei*e quoted as giving
detailed statements with regard to some of
the beneficial results of Wireless, other than
Broadcasting, and its value from an ethical
point of view.
Seek the advice of
Mr. F. BASIL COOKE, f.r.a.s„
on all Radio matters.
David Jones’ have been fortunate in
securing the services of Mr. F. Basil
Cooke, F.R.A.S., and all those interested
in Wireless or Broadcasting can take
advantage of his expert advice and know-
ledge before purchasing a Broadcasting
service.
In these early and experimental days,
when the science of Wireless is still new
in Australia, it is necessary to have this
expert advice so that the Public may feel
that what they purchase will give the
service they require.
Advice is given freely on any subject
small or large relative to Wireless. You
are advised to get in touch with David
Jones ’ Radio Department, 22 York Street,
and have any point that you are in doubt
about made plain.
Write for a copy of Booklet: “Radio
—a Simple and Concise Explanation
for the Uninitiated.”
DAVID JONES’
RADIO DEPT., 22 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
the fourth cloud that floated to the west of
the Mountain of the World was a good place
for hearing ; and all the words of men came
up one by onei _ To the north went the words
that were of the lips and the mind only, ana
to the south the words that were of the will.
En-lil put out his hand and gathered to him-
self the stream of words that went to the
south ; and it was as a sheaf of song rising
up without rhyme or rhythm. The words
were sharp as steel and soft as the scent ot
violets, and all of them made love to life •
to the woman that is for man, and the man
that is for woman, and a world full of child-
ren and flowers and singing that is for both.
Only the world of the will was fairer than
the world he saw.
Then En-lil smiled and went back to his
couch on the Mountain of the World and
set his seal to nothing. “It is well with the
will of man,” he said in the thick cloud of
his beard. “Its desire for wheels and speed
shall not outrun the pushing of a go-cart or
the planting of a rose; it will make the world
to its desire and the world shall be itself.
Let be the seal till I have rested.” And he
slept until 11923.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Advance of Education
One hears a great deal nowadays about the
advance of education and the consequent im-
provement of the intellectual and moral
standard of the masses in civilised communi-
ties. But has education advanced? True,
there has been an indiscriminate spread of
a set of codified principles of learning, due
to the establishment of compulsory educa-
tional systems by liberal legislatures with
a laudable desire for the mental uplift of
humanity. But there has also resulted a
corresponding deterioration in the standard
of learning; to the degree that learning has
been spread out, to the same degree has it
become thinner and more superficial.
Before education of the trading or middle
classes, let alone of the masses, was thought
of, and when learning was restricted almost
entirely to the nobility, a knowledge of
Greek, Latin and a string of modern lan-
guages, to say nothing of verse-writing, was
considered an integral part of the upbringing
of any person with a pretension to gentility
of birth, and inability to engage in contests
of witty dialogue interspersed with quota-
tions from Aristotle and all the other immor-
tal classics was to confess oneself unworthy
of an intelligent person’s acquaintance.
Gradually Greek has disappeared from our
midst to such an extent that it .is now
thought superfluous in our Great Public and
High schools, where its study has "been aban-
doned in favor of business principles and
a knowledge of the various acids which will
turn litmus-paper blue ; and Latin is slowly
but surely going the same way, its reten-
tion being due solely to the fact that a know-
ledge or, rather, half-knowledge of it is,
prescribed by the powers that be (old-
fashioned fogeys that they are!) for those
who intend to take up one or other of the
professions. As regards our State schools,
the system has become even more “modern-
ised.” A knowledge of the alphabet is con-
sidered totally out of date, spelling being
taught by a system of “phonetics” which is
readily understood by the intelligent child,
but which leaves the mind of the dull one
a bewildered blank. Even English grammar
has been abrogated in favor of some easier
and, therefore, more acceptable, if not as
thorough, method of groundwork in our lan-
guage.
And what salutary effect has this “ad-
vance” in education had on the masses whom
it was proposed to benefit? The average pro-
duct of our State and even Great Public
schools cannot speak grammatically; his
conversation does not soar above horse-
racing and obscene anecdotes, with frequent
unsavory interspersions ; all “education” has
taught the majority of people is to read
erotic mush like Ethel M. Dell, A. S. M.
Hutchinson and Ruby M. Ayres, and it has
developed their intellect only enough to en-
able them to devour hungrily all the sordidity
of the picture-films and of the divorce
columns in the newspapers. As regards the
working class, taken collectively, our system
has taught it just enough to make it dis-
contented with its lot, and it consequently
falls an easy prey to the incitations of fana-
tical agitators who happen to be a little more,
intelligent than the average. During _ the
past 20 or 30 years there has also been _ a
similar “spread” of knowledge in music.
Every schoolgirl whose parents can afford to
let her do so now learns some musical instru-
ment, in most cases the piano. When her
course of study is completed, in nine cases
out of ten the only music in which she takes
an interest is jazz; in the other case she is
more hypocritical than her sister, and ex-
presses a partiality for the modern Russian
opera, because it is considered fashionable
in the best circles. The result has been two-
fold. In the first place the graceful melo-
dies of Scarlatti and the inspiring and digni-
fied beauty of Beethoven have lost ground
to the noisy and drunken bashings of Rach-
maninoff and the morbid product of Tschai-
kovsky’s diseased mind. In the second place,
the tuneful Sullivan operas and old ballads
of the “Simon the Cellarer” type, which
were wont to delight our musically-unedu-
cated grandsires and parents, have given way
to empty musical-comedy shows and to “Yes,
We Have No Bananas.”
DOUGLAS P. JONES.
Shelley’s "Magnetic Lady"
I suppose every lover of lyric poetry is
interested in Jane Williams, and has been
more or less attracted by her. She is the
fly in amber, fixed in a secure immortality,
not by reason of anything she did or was,
but by the accident of her meeting with
Shelley in the last year of his life. The love-
liest lyrics in the language were inspired
by this woman—which is in itself a more
than sufficient reason for feeling grateful
to her and wanting to know more about her.
Yet, actually, the more one knows the more
one is satisfied that she had no special quali-
ties. either mental or temperamental.
She met Shelley at a critical time in his
short life’s history. He had been in Italy
three years. In the early .days of 1821 he
was suffering a recovery from his brief in-
fatuation with Emilia Viviaua. It had been
a purely spiritual and idealistic affair, re-
sulting in that magnificent gift to literature,
the “Epipsychidion” ; but it had left a cer-
tain blank, a certain restlessness behind it.
It was a blank that Mary Shelley, depressed
by the loss of her two children and pining
for many things that he detested —society,
friends, social recognition —could not quite
fill. It was not her fault, nor his.
Then Edward Williams and his wife, two
persons of good family and education, canle
to live at P'isa. They were about the same
age as the Shelleys. They were not globe-
trotters or vulgarians. Williams had been
an army officer, had sold his commission,
and had come to live in Italy on half-pay,
partly because he wanted to save money,
partly because he had an intelligent interest
in the country. Mary Shelley had a child
six months old; Jane Williams had one a
month or two younger. The two women
naturally came together. Shelley, being
“tameless and swift and proud/’ \yas shy
of new acquaintances; but he seems to have
taken to Edward Williams from the first.
The interest in Jane Williams came later —
but it came. Towards the end 0f.,,1821 we
get the lines to Edward Williams,/ with the
significant opening, “The serpent is shut
out from Paradise.” The interest of this
piece is more biographical than poetical;
he apostrophises both the Williamses as “Dear
friends.” To the end they were his friends,
and the husband had never any reason for
being otherwise.
But a different and a more personal note
is struck in the next set of verses, in which
Edward Williams does not appear. Who
does not know the last four lines, the
apotheosis of the Ideal? —
The desire of the moth for the star,
Of the night for the morrow,
The devotion to something afar
Prom the sphere of oiir sorrow.
If Jane Williams had inspired only that,
what would the debt to her be? Early in
1822, the year in which Shelley was to die,
was written “The Magnetic Lady to Her
Patient.” Here the note of feeling is un-
mistakable ; it is quite evident that Shel-
ley’s detachment from the life around him has
received a shock. In this poem the imagina-
tive quality is almost stifled by the thought
of the woman herself. In one line he makes
the Magnetic Lady say, “Forget me, for I
can never be thine,” and then the Sleeper
(Shelley) is made to talk like this:—
What would cure that would kill me, Jane;
And as 1 must on earth abide
Awhile, yet tempt me not to break
My chain!
A third-rate poet might have made a better
verse of it. Just for the moment the supreme
lyrist was inarticulate; the lady was too
magnetic—she had thrown a spell over his
genius, caught his fancy in a net. He seems
to be weighed down by what he wanted to
express. , .
Of course, she did not mean anything.
Women who inspire the greatest poetry sel-
dom do. She had merely brought something
tangible and visible, something new and
buoyant, within his range. She had unwit-
tingly—or half unwittingly—applied a
spark to combustible materials; but the re-
sultant blaze was dazzling. In the space of
a few weeks there came the two “guitar”
pieces, each a finely-wrought work of art—
the one in which he is Ariel and she Miranda
and the other in which he tells her: —
The keen stars were twinkling
And the bright moon was rising above them, dear
Jane;
The guitar was tinkling,
But the notes were not sweet till you sang then
again!
Then the rushing melody of “We Wandered
to the Pine Forest,” and, last and loveliest
of all, that masterpiece of sublimated pas-
sion, set to music, “She Left Me at the
Silent Time.” It is tempting to quote, but
these last two lyrics are not, adequately re-
presented by extracts. And nearly every
poetry lover knows them by heart.
What sort of woman was Jane Williams?
A portrait of her reproduced in Gribble's
“Romantic Life of Shelley” shows an ova!
face, good features, rather long, well-formed
nose, a prim mouth, beautifully moulded
hands. Her expression is pleasant; there
is a faint smile about the lips, a frank look
in the eyes. Nothing remarkable about the
portrait or the woman. She is the eternal
feminine that masks its feelings and gives
nothing away. She liked Shelley, was proud
of his admiration, was willing to coquet
with it, but had not the faintest knowledge
that she was dealing with the. superman.
Rossetti’s “divinest of the demi-gods,” and
that he had given her a wreath of immortal-
ity. Perhaps towards the end of her life
slie partly understood. Returning to Eng-
land, she married some years later Shelley’s
boyhood friend Hogg. She was willing
enough at the finish to talk—and, inciden-
tally. boast —of her friendship with the man
whose fame was now like a fixed star. She
may have known that her star was risen,
too.
A. J. B.
The Blackening of Bligh
Few men have been more maligned and
misrepresented than Governor Bligli. He is
commonly pictured as a- bully and martinet
who ruled all under his control with an iron
hand • and one is given the impression that
the mutiny on the Bounty and the revolt of
colonists under Johnston were the efforts
of deserving and well-conducted people. to
obtain relief from intolerable oppression.
Beyond the open-boat journey after the
mutiny nothing is, as a rule, taught of anj
services that the Admiral rendered to Aus-
tralia or the Empire. The Bligh family re-
cords to some of which I have access, place
his character and exploits in a very different
ll& As a youngster he was selected by his
friend Sir Joseph Banks to serve with Cap-
tain Cook as master in the Resolution, and
he held that post for four years. When Cook
was killed in the Pacific it was Bligh who
brought the ship home; and he had, besides,
some years of valuable naval survey-
ing work to his credit. After the Bounty
mutiny the Admiralty promoted him and gave
him two ships wherewith to complete the
object of the original voyage, the collection
and transplanting of breadfruit. This job
completed, the value of his work was recog-
nised by various scientific societies. His
career as a fighting sailor was even more re-
markable. Me served under Hyde Parker
at the Dogger Bank, he was with Lord Howe
at Gibraltar, and he commanded the Glat-
ton at Copenhagen under Nelson, who speci-
ally thanked him and awarded him a medal.
At the mutiny of the Nore he was conspicu-
ous in persuading the mutineers to resume
duty. Perhaps his finest and certainly his
most famous exploit was at the battle of
Camperdown, where he captured the Dutch
Admiral De Wynter and his ship the Vry-
lieid. De Wynter’s sword and Hag arc still
in the Bligh family’s possession.
As Governor of N. S. Wales Bligh was
not nearly so black as lie has been painted
by the Johnstons, Macartliurs and others of
the military and pure-merino castes of the
period, who were undoubtedly allowing the
rum trade to demoralise both the N.S.W.
Corps and the colony. Many of the free
settlers of the best type—-the Suttors, for
example—refused to join the rebels and sup-
ported the Admiral.
As to the Bounty mutiny, it has generally
been taught that Christian, the ringleader,
was an exemplary character who had been
driven to extremes by his commander’s con-
tinued tyranny, spite and persecution. Yet
the voyage in the Bounty was the third that
Christian had voluntarily made under Bligh.
And as long ago as September 13, 1796,
there was published in a paper called the
Truk Briton a confession by Christian, the
gist of which is contained in these words: —
It. is but justice that I should acquit Captain
Bligh in the most unequivocal manner of having
contributed in the smallest degree to the promotion
of our conspiracy by any ungentlemanlike conduct
on his part. Few officers.... are superior to him or
have stronger claims to the gratitude and attach-
ment of the men.. ..they command. Our mutiny
is wholly to be ascribed to the strong desire we had
contracted for living at Otaheite where. .. .mild
climate.... fertile soil. ...we had formed certain
tender connections.
There is much more to the same effect; and
Heyward, another leader of the mutineers,
spoke similarly at the court-martial.
Altogether, though admittedly a man of
vigorous language and violent outbursts, a
fit comrade of Nelson, Jervis, Duncan, Col-
lingwood and Troubridge.
RIO.
A Satchel of Books
The Sands of Time, by Walter Sichel (Hutchinson).
Herein Sichel proclaims his friendship with almost
every important person in London life during the
last four or five decades. His memories are diffuse,
and his queer sense of proportion leads him to
write with equal gladness of Mendelssohn and Marie
Corelli; but he is prodigal of anecdote, and patient
readers will be rewarded with a few bright stories.
In America, Sara Bernhardt was caught by a lady
interviewer who wanted to know her opinion of
the Ten Commandments. “There are too many of
them,” said Sara. Sichel’s own modest contribution
to the parade of bon mots is a suggestion that, as
“we owe much of our music” to the late Albert the
Good, we ought to call him the Prince Concert.
Mr. Podd, by Freeman Tilden (Heinemann). No
doubt Henry Ford and his Peace Ship suggested
William Podd and his voyage to sow the Seeds of
a Communistic World Commonwealth. You can
take this book as a lively farce or as a piece of
modern satire —it is both, and effective either way.
For Mr. Podd’s little shipload of enthusiasts are
marooned, and what happens then is what happened
at New Australia and in every other similar settle-
meut. The dozen characters are capitally drawn,
from that exclusively American product, the nozzle-
manufacturer and millionaire Podd, to the uttei
failure Pickbill, the one man in the party who
measured up respectably in the circumstances m
which it found itself thrown.
The Woman of Knockaloe 3 by Hall Caine (Cassell).
Hall Caine’s publisher affirms that the writer hadn’t
intended to publish this story: “he wrote it solely
for the relief of his own feelings at thought of the
present lamentable condition of the world. But
the publisher, by accident, saw it “several months
after it had been written, when nothing was being
done with it or was likely to be done.” And wen,
here it is ; and all the shuddering about the author s
great courage in risking “temporary misrepresenta-
tion and perhaps serious personal hostility tor tne
sake of what he believes to be the Truth and the
Bight” is good advertising. Knockaloe is a farm m
Hall Caine’s Isle of Man, an internment camp dur-
ing the war : and the woman of Knockaloe was the
daughter of the farmer. She fell in love with one of
the internees; and Hall Caine pictures the msul s
and wrongs she had to bear. But that phase of the
madness has long since passed, and the only value
the story has, apart from its value as a story—
which isn’t very much —is as a reminder that wai
produces this sort of madness. To have published
the story five years ago might have called for some
courage. None was required to publish it in the last
months of 1923.
A Week, by lury Libedinsky, translated and
with an introduction by Arthur Ransome (Allen and
Unwin). The more one reads of the Russian revolu-
tion the less sure one is that one knows anything
about it. “To-day,” for instance, one reads here,
“innumerable as the bookshops in Moscow and Petro-
giad are, no shops are more crowded. As soon as
the books are printed, on no matter what poor papei,
with no matter what worn-out, broken type, folded
and sewn before the ink is dry, they are gone from
the bookstalls.” Almost inevitably the appearance
of this multitude of readers means the appearance
also of a multitude of writers. In the ferment oi
literary excitement,” Ransome says, a new authoi
can make a reputation with a single stoij _ in-
magazine, so eagerly is every new thing canvassed
and discussed.” Plainly, then, the revolution isn t
all sordid materialism. Libedinsky is one of t
products of the new ferment. He has grown up wit
the revolution; he accepts it as something that
doesn’t require explanation: he merely describes li e
under it. But not, in this small volume, the life
of to-day; the life rather of the Spring of 1921,
before Lenin and Trotsky had abandoned militant
communism and thus eased the relations between
country and town. Perhaps the most astonishing
conclusion one arrives at is that a handful of People
did and probably still do the governing. The Soviet
didn’t even profess to be a democracy. The Party
ruled: nobody outside the Party had a voice, a
admission wasn’t at all a matter of eln K.t' , ir
called itself a “workers’ and peasants republic , but
“the working peasants don’t read our books and the.
make cigarettes of our newspapers M e have to re
build their lives. They are savages, still in the
Middle Ages. They believe in sorcerers, and foi
them we are only a special sort of sorcereis, benevo
lent at best.” As for the factories, always the men
who could make “crackling speeches” were in charge.
At the leather factory there was one who did. no
understand the class-struggle or the fundamental prin-
ciples of the party, but, on. account of his authorita-
tive baritone voice, his ability in managing ajto m
meeting, and his skill in getting the right to speak
out of his turn, was elected everywhere and con-
sidered very clever and capable. A Week is the
plain tale of seven days in a village in the foothills
of the Urals, and because it has no propagandist
aims it is far more valuable than the dozens of
books that have been written by outside l , pi o^-
ably prejudiced one way or the other, and in any
ease incapable of judging, because unable to see
enough.


i >
!h.
-V
n
HH
V«I
mm
M C P
ERSONS
a
mm
#
ism
i
BOLT & NUT MANUfmmm
m
Hi
1
Oh
Hi
4>
Hi
9n
Ml
, Bolt and Nut Factory,
Erected for Messrs. McPherson’s Pty. Ltd.
Architects: Messrs. H. W. & F. B. Tompkins, F.R.V.I.A.
B.R.C. Fabric used in Wall Construction.
c
'• v.:; ; ■
mdm
Concrete Reinforcements
B.R.C. Fabric is unequalled for wall and slab rein-
forcement, being easily and accurately placed in posi-
tion, and, by virtue of the welded joint, minimising
cracks due to shrinkage and temperature stresses.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
•phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . .J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA .... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Australia), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston Street, Wellington.
R&i
reed
rrftrrrmrnr
5999
nrnrrmnrm.
mmmasssssss


T he Crusade
against
Corrosion
"N
m
m
m
A
m
m
V':-:
jUN
y>
*
IR
;•
Hfi
TTT THEN our ancestors, bold armour-clad knights, set out to wrest
\X/ Jerusalem from the Saracen horde of the infidel Sultan
W Saladin, man and beast wore heavy suits of wrought steel. In
hand to hand combat with fierce foes, exchanging shrewd blows with
mace and battleaxe, subject to subtle thrust from spear and <:hey
needed these tough suits of mail to turn aside crushing cuts which
received on the body would mean certain death.
Soldiers now-a-days, fight from afar with artillery, sufficiently protected
by trenches and the barrage of guns, their only bodily protection being lig
clothing.
But with the elements man still fights his age-long battle hand-to-hand;
a fight to protect his buildings against the forces of rust and t h e
hail! storm, blistering sun, and the more insidious enemies-salt ait,
oxygen and other gases in the atmosphere.
Necessity, stem mother of invention, taught man how to apply the lessons
learnt in war. Imagine an armour on iron, steel and wood that clings as the
skin to one’s body .Covering a building with an elastic coat of paint-film which
expands with the substance it protects, which cannot crack, which the hottest
sun will not peel, which no amount of vibrauon can shake off or split.
This wonderful armour is Ferrodor— the perfect elastic paint Neither
fumes nor salt-air can penetrate this film of yielding resistance, and it wi
stands "the action of the strongest acids. Because it’s composition is of an
indestructible peroxide of iron, perfect proteflion is afforded against t e
elements.
Most durable, non-poisonous, better than red-lead for a first coat, better
than white-lead for’a lasL lo wer than eithet in £
builder using Ferrodor reply to expressions of wonder at the durability
work—' * This only is the witchcraft I have used.
Sole Agents for oAushalasia:
WILLIAM ADAMS 8C CO. LTD.
cr. King 8C Clarence Streets, Sydney.
And at
MELBOURNE = 521-5,3 Co.Hns “
Caimw.n Street. NEWCASTLE: 33 Kin* Street.
"Perfect Protection ”
The Trade-mark of Ferrodor Elastic Taint
Used throughout Australasia for 25 years on
Government Buildings and by many well-
known firms, included among whom are the
following: (
Sulphide Corporation, Cockle Creek, N.S.W.
North Sydney Gas Co. (used on gas holders).
Dorman Long SC Co., Alexandria, Sydney.
Adelaide Steamship Ccr., on inside of all vessels
Fremantle Harbour Trust.
Australian Agricultural Co.
Colonial Sugar Co.’s. Buildings, Fiji, N.S.W.
and Queensland.
Cumming, Smith SC Co., Chemical Manu-
facturers, Fremantle, W.A.
Mt. Lyell Fertilizer Co., Wallaroo, S.A.
Cresco Fertilizer Co., Port Adelaide, S.A.
Ferrodor is also used by The British Admiral-
ty at Dover and other Naval Bases, and on
Oil Tanks.
<o
A
r
v,


I#
...
m
»-
%
Where there are no railroads
where the going is hardest -there
are Buicks. The upper picture
shows a Buick about to carry
eight passengers and hundreds of
pounds of baggage on a thousand
mile trip in Australia. The lower
picture shows part of a fleet of
Buicks crossing the Gobi Desert
in Mongolia.
HEAD
U
a>
MOTOR CARS
Its stamina gave Buick
a world-wide good name
BUICK’S name, for twenty years, has been
a synonym for dependability and rugged
endurance in every country of the world.
Its beauty has won for Buick a place on the boule-
vards of Europe’s capitals; its stamina has made it
the choice of those who must cover vast distances,
over all kinds of roads, in all kinds of weather.
Always a pioneer, Buick was first to traverse the
Gobi Desert on regular schedule, and first to cross the
Andes. A great explorer recently chose a Buick to
penetrate Afghanistan,
And when Buick bodies have worn out in long and
faithful service, the famous “Valve-in-head” Buick
engines continue for years—furnishing power for saw
mills, grist mills, and even tram cars.
Over 1,000,000 Buicks have been built and sold. The
main Buick factory is more than a mile and a half
long. And back of the Buick organization are un-
paralleled resources of money, machinery and engi-
neering talent.
For Buick is a division of General Motors, which
is an organization composed of many companies
building fine cars and equipment. General Motors,
by adding its strength to each of its divisions, gives a
double assurance that Buick’s famous quality will be
maintained.
Further information regarding General Motors may be had by writing to
General Motors Export Company, South British Insurance Building, Sydney,
to General Motors Export Company, 122 Flinders Street, Melbourne
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKER OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES, AND EQUIPMENT
Buick . Cadillac . Chevrolet . Oakland . Oldsmobile . GMC Trucks
ew York. London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta - Shanghai . Yokohama . Honolulu
y ey e ourne . Wellington . Johannesburg . Constantinople . Mexico City . Rio de Janeiro ■ Buenos Aires


Marcovitch
v* C
t\e n\ aq
>ho smokes Hem
HE’LL tell you that nowhere
can you buy a cigarette to
equal in charm and perfection
CHECK VIRGINIA CIGAR-
ETTES. Made by Marcovitch
of London, and wrapped in
tinfoil to retain their superb
qualities of flavor and aroma.
CHECK VIRGINIA CIGAR-
ETTES are packed in distinc-
tive black and white check
boxes and sold throughout
Australia at 20 for 2s.
Your Tobacconist Sells Them.
VI KG IN IA
Cigarettes
Sole Aaents Tor Australia:
Scott Henderson and Company,
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents:
Vic. —Alexanders, Ptv., Ltd., Melb.
S.A. —Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide.
2/P
.2/-
* F *Kts ihvK
V
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C<?
Slough, Bucks. Erg.
9
lM
i> *\
That “Well*
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Vilen’s Wal-
nut Stain
and Eradi-
cate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with tiie difference.
Permanent, Waterproof. Harm-
less! All Chemists.
n
MEXICAN
1
WALNUT STAINj
PEACE OF MIND.
•Are you Ruptured? Well, if you want
the perfect peace of mind that comes
from the knowledge of perfect safety,
wear Denyers’ Elastic Truss. This is a
scientifically-designed Truss which may
be fully relied on for safety, comfort am.
freedom of movement.
Prices: Single, 27 S ; Double, 37iS. Postage extra .
Send for Free Illustrated Truss Pamphlet.
DENYERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A?
v
Guaranteed x
in order for two years free.
ioOO SATISFYING SHAVES
BUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Edgeworth
TOBACCO
does not bite the tongue.
AEGISTERER
TRADE HARE
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H, P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
a i irn
Jgs®
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich..U.S.A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kflrmnth Matinc Engines are made with the precision of a watch.
narts evenlv balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
w Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd., .
25-37 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing, Co., Detroit, Midi.XJ.SJL
Cnh\o AAA-rvti-G - KERMATH
TELEPHONES for STATION OWNERS.
Model F 2898. Government approved
Model for country service. 1000-ohm
Ringer. 5-Bar Generator, Bong-dis-
tance Transmitter and Receiver.
Supplied from Australian stocks.
KELLOGG
APPARATUS
of quality and 25 years’ experience. Approved
by all Governments.
If you are not on the Government circuits
why not construct your own private line? We
will furnish you with guaranteed apparatus
and full information and estimates.
Will give continuous and uninterrupted ser-
vice. Non-breakable. Withstands hard and
severe usage.
KELLOGG RADIO EQUIPMENT
has been pronounced as the most efficient and the most attractive apparatus ever
nut into a wireless receiving set.
USE IS THE TEST.
n rwi it* arp onlv obtained with good equipment, Variable Vernier Condensers, Vario*
Jjgt v'SScoilr. Lai J.A.W' Comic,,™, CM. Coll,, Tub. Socket.,
io,d '' loTSV.'t'To'the'aStnt in your State,
Victoria:
JAMES CHAMBERS & CO.
Little Collins Street.
Pty., .Ltd.,
Melbourne.
N.S.W.:
BUKGIN EEECTIiIC CO.,
352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland :
AMICO ITD.,
Amico House.
Queen Street. Brisbane.
NEWTON McLAKKN LTD.,
Leigh Street, Adelaide.
W.A.:
C. P. KNAPTON,
935 Hay Street, Perth.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song-makers.
The Wind and the Sun and the Sea
Like a ribbon shall thread my song—
Twist strong, gleam warm, throb deep,
Through the day and the night’s long sleep.
The Sea and the Wind and the Sun
Shall round what I leave half-done,
And my song to your Soul shall be sung ;
For the loops of its streamer are flung
Wherever a planet shall flame—
Yea, though man know not its name....
Though broken the rune of my song,
The ribbon is long.
isr.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.
Blossoms.
Heap hit'll the beauteous buds and blooms of
Spring
Upon the grave of yesteryear and bring
A wealth of odorous, pale-tinted flowers
For those past hours'!
Entreat the sighing wind to softly blow
Lest any heedless petal swaying show.
Through starry spray or intertwining wreath,
What lies beneath !
VICTORIA.
G. E. MARTYR.
Fame.
To children walking in the sun
There came the word that war was done;
The women in the noonday heat
Cried “Ololuge!” down the street;
And under tree and weedy pile
Eurotas flashed its ancient smile.
For Sparta’s braves beyond the sea
Whose trumpets blared of victory,
Because grey swords had broken powder,
And wild wives screamed for one red hour.
Back, under draggled horsehair plume.
Returned each minister of doom.
The sudden tramp of brass-shod feet
Was in the shouting, laughing street;
And children, cheering in the sun,
Seemed glad because the war was done.
On Illion's ashes, bloody wet,
The Springtime trod with no regret;
And Sparta’s heroes slowly fell
To dust whereof no wind would tell.
The children, born to no renown,
Rose softly and besieged the town ;
And under tree and weedy pile
Eurotas kepUits triumph smile.
What of the years of yellow sun
That make no song for victory won?
To Sparta runs a bustling train;
There is some talk of beeves and grain
And more of war that evermore
Seems knocking at the Acliaian’s door.
But. heedless what the guns destroy.
Long fame of sadness lives with Troy!
NIS.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Ruler.
Reed pipes are crying and the conches
scream!
Oh, the throbbing of the little drums is as
the pulse of fate,
And the prophet-green of turbans like the
willows by a stream ;
For the Moslem priests are chanting that
the Ameer goes in state.
Yellow diamond and emerald deck the Ameer
with their grace
And there is paint and powder on the grey-
ness of his face.
Six feet long is the sword across his knees.
They have dyed his kingly pointed beard
a brilliant royal blue;
Six feet long is the bed beyond the trees
Where the king must sleep alone—as he
was not wont to do.
Deaf and blind and passionless, all fury he
disdains
When the Favorite sends a token to her
lover on the Plains.
There are almond flowers growing in the
town of crooked streets,
There are peach boughs spilling blossom by
the scarlet peepul tree;
And the smoke of funeral burnings, with
their choking spicy sweets,
Is curling from the river like dissolving
mystery
In the jasmine-scented stirrings ot the mus-
lins of a girl,
Showing through the leaping dances hints of
rose and lines of pearl.
Slowly pass the shuffling mourners. There
is no more need for haste.
In his tightly-twisted turban is a ruby
blazing fire,
On his marble mausoleum Persian violets go
Like the charms of purchased women when
their jaded masters tire.
Slipper-bearers, treading softly, eunuchs with
their empty eyes,
And his pipe of jewelled iron, help the path
to Paradise!
Orange-striped and lively purple, with a
bright enamel red,
Parrot-green and primrose-yellow are the
hues of the bazaar.
There is life and youth and laughter in the
waters’ silver spread;
For the meanest of bis subjects has the
power of Things That Are.
Hung with pearls and weighed with moon-
stones. glittering to his finger-tips,
There is neither life nor laughter on the
Ameer’s painted lips.
Throbbing riot of the tom-toms is like pulsing
of a heart!
Black-robed women beat their bosoms and
a score of conches bray.
Mourners drag protesting footsteps out to
where the millets start;
And sacred tires have scorched the world
across the golden day....
He has kissed a thousand women, but not
one of them will weep
When, beside his royal fathers, this dead
Ameer goes to sleep!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


7,
r
§g
m
i
3
In exchange for 120
of these coupons we
will enter you*
subscription for t e
well-known humorous
journal, the “Passing
Show" (published m
London) for 13 weeks,..
post free.
(3^3,
0.
m
WmmMm l
■ .
m
A
./ ■■ ... gggasasasasa
2
©
%
m
€S X
%
G&
i
H B
9.
I
%
%
m
$
f
iftjOh
#
ftfiffi&L
PASSING
SHOW
VI FLOI N IA
CIGARETTES'
20. A ft
MADE IN LONDON
by
CARRERAS, LTD. <Est. 1788),
55, Piccadilly, LONDON, W.
LONDON’S BEST HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY-“ PASSING SHOW”—WILL BE SENT
YOU POST FREE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE COUPONS ENCLOSED IN EVERY PACKET.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper
Vol. 44.—N0. 2290.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 1924.
PBICE 6d.
OUTCAST AGAIN.
“Following on the outbreak caused by the proposal to expel a clergyman because he declares he cannot believe in the Virgin Birth, Bishop Manning, of
New York, has issued a pastoral letter begging disputants on religious questions to refrain from discussion until after Christmas. Controversy is, neverthe-
less, proceeding in the newspapers and elsewhere with intense bitterness.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 154-162
blinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.: 8 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce Of translate any
•part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
~ r sponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin” can be obtained from the
“British-Australasian” seller at the entrance
to Australia House, London. Also from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch. Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons. Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.b; E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasiansl
High llolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni: and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Coi, 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City: Ilotaling’s News Agency, 203 West list
Street, New York City; Washington: Liberty News
Co., Seattle, California; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street.
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co.. 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.li.
U.S.A. — J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: .’/oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z. , id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: hoz., or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 1924.
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Minister-Senator Pearce lias such a large
capacity for being wrong that his support
always arouses suspicion, and there are
people who as between a copy of liis signature
and a real one would take the copy as more
likely to be genuine. Still, there is promise in
his latest idea for giving a fresh start to the
benighted and bedevilled Northern Territory,
where someone is wanted to undo the re-
sults of nine consecutive years of Hughes
administration. It was really one-man gov-
ernment, save when the Prime Minister was
away, and then, as he hated to delegate any
real authority, it was practically no-man
government. It was at its best long-distance
government, though there was a scapegoat
on the spot; at its worst it was fussy, irri-
table and as suspicious as a hunted cat or
an old Venetian Council of Ten. It was a
thing of city rather than bush instincts, and
it had so many other things to be irritated
about that it had only a corner of an in-
flamed mind to spare for the management of
a public asset that is more than twice the
size of France. As for the political con-
sideration that the entire fate of White
Australia is at stake up there, the hurried
little Authority whose front name was Wil-
liam-had hardly time to consider that amid
the bustle of answering questions in Parlia-
ment and engaging a new Trade Agent to
push Australian commerce at Timbuctoo.
The new idea, as expressed by the Minister,
is that “the work of developing the Terri-
tory must be tackled on the spot,” which em-
bodies the whole gospel of decentralisation
and the making of new States in 12 words,
“and not from a distance of thousands of
miles as at present.” Long-distance manage-
ment and spasmodic tyranny by telegram,
interspersed with lengthy spells of neglect
and oblivion by post, help to explain why
Upper Queensland, and Middle Queensland,
and the north of the Ma State and the
south thereof all want to break away, and
why the N. Territory loses population, and
the top part of Westralia does likewise. And
the contention that the present method is as
costly as it is unsatisfactory is borne out
by the fact that the Northern Territory’s
gross expenditure is far the biggest per in-
habitant in Australia, to say nothing of be-
ing the biggest in the world, while Westralia
would hold both records if only the Territory
was out of the way. In most years Queens-
land holds third place, just to preserve the
symmetry of the argument.
*. * * *
Under the new regime, assuming that it
becomes a new regime, the great and valu-
able and almost virgin Federal estate of
523,620 square miles and all the potentiali-
ties thereof are to be administered by com-
missioners, as is done with Washington
(U.S.A.), and as was done for some years
in the case of Sydney, when the mayor and
corporation were suspended for having
neither honesty, decency, capacity nor bear-
able table manners. The new rulers are to
reside in the Territory, just as the old single
ruler did till the local Bolsheviks hustled him
and his entourage on board ship and sent
them away. The matter being still in the
clouds it isn’t known for certain that they
are to operate in the orthodox fashion at
Darwin, which the passing globe-trotter mis-
takes for the whole place, and where he gets
a bad opinion of the Territory and no very
good one of its inhabitants, and where the
Tory Australian sees at a glance that the
whole place is useless. It is possible that,
instead, they will pitch their official tent at
Daly Waters or have an alternative metro-
polis at Alice Springs, so that they may learn
that the Possession is an immense place
and really has an interior. It is definitely
proposed to pay good salaries so as to get
“the best men.” But here it may be re-
marked that the best men and the worst men
will apply promiscuously, and if the man
who makes the selection is a knave (though
that is theoretically impossible), or a fool,
or the dull and ordinary person who is half
a fool and less picturesque than a whole one,
or even a clever man wdiose cleverness doesn’t
run in the direction of reading character
(which was the difficulty about Abraham
Lincoln), the country may pay for genius
and get utter rot. Australia once paid its
Federal members £4OO a year, and it
secured, among others, Barton, Kingston,
Turner, Isaacs, O’Connor, Deakin,
Symon and Bigjohn Forrest. Later it
drifted into the unfortunate habit of paying
£lOOO a year for Bill Lambert and Moses
Gabb, neither of w’liom is worth 24 Bartons.
And though the High Commissionership is
paid a glittering salary no glittering indi-
vidual has held the position yet. Brighter
men than the best of them can be found
editing provincial papers.
* * * #
The commissioners are not to potter about
the routine jobs of government, but are to
draw up plans for “railways, roads, harbors,
etc.,” projects for settlement being in the
“etc.” If they are stern men who can report
like thunder they may get a hearing. If they
are honest men who will refuse to be whis-
pered to about the value of the Queensland
and Westralian votes, and the nerd the Gov-
ernment has for votes, and the fact that
these two States flatly demand the building
of vast and costly Federal railways on their
property and for their profit under the thin
pretence of developing the Federal estate,
they may do some good. But they may be
selected especially for their willingness to
play the sordid political game, which will
make a difference. Then the commissioners
are to supervise the carrying out of the
works if they happen to have their plans
accepted, and are to spend the necessary
money if they can drag it out of a Parlia-
ment in which almost every member’s solid
article of faith is that the cultivation of a
mere all-Australian property with no present
voting power is sheer foolishness, while his
own place could do so well with all the
funds that are going. Somehow this tale
grows noticeably less cheerful as it goes
on. Still the commissioners are to be “resi-
dent.” Nothing can spoil that advantage
unless they are allowed chronic leave of
absence.
* * * »
There are certain points for Australia’s
Government to bear in mind, whether it buys
a new set of commissioners or not, and
whatever they recommend. These are some
of them:—
(1) It has to build the North-to-South railway or
else be a swindler. It accepted the whole Territory
(almost entirely Government laud) as a land grant
to pay for that particular work, and the job that is
paid for should take precedence.
(2) It owes a duty to the people to develop the
Commonwealth property with Commonwealth money.
Ex parte statements to the effect that there is more
promising land to be developed in Queensland or Ire-
land or Poland are beside the question. This is the
Commonwealth’s own estate.
(3) Furthermore, ex parte statements about the
gain to be made by spending Commonwealth money
to “link up” Queensland or Westralian railways
bumps up against the simple fact that the Common-
wealth has two lines of its own to link up —Port
Augusta-Oodnadatta and Darwin-Katherine River.
Even in their wretchedly unfinished condition they
aren’t the hopeless propositions that interested liars
make out. The Darwin-Katherine line, in 1922,
dropped less money than did N.S.W.’s Goulburn-
Bombala, or Demondrjlle-Blayney, or Tamworth-Wal-
langarra, or West Maitland-Macksville, or Grafton-
Murwillumbah concerns According to their latest re-
turns ; and there were 3134 miles of line in N.S.W.
which, by the latest year’s figures, lost more per mile
than the other unfinished section (Port Augusta-
Oodnadatta) of the South-to-North undertaking.
Yet the N.S.W. system is a highly payable concern
compared with those of Westralia and Queensland.
(4) Above all things, the Territory wants popu-
lation, so that it may set up as a State on its own
account, and dispense with patronising friends, and
commissioners, and disguised brigands with axes to
grind, and all the benevolent feeding-bottle arrange-
ments. In other words, it wants the shortest, quick-
est and cheapest possible connection with places
that have a little papulation to spare. And that can’t
be achieved by the proposed joining up of the region
at vast expense with a minor seaport like Townsville
(Q.) on one side and a minor hamlet like Broome
(W.A.) on the other.
In short, there looms up the possibility that
the business of the N.T. commissioners may
be primarily to urge the Government to com-
mit a breach of faith which some of it
wants to commit anyhow, and to furnish it
with an excuse, and to disguise the issue and
whitewash the retreat. And that is a pos-
sibility which Australia must resist with all
the force that it can muster.
A MELANCHOLY DEAN.
Dean Inge, of St. Paul’s, London, has been
discoursing on this over-populated world
and matters relating thereto. The hetero-
dox cleric professed less regard than usual
for the sanctity of the worse forms of human
life. For a long while it has been a dogma
that it is the duty of humanity to multiply
and replenish the earth. It has been an even
more dogmatic dogma that if a nation ceases
to increase, though it may nave increased
so much that there ceases to be standing
room, then moral, mental and physical
decay has set in, even if financial decay
is temporarily averted. Yet to one who
wanders round the world it must appear that
many races could be spared, while some are
a positive nuisance and a blot on the land-
scape. There is, however, no tribe so many
billion years benind the procession, and so
unlikely to get any nearer to it, that cranks
will not struggle for its preservation on
scientific or religious grounds, and they
will do it even though the worst savage
takes the most room by reason of his primi-
tive ways of making a crust. The desire to
put down sleeping sickness, slavery, tribal
wars, infanticide and even the pious prac-
tice of human sacrifice goes hand in hand,
too, with a careless tendency to let the
saved and replenished nigger learn the use
of up-to-date weapons. And among his own
people it is the pride and ambition of the
white scientist and philanthropist to keep
alive the physically unfit that their kind
may multiply, and to cultivate a sufficient
glimmer of intelligence in the mentally unfit
that they may marry and have 10 children,
for the mentally unfit are a prolific class.
This was not the way Australia got the best
sheep in the world, but it is the way any
country may get the worst men and women.
* * # *
It has been guessed that England had
recurrent spells of race suicide all through
its vigorous history until what might almost
bo called the other day. When the popu-
lation in the 11th century is estimated by
the size of the armies that were allegedly
turned out, it would seem that the increase
from then to the beginning of the 19th
century was about 7,000,000; which suggests
that in 700 or SOO years there were many
intervals of positive decline. In the next
123 years the increase has been about
29,500,000, which shows that race suicide left
off. Many other old countries performed in
the same fashion, while in the same period
the possibilities of the more desirable new
lands to absorb population have been so far
exhausted that life in Europe consists largely
of a frenzied race to reach Ellis Island, in
New York Harbor, before the quota closes,
and then to climb over the barriers of sus-
picion, scorn, contumely and medical inspec-
tion into the country beyond. But even
this safety-valve, which hasn’t been open
very long, and which threatens, as regards
other countries beside the United States, to
close pretty soon, is wholly insufficient. So
the generation which is now being born
ought to see big things, especially as the
last two generations have made such amazing
inroads upon the world’s stock of gold,
silver, oil, coal, timber and other natural
resources that the new generation may be
said to have something legitimate to com-
plain about in addition to overcrowding.
Whether this generation will see the sort of
thing which utterly obliterated such old
civilisations as that of Crete is a matter
which time—possibly not very much time —•
will show.
• * * *
The way that the learned and melancholy
Dean of St. Paul’s put the case is that
the community “is breeding from the bottom
and dying off at the top.” The birth-rate
certainly tends to diminish with the increase
of knowledge and refinement; wherefore the
best hope of the world would seem to lie in
the increase of knowledge and refinement.
But meantime the sediment shouldn’t be
larger or more diseased or more criminal or
more demented than can be helped. There is
unquestionably a very great deal more popu-
lation than there would be if the world had
begun 123 years ago to prevent the reproduc-
tion of those who were practically certain,
if left to themselves, to be the parents of
undesirable children —probably of a great
many undesirable children. And then there
is the problem of centralisation and over-
crowding. A great many slums have natu-
rally come into existence to accommodate
the remarkable expansion of population,
especially the inferior population; and if
much of the population was originally in-
ferior its mode of life has made it worse.
Glasgow, which had 78.000 inhabitants in
1801, has passed the, million. Of this total
Prime Minister Baldwin lately remarked
that 18 per cent, live in one-roomed domi-
ciles, and the one-room family, especially
if the apartment serves as bathroom and
lavatory in addition to kitchen and bed-
room, doesn’t produce a promising type of
member of Parliament, or the type of elec-
tor who would want to return a promising
member. It doesn’t produce a very hopeful
variety of emigrant either. But it does pro-
duce a great quantity of Bolshevism and
revolutionary crazes. It is interesting to
speculate, not only how far the unparal-
leled increase of the world’s population in
recent years has been due to the careful and
scientific preservation of degenerates, but
also how far these degenerates are respon-
sible for the Communist frenzy which aims,
with some chance of success, at the
destruction of civilisation and a general re-
lapse into a savage state. It is a hackneyed
saying that this generation doesn’t measure
up to the standard of its fathers, and hack-
neyed sayings are true at some times and in
some places. N. S. Wales, for in-
stance, has produced a elass of poli-
ticians whose ways suggest that the
mental pervert has _ become a dangerous
power in the community. For it is not easy
to believe that they could contrive to be
where they are unless the people who chose
or appointed them were like themselves, or
somewhat like themselves. The fact that
they are so true to type suggests a definite
process of decay—the kind of thing about
which the learned Dean spoke his jeremiad.
WHAT DOES THE WORLD NEED?
It being practically assured that duties on
ordinary foodstuffs will not arrive for many
years, if at all, in Britain, any fleeting
vision of preference for Australian wheat
and meat may be classed as a burst bubble.
It was so improbable that it might almost
be said to have been born burst. The gen-
eral British view is that no measure of Pro-
tection could make such a crowded land
anything like self-supporting in the matter of
meat and cereals, and in addition the Labor
view is that any partial benefit which might
accrue would be annexed by the landlord, a
person for whom it has a massive detestation.
Furthermore, Australia doesn’t really supply
the Old Man in London with much of his
foreign wheat. In 1922 his imports were:—
Tons of Wheat. Tons of Flour.
From Australia .. 816,750 88,900
From elsewhere . . 3,983,250 585,150
And that was one of the years in which Rus-
sia, formerly a very great supplier, was out
of the market. Now it is being let in again,
for the simple reason that Britain wants to
sell manufactured goods, and wheat is the
only thing Russia can pay with. In 1922
Australia sent less wheat to England than
even Argentina did, though the latter is only
about one-tliird this country’s size, and
doesn’t specialise in the one vegetable.
* * * *
If Russia, under a Government which has
partially recovered its mental balance, comes
into the British market again on a large
scale, then Australia, being a competitor who
struggles under serious disadvantages, will,
to a corresponding degree, go out. Long sea
distances, long (often needlessly long) land
distances, lack of inland waterways, small
yields per acre, wage problems, big debts,
and consequent big taxes, decide that. When
politicians formulated the theory that this
was a land marked out by Providence for
“primary industry,” and one that should im-
port its finished goods in exchange for
primary exports, nothing like the present
situation was contemplated. The imports
were then comparatively small. The ex-
ported raw materials which were to pay for
them and liquidate the foreign interest bill
(a very small bill then) were very largely
gold and wool. Long sea distances never
proved a serious handicap in the gold market,
and wool was as reliable a standby then as
it is now. When there is a tendency to com-
plain that the Old Man in London shows no
enthusiasm over the granting of preference to
Australia’s wheat and meat, it must be con-
ceded that lie never specially incited this
country to grow either. But he did urge
it and every other suitable part of the Empire
to grow cotton, as an article which had a
world-wide scarcity ahead. It was no fault
of his that the response here has been poor
and slow. All the Premiers and the Prime
Minister live about as far south as they can
go without falling right out of their own
jurisdiction; in other words, they live in
the wheat latitudes, except perhaps the man
at Brisbane. So James Mitciiell, for ex-
ample, camped at the coolest south-west
corner of the biggest area on earth which
is directly governed from one centre, and rul-
ing 304,000 square miles of tropical territory
mostly by wire, babbles naturally of wheat
because he sees the familiar herb about him.
And liis tropical area makes little, if any,
progress—also naturally. Likewise W. M.
Hughes was for nearly seven consecutive
years the ruler, from the farthest-south city
on the mainland, of 426,320 square miles of
tropical or cotton land—-the ruler by consist-
ent absenteeism and agitated telegram. How-
ever much it might be suited for cotton, and
however much the world might want cotton,
and however much Australia might want
money, nothing good tvas expected from that
kind of management, and nothing came.
* * * *
Theodore, of Queensland, controls 359,060
square miles of tropical Australia, much of
it a Land of Promise. He controls from a
corner, too; but as his throne is only some
1600 miles from the farthest point of the
area in question, a little is really being done.
A prospective cotton crop, worth £1.000,000
at present prices, isn’t a violent seizure of
Opportunity by the hair, but it amounts to
something. Still there will almost certainly
be no large and permanent progress till the
North has its own Cotton States, as the
U.S. has had from the beginning, run by men
who have to live cotton and sugar and other
tropical produce, to think cotton, almost to
be cotton. That sort of management gave
the TJ.S. something resembling the cotton
monopoly of the world, which is a matter
worth considering. Certainly Australia
never wanted a new article of export so
badly before. Import and export returns
come in slowly, but those of N.S.W. and
Victoria for the July-September quarter arc
to hand, and they are staggering:—
Three Months’ Trade op Two States.
Imports (mostly manufactured goods) £25,476,654
Exports (supposed to pay for same and
to cover all foreign debts) . . . . 9,972,044
Deficit, apart from interest •• £15,504,610
These figures make the prospective cotton
crop look very small. They suggest an urgent
need to manufacture for ourselves heaps of
things that are now imported—which would
furnish employment—and to produce for ex-
port a heap of something or other that is now
neglected—something that the world really
wants —which would furnish more employ-
ment. If the world isn’t keen on more wheat
it is no use kicking at the inevitable. The
sensible thing to do is to turn promptly to
something else.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cotton-growing in Queensland.
Dear Bulletin, —As an advocate of ratoou-
ing, “Cleveland” (B. 20/12/’2B) appa-
rently sees the cotton industry in Australia
crumbling into ruin because the Theodore
Government, with courageous statesmanship,
has prohibited a lazy and pest-producing
method of growing this crop—a method con-
demned by all the leading cotton authori-
ties in the world. Ratooning of cotton, like
f


ratooning of sugar-cane, consists of cutting
back the plant after the first crop, leaving
the root system undisturbed to throw out
fresh sprouts in the following season. In
sugar-cane this is quite successful up to the
third year. The ratooning of cotton, how-
ever, at once creates a “throw-back,” the
seed beginning to revert to its primitive type.
The immediate effect of the operation is to
weaken the fibre and cause unevenness in
length of staple. To the casual eye this
"throw-back” may not be noticeable. The
spinner, however, knows it by the increase
ia wastage in the spinning, all the uneven and
broken fibres being rejected by the machines.
The spinner, therefore, refuses to pay as much
for ratoon cotton as for annual cotton. A
mixed consignment of annual and ratoon
Queensland cotton was despatched this sea-
son to Japan by the Queensland • Govern-
ment. The Japanese buyers offered Is. 14d.
for ratoon and Is. 3d. for annual, simply
by the feel and look of the cotton, for there
was no mark to distinguish the ratoon bales.
In Australia a buyer paid Is. for last year’s
ratoon, but offered Is. sd. for annual. As
it costs as much to pick, gin and ship ratoon
cotton as it costs with annual, the folly
of growing the inferior article is apparent.
In America, India and Egypt, which produce
85 per cent, of the world’s cotton, ratooning
is either quite negligible or prohibited by
law. Four important cotton men have visited
Australia of recent years— -Johnson, F.L.S.,
late Director of Agriculture of Nigeria;
Evans, of India, representing the Empire
Cotton Growing Corporation; Wells, of
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture, Cotton
Section; and Crompton Wood, chairman of
Egyptian Cotton Commission during the war.
All of these are unqualified in their con-
demnation of ratooning. Only one of them,
Wood, can be said to be financially inter-
ested with Lancashire cotton spinners, whom
“Cleveland” alleges “have tied up the
Queensland Government by some undeveloped
process,” whatever that may mean. “Cleve-
land’s” comparison of Australia’s and
America’s ginning costs, as a sample of
accountancy, is puerility itself. He cor-
rectly debits the Australian ginner with gin-
ning charges which he has to pay, but he
then proceeds to debit him with tile value
of the seed, because he is not paid for this.
A Federal Treasurer might as fitly be ex-
pected to include in his expenditure column
for the year Customs taxation which he has
budgeted for but failed to collect. As a
matter of fact, the ginning comparisons are
worthless for the following reasons:—
(1) The American costs are not as stated, but
differ according' to seasons, location, etc.
(2) The Australian ginning charges include ware-
housing, insurance (when in store), handling and
shipping (not freight and carriage) charges. The
American charges cover ginning only.
(3) The Australian charges provide a splendidly
packed bale completely covered with hessian, ready
for overseas carriage. The American ginned bale
is badly put up, not fully covered with rough
burlap, and it has to be reeompressed before being
shipped overseas.
(4) In America cotton ginning is an established
business, carried on without risk of discontinuance.
In Australia the cotton ginner has to risk the
industry not being permanent. Is no allowance to
be made for that risk ?
(5) Ginning plants in U.S.A. are manufactured
locally and expert ginning hands are plentiful. In
Australia ginning plants have to be imported, pay-
ing heavy freight and duty, and workers have to
be broken in to the industry by experts imported
from abroad.
(6) In U.S.A. the seed cotton is brought to the
gins in open box waggons and is sucked out while
the farmer waits, while innumerable cotton-oil mills
will buy the seed. In Australia the cotton . mostly
conies long distances by rail in bales or bags which
have to be handled and stacked, and cotton-seed
oil mills are not yet ready to take the seed.
(7) The British Australian Cotton Association has
to distribute all seed for planting free to the
Government.
“Cleveland” values the Australian cotton-
seed at English or American prices, forget-
ting that it costs £4 per ton in freight alone
to get it overseas. The allegations that the
Queensland crop in the past has been the
product of ratooning is disproved by the
following figures of acreage planted taken
from official sources :
1919 .. .. .. 73 acres
1920 166
1921 1,976
1922 7,000 „
1923 40,000 „
Estimate for 1924 . . 92,000 ~
Ratooning obviously can give no increase in
acreage. The statement that the number o£
applicants for seed fell off 28.4 per cent, and
the area 26.3 per cent, this year compared
with last is contrary to fact. If conserva-
tive allowances be made for seed applied for
in 1922 and not planted till 1923, the areas
according to seed applications will stand as
follows;
1922 .. 121,716 acres
1923 .. 121,753
The real question, however, is what area is
effectively planted? In 1922 the area planted
was 40,000 acres, whereas the Government
estimates 40,000 acres for 1923 in the Cen-
tral District alone, and we estimate 92,000
acres for all Queensland. It must not be
forgotten that in 1922 the grower received
his seed free, and was careless in naming the
area applied for. This year the Government
charges him £5 per ton; moreover, 50 per
cent, more seed per acre has been distri-
buted. All this disparagement of cotton-
growing and the criticism of the B.A.C.A. is
dragged in because we are against ratooning.
We are against ratooning because it is bad
business for both the grower and the gin-
nery, and for the following reasons: —
(1) Ratooning' offers a rest time for pests,
thereby endangering the whole industry. The
thorough cultivation required for annual cotton turns
up the soil throughout the whole cotton plot, expos-
ing the pests to the sun and to parasites and birds.
(2) Spinners, the world over, refuse to give the
same price for ratoon as for annual cotton.
(3) Our White Australia policy demands- that we
must grow only the best. Queensland cotton, like
Queensland wool, must be the best in the world, if
we are to pay good wages and encourage the white
man on the land.
—Yours, Crawford Vaughan.
4
Munitions for Moscow.
Certain Australian employers dismissed
their hands, over the Christmas and New
Year holidays with an intimation that the
billets would be waiting for them if they
cared to re-engage. Now-, the workers can
hardly be blamed exclusively for our glut
of public holidays, seeing that in Victoria
and N. S. Wales, where every opportunity
is taken to declare a general loaf, most of
the gazettals have been made by anti-Labor
administrations. Similarly the Factories
Acts amendments providing for time wages
during holidays were the work of Tory Gov-
ernments anxious for working-class votes.
If the employers had originally taken their
stand on the country’s excess of public holi-
days, or on the idea that payment for un-
performed work is inequitable and unecono-
mic, their position might have been defend
able. But the voice of the employers has
not been heard unitedly on either of these
issues. Apparently the employers—or,
rather, some of them —have preferred to let
their political friends get the credit of being
more socialistic than the socialists, while
secure in the expectation of being able to
defeat such foolery by a side-wind. The
effect is to put Capitalism generally in the
position of a common bilker; to victimise
honest toilers who desire nothing so much
as more work and fewer holidays; and to
delight the type of citizen who is a Laborite
first and a laborer a long way afterwards.
The Labor party is forging ahead, despite
many handicaps, chiefly because it insists
on a measure of loyalty to the cause. The
man who discredits the movement for his
own ends is liable to be declared bogus and
a scab, and dismissed with ignominy from
the army of the proletariat. The chief
reason why anti-Labor is going back —-though
at the present time it stands for sense and
safety. as against visionary folly—is that it
has no party conscience and no disciplinary
machinery for maintaining a conscience if
it should ever acquire one. The employing
class will begin to gain a political power that
will put the capitalistic system well beyond
the reach of Moscow as soon as a big majo-
rity of employers cease to be trickily dis-
honest. . The class of employer who has
never publicly protested against this coun-
try’s wasteful holiday spirit, and who was
not heard from publicly when it was decided
that men should be paid for working while
they were surfing or watching cricket
matches, but who, nevertheless, turned his
men into unemployed over Christmas and the
New Year, corresponds to the Laborite who
takes all the advantages his party wins for
him, and then proceeds to prove the case
for the other side by going slow on the job
or doing inferior work. Such swindling can
only be checked by concerted action on the’
part of those who favor straight dealing.
Instead of Chambers of Manufactures and
Employers’ Federations greeting the devices
of their members to get round the law with
a shrug, or. at most, with a gentle rebuke,
they should expose such things for what
they are—-Bolshevik propaganda. The corol-
lary to this is a scheme, formulated by em-
ployers who observe the industrial laws in
spirit as well as in fact, to punish the min-
ority who act otherwise; and in the interests
of industrial peace they cannot present it
too soon.
—4
The Age of the Robber Representative.
A Melbourne suburban council recently
voted a free trip to Maoriland for three of
its councillors “to enable them to inspect and
report upon the concrete roads of Auck-
land. ’ The effrontery of the suggestion
that the councillors needed to cross the Tas-
man to view concrete roads, of which excel-
lent specimens are to be seen at home, com-
bined perhaps with the novelty of this
intrusion by mere aldermen in a field which
has hitherto been confined to Federal and
State politicians, produced a local uproar in
which derision and exasperation were about
equally blended. The same kind of protest
was often heard in early England when a
petty landholder made an exaction on the
hinds of his district that had previously been
the monopoly of the local baron, and again,
centuries later, when a baron attempted to
collect for his own use the dues of a king.
Mankind has never relished inequitable taxa-
tion, and nearly all the great historical move-
ments by which dynasties have been over-
thrown and Constitutions altered have been
due to this prejudice. During the past 10
centuries or so the British people have been
taxed successively (1) by private individuals
who, since they made no return for the pay-
ments insisted on, were mere buccaneers;
(2) by noblemen who supplied protection
from casual depredators in consideration of
annual tributes; (3) by kings; (4) by Par-
liaments. Unjust taxation invariably pro-
duced the noise which was heard the other
day in Fitzroy when there was no immedi-
ately effective check on the oppressor—as in
England under the Edwards, when the in-
habitants of such a town as Leicester had to
grind their corn at the earl’s mills, fee their
stock out of his pounds, and in general pay
any dues his bailiffs thought fit; or in the
time of the Stuarts, when Parliaments were
promising to furnish the Millennium; and.
finally, when Parliaments degenerated into
what Disraeli called “Venetian oligarchies.”
The despotism of elected persons is no more
tolerable than a baron’s or a king’s,
and the energies of thinking Britishers have
been concentrated for years, in consequence,
on the business of balancing the powers of
their Constitution in such a way as to leave
no body or functionary in supreme command.
The Sovereign, who in theory has almost
unlimited powers, but in practice is not ex-
pected to exercise any of them, does in point
of fact greatly influence Ministers on many
issues. The requisites, in addition to the
prestige of his position, are horse-sense and
special knowledge in council. No one in
the United Kingdom was so well equipped
to cement the entente with France as
Edward VII. It is known that the present
King interfered twice in the Irish row with
salutary effect. If the Prince of Wales were
king, his judgment in a crisis in the English
provinces or in one of the Dominions might
be more authoritative than that of most of
liis .Ministers, in which case he would have
an excellent chance of imposing it on Parlia-
ment. One of the troubles from which Aus-
tralia suffers is that its Constitution is not
balanced. Our Governors —Federal as well
as State —only begin to carry weight with
their advisers towards the conclusion of their
brief terms, and to the end they are regarded
as foreigners who have much to learn about
the country they are theoretically govern-
ing. A native-born and trained King of
England would be quick to appreciate the
resentment of the taxpayers against, say, the
extortion of free Parliamentary trips to the
ends of the earth and back again, and to make
representation to Ministers on the subject. For
an imported Governor to attempt to curtail
these or any of the other costly perquisites
which our Parliaments have arrogated to them-
selves as of right, would be to court the
unanswerable objection that he was ignorant
of local conditions and local sentiment. Aus-
tralia certainly does not want a king, locally
trained or otherwise, but it begins to look as
if it could not afford imported Governors
much longer. Partly for lack of balance at
the top—the kind of wise control that might
be confidently expected of an official of the
mental and moral status of a High Court
Judge—all our Parliaments are developing
the buccaneering spirit to an alarming
degree, and they are simultaneously infect-
ing thousands of subsidiary elected bodies.-
4_
Sami ancl the Taxes.
Thoughts of a suburban-blocker: —
In a reckless moment I was beguiled into paying
a deposit on the purchase of a quarter-acre of sand
and rock 12 miles from tlie Sydney G.P.O. Calling
with the monthly instalment, I asked the landlord
of my lizard-farm how Blank was getting on in the
sand-and-roek industry, having- known Blank as a
boy-orator with Parliamentary ambitions. “Blank ?”
said my receiver of unearned increment, his face-
lighting up with honest admiration. “Why, I’ll
bet that man is making the best part of a million
a year. And it’s only three years since he started
in Sydney.” Most of the million a year is probably
imaginary, but fortunes are unquestionably being
piled up in Sydney by the fluent and unlaborious
tribe of Blank. The Blanks produce nothing and
render no more social service than the proprietor
of a pony racecourse. They get their easy money by
loading mugs with fragments of outer-suburban scrub
at a profit of anything from 500 to 2000 p.c. At
present the mug is buoyed up by the thought that
he is socking something away (he nearly always
buys on the t.p. plan) and by the dream that another
mug may happen along and give him a few pounds
on his bargain. If the flow of London loans dries
up, or decentralisation arrives in earnest (by the
New State route or otherwise), or the bottom falls
out of the wheat market, thousands of mugs will
find that their desirable allotments are worth a
half, perhaps a third, of what they contracted to
give. The truth is that suburban land values are
monstrously high. Considering that there is a
chronic water shortage in the summer, that the
sanitary cart is still a permanent feature of the
landscape, and that the roads and footpaths are
uniformly abominable, the prices asked for vacant
blocks in the outer suburbs are simply grotesque.
Leaving city lots and slum neighborhoods out of
the argument, residential land is from 50 to 500
p.c. dearer in Sydney than in Adelaide, which is
ever so much better supplied with the ordinary
conveniences of civilisation. One reason is that
N. S. Wales has no land-tax, for the wretched thing
that brings in a few thousands p.a. is hardly worth
the name. There is certainly a Commonwealth
impost, but it applies only to substantial city and
country properties; when Landshakk’s office-boy buys
the Flatcatcher Estate, 30 acres, for £lOOO and
Lan.ds.hark disposes of it in quarter-acre parcels at
£75 the parcel, it doesn’t operate. Some people
are afraid that real taxation of unimproved land
values would further embarrass the wheat-farmer.
Certainly it would touch the wheat-farmer, but three-
fifths of the revenue would be collected in the County
of Cumberland ( if the thing were scientifically
framed. Cocky’s contribution would be compara-
tively trivial, but Blank, Landshark and Co. would
have to pay heavily-—so much so that it would be
possible to allow Cocky an income-tax remission far
greater than the amount of his land-tax, if not
to abolish the State income-tax altogether. What the
Ma State, as at present constituted, needs more than
anything else in the way of politics is an honest
redistribution and simplification of taxes. While
the income-tax has been shoved up to a point at
which it has became a serious handicap to industry,
sharks, jobbers and other parasites have waxed fat
on untaxed land values created by the community or
inflated by the community’s borrowings.
4
Queensland Railways and Finance.
Sundry well-known pastoralists approached
Queensland Premier Theodore the other day
and begged him to get busy and link up
Camooweal and Bourke; and the potentate
whose lines at present pay only one-third of
their huge interest bill gave a somewhat en-
couraging reply. One is not surprised at
Theodore —lie is a politician, prepared to
promise anything and borrow anything—but
surely members of a taxpaying class ought to
hesitate a bit before they beg a Queensland
Minister to increase what is already an enor-
mous burden. Roughly the State pays £4 12s.
per head in interest: and of its total expendi-
ture of £12,784,382 for last year, no less
than 28 per cent, went to the foreign
bond-holder. By far the greater part of this
had to come out of taxes. The railways have
become a hopeless business proposition, and
every mile of extension sinks them in the
bog still deeper. But Labor backs him up
merrily because he is “making jobs” for the
worker, the business man (or a section of
him) looks on approvingly because huge loan
spendings keep business brisk, and a certain
crowd of pastoralists sing out “Go ahead!”
to any scheme at all that will improve West-
ern properties. The State’s Auditor-General
lias no scales on his eyes. Taking a five
years’ period (1918 to 1923) he gives the
percentage increases as follows:
Population .. .. Increase 14.77 p.c.
Taxation .. .. „ 89.12 „
Interest on public debt ~ 46.23 ~
Expenditure on railways „ 37.76 ~
Other expenditure .. ~ 48.16 ~
In 1917-18 Queensland raised £967,421 in.
income-tax; last financial year it raked in
£2,194,361. A land where income-tax goes
ahead 14 times faster than population must
be on the verge of something; but Theodore,
his Trades Hall and sundry pastoral igno-
ramuses don’t care. Many of them don’t even
know. Already Queensland has a coastal
line running from Brisbane to Townsville
and thence away to Cloncurry; which is to
say you can travel by rail nearly all the way
from the border to the Gulf. Now’ it is pro-
posed to link up Cunnamulla, Charleville,
Longreach, Winton and Camooweal by a
western continental scheme which will add
enormously to the debt and very little to the
revenue. When John Fihelly was Min-
inter for Railways lie told liis critics one day
in gay fashion, “Our railways are not ex-
pected to pay!” and in this respect they have
certainly, under alleged socialism, come up
to expectations. Queensland has to pay
ft Os. p.c. interest on its railway debt; to-
wards it the railways themselves contribute
only fl 9s. per cent. —a deadly dis-
parity. The five or six hundred miles at pre-
sent under construction will undoubtedly
make this disparity even wider and
deadlier. The Commissioner in nominal
charge is in all probability a very capable
man ; but, of course, he doesn’t run the show.
Politics run the Queensland lines, and the
result is chaotic —like politics. According to
the annual report, the Commissioner is bur-
dened with 20 sectional lines that don’t pay
interest, and with 56 that pay neither interest
nor working expenses. The Government is
busy adding to the 50. The total loss on these
82 lines last year was £837,365, or over £1
per head for every man, woman and child in
Queensland. Yet the clamor goes up, “More
railways!” The additional settlement in-
duced of late years by the extensions is
so small as to be hardly worth considering;
but still the game goes on. Only the other
day Theodore told an admiring Assembly
that he proposed to spend four millions per
annum loan money, and the Assembly rejoiced
—especially the Labor section. An extra
£200,000 in interest on new lines that will
probably bring in nothing per cent, for years
and, what is worse, encourage settlement
and population but little —it is a mere baga-
telle ! The Northern Division contains 2047
miles of line (out of Queensland’s total of
5905), and it returned for the year 1922-23
three shillings per cent, towards an interest
bill of £4 6s. p.c. Yet it is towards the
North and the West that the finger of new
extension is continually pointing. In this
same division official figures show that the
proportion of expenses to earnings was
98.18 p.c. It is this variety of line that
Theodore threatens to increase and multi-
ply, certain Tory pastoralists assisting. The
Commissioner for Railways alludes to the
matter thus:—
Interest I This is an ever increasing figure which
now represents as much per train mile as the
whole of the working expenses in 19H-15. Hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds more per annum are
now chargeable on the capitalisation of the railways
owing to the increased rate of interest payable....
It will be observed that while the main lines paid
3.36 p.c. on the capital invested, the earnings on
branch lines were not only insufficient to pay any-
thing towards interest, but fell short of working
expenses by £169,442.
Queensland has £25,000.000 of old debt to
renew within a couple of years; and it is
only going to be renewed at a greatly in-
creased rate of interest. The burden which
this represents is so heavy that there should
be a complete cessation of borrowing for new
works until the State has grown in popula-
tion and wealth. In addition to the 5905
miles of railways already existing there were
(in 1922-23 ) 574 miles under construction.
Surely for a population of 800,000 this thing
for the present has gone far enough. When
800.000 people owe £88,005,001, or about
£llO per head, and their interest bill eats
up nearly 30 p.c. of the public revenue and
about £23 per annum of the income of every
head of a family, there should be no need
to preach a homily on the need for pulling
up. The abyss that lies ahead should do
that very effectively.
♦—
A Danger to Our Judiciaries.
The N. S. Wales Evidence Act amendment
designed to prevent mud-slinging by counsel
has been in existence long enough now for
its futility to become apparent. From time
to time a Judge checks an advocate —there
were several cases last month —but the sys-
tem works unsatisfactorily, for the reason
that it represents a reform begun at the
wrong end. In Britain, where the ethics of
the Bar have always been high, there has
been no need for Parliament —much less a
Parliament of McGirks and Davidsons —
to pass laws requiring advocates to behave
themselves. The profession has a very effec-
tive method of preserving its own honor and
dignity. The Benchers have powers similar
to those of the committee of a club. In
the same way as a club committee can
“post” a member who fails to pay his sub-
scription, the Benchers of an Inn can
“screen” an offending barrister; and just
as a club member who cheats at cards can
be expelled, so a member of the Bar who
is guilty of offences against professional
ethics can be disbarred. The only difference
is that the power of the Benchers is absolute :
it has been established by the Courts that
they need not give reasons for their actions
where barristers are concerned. The substi-
tute in each of the Australian States for
this formidable but necessary tribunal is a
Bar Council which has no real powers at
all. When the State Bars were numerically
small, and composed largely of men who
had been trained after the post-Buzuuz
tradition, there was little need for vigilance
in the interests of the decencies. Lapses
were rare, and when they did occur a private
reprimand from the Judge usually sufficed.
But nowadays a score are taking to the pro-
fession where one did 30 years ago. Com-
petition calls for that strenuousness which
often pays in desperate cases, and the old
traditions making so effectively for justice
are in danger of being forgotten even by the
Bench itself. It is here that the public
interest enters into the question far more
than is represented by the possibility of in-
dividual citizens being unfairly handled in
a witness-box. The proverbially high stand-
ard of the British Bench —a standard which
makes it almost unbelievable that a Judge
should do a dishonorable action for money,
or any other consideration, in a professional
capacity—is the result of years of prelimi-
nary right conduct. The mere fact of assum-
ing a Judge’s robes will not give a member
of the Inner Bar the point of view requisite
in a good Judge if previously he had made
a practice of spinning out suits for money,
slang-whanging respectable witnesses and
otherwise prostituting his calling. It may
be said that no Australian Government
would appoint such a barrister to the Bench.
But at the present rate of progress, and in
despite of the lamentable admission of ethi-
cal degeneracy implied by the Evidence Act
Amendment above mentioned, there will
shortly be none but unethical barristers to
appoint. The cure is for the State Parlia-
ments to confer real powers on Bar Coun-
cils or analogous organisations, and for the


The^lustralia
SYDNEY in the New Year .
Come now, for travelling is pleasanter with Christmas
over—you will wonder that you stayed away so long.
Here is all the colorful life of a great city—a fascinating
holiday that can be made all the more pleasurable by
the delightful resources of “The Australia.’
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 12/0; Luncheon or Dinner from
4/-; Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
-THE AUSTRALIA ,” The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
«S 5
i
fa
m
m
*
State Bars, which, after all, have most to
gain from the raising of their prestige, to
see that the right men are put on them.
Failing action of the sort the reputation
of our judiciaries threatens to follow that
of a section of the Bar.
♦
How We Borrow Too Little and Work
Too Much.
A British general election fought on the
tariff issue and the emergence of the Pro-
tectionists as by far the largest of the three
parties which count —these things made such
a stir that poor, petrified old Freetrade began
to enter a protest against the world in
general. This happened particularly in Syd-
ney, which was, more than any other Aus-
tralian city, the home of the creature, and
particularly it has taken place in the S. M.
Hfrald, which has a habit of hiring one-
eyed persons and standing them on their
heads so that they may get an inverted
view of things and report results. The new
Freetrade, which isn’t even so logical-
looking as the old one that was buried
a good while ago, is based on these
propositions: (1) That Australia doesn’t
borrow enough new money in London; (2)
that it has too many local manufactures,
and if it did less work of this sort it would
have more money; (3) that if it
had more imports to pay for, by
reason of producing less, it w r ould have
a lot more money. As the S. M. Herald
put it under the heading of “Whence Our
Loans?”: —
Here it is that the high Protection policy of Aus-
tralia defeats in large measure the purposes of the
loans. Formerly the greater part of the loans raised
in London were used to purchase abroad, largely in
Great Britain, the material used in development
works. No agreement was made to that effect in
raising loans, but the loans could not be received in
Australia in any other form. Workmen in Great
Britain manufactured the material essential for our
development, looking to us to pay the interest by
what we exported to Great Britain, and at some
future time a repayment of the principal by the
same method. It is now the policy of Australia to
manufacture all her own material for development,
and the British investor is asked to advance the
money to pay for that material in Australia. The
money must come here in the form of imports....
Governments, in order to escape the onerous charges
of transfer brought about by a Protectionist policy,
have raised increasingly their loans in Australia. . . .
That persistent tale about British loans
coming here in “the form of imports” or of
“the material used in development works”
shows how long the disciples of a fossil
creed have been asleep. Twenty years ago
Australia owed about £180,000,000 abroad
at 3i per cent, or thereabouts. So it floated
loans abroad, and some of the money stayed
there to pay interest with (it being absurd
to bring out one sack of coin and at the
same time send a similar one back), while
the rest really did arrive here as goods, and
help to retard local industry. Now the Gov-
ernments (State and Federal) owe abroad
about £400,000.000, and the interest is be-
tween 4$ and 5 per cent., and it would be
necessary to borrow about £19,000,000
abroad this year, and more next year, and
still more the subsequent year before there
would be any surplus to come here “in the
form of imports,” especially as there are
other interest bills to meet besides the Gov-
ernment ones. In fact, the Federal Statis-
tician put down the total interest liability
abroad in 1920-21 at £22,000,000, so it
would require a heroic amount of borrowing
per annum now before there was any surplus
to come in the form of goods or in any other
form. As a confused but forcible thinker
put it: “That well has gone dry and turned
into a dead horse.’” The complaint that it
is now “the policy of Australia to manufac-
ture all her own material for development”
is possibly based on the idea that it is
through manufacturing instead of borrowing
that the United States lias come to poverty,
while it is the possession of much debt that
has raised Tasmania to its present affluence.
♦
The Outlook in Groperland.
A specially unfortunate feature of the rin-
derpest outbreak is that it has occurred
in the very part of Westralia where Premier
Mitchell has planted his group settlers.
And Strawberry is an integral part of Mit-
chell’s scheme, which is supposed to have
cost six millions .to date, although there is
a strange silence about the financial side of
the undertaking. Of course, if the land is
as good as Mitchell says, and if the block-
ers have the qualities claimed for them, the
settlements may prosper without Straw-
berry’s assistance; but the chance of suc-
cess will certainly be diminished if the idea
of producing milk and butter, for which
there is a great market in the Jarrali State,
has to be abandoned for a term of years.
But the W.A. industrial sky is not all dark-
ened by rinderpest. In the wheat country
a 20-million-bushel harvest is expected, which
isn’t bad for a State that, not so many
years ago, ate bread made of Manitoban
dour. Whereas north-western N. S. Wales
has lost three of its last four crops,
the Westralian wheat belt hasn’t had
a drought since 1914. In the present
harvest there have been many 20-bushel
yields, and not a few of 30 bushels
and over —all on land which was bought
from the Government on 20 years’ terms at
10s. and 12s. an acre. Most of the Westra-
lian wheat is grown in heavy forest (or
savannah) soils, which are surrounded by
extensive belts of sand- and clay-plains. If
these plains can be successfully cultivated —
ailc l profitable crops have been raised on
them by farmers employing appropriate
methods—Groperland will become the fore-
most wheat-producing State. Meanwhile
the products of the lowly jumbuck are worth
as much as all the bagged wheat in this good
season. In the face of difficulties, such as
the South Groperland poison-weeds, the
eradication of which took years of patient
toil, there has been an impressive advance
in the quantity and quality of the Westralian
wool clip. The sheep-men are now spread-
ing over the central goldfields, moving along
Forrest’s railway into the Nullarbor Plain,
and following Canning’s track towards East
Kimberley. And individual effort has all
the credit of the peaceful conquest. There
has - been no spoon-feeding of the Westralian
pastoralist.
—♦
A medical note for the New Year:—
This is the blessed youth of the year when religious
controversialists come together in enraged argument;
and, as usual, the infallibility or otherwise of the
Scriptures constitutes the main ground of dispute,
A Sydney clergyman, in a pronouncement repudi-
ating both Canon Barnes of London and his denials
of the accuracy of Genesis, and Dr. Fosdick of New
York and his theories regarding the “Virgin Birth,”
made the gallant claim that he “believed in every-
ROUND
1924
thing taught by the Bible, not excepting the exist-
ence of a personal devil.” To believe is one thing,
to teach another—just as there is a moral difference
between drug-taking and inculcating the habit into
others. The last issue of the Medical Journal op
Australia shows the extent to which beliefs which
are meat to one man may be poison to another.
An 18-year-old boy “complained of a nightmare
which troubled him every night.” He was treated
on Freudian lines, and disclosed presently that he
was haunted by “a horrible face like that of ‘Old
Nick.’” It was next found that earlier in life “he had
been given a very fearful account of punishment, as a
result of which he believed that all his past wrong-
ful actions had been recorded by an unseen deity
to whom he would have to give an account on some
future occasion and from whom he would receive
due punishment.” The only way to save the
nervous system, and perhaps the reason, of this
youth—who typifies thousands of lunatics in embryo
—was to convince him that “Old Nick” was a myth ;
and this the doctors did with satisfactory results.
It would, of course, be inadvisable to attempt to
legislatively prevent zealots from horrifying the young
with stories of an underground and fireproof Pan,
but the.y certainly should begin to desist as a
matter of goodwill and commonsense. Let them
go on believing, if they must, that there is an iron-
clad horror, waiting in a furnace, to prod with u
red-hot pitchfork through eternity those guilty of
flirting or Sabbath breaking, but let them at least
keep their convictions to themselves.
Two expensive wise men are being brought
from England to say what, if anything, is
wrong with the N. S. Wales railways.
Whether their report will have any value
depends upon the subjects that are remitted
to them for report. One of the matters
that seem amiss is that the railways are
mortgaged for more than their value to
people who get £5 3s. 3d. per cent, and may
demand more at any moment, and this is a
burden that no big private system on earth
is asked to carry. Others include the lack
of a sinking fund to pay off these creditors,
and the absence of a depreciation fund,
though 1072 miles of line has no present
value whatever, its net earning power being
less than nothing. Then the State has ports
which bring in no revenue because no rail-
ways lead to them, and it has two lines
which lose about £140,000 a year because
they stop just short of two of those ports.
It has minor ports which are joined to each
other by bankrupt coastal railway, so that
they may exchange fish, but are not con-
nected with the interior. There are dead-
ends everywhere, some of them decomposed,
and there is a constant addition to the list
of new political-job lines which are not even
expected to pay under existing conditions.
These and similar matters have always been
out of the list of points that imported poten-
tates have been invited to report on. They
have had to consider whether the BZ class
of engine would be better with three extra
wheels ; and when we have finished discuss-
ing whether tw r o wheels, or perhaps one and
a half, wouldn’t be enough, the subject has
been exhausted, and we haven’t noticed that
things have greatly improved. If the
inquiry of the gentlemen who are coming is
to be circumscribed in any way whatever,
it would be far better if they stayed at
home—in the same way that an engineer’s
report on the seaworthiness of a vessel is
liable to be more dangerous than otherwise
if he is first instructed that he mustn’t men-
tion the hull but can be as expansive as he likes
about the cook’s galley and the purser’s cat.
♦
In the spacious buccaneering days there
were mild elderly citizens who suddenly put
on the whole garment of homicide and
became pirates in active practice, and there
are still instances of stout middle-aged citi-
zens who become fey and take to climbing
trees. A mental phenomenon of the sort was
the fierce incursion of Lawson and McPher-
son. of the smallest and most densely peopled
of the States, into the loan-immigration and
land-settlement industry. In 1921 Victoria
had an estimated gain of 3351 persons by
excess of arrivals over departures. In 1922,
with the new scheme at work, it gained
18,406 • in other words, it added rather over
1 per cent, to its population. In the process
and in the same time it added no less than
12 per cent, to its debt. It has been main-
taining about the same pace this year, ihe
immigrants are liable to leave when some
State with 10 times as much spare land as
Victoria possesses offers them decent soil at
one-tenth the Victorian price; or they may
go bankrupt through having taken on too
much liability and depart. But unfortu-
nately when they take their portable assets
and their taxpaying capacity with them, they
leave the debt behind them. All loosely-
rooted population has a tendency to drift
from a State with over 18 persons to the
square mile when, close at hand, States with
one human per mile are advertising their
prospects and advantages. In fact, Law-
son has gone into the business of supplier
of population to Australia generally—-at
Victoria’s expense. That State really lias
no need to spend a penny on immigration,
unless it requires some expert artisans. Of
the United States, no less than 14. including
such old Spanish settlements as Florida and
Texas, are behind it for density of popula-
tion. All it requires is some sane
tion to prevent (I) all the new arrivals being
made to settle in Melbourne, and (2) almost
all the country babies being, sooner or later,
directed to Melbourne. There are three
ways of manipulating a State railway sys-
tem, both as regards charges and construc-
tion work. One is to work everything m a
way that will send business, and conse-
quently people, to the capital. That is the
habitual Australian way, and even Govern-
ments which shed the crocodile tear most
copiously over city congestion congest most
persistently. A second method,, which begins
to be spoken of in a hesitating, tentative
way, is to make everything fairly equal, and
to let trade, industry and population go
where they will. A third device would be
to reverse the old injustice and to deliber-
ately give preference to the country towns
and the outports for a while, on the ground
that the fat hog may be all the better for a
fast day, and the lean hog has much leeway
to make up. If this heterodox idea had
been tried it is possible that Victoria would
have got more permanent new settlement for
next to nothing than it has got for
£23,000,000.
The United States Senate has before it a
measure which requires thinking over. The
U.S. Supreme Court, like the Australian
High Court, has a way of deciding that
this or that new law is “unconstitutional,’
and then the country has to laboriously
amend the Constitution or wait till the Court
changes its mind with the advent of new
Judges, or take it lying down. The income-
tax law and the law against child labor
were samples of proposed U.S. legislation
that had been blocked. By some fatality
the vote seems to be generally five Judges
to four, and it is proposed that in future
there must be at least seven against two
before legislation can be over-ruled. For
the moment The Bulletin inclines to the
opinion that a plain majority ought to. be
sufficient to decide the matter for the life-
time of one Parliament, but that no majo-
rity whatever should be sufficient to hold tlie
legislation up if the succeeding Parliament
also declares in its favor. So far as a Consti-
tution is an agreement between sovereign
States, it ought, of course, to command pro-
found respect; but most of the profound re-
spect which Constitutions do command is
the respect not of majorities for an agree-
ment between parties, but of minorities for
the opinions and prejudices of the day be-
fore yesterday.
“0.K.” among the barrowmen: —
Still obsessed by memories of Railway-Chief Tait’s
last summer slogan, “Eat More Fruit,’’ and dis-
tressed by recent stories of Victorian fruitgrowers’
woes, it occurred to me that I must buy more fruit
ere I could eat it. So I went around Melbourne’s
city district inquiring for prices at shops and bar-
rows. Large oranges were three a shilling, and
small oranges 2d. each. Strawberries varied from
bright and tempting exhibits in the shops at 2s. to
2s. 6d. per punnet, to dry and forbidding ones on
the barrows at Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Passion-fruit was
obtainable in shops only at eight a shilling. Fairly
ripe tomatoes in the shops cost 2s. per lb.; fine
green ditto on the barrows could be bought for
Is. 6d. What have fruitgrowers to complain of
in the limited public that Buys More Fruit these
times? If it doesn’t pay them to grow large oranges
at three a shilling, or small ones at six a shilling,
what do they expect to obtain from foreign markets?
If strawberries and tomatoes at Melbourne prices are
not worth the trouble of growing, what about men
who grew them when they were not half the money?
The barrowmen’s price for cherries the first week in
December was Bd. and 9d. a lb. Stalls have not
brought shop prices down, but the shops have pushed
stall prices up. To all comments on the apparent
market combine these traders protest that fruit is
very scarce, very dear, and likely to be still dearer.
Meanwhile fruitgrowers are interviewing Cabinet
Ministers and suggesting a subsidy on fruit exporta-
tions. I suggest that fruit-growing deserves no Gov-
ernment encouragement whatever as long as the town
consumer is charged such prices as prevail at present.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc., etc.
Drink K.B. Lager
on Hot Summer Days.
It’s the best that’s brewed.
Brewed and Bottled bv
TOOTH AND CO.. T.TD.,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
m
m
mm
tmiimiii
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
BaJtfcs-de-ILuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
Etaglish and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In taking leave of 1923, Oakes, N.S.W.
Chief Secretary, announced that “considera-
tion was given during the year to the filling
of casual vacancies under Proportional Re-
presentation, and to the adoption of one elec-
toral roll for State and Commonwealth, but
these matters have not yet reached finality.”
That is N. S. Wales “Nationalism” all over.
When there are useful reforms to be con-
summated, such as doing away with the
costly absurdity of duplicated rolls and re-
storing the rights of constituencies to choose
the representatives they want instead of
having rejected candidates foisted on them
by some petty politician, the dull old Fuller
Government maunders along for 12 months
without arriving at a decision. But it
didn’t take 10 minutes to abandon the pro-
ceedings against the influential Sydney book-
makers who were caught in the act of break-
ing the law against shop betting and (it is
a fair presumption) of concealing their
illegal gains from the Income-tax Commis-
sioner.
The Sydney wharf-laborers have declined
to have anything to do with the Bolshevik
loan, and the coalminers, who are grumbling
over levies for the assistance of their own
unemployed, are unlikely to give anything
more cashable than a curse. It is now stated
that the loan is not for the Soviet Govern-
ment, but for the Workers’ Internationale,
which has its headquarters in Germany. In
fact, a dreadful impression is growing that
the Russian Communists have got tired of
subsidising their foreign agents, and have
devised a scheme by which the dupes of
the Red gentry in countries such as Aus-
tralia will pay for their own duping.
When the Assembly rolls are revised in
Westralia before the Mitchell Government
goes to the country in March it is certain
that more electors will be found in Canning
(10,401 was the total on June 30) than in
Mt. Margaret (448), Menzies (449), Roe-
bourne (485), Cue (602) and nine other
provincial pocket-boroughs. And the arrange-
ment of the Leg. Council electorates is really
a grosser swindle. For instance, 494 per-
sons in the North Province return as
many members (three) as 14,467 in the
Metropolitan-Suburban division; and the
North Province electors are largely absen-
tees. In a House composed of 30 members
nine have 27,802 constituents, whereas 21
have only 26,481. But the Government
wasn’t keen on redistribution, and the Oppo-
sition was dead against it. So the present
unspeakable scheme, which hasn’t been
altered since 1911 (incidentally, its authors,
Wilson and Nanson, are both dead), is to
continue and grow more abominable for an-
other three years at least.
Before the British Labor party is fit to
run an empire it will have to get rid of
its hobnailed prejudice against intellect.
During the affair of last month it had the
great good luck to get H. G. Wells, Norman
Angell and Bertrand Russell, three of the
brainiest men in Britain, on its list of candi-
dates. But instead of nominating them for
seats in which Labor had a decent chance,
the party wirepullers guided them into elec-
torates where the most they could expect to
do was to save their deposits. The soft snaps
were reserved for Bowyangs, Bluchers and
Dungarees, their hearts being in the right
place and their heads of the requisite
material.
Up in the Territory signs of activity are
noted. Minister Pearce’s Home and Terrible
Department has a project for appointing
commissioners, not to replace any existing
officialdom, but to think out and recommend
public wrnrks—and probably be laughed at
for their pains. In addition, tenders are
being called for the hire of one (1) vessel,
either steam or sail with auxiliary engine,
capable of plodding seven knots and hump-
ing eight passengers and 80 tons of cargo.
This will be the only regular and reliable
trader in the vast northern waters, for the
Government-owned John Alec (33 tons)
hardly amounts to a vessel. Since the Doug-
las Mawson sank business has been trans-
acted by the chartered Rachel Cohen, an
elderly Jewess-of-the-sea; but there is a lack
of enthusiasm about Rachel. It is a time
of small beer in the great North. The pro-
gress of inland commerce is hinted at by the
fall of the railway service from two trains
per week to one per fortnight. But perhaps
all things will come right when Pearce’s
Job-Tliinkers get busy.
“Solomon Malaprop” : Argument has lately
taken place in the press as to who was the
genuine Mother of Woman’s Suffrage in N. S.
Wales. Seeing that the N.S.W. woman didn’t
exercise the suffrage till eight years after
her sister in S. -Australia, she wasn’t much
of a pioneer, whoever she was. A more in-
teresting question is whether even then
woman’s suffrage didn’t arrive too soon, so
far as the Ma State is concerned. I wouldn’t
even hint that woman brought the utterly
swinish element into Parliament. I merely
THE CARDINAL SIN.
“The Secretary of State at Washington has replied to the Russian request for recognition _of
the Soviet. Mr. Hughes declared that the Soviet would, first have to repeal the decree repudiating
Russia’s financial obligations.” —Cab e.
THE PENITENT: “ It’s the season of goodwill, Sam. Let’s shake hands and share the
bird.”
THE MORALIST: “I can forgive you for being a murderer, a robber, an atheist and an
advocate of free love but I’ll be goldarned if I shake with a man who oives
me money and won’t pay.”
suggest in an obscure sort of way that it
wasn’t there before she began to vote in
1904, and it is there now. Woman was ex-
pected to be an ennobling and purifying influ-
ence in politics. Perhaps she may be when
she sits in the House herself, instead of
sending in Davidson and Greg McGirr to
represent her.
State and Federal politicians took the
easy, lazy line of least resistance over the
proposal of certain Labor potentates to raise
a forced loan for some alleged international
committee at Berlin, the money, if not stolen
en route , being for the alleged benefit of Bol-
shevik Russia. They merely yawned and
scoffed, and said that if some unionists were
so foolish as to lose their money it was
their own affair. This was plain evasion.
A packed meeting or a hole-and-corner meet-
ing may make a levy, and if the matter
ended there it would be of little consequence.
But a fool-law lends the apparatus of the
courts to collect such items, and politicians
are responsible for the ass-law.
The American Bar Association has just
published some crime-statistics which make
one think. During 1922 no fewer than 7850
persons were murdered in the TJ.S.A. Fig-
ures for 1920 (the latest available) show
that the total number of murders in England
and Wales in that year reached only 63. For
every English murder, that is, U.S. can pro-
duce 125, though the respective populations
of the tw T o countries work out at about one
to three. There were 17 killings in London
as against 260 in New York; Memphis, in
Tennessee, has a ghastly record of nearly
100, though its population is but 162,000!
If prohibition has had any effect on crimes of
violence in Uncle Sam’s country, it has been
all for the worse.
“Xox” : The Vic. Government might profit-
ably employ some of the recess in taking a
look at its lunacy hospitals. According to
Dr. Jones, three of the country hospitals
need improved sanitation, and the staffs are
underpaid and overworked; also, they are
badly housed and fed. As for patients, dor-
mitories are already holding from 10 to 20
per cent, more than their quota, with the
result that some inmates are dossing
on the floor. There are now well over 5000
cases under State care, and the total is grow-
ing at the rate of over 100 a year. The
Government will have to build a nev T asylum
or add to the present institutions. It can’t
go on callously neglecting patients, most of
whom, by the way, are women.
The craze for public holidays is doing this
country no good. Not only is the number
excessive, but there is an exasperating lack
of agreement between (1) the Commonwealth
and State Governments, and(2) the banks and
the retailers as to the observance of, among
others, December 31, January 2, Easter
Tuesday, Anzac Day, Eight Hours Day (cele-
brated in six different months), Cup Day
(the Speck has two Government holidays
during the Hobart Cup meeting), and so
forth. It all means waste. The subject
was mentioned at the last Premiers’ Con-
ference, Bruce suggesting that there should
be no more than 12 Government holidays per
annum. A Queensland delegate objected
that his State celebrated four saints’ days
(Patrick’s, George’s, Andrew’s and Davids),
besides Exhibition Day and Friendly Socie-
ties’ Day. He didn’t explain that it was all
to get votes, but the others understood.
From the Gallery :
Having finished a session that was not strenuous,
although exciting in spots, Premier Lawson of Vic-
toria will take a breather to get ready for a bout
of real work in March. He promises a sitting of
two months to consider redistribution of seats, two
gas bills, and a motor-taxation bill. The rearrange-
ment of the electorates will prove a thorny problem.
Any attempt of the metropolitan memners to wrest
more than two seats from the country will start an
uproar. The Government’s proposals regarding the
Melbourne gas monopoly will also have to be pretty
stringent in order to secure an easy passage foi his
bill. On the other hand, the proposed motor taxation
will have to be modified, or else there will he further
trouble. Already there is a whisper of drastic
amendments in favor of the motor omnibus cos.,
which were to part up £2 p.a. per passenger-seat,
plus heavier license fees. When the bill reappears
it probably won’t recognise its former self.
After all, there is no reason why Satan
should not reprove sin—he knows more
about it than anybody else. Nor is there
any reason why Premier Theodore, of
Queensland, should not tell the Trades and
Labor Council, as he did the other day, that
44 hours’ work doesn’t produce as much
as 48 hours’, and that the “abolition of capi-
tal” is all bosh. His position is a very ordi-
nary one. History is familiar with the kind
of ruler who waded through crime to the
seat of power, because he couldn t get
there any other way, and afterwards
developed an intense desire to bury the past.
As a case in point Canute used to weep
regularly in church. Theoaore waded
through communistic bosh and theoretic
anarchy to attain office, but he apparently
hopes the Queensland people are as tired
and disillusioned of all the old flummery as
he is himself.
The W.A. Redistribution Bill has again
been jettisoned, notwithstanding that (or
probably because) 10 goldfields members
are returned by fewer electors than are re-
quired to elect one in another part of the
State. Incidents like that illustrate the folly
of the politician who deserts the ship till
the decks are awash. As long ago as 1913 it
was contemplated to abolish several decayed
goldfields constituencies, notably Cue and
Mount Margaret, So certain was Heitmann,
then member for Cue, that his seat would
go that, a vacancy having occurred at
Geraldton, he resigned to secure something
that looked less precarious. Since then he
has managed to win Geraldton once and the
Federal division of Kalgoorlie once, but he
has been out in the cold for years past.
Whereas Tom Chesson, who stepped into the
shoes that Heitmann accommodatingly
vacated for him, has now held the Cue seat
for 10 years without ever being pushed, and
looks to have a mortgage on it for another
three or four. And Tom is quite the most
non-hustling politician the Labor party has
ever produced.
“0.K.”: An item from Britain that
charmed me was to the effect that Hogbin
had got in for Battersea. Not because he
represented the unimaginative Asquith
party, but because of his honest English
name, did I glory in Hogbin’s narrow vic-
tory. In a poll of 25,000 votes Hogbin beat
Saklatvala by 340. The beaten man stood
for Labor. It is a disturbing sign of the
times that Labor looks to Saklatvalas to lead
it to salvation, while it opposes good old
Hogbin.
W. A. Holman, in a newspaper article,
deplores the working of the N.S.W. jury
system, and points out that the swollen
exemption list is to blame. It is a com-
plaint The Bulletin has been making for
years; but it comes strangely from Holman,
who was Premier in 1918 when the N.S.W.
Jury Act (1912) was amended, but not in
the direction of pruning down any of the
couple of hundred exempted classes. Since
then some new classes have been added by
the Fuller Government —notably dentists. It
is significant that criticishi of the abuse is
only heard from politicians who have retired
from the party fray. Men who are still
in the game of vote-winnfiug can’t afford to
attack it. The machine would crush them
if they did.
Queensland Home Secretary Stopford said
in support of his refusal to punish the gaol-
breaker Gleeson: —
Personally, I do not think any prisoner is under
any real obligation to remain in gaol if he can get
out.
If gaol-breaking is not illegal then the con-
stable who ordered an escaping prisoner to
stop, and on being disobeyed fired and hit
him, would be guilty of “wounding with
intent” or murder, as the case might be.
Also, if the Stopford rule holds good, the
Queensland police will have to choose be-
tween illegally attacking prisoners who in
scaling gaol walls are acting within their
rights, and turning a blind eye on the
Crown's departing guests, which would pro-
bably mean the sack. The position is really
too preposterous even for Theodore’s State.
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thou, O God, sellest all good things at the price
of labor.”— Leonardo da Vinci.
We boast no battled centuries,
No ancient annals lit with power,
No victories won on olden seas
Thrilled witli the grandeur of the hour.
And yet with vision unashamed
We from our earlier tale may read
And know the toilers, dimly famed,
Who crowned our birth with ardent deed.
They crossed the seas and sought the land,
They conquered mountains riven with age,
They dared wild floods by bridge unspanned
And found the splendid heritage.
With strength of arm and sweat of brain
And head upheld to shocks of fate,
They built the city, sowed the plain
And shaped the pathway of the State.
How shall we keep the land they won
And raise the nation of their dream ?
How shall we end the task begun
By them who saw the distant gleam?
How shall we build if we forget
Or mock the old and sterner ways?
The halting answer is not yet —
We trait the fulness of our days.
VICTORIA.
C. C. DUGAN.


rqNE/to
%
*
Pioneer Leather Belting
is the standard high-grade belting that has been
specified for a large proportion of the most
important drives in Australian industrial and
manufacturing plants for the past 64 years.
WHERE TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES AND
QUOTATIONS—
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: J. & R. K. Madder Pty.,
Ltd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Me Kell and
Sons, Timpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Iloraee Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monoksel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety suee
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales: —
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
x £' £ £
Sept.,’l3.. 250,101 10 p.c.= 168,946 81,1.65 2,418,659
Mar., T 4.. 275,746 10 ~ ~175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Sept.,’l4.. 246.324 10 „ ~175,000 71,324 2,590,729
Mar., T 5.. 239,407 10 „ „ 175,000 64,407 2,655,136
Sept.,’ls.. 23D,929 10 ~ ~175,000 55,929 2,711,065
Mar., T 6.. 227,885 10 ~ ~175,000 52,885 2,763,950
Sept..’l6.-246,425 10 ~ ~180,133 66,292 2,830,242
Mar., '17.. 279,050 10 „ „ 194,464 84,586 2,914,828
Sept.,T7.. 274.603 10 ~ ~ 195,243 79,360 2,994,188
Mar., ’lB.. 278,784 10 „ ~ 195,243 83,541 3,077,729
Sept..’l 8.. 273,560 10 „ ~195,243 78,317 3,156,046
Mar.. ’19.. 277,057 10 „ ~ 195,790 81,267 3,237,313
Sept.,’l9.. 302,425 10 „ ~ 199,368 103,057 3,340,370
Mar.,’2o.. 304,219 10 ~ ~219.142 85,077 3,425,447
Sept.,’2o.. 338.633 10 ~ „ 244,097 93,936 3,519,383
Mar.,’2l.. 403,932 15 „ ~372,216 3.1,716 3,551,099
Sept., ’21.. 349.409 10 „ ~ 249,585 99,824 3,650,923
Mar.,’22.. 359,210 10 „ „ 250,000 109,210 3,760,133
Sept.,'22.. 388,914 TO „ „ 271.609' 67,305 3,827,438
Mari, ’23.. 432,188 10 ~ ~297,981 134,207 3,961,645
Sept.,’2B.. 392,894 10 „ „ 300,000 92,894 4,054,639
Paid capital is now six millions, and the
latest addition to reserves takes them well
beyond four millions. Total visible share-
holders’ funds, therefore, now exceed 10 mil-
lions. Assuming that they are earning 5 p.c.
p.a., the huge business put through for
clients and the investment of a portion of
the public’s money left in the bank’s care
have to contribute only £lOO,OOO p.a. to the
dividend account to give shareholders the 10
p.c. which has been their portion for very
many years. That contribution is easy;
without much effort the management has
lately been visibly earning about three
times as much, and, no doubt, quite a lot
more has been harvested which has not come
into public view. Probably less is being
laid aside now than was the case a couple
of years ago, when unprecedented conditions
were turning in so much extra that in one
half-year the directors were prompted to add
a 10s. per share bonus as a “special excep-
tion.” Banking is not quite so profitable
now, because while trading activity and com-
modity values are closer to normal, opera-
tions have become costlier. Besides, against
£76,047 paid in taxes by the B.N.S.W. in
the September half of 1920, £93,942 was
taken last half. Staff pay-sheets also are
now much bigger. However, these things
don’t bother the shareholder. This bank’s 10
p.c. divs. have become a habit which only a
great national disaster could change; and,
as we saw lately, not even all national dis-
asters are harmful to great banks. Not
immediately, at any rate. Proprietors should
not, however, expect more, but they can find
comfort in the assurance that the swing-
back from the borrowing-boom conditions of
the last few years will have to be very
severe to compel the big concern to lower
its rate; and the higher the reserves (inter-
nal and visible) are piled the more impreg-
nable will its position be. Looking a long
way ahead to the time when the Common-
wealth has developed as it should, and when
it has recovered from the shocking misman-
agement of its affairs by Governments and
public bodies, the B.N.S.W. may be in a
position to distribute safely something more
than 10 p.c. But that can’t be even thought
of in present circumstances.
The extent to which this biggest of Aus-
tralasian banks has been entrusted with the
public’s money is shown by the following
comparisons, which also explain why paid
capital has been doubled in 11 years:—
Sept., Notes. Bills, etc. Deposits.
1895 .. .. £733,978 £3,291,619 £17,343,588
1900 . . . . 890,837 2,857,549 20,987,103
1905 . . . . 960,477 2,564,816 23,320,148
1910 . . . . 1,281,468 4,061.568 31,808,365
1914 .. .. 287,655 6,594,816 36,722,127
1915 . . . . 369,481 9,729,074 40,202,97 S
1917 . . . . 499,203 7,566,062 40,579,001
1919 .. .. 642,343 10,662,272 45,700,721
1920 .. .. 832,882 10,049,549 50,068,085
1921 • • • • 645,075 10,025,752 50,489,136
1922 . . . . 565,048 9,248,640 50,559,271
1923 .. .. 631,466 9,742,662 53,127,168
In nine years all liabilities to the public have
increased from £43,604,598 to £63,501,926.
The next comparisons show how all this
new money, additional capital and accumu-
lations of profits have been put to work: —
Sept., Liquid Assets. Advances. Premises.
1895 . . . . £9,254,352 £14,675,035 £621,000
1900 . . • • 11,941,272 15,528,146 650,000
1905 . . . . 10,749,340 18,942,298 706,000
1910 . . . . 18,578,215 22,628,076 730,000
1914 .. .. 21,779,989 27,207,838 795,000
1915 . . . . 30,040,334 25,734,765 825,000
1917 .. .. 28,682,944 ,26,132,991 825,000-
1919 . . . . 31,094,350 32,551,687 800,000
1920 . . .. 29,289,187 39,425,089 820,000
1921 . . . . 30,338,068 38,797,819 800-,000
1922 . . • • 31,557,371 37,853,994 800,000
1923 .. .. 30,006,861 42,848,973 850,000
During the war period and since Government
borrowings were so heavy that considerable
changes have taken place in the liquid
assets: —
1914. 1923.
Coin, bullion, cash balances
and Australian notes .. £14,360,< 83 £1a,564,220
Other notes .. .. .. 72,621 42,650
Short-call money . . . . 670,000 240,000
Treasury Bills . ■ • • _ —• 650,000
Government securities .. 3,026,164 7,933,146
Municipal and other securi- „ ,
ties 286,014 511,. o 4
Rills receivable . . .. 3,256,940 L2£5>958
Bank balances .. -. 107,466 .89,128
£21,779,988 £30,006,861
In nine years the advances account lias had
15J millions added and five millions or so
more liquid assets are earning interest.
Meanwhile the 8.N.5.W., with the assist-
ance of all its new capital, has maintained
its customary great strength for creditors.
Including Government-guaranteed advances
(War gratuities and Sugar Pool) as liquid
assets, at September 30 £31,013,561 of the total
liabilities of £63,501,926 (= 48.8 p.c.) was
within handy reach or backed by Govern-
ments and municipalities. That lelt
£32,488,365 of deposits and other liabilities
supported by £41,842,273 of advances and
£850,000 of premises. These are book
values, the advances having been protected
by substantial reserves for contingencies and
the premises having been written down hard.
The bank is now holding £6 4s. of the pub-
lic’s money for every £1 of its own funds.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added to
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £6815 6 p.c. =£4354 £2461 £13,391
Shares forfeited . . 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. ~ 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 „ „ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 „ „ 5593 891 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ „ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 , „ 5515 1083 23,809
1919.. 6446 8 „ „ 5515 931 24,740
1920.. 6696 8 „ „ 5515 1181 25,921
1921.. 7024 8 „ „ 5515 1509 27,430
1922.. 6742 8 „ „ 5505 1237 28,667
1923.. 6432 8 „ „ 5504 928 29,596
While other Melbourne building societies
have been lending every penny they could
lay hands on, and have been coaxing in more
deposits and increasing overdrafts to do it,
the Langridge has been content to sit tight
and select just enough now business to
employ the repayments of principal. Call
this lack of enterprise, if you like; the Lang-
ridge management won’t mind. It prefers
to take a safety-first course, and doubting
that recent abnormal values will hold, or
that conditions in future will permit all the
new borrowers to continue as “live” clients,
it declines to shoulder a heavy burden of out-
side debt. Boiled down it amounts to this:
under existing conditions the management
doubts the wisdom of paying 6 p.c. for de-
posit moneys borrowed for short terms to-
harvest 8 p.c. lent on long terms. It con-
tinued to offer 5 p.c. for deposits when the
rates were lifted by other offices; conse-
quently there has been a shrinkage of bor-
rowed funds :
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54.245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105.956 3,378 6144
1920.. 16,863 103.768 4.187 7216
1921.. 16,842 106.147 3,378 71X4
1922.. 13,780 105,146 3,433 6118
1923.. 10,305 106,008 3,398 3084
The society was bitten once —it still shows
foreclosures with a book value of £8398 in
its accounts—and it is now making doubly
certain that if the current boom should col-
lapse the nursing of any securities which
may fall into its hands will not be made
difficult by the necessity to repay deposits.
1 luring the past 12 months advances were
kept at about their recent level by selling
£3OOO of War Loan. There was a further
parcel of £3OOO on the books, leaving only
£7305 of deposits and other outside debts to
be backed by advances with a book value of
no less than £106,008 and the £3398 of fore-
closed properties. Permanent capital is
made up of 12.854 £5 shares fully paid aud
there is £4530 of investing shares; a total of
£68,800. It is supported by £29,595 of re-
serves. So the position throughout is extra-
ordinarily strong, aud the reserves help to
make the earning of 8 p.c. divs. fairly easy,
though there is not much cheap funds in the
business.
* * * *
The Queensland Probate Insurance
Co., Ltd. —At September 30 the Q.P.I. lmd
been writing policies for just 12 months.
The public had been offered 100,000 prefs.
of 10s. each carrying 8 p.c. p.a. cumulative
and 135,000 10s. ordinaries. The prospectus
did not offer participatory rights to the
prefs.; and the public plumped for the ordi-
naries—it took up 22,245 of prefs. fully
called on allotment, and at the balanc-
ing date had subscribed 183,705 ordi-
naries, the directors having expanded the
issue to accommodate applicants. The fact
that 10 p.c. on the nominal value was
allowed scrip-sellers may have accounted for
the “rush.” The ordinaries have been called
to 55., consequently the share-salesmen had
the right to take up to Is. or 20 p.c. The
published accounts at September 30 showed
£10,222 of “share moneys unpaid” (against
£59,049 subscribed) ; it looks like a hint that
many subscribers don’t intend to complete
their share-purchases. So far £46,826 has
been paid in cash. The promoter received
10,000 fully-paid ordinaries and 5000 fully-
paid prefs., making total paid capital at
September 30 £54.3L6.
Already £31,954 of the paid capital is
represented by an establishment account,
made up of preliminary costs, promoter’s
cut, brokerage, expenses of opening branches
in other States and the excess of outgoings
over the year's revenue. To w’in a premium
income of £6612 and £707 of interest £12,888
was paid away, leaving a deficit of £5569
apart from the small amount required for
policy obligations at the balancing date.
That deficit and the promoter’s cut total
£13,069, so no less than £18,855 was absorbed
by other establishment expenses. In a nut-
shell, performances to date have been as
follows: 691 policies assuring £200,508, and
carrying an annual premium income of
£7549, have been written. Under the best
of conditions not more than 80 p.c. of that
will be renewed; probably only about one-
half, unless the management spends a lot
of money in chasing and inducing policy-
holders to continue. To get that business,
build up organisations in Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Westralia, and pay the promoter
and his share-salesmen, :11s. 9d. in the £ of
paid capital has gone, and a lot more can
be expected to disappear in the process of
winning business necessary to give the co.
any prospect of a payable connection. The
Q.P.l.’s first-year figures illustrate very
clearly the difficulties which confront the
newer life offices, whose business-writing
opportunities and costs have been seriously
affected by competition of scores of others
on the roads. A little more than 12 months
ago promoter Herbert J. Martin declared
that there was “promise of an early realisa-
tion of great success.” So far nothing has
happened to support that anticipation, and
not for some years will definite evidence be
available to indicate whether the co. can
stand up to the excessive costs of establish-
ment and policy-writing and provide for
policy-liabilities. Assets at September SO
were as follows: Government securities,
£13,682; loans, £5557; cash and accrued in-
terest, £1917; book debts, £1023. Against
that total of £22,179 of tangible assets were
sundry creditors for £2932. Motor-cars,
office equipment, etc., had a book value of
£3lBl.
* * * *
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd., manufac-
turers of foodstuffs, importers, etc., of Syd-
ney :
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922. . £19,646 10 p.c. ='£12,861 £6,785 £28„123
Premium on shares . . 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p.c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
Only two lots of balance-sheets have been
issued by this old concern; its shares were
listed on 'Change but a couple of years back.
The business has expanded a good deal
lately; additions have been made to mills,
and the business of Brown and Poison (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., has been acquired. These in-
cidents have been responsible for the follow-
ing changes in balance-sheet figures:—
1922. 1923.
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £169,107
Mortgages and overdraft .. 47,027 39,063
Trading debts .. .. 17,351 13,478
Properties .. . . .. 66,265 83,711
Machinerv, plant, etc. .. 59,541 76,452
Stocks 43,347 38,344
Rook debts . . . . 32,540 29,545
Cash and sundries .. 5,285 7,110
Goodwill, etc. . . .. 54,517 72,517
Reserves in the introductory table are labelled
“nominal” because trade-marks, goodwill
and secret processes (book value, £72,517)
are intangible assets not taken info account
in compiling the statement. During the
past year £lB,OOO was added to goodwill,
presumably a result of the Brown and Poi-
son purchase; but it was in part counter-
balanced by £lO,OOO of share-premiums.
Actually, the balance-sheet shows £32,804 of
capital represented by intangible assets,
£39,713 being covered by reserves. The
position is, perhaps, better than that, be-
cause £27,286 of specific reserves, not in-
cluded in the table, may not be wholly re-
quired for depreciation, etc. For the past
12 months the margin of profit over and
above the 10 p.c. divs. was less than one-
fourth of the lay-by in the previous year,
the div. rate now applying to a much larger
capital. On present appearances it would
not take much to disturb that rate; but one
way and another the period under review
was not altogether an easy one for a co.
handling foodstuffs, and possibly this one can
do better in favorable yeai-s. So far, insuffii-
cient evidence is available to establish a
general average of performances. The co.’s
position looks snug, though the inclusion
of bank overdraft with mortgage accounts
gets in the way of a clear view of its affairs.
Floating debt, apart from the overdraft,
but including £6OOO provision for taxes,
amounted to £19.478. Stocks and book debts
totalled £07,933.
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began in 1910 with £17,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Sept,, 1916.. £lO5 Nil £lOOB £10,230
Mar., 1917.. 1083 Nil 930 10,077
Sept., 1917.. 1646 858 9,289
Written off capital, £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears . . 95
Mar., 1918.. 3156 10 p.c. = £1225 1292 734
Sept., 1918.. 3552 10 „ „ 1225 1307 1,754
Mar., 1919.. 3390 10 „ „ 1225 1209 2,71#
Sept., 1919.. 2303 10 „ „ 1225 3,788
Loss.
Mar., 1920.. 3199 Nil 480 109
Profit.
Sept., 1920.. 3222 Nil 3,331
Loss. Deficit.
Mar., 1921.. 9298 Nil 5,967
Profit.
Sept. 1921.. 3974 Nil 1,993
Loss.
Mar., 1922.. 7203 Nil 884 10,080
Pref. Written.
Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1922.. 5631 105 Nil 1250 6,436
Mar., 1923.. 2345 304 Nil - 4,395
Sept., 1923.. 1323 323 Nil 3,395
This little catering co. started badly; it paid
divs. for a few years, then gradually fell to
pieces. After a reconstruction the going
was easier for a time, and a few more divs.
were paid; but three years ago it again
crashed horribly. A new crowd got control,
and with the assistance of £6465 of 10 p.c.
pref. capital, and by funding portion of the
debts, another attempt was made to straighten
out its affairs. Excepting the few hundreds
required for the pref. divs., all profits have
been employed in satisfying creditors and thus
reducing the deficit at Profit and Loss. -The
period covered by the latest accounts proved
a difficult one for the management, owing to
the high prices of foodstuffs and the increase
of the basic wage. Only £1323 was earned
after providing for depreciation and taxes,
but even that little bit has helped to reduce
the deficit to one-third of the figures of 18
months ago, while (partly, of course, through
th<b issue of the new capital) the liquid posi-
tion has improved in this way:—-
Mar., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1922. 1922. 1923. 1923.
Liquid assets .. £14,825 £10,032 £13,109 £8,859
Liabilities .. 37,380 21,428 16,637 10,829
Excess liabilities. . £22,555 £11,396 £3,528 £1,970
Eighteen months ago the outlook for credi-
tors was black. Now all except £1970 is
covered by stocks, cash, book debts and pub-
lic securities. It has been a good recovery',
and with reasonable luck and good manage-
ment a few more half-years should see the
P. and L. account restored to its proper
place in the balance-sheet, and debts reduced
to more comfortable size. Besides the issue of
pref. shares, proceeds from sales of pi’operties
have helped the recovery. The prospects of
the ordinary shareholder are still in doubt;
everything in this erratic business depends
on management—that often means making
the most of difficult conditions—and so far
the. new crowd have not given definite indi-
cations of the amount of average profit which
can be expected. Fixed assets total £33,409
—£13,810 of freehold property and £19,590
in plant and fittings—against which £3869
has been accumulated in a reserve for depre-
ciation.
* * * *
The first of the new litter of life cos. to
give up the ghost is the Australian Workers’
Co-operative Assurance Co., Ltd. It issued
its prospectus in May, 1922, and set out “to
afford wage-earners, their unions, co-operative
and friendly societies an opportunity of own-
ing and controlling their own co.” “Gold
mines and such-like investments,” the pros-
pectus said, “may never pay dividends, but
look around for yourself and ask if life-
assurance cos. do not offer the best invest-
ment in this young country.” Recently a
liquidator was called in, and now Tom
Foster’s Commonwealth General Assurance
Corp., which is making a hobby of purchas-
ing. from other offices assurance business
which has not proved a success, is taking
over the A.W.C.A. policies. How share-
holders in the venture have fared has not
been disclosed.
The disastrous run experienced by some
of the freezing works since war contracts
ceased and markets collapsed is illustrated
by figures put out by the Country Freezing
Co., Ltd., which had a string of 18 works
in N. S. Wales. Since the British Govern-
ment purchase-scheme lapsed this co.’s losses
have totalled £BO,OOO. Efforts were made
to develop profitable side-lines, but the co. had
had such a buffeting that insufficient work-
ing capital was available for these opera-
tions, and no more can be raised without
a reconstruction. At the close of August
assets had a book value of £135.256. and
£7OOO can be clipped from this for losses
since incurred and for depreciation. The
bank had first call for £35,654, £16,870 was
owing on a second debenture, and £31,404
on a third. Sundry liabilities totted
£26,963, making a total of £110,891, and
leaving net assets with a book value of
approximately £17,365. Paid capital is
£58.039. in 18,436 prefs. and 39,603 ordi-
naries. both of £1 each. All the ordinary
capital and a little of the pref. capital has,
therefore, been lost, and probably the hole


NOW ON SALE.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR DECEMBER.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
A. & E. Ellis
Arthur Cocks
Automatic Totalisators
Australasian Temperance
and General Assurance
Clandulla Cement
Co-operative Assurance Co.
County of Bourke Building
Drapery & General
Executor, Trustee & Agency
Co. of S. Aus.
Farmer & Co.
Farmers’ Fertilizers Corp.
Henry Jones
Hotel Maroubra
J. Fielding & Co.
Mosgiel Woollens
Mt. Lyell
National Insurance of N.Z.
National Trustee
Nicholson’s
Pioneer Life Assurance
Prospectuses
Queensland Insurance
Robert Reid
S. Bennett, Ltd.
Sydney Guarantee & Trust
Tooth & Co.
Union Building Society
West Australian Bank
West Australian Trustees
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
• * * •
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney',
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
“There have been no maintenance charges since
its inception and it has been 100 p.c. efficient” is
the glowing tribute paid to Pioneer Wood Pipe by
the Town Clerk of Mildura, Vic. Hundreds of instal-
lations, ranging all over Australia, bring similar
enthusiastic praise to the merits of this modern
conduit. Pioneer Wood Pipe is cheap to buy, costs
less by reason of its lightness to handle, transport
and instal, has from 20 to 25 p.c. greater capacity
per size than metal pipe, never rusts, fouls, nor
diminishes its flow through pitting, and incuts
little or no upkeep. Send for our book of full
information. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltdi,
Burns Bay Road, N.S.W.— -Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World. — -Advt.
, » # *
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison Sc Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
The Clarence River District (N.S.W.) hales as the
dawn of a new era the commencement of the Nym-
boida harnessing (as installed by Sir W. G. Arm-
strong-Whitworth & Co., Ltd.), which will supply
cheap electric power. All the concrete for this
important installation has been mixed by Australian-
made concrete mixers, known as the “Multimix,”
manufactured and supplied by Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne; and 21
Morphett Street, Adelaide.— Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regent"
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “lioristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal t® the best German instruments, are now
being offered bv Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
-t * » *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
TILLINQ-STEVENS SALES FOR OCTOBER,
TS6 Trent Motor Traction Co., Ltd.. .24 ordered
TS3A Dunfermline Tramways Co. ... 10 ~
TS3A Eastern Counties Road Car Co.. . 6 ~
TSS Canadian Pacific Railway 1 ~
TSB3 Pickfords, Ltd., London . 1 ~
TSF4 Wellington UDC Fire Brigade . . 1 ~
AGENTS:
Bliil K
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
Parramatta Road, City, opp. St. John’s College, SYDNEY.
would be bigger if the co. was compulsorily
liquidated and assets were put under the
hammer. One of the principal creditors who
is also a holder of prefs. is attempting to
prevent a total wreck by buying out the
ordinaries at 3d. apiece, which is thrippence
more than they could g'et from a liquidator.
If this move is successful the business will
pass entirely under this creditor’s control,
and so also will the problems of seeking
additional capital to continue operations
and of satisfying other creditors.
Gold reefing and sluicing in N. S. Wales
last year failed to produce anything in the
way of divs. to offset all the money put into
the gamble. This year may be better, be-
cause new concerns, such as the Crown,
Yimy Ridge, Bribbaree and Valentine,
have accomplished much preliminary dead
work and may come to light with
something worth while. Besides, Kian-
dra and Lucknow must both be given a
chance of producing something good. Among
last year’s rank duffers the first prize is
awarded to the Big Ben, of Gundagai. The
biggest disappointment was the Christmas
Gift, near Cootamundra, which had shown
some promise of developing into a mine in
its early stages.
* * * *
Lucknow Mines (N.S.W.) has not defi-
nitely decided whether it will go into the pro-
posed Melbourne float, Lucknow Amalga-
mated. W. A. J. Marshall’s underwriting
agreement has been extended to January 17,
when the absorption proposals will again be
considered by shareholders.
* * * *
Having pushed the south tunnel 150 ft.
into the western slope of Bombandy Moun-
tain (N.S.W.) without cutting appreciable
quartz, the Crown was busy developing its
shallower chances when the holidays inter-
vened. At the 50ft. level in “C” shaft the
north drive is in 114 ft. with a full face of
hard quartz carrying values. A rise 50ft.
in is expected to make available “a valu-
able block for battery treatment.” The old
Bodangora battery is now on the Crown
lease awaiting erection.
* * * *
From a mining-man on the spot:—
Mt. Isa, on the Leichhardt, is 64 miles north of
Duchess, and is on the track of the Sulieman Creek
railway survey to Camooweal. The nearest perma-
nent water is the Potholes well, flowing 15,000ga1.
per hour and 17 miles away ; but rain has fallen and
the field is safe for a wet season. The wonder is that
the field wasn’t over-run before, but all prospectors
were looking for copper, and the big black outcrops,
coated with manganese and visible for a mile or so,
were not touched because men had eyes only for copper
stains. Almost certainly the field is the “secret”
of Elliott, prospector of Mt. Elliott. The galena is
very fine in grain, and Elliott as a copper-man might
have mistaken it for ‘ copper glance.
For over five miles in length, and for a width of
a mile, lead carbonates, cerussite and galena are
present in runs of great width and persistent in
length. The hard jasperoids and cherts lose hard-
ness under cover, and are kaolinised at depth. The
deepest shaft is 53ft., on the Silver Lena, at the
south end, and at that depth 2ft. of ferruginous lead-
carbonate of shipping grade shows. From the Silver
Lena to the southern beginning of the three miles’
length of the widest ore occurrence (the central crush-
zone of the field), the best show is the Crystal, and
next to it is the Rio Grande. The field is a series
of high ridges of clay, slates, shales, sandstones,
cherts and jasperoids, with heavy ironised and man-
ganiferous outcrops carrying silver-lead. 'The lodes
trend due north and south and underlie west. The
most westerly ore channel is the Black Star; and
although there appear to be five parallel ore-bodies,
development may prove that the Mt. Isa, Racecourse,
Mt. Argyle and Out-on-Her-Own are in the same lode-
channel. Despite the great width of ore exposed in
the Mt. Isa and Racecourse, ore is being worked to
the east in half a dozen leases. Should all these be
in the one ore-channel the deposits will be a world’s
record.
At the south end the Crystal has opened three
parallel veins of galena and cerussite that promise
ore in quantities. From the southern open-cut, near
the centre of the Crystal, were shipped 11 tons bulk-
ing 62 p.c. lead and 70oz. silver. Average assays
yielded 55 p.c. lead and 70oz. silver ; two samples
of a greenish carbonate returned 62.30 p.c. lead and
19600 z. silver, and 62.40 p.c. lead and 20900 z. silver.
The Rio Grande has four cuts made over a length of
24 chains by a width of a chain and a half. Ship-
ments bulked 65 p.c. lead and 350 z. silver; 59 p.c.
lead and 340 z. silver; and 54 p.c. lead and 470 z.
silver.
Adjoining the Rio Grande on the noth is the
Even Break, which, from a gossan outcrop, has
shipped 15 tons bulking 50 p.c. lead and 20oz. sil-
ver, and 7 tons bulking 54 p.c. lead and 320 z. silver.
Further north is the Out-on-Her-Own, a hill rising
400 ft. and capped by a wide outcrop with the charac-
teristic blackening of manganese. A cut on this out-
crop bulked 44 p.c. lead and 40oz. silver over 9ft.
Other ore-bands have been opened easterly, suggesting
that the ore channel is over 200 ft. wide. Assays
from these cuts have ranged from 29 p.c. lead and
lOoz. silver to 71.45 p.c. lead and 88oz. silver, with
up to 2dwt. gold. The Black Rock continues the
summit outcrop of the Out-on-Her-Own, and
has shipped ore from 44 to 62 p.c. lead and
up to 390 z. silver. The Racecourse shows ore in
saddle formation in an open-cut 40ft. long and 30ft.
deep at the southern end. The ores are carbonates,
sulphates, galena and cerussite. A dark powdery
substance surrounding the solid ore gives values of
62 p.c. lead and 1320 z. silver. The Racecourse is
a very big show on present evidences, and continues
throughout the Mt. Argyle to the south; and as the
claims to the east are all on ore without any
apparent ending of the lode channel, the possibili-
ties are very great. The Mt. Isa, about half a mile
north of the Racecourse, shows a lode channel 21
chains wide, and 20ft. of lode matter to the east of
the ridge, which is the easterly wall of the westerly
ore body. Six feet of this bulks 48 p.c. lead and
16oz. silver. The ore shows continuously for a mile
further north, and then dips under alluvium. Seams
are again located and worked a mile north of the
break, the Leichhardt King, on the extreme north
of the field, having shipped ore bulking 65 p.c.
lead and 320 z. silver.
The show place of the western series of ore chan-
nels is the Black Star, 400 yards west of the Mt. Isa
and Racecourse lines. In the centre of the lease
is an outcrop 20ft. wide, stained with iron and
manganese, and carrying bands of lead carbonate.
Ore from the top of the outcrop bulks 60 p.c. lead,
with low silver content; and on the footwall side, and
further north, 4ft. of carbonate ore bulks 60 p.c.
lead and 70oz. silver. Ore has been opened to the
west of the outcrop, and also on the eastern boun-
dary of the lease. The Ibus, adjoining the Black
Star on the north, has the extensions of the outcrop
and ore-runs to the west and to the east.
Almost all leaseholders are on payable ore,
and the facts to date warrant the belief that Mt. Isa
will prove a rich and long-lived field.
* * * *
Just as Queensland was starting to show
a mining recovery, except in copper, gold
and the rare metals, activities were badly
retarded by the drought. Tin at Herberton
and Kangaroo Hills, cobalt at Gloncurry,
and the new Mt. Isa silver-lead field were
all put back. Magnificent storm rains
have now fallen in practically all mining
centres, and Herberton and Mt. Isa in par-
ticular should spurt rapidly.
No. 4 North Phoenix, Gympie (Q.), gen-
erally manages to keep a Christmas-box up
its sleeve for shareholders, and this year it
did not fail: SO tons yielded 10970 z. A 9d.
div. has been declared. The reef has run
into the crosscourse at the 784 ft. workings,
with 4in. of quartz, and things look hopeful
for another rich crushing. The North
Smithfield crushed a ton of specimen stone
for 440 z.
* * * *
The Mt. Britton goldfield (Q.) flotation
is under way as the Nuggetty Gully G. M.
Co., Ltd. The prospecting claims have
been lying untouched for many years, and
since the vendor syndicate has taken them
up very little prospecting work appears to
have been done. Nevertheless, the syndi-
cate is asking £7OO cash and a large wad
of shares for the claims, and the proposed
co. can proceed to registration on a sub-
scription of £1250, which would leave only
£550 for development, etc. The prospectus
talks of the intention of erecting machinery,
including a battery, concentrating plant and
air compressor, in addition to building a
necessary dam. It is questionable whether,
under the terms of this prospectus, the old
field will be given a genuine chance to show
its worth.
* * * *
Early in the New Year Dyason’s Ben-
digo Amalgamated, aged seven, will pass
away. If it failed in its chief aim of indus-
trialising Bendigo mining—the impossible task
of making a stable business of a gamble—it
did achieve two important successes. It is
certain that the scheme was responsible for
unearthing the rich Constellation reef, which
yielded two tons of gold and about double
the profit of the famous Central Blue reef.
Columbuses, of course, have come to light
since the discovery, but no Bendigo manager
in these days w r ould have recommended a
200 ft. crosscut for a reef that was barren
in the Pyke ground, 300 ft. south, and in-
significant in the McDuff ground, north-
ward. It is almost equally certain that
no other co. or cos. would have faced the
heavy cost of sinking the Hercules shaft
from S4oft. to 1520 ft. Yet that resulted
in the finding of the big 1320 ft. reef which
promises to keep Bendigo’s flag flying for
some years.
* * * #
New' Langi Logan (Vic.) directors have
been given another 10s. per share calling-
power. At the same time they will stop de-
velopment work. Unless some dodge is on,
it appears that calls wall have to be made
to pay for the stoping of opened-up ground.
One of the Bryants is on the Board, and
Alex. Peacock is chairman. If they approve
of this procedure, except as a final dash,
their tunes have altered since they first w T ent
alluvial mining. It is said that in Catli-
cart Central, next door, the parties turned
out 28 p.c. more wash than men do in the
New Langi. But the one was working a
tributary lead and the other mining in the
main gutter, which isn’t quite the same thing.
That is not disputing the fact that working
results at New Langi have been shocking.
Altogether about £350,000 of cash from calls
and gold has been emptied into New Langi
gutter with not the smell of a div.’
* * * #
Murmungee Heaps Syndicate, besides
having an outlook bn to the Ovens Valley
(Vic.), has a collection of old workings left
by one Heap. It took pluck to re-open the
shaft; and then a deluge filled up suoft. of
workings. To put in time a drive was
started from the Ovens Valley slope, and
when in 100 ft. rising unearthed lOdwt. ore.
As is usual in the hills, a fault cut off the
reef. The next step is to see if the lode
lives under the slide, and then sink a new
shaft to get into the old workings. It is
a gamble, like all mountain mining in the
Cabbage Garden. Meanwhile the Murmungee
Mines has had tw r o good-value crusliings put
through at Rutherglen, and soon its own
battery will have a trial run on 180 tons.
A Bendigo incident that passed unnoticed
just before Christmas was the stopping of
the pumps at the old Londonderry, which had
been recfiristened North Ulster. This fore-
shadows the waterlogging of the Garden
Gully line from the l J yke mine southwards.
The shutting down at the same time of the
Needle mine, on the Paddy’s Gully line, will
add to the effect, as that show connects
through the Confidence to the Garden Gully
line. The two mines most concerned are
the Carlisle and Ulster. The old Carlisle
appeared to be near its end, but had a Christ-
mas-box in the finding of an ounce-to-the-
load spur in the inexhaustible Victory forma-
tion, which has been worked for 11 years.
The Carlisle need not worry for many
months, because the water is well below its
lowest working level. The Ulster connec-
tion to the Londonderry is still higher, and
it should not be affected for a year or two;
but the time cannot be far distant when the
workings on the Garden. Gully line south of
Eaglehawk will be as inaccessible, as those
on the Hustlers and New Chum lines.
* * * *
A local syndicate is venturing to give
Fraser’s old mines at Southern Cross
(W.A.) another trial. Its members are
confident of success, despite the field’s re-
cord. Between 1896 and 1899 Fraser’s paid
13 divs. of 6d. each on 65,000 shares. The
British and Foreign Development Syndi-
cate then acquired the leases on terms most
displeasing to a number of the old share-
holders. Mine development soon afterwards
ceased suddenly, and the syndicate proceeded
to exhaust the generous reserve of ore the
former management had blocked out, and
also treated a 200,000-ton heap of sands
and slimes, the average gold content .of
which was 12s. per ton. When everything
in this w T ay was cleaned up as thoroughly
as possible, the mine was let on tribute,
and when tributors were finished water was
permitted to rise into the sand-filled stopes.
Later, a local diamond-drilling syndicate
put down four holes to 1000 ft., but had no
luck. Fraser’s was a good show down to
400 ft„ and Fraser’s Central down to 120 ft.,
but both have been well gutted.
~ * * *
King of Creation, an Adelaide co. which
recently abandoned a duffer at Laverton,
has moved on to Parker’s Range, another
old field. When Bayley and Ford set out
on camels from Southern Cross and found
Coolgardie, Parker’s Range, about 40 miles
south of Southern Cross, was in full blast.
King of Creation’s new option is on the
White Horseshoe, which has been success-
fully worked by prospectors for many years.
There is very little in sight, but prospects
are brighter than they were in the Laverton
shows.
* * * *
Mt. Aiwa tin. Upper Murray, is on the
market in Adelaide with a new issue of 30,000
shares of ss. each. Already 91,720 shares
have been issued as paid up to ss. and
32,280 as paid up to Is. J. H. Verran weaves
a story of big things about the show. It is
a mass of greisen, and is said to carry 0.75
p.c. tin oxide throughout, with not a trace of
copper, scheelite, wolframite or any other
bug-a-boo refractory material to give
trouble. Verran says 100,000 c. yd. will give
0.5 p.c. of oxide or 535 tons, which, for 73
p.c. metal, gives 390 J tons tin. With tin
at £230 he counts on collecting £89,725, and
earning a profit of £59,725 after allowing
6s. per yd. for expenses. This calculation
depends on tin continuing at £230 a ton,
which is quite a gamble. Even so, what
allowance wall have to be made for trans-
port, smelting, realisation, etc.? Besides, 6s.
per yd. is a cheap working cost, even for
,T. B. Lewis, of Anchor fame. S. H. Spicer, an
old Speck lode-tin miner, G. J. d’Beak and
,J. C. Babidge all have their bit to say for
Mt. Aiwa. But it is as well to recollect
that others have dipped into the Upper
Murray tin-bearing regions to retire with
burnt fingers.
Poole and Steele, of Adelaide, have nearly
completed the biggest plant yet commissioned
by any of the Australian-owned tin-dredging
concerns. Takuapa Valley expects to have
the mammoth producing about July or
August, when it should commence to digest
150,000 cubic yards of Siamese territory each
month. The co. is in 250,000 20s. shares,
of which 215,000 have been issued and are
paid to 12s. 6d. The site is 100 miles south
of Ren on g, close to the Ratrut. Of 1100
acres, 600 28ft. deep have been tested for
a pound average. Unlike the Malayan pro-
positions, Takuapa is virgin territory, hav-
ing never been worked by Chinese. The
proved area should contain 27 million cubic
yards. The bulk of the tin lies in wash
from one-fourth to one-third of the total
depth, with the richest values at the bottom
—up to 31b. per yd. The overburden will
be stripped off and disposed of by an elevator
and other gear without passing through the
trommel. The plant provides for 8000 ft.
of table space ; few of the older dredges have
more than 4000 ft. The co. will commence
producing practically free of debt; and there
will still remain about 3s. per share call-
able in addition to 35,000 reserved shares.


THE JOB.
“Yes. the stick’s get tins: thicker, sonny: but —.well. let’s roll up our sleeves to it!”


Special Underwear
for the warm weather.
So many men now wear cotton underwear during
the Summer months that Pcapes always make a
point of providing this class of goods in qualities
that give great coolness yet withstand constant
wear and washing.
The lines quoted here are of great strength.
English Balbriggan Undershirts, half sleeves,'
36in. to 44in. chest
Full length Underpants to match, 34in. to
44in. waist
Trunk length Underpants to match, 34in. to
44in. waist
8/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS* OUTFITTERS,
George St. (opposite Hunter St.), Sydney
m
lb
The Fragrance Alluring
Magicians, in days of old,
prepared secret charms to
win for maidens the Prince of
their dreams.
Many of them took the form of some
alluring perfume which subtly aided
natural beauty.
T
&
via
./a
■ortim
>1
Chevalier du Roi Face Powder and Perfume has evolved from the lore of
Old Italy: manufactured solely by Lepit, it lias all the grace and charm
and intoxicating fragrance which awakens the irresistible desire ot
possession. Lepit’s exquisite powders, perfumes and cremes are known
the world over, and appreciated for their delicate harmony. For the
discriminating woman of to-day.
From, all Perfumers.
GATTINO & CO., LTD., Agents, 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ex-Dig.” : Raisuli, the picturesque Moroc-
can bandit who, it is cabled, is really dead at
last, thought so highly of the Diggers that lie
evolved a scheme for utilising them in his
military campaigns. A number of Austra-
lians, winners of various distinctions, accord-
ingly received invitations to make a trip to
Morocco as liis guest. The authorities, how-
ever, declined to assist any Diggers to accept
Raisuli’s invitation, although one given by
the French Government, which desired to
treat a hundred Australian soldiers to a trip
to its Moroccan territory, was accepted and
a party was formed. An opportunity to secure
land went with the latter offer, but it is
doubtful whether any Digger was sufficiently
attracted by the proposition to stay in the
country.
HER PROFESSION.
“She's a dress artist, I’m told.”
“A designing woman, more likely.”
“Akran” : No doubt there were plenty of
tough Aussies, but I won’t forget this one,
however long I live. It was at Messines.
The Huns had counter-attacked, after our
successful hop-over, and had pasted our
trench with everything they could fling. I
was stretcher-bearing; the wounded were
getting numerous and we had to do our work
at top speed. Presently we came on a badly
wounded man who appeared to be prospect-
ing in the dirt with his entrenching tool. One
of his arms was blown off; lie had also been
hit in the thigh, and on the face. We
grabbed him and were putting him on the
stretcher when he half sat up and—-“ Hold
on a minute,’’ he said; “the blighters have
shot my arm off. My girl’s gold watch is
on the wrist, and it’s not right for. me to
go without it.”
“Sixenate”: A divorce case with some
queer points may be beard in Sydney shortly.
The lady runs a pawnshop inherited from
her father, but she didn’t come into posses-
sion of it until long after she had parted
from her husband, who presently became a
regular client. When he had exhausted his
pawnable property he raided his wife’s busi-
ness premises and, gathering all his pledges,
took them away, presumably to pawn else-
where. The Law, after puzzling itself over
the legal position created when a husband
pawns goods with his wife, declined to re-
gard the husband as either a shopbreaker or
a thief. Religion stands in the way of a
Jewess divorcing her husband; but the
woman in this case feels goaded to seek' a
civil redress which will enable her to safely
do business with a man who, apart from be-
ing her husband, is a good customer.
* * * *
“Astor” : At present the Melbourne ’tecs are
looking for five alleged murderers, and their
chances of capturing them are poor. Three
are wanted for bashing in the skull of the
returned Digger, Spain, on the night of the
police mutiny, when the mob took charge
of a city block. Another unknown is being
hunted in connection with the death of an
elderly farmer on the same evening, the
police assuming on vague evidence that the
visitor was feloniously hit with a bottle. But
as bottles and other missiles were flying
about on that occasion, and batons were
smacking every head within reach, the agri-
culturist’s end will probably have to be
written off as a mystery. Meantime Richard
Buckley remains as elusive as ever. Many
profess to have seen him, and it would
appear from some reports that he has been
in three States simultaneously, and is fur-
ther multiplying his identity to annoy the
police. The difficulty of recognising a short,
thick-set man, whose one remarkable feature
—his tattooed body—could only be spotted if
he were a surf-bather or an artist’s model,
grows with increasing public indifference to
his existence. Outside the official sleuths
very few are thinking about Buckley, and
he can look confidently towards the day
when even Nicholson’s bloodhounds will have
a blunt nose for clues. They have too many
other things accumulating on their minds
to be continually remembering a man who is
on the verge of becoming a myth.
“Buck (M.L.) : Constable Bob Young had
a way of his own of dealing with drunks in
old Wanganui. Jackson’s saleyards were close
to Victoria-avenue, and the police-station
was at the other end of the town. One night,
when the hamlet had been painted redder than
usual, a belated citizen noticed
Bob lugging a drunk round to
the saleyards, behind the rails
of which three other inebriates
could be seen dead to the world.
Bob’s explanation was that he’d
be damned if he-was going to
drag any mere drunks across the
town and then get up in the
morning to see about breakfast
for ’em. When it was pointed
out that the menagerie might
climb out, he said, “O’ course.
Let ’em. When they’re sober
enough to get over those rails
they’ll be fit to take the road
home.”
“Quack" : At one Australian
auxiliary hospital in England a
number of leadswingers found
their periods of rest and ease
summarily curtailed. A new
O.C. arrived from Australia, and
promptly prescribed for every
convalescent a new mixture,
issued to the patients in bottles
containing a four-days’ supply.
At the end of this time the con-
valescents were paraded, and
their throats and tongues ex-
amined. As a result about 90
per cent, were pronounced fit to
return to France, and packed off,
to their intense disgust. The
principle on which the sheep had
been separated from the goats
was simple enough. The mix-
ture contained tincture of iron
perchloride, which stains the in-
terior of the mouth a dark-
brown color. Those weeded out
were the ones who, know-
ing that they were O.K. or not wishing to
be if they weren’t, poured the stuff down
the sink instead of taking it.
* , * , * ,„ , .* /T>
°? 8 J? a , e . r ' .
13/12/'2.>l 1S a reminder that retouching is
an everyday affair in a photographic studio,
and. in the matter ot coiffure I have been
asked to do tar queerer tilings than the
transformation of a “bang into a “push-
back.” A woman once brought m a photo
of herself with a fox-terrier on her lap. She
wanted the dog turned into a bunch of flow-
ers. We deleted the hound with the excep-
ONE OF THE AFFECTIONATE.
“Now, I bet you’re a most affectionate woman.”
“Too right, I am! When my husband’s away Fee got to kiss myself good-night or I
can’t sleep.”
tion of its eyes, which now gaze out from
the centres of two marguerites. Then there
was the visit from the irate parent on whose
child’s photo we had put only four eyelashes.
“I would have you know,” she said, “my
child has 22 lashes on each eye; I’ve counted
them.” But the tallest order that ever
came our way concerned a dead child in a
coffin. The order was to open its eyes and
turn the coffin into a cushion. We shut the
studio for a week after that job.
“Sucre” : The heroic cheerfulness of these
Australian busliwomen ! A drought-stricken
cattleman out Cunnamulla (Q.) way recently
took his steel’s .to Enoggera, Brisbane, to
sacrifice them to the local butchers, and on
the journey he wore a very rusty, sunburnt
hat, long due for superannuation. The day
he reached Brisbane he received a telegram.
Fearing the worst, he asked the hotel pro-
prietor to open and read it. This was the
message: “Ten points rain last night. Buy
new hat.”
# * * *
“Griffith Moses” meets some doctors and
a sea-captain :
la Prohibition America bright intellects early
recognised the need for lots of young medicoes who
would prescribe alcohol for dry patients, furnish
“dope” for those whom alcoholic scarcity might send
to cocaine for variety, and, as the last act, certify
that death was caused by senile indigestion. There
wasn’t time for these young men to study, so “col-
leges,” consisting of one room, two liars and a
desk with a heap of blank diplomas on it, arose .to
attest that they had studied —had been at it for
years. Bogus colleges existed already, but there
seemed to be space for more. Unluckily the new
practitioners couldn’t say that they were specialists
and only ordered drink, for that would have aroused
suspicion. So they prescribed at random, and per-
formed operations with the carving-knife, and tried
only to meet their own kind in consultation, and
certified to each other's cadavers. Then sluggish
Sam began to realise that almost anybody could
make himself a college, and thereupon make any-
body a doctor or dentist. In the State of Delaware
three “colleges” were discovered, and probably some
are still concealed and some have fled. Delaware
has only one-fifth the population of Sydney, so it
was well off for colleges. In other ways the Dry
Countree has matters to occupy its mind. On a
recent day it was said to be possible to look from
a point not far from New York city, out across the
sea, and count 22 vessels, all supposed to be full
of grog, lying outside the line where territorial
waters end. What with sham colleges and sham
doctors, distilleries in cellars and breweries in attics,
smuggling by land and sea, ghostly rum dropping
from the sky, and a suspicion that cocktails are
pumped across from Cuba through a pipe, Uncle’s
temper has grown somewhat frayed, and he has begun
to seize alleged whisky ships with wild disregard
for the rules of the game.
And Uncle never was much good at measuring sea
distances. One fairly clear night, during a Philip-
pine insurrection, a British captain, whose boat was
between Hong Kong arid Manila, was chugging along
on his lawful occasions, and, his mind being at rest,
was taking a small bite of sleep. Suddenly it came
to him that the air was filled with crackers and
voices commanding him to stop. He realised without
delay that he was up against something much beyond
his calibre, so, attaining the bridge in one leap, he
stopped and blew all the whistles he had, to intimate
that he was listening. Then he waited events, and
events happened. Hail Columbia came on board
In . uniform, carrying the Star Spangled annei, an,
with the goddess of Liberty under his arm. e pio-
P«* d to confiscate the -ship tor lurking after cu.rk
the three-mile limit, that being by his law
P nma f acle evidence of gun-running. he >n »»
offered to prove by a cross-bearing that he was lo
miles fr °m shore, and after the enemy had taken a
long look through the night he became less heated,
and a silence developed. Finally he askeelwhat was
th e best thing to do about it, and as the Briton wa*
SACRIFICED TO ART.
COMMERCIAL: "What, no sheets on the bed!"
HOUSEMAID: “Wot Saturday nights. Y’see.
the boss runs pitchers at the School of
Arts every Saturday night, an' uses ’em
for the screen.”
perfectly aware that sufficiently hard swearing, might
put him within a mile of the shore, he replied that
perhaps the incident had better be dissolved in
cocktail. Judging by his aspect when he told me the
story, the cocktail must have, tasted bitter in his
mouth, but the Bird of Freedom was in his own
waters, and carried all the guns.
NUNE VINO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is estimated that 200,000 quarts of champagne
were consumed in Paris on Christmas Eve.” — Cable.
Nine years ago —and eight—and seven —and six—
They .drank the cup of bitterness and fed
Upon affliction’s bread,
And bore the cross and clutched the crucifix
While o’er the soil of France young blood ran red.
Mothers refusing to. be comforted
Wept, haggard-eyed. In many a stately shrine
The prayers were lifted and the tears were shed
For dying- and dead.
Six years ago—and seven—and eight—and nine !
Ring- out the bitter years of blood and tears.
Turn down the leaves of those drear desolate eves.
Lo ! Paris runs with wine!
Six years ago there was a Christmas Eve
When all was tense and hushed, with few to care
What was the table-fare.
Ca,n Munim or Clicquot gladden hearts that grieve,
Or Perrier Jouet bid begone despair
When the Dark Angel’s wings are in the air
Beating, proclaiming the dominion his —
When husbands, fathers, sweethearts, sons are where
Death’s talons tear
And, morn and noon and night, destruction is ? ■
Do the high gods laugh “Ho Ho” ? Six years ago
France was aflood with sweat and tears and blood.
Now Paris swims—in fizz !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE PENITENT.
“Don’t, you worry, Dad; I’ve turned over a new leaf. I’m going to set to work now and pay ’em all."
“Yes, no doubt; but meantime?”
“Oh, meantime? Well, meantime, Dad, if you’ve got a few more pounds that are troubling you, you can let me have them!**


333
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.
“Nitric”: Yes, but how’s this for a con-
centrated collection of Blighties? A Digger
started by losing an eye in the first Mes-
sines stunt. He got hack again to France
and lost two fingers of his left hand. While
in charge of a Chinese loafing battalion he
lost his right leg at the knee and his right
arm—an aeroplane bomb paid him that little
attention. Australia saw him parading with
a wooden leg; and then while bathing at
Coolangatta (Q.) a shark took his mutilated
left arm. And yet he is able to paint by
holding the brush in his teeth, and he does
it cheerfully. Salute !
“No. 5898": “Herodot’s” wound (B.
20/12/’23) reminds me of one I saw at
Bullecourt in May, 1917. Embarrassed by
the gentle Hun’s attentions, I dropped into
a shell-hole occupied by a Digger of the
23rd Batt., who asked me for a cigarette and
a drop of water, “I can’t use my hands,”
lie explained in a whisper, “as I’ve got to
keep my innards in place,” He refused my
offer of assistance,' hut “would be obliged
if the stretcher-bearers could he sent out
after dark if things were quiet.” I struck
him at 9.30 a.m., and he had been hit going
over—about 4 a.m. And he was prepared
to wait on till dark; and even then didn’t
want the stretcher-bearers to come if tilings
weren’t quiet. On second thoughts I’ll enter
him for the Grit Stakes.
* * * *
More about an eccentric clan:—
Lord Alfred Douglas, who goes inside the bars for
a year for libelling Winston Churchill (B. 27/12/’23),
is the uncle of the present Marquis of Queensberry.
The last Marquis, who died a few years back, was
Alf’s elder brother. He had some faint connection
with Australia, for in 1894 —he was then Lord Percy
IN CASE OF NECESSITY.
MISS GEORGETTE : “Do you think woman should propose?”
MISS TAFFETA : “I'm not sure, dear. Have you tried every-
thing else?”
Douglas—he tore around the W.A. goldfields in quest
of nuggets and options. Amongst other infant settle-
ments into which Percy streaked in the pursuit of
wealth was Cue, the Murchison centre, his advent
enabling the local paper to embed a villainous pun in
some doggerel:—
To the Cue of the present, progressive and new,
We welpome the scion of time-honored “Q.”
But neither before nor after he arrived at the title
was the last Marquis as eccentric as his younger
brothers. Or perhaps it would be more correct to
say that his lack of balance took a different form,
as when he once made serious application to a Lon-
don magistrate for permission to shoot motor-hogs on
sight.
“Peter” : In S. Aus. it is not only the pub-
lican who may find himself up against the
law for supplying a half-caste wirii liquor
(8.. 13/12/’23). A half-caste who enlisted
early in the Big War from a Yorke Penin-
sula mission station returned after about
four years’ service. His record was Al. He
had been back some time on the mission
HEAD OVER HEELS IN—?
“Were you very embarrassed when you asked me to marry you, dear?”
“Rather, darling! I owed over £400.”
station and one day I ran across him in a
near-by town. After comradely greetings we
adjourned to the nearest thirst-quenching
establishment, and his was a handle of beer.
A week after I received a summons to appear
before the court and was fined a fiver and
£2 10s. costs for supplying a half-caste with
liquor. Yet the man was accounted worthy
not only to vote, but also to fight for the
gentlemen who constituted the Bench.
“Pat Bushie”: “Scriveners” mention of a
declaration by both parties before two wit-
nesses being accepted as a marriage by Scot-
tish law (B. 20;12/’23) reminds me. _ Dur-
ing the war the “local talent” in a N.S.W.
northern town rehearsed and put on a show
in aid of the Red Cross funds. The old Scot-
tish custom was featured in the play, and
during the show the hero and heroine became
stage man and wife thereby. They had only
met during the few weeks, of rehearsals, but a
parson united the pair in the orthodox way
the day after the performance.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The curse of centralisation
hits the world in some queer and unexpected
places. For in-
stance. it looks as
if the big telescope
offered to Maori-
land by the Uni-
versity of Yale
(U.S.I will be
located at Auck-
land. The Yankee
professors sti p u-
lated that the site
should he close to
“the amenities of
civilisation” in
order, no doubt,
that the men who
are to supervise
the erection of the
instrument m a y
not be eaten by-
cannibals. Dun-
edin, which rightly
claims Central
Otago to be the
ideal site for astro-
nomic observations,
owing to its clear
skies and sunshine,
was therefor e
turned down in
favor of the north-
orn city of dust and haze. But Southland
hasn’t altogether abandoned hope: it is mak-
ing another appeal to the U.S. institution
to have a bit of commonsense.
A story from a western suburb of Sydney:
It happened in the next street. A woman, hearing
•a noise, opened her door to find a. baby, decently
clad, expressing indignation at being put to bed on
the doormat. Just as she was dazedly picking up
the unsolicited gift, a man indicated a flying female
figure disappearing down the street. The chase was
taken up Shergetically, a p.c. being found reasonably
handy; and the flying girl, cornered, told a weird
story about having been asked to hold the infant by
a strange woman, who then darted into a shop and
failed to return. When she saw the utter unbelief
her statement provoked, the girl became hysterical;
nevertheless, she insisted that she had been alarmed
at the prospect of taking the baby home to a. house
where the landlady was suspicious, and had therefore
left it on the doorstep of the house with the kindliest-
looking front. Followed a procession of the prinei-
pals in the drama, reinforced by small boys and
dogs. And the utterly unbelievable part of the story
is that the procession arrived at the station in time
to relieve the strain on a worried sergeant who
was receiving the tearful confession of a distracted
woman that she had palmed her baby off upon a
stranger and wanted the infant found and restored.
The situation sorted itself out so well that the
mother, who admitted to being penniless and despe-
rate, marched off with the lady whose doorstep had
been made a repository for the abandoned infant, and
who wanted a girl-help and rather liked the idea
of having a baby in the house. And even the
girl who had been given some frantic moments in
the course of the episode declared that the whole
event was “lovely.”
“Yacko”: The name Australia was used
before 1638 (B. 6/12/’23). In 1606 Quiros,
in his diary, referred to his latest discovery
as Australia del Espiritu Santo. He imagined
he had found the elusive Great South Land;
ii was, of course, merely one of the New
Hebrides group. Purchas Englished Quiros’s
voyages in 1625, but there is a doubt if the
name wasn’t originally written “Austrialia.”
Probably the first use of “Australia” was
in a work on its zoology and botany, pub-
lished by Shaw and Smith in London in
1793. The Frenchman De Brasses, in speak-
ing of the land to the south of Asia, in his
“Histoire des Navigations aux Terres Aus-
trales,” printed in 1756. calls it Australasia.
But the Latinised “Terra Australis” appears
on a map by Finaeus as far back as 1531,
and was tagged to a vast imaginary conti-
nent, reputedly discovered in 1499, round
the South Pole.
* * * *
“Iford”: “C.McL..” in an article on
Samuel Johnson in the Christmas Bulletin,
invited us to consider it an unhealthy age in
which men washed their bodies somewhat
stingily (we have Samuel’s own evidence
that he had “no great passion for clean
linen”) ; but despite the doubt that intrudes
whether he ever took a shower-bath, he
lasted to 75. The life he lived was largely a
sedentary one, lie suffered from king s evil
and other maladies, and Macaulay records
somewhere (or is it Boswell?) that the
Great Cham of English literature once men-
tioned that he never remembered to have
spent a day without pain. Was it an un-
hygienic age when a man with all these
handicaps, not to mention others, like dropsy
and a huge appetite, could go up to the 75
mark, and then leave a vague idea m
“CMcL.’s” mind that he had been digging
his grave with his teeth? If men washed
with less frequency under full wig's, mightn t
they have evened things up by eating and
drinking - , however liberally, a great deal
more simply? * ' *
“Cartot” • The frequent references to the
part the Australia played in saving Sydney
and Newcastle from bombardment m the
early days of the war recall a point that lias
never been cleared up, viz., how near did
the German cruisers get to the eastern Aus-
tralian coast? There is a vague idea that
when thev learned that a battle-cruiser was
in pursuit of them, the Scharnlioi*st and
Gneisenau were only a little way east of
Newcastle, with the Nuremberg a short dis-
tance to the north. But if this was so tile
Australia could hardly have helped finding
them. It is more likely that when the three
cruisers slipped out of Itabaul Harbor on
the declaration of war they took the south-
ern course to the east of the Solomons, in-
tending later to run south-west to the coast
of Australia; and that subsequent informa-
tion led them to change their course and
make for Tahiti. There are, I know, plenty
of people who believe that the three vessels
were within a few hours’ steam of Sydney
when they Were headed off by the Australia;
but they can give no reason for the
faith that is in them.
*' * * *
“D.” on courtiers and kings -
The average deposed royalty is a nonentity whose
departure into private life consigns him to his proper
position in the social cosmos. Ex-King Manoel, for
example, has scarcely been heard of outside the
society columns of the London press since Portugal
threw him overboard. The Kaiser is different. It
is a tribute to something big in his personality that,
after more than five years of exile, the world should
still be interested in the attacks periodicaTv made on
him by his former courtiers. The latest to aim a
kick at the fallen Lucifer of Doom is Count Trutz-
schler, “a veteran Prussian aristocrat who was in
daily communication with the former Kaiser, as
Court Chamberlain, for a dozen years.” Two sus-
picious features characterise all these alleged his-
tories: they are published “at the dictates of con-
science,” and their authors claim to have had an
uncanny prescience as regards the downfall of the
Fatherland. In fact, they leave the impression that
the ex-courtiers are a miserable lot of frauds by
comparison with whom their former master cuts a
dignified and impressive figure. Meanwhile their
activities must make the professional loyalists and
king’s men of the courts that survive feel self-
conscious and the royalties cynically suspicious.
Judging by the disclosures of the last few years,
every Court contains a generous quota, of high
officials busily engaged in making insulting entries
in diaries about their royal masters and mistresses,
while the latter's only hope of avoiding public
exposures consists in being so stupid and colorless
that the public will not pay to read about them.
KEEPING HIS END UP.
FAT HER-IN-LAW : “I notice I still pay for
my daughter's clothes. About all you
seem to do is to keep her in gloves.”
SON-IN-LAW : “Oh, well, I only' asked for
her hand, didn’t I?”
MY NEW YEAR’S WISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would not wish the glad New Year
To change the taste of love or beer;
I would not ask the yellow sun
To alter his ideas of fun,
Although the temperature may be
Some height above the century ;
I would not ask the rain to drop
For every need of every crop,
Nor hope the morning train would wait
Whenever I’m a moment late;
I would- not order things at all
According to my beck and call.
But if the New Year cares to be
A decent sort of friend to me,
There is one thing that he might do
To buck me up and pull me through.
For women’s use he might invent
Some kind of powder, wash or scent
That carries a less awful smell
Than that of which Flo, Ruth and Nell
Make up their lilies and their roses
To damn a whole tram full of noses.
N.S.W.
P. O. M.
A RHYME OF SWIFT SEASONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Holly and ripe mistletoe!
Gum. b'ossom and Christmas bush!
How swiftly the seasons can go!
How the eager years scramble and push !
The mistletoe hangs in the hall;
A moment you pause in sweet wonder
If Kate at the end of the ball
By the luckiest chance may walk under.
And almost before you decide
That Kate is the last thing in kissing
You find someone else is your bride
And the holly is suddenly missing.
Before you can put on your coat,
When they tell you that outside it’s snowing,
You’re asking for ice, as you note
How high the thermometer’s going.
The world is but half a thought round;
Spring sighs On the waistcoat of winter.
It’s hard to count change of a pound
While life keeps the pace of a sprinter.
And certainly last Christmas Day
Hasn’t done with the pudding that vexed one
Or thrown its last bottle away
Before we are caught by the next one.
So keep up the pace if you can.
A century goes in a winking;
And the leisure that’s left, for a man
Must suffice for his drinking and thinking.
N.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


- 7
I
"f
> i
: «*
I
MM
mm
m
ftgr
Management
J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Courtesy and Homelike Atmosphere.
Bed and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Wedding Breakfasts, Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas Catered for.
Private Dining-rooms, Spacious Drawing-room.
Your Patronage Solicited.
PERFECTION OF SERVICE & COMFORT.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone 86141 (10 lines^.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The late Judge Gordon, of S. Aus., with
several years of business training and several
more of legal practice in a country town,
had a wide experience to add to his natural
gifts of eloquence and a ready wit, stiffened
by much study. Law, letters and politics
ail attracted him. He was Minister of Edu-
cation under Cockburn and under Holder
in the days, 30 years ago, when State Min-
istries changed pretty well every year. He
was Chief See. under Kingston, then Attor-
ney-General under Holder and Jenkins,
finishing up with just 20 years on the Bench.
He declined the Chief Justiceship on the
death of Way, and also a High Court ap-
pointment—his heart had compelled him to
go slow for a good many of his later years.
Gordon was an all-round man, and even as
a Judge didn’t mind hinting that he knew
as much, for instance, about horse-breaking
and fishing as some of the experts who ap-
peared before him. He was. therefore, natu-
rally a contributor to The Bulletin’s
Aboriginalities: in one issue, while the
learned Boucaut discoursed on Arab horses,
his colleague, the genial Gordon, introduced
some remarkable feat in coach-driving. In
his Strathalbyn days he fancied himself as
a whip.
W. Honeybone, who has retired from the
job or town clerk
of Benuigo (Vic.)
after half-a-cen-
tury’s service, says
he will try for a
seat in the council.
T here must be
some horrible fas-
ci nation about
Bumbledom when
50 years’ connec-
tion with it doesn’t
make a man sick
and tired of it all.
Clayton, too, after
he threw up the
town clerkship of
Melbourne, stood
for election to the
City Council —but
in his case the elec-
tors said “iNo.”
CHARLES DAVIS,
one of Hoh art’s
oldest business
men, recently
retired.
“F.J.”: The passing of Justice .Gordon,
of S. Aus., leaves only 13 of the 50 men
who framed the Commonwealth Bill at Adel-
aide in 1897. The 13 are Cockburn, Glynn
and Symon (S. Aus.), Carruthers and
McMillan (Ma State), Higgins, Isaacs, Pea-
cock, Quick and Trenwith (Yic.), Lewis
(Speck), and James and Loton (W.A.).
Some political autumn leaves: —
One by one the remnant of the 143 members of
both Houses of the reformed Yic. Parliament of 1889
are dropping off. Taverner’s death reduced the sur-
vivors to approximately 15. Tom Hunt, J. Harris
and 11. R. Williams are octogenarians, and Outtrim,
Walter Madden, Agar Wynne and AY. A. Tremvith
are marching towards the four-score mile-post. Jack
Gardiner has to look behind to see his 70th birthday,
1 and so have McColl and Bailes. Robeit Best, in
spite of his efforts to make himself look young, must
plead guilty to 66 or thereabouts, and Tom Smith
is a trifle older. liirton is no chicken, and neither
is little Doc. Maloney. Alec Peacock, probably the
youngest of the lot —and the only one now m
the State Legislature—is in his 63rd year. Agar
Wynne is the only former M.L.C. among the sur-
vivors.
T. W. Garrett, N.S.W. Public Trustee,
rounded off 50 years in the service on Jan.
1. He started as a clerk in the Lands
Department when his father, Thomas Gar-
rett, was member for Camden and J. S. Far-
nell was Minister for Lands. Later Garrett,
senior, took over Farnell’s portfolio, and
young Tom was transferred to a clerkship
in the Supreme Court. He w,as admitted
as a solicitor in ISB2, but still stayed in
the public service and held several impor-
tant offices before he reached his present job.
His salary as Public Trustee has been lifted
to £1750, and he will go on long leave on
full pay on July 1. In his day Garrett
was a fine cricketer, and was one of Gregory’s
Xl—the first team to visit England.
“0.P.H.”: Taking stock of Yic. Premier
Lawson on Dec. 20 as he strode down Collins-
street, I recalled that it was the 24tli anni-
versary of his first return to the Leg. Assem-
bly as member for Castlemaine. When he
defeated James
Whiteside McCay,
then a newly-
fledged Minister in
the McLean Gov-
ernment, Lawson
looked like an over-
grown schoolboy—
one whom a deputy
returning - officer
would be justified
in asking “Are
you of the full age
of 21 years?”
Fourteen years as
a private member
and 10 years—-
almost continuous
—in office, in four
Governments, have
told on him. He
looks fagged and
55, although he is
only in his 49tli
year. A year’s
spell wouldn’t do
him any harm.
Barrister
E. C. W. KELLY,
chairman of the
Vic. Commission
on the High Cost
of Living.
F. W. Coneybeer, one of the earliest
Labor M’s.P. in South Aus., and latterly
Speaker for some years, is trying to re-
enter the political game. He fell between
the Labor and Nationalist stools after the
war; but now he lias thrown in his lot with
the Liberals, and has got one of the nomina-
tions for suburban East Torrens.
N.S.W. Speaker Danny Levy, jaunting
away to Colombo for recess, differs from most
M’s.L.A., who prepare for harvest in their
spare time by cultivating constituents. But
probably Levy, who lives among them, has
enough of his constituents while Parliament
is sitting, and won’t need them long, any-
way. His translation from the solicitor to
the barrister branch of his profession looks
like a preparation for an expected call to the
Bench.
Came to the end of a lot of suffering in
Adelaide lately, solicitor S. T. Toler-Rowley.
He was a lightweight athlete 40 years ago,
and captained the Prince Alfred College
cricket team when Joe Darling made his
first appearance in it. But at the beginning
of the century locomotor-ataxia gripped him.
He made a great fight against it: till
a few weeks back he attended his office regu-
larly, and even contrived to get some enjoy-
ment out of social life and watching sports.
Fitzroy, where the shooting pushites dwell,
is one of Melbourne’s poorer municipalities,
but its councillors are a brave crowd, and
lately decided to pay the expenses of three
of their number to trip to Auckland and re-
port on the concrete roads there, though
there are concrete roads much nearer that
are dying to be reported on. Shortly after-
wards old Abraham Wheeler, councillor, re-
tired medical practitioner, bachelor and a
cottage hermit of long standing, began to
be missed. lie wasn’t one of the chosen.
The police investigated his home and found
him dead, fully dressed, and with his old-
fashioned hat on his head. The popular ver-
dict is that disappointment at not being sent
to Auckland to view concrete roads, acting
on a weak heart, finished the useful old
citizen.
“0.K.” : The late John Taverner was one
of the few I have met who appeared to have
been accurately measured for his name.
When he went to London as Agent-General
for Vie. he was a sturdy, breezy taverner,
every inch of him. He looked the part of
Mine Host, prepared to make a welcoming
speech, or crack a bottle, or chuck an objec-
tionable customer out. He always set me
thinking of “Ho, Jolly Jenkin,” the taverner
in Arthur Sullivan’s grand opera. Yet, for
all I know, Taverner may have been one who
lived laborious days and turned his lips
steadfastly against sack. It doesn’t follow
that a Taverner is as a Taverner looks. He
certainly lived to be 70 and died in harness
—the kind of harness that his sort of public
man wears.
One of the 12 survivors from the Hamp-
shire, in which Kitchener went down, died
in Auckland hospital the other day. He
was Charles Walter Rogerson, aged 33, who
had arrived in Maoriland only two months
ago. When he saw the big soldier last he
was standing on the starboard side of the
quarter-deck talking with his officers. Roger-
son was pretty sure Iv. of K. must have
been on deck when the vessel sank.
From the Federal Gallery:—
E. A. Harney, K.C., who defeated Laborite Lowther
for the South Shields seat in the British elections,
was already a promising young barrister when he
burst into the first Federal Senate from Westralia.
His wide knowledge and accomplished diction, re-
vealed without egotism on every conceivable occa-
sion, are still remembered by old hands. In his
time, indeed, the adjective “mellifluous’’ was worn
threadbare by ardent pressmen who were trying to
do justice to his flow of language. Mellifluousness
certainly might apply to well-dressed sentiments that
gave no offence, but there was also an undeniable
dramatic quality about his discourses. After one of
his best efforts in the Senate, a member, envious of
his brilliancy, shouted across the chamber: “You
are a wonderful actor!” “Sir,” countered Harney
imperturbably, “you are an extra gentleman.”
David Gaunson’s brother Willie died the
other day in Melbourne at 74. He tried hard
to be a public man of some kind or other;
but he never could secure election to any
worth-while body.
John L. Potter, now of Timaru, Maori-
land, who claims to be the last of the Eureka
Stockaders and of the Vic. Eight-hour pio-
neers, was born in Durham (Eng.) in ’34. He
came to the Australian diggings in the early
’fifties, participated in the Ballarat revolt
of ’54, marched behind the first Eight-hour
banner in Melbourne in ’56, and gravitated
to the Gabriel’s Gully goldfield in Otago
(M.L.) in ’6l. Fifteen years ago he and his
wife celebrated their golden wedding; a
decade later they had a diamond jubilee, and
in 1923 —with 65 years of wedded history—•
they called it a radium anniversary. The old
warrior is still in good form, and in his own
hand has sent The Bulletin an account of
his pioneering.
Labor will have three representatives on
the new Melbourne ’Varsity Council —Jones
(the deputy—wonderfully—of the Uppah
Chambalr). Lemmon (technical school coun-
cils) and E. J. Holloway (industrial inter-
ests). They are all moderates who prefer
keeping close to earth and accomplishing
something for the immediate future rather
than aeroplaning on behalf of the unborn.
Speaker Mackey and Eggleston, both
Liberals, will represent the Leg. Assembly;
and T. Patterson, M.H.R., the Cocky who
displaced Wise in Gippsland, will embody
agricultural interests. Robert Gibson and
George Swinburne have been nominated on
behalf of manufactures and commerce.
Although only a little over 40, C. H. G.
Hannam, who died at Brisbane recently, was
on nodding terms with a big section of the
globe. A Bananaland native, he went fight-
ing Boers before he was 20; after that he
became a member of a mercantile firm in
Japan, and in 1911 went to South Man-
churia, where he was eventually partner in
the firm of Thompson, Hannam and Co. In
1921 Africa saw him again, and he was listed
as a director of the Victoria Nyanza Sugar
Co. England, France, Germany and other
European countries were then looked in
upon, and after that came another visit to
South Africa and a trip to China. He
arrived back in Brisbane, the starting-place
of his wanderings, in November, only to die
a few weeks afterwards.
When Frank Tate, Vic. Education Direc-
tor, was in the Cold Country a group of
people with grievances told him of their
troubles, and asked him how Australians
would act if so circumstanced. Tate said that
as a mere visitor he didn’t care about butting
in; but he would tell them a yarn. When
held up in a mixed train at a Vic. country
station he saw a dog lying near the plat-
form and whining continuously. Irritated,
he asked the stationmaster why he did not
stop that noise. The s.m. replied: “Don’t
mind that dawg; he’s lying on a Scotch
thistle, and he’d rather yell than get up and
shake himself.”
Anthony Cumming, Queensland’s very
capable Government Printer, is proud of one
achievement. “Bishop” Barnes was Trea-
surer when the George-street frontage of the
printery was built, and Cumming made up
his mind to have seven devils symbolical
of the printing trade on the building. The
unsuspecting Treasurer passed the plans
without noticing the devils, and Cumming
ANTHONY CUMMING, Queensland’s
Government Printer.
kept the carvings well covered until the
building was finished. “The Bishop” objected
when he discovered the imps perched on
the parapet and set in the archway over the
entrance door, but what could he do? —he had
passed the plans ! A photographer with a sense
of humor snapped the mercurial Cumming
alongside one of his stone devils at the time
the building was opened, and printed the
photograph over the caption “Two of a
Kind.”
Died recently, at 60, H. N. Leach, a
Bananaland journalist who had the law
among his many accomplishments. When
the war started he volunteered for service in
New Guinea, and the District Magistracy at
Rabaul was among the jobs that came his
way.
J. A. Murdoch, the Sydney business man
whose picture was in last week's Bulletin,
began to think of Welfare W 7 ork when he
had finished a big job for the Red Cross —
organising a disorganised distribution of all
those socks and shirts that seemed to have
wandered up and down the war zone looking
for the feet and bodies that wanted them
most. Now he has made a good many hun-
dred lives happier than they might have
been. In his tirm’s new factory beyond the
Sydney Central Station there is a Welfare
Department, to which employees can go for
first or second aid in time of trouble. Acci-
dents happen in the best-regulated firm. A
trained sister—and she’s a sister of that
Colonel Cox Taylor whom every A.I.F. artil-
leryman knew —is in charge of a little hos-
pital annexe which includes everything from
drugs and bandages to words of cheer and
a stern warning to rest until the ache or
pain is removed. There is a restaurant at
which a good mid-day meal is served for a
sum so small that it reminds one of
“Chinese” Morrison’s reply to a Pekin man-
darin who asked “What do they pay you
for this work?” “So little,” said the re-
markable Australian, “that it is unworthy
to be mentioned in your Excellency’s pre-
sence.”
THE TRAIN WATCHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the wheels roll in from the aching west
And summer is fierce on hill and plain,
Eyes for eyes are making their quest,
Eager with hope, by the long brown train.
Faces cloud as the throng drifts by;
Weary steps from the gateway pass—
Somewhere under the western sky
One walks long on the bare burnt grass.
Eyes and eyes! And the seasons change.
Always the w'atchers have kept the gate—
Men are mustering out on the range;
What have the women to do but wait ?
Weary of watching, the sad eyes gaze
At the opening doors with a hope half dead.
Surely fancy a hard trick plays —
It is like his walk and his good grey head!
“Jack! Oh, it’s flue to see you again!”
(There is music now in the tramping throng)
“Mary! What made you come to the train?”
(Could the days of waiting have been so long?)
Sunlight falls on the passing crowd,
Engines whistle along the track;
Somebody hears the world sing loud
For joy of the daj r w'hen a man comes back !
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
TAKING A REST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oft-times the birth of yet another year
Has wrung- from me a light or gloomy verse:
I sang in tribulation, hope or fear,
Regretting I had gone from bad to worse;
High-grade resolves I formed, with tongue in cheek;
Full twenty New Year moods I told in rhyme,
Repentant, callous, careless, proud or meek.
But not this time.
An old year dies, a new one takes its place—
The theme is trite and easy, I confess;
Did I bewail my woeful lack of grace,
Few readers cared a tinker’s curse, I guess;
It mattered not did I adopt a pose
Of cynicism, or of Thought sublime;
The verses were forgotten, Heaven knows!
So not this time.
Nex-t year, perhaps, if still above the ground,
I’ll greet the dawning of young ’25
With witty jest, or thankfulness profound,
Deep thankfulness for being yet alive:
Next year will weave a garland, with a smile,
Of fancies grown in Apollonian clime,
Arranged in tasteful, true poetic style—
But not this time.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


6*
INIMITABLE
f
r*
...:: :
sfli: wHipS
1188111
"" iji®™
, ig i ■•>
mMmMs
>. ■&
01
s
WmM
m ■ !
li
. :' •••■:••
I 9
ft
■Kpk N \
AgcOA %Mm ■
- «- - f
■
■
P
1
:
% :
mim
pilli
■fin
A:A-
, , V
I f ■' | ;
Vi-*
/ "ii
'*!
NJ '
■K5pUSs$
- ■ ■ WL
k 4 A' 1
*1
(.ijMMPs
..." ■
•••••' • ■' ’■ .'^
I
mm
■
■licll
■ HEli
Hh WMi
■llill l|i||||§
■
mm
■
111
■
H
W
H - -
Kt - " m
thr.ee of a kind.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Brsmch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Xewcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued ny the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
8 -Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Catheart House,
lie Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydroclvil.”
n
The Genuine Wieneke
Saddle is still the best.
Write for new book, free*
JOHN J. WIENEKE,
C/o John Brush,
371 George Street,
Sydney.
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Te Ivurri”: A stockman going around liis
cattle near Tarwin (Vic.) saw in the distance two
bullocks standing close together. Returning the
same way next day he noticed the bullocks still
in the same position and place, so he went over to
investigate, and found that one of the animals,
possessed of a pair of large hooped horns with a
remarkable inward curvature and differing angles at
the ends, had then! securely locked around the
neck of the othei' beast, From the signs roundabout
and also from the appearance of the animals it
seemed as tliougli they had been iti this predica-
ment for at least a couple of days, The stockman
tried every means to release them, including ‘-dog-
ging’’ ui d turning end-for-end, but without success,
and at last he was compelled to find a piece of
timber heaVy enough to smash one of the horns
from the offending animal’s head; whereupon the
released beasts signified their gratitude in the usual
way—by charging at their deliverer, who had known
enough about the game to do the job from horse-
hack. Is the incident tmiqtie? At any rate, no
local stock-owner knows of a like Occurrence,
* vi * #
“Hamer”: A mrtti at A Unify (N.9.W.)
has put up a queer snakebite record, He Was nipped
by a “tiger,” spent a week in hospital, was dis-
charged on Sunday, and cm Monday was bitten again
—by a tiger-snake,
* -* # it
“ Valamac”: On W. Queensland stations
brumby drives are often organised, hot with the
object of catching and breaking in the horses, but
to destroy them, for in drought-time, with feed and
water scarce, a Mob of brumbies on a property doesn’t
exactly help things along, A couple of long wings
are built on to a corral, into which the wild horses
are driven. One method of destroying them is to
pass them iii single file through a crush, where some-
one skilled in the unpleasant business “sticks” each
animal in the jugular vein. The wounded prad
gallops off, but its strength soon fails, and it crashes.
Those who use this method point out that the animal
suffers no pain, and that death is almost instantane-
ous with the final crash. They declare it, to be a
much more humane plan than shooting, as it fre-
quently takes more than one bullet to finish a horse.
“AdeL” i The other day, while fishing in
Oiie of a series of springs at the base of the coastal
range in the Gulf of Carpentaria, I hooked a curi-
ous-lobking fish never before seen by me in my
80 years’ wandering, It bad the body of a fresh-
water perch and the head of a black rock-cod,
tvith krge red eyes and great dorsal fins unlike those
Of any known species. It was golden in color and
of delicious flavor, Has any Abo, angler seen the
likef
* * * •*
* “Nitric’*: I can back a kangaroo that took
the cotint on the Range near Cunningham’s Gap—
where they are few and fat- between now—-against
“Sucre’s’’ hopper (B. 13/12/‘23) which measured
9ft. iOin, My joey ran to 10ft. 3-Jiri., and his last
leap without a broken hip measured 29ft.-odd. He
was a red buck; but with him consorted a white-
face doe —-the first ease of the kind I’ve run against,
excepting that of a whip-tail wallaby and a rock
Wallaby in captivity.
“Gayndah”: “Barcoo’s” observations (B.
29/11/’23) re the wool-loading propensities of Mr.
Ford’s Lizzie are a little belated. I started wool-
loading with a oar
(’lO-model Cadillac) in
the 1915 drought. At
first I used the same
method as “Barcoo,”
but I soon evolved a
better one, and here it
is. Procure a strong
pole or fork about 15ft.
long and attach it in
a perpendicular posi-
tion by two chains to
the hind wheel of the
tabletop, interring the*
butt about 6in. in the
ground. Have a pulley
at the ground and an-
other at the top of
the fork. Fasten a
wire rope with a. hook
on the end round the
bale, sling fashion, and
after running the rope
through the top and
bottom pulleys, fasten
the other end to the
dum irons of the car.
Use your reverse and
run parallel with, the
shafts of the waggon.
You can then watch
.your work. I have not
used a Lizzie, but any clutch car is satisfactory,
and it doesn't hurt a koyce. I can load 200 bales
before dinner, given the right teamsters and binders
ready.
"O. McKay M.”: “El Dorado’s” dog-
guarded damper (B. 13/12/’23) reminds me. Old-
man Jones had had his family scurrying about in
preparation for the, visit of his city nephew - , and a
fat cold roast turkey was to have a prominent place
in the reception. Mum and the kids all turned out
to give Clarence a rousing welcome, after which he
was conducted in triumph to the groaning board.
Young Dave. w - as despatched to fetch in the turkey.
There was presently a commotion outside, finishing
up with a yelp. Dad turned to the girls: “Didn’t
yous shut the door of that safe when you took out
the rest o’ the tucker?” The girls didn’t believe
they 'ad. “Well, yorterv. That dam’ dawg’s 'ad
the bird outer the safe twice already.”
“Mamuku” : Apropos the recent Abo. dis-
cussion on hen-roosters, we have now a scientific
gentleman’s story of a grandmother buff orpington
getting tired of running in competition with the
incubators and became the proud father of a family.
Dr. Crew, in the September Journal of Comparative
Pathology, gives a ease in which a hen 3-J years
old which had developed masculine tendencies was
“mated" with a virginal pullet of the same breed
in a pen far removed from all other birds. The old
hen took up the ordinary' husbandly duties, and the
pullet laid regularly. In four months the pullet
became broody, and she was set on nine of her own
eggs, laid during the preceding 18 days. Two
chickens were hatched, one a male, the other a female,
both typical buff orpingtons, and they subsequently
were interbred successfully. Lest anyone should
suspect the “father” of having all his previous life
merely impersonated a hen, Dr. Crew is at pains to
assure us that before her metamorphosis she laid
many eggs and raised many of her own offspring.
After the performance mentioned, he (or she) be-
DOCUMENTARY ENCUMBRANCES.
LADY OF THE HOUSE: “But have you no references?”
THE OTHER LADY : “Ho, yes, mum; but they're like me photografts—they don’t do
me justice.”
came neutral, and thenceforth regarded the subject
of sex with cold aversion. The investigator explains
the phenomenon by saying that the ovaries had
become atrophied and invaded by peritoneal tissue,
which converted the sex organisation from female
to male.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: The rivers in Westralia’s
nor'-west go on periodical drunks during the mon-
soon season. Footing it along - the Ashburton with
a mate when the river was only a bone-dry scar on
the earth’s surface, we camped one cloudless night
where the banks levelled out into sandy flats. At.
about 3 in the morning we were awakened by the
swirl of water and the feel of it creeping around
us. We got up, grabbed our Matildas and set out
for higher land; but in the uncertain starlight we
were soon up to our knees and decided to climb a
river-gum and wait for daylight. When it arrived,
after two hours’ uncomfortable lodging in tree-forks,,
we found we were sharing quarters with other refugees
- —four goannas, a dozen lizards and hundreds of
beetles. But what riled us most was that high
land was not more than 50yds. away.
“W.T.” (Paracale, Philippine Islands) :
“Golub" asks (B. 18/10/’23) if medicoes have tried
permanganate solution for snakebite. 1 know
that it is used, and with success, in Brazilian camps.
No mining or rubber or ipecac, camp is without a
hypodermic syringe—there are no foolish restrictions
on people 100 miles from a doctor using one —and a
supply of permanganate. The crystals, which can
be bought at any general store, are put lip in
small paper packages, like Seidlitz powders, and
packed in tin boxes, about two dozen to the box.
The contents of one package is dropped into a wine-
glassful of water, and is instantly ready for use.
The only snakebite patient I saw over there was a
.mule, but his life was undoubtedly saved with a
timely injection of the solution.
“Borom”: “Wessel’s” mention of the
theory that Australia was once peopled by a race
of the Tasmanian type, which was subsequently
exterminated by later races (B. 13/12/’23), recalls
that it is still undetermined whether Australia first
obtained its human and animal life from the north
or the south. Many assert that it came originally
from a now-vanished sub-Antarctic continent, and tn>u
Tasmania, then joined to both this region and the
present mainland, was the principal point of entry.
The evidence suggesting that it was the other way
around, however, is just as weighty, and there is
much to show that at least some of the fauna did
arrive originally from the sub-Asian areas to the
north of Australia. But, again, the country may
have been supplied with man and animals from both
top and bottom at the same time, and the present
characteristic and more or less unique types may be
the products of the two different streams. Certainly,
this would explain many things. It is possible that
while the other animals came from the south, the
humans came from the north. Both the ethnologic
and anthropologic evidence in favor of this possi-
bility! is too pronounced and too weighty to be
ignored.
“Jinjmy Possum”: “Barcoo’s” par. about
loading bales of wool on to a carrier’s waggon with
a tin-Lizzie (B. 29/11/’23) reminds me. A budding
squatter in this sparsely-settled part of Bananaland
a while back rose to the dignity of an Elizabeth,
which he abuses most shamefully. I heard the old
girl snorting piteously one day to the bumping and
grinding of a trailing, g-rubbed-out tree; and no
end of times she’s nearly broken her heart dragging
kicking- cattle owt of
boggy waterholes. M she
doesn’t rear up some day
and stoush that heartless
owner of hers it’ll be a
marvel. There must be a
limit to even Eliza’s en-
durance.
“The Rumpus”: The bi-annual fruiting of
“Wingella’s” mango-tree (B. 6/12/’23) is probably
caused by watering out of season. When I was
trying to coax fruit out of old Mother Earth at
Gosnells (W.A.), a little patch of four orange-trees
out of 52 handed out their tribute twice in one
year. On examination, I discovered a little spring
A LIFETIME OF LABOR.
Old Gent. (who has been asked for a tray) :
“No, certainly not. You don’t persevere.
You have no sticking powers.”
THE CADGER : "Gripes, don’t per severe! Mister,
Gawd knows Eve tried hard enough —
I bin puttin’ into Tatt.’s as long as I
kin remember!"
of water had appeared and soaked the area in which
the four trees grew. Fruit-trees grown near the
back door where all the surplus household water is
thrown will often flower and fruit out of season.
(Continued on page 24.)
CONTENT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Proud homes may grace the harbor hills and over-
look the sea
Where life is never wearisome and pleasant tilings
may be;
And many a modern baron from his mansion may
command
The btoad expanse Of pasture that is known as free-
hold land,
BecaUse of these no envy do i Wish to signify.
While Bogolong and Gooloogong- are glowing ’nedlli
the sky,
I Often watch the homing swans
Across the timber fly
Fioiti Sogolong to Gooloogong, ,
What tiihe the sun that lingers loitg
Is dipping west to die.
Some men delight in wind-blown surf and some
prefer the west
Where toiling for a di'eary year may earn a fort-
night’s rest,
While Crowds move in the awesome maze Of motor-
cars and trains
A restless few yet seek the walks of wethers, ewes
and rams;
But after all my wanderings I’d rather live and die
At Bogolong ot Gooloogong beneath a cloudless sky.
There stress and turmoil raises not
Its blatant hue and Cty j
At Bogolong - and Gooloogong
There’s seldom anything goes wiOiig
lii seasons wet or dry,
I’ve travelled much in tourist style to foreign' ports
afaf.
I've trekked aCi'oSs the wilderness in surging years
of wat i
And here within irty native land I’ve wilted on the
track
With all my Worldly property supported on iny
back.
But now that 1 have had my fling, beneath a kinder
sky.
At Bogolong or Gooloogong, I want to live and die.
The world is very much alike
Wherever liners ply ;
But Bogoiong and Gooloogong
Are distant from the crazy throng
And somewhat small and shy.
BUDGERY PFELLER.
TRAVELLER: “Rum —what do you think of it, Jacky?”
JACKY ( enthusiastically ): “Bevy good, boss —I bery nearly ask
you for another.”
So I would dwell undriven by the lash of human
law,
The trader’s patronising smirk, the agent’s grasping
paw - .
There’s lots of princely fellowship in many clubs I
know
Where cheerful souls may harmonise when time is
dragging slow - ;
But when I’m broke and wire for aid, I get a
prompt reply
From Bogolong or Goo'oogong\ in seasons wet or dry.
I'm glad to hurry west again ;
And, lest you wonder why,
At Bogolong and Gooloogong
There's quite enough of cheer and song
To last me till 1 die.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Per-
petual Calendar, Ivorine Tablets,
two sizes, 17/6, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
Cut-glass Bottles, £3/5/-
SHSEIgjS
n
I
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Brush and Comb Set,
607-
Others, 40/-, 50/-, 70/-, 80/-
GIFT SUGGESTIONS
FOR THE TOILET
At A. SAUNDERS'.
'
, j
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, Solid Silver Lid,
Cut Crystal Glass Jar. in three sizes,
‘2O/-, 22/6; 25/-
A. Saunders' Jewel Casket, A 1 quality, Silver
plated, hand engraved, “Ribbon” design, Silk-
lined, fitted with lock and key, £3/10/-
SEND
FOR
GIFT BOOK.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Cloth Brush, plain concave
design, best-quality Bristles, 30/-
Others, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Sunshine Bag, real Morocco
Leather, in black, brown or grey shades, 407-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
A.SAUNDERS
JEWELLER OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
A. Saunders’ Photo Frame,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
Cabinet size, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Cigarette
Case, engraved design, 407-
Others, 30/-, 35/-, 50/-, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush and Comb
Set, ftnest-quality Bristles, £3.
Ditto, with one Brush, 25/-, 35/-, 40/-
Isko Automatic Electric Freezing Machines
Your own Cold Storage
Plant at Home.
ISKO is a simple device that
Manufactures Cold, convert-
ing your Refrigerator into a
miniature, self-operating Cold-
storage plant connected with the
house current, doing away entirely
with the use of Ice in the home as
a refrigerating agent, at the same
time introducing a method of
food preservation more conveni-
ent, more sanitary, more economi-
cal than that afforded by blocks
of melting ice.
It is an independent unit, can
be attached to any refrigerator or
Ice-box, and is absolutely fool-
proof.
It is automatic in operation and
so simplified mechanically that it
needs no expert attention.
It makes fifty cubes of Ice every
day.
The cost of current is trifling,
and the machine can be worked
on any voltage from 32 Volts up-
wards.
A complete model of this Isko
Automatic machine of one-ton
capacity, suitable for Residential
Hotels, Butchers, etc., is avail-
able.
—
ill®
i= m
k
.i
j I** IHIi s >\
mm
.
tjaslp I it*'"' ■ <
i I i «
.
I
»i!i 1
- I
THE chambers and motor are
mounted on a single base,
which may be set on top of
the refrigerator or in an adjoining
room. The glycerine-tank, made
in sizes to fit various standard re-
frigerators, is placed in the ice
compartment and connected to
the machine by two seamless
copper tubes. The only moving
parts of Isko are the the two rotat-
ing gears of the compressor,
which run submerged in a sealed
chamber of oil and are direct con-
nected to the
motor. The refrigerant— a harm-
less gas—is also sealed in its
chamber. When cooled under
moderate pressure it becomes a
liquid, and as such is supplied to
the expansion coil of the tank,
where it expands into gaseous
form, extracting the heat from the
chest. When it has absorbed its
quota of heat the compressor re-
moves it from the expansion coil
and delivers it to the condenser
chamber, where the water, circu-
lating through the cooling coils,
carries off the heat, and the gas
again becomes a liquid and is
ready to start on another journey.
This simple process is carried on
in continuous cycles. Isko is auto-
matically operated, and can be set
to maintain any suitable degree of
cold in the refrigerator, the cur-
rent clicking on and off at the pre-
determined temperatures.
Refrigerator Cabinets made to order and machines fitted.
ISKO DISTRIBUTING DEPOT,
Agent for South Australia: P. J. A. LAWRENCE, Bentham Street, Adelaide.
412 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
TEL.: CITY 2355.


You are a#xiped in. every bottle
'cf that/e If/rame rtarvdard g f
excellence which har made
&
KING GEORGE
FAMOU/* THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconnoyyeury to be
JtOTLANDjrJbUNDEfTjTIMULANT
a&is
'A
m
SI "
[QIH
f 939
A E B 073
i_ o e
4.
ii* must* he
ABBOTS
LAGER
f%e al^ival
BREWED FROM
PURE MAL-T -%• HOPS ONLY
“Arbeep”: Now trot out some of your
crack slaughtermen! Recently, at Canberra, Mick
Brennan killed and bled 23 jumbueks in 30sec.
P.S. —This is no lie; Mick was driving the Canberra
“express” when he ran into a deep curved cutting
where the sheep were camped.
“F.A.” : If brumbies are still on tap I’d
like to put in a further word. The name Lake
which appeared in my par. (B. 15/'ll/’23) is, I
find, quite correct, and is not, a-s suggested by
“L.D.1.,” a confusion with the name Blake. The
Lake brothers were Laing’s Crossing- men, and the
record of their escapade of sticking-up the Melbourne
mail near Lockhart can still be turned up. I believe
FOR THE DIGNITY OF THE OFFICE.
MANAGER: “Hear that blooming kid using the word
'bonzer' over the ’phone! Miss Jones , tell him
to cut out all slang in the office."
Miss Jones: “Righto!”
that the men mentioned by “L.D.1.” were Lachlan-
siders and slightly anterior to the brumby-runners
referred to in my par. I saw the youngest of the
brothers on Giinbar about ’05 —then a very old man,
totally blind and earning a few bob by softening
the hearts of the shedhands per medium of a
phonograph. Incidentally, I have often heard old
hands decry the stability of brumbies, and say that
they lacked “rib” and were as soft as butter. But
that, after all, is only natural, seeing that they had
little occasion to break out of a w 7 alk and were
always found where the best grass grew. At times
an infusion of new blood into a mob came as the
HIS CREDENTIALS.
COCKY: “No, young fellow, I can't consent to my Hilly marrying you."
DISAPPOINTED SUITOR: “Why, what’s wrong? Ain’t I always put the sliprails up and
ain’t I always let the cows into the top paddick after I said good-night to her?"
result of horse-stealing by bushrangers or duffers.
Plenty of good sires were stolen by these gentry in
the ’fifties and ’sixties, and when a horse was found
less tractable than desired it was let go. This fact
would do something towards cheeking deterioration
from inbreeding.
“Yarrum”: Once on Monaro (N.S.W.) a
couple of us came upon a ram that had just settled
a snake. It was a sft. black thing with red belly,
and the middle part was trodden almost out of
sight. On examining it, we found the back broken
and the flesh much mangled. That old sheep, who,
judging by the tracks, had done some tall jazzing,
must have carried off a lot of poison in his wool.
“F.A.” : Talking of prad-taming,
there is no animal more susceptible to
gradual innovations than the horse —that
is, if they are gradual. The breaking in
to the side-drums of a creamy colt im-
mediately prior to the coronation of King
Edward VII. is worth quoting. Two days
before the big affair one of the creamy
“drummers” of a household unit went on
sick lines, and it looked as though the
circus would be a nag- short. There were
no elderly prads of the color available
that might be induced to stand the racket
of a mounted drummer, and the only
thing in sight was a wild-eyed three-
year-old colt. With two days to go, a
sarn-major of. a Lancer regiment was
given the job of transforming this reeruit
into a music conveyance. The soldier
mounted the horse in a loose box and
introduced the musical touch by means of
a toy drum, the first tap of which sent a
nervous quiver through the horse and,
incidentally, put a kink in the n.c.o.’s,
optimism. He persevered, however, and
tapped away with ever-increasing volume
for a few 7 hours, after which he was sup-
plied with another toy drum, and this he
attached to the saddle. By easy stages
tlie size of the drums and noise w r as in-
creased, and at length the performance
was repeated in the open. When the
time came for the ceremonial parade the
drum-horse reeruit w 7 as about as much
interested in the vibratory disturbance on
his back as if it was in Ivamschatka. In
all English thoroughbred studs, by the
way, the juveniles are first mounted in
their loose-boxes, it being an axiom that
only one horse in a million will raise its
frame in protest within the stable; al-
though I know of an experiment of the
kind in which a youthful horse-breaker
was, projected through a galvanised-iron
roof, and took the leading- part in a funeral as a
result.
“Atem” : Re the northward spread of the
starling (B. G/12/’23). The verminous pommy has
reached Blackall (C.Q.). A pair were shot the
oilier day and sent to Captain Wilkins, of the Brit-
ish Museum expedition, who was in the district, as
a specimen of some rare Aussie fauna—the chap
w’ho shot them had never seen anything like them
before. I don’t know if the Captain “shook” when
he recognised his countrymen.
“Cardinal” : A Queensland cocky the other
day, on visiting his pigsty to feed a valuable sow 7
—which, by the way, had a litter of youngsters—
found a big browm snake in the pen, and promptly
killed it. His suspicions that the sow had been
bitten were apparently correct, as she was sick
for several days. The aftermath of the affair was
the death of all the young pigs in the course of
a week or so. The owner thinks that the youngsters
died of snake poison, having imbibed it, from the
mother; but another theory is that the piglets died
from starvation, the snake poison having temporarily
stopped the normal secretion of milk from the mam-
mary glands. Which is the more likely?
“Golub”: The chances are that “Arch-
bell’s” snake which has been at the bottom of a
disused shaft for 10 years (B. 13/12/’23) lives on
worms, crickets and other similar insects, in which
such places generally abound. Snakes can go for
extraordinarily long periods without food or drink,
but 10 years is a bit over the odds. Since the
wriggler must get tucker from somewhere, a worm-
cwm-cricket diet is the most feasible; and probably
the drink is supplied by small soakages.
“R.H.W.”: Superstitions die hard, but I
thought telegony had perished until I read The
Bulletin of 6/12/’23. One can at least say for
“Warrigal” that he gives some facts in support of
his theories. But not enough, brother! The laws of
color are imperfectly understood, but we do know
from the experiments of Davenport and other investi-
gators that red and black are closely related. The
pi'oduction of black fowls from a red mating is
fairly common—not pure black, but with black as
the principal color. Still, “Warrigal’s” experiment
is interesting, and deserves to be tried again. “Car-
tot,” in the same issue, treats telegony as an
established fact. His' story of the Chinaman’s widow
who later married a white man and bore children
of Mongolian characteristics has no weight. Many
people of European stock show such. The case
most frequently quoted in support of telegony is
that of the mating of a zebra and a pony mare,
which latter, when subsequently mated with a horse,
produced a striped foal. Investigation has shown
that breeds of horses are more or less striped when
born—the Welsh pony is to a slight extent, the
Kattiwar horse of India to a much greater. Many
practical breeders believe in telegony, just as
many Diggers believed it was dangerous to be the
third man to use one match. Of course, plenty of
cases can be quoted where the third man was
killed; but the superstition is not yet recognised
as a scientific fact. Neither is telegony.
“Jimmy Possum”: “Baro” (B. 22/11/’2”>)
would have us believe that it is only a special
mixture (flour, salt and water) which is entitled to
he labelled johnnie-cake or damper. While that may
have been the fashion with the old boys, 99 per cent,
of whom have gone west, it is by no means the
case with the present-day battlers of the track, be
they young or old. These apply the name indis-
criminately to anything in the bread line, the johnnie-
cake being a small affair hurriedly cooked in
any one of many ways, the damper something
heavy' and prepared at leisure. I watched my dad
cooking johnnies and damper before I was five years
old, and he always used “rising” when he had it,
as did all the other old hands in the camp. Who
lias heard a teamster, timber-getter of bagman refer
to his soda loaf as “soda bread”? I haven’t anyway,
and 1 don’t think any other bona-fide bushman has
either.
“Pantagruer’: “Wingella’s” mango-tree
which bears fruit twice a season (B. 6/12/’23)
doesn’t stand alone. A similar tree at Mackay
(N.Q.) bore two crops in 1923, and in September
was in full bloom for its third crop. The mangoes
of each crop were always quite matured and of good
taste. This tree forms part of a clump, and all the
others bear the customary one yield of fruit per
season.
“Larry Longun”: I don’t think there can
be any doubt about fishes playing, as suggested by
“Nakhoda” (B. 22/11/’23). With angling outfit, I
struck a wide • tidal creek on the north coast of
Bananaland at sunrise some years back. The water
was literally teeming with bream and trumpeter,
which appeared to be drifting with the rising tide
and were darting about here and there. When I
dropped a line among them, they wouldn’t bite in
earnest, but merely tugged the bait about and
chased each other for the scraps pulled off. Having
a rifle, I shot a couple of mullet, the heavy bullet
cutting them to pieces; but when I waded in to
collect, the playful splashers seized the fragments at
my very feet and made off with them, pursuing each
other like kiddies at a gamb of “grab.” Although
there were hundreds of fishes of all sizes splashing
within a few feet of the bank I failed to hook
one or even get a decent bite. Since then I have
learnt that it’s no use trying to catch fish on
their playing-grounds with lines.
“Netwa”: Why all this argument about
shooting from horseback ? The bullet must go some-
where, so why not occasionally where it is intended
to go ? Out in a dancing whaleboat in the Islands I
once took a. snapshot, with .32 Colt rifle, at a
snipe, who, fully 50ft. up, was flying down the
wind towards us. The bullet hit the bird clean
in the neck. Up to then my average was one hay-
stack in a thousand.
“Sturt”: Flinders Chase, the reserve at
the western end of Kangaroo Island, has had a
thorough inspection' by the Fauna and Flora Board
of S.A., including Professors Wood-Jones and Osborn.
They have decided on netted enclosures of a few
acres, to give visitors a certainty of seeing some-
thing, and to draw on when partlv-tamed speci-
mens are wanted. The rest of the wild area is to
stay wild, except for a few roads and bridges. Mallee-
fowl, Cape Barren geese and native-bears have
been turned in, bandicoot and dormouse opossum
detected, and “evidence of the existence” of the
native-cat obtained. The present idea of the scien-
tific men is to get a complete survey of the animal
life, so as not to turn in anything that may prey
on something else. In this one visit of under
a week 230 flowering plants were collected, besides
126 insects, several of them from rare to unique.
* * * *
“Lindesay” : There is no need to buy mark-
ing-ink out back when scrub plums are about. Stretch
the linen to be marked over a plum, and with a
pin prick your initials on it. You will have a
brand, puce in color, that will never wash out.
A FEAST FOR THE NEIGHBORS.
MOTHER: “Here, what have you teen up to?"
SON: “ I been playin’. postman, an’ I gave
the people in our street a dinkum letter
each."
MOTHER: "Letters! What letters?”
S ON: "Only that old bundle you had in your
wardrobe with the ribbon tied around
them.”
“Bush-cat” : An old squatters tank, about
20ft. in diameter and 4ft. high, became submerged
during the big Darling flood of ’2l. There were a
lot of shags or cormorants about at the time, and a
few months later, when the water dried back, there
were found between 3000 and 5000 of these birds
dead in the bottom, of the tank packed like sardines.
Why the deuce did the birds go into the receptacle?
Was it the headquarters of a suicide club or merely
the local stadium ?
M ASK I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time? Well, what is time, my brothers,
If you live in maski land
With the niggers and the others
And you bear the maski brand,
If your cobber is a hatter
And your wife is not your kind?
Eor those things and time don’t matter
Where it’s maski, nevermind.
Where you sniff the salt sea buster
In the palms behind the strand,
Catch the glint and golden lustre
Of the sun upon the sand,
Wliat's the odds if dusky Minnie
In the dark is hard to find?
You can smell ’em in New Guinea — 1
Maski, maski, nevermind!
Though, through something free and easy
In the rustle of the palms,
And the ev’nings long and breezy,
And the sleepy jungle cairns,
Y r ou should fall to worldly sinning
And it doesn’t hurt your mind,
Well, it’s simply maski winning—
Maski! Let it —nevermind !
What’s the world? I’m quite forgetting 1
Does it profit, after all,
To be laboring and fretting
At the money siren’s call ?
There are , beaches, there is pleasure—
What are ten worlds left behind
When a fevered brain finds leisure?
Maski, brothers, nevermind.
Strange that time should so much matter
When a chap comes south again.
Where the feet on pavements patter
As they bustle through the rain!
Strangle how much I feel a stranger
In. this land I left behind!
Strange that streets seem full of danger—
Maski —damn them —nevermind !
There’s a bunk inside the coaster
That is waiting near the quay,
And the suns may scorch and roast her,
But she’ll soon be taking me,
With a stock of liquor handy
Where it isn’t hard to find....
What, a waster?.... Pass the brandy!
Maski, brothers, nevermind.
N.S.W.
C. MAC.


HOLIDAY SNAPSHOTS.
SR
X
WJ
e
MAKE A POINT
OF LOOKING FOR THIS IMPRINT
BY
%
1
f/NCk"'
ON THE BACK OF YOUR PHOTOS
IT MEANS SO MUCH
THE BEST QUALITY
PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINTS
ALWAYS BEAR IT
C 2
DEVELOPING AND PRINTING DEPARTMENTS.
386 George Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
16 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
Katoomba Street, Katooniba, N.S.W.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
146 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
REPRESENTATIVES EVERYWHERE.
fm
i
rt
m
fi
til
Wm).
m
ri
1
i
m
/7 s *:
1
F’C.WENTWORTH
(X
H
B, -: :
m
m
CJrisioc va He Pionee r>s"
H ARIDY’S WINES OF
Spend Your Holidays
touring with a
B.S.A.
WHETHER you are journey-
ing to the coast or out to the
hills you are assured of
comfortable and inexpensive travel
if you tour with a B.S.A.
There is no better method of
spending a holiday than in the full
freedom of the open road, making
your own speed, resting when and
where you please, unhampered by
the inconveniences attendant on
other methods of travel.
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are
economical and thoroughly reli-
able, and when fitted with speci-
ally designed B.S.A. Sidecars they
make the ideal touring combina-
tion.
Your nearest agent will supply
full particulars—write him to-day.
Look for the "Three Piled.
Rifles trade-mark on every
product of the Birmingham
Small Arms Co., Ltd. It is the
sign of high-grade production.
Motor Bicycles
Ideal for Touring.
Illustrated Catalogue obtainable from E.S.A. Representative,
D. Y. RENNIE, AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS
MELBOURNE,
Or from B.S.A. Agents throughout Australia,
N.S.W.—BENNETT & WOOD. LTD., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
VICTORIA—FINLAY BROS., 322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
uPJiV 1 N> TAYLOR & CO., LTD., 121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—MORTLOCJv BROS., Hav Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND —Canada C. & M. Agency, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
LAUNCESTON SIM RING, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
HOBART—JAMES BILYARD Elizabeth Street, Hobart,
BURN lE—A. OSBORNE.
Do You Use a B.S.A. Gun?


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1914
(MI
NE PLUS ULTRA
J
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m
FASHIONABLE WRISTLET WATCHES.
William Farmer k Co., Ltd., have a comprehensive selection op High-
grade Wristlet Watches in the newest ideas, including designs in
Platinum, White Gold, Enamel, and Silver, etc., at reasonable, rates.
A Large and
Varied
Stock of
Presentation
Watches in
Gold and
Silver.
Fully-jewelled 9ct. Gold Lever Wristlet Watch,
Others, £5 5 0 to £l6 10 0. Also in Silver,
Inspection of the Company's Showrooms is
£5 10 0.
£6 6 0.
INVITED.
Special
Discounts
Allowed to
Presentation
Committees.
WILLIAM FARMER &C° II?
Jewellers.Cem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
LET
'a
%
O
0
o
POLISH
YOUR
FLOOR!
The New Floor Polish with the Reputa-
tion of the World-known "NUGGET"
POLISH CO. behind it.
12
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
No sooner liad the A.J.C. cleared off the
track than Tattersall’s sounded the clarion
that brought fair women and grey horses —
with piebald, chestnut and bay—romping to
Randwick. There’s been nothing else to help
the leisured classes and the holiday masses
speed up the last lap of 1923. So to the races
Sydney went in its thousands. On Boxing
Day the Acting-Excellency Cullens sat on
the vice-regal bench, the lady covering her
black and white georgettes with a smart race-
coat of black Spanish lace, while daughter,
Ailsa girdled her white frock with a sash
the shade of the summer sky, and flew mil-
linery of the same melting tone. Among the
exhibits behind the brass railing were the
Rear-Admiral Addison couple, she in very
correct black, her millinery thatched with
feathery white; tall Mrs. Craufurd, suggest-
ing a bronze statue of Victory ; the Finn
girls, obscuring their pretty hair by large
black hats. Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar and
Douglas Bevy's bride were two of the week’s
smart-frockers. Barbara Knox was. languid
in sand-colored georgettes, and fair-haired
Margaret Osborne bloomed under a hat that
looked like a prize flower-bed. Mrs. Colin
Stephen stuck to sure black and white; and
the meeting found Mrs. A. E. Hughes trying
a black lace effect —hat and all.
The Ambassadors got into its stride about
the middle of the holiday. The dinner is
only a table-d’hotc affair at present, but later
it will be a la carte, and when that luxuri-
ous moment arrives the place should be ex-
pensive enough even for extravagant Sydney.
The classic beauty of Tlieo Marks’s design
has been rather spoiled by meaningless
streamers in the main room (there is a sub-
sidiary ballroom, by the way, where private
dances may be given) and by a screen run
sheer across the lovely semi-circular shell in
which the jazz band performs. And what
an opportunity was lost when it was decided
to build in Pift-street, with its stale air and
unromantic surroundings and kerbstone
loungers! An Ambassadors with a harbor
view—the cheapest delight Sydney lias to
offer —or, at any rate, with a harbor breeze
—another inexpensive asset which is beyond
price and yet can be got from the top of any
tall building—would have won the city fame
all over the world.
Nevertheless, the restaurant has made a
remarkable hit. During the sessions that
closed the year every prominent figure in
the local world which enjoys itself was to
be 'seen there. Chief Justice Adrian Knox
looked on approvingly on Saturday night
from a table of racing people at which he
was a guest. Sam Hordern jazzed as untir-
ingly as his handsome daughter. Gordon
Brady was dining his good-looking fiancee,
who is staying at the Australia, his sister
and another man ; Ernest Watt had a num-
ber of friends; manager Levy, from the Carl-
ton, ate elsewhere, and there was a mixed
assortment of suburbanites, who faded away
in the neighborhood of midnight, bookmakers,
squatters, business men —city and country—
and overseas tourists. Amongst the last
class were Americans, who protested that
"the joint had nothing on the Ambassadors
in Lii’ Old N’Yark,” but were flatly contra-
dicted by unbiased patrons who had been in
the U.S.A.
Clairvaux, on the heights overlooking Rose
Bay, has been bought by Sydney Grammar
School, and will be used as a boarding-
house for boys from the country. It is one
of the several places built, and more or less
designed, by the late W. B. Dailey, who,
amongst other things, was an amateur archi-
tect. The house was responsible for the
chief tragedy of Dailey’s life. He moved in
with his family before it was properly
finished, and his wife caught typhoid. She
died and was buried at South Head, after
which he left it, and could never be induced
to live there again. The widow of Chief
’Justice Martin (she was Dailey’s sister-in-
law) had the place for some time, and it
was also inhabited by the Bennetts, of the
Evening News.
Nearly a thousand of Sydney’s dancers
foregathered at the Wentworth to see the
New Year in. The big ballroom crackled
with gaiety from 7.30 in one year till 1
o’clock of the next, and when the pipers
had got really into the swing of the kilt
each banqueter began to break in early and
shout his neighbor to a deoeh an’ doris.
The evening’s dancing was sub-sectioned
by novel ballet turns and tableaux, the most
surprising of which was the one showing
the birth of the New Year. As the last
chimes melted on the velvet night, a huge
egg on the stage burst slowly open, and
within, cuddled against a silver lining, was
a rosy baby.
Though England was the happy hunting-
ground of the pageant and the pastoral play
all last year, Sydney's first Pageant Play of
Empire didn’t enter by way of the Town
Hall door until December was dying. It
was ambitious in design but weak in struc-
ture, and appeared to owe its architecture
mainly to Albert Goldie and his wife, Dulcie
Deamer. They went as far back as the
Stone Age for their foundations, and on
them they produced a marvellous first-course
of Druids, Celts and Romans. Came in quick
succession pictures of the disembarkation of
the Vikings, of St. Augustine and of Wil-
liam the Norman. The girls in the ballets
wore hair-dressing almost as various as their
number; and one lass of the Druidic period
debonairly clanked a season ferry-ticket on
her armiet. The whole was linked together
by a story declaimed in vibrant tones by
Dulcie Deamer, whose shapely legs and
arms escaped from the glitter of turquoise
gauze.
The happiest things about the show were
the kiddies in the nursery rhymes. Most
of them were just losing their milk teeth,
and some were dressed to represent the
heroes and heroines of the rhymes, and some
were not. • But how they enjoyed their
“Nuts in May” and “Oranges and Lemons” !
Round and round they tore, faster and
faster, till little Mother Hubbard, who was
the very last to have her head chopped off,
looked as though she’d flame into a red, red
rose at any minute.
On its introduction to Sydney, the
pageant appears rather a dull bird, about as
comprehensible to the Australian mind as a
Somerset novel without a glossary.
Douglas Levy’s bride, who first burst on
Sydney at the Ambassadors, affords as strik-
ing an example of Spanish beauty (though
she comes from London her forebears be-
longed to Spain) as Helen Laidley Levy
does of the fair English style of loveliness.
Douglas could have had a commission in the
Guards during the war. Also he could have
claimed exemption on health grounds. What
he did was to enlist as a private in the
A.I.F. He served with his battalion in
France till the beginning of 1918, when his
brother Maitland was killed. At the special
request of the dead officer’s C.O. he left
hospital for a commission in the Irish
Guards, and then the war ended. He went
on the land after demobilisation, and met
his bride on a trip to England last year.
She is one of the first women to appear
in these parts with her hair “shingled.” The
shingle is a Parisian advance upon the bob
or buster. The hair is brushed back flat
like that of one of the knuts of yester-
year, and a portion of it is shaved, so as to
fully display the shape of the wearer’s head.
Kambala, the successful girls’ school at
Rose Bay, has just been converted to a
Church of England Foundation School —the
first in the State —and that’s mainly owing
to the clear insight, the resource and other
high qualities
of Miss Clare
Roseby. She is
one of the two
clever and
charming sis-
ters who are
its principals.
Though they
both have a
long list o f
College an d
University suc-
cesses to their
credit, educa-
tion in their
eyes is not
bounded b y
the school
walls: at every
b i g concert
and art show,
for instance,
you will see a
group of the
senior girls in company with either one or
other of the principals. The launching of
the school under the C. of B. banner will
doubtless widen its circle of influence with-
out in the least taking away the home-like
atmosphere—the lady in the May Moore pic-
ture can be trusted for that.
Early in the New Year poet K. J. Cassidy,
the Worker’s most voluminous verse-writer
—and Bulletin readers know him very well,
too, as the tuneful “Gilrooney”—is to be
married to brown-eyed Miss Sullivan. She’s
a Nightingale by profession; so they will
be able to make duets of it.
Kathleen Regan, of Tamwortli, cabled her
mother the other day of her intention of
marrying McEvilly O’Hara, of Clarmorris,
Mayo. The wedding vows were to be_ whis-
pered in the University Church, Dublin, on
December 28, without any great excitement.
Bride’s brother, Basil, was to' give her away,
and sister Molly, who has just emerged from
her schooldays, was to be bridesmaid. Mother
travels back to Europe this month in the
Orvieto to add her congratulations and a
cheque for a thousand pounds.
With a froth of pretties from Paris, and
an engagement-ring from Scotland, Isabel
Fraser got back by the Orvieto in time to
spend Christmas with father and mother m
the family’s new home at Pittwater. Isabel
has been journeying all the past year in
France and Scotland, linking up with sec-
tions of the Fraser clan amid the heather
and the bluebells. The young man, another
Dr. Donald Fraser, is one of the clan, and,
strangely enough, like Isabel’s own father, a
nerve specialist. At present he’s a lecturer
at the Edinburgh University, and early next
year comes to Australia for the wedding.
The Sydney girl has brought back a small
shipment of red-leatlier girdles, sandals and
handbags. One girdle is a fascinating poppy
chain, soft half-open blooms all round the
waist, finishing off at the left side with a
full-blown black-centred flower. Heelless
dancing shoes, says Paris, for this winter,
and the last word in night shades is jewel-
green—a sort of light emerald. Green was
the color motif of much of the autumn mil-
linery. One of the prettiest hats Isabel saw
just before she left was of brown panne vel-
vet, with two bright-green quill feathers
cleaving the upturned brim and sweeping
low down at the right side. Mrs. Broom-
field, who left Sydney with Isabel, remained
on in Paris with Mrs. Bertie Dempster.
Marjorie Osborne, one of the beauties at the
Grafton Galleries on a night of beautiful
women, was another well-known harborsider
the two met.
Girlie Toohey and mother are busy pack-
ing Girlie’s trousseau for the flight to South
Africa this month. Mother goes, but will
return almost immediately after her daugh-
ter has become Mrs. Justin Pargiter.
Marie Bjelke Petersen, resting after
another of her Tasmanian novels, has been
in Sydney these past weeks, making her
headquarters at Wahroonga. The fair-haired
Marie’s latest book is called “Jewelled
Nights,” and 5000 of the first edition were
sold in a month. Probably it’s the first novel
that ever w&s written about the osmiridium
industry: the scenes are laid on the wild
west coast of Tassy, where the rare metal
is harvested, and the plot is evolved to the
roar of savage rivers, amid jungles, ravines
and —and button-grass. There’s a bunch ot
diggers thrown in—“none of whom knows the
meaning of fear!” Why shouldn’t the book
be a best-seller?
Ernest Watt, though a grass-widower
whose offspring are all in England, had a
Christmas-tree in the ballroom of his Edge-
cliff home for the children of those of his
friends tvlio were not at the Bose Bay Golf
Club. (A splendiferous show was provided
there, by the way, with dancing for the
grown-ups.) Syd Smith and Eeon Gellert
were amongst those who helped at the
Watt party, and Albert Collins, as Father
Christmas, addressed the astounded infants
from a balcony. After that they sang,
under mild duress, “God Save the King ;
their host intoned the opening note of a
Christmas hymn, which was duly rendered,
and then (privily congratulating one an-
other that the preliminaries had been no
worse) they proceeded to the congenial task
of rifling the tree.
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s passion for more or
less artistic trifles remains insatiable. His
latest purchase is an immense gilded bed
with Australian flags done in opal, fore and
aft. It was designed originally for one of
the Foys, but he is understood, after view-
ing it in the finished state, to have decided
that his mansion contained no room in
which such a creation could be appropri-
ately shown. He may (or may not) have
felt that a bandstand, with full brass band
in action, was a necessary corollary. Any-
how, Mr. Mclntosh is going to put it in
the room Kitchener used at Broome, while
the £4OOO pipe-organ now at Belliaven is to
be fixed in the main hall of the famous
Kentish seat.
Looking as pretty as her adopted name
sounds, Phyllis May faces London and the
struggle for theatrical fame. Father (Neville
Mayman) and mother go with their only
chick, who has already had a helping of
success in her own home town. She wrung
most praise from the critics when she played
the Tivoli circuit in “Dollars and Sense,”
and she has appeared besides in tiny parts
with Lady Forbes Robertson and Oscar
Asche.
Soprano Gertrude Concannon, from the
Garcia School, is contemplating a recital in
her Queensland home town, Maryborough, in
the New Year. Two days after her Sydney
concert Gertrude got a good engagement to
sing in the four centres of North Queens-
land that comprise what is locally known
as the Musical Union: Townsville, Charters
Towers, Ayr and Cairns.
Lauri and Dorothy Kennedy (she was
Dorothy Mcßride) drop a line from Fifth-
avenue,' New York. They have just finished
a busy touring season in England—Lauri,
the ’cellist, with Tetrazzini; Dorothy, the
pianist, with Backhaus. Then they provided
small-son David with a playmate. JLauri
is booked for a tour in the States that will
last till May, 1924; and on January 5
Dorothy returns to Dondon to tour with Sir
Thomas Beecham’s orchestra. _ Dater the
two Australians start on a joint concert
season in America, and are already booked
to give 60 performances. Lauri is getting
enthusiastic receptions in the States, and
his devoted little wife has a mountain of
press notices recognising the young man as
among the great musicians of the day.
ATolet McGregor (in private Mrs. Rudd)
is the lassie whose fiddle sang Scotland’s best-
loved airs so
sweetly at the
Highland
Society’s con-
cert in the
Town Hall on
New Year’s
Night. Just
four months
back from
England and
Scotland,
where the
fame of b.< r
s y m p athetie
playing ran
like a lighted
torch through
the different
Scottish
societies, with
the result that
her bow was
worked over-
time, Mrs.
Rudd is revelling in the fact that she can now
fold her arms and hear herself play—the re-
cords that she made in America are just to
hand. The gifted girl is a pupil of Mel-
bourne teacher Zelman.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Brisbane Society packed its bathers and went
to the sea for Christmas. Damp weather awaited
them for the most part, but there was not much
weeping over that, as bountiful rain was Santa
Claus’s finest contribution to Bananaland’s stocking.
.Mrs. J. T. Bell and her daughter Mrs. Clark, who
have just welcomed lion-hunting Arnold Weinholt
back from Africa, were at Southport, and so were
Mrs. Tom Ryan ar,d her Jack and Jill. Mrs. Glyn
Connolly and Mrs. Whittingham went to Southport,
with a short sojourn in Brisbane for a children’s
party. The Victor Bells were at Coochin; and even
cheap-sea-trip Redcliffe was patronised by rank and
fashion in its sandshoes and sunhats.
Bohemia Theatre, having suddenly closed its hospi-
table doors, and Dampier at the Royal having
decided to hang up a “No Admittance” sign during
the holidays, the Diggers boomed all through the
dog-days. On Boxing Night a big storm put out all
the lights, but the soldier-men carried on in semi-
darkness. At Ilis Majesty’s, Harrington Reynolds
took the principal part in “Broadway Jones” at the
matinee and evening shows on Boxing Day.
A break in the weather gave some dressers a chance
at Ascot. The E. K. Tully lady looked cool in
white, with a canary sash and brown hat; Mollie
Brenan had a pretty pink and blue striped fuji ; Sybil
Irving sported blue muslin and white; Marjorie
Fowler was sheathed in almond green; Mrs. Holly
Downs Chandler wore ivory linen and handsome
Mrs. Robert Thompson coral and blue, while Mrs.
Beaudesert Beit was in white with a red hat.
The Diggers Co. went out to Rosemount to amuse
their sick cobbers, and Maisie Cain was among
the crowd who handed around cakes and smokes and
playing cards to the patients amid a decoration
scheme of Christmas bells and gay streamers.
Public instruction Minister Huxham engaged the
Koopa to take stacks of teachers and friends down
the river. Lieut. Turner looked after Sir Matthew,
who was aboard. Mrs. Huxham hostessed in black
tharmeuse; and the band played and tea was poured
for the lively cargo.
The kiddies and women relatives of soldiers had
their picnic and sports in the Gardens, the prizes
being handed out by Bulletin “Tarboy’s” wife,
Mrs. Grierson Brown.
Erica McConnell, of Mount Brisbane, said “I will”
to Patrick Trier (late 11.M.A.5. Adelaide) in St.
John’s Cathedral, with a procession of choristers, and
De Witt Batty to hear her say it. George Sampson
played the organ and the bride’s father gave her
away. She was pictorially effective in white satin
marocain, old lace train, orange blossoms, wedding
veil and everything. The Triers are to go to Eng-
land to live.
Margaret Robertson, whose mother was one of the
handsome Pollards of Warwick, is wearing the
engagement-ring of Dr. Weaver, who comes from
the south. Tall Margaret has distinguished herself
here in connection with private theatricals and
Hunt’s repertory plays.
Another girleen to pack her glory-box is Jean
Wright, who will change her name to Pie. Her
grand-dad was James Wright, of Vic., one of the
founders of Robert Reid and Co. Arthur Bruce Pie,
the ’groom-to-be, is the only son of the A. S. G.
Pies of Melbourne.
Nancy Macnaughton, who was in “The O’Brien
Girl,” is also getting ready to be married early this
year under the parental roof.
Passed out at the Mater Hospital during the
Christmas season, Father Gowen, parish priest of
Hamilton. After-effects of pneumonia ended a use-
ful life that had reached only 47.
The Macartney lady and Miss Grimes, of the
Girl Guides executive, are going to represent Banana-
land at a conference in the Cold Country.


Hardij Bros.
Linuiad
WEDDING GIFTS
r
i
r
r
Case of six Teaspoons and Tongs, in finest English Silver-plate.
Prices from 2(ff-
Hardy brothers- Fine English
Silverplate is of superlative quality
and is sought by all who desire their
gifts to convey an impression of exclusive-
ness and distinction. Hardy’s name is
stamped on each piece of their Silverplate,
ensuring that sterling value which is a
tradition of the Company.
Five per cent. Discount allowed, for cash. Goods forwarded
throughout Australia on approval.
The Company’s new illustrated booklet posted free anywhere. .
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJeujqJ.le.rs Siluersmit/Tst.
“The House of Exclusive Jewellery/’
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
116-1 IS Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
YOU MUST
Consider the
Wonderful
Advantages of this
Instrument
as an Educational
Factor for the
NEW YEAR
IShe
GULBRANSEN
POSSESSES UNIQUE FEATURES
THAT ARE NOT CONTAINED IN ANY OTHER
PLAYER PIANO IN THE WORLD.
IT IS 50 PER CENT.
EASIER TO PEDAL.
IT IS 50 PER CENT.
MORE SENSITIVE.
IT HAS A DIRECT CONTROL OVER
THE STROKE OF THE PIANO HAMMER.
IT HAS A NON-FRICTION MOTOR THAT
DOES NOT REQUIRE LUBRICATION.
o
(MACDONELL HOUSE),
3X7, 319 AND 331 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (next to Y.M.C.A.),
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
Tel.: City 10751 and 10752.
Newcastle Agency: 10 HUNTER STREET.
MECHA NI'CAL PERFECTION IN
A DICTATION MACHINE.
— that’s the new Electric Ediphone —
made and hacked hy Edison, the
world’s greatest inventor.
Electrically controlled throughout, this
machine represents mechanical perfec-
tion—an undoubted advance on any
other machine on the market — yet,
when it comes to price, you will find
our quotation pleasingly less.
DICTATION ?
Does that keep you desk-tied? Get your
new Secretary to-day. Ask to be shown!
SHORTHANDED?
Edison Dictation will get the mail out and
please the whole office. Ask to be shown!
COMFORTABLE ?
Yes, better than any dictation machine
you ever expected. Ask to be shown!
VALUE ?
When you decide upon a dictation machine—
you should have every Edison advantage.
Ask to be shown!
THE GENUINE
EDISON DICTATING MACHINE
if® mmm Lsmas
THOMAS A. EDISON. LIMITED. 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
■>
SS


V> .
'
im
Saves every cds/i Suyer
2/‘ in every £ spent.
Farmer’s
Cash Bonus
Sale
has now commenced.
The Summer Cash Eon us Sale is the
occasion for three weeks of big double
savings on all quality goods at Farmer’s.
FARMER’S
BOX 49 7, G.P.O.
DRY & LIQUID DRESSINGS
A For Black Suede Shoes
Will restore the original density
of color and will not lay the nap.
Fashionable Footwear retains its
charm and freshness when these
high-grade dressings are used.
At all good Shoe Stores.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91, Haymarket, Sydney.
<Jaf3i2
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
The roomy vice-regal summer shack at
Macedon is being used by our Earl and his
family, although so far the weather belongs
to any season but summer. That, however,
hasn’t affected the rush to the seaside places.
They arc as crowded as ever they were; and
on the holidays Mornington and the rest were
a vast sea of motor-cars.
Justice Schutt, with his wife and her
cousin, Lily Smith, waved Melbourne fare-
well from the deck of the departing Ormonde.
The legal heavyweight will step ashore at
Colombo, but his other half and cousin Lily
will go on to England, where ’S’Onor hopes
to join them soon. Another legal man and
his wife who steamed off on the same vessel
with return tickets in their pockets were
the High Court Higginses. They intend to
vary their journey with a visit to the “Near
East.” Mrs. Higgins is a sister of the late
“Chinese” Morrison.
Dr. and Mrs. Sheppard Grimwade rippled
Geelong’s still waters with a coming-out
whirl for daughter Gertrude, and the Kin-
dergarten Hall was converted into a
rosy bower for the event. The two pretty
Salmon flappers had been invited to bud
with Gertrude. The latter smiled joyously
above white moire and carried a pink posy,
the gift of an aunt. Nora and Betty Salmon
were in pink taffetas and flew a touch of
blue in their rose-tinted posies. Mrs. Grim-
wade hostessed in blue with gold embroi-
deries. The Norton and Fred Grimwades
dropped down on Geelong for the party, and
Mrs. Sam McCaugliey was there trailing
misty black. In fact, all the right people
turned up, and the thing whizzed giddily into
the milk-oil’s morning.
The Leslie Stuarts’ Christmas rejoicings
were blighted by Mrs. Leslie suddenly falling
ill. As the family had transferred to their
Portsea place, where they were sheltering
a gay flapper gathering for the plum-pudding
season, the invalid was called on to face the
journey back to town, where she was un-
shipped at a private hospital. She is now
convalescing after an operation and hopes
to be about again in time to commence the
cheerful task of preparing her ball parlor for
the great March jazz which she had com-
bined to hostess with the Geoff Syme and
W. J. T. Clarke matrons for the officers of
the visiting British fleet. As Mrs. Syme will
be in England on the eventful date, she will
not be able to assist at the frivol. She and
daughter Hilaria did not sail by the Ormonde,
af> they intended, but will steam off on the
Narkunda.
Charming Rosemary Reynolds, who crossed
from England a few years back to have a
peep at her mother’s native Melbourne, and
divided her time between her grandmother,
the late Mrs. John Simson, and an aunt,
Mrs. Scobie Mackinnon, has sent word of
her impending marriage. The man in the
case is Major Herbert Young, who trails
C.M.G. and D.S.O. after his name, and is
the son of Mackworth Young, a Fogland
knight. Bride-elect Rosemary, who wields a
paint-brush rather effectively, is the eldest
child of a sapper colonel who married the
youngest John Simson daughter, Mary, when
he was here as a British exchange officer
with the Vic. military forces. Rosemary
first saw Australia as a small child when
her parents drifted down to the Wattle on
a brief visit to Mrs. Reynolds’s people.
Hugh Ward gladdened Christmas week for
a large section of soldiers’ wives, widows and
kiddies, beginning; with the Friendly Union
members, by asking them in to see “Little
Nellie Kelly’s” dress rehearsal. The Strad-
brokes were boxed at one side of the house
and the Harry Chauvels at the other; Gen-
eral Coxen’s wife and quartette of daughters
were in a front pew, and, of course, Mrs.
Selheim and the union sec., Mrs. Musther,
were not missing. The Chauvel warrior re-
turned thanks for everyone.
It was when John Taverner was Agent-
General and the late Tom Bent, the Pre-
mier, was visiting London. The two Vic-
torians had been bidden to lunch with
the King at Buckingham Palace, and while
they were hurrying thither in a taxi Taver-
ner, who had been there before, decided to
give Tom a tip or two. “I impressed on
him,” Taverner told this Letter afterwards,
“not to tuck his serviette inside his collar,
assuring him that the practice was obsolete
in the best society. Bent argued a little, and
finally agreed to defer to my superior Ipow-
ledge. Presently, after a most friendly re-
ception. the three of ns (there were no other
guests) found ourselves seated at the
luncheon-table. I was, I admit, a bit taken
aback when the King, just before the soup,
quietly unfolded his snowy table-napkin and
deliberately stuffed it inside his collar.
‘There you are, Taverner,’ shouted Bent
triumphantly, ‘the King does it!’ and pro-
ceeded to follow suit.”
The kaleidoscopic glitter which dazzled
the eyes of youth in the old-time panto.-
dressing has made way for soul-stirring har-
monies in color and style calculated to arrest
the more sophisticated grown-ups. The fact
is heavily brought home to us in “Aladdin,
at Her Majesty’s, where everyone and every-
thing is in the picture. Ada Reeve, as prin-
cipal boy, pursues the magic lamp in a quasi-
Chinese setting, wearing a glorified coolie
rigout—blue satin coat hemmed with colored
embroideries, henna trousers and a chinky
hat with fringes of many colors. Another
outfit is a black satin knee-breeched suit,
lace frilled and white vested, under a white
wig and tricorne hat. This is followed by
gold lace trousers and a coat bordered with
green and crimson under a whole bird-of-
paradise on an auburn head. In the last
scene of all, Aladdin claims his Princess in
shining mail, Court-trained with silver,
his head framed like a Choctaw Indian in
white ospreys. Princess Hope Charteris'
pink satin trousers in Act 1 are surmounted
by gold-embroidered georgette, and above that
again are pink and blue chrysanthemums
somewhere about her ears. In the star thrill,
the “willow-pattern” scene, her Wedgwood
blue tunic is fronted with gold and her head
dressed in blue and gold to match. She weds
her Aladdin in white georgette frothing under
a glitter of jewelled net with a backwash
of brocade which is supported by a brace
of white-satined pages. Phyllis Amery
dances in the willow-pattern setting in waves
of filmy blue edged with white lace, and
has a lace ruff athwart her shoulders. Kelso
King partners her in a blue coat and white
breeches, while the chorus whirls like a whole
cupboard-full of blue-patterned cups and
saucers.
Miss Minnie Madden’s death through fall-
ing down the stairs of her old Flemington
home, Travancore, came when the family
were on the eve of vacating the property, it
having been acquired by a syndicate. She
had kept house for her two younger brothers
for many years; her loss will be especially
felt by the daughters of the widower —she had
mothered his children since they were tiny
tots. Miss Madden, who had passed her
70th milestone, was a fine-looking woman
who enjoyed excellent health and moved
about and enjoyed much popularity in the
social world. One niece. Mrs. Pat Osborne
—daughter of the late Chief Justice Madden
—scrambled off the sick-list in a private hos-
pital only a day before the tragic hap-
pening.
Another recent death was that of the
widow of the late Frank Power, who before
he was killed in a tram accident three years
ago was second in command of the Mint.
Mrs. Power, who had been an invalid for
some time, was a daughter of the late James
Williamson, of Tintern, Toorak. She leaves
a son and daughter (Mrs. Edward Mann),
both of w r hom live in Sydney.
Jean Hambleton, here presented by Mari-
etta, is the Melba Con. girl who starred
so brightly as
--Eneas in the
recent produc-
tion of “Dido
and -'Eneas”
at the Play-
house. Until
she reached her
17th mile-
stone this
young son g-
stress never
suspected her-
self of having
a voice worth
m e n t ioning ;
then, after
closing down
her educational
career at
Woodbury Col-
lege, Kew, she
started her
vocal training
under Mrs.
Marguerite Henderson, afterwards switching
over to the Melba Con. The voice nowa-
days is rich and well-poised, and promises
to bring its owner well into the concert-hall
limelight.
The Caulfield Hospital patients, convoyed
by a battalion of army nurses, were Hugh
Ward’s guests at “Mother Goose’s” dress re-
hearsal, and they nearly lifted the Palace
roof with their shrieks of appreciation. As
principal girl in the show, Dorothy Bruntpn
airs a succession of early Victorian frocks of
much attractiveness. She makes her en-
trance as a pink rose, the petalled skirt
opening out under a straight-jacket of green
pointed over the hip line. Her second in-
spiration is of white silk, hooped round with
purple bands and with violets strewn down
one side. Then there are flouncings of cream
lace bodiced with cornflower-blue of flower-
like design, and an engaging little blue shep-
herdess hat, with floating ties, perched
rakishly upon her golden curls. After a
little-girl interval in checked pink gingham,
Dorothy takes her final curtain as a bride
sheeted in crystal fringe and filmy veilings,
backed by a lace train, which gleams above
a silver lining. Amy Rochelle, the principal
boy, appears in a white suede suit and a
jaunty green feather in her cap to begin with.
After airing a gold-tissue and several other
outfits, she ends up in flame-colored velvet,
inlaid with gold embroidery, under a heavily-
fringed cloak. Mionie Stewart first flutters in a
shepherdess frock of pale mauve, next in gold
lace over a short underskirt, and then makes
her final entry in an ivory bridal frock, with
her tulle veil flying over the brocaded train
from an anchorage of diamente.
The most notable discovery thus far made
by Melba’s operatic director, Henry Russell,
is Muriel Benton, here pliotoed by Ruskm.
Wh e n her
soprano was
heard in a
“ C a v alleria”
aria by Mel-
ba’s chorus
master, Signor
Zucchi, the
other day, all
the “issimas”
in his home
tongue were
soon exhausted,
and he could
only express
the rest of his
a d m i r ation
with demon-
strative hands.
She has the
true Italian
warmth and
splendor, h e
says, and she
will start her
training for small parts in the festival at
Her Majesty’s in March. After that Henry
Russell will probably give her three months’
special training before she sails away for
Europe to acquire the true nightingale tone.
Muriel is a protegee of Anne Williams, with
whom she sang for some months at the
Albert-street Con.
J. A. Levey, who has for ages been a
worker for Melbourne charities, and the
Charities’ Organisation Society, is off on a
trip to the Cold Country. He must be close
on four-score, as he retired from the job of
chief clerk in the Police Department 30
years ago. when J. B. Patterson was Pre-
mier. Under a special dispensation some
officers between 50 and 60 were then allowed
to go out on pension, and having some pri-
vate means Levey seized the opportunity.
With a genuine pang fellow-members of
the State Parliament learned of the passing
of Allan Cameron, of Dalliousie. What
helped him when he first stood nine years
ago and beat Reggie Argyle—the present
Chief Sec.’s brother —was the fact that he
Was the son of sturdy Ewen, so long the
“father” of the Assembly, who was Gillies’s
Whip and the Ministerial colleague of Irvine
and Bent. When he got in, however, Allan
Cameron needed no aid from tradition. His
personality made him popular outside and
inside the House, and he wielded an influ-
ence stronger than men of greater ability.
Beginning with eye trouble, his ailments ex-
tended in the last four months, and death’
brought surcease of much suffering. A widow,
three daughters and a son survive him.
The arrival of Captain Symonds, his
bride and their assistant A.B. in the 19-ton
yawl Seaweed after a 20,000-mile voyage,
done in 204 days, from Southampton, via
Panama, Suva and Sydney, was a veritable
godsend for the papers on Boxing Day—a
cloudy, dull day, with nothing on but routine
sporting and matinees. There was a joyful
welcome for the captain and his little lady
at his people’s home at Portarlington, where
the bay steamers pause on their way to Gee-
long.
Donald Mackinnon’s younger daughter,
Marie, has recently made a tour of Mexico,
and is loaded with news of the bloodstains on
the Republic’s troubled history. Though
President Obregon has proved himself a wise
and benevolent ruler, he hasn’t eradicated
his countrymen’s habit of grabbing a gun
and starting a revolution, with or without
provocation; so the Australian girl never
knew what was hidden round the next rail-
way curve—it might be a peon lazing in the
sun. or, again, it might be a band of bandits
looting a pile of dead. However, she came
through without mishap, and the experience
has only whetted her appetite for travel in
other remote places. Dad finishes his term
as Australian Commissioner in New York
in May.
A Melbourne girl, Valeria Cowell, has con-
tributed her bit towards Australian-made
children’s literature with a small illustrated
volume. “Gay Gambols” —all about a little
girl called Patsy and her pet dog Mickey, who
spend a happy evening with a. talking orchid
and an even more chatty spider. Edward
Yidler is responsible for the publication.
D. S. Jackson, M.H.R., who travelled
through the Northern Territory with the
Parliamentary Works Committee, made lus
experiences and photographs into an illus-
trated lecture which he has given in all the
eastern States. As a result he has raised
something like £950. all of which goes to
N. Territory hospitals; and in addition he
has persuaded people to subscribe as much
more. Many who had never heard of
the Territory, or heard of it only as a
white elephant, now, on account of Jack-
son’s enthusiasm, believe it to be one of
Australia’s best assets. The lecturer has
received an offer to make a talking tour
through the U.S.A., and most likely he will
go, following it up with a trip to England.
There was a great muster in Ivinkora-
road, Hawthorn, on Christmas Eve to cele-
brate the “golden wedding” of W. T. and
Mrs. Wallis. As local public man, building-
society director and lots of other things
Wallis has done his bit for Victoria, and
wherever his podgy figure moves in the inner
part of the city and in Haw-Hawthorn, the
respect of a multitude of friends goes with it.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
For the opening day the Port Adelaide races had
perfect weather that took a record crowd to the
Cheltenham course and persuaded womankind into
its smartest raiment. The Bridges were there, she
in Egyptianised marocain topped with a snug black
hat, and Miss Judge in cool grey; also the new
Mayor and his lady (she in grey, too), the Frank
Mouldens, S. H. Ayerses, Roy Burstons, J. M. Irwins,
a Cowan or two, and all the keener racegoers. Black
was insistent in the frocking—among the smartest
of it Mrs. Lindsay Sandford’s taffeta, a beaded satin
wrap slung round her shoulders by Mrs. S. H. Ayers,
and the marocains of Mrs. Roy Burston and Mrs.
Alan McFarlane.
J. W. Brougham, one of the best-known pastoralists
of the Broken Hill district in his day, has died
here. Born in N.S.W. 75 years ago, he went to
Scotland as a small boy of eight, but came back to
Australia in time to be one of the first on the
roll of Melbourne Grammar School. In ’B9 he
bought Poolamacca station, near Broken Hill, and
stayed there till he handed over the management
to his son and came to settle in Adelaide in 1915.
It was on his holding that poet Rod Quinn spent his
years in the Mulga, and many a verse has had the
great little man for its hero. He and the late
E. B. L. Dickens were brothers-in-law.
There was a Christmas party at Lordello the other
afternoon, with the Frank Mouldens as host and
hostess, and Adelaide’s pressmen and presswomen
as the guests. This is a show that dates from Moul-
den’s mayoral days, and has become an established
part of the press people’s Christmas.
The passing of John Hannah Gordon threw a shade
over the Christmas of everyone who knew him, and
the number of his friends was legion. Although for
some years illness had forced him to live quietly,
time was when his home was one of the most hospit-
able, a place where welcome never faltered nor enter-
tainment slackened, and where men and women gave
the best of their own wit and charm under the magic
of his appreciation and personality. He was a
delightful host and companion, and many of the
younger generation owe their success to his encourage-
ment.
Another step towards the equality of the sexes has
been macie in Adelaide, a woman having been well
and truly fined for punching a tram-conductor. She
explained that she thought he was taking advantage,
in the matter of fares, of her husband, who was a
little “under the influence.” The Court ruled that
she must pay for her fun like any other bloke.
Adelaide, which is not at all used to such things,
was shocked the other day by having its largest
hotel, the Grand Central, gone through by a sneak
thief during the early hours of the morning. The
haul threatened to be no more than a handful of
notes and coin from the trouser pockets of sleepers;
but the wealthy George Brookman has a suite in the
hotel, and that yielded about £l5OO worth of
jewellery which had been in wear the previous
evening. As usual, Adelaide says that the thief
must have been an expert from an eastern State;
a mysterious stranger who booked a room but failed
to attend at meals is being looked for.
Rita Coonan has found the Weigalls good friends
to her in London. The lady recently organised a
concert for her at Lansdowne House —a concert to
which many notables turned up, including Princess
Louise, Princess Beatrice and Princess Marie Louise.
Excellent reports come of the girl’s progress and
keenness.
Another S’Australian voice that is giving a good
account of itself in the Cold Country is Clara
Serena’s. She has booked engagements for six im-
portant concerts in the six months that lie between
last September and next March, and “wherever she
sings once she is wanted again.” Ada Crossley, who
has been godmothering her, says there’s nothing to
prevent her becoming the contralto of England
“it is only a question of time.”
Kenneth Duffield has a committee to help him with
a joint Mission to Seamen and Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals entertainment in April next.
The plan is to take the Theatre Royal for a week
and stag-e a musical comedy for which he and Dion
Titheradge are jointly responsible. It is an ambiti-
ous scheme, but the organiser has a way of pulling
off that sort of thing, and he has laid a good
foundation by getting together an excellent crowd
of helpers.


For Perfect healing
I* ZAM'BOK
11 mm* 0 * m EVERY TIME
Always soothe, purify and heal your
skin with Zam-Buk, then you may be
sure that you are using no mere dressing
or ordinary compound of rancid animal
fat and mineral poison.
Zam-Buk is a real curative balm
containing most valuable herbal essences
which Nature herself provides for the
regeneration of the human skin.
While naturally so soothing and healing, Zam-Buk
also has powerful germicidal qualities that quickly move
itching irritation, inflammation and all poisonous impurity.
New, healthy skin grows in a wonderful way under the
influence of Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk is unequalled not only for clearing away
pimples and ordinary surface eruptions, but for removing
all deep-seated troubles like eczema, ringworm, ulcers,
etc. There’s nothing else soothes and heals so speedily
as Zam-Buk when skin is cut, burnt, scalded or bruised.
CONTAINS
a FA
fioAMIMALOILo
m
CUTS
BRUISE|'|
burns
MtESj’'s^f^g£pU&
sagra*
*
N
CONTAINS
animai
OIL
fat
drug
■mineral
CUTS
BRLI
SES
'OWES BURNS
M&KftHft
CHAPPED HAND*
SCIATICA
SORE
lACKS
JwotMueo
--
£&=S*?®!*
£Sez*4a
?tAVCKS
acueoAuv
fL*
o'*
SSo
HI
The Peril of Blood-poison.
From “Rio,” 50 Lord Street, North
Sydney, Mrs. C. Duff writes:—“One
day while at work on a marble floor
my husband hurt his knee. Dirt got
into the wound, causing the leg to
swell fearfully.
“The doctor strongly advised opera-
tion, but my husband thought this
drastic and probably unnecessary.
However, his leg went from bad to
worse, and soon afterwards the big
swelling burst, and a heavy discharge
of matter followed. It was quite im-
possible to heal the open sore with
ordinary ointments, and I hardly knew
what to get.
“One day when my husband read
about Zam-Buk he made up his mind
to put it to the test. Even the first
dressings of the balm eased the pain
immensely. Through daily use of
Zam-Buk the soreness, inflammation
and discoloration were soon com-
pletely removed, and steady daily im-
provement soon resulted in a perfect
cure. In about three weeks Zam-Buk had
healed my husband’s knee so well that
he was able to resume work, scarcely
any the worse for his old injury.”
Child’s Scalp Disease.
Mr. B. M. Taylor, 32 Cameron
Street. Richmond, Vic., says:—“My
son Edward contracted ringworm on
his head, and it defied all attempts to
check it from spreading. The boy " Tf, s
bad for three months, during which
time I consulted two doctors, and also
tried various lotions and ointments
recommended by the chemist.
“On my husband’s advice I began to
treat the ringworm with Zam-Buk.
1
This seemed to charm away pain and irritation, and
further dressings of the healing balm soon caused the
ringworm to shrivel up and die away completely.”
Pimply Eruption Banished.
“Pimples began to appear all over my legs,” says
Mrs. T. Kelso, of Welsby Street, New Farm, Bris-
bane. “These spread and merged into one huge mass.
My legs burned and itched terribly. Day and night
the torment was almost unbearable. On a friend’s
advice I started using Zam-Buk, and then only did I
obtain my first respite from the awful fiery irritation.
Zam-Buk appeared to simply charm away pain and
inflammation, and I readily persevered until the balm
had completely purified the affected parts; After that
the cure was thoroughly completed with a new growth
of clear, healthy skin.”
Scalded Foot Soothed and Healed.
Mrs. M. Souter, 68 Brown Street, Adelaide, says:
“I severely scalded my foot whilst cooking. On re-
moving the stocking, skin and flesh came away with
it, leaving the limb red raw. Proud flesh developed;
the intense burning pain was almost unbearable. The
usual ointments and other homely remedies com-
pletely failed to heal, but under the influence of Zam-
Buk the sore place soon showed wonderful improve-
ment. Thanks entirely to Zam-Buk, all pain and
inflammation swiftly disappeared and the terrible
scalds were perfectly healed.”
THE HEALER
EVERYBODY NEEDS.
1/6 and 316 per box of all Chemists and Stores.
IF YOU WANT the BEST
Purchase Only Master Touch Music Rolls!
Ask Your Dealer for a
Complete Catalogue,
Now Available, of over 300 Titles.
POPULAR TITLES NOW READY.
lIXTLE NELLIE KELLY SELECTION.
Sou Remind Me of My Mother. The Voice of My Heart.
Till My Luck Comes Rolling- Along. Little Nellie Kellyj I Love You.
From Nellie Kelly.
BABB ADS.
One Bittle Dream of Dove.
Dove Is a Gift Divine.
Ora Pro Nobis.
Castillian Dament.
They Say.
Roarin’ Days o’ Sixty.
Because.
Five Bittle Piccaninnies.
Abide With Me.
Dead, Kindly Bight.
My Curly-headed Babby.
The Trumpeter.
Darboard Watch, Ahoy (Duct).
FOX TROTS.
Falling.
Kitten on the Keys.
All Through a Beautiful Girl.
Sawmill River Road.
No No Nova.
On the Road to Anywhere.
My Sweetie Went Away.
Old King Tut.
Cut Yourself a Piece of Cake.
Como.
WAI/TZES.
The, O’Brien Girl.
Bed Moon.
Moon River.
A Wild Nightingale.
ROLLS TO BE RELEASED IN JANUARY.
Don’t Cry, Swanney.
Dove Tales.
Dumbell.
Oh, Harold.
Tambor Avant.
Saucy Waltz.
Every Player Piano Warehouse of Repute in Australia and
New Zealand Distributes These Rolls.
= AVASTERTOUCH
-■•■■•T- Mand Pfayed : -_=r .
.•••' r? A\usic Rolls .. = -
- are the - ’ ~
LATEST AMD BEST
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.
Jfcr-r 8 - Eg: D
m
M
w#
55S
tfS*.
tfg
p&
m
n
&
m
M
m
Hi
r;
Here is a good
Cigarette
made from 16 different
growths of the finest
Virginia leaf procurable,
ensuring a palatable
smoke right through.
PRINCE CHARMING
CIGARETTES represent
pre-war Value and
Quality a revelation
nowadays.
10£,r9mi6
also in so* in vacuum tins & in 100*
in boxes. On 53/e everywhere.
/unco, ChaMrmq
CIGARETTES *
by dMoustafa, Ltd., 165, Piccadilly, London, W.!, England •
May's A. A.


.HUDSON,
sLsuperJ
IksixJ
N\\W\
\W
IUIH
! I
\\
\
?A
linn! iiihu
\\\u\m\u\\\\\i\u11 i 11
V X \ \ \\
saw
m
U-U
Emu
iiiinnimiurminimiiinT^
iAI
I
W.
f,
rs
,
/
H
m
/
/ 8S
\h)
rmn
rm
WWELVE months ago, owing to the marvellous combination of
high quality and low price in the HUDSON and ESSEX
cars, we predicted in our advertisements that 1923 would witness a
cremendous increase in their popularity.
Events have amply proved the correctness of this prophecy.
To-day these cars are encountered in enormous and ever-increasing
numbers on the city streets and country roads. Enthusiastic owners
are abundant.
Whereas the dawn of 1923 disclosed a horizon darkened by hosts of
HUDSON and ESSEX cars destined for Australian purchas-
ers, the rising sun of 1924 illuminates a somewhat different picture.
In public favour the HUDSON and ESSEX can no longer be
suggested as being on the horizon; they have "ARRIVED”! The
invasion is complete! And these two cars of -unequalled reputation,
may now be depicted as leading, absolutely, on the high-road of
"POPULARITY”!
Leaders or\ tfve Road
of Popularity
ORIZON
192.
THE
The above is a reproduction of the illustration used
in our Special Advertisement issued 4th January, 1923
‘‘Public opinion never fails, and it has endorsed
the HUDSON and ESSEX
6
y
I;
Dalgety & Company Limited
136 Phillip, St Sydney
The Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
H. C. HEATHORN, LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
HUDSON/
SUPER/
SIX /
\ h ;


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOIi
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP * CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPROTING
NEEDS
Not many Sydney punters collected on
the Villiers-Summtr Cup double, but those who did
were lucky. Ridden with any judgment at all, Note
would have won the Villiers and El Dorado the
Summer Cup. Note’s owner was particularly unfor-
tunate, as he had the nice bet of £lOOO to £5O
about his honest little mare, and if the boy on
top hadn’t rushed her from the rearguard to the
vanguard in a furlong or so, with the long straight
still to be traversed, she would have had to fall
down to lose. But the tactics of the infant on El
Dorado were equally stupid. Not only did the All
Black horse cover more ground than anything else
in the race, but he was allowed to dawdle behind
the field for nine furlongs or thereabouts. He did
not get up top speed till he reached the home turn,
which is the worst possible place for a run to be
made. Then he had to take the longest way home
and to give a substantial start to that sound old
stayer, King of the Forest —nicely ridden by Crack-
nell and produced in excellent condition by the
shrewd Munson—and failed by a head. The betting
was 2 to 1 El Dorado, 14’s King of the Forest and
10’s The Epicure, who cut Note out of third place,
but it would be evens El Dorado if they ran it over
again.
The fact is that the standard of horsemanship on
Sydney courses was never lower than at present.
It is a matter that calls for attention by the
A.J.C. committee, for the public is weary of the
ill-judged and incapable riding that goes on at
Randwick—to a greater extent, perhaps, than on
any course of equal prominence in the world. It is
bad enough to back a horse that would have won
b .y lengths if the jockey hadn’t gone to sleep or
ridden it into the ground ; but there are worse
grievances. Heavily-backed horses are left at the
barrier; others fall on the flat or are ruined by
being galloped on; others again are deliberately
pulled out of third position, tote punters being there-
by robbed in cold blood. Most of the trouble is
connected with the plethora of apprentices. In a
race on Boxing Day in which four horses came down
12 of the 18 starters were ridden by urchins who
haven’t served their time; but this is nothing out
of the way for Randwick. The time has arrived
when the committee should cut out apprentice allow-
ances and make the minimum weight 7st. instead
of 6st. 71b.
Otacre (7 to 2) won the Carrington by two
lengths from the bottled-up Trimacre, with Vanti,
who paid £lO ss. 6d. on the 10s. tote, third, and
Pteropod a close fourth. The Linacre-Otira horse
ran the six furlorgs in lmin. 121 sec., and he must
have galloped a great half-mile, for at that point
10 horses were ahead of him. He has been a
profitable investment for Mrs. V. S. Hordern and
C. H. Bryans, the trainer ; since Oct. 1 he has
been first three times and second twice in five
well-gilded Randwick handicaps.
mares are still carrying all before
them in Melbourne. On Boxing Day at Caulfield the
principal sprint fell to Sonora, and the Hopetoun
Cup provided an argument between Switch and.
Wynette, the more distinguished lady shutting up
at the mush. She has had a lot of racing since
September, and has fairly earned a spell.
Lilypond (Lily veil—Coolan Dim) duly
landed the W.A. Derby, but he just got there from
the outsider Honneur, who started at 14 to 1 in
a field of six. Honneur battled out the finish reso-
lutely, and the 3-to-l-on favorite had only half his
neck in front at the finish. In the All-aged Stakes
on the second day of the meeting the were
Lilypond (5 to 2), Borgia (20’s), and Honneur,
among the also-rans being Feathernest, the Perth
Cup favorite. The richly-endowed Railway Stakes
went to the favorite, P. A. Connolly’s Jolly Hand-
some (Jolly Beggar—Tea Cosy), who beat a 50-to-l
chance in Eragoon (he paid nearly 14 to 1 for
a place) and the- ex-Sydneysider Fluent. It was
Jolly Handsome’s second success at the meeting—
Connolly’s record is six wins in two days.
* * * *
The race for tlie Port Adelaide Cup, now
worth £2500 (there is a fourth prize of £100),
was enlivened by the presence of Bitalli, who
wasn’t badly handicapped at 9st. 101 b. considering
that Lealicim had 9st. Cairns rode the Melbourne
Cup horse, who managed the sharp Cheltenham turns
more cleverly than some local judges had anticipated,
and gave his backers a gallant run for their money.
But the task of conceding 3st. to the black three-
year-old colt Stand By (Lanius-Comedietta) proved
beyond him, the youngster winning as he liked from
Benom and the topweight in the exceptionally fast
time of 3min. lsec. the distance was 14 furlongs and
74 yards. J. McKinron trains Stand By, and Johns,
an apprentice, rode him. The owner, T. S. Ryder,
Pu'? guineas for him as a yearling, and seeing
that the dam is a half-sister to Comedy King and
the sire one of the best English thoroughbreds that
ever came this way —he won the Jockey Club Stakes
in 1915-—he got a cheap horse —one that will make
things _ interesting in the next Melbourne Cup if
he trains on. Lanius is making good at the stud,
and his success is welcome. For, unlike most impor-
tations, he is siring stayers, and one good staying
colt or filly is more valuable to Australia than a
score of speedy squibs.
* * * *
A depressing exhibition of endurance
cricket has been raging for a working week in
Melbourne. Victoria began it by taking a day and
a bit to compile 285, Mavne top-scoring with a
methodical 106. He hit five fours. N. S. Wales
weighed in with an even slower 268, Collins taking
nearly five hours to put.together 108. His boundary
strokes were four in number. At the end of the
fourth day, Victoria, were 388 to the good with
two wickets in hand, Woodfull’s contribution bei n’'
117 in 281 minutes. The impetuous youth slogged
three fourers. A few more such matches and re-
presentative cricket will be past praying for.
Bail”: By the irony of fate, E. R. Mayne sud-
denly looms up as Victoria’s greatest batsman now
that Warwick Armstrong' has departed from the
scene. During the big fellow’s reign Mavne was
the most unpopular man in first-class cricket, chieflv
because he was suspected of being a pet of the
selectors and the Board of Control. He had a very
bad spin while his cricket was under a cloud, and
when the last Australian team was in England
he never received the chances that were properly
his due. Now, the somewhat astounded cricketer
finds himself in the boom, and, should he retain his
form during the rest of the Sheffield fixtures, he
will surely be vice-captain of an Australian XI in
the Test matches at the end of the year. If Mayne
brings this off, as seems likely, he will have a
unique revenge on those sporting writers who tried
to hound him out of the game many months agone.
“0.R.”: I am tired of seeing batsmen listed in
big (and small) cricket matches as ‘‘thrown out.”
There is no such thing. The man whose stumps are
TOO POLITE.
HIGFLOWN : “Will you never smile upon
my suit?”
THE LADY : “Why, I didn’t like to. I
thought perhaps it was the usual thing
for golfing.”
upset while he is running between the creases, or
endeavoring to get back after making a stroke, is
“run out,” and it doesn’t matter whether his down-
fall is due to the agency of the wicketkeeper or
anyone else. Of course “thrown out” is intended to
draw attention to the fact that one of the fielding
side other than the wicketkeeper or the bowler —
to one of whom the ball is generally thrown —took
a shot at the stumps and terminated the batsman’s
career, and in the N. S. Wales-Vic. match we got
the additional information, even in the scores that
most of the dailies published, that Andrews was
“thrown out by Ryder.” Doubtless, but “r. 0.”
would be enough ; “t. 0.” isn’t in the scorer’s legiti-
mate repertoire, however much the commentator
may revel in it. A man may be thrown out of a
pub, but not out of an innings.
len tie Queenslanders amassed 404
» °™ or , 18 , 4 ) their first effort on the Adelaide
looked to have a great chance of defeat-
®outh. Au ®; B»t the Wheat Staters rose to the
?Wfl! ol + 10 a 1 (l opartinents of the game. Thanks
ri oo t 0 , a "U'S' llllll ent partnership between Bowlev
A, ' “\, and Murray (113), they replied with 464';
then they dismissed the visitors for 115 and got
WILLIE SPENCER, the American cyclist,
now doing well in Australia.
the requisite 57 in 30 minutes without losing a
wicket, A. J. Richardson making the winning hit
—a sixer a minute before stumps were to be
finally drawn. Williams’s bowling was a feature of
a most spirited and exciting matcn. In Queensland’s
first innings he took six for 155; in the second
six for 40. Hormbrook got six S'.A. wickets, in-
cluding those of Bowiey, Murray, Pritchard (65) and
Richardson, for 160, arid, his Melbourne failure
notwithstanding, the S.A. captain described him as
the finest bowler in the Commonwealth. Both sides
played bright and entertaining cricket; during the
three days they hit 333 more runs than were compiled
during the corresponding period of the dreary exhibi-
tion at Melbourne.
* * * *
Rice : There are few things so impres-
S 7Vi r \ Ul ? way of cri cket journalism as the efforts
of Adelaide reporters to avoid repeating themselves
when describing how a batsman hit a four. A few gems
collected after the N.S.W.-S.A. match: “Hit a
boundary,” “reached the fence,” “banged him to the
members stand,’ “repeated the dose,” “swung’ him
to the eastern gate,” “cut him to the rails,” “aug-
mented the. tally by four,” “added a quartette,”
smacked him to the leg boundary,” “drove him for
another, “rattled the pickets,” “showed him no
mercy,” “pulled him to the grandstand,” “gave a
full toss its proper punishment.” This kind of thing
must fearful strain on the intellect.
‘'Troii”: In a contribution to “Plum”
Warner’s “Cricketer” Mat Ellis defends the Victorian
selectors (he is one of them), and unveils some secret
history. Concerning the outcry that arose when the
selectors deprived the players of their right to sdiect
the Vic. Captain, Mat explains that three of the
chosen eleven wanted Armstrong, and more preferred
another aspirant, whose election would have made
trouble. Diplomats induced both to Stand aside, and
Ransford, popular with each section, was elevated.
To avoid the recurrence of this unpleasantness the
selectors assumed the _ responsibility of picking the
captain, and the choice of Ransford was ratified.
Then “Armstrong refused to bat when called upon,
or to bowl,” and Ransford, pleading he was on the
verge of a breakdown, said, “Warwick’s so great,
don’t be without him,” and dropped out of the game
for a year. (“Our Association,” says Mat, “never
brought before the Melbourne Club this incident of
their honorary servant,. Mr. Ransford, being flouted
bv a paid one.”) Respecting Armstrong’s exclusion
from the Vic. team in the second match against
Douglas’s eleven, this is the long-delayed explanation:
Warwick went to Sydney with the Vies, to play against
N.S.W., but left the party immediately on arrival, in-
forming the manager he would return within half an
hour. Only after two days had passed, and just before the
match started did he appear, and then said he could
not play owing to a blow received in a previous match.
The big fellow did not return with the team, but
remained in Sydney, and, for this reason, was not
chosen against the Englishmen. “Mr. Mavne,” com-
ments Mat, “captained the team so well that we
won the Sheffield Shield after Mr. Armstrong had
failed on numerous occasions.” In truth a Parthian
shot.
* * * *
“F.L.H.”: Is a cricketer too old at 60?
Maurice Read, the old Suriev pro., who began play-
ing first-c’ass cricket in 1880, made several decent
scores, including a couple of centuries, during the
past season. He is just on 65. Read visited Aus-
tralia four times from 1884 to 1891, the last time
with the Grace-Ahel-Stoddart-Eohmann combination,
which, strong as it was, went down twice in three
Tests.
* * * *
“15-30”: J. O. Anderson has decided to
forget his wrongs and visit Melbourne for the Aus-
tralasian championships, commencing on January 19,
As he has not appeared in, the southern capital since
his memorable defeat of Patterson on a red-hot day
two or three years ago, he will prove a draw.
Brookes, who is now in pretty good form and is
practising daily, should play some fine tennis with
Anderson in the doubles if lie can induce the tall
Cornstalk to undertake the forward game, instead
of hanging back and leaving a gully for dangerous
cross-court shots. It was probably this reluctance
to line up for the volleying duels inevitable between
two good pairs that turned the tide in favor of
America in the Davis Cup doubles. Brookes’s head-
work and crafty placements, supported by Anderson’s
gift for aceing returns of service, should make them
a striking combination, but I fancy that only con-
siderable practice together would enable them to
down Patterson, partnering Wood or Hawkes. Still,
Anderson is capable of wonderful things. Tt should
not be forgotten that he and Lvcett knocked out
Patterson and Wood for the doubles trophy at
Wimbledon in 1922.
Norman Brookes, who is off to Britain
this year, is making arrangements to appear in some
of the European tournaments while abroad. It is
almost certain that he and Mile. Lenglen will endea-
vor to mop up some trophies in Riviera tournaments,
and the interesting pair may be partners in the
mixed doubles at Wimbledon. Brookes has also more
than a half-promise from Tilden to appear with
him in Britain should the American champion decide
to cross the Atlantic. Each expresses a great admira-
tion for the other, and the sight of them together
at. Wimbledon should be an unexampled attraction
to English followers of the game. Brookes has
said that Tilden is the “finest stroke-player in the
world,” and the American, in his book, “The Art
of Lawn Tennis,” declares that he still finds some-
thing to learn from the play of “the greatest tennis-
player and genius of all time.”
“Centurion” : Tennis is not so new to Mel-
bourne as “Deuce” (B. 27/12/’23) imagines; I
rather think it antedated its outdoor offspring,
“lawn” tennis. I can remember the Murphys, Fair-
bairns and other Victorians who owned stations
on the Banco discussing the pastime in the late
’seventies, it being then very much the vogue in Mel-
bourne. It can never be a game for the multitude,
because of the expense of the huge and elaborate
covered court, with its fittings of “penthouse,”
“grille,” “tambour,” “dedans” and so forth. The
laws, too, are complicated beyond belief. The ball
is played off the walls and penthouse, which runs
down the court on the server’s left ; the service
is always from the same end. The penthouse is
a sloping roof about 10 feet off the ground, and is
latticed in to form a gallery for spectators, the only
one there is. As the ball is exceedingly hard, this
precaution is necessary. The Due de Guise, of St.
Bartholomew fame, lost an eye because he incauti-
ously put his head out of the dedans, a small window
in the lattice at the far end from the server, just
as a ball arrived there. The dedans, like the grille,
is one of the hazards on this side of the court, and
the tambour is a projection of the right-hand wall
in what is called the. hazard-court. Most of the
play consists in attempting to trap the ball in these
hazards. The rules and methods of play are so
baffling to the uninitiated that I pity the Sporting
pressmen if they are ever told off to “do” an
inter-state match.
In the last contest of the 1923 season
at Sydney Stadium, Tommy Uren, welterweight
champion of Australia, outpointed Merv Williams
the Queenslander, in 20 rounds of hard fighting.
Uren was a decisive winner, but the Queenslander s
vigorous finish impressed the three-bobbers so much
that they hooted the decision lustily.
* * * *
Neither Charlton nor Beaurepaire was in
the pink of condition for their 440 yards race at
Manly on Saturday. The boy had a heavy cold, and
the veteran was palpably short of work. Charlton
led throughout, and touched 9sec. to the good in
smin. 20 2-ssec.—l 2-ssec. worse than Barney liieranV
N.S.W. record, 2 4-ssec. behind Ludy Langer’s
Australian record, and 8 3-ssec. slower than Arne
Borg’s world’s figures. The Hawkesburv student is
to tackle Borg in the Domain baths on Jan. 12, but
owing to a fire on the Moldavia the Swede will be
two days late in arriving, which means that he
won’t be nearly fit. He is fairly entitled to a post-
ponement, and the matter should be arranged. Moss
Christie, whom some Sydney critics reckon superior
to Charlton, has been laid up with the ’flu, but
E. Henry, the High School boy, will be a capital
substitute if Christie is unavailable; be was only
five yards behind Beaurepaire in the Manly quarter-
mile.
“Nitric”: “Centurion” (B. 20/12/’23)
uses the term “Rugby” so loosely that I suspect he
is not very conversant with either Union or League.
The wirg- forward is essentially a forward. The
name was applied to the fast forward—generally’
the breakaway—who takes up the outer or wing
position for the fast follow-on of the forwards —
from a kick-off as a rule. The breakaway (there
are two of them in the Union scrum of eight men,
and the last man down in the League scrum of six is
virtually a breakaway) is generally selected (being
the nearest approach to a back, in pace and hand-
ling) to join in a back movement and in tackling
to annoy the opposition. Again, in the League
pack, the sixth man must pack in the scrum or come
nght out in the backs (this is where Frank Burge
scored so heavily). “Centurion” is wrong in saying
that the breakaway does not leave the pack until
the ball is in play. The breakaway can “break”
and follow the ball as soon as it is heeled to the
opposing third row of forwards, i.e., to the lock.
Playing as breakaway in Rugby Union and as sixth-
man-down in League, I’ve dumped Duncan Thompson,
felt Frank Burge’s weight, tried to stop “Slip”
Carr and given a pass to Jimmy Flynn, so these
are not merely the idle theories of a' chap behind
the pickets.
“Centurion”: That Oxford should play
A. C. Wallace full-back and wing-threequarter is not
so surprising as “Jacky Roo” (B. 20/12/’23) seems
to think. Wallace was Sydney Uni.’s full-back not
long after the war. Later on he played for N.S.W.
'T I< l the Varsity as a wing-threequarter. It was Otto
Nothling s arrival at the University that permitted
the shifting of the speedy Wallace to the attacking
line.
“F.A.”; Playing a man out of his usual
club position (B. 20/12/’23) is not alwavs a matter
of organised prejudice, as “Jacky Roo’s”" par. would
lead one to suppose. A. C. Wallace’s transfer from
centre three-quarter to full-back is really a feather
in the Macksville boy’s cap. Movements of the kind
have taken place in big football from time
immemorial. Billy Wallace, the world’s greatest
full-back, played three-quarter for Poneke, Welling-
ton (M.L.), for years before a seemingly unapprecia-
tive selection committee pushed him back in one of
his first rep. games. Another parallel case was that
of Larrv Dwyer, of Orange (N.S.W.). Larry was a
brilliant three-quarter, but his work as a stopper of
tries was more pronounced when he was behind his
team than when he was playing the double game of
attack and defence. In 1912 he was played” in
the three-quarter line against Queensland for a
quarter of an hour. Then he was sent to the
rear to put a stopper on the fleet McCabe who
was running round the wings. Larry groused for
the rest of the day—l heard him because I was
responsible for the move. In a rep. game in M T
a few years ago I was pulled out of the “pigs” and
stuck on the wing to counterbalance a 14-stone
flier opposite. But I regarded it as a compliment.
AT HOXTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An unpopular decision at the Sullivan-Jackson
light, Hoxton baths, London, resulted in the referee
being knocked headlong out of his chair. In the
general mix-up that followed, more blows were
delivered in a few minutes than are usually seen in
a full night’s boxing.”— Cable.
It was a decorous audience
Watched with appreciation tense
The noble art of self defence
At Hoxton.
They cheered, of course, each partisan
Of Jackson or of Sullivan,
As to its close the contest ran
At Hoxton.
No artful jab, no dexterous clout
On ribs or dial went home without
The usual commending shout
At Hoxton.
It seemed a fast and merry mill,
Best, of all ads. for British skill
And grit. None apprehended ill
At Hoxton
Until the referee, the fun,
Ten hefty rounds of it, being done,
Gave his decision who had won
At Hoxton.
Then, like an avalanche —deduce
The cause or seek to find the excuse
In what you may—all Hell broke loose
At Hoxton.
Some deemed the ruling right; some thought
It wrong. They closed, like fiends distraught,
And each his weight in wild cats fought
At Hoxton.
They scrapped no more in pairs that night—
No measured rounds —no rules polite—
’Twas just a wild Homeric fight
At Hoxton.
The referee was put to sleep
Early and bright. Likewise a heap
Of backers. Stoush that night was cheap
At Hoxton.
O grumblers whom I hear deplore
Your money’s worth you seldom score
At modern fights in good red gore,
You might have had it —ay, and more—
Had you but got inside the door
At Hoxton.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SMASHED!
FREMANTLE-SYDNEY RECORD
Previous figures beaten by more than 1| DAYS.
Beset by rains, bush fires, and other tremendous difficulties,
Messrs. J. L. BURTON and W. BRADLEY, of Sydney, in a 3(F9Bh.p.
Vauxhall Car, established the following remarkable times on their
record-breaking journey from FREMANTLE TO SYDNEY.
Fremantle to Adelaide—l 734 miles—
Time: 3 days 14£hrs.' —Previous Record, 4 days 18hrs. 20min.
Fremantle to Melbourne —2329 miles —
Time: 5 days 4hrs. 26min. Previous Record, 6 days llhrs. 25min.
FREMANTLE to SYDNEY
2995 miles —Time, 6 days 13hrs. 57mm.
Previous Record, 8 days 7hrs. 21 min.
Record broken by 1 day 17hrs. 24min.
This feat has been accomplished on
SHELL Motor Spirit
and once more this powerful and enduring spirit has proved itself
THE CONQUEROR OF DISTANCE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY, LIMITED,
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
EXCEPTIONAL RID IN E COMFORT
The new Dodge Brothers Touring Car is
exceptionally comfortable to ride in; it is good
looking; and it incorporates many important
refinements of detail.
The bodv is longer and lower, eliminating side <
sway, affording more leg room, and enhancing
the beauty of the lines.
Deeper seats, long underslung rear springs and
longer front springs, give ample assurance that
cross-country touring can be enjoyed without
weariness or fatigue.
Yet with all these improvements, and many
others, it is still fundamentally the same car —
built on the same chassis and powered by the
same sturdy engine.
Dodge Brothers,Detroit
i
W'
y
m
v'-'
N
© O. B.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth,
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
3/l/’24.
THE INKY WAY.
Rex Hunter, an Americanised Australian who
graduated on Sydney D.T., has 8,11 appreciative notice
of Henry Lawson in a recent number of The Book-
max, wherein he asserts that the poet is gradually
acquiring a large audience in the States.
“What we Americans need are more books that
will get our goat; for there is more knavery and
bunk in this country to-day than in all the rest
of the world combined.” — Benjamin De Casseres, a
Hew York critic, in a struggle to be both plain and
candid.
P. E. G. Bay ley, an Argus sub., is going to Lon-
don to be news editor of the A.P.A. cable service.
Bayley is one of the numerous Geelongese who have
made good on the big Press, after an intensive
training on the ’Tiser and the old Times, Bendigo
used to be the apprentice . ground. Geelong has
largely supplanted it. ■
“D.”: Apropos “Ex-Englishman’s” par. about the
Pixk ’Ux (B. 13/12/’23), the most widely quoted epi-
gram on the sale to Fenton was uttered by that
famous phrase-maker, Frank Otter, who was in Syd-
ney ,a year ago. “He’s bought the cage,” drawled
Otter, “but the singing-birds have flown.” The
brilliant men who left Fenton to start an opposi-
tion Sheet on similar lines to the Pink ’Un in-
cluded the late “Pitcher” (A. M. Binstead), an
i ncomparable gutter- w it.
“Iford”: “G.A.C.’s” mordant actress who divided
the male sex into “men and actors” (B. 6/12/’23)
reminds me of another division suggested by two
headlines in a newspaper of the roaring days of the
W.A. goldfields. The caption ran:—•
FIGHT AT KURNALPI.
FIERCE QUARREL BETWEEN A NAVVY AND A
MAN.
I forget what was the result of the combat.
“Coot”: They are discovering wonderful things
about Norman Lindsay in London. According to
John o’ London (3/11/’23) he “for some years
earned a precarious living in Melbourne by drawing
sketches at half a crown a time in the local public-
houses. Then he was discovered by the editor of the
Sydney Bulletin.” As a matter of fact, he was cn
the regular staff of The Bulletin at 22, and he had
been a busy draftsman for it and other papers for
nearly five years before that. No other front-rank
Australian artist was “discovered” quite so young.
An Australian newspaper man who brought off a
number of scoops of international interest was
John Revelstoke Rathom, editor of the Providence
Journal (U.S.A.), who has now passed his last
copy. Born in Melbourne in 1808, lie was a war
correspoi dent in the Soudan in 18S2 and accompanied
the Bunbury New _ Guinea Expedition in 1888. Then
he made fos America, and soon built up a reputation
for initiat*»e, resource and courage in the press
world. His hunting of German spies in America
during the war gained him a fame all his own.
“P.N.”: Sydney Daily Mail may save its life by
getting itself adopted as the Labor daily. It has
had a hard light. Projected as a true-blue Liberal,
with George Fuller behind it, it failed to get the
necessary capital, and switched off to Labor and
Irish principles, with Miiialian, M.L.A., on the bridge.
The S. M. Herald's tremendous hold on the morn-
ing paper advertising makes the lot of any new
Sydney daily hard ; and the street sales which were
giving the Mail a very respectable circulation
weren t helped at all by the arrival of the Guardian,
which gaily spent a pound where the Mail had to
look hard at a shilling. The Mail has some indi-
viduality ; its goodwill certainly is worth something ;
and if Labor takes it over it won’t have to change
its policy to any extent worth mentioning.
“Wilfrido”: Horatio Bottomley, finding the com-
pulsory leisure of WoVmwoocl Scrubs irksome, sat down
and wrote his reminiscences, appointing- an ex-convict
named Barrymore his literary agent to market the
wares. The latter arranged to sell the copv to
Lloyd’s, but actually marketed it to the News of
the World when he heard that the Trustee in
Bankruptcy had! got wind of the first sale. But the
Trustee was not bluffed ; he stepped in and collared
the £lOOO paid over, while Justice MeCardie gave
the rights of publication to Lloyd's. The money
represents a mere drop in the ocean, as 90,000 in-
vestors have put in claims against Horatio’s estate
totalling £791,479, and the available assets only
make possible a payment of 3d. and a fraction in
the pound.
“Iford”: Lord Alfred Douglas, who goes to gaol
for six months for libelling Winston Churchill, has
probably done the ex-Minister ten times as much
service as the most robust admirer could have effected.
When a politician has as many errors of judgment
and impulsive blunders to answer for as Churchill,
and when he has to fight such an accumulation of
unpopularity (he was invited to contest seven differ-
ent seats, and yet couldn’t pick a constituency to
return him), the detractor who publishes a tissue
of palpably outrageous and preposterous falsehoods
about him is really a benefactor. The malignity
or reckless mendacity, adequately exposed, tend to
make the public forget many things it would have
kept in memory otherwise. Parnell never got such
an adyt. as the venal rascality of Pigott and the
credulity of the Times gave him ; and Churchill will
almost certainly profit in the same way.
“Lex”: The contention of “Ex-Englishman” that
“a clever counsel, citing Rabelais and Shakspeare
and the Book of Genesis, would have laughed the
case I against London Pink ’Un] out of court” needs
ro be controverted in the interests of inexperienced
editors. The Pink ’I n editor was charged with
“obscene libel.” The law draws a distinction between
improprieties which are offered for general consump-
tion at a trifling price, and those which are intended
for the use of specialists. A selected passage from
Krafft-Ebing’s “Psychop&thia Sexualis,” for example,
if published in a daily paper, might get the respon-
sible party a term in gaol, whereas it would be
perfectly safe for a bookseller to retail the whole
volume to a doctor or barrister. The word “might”
is used advisedly in the above sentence, for intent
is very much the essence of obscene libel. Thus if
the Argus or S. M. Herald reprinted a large slab
from Aristophanes at his worst, an indictment would
not neces ariiy follow, and if it did no jury would
convict, provided the thing appeared to have been
none in a bona fide manner. The papers that fall
in are those which are deliberately and habitually
indecent, and which cater for the multitude. Tile
Pink ’Un has a particularly black record in this
respect, and no amount of barristerial humor could
have obscured the fact. By the way, prosecutions
for obscene libel are sporadic affairs in England,
though when one is begun they tend to become epi-
demic. Certain periodicals—mostly sporting week-
lies —print startling obscenities in issue after issue,
for months at a time, and then, for 110 apparent
reason, someone in authority decides to move. If
the Pink ’Un conviction is not followed bv a crop
of others, it will merely mean that its rivals have
got their heads down in tSnu>
TRADESMEN’S ENTRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who would not sing a song' a day like this?
There are a thousand little jo.vs awake.
(‘■Hatter!’’ “One loaf, please! Close the gate!”)-
1 shake
A million dreams from memories of Love’s kris
That stabbed me (“ Butch-e-er!'’... .“Two of
steak!'') where hiss
The grasses (“.Vo cat’s meat, thank you-u-u-u-u!").
Oh, break
My heart —I mean, awake, mv muse ! And take
The noon’s {“Green-grocer /”... .“Nothing, thanks")
bright kiss.
O Love, be one with time again, and one
With {“lce-man !”... .“Damn the brute!’’) my
mystic soul,
That now from out the past must crunch —munch—■
bunch
Like flowers my thoughts to {“Gro-cer!”) lift the
sun.
The (“Gro-cer!”) rhyme of (“GRO-CER!”) life
we tr 011....
I meant this for a sonnet. Cost? One lunch.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.


Gowing's’
SALE
Now in Full Swing'.
Gowings Sale brings a singular opportunity to supply your
clothing needs at a great saving. A definite reduction of at
least 1 0 per cent, is made on all goods, including those listed
in Gowings Catalogue for 1923-4 (one or two proprietary
lines excepted).
Send for Gowings Special Sale Circular*, forwarded free
on request.
SPECIAL!
Here is an attractive Offer.
A Suit to Measure in All-Wool Worsted in many attractive
designs and colorings, All-Wool Tweed, in popular patterns
and shades. All-Wool Twill Serge of guaranteed color;
Tailored to-your-measure in such a manner that it will hold its
smart lines and give lasting service. This is our regular six-
guinea line, and the double reduction makes it unbeatable
value.
£6/6/- Reduced to £6
Less 1 0 per cent. . . .
£5/8
Write Section 15. Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent free on request.
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear reduced at least 10 per cent.
Gowing Bros. Ltd.
846 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.
■Sgall
ililii
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
x .}, * o
m
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT
n *'> *. * » * **. •
He & >.* f ' ‘ ‘*s f > *■ ■ s
-V V „ f; ' ■
%’ *'o* *. V#'*
* ■V%%Vt « 4 „V
4 .
O V *
H I■•
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole tip
to 3>2 in, in
in. plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
•»
Coppin Street, Richmond.
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES
Messrs. AR.MSTRQNG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
V"
M
$
¥
9
\
W)
Y
• «
• •
Hupmobile
Frequent radical changes may be the result of
mistakes and misdirected effort. It is significant
that the makers of the Hupmobile have changed
models only five times in fourteen years, and no
change has been radical.
Huptoobile
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.YV.
DALGETY & COMPANY. LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED.
112-120 Pirie Street, Adelaide. S. Australia.
VENTER A MOTORS LIMITED, 873 a Hay
Street, Perth.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Welling-
ton, N.Z.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
I); fling Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
mi
"NON
Tarifi —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
When. They Call for Brandy
I Know Tkey
M ean Martell s
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
HARTELLS
BRANDY
c
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
JREENER
W. W. GREIN^W
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHAM?
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.,
LTD.,
405*7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Southern Maid,,
Criifrion “His House in Older
Royal “The Spanish Main’;
Grand Opera House “Rockets
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty's
Royal ■•••• “Sally,;
King's “French Leave
Princess's “Little Nellie kelly
Palace - “Mother Goose ’
Majestic • Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
All the same, the panto. Ada Reeve domi-
nates at Melbourne Majesty’s is a better
entertainment for adult population than most.
It aims higher than usual, and, though it
doesn’t always score a bull’s-eye, the average
is good.
** * *
“Sally,” at Melbourne Royal, had to bear
as much heat and burden of holiday-week
audience as the new shows, and the begin-
ning of its Second year on Saturday next
will be one of those loudly-proclaimed events
that encourage public patronage.
“LITTLE NELLIE KELLY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Mrs. Langford ( May Beatty) and Captain
John Kelly (Mark Daly) discover they
have met before.
“Little Nellie Kelly,” possessing sundry
qualifications for vast financial success, ap-
pears to be succeeding vastly at Melbourne
Princess’s. Color, movement and charming
array of educated legs in gleaming tights
(which, after all, are more alluring than
similar limbs twinkling in bare truth) are
not the only items that count much in Hugh
Ward’s latest production. The co. includes
a cluster of at least half a dozen personali-
ties, as well as insipid people who are not
even representatives of types. May Beatty
and Daly create interest in characters not
in themselves very "fat”; Mamie Watson
looks too good for words, and the house would
accept the expression of her face as a whole
sermon even though she never put its mean-
ing into words; Cutter has a personality
which somehow preserves his one and only
manner from wearisomeness ; Hodgson stands
for commonplaceness with a bite in it; apart
from her delightful dancing June Roberts is
developing an engaging manner; and in the
first act little Maudie Vera —whose stage
name gives no promise of humor—proves to
be full of pep in a quartet. The boys are
all mad about Nellie, the daughter of officer
Kelly, and the chorus girls wear so many
different frocks that the eye of the onlooker
gets fed up with fashions.
FORTY THIEVES Panto., at SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Ali Baba (Jack Cannot) asks the panto.
Dame (Bert Harrow ) the great riddle,
“What makes bananas bandy?”
At Melbourne Palace time is doing much
for “Mother Goose” in its ballet department:
the goods are still wanting in finish, but the
workers seem anxious to learn. In other re-
spects the panto, is doubtless well satisfied
with itself, owing to the roars of the multi-
tude, especially at matinees, where children
lead the tumult. Even the dismal glee .party
conducted by Oliver Peacock is received with
merriment, the stifled sobs of a depressed
minority passing unnoticed by the manage-
ment. Everything is so loudly welcomed
that a dissentient critic, hardly able to hear
himself think, goes away with the vague
impression that a panto, which pleases the
majority is filling a Christmas want. No
attempt is made to hold the story together.
Lapses into narrative happen between vaude-
ville turns, and after the Fairy Queen and
the Evil Spirit have sung a respectable duet,
with some refinement of vocalisation, one
must be prepared to face any incongruity.
For instance, the Royal Wonders, a mob of
juveniles garbed in staring green, perform
their prolonged gambols against a back-
ground of uncompromising blue. It is emi-
nently inartistic, but it wins hearty plaudits.
In this odd-shaped show Dorothy Brunton
and Chas. Heslop look rather out of place.
Dorothy, of course, is always likeable, and
she lias something of a part to spread her
lamp-shade skirts in, but Heslop’s business
looks foreign to the panto. His style is lean
and narrow for such surroundings. Even his
golf turn has few charms for non-golfers,
and his name—Fitzrabbit —is a terrible han-
dicap for a comedian who refrains from
facial make-up.
* * * S*
Melbourne Playhouse would hardly be
large enough for the purpose if the city were
as sincerely musical as the present per-
formance of “Hansel and Gretel” deserves to
have it. For that matter the little theatre
is too small for the orchestra, anyhow. Hum-
perdinck’s opera is beautifully orchestrated,
and conductor Kost can be forgiven for not
always keeping his capable band of brethren
(with a sister or two) down to the capacity
of the voices and the acoustics of the audi-
torium. William Reid, as father Peter, con-
tinues to be a baritone of great promise, all
things considered, and Roma Phillips, in
spite of a not impeccable intonation, gets
credit for being the most convincing Gretel
that Melbourne has seen in its scant experi-
ence of the opera. During last week Zoe
Allison played the girl part once or twice,
while Nancy Horne replaced Nellie Lafferty
as boy Hansel. Nancy was an almost ideal
Hansel, but the success of Zoe, who was
said to have a sore throat, stopped at a win-
some young face and figure and graceful
bearing. Her eyes were too much fixed on
the conductor, and her voice, though sweet,
was but fiddlestringy in quality as far as she
let it go. No soprano voice in the co. has
the fine “classy” quality of Constance Burt’s.
The song of the Sleep Fairy is no test of
range and strength, but what little there is
to do Constance Burt does charmingly. The
whole scene of the two children in the wood
before they strike the witch is as charming
as crude scenery will permit, and thereafter
the witch of Vera Bedford is a rather force-
ful person, with a nose of unmistakable
malignity. “The Barber of Seville” follows
“Hansel and Gretel” on Saturday.
“French Leave” is not at Melbourne
King’s for many weeks. Even if khaki were
in favor on the stage, the comedy which in-
troduces Emelie Polini with a red wig and
a flirtatious disposition has a too-thin story
and an uneven cast. Frank Harvey, as a
naturally uneasy victim of his young wife’s
escapade, takes his character seriously,
whereas Leslie Holland is a military general
of musical-comedy type, until he sobers down
in the last act; Edwin Brett’s corporal is un-
true to pattern, and Garry Marsh’s lieuten-
ant has a slouching deportment which can-
not be accepted as official. As for Emelie
Polini’s treatment of the giddy spouse who
means no harm, it is hardly more convinc-
ing than her red hair. She is always the
emotional actress playing at being frisky
and, though the cut of her frocks is becom-
ing, it is doubtful whether the contrast be-
tween her second frock and her one and only
head of hair is not too discordant. The
curtain-raiser, “A Night at an Inn,” would
be a powerfully effective contrast to the
trivial comedy if the author had restrained
his exuberant fancy for horrors. Up to the
point where the robbed idol from an Indian
temple walks in and recovers his abstracted
jewel from the corpse-laden apartment, the
tragedy is fairly strong. But when the voice
of the outraged image is heard calling the
robbers by name to come and be strangled on
the mat, the horror practically kills itself.
Hoyt’s New Year attraction in Melbourne
is “The Girl of the Golden West,” showing
Sylvia Bremer in the part of the heroine
which Tittell Brune played in Australia.
J. Warren Kerrigan is behind the artillery
of the bandit Ramerrez in the film, and he is
a more picturesque scoundrel than the late
Thomas Kingston, for whom the Brune lady
pretended to risk her young life. At Hoyt’s
Gaiety “Don Quickshot of the Rio Grande”
is explaining his name with the lead-pencil
hanging in his holster. He is the sort of
Western bravo who finds life like a Sunday-
school picnic when facing odds of less than
a hundred to one.
$
In search of a picture star: —
John Longstaff, who won the Vic. Gallery Travel-
ling Scholarship years ago with the well-known
“Breaking the News,” was one of the judges for the
big prize in Melbourne the other day, and, after con-
sideration with his fellow inspectors, Septimus Power
and Charles Wheeler, gave the verdict for Jean
Sutherland and her study of two elderly females
about to make a modest meal. Scholarship work is
limited to the depiction of homely suburban interiors,
and presumably Miss Sutherland caught the judge’s
eye for her undemonstrative handling of the fore-
ground lady holding a pie. In actual drawing and
painting, Miss Sutherland’s effort seems very little
ahead of the adjoining picture of grandma, a younger
woman and a small girl, grouped around a table
for morning tea, while another infant with red hair
plays on the floor. Perhaps the ruby hair disquali-
fied this subject, but the unnamed artist has made
a pretty good job of arranging the cast to catch
the light from an open window.
“ROCKETS,” AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Comedian Charles Austin as a Russian
sentry; Lorna Pounds as Emma in “A
Day's Outing.”
Even the daintiest and most tuneful
shows must come to an end, and “A South-
ern Maid,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is
entering on her last nights. A revival of
“The Merry Widow” by the J. C. William-
son Royal Comic Opera Co. follows.
Irene Vanbrugh and Dion Boucicault are
keeping Sydney Cri. audiences gripped, and
thrilled with “His House in Order. Pinero
at his best, presented by artists of such
unquestioned proficiency as this notable pair,
is worth going a long way to see.
At Sydney Grand Opera House “Rockets”
may be seen and heard going off with glitter-
ing ficlat twice a day. It’s an entertainment
“MOTHER GOOSE,” AT MELBOURNE
PALACE.
Mother Goose (Joe Brennan) and Squire
Hard flint (Oliver Peacock) get a 'Wire-
less message from Stan Bruce.
packed with riotous fun, clever comedy and
enrapturing spectacles, wherein Lorna and
Toots Pounds, Charles Austin and a num-
ber of other clever entertainers are shown
at their unbeatable best.
** * *
At Sydney Royal “The Spanish Main”
continues to exhibit buccaneering exploit and
rollicking adventure in heaped-up quantities,
and to shed fresh light on the extraordinary
versatility of Oscar Asche. Strong man from
Bagdad, Portuguese-Jewisli millionaire, Shak-
spearean Moor, Hibernian treasure-seeker—
all parts come alike to Oscar. It’s a satis-
fying piece, “The Spanish Main,” stirring
with the clash of cutlasses, mellow with wine
and melodious with yo-ho-lio, gorgeous with
romantic scenery and rich with the clink
of pieces-of-eight. Incidentally, The Bul-
letin withdraws all it said last week about
Jessie Page’s good work as Zarpa, and credits
it now to Beaumont Collins.
* * * sis
“The Forty Thieves” continue to make
Sydney Hippodrome a whirl of color and
melody. It’s glad, robust pantomime, with
a dainty boy in Kitty Reidy and a hilarious
dame in Bert Harrow.
tjc Jj: &
The holiday bill at Sydney Tivoli is a sore
temptation to those who liave ; made New
Year resolutions to see vaudeville no more.
Robert Wilton opens up a new seam of whim-
sical drollery in “The Outcast,” and Florence
Yaymen, showing increased confidence, scores
with a series of clever impersonations. Alec
Daimler and Dora Eadie, a bright pair of
newcomers, add to the spice of life with their
melody and nimbleness. Behind a creeping
barrage of vivid color and loud music Long
Tack Sam moves relentlessly towards his
objective, and whatever may be the merits
of heavyweight June Mills, she is a game
one to tackle the job she does.
$ »i' V
While Aarons’s orchestra beats out “Home
Sweet Home,” the Sydney Lyceum's screen
features “The Girl Who Came Back.’ In®
prodigal sweet thing in the case got away in
a gingham gown, plunked into gaol and then
climbed out high and dry among the upp er
Three Hundred and Ninety-nine. ‘I he
Ragged Edge,” the Lyceum’s extra, is an
argument against turning the other cheek.
The Crystal Palace will have cause to re-
member “old Puzzlehead Marko,” of H
Winter Comes”; for Marko’s crowd-draw-
ing capacity has got everything else licked—
even if outraged critics do curse some of the
sub-title atrocities. “A Sailor Tramp, a-'i
English film at the Strand, is good old
bathos, and “Love, Hate and a Woman is
just as it should be. “The Woman with
Four Faces,” at the Globe, is crook drama—
so crook that Laszlo Schwartz, who directs
the music and endeavors to raise the audi-
ence to Higher Things, finds himself hard up
against it. Hoyt’s introduce an eaves-
dropping telephone girl who worms herselt
into giddy life, and finds herself charged
with sneaking a necklace and someone elses
husband.
ALADDIN.
When first I saw Aladdin,
Not then what 1 am now,
Life’s sunshine warmed my bosom
And candor decked my brow;
True gaiety of heart was mine,
For life appeared a boon —
0 harlequin and columbine!
0 clown and pantaloon!
When first I saw Aladdin
Illusions I was glad in,
And keen delight I had in
Both clown and pantaloon.
When last I saw Aladdin
I sighed the curtain down:
No harlequin and columbine,
No pantaloon and clown;
No sausages or poker hot,
No transformation scene —
Alas! the pantomime was not
The joy it once had been!
Observing good and bad in,
This up-to-date Aladdin,
Reflections I was sad in—
Heigho for what has been
Old memories I treasure
Of Christmas long ago,
When pantomimes brought pleasure
That never men may know ;
As then the happy kiddies squeal
Their shrilly cries of glee,
And in my inmost soul I feel
Their gladness mocking me.
When first I saw Aladdin
(Smart sailor-suiting clad in)
Enjoyment I beat dad in,
And now the kids beat me.
VICTORIA.
E.F.


30,000 inspections
on every Studebaker Car!
Each Studebaker motor car
undergoes a total of thirty
thousand inspections before
being passed for delivery. In-
spections commence with the
raw materials and follow
through with every operation
contributing to the completion
of the car.
The painstaking care employed
in their manufacture is respon-
sible for the long, dependable
life and low maintenance cost
of Studebaker cars.
For 72 years the highest stand-
ards of quality have been rigid ly
maintained in Studebaker prod-
ucts. Backed by this time-
honoured reputation, you can
feel certain that your purchase
of a Studebaker motor car will
be a safe and sound investment.
uoir-^
v.
gg
This man is one of the hun-
dreds of inspectors employed
in Studebaker factories. He is
testing Studebaker pistons
which must be accurate to
one-thousandth of an inch I
(Below)
Studebaker chemical labora-
tories where all raw materials
are tested.
(Above)
Pairing gears
to ensure silent
running
i
a
I fi I
AUSTRALIAN PRICES
Light Six, Australian Body £4 ps
„ „ Imported „ £4<d
» ~ Roadster, Imported Body ~ £470
» » Coupe, „ „ £585
» „ Sedan, „ „ £695
Special Six. Australian Body, 7 pass. ..
„ ~ Imported Body, 5 pass.
• „ „ ~ 7 pass.
„ „ ~ Roadster ..
~ „ „ „ Sedan
£575
£59‘5
£615
£570
£895
Big Six Touring. Imported Body. 7
W » Speedster, Imported Body
» „ Sedan,, Imported Body
seater £(595
.. £735
.. £1065
New South Wales
Cayce-Paul Motors, Ltd*
177 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Victoria
Turner Brothers
396-400 Swanston St., MELBOURNE
Queensland
Canada Cycle &. Motor Agency
Creek and Adelaide Streets,JBRISBANE
South Australia
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd,
ADELAIDE
Western Australia
Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agcy.
Hay Street, PERTH
New Zealand
Adams, Limited
£52-154 High St., CHRISTCHURCH
Tasmania
Corrick’s Central Garage
80 A Brisbane Street, LAUNCESTON
m
Studebaker Light-Six 5-Seater Touring Car:
THIS is
S T U
/
Australian Body, £455; Imported Body, £475.
debaker year


WHEN A MAN
PACKS-
THE FIRST THING
HE MAKES
SURE OF IS
ms-
t&
1
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
Aiv Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubn-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 60,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
6ft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen's Bridge. Melbourne, Australia.
1
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane,
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
Poverty
Point
L.T. PIVER. PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de luxe
ECONOMY.
CAMERA ENTUSIAST: “My, I really must
learn to sketch! You’ve no idea what
it costs me for films.”
“Macquarie Street”: Touching the
“Thersites”-Oscar Asche controversy, I sug-
gest that Shakspeare is apt to be a bit slip-
shod in his descriptions of violent deaths,
especially those due to ha'morrhage. Othello,
after mortally wounding himself by falling
upon a sword, manages to utter the follow-
ing perfect lines :
I kissed thee ere I killed thee: No way but this,
Killing myself to die upon a kiss.
Mercutio makes the rather long speech about
“A plague o’ both your houses” before ex-
piring. But in his case, as in Othello’s, each
having been the victim of a sword wound
ending rapidly in death, connected and
rational speech, would be an impossibility.
Virgil was the better physiologist in his
management of fatal haemorrhage. There are
no scientific shortcomings in the Roman’s de-
scription of the death of Dido :
Thrice she struggled to lift herself upon her
elbow; thrice she rolled back upon the couch and
with wandering . eyes sought the light of high
Heaven, and having found it, moaned.
But she doesn’t utter a syllable.
“S’Blood” : That “the public will swallow
dam’ well anything” is one of the truisms of
advertising, but the people behind the Melba
Opera Co. are putting an undue strain on
the herd when they ask the faithful creatures
to believe that “our organisation is prepared to
lose £25,0t)0 in the interests of musical art.’’
To begin with, this is largely Melba’s show,
and, if the diva has one passion more in-
tensely developed than patriotism and a dis-
like of fleas, it is a determination not to
drop money. She has never done it yet,
and she is not likely to begin now. In the
second place the opera co. could hardly lose
money —in fact, could hardly avoid a profit—
if it tried. Italian opera all over the world
is attracting and has always attracted just
the class which has appeared in its thousands
in the big Australian cities since the war —
people who are after Culture without tears
and don’t care what they pay for it. The
engagement of Italian choristers is as good a
proof as could be provided of the fact that the
tour is to be conducted on rigid business
lines. In Italy these artists would jump at
15s. per week of real money, and a modest
daily ration of garlic and spaghetti. In con-
sideration of the trip to Australia, and the
certainty of continued employment, they may
agree to less. Their voices are no better
than those of our own men, and their tech-
nique is certainly not superior to that of a
Con.-trained singer, if it is as good. Only
in that intangible interest which attaches to
foreigners in opera have they an advantage,
and Melba is a shining proof that this
quality is not an essential one.
“H.M.”: One Australian brass band drops
into a job in connection with the Empire
Exhibition —the one from Newcastle Steel
Works. It is said to be the only band out-
side Britain which has yet been chartered to
supply harmonious noise at the Wembley
show.' The conductor is A. H. Baile, who
will take 32 people away with him. Efforts
are being made to raise £5OOO to send another
Australian band, a composite affair, and,
incidentally, to meet Britain’s best. It it
strikes Cornwall, where band music is a
religion, it may have a lively time. I red
Haines, now in charge of the Sydney Police
Band, once adjudicated at a contest in a
Cornish mining village, and,, having been
indiscreet enough to decide against the locals,
had to be smuggled out.
“Thersites”: What’s the stage coming to?
Reviewing Asche’s “The Spanish Main at
Sydney Royal, the S. M. Herald said: —
Upon Mr. Anew McMaster, as Pedro Malorix, fell
much 'of the evening’s labor, and if occasionally ne
forgot his lines he had every excuse for doing so.
The play has been rehearsed for only ten days.
Rignold, Williamson, Dampier, Holloway
and scores of departed managers, including
Dan Barry and many other bushwhackers,
must be grinning at this apology if the
Herald is in the smoke-room over there.
Why, in Sydney to-day there is an all-tlie-
year-round bellow co. ladling out a fresh-
off-the-ice five-acter every Saturday, and not
losing sleep over it. I myself played leads
in drama —“Camille,” “Robbery Under
Arms” and such —for about six months on
end. and changed the bill twice a week, and
I still had time to write a Point par. now
and then. Consider Dampier’s bill for a
week in Charters Towers (Q.), with a newly-
formed co., in June, ’96 —“Hamlet, Green
Lanes of England,” “East Lynne,” “A Trans-
vaal Heroine,” “Robbery Under Arms A
Royal Pardon.” And how about Ticket-ot-
Leave Man” with a scratch crowd, no script
or parts, and one rehearsal? I saw the
late Wilson Forbes put that joke up, and
a dashed good show it was. Anyho>v, the
Herald man couldn’t have detected any
fumbling for lines.
“Mancam”: “O.lv.’s” mention of J. C.
Williamson losing £2OOO to card-sliarpers
(B. 20/12/’23) recalls that the late W. I.
Hawtrey was a welcome mark for the pro-
fessional card-player w T hen in these parts.
He would cheerfully sit up all night to lose
at poker all he’d won from “A Message from
Mars” earlier in the evening. Indeed, his
love of play was so notorious that a gang
of three or four crooks accompanied Haw-
trey’s co. from town to town in Maoriland,
just to have a friendly game with the old
man after the sliow r . On the other hand,
some prominent members of a well-known
touring co. were such consistent winners at
poker that the professional sharpers used
to sit back respectfully when a game was
started at a hotel. These mummers were
warned by one Union Co. skipper to keep
away from the smoking-saloon while on his
boat, and to restrict their parlor games to
dominoes.
“Jacky Roo” : Nigel Playfair must have
made a fortune out of “The Beggar’s Opera,”
which has just been withdrawal after 1463
performances at the Lyric, Hammersmith.
During the “Opera’s” record run more than
a million people lined up at the box-office.
In my judgment, it owed its success to
world-wide publicity rather than to intrinsic
merit. The “Opera” became one of the
recognised “sights” of London; tourists
visited it in the spirit which carried them to
Westminster Abbey. Pew Australian trip-
pers to London since 1920 failed to make the
tube journey to ’Ammersmith to see the show
that everyone had seen. Australia didn t
take to “The Beggar's Opera,” but it was
the luckiest thing ever staged in Britain.
“Wodgil”: The vurry latest moving-pic-
ture gent, from the Republic over the water,
where Australians who “exceed the quota
(219 p.a.) are gaoled and then deported,
has a title which intrigues me. He is an
“exploitation manager,” no less. Consider-
ing that the Adolph Zukors, Carl Laemles
and Myron Selznicks of his nation are per-
mitted by our politicians to exploit tins
Commonwealth to the extent of ±,(50,090 a
year, in return for which our children get
a liberal education in bad manners, worse
English and the ways of criminals and
cocottes, the description is superbly appro-
priate. If the tariff were honestly protec-
tive we should have Australians producing
pictures and fostering Australian sentiment
and employing Australian actors and work-
men. But the tariff is a pitiful fraud, so
enter the “exploitation manager.” Per-
haps we deserve it.
“D.” : Manly has the only band in Aus-
tralia that is too popular. Most open-air
bands do badly: the Melbourne one, for ex-
ample, that plays alternately in the Fitzroy
and Alexandra Gardens is thinking of sui-
cide, such has been the indifference of the
HER OPPORTUNITY.
THE ACTRESS : “Does my part in the new play give me a chance
to please the audience?”
THE AUTHOR'S WIFE: “A splendid one! You have a beautiful
death in the first act.”
public. But the Manly band has been so
well patronised this year that local traders
have come to look on it as a vampire, suck-
ing away those who might otherwise wander
past their shops and maybe enter and pur-
chase, and they have begun an agitation to
get the music-makers silenced. Naturally
they have turned to the local councillors;
and it is characteristic of the thing we call
democratic government in Australia that
they have been encouragingly received. The
shopkeepers represent a small but resolute
organisation, and that kind of body usually
scores in opposition to the inarticulate mass
which only realises that a stroke has heen
put across it some time after the blow has
fallen.
“Shirk”: When the people behind the
Sydney Hippodrome panto, decided to incor-
porate a turn featuring “Ginger” Meggs
(one of Bancks’s Sun supplement creations)
they could hardly have anticipated the re-
sults. The Sunday News, which is the
Sun’s chief Sabbath rival, gave the big show
five lines of small print at the bottom of a
column. Several of the other papers were
almost as reticent, and one ignored the
panto, altogether. Only that honest old
dreadnought, the S. M. Herald, proceeded
on its usual balanced course, but even it re-
frained from mentioning the portrayer of
Meggs, or the clever little girl who plays his
sweetheart, Min. The Sun made up for
much by giving the pair more space than
it accords normally to world-famous stars,
but as Jack Cannot and the other genuine
draws were merely dragged in as after-
thoughts, it may be doubted if the manage-
ment felt greatly pleased.
- “Abbot Park”: “F.A.” (B. 20/12/’23)
errs in giving July, 1859, as the date of the
first Sydney production of “The Messiah.”
There was a production in March of the
same year (Cordnar conducted and Packer
was the organist), and I would not wager
there weren’t earlier performances. Nor
may Lavenu be classed as a Melbourne con-
ductor, for from the time of his arrival in
Australia he lived mainly in Sydney.
Apropos, the Melbourne Philharmonic has
just finished off its 70t.1i annual performance
of Handel’s work. George Peake has waved
the baton on 26 of these occasions, and
Alberto Zelman, the present director, on 25.
Strangely enough, Melba has never sung
with this society, which is part of the musi-
cal history of her native place; but the Syd-
ney Phil, engaged her for “The Messiah in
1885. G. Marr Thompson, then on the
Telegraph, wrote that “in spite of her
voutliful ignorance in regard to the recita-
tives her rendering as a whole was the best
heard here for many years.
“Osar’s Ghost". A
Insersoll’s in M.L. (B. Ai/i-A/fo) was
Lelder Williams. Williams’s talent for pamt-
ine stage scenery almost amounted to genius,
but he had no head for busings. On one
occasion his picture of an explosion and a
fire in a coalmine so impressed an Auckland
audience that the curtain had to be raised a
dozen times before the app * aas «
That was the time when Geoi„e Majtiom,
who played lead, took six calls before he
lieard P a voice from the gods telling him to
“Get off, you fool; we want the artist.
Tn “The Term of His Natural Bifc
Hams exhibited a ship in full sail, which
i ia tn,. vt-ia'c sea —an impressive lllu-
Mon ma?e bTthr ship built
iii three parts. But here the artist, unchecked
bv people who should have known better
Xan-elv astray: his sailing vessel of
the convict "era was lit up from stem to stern
with electric light!
“Wilfrido”: Away with these property-
men who moralise on the decline, of the
perfeshun because real
served in “A Southern Maid (B -'l/11/ —| ) •
What satisfaction is there m seeing Petruclno
taunt Kate with an
untempting array of
empty dishes? Who is
convinced when Tony
Lumpkin endeavors to
become boisterous by
the mere waving of
empty wine-goblets ?
Marie Tempest did
not lead me to believe
that she was enjoying
the alleged delicious
repast in “The Mar-
riage of Kitty” when
she swallowed portion
of an arrowroot bis-
cuit ; nor was Mark
Sabre any less impos-
sible than usual when
he ordered a massive
meal on his return
from the Front, and
glutted his astonishing-
appetite with two
snippets of cold toast.
When Conan Doyle
dished up “A Pot of
Caviare” a firm of
caterers, unfamiliar
with the story of the
play, offered to pro-
vide the real commo-
dity so long as their
name was mentioned in the programme. The
supply was stopped after one night, for the
pldt dealt with poisoned caviare and the
stage became strewn with corpses. The
caterers decided that the advt. wasn’t good
enough.
“Jeldi Jou”: Victor Priuce, who did an
Asian season with the Firm’s Gilbert and
Sullivan co., is going back with a company
of his own. The tour will begin at Colombo
in a couple of months. Victor was Lockit in
the Sydney production of “The Beggar’s
Opera”—a very unpopular show with the per-
formers, and it hasn’t been a box-office favor-
ite either.
“D.W.”: Megg'ie Albanesi’s death, at 24,
is a loss to the English stage, for she had
achieved great things in spite of her youth,
and greater were to be expected. Meggie
had that gift of interpretation which is also
creative. Sybil Thorndyke is the most inter-
esting of contemporary English actresses,
but from Sybil radiates the white light of a
brilliant intellect; from Miss Albanesi came
the warm color of a richly-endowed emo-
tional temperament. Admirable as was her
Sydney Fairfield in “A Bill of Divorce-
ment,” her finest piece of work was as the
unpleasant daughter-in-law in Galsworthy’s
“Skin Game.”
“Orlando” : Of Frank Morton’s acid criti-
cisms the best-remembered in one part of
Maoriland followed an outbreak of com-
petitions, when his soul wearied of the pro-
cession of young Casabiancas and Melbas.
Near the end of the disturbance there came
forward a heavyweight female of large social
tonnage who entertained a delusion, en-
couraged by numerous expensive acquain-
tances, that she could sing. It was her mis-
fortune to arrive when the critic’s nerves
were frayed to snapping point, so perhaps
she got off lightly with the comment that she
recalled a camel toying with a tulip. But
she was of such lustre that the paper which
printed the gibe published a fulsome apology
in its next issue, while an enraged husband
bought a horsewhip and scoured the town
in quest of the unrepentant scribbler.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : There is a whimsical
yarn of VV. S. Gilbert in the “Life” just
published. While appearing in one of his
pieces Mrs. Kendal was amazed to see a
trapdoor open and disclose the playwright,
who straightway insinuated himself into the
performance. He had quarrelled with an
actor and knocked him out; and with the
resourcefulness of genius he clambered into
the unconscious one’s costume and played the
part until the final curtain, without the audi-
ence giving any sign that it noticed a change.
A RHYME OF VANISHED STINGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ha’ Merry-Christmassed in cont’nents three
With the usual scraii and “sozz” ;
Through a hectic half of a eentury
My mind goes back to the Yuletide glee
©f the sort described by Boz,
w, o the wassail-bowl and the lanterned tree,
And little enough is the change I see.
One problem only vexes me:
Is beer as good as it was ?
In turkey or sirloin, fowl or game,
Or shows in the Christmas shops,
In sentiments that we all proclaim,
In platitudes that the preachers frame,
In Santa Claus and his “props”
Scant change I note. The duff aflame
Comes in as witching as e’er it came.
I would to God I could say the same
Concerning the malt and hops!
The negus I sipped when I was a kid,
The punch we drank by the pail,
Where apples and spice and nutmeg hid
(The noise of the trolling waits amid),
Their fragrance still exhale
For all I know—though Heav’n forbid
I should hanker still for that sort of tid—
But what doesn’t taste as good as it did
Alas! is the nut-brown ale.
I ha’ done my best with the Christmastide
And its wets, of that I’m pos. ;
Where the world is narrow or where it’s wide
Few are the snifters at which I’ve shied
(I ha’ quaffed Cape Smoke because
There was nothing else with a kick inside),
And seldom over the past I’ve sighed;
But of this sad fact I’m satisfied:
Though I take the beer that the gods provide,
It isn’t the beer it was.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Sunshine Reaper and Binder.
6ft. and Bft.
Manufactured in Australia
for Australian conditions.
j&fe
Site
I -
HUGH VM C KAV
gj;m
BMI
»5> .
f .
iJ#W£
fHI
|jp|||
■
: .... ■ I 1 .■ ■£"' .
firfM
- : •-r. a *..._« rf/S
V :
.'■ |W ..;.
" 1 *j
;
M |
H
•, r :>m -.1
■ v .. -: ; ’ *-j
;-,v.'T'. ■ '. ;*n ■;s
l»Li.vAi‘. ■ ££&}!?%£
v®?B*‘ jfNfcfsrJ&^ A^Ssfr
H 1
Hundreds of these machines are in use throughout the Commonwealth, and have demonstrated that Australian-made
Binders, as well as other Australian-made Implements, are the best for Australian conditions.
Write to any of the following addresses for art catalogues and prices of Sunshine Binders, Harvesters, Headers, Seeding Machinery,
Tillage Implements, Orchard Implements, etc. Easy extended terms or liberal discount for cash.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD. , Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
607 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches and Agencies.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cor. York and St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON.
Ruwolt Road-making Equipments
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
************ v I
m
•_rt :
US
«u-
-jCl*-C l *-
*
Jfr»oLt\tT . r
• v«gg*
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus Marsh
Road—Capacity 90 tons per day.
Some users of our Crushers and Plants:—Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (South Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; J. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St. Albans Quarrying Co. (4); E. J.
Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool.
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS—SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO:-
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161. TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


Skins, Wool
Consignments to us will return you
EXPORT PRICES
on Wool, Fox, Rabbit, Marsupial, Sheepskins.
Cash Buyers of Fat Stock.
No commission. Prompt returns.
L. A. SCANDRETT Ltd.
65 Macquarie Street, Sydney; and at London
and New York.
KITZ’S Cider
Dr. D. T. FERNIE, London, states :
“Cider is not only the most wholesome
and hygienic of all drinks, but is a pre-
ventive against and a remedy for Stone,
Gravel, Gout, Obesity and Fermentative
Indigestion."
RETAIL ALL HOTELS AND
STORES.
Head Office: Melbourne.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.
Tucker & Co.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd.,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Burns, Philp & Co., Bris-
bane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide Wine and Spirit
Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Richard Holmes & Co..
Ltd.. Perth.
The Satin Smoothness of.
Taimdrena
WJ7,
enhances summery smartness, and its discreet use speeds the iron
amazingly over a difficult surface.
Sold Everywhere.
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO. LTD
SYDNEY
PAIGE-JEWETT 1
Solves a motor car need
ARE you contemplating own
* ing a motor car? Are you
in a quandary as to which car to
purchase? Are you undecided as
to a four cylinder or a six cylin-
der? Are you the careful, thrifty
purchaser who wants to pay just
as much and no more than is
necessary to secure a motor car
of beauty? Finish is special
moleskin gray.
We firmly believe that if you
will investigate the Paige-Jewett
and arrange for a trial run, you
will be satisfied that all you de-
mand of a motor car is incorpo-
rated in a Paige-Jewett. Built to
meet every necessary require-
ment and emergency —yet not
built to meet a price*
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PMG64EWETT
An Air of Distinction
(By “Phlox”)
sods, she’s handsome! What a.
stunner!”
These were among the explana-
tions uttered by the staff of Goodby and
Sons when Mabel Mackay, the new clerk,
made her first appearance in the office. All
eyes were riveted on her. And when Miss
Maekay took her seat at the desk lately
vacated by Miss Johnson, who had left to
get married, more than one of the staff specu-
lated as to how long it would be before Miss
Mackay vacated it for the altar.
As is usual in firms where there is a large
staff of women, some of the giris generously
admired Miss Mackay; others envied her.
But there were others who could not quite
make up their minds about her. She cer-
tainly was attractive, they argued, and on
the whole distinctive-looking. But, as
Myra Black remarked, she hadn’t a feature
to her face. Her complexion was good, and
her hair always well groomed; otherwise
she had no beauty to boast about. Before
long, however, even the girls who criticised
her began to admire and to like her. There
was something irresistible about her. Mr.
Clarence Goodby, a son of the firm, evidently
thought so. From the first he was attracted
by her, but whether he liked her as a friend
or something more the staff was unable to
say.
Mr. Clarence, as he was known to them,
was one of those gentle, kindly young men
whose sole wish seemed to be to give plea-
sure to others. Mabel was, of course, flat-
tered by and enjoyed his attentions. She
was not a girl who made many friends, and
in her lonely bed-sittingroom at the board-
ing-house she loved to dwell on what the
good-looking son of the firm had said to her
at the firm’s concert the other evening, or
at the dance the girls had organised for the
Girls’ Realm Guild Fund. She knew that he
admired her, but no word of love had been
spoken between them. She must look her
best at the firm’s annual dance, now only
three weeks off.
* * * *
Goodby and Sons’ dance was always one
of the smartest of the season. Not only the
employees but the principals and their wives
and friends attended. Among others Mabel
was introduced to a Miss Jac'kson, the
daughter of a university professor, and was
chatting with her when Mr. Clarence Good-
by came to claim her for a dance. Mabel
hadn’t a partner for that dance, and as her
eyes followed the pair she thought how well
they looked together. What beautiful fea-
tures and pretty eyes Miss Jackson had. A
tinge of jealousy crossed her mind, but she
quickly checked it. Mabel had the next
dance with Mr. Clarence, and thoroughly
enjoyed it.
Later in the evening Mabel found herself
again beside Miss Jackson. “Don’t you
think Mr. Clarence Goodby is handsome?”
she asked Mabel.
“Yes, and good, too,” replied Mabel.
“We're engaged, you know.”
“I hadn’t known ; but I must congratulate
you.”
“Oh, we’re not formally engaged, though
he really proposed to me when I was 15
and he 18. But there’s nothing of the lover
about him, and he’s dreadfully shy. Mother
always says that when he does marry he
will do the deed suddenly and quietly.”
“May I take you in to supper, Miss
Mackay?” asked Mr. Clarence, bowing low.
Mabel took the proffered arm. Mary
Jackson looked astonished, and watched the
pair out of sight, when she was claimed
by Professor Doyle’s son.
After supper Clarence asked Mabel to
walk with him in the palm court, and later
when they rejoined the others, Mabel’s face
was rosy red. At the conclusion of the bail
Mr. John Goodby, the head of the firm, an-
nounced his son’s engagement to Miss Mac-
kay, and also intimated that the marriage
would take place shortly.
• * * •
To the first “at home” that Mabel gave
as wife of Clarence Goodby, she invited all
the girls of the firm, who heartily congratu-
lated her on her good fortune in having such
a beautiful home. They wandered about
admiring this and that. And, of course, they
wanted to see all her pretty frocks.
“What a sweet dressing-table set!” re-
marked Molly Wardlaw.
“I designed and made it myself,” said
Mabel.
“How nice this cream smells. What is it?”
“Oh, that’s Mercolized Wax—a really
lovely face-cream.”
“Ah-ha, is that what makes your com
plexion so good?”
“It must be, because I’ve never used any
other cream. I would advise you to use it,
too.”
“I will.” “And I.” “And I,” echoed the
others.
“What s your powder .
“Barri-agar—just as good as the cream.”
“And what’s in this tin so cunningly en-
closed in a pretty little receptacle?”
“That’s Stallax —an excellent shampoo for
the hair. I never use anything else. And
if you’ll take a married woman’s advice,
girls, you’ll use these preparations, too, for
a good complexion and good hair give one
an air of distinction.” —Advt. [3


Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Tjnder the management of P. Hennessy.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Potted Fish Cremes
Packed in hermetically-sealed
FANCY VASES.
ELEVEN VARIETIES.
The fine, delicate flavor of each
variety is unsurpassed—they make
the most delicious sandwiches and are
invaluable for Luncheons, Picnics,
At-Homes and Card Parties.
Lobster.
Anchovy & Salmon.
Bloater.
Salmon & Shrimp.
Anchovy.
Salmon & Tomato.
Salmon.
Crab & Lobster.
Shrimp.
Prawn.
ST. IVEL FISH CREMES
are made only at
YEOVIL—SOMERSET—
ENGLAND.
Obtainable from Principal Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—
I.YALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
ADELAIDE: Arthur Glover.
MELBOURNE: Baldwin & Slattery
Pt.v., Ltd.
PERTH: L. M. Cullen & Co.
SYDNEY: Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Amusement*.
g YD N K Y’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A SOUTHERN MAID.
CRITERION:
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
ROYAL : THE SPANISH MAIN.
o KAJ<I) OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty.. Ltd
EVERY EVENING AT 8. MATINEES DAILY
HUGH J. WARD Presents LORNA and TOOT?
POUNDS and CHARLES AUSTIN, together witl
complete New Company, in
ROCKETS.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNI
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
ALADDIN.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SALLY.
I ING’S THEATRE, MELBQDRN E.
EMELIE POLINI in
___ FRENCH LEAVE.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY OF RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen’s.
pALACE TIIEAT It E, MELBOURNI
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MOTHER GOOSE,
GRAND SPECTACULAR FAIRY PANTOMIMu.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT'S TIIEAIR.'.a,
Almo SYDNEY.
SYLVIA BREMER in
THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST
DINKY DEAN in
A PRINCE OF A KING.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
|y| A.ircst IC Til IS AT It IS, M EI.HOH It IS IS
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
PIONEER TRAILS.
A MASTER PICTURE PRODUCTION.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THIS ALLAN WILKIE SIIA K S PEA It IS A N
1 PRODUCTIONS.
TASMANIAN TOUR:
THEATRE ROYAL, HOBART.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. D e Batyn.
Legal Notice.
TN THE ESTATF rvir j.rvnrw nw ARLES HENRY
HORROCKS, DECEASED.
PURSUANT to a direction made by me the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia in
the matter of the estate of JOHN CHARLES HENRY
HORROCKS late of Clare in the State of South
Australia Laborer deceased NOTICE is hereby given
that AMY HORROCKS nee AMY JESSET widow of
the said deceased and others having claims as next
of kin of the said deceased who died at Clare afore-
said on the 25th day of February 1923 intestate
and whose estate is being administered by the Public
Trustee of the State of Sputh Australia under an
order of this Court dated the 25th day of February
1923 ARE HEREBY REQUIRED to send particulars
in writing of their claims or demands to the under-
mentioned solicitors for the Public Trustee on or
before the Ist day of April 1924 after which date
the Public Trustee will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased among the next of kin
notices of whose claim he shall then have had and
the Public Trustee will not be liable for the assets
of the said deceased or any part thereof so distributed
to any of the next of kin notice of whose claim
he shall not then have had.
BADGER & HICKS of Mutual Life Chambers Gren-
fell Street Adelaide Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
Missing Friends.
GUS 3010.
Write to Dad. Anxious.
[ THOMAS DAVIDSON and EDWARD DAVII)-
I _ S u’ br . others Uie late WILLIAM DAVID-
?noo at Bell ingen on the 2nd January,
1922, are requested to communicate with T. W.
GARRETT, Public Trustee, Sydney.
ANYONE having information as to the
present whereabouts of the place and
-v*te ol death of iIENRY JOHN PHIE-
JPS, also known as JAMES (JIM)
BROWN, late of Campbell Town, Tasmania,
who at one time was at Blackstone Hill and
Naseby, New Zealand, and who is believed
to have died in Queensland, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned.
GEORGE HENRY ELLIFFE,
District Public Trustee,
Dunedin.
For the Aged.
Wherever there is a case of enfeebled digestion, whether
caused by advancing years, or by illness or general debility
Benger’s Food will be found soothing and satisfying.
rfenger’s Food contains in a most easily digested form—
almost ready for absorption—all the essential food elements to
sustain life in health and strength.
Food
hel P s L the aged because it contains the natural digestive principles,
and these do the work which the enfeebled stomach finds difficult.
Benger s Food is prepared with fresh new milk. Doctors
approve its composition and prescribe it freely.
The British Medical Journal ” says Bender’s Food by its excellenca
has obtained a reputation of its own.”
Benners Food is sold in Tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
B^? ER ’ S E £ oD ’ LTD -’ 117 « PIT T STREET, SYDNEY.
Soh Proprietors and Manufacturers: BF.NGER’S FOOD LTD., Manchester, England.
NOT
for a.
4 r*
BUT IN 210 PRIZES
ENLIST NOW! in our Limbless and Maimed Soldiers’
“ Great Austral.” AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST ART UNION
lBt Studebaker Car *1250 sth Diamond Necklet £ioo
2nd Australian Six £6OO 6th Linen Chest £lOO
s * andard Dod 9 e £4OO 7th Household Furniture" £lOO
4th Foster Player £252 203 other*! from ok
COMMITTEE:—Sir Joseph Carruthers, K.C.M.G.; Sir Hugh Denison,* CB S E • Sir
«i r Alexander MacCormlck, Sir Arthur Rickard, His Honor Judge
Backhouse, Mr. J. T. Easterbrook, C.B.E. (and others) • a
Tickets One Shilling each Dlr6ot from s<:crctary ,
C. DRYSDALE, BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Postage Free on Two or More Tickets. Agents Everywhere
Andrade’s Entertainment House.
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY <° t^on)>
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, I/O.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, l/_. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
wins. BEARDS, MASKS, kc.
CATALOGUES FREE.
1
m*
T)
V V
* HI *
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents—April
Fools; Who Is Who;
Tei on Parle Frangais;
Who's to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
Public Notice.
Returns op insurance premiums re-
quired FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and
the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
ALL Insurance Companies as defined by the above
Acts are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of New
South Wales returns showing the total amount of
the premiums received by or due to such companies
in respect of risks against fire during the year end-
ing 31st December, 1923, within the Sydney Fire
District and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909 and the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910
apply; less any part of such premiums actually
paid by way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said Acts.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns is
on or before the 31st January, 1924 ; subject to a
penalty not exceeding Five Pounds for every day
of default.
Forms upon which to make the required returns
may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
■RETURNS OF INSURANCE PREMIUMS RE-
QUIRED FROM PERSONS, ETC., INSURING
WITH ANY INSURANCE COMPANY NOT REGIS-
TERED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and
the Fire Brigades Amendment Act 1910.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods or
property within the Sydney Fire District, and everv
other Fire District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the Fire
Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been applied,
in respect of which premiums are paid to an insur-
ance company not registered in tha State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property to such insurance
companies during the year 1923!
The time appointed for receipt of the returns is
on or before the 31st January, 1924; subject to a
penalty not exceeding One Pound for every dav
of default.
NOTE. —Returns are required only of the propor-
tion of the premiums properly chargeable in respect
of the Fire Risk during the time such property was
in any Fire District under the said Acts.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
* e " d you our catalogue, fully describing our
?£ TEN J CUSHION APPLIANCE.
this appliance does away with all cumbeisome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
hrst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
hrmly and comlortabiy under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it i» not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and tha price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
9 7 Queen Street. Melbourne
Wentworth Falls Hotel,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Overlooking the finest view on the
Blue Mountains, 3000 feet above sea
level.
Every possible modern convenience,
also Tennis Court and Garages.
Golf Links —Special Cars, 2/- return.
Milk, Eggs, Poultry and Vegetables
from Own Farm.
Tariff, apply Manager.
’Phone: W. Falls 2; Kat. 7.
N.S.W.
FIRE BRIGADES’
HOSPITAL
ART UNION
PRIZES £3OOO PRIZES
Proceeds in aid of the Public Hospitals
of N.S.W. Tickets. 1/- each, can be
obtained from all Fire Stations and
Hospitals, or from Hon. Secretary.
FIRST PRIZE — -WOLSELEY BE
JLUXE Motor Car. . £llOO value
SECOND PRIZE— SIX-CYLINDER
STUDEBAKER Motor Car—
£47s value
THIRD PRIZE—IO-h.p. Twin-
cylinder HARLEY-DAVIDSON
Motor Cycle and Side Car—
£l9o value
FOURTH PRIZE—BEALE PIANO
and STOOL £l3O value
And 114 other valuable prizes, rang-
ing in value from £lOO down to £3.
BUY A TICKET, 1/- (by post 1/11),
and help the Hospital ART UNION.
Drawn on 27th March, 1924. Buy
four or more tickets, Postage Free,
and result slip will be forwarded to
any address. WINNING NUMBERS
advertised 29th March, 1924.
,T. ,T. Neville, Hon. Sec.,
Fire Station, Circular Quay, Sydney.


“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
There is an enormous demand from News-
papers, Magazines, Advertisers, etc., for
strong-, forceful illustrations, and they pay
high prices for work that suits them.
Why Not Learn Drawing?
You can! Easily, rapidly and thoroughly,
hv the
WESTON METHOD
It takes you step by step from the rudiments
of sketching to the very highest branches of
this fascinating and lucrative profession. The
lessons are so simple that you cannot fail to
make rapid progress, and, remember, we
teach to draw, not to copy.
Enclose 3 stamps, with your name and
address, and we will post you a copy of our
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.” It
explains all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
286 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£7?ie S^er/ecf
©wwmrn iPAggs
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,- BEST.
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
%!5% i& Alex Cowan & Sons. L t .p
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
%ey/asc
Anger j
The world’s most famous
batteries for bells, buzz-
ers and gas engines.
Insist upon
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
V)
'ey
Clear Your Skin Restore
Your Hair With Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap keeps the
skin fresh and clear, while touches
of the Ointment now and then *hs
needed soothe and heal the first pim-
ples, redness, roughness or scalp
irritation. Cuticura Talcum is excel-
lent for the skin.
Soapls.,Talcum Is. 3d.,Ointment 1 g.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
£o* Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
OUTH ORG^
SECOND TO NONE
MERANG
1 * ALBERT'S s
&O°S
L J ' ' ALBERT'S SYSTEM Sf 0
TARCERT TERR£»Er> REEDS # /-<
This Size —40 Reeds 3/- Postage 3d.
Other Types 2/“ to 12/6
J. ALBERT & SON
Trade Supplied
n , . D 137/139 Kins Street, SYDNEY,
Dept, y 8 294/8 Lit. Collins St., MELBOURNE
<l3
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING I
SAFETY I
FOR
The Big four Thousand art Union
(By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General of N.S.W.)
In Aid of Children's, Royal Prince Alfred and Sydney Hospitals-
The Three Biggest Hospitals in Australia,
Ist PRIZE, 23/60-h.p. Vauxhall Motor Car £l2OO
2nd „ Australian Six Motor Car . . £650
3rd „ Columbia Six Motor Car £5 75
4th „ Emerson Player Piano . . £260
stli ~ Indian Super Chief Motor
Cycle and Side Car .. .. £l9O
3 Prizes, each Valued
20
100
. £lOO
£5O
£25
£lO
£5
To be Drawn as soon as Fully Subscribed.
1/- ONLY TICKETS 1/- ONLY
By Post Three or more post free.
12 Tickets for 10/- 25 Tickets for 20/-
Help the Hospitals to-day.
Tickets Posted Direct from
J. L. RAITH, Hon. Promoter,
495 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
You might want their help to-morrow.
I
THEY COME AS A BOON 8 A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WWERLEY PEN.
: ,t
4X INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO .£5OO AND
3%Z ON ANY EXCESS TO £IOOO
Cheque Accounts opened for Individuals, Arms. Companies or Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in lIS. W.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Saverv’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
asr
*£%JS 6bM&cu>eVltuAic
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
P.G.M.: Not a fair reply. That contri-
butor didn’t say he did certain things; only that
he was invited to do them. And you assume —
wrongly—that the mining towns where he “did
locums” were on N.S.W. coalfields... .Tickle: That
yarn has been chortled over before... .R.B. (Rocky) :
Unsuitable. No use, by the way, sending stamps
for the return of unaccepted paragraphs. It pretty
often happens that a sub-editor has struggled to
make a par printable before it is finally cast out.
....Oto: There is as much music in a bag of
coke... .E.D.R.: Thank you; there is a good par
in it.,.. Cowan C.: This is a poor market for raw
blood and bones.... Nitric: That confidence trick
was successfully worked in Perth three or four years
ago. . . .L.M.8.: No use. .. . T.T.'T.: If she’s a nice
girl, burn your copy, and we won’t say a word
about it.... Copper: Your poet’s license is suspended
for trying to crowd through with two rhyming-
lines in five. N. Webster did nearly as well as
that in his dictionary... .G.8.L.: Boil it down to
a good 20-line paragraph... .G.H.S. Three months
too late... .Almaden: All froth.... Francis S.: The
Red Page printed a Dumas article on similar lines
a few months ago... .T. 8.0.: Factory made, with
the marks of the machine showing on it... .G.J.8.:
Thank you for submitting it; but space isn’t avail-
able for reprint of any sort. . . .Ophim: “Welsh-
man’s” calls for a good deal more cultivation....
Perhaps: Makes no point that hasn’t been repeatedly
discussed in The Bulletin during the last few
months. .. .Paul D.: Plunkety-plunk, plunkety-
plunk—it is so monotonous.... Mombak: The tragic
affair should aid the cause of temperance:—-
’Twas midnight the hour sounded
As Paddy Kelly homeward floundered;
From pocket he deftly forked
A bottle which lie uncorked ;
As he raised it to his lips he heard
A sound which came he inferred
From behind, lie turned and stopped
And all his precious liquor dropped.
There he saw a ruffian bold, - grasping
A revolver, and from his chest came rasping
“Stand and deliver, you drunken brute.
Up with your hands, or I’ll shoot.”
No coward was Part, he kuocked up the gun,
And on the villain’s jaw landed one.
Down he went with him and made a dart
With his knife, and pierced his heart.
Pat sobered up, and swore on the book
That on liquor he ne’er would look.
..R.5.8.: Yes, everybody’s waiting to die; so
why make a song about it ?-• . . V.D. (Ashfield) :
Well, you didn’t know how to write that he didn't
know how to write; so the general effect is something
like finding the cube root of nothing multiplied by
the unknown.... Rex H.: Doesn’t get near the pay desk.
. ...J.H.D.: An old yarn in ready-made clothes....
D.R.A.; Like a lot of other people, you think you
have made a sonnet when you have got a certain
number of rhymes juggled into their places....
F. (New Farm): Heavy and dull. .. .A.W.M.:
Too pale and thin. .. .Egroeg N.: Verse like that
with a mild 'string of words and a rhyme here
and there could go on forever.... Roma: A very
hard-worked theme... .G.D.K.: The verse is rather
heavy... .Watty: The matter is good, but you haven't
much idea of writing verse... .8.C.F.: Not a bad
shot, but doesn’t get inside... .Emer: You bury
some promising stuff in a mass of cheap melodrama.
Dig it out. ... J.G. (S. Brisbane) :If it were a little
better written it might do for some school paper... .
G. (Vermont): The murder doesn’t attract us
any more through being removed to India; but it
might sell elsewhere. .. .Douglas C.: “Cruelty” no
use... .Billaby: It falls far short... .Nimshi: The
idea that a woman’s legs are humorous has been
rather overworked Merry Andrew: Very bad....
L.L. (Burwood) : Too slight for us. .. . A.R.8.: No-
body who has any idea of writing ever writes to
ask if he can write Bellerive: The bold sentiment
carries it: —
I was due to the title for
Art sake to my rhyme;
I’m not a street beggar.
Though hunger’s no crime;
I’m no poet-'saint
Who was never a sinner,
But I’d sooner chop wood
Than appeal for a dinner;
I’ll strike a new track —
If I fail I’ll prove game;
I’ve lived in the past
And can again without fame.
.... Fairy: One startling stanza: —
So may every Queensland tourist
Just look and smile and say,
“I’d give my all and be the "poorest
Wouldst thou just grow in our own clay.”
i • • • .Sucre: Highly moral advice in exceedingly bad
verse. .. .8.C.5.: A long, long way from home....
J.R.P.: Both are in, the right direction, but neither
reaches the g0a1... .Z.Y.X.: Not quite... .C.J.
(Auckland) : Rather an old theme and not strikingly
done.... 8.11. W.: The idea is not fresh and the
verse moves like an avalanche of putty. • ..S.C. (Bris-
bane) : When .you come back from wandering “to afar”
take a stroll to near.... Beatrice C.: Not well enough
milliuered... .A.D.R.: Poor idea in worse verse....
I.R. (Southport): You're wrong. It’s not “blank
verse.” It’s not even blanky verse.... Walimac:
May use one; but you must allow more room between
lines for the pen of the sub-editor to intrude....
H. J. 8.: Have another shot... .F.D.: The local police
ought to be able to decide that wager. .. .A.H.8.:
Discussed at great length some time ago... .F.J.T.:
No, we can’t manage it; but there’s always a market
for personal and other pars of general interest.. . .
; Cayenne: The verse is violently bad.... J.K.J.:
“Stella” would shine in a • nicely-bound album kept
by the lady who is engaged to the curate... .P.H.C.:
Glad you “think it good” ; but it isn’t. It is
clumsy verse that says practically nothing in 18
stanzas.... Kasim: The turkey rhyme goes poorly.
.... Bushman Me J.: The verse is no g00d.... ,T. B.
(Gardenmere): You seem to be trying to say a
small thing, but the “River” needed more thought,
more feeling and more skill... .8.A.V.: Dreary verse
which repeats commonplaces.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.S.R.: Manly girls are not built like that....
R.C.W.: Couldn’t get past that appalling abo
Rufus: Pemvork too stiff...- 8.M.M.: Can't decide
which is the more painful, a dentist drawing teeth
or you drawing ducks... .G. 8.: On the way, but. still
a good distance off. .. .F.M.C.: Is that a hand or an
accident?... .S.M.K.: Draw from life for a while
before turning your imagination 1005 e... .C.W.:
Some promise... .8.L.T.: Wants spraying with for-
malin. .


It
K
i
m
<V
G
u
llllllilfil
;;
... -V*.
:
Si
. ' ' :' ' .■' ' : . :
x:X/* : i:i~.: : X'
■ -^stM
mm
m
*£
i xu
\y
mmm
mm
i
fw | .' i S
{ r, s;v HI
H
il
; -J^W
1
mmmm
;;
ii
H
.
■
/jyfy
!i!i»
2/
M I .alii
m
[^XXM
x
o *1
mmm
XR
a
THE NEW BEALE PLAYER-PIANO
IN any of the arts individuality is the distinguishing feature of artistic
performance. Personality has lifted the motion picture film from the
humble niche where motion itself was sufficient to produce the whole effect,
till to-day the movement of the artists is completely submerged in the prob-
lems, loves and hates of the characters themselves. The player-piano, in
much the same way, has developed until instruments may now be obtained
which enable the greatest degree of personality to be expressed.
The New Beale Play er-Piano is an instrument
of the strictly interpretative type. The piano
fulfils every dynamic demand of virtuosity and
the tone control is absolute. Many manually
proficient musicians have a technical limitation
which places the enjoyment of personally play-
ing many very lovely but difficult compositions
completely outside their experience. This does
not happen to the owner of the New Beale
Player. It is a complement to his musical
knowledge that has no limitation of execution.
To the full extent of one’s understanding the
instrument instantly responds.
For those musically minded people who wish to use
the New Beale in its fullest interpretative character,
we have created a Service Division with which are
associated some of the best known concert pianists
resident in Australia. Almost all of the great piano-
forte compositions, along certain broad lines, have
methods of interpretation that are endorsed by the
musically educated. It is the work of the Beale Ser-
vice Division to expound the great masters’ work to
the Beale Player-Owner who may not be familiar
with the accepted interpretation of a particular
composition.
Thus is obtained, not merely a piano that has been
endorsed by many eminent musicians as a concert
instrument of the highest type, and a techique that
years of arduous practice could not hope to rival, but
contact with the intellectual side of music is also
acquired. And no acquaintance with the arts, least
of all music, can give the utmost pleasure if the in-
tellectual aspect is neglected.
The New Beale is encased in Walnut, Rosewood, Mahogany
or other rare woods to order. Sold on a liberal Extended
Payment Plan and used pianos accepted in partial exchange.
BRANCHES— New South Walts: Bathurst,
usmore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria:
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas-
mania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples,
* i“J c ? ston - 5. A.: Savery’s Pianos Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A. : Thomson’s Ltd., PertL
and Fremantle.
B E A LE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms : 340 George Street, Sydney.
Head Office and Factories: 41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BEALE and COM PANY
(Queensland) LI M ITE D.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane.
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
N4~ 75*4


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
B~i is ro I b
IS2S!
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBltOLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
Sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 33 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide—Hobart.
Weight
and
Quality
That is certainly a factor in the
sale of all classes of stock. But
good work in selling at the
yards, like good feed and good
blood, is also a decided influence.
For top values—
Consign Cattle, Sheep and Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The “COMFORT*’ (self-heating) Iron.
Simple, safe. Lights
in half a minute. Costs
3d. for four hours.
Clean, beautifully
niekelled. Double-
pointed. , Finest iron
made.
Price, 43/-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
u\r I f w
SPARKING
PLUGS.
For perfect ignition and long
service.
A type for every Engine.
Smith, Sons 8 Rees
Limited,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Fashionable Wristlet Lever
Gold Watches
This is a Lady’s Jewelled 9-ct. Gold Lever Watch,
with the fashionable Moire Silk Band and 9-ct,
Gold Fastening. It is exceptionally neat and a
Thoroughly Reliable Timekeeper
SPECIAL
PRICE
70/-
A'':\
9.<fs
0
PLAIN
or>
FANCY
DIALS
In Solid Silver Case - - 40—
WE PAY POSTAGE
We also have a large selection of other shapes
to choose from, ranging in prices up to £l5
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
ESTABLISHED 1871 n.s.w. ltd.
Two Sydney
Establishments
I 41 2 George Street, Strand Corner
1185-187 Pitt Street, near King Street
Save
Both
Ways.
%
m
w
m
mm, t,
m
m w/'
m 'M
r i
'///////>
Demand Good Roads.
Use Rasy-moving Waggons.
If you demand good roads to make transport easier and less costly, why not
exercise still further economy by modernising your Waggons with blvh ball-
bearing Axles, and so save “horse energy”? ,
These axles eliminate friction and “drag” from horse-drawn vehicles to such an
extent that one horse can draw the usual two-horse load and still keep “condition
better than before. One horse out of three can easily be dispensed with, and tne
same loads handled in the same time. ,
SIvF BALL-BEARING AXLES cut out “strains’ at the start, on the level
Make the change without delay, as, due to decreased production costs, we have made a
Substantial Reduction in Prices of
BALL-BEARING AXLES.
This means that the cost of conversion will he lower, and this factor, togethe l v> l1 o h re yter'TiisUnct
haulage and the prolongation of your horses’ working life will lesult; in a B reatei
money-saving. WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES ROW
Gardner, Waern
481 FLINDERS STREET.
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at: —SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Streirt.
839 Adelaide Street. ADELAIDE: Win. Adams * Jo., Ltd., 157 ™* y^® eet .
Street. PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., 377-39 J. Murray
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd. LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stellsby” : Motor transport is playing the
mischief with Victoria’s railway revenue. A
new motor-’bus service between Melbourne
and Geelong (48 miles) is the newest jolt.
Probably Ballarat, 70-odd miles, will be the
next centre to be served, with Bendigo. IUU
miles, to follow. Motor goods trathc to
these towns has been established for some
time. „
SA. Chamber of Manufactures has just
celebrated its 54th birthday. Samuel Haven-
port, the wine-and-oil man, was the first
president, in 1869, and for 20 years after.
At the latest celebration due stress was
laid on the fact that S. Aus., though mostly
known as a State that grows wheat and
wine, really manufactures pretty nearly every-
thing, from railway engines to fiddles, and
that at Lobethal (now called Tweedvale) it
had one of the earliest and best woollen fac-
tories in Australia.
*-■* **
“A.N.”: Taking my collars to a Chinese
laundry in Auckland (M.L.), I struck the
following on the door: —
NOTICE.
If anybody come for the Laundry things of wash*
Vou may go to next two door Laundry Tell him come
to get "them or if you brings the wash You may
take to next laundry just same Company the office
is brunches.
I went to the Two Door laundry, and every-
thing was Ho Kay.
“Pulganbar” : Yet another land sweep has
been held in the Ma State. ' Four hundred
land-hungry, or supposedly land-hungry, Aus-
tralians entered, but only 25 were permitted
to take part in the lottery. The crime of
most of the others was poverty. But it
doesn’t follow that those left in really have
means. All kinds of dodges are resorted to.
In one instance a solicitor, several members
of his family, his ma-in-law and his rouse-
about entered. In fact, everybody has a
fly—it’s worth while. Dummying is ram-
pant. Mostly the dummy, if he wins, sells
out shortly. One solution of the problem is
to appoint local committees to investigate the
claims of applicants and issue qualifica-
tion certificates. It’s better to place the
man with a knowledge of local conditions
on the land than a “foreigner.” Failure to
recognise this is the cause of so many failures
in Soldier Settlement.
* * * *
“R.11.W.” : Politicians who want a new
abuse to hammer at might give an eye to
the physical-culture schools which flourish
in every Australian city. Anybody with a
little money and a lot of cheek can open a
College of Physical Culture, dub himself
professor, and start to rake in fees from
tired business men and aspiring young ath-
letes. Of course, some of these men are
highly qualified. I know of one “college'”
in an Australian capital run by a man who
has had training in the gymnasiums of
France and Italy, as well as in Australia,
but I know of another in the same city
which has for principal a former Stadium
attendant. And these people are allowed
to use X-rays, or anything else in that line
that they have money to buy, though the
use of all such things should be confined to
certified men. Then there are the “beauty
parlors,” also places where enduring harm
may be worked by unskilled treatment. An
eminent surgeon offered to show the pro-
prietress of one of these places the manner
in which to use the instrument for removing
surplus hair from women’s faces. The offer
was declined without thanks. To learn the
correct method was too much trouble.
* * -X- *
A new variant of an old swindle:—
In Chapel-street, Prahran, a barber and a con-
fectioner occupy adjoining shops. For some weeks a
man had been frequenting the barber’s salo'ii and
placing himself on tlie friendly footing of a regular
customer. One afternoon, on leaving, he glanced at
his watch and remarked that he had just missed the
bank, but that it was of no importance, as he could
collect all the cash he required at the pie-shop next
door. Five minutes later lie returned and requested
the haircutter to cash a cheque for £l5, remarking
that the cheque could be re-cashed at the pie-shop
when the pastrycook returned. The barber demur-
ring, the accused said he could easily verify his
statement, and forthwith dragged his prospective
victiln into the next-door shop, behind the counter
of which stood the wife of the proprietor. “I’ll be
able to get that 50 all right at 5 o’clock ?”
asked the cheque-pusher. “Oh, yes, that will
be all right,” beamed the lady. Thus
re-assured, the razor-artist accommodated his cus-
tomer. Two hours later he took the cheque into
the pie-shop to turn it into cash, and learned that
the pieman did not know the signature. Explana-
tions culminated with the remark: “Oh, that cove!
Yes, he came in here this morning and ordered 50
fruit-pies for some party at Brighton to-night.
They’re in the press now waiting for him.”
THE BED HE CHOOSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every man has the right to growl
Growl he does in the weirdest fashion !
This man’s srnile and his neighbor’s scowl
Blend their humor and scorn and passion.
But at the close of the hard-fought day,
Over our jests and knocks and bruises,
This truth dawns in the clearest way-—-
Every man has the bed he chooses.
Giles —-I reckon him only a clod,
Clod in breed and seed and marrow;
Sikes is ripe for the hangman’s nod ;
Spriggs is bright as a chirping sparrow;
Frank is keen as a prowling fox—
lie must gain if the whole world loses;
Karl is kin to the peaceful ox —
Every man has the bed he chooses!
Jean must foot it in silken shoon;
Anne must trip to the cowyard barefoot;
May must wed with a loutish loon,
She who leapt like a dying barefoot;
Trix is hot on a scapegrace lad,
Mad to hear of his yarns and cruises;
Lucy smiles on a soldier glad
Every girl lias the bed she chooses!
I, with wisdom of fifty years,
See no life in a field of clover;
Alternation of smiles and tears
Fills the past as I dream it oyer.
Dodge the truth, it will rise again,
Spite of our cunning and craft and ruses.
Whether we lived for our pleasure or pain,
Every man has the bed lie chooses !
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


Dawson
SPECIAL"
Whiskv
°'S*»U.E«S
-• town o a a scow
PETER DAWSON is an old old
matured by time and mellowed in wood. The
kind of whisky which is none too plentiful to-day.
If you cannot get it easily, make your demand a
little more insistent, because you will find it
worth pressing for.
“A Deeply Satisfying Blend ”
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
7he prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING’S NEW
BOOK.
Land and Sea Tales, for Scouts and
Guides. By Rudyard Kipling, Com-
missioner Boy Scouts. 4s. net.
Days and Nights with Indian Big
Game. By Major-General A. E.
Wardrop, author of “Modern Pig-
Sticking.” .With Chapters by C. W.
Morris. With Illustrations. 12s. 6d.
net.
A Second Scrap Book. By George
Saintsbury. 7s. 6d. net.
NEW AND NOTABLE NOVELS.
Gora. By Rabindranath Tagore. 7s.
6d. net.
Castle Conquer. An Irish story. By
Padraic Colum. 7s. 6d. net.
The Outlook : — “ ‘Castle Conquer’ is quite
enjoyable. It has a lively and interesting
plot.”'
Compromise. By Wilfranc Hubbard,
author of “Shadows on the Palatine.”
7s. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN’S 3/6 LIBRARY.
NEW VOLS.
The Captives. By Hugh Walpole.
3s. 6d. net.
The Young Enchanted. By Hugh
Walpole. 3s. 6d. net.
In the Mountains. A novel. By the
author of “Elizabeth and Her' Ger-
man Garden.” 3s. 6d. net.
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER:
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
FRANCE AND GERMANY.
CHINA.
ITALY UNDER MUSSOLINI.
AMERICAN AFFAIRS—-THE REVOLT OF
THE MIDDLE-WEST.
IRELAND: AN AUSTRALIAN IMPRESSION.
To be Obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.G.2.
THE JUDGMENT OF TWO HEMISPHERES IS UNANIMOUS
IN APPROVAL OF PARKINSON ELECTRIC MOTORS.
*
4
■
i
Parkinson (Australia) Ltd.,
* ,v< ' Dork, Sydney.
F. & A. Parkinson Ltd.,
Leeds, England.
The Australian-made Parkinson Electric
Motor is Superior to Most and
Unsurpassed by the Best Imported Motor.
Let us forward lists of well-known factories, comprising a variety of industries,
where large numbers of Parkinson Motors are giving entirely satisfactory
service.
A visit to the works at Five Dock will convince you that this satisfactory service
is the result of thoroughness in every process of manufacture and final testing.
Australian manufacturers are realising that by standardising Parkinson Motors
they are securing Parkinson service.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle
Street, Brisbane; 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
493-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Darling
Buildings, Fratnkhn Street, Adelaide; Corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
Hobart. Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth, W.A.


Enjoy
Breakfast.
Breakfast appeals
mightily to the appe-
tite that has been
whetted by a course of
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Their tonic effect on the
stomach, liver and bowels
is such that a relish for
food and a general feel-
ing of well-being results.
Every Tablet a Live one—Brim
Full of Health and Happiness.
Easy to take. Pleasant in effect.
Riding Trousers
Tailored to Measure
The “SHEIK”
Fine Riding Twist Quality,
specially purchased in London.
35/- Pair
Hard wearing—Close weave
—Washes well —Fadeless.
Mad to Desk ' S B.' ior Patterns
and Self-measurement Form.
X
PIKE
Brothers Limited
BRISBANE
Townsville Toowoomba
\
The Powder
Other Women Like
The exquisite perfumes and its
clingy, pervasive and yet elusive
quality make
Williams
Talc Powder
the choice of those who have pride in
personality.
So pure and fine that it delights the
softest skin and gives it added beauty.
The hinged top opens wide or closes
tight with a flip of the finger. No ex-
cusefot leaving the Williams’ package
open to let powder spill
and perfume evaporate.
Williams
Talc Powder,
English Lilac
Baby
(Very Delicate)
English Eilac
(Williams’ Special)
Rose
Violet
Carnation
You could pay a lot more money for a watch
and yet not get such consistent reliability and
rugged ability to withstand rough conditions as we
guarantee you will get in
I
•»
THE OPTICAL
DEPARTMENT.
Ij you are in any doubt as to
your eyesight, consult Mr
Gardiner, whose skill
and experience has gained him
a splendid reputation.
First Floor.
THE SUPER
FX&R
WATCH
at 66/-
This is an open face
oxidised Steel watch, fully
jewelled and one that our
long experience tells us is
the most eminently satisfac-
tory timepiece for rough
bush wear.
You can send for—or per-
sonally select—one of these
Super FX & R watches, safe
in the knowledge that you are get-
ting one of the most extraordinary
watch values of the age.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFAX6ROBERTS L"
Z3&25 Hunter Street Sydney
m
m
alar
Made Only from
the Very Finest
Selection of
French Briar! a
7/6
Plain
No.
803.
Famous
High-class
French Briar
Pipes,
12 6 Silver-mounted.
Guaranteed not to crack or burn. Any pipe
doing so within one year will be replaced.
All Tobacconists, or write: —
P.O. Box 3939 Sydney; 954 Melbourne;
155 Adelaide.
3\[ature s Loving Proxy—
Watckful Motker
and watckful motkers are
cautious motkers, wko v?on’t
take risks w>isi “His
Higkness”—tke bab)) —but
keep kim kealdv? and bonns
bj) giving small doses dailj?
''
p*
Bottled, in three sizes.
<This safe and reliable family
Medicine minimises {he dis-
tress caused b$ teething and
vaccination, besides checking
{he development of odier
ailments that retard the
progress of young children.
Cooling in Summer —Reliable Always.
After 60 years KRUSE’S
Fluid Magnesia is more
popular {Kan ever, because
it does all {hat is claimed
for it —and more.
See {hat »ou get {he genuine
Kruse’s, with our name,
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptp. Ltd., on the label.
“Hayband”: Nhill, a Vic. town’s cryptic
title, grew by shrinkage. In the days of the
overland-to-Adelaide gold-escort it was a
noted camping-ground, taking the name
Northern Hill from the station homestead
close by. Later the Northern became just N.
Next the stop fell out, and the H got smaller.
And so Nhill.
“Coot”: “Yacko’s” par. respecting the
original owner of Canberra (B. 18/12/’23)
recalls that Lieut. Joshua Moore’s applica-
tion to purchase 1000 acres at Canberry—
now Canberra —-dated 1526, is one of the
treasures of the N. S. Wales Chief Secre-
tary’s Department. A photographic repro-
duction of his letter is in the Commonwealth
Library at Melbourne.
“Chris”: When the train, travelling at a
funeral pace, reached Whakaronga (M.L.), a
sky pilot, thankful for the temporary respite
from the rattling of the stuffy carriages,
threw up the window, drew in a deep breath
and cried, “By Jove, it’s invigorating!”
Henare from alongside courteously put him
right. “Py korry, boss, you make te mis-
take. Him te Whakaronga.”
The man behind the Hume Cement Pipe
Co. and now the Hume Steel Co., who has
made a success of the raising of capital, is
the Hon. L. J. Clifford, a Hobart sharebroker.
Clifford’s father a few years ago, after, living
a long time in Tattsmania, went to England
and claimed a very ancient barony belonging
to the Cliffords of Chudleigh—the title dates
from Henry 11., which was long before either
concrete or steel filled the public eye.
In working for a return to single-seat
electorates in N. S. Wales, Goldstein,
M.L.A., may have an eye on the main chance.
He had a close finish for his Eastern Sub-
urbs seat last election, and next time he
might be pipped on the post through an
increased Labor vote. But a return to
single seats would mean that Randwick
would be safely his. He has been alderman
there for untold years, was Mayor for six,
and has done a lot of fine work in the dis-
trict.
One chair left vacant when Capt. Webb
died is to be filled by C. M. McDonald, who
becomes chief of the N.S.W. Northern Col-
lieries’ Assoc. That Association took him
from the Steamship Owners’ Assoc, as its
secretary a few years ago, when he had
gained a reputation for handling industrial
disputes. McDonald is only 42: although
born in Scotland he was schooled in M.L.,
and has worked up from an office-boy's job.
In spite of his aggressive way of fighting
employees’ claims, he has a sort of popu-
larity even with the representatives of the
men—“an insulting beggar, but you always
know where he is,” one of them lately said
of him.
Dear Bulletin, — I want to hand a
bouquet to “Sierra” for his story “Sea
Sportsmen” (B. 6/12/'23). In his long-
distance event the Harbinger—one of the
genuine old-time clippers with a 37-foot
beam and sporting seven yards across —
scored over the Partheuope. But they hardly
lost sight of each other all the voyage. I
recollect a stranger race. When we hauled
off into the stream at Williamstown the ill-
starred Loch Vennachar was still loading.
We were becalmed off the Horn 40 days
out, and on the long run home we saw no
sign whatever of our competitor. We were
towed into the South-West India Dock, Lon-
don ; and I shall never forget the look of dis-
gust on the face of the old man—Captain
Bolt—when “Bully” Forbes, our first mate,
with the brief exclamation “Hell!” pointed
to a craft alongside. It was the Loch Ven-
nachar. And she w r as obviously half-dis-
charged.—Yours, R. Clowe.
North Sydney’s ex-Mayor, G. T. Clarke, who
has just topped his threescore years and ten,
is a native of Melbourne, and has been right
through the municipal mill —Town Clerk,
councillor, alderman, Mayor and Lord Mayor.
He was a councillor of St. Kilda (M.L.) in
1878, Town Clerk of South Dunedin (M.L.)
in 1879, Mayor of St. Kilda 1880-81 and
councillor for South Dunedin in 1882. He
invaded Sydney in 1885, and was an aider-
man for the borough of St. Leonards 1888-90 ;
and when the three north-side boroughs be-
came the municipality of North Sydney he
served first as alderman and then as Mayor.
In 1904 he entered Sydney City Council and
stayed there for a decade, having a turn as
Lord Mayor in 1912. His brother, William
Clarke —-who later migrated to South Africa
and died there—represented Orange in the
N.S.W. Assembly 1880-89, and was Minister
for Justice in the Parlies Cabinet of ISB7-
89. Of that Ministry C. J. Roberts
(P.M.G.) is the only survivor.
“Macquarie Street” on two explorers:—
Spahlinger and Vorouoff are names which still
loom large in the cables. The former has found
an unexpected backer in the M.L. Dominion, which
is willing to plank down £36,000 as a reclame.
Yet really authentic proofs of the value of his t.b.
serum are not yet forthcoming: the consensus of
Sydney medical opinion is in agreement with Neville
House, who turned the serum down on behalf of
the Commonwealth. Voronoff, on the other hand,
hasn’t his weather-eye on national purses, and now
that the dust of controversy has settled he seems
to be an amiable crank who, if he does not do any
good, does not do any particular harm. The only
disconcerting thing about his treatment from a
patient’s point of view is that his rejuvenated men
continue to die of senility, the exhilaration immedi-
ately following the operation being what the poet
terms a “lightning before death.” His technique
has. however, considerably improved. He now-
divides the gland he is going to graft upon the
about-to-be-rejuvenated individual into four pieces,
which he fixes in situ. If one graft dies the sub-
ject has the other three to fall back upon. His
latest experiment with a racehorse, which turned
out disastrously—the animal struggling so violently
under an anaesthetic as to fracture its pelvis
—at least suggests that he has a great following in
continental cities. Yet probably his continued vogue
is entirely due to the boosting he gets from the
foreign press, ever in search of a new sensation.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
" '' ite for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
4 oseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 30.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq.. Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 83
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Com merce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. ' .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson ; 11. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon,
Chief Inspector jor N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Runrlle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thveadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. . . . . 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 2.250,000
Reserve Fund k Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Visitors to
Sydney
are invited to avail themselves of the
services of the Government Tourist
Bureau in planning their Excursions.
Daily Trips by Rail,
Tram, Steamer and
Automobile.
Jenolan Caves
Bulli Pass & Sublime Point
National Park
Kuring-gai Chase
Hawkesbury River
etc., etc.
Full Information and Literature on
application,
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place.
Shipping', *c.
Can ad ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers bookeil to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
NIAGARA (18,000 tons (lisp.) JAN. 10
MAKURA (13,000 tons (lisp.) FEB. 7
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of tile United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can lie seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons (lisp.) JAN. 24
TAHITI (13,000 tons (lisp.) FEB. 28
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. I’HILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
BOOK your passage to LONDON for the
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924, with our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
We offer the following attractive tours:—
(1) TO JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE. b\
the magnificent Steamers “MARELLA” and “MONTOROJ'
sailing from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane everv rponth.
7-weeks trip for £9O lst-class return.
(2) SYDNEY TO COLOMBO (Ceylon), £65 lst-class return.
(3) SYDNEY TO HONOLULU, via N.Z. and Fiji.
£B5 lst-class return.
Special round Eastern Tours, calling JAVA, SINGAPORE,
CHINA, JAPAN, MANILA. BORNEO and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
From £129 lst-class return throughout.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
/| M
mm
IS§
mm
' r \ m *'
■HW?; I
Si
' ' ■ ■' ■
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR . . 14,500 | ANCHISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES . . 14,500 ASCANIUS . . 10,000
/ENEAS . . 10,000 [
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11.100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
KEGIU.AU SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12.500 tons
.MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
* SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
*DIOGENES ......... 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I-’und
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £6,000,«()«
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Bucklatid, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. 8. Falkiner,
The Hon. Reginald J.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager • OSCAR TINES
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office— 39 Threadneedle Street c'
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiii Pamia and Ton don
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. * J ’ rapua and Lon(ion -
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreio-n Billa
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World. °
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
(Huddart ParkerLy£'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and Vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
"["HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails JANUARY 8, at 10 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. 0. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars applv.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and I'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktovvn
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922 £1,826,924
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,009
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


■St**.
\
X «?
I Jl'*.
1
o-to
r^E^JOjj^r-
Second
to None
In 1854 the “GREYS **
regiment by reason of
their prowess were given
the glorious title of
I Second to None,*
IT’S good to seek perfection, and it’s better to find it—
as you do in "GREYS” Cigarettes. Light a "GREYS”
Cigarette and you will enjoy to the end a perfect smoke.
Choice Virginia Tobacco and extreme care in manufacture
are responsible for their perfection, and after you have smoked
them you’ll agree"GßE YS”Cigareftes are 'Second to None.’
GREYS
Silk Cut Virginia
GREYS, 20 jor 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Manufactured by MAJOR DRAPKIN 6C CO., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Limited
This reduced reproduction shows
the famous pale green packet of
20 "GREYS"
2Z
PURE FOODS
MAM
11111 l ▼
i'-
ll
r
—Something new H'l'T 1 jf
and oh so good —!
What a satisfaction to
the Hostess to serve
sandwiches that none of her guests
have ever eaten before —sandwiches
with a zest, savor and “differentness
of taste that will make them long
remembered and often talked about.
Sandwiches with filling of REX HAM
PATE are so easy to serve —so
unique and delicious that you will
want them often for both family and
guests —Rex Ham Pate is all Ham—
with the REX MILDNESS AND
FLAVOR retained —plus a piquancy
that delights.
Economical to a superlative degree —
a Sandwich Spread no one can resist.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
rJ. 434
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS.
rackets.
School Match
C.8.1t., Special
M.S.j Special Practice
C. 8.8., Leather Grip
M.S., Special or Premier ..
~ Wonder
Standard
C. 8.8.. Double Strung
Oceanic • ••••••
Britannic, Concave throat
Havmarket, Special
Selected
Extra Special
Titanic. Concave Throat ...
Cyclonic, Concave 'l hroat .
Avre’s Sandown
A 1
Champion
.. Matador
Central strung
8/6
13/6
18/6
20/-
21/-
25/-
30/-
27/6
55/-
45/-
40/-
45/-
70/-
65/- ■
80/-
28/6
38/-
4-7/6
52/-
57 /-
Special sample, cork-ribbed grip... 35/-
Spalding’s Tournament °
Continental oof-
Gold Medal 6 7/6
Davis Riseley Hexagon
Sla/.enger’s Kensliaw
Demon 50/-
Wbitebouse oS/o
Ideal. Tl/b
Classic 82/6
E.G.M 68/-
Doherty 79/6
Stadium <9/6
Lambert Chambers 87/6
Patterson 92/6
.1. O. Anderson 95./-
« Senaca 55/-
Spartan 70/-
Tlie P>at 85/-
Monogram 160/-
Bancroft’s Winner 80/-
RACKET
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Do/..
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/5 28/6
Slazenger’s Championship (in air-tight tins) 28/6
Each. 1)07..
Ayre’s Hardcourt 2/5
Ayre’s Champion, 1924 2/o 2»/o
Barnet Glass Champion, 1924.... 2/4 -fil-
B,arnet Glass Flite 2/o 28/0
SUNDRIES.
(Kiiully add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Tennis Nets, full size, Kacli.
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Aeme (square) Posts, pair •••••••••• 105/-^
Tenni3 Court Mai'kers 37/t>
“Dalby” Patent Chip and Turf Court
marker o-/
Tennis Tapes 20/-
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers 1/9. 2/6. 4/6. 5/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratchets .... 7/6- 8/6, 10/6. 13/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 9/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-, 1/6
Racket Got, 3Gft. coils . . ... 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
illustrated
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST .•
BOXING
GLOVES
\
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4.
)8.8., real leather, special value ... l/n IS'/ 6 ’ of/!’
. B B Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6or 8 0z...... •• • ••••;• 16/6, 18/G, 21/-, -3/
irLrTII)V FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 oi 8 oz., 20/-, 30/-
’EißFlihllUfl u 1 w.x.,1 nnlrmr fi nr Boz 35 40/-
PERFECTION
HIGH-GRADE
THE “LIGHTNING,
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms,' 6 or 8 oz. - -.... 35/-, 40/-
.mtri vivn 11 made in Ar
made in Australia, officially adopted by Naval Dept. Exclusively
~ ■ ' Personally recommended by
used' by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 4/9" 7/6 eac'h
irr iPCI hpst. Quality ’ ..J
each
15/6, 17/6 pair
Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed „... j ’' *.]! ’.!! ’' 9/6,' 10/-',' 12/6
ir»f v K STRAPS, best quality.
BOXING BOOTS, extra W
Prii-n List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
i
rs.
'iU
i
YHE
ARMY
PORTABLE
mt EXPERT
AU\IY Swinging Hull, reg. , for fast work, 10/C, 1-3/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, SO/-, 30/-
ai?My’ extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made. ....... 45/-
FXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling.. 12/6, 10/6
VVPFRT double-end Ball, regulation size, oouble-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25, -, 30/
EXrERTI double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, father cover and bhuider
complete ( Cainage best . qualit y bladders.
SUNDRIES. .... 2/6 , 5/ «»e„
Ball and Socket Swivels • • • • ivili- bearing Swivels 10/6 each
W 1 Glov“"8/n e /»P?/' l-unci.im. l-lattorms, 50/-. 75/-, 147/-
1C
Australia's Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Hoadmiarters* 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
;St .NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Be Pretty! Be Dainty!
Be Attractive!
Be a Rexona Girl!
Use Only
Rexona Soap
for Health and Beauty.
MISS BETTY DAHL,
a charming Rexona Girl,
of Salisbury Road, Ken-
sington, N.S.W., who
says Rexona Soap has
improved her hair won-
derfully.
REXONA
SOAP,
II-
*M
8
:
m
Bn
M
m-w
CHOCOLATES
in Novelty Boxes.
The Sweetest Story Ever Told.
Looks like a book till it is open.
Then a vision of sweetness in exquisite
flavors present themselves.
The Masterpieces of the
Confectioner’s Art.
Sold to you the day they are made.
5- each.
Postage 1/- extra to
any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Cr. George & King Streets, Sydney.
In Port.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ilh still, lie still, O brother ships,
J Along the murky buy ;
For you have known the wide, white
tracks
And touched the far-away.
The muted songs of lonely lands.
The stirrings of barbaric sands
Still whisper where you sway!
llow have you swept with snowy sail
Lp summer-dreaming seas,
Where once the Homan galleys flew
Like birds before the breeze,
And glimpsed along the Golden Horn
Tour startled shadows in the morn,
Or touched the Hebrides!
Or northwards, in the Scottish nights,
Beyond the purple mulls.
How have you cut the curtained mists,
A-creep, with shrouded hulls,
And past the Orkneys gaunt and stark
Heard on the headlands hazy dark
The melancholy gulls!
0 brother ships at anchor there,
What wealth is in the hold ?
Prints from the looms of Lancashire,
And rugs the Tartars sold;
Pale, pearly rice and tawny wine
And fruits from arid Palestine,
And hammered brass and gold?
For me beside the weedy walls,
For me what do you bring?
A coral chain or ivory.
From Amsterdam a ring?
Fine lace that dusky hands have spun,
Old cups of grace that hold the sun,
Or carpets for a king?
0 brother ships, my brother ships,
The breeze from off the blue
Will call and call you out again
And swop]) your decks anew !
But I —but I may never go,
Although the winds that round you blow
Stir all my heart-strings, too !
VICTORIA.
MYRE MORRIS.
The Rift in His Armor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u '\7‘ OtT’LL sop it doesn’t happen again,
Andrews.”
The words were softly spoken
but incisive. Years ago a very young re-
porter had written about his “voice of silk
and words like chips of steel.” There had
been something, too, of a Napoleonic
analogy. That had happened in the first
thrusting days of Burton’s success, a good
20 years gone now, and he had never for-
gotten it.
The man who stood before the desk was
rather older than Burton, iwid bigger and
better-featured, but he shifted uneasily and
his voice was apologetic.
“It certainly won’t, Mr. Burton. I just
happened to have left my room to see the
accountant, and the new boy showed the
woman in and left her there alone. She’d
already pushed in to your room before
I”
He was stopped by a quick frown and a
gentle “.... doesn’t happen again, An-
drews !” More silk and steel!
There was a murmured “Yes, sir,” as
Andrews turned and left the room.
Burton leaned back in the cushioned office
chair. His left hand lay on the polished
desk, and he idly regarded it. He lazily
stretched the fingers and then bent them
gradually into the palm, continuing the
muscle-strain slowly and evenly until they
were full-flexed, and the hand was a hard-
bunched fist. It was a common gesture with
him, and each time he used it his jaw
squared and his brows contracted a little.
It often made him think of that excellent
“iron hand and velvet glove” phrase. Then
frown and fist alike relaxed, but the fingers
of his right hand beat an impatient tattoo
on the arm of the chair.
It w r as certainly uncommonly slack of An-
drews. Always well to keep these fellows
up to the mark. The best of them needed
it. It would be surely a pretty business if
lie couldn’t rely on freedom from such in-
terruptions. The co’nfounded woman had
quite upset his line of thought, as it was,
Certainly it had not been important, but it
might have been. And, anyway, these weep-
ing creatures always made him uncomfort-
able. What the devil had he to do with her
hungry children? If her husband—he under-
stood it was her husband who had been dis-
charged—fine-looking chap, he remembered
—anyway, if the man chose to add impu-
dence to the incompetence for which he was
being rebuked, what, could he expect? It
Was the father’s part to think of his hungry
children. Y r es, a fine-looking chap all right.
Carried himself well when he was carpeted
by old Andrews. With the company five
Sears, the wife had said. What on earth
bad that to do with it? Andrews had been
15, and he knew* jolly well that he’d go if
his work went off.
Competent fellow, Andrews ! Good sample
of the efficacy of strong treatment. Hadn’t
been necessary to pull him up for a long
time now. They all knew what to expect.
The affair had done good inasmuch as it had
shown Andrews that he had to keep up to
if. that lie could not rely on softness because
of long service or seniority. Softness and
business—antipathetic, irreconcilable, mutu-
ally destructive; Burton remembered using-
all these fine-sounding words in a recent
Institute address. That lesson had come
to him very early, early and harshly, but
he had been a quick learner. And he had
forgotten none of it. The world lost most
of its power to hurt when met with firmness.
He knew himself invulnerable, and felt only
a cheerful contempt for suffering weakness.'
Again his left hand closed and hardened.
He looked for a while at the skin whitened
over the knuckles, and coughed—a rather
unnecessary clearing of the throat. With
a little shrug he sat upright and picked up
a memorandum pad. His thoughts were still
far from the pad. but for a few long seconds
he seemed to show a frowning interest in
if as Andrews knocked at the frosted-glass
door and came quickly to his side. He was
still frowning slightly when at last he
looked around at the secretary.
"A Mr. Jorgen would like to see you. sir.
He lias no appointment, but says his busi-
ness is most important.”
■‘His business?" Silk and steel were both
in the question.
"He says it has to do with your son. sir.”
There was a pause, and then :
‘‘Show Mr. Jorgen in.”
Burton had apparently found some further
interest in the pad when his visitor entered,
but his eyes were keen as they turned to
the man whose dress was a little too loud,
as his bearing was a little too confident.
There was a quick mental estimate on Bur-
ton's part of diffidence or shiftiness, weak-
ness in either case.
"And your business. Mr. Jorgen?” he
asked.
There was certainly no diffidence in the
voice that answered.
“I see you believe in coming straight to
the point, Mr. Burton. Quite right,
sir. Quite right. Well, it’s a little
business of a few hundred pounds—nothing,
I know, to financial giants, sir, but to a
poor man like myself quite an item, quite an
item. For the amount I hold a note of
hand that is overdue. The signature on
that note is your son's, Mr. Burton. The
young man shows himself lacking in either
the capacity or the inclination to pay. Much
as I dislike troubling you, Mr. Burton, I
need that money. I would prefer to receive
payment from you than to take other mea-
sures that must necessarily tend to the dis-
grace of your son. I'm sure you will under-
stand. _ Rather distressing, I know, but busi-
ness, sir, business.”
“Business, Mr. Jorgen? Would I be far
wrong in a guess as to your business —a
little gambling-house, say?” .
"That," replied the other cheerfully, “has
nothing to do with the matter, sir, nothing
at all. We need consider only the relevant
facts. I hold your son's note, and that note
requires payment. Should the payment not
be made, matters will be very—uncomfort-
able for your son.”
"That,” said Burton quietly, “has nothing
to do with the matter, Mr. Jorgen. nothing
at all.”
“But look here, sir.” Jorgen’s face was
flushed. "I’m not joking. Believe me. I
mean what I say. I'intend to take imme-
diate steps. to enforce payment of this note.
Your son is unable to meet it, and, unless
you do so, faces a prospect of probable dis-
grace. of certain dismissal from the honor-
able bank that employs him. Such a thing
must certainly reflect also on his honorable
father. That is the position. Come, Mr.
Burton, what do you say?”
Burton’s hand went to a hidden bell-push.
"To my son,” he answered coldly, “the
matter may be of sufficient importance. It
is of none to me. And what I say is, Go
to the Devil, Air. Jorgen. Oh, Andrews,”
as the secretary appeared, “Air. Jorgen does
not wish to see me again—ever."
For quite 10 minutes Burton sat un-
moving. His left hand, lying on the desk,
clenched and relaxed several times. ' He
frowned heavily, but there was no weakness
in the square jaw and narrowed lips. His
mind had been busy, but quite unshaken.
It had wandered oddly from a memory of
a long talk with his son of follies and evils
to be avoided, of a man making his own bed
and similar bits of wisdom, to a certain ex-
cellent story of an old Roman father—
what was his name? There had been
glimpses, too, of the boy as a sturdy young-
ster (never any spoiling of the kid) ; also
a thought or so of possible future unplea-
santness, the sneers of the foolish, maudlin
twaddle of the sentimental, laughter of
enemies. But he had not wavered. Great
story that of old—what the Devil was the
name of that old Roman?
ihe quiet Andrews was again in the room.
It s just 3 o’clock, Air. Burton.” he said •
the directors’ meeting is ready.”
“Everything prepared, Andrews?”
“Everything, sir.” \
Burton followed his secretary to the
board-room, automatically squaring his
shoulders. He knew that there were some
unpleasant points to be met. But he felt
calmly equal to the business. He stopped
inside the door which the secretary opened
tor lnm, a pause long enough to be dramatic,
as his eyes ran over those in the room and
he acknowledged their greetings. With char-
acteristic firmness he soon had the business
well under way.
I here was not much of interest or doubt
in the early part, and his mind wandered a
little, though he missed nothing. He looked
curiously from face to face about the long
table. A very sound and successful lot.
True types of the ruling class, the strong men
of the world. Extraordinary, though, when
you looked closely at a man, how often little
lines of weakness could be detected, a certain
hardly noticeable slackness of the mouth, a
slight wavering of the gaze. Old Burnham,
now! A most impressive-looking chap, with
Ins fine, grizzled head and carefully-trimmed
and -pointed beard. Still, there was some-
thing about him. Burton was sure that in
open conflict lie could bully Burnham into
agreement in the shortest order. He felt-
like that about most of them, anyway.
Holmes, perhaps, was different. There
was a sort of hardness that he knew, that
he felt, about Holmes. Antagonism, too, in
a way. A clashing, as it were, of two strong
wills. But what a pretty state of affairs if
disapproval or opposition had the slightest
effect on his actions! Why, he encountered
them every day, every hour. What his world,
or any other damned world, thought of him
mattered nothing to him. Self-sufficiency!
How on earth had such a word ever come to
have a derogatory meaning? One of the few
noble words or states humanity was capable
of knowing. Of course he was ‘self-sufficient!
Ah, they were coming to the trouble at
last! The smooth voice of Andrews was
unchanged, but there was a certain restless-
ness about the table, awkward movements,
embarrassed coughs. Holmes had half
turned in his chair. Burton knew what was
to follow —difficulties had arisen with the
men ; sudden demands had been made about
abuses which they wanted wiped away. He
had dealt with the matter summarily. His
action had been harsh (perhaps), drastic
( very likely) and high-handed (certainly).
The damned interfering papers had made a
“cause” of the business. And now the
storm was on, and Holmes, as he had ex-
pected, was loosing the first gust of it. Let
him bluster along !
For fifteen minutes Burton listened, en-


Plant No. 866. 850 watts. 32v.
160 ampere hour accumulator.
1. Saves Money.
2. Strong and Simple.
3. Operates Itself.
4. Occupies Little Space.
-\r
0
l
CO
nvenient saves labour provides comfort economical
Lowers Cost of Housekeeping.
Delco-Light provides electric light, clear and bright,
at one-fourth the cost of the usual kerosene lamp.
And everyone appreciates the comfort and conveni-
ence of electric light; the saving in time and work
that comes from the use of electric labor-saving
devices, vacuum cleaners, washing-machines and
electric irons—but few realise the economy of such a
service.
Delco-Light gives you this service at so small a cost
that the installation soon “pays for itself, occupies
little space, is practically self-operating, and strongly
built for years of service.
Distributors:-
WARE UR TON, FRANK!, LTD.,
307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANK!, MELB,, LTD.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Oren-
t'd l Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO M LTD., Brisbane,
G] LIVERT LTD., King Street, Perth,
W?pf& E. A. STEWART, Launceston,
Tasmania.
DELCO - LIGHT
“Pays for itself.
tirely calm and expressionless, to criticism
of himself and his doings. The occasional
words of deprecation by the more steadfast of
his friends were at the best weak and un-
availing. He seemed equally inattentive to
these. Indeed, where they moved him at all,
they etched on his face a little, sneering
smile. Fine friends! They were actually
apologetic. What the devil did they mean
by starting to apologise for him ? Good face
Holmes had, striking features, clean-cut,
strong. The polite coldness of his manner
was gone, though. That was weakness. His
words were directly and hotly accusing.
And then, gradually at first, but in the end
suddenly, as if uncovered by a released shut-
ter, it all stood clear. This was no ordinary
criticism of his policy or of his action, but
a deliberate, planned attack on himself. Yet
the only feeling he knew was exhilaration.
That formidable half-smile, half-sneer again
twisted his lips. The hand on the table
closed and hardened. Still for long minutes
he said nothing. And then he stood and,
standing, he paused. The room was very
quiet. Immediately opposite a big area of
the wall was taken up by a photograph. It
was a full-length likeness of himself, and
had been placed there a month before by the
orders of these same unruly directors to mark
the fifth and most successful of his progres-
sively successful years of managership. For
a while he stared at it. The eyes in the
photograph seemed to smile hack at him,
ironic and confident. It was a good like-
ness. It almost seemed to him that the
loose-lying- left hand was tightening to a
liard-straining fist before his eyes. He
cleared his throat and spoke.
His voice was low, very low and gentle,
but his words were clipped and stinging,
winged and wicked little darts that seldom
missed some mark. He was very much of a
credit just then to his reporter admirer, and
it was characteristic of him that, as he spoke,
he thought of that flamboyant young man.
Easily and clearly lie spoke of liis steward-
ship. He was not boastful, but his success
made his matter-of-fact statements more
glowing than the wildest, boasts.
It was evident quite soon that he had
already drawn the wavering back to his
side. ' Not that he cared particularly. Let
them waver and be damned to them. He
was conscious of amazing power. He
found himself wishing for greater odds
against him. And then he turned to his
debated actions. For just one moment it
seemed that his voice was becoming harder,
louder. But it quickly dropped again to
its wonted hard coldness, though each word
was increasingly sharp and telling.
He thanked them for their criticism, only
deploring, a little sa’vagely, the deprecatory
attitude of some of them. No worth-while
thing had yet been done, he observed, with-
out arousing opposition, and usually the
measure of the thing’s worth was the amount
of criticism it provoked. And then he
lashed them with cold, stinging words for the
weakness they had suggested, the weakness
they would have had him show. He jeered at
minds that could be swayed in common with
the most servile and ignorant and loutish
by the twaddle of a hack reporter; at the
spinelessness that could bend to that crass
idiocy, public opinion. He swept along to
liis forceful, logical ending, and then paused
and his eyes lifted again to the photograph
on the wall.
“Gentlemen,” he finished, Burton, Richard
Burton, I am, and I go my own way. There
is a certain justice or right that I answer for
to my own conscience, but after that what
man or tribe or world thinks of me I care
not the smallest tuppenny damn!”
A quiet and impressed meeting closed,
carrying the solution of its problem on to
the next day.
Burton, back in his own office, felt a glow
of contentment and satisfied strength. His
face, like his mind, was calm and untroubled.
Going back to the board-room for some for-
gotten papers lie found a few of the di rectors,
but. did not notice them. Before the photo-
graph stood the wife of Holmes and her ten-
year-old daughter, evidently newly come in
from waiting in the outer office. The child was
prattling to the laughing woman. Burton
gathered up the papers and returned silently
to his room.
Later Andrews, peeping through the half-
open door, saw him still at his desk. He
was slumped heavily in his chair and he
looked hopelessly weary. One hand ran aim-
lessly over his thin hair; his face was set
in stricken lines of doubt and dejection. All
the poise and confidence were gone. Depart-
ing softly, Andrews muttered to himself,
“By ghost, they’ve given the old man some-
thing to think about this time !” Never before
had Andrews seen a sign of human weakness
in the strong, silent man inside. And Bur-
ton had been so exceptionally Napoleonic
when facing his accusers.
Curiously enough, it was not of the meet-
ing just finished or that of the morrow that
Burton was thinking, as he sat there, huddled
in his big chair. Certain hideous words were
running through his mind to the exclusion of
all else. They had been uttered by a ton-
year-old child, staring wide-eyed at a big
photograph! “.... little fat man. mummy!
What a funny little, fat, baldheaded man !“
A. M. HASEN.
Pearl of Cathay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL pearls love blood and beautiful
women.
The young artillery officers going-
back to barracks in the small hours of the
night, after the hospitality of the pearlers,
saw always the light from Tooey Sing
Loong’s little tailor-shop streaming out
across the goat-track.
Moonfiower, Tooey’s wife, and Peach-blos-
som, their daughter, tottered out at times in
the cool of the sunset to take the breeze be-
neath the frangipanis. A delicate business
this, on their golden-lily feet.
As young Tooey, the son, grew in height
and breadth his mother determined to send
him home to China to receive an education.
Hence the household slaving at its tailor-
ing in the little corrugated-iron shop below
the goat-track all through the sun-seared
day and deep into the stifling tropic night.
Santiago Simplicitis, the Manila-man
diver of the Santa Cruz lugger, desired a
newer woman (she, by the way, being Marea
Annunciata, wife to liis cousin Ignacio).
He showed himself before her in flamboyant
shirts and sashes and suits of well-cut white-
ness from the little tailor-shop of Tooey Sing
Loong—and ran himself deep and deeper
into debt. In return Marea Annunciata
scoffed at his five feet of height, and danced
on the souls of men with blood-scarlet poin-
sianas aflame in the shades of her hair.
Desiring another new suit, and having no
money or credit to pay for it, he went to
Tooey and proffered him a pearl that he had
stolen from an old Sumatran lying drunk of
saki on a coral reef on the edge of an Outer
Isle, and besought him to hold it as security
for the suit till he could pay.
Now, one has to be careful about pearls:
that 1.8. P. Ordinance gives a man three
years’ gaol for even attempting to buy or
sell without a license.
Tooey agreed, reluctantly. He really knew
but little about pearls—was he not an honest,
hardworking little tailor here in his shop in
the shadow of the goat-track? A strange red-
ness in this pearl that rayed out like a rising
sun might detract from its value; yet it
seemed to him to be worth three suits of
duck well-tailored.
Shortly afterward Santiago was slam un-
der water in his diving-dress by a devil-fish,
and the pearl was never redeemed.
On the eve of young Tooey’s departure
for Pekin his mother gave it to him—that
and her blessing. His father gave him advice.
The Prince Yet Ming was august. He
visited at the Imperial palace. The Empress
had once slapped his face. His palace, set
like a gem high up in the Purple City, ranked
next in pomp and circumstance to that of
the Marquise Chang. Gold-flowering ter-
races encircled it—they reached to the great
wall itself. Within glowed dimly vast cham-
bers, once treasure stores of jades and gems
and ivories, and of all the splendor that the
East is heir to. But of late the Prince’s
ancestors had turned their faces from him.
Doubtless this was because lie had yielded
in a moment of weakness to this cursed civil-
isation and allowed his nephew to attend a
foreign-devil school. At any rate, unluck fol-
lowed him. His rice-junks were cast ashore in
a typhoon. His tea-plantations withered ; his
slaves died of an hour’s sickness. One by
one the treasures of his house had gone, till
now was left only enough to save his face.
This and the lady Blue Lotus, his daughter.
The annals of the family state that her eyes
shone grey, the strange grey of darkest gun-
powder ; iier brows arched like the crescent
moon ; her lips curved like a thread of scar-
let; her slender hands gleamed like the petals
or orange buds; her hair glowed back as
satin spun by mins at midnight. Assuredly
this was beauty !
Black Butterfly, maid to the lady Blue
Lotus, what more natural than that she should
descant to her mistress upon her cousin Tooey
Sing Loong the Younger, just arrived from
foreign parts to fulfil his education? Upon
his manliness, his high good looks and truly
amazing adventures —had he not sailed out
in a boat small as the lady’s pleasure craft,
with daffodil-golden sails, to the Isles of
Singing Sands beyond the Reef where grew
the beclie-de-mer approved as soup by the
Prince Yet Ming himself? There had he
not garnered pearls—one of such strange red-
ness as had never before been seen? Indeed,
a cousin to be talked of!
The lady Blue Lotus listened aloofly.
What else had she to do?
This for a week. Then, one rose-gold
sunset, she paced near the lake and beheld
him discoursing to Black Butterfly.
The lady sometimes stoops. The daughter
of the Prince permitted the Grand Adven-
turer from the little tailor-shop on the
goat-track to tell to her the wonders of
Torres Strait; of great pearls and penis:
blue seas and high skies; brown maids most
beautiful; silver ships and stars.
The Prince Yet Ming sent his Chamber-
lain to command his daughter to the
Presence. He was indeed august, en-
throned in an ebony chair. His finger-nails
were each a foot long, all sheathed in filigree
gold; his robes, dusk-blue, hemmed with
imperial purple, gleamed like a humming-
bird wing. His look was Jovian.
Indeed, most august.
The ladv Blue Lotus came, all lovely m
her Chinese robes, the garments of the ever-
young. Her head-dress of gold was studded
with jade and amber; her golden-lily feet
were set in two-inch slippers all aglow with
garnets.
The Prince dismissed the attendants.
“Sing,” he commanded his daughter.
“Of what, my father?”
“The song of the Manchu slave."
Taking her turquoise-gemmed lute she
touched the strings tremblingly and sang in
the high-pitched falsetto of her kind•
Make me noble, dread Ten Hau,
Kind to all, no creature harming;
Make me shv and straight and still.
But, I implore Thee, make me charming.
Make me shv and straight and still,
Docile make me, too, and dutiful;
Make me perfect, if you will,
But, 0 Dread Daemon, make me beautiful !
There was a silence. Blue Lotus knelt
humbly before the ebony throne. The
Prince’s fan of peacock feathers w r as the only
thing vital. And then the silence snapped.
“Take up thy tablets,” he commanded,
“and write: ‘To Tooey Sing Loong tlie
Younger, who lodges w’ith Li Wu the Gar-
dener outside the Wall. Come hither with
thy pearls which I would look upon, this
dusk fall, as the Red Star rises. I or my
slave Black Butterfly will await thee beside
the- bridge.' ” And so she wrote.
At dawn the next day the market-
gardeners going out to their markets found
the body of a young and unknown Chinaman
lying in the bamboo clump outside the city
gate. That w r as the end of a Grand Adven-
ture’ *
And the lady Blue Lotus was allied with
pomp and ceremony to the Prince-merchant
Man Fong. (Old and ape-ugly he, with one
tooth; but rich beyond a father’s fondest
dreams.) Not only for her beauty will she
be remembered in fable as the Pearl of
Cathay: did she not wear strung across her
lovely young brow’ beneath the marriage
crown a pearl, red, that rayed out like a
rising sun! A pearl that cast the bride-
groom’s settlements entirely in the shade !
So she saved the family face. A priceless
pearl, a dutiful daughter!
S. S. SEVERN.


12
t. :
m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
PCTCO
110
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. &, W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants,
120 Johnston Street, Fitjeroy, Melbourne.
SPRING STEELS OF
PROVEN QUALITY.
Breakdowns mean renewals and repairs. Guard against costly
stoppages by specifying
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
SPRING STEELS
They cost no more, but they give you better spring service.
Rough usage and severe conditions only serve to prove their
quality. “An Eagle on a Globe” Spring Steels will uphold
their reputation—be sure of that. Send just a trial order and
ask for our special postrfree booklet.
“Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
Sydney 379-381 Kent Street
Melbourne 342-348 Swanston Street
Newcastle Paul & Gray, .Ltd., Scott street
Brisbane ... John Keid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Adelaide ... Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Hobart R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager,
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed . think of
1 SCHUTE,
BELL&C°m.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The load
for
High Scores”
JOOldjOyft
u OVOldVdl
lL T/o/siu/u/afr w CI
cixroTi
qpsg«jxjr-6>*r
Hard Hitting
and
Uniform
Remington, Trap Load
WHEN the game season is closed, then
come the days of real competition —
at the traps. Clay bird shooting is a tonic for
the nerves—splendid training for the eye.
Patterns even, shot after shot, whether you
fire a few loads or several hundred.
Send for Trapshooting
rules and regulations
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
Eating carelessly frequently causes
stomach troubles, but careful eating
will never right them. When your
stomach is out of order, it needs help.
It must be thoroughly cleansed, settled
and strengthened.
Give Beecham’s Pills a chance of restoring
good order and you will again know the pleasures
of a sound digestion. Appetite will return and
the digestive organs again work without dis-
comfort. The eyes will clear, the complexion
will improve, the whole system will be toned
and strengthened—in fact, your altered con-
dition will cause your friends to remark “How
well you are looking."
Tn be healthy, \ do as the
healthy do—take
Sold in boxes, labelled
ls-lAd and 2s-9d.
(original English prices.)
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and liillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS——TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: B 62 1 76 (4 lines). SvnNF.Y FERRiES.JhanTKD.
w,
m
Announcing
The New Shield Type
Extra Air Device.
The Greatest of all
and Simplest.
“As great an improvement to
a Rolls as to a Ford.”
This new Pattern Extra Air and
Coasting Engine Brake, as illustra-
tion shows, is chockfull of good Points.
(1) It has no bewilderments.
(2) When open it gives an absolutely “full-way” air supply.
(3) When shut, it is so, and does not leak air.
(4) It can be fitted quite easily and in a very short space of time.
(5) When fitting there are no large holes or openings to be made.
(6) In position it is neat and quite an ornament to the dash.
(7) Although NOT sold at a fancy price IT IS THE BEST.
COMPLETE OUTFIT, comprising Shield and Air Cock,
with Dash Lever, 4ft. Hose, 2 Clips and Manifold
Elbow . . . . . . . . .. . . 307-
SPECIAL OUTFIT FOR DODGE * 35/-
SWANS LIMITED.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
/
3
TuT*
Cz


EQUIPPED
Over 50% of Motor Cars arriving in
Australia are equipped with the
£xt&e
Starting and
Lighting
Battery
me
the Most Popular Cars in the World.
This is sufficient reason why
you should specify j£xisC
QUALITY IS REMEMBERED LONG
AFTER PRICE IS FORGOTTEN.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
QUEENSLAND Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane. ' _ M
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Me ourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington. _________
