

9
if
* "Mi *
mmmt
al l* ss
S-SS--;
ill 1
‘:r=r~.
$!!!;■ Sv
Hi"' l"
!V
1H \ .
P§
Pi
IJ.SiipHjl
mm
ft
TKRPfi-
iii m
*KS
II
ft
:«o
:• S
m
m
iHnht
lifi
m
HI
ll-
s
::UV
I
II
Bn^J
tnmm
31 h
•>.i. | . | .*A | . •..'.*>
c
S
Sv/.rvKr
iUlliaiiMwaHllwwnai
RESCM S
LAGER
&
DINNER ALE
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2307.
Thursday, May 1, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
ĵ
20/40-h.p. 6-cyl. Model
THE MASTERPIECE OF 1924.
Infinite care has been given to every
detail in design and construction of
this new “Cottin-Desgouttes”; thus long,
efficient and eminently satisfactory service under all
conditions of usage in Australia is assured.
The engine is notable for its wonderful flow of power, with entire
absence of vibration at all speeds.
Brakes on all Four Wheels and Overhead Valves are two of the many features.
The 4-cylinder 15-20-h.p. model is similarly equipped.
Literature and Demonstration with Pleasure.
LAWRENCE MORTON <EL CO. PTY. LTD.,
Sole Concessionnaires for “Cottin-Desgouttes” in Australia,
353 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 'Phone, Cent, 2956.
SYDNEY AGENT: Walter H. Smyth, York Chambers, Market Street.
LYSAGHT
o R 0
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lys a ght ? s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
iipyiHiKi
iMi
life,
siaiauiaaa
\MMm
fc::
■SISISBSISI
EFFICIENT TRANSMISSION
is essential for every factory. Faulty belting means loss of
power and all its attendant troubles. With
Mangrovite Leather Belting
on the pulleys every ounce of energy generated by the
machines is available for service, and steady economy is the
order of the day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA : W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
enever you
think of
se& a~ Pillar Box
Onoto the Pen.
jyJM
'XfcZsz- -there is an Onoto
nib to suit your writing— ; a pen with just that breadth of point and
flexibility which suits the natural pressure of your hand.
The Nib is solid gold hardened to the right degree of fineness.
The point of Osmi-iridium—more costly thafi gold—ensures a life*
time’s wear. Choose a nib to suit your hand from your stationer.
OnotoihePen
- SELF-FILLING SAFETY MODEL
THOMAS DE LA RUE 4c CO.. LTD.. 110. BUNIiILL ROW. LONDON. E.C.I.
Representatives: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST LTD.,
Sydney Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.j.
j
Note the very fine quality of
grain and excellent finish of these
“ pipes with a pedigree.” They
emphasise satisfaction to smokers
everywhere.
SMade by Experts,
<gßg> Pipes are shaped by skilled
artisans in London, from the
finest Briar root obtainable.
Thoroughly seasoned and matur-
ed, every pipe is faultless —sure
of appreciation by the most
critical smoker.
All
shapes
now
m
znape
No. 4159
Choose your shape now.
Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
ftom Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins I/O.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
KOS
The Red Page
Reading
The best way to teach literature is to get
people to read it; the chief fault of its
teachers is that they make the thing that
should be read for its own sake seem un-
desirable from their description of it. The
most breezy novel can be made to sound like
a treatise on psychology; and verse that
ripples and laughs and sings may appear
like a textbook on relativity. Long, dreary
statements are made about this poet’s mes-
sage or that writer’s gospel, until the likely
reader is scared away or takes up the work
as a serious examination task, looking for
things that the author never intended him to
see. A poet has a message in that the
things which are vital to the man find expres-
sion in his work; but, after all, that mes-
sage is untranslatable. If the poet could
have said it in the dull and commonplace
prose which the teacher uses, it would never
have been said. He wrote in verse because
in verse, and in verse alone, he was able
to say what he wanted to say. If he should
use rare words, make obscure references or
employ some curious ancient or local idiom,
by all means let the verse be illuminated by
copious notes; but attempts to explain the
meaning, intention and manner are sheer
waste of time. Not only are they ridiculous
from the very nature pf the things explained,
hut they are injurious to the reader, shutting
him away from the real pleasure of read-
ing, and warping his view of all literary
effort.
Criticism is, of course, a fair thing,
though it is worth just the value of the
critic’s opinion and no more. When a Swin-
burne tells us what he thinks of Mrs.
Browning we give him full attention
because we know that he is a fine maker
of verse and definitely possesses an intimate
knowledge of the finest mechanism of literary
feeling; but when somebody signing himself,
say, P.Q.Z., writes a criticism in sounding
but rather tangled prose of the same lady’s
work, we have very fair ground for dismiss-
ing it as valueless. We have no proof that
P.Q.Z. can really read a line of verse with
understanding and sympathy; and until we
have that proof he is just P.Q.Z., a waster
of good printer’s ink. Very seldom does a
criticism of poetry contain one word or sug-
gestion that is really worth while, one honest
indication that the writer has got below the
surface —unless the criticism is written by a
poet who has handled verse with some
measure of success. The method of the
ordinary teacher is to offer a criticism of a
work by way of introduction to it, to
hammer into his pupils’ brains a number of
fixed ideas before the work is read. Not
only does he do this, but in doing it he
takes his lines of criticism ready-made from
people whom he regards as authorities; and
with the weight of the names of those
whose opinions he quotes challenges the
right of his pupils to anything like private
judgment.
The first real qualification of the teacher
of literature must be the ability to read
with skill and sympathy; the second the
imagination to put himself in the pupil’s
place and think out the real method by
which a w r ork may be introduced attrac-
tively. To say that a certain book is one of
the greatest novels in English is to say
nothing; to read a couple of passages from
it that arrest and delight may be to say
everything. To talk about its message, its
teaching, its purpose is to throw dust on
its pages. Let the pupil reading it find
out all that for himself in the way the
author intended it to be found out. It is
very easy to spend so much time in discuss-
ing a work that no time is left for reading
it; and easily half the things laid down
dogmatically by the average teacher would
be instantly repudiated by the author. With
a free field and a little intelligent leading
most young men and women who have
reached the stage when they are expected to
study literature would read and enjoy the
best; but the trouble is that in so many
cases the teachers have themselves no honest
enthusiasm for the best. Reading is so
badly taught in our public schools —and
with the amplification of the new illiterate
method it grows worse every year—that the
real handicap of the literary student is his
inability to follow either prose or verse in
its natural rhythm. That fault the honest
teacher should set himself to remedy. It is
very little use talking about Keats to people
who cannot read a newspaper paragraph
With the intelligent pause and stress which
the phrases naturally convey; yet there are
many people of so-called education and a
veneer of culture who in a strict and literal
sense cannot read at all. Teach people to
read and let them read is the whole secret
of literary training. They will find what is
best for them; and what is best for the
best readers is the ultimate best. No chatter
of baseless critical opinion can alter that.
D.M.W.
A New “Nell Gwyn"
Lewis Melville’s “Nell Gwyn” is more than
acceptable. The tendency of the fictionist
has been to glorify the generous, tender-
hearted, coarse-mouthed minx who sold
oranges and then herself. The cold historian
has been inclined to neglect her endearing
characteristics. Melville has avoided the
faults of both. He shows that she was the
least rapacious, mercenary, unfaithful and
faithless of all Charles’s horde of women.
His appreciation of Nell may be really a
string of negatives, but he does her more ser-
vice than the flattering dramatist and novel-
ist. That he can bring home to us the.
humanness of the woman, while dispelling
the chimera which has gathered #ize with
the passage of years, proves how well he has
performed his task.
He has gone to every conceivable source
to make his work authoritative. Material
for a biography of Nell is far from abundant,
and of the several accounts of her life none
was written by a person who knew her.
The standard work has been Peter Cunning-
ham’s, published in 1851, re-issued in 1802
and again in 1903. The last edition was
considerably improved by the research of its
editor, Gordon Goodwin, who added much
new material. Cecil Chesterton also pro-
duced a “Story of Nell Gwyn.” But it is
not on these modems that Melville relies. No
stone is too small or too large for the literary
Bucyrus to grope under. Diarists, poets,
dramatists, historians, even the lampooners
are dragged from their earthy mould to the
light of the twentieth-century day, to be
either rejected as worthless or retained for
historical value. Every little by-way beloved
of the fictionists he explores, and allows his
reader to judge whether his version or theirs
is correct.
Of her contemporaries, Burnet and Evelyn
wrote harshly of Nell. Burnet styled her
“the indiscreetest and wildest creature that
ever was in Court.” But Burnet was
a bishop, and would not temper his judg-
ment of such a woman with charity. Roches-
ter and Sir George Etherege lampooned her
vilely and obscenely, but both were re-
jected lovers. Pepys was more lenient, and
often turned a pretty compliment for her.
This is the Nell of Melville:—
A very pretty wench Nell Gwyn must have been—
beautiful she never was. She had an exquisite, rather
full figure, and was short in stature; she had reddish-
brown hair and delightful, twinkling eyes that
almost closed when she smiled ; the tiniest feet pos-
sible and the smallest hands. She had an immense
vitality and a robustious Cockney humor. These
qualities, together with her invariable good temper
and merry fooling, made her a delight to the gallants
of the day.
Neither the identity of her father nor her
birthplace has been established. Her mother
was a woman of ill-repute. Nell herself
was entirely unschooled, and at 12, accord-
ing to her own account given to Pepys, was
employed as a waitress or housemaid in a
brothel; “but,” adds Melville, “it would be
a bold person who would say that this pretty,
saucy child did not, in the circumstances,
serve its patrons in other ways, her extreme
youth notwithstanding.” She sold oranges
near the - theatres, and at 14 went on the
stage. At the same age she attracted the
attentions of a city merchant. He probably
was not the first of Nell’s lovers. We know
that he was not by a score or more the
last. Climbing step by step, she at last
won the easily-gaine'd affections of Charles,
and in 1668 he made her his mistress. “It
is unlikely,” says Melville, “that Charles
intended at first to add Nell Gwyn to what
he called his permanent harem. He pro-
bably sent for her merely to amuse himself
for the moment. Nell’s charm, however,
duly impressed itself on him, and she was
installed by him in apartments in Lincoln’s
Inn Fields.” It was typical of her wit and
frankness that she called him her Charles
the Third, since she had been kept previously
by the actor Charles Hart and by Charles
Lord Buckhurst.
On May 8, 1670, the first son of Charles
and Nell w r as born, and after several years
the King made him Duke of St. Albans. The
boy was betrothed by Charles to the only
daughter of Aubrey, 20th Earl of Oxford,
of the De Vere line. The marriage took
place in 1694 and produced eight children.
Melville painstakingly traces the St. Albans
succession to the present Duke, the 11th.
Although the illustrious founder of this line
had to share Charles’s favors with many
others, it is conceded by her latest biographer
that she remained faithful to her monarch
for the 17 years of their liaison; and When
Charles died in 1685 she mourned one for
whom she had “a very sincere affection.”
She herself lived only to November 13, 1687,
when, at the age of 36, she passed away,
according to all evidence repentant of the
past. She was buried in the parish church
of St. Martin’s-in-tlie-Fields, the service
being taken by the then vicar, Dr. Thomas
Tenison, afterwards Archbishop of Canter-
bury.
Melville gives incidental pictures of
Charles’s other mistresses —the vicious,
ravenous, imperious Barbara Villiers, my
Lady Castlemaine; the haughty and hated
Louise de Keroualle, Duchess of Portsmouth ;
the soulless Hortense Mancini; the Duchess
Mazarin ; and many lesser lights. He tells
a little of the intrigue of Court and State,
and of the corruption of the public life of
this most vicious period in English history.
It all seems incredible to-day when the
Divine Right of Kings is so far past that they
may not only not govern wrong, they may
not live flagrantly wrong. Democracy de-
mands that they shall give themselves up
very thoroughly to their job. To-day the
heir to the throne may not even be a reck-
less horseman. Yesterday he might be the
plaything of one orange-girl or of a dozen.
WILL VERNON.
As Hergesheimer Sees It
For several reasons Joseph Hergesheimer
seems to me to stand right out from the
ruck of contemporary novelists. It is not
merely that he can tell a story, or that he
has an exceptional vocabulary and a subtle
power of analysis, though he has all that.
He differs from other novelists, both British
and American, in being absolutely devoid
of humbug or hypocrisy in his attitude to
life and social conventions. His two really
great novels, “The Three Black Pennys” and
“Cytherea” (the latter only out this year),
are photographic studies, not the less con-
vincing as portraits because they are woven
through and edged round with the colors of
romance.
To get a proper understanding of Herges-
heimer’s art and of his fearless outlook you
want to compare him with any other popular
(or unpopular) writer. Take Hutchinson’s
“If Winter Comes” and place it alongside
“Cytherea.” In the Englishman’s story
there is a lot of clever writing, and up to a
certain point—always up to a certain point
—the character-study is well done. You get
the fact that Mark Sabre is temperamentally
alien to his wife; he is a young man with
a long journey to go. The fact is not dis-
guised that his affections have strayed—
even British Philistinism will admit this is
possible without moral depravity—-to the fas-
cinating Lady Tybar. It is a time of war,
and Mark Sabre is in the war. But even
in the midst of a world’s upheaval your
(Continued on page S.)


n
There’s Satisfaction in the
at ANTHONY
Purchase of Firearms
HORDERNS’
To make an exhaustive comparison of
values in Firearms would be something
of a task. To purchase your requirements
at Anthony Horderns’ is pleasant and
easy —and to undertake the former would
inevitably lead you to doing the latter.
YT 45.
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12-g.
Top I/ever D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, Treble
Bolted Action on the Cross
Bolt principle, Steel Barrels,
both Choke Bore, (right
modified, left full), high fiat
dead level File-cut Rib,
good Steel Bar Rebounding
Locks, well-grown Walnut
Heart Stock, Half-Pistol
Grip, Deeley-Edge Fore-end
Fastener. Specially built
for heavy charges, proved
for Nitro Powders, cham-
bered for 2fin. Cartridges.
Price £l4
As above, 32in. barrels.
Price .... £l4/10/-
As above, 32in. Damascus bar-
rels.
Price £l(5
YT 557.
Wood Decoy Ducks and
Drakes painted in Natu-
ral Colors, lifelike in ap-
pearance.
Price •
10/6 each.
YT 35.
Winchester Hammerless Repeating Shot Gun, Model 1912,
12-gauge, 16-gauge, and 20-gauge, take-down, full choke, Nickel Steel
barrel and breech, 6 shots. Price * £l3
YT 106.
Westley Richards Hammerless Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrels, finely bored, Left
Choke, fitted with Westley Richards celebrated Detachable Locks, Automatic Rocker Top
Safety, Double Bolt and Projection, Solid Joint Pin, Deeley-Edge Fore-end Bolt, Plain Hollow
Rib, neat line border engraving, straight hand, chequered Walnut Stock and Fore-end,
chequered Horn Heel-plate, Silver Crest Plate. Shooting guaranteed, well balanced, weight
to 71b. Named “Westley Richards & Co.” on barrels. 12gauge. Price £45
YT 556.
Duck Calls.
Price, 3/- ea.
Detachable Locks and Hinged Cover Plate.
Lock being detached.
YT 426.
Leather Cartridge Belt, 2 jin.
wide, with Steel Clips Copper
Riveted, Leather Straps at bottom,
12-g., to hold 25 cartridges.
Price 17/6
We Specialise in Restocking Guns.
Best Quality Material and Workmanship.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Any Finish can be supplied to suit grade of Gun.
Send old Stock and we will quote for new one.
H 61.
VVebley & Scott
5.8.8.1 i. Sopii-
Hammer!« \s
Ejector Gun.
30in. Special Steel
Barrel, Choke Bored,
Top Lever Action,
Nitro Proved, Walnut
Stock, Half Pistol
Grip, Splendidly
Balanced, English
made throughout.
Weight about 61b.
Price .. £6/5/-
mmmm
YT 111.
Strong; Canvas Game
Bao with Loop runners and
Strong Web Sling, IS s 16
inches.
Prirp 125 / d
With Net (as illustrated).
Price 17/6
Leather lined, with Flap and
Net—
IS x 16 inches.. 47/6
22 xlB inches.. 60/-
The New B.S.A. 12-bore Hammerless Pigeon Gun, chambered lor
2 J-inch Cartridges, 30in. Jessop’s Fluid Compressed Steel Barrels, Right
Modified, Left Full Choke (or both full choke), Anson and Deeley Type Action,
Action Parts of Chrome Vanadium Steel, Nickel Steel Body, Top Lever Auto-
matic Safety Snap on Fore-end. Proved for heavy charges of Nitro Powder.
Weight about 71b. Price £l4/14/-
YT 36.
Winchester Self-loading Shot Gun,
Will handle 2}in. 12-gauge Cartridge,
operated 6-shoot Repeater, firing 5 shots
seconds ; takes apart for carrying. The Barrel, Receiver and all working
of Nickel Steel. Perfect balance; weight about 81b:; Solid Walnut Stock.
Model 1911.
It is a recoil-
in less than 5
parts are made
Price, £l5
REPAIRS.
We undertake repairs of all
kinds to any make of Gun,
Rifle or Revolver. New barrels
and other parts fitted to Rifles;
Sights fitted and adjusted.
ty
■*
Bley’s Grand Prix Cartridges, l2-g., io-g., 20-g.
Price "180/- 1000; 20/- 100
Kiev’s Diamond Smokeless Gaslight, 23in„ 12-g.
Price 275/- 1000 ; 30/- 100
Remington “Arrow” Wetproof, 2|in„ 12-g.
Price .... 275/- 1000 ; 30/- 100
W. W. Greener’s 12-g. D.8.8.L. Hammer-
less Pigeon Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrels,
Treble Wedge Fast Action, Independent Side Safety.
Full Choke in Both Barrels, Ohambeted for 2:'{in.
Cartridges, Engine-turned Rib, Walnut Stock.
Pi'ice £2*s
Brown Canvas Gun Cases—
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, 30in. barrels.
Price 52/6
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, with Heavy Brass
Corners. Price '.. 55/-
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, Leather-bound Ends
and Lid. Price 58/6
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, Leather-bound Ends
and Lid, with Heavy Brass Corners. Price 65/-
Leather Gun Cases—
Fine-quality Basil, Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock.
Price 75/-
Grained Cowhide, Lined with Cloth, Nut Color, Spring
Lock. Price £4/10/-
Orained Cowhide. Lined with Cloth, Nut Color, Spring
Lock, Heavy Brass Corners. Price £5
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


9
LINDCMA
M
QLAQ.tr
Li ixlcnmns
"wines
Slogan
Competition
UNOEVAN
m
poer
500
PRIZES
VALUE
€350
Just a"slogan”-~- less than seven words—and you are
entered for this chance for one of 500 prizes. There
is also this consideration-—Which is the finest wine ?
Which is the best value ? Lindeman’s Wines is the
answer. This firm is close on a century old. All the
knowledge and experience in the Australian Wine
industry is theirs. The proved best brains, then and
now, decide on the vintages good enough to be label-
led"Lindeman” Wines, with the result that when you
see the name "Lindeman,” it is a guarantee of the
best and finest wine procurable for the money.
FIRST
PRIZE
00
Make your test, and at the same time enter the "slogan” Competition. You will reap
your reward both ways —in appreciation of the delicate bouquet and exquisite flavour
of the wine and in pleasurable anticipation of a rich reward for a moment’s thought.
On every bottle of Lindeman’s Wine a red coupon is attached. All you have to do is to think of a slogan
—a short sentence of not more than seven words, such as''The Vine’s Greatest Gift,” "The Wine of Life,”
"Every Meal a Banquet”—aptly describing Lindeman’s Wines and attach it to a sheet of paper or entry form
with your name and address, and the name and address of the Retailer from whom you purchased the wine.
Conditions :
(a) Each entry must be accompanied by the red
coupon detached from a bottle of Lindeman’sWine.
Entries should not exceed seven words.
(b) Entries should be written on entry form or on
one side of a sheet of paper and the coupon stuck
on the same side. On the reverse side the name and
address of the sender must be stated together with
the name and address of the retailer from whom
the wine was purchased.
(c) The list of principal prize winners will be pub-
lished in the Herald, the Sun and the Evening News
on the 9th June. All entries will be judged by a
disinterested Committee appointed by Advertising
Managers of leading Newspapers, whose decision
must be accepted as final
(d) No correspondence can be entered into regard-
ing this competition.
(e) Lindeman’s Ltd. reserve the right to publish
any slogans submitted if they so desire.
(f) All entries must be addressed to''Competition”
Lindeman Ltd., Queen Victoria Buildings, Sydney,
and received before noon of May 22nd, 1924.
(g) No Lindeman employee will be.alio wed to enter
under any circumstances whatsoever.
(h) 500 Prizes to the total value of about £350 will
be awarded in the following manner:
Ist Prize .
2nd Prize .
3rd Prize .
4th Prize .
sth to 10th Prize
11th to 50th Prizes-
-s.lst to 500th Prizes-
£loo 0
. . 25 0
12 10
7 10
5 0
One Case Lindeman’s Wine
One Bottle Lindeman’s Wine
0
0
0
0
0
For the time being this Competition is reserved to New South Wales,
Lindeman
limited „ T
Queen Victoria Buildings,Sydney.


am
Australian-made Weighers.
n
1 Sl'E
- “i iiHl
\ :
m
Please communicate with our
nearest branch Sho'wroom.
'T’HIS " Asco ” Portable Platform Weigher is
A as familiar a friend in Australian City Ware-
houses and Stores as it is outback on the Wheat-
farms and Stations. Its rugged build gives it
a constitution that stands up to heavy work
under severest conditions; while its consistent
and minute accuracy make it the most satisfactory
and safe Platform weigher for the City Store.
Capacity 11 cwt. by lb. and 4-oz. divisions.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
217-219 THOMAS STREET HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
BRAMCJ4ES
Asco Ad. 133
3? BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE
132--9 CURRIE STREET
AD ELAIDE
59 CUBA STREET
WELLINGTON. NZ.
2SS-7 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
389 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
26 DURHAM STREET
AUCKLAND. N 2.
typical British novelist cannot take the risk
of letting his hero break the Seventh ( om-
mandment. If he did the whole character
of the book and the respectable vogue of the
writer would be gone. , ,
Of course, there is a type of British novel-
ist who does make his or her characters
flout the social law. But that sort of novel-
ist can only rely on a success of scandal,
lie or she will be read, but read under the
lap : there will be no praise from the pulpit,
no open commendation from anybody _ who
is anybody. A shrewd head like Hutchinson
gets to know his public; he understands
what middle-class literary tastes and pre-
judices are. He may or may not have con-
victions of his own: but his chief character
has to do nothing but what would be ap-
proved in Sunday-school and drawing-room.
A British novelist who faced the facts of
life as Hergesheimer faces them would be
called either a realist or a decadent. A ice
people in England (or people who want to
be considered nice) would not recommend
him, and he would have no chance at all
of a circulation of half a million,
American fiction has conventions of its
own, apart from those affecting morals.
Almost every storywriter, British or Ameri-
can, juggles with tricks of one sort or an-
other. There is scarcely a living novelist
who does not give you the impression that
he is playing to the gallery, watching it
anxiously to see whether it is going to ap-
plaud or whether it has had enough. Ninety
per cent, of current fiction is machine-made.
Grown-up people have only a_ limited time
for it, because in so far as it is realistic
it is inclined to be repellent, and when it
is romantic it is usually unconvincing. Her-
gesheimer’s books make interesting reading
for thinking people because they are studies
of men and women who are working out in
their: lives the big problems of the day.
They are not wax dolls or straw-stuffed
heroes; the men are very like you and me in
externals, and the women are much like
what we imagine the better-class women of
Melbourne and Sydney would be if they
cared to express themselves.
It may be that Hergesheimer’s birth and
upbringing have made him more clear-sighted
and less hypocritical than most people. Born
in Philadelphia in February, 1880, he is of
Nonconformist parentage. He was sent as
a boy to a Quaker school. The Bible
and the strap and the _ traditions of witch-
burning were in the air that lie breathed.
The result was to waken his critical faculty
early, to make him wonder what all the
repression and suppression meant, and
whether it was really worth while. About
the time he reached manhood he seems to
have decided it was not. Ilis first novel of
consequence, ‘'The Lay Anthony,” came out
in 1914. Neither in that ibook _ nor in
“Mountain Blood,” which followed it, is he
much above the ordinary run of American
melodramatists. But in “The Three Black
Pennys” (1917) he finds his feet. This book
strikes a new note in American fiction. _ It
is a brilliant study of types: it is realism
lit by the finest romance; and it is no more
concerned with what has gone before than
it is alarmed by what places like Boston and
Philadelphia may think. There are three
generations of Pennys, and each member of
the family stands out as distinctly as a
piece of marble. Yet you feel that the man
who was worth all the others was the
“black” Howat Penny, the man who dared
most at the outset—-and dared especially to
be himself.
In “Cytherea” the searchlight is turned on
Lee Random who at 47 finds himself respect-
ably married with two pleasant children and
a good-looking wife of whom Caesar himself
could have had no suspicion. It looks as
if Random like so many millions of middle-
class householders, is anchored for life, and
that stodge is his certain destiny for what-
ever years remain. But Hergesheimer takes
this very ordinary material and makes a
dazzling romance out of it, not by inventing
unlikely situations, but by following tem-
perament to its legitimate end. It is a
triumph of the. sincere over the insincere,
and it is Hergesheimer s way.
A.J.B.
The Salesman as an Artist
I want to claim for the salesman at least
a modest place among the artists. Perhaps
the artists won't like to admit him. but they
should at least, listen to his claims. We
have so often heard it said that art consists
in self-expression that few of us remain to
doubt it. It. is true that some persist in
considering the artist as a slightly glorified
but somewhat inferior machine; but most
sane judgment considers art. as a creative
force which springs primarily from the self-
expression of the artist; and if these be the
chief elements of art. then the salesman is
an artist.
It is unfortunate that so many people have
accepted the utterly unreasonable view that
an artist must of necessity be a dreamy, un-
practical and improvident person, a fit sub-
ject for the scorn of the community during
his life and for its pity after his death. It
is also a misfortune that the Philistines have
duped the general public into believing that
art is incompatible with respectability, and
is removed too far from the lives of the many
to be within their ken. Not only has the
general public been duped, but the artists
(who are part of it.) have been duped as
well; and we find them contending that they
are beings apart, and that only the select few
can understand them or their work. It. is to
be expected, therefore, that my suggestion
to class the salesman with the artist will
arouse the derision of the doctrinaires of
iestheticism, and will make the salesman look
askance at himself.
But let it be taken for granted that a
work, to be classed as art, must be a crea-
tive force. Is not salesmanship a creative
force? Art creates new thoughts, new de-
sires. new viewpoints, and new modes for
satisfying the thought-life and desires that
are already known to man. Now. salesman-
ship does all these things. The salesman
creates new thought. He comes to the
man who has settled into an accustomed
mode of life and stirs up the latent men-
tality. sets it to working along lines that are
ouite new. implants a vision of something
the man luisr never dreamed before, gives 'That
vision all the vivid color of reality, gives it
a compelling appeal, and fans that thought
into a living flame. The salesmah creates
new desires. He comes to the easily con-
tented and shows them that their content-
ment is based upon an utterly unworthy
reality. He reveals a need of which they
were not conscious before. He suggests a
means of filling that need, contrasts the
present state with the state that will ensue,
gives the picture all the alluring power of a
dream about to be fulfilled, and, if he be a
successful salesman, keeps that desire alive
and feeds it until it clamors for satisfac-
tion. The salesman creates new view-
points. A competent salesman can alter a
person's entire attitude towards life, can
reveal unto him new methods of doing the
work that is his, new and delightful means
of filling the hours of leisure that he enjoys,
and can point to unthought-of modes of
pleasure and to plans of attack upon life and
its problems that had never occurred to him
before. The salesman can and does give
life new meaning, new zest. The salesman
is just as truly creative as the artist, and he
works in a medium more direct.
The other predominant element of art is
the self-expression of the artist, and a sales-
man is successful only through self-expres-
sion. No art depends so utterly upon the
expression of the personality of the artist
as does salesmanship depend upon the ex-
pression of the personality of the salesman.
The artist aims, by expressing himself, to
impress others. The salesman must impress
others, and can do it only by expressing
himself. And to do that he must first of all
know himself thoroughly. Not only must
he study his subject-matter (his goods) : he
must study himself, and bring as much as
possible of himself to bear upon the task
before him. Just as a rural vista is not a
work of art until the artist has given it the
touch of his own personality, so the goods
will not sell themselves, but require the
touch of the salesman’s personality. The
salesman takes his goods as his subject-
matter, adds the expression of his own being,
and- thus creates thoughts and desires, view-
points and brave purposes. Art can claim
to do no more. Much of it does less.
Discussions are always raging as to the
purpose of art, and artists in general seem
very inclined to feel that they have a far
more Heaven-sent mission than any othpr
class of people. But they are never able
to agree as to what that mission is. The
one thing that they do agree to is what it
isn’t. Artists are quite eager to assure all
of us that their mission is not to make
money. They are. unanimous upon that
point" They are also unanimous in their
silent attempts to make it, and occasionally,
we find them complaining of their poor pay.
In plain truth about the only difference
between the two is that the salesman is not
nqarly so overcome by his own importance
as is the artist. Good salesmen do their
work for the love of doing it, for the joy of
expression, and to satisfy their craving for
creation, just as good artists do. The artist,
having done it, and having accepted his pay,
commences to talk about art’s high pur-
pose, and to surround his work with a halo
of very fleeting light. The salesman, having
done his work, accepts his pay as his due
and does not bother the public with any
frantic arguments about the purpose of his
art. Therefore the salesman has a greater
claim to the title of artist than has the
worker in most other mediums, for his crea-
tive work is more spontaneous, more free
from the impediment of a difficult pose.
The salesman’s creative work is making
the homes of the land more beautiful. It is
turning ugly shops into beauty spots. It.
is transforming the 'dinner-tables of the
nation, giving the glow of vision to the
mind of the drudge, and teaching the common-
place woman to at least be colorful. The
salesman is an artist. All that he lacks is
the misery of martyrdom.
LESTER WAY.
Ancient Diseases
“C.McL.” returns to his corpses:—
Please let me add a little to “R.W.’s” article
(R.P., 16/4/’24), because he evidently knows a
great deal of what he is writing about. The best
and most sympathetic description of ancient epi-
demics that I know is in Dr. Raymond Crawfurd’s
book “Plague and Pestilence in Art and Literature.”
I also read up Thucydides—not, I am ashamed to
say, in the Greek, but in Professor C. Foster Smith’s
translation. Although exact identification is not
possible, yet the plague of Athens showed more of
the symptoms of typhus than of any other known
disease, including the spots, the extraordinary de-
pression, the comparatively cool skin, the crisis, the
dropping off of fingers, toes and genitals—due to
failing circulation —at the time that the patient
seemed to be recovering, and the burning internal
heat that caused many men to leap from their beds
in delirium and plunge into tanks of water. The
symptoms suggesting pneumonia or influenza might
be easily explained by supposing that there was
actually a concurrent pneumonia with the typhus;
and similarly the persistent vomiting might be ex-
plained easily enough. But my own experience of
typhus is small, as to-day it is the rarest of diseases
except in war ; and I rely upon both Dr. Crawfurd
and the American Professor Foster Smith for the
diagnosis. I understand that the doctors in the late
epidemic in the Balkans noticed all the symptoms
described by Thucydides.
The next recorded, and possibly the most import-
ant, of great epidemics occurred in the time of the
Antonines, and, to my mind, was probably a real
contributing cause of the fall of the Roman Empire.
The trouble about it from the point of view of a
modern doctor is that Galen, who should have
stayed to fight the thing, ran away from it. Craw-
furd gives a full description of Galen’s flight, and
how whithersoever he went the disease pursued him,
until at length the co-Emperors, Marcus and Verus,
peremptorily summoned him to their side at
Aquileia. While the terrified Galen was on the
wing he seems to have amused himself by writing
a description of the disease, mainly taken second-
hand from Thucydides; and that is probably the
cause of the modern differences of opinion about it.
Indeed, the Thucydides description was so moving
and graphic that even down till the Black Death
many historians seem to have taken it as describing
their own contemporary epidemics. Friedlander, in
his monumental “Roman Life and Manners under
the Early Empire,” states that the plague of the
Antonines was “petechial typhus”— i.e., what we
now call typhus fever as distinct from typhoid. And
Dr. Crawford, while discussing whether it might not
have been the bubonic plague, considers that the
likelihood- is that, spreading as it did over the
whole insanitary Roman world, and over many years,
it represented at different times typhus and
small*pox, and perhaps occasionally a tinge of bubonic
plague. The whole world was incarnate filth. But,
after all, Galen having run, there must of necessity
be a good deal of speculation in the matter.
But I do not at all agree with “R.W.” that the
first description of the bubonic plague s —the most ter-
rible potentially of the lot —was by Avicenna in the
tenth century. No doctor can read Gibbon’s some-
what excitable description of the plague of Jus-
tinian in 542 without at once recognising it as
bubonic plague. And he took his description from
Procopius, whom he hesitantly calls a doctor, though
probably Procopius was really a lawyer. At any
rate, Theodora forced him to face the thing like a
man, and he has left us an exceedingly acute descrip-
tion of it, even to the known fact that plague
always begins at the seashore and spreads inland.
Possibly his slanders on Theodora were by way of
revenge.
“R.W.’s” speculation that possibly man has
evolved fresh parasites during historical times, so
that some diseases may have become extinct, while
interesting and possible, is still, as “R.W.” himself
will be the first to admit, only a speculation which
can never be proved. Although it is not, strictly
speaking, possible absolutely to identify these ancient
epidemics, because some doctor will be impressed
by one special symptom, another by another, while
the ancient ideas have to be translated into terms
of modern scientific thought, still the mere effort
of speculation is intensely interesting, and I thank
“R.W.” for joining with me in the attempt to resus-
citate the “dead old world that trembled at Caesar’s
nod.” There is room for honest difference of opinion.
Somebody ought to write an epic about the con-
tinual fight of man against nature, in the guise of
epidemic disease. It would be a nobler epic than
either the Iliad or Paradise Lost.
A Satchel of Books
The Roughneck, by Robert W. Service (Fisher
Unwin). Wearisome romance of the South Seas
by a writer who has evidently borrowed his char-
acters, plot and local color from the movies. Service
should stick to the Canada he knows, and about
which he has written much more pleasantly.
State Experiments in Australia and M.L., by W.
P. Reeves (Allen and Unwin). This important
work was first published in 1902. It is a reliable
guide book, not only to the adventures in Socialism
that have been undertaken in this part of the
world, but to the political history of Australia and
M.L. during the past 75 years.
Thirty Years at Bow-street Police-court, by W. T.
Ewens (Werner Laurie). Ewens is the senior
reporter at London’s “central clearing house of
crime.” For three decades he has seen, studied and
noted all the most notorious, interesting and pictur-
esque prisoners who have passed into the Bow-
street dock, most of them going thence to gaol
and not a few to the scaffold. Four to whom he
gives a deal of space are Jabez Balfour, Horatio
Bottomlev. Roger Casement and Oscar Wilde. The
last-named genius impressed him as the “most un-
comfortable prisoner that Bow-street ever saw....
Day after day he stood looking neither to right
nor left, his great luminous eyes fixed on the magis-
trate. Apparently- he was suffering physical pain,
as well as mental torture, and he uttered many
subdued vroans as uneasily he changed his position
from time to time.”
Robert Owen, a Biography, by Frank Padmore
(Allen and Unwin). This is a reprint of the life of
England’s first articulate socialist, originally pub-
lished 18 years ago. Owen, a wealthy cotton-spinner,
was faced by an England very like the England of
to-day. A great war was just over ; the labor market
was flooded with unskilled ex-soldiers, and rival
industries overseas were cutting into her behind
tariff walls. Wages declined by half in many
countries between 1815 and 1817, while the poor-
rates doubled and corn went from 635. to 945. a
quarter. Owen’s “New Harmony” experiment, the
early co-operative movement, and his work on behalf
of the trade-union movement are dealt with fully
in this book. His adoption of spiritualism in his
old age and his death as a remittance-man are
treated with a reverence that is wanting from some
of the continental biographies.
4
Judging by the number of items sub-
mitted at the recent New York sale of Conrad MSS.,
230 in all, Mrs. Conrad must have been very careful
with her broom, and have treasured every scrap of
paper that bore her husband’s neat ealigraphy. The
prices look amazing in dollars considering the fact
that the author is still pushing an indefatigable pen.
“Victory” topped the poll with 8100 dollars.
“Chance” brought 6600; “Almaver’s Folly ’ 5300 ;
and “The Nigger of the Narcissus” 4550. The grand
total was 110,998 dollars.
“A. R. Ward”: “C.McL.” in his article “Rome in
the early a.d.’s” (R.P. 10/4/’24) says: “Apuleius
describes the life of the Roman Empire with extra-
ordinary vividness. But where are the Christian
martyrs?... .Is it possible that the tales of the early
Christians and the martyrs were invented centuries
later? Undoubtedly this has been maintained, and
fierce contests over it have been waged. At any
rate, why does Apuleius seem to know nothing what-
ever about Christianity?” I merely draw “C.McL.s”
attention to the authentic correspondence between
Pliny —made Governor of Pontius and Bithynia a.d.
103 —and the Emperor Trajan.
“8.G.”: Peter Airey’s remark (R.P. 27/3/’24j
that “Mormonism has not really abandoned its
plurality of wives custom, but publicly professes to
have done so,” is only partially correct. Stuart
Martin, whose book Mr. Airey was reviewing, is evi-
dently unaware that there are two Mormon churches
in America, Australia and elsewhere. One, the
Church of Christ of Latter Day Saints, adheres tp
polygamy as preached and practised by Brigham
Young. The minority, who would not accept Young
as leader, continued in the creeds originally expounded
by Smith and “The Book of Mormon,” distinguish-
ing themselves from Young’s followers by prefixing
the word “Revised” to the unwieldy title. As such
they are still known. The polygamy idea is as
abhorrent to this section as to the most righteoiis
Anglican.
“F. Giles”: Why does G. C. Dixon (R.P.
10/4/’24> single out the morning papers for neglect
of Australian writers? Some of these organs
notably the Argus— -have printed Australian
serials and pay fair prices for outside worn,
whereas the evening Herald maintains its
modest percentage of news matter by lifting
articles bodily from overseas. Its original matter
generally amounts to a little literary comment, one
poem and two or three short sketches and articles
in the Saturday “Magazine Section,” for which
the writers are not extravagantly rewarded. On the
other hand, the Herald syndicates the prattle of
Dr. Crane: I have even traced some of its daily
jests under the title of “Who Told You That?”
the caption itself is an importation—back to New
York Puck. I have yet to learn that it has revealed
any partiality for Australian serials. Since Mr.
Dixon mentions Roy Bridges and Bernard Cronin
the fact that the latter is also on the Herald makes
my point piquant—l wonder whether they would
be received with brass bands if they entered the
Herald office with marketable serials under their
arms. I certainly have never seen their names ovqr
serials in the Fink ’Un.


f/
r
THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND THE TRANSMISSION OF POWER vi
a ■ .
Users of Goodyear Belts testily to
two things—service and savings
Two things are demanded of a belt—that
it shall deliver all its power (that there
shall not be slippage or stretch, which
means lost energy), and that it shall wear.
Goodyear Belts (often enough replacing
other brands which have failed to stand
the strain) are to-day in all classes of
plant—under the worst industrial con-
ditions—delivering astonishing service
and paying for themselves by prolonged
life and by economy in conserving power.
The point where conservation matters
most is on the main drive. Power lost
here is lost to the whole of the workings.
It is in such service that a Goodyear Belt
proves itself as a tremendous economy
factor. Such a belt is subjected to hard
service, delivering, as it does, power for
the entire plant; with varying demands
and often under the worst conditions.
Testimonials of users are enthusiastic on
both points of service and economy.
The problem of manufacturing a high-
grade belt such as a Goodyear is one of
providing ah inseparable yet elastic bond
between the plies which will permit of
the constant flexing and distortion inciden-
tal to running over pulleys without the
plies separating.
You have the right at any time to call for
the advice of the Goodyear Technical
Man, who will demonstrate how to adapt
your belts to the actual conditions of work.
His specialised knowledge and continuous
experience of results will assist you to
secure not only the maximum service in
belts and consequent economies of factory
operation, but will insure the effective
transmission of power, with its accom-
paniment of maximum output of machines
or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting
carries with it the acceptance of responsi-
bility for its satisfactory service and wear.
Consult us, also , with regard to your Conveyor and
Elevator Belting problems.
Distributors throughout Australia:
New South Wales: The Austral Engineering Supply Queensland: Hoey Fry, Ltd., 170 Edwards Street,
Co., Ltd., 490-492 Kent Street, Sydney. Brisbane.
Victoria: Hardware Co., of Australia, Ltd., 71-75 South Australia: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Richard’s
Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne. Building, Currie Street, Adelaide.
BELTING
HOSE
PACKING


Wi
§P
JSsS
MsSSSSm
wm
Siif
HI
m
*
~y. ".:■' ;
■
* -sykai
In 1905 two small one-cylinder Olds-
mobiles startled the world by suc-
cessfully crossing the 3000 miles of
mountain, plain and desert between
the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans,
proving the practicability of motor
transportation. The trip required
forty-four days. The owner of a
modern Oldsmobile thinks nothing
©f covering great distances.
§M
si
OLD
Which
was the first
Motor Car?
The first motor car
to perform satisfactorily in the
hands of the average owner, the first
to be made in quantity, was the
Oldsmobile.
In 1887 the first Oldsmobile was built—
a tricycle on wooden wheels. In 1897 a
factory was built to produce Oldsmobiles
in quantity. Many of the old one-cylinder,
tiller - steered Oldsmobiles made then
are still in use—so sturdy was their
construction.
Today modern Oldsmobiles are used by
European royalty and prominent people in
every country.
Back of the makers of the modern Olds-
mobile stands General Motors—the largest
automotive organization in the world,
which makes five other famous motor vehi-
cles and also parts, accessories, and equip-
ment standard on nearly all automobiles.
Thus Oldsmobile benefits from financial
resources, manufacturing facilities, and
engineering talent many times greater than
a single company could command. There-
fore Oldsmobile carries a double assurance
of motoring satisfaction because it is a
“Product of General Motors.”
Further information regarding General Motors may be had by writing to
General Motors Export Company, South British Insurance Building,
Sydney, or to General Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick • Cadillac • Chevrolet • Oakland • Oldsmobile • GMC Trucks
New York . London . Paris . Copenhagen Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta . Shanghai . Yokohama . Honolulu
Sydney . Melbourne . Wellington . Constantinople Johannesburg . Mexico City . Rio de Janeiro . Buenos Aires


THE NEW BEALE
justifies of Possession
fWI
1 m
s**«ss*
LJ
PRIDE of possession is a condition of mind induced by ownership. A careful consideration of the vari-
ous merits of an article may sway our judgment into actually making a purchase, but pride of ownership
is kindled only by association —by actual contact —with constantly reviewed qualities whose appreciation is
more a matter of feeling than intellect.
The New Beale Player-Piano is an instrument that never fails to justify a high degree of pride in ownership.
It has superior constructional points which are very apparent. It possesses features that result in refined
performance. It has beauty of design and encasements of exquisite texture, steeped with the colour of genu-
ine, rare, cabinet woods. Yet intense as one’s first feeling of enthusiasm may be, appreciation of its real worth
as an interpretive instrument only comes from long association.
Intimate relationship reveals much that cannot be apparent during the first days of possession. Tone, for in-
stance. True, the intrinsic quality of tone is readily recognised immediately it is heard. But as a medium for
subtly and sympathetically interpreting one’s musical thoughts and aspirations it cannot be thoroughly
understood until so used. The velvety, sensitive action —permitting nuances as delicate and as expressive as
those of prominent concert artists—appreciation of this is something that companionship only can bring.
The freedom that results from having, in such a superb piano, a wondrous technique of limitless range and
artistry—this, too, is a matter for actual experience.
The New Beale is essentially an instrument for the man who is not satisfied with a passionless parody of the mighty
themes the masters have wrought. It has made a wide circle of friends amongst concert artists themselves—men like
Messrs. Lindley Evans, Frank Hutchens, Arthur Benjamin, Fossati, Foote, A.R.C.M., who have heartily endorsed it as
an instrument with distinct concert attributes.
To the man who will impartially investigate, the New Beale is an education in fine craftsmanship. In the selection of raw
material; in the precision methods used in the production of the more delicate parts ; in the finish of details usually
considered unimportant, it stands a worthy piece of work that will justify pride in possession for a generation.
The New Beale is sold on a generous plan that brings it within reach of even modest incomes.
"Silent” pianos are accepted in part payment and terms arranged to suit individual cases.
B E ALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms: 340 (jeorge Street, Sydney.
Head Office and Factories: 41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BRANCHES : New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburb*.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maple>, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville and Mackay.
DN— if *4


Cutkura Heals Rashes
Bathe with plenty of Cuticura Soap
and hot water to cleanse and purify.
Dry lightly and apply Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal.
Soap 1 s.,Talcum 1 s. 3 d.,Ointment 1 s.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
AMERICAN
FLASHLIGHTS
make Darkness
Safe
PORTABLE
CONVENIENT
ECONOMICAL
c Made in
O Many Styles
National Carbon Co., Inc,
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
ill
• NVA'.' 0 '
S;
HOKLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health aid strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICKTS daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Miik, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORUCK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
In 4 sizes ; of all ’
Chemists and
Stores.
Bft*; < .-Vl* -
■mi
■v
S 3
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
DR. ALLEN S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless-
Waterproof—Permanent I
All Chemists.
60 rs
British
arden Hose
JjrS S/'zlZ tfr2r'rcteZLccfTil Cfc/cil/fu*
cr/2.c)/oi2cr£ife',72ooZnc-rTn_cz£&.
n.<7s czv<z7> c{£fic& rcaC/i-c:ci zZs sZ^xiclc/j^cZ , cl HO
Z/ic pp/cz, &ho more; ,C3cin o£&&r meißj&s.
-■ *Ob>fcii rza L>l*? All Hapdwar»e §tor*es-
J'North British Buhher
1 Australasia " pty * * L ttJ
237 Sw&rtffon S- 122e/£>ourne
F, W. Williams & Co,, 41 Hunter Street, Sydney,
ĵ
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
CVn M rV DISTRIBUTORS FOR
OY T CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
S/eafJai
A
i
a
WRRCRE
NtTTWCIS&
fa 32
fclCf
Milk Pro
oA. safety 0 which guards
the housewife a£ain&
milk impurities, a safety 3
which ensures a nutritious
Creamy 0 Milk Supply.<'''o
The fadt Ota? they are
Lifeguard products is
your Guarantee of
Trotedtion •''D SZ)
WOLFFS eg)
1
m
m
* %
W ■ ' s I
3;. H, **>l^
V W'-OvS^?
MS
'*J>\
BRITISH
MADE
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT
•K6ISTCRII
fflACl MARK
Guaranteed.
life,
* • MmS ti
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
k. a ® , a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representative
Norman Halier &
60 York
.S •“*
Longhurst
Street. Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Beggar’s Bowl.
Homer and Milton blind
At the w'ayside singing!
Stranger, pause and be land!
It is time for flinging
A coin in the beggar’s bowd.
The people wdth eyes to see
Chatter and perish.
A blind man’s memory
Is good to cherish
With thought’s smallest dole.
Brave old blind men of song
And grander vision,
You hold us ail too long
In your derision.
Alms for the blind W'orld’s soul!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Lonely Rose.
Above the w'all there drooped a rose.
Ah, Loveliness, I thought, it Knows
That I its Fate may prove to be;
And so it reaches dowm to me
And w'hispers “Take me ere life goes!”
What passion in its dark heart glows!
Who drains its deeps forgets his woes,
But, wear it ne’er so tenderly,
’Twill fade and die,
And seek the land of flower-repose,
Like ev’ry other bud that blow's ;
For, careless of my ardent plea,
When its hour ends, all silently—
A luscious life, a fragrant close—
’Twill fade and die.
N.S.WL
MARJORIE QUINN.
The Answer.
That lady with pale envies in her blood
Told you strange tales of me. She said the
lads
Gossiped about me dowm the windy street.
Her tongue went clicking like a withered leaf,
Yet clinging to the twig, against a pane
That shows the firelight in a room beyond.
Oh, I can guess the look you turned on her
With moody brows and restless hands, afraid
To sliow r your angers! For she holds you
bound ;
And her thin mouth is as a trap that shuts
l)ow r n on sweet roses and on honeys spilled
Through sunshine for hot lovers. I can
guess
The way her wimple hung to touch the floor
Down her flat breasts, the way her quilted
skirts
Feigned to make curves across-her curvelesa
hips!
You came to me with black, accusing eyes:
You came to tell the jade your thoughts of
her. '
And here,. within the autumn-tinted room,
Sheathed in my silken gown of apple red
That strains its lacings o’er my panting
breasts—
Panting because my heart would break its
w r all
And fly to you whene’er I hear your feet
Dull on the marble —here I made reply,
Though that reply was spoken not in words.
She might have spared herself her tattling
tale.
Will lusty man set lip against a cup
Of bitter fennel w'hile there wvaits a mouth
As sw'eet and red as wine to slake upon?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Howe Creek.
Here where each leaf is stark and still
And life seems shrouded in a dream
The breath of loneliness lies chill
Upon the stream.
Silence lives here. No wild birds flute
Above the scum and rotting weed;
And every wandering wind grows mute
On rush and reed.
Shrivelled and wan the tea-tree stands—■
The guardian of this secret place—
Bent down as though it spread shamed
hands
To veil its face.
On oozy flats it seeks to hide
In deeps that life and laughter shun,
Knowing no living world outside.
No storm nor sun;
Nor where the high peaks lonely lift
Above the purple-clouded range.
Nor past the sandhills’ whitening drift—•
Pale seas that change;
Nor Gabo lying rose and green
By sunlit sail and passing prow:
Only the things which once have been
Brood o’er it now—
The plninfed warrior who advanced
Shield-sheltered ’neath the staring trees,
The painted tribes that, shouting, danced
Gorroborees.
Here through the loud, sea-shaken night
The flickering flame of campfires sprang;
And loosened in some shrieking fight
The long spear sang.
Here haply they who wandered far—
White men, gaunt-limbed and hollow-
eyed—
Watched past the Howe the last lone star;
And watching died.
Feeding on secrets, dark and dumb,
Their tales untold, the waters flow.
Yet one who breathes the wild may come,
And he shall know
And see, where scrub and shallow meet,
Ghost-figures stalking through the grass;
And hear among the reeds the feet
Of dead men pass!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


9
( Jharf/inaWcc£
m 1
U
*
,
1
- *


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 45.—N0. 2307.
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
HER FURTIVE FRIEND.
MRS. LABOR (to Mrs. Communist): “Thanks, I’m very glad of it. But for Heaven’s sake don’t tell those other
women up the road that we know eaeh other.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Bosfed to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, 18s. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” coumn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
Van n °t exc v e ding two columns in length, or, say,
3060 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
betters or Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
mill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps lor return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin, original
humorotis or other topical drawings in-line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for -same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
Grondona, Australia House, Strand.
W ; C 1 3 ; Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
F.C. ’i: E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, Ifi Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury: Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Fanyth and Co., hhl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and ifind Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West /fist Street, New York City:-
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California ;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co.. The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Vavva..—-‘Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fj.n.—A'; \Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
\St: C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.).
U.S.A. — : J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOots'.f Id. United Kingdom: Jj; to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional Jjoz., Id.: All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. ■ Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'Z&xulleivn,.
THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1924.
THE DECAY OF PUBLIC ENTER-
PRISE.
The adventures of Australian Governments
in business enterprises, N.S.W. Treasurer
Cocks said the other day, have resulted in a
total loss of seven and a half millions. This
ridiculously small figure could only have
been arrived at by taking a very restricted
view of what constitutes business enterprises.
At June, 1922, which is a good way back, the
single item “Repurchase of land for settle-
ment” had absorbed over £44,000,000 of loan
money, of which Victoria was responsible for
£23,00(3,000 and Westralia for close on
£8,000,000; and if that doesn’t account
already for far more than the total loss
which the Treasurer mentioned, then many
depressing calculations are all out of gear.
And an aggregate railway system which in
1922 earned £3 Bs. 7d. per cent, on its cost,
and yet had to pay interest at the rate of
£4 11s. Id. per cent, (it is more now), is a
steady and robust loser. Nevertheless the
present Treasurer’s lamentation brought
the inevitable reply from past-Treasurer
Lang, who desired to know how Australia
would have got on and where it wpuld have
been without: its vast loan enterprises,
though it isn’t easy to locate any important
adjunct of progress which Australia has and
which other Civilised communities with less
political meddling and less loan money have
not. And he rounded off his case thus: —
It must, also be remembered that many State
enterprises, successful and unsuccessful, have ren-
dered an immense service and saved the public many
millions by acting as a check on the rapacity and ex-
tortion of private exploiters. To make a statement
of the condition of State enterprises complete it
would be necessary to include all such enterprises, and
compare the result with the numberless failures of
concerns run by Private Enterprise. State Enterprise,
in the modem sense, is too young and untried to be
condemned on a few failures. In many cases the
State has entered upon projects which Private Enter-
prise refused to touch, but which were nevertheless
highly beneficial to the community.
It may be said in Lang’s defence, or excuse,
that there was once a big streak of accuracy
in his argument. Unfortunately the streak
has petered out.
There is an unhappy difficulty about veri-
fying the millions which have been saved
through Public Enterprise “acting as a check
on the rapacity and extortion of private
exploiters.” It probably did service in that
way once, but it seems to be a long while
ago. The prevailing idea now is that Public
Enterprise—at least in a great part of Aus-
tralia—has reached a point at which it costs
a great deal more than the private exploiter.
When it builds a house for a returned sol-
dier, the price is apt to be at least 25 per
cent, more than that of a similar humpy run
up by the individual vampire, and is liable
to be a 25 per cent, worse humpy. When
it drains a bit of land, as it recently did
near Fremantle, on which to settle the same
child of misfortune, no one is really aston-
ished that the bill is 12J times more than
the estimate. It is now the exception for
there not to be a scandal attached to a public
undertaking that is big enough to attract
attention, and it is lucky if there is only
one. An impression has grown up that the
worker on Government jobs will give his vote
to the party which pays most for the least
exertion, just as the latter-day imperial
Roman gave his support where he got most
in return for no exertion at all. Australian
Public Enterprise wasn’t always like this;
but, then, Rome wasn’t always like that
either. It is a matter of paying for suffrages
as well as work (the community pays and
the politician gets the suffrages), whereas’
the individualist employer pays for work
only, and thus eliminates one item, anyhow.
It may be true that the State tackles under-
takings which the individual speculator
avoids, and in many cases it gives them up
again, and decides that it should have avoided
them likewise. But there is a much more
marked tendency to attempt, in an inexpert
fashion, undertakings which the individual
doesn’t avoid —to open petty fishshops and
meatshops, and a pub or two, and a sawmill,
and run them at a loss, until a new Govern-
ment throws them into the discard. They
furnish billets and patronage while they
last, and that is what they exist for. They
range from a little larger than an apple stall
to the dimensions of a commercial navy.
Then in addition to Public Enterprise doing
things which Private Enterprise won’t
attempt, it sometimes prevents things which
Private Enterprise would attempt. The
South-to-North railway, for instance, is in
this position : the Government does nothing
because of shady political considerations,
while no one else can do anything.
The N. S. Wales Government owned 39 fac-
tories and workshops in 1918-19, and 81 in
1919-20, after which date a decline com-
menced. For the year when the Lang and
Dooley policy was working its hardest
State Statistician Smith recorded these re-
sults (“Official Year Book” for 1920. page
330), or supplied figures from which the
results are deduced :
N.S.W. Factories astd Workshops.
State Private
Factories. Factories.
Value per employee created in
process of manufacture .. £241 £277
Value per employee of total
output .. .. 414 919
When it Is added that there was a far larger
proportion of men among State than among,
private employees, and that each State- em-
ployee had over 3-h.p. of machinery to help
him while the private one averaged about
the results of Public Enterprise,
when Langs and Dooleys are using it
to influence votes and to provide jobs for
friends and supporters, are abject, not to
say disgusting.
The ex-Treasurer has really two main
points against individualism in industry.
One is that it is rapacious and extortionate,
hence its vast profits; the other that it isn’t
sufficiently rapacious and extortionate, hence
its “numberless failures.” Its failures cer-
tainly are many; but what of that? Where
they don’t imply mismanagement they signify
that somebody has been experimenting
or has been furnishing the public with
something below cost. A typical case is that
of the Midland Railway of Westralia, a pri-
vate concern owning 277 miles of line, which
has supplied the community with travelling
facilities for over 30 years, and charged no-
thing for doing it. In otlffir words, it never
paid a dividend because it was unable to
raise one. The good outstanding feature of
Private Enterprise is that, when it definitely
fails, the community gives up paying in-
terest on the original cost 6f it even if the
work itself remains. The capital is written
off, in the Insolvency Court or elsewhere,
and the capitalists are wound up, and the
affair ends. The bad outstanding feature of
State Enterprise, as practised in Australia,
is that it isn’t State at all except in the
sense that noisy politicians make profit and
advertisement out Of it. Everything belongs
ito private money lenders, and these Public
Enterprise capitalists differ from the indi-
vidualist sort mainly because they call for
their cumulative preference dividend whether
the work which the money represents pays
or not. and whether the work is dead or
not. Even a fourth-rate trading company
is expected to write off losses and not keep
a great mass of fictitious assets on its books,
and when the State goes in for trading it
should conform to the rujes of the honest
game. But the Langs simply say there are
no real losses, whatever Auditors-General
and their kind may allege to the contrary.
Incidentally, the Cockses declare that there
are big losses, but apparently regard denun-
ciation as equivalent to payment.
OIL AND ACID.
Wira the approach of May Day the leading
Labor organisations of the more populous
States have been considering their Com-
munist brethren, who in some cases are
within the political gate and in others
merely have a foot in it. The disposition,
even now, with no election in immediate
prospect, is to give them a guarded welcome.
Yet there is no more real affinity between
unionist and nation- and race-conscious
Labor —which is typified by Matthew
Charlton, and which was practically the
only sort of Labor known to this country
before Russia went Bolshevik in 1917 —and
the internationalist and anarchist ideals
advocated by such men as Jock Garden,
than there is between a quiet house-father
and the hooligans who lay themselves out to
smash up his hard-won suburban home. Be-
fore the first Fusion Government set a
fashion in principle-sinking the position was
well understood and tirelessly emphasised
by both sides. The revolutionists fought
evolutionary Labor by newspaper and other
propaganda, ran candidates against Labor
nominees, and were accepted by the latter
as more dangerous to their cause than
Liberalism itself. Anti-socialism, the policy
of negation which brought Freetrader and
Protectionist, city centraliser and country
decentraliser together on a class basis to tilt
at the myth of disloyalty and revolt instead
of at the material enemy which was robbing
all sections in the shape of departmental
extravagance, has given Communism its
chance. The average sensible Laborite dis-
trusts Communism as much as ever he did.
Yet under party government votes must
be the main consideration. If a combina-
tion of congestionists and decentralisers is
possible, why not a Communist-Unionist or
Bolshevik-Bourgeois one? The general trend
of feeling on the question was indicated
fairly accurately at the A.L.P. conference
in Sydney, when (1) the executive’s action
in declaring the Communists ineligible for
membership was defeated only by 52 votes
(154 to 102), and (2) a committee of two
Communists, two evolutionists and a chair-
man was appointed after the voting to go
into the whole matter de novo. Nothing
seems surer than that at the next general
election, State or Federal, the Laborites
who look to Russia and those with their
eyes on their own country, the men who
salute the Australian flag and those who
revere the Red flag or none, will present,,if
not the united front which is the objective
of the vote-seeking politicians, at any rate
a less divided one than on any previous
occasion.
* * » #
The idiocy of importing the political issues
of Czarist Russia to this part of the world
would need no stressing but for the fact
that Garden, Grant and the rest make
their appeal to a constituency 90 per cent,
of whose members are aged mentally about
1.4. The foundations of every revolution of
Violence, from the earliest of the slave re-
volts to the upheaval which culminated in
Ekaterinburg, have been hate. The Com-
munist leaders who are seeking admission
to the A.L.P. are well equipped for hate.
They are misfits—clever, vain men, and yet
pre-destined failures—who would be capable
of working up a grievance, and being furi-
ously eloquent on the subject of it, in a
Utopia. Very different in temperament and
mentality, as well as in their social environ-
ment, were the Russians who responded
seven years ago to the Lenin-Trotsky pro-
paganda which had been proceeding since
1905. Patient and humble though they
were, with a standard of living hot much
above that of savages, and with the venera-
tion for Czarism that their ancestors had
had in the Dark Ages, their wrongs were
so obvious that almost any hand could have
lighted the torch of their rage. Most of
them had nothing to lose but their lives.
It had been so in France between Rous-
seau’s day and the period of anarchy which
he precipitated, and it was so in England"
in the early stages of the Industrial Revolu-
tion. The British genius for compromise
and reform, which caused capitalists like
Robert. Owen and landowners like Lord
Shaftesbury to take the lead in legislation
directed against their;'own classes in the
interests of the workers, and which quickly
transformed trade unionists from criminals
into respected citizens, killed ; the revolu-
tionary movement so far as the United 1 King-
dom was concerned: . But it continued to
rage mqye or less violently on the Continent,
and on the dogmas propounded by its spokes-
men two observations of significance to Aus-
tralians-can be made—that Europe was
vastly different from Australia as a poor
man’s country, and that the poor there by
no means reserved their resentment for the
“governing classes.” As a matter of fact,
the bitterest hatred was everywhere dis-
closed for the very class with which Aus-
tralia’s revolutionaries are now seeking a
political alliance—-the bourgeoisie, com-
posed chiefly of skilled and prosperous work-
ers. To these, amongst other members of
“the possessing classes,” Jack Loudon said
(“Essays”) only ten years ago: “Our cry
is ‘No Quarter.’ We want all that you pos-
sess. We will be content with nothing less
than all you possess.” The eighteenth-cen-
tury Communists no more thought of expro-
priating working-men’s villas and banking-
accounts than they did of executing success-
ful workers, to gratify the jealousy of un-
employables—a very good reason being that
only a negligible number of toilers had any-
thing worth taking. With the rise in the
status of the' artisan, a rise that has put
many unionists far above so-called brain-
workers as regards earning capacitv, a
change developed. Johann Most wrote:—
It is nr) longer only the aristocracy that must
be destroyed, though here, of course, the coup de
grace is demanded. No; in the coming revolution
the aim must be to smite the whole middle class with
annihilation.
In short, the crusade was, in Proudhon’s
phrase, “against civilisation,” against the
whole fabric of constituted society, but above
all against the employing classes and their
contemptible allies the employed.
* # * *
It is evident, then, that unless evolutionary
Labor—the bourgeois and solidly patri-
otic party that gave Australia the flower of
the A.l.F.—is bent on suicide, there is no
place in its ranks, much less its councils,
for the gentry who in France are known as
Syndicalists, in the U.S. as I.W.W.’s, else-
where as Anarchists, here as Communists.
It is equally evident that Australia is the
last place in the world where the “overthrow
of civilisation” is going to be anything but a
tragedy. Thefe is no general urge of hatred
here capable of transforming the cheery,
well-fed and free inhabitants of Australia
into the homicidal fiends who have been
drenching Russia in Russian blood for the
past seven years. Messrs. Walsh, Grant
and a few others manage to become person-
ally exasperated with the figure, of FAt, whom
they have dowered with abominable vices and
a Borgian indifference to human misery.
Rut the bulk of the population knows per-
fectly well that Fat, in 99 cases out of every
100, is merely one of themselves, who
has perhaps worked harder and certainly
saved harder, and has had more ability of
one sort or another than his neighbors. They
may envy him, but they do not want to
rob or murder him, either as individuals or
as mobs. In fact, nine-tenths of them know
his value as an organiser—have seen him
build up machinery works, or tweed and
stocking and boot factories out of nothing,
so providing well-paid labor where before
there was none. Communism in Australia
is therefore a futile thing at present. It
can only hope to achieve something of value
to anarchy by getting inside the Labor party
proper and working there against those very
revolution-averting movements, for raised
wages, better conditions, etc, which the evo-
lutionary Laborite is pledged to support. It
is an obvious method of at the same time
fomenting discontent outside and white-
anting the organisation inside; and the offi-
cial Communist publications are frank as to
that being the intention. What the bour-
geois Labor politician needs to ask himself,
however, is whether the vote of to-day is
worth the axe of to-morrow?
A LESSON UNCLE SAM TEACHES.
When the Pilgrim Fathers made their land-
ing on the American coast they did so with
little notion of founding a mighty State.
The new land was simply a refuge; and
they were infinitely more concerned about
human reforms through religious agency
than about subduing the soil. Under the
surface there was, of course, the Anglo-
Celtic feeling for home-making; and it was
not so many years before a kind of pride
of country sprang up among them. To say
that these two ideas have kept their rela-
tive places in the American mind is to get
close to the key of the curious problem the
United States presents. Beyond the cities,
the farms, the factories, the great trusts
and tangled political systems is always the
Puritan idea of reform. Corruption may
walk almost unchecked, men and districts may
be bought and sold, the dollar may outweigh
all moral considerations, crime may seethe
under an inefficient police system, and
bragging may become a national industry:
but over and above all this the old idea per-
sists that the business of the nation is
reform, self-improvement, the seeking of
New Jerusalems by the dusty highways of
trade. Lectures, which aim at the moral
and intellectual improvement of the people,
rage up and down the land ; and these are
on a business footing, charging many times
the price of admission to a picture-show and
paying very ordinary lecturers on a high
scale. Every young American is taught that
self-improvement is his chief business; and
though the methods are cheap, the old Puri-
tan note never ceases to sound. Even the
business of salesmanship is called “service.”
A tone of intense and formal earnestness is
cultivated; and the young man who is not
serious about life is under general condem-
nation. It is true that human nature is
for ever making protest. There are plenty
of evidences of revolt against being reformed
too much. But always in the revolt there
is a hint of something furtive and uncertain
of itself.
* * * *
Looking at ; the United States from the
outside—and it is always possible that the
onlooker may see most of the game—the
nation seems to be a jumble of discordant
ideas and unrelated forces. A Presidential
selection—-which means a Presidential elec-
tion; —is bought and paid for; the Ku Klux
Klah raises its flaming cross in a village and
begins to slaughter innocent people; the
police rarely arrest a murderer; the hig
trusts flourish in spite of raging protests,
yet often give the people a cheaper article;
“service” salesmanship, with time-payment
as. the lure, cheats the earners out of half
their dollars; bad liquor creeps from pocket
to pocket under the searchlights of prohibi-
rush up and down the land
converting millions; niggers and white
settlers tear each other by the throat; and
over all is improvement and the settled be-
lief that America is a beacon; light to the
world. In that very idea of uplift there is
a certain strength and force which cannot
be lightly thrust aside. That informing and
moral lectures can be commercially profit-
able in little bustling towns peopled by the
descendants of the first and second genera-
tions of the immigrants who were freely
regarded as the scum of Europe is in itself
a very notable fact. It would seem to be
an. indication that the tone of the nation
had been set for ever by the people who
landed at Plymouth Rock. A little learning
is dangerous enough, but hardly more dan-
gerous than stark ignorance; and if the
smattering of things gained from the roving
lecturer is not very valuable, the truth still
remains that the public desire to hear that
lecturer is beyond price to the future.
America is, in fact, being slowly organised
morally and intellectually.
* * * *
In spite of all our loose ends, our failure
to grasp the meanings of things, our wafcte
of good effort and our noise matters
of small concern, Australia to-day makes a
good showing against America. This is
hardly a matter for boasting or even for
congratulation. We are uniformly of Anglo-
Celtic breed; for, more by good luck than
design, we have never known human dump-
ings from distressed Europe. On the con-
trary, the distance and the cost of the voy-
age have had a selective influence, so that
our immigrants have been in some sense
picked people. No starving family of
Lithuanians or residue of Jews from a Rus-
sian massacre, turned to our shores for a
refuge. The worst we can point to is the
early convict settlement—a settlement in
which few but those who had shown some
tendency to become good citizens ever left,
descendants; and many of them were excel-
lent citizens to start with. Our gold rushes
brought us many who were physically and
morally the salt of the earth; the slow pro-
cess of settlement called to hardy and deter-
mined people who had splendid visions of
their new home. With all this, we had no


Pilgrim Fathers, but only a plain British
tradition of holding on. To say that the
absence of a Puritan element bent on per-
sonal and world uplift is a loss to us would
be absurd. Our freedom has been mental
and moral as well as political; and with the
grace of years it should result in the form-
ing of national characteristics which differ
from all others. But nationalism itself is
no longer the thing it once was. The seas
have been narrowed, the air becomes a high-
way, the electric cables and wireless are
bringing the most remote people close, to the
crowds of men; and among the influences
thus pressing upon us from without the most
notable is the American. American maga-
zines and books, American plays and picture-
films, American foods and drinks and even
American speech are found at every turn
in our cities. But with all that we have
borrowed we have left the very heart
of the American popular ideal alone. We
are not eager to be uplifted nor in any
striking way bent on self-improvement. This
is probably because the uplifting and self-
improvement as seen in the Q.S.A. are super-
ficially ridiculous in Australian eyes. But the
point is that the absurdity is superficial and
not basic. The American idea that a whole
nation should work for the betterment of
thought and feeling of a whole nation is
essentially right; and it is an idea that Aus-
tralia is missing. Those Chautauqua lec-
tures, to hear which throngs of people pay
60 or 80 cents, might be laughed at if
offered to an Australian audience; but can
Ave laugh at the fact that the class of Aus-
tralians which is most nearly parallel _to
the class attending such lectures in America
has no mental stimulus of any kind? Is it
not reasonably likely that the efforts made
across the Pacific, thin and weak as they
look, may lea\'e us far behind in the race of
intelligent national development? The fact
we ha\ T e to face is that we are attempting no
general education beyond our primary
schools, while those from whom we have
borrow ed so many other things are educating
all the time.
PIONEERS.
In the year 1917, in the month of January,
a group of selectors entered into occupation
of the scrub blocks of Wollawonga Resump-
tion (Q.). They were chiefly men with empty
pockets. The only exceptions were the Mur-
gatroyds and the Wainwrights. These
families were well equipped, and by virtue
of their possessions acquired a standing of
their own in the community. Their attitude
towards each other was friendly in the
extreme. Neither family coveted its neigh-
bors’ laud, nor anything of its neighbors.
The Murgatroyds indeed harbored a convic-
tion that the Wainwrights’ soil was light,
while the Wainwrights were assured that
the Murgatroyds’ selection was the driest
on the Resumption.
From the outset a general feeling of good-
fellowship prevailed; there was a spirit of
give and take which contributed a great
deal to the zeal with which the settlers
tackled their initial difficulties. All worked
with enthusiasm. From daylight until dark
the sound of axe-strokes, varied by the
crash of falling timber, could be heard at
any point along the newly-cut tracks that
crossed the settlement. During this period
of unremitting effort social life was non-
existent, until the Murgatroyds completed
the first dwelling that could be called a
house. It was built as far as was prac-
ticable of corrugated-iron, and, as the proud
proprietors were careful to explain, had
been hastily erected for temporary conveni-
ence. Then was issued an invitation to the
community to attend divine service every
Sunday morning. The settlers took kindly
to the innovation. If the weather was pro-
pitious almost the whole community came.
The scrub-felling season drew to a close.
On every side was seen fallen timber await-
ing the firestick in early Spring. A few
belated individuals who for financial (or mi-
fin uncial) reasons had taken outside con-
tracts were busy cutting out their own
modest areas. Others were splitting posts
with a view to fencing after the burn, or
erecting slab huts to supersede those of
calico. New interests were evolved. The
Wollawonga Progress Association sprang
into being, and a monthly meeting was held
on the night of the full moon at the Wain-
wrights'. Richard Wainwright had a
flair for public business, and occupied the
chair. The community became articulate.
It appealed against the valuation of the
Shire Council, it demanded a State school,
and in common with the surrounding dis-
trict it agitated for railway communication.
With the Spring came the first scrub fire.
Another busy period ensued. Maize was
planted in the ashes amongst the. logs and
stumps, and artificial grasses were sown.
Throughout the year the settlers had been
amiable; but with the approach of mid-
summer tempers were sorely tried. The
novelty of the situation had worn off. The
miserable shacks afforded little relief from
the heat, and their discomfort was aug-
mented by the activities of insect pests. The
maize crops wilted for want of rain. No
serious work was undertaken —except, to
attempt to make living conditions a little
more bearable. A number of single men
evaded an intolerable interlude by heading
towards civilisation to spend Christmas
with their kinsfolk.
The north-west monsoon brought rain.
The maize crops recovered and throve amaz-
ingly, artificial grasses struck, and the New
Year introduced a fresh atmosphere. An-
other wave of enthusiasm reached the settle-
ment. Scrub-felling re-commenced on a
larger scale. The Wainwrights erected a
barn which was admired by all-comers until
interest was deflected to the Murgatroyds’,
one yard longer and an extra foot in width.
When the weather became, cooler and the'
nights longer word was received that a
State school was to be established on an
approved site. This was welcome news to
the men with families. A suitable piece of
land chosen, it became necessary to find the
purchase money. Interest promptly waned.
Tom Murgatroyd suggested a hut-to-hut
canvass. Richard Wainwright demurred,
and public opinion was overwhelmingly with
him in favor of holding a dance. He offered
the use of his barn for the purpose. The
scheme was instantly put into execution. It
was a brilliant success. The ladies being
sadly in the minority, each dance was re-
peated. A young gentleman r “deied a
couple of comic songs; an old gentleman
executed a step-dance. At midnight refresh-
ments were served, followed by speeches in-
volving various votes of thanks, and at brea '
of day the gents, selected tlieir partners .or
til# medley- •.
When the time came to .harvest the maize
crops the settlers found their interests .con-
centrating inside their own surveyed lines.
Elated by the returns, they set about home-
making in earnest. Modest dwelling-houses
appeared on a few selections; barns and
sheds cropped up here and there; fences
and yards were run up. Finally dairy
cattle were added to the landscape. JLhe
Mttrgatroyds commenced operations on a
well, and after 90 feet of soft sinking, all
of which had to be slabbed, struck granite
and abandoned the project. The Wain-
wrigiits excavated a capacious dam, and
after three months’ work a fall of rain indi-
cated that the subsoil was porous.
When the scrub had been burned and .the
maize planted for the second season the pion-
eers felt they were on a sound basis at last,
and viewed the future with, confidence.
Never had they been so much in tune with
their environment, and never were the pros-
pects brighter. But the rain did not come.
The weeks became months, the months suc-
ceeded one another until all possibility of
securing a maize crop was passed. The
water-supply failed. Practically all stock
had to be driven to water. As the teed got
scanty and the cattle poor, the nearer water-
holes’ gave out and longer distances were
travelled. The position became serious.
Cattle and horses died. The settlers toiled
early and late in a desperate effort to stave
off disaster. Everybody was in difficulties.
A procession of vehicles ploughed the led
dust along the tracks that led to water.
High prices were paid for agistment, until
the whole countryside was eaten out. At
last many families divided, the careworn
women and children remaining at home while
the menfolk set up camp 20 miles away, on
Barron’s Creek, where grass paddocks were
rented in a last attempt to save the; stock.
When the drought broke chaos reigned on
the selections. The frailest of the sheds
and yards had collapsed. Undergrowth
double the height of the fences strove for the
monopoly of the grass paddocks. The irony
of the situation lay in the fact that, with
their diminished herds, the settlers could make
little use of the vegetation that rioted through
the settlement. Their trials had by no means
ended. Those who had displayed the
greatest enterprise had been the hardest hit.
Now their first objective was to clear ground
that the land might become productive with
the least possible delay. Hard and constant
toil was again fashionable. All foresaw sev-
eral years of endeavor. There w r as no
alternative. Resolutely facing it they 7 were
soon immersed in their own affairs; and as
the hopes of each were. realised, gradually
he became more isolated from his fellows.
To-day an undulating expanse of maize-
fields is’dotted with comfortable homesteads,
each with its group of dairy cattle grazing
in the pastures. The metamorphosis is com-
plete. Seven years have passed and no
vestige of scrub remains to strike a reminis-
cent 'note, or to obscure the Bunya Moun-
tains to the south-—a picturesque background
to the rustic simplicity of Wollawonga.
ERNEST AMBROSE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Roan-settlement Swindle.
The report of the Westralian select com-
mittee which has been probing the adminis-
tration of the Government group-settlements
on the Peel and Bateman estates is more than
a damning indictment: of ex-Premier Mit-
chell. It is a pitiless exposure of the State
in one of its absurd assumptions of omnisci-
ence—of the State essaying to ..perform agri-
cultural miracles with a lot of .loan money
and a lack of knowledge. If Australian poli-
ticians aren’t quite mad the document should
put a period to the crazy business of borrow-
ing huge sums at high rates of interest for
the settlement of novices without capital,
regardless, among other things, of what it
costs to prepare their holdings for the plough
and of whether the produce can be sold at a
profit. The estates in question comprise
84,000 acres of swamps and forest south of
Fremantle. They were in the market for
years before the Government came along, and
even then “several land-purchase Boards
condemned them as unsuitable for closer
settlement.” But Mitchell arrived in office
with the two theories he has grappled to his
soul, one being that the patchy soils of
Westralia (some,, of course, are good) will
“grow anything”; the other that any penni-
less newchum can make his fortune at farm-
ing, provided he is willing to borrow and Lon-
don to lend. It was a time when “migrants
were pouring in, and hundreds of others
were demanding employment or sustenance
for themselves and their families.” So the
land was bought, and 459 persons (308 of
them British immigrants and the majority
“without means of their own”) were deposited
on it, the understanding being that each
would get a fully-equipped farm for £lOOO,
payable on the 30 years' instalment plan,
and that until the goods were delivered the
Government would employ him on the roads
and drains and in the clearing gangs. Also,
a Board was appointed (no fool-scheme in the
way of State socialism is complete without
a Board), and sundry Government officials
were authorised to fell timber, put down
drains and the like. The rest of the story is
pieced together from the committee’s report:
Roads 10ft. wide, with 10 inches of metal at the
crown, cost £l4OO a mile. This was due to “the
inexperience of those employed,” who were paid 14s.
4d. a day whether suitable or not.
Colebatch, Ministerial representative in the Leg.
Council, stated on January 23, 1923, that there
would be a profit of £30,000 on the sale of firewood
from the estates. In actual fact, there has been a
loss of £ 900.
When the drainage works were started there were
no plans; specifications, estimates or organisation.
The engineer had to do the job in sections, as a
result of which there was no outlet for the water
when drains were cut; incidentally, “a , considerable
area of intense culture was destroyed.” With
immense swamps still to be tackled, drainage has
cost £276,742, whereas the departmental estimate
was £97,000.
The Board referred to was headed by an over-
worked civil servant, who was expected to run the
Agricultural Bank, the Industries Assistance Board
and the Soldier-settlement Branch as well. His in-
striietions were so vague that he didn’t know, until
the committee told him, that he had never been
officially named as chairman or that the Westralian
taxpayer, in the last resort, would be responsible
for the, whole of the expenditure—his impression was
that the British and Commonwealth Governments
would contribute by virtue of their arrangements
with the State Premier for the settlement of immi-
grants and Diggers. His colleagues, with two excep-
tions, were ignorant of cockying on its practical
side; and the pair in question-had merely a nodding
acquaintance with the business. With the enthusiasm
of amateurs the Board decided that the settlers
would have to go in for mixed farming. This was
contrary' to the recommendations of the Director of
Agriculture and the Government dairy-expert, who
both thought that there should be concentration on
one objective—either dairying or agriculture. But
the Director’s advice was ignored, and the dairy
expert “was not consulted as to the suit-
ability of the blocks laid out, the class of cows pro-
vided or the purchase thereof.’’ The expert never
saw the estates until the committee got him to have
a look round. Then he said that “many blocks were
quite impossible for dairying” ; and, referring to the
Board’s dictum that each settler should have a whole
ten cows; and that 50,000 milkers were available in
Westralia, questioned whether there were 600 suit-
able beasts for sale altogether. The committee’s
impressions of the land were no more favorable
than the expert’s.
Allowing for the £BO,OOO “profit” on the sale
of. firewood which resulted in. a loss of £9OO, Cole-
batch reckoned that '£267,000 would cover the
expenditure on land purchase and development. The
committee was told by departmental Witnesses that
the Minister’s estimate might as well be multiplied
by four. Its own opinion is that the amount will
reach £1,250,000 ; in that case the blocks will
average £1836 instead of the understood price of
£looo—understood, but not legally guaranteed.
The rate of interest is to be 7 p.c., which means
that the settler will be paying about £2 10s. a
week for the use of a small holding of questionable
fertility on which there are ten (10) cows and two
(2) sows.
This ought to be the dead-finish of the loan-
settlement business or swindle. It lias done
more harm than enough. The freakish idea
that it is the duty of a Government to pro-
vide improved farms and unlimited financial
backing for persons without capital or ex-
perience-persons who have been bitten by
the land craze which comes to most citizens
in Springtime, like an access of affection
for something in skirts—is peculiar to this
Commonwealth, and its abandonment is a
matter of urgency. It is a cause not only of
great losses to the State, but of dire misery
to individuals who might have been useful
and happy in other occupations. Austra-
lian Governments should do what they can
to see that land is available at a fair price,
and that there are reasonable carting and
marketing facilities; but further than that
they cannot be expected to go. It should be
laid down as an unalterable principle that
the man who has a fancy for farming should
in dulse it lit his own expense—or at that oi
the British Government if he happens to be
an immigrant, and if the British Government
thinks it can succeed where Australian Gov-
ernments have egregiously failed.
*
Maoriland’s Railway Troubles.
Maoriland has a railway strike by way of
a welcome to the British Fleet, and for
lack of means of communication the visi-
tors may have to leave some interesting
lakes, geysers, volcanoes and boiling springs
out of their itinerary, not to mention some
interesting brown girls. The trouble is
partly over wages, of which the em-
ployees want more, and partly over
hours, of which they are offered more.
Until 1920 the week's work on the
Maoriland lines consisted of 48 hours. Since
then it has been 44 hours. Wages, which
had been on the rise for a long time, were
put up a trifle in places. Expenses went
up from 74 per cent, of the takings in 1920
to nearly 94 per cent, in 1922, and the
return on capital (i.e., the amount avail-
able to pay interest on borrowed money)
went down as if it had been sandbagged.
These are some recent figures:—
1917.. £5 5 11 p.c. i 1920.. £4 10 8 p.c.
1918.. 41111 „ 1- 1921.. 3 8 4 „
1919.. 41211 „ ! 1922.. 1 0 8 „
After that things “rapidly continued not to
improve,” as one excited (and defeated)
candidate put it. The Treasurer had a
deficit (£389.831, which was hardly worth
calling a deficit to the Australian way of
thinking) iii 1921, and it annoyed him ex-
ceedingly, for Maoriland got out of the
shortage' habit some time last century, and
to have the animal ba.ek on the premises
was a personal. affront. Possibly there is
room for economy on the Maoriland lines,
which seem to be heavily staffed; but, any-
how, the Government considered a return
to the 48-hour week the first and simplest
measure in the way of improvement. In a
cool climate (almost too cool at some times
and in some places). an eight-hour day
doesn’t seem oppressive. Owing to the con-
figuration of the islands steamboat compe-
tition is a serious matter, as .it is in Tas-
mania, and, as in Tasmania, the motor is
also cutting into the traffic at a great
rate. It looks as if something large and
hostile will have to be done to the people
who run this motor traffic. Their idea
is to pick out a country which has good
roads; to ruin them ; then to complain bit-
terly if they are not promptly and efficiently
repaired at' the general expense. These pri-
vate enterprisers don’t pay interest on the
cost of constructing the tracks they use, as
the railways are expected to do even if they
don’t; and they pay, as a rule, nothing
much and often nothing at all, for the repair
of their tracks, as the railways have to do.
With a practically gratis road to run on
they can often undersell the railways, and
that means more business for them, more
road damage and a heavier bill for repairs.
And this form of traffic has a habit of im-
porting its vehicle from the Yankee land,
and its fuel from the same place, so that
much money leaves the country in conse-
quence. In Britain it is a matter of the
private motor fighting the private railway,
and apart from the bill for road damage
there is not much to complain of. But m
Australia and Maoriland, when the com-
munity pays for the destruction of its roads
by the ponderous private vehicle, it is sub-
sidising private persons to compete against
public enterprise. It is the custom, now
that Australia is fast becoming impassable,
to clamor for concrete roads, the same to
be built regardless of cost: but it is doubt-
ful if even the wonderful Roman roads
could have stood the modern strain. At all
events, the Romans never tried the expert
ment. Motor competition doesn’t signify
much in Queensland, though the railway
finances there are also in a poor way, be-
cause the highways don’t encourage wild
experiment, but in Tasmania and Maorl-
land especially nothing but a heavy tax on
the taking’s of the privately-owned road-
monster will meet the case.
«
The Snobbery of “Sport.”
“W. T. Tjldkn, the champion tennis player, hit-
announced his resignation from the American Davis
Cup and Olympic Games teams, He is annoyed at
the Lawn Tennis Association’s ruling that ‘writing
to newspapers for financial gain’ constitutes him a
professional.”— Cable.
Now that sport is as much internationalised
as the postal service, while remaining an
inspiration for the fiercest storms of local
patriotism, it behoves the nations to review
some conventions which are not merely
illogical and snobbish (they were always
that), but out of keeping with the w’hole
spirit of the times. The disqualification of
an idolised champion in one of the many
modern sports at which only so-called ama-
teurs compete is certain to injure the game,
whatever it may be, even when effected, by
the player’s fellow-countrymen. The ruling-
out of an Anderson by Japan or a Fender
by Australia might well give rise to some-
thing in the nature of what diplomatists call
“an int ernational incident.” The theory that
amateurs and professionals are of different
clay, and that it is in a sense shameful to
be a “pro.,” comes, as might be expected, from
England. The “amateur status” was origi-
nated by gentlemen for the protection of
gentlemen. On that principle amateurs were
forbidden to mill with prize-fighters or com-
pete with billiard professionals in public.
It was desired to reserve Henley for the
two chief universities, Eton, the Leander
Club and the Brigade of Guards; so, for the
purposes of English rowing, no amateur is
permitted to contend against, or sit in the
same boat with, one who “is employed in
any sort of menial capacity.” But cricket
is a game that cannot, like rowing, billiards,
etc., be conveniently confined to “the gentry.”
It is enough that 22 adult males are required
to provide a game. So England, the home
of amateurism, provides the World with these
discrepancies, amongst others: —
Harold Plantagenet loses his ahtateur. status as
a pedestrian if he is proved to have competed
publicly in a footrace with Brown, a profession >1
runner of his county; but lie may play with 01
against Brown at cricket and suffer no loss of
prestige.
Smith, who is a U.S.A. tennis-player, may not
make money by writing about tennis under pain of
disqualification. Plantagenet., the cricketer, may
earn all he pleases in this way in England or Aus-
tralia (Warner, Fender, Wilson and others have
been journalising profitably about cricket for years),
and he is helped financially in numerous other direc-
tions, if the state of His exchequer demands it. The
late W. G. Grace, for example, made more out of
cricket than any professional.
Plantagenet (who, as aforesaid, is at liberty to
play cricket with persons in any walk of life)
would be pronounced a professional if he contrived
to enter for a pair-oar race at one of the Thames
regattas with a policeman—though the latter might
never have earned a shilling by his athletic gifts.
In the lexicon of English sport a policeman is a
menial.
A chaotic situation has arisen as an outcome
of all these irrational qualifications and re-
servations. If a lilywhite English cricket-
ing amateur such as Fender wanted to play
tennis in America he would be told he was
a professional, like Tilden, having been
guilty of “writing to newspapers for financial
gain.” Similarly a ducal polo-player might
be debarred from representing England in
New York for having drawn royalties from
a book on big-game shooting or hunting or
any other sport in which his name carried
weight. The astonishment and exasperation
of Fender and the Duke would be great, but
not more so, probably, than the annoyance
of Australia’s Test-match cricketers who were
.accused a couple of years ago of being “pro-
fessionals to a man” by a leading English
paper, or of the A.I.F. n.c.o.’s aud rankers
who were classed as pros, in other quarters
by reason of their army status. A straw
showing which way the wind of public
opinion has begun to blow was provided by
England’s belated abolition last year, every-
where but at Lords, of separate gates for
pros, and amateurs. The next step should
be the world-wide abolition of all distinc-
tions between amateurs and professionals in
sport, and the establishment of the equitable
and sensible principle that a man or woman
with a gift for games has as much right to
make money thereby, without loss of dignity
or standing, as one with a gift for law,
finance or medicine.
+
Murder Trials—and Afterwards.
The excitement attending the hanging of
Angus Murray in Melbourne the other
day was an exhibition of mob passion, in-
flamed by political and social antagonisms,
that is probably unique in the history of
Australia. On the one side were a few
earnest humanitarians whose purely ethical
appeals were speedily drowned by the clamor
of a political party resolved to make the
execution embarrassing to the Government.
On the other hand were the no less seething
upholders of law and order who were w hirled
off their feet by emotions that w’ere almost
equally hysterical and spectacular. So we
had Fitzroy howling for Murray’s reprieve
and Camberwell sternly determined on his
death; one section of the press throwing its
columns open to astounding and often ludi-
crous demands for mercy, while the other
broke its silence to utter hoarse epithets
about “sickening sentimentalists.” To ex-
pect the Lawson Cabinet to remain indif-
ferent to the uproar would be to accuse it
of a philosophic detachment which only the
judiciary is supposed to enjoy. That Law-
son and his colleagues did their duty accord-
ing to their lights is undeniable; but that
they dragged a man to the scaffold without
some sidelong thoughts on the political con-
sequences of a reprieve is equally unthink-
able, considering the circumstances of the
agitation. The position is utterly unsatis-
factory, no less in one State than another.


T(L e Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA M ? tral »
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - - - - - - - - £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums
Seventh year’s premiums. .
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
£8849
£87,728
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
A
Managing Director.
Whether a condemned man lives or dies
must depend, more or less, upon the dis-
tance to a general election, and the political
party which happened to have been put into
power at the last one. Had it been the
Labor party’s turn to be in office in N. S.
Wales there would, for instance, have been
no question at till about the commutation of
the death sentence passed on Williams : it
would have been settled within 10 minutes of
the matter coming before Cabinet. And had
the Fuller Government just come from the
country, the chances are that it would have
turned down the request ifor a reprieve
with hardly any hesitation. The one
practical way of getting rid Of what
amounts to a scandal seems to be to offer
the jury four or five possible murder ver-
dicts—not guilty, not proven, guilty in the
third, the second, or (worst of all) the
first degree. Moreover, so long as it is a
case of finding either plain guilty or not
guilty, juries will certainly return "a verdict
of not guilty against many accused whom
they know perfectly well are guilty of some-
thing, but whom they do not believe to be
guilty of something that merits death.
*
Bombastes Aussioso.
“Math men of a fighting age approximating in
number a million, and in quality as courageous as
any on earth, Australia would be perfectly safe if
the British Navy were at the bottom of the sea.
Under modern conditions ho sea-encircled country
with a million resolute men to maintain its integ-
rity need fear the biggest bully and blackguard that
can threaten it by water.” — Sydney Worker.
This is the kind of frothy generalisation
that earns a cheer in Sydney Domain or on
Melbourne’s Yarra Bank —and nowhere else.
How many countries can put a million men
of fighting age—meaning, presumably, men
capable of fighting—into the field? Certainly
not Australia. By the end of the World
War the Government had succeeded in en-
listing 436,809. Conscription would have
provided no more, though the average level of
physical quality might have been higher tiian
under the haphazard voluntary system which
in time of real peril attracts so many whose
souls are bigger than their bodies. A large
proportion never reached the seat of war
owing to physical disabilities, and a still
larger proportion never saw the trenches: it
takes 2-} to 3 soldiers behind the lines to
serve one soldier in the fighting area. There
is no special virtue, from the defence stand-
point, in being sea-encircled. Indeed, the
isolation of Australia is its chief danger.
For this country has little more of the
material necessary in modern warfare than
Fiji, and the great sea-distances that sepa-
rate it from the rest of the Empire would
make, the importation of field-guns, shells,
etc., impossible in the event of an effective
enemy occupation. And besides the things
we must import there are the things we
must export if we are to pay for them and
uneet our bills for interest. The policeman
who makes the traffic possible is the British
navy. Without it, in the event of a war
which closed us in from the use of the seas,
even the Worker would have to cease publi
cation in less than two months. No doubt
there is a method of escaping from this
invidious position: may begin building
an efficient navy of our own. Yet even so
our best insurance for generations to come
at our present rate of population-increase
must remain the British navy. Instead of
bragging absurdly about what we would do
if that protection was withdrawal and an
inrush of hungry Asiatics followed—when,
in point of fact, we are no more fitted to
defend ourselves on our own soil than the
Koreans were—we should have the moral
courage to. face the facts. There is nothing
shameful in being a modest unit in an
Imperial defence scheme: the shame consists
in accepting the benefits of Imperial defence
and trying to shirk paying our share on the
ground that it is superfluous.
' *
Prohibition as Communist Propaganda.
Sam Gompers, the veteran U.S. Labor
leader, who is the bane of the I.W.W. or
Communist section of his native land, put
it this w r ay in the course of his evidence last
week before the Judiciary Committee which
is investigating the Volstead Law:—
It is with the desire to avoid a calamitv that I
propose a modification of the Volstead Art, which Has
brought corruption to the Government, and discontent,
death and crime among the people.
No one knows, the American working-man
better than this small, septuagenarian Jew,
and it is his opinion, after four years’ striv-
ing, that prohibition is the best friend
anarchy ever had in the U.S.A. In the first
place the class-jealousy complex enters into
the situation. It did not need the revela-
tions which led the other day to the retire
ment from public life of that arch-prohibi-
tionist, 11. M. Daugherty, to satisfy the
workers that some of the hardest drinkers
in the country are the most enthusiastic
supporters of prohibition for the under-dog.
The reasons of the reformers are multi-
tudinous, ranging from interests in soda-
fountains to shares in boot-legging syndi-
cates, and they talk the jargon of prohibi-
tion with vehemence, knowing that whatever
happens there will always be plenty of liquor
for men of means. By the last American
mail came the news that an English Consul
in California had given W. M. Hughes a
banquet, at which 50 people sat down to a
meal where unlimited alcoholic refreshment
was available. The helot classes are aware
that this is going on everywhere amongst
those Government officials who are the
modern substitutes for the arrogant barons
of the Middle Ages; they understand that
amongst the rich whisky is being bought as
freely at eight dollars as it once Was at' one
dollar a bottle, and that taxes and the cost
of living are higher on the one hand because
the revenue is no longer benefiting from such
sales, and on the other because armies of
agents have to be maintained to put up a
show of enforcing the law. Those of them
who like an occasional drink, but cannot
afford the equivalent of 30s. for a dozen nips
of whisky, and recoil from the alcoholic
poisoning that is liable to follow the con-
sumption of a cheaper article, may be trans-
formed into resentful teetotallers. But
others yield. Dr. Hall, chairman of the
Chicago Lunacy Commission, gave evidence
after Gompebs. In supporting the view
taken by the Labor leader he said:—
In 1916 we sent 98 alcoholic insanity cases to the
psychopathic hospital, whereas in 1922 we sent 1100,
and last year 1506. Moreover, an alcoholic who was
formerly merely indolent and shiftless has now, with
poison liquor in his system, become a murderer,
maniac, wife-beater or train-wrecker.
This tragedy is happening in 95 per cent, of
cases amongst the poor and very poor, and
yet the strongest supporters of the system
which is to blame for it are the local I-.W.W.
leaders, who hate Gompers and all his works.
Their reasoning is good, according to their
anti-social lights. Bakunin laid it down
“DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES?"
"The conference of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor party has endorsed the principle
of a levy on wealth to produce £15,000,000 a year for child endowment.”
that anarchists should kill good Judges in
preference to bad ones, benevolent sovereigns
rather than oppressors. He held that the
main object of all revolutionary propaganda
should be to foment discontent amongst the
masses, and obvious methods of doing it were
to preserve the lives of unjust Judges and
tyrannous kings. Prohibition comes in the
same category, and it is a quaint example of
the tendency of history to repeat itself that
in the U.S. the churches and the privileged
classes should be found, as in Russia re-
cently, and in France over a century ago, on
the side of a movement which is working
along rational, considered lines for their
downfall.
♦
“Feng-Shui” : Unemployment amongst white
people has become for the first time
a serious question here in Java. In a country
where Holland’s power rests largely on the
prestige of the white race, the Government
cannot afford to have numbers of idle and
disgruntled Europeans about; and as such
are mainly of the peasant class whom bad
times in Europe drove out to this land of
alleged luxury and easy living, the problem
is a difficult one. A possible solution is
being seriously discussed, and it sounds
almost startling in a country where cheap
labor has hitherto dominated everything. It
is nothing less than the settling of the white
man on the land. Australian methods are
quoted as an example; the idea is that the
white settler should be given land, h'ouse,
seed and tools, and told to work out his own
destiny, not on the lowlands, where the
native cultivates rice and lives on the equiva-
lent of twopence a day, but 4500 feet or
more above sea level, on the mountain sides
and high tablelands that form quite half of
the surface of Java. In addition to the local
unemployed, it is suggested that the immi-
grants who are leaving Holland for Canada
and U.S.A. could be diverted to Java if they
were tempted with assisted passages to come
to the Dutchman’s own tropical colonies and
settle in farming communities. If the ex-
periment is carried out, it will be an interest-
ing one to watch from the Australian view-
point, since the unsettled north and east of
Australia has highlands with much the same
climate and conditions. And the increase of
a white population in these tropics may be of
vast importance, too.
“J.G.” sends an affidavit with it :
Every now and then somebody swells his chest
over the amount spent on “education” in Victoria,
and then about a thousand school teachers consider
their own wretched screws and wonder where the
money goes. Perhaps this will indicate one leak. For
a long time the parents of children attending the
Boghole school had been agitating to have a chimney
built there. For years F.dueation and Public Works
both turned a deaf ear to the agitators. Then the
teacher transferred to a school which was not so
like an ice-house in winter, and a new man was sent
to Boghole. He had hardly settled down when lie
got a letter from an inspector of the Public Works
Department asking if the new chimney was giving
satisfaction. The teacher said that he had examined
the school all ways and couldn’t find a chimney. A
few weeks later the teacher got another letter from
the P.W.D. saying that a bricklayer was leaving town
to build the chimney. A small lot of bricks (about
200) was sent to the Boghole railway station, and
a day or two later a bricklayer came up from Mel-
bourne. He looked about the school yard and said
to the teacher “No blanky bricks, no something
cement!” “Tnere are some bricks over at the station,”
said the teacher, “and there’s plenty of sand down at
the creek to make mortar. One of the cockies
will willingly cart the stuff.” “No good to me!”
said the bricky, and off he went back to town. A
few more weeks passed ; then the teacher got another
memo from P.W.D. asking if the new chimney was
satisfactory. The teacher said he thought it would
do more good if it was erected. There was another
interval of some weeks; then the teacher was informed
by the P.W.D. that a truck of bricks was being des-
patched to Boghole for the chimney, and as the job
would not require half these bricks, would the
teacher dispose of the surplus, as it would cost as
much to send a partly filled truck to Boghdle as it
would a fully-loaded one ? Several of the local farmers
said they could do with a few bricks, and the sur-
plus was soon carted away. Then one morning the
Melbourne bricky again appeared on the scene. “Ah,”
he said, “plenty of bricks; but where's the scaffolding
and the cement?” “Look,” said the teacher; “there’s
any number of good saplings round the school. Why
not cut the poles out of them?” “No good to me!”
said Bricky, and he caught the first train back to
town. A few more weeks went by; then one day
the teacher saw a resident of the nearest big town
coming along the road with a dray half full of sand
and a bag or two of lime on it, and he was cutting
poles as he came along. He drove into the school
yard and dumped the poles and lime there, telling the
teacher that he had been asked by the P.W.D. to
bring a load of sand and lime and scaffold poles
from the town —it is 10 miles from Boghole. Some
time later Bricky came up again and, finding every-
thing ready, constructed the chimney. Almost a year
later the teacher got another letter from the P.W.D.
asking him to collect the cash from the Boghole
residents who took the surplus bricks and remit the
money. The disgusted teacher replied that debt-
collecting wasn’t his job, and there the matter ended
—the P.W.D. never bothered further with the matter.
♦
About an indiscretion that refused to blaze:
The Speck’s Administrator, Judge Ewing, recently
announced that, as a result of poring over the
Regulations for the guidance of Governors, he had
come to the conclusion that he, as Administrator,
had the power to appoint anybody he dash-well
liked to the Executive Council. He also remarked
that there were too many politicians on the
presmt Executive Council, therefore he would appoint
three or four private citizens of good standing. The
names were published, and congratulations began
to rain upon the “new Councillors.” Then Premier
Lyons announced that the Government knew 7 nothing
about the proposed appointments, and as no such
appointments could be made except by the Govern-
ment, it was evident the Administrator had mis-
read his Regulations. “Anyw'ay,” said Lyons, “the
proposed appointments will not be made.” The
newspapers made joyful “copy”, of the incident, and
Hqbart Mercury (which makes no secret of its
disapproval of the Administrator) referred to the
Acting-Gov.’s action as a “blazing indiscretion.”
Apparently it was expected that Judge Ewing would
resign his job forthwith. Instead, the Premier and
the Administrator met and argued the matter out,
with the result that the latter agreed that his pro-
posed appointments could not materialise unless the
Government concurred and issued the necessary autho-
rity for the nominees to be sworn in, etc. Later, when
the newspapers somewhat truculently demanded that
the Government should announce what steps had been
taken by Ministers to have the Administrator’s “blaz-
ing indiscretion” brought under the notice of the
Imperial authorities, Premier Lyons mildly
announced that the Government was quite
sure of its powers and really had nothing
to write Home about. There was no dramatic
resignation and no constitutional crisis. Judge
Ewing evidently made a slip in thinking lie
could appoint new people to the Executive Council
without consulting his constitutional advisers. Bui
at least he did not attempt to ride the high horse.
He just met his Ministers and argued the matter out,
and (presumably) admitted his mistake. Incident-
ally, not the least interesting fact in connection witn
the little “dispute” is ’that the Parliamentary motion
disagreeing with Governor Macartney's ignoring of
his Ministers in 1914 was moved by Norman K.
Ewing. Macartney was ruled out by the Secretary
of State and was obviously too unhappy thereafter
to prolong his term in Tasmania. It seems a
certainty that Ewing will be similarly ruled out by
the British Government, but there is no reason to
imagine that the verdict will fill the Administrator
with unhappiness, or that that verdict or anything
else (barring perhaps the expense of it) will induce
him do resign his job. Present indications are that
he will continue to camp at Government House until
Chief Justice Nicholes returns from his healtn-
hunt, or a brand new British Governor (perhaps
Jack Jones) is transported to Van Diemen’s Lani
in response to the recent vote of both Tas. Houses
in favor of an imported Governor.
+
A cattleman has a practical idea: —
Australia is in trouble about its cattle; they are
worth only a few shillings a head, beef being in small
demand. Surely that ill suggests its own remedy:
order steak instead of chops for breakfast, and roast-
beef instead of mutton for dinner. Every time you
call for mutton you cause the death of a sheep which
should live on and produce wool for which foreigners
are willing to pay us 2s. 6d. per pound in any
quantity. Why not save our sheep and sell their
wool, and eat our cattle ourselves, and not try to
sell beef to people who don’t want it? There would
be no need then to subsidise beef-export, nor would
we have to export so much gold to pay pur hills.
Doctors say we dig our graves with our
teeth. Well, let us not dig our financial graves with
ours, as we certainly are doing when we eat up the
sheep whose wool would sell* for much gold. Let us
rather chew our way to health, wealth and happiness,
by eating up our more nutritious but unsaleable
bulloek. Slogans being in fashion, here’s one for
Australia; “Get the beef habit!”
<►
Ettie Rol’t has been investigating the inci-
dence of V.D. in the U.S.A. The big cities
are, she says, far ahead of ours in the cour-
age that spells control. In Chicago, for
example, “compulsory notification, examina
tion and treatment is being carried out with
very fair efficiency, and is certainly benefit-
ing the individual and the community.” Men
and women who are believed to be infected
are, if found to he diseased, detained for
treatment. There are plenty of clinics, and
the Health Department “accepted a sugges-
tion that prophylaxis should be taught to all
V.D. patients under treatment——to prevent
re-infection. An order was put through
that prophylaxis was to be publicly recom-
mended, leaflets were prepared and prophy-
lactic packets were put on sale. Lectures
are also being given to medical students at
the colleges and universities in antisepsis as
applied to the venereal diseases.” Some of
the prohibitive legislation is no doubt car-
ried to extremes. Thus an amendment to
the Code of Criminal Procedure (to become
operative in September of this year) makes
the definition of “vagrant” include “any per-
son who buys or offers to buy, or sells or
offers to sell, sexual intercourse.” To thus
make criminal what is merely immoral is
liable "to defeat the aims of those who are
working for a clean race. Far from making
V.D. a crime (and there is a danger that
this will be one of the indirect effects of th-
amendment) the object of a wise legis-
lature should be to respectabilise it, to
familiarise the public with the fact
that it afflicts the moral as well as the
immoral, is deadlier than small-pox, and
must be dealt with on the same matter-of-fact
lines.


'Tor Ever Best/'
STA 6
LA6ER
TOOHEY’S.
A Specially Good
English Felt
Just Arrivzd at Pipes’
This is a hat, of serviceable quality and .(
color, very smart, beautifully finished.
It is of smooth finish felt, with medium
crown, 2J-inch brim —bound at edge,
::n 1 well rolled at sides, 2-inch
with bow at side.
In three colors; Mid Grey, Stone, Steel,
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size and color.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Mens’ and Boys’ Outfitters.
George Street
(Opposite Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
♦V'XsiSreSS
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR .T. USHER.
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Having succeeded to the Vic. Premiership,
Peacock will go on with the Lawson pro-
gramme. Redistribution, two gas bills (to
mend or end the Metropolitan Co. and regu-
late supply and quality), the winding up of
wheat-pool accounts, and a few other little
things are on the list, but the chances are
that nothing worth while will be done. If
seats are recast it will take three months to
make the necessary electoral preparations
for a poll, and before adopting new boun-
daries the Government may decide that it
needs a new mandate —-not that there are
any old mandates on the premises.
It has been alleged in several places that
the recall is now part of the N.S.W. Labor
platform. Certainly the following resolu-
tion was adopted at the Sydney conference
by the necessary two-thirds majority:—
Labor candidates before endorsement by the general
executive shall sign and place in the hands of the
general executive an undated resignation. Any candi-
date or member of Parliament who refuses to execute
the mandates of the party or its controlling body
shall be immediately recalled and his resignation ass
member sent in.
But that isn’t the recall as it was under-
stood in the days when Labor believed in
trusting the people. The central idea of
the recall is that a member is responsible
to his constituents; the proposition laid
down by the A.L.P. conference is that he
is responsible, if a Laborite, to a body un-
known to the constitution, unrepresentative
of the constituency, arid endowed wdth all
the powers of prosecutor, Judge, jury and
Court of Appeal.
"Ramsay Macdonald told the Soviet
delegation that Russia could only hope for
the big new 7 loan it was craving in London
if it showed, even as a matter of policy and
pure self-interest, some sign of trustworthi-
ness by restoring the private propertv confis-
cated from British subjects during the whole-
sale steal of 1918-19. To which the boss
delegate replied with the pride of the King
of the Beggars that this would mean the
recognition and even re-establishment of
private property, and Communism would not
sell its birthright for a mess of pottage—
never! The Soviet is a quaint animal. It
can steal private property. It can borrow
private property—at least it tries to. It can
beg for private property —its agents have
even crawled round Australia with the abject
hat. Yet its principles w 7 on’t allow it to
recognise private property.
N.S.W. Treasurer Cocks’s tale about the
losses on Australian Government enterprises
roused his predecessor, John Thomas Lang,
to protest, because Cocks hadn’t allowed for
railways and some minor but similarly
“lucrative” undertakings. John Thomas on
“lucrative” undertakings is interesting. All
the railway systems were built with bor-
rowed money, and they have been lucrating
like this of late: —
Per cent, earned on Per cent, paid on
June, Borrowed Money. Borrowed Money.
1915. . . . £2 19 0 £3 13 11
1916.. .. 2 19 5 3 15 1
1917.. .. 2 16 10 3 16 7
1918.. .. 3 0 5 3 18 6
1919. . .. 2 16 0 4 0 4
1920.. .. 3 3 7 4 3. 4
1921.. .. 2101 472
1922.. . . 3 8 7 4 11 1
In the first three years of the period the
average annual enforced contribution out of
taxes was 16s. 9d. p.c. of the borrowed
money; in the last three years it was £1
6s. sd. So things were getting no better
rapidly. And they were horrible to begin
with.
The deputation which tried to see N.S.W.
Governor de Chair on the night before Wil-
liams was hanged (presumably to induce
him to exercise the prerogative of mercy
in some form) was the first to take such
a step for nearly 40 years. And then, as
on Monday, a Premier intervened. Practi-
cally the whole community was shocked at
the idea of the Mount Rennie malefactors
being hanged (some were mere boys), and
those who sought out Lord Carrington in-
cluded the heads of the principal Christian
churches and the Chief Rabbi. VV. B. Dailey
was the spokesman. Carrington was reading
his reply, which had been written for him
by Parkes, when Dailey interrupted with:
“We want to hear you, your Excellency, not
the Premier.” This produced a rift between
Dailey and Carrington which was never
healed. It is hard to see what Sir Dudley
de Chair could have done for Williams except
THE HOME-SMASHER.
“Board of Trade returns show that there have been more strikes since Labor took office than in
any equal preceding period.”
THE VIRAGO'S HUSBAND: “Eve put on the clothes she wanted, and she seems angrier
than ever.”
express his sympathy, but the idea in Car-
rington’s case was that he should cable to
Queen Victoria. Custom had not then killed
the royal prerogative.
Decided by the annual conference of the
Vic. branch of the Labor party: —
As a preliminary to the full maintenance of child-
ren by the State, the Labor Government, on attain-
ing office, shall pay from the consolidated revenue the
sum of ss. per week for .‘each child from birth to
school-leaving age.
And where is the guarantee that the old
man won’t lose the money on a horse,
or the parents combine to spend it on
Yankee picture-films?
The rich Paddy Minahan, M.L.A., has
been forgiven again by the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. In 1920 Paddy committed what in
ordinary circumstances is the unforgivable sin
—lie ran as an unendorsed Labor candidate.
Another man who did the same thing at
the same election has never been readmitted
to “the movement.” Paddy Avas ; and no-
body, was rude enough to mention the inci-
dent when the A.L.P. delegates pardoned
Paddy for his refusal to give evidence at the
ballot-faking inquiry. Ex-Works Minister
Griffith, who, in spite of shabby treatment,
has remained steadfast to Labor principles
since he was passed out in 1916, couldn't
even get a hearing at the conference .which
reinstated Minahan. Of course, he isn’t a
wealthy employer. And his name isn’t
Paddy.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., a diligent hewer of
air and drawer of misguided inferences,
blossomed forth the other day in Sydney
Telegraph as a Freetrader of the oldest
vintage. This was the picture be drew: —
The true and profitable policy would be to con-
centrate on the production of the foodstuffs and
raw materials that the highly industrialised nations
need but cannot produce, fend buy cheaply from them
the manufactured goods required.
Last financial year we bought about
£100,000,000 of manufactured goods from
the “highly industrialised nations,” and sup-
plied them in return with “foodstuffs and
raw materials” for part of the amount, and
gave our lOU for the rest, and this was the
result (the good doctor is still speaking) :-
The rural worker has mostly to take what he
can* get as payment for his services, while the small
farmer often ekes out a bare existence by the
unpaid labor of his wife and children.
The Bulletin would assume that the little
doctor was having his joke if it didn’t know-
that he regards life as much too serious to
fill with such things.
A dog-like fidelity to everything Hun-
nish seems rooted in a certain class of
Laborite. In the A.L.P. conference one
recent day the boilermaking nuisance, who
stated that he was Australian-born, said:
“If I had my way about it I would give the
country to the Germans and apologise for
the state it is in.” Later the bricklaying
calamity lamented: —
We have a glorified State Parliament, a costly
institution, to do the things that in Germany are
done by the people themselves. What of Australia’s
fiscal policy, her naval policy, her policy for the
army, her social policy? All modelled in Downing-
street. ' . .
The idea of Australia’s Protectionist tariff
being made in Freetrade England, is a gem
of lunacy; but it is dim alongside the brick-
layer’s idea that Germany, with 18 State
Parliaments and a Federal Parliament for
an area not nearly half the size of N. S.
Wales, dispenses with these “costly institu-
tions,” and the people do the work them-
selves. One batch of Hun States has seven
Legislatures for less than one-tenth the area
of Tasmania.
Mark Sheldon, ex-Commonwealth Com-
missioner in New York and a bank presi-
dent among other things, says he sees “a
period of financial stringency” coming
within the next 12 months. If it comes
only the Governments will be responsible.
There is nothing in the prices or likely
prices of our staples to worry us. The
market for our best and biggest line, wool,
is stronger than ever it was in peace times,
and is likely to stay so; and there is no-
thing wrong with most of the other markets
except copper. In fact, so much money is
due to us in London, and J. Bull’s prohibi-
tion on the export of gold is so stringent,
that there is great difficulty in getting pay-
ments made in Australia. N.S.W. Treasurer
Cocks has been faced for months w r ith that
difficulty, and it is going to get greater; so
the way of the borrower is hard and will
be harder. It inevitably means cutting
down loan works, and that means the sack
for many men whom the States’ loan habits
have seduced from regular productive in-
dustry.
The last settler has shaken from his feet
the dust of the soldier settlement at
Coominya (Q.), where £84,000 of Govern-
ment money had been blewed up to January
1 this year and some of the best years of
many young men’s lives had been wickedly
and wantonly wasted. Actually £2 10s. per
acre was paid for land which local people
say was bought during recent years for a
few shillings, and the heavy timber cost
£l5 per acre to clear. Three years too late
the State chemist was asked to report on
the soil. His verdict was that it w r as mostly
unalloyed sand.
“Old Parliamentary Hand” thinks aloud:
For the third time Alec Peacock has “inherited”
the Premiership of Vic., and, as before, has to be
content with a second-hand Ministry, He took over
the Government, including lame ducks like Gurr and
Burton, when George Turner became Federal Treasurer
in 1901, and he did the same thing in 1914 when
Willie Watt went to the Reps. Now he is making
the best of the last 10 Lawson had left of his 33
Cabinet partners. It was inevitable that any Premier
under whom Peacock had served for three years or
so would some time or other make way for him.
The Speaker’s chair provided a retreat for Lawson
after an innings of six years and a month. To
have the new “united” liberal party fawning on
him as it did on Thursday, and to be able to speed
the parting Lawson, was surely some reparation to
Peacock for being dropped by the same old party
in 1917, and for being left out of the first Lawson
Ministry (1918-20), because he was politically so
“unfashionable.” Well; it was their Canossa, and
he accepted the homage. But what a pity Peacock
cannot win the Premiership in a stand-up fight in
the House, and pick a team of his own instead of
acquiring second-hand goods!
That humming and buzzing and noise of
footprints which can be heard from the east
any still morning is the sound of things mov-
ing in the United States. Within the last
few days it has been reported that Washing-
ton, right under the eye and nose of Con-
gress, is the most drinky city in the land
and one of the drinkiest on earth. It is
added that the Law doesn’t contrive to en-
force prohibition even in gaols, where one
would hardly expect bootlegging to rage
exceedingly. After one great raid at
Washington, the cable alleges that the prison
accommodation gave out. “A special con-
tingent of 150 Federal agents armed with
warrants” lately went to Cleveland, a city
about the size of Melbourne, and the capture
of 400 illicit publicans was foreshadowed.
Even the sheriff was found running a pub.
By way of minor incidents Congress has
had no less than 59 bills aimed at it, all
designed to make prohibition less of an ab-
surdity, and Dr. Hall, chairman Of the
Chicago Lunacy Commission, declares that
alcoholic insanity in his city has increased
15-fold since nominally there was no alcohol
for it to go insane on.
Belated returns from outlying districts
have given eacb of the new Labor Premiers
another Assembly seat. Collier will now
have a majority of four, including the
Speaker, in Westralia; Gunn one of nine in
South Aus. Neither, however, is the choice
of a majority of the electors. Both would
have been beaten had redistribution been
carried in the Western State and preferen-
tial voting by its neighbor.
From the Sydney Labor Conference: —
Amid the factional fights, shoutings ’ of “Down
with Willis!” and “Chuck Bailey out!” one man
raised his voice and talked sense. His name was
O'Brien. Chairman Willis tried to shelve the Un-
employed Secretary’s speech on the impassibility of
getting work, but eventually Conference and the
public at the back of the hall howled Willis down,
and he was obliged to listen to Spillman’s half-
hour oration, which was supposed to give the case
of the man out of work. A few suggestions for
relief were made; and then O’Brien said (hat if they
liked they- could themselves solve the unemployment
problem. Whereupon Conference merely guffawed
and roared “Sit down, and don’t waste tipiei” “I tell
you,” said O’Brien—he’s of the Painters’ 1 .; Union—
“that if we Australians will only to buy
Australian goods most of our unemployed' will dis-
appear. Doles don’t cure the trouble; work will.”
But none listened to O’Brien, and an amendment
that a collection be taken up and the money handed
to Jock Garden w-as carried. The “international”
view-point is forcing the Australian to Starvation
Alley.
REHABILITATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the A.L.P. Conference in Sydney the guillo-
tine fell on Bailey, Bramston, Buckley and Suther-
land, but the sentences passed on Coleman, Mina-
han and Thomas Januarius Smith, as a result of
the ballot-box investigations, were removed.”
Four had their own and Buckley’s chance
Of getting cleared at that seance;
The Court refused to countenance
Their trickeries nefarious.
But, justice done, full many a man
A softer sentiment began,..
To feel for Coleman, Minahan
And Thomas Januarius.
The doomed from out the movement went
lr, bleak and wintry discontent,
Their brows in rage and grief were bent,
They didn’t feel hilarious.
When thumbs were turned the other way
It must have seemed a summer’s day
For Minahan and Coleman, eh?
And Thomas Januarius.
Bold Bramston faced his' judges square,
What Buckley said I’m not aware,
Resentful Bailey wasn’t there;
Their attitudes were various.
Anon the sun the clouds came through
For Minahan and Coleman, too,
And earth and sky were green and blue
For Thomas Januarius.
The Labor sliprails down they let
And hustled out a whole quartet
Their future livelihood to get
By w 7 ays and means precarious;
And hastened then to re-admit
A trio deemed for mercy fit,
Forgiven—-chastened, too, a bit —
Coleman and Minahan, to wit,
And Thomas Januarius.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
The
Mark
of
Efficiency.
“Metrovick”
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged in construction
and are obtainable in all sizes, A.C. or
D.C.
Buy direct from the Manufacturers.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fum
Detonators
Cartridges
THERE’S A FEELING OF ABSOLUTE SECURITY
IN THE USE OF
‘VALLO’ DIPS
SHEEP DIP
(Powder & Liquid)
m
CATTLE DIP
(Powdof'
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY,, BRISBANE. OBTAINABLE ALL STORES
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The South Australian. Brewing Co.
(Adelaide)
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
F eb., £ £ £ £ £
1912.. 46,277 7| p.c.= 18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. 50,968 7i„ „ 18,750 32,218 50,000
1914.. 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 50,000
1915.. 50,114 10 „ „ 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916.. 32,161 10 „ ~ 25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22,348 6£ „ ~ 15,625 4,750 1973 54,384
1918.. 32,174 8| „ ~ 21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 „ „ 25,000 7,294 54,384
1920.. 32,468 10 „ „ 25,000 7,250 218 54,602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 174 54,776
1922.. 30,821 10 „ „ 25,000 5,821 54,776
Reserves.
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 54,776
1924. . 38,847 10 „ „ 25,000 8,000 5847 60,623
Reserves are no longer labelled nominal
because when 1923 profits were appropriated
the last shred of goodwill, for which £60,000
had been paid in ISBB, disappeared. From
commencement there has been no alteration
whatever in the capital account; paid capi-
tal is £250,000 and the management lias
throughout had the use of £150,000 of 5 p.c.
debentures, and for a time £50,000 more.
They mature in June. 1926; but so snug has
tlie co. been made that, after having increased
the book value of breweries, plant and proper-
ties by more than £160,000 since establish-
ment, at February 29 last the management
had £71,479 vested in deb. trustees and it
"confidently expects to repay whatever
balance is not in the hands of trustees in
1926 out of a fund which the directors had
for some time created and invested for re-
demption purposes.” Where that fund and
its investments are hidden is not told. No
such specific reserve is disclosed by the
accounts; it might be anywhere—portion,
perhaps, in the “freehold depreciation fund,”
or even included with liabilities; and the in-
vestments may be divided in several parcels.
The provision made by this co.’s management
fo redeem its big debenture debt out of sink-
ing. funds, instead of seeking a covering loan
when the debt falls due, is typical of the
manner in which most of 8. Aus.’s big. suc-
cessful businesses have been conducted by
the hard-headed crowd who have controlled
them. For many years to 1911 the 8. Aus.
Brewery paid only 5 p.c. p.a., and share-
holders thus permitted substantial reserves to
accumulate, while also making what appeared
to be liberal allowances for depreciation and
for reduction of goodwill. The payment of
10 p.c. divs. began 10 years ago, and except
in two war years that rate has been continu-
ous. The published accounts have, how-
ever, shown only small surpluses of profit
over and above that rate, and most of
the visible margins have been taken to write
down book values and build up inner re-
serves. For instance, for the past 12
months £12.000 was written off various assets
prior to announcing the £38,847 net: profit,
and in the appropriation account £BOOO more
was taken to write down plant and rolling-
stock. Tt is not unlikely, too, that gross
profits are affected by provisions for con-
tingencies : on this occasion, for instance, a
cut has been made for "building accounts.”
How book values have been protected is re-
vealed by a statement in the directors’ report
fo the effect that, though 11 freehold and
four leasehold pubs were delicensed last
year, the sale of the freeholds and “provision
made in anticipation fully covered” all
losses.
Published balance-sheets show this pro-
gress over 30 years:—
1894. 1904. 1914. 1924.
Debentures . . 150,000 200*000 200.000 150*000
Sundry creditors. . 49,812 50,061 42,228 107,197
Freehold deprecia-
tion reserve: : : ~ ' 50,000 48,832
Freeholds, machinery
and plant .. 413,607 478,102 499,866 445,518
Stocks.. .. 19,457 13,115 20,917 17,514
Book debts . . 16,523 21,143 53,995 35,190
Advances . . 21,606 26,183 54,055 52,954
Deb. trustees . . =— 71,479
Gash . . .. 170 76 5,947 24,733
Including debs, with liabilities, 10 years ago
debts exceeded the book value of all liquid
assets by £106,414; at the latest balance the
excess was down to £55*828, notwithstanding
heavy outlay on fixed assets in recent years.
Though the published balance-sheets over a
long period show a continuous strengthening
of the business from year to year, only those
who have the run of the co.’s books can tell
the full extent of the improvement. The
biggest item in doubt in the published
accounts is the £48,832 at credit of a freehold
depreciation fund: considering the large
amounts written off each year it is ques-
tionable whether depreciation has not been
otherwise fully provided for. That reserve
has, however, not been included with accumu-
lations shown in the introductory table.
Incidentally, at the latest balance secured
advances totalled £79,744, and they were
protected by a reserve of no less than £26,790.
Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation, Ltd., of Sydney, which has
branches in Vic. and S. Aus. The deficit of
£8943 to begin with was made up of £5OOO
paid to the promoter (10,000 fully-paid 10s.
shares), £3574 brokerage on shares and
£369 of preliminary exes.:— *
Excess Out-
Dec., Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
£8,943
1921.. £19,481 £4,340 £20,186 £5,045 13,988
Premiums on new shares, £449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
Premiums on new snares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs .. 1,360 25,824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments .. 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
This co., which was founded a little more
than three years ago by the late Thos.
Foster, mixes Ordinary and Industrial life
assurance and fire, marine and accident in-
surance, and the introductory table com-
bines the results of all. activities. Already
the C.G.A. has spent £50,303 over and above
its income, and, including the £5OOO of shares
paid to the promoter, has run up a deficit
of £55,303 apart from whatever reserves are
required to cover the actuarial liability under
life policies and the amount needed to re-
insure current risks in other branches. The
deficit in the table makes allowance for
£lO7B reserved for Ordinary policies, and
£2806 laid aside for. unexpired risks on
general insurances at the close of the second
year (nothing has been added to either
account for the past 12 months), but so
far no reserves have been earmarked for
Industrial policies. Taking 40 p.c.
(£11,138) of fire, marine and accident net
premiums as a fair provision for unexpired
risks in that department, shareholders’ capi-
tal of £91,921 has been cut into for £66,441,
and is also carrying all liabilities under
Ordinary and Industrial policies. The prin-
cipal Board, consisting of N.S.W. Premier
Geo. Fuller, ex-Senator Albert Gould. Thos.
Henley, M.L.A., J. A. Murdoch, M.L.C., and
electrical-engineer J. E. Donoghue, states
that it has “again adhered to a policy of
sound and conservative management, and of
economy with due regard to efficiency and
progress.... The co. has made very substan -
tial progress.” But has it? Everything
depends on whether the C.G.A. can hold
all the policies written and bought, arid make
them pay. The latest accounts give no clue
to prospects.
It is doubtful whether the business is yet
nearly large enough to carry all overhead
charges and justify £91,921 of capital. It is
certain that large volumes of new Ordinary
business will be required, and it is prob-
lematical whether the Industrial and general
insurance branches will become self-support-
ing within a reasonable period. If the man-
agement goes after new business on a big
scale further funds will be eaten up, and
there is a limit to that. This was the assets
position at each of the last two balances,
office furnishings, stationery and a motor-
car having been discarded in the figurings:—
1922. 1923.
Government securities .. £10,024 £10,283
House-purchase loans ~ 5,979 10,210
Cash and deposits ... . . 22,001 8,537
Loans on policies .. .. 395
Book debts .. ... .. 6,584 '5,179
Owing by other cos.. .: .. 6,860
Agents’ balances .. .. 8,045 4,757
£52,633 £46,221
Liabilities 7,277 9,953
Net tangible assets .. £45,356 £36,268
The co. commenced the 1923 financial year
with £69)322 paid capital and closed it with
£91,921; nevertheless, net tangible assets de-
clined £9OBB to £36.268. Cash in hand and
assets convertible into cash would not go far
in a business-writing campaign.
How the three branches have fared each
year is shown next
Ordinary and Industrial.
. ' Excess
Out-
Premiums. Claims. Expenses, goings.
1921 \lnl £8, 601S £7IB £l5 - 133 £7n9
V Ord. 17,245 1140 15,289 816*
1922 ) Ind. 7,099 829 13,805 7535
(qoq ( Ord. 24,18 9 25 2 7 20,067 1595*
find. 27.876 3672 29,286 5032
♦Nominal surplus.
Fire, Accident and Marine.
Towards
Net Pre- Ex- fie- Re-
miums. Claims, penses. serves, serves,
1921 ..£9,262 £3,625 £5,053 £584 £584
1922 ..20,196 7,847 11,081 1768 2352
Deficit.
1923 .. 27,900 17,368 . 19,372 6488
The introductory table takes in all these
figures, and, for last year, £1554 of interest
and miscellaneous receipts, and also £2171
of administrative exes, shown in a general
revenue account and which cannot be appor-
tioned to departments. Last year’s perform-
ances in a nutshell were as follows:
Ordinary.—The all-in expense rate was 83 p.c. oi
premium income. Allowing 10 p.e. as the cost of
renewals, £13,169 of premiums from new business
cost £18,965, an expense rate of 144 p.e. The busi-
ness is still very costly. Though £1595 surplus of
income over outgo is shown for the year, every
penny of it was swallowed by a transfer to lessen
losses of other sections.
Fire, Marine and Accident.—-Gross premiums in-
creased from £36,543 for 1922 to £43,002 last
year. Re-insurances were smaller, and net premiums
therefore relatively larger. Apart from £3682 spent
on opening branches in Vie. and S. Aus., expenses
ran into 56.2 p.c. of net premiums. Losses worked
out at 62.3 p.c. Altogether outgo exceeded income by
£BB4O, leaving a deficit on operations to date of
a. 6488. That does not take into reckoning that
a reserve of 40 p.c.. of net premiums would require
£11,138 for risks unexpired at December 31.
Industrial. —This is the experimental, branch of the
O.G.A. Founder Tom Foster considered that the
customary methods of procuring a large volume of
this class of life business were too slow, so, besides
developing a connection of his own, he bought up
the Industrial businesses of the Life Insurance Co. of
Australia and the Co-operative Insurance Co. and
took over the policies of the derelict Australian
Workers’ Co-op. Assurance. He paid good cash for
the former two (the Co-op. received £i0,000), and
the purchases are represented in the balance-sheet
by an entry of £16,585 among assets —so much
has been paid for ready-made businesses and
organisations. It also bought liabilities, but how
much cannot be ascertained until an actuary has
measured up policy obligations. Whether the C.G.A.
can make a success of the transferred businesses, which
the vendors were glad to be rid of after 10 years’ or
so struggle, is for the future to show. The
directors say that the “beneficial results are, for
various reasons, not apparent in the period under
review, but now that the difficulties surrounding the
transfers have been surmounted, they anticipate that
the year 1924 will indicate a substantial surplus.”
Large surpluses will be required, because at transfer
the liability under the Co-op.’s policies alone was
£24,500. In August last, Mr. Foster told the
“Wild Cat” that the O.G.A. held 16,600 Industrial
policies assuring half a million and carrying £37,560
premiums per annum. For the 12 months to Decem-
ber 31, Industrial otitgo exceeded income by £5032,
and the expense rate was 105 p.e. Next year's
accounts should give a clearer indication of how
the experiment is working out.
Not one of the three branches has given
any definite sign of becoming a nrofit-earner.
At present, in the absence of an actuary’s
estimate of policy liabilities, it is impossible
to measure the extent of the cover given
policy-holders by shareholders’ funds which
are still intact. It is questionable, in view of
the £24,500 liability under Co-op. policies
alone in July, whether the £36,268 of net
assets in December were sufficient to fully
cover liabilities under Ordinary, Industrial
and general policies. As first citizen of
N. S. Wales it is up to director George Fuller
to consult actuary Bremner on that aspect of
the C.G.A., and to investigate the dependa-
bility of calls before permitting any further
heavy expenditure. As for shareholders,
cumulative divs. are piling up on 149,281
pref. shares, but there is not the slightest
prospect of a distribution for many years.
The 160,345 ordinaries come behind them
again.
■K- * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
car riel's, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods:—
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. . serves, serves.
Jan., T 7 .. £8,526 10 p,c. = £5OOO £3,526 £99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000 74,167
Julv, *l7 .. 8,125 10 p.c. = 6250 1,875 76,042
Jan., ’lB . . 10.460 10 „ „ 6250 4,210 80.252
July, ’lB .. 13,677 10 „ „ 6250 7,427 87,679
Jan., ’l9 .. 14,663 10 „ „ 6250 8,413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July, ’l9 . . 13,067 10 p.c. = 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO .. .. 69,597
Jan., ’2O ... 25,878 11 p.c. = 7563 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO -. . . 82,912
July, ’2O .. 23,275 12 p.c. = 8250 15,025 97,937
Jan., ’2l . . 14,030 12 „ „ 8250 5,780 103,717
July, '2l . . 12,225 12 „ „ 8250 3,975 107,692
Jan., ’22 .. 9,489 12 „ „ 8250 1,239 108,931
Julv, ’22 . . 9,381 12 „ „ 8250 1,131 110,062
Jan., ’23 .. 12,941 12 „ „ 8250 4,691 114,753
July, ’23' .. 15,904 .12 „' „■ BG6O 7,654 122,407
Written off Gold’s Debentures. . £6OOO 117,407
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13fp.e.= 9281 3,792 121,199
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141,199
Once more the directors of this back-country
carrying and supply co. admit that it earned
much more than its periodic accounts dis-
closed. For many years the co. was a con-
sistent 10 p.e. div/proposition, and that rate
applied to capital which was increased as
follows: —
Capital prior to 1910 .. .. •• £70,000
Reserves capitalised, 1910. . £lO,OOO
„ „ 1912.. 10,000
„ „ 1917.. 25,000
45,000
New subscriptions, 1912
(premiums, £4000) .. £lO,OOO
New subscriptions, 1919
(premiums, £5000) *. 12,500
22,600
£lB-7,500
In 1920 the div. rate jumped to 12 p.c.,
and for the past six months to .134 p.c.
Meanwhile surpluses disclosed by the
accounts from time to time ran into £51,600,
but the directors now come to light with
£20,000 from internal reserves, which, inci-
dentally, were strengthened in 1919 by £5OOO
of share premiums. This is the third occa-
sion on which hidden profits have been dug
out: 1912, £21,000; 1916, £14,195; 1924,
£20,000. Quite likely there is a lot more still
hidden; only four years ago the directors con-
fided that internal reserves then exceeded
£40,000, and, excepting £5OOO written off a
debenture investment in Gold's Hosiery Mills,
everything has gone well with the business.
Though the co. has paid handsome divs. for
many years, the latest accounts showed
visible reserves (after making provision for
final divs.) exceeding by several thousands
the paid capital of £157,500. The next
table shows the development of the business
over 15 years:—
1909. 1914. 1919. 1924.
Liabilities . . £37,648 £55,627 £70,930 £112,897
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 19,238 21,152 41,666
Stocks '.. 27,501 48,194 57,728 70,490
Book debts .. 60,472 106,548 125,170 174,012
McCulloch Co. . . 21,846 25,000 44,766 64,123
Cash and invest-
ments . . 23,263 27,796 46,330 59,203
Since 1909, and with the aid of only £31,500
of new capital: and share-premiums, the sur-
plus of stocks, book debts, cash and invest-
ments over and above liabilities has grown
£117,255, visible interests in the McCulloch
Carrying Co. (the Vic. end of the business)
have expanded £42,277, and £26,464 has been
added to the book values of the co.’s own
premises and plant. Altogether, in 15
years the co.’s position has been visibly
strengthened out of surplus profits to the
extent of almost £155,000. Shareholders’
investment is very snug nowadays, for though
liabilities ran up to £112,897 at January 31
last, cash and investments covered more than
half of them and all liquid assets (including
stocks and book debts) were sufficient to meet
all debts and leave. £190,843 to spare. _ That
surplus alone was equal to almost 695. sd. for
each of the 55,000 fully-paid 50s. shares.
Fixed assets and the book value of the
McCulloch interests ran into 38s. sd. per
share more.
11. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
•£ '£,£,■£>
1913.. 28.477 1200 ll£p.e.= 8,847 18,430 46,44?
1914.. 23469 1200 10 „ „ 7,998 14,271 60,718
Transferred to capital £40,000 .. 20,718
1915.. 20.368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27,886
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~ 12,00 0 7,194 35,080
1917 .. 30,465 1200 ll£ „ ~13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
133,096 1200 15 „ „ 21.000 10,896 49,727
1919. .4 Voted to staff fund, £2OOO .. 47,727
v Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
f Internal reserves disclosed and I
I other additions to reserves, I
I qoq I £32,721. / 5,014
- ' * VReserves capitalised, £36,000 j
29,266 1200 12£ p.c. 27,000 1060 J
\ Staff provident fund, £5OO
1921. . 41,112 1200 27,000 I ml 7 426
Staff fund, £5OO j ’ ’, ,
1922.. 41,338 1200 124p.c.=27,048 13,090 00,616
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalized-
-1923.. 46,000 1200 12A p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,2/4
This time-payment co. is still doing so mag-
nificently that, though £36,000 of reserves
were converted into scrip at the beginning
of the financial year, it pays the usual 12j.
p.c. divs. with greater ease than it did previ-
ously. The directors don’t admit such hand-
some results as the table gives; they show net
profits for the 12 months only £.1282 more
than is taken by divs., and do not count in
additions they made to a general reserve. It
is an old habit, and as this reserve has
hitherto proved to have been a vault into
which profits not required for divs. have been
temporarily stored, in the introductory-table
each year’s additions have been included.
The figures there are made up in this way:—
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Dec., Account). Reserves.
1914 £15,141 £8,328
1915 15,111 5,257
1916 .. .. . . 15,133 5,261
1917 15,895 14,570
1918 22,644 7,542
1919 ... .. 26,132 ‘ 6,-964
1921 . . . . 29.682 11,430
1922 . . .. .. 29,800 11,538
1923 .’. .. 31.125 12,475
Other profits have also been stored out
of sight: the £36,000 which gave bonus scrip
12 months ago was withdrawn from an in-
visible contingency reserve —the directors
said that the amount was only “part of. inner
reserves, accumulated prior to January.
1922. Only insiders know how much was
left there when the £36,000 had been with-
drawn, and they are the only ones who can
tell whether last yeau’s disclosed profit*
were affected by new additions, though the
accounts record profits less provisions tor
bad debts and for safeguarding incomplete
t.-p. transactions.
Besides winning fat profits from the cask-
orders with which the co. accommodate;
clients so that they can pay “cash” to othe •
traders —the orders are negotiable at 20s. in
the £—Gordon’s has a big furniture turn-
over of its own, much of it also on hire-
purchase terms, and nowadays it is also a
large investor. At December 31 assets were


READY ON FRIDAY.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR APRIL.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Amalgamated Pictures
Australian Mutual Pro-
vident Society
Australian Film Produc-
tions
Australian Provincial
Assurance
Beatb, Schiess & Felstead
Cairns Brewing Co.
Caledonian Collieries
Chandler, D. & W.
Commonwealth General
Assurance
Empire Life & General
Assurance
Emu Bay Railway
Equitable Building (Tas.)
Finn y, Isles & Co.
Gordon, R. H., & Co.
Hotel Ettalong
Howard Smith
H. Stevenson & Son
London Stores
Melbourne Genera 1
Omnibus
Menzies’ Hotel
National Mortgage of
N.Z.
Paul & Gray
Prospectuses
Queensland National
Pastoral
Registrations, New
South Australian Brewery
Torrens Insurance
Union Trustee
Western Australian
Insurance
Wright, Heaton & Co.
Yellow Cabs of Australia
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Ofiice. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. T.td.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * »
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt. [2
• # # #
Recent orders received for Pioneer Wood Pipe
include some 9300 ft. of varying diameters for reticu-
lation work in country centres by the State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission of Melbourne. The
lightness, simplicity, efficiency and economy of this
modern wood conduit has brought favorable con-
sideration from progressive engineers. Send for our
68-page free book, which gives reliable data and inter-
esting comparisons. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and
at Footscray, Victoria.— Aovt.
* * * *
A. E. Brone. Catheart House,- 11 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codi.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Singly Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W., for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horse-power. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gasworks. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydny,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.AV., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements. —Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur la impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. COUFOY,
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C,”
Probate Contract.
the investment to meet the
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contends. They are issued
on a basis higmy profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or l-'ederal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAX,
Managing Director.
&
d o orr&s on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift ,V f'omi'im.' 1,1.1.. AusirsllH'iiin Attents. 26 30 Cltirenre St., S.vtlney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual B ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Eire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary. Guarantee, Live StocK,
Crops, Stacks. Hailstone, etc.. Covered at *..»\vest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED. tatovs
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
made up of £14.611 in leasehold premises,
£86,102 of stocks and hire-agreements, and
£10<,677 of book debts (less reserves) ; in-
vestments comprised shares, debentures and
short loans with a book value £101,027,
mortgages £73,634, and £19,152 of Govern-
ment securities. Paid capital is £273,bJJ,
and no less than £184,393 of it is accumu-
lated profit.
The co. took over an old business ."just 17
years ago and paid £20,000 for goodwill, but
that item was written off within four years.
Paid capital was £50,000, and so far as can
be ascertained from the published, accounts
shareholders have put in only £39,306 more.
On original capital and cash since subscribed
present div. distributions run into approxi-
mately 35 p.c.. p.a. Against less than
£90.000 put in—by the way, £20,000 is pref.
capital carrying only 6 p.c. p.a.—ordinaries
in 14 years have had £227,417 in divs., and
the £184,393 of bonus scrip. Besides, they
are interested in £44.274 of visible reserves
which have accumulated. As there are
buyers of the £1 ordinaries in the market at
365. 6d. the old hands backed a great money-
spinner.
* * * *
“P.X.”: It looks as though something may
come of the Bullot meat-preserving process
at last: the Australian Meat Council has
endorsed its executive’s action in providing
£B5O “to finance the out-of-pocket expenses
of Professor Chapman in proceeding to Lon-
don to present the case for the process
before the committee, under the presidency
of Sir H. C. Munro, appointed by the
British Ministry for Health, to inquire into
food preservatives generally.” Dr. Chap-
man has all along maintained that the Bullot
process is quite unharmful; but, as its
adoption would mean that practically all
meat intended for city consumption and
(probably) export would be killed in the
country, vested interests in Sydney have
fought it at every step. If, however, this
British committee accepts it, the opposition,
it is thought, cannot be persisted in. The
Australian Meat Council, before agreeing to
finance the appeal, obtained from the co.
owning the process an undertaking that “no
offer of the patent rights shall be made to
any country exporting meat to Britain until
all reasonable efforts to sell within the Em-
pire have failed.” Meanwhile, the Sydney
and Melbourne cos., which have for years
been endeavoring to get a hearing from non-
eommital Health Boards and the trade, have
been consolidated. t ,
■* * * *
The new Westralian Labor Ministry is
talking of reorganising the Mines Depart-
ment, and rumors are floating around that
Dr. Maelaren is to be invited to give his
view r s on geological problems, and that a
prominent Johannesburg mining-engineer is
to be called in to make the Mines Depart-
ment of maximum use. However, there
appears to be no foundation for 'these
rumors; Collier’s crew will probably under-
take any reorganisation without calling in
outside assistance. There is quite a lot
they might do to help revive the mining
industry apart from making administrative,
control more effective. The outstanding
need in the West, and elsewhere, for that
matter, is legislation to protect the invest-
ing public from Wallingford promoters*.
Here are a few reforms the new Government
might consider: —-
Registration of mine-managers. At present there is
no control of the men who issue favorable reports
unwarranted by work done. The registration of
mine-managers would also rid the industry of in-
capable men whose blunderings have mined many
promising prospects and lost thousands o? investors’
money. At present dismissal or resignation is the
only penalty, and before long the same mine-manager
will be found controlling a show elsewhere. If, as
in the medical and legal professions, or in the case
of sea-captains, the mine-manager was liable to lose
his ticket when guilty of unprofessional conduct, or
of negligence or stupidity, the status of the mining
industry would be given a big lift.
Other reforms which are almost unanimously en-
dorsed by reputable mining men are: (1) The publi-
cation of returns on a fine-gold standard basis and
in sterling; (2) assays to be accompanied by
widths, and their value to be given in
sterling. Fine gold is worth, without premium,
a trifle less than 85s. per ounce, but the
presence of silver, copper or impurities seri-
ously affects its cash value. It sometimes
happens that a co. announces that it has
produced so many hundreds or thousands of ounces
of gold which may actually be worth as low as 50s.
per oz. The difference in many cases converts an
apparent profit into a loss. Cdmmonsense demands
the declaration of all values in sterling so that
shareholders can learn the value of their product.
Assays which are not accompanied by widths of ore
are, of course, worthless. The withholding of in-
formation respecting the size of formations carrying
the values claimed is one of the most common methods
by which unscrupulous men raid share markets.
Provision for the prosecution of men who make
what afterwards prove to be false statements m
prospectuses. It is sometimes proposed that the
State should have the right to prohibit the issue of
a prospectus which contains provisions or state-
ments of which it does not approve—as to division
of money subscribed, and so on. But the whole
responsibility should be thrown upon the people who
issue the prospectus. If they deceive the public,
they should be liable to prosecution. And they
should be prosecuted.
* * * *
Westralia is taking advantage of the
Empire Exhibition to give its declining
mining industry a boost. Dr. Simpson, .Go>-
ernment Mineralogist, has compiled an illus-
trated pamphlet dealing comprehensively
with the State’s mineral wealth, and
50,000 copies are to be broadcasted.
* • * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) has very
little to say about its activities nowadays,
but from what can be gathered prospects
appear to be good here and there at depthi
Recent work at 1400 ft. indicates, that the
shoot of payable ore at present being mined
at 1450 ft. in the adjoining Boulder Perse-
verance extends into Lake View. However,
under present working conditions, and with
a million shares to cut up any profit,
holders cannot expect more than an occa-
sional small div.
***.'*
Hampton Properties’ decision to recon-
struct is attributed to the need for addi-
tional capital to develop its Block 45 mine
and to invest when opportunity'offers else-
where. The co. was established in 1898 to
take over 27,000 acres of freehold at Hamp-
ton Plains and an interest in Block 40, near
Coolgardie, which was then owned by Hamp-
ton Plains Estate. Authorised capital is at
present £500,000, and 436,317. £1 shares
have been issued and are fully paid up.
Mt. Juglah, near Ivalgoorlie (W.A.), is
being given another chance. . Mutooroo
worked it under option for a time with no
success, but lately a new shoot of “pleasing
appearance and value’’ is claimed. On the
strength of this find Morrie Hamer, of
Adelaide, has taken a sampling option.
“Talpa”: The “Wild Cat” opened up
an important subject when it com-
mented on the responsibility of the State
in granting oil-prospecting permits. Take
the Queensland experience. An area 60
miles square was originally reserved for the
Government, and within it only one
concern has been allowed to prospect. The
area was subsequently opened to prospec-
tors, but was closed again within 48 hours
on account of an announcement having been
made that this concern had struck oil. The
official statement said that the public would
commend the attitude of the Government if
it was found that oil had been discovered
in commercial quantities, as it could then
be developed by Government resources; but,
if it was not found in quantity, then the area
could be thrown open once more to private
prospecting. Heads I win, tails you lo e!
Other areas, such as one in the Central Dis-
trict, in a known igneous area, have been
granted and worked, with the inevitable re-
sult. This waste of money could have been
easily prevented if an official with the .neces-
sary knowledge had been despatched in the
first place. Apparently the Department in
the past has accepted the fees, and then
considered its responsibility ended. There
is a clause in the new Queensland Act which
empowers the Minister to obtain a geological
opinion on the land included in any applica-
tion, the costs of the opinion to be borne
equally by both parties. The only objection
is that all geologists do not think alike, and
the nominee of the Department might pos-
sibly rule out a show with some promise.
Australia is in a position different. from mo'-'t
other countries, inasmuch as no oil has been
struck, and it is quite possible that it may
occur here under different conditions from
those ruling elsewhere. It has been so as
to various minerals.
* • * * *
It is hard to find out what Dr. H. I.
Jensen reported to the Board of the Central
Coorong Co. about his recent examination of
the two blocks at Alfred Flat, where a bore
was put down in 1890 by a Scotch co. which
drilled to 922tt. in limestone before its money
gave out. What can be gathered is that
Jensen put down 10 potholes two or three
feet deep, and in two of them, half a m’lo
apart, he is said to have identified petroleum
on the surface of the water, but so volatile that
it remained there for not more than a few
minuses. These shallow seeps have been
found in other places on the Coorong. so that
Jensen has corroborated what many less com-
petent men have stated —seeps of light oil
can be found in numerous pDces, but the
spirit is too light to catch.' AFer all, they
are only surface indications, and boring alone
can decide the source of the oil.
* * * *
The Australian Oil Oorp.’s decision to
bore at Beaudesert will be a test of the
opinions expressed by N. S. Wales Geologist
Leo J. Jones. The Walloon formation there
is identical with the Clarence series of the
N. S. Wales North Coast, which Jo Ti es
turned down cold as a possible producer. The
formation is continuous across the border,
so that if favorable indications show up
at Beaudesert N.h S. Wales should benefit
from the work.
# »■ * *
Development is nroeeedmg in earnest on
the hit. Isa silver-lead field (NQ.). Geolo-
gist St. Smith, for Mt. Isa, Ltd., and E- J.
Rodda, manager of the Mt. Isa Prop., are
enthusiastic as to prospects, preliminary
sinking having endorsed the surface promise
that the lodes live down. Many months’
more work is necessary, though, to confirm
the belief of geologists and mining-engineers
that Mt. Isa field will become *‘a second
Broken Hill.” Already the big co.’s
paids have been dealt in at up to £OO in
Melbourne.
*** * , J
Tvrconnell, Kingsborough (N.Q.), still
plods along with fair tonnages, but the grade
is below former averages. The latest six;
weeks’ run gave 181 oz. from 215 tons, not
-quite 17dwt. per ton.
* * * *
The development of the contact spurs in
South Lucknow has not opened up such
bonanzas as were met in similar positions
in the old field, alongside. So far the winze
has given only 8 tons first- and 50 tons
second-grad q ore; the latest report does
not give average assay results, and die two
lots are to go to Kerhbla for treatment.
Anyway, the gold won from these small
quantities cannot be taken as a guide to
mine prospects. Until the spurs have Decn
thoroughly explored, the stone won can be
regarded only as the product of a patch. The
position at South Lucknow calls for vigor-
ous development, but so much money has
been sunk in dead work since the scrip was
boomed on the strength of odd rich streaks
that shareholders have wearied of call-
paying. A batch of forfeiteds failed to find
a bid at auction the other day. The direc-
tors are at present pushing out a drive from
the 200 ft. level to locate at that depth on
the contact the sflioot met in the winze
higher up. The drive shows 2ft. of ore, but
values are low. Meanwhile additional equip-
ment is being put im to facilitate prospecting.
T. W. Horton and Frank Rich having
both reported favorably, the Busai gold show
(New Guinea) is to be given a fly by a
Sydney co. This is a proposition which
was tackled by a syndicate of wireless opera-
tors a few years agd>: they drove 700 ft. into
the hillside and are said to have passed
through seven different reefs varying from
a foot to 12ft. wide and indicating an ounce
average. One 3ift. reef is claimed to. have
given soz. consistently. The show is, of
course, only in the ejarly development stage,
and 60,000 10s. shares to vendors looks a
big price. J. T. Walton’s office is offering
the same number of contribs. (Is. down and
Is. on allotment) to- provide funds for exam-
ining the reefs and ascertaining whether a
plant is warranted.
On the recommendation of Government
Geologist Reid the Tas. Mines Department
has decided to spend £2OOO in boring for
silver-lead lodes on the Sunshine and Clarke
and Brown’s shows, near Zeehan. Residual
pug bodies, resulting from the fretting away
of limestone, are said to carry higa-grade
ores, and the geologist considers that such
bodies will in future be the main source of
supply of Zeehan’s silver and lead. Old
hands still argue that. Zeehan is as good as
ever it was. If pug was all ore everything
would be rosy, but pug lodes have so far
never made one really good mine.
Briseis (Tas.) produced only 75 tons tin
during the quarter ended March. The low
yield was partly accounted for by water
shortage, but persistent rumors blame the
English Board’s policy. It is known that
Briseis has some rich ground opened up which
has been left untouched month after month.
Australian shareholders are anxious to learn
why these reserves (said to approach 3000
ton's) are not being extracted at present
metal prices.
* * *
The Speck has established a green-marble
industry, and expects a good demand from
the mainland. The marble is actually ser-
pentine rock, and material which cannot be
worked up into facing slabs will be crushed
and used as a base for floorings, etc. Two
shipments of slabs have commanded a ready
sale in Melbourne.
The 10 000 reserve shares of RingarOoma
United (Tas.) having been taken up, the
Adelaide Board is pushing ahead with a bat-
tery. Crushing is expected to commence
by "the end of May, and there is optimistic
talk of 500 tons yielding not less than l|oz.
How much more ore is in sight is not told,
nor are values. Gold lodes in this part of
Tas. are inclined to a temporary richness,
rather than to bulk or persistency.
Oswald’s. Maldon (Vic.), has shut down.
Bob Oswmld opened the mine in 1864, and
20 ton s of gold worth more than 2-J millions
have been produced.
* * * *
Many working parties of miners and indi-
vidual producers who sell their gold to the
and often receive no. more than par
value for it. are apparently unaware that
they are eligible to join the Gold Producers’
Association and share any premium that
body wins from sales abroad. Secretary
T’ recently explained the pro-
cedure as follows: —
There is no reason why small producers should not
become members of this association. All bona-fide
gold-producers in the Commonwealth are eligible to
join. Each applicant must apply for one share for
every 48oz. or fraction thereof of standard gold pro-
duced by him during the 12 months immediately
preceding the date of his application. He must
furnish a statement showing the name and location
of the mine or works from which the gold is being
produced, and also showing his monthly or annual
production, thus giving the basis on which the appli-
cation is made. A cheque or postal notes for a value
sufficient to cover the number of shares applied for,
at Is. each, must be enclosed therewith. This is the
total financial liability of a member.
Members do not vary the manner in which they
dispose of their gold. They continue to sell to the
bank or Mint, and receive payment from them, but
the relative Mint return must then be obtained and
forwarded to this office (Collins Court, Little Collins-
streot, Melbourne). These Mint returns are lodged
by the association with the Treasury, and against
such lodgments permission is obtained to export an
equivalent amount of gold, which is sold abroad, arid
the net premiums obtained are distributed among
the members pro rata to their gold production as
shown by the Mint returns lodged by them with us.


OFF WITH THE OLD LOVE— ON WITH THE NEW.
“After a meeting of the Vie. Liberal party Mr. Lawson resigned the Premiership in favor of Alex. Peacock, and announced he would be a candidate for the Speakership of the House.”
THE FALLING STAR: “It’s a jolly Stood job T had a cushion nice and handy!”


The original Pilsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops,
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported.
Guaranteed free from all chemicals.
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass or
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors: —
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney,
Or their Queensland Agents: —
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
j
ĵ
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations,
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hayband”: It takes more than the loss
of a limb, or even two. to cripple—or even
handicap—some men. Chaff cutting at Forbes
(N.S.W.) three years ago I saw a 10-stone
“returned” man with one arm fairly beat
a sound 13-stoner at chaff-lumping. As the
alleged cripple said, he “grabbed the bag
here and there and stood up.” But he stood
up with a violence that brought the bag to
his shoulder. He knew how. The big fellow
just lifted ’em. At Ganmain (N.S.W.) a
soldier short of a leg and an arm applied
for a job tossing sheaves to a cutter. “Sure
you can keep her going?” asked the owner
doubtfully. “Got another one like her?”
asked the Digger. “And if I had,” the
owner told me a week later, “he could have
buried them both.” He see-sawed the fork
through a ring on his left stump. The
absent leg mattered not at all.
“Little Nell”: The facts regarding the
family of young criminals into which the
N.S.W. Department “boarded out” one of
its wards are worse than The Bulletin
suggested. In the family in which the little
girl was placed there were three sous; and
PUSS, PUSS!
"They're going to he married next month—that’s if her [?] can
yet a week off.”
"Don't you think he’ll he able to?”
"Ooh. I think so. You see, it isn’t the same as if he was asking
a week off to have a good time."
t hose three sons had the. following criminal
convictions recorded against them prior to
the girl being handed over to the family to
receive her early training in life: One. youth,
10 convictions; another, 7; the third,
Worse than all, the Department had arranged
to place two more of its orphaned wards in
this “Fagin’s den.” But owing to the mother
of those young hopefuls bringing the child
to the Children’s Court when one of the
precious trio was making one of his periodi-
cal visits there, the police made the interest-
ing discovery that the family in question
was being paid by this extraordinary de-
partment -to adopt State children. They
prom i >ily .took a hand, with the result that
the child ” was removed from its evil sur-
roundings, and the other two mites were
otherwise disposed of.
“Ajax”: The late Judge John Gordon, of
South Aus., had to consider whether
misconduct can be inferred from the surrep-
titious kissing of a married woman, and his
judgment, one of the last he ever delivered,
was one of the best. The co-respondent
openly visited the respondent, a married
woman living apart from her husband, at
her flat. Both denied adultery, but it was
admitted that the lady permitted her visitor
to give her a good-night kiss on leaving after
each visit. The kisses were described as
“respectful” kisses; it was denied that the
co-re. ever even touched his hostess with his
hands. The Judge said, “I do not believe
the kissing was controlled by platonic aus-
terity. On the contrary, I think the respon-
dent and the co-respondent, during the whole
of the relevant time, were sexually sipping
temptation.. But some women will go a
very long way before proceeding to the ex-
tremity of guilt I do not feel driven to
the necessary conclusion that the extremity
of guilt had been reached.” Still, the oscu-
lating co.-re. didn’t escape scot-free. “Be-
cause of his indiscreet and suspicious con-
duct,” concluded his Honor, “I leave him to
pay his own costs, which would otherwise
have been payable by the petitioner. This
may perhaps enable him to discover at least
one reason why he should not kiss another
man’s wife under such circumstances.”
“Sixenate”: The obligingness of these
employment agencies! An applicant for a
declaration of nullity in the mivorce Court
the other day told his Honor that he had
met his pseudo-bride. at one of these estab-
lishments in Sydney. The .Judge sur-
prisedly suggested that he meant “matri-
monial agency,” but the petitioner stuck to
his original assertion. He went on to ex-
plain that at the employment agency
he was told of a job awaiting a mar-
ried couple. He was about to turn it
down on the plea that he hadn’t the neces-
sary qualifications, or half of them, but the
agency met the difficulty by introducing him
to a woman ■who was prepared to be united
in the necessary partnership. _ After being
linked up they secured the situation, and
might have been there still only that a
station-liand happened to blow in who recog-
nised the woman as the wife of another
man. Her habit of throwing kitchen uten-
sils at the man who believed himself to be
Tier husband made the neWs rather welcome,
and he informed the police. Hut, whoever
may be punished for the fraud, it isn’t likely
to be the employment agency.
* * * *
“E.D.F.”: It was in Thursday Island,
away back at the time of the Quetta wreck,
that I first made the acquaintance of Billy
Murdoch, a Government diver, who did a
lot of buoy-laying and underwater work
there and in New
Guinea. Once he
was with Gover-
nor Macgregor on
the Albatross after
some natives who
had scuppered a
schooner and mur-
dered her crew.
After one or two
of the culprits had
been captured, the
trouble on board
was as to who
would hang them.
Billy was very
deaf indeed, •as
most divers are,
but after some
trouble he was
made to hear that
if he cared to take
on the job he
would get £2 a
head. His accept-
ance was so casual
that the Governor,
not being satisfied
that he had prop-
er l y understood,
had the question
repeated to him.
Whereupon Wi 1-
liam, indignant at
being thought so
deaf, roared: “Oh.
dammit! Didn’t I
say ‘Yes? Tell
the Governor I’d
hang him for a fiver!”
* * * *
“Pink Tape” : Application was made the
other day to the Full Court in Perth for a
writ of mandamus to compel the Registrar
of Births to alter the recorded parentage of
a child. Husband and wife had been sepa-
rated for over two years when the child was
born. The question arose whether the child
would not be illegitimate if it were regis-
tered in another name than that of its
mother’s husband. The Full Court pointed
out that until a man relieves himself of the
responsibility by divorce proceedings rhe
children of his wife, whether his or not. are
entitled to the protection of his name. They
are, in fact,' born in lawful wedlock, how-
ever unlawful the conduct of the wife may
have been.
: On Saturday afternoon we
went out to sea on the steamer Newcastle
from the harbor Captain Cook didn’t dis-
cover, and took a look into Botany Bay,
where, 354 years ago, he earned his day’s
pay of five shillings by taking possession
of the east coast of Australia on behalf of
THE EXCEPTION TO THE RULE.
“Oh, rubbish —all handsome men are conceited!”
“No, child —not all."
Britain. We had a good view of H.M.A.S.
Anzac lying where H.M.S. Endeavor dropped
her anchor on that April afternoon a cen-‘
tury and a half ago. but did not see the
Governor hoist the flag, or hear the Chief
Justice make a speech. These deprivations
were, however, compensated for by the fact
that we contemplated the low headlands of
the great bay, and the southern shore where
lie made his landing, from Cook’s own
point of view, and were allowed time tor
reflection upon one or two points connected
with that historic event. One of them was:
Where would Sydney be now if it hadn t
been for a southerly buster V When the
Endeavor made the Australian coast off the
Ninety Mile Beach, stiff gales blew her
northward, so that her commander never
was aware of Twofold and Jervis Bays. Had
he entered the former and reported on it, it
is practically certain that Phillip, 18 years
later, would have founded his settlement,
there, and the same may be said of the great
inlet in the Shoalhaven country. And an-
other reflection is one of regret that a prince
of discoverers like Cook was such _ a bad
hand at bestowing names upon his dis-
coveries. In all the world nothing clumsier
in nomenclature has ever been perpetrated
than “New South W r ales.” However, this
seems to have been James Cook’s only short-
coming, and he had a remarkable lot of
virtues.
“Skoojibooji”: A Sydney softgoods ware-
house recently appointed a bright youth from
one of the departments to the position of
traveller, and sent him out on the line with
instructions to wire any important new 7 s.
The youth, ever cautious, and wishing to
give the impression that he was strictly
obeying orders, wired back to Sydney:
“Arrived safely, good room and bath, doing
fine.” The manager nearly fainted when he
got the message, but recovered himself suffi-
ciently to telegraph back: “So glad, lots of
love and kisses; good-bye.” It w r as the
youthful traveller’s turn to look thoughtful
then.
* * *
From a correspondent at Kobe (IS/3/’24) :
The Japanese newspapers report that in accordance
with an informal request made by Acting-Prime
Minister Earle Page, at a banquet on the occasion
of the visit of the Jap training squadron to Aus-
tralian waters, the Navy Department has decided to
present Australia with the gilded characters “I-bu-
ki” from the stern of the battleship of that name.
The Ibuki. now lying idle at the naval port of
Kure waiting to be scrapped in accordance with
the terms of the Washington Treaty, convoyed Aus-
tralian transports during the war; and it is with
the idea of commemorating this action that her name
characters are to be placed in a glass case in the
War Museum.
“HER”- These long, silent courtships
(B. ‘ 3/4/’24) don’t always end ; in
kisses and orange blossoms. Bill Smeely
was a Queenslander _of my , ac 4n aini .
ance who had got into the habit o
turning up nightly at the home of the girl
of his choice. His method of wooing com
sis t e d of play-
ing cr i b with
the o 1 d man;
and he resisted all
Maudie’s efforts to
lure him into more
direct action. One
night, during the
fourth year of it,
Bill arrived and
found dad had gone
to bed with the
“s crew s.” The
tongue-tied lover
fumbled with his
hat and mumbled
something about
hav i n g to go.
M audio turned
angry eyes on him
and asked why he
ever came. “To
play cards,” said
Bill lamely. “Play
cards!” exploded
the girl. “Yes,
like a groat kid.
Did you ever have
a real gamble in
your life? Ever
play for a real
s t a k eV” Bill
in e r o l y looked
scared and fled.
Two nights later,
in the middle of a
game, Bill stopped
playing to ask
where Maudie was.
“(lot the hump an’
cleared out yester-
day to Brisbane,”
said the father.
Bill was thunder-
struck. “Why the
’ell didn’t ycr tell
me an’ give a
feller a chance?”
he demanded. “I
was degd shook on
that girl!”
•‘O. McKay M.” : “Macquarie Street” has
already (B. 24/4/’24) drawn attention to
the fact that well under 40 p.c. of the 172
candidates who lately sat for their final
medical exam, in Melbourne were allowed to
pass. Parents have taken a tumble, and it
is significant that among the 1924 batch of
freshmen only about 30 in all are starting
on a medical course. Those who are de-
terred by the stiffness of the medical exams,
seem to be drifting into law instead of into,
carpentering or ironworking—despite tin-
shrinkage in “medicine” the University roll
shows a slight increase in the total number
of undergraduates. It is now something
over 2500. And for the young lawyer there
is even a drabber prospect than for the
young doctor: the latter can at least earn
bread and cheese in a country town that
WHERE HE GOT HAPPINESS.
THE REV R ANTER: “Ah. you might get
much happiness out of church."
H IS SPORTY NEIGHNBOR: “But I do. I get
it all out of church."
wouldn’t buy bread alone for a lawyer. The
one thing to be said in favor of the law
course is that it may help a man in jour-
nalism, politics, commerce or finance —has
even been known to help a man get a job
as a school-teacher.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE YOUTH
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He. whispered to his love: “Dear Heart,
The day has been when love was fire ;
But ageing Love has lost his art
And now his footsteps halt and tire.”
She answered: “He was very sweet,
The days were warm within his fire ;
But he has bruised his weary feet
( pen the hills of Old Desire.”
Love whispered: “Autumn leaves are flung
On sweeping winds to dust and mire;
But still the trees are very young
And Spring shall give them new attire.
“Look in my eye; ’tis quick arid clear
As when it woke you with its fire —
Wh :ti you were young who are so sere.
Love does not age, ’tis you that tire.”
VICTORIA.
CECIL MANN.


AUSTRALIA: THE LAND OF PROMISE.
“Simultaneously with the opening of the Empire Exhibition at Wembley, Mr. Theodore issued the prospectus of the Queensland renewal loan and
had applications five times greater than his needs.”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. ..£302 TJ 1
Per D. Quinlan, Orange—
T. Williams, W. Parry, J. Wright,
Penhall Bros.. G. Selwood, each 2/-;
Mrs. Gar ling, Mrs. Lawlor, H.
Crossley, H. Cotrain, H. Barg-
wanna, M. Morris, R. Buttle, W.
Arthur, T. Stanford, T. Eames,
each 1/- .. . - -. .. 10 0
Per J. Sewell, Barrallier —
R. W T . Nichols, 5/-; Beaumont, 2/6;
H. Waters, T. Horton, H. FulfoM.
Y. Carlon. A. Sindel, each 2/-; L.
Elliott. J. Elliott, each 1/3; E.
Dobson, A. Neal, S. Lake, H. Carlon,
M. Carlon, D. McDonald. J. Sewell.
C. Carlon. Miss Ryap. L. Christ!-
son, each 1/-; T. Mylecharane, 6d. 110 d
£3os 7 10
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.’ 7
j
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1)6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.. LONDON .
“Dig-Bine”: In Salonika in 1916 dogs
were used extensively for carrying messages
between the pro-German section of # the
Greeks and the Bulgars. , Along the
Struma banks we had strict orders to shoot
all such potential despatch-bearers, and
sniping at the big grey sheepdogs went on
incessantly. The most favored place for
hiding the message was in the long hair
under the throat. One dog we shot had
had a lap of skin cut and raised off the
back, the message—on very thin paper-
inserted, and the dry skin gummed down
again ; another one had the message fastened
between the toes.
“Smike”: Having put Angus Murray out
of the way the Melbourne police are now
renewing the search for Angus’s alleged
accomplice, Richard Buckley. Recently the
Herald disposed of Buckley by landing him
in America. The sleuths refused to. swallow
the tale, but their appetite for fiction with
a local bearing is as keen as ever, and so
the night often engulfs a whizzing arsenal
hurrying out to some spot where the evasive
criminal is alleged to have been seen scrap-
ing off his tattoo marks or asking hoarsely
for beer behind a rampart of false whiskers.
Invariably the detectives have returned at
dawn or later with the curses of some dis-
turbed householder still ringing in their ears
and their tempers abbreviated by loss of
sleep. The other day an anchorite, said to
resemble Buckley, was reported as inhabit-
ing a deserted hut in a lonely district, and
soon a carload of suppressed fury, armed
to the teeth, was whirling towards the spot.
A long, cold drive was succeeded by a climb
through scenery neck deep in bracken, and
eventually the party came on their objective
—a dark and silent shack in a little clear-
ing. A whispered command, a rush, and
about two tons of detective was gazing at a
trembling old man who was too dazed to
understand the apologies for the invasion.
Then the squad went home just in time to
learn once more that Buckley could be found
at Kew, or Parliament House or some other
conspicuous place.
THE LUCK OF SOME MEN.
FRANK: I don’t think my wife could tell a lie in twelve months .”
G UILE: “ You’ve fortunate. My wife can tell a lie the instant I
utter it.”
“Cliff Snook”: The official “hostel” at
Canberra is already a problem. Private
dealers in drink and lodging would have been
willing, given a reasonable prospect, to
supply good ordinary country-town accom-
modation in moderate quantities. But what
is aimed at is very superior accommoda-
tion, suited for the highest type of politi-
cian, and as this person will only be on
hand four or five
months in the year,
and will be mostly
absent at week-
ends, the precari-
ous nature of the
business must be
allowed for. A
good part of the
civil service is also
expected to migrate
in the off-season.
Bagmen are not
likely to stay. They
will step over from
Queanbeyan in the
morning, and get
back to the rail-
way in the after-
noon. No one an-
ticipates through
traffic, there being
no place to go
through to. So
Private Bung and
his friend Board-
ing-house gave
Canberra a miss;
consequently there
had to be a hostel,
and the hostel is
costing a lot, be-
cause no one works
at ’Berra without
extra wages. It is
said that the tariff
will have to be
anything between
£7 and £l2 per
week to pay bare
expenses; where-
fore either many
legislators will
board at Quean-
beyan, over the
State border, and
come across in a
’bus to legislate, or
the public will foot
part of the board
bill. At the best
Canberra, with its
off-season, is going
to be a Half-Time
Town and the Dead Man’s Hollow among
the world’s capitals.
* * * *
“Sierra”: “Port your helm” was a con-
spicuous notice posted on Sydney street cor-
ners during Squadron Week, the idea being
to direct Jack to some place or other. But
if Jack had obeyed and turned to the right
he must often have gone in the wrong direc-
tion. Helm orders are confusing to the lands-
man, who cannot understand why, on the
order “port,” the -wheel, rudder and ship’s
head should all move to starboard. The
U.S.A. Navy has discarded the old tiller
orders in favor of “right rudder” (port),
“left rudder” (starboard), “rudder full right”
(hard a-port). Strange terms to a seaman,
but perhaps needing only the hallowing
touch of time.
* •* * *
“Sixenate”: The Sydney police the other
day laid hv the heels a hard-working crimi-
nal whose speci-
alty was the loot-
ing of the slot
machines in public
telephone boxes.
During 12 days in
February 136 of
these machines
were forced and
cleaned out. The
chance of getting a
few shillings seems
an inadequate re-
turn for the labor
involved and the
risk incurred in
smashing a
machine, but
there’s no account-
ing for tastes. Not
long ago a man
who was convicted
in Sydney of “fill-
ing” silver coins
explained his pro-
cess. He would
split the silver,
extract a small
amount, and substi-
tute a baser metal
—a laborious job
demanding, consid-
erable skill. And
on his own show-
ing he seldom made
£3 a week—a sum
no unskilled laborer would work for.
‘ “Whitehall” on the high cost of dining :■ —
Re “Hathern’s” par (B. 24/4/’24) about the
naval officer who was charged 10s. corkage on each
bottle of wine he brought to his banquet. Most
diners-out who have any regard for their pockets
habitually provide their own wine nowadays, just
as for years they have been providing their own
BY THE WAY.
“Becoming, isn’t it?”
“Oh, no doubt. But a bit late arriving, don’t you think?”
flowers. In this way they ensure not only a cheaper
but generally a better article. At leading hotels
and restaurants in Melbourne and Sydney a bottle
of none too good champagne costs 30s. For various
reasons (including the fall in the franc) it is
possible to get a superior wine delivered free to
hotel or home in any quantity at 13s. 6d. —a clear
saving of 6s. 6d. per bottle, even if 10s. corkage
were paid, to say nothing of the diminished head-
ache in the morning. Incidentally, the term used
to describe this impost is no longer “corkage” ; it is
now “service,” and the customary fee is
7s. 6d. for champagne and ss. for whisky or brandy.
That licensed hotels have a right in law and
equity to make the charge seems obvious, but the.
game is also being played by those unlicensed
restaurants in which more alcohol is consumed after
hours than in any dozen mere pubs put together.
It would be interesting if “Hathern’s” friend gave
his next big dinner at one of these establishments
and crossed the “service” item off his bill. He could
certainly not be made to pay by any legal process.
* » * *
“Herodot”: There is a tradition among
soldiers, preposterous but hard to kill, that
when the death penalty is inflicted after a
court-martial only one rifle in the firing-
party is loaded, the other men being given
blank cartridge, so that nobody may know
who fired the fatal shot. Certainly it often
happens that in the bodies of men executed
fewer bullet-wounds are found than there
are members of the firing-party —fairly con-
clusive evidence that some of the execu-
tioners have purposely missed for conscience
sake. But with only one loaded rifle the
risk of a ghastly fiasco would be enormously
increased. Even as it is the job is always
liable to be botched. A party of five, from
the Provost-Marshal’s force, was detailed to
execute a German spy in the Tower of Lon-
don in 191(1. Not one of their bullets struck
a vital spot, although the prisoner was seated
in a chair only a few yards away, and the
region of his heart had been marked plainly
as a target. The regulations provide for
just such a contingency, however; the revol-
ver of the senior n.c.o. must finish the job.
*,* * *
“W.S.H.” on the cleaning-up of Yokohama:
The earthquake of September, coming at noon, an
hour set apart by the inmates of licensed quarters
for sleep, released many an unfortunate girl from
her indentures. Kipling’s “No. 9” and all the gay
yoshiwara of Tokyo came down like a pack of cards
at the first shake, and disappeared in smoke within
an hour. The loss of the houses, together with the
geld screens and silk dresses which gave a garb of
quasi-deernry to their trade, was a heavy one for
the keepers, but not too heavy to prevent their being
the first to lodge applications with the municipality
for permission to commence the work of reconstruc-
tion. Before the naval oil-storage tanks at Yokosuka
had ceased to burn (they burnt for about 10 days),
the yoshiwara keepers of Tokyo had filed their appli-
cations, and the recruiters and procurers became
extraordinarily busy scouring the country districts
for suitable girls.
After the recent, catastrophe, seeing that the
quarters had been reduced to ashes, it did not take
some people long to realise that it would be bettei
for them to remain in that state. The Association
for the Purification of Society, the Association tor
Effecting the Abolition of Brothels, and the Women’s
Society for the Reformation of Manners, all praise-
worthy in spite of their high-sounding names, at
once began to launch an energetic campaign. But
they have little chance against the vested interest from
purveyors of silks, perfumes and quack medicines at
one end to the medical inspectors at the other, who
are all getting a picking out of the muck. The
Government gets its percentage too. In the city
of Osaka 7107 licensed women in the year 1922
entertained 3,772,000 guests, and the Government
collected its percentage.
So the Nightless Cities will be rebuilt.
* V.- * *
“C.G.C.”: “Slomat’s” par on the Singa-
pore executions (B. 17/4/ ! 24) conjures up
gruesome memories of the method of dis-
patching malefactors practised in Santa
Marta (Colombia). Leaving that port one
evening some years back our old single-screw
tramp was unable to turn in the narrow
river, so, along with a boat’s crew, I was sent
over to the opposite hank to attach mooring
ropes for heaving her astern. In between
waits I explored the vicinity, and a little
way inland came across scores of graves
arranged in circles. In the centre of this
necropolis stood a triangular structure from
which was suspended an enormous stone
block. Curiosity impelled me to question
a native near by. His replies conveyed that
this was the Plaza del Execution, where
criminals met. their end. .Judging by the
number of fruit-skins lying about it must,
have been a popular form of entertainment.
Further pantomimic gesticulation indicated
that the victim would be shackled to a tall
iron post underneath the stone block. This
was then released, and, crashing down,
would smash his head into pulp. A sickness
of the stomach hindered further questioning
on my part.
* * * *
“Dido”: There was a wedding at Pent-
ridge the other day—the ’groom had just
arrived to serve a sentence of five years for
robbery.
Young Cupid, perched upon the wall,
Took out a dart,
And pierced a prisoner square and tall
' Clean through the heart.
Then Hymen forged another stock
Of chains to lit;
Provided, too, an extra lock—
Wedlock, to wit.
PRACTICAL.
“My dear, I pity you! Will you go for
divorce?”
“No. I'll just go for my husband —I think
that’ll be sufficient.”
REQUIEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“M. Paderewski, the Polish pianist, owing to the
illness of a pet Pekinese spaniel, cancelled a week’s
concert engagements at Chicago, in order to con-
sult four eminent veterinary surgeons. The dog
died.”—S. M. Herald cable.
In fair Chicago’s classic halls
Sit sad and sullen , audiences.
A sterner voice than Duty’s calls,
And Paderewski jumps his fences,
Rushing to quaff a bitter cup—
The passing of his Pekin Pup.
Hopeless the ebbing sands to stay ;
In vain the vigil veterinary.
The Reaper, grim and gaunt and grey,
With footsteps that no pray’rs may vary
Enters. Th’ appointed time is up.
So passes Paderewski’s Pup.
The Marche Funebre the silence breaks,
Wailing beneath the Maestro’s fingers.
Another heart in anguish aches,
Another blighted relict lingers.
“La Vie est Vaine” and Death will sup
Even on Paderewski’s Pup.
N.S. W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


a
The P. & C. Keeps Faith—Always!
N the financial stability of your Life
| fl 1 Office depends the future safety of
I 5 Js your wife, child and dependants at
lEBiaggol a most critical period of their lives.
Look well into this factor.
The stability of the P. & C. comes from two
sources, and is easily proved. Firstly, its
soundness is guaranteed by its association with
the foremost co-operative societies in each
State—bodies that are the foundation of the
country’s prosperity.
Secondly, the healthy growth of the Company,
itself due to fair dealing, prompt settlements,
friendly help to policy-holders and sound
financial policy.
That is why we are able to say:—
THE P. & C. KEEPS FAITH—ALWAYS.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Cooperative Assurance Co. of Australia, Limited,
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Some May birthdays:—
Brig.-Gen. Senator Cox, 61, Brig.-Gen. M. Onslow,
49, cn 2nd; Justice Rich (High Court), 61, and
Prof, Laby (Melb.), 44, on 3rd; Dave Gordon,
M. (S.A.), 59, on 4th; naturalist Edgar R.
Waite (Adelaide Museum), 58, on sth; G. M. Pren-
dergast, Vic. M.L.A., 70, on 6th; H. E. Pratten
(N.S/VV.), 59, on 7th; S. J. Mitchell (S. Aus. Insol-
vency Commissioner), 72, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. Abbott,
55, on I4tli; Dr. Leonard May, D. 5.0., 34, on 15th;
Newton J. Moore (Westralian ex-Premier and Agent-
General), 54, and poet Leon Gellert, 32, on 17th;
A. B. Moncrieff (S. Aus. ex-Railway Chief), 79, on
22nd; Justice Angas Parsons (S. Aus.), 52, on
23rd; Archgaiters Riley (Perth), 70, on 26th;
N. Treasurer Cocks, C 2, Dr. Fred Bird (Melb.),
Australian picture-producer BEAUMONT
SMITH.
6(5,.- and Brig.. Gen. McNicoll, 47, on 27th; M.
Scott Fletcher (Wesley Coll., Syd.), 56, Fred Kobert-
s6n (Adel. Advertiser), 66, and Colonel D. Murray
McWhae, M.D., 40, cn 28th; G. Gordon McCrae
(Melb.), 91, on 29th; and Prof. Berry (Melb.), 57,
on 30th.
Toutcher, M.L.A., and Martin McGregor,
M.L.C., members of the reshuffled Vic.
Cabinet, are both civil-service . pensioners,
but don’t draw their superannuation allow-
ances while receiving Parliamentary salaries
in excess of the pensions. Toutcher was in
the Customs and Income-Tax Office and
McGregor in the Chief Sec.’s Department.
Both retired in the ’nineties.
After an apprenticeship of 27 years as a
private member of the Vic. Assembly, Dick
Toutcher has become a Minister at last.
This is Premier Peacock’s magnanimous tit-
for-tat to Toutcher for acting as Honorary
Whip to Irvine in 1902 and ousting the first
Peacock Ministry. The new Cabineteer has
had a habit of missing the ’bus when a
Ministry was being formed, and the most
he achieved till now was the chairmanship
of the Railway Committee.
The position of Curator of the Sydiney
Botanic Gardens is a life-job for the man
who fits into it. J. H. Maiden, now on the
point of retiring, has held it for 28 years,
and Charles Moore, whom he succeeded,
was there 48 years. Maiden, a frail youth
of 21, came to Australia for his health’s
sake, and the fact that 44 years later a hale
old gentleman, belying his age, retires to tifle
his ease, is something of an advt. for the
climate. A year after his arrival Maiden
was made curator of the Technological
Museum, which position he held until the
Gardens job by came vacant.
Thousands of Vic. Mallee settlers knew
Tom Dillon, Land Board officer, who got the
call to Beyond suddenly on Good Friday
morning. H e was associated with settlement
in the north-west
country almost from
the time someone
asked “Is the Mal-
lee worth saving?”
He helped to
answer that ques-
tion in the affirma-
tive. Good com-
pany was Dillon
after office hours—
a fact which will
keep for him a green
spot in many a
memory.
A. A. KIRK-
PATRICK,
Minister of
Marine, Immigra-
tion and Local
Government in
South Australia’s
new Labor
Government .
For sheer grit the performance of Thomas
Gaunan. an 82-year old prospector in the
Lefroy district (Tas.), stands alone. Cannan,
who lives by himself in a bush humpy, was
bringing a load of firewood to his hut re-
cently, when the cart struck a stump, over-
turned, and threw him against a tree. He
tried to rise, but owing to a broken thigh
was unable to do so. He was 400 yards
from his hut and unable to walk, but Con-
ceived the amazing idea of sharpening a
stick that was lying near, driving it into
the ground ahead of him and pulling him-
self forward to it. By this means, though
suffering intense pain with every move, he
dragged himself to his hut. The stick-holes
could later be traced throughout the course
of his ghastly journey. Cannan lay help-
less in his hut for four days before he was
discovered, and was then taken to the local
hospital. He is now doing well.
“Mai Thoid” : Margaret Bondfield, Parlia-
mentary Sec. for Labor in the Ramsay
Macdonald Government, has a good Austra-
lian as offsider —- Phyllis Singer, who before
her marriage was Phyllis Gutlack, daughter
of F- W. Gutlack, of Renmark (S.A.), the
man who lias done almost as much for the
Australian dried-fruit industry as the sun
itself.
A life-pal of the late John Forrest, G. IT.
Roe, has died at Queenscliff, near Mel-
bourne. Forrest and he qualified as sur-
veyors together, and he joined the big West-
ralian in some of his exploring expeditions.
Then he went pearling in the North ; but a
crew of Dyaks turned pirates and seized his
vessel. Roe, securing another vessel, tracked
the marauders to Dutch territory, where he
recovered his craft. Later he gave up pearl-
ing for grazing, from which he retired over
a decade ago. He was 82 at the end.
John M. Drew, who has owned and edited
the Geraldton (W.A.) Express for the past
30 years—incidentally he was one of the
earliest contributors to The Bulletin from
the western State—is the only member of
Groperland’s new Cabinet who held a port-
folio in the first Labor Government of 1904-
05, although Angwin, of Fremantle, was an
honorary Minister in the same bunch. Drew
himself wasn’t a pledge-and-caucusite in
those days—merely an as-good-as-Labor
man; he put off going the whole hog till
1911. Of bis old colleagues of 20 years ago
Daglish and Hastie are dead, but Johnson,
Holman and Taylor are all in the recently-
elected Assembly. The last has ceased to be
a Labor member, and the other two have
apparently ceased, in the opinion of the
party, to be Ministerial .timber. Drew is
the one and only native-born Westralian who
has ever held office under a Labor Premier.
He arrived in the Leg. Council in 1900, but
lost liis Central Province seat six years ago,
and will have to win it back next month to
make his Ministerial job a dead-sure thing.
“M.D.” on a man and his weird methods:
Dr. Albert Abrams, of ’Frisco, the originator of
methods of diagnosis and treatment by means of
electronic reactions—he invented a machine called
the “dynamizer” for diagnosis, and another one
called an “oscilloclast” for treatment—has just died
at 61. Since 1916 he has been the most written
about doctor in the U.S., arid his methods have
excited keen interest in Britain. Even in Sydney
there are a few practitioners using his machines.
Every disease, he said, can be diagnosed from a
drop of blood or the sign iture of the patient. They
are simply dropped into the “box” (dynamizer).
Abrams considered that the presence of the patient
is not necessary, because a drop of blood With its
billions of electrons is a condensation of the multi-
tudinous vibrations of the human body ; therefore his
can be measured from the specimen.
The measurement of the vibrations in a drop of blood
will reveal the sex, race, paternity and even religion
of the patient, beside the nature of all diseases
and their locality. As every disease sets up vibrations
of a specific rate, it is only necessary to impose
similar vibrations from the outside —that is where
the “oscilloclast” comes in arid cures the trouble. -
Fees are 30 guineas per month, paid in advance. But
patients who send a drop of blood almost invariably
get a lot for their money—seldom less than cancer,
tubercle or syphilis, and sometimes all three. A
drop of blood from a rooster was sent to one
practitioner, who gave the following diagnosis: Con-
genital syphilis, carcinoma, sarcoma, epithelioma,
chronic malaria and diabetes.
Legh Winser, a fruit-growing Englishman
resident in S.A. for the last 16 years, has
given up - the job of private sec. to the Gov-
ernor which he has held (under Galway,
Wei gall and Bridges) since 1915. Mean-
while he has kept wicket for S.A. occasion-
ally, won , the amateur golf championship
several times, and in 1921 that of Australia.
Eyesight trouble takes him to London.
Gapt. Colin Duncan, who has a brother in
the Federal Parliament and another in S.A.
Leg. Council, is the new private sec.
Her prominence as the foremost woman
in the ranks of N.S.W. Labor did-not save
Mrs. Kate Dwyer from defeat as a member
of the A.L.P. .executive. She was fin oppo-
nent of the majority party in the last execu-
tive, and her defeat shows the solidity of
the vote behind that body at the confer-
ence. Still, she received such a vote that she
will take the place of the first member of
the new. executive; who drops out. Mrs.
Dwyer, who has had a place on every com-
mission inquiring into the condition of female
employment in N.S.W., is one of three
Golding sisters who were great fighters for
womanhood suffrage.
A strong plea for a grant for the widow
and family of Vic. Speaker Mackey was put
forward when the Liberals were caucusing
last week. Just as the majority was becom-
ing impressed, a breezy pal of the late Allan
Cameron, member for Dalhousie, asked what
was wrong with also doing something for Ms
family. The matter now rests with Peacock.
There are ways other than a grant which may
be resorted to —one ex-Premier’s widow was
appointed a registrar of births, deaths and
votes. Remembering the Federal pension of
£3 a week to Frank Tudor’s widow —who, by
the way, has been very seriously ill—Labor
feels it difficult to kick. Money is given
more freely now than when £3lOO was paid
grudgingly in 1897 by the Turner-Peacock
Government to provide £5OO a year for
Tribune Graham Berry in his old age.
Magnificent McCall, ex-Clerk of the Vic.
Uppah Chambah, who died the other day,
retired in December because, he was 65, and
most of his friends thought he would live
to draw his £666-a-year pension for at least
10 years. McCall’s well-cut clothes and
liis well-appointed office, with its decora-
tions and its orderliness, were mere
outward indications of his thoroughness.
How he could organise without being ex-
travagant he showed when he stage-managed
the American-fleet visit and welcomes to
various Governors. He had a knack of oiling
the wheels of the Parliamentary machinery,
particularly at that end of sessions when
tempers are apt to run hot in the bearings.
In the last 12 years three Dreary House
clerks —Jenkins, Watson and McCall—have
passed out. and it is not surprising that
H. H. Newton, the new man, who is nearer
65 than 69, should be taking care of him-
self.
Mrs. Maria Jenkins, whose great age was
chronicled only a couple of months ago, has
closed her long chapter, within a month of
her 102nd birthday. Born in Campbelltown
(N.S.W.) she was said to be, with one
exception, the oldest native-born citizen, the
other being 105. and also a lady. Although
she died in Sydney Mrs. Jenkins had lived
most of her life at Gundagai. In her younger
days she had exciting adventures with bush
rangers, and in her later life tackled their
modern prototype, the politicians. She had
not missed a single opportunity of recording
her vote since female suffrage arrived.
HARRINGTON
LEER, Archbishop
of Melbourne.
Charles Lodge, recently dead in Adelaide
at 95, came to Australia among a shipload
who were the first to occupy the quarantine
ground on Torrens Island in the Port Adel-
aide River. He helped to fence the Botanic.
Gardens in Adelaide, and subsequently
settled down to his life’s work there as a
gardener. Latterly he has been famous at
bowls, which game be began at 63, and on
occasion he took part in a match with a
son, grandson and great-grandson.
“Rustyface”: Passed out in his sleep, John
Slattery, the original of Steele Rudd's
“Cranky Jack.” The old chap had seen
three generations of Allens at Woodlawn,
a big Darling Downs (Q.) grazing property,
and was a grey-haired man when he entered
the service of the family over 50 years ago.
A lovable old chap with the mind of a little
child, he was never able to read the rollick-
ing yarns that made his nickname known
throughout the Commonwealth.
Mudgee has followed the example of
Grenfell (N.S.W.) with a memorial to Henry
Lawson. Grenfell was his birthplace and
the home of his infancy, but Mudgee—or
Eurunderie—saw most of his boyhood; and
now in that little outpost of the Mudgee
district the School of Arts has a tablet to
the poet’s memory.
“0.P.H.”: Speaker Mackey’s death has
set me counting the members who have been
in the Vic. Assembly for 20 years or more,
and I find them less than one-fourth of the
total. Including those who are just completing
the second decade there are, according to my
list, 16—Peacock, Bowser, Downward, Pren-
dergast, McGregor, Toutcher, J. W. Billson,
Lawson, Oman, A. A. Billson, Warde, Car-
lisle, Robertson, Solly, D. Smith and Lem-
mon. New Premier Peacock has had 35
years’ continuous service, but the late E. IJ.
Cameron beat that —he had. an unbroken
record of 40 yeags in the House when be
retired in 1914.
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant” will
be 84 on the 9th. His first pai\ appeared
in ISSS.
A bright Sydney ’Varsity product promi-
nent in the A.L.P. Conference was Clarence
E. Martin, representing the Cootamundra
Labor Council. He is a B.Se., and a teacher
at the Young High School. In the time
of Wade an attempt was made to keep
schoolteachers off the political grass, and
two who had taken a prominent part in
Labor affairs—Dunn and Gardiner—-were
transferred to new districts as a warning.
Both “martyrs” got into Parliament soon
afterwards.
Nobody has had more to do with putting
Australia’s ear to the news of the world
than John Milward, who is retiring from the
management of the Pacific Cable Board.
After much experience with the Eastern
Cable Co., he was secured as chief engineer
for the Pacific Board in 1902, and six years
later was made head. It was under his
supervision that most of the cable was laid
and the stations were organised, and he has
kept things running smoothly while the trans-
mission has risen from the original estimate
of under two million words to over ten mil-
lions per annum.
H. H. Massie, one time great hitter and
the sole survivor of the Australian XI which
toured England in 1882, has just turned
into his 70th year. He is now general man-
ager of the Commercial Bank of Sydney,
in which job he followed the veteran T. A.
Dibbs, his father-in-law.
THE MISSING LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“'Captain Flinders erected a tablet in 1802 to mark
where eight of his men had perished at the head
of Memory Cove, near Port Lincoln (S.A.). The
tablet; went to pieces and the fragments were re-
moved to the Adelaide Institute. Only three letters,
'C... .A... .E,’ remained in the last line to baffle
all commentators till quite recently, when it was
discovered (from the log-book of the Investigator)
that the words inscribed were ‘Nautici Cavete.’ ”
He might have written “Mariners, Beware!”
To mark a treacherous and fatal haven.
But Latin got the final preference there
Over the lingo of the Bard of Avon.
A century back it sounded statelier where
The epitaph was chiselled or engraven.
To tastes Johnsonian it smacked more meaty,
So Flinders made it “Nautici Cavete.”
You might colloquialise it, “Jack, Watch Out!”
Or any other way you like to mention.
Blame not the Captain that he didn’t flout
Contemporary classical convention.
Withal the warning that be brazened out
Is patent to the dullest comprehension.
NO tar, from days of Drake to those of Beatty,
COuld misinterpret “Nautici Cavete.”
’l’were well if it were borrowed to denote
Some other rocky passages for sailors,
Perils for Jack ashore that Jack afloat
May disregard—like ports where crimps are
. ; ~ v “nailers,” .
Ahd sirens coo in blouse and petticoat,
And zealous cops and flinty-hearted gaolers
Ate deaf alike to menace and entreaty.
Such reefs and breakers Nautici Cavete!
A mangled line that scholars vainly strove
To reconstruct! Conjectures dry is cinders,
Egregious meanings into it they wove.
Npw ’t.is for all to read and nothing hinders.
This was the message left at Memory. Cove,
The tip of the indomitable Flinders,
Till jealous elements and tempests sleety
Blew;: it; a-pieceS— “Nautici Cavete.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m/K..
?
.7 '"A
ir
m
2^
*3
h.
9
-*
*r
c
'{<&
m
x
9t There’s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia and no better
brand than the ( THREE CASTLES.’”
THACKERAY .
•THE VIRGINIANS .*•
Th
r
Cigarettes
PERFECTION in a cigarette—as fragrant as a
A spring morning—as tasty as a newly baked loaf—
as satisfying as a good night’s rest. Other brands
have come and gone, but “Three Castles” remain,
and still hold that reputation for quality of which
Thackeray wrote.
dfg
In convenient of 10, 15 and 50. The hermetically sealed tins of 50
are recommended for travellers on land or sea.
W. D. & H. O. WILLS
ĵ
DO NOT FORGET FRIDAY, 2nd MAY—HOSPITAL DAY


m
*
M
FOUR-
HORSE-
POWER
ENGINE
Hardwood
Logs cut
at rate of
one foot a
minute.
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
DOES 10 MEN’S WORK.
Prices and Particulars Mailed Free.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. AND AT
633 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE NEWCASTLE.
SETTLE THE RABBIT QUESTION
with
CALCIUM CYANIDE
It ensures certain destruction.
No rabbit can escape, no matter
how deep the dead-ends. It
generates t death-dealing fumes
over twerity-four 1 hours.
BRAND
It reveals every opening, is most
economical, non-inflammable, non-
explosive. Officially recommended.
Applied with a light, portable
machine of the knapsack type.
ORDER THROUGH YOUR REGULAR SUPPLY HOUSE.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.—Buzaeott & Co., Ltd., Market Street. Sydney.
VICTORIA. —Leighton. Simpson & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■ SOUTH AUSTRALIA. —S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND —Buzarotts (Q’land). Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
THE DRAWBACK.
“I suppose thee ’re kept party busy diggin’ gravest”
“Sometimes I am, and sometimes I ain’t. The trouble
es people won’t, die regular.”
“Capta”: I have discovered the perfect
Australian gentleman. While I was splitting a dead
blaekwood he emerged from a knot-hole to see who
was knocking. I bent»to pick him up, but he jumped
on to my hand without fear. After inspecting me
at all angles, he refused to be put back in his house,
so I pocketed him. When I got home he came out,
sat on my thumb and thoroughly washed and brushed
himself with lightning speed, then dined monstrously
from a tomato-seed and one minim of pear-juice.
A little later he yawned guardedly, so I took the
hint and made him a bed of cotton-wool in a safe
place. Into this he toddled, shoved his head between
his feet, wrapped a long tail round himself and -
that was a fortnight ago, and he is still asleep,
breathing evenly, and caring not a damn for any-
thing. He is no larger than my thumb, has a silver-
grey coat, fine bat-ears, large jet-black eyes and a
tail by which he can hang in a fashion most mar-
vellous to behold. He is toothed fit to bite my two
mongs on the nose when they investigate. Who is
he, and why does he hibermte thus early? Is it a
sign of a crook winter for us Tassies? Also, why
the complete absence of fear*?
* * * •
“Sarah”: The other day my four-year-
old nipper brought in a double-yolked egg with a
thick white skin-covering in place the usual shell.
She announced her arrival with “Mum, look at the
big egg the rooster laid.” “How do you know the
rooster laid it?” I asked. “Did you see him?” “No,”
said the young hopeful, “but hens can do it better
than this.”
* * * *
“X2X” : “Hayseed” is not quite right in
saying that goannas are immune to snake-venom
because they are cold-blooded (B. 3/4/’24). It is
rather because of the presence in the go.’s blood of
some body which neutralises the poison, and which
is common to nearly all reptiles. Undoubtedly the
physiological function of snake-poison is to activate
certain digestive secretions in the snake. The diges-
tive mechanism of the goanna closely resembles that
of the snake, and probably in the case of the go.
(he place and function of the snake venom are taken
by another secretion, it being tnis body which
protects the goanna from the toxic properties of the
venom when he is bitten by a snake. Incidentally,
the idea mentioned by “Hayseed” that the mongoose
is physiologically immune to the poison of the snake
has been shown to be a fallacy. The animal is
protected by its lightning-like rapidity of movement
and its thick fur, through which in many places the
snake’s fangs; are unable to penetrate. Even so, the
mongoose sometimes falls a victim to snake-poisoning,
and zoologists say that this generally happens when
it fails to secure a hold during the opening rounds
of the fight, with the result that it tires before the
snake, and the latter gets in a fatal blow as the
speed of the other slackens.
* * * *
“Colub”; The motive of “Nitric’s” suake
in removing the corpse of its mate (B. 10/4/’24)
was probably cannibalistic. Like the wolf, the
black, brown and tiger snakes will frequently devour
a dead pal, although many who have investigated
the matter at first hand assert that it is the mate,
and the mate cnly, that they eat—never a stranger.
Incidentally, I once saw a snake which had swallowed
more than half of another suddenly attacked by
a comparatively small goanna. Evidently the go.
had been w'atching its chance, for it wasted no time
in a preliminary survey of the position, but made
straight for the snake. The latter, rather embarrassed
by its half-swallowed meal, tried to disgorge and
get into fighting trim, but it had no hope, and
before it had got rid of a foot of the other reptile
the go. had torn it to ribbons.
* * * *
“Morob” : “H.L.S.” can disabuse his mind
of the possibility Of there being an/ connection be-
tween the swamp cancer which afflicts horses and
the cancer which attacks human
beings (B. 27/3/’24). The former,
which is known as “cancer” simply
because of a . superficial resem-
blance to the human disease, is un-
doubtedly caused by a living
organism, though this germ has
not yet been isolated. The real
cancer is due, so far as is known,
to various pathological changes in
the body metabolism, and the
theory that it has a microbiological
origin has been exploded. In
addition, swamp cancer is com-
municable from one animal to an-
other; the human kind is not —or
at least there is no evidence avail-
able to show that it is. At the
same time, it is likely that swamp
cancer can attack human beings,
and I once saw a man who had
on his hands and arms ulcerating
sores which in every respect were
similar to those seen on horses
suffering from the disease. This
man had been handling animals
with swamp cancer, and the proba-
bilities are that he had been in-
fected by them. In his ease the
outbreak persisted for a long time,
proving just as intractable in man
as it is in the horse, but eventu-
ally 7 it was got rid of by a lengthy
course of both surgical and medical
treatment. Incidentally, any bene-
ficial effect from the use of pot-
assium iodide would be due to
the action of the iodine in the
compound. Hence, probably, the
drug could be supplemented with
advantage by the application of the tincture of
iodine, say about half or a third of the ordinary
strength.
* * * .... *
l uddick : X2X (R. 3/4/24) says
“you cannot achieve immunity to bee-stings by
being repeatedly stung.” I am an old bee-keeper and
my knowledge of the scientific reasons for things is
microscopic ; but J do know .most of what is worth
knowing about beles, and I can assure “X2X” that
he is wrong. Anyone who keeps bees and works
among them knows that the longer you are handling
them the less you suffer. “X2X’s” explanation that
there is “a temporary paralysis of the parts” is
no good to mq. Old Mrs. Bee doesn’t look for the
spot where her sister got you yesterday when she
means to pass you one—she’ll go up the leg of your
trousers or through a hole in your shirt if she
feels like it, as every bee-keeper knows. So, unless
you are prepared to become a general paralytic, I
don’t see how “X2X’s” explanation is going to fit.
A slight numbness certainly does usually exist when
the swelling of the first one or two stings attains
its maximum, but that disappears in an hour or
two and a painless but exasperating irritation sets
in. A man started keeping bees near me. IXe didn't
SAFETY FIRST.
PASSENGER: “Say, guard, I wanter get a drink, but I don't like
t' chance missin’ th’ train.”
G UARD: “Remember the railway slogan, sir, and take me with yer.”
fix his veil right one day, and three ladies got in
underneath and dealt with him. One spiked him in
the centre of the forehead, and the result was two
bung eyes which he couldn’t open. Twelve months
later-X was again going through his hives with him,
and Mrs. Bee got him on the point of the ndse. I
removed the sting for him myself, so I know that
she drove it home all right. On this occasion there
was no swelling at all —merely a slight irritation.
This w.as the first time his nose had been punctured;
so how does “X2X” account for that f He also
asserts that the bee-sting cure for rheumatism is
purely imaginary. Well, it was a very serious
rheumatic condition which made me first take 'o
bee-keeping many years ago. I am not given to
hysterical flights of imagination about anything, but
I can say I was practically a cripple. I know per-
sonally of two eases similar to mine, and in all
three the cures have apparently been complete, though
I fancy it may wear off if we give up bee-keeping.
* * * *
“Sylvester”: “Sarah’s” instance (B.
10/4/’24) of spotted gum causing inflammation i;i
her father’s eyes must be a rare case. I earn a
crust and a fig-leaf working among timber, including
spotted gum, and I have never heard of a similar
happening. There is, however, a softwood scrub-tree
known as red bean which has an evil reputation.
Some people consider this timber equal to Spanish
mahogany for furniture, but the cabinet-worker
who has once used it will not work it again. It
is said to cause irritation of the eyes, nose and
throat, bleeding from the nose and incessant coughing.
I have about 1000 ft. of it seasoning for furniture at
present, so will be able to give the Council first-
hand information on the point later.
“Nitric”: It may seem rude, but “E.V.8.”
is “talking .tripe” when he says (B. 3/4/’24) that a
wallaby will hop above bracken —and high bracken
at that—when pursued. I have shot many wallabies
here (Q.) in lantana and bracken of all descriptions,
and never once have I seen one that would not
keep as well under cover as' possible. Certainly
’roos will not, but that is only because of their size.
* * *
“Dingle” : Recent references to a cat’s dis-
like of water remind me of an old black Tom we
had at our camp on the Fitzroy River (W.A.). Often
while we fished for our breakfast, a passing teal
was shot for the camp-oven, and Snowy, who was
always in attendance on these occasions, never failed
to plunge into the river and fetch the duck out in
his mouth.
* * * *
“Vagabond”: The other day a couple of
us were looking at some ibis resting among the
branches of a tall gum, when, with a startled cry,
one old fellow flew off as though Old Nick was after
him. His unceasing cries and queer antics in the
air—for he twisted and doubled and rose and fell in
an extraordinary mannar—not only puzzled us, but
apparently his friends as well, for they stared at
him with outstretched necks and uttered loud inquir-
ing squawks. At last, as he stunted high overhead,
a long, thin object became detached from his body
and dropped to earth. Running to the spot we saw
a 3ft. whip-snake dazedly making for cover. Un-
fortunately, unlike Eve’s acquaintance, he wasn’t a
talker, so we never learned whether his intentions
were warlike or if he was just a crank on aero-
nautics and wanted to take a flight.
If ft- "X"
“E.D.”: Horace Bodkin was the sort of
man who always believed in looking well ahead. He
ran a bee and poultry farm, with a slight admixture
of cow and a few
adventitious pigs, on
the “crick” at Piebald,
and for five years he
had been keeping com-
pany with Mary Grubb,
whose father was
accounted the onion
king of the district.
Bodkin’s course of
courtship included un-
limited free Sunday
teas at the Grubb
household, but his be-
havior towards Miss
Grubb was more that,
of a friend than a
lover, although it was
generally understood
that his intentions were
honorable and with a
view to the above.. At
length, inflamed by
Horace's act in stray-
ing on occasions to an-
other household where
there were marriage-
able daughters, Grubb
spoke up as a father
and a man. “What the
devil do you mean
hanging round Mary
the way you do if you
don’t intend mar-
riage?” asked he. “’Old
’ard,” Horace replied
in quite a friendly-
mood ; “I don’t say
Mary ain’t got a
charnce, because she
has, and if May Smith
won’t have me I’ll have
Mary.” “But, dam-
mitall, you have been
courting Mary for five
years,” barked Grubb. “Yes, so I have,” said the
gentle Horace. “So I have, and I admit candid she's
my best second.”
“Olive”: “Pat Busliie’s” par (B. 18/3/’*24)
concerning Mrs. Centipede and her family reminds
me. Two of my brothers were bringing home bark,
when under one sheet they found a lady centipede
with several eggs. She dropped the eggs when the
bark was lifted up, but hastily commenced to re-
gather them into a heap on the ground. “A model
of maternal solicitude! ” remarked my elder brother
as he watched the leggy lady scurrying round after
her clutch. When the eggs were all neatly stacked
together there was a most unexpected denouement —
instead of picking them up and retreating under
cover she calmly sat down and devoured them
till cnly one remained. This last she could not
swallow, even with the assistance of her two front
legs shoving it down her throat. As she waddled
regretfully away, my younger brother thoughtfully
observed, “A model of maternal solicitude!” I saw
a similar occurrence some time later in the same
locality. Can any Abo. tell me if this is Mrs. C. s
usual way of protecting her prospective family when
in danger?
THE ANTI-BUNDY MACHINE.
COCKY: “Not afraid of early hours, eh?”
NEW H AND: “No-a, mister. You can't knock
off too early for Oi."
Henry Pannikin : The argument about
th f ™> rd damper reminds me of the way
a busb chaufteur made a bloomer a while ago. The
flrst daj L ha s * arted ™ 1 f
« n th f < N ; fe -W ; ) there were pears for
tb ® , w l lole h ° u f hold at tea ; mic ‘ tbe meal F*?
old lady went for a spin in the car; but when she had
been out awhile the night air became quite chilly,
so nudging her driver she said Wed better go
bacb now Binks; the damp air doesn t agree with
Rl S ht ;°’„ chirruped Binks, “pears always
turn me up > Too ‘
( Continued on page 2-'}. )
LARSEN’S HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There hangs a cloud o’er Larsen’s house,
And none by night go thither ;
For there the tall Norwegian pines,
Death-stricken, droop and wither.
The wherefore of his doom none knows,
His fate none may unravel;
In evil days did Larsen live
When roads were red to travel.
In evil days he met his death,
Though why none may discover;
Some say he wronged a Norway girl,
And that her Norway lover
Sailed seas with hatred in his heart.
Rode leagues with bit and bridle,
To slay the wronger at his door ;
But foolish tongues and idle
Are those, maybe, that speak such things;
For this is known, this only,
That Larsen died one moonlight night,
When roads were red and lonely;
That through yon avenue of pines,
Brought from his homeland, Norway,
He galloped with a gaping breast,
And died upon his doorway.
And whether he died innocent.
Or died a base betrayer,
None heard the gun that shot him down,
None saw his midnight slayer.
Since then, men say, when yonder moon
Floats like a silver shallop,
O’er azure depths of cloudless sky,
A horse is heard to gallop
In headlong haste through yonder pines
That, sigh for distant Norway—
A horse that halts not, till it comes
To Larsen’s darkened doorway.
Wherefore man-feared is yonder house,
And none by night go thither;
For there the tall Norwegian pines
Death-stricken, droop and wither.
x.s.w.
BRIGALOW.


va.
m.
a-, '•>:
%
Wfi
-s
u
it
I
SaJ«!
*
ft
i
m
i si m 8
***
. V «.■* I *
-O'
SSik
“T*
3&
r
lIS
. V
$ .
■
MM
Sit
-
*#
Less Tyre Trotibles
when your car is shod with
DUMIAP
GOUD
o
mvkßS
The extra air space in these
high-grade tyres ensures greater
resiliency, more mileage and a
lower running cost. For value and
satisfactory service they have no
equal. At all garages in straight-
sided and beaded-edge types.
# # #
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Au*t. Ltd. All States and N.Z.


There can only bp ONE Best!
MALTHOID’S record entitles it to that distinction.
MALTHOID is chemically pure and will not dry out.
MALTHOfD is far superior to shingle, thatch or galvanised-
iron, and has many advantages over slates or tiles.
MALTHOID is cool in sum-
mer, warm in winter, and
water-.and weather-proof all
the time.
• is
Write or call for Samples
and Free Booklet.
*Ske PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tn«
(FM.PRINCE AustralaiiaivMaivaqcr)
Oriqim l °f CHUXISHffISt
P & B MATERIAU « vdn*v
KHSEIIIIEIII3
j
swsßmams
OHIO
“KING GEORGE IVWHISKY
99
Acknowledged to be
A
t*-
*
by
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
%
j
j
“Nor’-West”: Tell “Pick” (B. 10/4/’24)
that the “diver”-—black-throated grebe—has a much
greater range than the Far West and Southern Table-
lands of N. S. Wales. It is found in the rivers,
creeks and tanks of the North-West and Northern
Tablelands of N.S.W., also in Southern Queensland and
Victoria. “Pick” is right about the floating nest.
The eggs are partly hatched by the heat of the de-
composing material of which the nest is constructed.
The bird sits on tne nest at night and, leaving,
covers the eggs. She takes care not to rise into the
air from the nest, but dives and reappears at some
distance. There are generally four eggs, of a dull
white color. The grebe can fly well if compelled to,
but will not rise unless continually harassed. \s
in the case of several other aquatic birds, notably
the blue heron and black and white cormorant, oi
shag, the grebe’s sudden-appearance act on dams and
waterholes after rain is a source of xvonder, to
bushmen, but is accounted for by their instinctive
knowledge that food will be plentiful in these places
a(ter a downpour. One of the most remarkable
features of this little diver is its feet, which are
not webbed like those of a duck. The three toes are
separate and are provided with a web-like, flange,
thus enabling the bird to swim and also to get a
grip on the water to assist it in its spluttering
flight along the surface before it rises.
* * * *
“Wax”: “Gougers” testimonial (B.
10/4/’24) to some hard-working drones he saw among
the bush bees is a dud. He is making a seriois
mistake when he suggests that the gentlemanly drone
descends to hard graft. He simply won’t work,
as it is against his religion, whether he be bush
or city bred. What “Gouger” saw was the drone
fly, a busy forager among the flowers, and much
resembling a drone bee.
SCENTING A COLLECTION.
DOMAIN ORATOR: “Note, friends, I ask you — you've seen the ’age
Fleet, and taken part in all the fun — now, who’s goin’ to
pay for it all? Who? Who, I ask!"
MRS. COUNTRY VISITOR: “ Heh, dad? Let's slip away before he
sends round the ’at."
“Dry”: Tell “Billy Brolga,” who,-seemed
surprised at a bullock losing the shell of one horo
(B. 3/4//24), that once, while we were droving 2000
head of cattle, they “rushed” through a thick pine
scrub-af night. Bringing back the stragglers along
the.Ajjack of the rush next day, 60 horns were
eounjetj on the ground. * ’there were also 16 dead
bodies..and 12 badly wounded beasts which had to
be destroyed. Many horns were lost in previous
rushes. The tip given to “Dune” was O.K. Had
“Billy B.” stuck the horn shell on again and bound
the butt of it tight with binder twine well saturated
with Stockholm tar, then shepherded the beast for
a few days, the outfit would have soon been back
to normal.
“Colub”: “H.V.E.” is wrong when he
says that a black and a brown shake will sometimes
mate (B. 27/3/’24), even though he believes that he
has seen instances of it. Black and brown pairs have
been placed together in cages, in order to test this
belief, which finds wide credence in the bush, but
they have never even become friendly. “H.V.E.” and
other observers are likely to have seen two black
GOING ONE BETTER.
LADY (to tramp ): “If I give you a shilling you must promise me
you’ll buy something better than a glass of beer.”
BERRY BILL: “My oath, mum! I’ll buy two.”
or two, brown snakes, one of which was either darker
or lighter. than the other, so that the pair looked
as though they belonged to different species. I have
seen brown snakes which, at first sight, might, easily
have been mistaken for the black kind,( and I have
heard of blacks so closely’ resemoling browns that
they could be distinguished cnly by other characteris-
tics than their color, this probably being due to
some variation of the phenomenon of protective color-
ation. By 7 reason of the differences between the
two kinds of reptiles, such a happening as that
mentioned by “H.V.E.” w-ould be against a funda-
mental natural law.
* * * *
“Sarali”: While some are still grinning at
“Akran’s” little snake inside a hen egg (B. 6/3/’24)
let me remark that only last week I boiled an
egg for my husband’s breakfast, and when he broke
it open he found a worm 6in. long wound round
the yolk. I have also had an egg with a grain of
wheat in it and one with a 3in. piece of twine
embedded in it—-and how that managed to get
there has me beaten.
* * * *
“Wee Bobbie”: Ivanasoi had sold his
mary (wife) to Tara for two pig dogs. They were
good dogs—so good that the rest of the village
thought Ivanasoi had made a very good deal, especially
as the lady in question
was said by some to
be a bit flighty. After
a while Tara came to
the same conclusion;
and later he had reason
to believe that Kan-
asoi not only had his
dogs, but in his
(Tara’s) absence his
wife as well. So along
came Tara to me and
said “1 want you lend
me block ’nd tackle,
master.” (He had been
one of a boat's oew
for years.) “1 want
make somebody win n
he come along my wife
savvy; ’nd I want
show mary belong me
she no talk true.” He
got what he wanted,
and at the entrance to
the little track that
branched off to his cot-
tage he heaved down
a sapling that had
spring enough in it to
swing a young bull,
rigged a loop and set
it with a trigger which,
only 7 had to be touched by a passer-by and up he’d go.
Next morning there was a commotion. A mission-
ary was dangling by the .leg crying loudly for help.
No, no —it was a lady missionary.
“Ivaitoa”: Re “Saaedi” on record one-
day journeys of sheep (B. 10/4/’24). While Cli
Cork station, in the Winion (Q.) / district, T was
in charge Of 1400 wethers, hav'n; as. assistants
Silly Bill (cook) and my black dog Snowy 7 ' and we
had to catch an Ayrshire Downs mob 22 miles
away. Starting from Cork we rode five miles to
where the sheep were yarded overnight, and we duly
delivered 22 miles away at 3 p.m. What is more,
we got a clean receipt and not one sheep was lame
or distressed. Another time, on the same station,
the overseer, two men and myself drove 6000 wethers
16 miles between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. in summer.
On both occasions speed was, of course, the essence
of the contract. In ordinary circumstances eight
miles a day is far enough for half- or full-woolled
sheep.
* * * *
“Pantagruel”: Reverting to the shifting of
stock by motor lorry. Two
pioneers in that line—
in Queensland, at any rate
—were R. D. Barton and
John McNally. Nearly
15 years ago the former,
manager of Albilbah, near
Isisford, sent his sheep
exhibits to the Lcngreaeb
show, a distance of 100
miles, by motor lorry. It
was a case of necessity r
for rains had held them up
and horse teams could not
have got there in time.
McNally, owner of BandSh
Grove and breeder of well-
known stud horses, in the
1915 drought transported
4 O'U) ewes fr-'m Bandon
Grove and Balaclava to
Stonehenge by one motor.
Three platforms were
rigged up, the sheep in
the bottom two having to
lie down. The lorry ran
continuously night and day
for nearly three weeks, and
in all 39 trips were made.
The average distance was
70 miles. The lorry- owner
made a good thing out of
it, cleaning up £4OO for
the three weeks; but
McNally saved all his
sheep.
Wax,”: I owe a debt of gratitude to
some unknown Abo. writer which I wish to repay.
About two years ago this good Samaritan told the
Council of the value of silver wattle for axe handles.
In the interval I have proved its value —it is
splendid. No more Yankee rubbish for me at 4s. 6d.
a time.
* * * *
“School Ma’am”: Re “Ragar’s” par. (B.
10/4/’2 4) on the cannibalistic tendencies of the
praying mantis. I had similar experience with an-
other cannibal. Children having brought me a
pickle-bottle full of leeches, I removed three good
specimens to another bottle, and put them away in
a cupboard. Next morning there was only one. 1
suspected other members of the staff of having pur-
loined the missing blood-suckers, so I put two more
in the bottle, and this time locked the cupboard.
Next morning same result. I repeated my part of
the programme several times, and always there was
the one prosperous-looking specimen left. I tried
to watch the gastric performance, but nothing ever
happened in the daytime. In the meanwhile the
number of leeches in the original pickle-bottle also
diminished rapidly until there was only one left m
that receptacle also.
* * * *
“Two Blacks”: Out here (south-west
N.S.M.) the other da.v a sly-grog case came before
a couple of J’s.P., one an eminently respectable citizen,
the other—well, different. During the proceedings a
sample of the confiscated tanglefoot was handed up
to the Bench, and his Washup who was different
promptly took a swig. Even more promptly 7 he
spat it out; then, handing the bottle to his confrere,
he said in a whisper that could just be heard on
the other side of the street: “My Gawd, Fred, taste
the flamin’ stuff—it would blanky well kill a blankety-
blank black,”
* * * *
"Kfutoa” : Tell “Tang-aloli” (B. 10/4/’24)
that the bucking horse who rids himself of saddle
and ryler without breaking girth or crupper is
well known in Bananaland where stockmen earn their
crusts. At Maadi yjirnp, Egypt, in 1915, my friend
Jack Dempsey (I suppose absolutely the finest rider
Australia 1-nnvs) and a mate were both landed in
the sand in this manner. A similar, fate befell
Roy Stanbridge—Queensland’s premier horseman in
those days and still one of Charleville’s stalwart
football forwards—when he was dumped with saddle,
girth, surcingle, crupper and bridle intact. Don't
ask me how 1 As for Roy 7 —well, he was more
surprised than the onlookers.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: “Kowsara’s” stick of
cane that grew 6in. in 15 hours (B. 27/3/’24) was
surely in the Snail’s Plate by- comparison with a
hemp plant 1 grew 20 years ago in tropical Banana-
land. It was .three years old before it sprouted a
flower/staik, which dashed up 12ft. high in 36
hours. It. was such rn amazing growth that the
local, school-teacher made special mention of it at
lessons, likening it unto the beanstalk which Jack
climbed.
* - v . * * *
“Sidweelan”: Goannas haven’t a monopoly
of immunity to snake venom. Photographing a few
weeks agp on Middle Greek, Narrabeen (N.S.W.),
I happened on a camp of young naturalists with two
freshly-captured sft. 6in. black snakes and a blue-
tongued lizard on exhibition. All three were very
\igorous and full of fight, and while attempts were
made to get the reptiles to pose for a snap a
free fight ensued—c no of the snakes sunk its fangs
into the back of the other, while Bluey dealt out
stoush indiscriminately to both. During the mix-up
the blue-tongue was bitten at least half a dozen
times. A week later I revisited the camp for the
purpose of securing further photos and found ail
three none the worse, with Bluey installed as the
camp mascot. There can be no question of a grass
antidote here, as for three days after being bitten
the lizard was shut up in a suit-case.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: When a youngster at Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.) 1 owned an English terrier that
must have killed 50 snakes. He was bitten many
times, but I never had any fear for his safety.
When he was nipped he would make a bee-line for
water, in which he’d stay for an hour or so—and
come up smiling every time. A wriggler got him at
last, but only, I believe, because the water was too
far away—he went out just before he could reach it.
* * * *
“Hannibal Swordfish”: On numerous
occasions I have passed, in an unlighted train, through
the 60-chain tunnel on the Speck’s main line, and
every time neither I nor others have been able to
distinguish between the front and back of my
luminous watch. The figures on the dial show up
brilliantly on all other occasions when in even
partial darkness. I have a suspicion that there is
some molecular disturbance of the luminous prepara-
tion owing to the movement of the train—or can
the Council advance a simpler explanation?
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Has the Council any opinion
to offer as to whether seagulls can see in the dark?
I was returning home by ferry the other night when
I saw seven gulls all dressed up for dinner and diving
into the fish and chips. It was too dark to
see to read on the open deck, but the gulls
were specking out the yellow-tails from a height of
20ft. and diving down with the speed and directness
of an arrow. Incidentally, when the “Dinner Now
Ready” sign is hung out, the gull becomes as silent
as a watch in pawn, but at other times he squeaks
day and night. Does this help the proposition that
the talkative fisherman catches no fish?
* * # *
A vice versa coincidence:—
“H.G.”: In the Avoca (Vic.) district recently a
white hen, disappointed in her efforts to hatch
chickens from two or three unfertile eggs, cast
envious glances upon a cat who had a brand-new
family of six kittens. She eventually decided to
appropriate Tabby’s family and covered them every
night for three weeks, sometimes including most of
the parent as well. Her efforts to persuade the
kittens to adopt the dietary of the poultry yard,
however hopeless, were vigorous and prolonged.
Neither cat nor kittens made any serious .protest
against accepting the hen’s protection.
“G.E.8.” (M.L.) : An old duck of mine had three
ducklings just out in a nest in a swamp, when
heavy 7 rains caused a flood. The giddy matron
couldn’t resist the lure of the fine spread of water,
SERIOUS.
“Wot, Bill! Won't cumanaver beer?”
“No, Henry. I ain't enjoyed a beer fer over
a fortnight. The doctor says the 'ole
of me cistern’s deranged."
and went off on the ran-tan. It was a bitterly cold
night, so I brought the deserted youngsters into the
house. Our black cat had a new batch of kittens—
so new that they didn’t have their eyes open—and
when night came 1 put the ducklets in with them.
They promptly snuggled down amid the fur in great
content. Next morning Puss carted off her family
to a new camp, leaving the ducklings behind, i
gave these latter food and drink, then put them with
the kittens once more. Puss remained in the new
possie with her very mixed brood all day, and at
nightfall changed camp again. This time she trans-
ported kittens and ducklings to the new abode. She
carried the birds tenderly by the neck and, having
installed them, licked them all over just as she did
her own youngsters. Thereafter the lot grew up
together, the kittens and ducks playing with one
another during the day and sleeping all happily
imriHPd up in an outhouse at night.
A FORLORN HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The red flag’s nanging waterlogged.
The bills are soaked and blurred,
But all along the sloppy street
A ceaseless noise is heard,
The cry of some metallic throat
That can and will complain—
’Tis the auction Dell ring-ringing,
Ring-ringing, ring-ringing,
The auction bell ring-ringing in the rain.
The ringer wanders up and down,
The wet runs off his hat;
The sparrows snug beneath the eaves
Must wonder what he’s at,
As still to cold, unheeding walls,
Grey sky and turbid drain
The auction bell goes ringing,
A-ringing, a-ringing,
A-ringing-ringing-ringing in the rain.
Beneath a shop verandah near
His only audience stares;
It needs no “handsome bedroom suite”
Or “strong Vienna chairs,”
It doesn’t even brave the flood
To get a catalogue,
For it is just one gloomy boy
And one disheartened dog.
Twould seem at last the auction bell
Takes on a note of pain,
But still it keeps on ringing,
Ring-ring-a-ring-ring-ringing,
Insistently ring-ringing in the rain.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


mm
V E
■
1 m
m
mm
a
m m
mm
I
9M
.*>-•;
*m
SxjV’ -r: -wi
#»*»«'
■ :'■: ■’ •'; ' : ‘ : ':.':.:-V : : y: ■■ ■. ■ ■-
H
’
as*s.
6579
■
»•.•;.• ;. m I
THE VALLEY WORSTED MILLS PTY. LTD.
GEELONG.
Resident Architect - E. H. Bucknoie, Esq ,
B.R.C. Reinforcements used throughout .
j
B. R.C. Fabric is unequalled for wall and
slab reinforcement, being easily and accu-
rately placed in position, and, by virtue of the
welded joint, minimising cracks due to
shrinkage and temperature stresses.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
’Phone: Cent. 8861,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
VICTORIA Goliin & Co. Ply., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . .J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA ....Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA ...... Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND. . A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston St., Wellington.
mm
rrrrntt
rrrrrrr


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
ToH.M.
George V
Qaritslleidsiedc
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydnsy.
The Wentworth Cafe
UNAPPROACHABLY EMINENT I !
DINNER DANCES and CABARET.
Thursday & Saturday
Dinner, 13/6.
Admission 7/6, plus tax.
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Friday:
Dinner, 7/6.
Admission 5/- plus tax.
SPECIAL OCCASIONS SPECIAL PRICES.
TEA DANCES and CABARET Every Afternoon.
To booh a table—just ’phone
City 9931.
DEATH TO FLIES
and all Insect Life.
Just, get a tin of Insectibane
from your chemist or the
nearest store. Sprinkle a
little around places where
flics and insects gather—
it completely destroys them
in no time.
INSECTIBANE
Harmless to Human
Beings and Animals.
At all Chemists and
Stores.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Time with its dimming hand has already
blurred the dazzling glory of the Landing.
The Soldiers’ Club is a shuttered building,
khaki has gone out of fashion ; but Australia,
casual, pleasure-loving Australia, still finds
time to stand at attention to the memory
of her immortal dead. Another Anzac Day
brought its surging crowds of mothers and
fathers and cobbers to the churches and to
the public memorial service. Past flags at
half-mast, thousands hurried after the pro-
cession of returned soldiers that made its
way to the Town Hall, with the roll of
muffled drums in their ears. Through both
entrances crushed and pushed the eager
humans who felt that once wit;hin they would
be keeping a rendezvous wifb. sonic loved
mate who was left behind. Disappointed hun-
dreds were turned away, preference being
given to holders of cards, so that men with
medals and men with crutches, lacking the
magic card, mooched about outside, while
the merely silk-hatted citizen marched
straight in to the comfort of a chair. Of
course, the Digger was good-natured about
it—there’s not a more easily handled crowd
in the world than your dinkum Aussies.
“Why don’t they hold it in the Domain?”
was grumbled on every side; and then every-
body grew as philosophical as the two Anzac
daddies who quietened their small men with
the promise: “We’ll see them when they
come out.” Inside there was scarcely a foot-
hold. Along the galleries drooped the bat-
talion colors: green, yellow, red merging
into purple. The laggard sun sent a. golden
finger across the platform, the air was sharp
with the breath of rosemary; there was the
tenseness of a strangled sob in the atmo-
sphere, and then the hoarse swell of Kip-
ling’s Recessional, “Lord God of Hosts, be
with us yet!” like an impotent surf breaking
on the rim of the Shore of Eternity.
The anodyne of the races soothed the
aching hearts desolated by the departed
Navy. And when Scarlet ran away with
the field, the blessed damozel who had put her
jazz-garters on the horse with the lurid name
felt that life held compensations. In the
cool beauty of last mid-week Randwilck
offered a caress even to the hordes who
stamped upon her loveliness and saw it not.
The furred sex was invoking the god of luck
much too keenly to cast a glance at Mother
Nature. Between picking likely outsiders
and holes in their neighbor’s raiment, the
ladies had a full day. The stands were up-
holstered in furs, kaleidoscopic embroideries.
Egyptian cerement outlines in swathed
frocks, the new T flared flounce and the utili-
tarian three-piece that often combines a bit
of everything. A mushroom crop of the
short Jacquette, with a touch of the Orient
in its cut and embroideries, had sprung up.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers wore hers in ivory cloth
embroidered in green and brown ; an almond-
green hat helped. A green lid was also
flown by Lady Helena Rous, who was fur-
therwise enfolded by stone-grey trappings.
The State Governor’s lady was in a lemon-
colored suit that looked as honest as Mah
Jong.
The races finished up on Saturday with
fine weather cheering all the Randwiek
crowd of the previous days and a few others.
Irene Vanbrugh presented a stained-glass-
window effect in cheery tones; Mrs. Ewan
Fraser, back for a 10 weeks’ visit after
years abroad, wore a de luxe skunk coat over
black frocking, and showed a French coiffure
and a pearl ear-ring on the side where her
hat-brim swooped upwards. AVith her was
Mrs. Floyd, a slim Irishwoman, in French
tailorings. Mrs. Russell Clarke (Melbourne)
wore lavish embroideries on her henna coat;
and Mrs. Otway Falkiner, in Robin Hood
green with fur attachments, was another
who distracted the mind from the business
of the day.
The Musical Association met tenor
Hackett with a three-course midday meal at
Farmer’s—evidently the musical of Sydney
considered that a tenor who has reached
such standing that his wife wraps herself in
ermine was worthy of something more than
a sandwich at an evening flutter. Mr.
Hackett, who is a fine upstanding American
like the pictures of the “100 p.c. efficient”
young men in Dryland’s magazines, has a
fine, free gift of speech. His manner implies
the possession of the franchise of the world
and Czecho-Slovakia. A marvellous man—•
on fruit-cup, lie told a story that laughed
against himself, and uttered a psean on Elsa
Stralia’s voice. Sydney is going to like him.
The sub-star, little Bratza (which name
signifies “first born”), is shepherded by his
mother, and has a cheary companion in a
young brother. Mother is a good-looker of
the plump and vivacious type, and turned
on sleek hairdressing and black velvet for
her son’s first Sydney appearance. He, poor
cherub, was overweighted by his full-gro\Vn
tailorings—we’d like him lots better in the
velvet tunic he wore at the Albert Hall in
London.
Ernest AA"att has been sustaining a rouhd
of farewells prior to his flight to London
on the Ormonde, but the most impressive
was the Cavalier Club banquet. Over a
hundred faced the Martinis at an Ambassa-
dors’ table. Contrary to recent custom the
literary and artistic members turned up in
force—Hugh MeCrae (who brought a pretty
daughter), Lionel Lindsay, Duleie Deamer,
Leon Gellert, George Lambert, Thea Proc-
tor and Mrs. Norman Lindsay. Syd Smith
presided, and AV. H. Kelly, ex-M.P., was
down for a speech, which never came off
owing to the surrounding turmoil.
On Saturday the Claude Parburys gave
the last big dance of the most prolonged
period of revelry Sydney has ever known.
Wirrian, the O. Ef Friends’ house overlook-
ing Double Bay. which the Parburys vacate
to embark for England in June, was a mass
of flowers and lights for the occasion. The
Pat Osbornes, Pitt Riverses, Tony Horderns,
Ken Austins, Allens, James Burns and about
300 more were there, including the inevitable
. Ernest Watt, who was the guest of honor.
The Autumn Ball for St. Vincent’s bagged
a double ‘brahe of vice-regals, but their wealth
of charm was nor available till after 10
o’clock. Then a flock, of little debs, was
shepherded by Mayoress Gilpin to drop its
presentation bob, and almost reeled under a
battery of male good looks that started with
the G.-G. and finished with Captain Coote.
The Town Hall had been decked by the J. C.
AAulliamson firm for the occasion, and was all
flaggery and plump yellow roses mixed with
trails of autumn leafage, the whole very
delectable. The hall was packed with hospi-
tal enthusiasts and their offspring, the frock-
ing had that first-of-the-season look, and at
11 p.m. treasurers Mrs. Kendall and Miss
Egan were wearing the beatific smile that
means a thousand-pound house.
AVhile St. Vincent’s was raising the wind
at the Town Hall in Sydney, Paddington’s
civic centre was being warmed by the eager
feet of the Country Matrons, who were stag-
ing their flutter to build more seaside homes
for the recreation of the woman on the laud
and her brood. Against a background of
palms and chrysanthemums some beautiful
frocking caught the eye, black trappings
being the choice of most of the hostesses, of
whom the president was Mrs. Hugh Munro.
This is a May Moore picture of Mrs.
England, whose name figures on every com-
mittee for the
betterment of
returned sol-
diers, and of
the wives and
children of
soldiers who
will never re-
turn, She
helped found
the Outpost
K i ndergarten,
she is an en-
thusiast o f
the Anzac Day
committee, she
is the proud
wife of an ex-
soldier with a
splendid war
record. A coun-
t r y - woman
herself, she is
one of the
executive o f
the Country AVomen’s Association, and has
taken on the strenuous job of founding a
library at Kiera, the seaside home for tired
backblock mothers. Many of her own books
have gone to furnish the shelves; now she
sends out an SOS for more. AA 7 ill you leave
a few of those you have read and liked,
addressed to her, at the office of the Stock
and Station Journal?
The Union Club celebrated Race AVeek
with a gilt-edged afternoon party within its
sacred portals. At four precisely Judge
Backhouse brought his rosy face to the front
door, and was welcomed by the impressive
Shepherd Laidley and G. M. Merivale, who
played St. Peter till the arrival of the vicc-
regals, and afterwards received the reward
of vigilance and sipped pekoe in the shadow
of the Crown. Their Exes.’ table was all
that a kiddie’s dream of a party table should
be—fussed up with glittersome bon-bons, and
flowers and such. For two hours the party
swayed between the srnokeroom, the common-
room (its wide, deep windows opening on to
an emerald lawn) and the dining-room,
where trays full of cocktails waited to be
plucked. There was an octogenarian air
about so many of the hosts that the comings
and goings of Lachlan Beaton looked
like the frivolling of a juvenile lead; but they
all were ready to pilot invading woman from
treasure to treasure.
Merle Robertson, who came back to Aus-
tralia with a bouquet of compositions and
a European reputation for piano-playing that
places her in the forefront of Carreno dis-
ciples, has had no end of teas spread for her
during the week. The first big one was at
the Feminist Club, and then the AVomen’s
Club had a monster brew at the
instigation of Miss Sulman. Merle, who has
an expression of great power, wore some
fetching? garments, her grey frock being made
with the latest thing in waist-length capes,
while bands of dark fur kept the edges of the
sleeves and skirt from being frost-bitten. An
effective top-piece in grey silk completed the
outfit. After the greetings had been got
through Miss Robertson proceeded to do a
Tommy Tucker act, and played a Gavotte
and a Prelude of her own composition.
These thoughtful eyes belong to Florence
Macdonald, who for 10 years has been organ-
ising secretary of the Church of England
Homes at Glebe and Carlingford, where 300
small orphans
—g iris at
G 1 e b e and
boys at Oar-
lingford are
cared for, and
trained to be
something
more in life
than hewers
of wood and
drawers of
water. Every
woman inter-
e s t e d in
needlework has
memories of
the embroid-
eries and fine
stitchery that
are the star
feature of the
homes’ f§ t e
held yearly in
the Town
Hall. The girls of the home are responsible
for the marvels of needlecraft; and the lady
in the picture is the driving force that make's
the fair the success it deserves to be. Nor
are opportunities lacking in the institution
for its protggges to equip themselves
for the business world. All the money for
these undertakings has to be garnered un-
obtrusively—not for the Church Homes
Committee is the limelight of jazz palaces;
every pound represents self-denial on the
part of some enthusiast.
Roland Green, the one-legged Digger
M.P., had a military wedding at St. James's
on Saturday. Three colonels and two fellow-
reps., who are also ex-A.I.F. men, in the
persons of General Ryrie and Major Marr,
formed a guard of honor. The other party
to the celebration was Elsie Happ, who
looked a fit bride for a hero.
Dr. Charles MacLaurin, who has given so
many Queens of the Past away in his “Post
Mortems,” behaved like any ordinary father
when giving only daughter Catherine Brear-
cliffe to the care of Alan Patrick Mackerras.
The wedding took place in the kirk of St.
Andrew, at Vaueluse, one afternoon last
week, with Padre John Edwards to hear the
vows. Ivory pann.e and Limerick lace en-
folded the bride, who blushed as shyly over
her white roses as if she hadn’t a single
educational honor to bring to the partnership.
Dr. Gordon Craig’s Helen ’maided, disguised
as the Spirit of Autumn ; and Dr. John Laid-
ley best-manned. The cake was handed round
to a full house of relatives and friends at
Balvaig, the bride’s home, where mother host-
essed in mole marocain, whose blue embroid-
eries were matched by her delphiniums. The
bridegroom is of the Mackerras merchant-
clan of Dunedin (M.L.) —a grandson of the
original Mac. of Mackerras and Hazlett—but
is an engineering graduate himself. The
young couple will be off to the U.S.A. in a
day or two.
Bishop Leadbeater and the Liberal Catholic
Church missed a wedding fee the other night
when T, 11. Martyn’s daughter Eily was
united with Louis Grieve, of Neutral Bay.
The knot-tying took place at St. Augustine’s
Church of the same Harbor suburb, and
strong supports from friends of each clan
cheered the event. The bride, who is a very
pretty girl, glistened like a Christmas-tree
fairy in silver lace filtering the blush of rosy
georgette; her train was a froth of Limerick
lace, and was attended by sister Phoebe, who
rustled in blue and pink shot taffetas. Keith
Waugh supported the ’groom, and everybody
foregathered afterwards at St. Michael’s, the
bride’s home at Neutral Bay.
St. John’s, of Darlinghurst, was the choice
of Joan, only chick of the Ernest Edols
couple, of Forbes and Potts Point, for her
matrimonial venture with Dr. Francis
Digges La Touche. The wedding frock re-
presented a super-effort on the part of a
clothes architect/and was of ivory satin pat-
terned with tiger-lilies in gold and silver;
a train with gold and silver and diamente
flashed finis to an outfit that started with
a brace of veils—a lace cobweb over a
mist of tulle. Two bridesmaids, in blue and
silver built on an early-Victorian model,
added to the pictorial effect. The bride’s
parents held a reception at the Rose Bay
Golf Club.
Sixty-odd women-delegates attended the
A.L.P. Conference, and the most striking
thing about them was that there wasn’t
anything striking. The younger ones were
just a good-looking, well-dressed crowd whose
fresh faces spoke more of the surf than of
Karl Marx. The older women were nearly
all mothers, and with a curate in charge
might easily have passed for a gathering of
church workers. Most of them described
their occupation as “domestic duties,” but
there were telephone-operators and a mid-
wife and one who runs her own orchard.
Nearly all have excellent records as workers
for charities and hospitals, and show a pre-
ference for those subjects that directly con-
cern the welfare. of women and children.
Most of them w y ere frankly bored while their
other halves squabbled over ballot-boxes with
sliding panels.
That Mary Grant Forbes, teacher of ball-
room dancing, who died a few days ago at
Cliatswood, wouldn’t have had much diffi-
culty in making good a claim to an easy
chair in the Pioneers’ Club. She was a great-
grand-daughter of Australia’s first Chief
Justice, Francis Forbes. George Forbes, a
frequent contributor to the printed story of
the early days—he had an article in Satur-
day’s Herald —is a grandson of the old
Chief, a son of an early District Court
Judge and himself a solicitor.
Major Egerton, who was A.D.C. to the
late Governor Davidson, took a fancy to the
rural life, and is now “on the land” in the
Riverina. For two years the work of get-
ting his acres into order has kept him in the
open spaces; but he made a return to Syd-
ney for the Easter rackets.
The future home of Dr. Olive O’Reilly,
who a week or so ago wedded the Rev. A.
Harold Wood, will be the Tubou College,
Nukualofa, Tonga.
The Islands claimed another good Austra-
lian when Sister Mary Patrick Kelly went
out to blackwater fever at Yule the other
day. An Eastern Suburbs native, she joined
up at the Kensington monastery, and, having
volunteered for the Papuan Mission, did
some magnificent pioneering work. She was
appointed Superior of Yule Island Orphan-
age some years back.
Phil Harris, who, after toilsome work in
the fighting line, was given the job of organ-
ising Aussie, the Diggers’ trench journal,
and subsequently revived the paper in Syd-
ney as a monthly, is taking a trip to Europe
with his wife, whom he met and married in
Belgium.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The G.-G. and Lady Forster made themselves
at home at Government House under the eye of Col.
Cameron, while Sir Matthew was on his northern trip
unveiling soldiers’ memorials and inspecting baby
clinics, schools and bush book-clubs.
His Federal Ex. unveiled the Stone of Remem-
brance in Toowong cemetery, with Acting-Governor
Bill Lennon standing by. Mrs. W. N. Gillies, the
Acting-Premier’s wife, received Lady Forster.
Four of the Squadron departed for Maoriland
waters after Easter Monday, the Dragon remaining to
pick up stragglers. Mayor Keogh and the aldermen
of South Brisbane did the Trocadero up in auriferous
hues in honor of Captain Fairbairn and his officers.
The Mayoress wore grey - and - cherry to receive the
sailor men, while others in the roll-up were the
F. K. Brodribbs, Col. Thynne (he has been doing
special aide work for the G.-G.) and his wife.
Commander Carter and any number of lieutenants,
Kathleen Hirschfeld, Pauline Elliot and Mary
Cameron.
April 29 saw the wedding of Eva Anderson and
John Barr, who general-manages the State cattle-
stations and was at one time at Michael Rogers’s
Torilla.
Sir Matthew gave a ball at Government House De-
fore he left Brisbane, to finish up Fleet Week. The
Rear-Admiral, Princess Pat’s husband and a detach-
ment of captains and lieutenants danced to Dobbyn’s
orchestra amid pink and yellow chrysanthemums and
gum tips. Eight buds were presented to Sir Matthew,
and each received a brooch with his Ex.’s monogram.
They were Margaret Lachlan Wilson, Garlie Galdwyn,
Beres Corrie, Page Freshney, Freda Stewart, Meg
Douglas, Mary Washington Power and the R, D.
Norths’ daughter Blanche. Some attractive gowns were
Worn by the girls who “came out” last year.
Ascot Races lured a crowd for the Easter Meeting.
Sir Matthew was a fraction of it and gave tea to
a party, including the Bruches, Mrs. and Helen
Rogerson, the Glyn Connollys, Commander Grace and
his wife, Capt. Pipon and the Grant girls, Keene
Cullen and Elfrida Walsh. Capt. Turner A.D.C.-d
Sir Matthew; and the Rogersons came along with
him. In the evening his Ex. dined a party at
Government House. Besides a bevy of fair damsels
there were a number of R.N.’s, Major M. Nair-Smith
and the E. K. Tulleys.
Afterwards the Rear-Admiral and officers received
the Smart Set aboard the Dauntless and Dragon.
Electric bulbs in all colors were squandered every-
where, and on deck there was a walled-in miniature
garden with a real statue and fountain.


A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Isct. Gold Links,
set double-cut Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £4/10/-
m
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet
loot. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
12/6.
15ct. Gold, 20/-
CATALOGUE SENT FREE
ON REQUEST.
A. Saunders' double-cut Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
Larger Diamond, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Exclusive Jewellery.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£3O.
tE
:
issariSß
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Button
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18et. Gold,
real Platinum get,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Diamonds
set Signet Ring,
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s act. uold Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full jewelled lever movement, £B/10/-
Others, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
I il Mi
bff.'iiiiiisfMffih
mM
WWi
mmm
A. launders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Waltham or
Elgin Lever, 10-year guaranteed case,
£4/4/-
20-year case, £6. 25-year case, £7/10/-
Higher grades, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-
&
A. Saiifielefs’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Watch, jewelled lever
movement, Silk . Ribbon Wristlet, Gold Mounts and
Buckle, £2/15/-
With solid Expanding Bracelet, £3/10/-
A. Sunders’
doubk-eut
Diamond Marquise
Ring, IBet. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. launders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct, Gold, '
real Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Bloodstone Signet
Ring, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Op®. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Real Pearl Bar Brooch, loct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 25/ -; heavier,
30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Golf Brooch, sot
Pearl, £2.
15ct. Gold, £;j.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, real
Platinum set,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£5.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Gold Neck-
let, set Aqua-
marine or Red
Stone, £2.
WE PAY POSTAGE,
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Aquamarine, £2.
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A*
DANCE ANY TIME
“His Master’s Voice
GRAMOPHONE
is always ready.
WE SELL ON
EASY TERMS.
Ready with lively one-steps and fox-trots and fascinating
waltzes that make you forget every care, that make you
want to dance on and on.
Music that inspires you to dance your very best—the
perfect playing of bands and orchestras renowned for
their splendid dance music.
Loud and clear enough for a whole roomful of dancers
—and yet easily adaptable when only a few want a
quiet little dance, and when the dance is over —think of the
beautiful songs that will make the night still more pleasant.
Visit Paling’s and hear this beautiful instrument.
PRICES FROM 11 GUINEAS.
Catalogue and Price List Free on Request.
ĵ
338 George Street
SYDNEY.
‘‘Quality our
Keynote since
1853,”
m
And at Brisbane,
Newcastle,
Toowoomba,
Liismore and
Rockhampton.


FARMER’S
Special Tobacco
blended to your own taste
r J"'HE individual tastes of men vary as
much as do their finger prints. Sup-
plying a tobacco blend to satisfy every
personal choice is an exclusive service of
" The Store for Men. "
Tobacco will be blended to any desired strength and flavour,
and a sample submitted for your approval ; packed in conserva-
tively decorated containers, in Jib., Jib., and lib. sizes. A refer-
ence number ensures the identical blend being always obtainable.
/, -
, n ■*<
PLUM PUDDINGS
Always
Appreciated
—.■s* r: -
•*•»*• *
t‘:Vj:Y:V
f**
'•* l iV , 'vi*» •. •*/*»* *•" ', * v ',V»
■o*-‘.‘ , .'s.‘.* - .*-‘'. , -'- ~■*-*■*-• ■'''■' 'Vr*- - '•)• '•*' •••"*-• . •■•**■* i "*
Obtainable
All Grocers
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
On Anzac Day the mothers of our fallen
sailors and soldiers were entertained by Lady
Forster in absentia at a service and tea-
drinking in the vice-regal ballroom. A musi-
cal programme compiled by Theophilus
Roberts, and to which Nancy Horne and
Zoe Allison contributed, brought some cheer
to the melancholy occasion. The Chauvel
and Bridges dames understudied vice-royalty
on the dais, and Mrs. Victor Sellheim buzzed
round looking after things in general, even
to giving a hand with the accompaniments.
When the guests dispersed each carried a
little sprig of rosemary for remembrance.
State Governor Stradbroke got back to
office on Friday after a sprint through the
Western District with the visiting Judge
Fielding. The Judge and his wife, who are
spending a few months in the lady’s native
sunshine (she was a Blackwood), are about
to cross to Sydney and thence go on to
Bananaland before returning to England.
Millie Holden, of Port Fairy, had been
married just six weeks to Alec Peacock,
then Chief Sec., when lie was made Premier
for the first time in February, 1901. The
country girl had to plunge into the \ortex
or! functions connection with the reception
of Prince George and Mary, who came over
in April that year to open the Common-
wealth Parliament. The breaking-m was
a pretty severe test, and she stood it gamely,
hut she was glad to fly home to Creswick
when the revels were over. She had an-
other term from 1914 till 1917, when her
husband was he id of the Government for
the second time, and now she will he in
front again. She is not enamored of the
social side of political life, but doesn’t
shirk the round, and is not quite so retiring
as Mrs. Lawson. She helps to hold the
Allandale scat for her husband, and could
probably win it herself if he stood aside.
The odd thing about the latest story of a
prima donna’s lost trinket is its apparent
truthfulness. Tenor Marques, as Otello,
was treating Melba with such violence that
a jade bracelet—a lucky amulet —got biffed
off her arm and was seen to fly towards the
footlights. After the performance Melba
organised a search party, but no trace of
the flighty jade .could he discovered. Prob-
ably the bracelet has eome to light ere this
and Melba has performed whatever solemn
rites are called for to restore its luck bring-
ing powers. Mascots are things which need
humoring, same as prima donnas.
Lady Patricia Blackwood’s hour upon the
musical-comedy stage has been brief; she
is now about to tour with Gertrude Elliott
and cultivate the Higher Drama —not that
she will need a pair of steps to aid her
mental ascent as regards “Bluebeard's
Eighth Wife,” and some other plays in Lady
Forbes Robertson’s repertoire. Lady Pat-
ricia appears to be a genuine trier endowed
with an artist’s spirit. All the same, if she
wished to hitch her title to a star she might
have given Allan Wilkie the first refusal of
her talents: he would have provided the
descendant of Richard Brinsley Sheridan
with a better sort of two-line part than
“The Cabaret Girl” afforded.
Phyllis Bellmaine and Tom Parrington
made a welter of good looks when they met
the other evening at South Yarra Christ
Church. Little Phyllis, convoyed by her
dad, looked as though she had wrapped her-
self in a silvery moonbeam and decked it
with a handful of stars. White georgette
lightly sprinkled with silver backwashed the
draperies under the bridal tulle, which was
bandaged to the head by an extra moon-
beam. Sister Marjorie and the elder Robert
Best daughter, Margot, ’maided in pink
georgette filmed over with silver, with posy-
weighted streamers trickling over their left
shoulders, pink and silver uniting to
band their brows. The bride’s little brother
Gordon and the bridegroom’s nephew, Billy
Parrington, both in white satin, proudly
bore the bridal train. The after-jollo was
at No. 9 Darling-street, and ended up as a
foxtrot. Mrs. Bellmaine, who looks as young
as her girls, relieved black velvet with an
ermine collar, and daughters Helene and
Alathea kept the argent note going with
silver lace on their pastel-tinted silk. The
toastmakers included Ronald Wettenhall and
Jenkinson, of the Herald, and among the
guests were little Mrs. Alec Chomley and
her daughter. Mrs. Robert Chirnside, Mrs.
O’Neill, Lucy Bruntnell (Sydney) and
Robert Best, his wife and daughter Phyllis.
Tom Parrington, who earns a crust on the
Inky Way, spent his early years at Warr-
nambool. His maternal grandmother was a
Lascelles, of the clan that supplied Princess
Mary with a husband and the Mallee with a
pioneer.
Geelong is just recovering from a week's
social burst—championship tennis by day
and jazz and frivolity by night. Practically
all the tennis big-guns were there, and many
jazzers rushed down from Melbourne with
their appetites whetted after the local dance
famine. Gerald Patterson carried away
both the. Challenge Cup and the Russell
Keays Memorial Cup (replicas of which will
be handed to each year’s champion in
memory of thqreiub secretary who was killed
in the Japanese earthquake) ; L. Addison
and Dorothy Rendall bagged the ladies’
doubles, and Misses Pope and Tye scored
in the B section. A big batch of the best-
known motored to Barwon Heads for a
dance in Collie Hall—a swish affair which
closed down at the Cinderella hour. Those
who stayed behind found consolation in a
performance of “The Silver Fox,” staged in
the Geelong A.B.C. rooms.
A rather thorough-going person seems to
be R. W. Johnson, who in the recent final
M.B. examination in Melbourne was first
in Class I, annexed the Keith Levi Me-
morial scholarship in medicine (including
clinical medicine) and the Jamieson prize
in clinical medicine, divided the Beaney
scholarship in surgery (including clinical
surgery) with T. A. F. Heale, and the Ful-
ton scholarship in obstetrics and gynaecology
with F. C. H. Rose—a performance astound-
ing for its all-roundness.
One Ladies’ Page has been brightening
the mushroom season with hints on how to
cook them. One toothsome prescription:
“Cut a pocket in a large tender steak, fill
with mushrooms, then sew up the open end
and grill for 20 minutes.” And very nice,
too; but first catch your large and tender
steak. Every housekeeper in this city knows
that it can’t be done—-by the shopper-in-ordi-
nary, at least. Lots of tilings can be caught
or picked up in damp autumn weather, but
the difference between a nasty germ and a
tender steak is that one is obtrusive and the
other elusive. A Toorak matron observed
the other day that her husband was luckier
than she, for he spoke of having a good
stake in the country, whereas she couldn’t
get even a decent chop in town. Then she
smiled like one who had got off a carefully
prepared bon mot.
A writing-man recently returned from a
trip to Colombo found our old friend Grace
Palotta the star boarder at the Galle Face
Hotel. She is running a fashionable frock
foundry in Colombo, and doing remarkably
well at it, everybody says. The Palotta is
still pretty, though avowedly grey-haired and
middle-aged, and quite reminiscent of the
extremely attractive damsel with the
piquant French accent who took the cake
publicly offered to the most beautiful mem-
ber of a burlesque company containing many
beauties. Nor lias she lost her youthful
gaiety of soul, being foremost among the
jazzers at the regular hotel dances, and
obviously a centre of attraction to the pre-
vailing bucks, tea and rubber planters for
the most part, visiting Colombo from the
stewing backblocks to enjoy the privileges of
civilisation.
As all good sailors’ ladies should, our
new Admiral’s wife, Mrs. Hall Thomp-
son, has settled into her social-CMiJi-offieial
niche as if
she had been
in it all her
life. She is
preparing to
take an active
part in vari-
ous philan-
thro p i c
efforts, an d
threatens to
make her mark
here during
her husband’s
term of office;
but, of course,
the softest
spot in her
heart is re-
served for the
sailors. And
then there are
two daughters
to be watched
over—the just-
out Valerie and a small girl in the school -
room. Lafayette made this picture of the
lady.
Best People are still fleeing to the Exhibi-
tion side of the Equator, and only one or
two are trickling hack to fill the empty
places. Among the latter is the George
Chirnside matron, looking smarter than ever,
and with her Saratogas loaded with the
latest inspirations from Paris. These are
being unpacked at Menzies’. Another re-
turned tripper is the popular Richard Casey
widow, who, after two years oversea, has
been joyously installed in a Melbourne Man-
sions flat by her two devoted sons. Her old
South Yarra home, Shipley House, which
she sold, is now leased by Priminister Bruce.
In the last act of “Trovatore,” or, rather,
after the last scene, when the lights were
turned up, the young woman in Phyllis
Archibald revealed itself. Up to then she
might have been a care-worn Azucena of
advanced age, nursing awful recollections of
her poor mother having been roasted alive
for witchcraft. There were black hollows
in her cheeks and under her burning eyes.
But the last scene, being a dusky dungeon-
cell, gave grey-haired Azucena a chance to
lie on her pallet with a comparatively
smudgcless face; and it was quite a nice,
clean girl who showed herself to the applaud-
ing audience, wreathed in smiles and looking
nice enough to play Delilah a week later.
Why sacrifice all your appearance to your
art in a dungeon’s dim light where nobody
can see you? A girl needn’t be as conscien-
tious as the man who blacks himself all over
to act Othello.
This is how Brootliorn’s camera saw Mrs.
Russell Gabb, the young Melbourne matron
who recently
joined the
ranks of race-
horse owners.
Soon after her
enrolment her
three-year-o 1 d
finished first
in a mile race
of some im-
portance. Blit
there is no
suggestion of
sporty mascu-
linity about
the lady, who
is fond of so-
cial activities,
and, incident-
ally, is one of
M e 1 b o urne’s
b e s t-dressers.
The greater
part of her
time is taken
tip by her young family, and another slice
is filled in with charitable endeavors as a
committee woman and otherwise. The
energetic matron used to be Miss Ivither,
of Adelaide.
Even while one is floating on a wave of
grand-opera enthusiasm one feels sorry for
the parents of an alleged “six-year-old Lon-
don boy” who is said to become obsessed
by “lovely sounds” just when lie is sitting
at a meal, or mother is restoring a lost
button to the back of his little shirt. Struck
by fairy melody, the boy will fly from his
porridge or his prayers to finger it out on
the parlor piano. His name is George Mal-
colm (which sounds too cautious for these
sudden spasms of inspiration), and he pre-
fers the organ to the piano or violin. It
was the Melbourne aunt of a one-time infant
musical phenomenon who said, apropos of
George Malcolm, that her young nephew was
“a most uncomfortable child to live with,
and, after all, he came to nothing more than
a bad end.”
Mayoress Brunton on Thursday afternoon
got together a parlorful of feminine guests
to be introduced to six Australian songs,
written by Louis Esson, Dorothy Mackellar,
Eric Fairy and Lister Cuthbertson, and set to
music by Florence Ewart, which Mrs. George
James contemplates featuring at a concert in
the Australian section of the Empire Exhibi-
tion. Phyllis Ashley’s bird-like soprano and
E. Hooke’s deeper warble showed off the
various efforts to advantage. Mrs. Ewart
supplied the accompaniments and topped-off
with her own Australian Anthem, which she
conducted at Lady Northcote’s Women’s
Exhibition. After the sing-song Mrs. Brun-
ton fed the company, which included the
Cuscaden, Kent Hughes, A. E. Y. Richard-
son and George James matrons, and Millie
Tree Chapman.
The English-speaking Union is to get a
financial lift on May 20, when bridge cards
will be fluttered at afternoon and evening
sessions in the Harry Emmertons’ South
Yarra music-room. The vice-regal Countess
says she will be at one session, and the Very
Best are booking tables, so there you are.
Mrs. Harold Clapp is engineering the party,
and Babbie Bridges is hon. sec.
A private cable tells that Col. Charles Leslie
Rome, now commanding a cavalry brigade
in Egypt, joined up with 50 Aussie officers,
members of the new A.I.F. Club, to celebrate
the Landing and Villers-Bret. with a dinner
on April 24. The Colonel is remembered
here as a Dudley gent.-help, and in those
days his good looks and the scarlet regi-
mental breeks which covered his length of
limb as lovingly as a coat of paint never
failed to catch the feminine eye at G.-G.
functions. Although English by upbring-
ing, Rome is an Australian by birth —a son
of the late Charles Rome, of Queensland,
who passed out so tragically some years
back in London. His mother, who lives on
the other side of the Equator, was Meta
Hunter, of N.S.W., and old Toorakians will
remember her as the rival beauty to the
late Mrs. Donald Wallace, whom tradition
credits with brilliant blue eyes and a profu-
sion of natural golden liair.
That enterprising pair of physical cul-
turists, Ethel Webb and Chris Lorimer,
startled Toorak last week by acquiring the
Edward Yeuckens’ former home, Glenbervie,
for use as a hostel and training college.
The picturesque place originally belonged to
the widow of the late squatter S. H. Officer,
but its park lands have long since passed
into the hands of the villa-builder. Oddly
enough, old Glenbervie, which Mrs. Officer
sold after the death of her husband, now
shelters Toorak’s Girls’ College after provid-
ing a home for the George Stevenson family
for many years. The Scobie Mackinnons'
stately home is now St. Catherine’s College;
the Robert Harpers’ house, Myoora, is a fiat-
tery-de-luxe ; the late Matthew Davies’s gilded
palace, The Towers, and the George James's
roomy mansion, Illawarra, are swanky hash-
houses —and unless the automatic domestic
comes into being it is unlikely that these
big Toorak places will ever regain their
former social status.
The Old Melburnians’ annual lawn-party,
which faded out with the war, had an en-
thusiastic revival on Saturday, when it was
re-staged under a new title—-“ Back to
Grammar.” The Old Boys—-some of theta
grey-headed veterans—dined in the big
schoolroom, all as cheery as in their salad
days. Every man there became a sinali
Grammar kid again just for the day. Luckily
the tramway conductors are well in the
know where Grammar news is concerned,
and were therefore able to reassure timid
ladies in the cars that the fierce sounds
issuing from the school grounds signified
revelry and not rioting.
Ice skaters are having their foot-blades
sharpened. The Glaciarium season wall open
on the afternoon of May 7. This will help
to fill in the awful chasm now yawning in the
social ice, and will, moreover, provide Mel-
bourne with a loudly-called-for rendezvous.
At present there is not a solitary place
whither one may wander in the sure and cer-
tain hope of meeting the people one knows.
The old pasteboard system is rapidly falling
into disuse. Calls are made through the
telephone—and, as often as not, the intend-
ing visitor finds the not-at-liome signal
sounded from the other end of the wire.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
There was a farewell to the Maxwell Fowlers at
the Golf Club the other day, though unfortunately
malaria prevented the male half of the pair from
attending—much to the sorrow of his would-be.
hosts, for the Golf Club sec. is a rarely popular
man. It was a lively party. There was a match
first, Men versus Women, with women the winners
(which was as it should be, as Mrs. Fowler has been
this State’s feminine .champion so often that we
have lost count); then dinner, then bridge. Lady
Bridges, a keen golfer, and Capt,. Hambleton were
among the guests; likewise two of the Club’s vete-
rans—Dr. Anstey Giles and G. M. Anstey.
Another farewell party w r as given at the
Layington Bonythons’ Wakefield-street honie to send
off Mrs. Schomburgk and her daughter. The hostess
was in black satin charmante with an ermine-
bordered tunic; Mrs. Schomburgk in black georgette,
and her daughter in marocain of the same sombre
hue with touches of blue.
The naval Lane Pooles and Capt. Wahlle lunched
at Government House while the Narkunda was here.
The said Narkunda, by the way, brought a good many
homing South Australians, among them the O’Halloran
Gileses, the Cedric Haywards, Violet Mueeke and
Doris Johnson.
The week has given us an official lunch at
Government House, too, with the Murrays, the
Lewis Cohens and all the new Ministry and its wives
as guests. Before the gong sounded his Ex, handed
the letters-patent of his knighthood to S’Lewis.
Capt. Colin Duncan, who takes over the private
secretaryship at Government House from Legh Win-
ser, was on the Munro Fergusons’ staff for a couple
of years after some unpleasant attentions from the
Hun had invalided him out of the fighting line. His
wife is the eldest of the Catteralls, of Sydney.
Alma Karlin called on us the other day; she is
from Jugo-Slavia, and is on her way round the
world with most of its languages at* her tongue-tip.
Her brains are her bankers, for she relies upon
journalism to see her through financially; and when
she gets back to Jugo-Slavia the net result of her
experiences is to go into a book.
A wettish Oakbank put lovely women definitely
into tailored or knitted garments and furs, settled
the dust on the roads, and made the long drive
through the crowded Hills roads a far pleasanter
business than it is when Easter is early or the
rains are late and one arrives at the course well
powdered with clinging white dust. A drag or two
still survive, but motors have it mostly their own
way on the road these days, and even the market-
gardeners’ waggons, crowded to bursting point, are
fitted with engines of sorts instead of being drawn
by plough horses as heretofore. The Bridges were at
the official lunch and had , with them their small
daughter, Miss Judge,Mrs. H. D. Young (her
husband is chairman of the club), Capt. Hambleton.
Legh Winser, and a sprinkling of racing men and
politicians.
Easter brought the youngest set a dance at the
G. D. Cowans’ home at Mt. Lofty, where a wide
verandah served as the ballroom. A big house-
party was reinforced by 40 or so dancers who motored
up from town, and things went merrily from the
first How-d’ye-do to the pre-breakfast bacon and egg.


NEW NOVELS BY
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
ONE SHILLING EACH.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers. Is. 2d. posted.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“By Mountain Tracks” - - - by Roy Bridges
An excellently-written and thrilling story of the bush-
ranging days. Novels by the same author in the Bookstall
Series:—-
“On His Majesty’s Service.” “The Fenceless Ranges.”
“The Great Western Road,” - by H. F. Wickham
A great story of the early gold-diggings.
“The Trader of Kameko” - by S. W. Powell
Another splendid South Seas story by the author of
“The Maker of Pearls,” “Hermit Island,”
The Great Jade Seal,” “The Pearls of Cheong Tah.”
“Fagaloa’s Daughter” - - - by Jack McLaren
Author of “Red Mountain,” “The Skipper of the ‘Roaring
Meg/ ” “The Feathers of Heaven,” “The Oil Seekers,”
etc.
WRITE TO THE PUBLISHERS FOR A FREE CATALOGUE
OF 150 NOVELS BY FOREMOST AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
rx:
:i
?
m
m
mi
mmi
■ ~ -
DIAMOND PENDANT.
WITH PLATINUM AND
N DIAMOND CHAIN. ,
X £3OO. X
FLEXIBLE DIAMOND BRACELET SET IN PLATINUM.
£ 15 0.
mm
maßsM
i A-,,.,..,. . /s: $
L r *1 \w\ ,0
DIAMOND SET WRISTLET WATCH. £1057]
JEWELLERY OF FINE QUALITY ]
WM. DRUMMOND & CO., JEWELLERS.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
'BUllisia
’ a—~” -wn-—■—*«- -=- -— ~ jf-3r"-"y
<3
%
ua
HARDYS
WINES
f
TINTARA
m
p ; j\
'jm
m
HI
8
fc
Bk
m
■
•,
mm
mm
m
m
W
m
x; *** a **
DADDY 5
HOME! "
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes.
The famous Red Box
Chocolates, made to-
day and mailed to you
to-day—post free.
Per V.P. Parcels Post .
if desired.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
162-166 Pitt Street: also
orner George & King Streets,
Sydney.


I tip
I
%
v'Ar.
%
PRICES
Standard Set with
Silver-Plated Razor
New Popular Model
«C”
25/-
7/6
Strops itself
Automatically
u
To realise the keenness of a
"VALET” BLADE
put it to the hardest test
A RAZOR is perhaps put to the supreme test when it is
* * used to shave chin and jaw. Only the keenest blade
can do this successfully. To be really keen, h wever, it must
be stropped. But stropping is an art that few men can really
master. Hence the supremacy of the "Valet.” By its in-
genious self-stropping device the "Valet” Auto Strop Razor
provides in ten seconds pra(flically a new blade of lancet-like
keenness for every occasion.
This ensures a perfectly clean shave with a degree of speed, safety, com-
fort and economy that is unobtainable by the use of any other razor.
“VALET"
Safety Razor
Of all
Managing Agents for Australia;
Phipson & Company Ltd., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
A COMPLETE INDEPENDENT POWER PLANT
The Rosebery
Pumper
The Rosebery Pumper is self-
contained and complete. No
“extras,’’ no “accessories” re-
quired. Nothing to buy but
petrol. It makes a power-
pumping plant out of any wind-
mill pump by simply fastening
it to the standard of the pump.
When four nuts are tightened
the engine is ready to start.
It needs no special foundation
—no apparatus of any kind.
All you need is a wrench, and
that is supplied with the engine.
b
When the windmill is becalmed, the Rosebery Pumper
carries on the work and keeps the water flowing.
Made at the Rosebery Engine Works, Sydney, every part
of the Rosebery Pumper is built absolutely to gauge. All
parts are interchangeable, and the owner of a Rosebery
Pumper can always rely upon replacing a part with the
certainty that it will fit.
Prices are uniform in all Australian capitals.
Rosebery Engine Works Ltd.
ROSEBERY, MASCOT, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA,
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal
and Power Pumps, Cylinders, Hand and Power Sprayers,
Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and we will put you in touch with the nearest distributor.
ms
ftJZfJS&U
joojc&jofjf
HOLEPROOF is the hosiery of lustrous beauty
and fine texture that wears so well. It is not
surprising, therefore, that it is selected by many
people who can afford to pay more for their hose,
but who prefer the Holeproof combination of style
and serviceability at such reasonable prices.
In Pure Silk, Silk Faced, Fiber Silk, and Lusterized
Lisle, in the seasons popular colours, at the leading
shops everywhere.
Wholesale and Indents through
WALTER CATHRO Pty. Ltd.,
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
326 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Cathro, ltushbrook Co., 16-18 Victoria Street,
WeUiug'ton, JN


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
HUNTING KNIVES
MARBLKS' Knives are made from the
highest-quality steel. Well finished. Per-
fectly balanced. In patent leather holsters.
“WOODCRAFT” Knife, as illustrated.
44-inch blade. Compressed leather handle.
•Handy size 12/6
“IDEAL” Knives. Beautifully finished,
with hilt. Compressed leather handles.
8-ineh, 25/-. o-inch, 15/-
“IDEAL” Knives. Horn handle, sin., 17/6
SAFETY AXES. Small and serviceable.
Pit easily in- the pocket. Patent Spring
Safety Guard ...... 9/6
POCKET FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. Absolutely safe. Wonderfully
compact , 17/6
Sole Agents: THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BUBNS, **HILF * CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sale Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Victorian owners collected a trifle less
than half of the £51,000 distributed by the A.J.C.
at its Easter meetings, and if Heroic hadn't dwelt
at the post in the Sires’ Produce Stakes they would
probably have handled another £5OOO. It has been
said that their horses were superior to the Sydney lot,
but the superiority was not so much in quality as in
condition. Whittier, Easingwold, Englefield, Heroic,
The Rover, Our Prince, All Sunshine and other
visitors from beyond the Murray were produced in
HARRY
McCALMAN.
trainer of Whittier
and Accarak.
perfect trim. Some
of them were beaten,
but it wasn’t for lack
of a gallop or because
they had been over-
trained. On the other
hand, numerous local
Horses were in unsatis-
factory shape. Several
boomed steeds went off
woefully after a race
or two ; others were not
sufficiently forward to
run even one decent
race. Nags trained at
Rn ndwick fared rathev
badly, but that is
nothing new. Of recent
years they have rarely
been to the fore in the
big A.J.C. handicaps,
most of which have
gone to horses prepaid
at Rosehill and New-
castle, and in Victnhi.
Whoever or whatever is
responsible—t h e ele-
ments have been blam- d
this year—it is moodily
suspected that Rind-
wiek-trained can d i-
dates for Cups and the
like don’t get enough
work.
Claro beat Whittier in the All-aged but
there was only half a length between them when the
mile had been left behind in lmin. 36fsec. (a*fourth
of a second slower than Doncaster time), and; the
English chestnut had nothing in hand. His price
would be much longer than 6 to 4 were the Doncaster
ran over again. One of the favorites in that;case
would be All Sunshine, whose brilliant performance
in the 9-furlongs Coogee Hrndicap (he romped home
in the Australian record time of lmin. 50|sec. with
161 b. more than his Doncaster weight) suggested that
with a smooth passage he would have ti-oubk-d
Whittier sorely. Tried over a mile and a half in
the Dangar Handicap, won by Englefield, All Sun-
shine failed to stay, but he is a very good handicap
horse at a mile or thereabouts. However, he is never
likely to get into another Raniwick mile with 7st„
71b. The Hawk could have been third in Claro’s
race, but Pike eased him up and Easingwold cut !hini
out of that position. Trying- to make a stayer of
The Hawk has done him no good, and the jaded
little animal obviously needs a long spell. Easing-
wold, on the contrary, looked as fresh at the end of
the meeting as at the beginning, and his Final Handi-
cap win, with lost. 51b. on his back, stamped lliiin
as about the best weight-carrying middle-distance
horse in Australia. The handsome chestnut races in
the nomination of . William Marks, a Fremantle
trainer, for Whom he earned £1196 in stake-money.
Rapine’s three wins at w.f.a. were worth £4825
to A. B. Williams, his owner. It was easy money,
for the nuggety Maorilonder had nothing much to
beat. Though Frances .Tressady won the City Handi-
cap nicely one gould never fie de&crinrd as a -high-
class three-year-pld, and the same applies to Drongo,
who is merely a plodder. For the rest, Accarak,
The Rover, Stony and Englefield are not w.f.a. per-
formers, The Hawk can t stay and David is a thing
of the past, . ;Like..i;Clarfl, . .the game old son of
Baverstock has’ bidden farewell to the turf. It is a
pity he wasn’t retired after his tremendous exertions
at the A.J.O. Spring meeting; be has never been the
same horse Since. Before the« Cumberland Stakes
a silly rumor got about that Rapine had been nobbled
in his box, and any number of mugs' took 8 to; l
David. There were equally sinister stories when
the Martian gaffing came out for the A.J.C. Plate
with bandages On his forelegs, ml again there was
a rush to get oh David at a ridiculously short price.
To the jovial Dynamiteodds it was “money from
’ome.”
Heroic atoned for his bad manners at the barrier
on Doncaster Day by putting up a 101 b. penalty in
the Champagne Stakes and winning all the way. He
is unquestionably the best yor raster of his year, and,
on appearances, it is a pretty good year. Stud-book
pundits aver that he is too inbred to stay, but that
remains to be proved. At present this page would
rather have him for one of the Derbies than the
excitable Leslie Wallace, while admitting the possi-
bility that Spearfelt may be a better three-year-old
than either.
Dynamiteodds had much the better of his argument
with the public. Seeing that Scarlet and two
other skinners got home on Cup Day he couldn’t help
showing a good profit, yet one paper was seduced
into announcing that, he was “a heavy loser” and that
“Victorian sportsmen took at least £lOO,OOO out
of the r'nr.” Which is utter rubbish. The club’s
arrangements for the entertainment of the public were
pretty good on the whole, but more TotaUsator
accommodation is needed. Also, there should be
provision for a Tote double cn races like the Don-
caster and Cup, the Eosom and Metropolitan, and
so forth. If the A.J.C. won’t run one it should
authorise clubs (ike Rosehill and Hawkesbury to
do so. A stir nr argument in favor of a Tote double
is that the public's money would be returned, less-
the ordinary 124 too. deduction, it’ the winning com-
bination was unbacked. Lastly, the two denressing
steeplechases, in which two-th’’rds of the field nearly
always fall, should be omitted from the Easter pro-
gramme, and the committee should instruct its stipen-
diary stewards to launch a ruthless campaign against
foul and incompetent riding.
* * * *
“Fax”: Anyone might have finked a gnod
win over the Sydney Cup bv deciding to back
mares onhv April ought to be the best time of
the year for thp sex. and Vnares used to do much:
better in the Randwiek two-miler than they have
d®ne in the FJemingtnn evert. Look at some of
the names- Mermaid. Vixen. Cerise and Blue. Lady
Trenton, P?trr mss. La Carabine. Wakeful, Noreen.
But sineelNoreen. in 1906. no mare had won the Cup
until SearLt did the trick. There were warnings,
however.'l', Two mares beat the colts in the Leger.
*& * *
“0.K.”-: T-oking one consideration with
another, the .offspring of Bachelor’s Double don’t
anpear desirable importations. Our Prince belongs
to the eomtianv of ungenerous beasts for whom excuses
are offered* when thev race disappointingly, whilst
Backwond is., one of the sort that is always said to
be “striking, form” but rarelv delivers the blow.
After Backwond had been invalided bv ’flu in Sydney,
the old story was heard about the illness being
specially unluckv for tbe owners because the horse’s
gallops had indicated th«t at last he was about to
find himself. The same thing was said of the hand-
some English horse week after week in the Spring-
time. Punters will do well to Lt TWkwood win a
race before they begin to believe in him.
* * * *
A deputation recently complained to
Treasurer Cocks of N. S. Wales that “illegal betting
was rarnn'nt and that the revenue was suffering
ffrom diminished Tote receipts, etc. 1 thereby.”
Cocks passed it on to Chief Secretary Oakes (the
man who quashed the polire proceedings against the
big Sydn-w bookmakers who were csiuabt illegally
betting some time back), and Oakes provided what the
1.-G. qf Police considered “ample proof that this
offence is being kept well in check.” The proof
consisted in the circumstance that, while in 1920
there were but 83 arrests for illegal betting and in
the following year but 67. during- last year there
were 246 arrests, representing- £2995 in fines. If
seems something like acclaiirrn? a decrease in crimes
of violence on the ground C'-P. tbe number of hang-
ings for murder had quadrupled in a couple of years.
* ♦ » *
(rrioe, the Victorian amateur, had a
profitable trip to Oakbapk (S.A.) with his ’chaser,
Fleetstone. Norman Godby put his best polish
on the gallant brown, who carried top weight (list,
131 b.). and the owner rode a dashing- race. Ten of
the 18 -farters made mistakes, but FLetston" fenc'd
beautifully at the head of the procession, and at the
end of 31 miles, ran -’n 6min. 40see., was a com-
fortable winner from the ponv T itfo Tonrie and Rose
Alwvne, to whom he was conceding 2st. 61b. and
2st. 91b. respectively. Grice’s horse, a Imt favorite
w ; th Tote pente-s. paid £3 6s. on the £1 machine,
and 'Little Tourie’s supporters drew £7 14s. apiece.
Si men Ca-tle. who got home in the Wordl-s. returned
a dividend of £35 125., and Amberoid’s Onkaparinga
Cuo success was worth £9 12s. to each bu'—r of a
£1 ticket. Pistolene. D-e second horse, yielding a
£lO 7s. divvy. Amberoid is a son of lownit, who
has sired her-e= that can stay a bit, though only a
sprinter himself.
» * » *
Nothing nearer favoritism than two 7 to
1 chances had got home at Caulfield last Saturday
when barkers r»me to tbe last race, and were offered
the prospect of gc f nr for a recovery at 3 to 1. the
starting nriee of Mirnnton. So they mostlv looked
further than the favorite for a winner, seeing that
all previous first and second favorites had gone
down. This time the good thing won.
9 * * *
Queensland had a fine vietorv in the inter-
state eight-oar race on the Port P’vcr (S.A.). in
which it was representod bv Wide Bay. Certainly the
Murray Bridgers were absent, and the Westralian
boat wasn’t a patch on t’’e one that made the ’Cods
go for their lives in tbp Olvmnir test rare, but N. S.
Wales sent a strong eight and the nowerful Mannnm
(S.A.) crew had be-n highlv tried on the tug
river. The sunbrowned mon from Maryborough fairly
outstayed them both, winning by ab-mt 10 feet
from the Sydney erew < the'- wore mostlv from Mos-
man Bay), with S.A. three parts of a length away,
Westralia several 'lengths further astern and Victoria,
who had had to pull up near the half-mile owing
to a mishap with their gear, in the rear. They;
rowed the three miles in 18min. 11 S-6see. Nimrno,
the Tasmanian, had atroc ions luck hi the sculls.
Taking the lead early, he had a five-lengths’ advan-
tage at i| miles, and was going easily, when the
wash fi'om a motor-launch overset his boat. This
enabled Barton, the Victorian, to win from Rogers,
the Perth veteran, who stroked the Westralian eight
in the Olympic test, and Lorimer, the N. S. Wales
colt. The arrangements of the river authorities were
capital for motor-launch galoots, but rotten f6r oars-
men. .
“Past Grammar”: Queensland hadn’t won since
1891. That was the year in which J. T. Bell (after-
wards Cabinet Minister and Speaker) and his brother
Colin returned frorq Cambridge, where they were
famous blues.' The pair' formed the now "defunct
Breakfast Creek Rowing Club, and their influence soon
showed on Queensland rowing, the ’9l success being
largely due •• to their introduction of Cambridge
methods. When the Bells dropped out, the standard
HUGH J. WARD, watching a Sydney
Stadium fight.
fell away, and it didn’t improve again for decades—
not, indeed, till Brisbane Uni., took up the game in
earnest after the war.
9 * * *
“15-30”: Although Tilden has officially
withdrawn from the U.S. Davis Cup team, I have
a notion that he will need very little inducement to
change his mind after he has got the utmost advertise-
ment out of his resignation. One can’t absolve
the gentleman from the suspicion of trying to pose
as a martyr, for the new amateur rule does not
come into force until 1925, which gives him a clear
six months to decide whether he will remain merely
a player or drop first-class tennis and continue
writing for the papers. When I first encovntered
him in Melbourne about five years ago I felt that
his temperament would earn him a vast salary in
the moving pictures, whereas his admirable little
partner Johnston was modesty itself. If Tilden
really drops out* America’s chances of holding the
Cup will still be strong. Presumably Johnston
will be available, and Johnston’s best is too good for
either Patterson or O’Hara Wood, whilst Hunter, a
prospective partner, is the hardest forehand driver
in the world. On the whole I think we can only
count oh capturing the doubles—always supposing our
fellows reach the challenge round.
• * * »
The Australian heavyweight title has
changed hands again, Waddy, the baldheaded Adel-
aide bruiser, having regained it at Brisbane from
Blaekie Miller, who plucked it from Sheppeard’s
marble brow after the Lithgow pug had conquered
Waddy. Though nearly old enough to be Miller’s
father, the stockv South Australian hits harder and
faster, and settled him in the fourth round with a
right on the point. The old ’un is a bit of a humor-
ist in the ring, and it is his invariable custom, after
bashing a fellow-citizen on the chin, to explain to
the reporters that the victim was “the gamest man
I e v er fought.” Then he gathers up the young
Waddys (they all go to see Dad box) and hits the
breeze for home.
* * * *
In the sixth round of a dull brawl at
Sydney Stadium, Merv Williams Cl Ist. 911 b.) back-
moved a wild right and hit Max Gornik (list.
81b.) on the chin. Ten seconds were counted over
the recumbent Oueenslander. Ten minutes wouldn’t
have been enough.
* * * »
“Machete”: Sam Langford (R. 24/4/*24)
was second cnly to Peter Jackson among colored
pugs, for whiteness of heart. When training at the
old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel at Botany, Sam was
told casually of a destitute white woman who was
living in a' wretched humpy in the neighborhood
with two small youngsters. That afternoon Langford
dodged his comprn'ons and made for the humpy.
When the woman saw Sam coming, she gathered her
babes and fled inside, locking the doors and windows.
In vain Sam tried to explain that his motives were
of the best; she called loudlv for help, and her
screams were well seconded by her progeny. At
length the boxer slipped two fivers he had brought
with him under the door and departed. When the
woman found out who her benefactor was, she
called with the kids to thank him. He had said
nothing about it himself and was in terror l°st some
of the many witnesses of the family’s gratitude would
tell the yarn abroad.
* - • * *
After a dismal period of dampness the
weather cleared up for the opening of the Melbourne
football season, and about 99,000 persons watched
the four League games. At Essendm the Collingwood
Magpies, after replacing two more lost stars (as
usual they were enticed away to train country clubs),
gave last season’s premiers a hard, fast, elean game
and outlarted them in the final term. Twice each
side gained a three-point Lad • then, with five minutes
to go, ’Wood electrified a 30,000 crowd with systematic
and productive dashes. They finished with 79 points
to Essendon’s 63. Fitzroy, on their own ground, made
. an unholy show of Carlton until the last ten minutes.
Then the Old Blues put on 6 goals and a few
behinds, winding up with 103 points to ’Roy’s 106.
It was a paralysing effort, and only the bell saved
’Roy. St. Hilda beat Melbourne by 84 points to
82 in a game chiefly remarkable for lost opportunities;
and South Melbourne vanquished Richmond by 94 to
68. The Tigers played half the game a man short,
Harrison being taken to hospital with a broken ankle,
* * » *
“Wink”: In the evolution of Australian
football from a crude bullocking go-as-you-please,
nothing has improved so much as the rate of scoring.
Saturday’s match, in which Fitzroy, 16.9, touched off
Carlton, 15.13, affords a parallel. With 30 minutes
to go the Blues were 11 goals to the bad, yet by a
great systematic effort they put on 12 goals 8 behinds.
Nor., is this a record. But in 1871, when 40 men
battled for three hours, frequently without scoring,
Carlton were thought to have performed a miracle
when they beat Albert Park in the final for the
Challenge Cup. They actually kicked two goals in an
hour. That was sensational then.
* * ■* *•
“H.”: North Sydney, early favorites for
the Rugby League premiership in several past seasons,
are at very forlorn odds this year. They are
lamenting the loss of Blinkhorn and Harold Horder,
their speedy wing-threequarters. South Sydney have
acquired them both, and as the equally fast Wearing
has established an Unassailable right to that position
Horder may go into the centre. Burge, the Glebe for-
ward, who came back for a mysterious “benefit” last
year, has announced his retirement again, and another
absentee will be Howard Hallett, who has been the
League’s best full-back for years. Their places will be
tremendously hard to fill, as the selectors will find
when they have to pick a team to meet the
Englishmen.
* . * *
“Centurion”; The Yankee R. U. Olympic
team had its first gallop in Europe the other day,
when it went down by 13 —9 to Blackheath, one
of the oldest and most powerful of the London
clubs. A famous “Heathen” was A. E. Stoddart,
and the late Justice Wade also wore the red and
black jersey when not engaged with Oxford. Nowa-
days, thanks to Dr. Len Brown, the Queensland,
Oxford and English forward, Blackheath is a home from
home for Australian Rugby men, Lawton, Wallace,
Raymond and others frequently turning out for the
club when the ’Varsity doesn’t call on them. Pity
Australia is not to be represented in the great
amateur tournament at Paris. Given a moderate
amount of money and an efficient organiser, a fine
team could be got together in England even at this
late hour.
“Machete”; “Pedro,”- on the afflatus of
warmed-up Maori footballers (B. il7/4/’24), reminds
the writer of a full-blooded Queensland abo. who
used to play with an Ipswich (Q.) team. He was
a front-row forward, and even the keenest of scrum-
magers were apt to be a bit slow at packing in
when the darky began to perspire. Unfortunately
he never attained inter-State form. I say unfortu-
nately, because a lot of his contemporaries would
have liked nothing better than to spring such a
surprise upon our annual rivals of N.S.W.
■* * * *
In the House of Commons, the other day,
a private member's bill which makes it an offence “to
hunt or course any animal kept in captivity for that
purpose” was received with acclamation by all
parties. The measure is aimed particularly at the
abomination known as rabbit-eoursing (it was men-
tioned that “often both dogs got the rabbit at the
same time, when there was a tug-of-war”), but
generally the object is to wipe out all so-called sports
of which the basis is gambling, and in which the
prey has virtually no chance of escape. Cockfighting
has been illegal in every white community of the
Empire for over a century, and Australians who wit-
ness a bullfight in Spain or Southern . France
neverfail to self-righteously deplore the bestial
cruelty of the foreigners who delight in such spec-
tacles. Yet there is not the slightest doubt that
a gamecock enjoys fighting, while a goaded bull, at
the worst, does not experience terror. Hares and
rabbits have an abject and pitiable dread of being
coursed, and when death comes it is as agonising
as anything suffered by the victims of the bull-
ring. And the same remark applies to pigeons and
other birds which are released from traps to be
mercifully blown to pieces, or to escape desperately
wounded, as the case may be. The illogical British
principle seems hitherto to have been (except with
regard to cockfighting, which was barred for other
reasons than humanitarianism) that large animals feel
pain more than small;ones and birds. Thus bears, bulls,
horses and dogs (the last-named may not even be
harnessed to small carts, as in Belgium) have had
great consideration shown them in England for
generations. An era is .'-now dawning, however, when
the rights of even the gentlest and most helpless of
creatures will be recognised, even as against the
claims of those who wish to make books on the
chances of their escaping from dogs, guns, etc., and
the sooner Australia falls into line the better for its
reputation.
» * * *
“Matahari”: In Test-match cricket M. A.
Noble (B. 24/4/’24) is fifth on the Australian batting
list, with 1905 runs, averaging 30.72. Strangely
enough he got only one century (133 at Sydney
against Warner’s XT in 1903) in these matches. In
inter-State cricket, however. Noble hit up 19 cen-
turies, and he has 37 opposite his name in first-class
matches. His best effort in big cricket was 176
and 123 v. Victoria at Sydney in 1907-08. With the
ball, Monty gathered 115 wickets at 24.78 in Tests.
* * *
“Machete”: Apropos of poor Frank
O’Keeffe (B. 3/4/’24), a long list of Australian
cricketers have represented English counties, as
amateurs or pros. Lancashire has had Dr. Poidevin, the
Vv averiey (N.S.W.) captain and a noted writer on
cricket, and Alec liermode, whom Maclaren took to
England after his second visit to Australia. Ker-
mode, a slow bowler, plays occasionally with Bal-
main. Middlesex has fielded Tarrant and Le
Couteur. tue Vie. Rhodes scholar, as well as Albert
Trott. Mick Roche and Alan Marshall. Murdoch
helned Sussex for years, while Ferris, C. T. B.
Turner’s famous collaborateur, forgot how to* bowl,
but became a first-class bat with Gloucestershire.
Somerset claimed Sammy Woods, and Queensland
supplied Leicestershire with Dr. R. A. Macdonald. At
one time or other they all figured for the “Gentle-
men” or the “Players.”
HIS FUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We bore him home, a warrior bashed;
His eyes were black, his nose was mashed.
His ear was like a purple plum,
His mouth was out of shape—and dumb.
For Mike had met his match that night,
And Smith had downed him in the fight.
Some might have thought the purse too small;
It troubled Michael not at all.
He’d tackle anything that thinks
For thirty shillings and the drinks.
When Walsh renegged that evening
He blithely leapt into the ring.
It fell to him, our poor old pal,
To be receiver-general.
Smith had a fearful right-hand clout,
And stoush in stacks he handed out,
Pile-driving smites, albeit the gate
Panned out for each but three pounds eight:
We took Mike home when all was done.
He was a sight to see, old son,
Battered and bruised; one injured wing
The blighter carried in a sling.
His missus met us at the door,
And took one screw at Mike—no more.
And then she piped her little lay:
“Yes, there you go. It’s just your way;
You leave me with the kids alone
To work my fingers to the bone.
(She smote him with a pot of delf)
You leave me to amuse yourself.”
VICTORIA.
E. D.


“Truth is Stranger
than Fiction.”
unpHERE’S nothing I have ever
1 said, or ever can say, sir,
about Kensitas which will
tell you how good they are half as
well as the cigareftes themselves.
“Strange that so moderately-
priced cigarettes should not only
equal, but excel, many more ex-
pensive kinds.
“Yes, sir, it is
strange, a notable
example of Truth
being stranger
than Fiction.” .
Kensitas
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
'ore the
\'Captive Cap
An exclusive c JS(upoint
feature
Rotate the cap, and you lengthen or
shorten the lead. Pull sideways and
you uncover rubber and enough re-
serve leads to last for months. Hold
the a Mupoint. Feel its balance ! Ob-
serve its exquisite finish—every de-
tail proclaims its quality. Write with
it! No rotating or jamming lead,
only real, smooth writing comfort.
The "write” pencil for you.
Obtainable at all high-class Jewellers,
Stationers and Stores.
Sole Australasian Agents:
PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD.
56 Market Street, Sydney.
Juipoint
The World’s Best Pencil
Situation Wanted.
EUROPEAN, Regular ex-Service man,
R.A., last 3 years as Bridge Erector
Ceylon Railway, good knowledge of accounts,
healthy, active, not afraid of work, seeks em-
ployment any capacity. Willing to go any-
where. do anything. Excellent Testimonials,
both Service and Civil. Will be free end of
June. Box A. 3008, c/o Times of Ceylon.
UFACTURED 8¥
SMOKE
Edgeworth
TOBACCO
FINEST BURLEY LEAF
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
c*
\3t> e
: o'V SKANDIA
4-5 h.p.
MARINE, £95.
STATIONARY, £B5.
NO
Magnetos,
Electrical Devices,
Blow Lamps.
Starting Time Less than 30 Seconds.
LARGER POWERS IN STOCK.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OBTAINABLE’ FROM
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, opp. Bridge Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
Running Cost less than 2d. per hour.
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924.
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept,),
141 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address—“Smadabiiro,” London), who will arrange:—
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses,
Furnished' Flats, etc.,
Trips to Battlefields,
LONDON WILL BE FULL.
Continental and Provincial Tours,
Motor-car Hire—Sightseeing—Passports,
WRITE OR CABLE NOW.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
APRIL ISSUE NOW READY.
This magazine will be of unusual interest to all lovers of Nature, who will appreciate the
varied, non-technical reading and numerous photographs within its covers.
ORDER NOW. Price IV-
ON SALE AT THE MUSEUM AND AT ALL BOOKSTALLS.
Cletrac
IANK-rirpcfkACToa
Cletrac
BANK-TYPE TRACTOR
m
u
Wtk
i
m
(Mrac
n
i
2.
m
%
7A
WA
wm
dfuM dieted medtf 'ftacfaf caMy
■Ciydtfy, I'uTMcd: piU my Kind ijyMund.
b
»
**La.
a--'--
WHY IS THiS MAN STUCK?
Because the ground has been ploughed and
the wheelbarrow loaded with cement is heavy,
the wheel hag sunk in the loose soil. It is
only natural that it would, owing to the
heavy pressure and the small bearing surface
of the wheel.
NOW HE IS ACTING SENSIIiCY.
He has laid planks down to act as a track,
and is pushing the wheelbarrow quite easily.
That is the sensible way, and it is in this
way that the “Cletrac” goes over newly
ploughed ground laying its own carbon steel
tracks without packing the soil.
So you see the great advantage “Cletrac” has over Wheel Tractors.
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
383 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 16» Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO., LTD.
Light Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE INKY WAY.
The dynamic Roy N. Connolly is once again in
charge of that struggling stripling, the Laith Daily
of Sydney. It is really his third time in the camp
—he was the original Chief of Staff of the Daily
Mail, as the paper was called to beg'n with.
t From tae report of a Supreme Court case in a
K.Q. paper: “In opening the ease for the defence,
Mr. Longrobe went on to set out the lies on whn h
the evidence lor the defence would be given.” The
good old North ! A spade is still a spade up there.
Jas. M. Mackay. one-time of the Worker, latterly
editor of Hobart World, is to join the staff of the
News, Hobart’s new evening paper, which expects to
bloom some time in May. Editor E. L. Burgoyne is
now in Tas. organising the News staff; Mackay will
be associate-editor.
“D.R.”: Passed out the other day, Walter George
Piper, editor and controller of a healthy group of
three trade jouinils in Melbourne for nearly SO
years. The Chemist and Druggist was started socn
after Piper came from England in the ’nineties;
Furniture and the Draper followed, and between
them they kept a big staff very busy for many years.
“Pedro”: Methodist minister Colwell, who died
recently, was related to the Inky Way through his
son, who was cn Sydney D.T. staff, and gave his
colleagues there the delectable experience of associa-
tion with a reporter who was religious in practice
as well as profession. He went early to the Big
War, and the beginnings of a No. " 1 good man
were lost to the World, the Way and Wesleyanism.
The Inky Way has been tramped by several of the
Labor leaders in South Aus. Kirkpatrick* the veteran
of the party, left the type-case for the soap-box;
Denny, assured all along of the Attorney-Generalship,
was editor of the Southern Cross ; and Kneebon.-,
who holds a safe seat for East Torrens, began his
journalism on the Coolgardie Miner in that paper’s
decl'ning days. Then he was Commonwealth press
publicity officer in London till 1915, and has since
been editor of the Adelaide Herald.
Like most men, the journalist generally advises
his sons and relatives against his trade—-and then
the sons anl relatives take to it. A. L. Brient, of
the Argus, who has gone on a visit to London, is
a son of Lachlan Brient, the brilliant newsman who
was editor of Sydney D.T. in its best days. 11. S.
Gullett is the son and Isabel Gullett is the daughter
of an editor, and Henry Gullett, editor of the Aus-
tralasian and Sydney D.T., was their uncle. A
son of Samuel Cook, so long general manager ol
the S. M. Herald, is on Sydney Evening News.
On arriving at Sydney D.T. office, editor Heney
found there his son, who was to have been a Guards-
man but preferred being a roundsman. ■
“D.” : The sale of London Morning Post by Lady
Bathurst to a 'syndicate headed by the Duke of
Northumberland means that the organ of “Eng-
land’s landed gentry” will in future be more reac-
tionary than ever. The masterful daughter of the
late Lord Glenesk (whose baronv, given for his news-
paper services to the Conservative cause, died with
him) interfered a good deal in the policy of the
paper. With the Duke of Northumberland in vir-
tual control things should be even more strenuous
for the staff—probably the most capable in Eng-
land. Northumberland is the most truculent of
the “Diehards,” as impractical as he is brilliant,
and more dangerous to the security of the realm than
half a dozen Jack Joneses.
“Iford”: Is the poverty of the English language—
about the richness of which poets sometimes enthuse
—-anywhere made more clear than in the appalling
piirase “naval ratings” ? Grammatically, there can
be no plural denoted by a final “s” tacked cn to
the present participle of a transitive verb ; and yet,
through sheer laziness, this one has been allowed to
come into official as well as common use. Human
“beings” is part of an intransitive verb, and even
that is a clumsy word. But the term "naval rating,”
to denote a man who is rated navally, is a verbal
abomination and a walking reflection on 9:e educa-
tion of the Lords of the Admiralty. Yet men-o’-
warsmen swing along in their wide pants as if they
didn't mind it in the slightest.
“Sturt”: An interesting point was raised a while
ago in Adelaide, and unfortunately it has not been
very definitely settled. Yates, M.H.R., brought an
action for libel against the Register and a laly
who wrote a letter to that paper. Last year he got
a verdict for £5O- against the lady; whereupon
Skipper, the newspaper’s counsel, contended that
you can't have two actions for one libel, and that
the matter was therefore at an erid. The Court
advised Yates, who had been conducting his own case,
to get a lawyer to argue the point of law. Recently
all parties appeared again in court, but all Yates’s
counsel had to say was that he didn’t propose io
go on. He. however, asked Judge Par-sons to certify
—with a view to Costs—that the action had been a
proper one to bring into the Supreme Court. The
request was declined, cn the ground that a lower
Court would have been quite, sufficient for the
business.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Henry Lucy, who wrote “Essence
of Parliament” in London Punch for 35 years, and
was familiar with the Press gallery of the House of
Commons for nearly 60, was nevertheless' not the
pioneer of that department of journalism, as some of
the London papers in their obituary notice errone-
ously alleged. The first London journalist to write
descriptive accounts of the proceedings and personali-
ties of the Imperial Parliament lies interred in
Booroondara Cemetery, Kew, Melbourne. His name
was E. M. Whitty, and he was author of several
books, two of which, “Friends in Bohemia” and
“The Governing Classes,” achieved some distinction
and popularity in their day. A breakdown in health
caused him to emigrate to Australia, where fie
joined the editorial staff of the Arous. His old
and intimate friend, Barry Sullivan, who was then
running the Melbourne Theatre Royal, erected a
handsome monument over his remains.
“Flicker”: Struck a delightful novel lately called
“The Storm Man—a Romance of the South Seas,”
by one John B. Hides. When the hero and his ship
reach Malaita they find “native chiefs wearing a
cloak of black fur like that of the kangaroo, out
which I could not identify.” A footnote supplies
the further information that “this fur proves to be
that of the bunyip, a marsupial like a giant kangaroo,
considered until now to be either extinct or legen-
dary.” A race of South Sea Islanders is encountered,
“giants of seven br eight feet high, who paddled
ships shaped like those of the old vikings,” but who
had to be saved from drowning when their boat
upset, because they couldn’t swiiil The hero also
happens on a “ti-tree bearing delicious frilit.” When
a British man-o’-war is leaving one harbor the
c.ommanuer suddenly “barked"' an order to let go
the port anchor, and “with hardly a questicn’ng
glance, the crew obeyed,” leaving it to be inferred
that the usual procedure of the crew of a British
cruiser is to go into committee and consider any
commands given by the officers. And this sort o’f
bosh is retailed here at 65., while an Australian
author is lucky if he gets Is. 6dL at the railway
bookstalls for a real story.
RUBBING IT IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Such denizens of the backblocks of intellect as
•”—One Red Page controversialist on another (B,
2713/’24).
He dwells in the untrodden ways
Outside scholastic lore,
Where n thing to the mind conveys
That two and two make four.
A fossicker who lingers lone
On some deserted flat I
A swaggie tramping tracks unknown
With corks around his hat I
What’s obvious, he doesn’t know;
What’s plain, he may not see.
He might be in his grave—and oh,
The difference in me I
N.S.W.
H.


Announcement.
HotpointlndEdison
lectric Heating & Cooking
Apparatus, Irons, etc.
1. In February and May, 1923, an announcement was made
in these columns whereby W. G. WATSON & COMPANY
LIMITED and AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMP ANY LIMITED became joint distributors of
HOTPOINT ELECTRICAL LINES in New South Wales
and Queensland.
2. For the information of the Trade and Public generally,
it is now announced that these arrangements have been
TERMINATED and W. G. WATSON & COMPANY
LIMITED are continuing as the sole FACTORY DIS-
TRIBUTORS of HOTPOINT APPLIANCES in the above
States, whereas the AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY LIMITED revert to the SOLE DISTRIBUTION
of the EDISON LINES in New South Wales, and in
Queensland through its agent THE ENGINEERING
SUPPLY COMPANY of AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
3. THE AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
LIMITED retains the sole distribution of HOTPOINT
LINES in the other States of the Commonwealth through
its branches and accredited agents.
Issued by authority of
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LIMITED.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LIMITED.


Primary Producers’ IHank of Australia Jitb.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE MEN ON THE LAND.
Subscribed Capital over . . £1,550,000
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY (Opp. G.P.0.). BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WARES:
Ardlethan—with Agency at Mirrool. Alstonville. Wallendbeen.
Tiismore. Young—with Agency at Wombat.
New South Wales Directors—MESSßS. H. M. CARTER, I. W. KERR, PROF. IRVINE, W. T. JOHNSON, JOHN FISHER.
The main object of the Bank is to render Banking Service to the Man on the Land. The keynote of the Bank’s Service lies in its sympathetic
consideration of its customers’ needs when financial stringency and droughts arise.
NO CHARGE FOR KEEPING ACCOUNTS.
Interest allowed on current accounts. All interest payable quarterly on current accounts, on fixed deposits and on Savings Section accounts.
In the SAVINGS SECTION deposits from i/- up are accepted, and interest at current rates is allowed on minimum Monthly balances.
F. W. STRAOK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Eng.), General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Ma Mie Rosette’’
Criterion “Aleut We All?’
Royal .... “The Garden of Allah.
New Palace “Aladdin"’
Grand Opera House “'Jons of Money”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Town Hall Charles Hackett-Bratza Concerts
Conservatorium Hall Cherniavsky Concerts
MIG,BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Royal . “The Cabaret Girl”
King's “Smilin’ Through’’
Princess's “The O’Brien Girl”
Palace “Sleeping Partners’
Majestic Moving Pieuues
Hoyt's Moving Picture#
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
The operatic surprise-packet at Melbourne
Majesty’s last week was Phyllis Archibald,
who came to light in Saturday’s perform-
ance of “II Trovatore.” Where the gor?
geously tuneful old show needed wrenching
from the grip of absurdity the whole-hearted
performance of Phyllis Archibald, as the
lurid gipsy-woman of the wild romance, did
the business. She has a sweet, sympathetic
mezzo, of sufficiently contralto timbre, and
both vocally and dramatically she is power-
ful in this part. Therefore the long delay
in springing her upon the public strikes 6ne
now as good tactics. Besides, she and the
baritone. Apollo Granforte, who sang the
Count’s familiar airs charmingly, and vented
his family animosities in impressively gaudy
raiment, preserve the old balance of attrac-
tion for an opera wherein tenor and soprano
are in this case only moderately successful.
Antonio Marques, the tremolo tenor of
“Otello,” is Manrico, doomed in all revivals
of Verdi’s ancient work to wear a huge
white funeral feather protruding from his
tin-hat, and a thin white cloak for evenings,
when he goes serenading his love. Marques
has a well-matured and liberally-fed appear-
ance, and a voice of no variety. His tenor
tones are sweet enough,, and he sings well
enough; but the tone is somewhat smoth-
ered in the utterance, and in such recognised
test-items as the Miserere his warble notably
lacks pungency. It doesn’t “bite.” Lina
Scavizzi. the charming Tosca of other nights,
MELBOURNE HIS MAJESTY’S.
“MADAME BUTTERFLY.”
Nino Piccaluga as Lieut. Pinkerton, U.S.N.,
meets Cho-cho-san (Augusta Cohcato)
and her servant Suzuki (Carmen
Tornari) .
is a handsome Leonora, with a graceful
figure, unusual among Leonoras in the old
days. Vocally she is a good dramatic
soprano, too, but somehow she seems insuffi-
ciently stagey for the part. Carmen Tornari,
as Ines, is as usual unimportant, and barely
audible in a loud concerted piece; but Di
Lelio does his long basso solo in the open-
ing scene with capital expression, and the
singing of the chorus was excellent, as a
rule, on Saturday night, the orchestra being
handled by Schiavoni. The dressing came
as compensation to the elderly section of the
audience, which had suffered some horrible
“Trovatore” outfits long ago; and scenery
by the Colemans and George Upward was
calculated to make the shabby old libretto
open its eyes.
* * * *
Last week it was announced that “Tosca*’
would get another look in later, and that
“Rigoletto” would have no more matinees;
but, in the midst of boom, managements often
go back on such advts. A change of cast
marked the third performance of “Carmen,”
Luigi Ceresol taking the place of Granforte
as the Toreador, because the last named had
to sing next niglit. Ceresol, who makes a
sprightly Figaro, is a lightweight Toreador,
and one fancies that no high-spirited bull
takes him quite seriously. New productions
for this week are “Faust” on Friday, with
Melba in the yellow Gretchen plaits the
world knows so well, and “Samson and Deli-
lah” on Saturday. Phyllis Archibald will
invite further furore as the Philistine de-
ceiver who robbed the strong man of his
wonderful back-liair.
■ s;: # * *
At Melbourne Palace the giddy designs of
Seymour Hicks continue to be thwarted by
a sleeping draught, and the violently diverse
double-bill of “Scrooge” and “Sleeping Part-
ners” proceeds towards its fifth week.
** $ *
“Smilin’ Through,” at Melbourne King’s,
begins the last chapter of Gertrude Elliott
farewells to-night (Thursday). The house
will be closed three nights next week, after
which come Oscar Asche and “The Skin
Game.” Only the other week Oscar was
said to be,returning to London, but times
have changed and his plans are altered.
“The Cabaret Girl” keeps Frith, Madge
Elliott and Co. busy at Melbourne Royal
eight times per week. And every time Frith
finishes up as a weird kindly-looking female
who defies classification, but calls herself a
vamp. •;
At Melbourne Tivoli, the bill, which was
bucked up by the uncommon comedy of Bert
Coote and his smart colleagues, has been
further strengthened by the arrival of Arthur
Prince and the “Jim” he ventriloquises into
life. Prince’s ventriloquial business is con-
ventional in design—not so novel as that
which the late Sydney James introduced into
“The Strollers” years ago—but it has a
naval setting and a gorgeous uniform. Con-
versation treats of the difference between an
able-bodied Jim who swabs the battleship’s
deck at 4 a.m. and the offieah who puts words
into his Jim’s mouth whilst smoking a cigar.
The dualogue is perhaps too prolonged, though
the patter is bright and wholesome, and the
dummy has some most convincing moments.
In Melbourne’s domestic circles little Jim
is going to be talked of as a personage whom
parents patronise and children adore.
A little show and a big picture:—
Though Ralph Warner’s art seems most suitable
for advertising champagnes and chiffons, it makes
its brilliancy felt in a clever little show at Miss
McLean’s studio, Collins-strect. The young man has
a striking decorative sense which never deserts him,
and he produces effects which seem all the more
remarkable when one considers the simplicity <3f
means employed. In two or three cases the plain,
unadorned cardboard on which he works provides
the foreground, the background being flicked iff*
with a few judicious dabs of body color. So we get
a delightful suggestion of a mountain in winter, an
autumn of rich russet complexion, or a dawn break-
ing on the Australian Alps.
The V.A.S. has borrowed for its latest exhibition
the portrait in oils of Dr. John MacFarlarid which
Longstaff painted for Melbourne University. This
is the best —or as good as the best—work of its
kini the artist has ever achieved. It has all of his
natural grace of style and harmony of composition,
together with the effect of realism essential to great-
ness in portrait painting. The kindly-looking pro-
fessor has a convincingly easy pose as he sits there
in his rumpled black and gold robe of distinction, as
Chancellor of the University. His perscmlity can be
judged by the onlooker, and everything about him,
from restful hands to boots, helps to mark the man
without forcing artistic details of dress on one’s
potice. The picture is of a sitter seemingly uncon-
scious of the painter. A memorable work of strik-
ing portraiture.
** * *
“Ma Mie Rosette,” in which Gladys Mon-
crieff is making her farewell appearances
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, would be rather
thin stuff for modern tastes but for
melodious music and romantic setting. The
dialogue lacks wit, and the humor is con-
spicuously old-fashioned; but the charm of
the atmosphere, the excellence of the sing-
ing and* the bravery Of the costumes put in
ample bail for such shortcomings. There is
sound dramatic craftsmanship,- too, in thfe
brief third act that exposes the second one
as a dream, and sees Rosette restored to her
peasant lover and saved from the splendors
and disgraces which might have been. Gladys
Moncrieff, whatever she may lack in one’s
mental pictures of the peasant girl who brings
a king to her feet, scores some notable song-
successes; it would have been hard to im-
prove on her “I Was Dreaming.” And a very
gallant and debonair monarch, as stage
monarchs go. is Claude Flemming’s Henri-IV.;
if he could fight as well as he sang, and
made love, he has his right place in" his-
tory. Herbert Browne is a creditable though
not striking , Vincent. Lottie Sargent
(Martha) received a warm welcome on the
opening night and plays her ample part
with zest. Byrl Walkely, as Oorisande, the
disdainful court beauty, acts her r6le well,
and no pne could look it better. Leslie
Holland, as Colonel Cognac, and Arthur
Stigant, the King’s valet, supply the drol-
lery. Linda Foy is q winsome page and
Harry Ratcliffe makes a homely dad for the
tuneful heroine.
Tenor Charles Hackett opened his Sydney
season at the Town Hall on Saturday night
with three, high-voltage flashlights of song:
S A
Mozart’s “Don Giovanni —these latter two
encore numbers. The combination spea s or
“TONS OF MONEY,” AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Aubrey (Charles Heslop) hears from Mr.
Chesterman (John Kirby) that he is
coming into money.
itself ; only an artist sure of his voice and Us
craft would have unleashed three such num-
bers one after the other on an audience of
strangers. After the opening fireworks came
Rosa’s “Star Vicino,” a bit of perfect bel
canto work. Rachmaninoff, Szulc and
Bridges were drawn upon; but it was m
McGill’s “Duna” that the singer reached
highwater-mark—the listener got a suspi-
cion hereabouts that Mr. Hackett was under
thrall to the lines he was singing. After
that there came a fearful crash in a group
of Irish folk-songs that McCormack had
lifted to classic heights; and the conceit
ended on an anti-climax —a rhyme of avoir-
dupois by Fiske. The, company completes
itself with the young Serbian fiddler B rata a
and a Heaven-born accompanist, Clarence
Raybould. Brataa is another of those sur-
prising youngsters that Mid-Europe exports
every year or so to warm this cold, old world
with their music. While not ori the crystal-
pure Heifetz heights, Bratza’s fiddle sings
with a caressing tone and makes a direct
appeal to the ear and the fancy. The bril-
liancy of the first movement of the Tschai-
kowsky Concerto in D was followed by the
Schubert lullaby as tender as a mother’s
caress. A Beethoven rondo and the Bach-
Ivreisler gavottes were further triumphs.
Merle Robertson’s recital at the Sydney
Conservatorium on Saturday night drew the
pianist highbrows and students in shoals;
and her music proved worth the attentive
ear turned to it. The big work of the even-
ing was the Beethoven Sonata in A Flat—
a, forceful' and impressive performance. Bril-
liance and power rather than poetic subtle-
ties are Miss Robertson’s big cards; and so
the Bach opening number was more arrest-
ing than the Chopin group. Three of the
player’s own compositions captured the ear,
the Syrian dance and the Viennese waltz
evoking a thunderstorm of applause. To-
night (Thursday), Saturday and Monday
Miss;'Robertson will give further concerts
at the same address.
* sfc V *
At Sydney Cri. “Aren’t We All?” is still
presenting Irene Vanbrugh as the last word
in feminine archness; and Dion BOuoicault
is quite the most likeable old nobleman who
ever helped to straighten out a sex-tangle.
sj» JjC
As a peg upon which to hang pantomimic
splendors and whimsicalities, “Aladdin” is
giving fresh proof of enduringness at Sydney
Palace. Also it is enabling Ada Reeve to
•deliver the goods the gods demand from her
in generous quantities and of quality as good
as ever she gave.
$ * #
Bogus heirs are still pursuing “Tons of
■Money” with the maximum of ardor and the
minimum of success at Sydney Grand Opera
House. The other magnet is Dorothy Brun-
ton, who has the advantage of being genuinely
charming as well as charmingly genuine,
whereas the wealth is mostly mythical.
❖ ❖ Sjc
“The Garden of Allah” still blooms at
Sydney Royal, but there isn’t much fra-
grance in it. Muriel Starr’s old following
lias rallied to her on her return ; but even
some of the most faithful, after vainly strug
gling to catch her words, are beginning to
wonder whether her real name isn’t Muriel
Starrcato.
* * t- *
Noni, Sydney Tivoli’s latest importation,
introduces a new brand of musical fooling -
he employs a variety of instruments in his
refreshing antics, and occasional patches sug-
gest that he has been acquainted with some
of them in a more serious rdle. Florence
Smithson has found new exercises for her
pleasing voice; and the eccentric Renie offers
a fresh batch of wares.
*!* v »!”•
“A Woman of Paris” has deposed Nero at
Sydney Crystal Palace. The lady’s title to
fame is based largely on the fact that Charlie
Chaplin directed the producing; yet there
isn’t a custard-pie thrown. The Lyceum is
presenting a version of “Tiger Rose” that
wgs staged here a few years ago. Also,
“What’s'a Wife Worth?” wherein a foolish
young fellow marries a second time, though
if it was worry he was seeking he might have
tackled Einstein’s theory and saved expense.
“Flaming Youth” is attracting the butter-
flies to Hoyt’s; but they find that the hot
spots in the book have cooled off in the
censor’s ice-chest. “The Near Lady,” an-
other starter at the same house, is fair to
middling—in patches.
Wirths’ Circus, packed with thrills and
attractions, is drawing the usual crowds to
Sydney Hippodrome. From the elephants
down "to the midget human equestrian, the
performers give sterling value for the silver
rattling into the box-office.
An artistic Sydney annual: —
It is one of the eternal mysteries how W.
Lister-Lister, president of the Royal Art Society
of N.S.W., gets through the amount of painting he
does. He turns out enough pictures for a heavy-
weight one-man show annually; this year he is
hanging no less than 69 oils and water-colors in
Horderns’ Gallery, many of them far from the area
of miniatures. In his last two or three exhibitions
the veteran seemed to be at a standstill, but in
this one there is an indication of a fresh impetus;
though his outlook and treatment are still stolidly
conventional, there is more variety and mellowness
in his color, freedom in his brushwork and certainty
in his drawing. And the “golden splendor” note
is not so overdone. He is at his best in oil, and
several coast scenes—“A Summer Day,” for instance
—are sound bits of craftsmanship. Many of the
water-colors are weak, but here and there is a
sunlit beach with misting headlands besides a tree
study or two of merit which seem pre-ordained to
mount the red badge of purchase before the show
is over.
$
Variety (unaccountably known by the
bastard American-French name of v aude*
ville) is Adelaide’s main fare for the pre-
sent. Black and Maloney’s “Town Topics
are having a second innings, this time under
cover at the Royal, where increased stage-
room allows them to improve their effects.
At the Majestic Charles Zoli and co. pro-
vide much of the bill; but Fred McDonald
has a chance to play lead at last, his way-
back young Australian now being elaborated
into an original sketch.
MELBOURNE HIS MAJESTY’S.
La Tosca (Lina Scavizzi) introduces Baron
Scarpia (Apollo Granforte) to the busi-
ness end of a bread-knife. Gaetano
Azzolini as the Sacristan.
From an Adelaide critic:—*
The Society of Arts picture exhibition looks rather
pinched without the Federal element, now at an
end. The pictures are mostly small and unambitious
landscapes, though there are a few single figures of
no great merit. James Ashton brings some good
things back from a Victorian visit, and John White
is neat and effective. Florence Lake and Maude
Priest score with sbuvenirs of England and France.
Boxall goes ahead steadily, and among others less
known the best are Leila McNamara and Irene
Crossing, the latter having great promise.


DOUBLE
SHr
a
m
ill
GRIP
PARIS
CARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
You’ll like these double-grip
PARIS if you’re on your feet a
lot —at work or play.
Lovers of sport and men of
action prefer them for their
double security and extreme
ease.
Whichever of the styles illus-
trated you prefer, be certain to
get the genuine PARIS. They
will hold your hose put, set your
mind at rest and give your legs
real evidence of ease efficiency.
”3,000 Hours of Solid Comfort”
Obtainable Men’s Stores Everywhere
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. bTD.
MAKERS
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
}26 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
SINGLE
jj
ĵ
j
GRIP
COPYRIGHT
HOLEPROOF
SILK SOCKS
Sold by Leading Mercers Everywhere.
ĵ
YOU can give every room in your
home that delightful air of im-
maculate cleanliness by using
Johnson’s Polishing Wax occa-
sionally on your furniture, floors,
linoleum and woodwork. John-
son’s Wax cleans,
polishes, pr e~
serves and pro-
tects—all in one
operation.
**i'v
MWiili
|v| Jill
H
ms-
r
f *nw% 'xvj
fefced Surface*
UOHHSOft SSOW
_«a«>« t .#>e
; ii
JSW^-aC-3.
&&s#« ******* W *
Johnson’s Polish-
ing Wax is con-
veniently put up
in Paste, Liquid
and Powdered
form- Use the Paste Wax for
polishing floors—w oo d, tile,
marble, linoleum. Use Liquid Wax for furniture,
woodwork, leather, shoes. Powdered Wax makei
perfect dancing floors.
JOHNSON’S
~ JLiQLiid ~~ Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
You can easily keep your floors and woodwork in perfect condition by
polishing them occasionally with Johnson’s Wax. The Wax cleans and
forms a thin protecting finish coat. The use of Johnson’s Polishing Wax
is an economical method of preserving and protecting the natural beauty
of the floors, woodwork and furniture in your home.
Polishes and Protects Floors and Linoleum.
Floors polished with Johnson s Wax do not show scratches or hefel-prints
and can easily be kept in perfect condition by re-waxing doorways and
tracks as they become worn. Your linoleum will last longer and look
better if you polish it occasionally with Johnson’s Paste or Liquid Wax.
it prevents cracking and blistering—brings out the pattern and color
protects linoleum from wear and makes cleaning easy.
Rejuvenates Furniture and Woodwork.
Johnson’s Liquid Wax is the perfect furniture polish. It imparts a hard,
dry, oil-less polish which will not finger print or collect dust and lint. It
takes all the drudgery from dusting. It covers up marks and surface
scratches and forms a protecting, finishing coat Adds years to life and
beauty of varnish.
Manufactured in Australia.
Johnsons Polishing Wax is manufactured here in Australia. It is the
ideal household polish. Its use will give to your floors, woodwork and
furniture a velvety, artistic lustre of great beauty and durability.
Insist on Johnson’s Polishing Wax.
There is No Substitute.
For Sale at all Good Stores.
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.W.


1
MW'
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
riHEIE quality of MARCOVITCH
X CHECK VIRGINIAS is backed
by the makers’ 100 years’ experience
in the manufacture of high-class
cigarettes.
CHECK VIRGINIAS will give you
quite a new appreciation of delicate
flavor and aroma —they are generous
in size and delightfully sweet-
smoking.
SOLD BY ALL TOBACCONISTS.
Sole Agents for Australia : SCOTT HENDERSON & COMPANY, 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents: Vic. —Alexanders’ Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. S.A. —{Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide,
j
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER,PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“0.K.” asks for justice:—
Some of Melbourne’s well-seasoned theatrical
identities (their spokesman is Aleck Carroll, now
of Puller’s Bijou) are anxious that, amidst present
laudation of Toti Dal Monte, the name of Signora
Cuttica should be remembered with gratitude. Tan-
cioni Cuttica, lyric soprano of Simonsen’s ill-fated
second importation of Italian-opera artists, was a
delightful singer and actress. Aged doorkeepers,
who had served with W. S. Lyster,' would slink
silently into the auditorium when the comely little
dame was singing the Mad Scene in “Lucia,” or
“Caro Nome,” or anything in “Faust,” and whisper
to the nearest bystander “Isn’t she a daisy!” She
was a daisy: birdlike in her beautifully fluent
vocalisation, unaffected in her graceful impersona-
tion of the heroine, and strong in charm of per-
sonality. Cuttica, the plump little husband, was
a melodious first-class tenor sometimes. But the
little Signora, amply rounded, yet not rotund, was
a delight always. She never had “off” nights that
I remember. J.C.W. took over the co. when Simon-
sen became hopelessly unfinancial, and ran “Faust”
at the Princess’s for a week at a stretch, and every
night the notes of the prima donna were fresh and
soaring. When her husband was at his best the pair
sang their duets as angels are reputed to sing, but
with an earthly warmth which celestial voices
surely lack. We are reminded of Cuttica by Toti
Dal Monte, who has a voice of the same Italian
quality and purity and even higher range, also a
like winsomeness. Perhaps the work Cuttica did
in Australia, battling too hard for a modest salary,
THE WAYS OF ART.
THE ARTIST: “No one takes any notice of
the eccentricities of genius these days
THE COLLECTOR: “No. The only persons
who seem to have none are the geniuses
themselves.”
hastened the breakdown of her lovely organ. Not
very long after her return to Italy news came from
an Australian visitor —Madame Simonsen, I think —
that the dear little signora had lost her glorious
voice, and was teaching singing and the piano for
her daily spaghetti.
“Oldtyme”: The only Corelli dramatisa-
tions that I remember were “Barnbbas,”
staged by Alf Woods and Maud William-
son years ago, and “The Sorrows of
Satan,” in which Harcourt Beatty played
the lurid name part. It was a peculiarly
silly drama, introducing much of the stodgy
moralising which Satan perpetrates in the
novel. “The Sorrow’s” was the only book of
Marie’s that ever I tried to read, and it
seemed to me fit only to draw tears from a
sentimental barmaid in the maudlin stage.
“Abbot P.”: Melbourne Philharmonic’s
rendering of “Elijah” at Easter was the
45th since the first production in 1857,
when Henry Farquharson sang the title-role,
which he also did on five subsequent occa-
sions. Armes Beaumont had the tenor solos
at eight performances, and Mrs. Palmer was
leading soprano at nine; Madame Gregor
Wood, the contralto, also has eight appear-
ances to her credit. Charles Turner let liis
heroic voice loose in 1880, and other notabili-
ties who have had Philharmonic engagements
include Santley, Squires, Peterkin, Hallam.
Knight Aston, Walter Sherwin, Rosnati,
Rumford and William Pauli, among the
men ; and Lucy Eseott, Octavia Hamilton,
Fanny Simonsen, Amelia Bailey (wife of
R. S. Smythe), Marian Burton, Belle Cole
and x\da Crossley among the women. W. S.
Lyster’s wife, Georgia Hodson, appeared in
1861. George Peake directed 14 of the re-
presentations, and Alberto Zelman has gone
through 13.
“Nitric”: Unless plans go awry, Queens-
land will be producing films before long. The
man behind the venture is C. E. Chauvel (he
is the General’s nephew), who went to Los
Angeles with “Snowy” Baker, and stayed
18 months. He has interested big men (pas-
toralists mostly) in the film company he is
forming, and the money is coming in well.
The actors and authors are here; the scenery
and atmosphere are perfect for picture-pro-
duction, and the market is one of the best
in the world. But one thing is wanting—
the securing of that market for worth-while
home producers by the fiscal policy in which
Priminister Bruce says he believes.
“Norbell” : The N.S.W. Shakspeare Society
celebrated the Bard’s birthday by putting on
a mixed bill at the King’s Hall, Sydney.
Some of it was particularly well done,
notably Lawrence Campbell’s Wolsey, but
what interested me most was to see ex-mum-
mer Edgar Hoskins do a scene from “Julius
Caesar.” Hoskins is a nephew of the
famous William, so long identified with the
Australian stage as actor-manager, and the
keenest student of Shakspeare the theatre has
known in these parts. He died in 1886.
Cai’mens, past and present:—
Australia has seen many Carmens, and none better
than Emelie Melville, of more than 40 years ago.
Vividly one recalls the mellow sweetness of the
tones which accompanied her seductive charm. Emelie
ranks, perhaps, among comic-opera-company Carmens,
like Marie Halton, whom J.C.W. imported from
America some 30 years ago. But the brilliant Mel-
ville lady in her prime would have done credit to
the most complete production of Bizet’s work we have
had —and that is this latest production. Voice
is certainly not of paramount importance in the
performance. It must be cultured, and up to certain
standards in Strength and quality, but the richest
contralto in the world would be useless to a singer
who could not look the part fairly, well and act it
still better. A fine Carmen of old was the French-
woman Louise Lablaehe, who came with a Simonsen
eo. in 1888, Dimitresco and Pimazzoni being the Jose
and Escamillo. That season, too, was notable for the
appearance of an ideal Mieaela in little Flora Graup-
ner. Flora had not yet started the career with
J.C.W. which eventually overtaxed her strength. She
was the artless young thing to the life, with a
soprano fresh as a Spring morning. George Musgrove
staged a satisfactory, though not an enchant'ng,
Carmen in Madame Janson, whose jealous tenor
adorer (Salvi) had a pretty voice, whilst the Toreador
was a big, rough baritone of whom The Bulletin
remarked that he seemed to have taken to bull-
fighting in the spirit of a covetous butcher, for the
sake of the dead-meat perquisites. Heinze, the
fiery contralto of Musgrove’s German Co., was a
great Carmen. Quinlan had Edna Thornton. Sig-
norina Russ, the Carmen of the Gonsalez Co., has
left no impression, but Lahoska, the. new lady,
promises to be remembered.
“H.S.”: The incursion into Uie U.S.
cinema business of the Ku Klux I .can, with
a capital of 10,000,000 dollars, indicates the
respect in which the film is held as a propa-
gandist agent by Uncle Samuel. The Ku
Kluxers desire to “make attacks on negroes,
Catholics and Jews,” but complain that
“many theatres owned by non-Protestants de-
cline to show; cinematographs depicting the
Ivlan’s activities.” There is no such reluct-
ance as regards the propagation of crime, and
habits which may be as annoying as crime.
At the last show I attended the star feature
was an opium drama, in which the heroine
was a purveyor of the drug. The hero of
the next picture was a champion pug who
became a cowboy. The comic item showed
a small boy making things unpleasant for his
elders on lines that would render him liable
to assassination in real life. It matters
not that in opium and other “crook” plays
the central figure belatedly reforms; the
cumulative effect is to glorify crime a"d
violence. If the authorities in Australia
did their duty they would rule out most of
the pictures we are getting from America,
just as the Bebrew-Irisli element who con-
trol them are ruling out those of the Ku
Klux Ivlan.
“Oldtyme”: Nellie Stewart, in “My Life’s
Story,” is kinder to J. K. Emmett than to
Henry Harwood, his contemporary. Of
Emmett she says :• —
He was a singing comedian —-a forerunner and
model of all the Andrew Macks and Allen Doones.
When he had been playing a week, he was suddenly
taken ill one night, when the Governor was in front.
He went away 'to Lyster’s £arm to recuperate, ; and
renewed and clinched his triumph when he returned.
Joe Emmett’s “illnesses” were notorious bouts
of insobriety, and his triumphs were all
achieved with one luridly-foolish melodrama,
which served as frame for a series of
Du tcli-American character-sketches, with
songs. The one show kept him going for
years. Of Harwood, who married her half-
sister Docey, Nellie is much less apprecia-
tive :
Of the local people the best known were Harwood
and Jessie Grey, who was the original Drummer Boy.
I remember Harwood as a comedian of a very old
type, ponderously unctuous. He never moved with the
times; he would have scorned the idea. Anything
that was good enough for 1840 was good enough for
him. Much later, when he played with us in “La
Fille du Tambour Major,” it was still the same old
type of acting.
Harwood was slow in characters where slow-
ness added to his effectiveness. As the old
snuffy Duke in “Tambour Major,” assisted
THE PENALTY.
WILLIE: “Teacher asked us where all little boys ’n girls go to who
didn’t put their pennies in in’ collection-box.”
JEAN: “An’ what did you say?”
WILLIE: “I said ‘Please, w’m, to the pictures .’ ”
by his foil, John Wallace, as Bambinet, Har-
wood was the drollest of comedians. Doubt-
less he was unsatisfactory to act with, from
the young, up-to-date Nellie Stewart’s point
of view, for there was too much detail in liis
work to please the girl cast for romantic
heroine parts. I myself have a quite vivid
recollection of seeing Nellie Stewart stuck
for something to do while old Harwood was
playing the grumpy, purblind aristocrat, with
Marquis Bambini in attendance. But to
speak of him as “behind the times” in such
parts is absurd.
“Dido”: The other night a peripatetic
band of amateurs did “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
for the delectation of Pigweed (Vic.). In
that moving scene where the heroine escapes
from the slaver’s bloodhounds by founding
from one chunk of broken ice to another,
Eliza’s foot slipped, and she was soused in
the brimming river. At least she should
have been; actually, the girl arose from the
waters as dry as a hone. “Me Gord!”
wailed a voice in the audience, “America
has gone dry orright.”
“E.D.”: The female in the front gallery
seat in a Melbourne theatre was indulging in
sotto voce soliloquy at the expense of a young
Australian actor strutting on the boards,
“Oh, yes,” she said, “swell yourself out, me
little man. You’re a great feller, I don’t
think, talkin’ big about your motor-cars. A
thousand pounds ain’t here nor there, is it?
And you buy that woman 80-guinea furs.
Oh yes, I hear you, with your di’mond
rings, and your pearl bangles, and your
little places in the. country. But you don't
pay your blinkin’ wash bill!”
“Gnarek”: Long before Seymour Hicks
made good with “The Catch of the Season”
he had experimented with gory dramas with
more or less success. After one of these
bluggy productions he appeared before the
“cabs” to make the usual first-night speech.
“Er,” he commenced. “Granted,” said a
cynic in the gallery. “Thank you,” replied
Hicks, and off he went. He rates it the
shortest first-night oration on record.
“Cmsar’s Ghost” j “The Light that Failed”
has been filmed, and a happy ending has
been dragged in like a bag of coke. The
pitchers are catering for a public which
likes its sob-stories to finish in a maudlin
fashion and doesn’t mind if the situation
produced is a ghastly departure from the
author s intentions. _ I remember an occa-
sion when sacrilegious hands were laid
on the spoken drama to gratify this
popular taste. We had staged a play
which ended logically and unhappily,
and the gods rose as one devil and wanted
to know what we were giving them. They
thought we were doing them out of the last
act —one that resurrected the expired hero,
divorced the heroine from the villain, and
brought wedded bliss and the heavy father’s
blessing. The orchestra’s tedious repetitions
of “God Save” only made their demands for
the full melodramatic loaf more insistent.
At length a terrified manager asked us to
go on and fake a last act from another
drama, fitting the names as best we could.
It made the heroine a bigamist, and married
her to a dead man, and a superfluous burglar
and other excrescences tangled the conclu-
sion a bit ; but the gods were athirst, and
their thirst was slaked.
“Fax” : As the grand-opera season in Mel-
bourne draws to its conclusion two points
stick into one’s understanding. First, the
undeniable box-office proof that Melba did
not over-estimate the value of her name. The
rufh for a Toti Dal Monte or Scavizzi night
maty be great, but greater is the demand for
tickets when Melba is to sing. And the im-
portation of choristers, mainly male, has
been justified by results. Without the sup-
port of more than
20 Italians, fami-
liar with all the
operas in the reper-
toire and the lan-
guage they are sung
in, the season could
not have been ven-
tured. The chorus
trainer, who works
patiently with an
interpreter, has
done wonders with
fine material, but
the Australian girls
are only novices
gaining experience.
With as many men
to train in a series
of 18 operas the
instructor’s task
would have been
hopeless. Quinlan,
of yore, could pro-
duce about 14
operas in as many
nights, because he
brought the whole
outfit with him, and
his rehearsals were
a mere polishing
up of a staff that
knew its work
from A to Z. Be-
sides, there was no
foreign tongue to be taught in the Quinlan
case.
“Hamfat”: Having been deeply wronged
by companies from Australia, the newspaper
proprietors of Palmerston North (M.L.) de-
cided that all theatrical advertising would
have to be paid for in advance. Pete Hughes
was then looking after Williamson's in-
terests, and when cash on the nail was
demanded for advertisements of Ada Cross-
ley’s concerts Pete nearly took a tit. “But
this is for Williamson’s!” he spluttered.
“We don’t care if it is for the Cosgroves!”
was the acid retort. Pete never quite got
over it.
“Private Boxer” : Clifford Spurr, producer
of “The Garden of Allah,” at Sydney Royal,
is a nephew of Mel. B. Spurr, who made a
hit when he toured the Commonwealth as
a cheery little entertainer under Herbert
Flemming’s management. Apropos, I saw
it printed the other day that Mel. (short for
Melancthon) went back to England and died
there. Not so. His grave is at St. Kilda
(Vic.).
“Santander”: Clara Serena, the S.A. con-
tralto, and Victorian baritone Fred Collier
scored well in the Covent Garden perform-
ance of “Alkestis,” composed by the brilliant
Rutland Boughton, whose opera, “The Im-
mortal Hour,” ran for a long season at the
London Regent. Boughton is one of the nfost
remarkable personalities in English music.
Originally something of an ascetic and a
mystic, he had the idea of founding a sort
of new Bayreuth in the old town of Glaston-
bury. He managed to interest people like
Gilbert Murray, Bernard Shaw and Thomas
Beeeham in his scheme, and got so far as
starting schools for the teaching of declama-
tion, deportment, scene-painting, and all the
other arts and graces associated with the
production of music-dramas. Shaw and Mur-
ray gave him all the publicity they could get,
but either Bougliton’s enthusiasm waned or
■his disciples ’ fell away—it was 50-50, 1
think—since the whole expensive plan was
ultimately abandoned. However, success has
altered his sentiments and he now gazes on
the world, the flesh and the Devil with a more
caressing eye. One of his keenest supporters
in his musical infancy was Granville Ban-
tock, brother of the late Claude, for years
in the employ of the Firm.
ART AND OATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
....“and the rest of a long cast earned its
oats.” —“Sundry Shows” (11. 17H/’2i.)
“Odds fish! This scurril paragraph!”
Old Stormer snorted in his beer.
“Oats, quotha? Is it ribald chaff,
Or but a scurvy scribbler’s sneer?
Summon fell Ate and her forces!
Shall actors be compared to horses?”
But Vellerton, the comic, said:
“Don’t take the insult so to heart ;
These scribes rush in where artists tread —
What does this blighter know of Art?
Besides, although your kiss-curl bristles,
Just think if he had made it thistles!”
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


sW^fr' - vr
3
s®ter
j*-~£.
i*e*s*s
mj •
V ~ { »•//..!• •’ «• 2
& -.-’ W* - itrmS
;V„ ,tJV.V-V ••'~ ~
wmw-
T*,
wv.
m
. c**
Hrv
*r
Afte
jYiinderlich
"-Asbestos ~Cement
'Building Jheets & S/afes.
Walls constructed of Wunderlich DURABESTOS
(Asbestos-Cement) building sheets are fireproof,
vermin-resisting and permanent. These sheets are avail-
able 3/16 inch thick, for External Walls. We also
supply sheets 5/32 inch thick, for Internal Walls
and plain Ceilings.
Durabestos Sheets are perfectly weatherproof, and are easily
faxed. You simply nail the sheets to studs, cover the joint with
. ‘J- wooden batten, and the job is complete. It is not even necessarv
to paint Durabestos.
Just think too of the convenience of handling sheets which are available in
dozens of handy sizes. We make sheets as large as 10ft. bv 4ft And the
price is very moderate.
Write for samples, prices and full particulars of both Sheets and Slates.
We will gladly supply all information desired.
Manufactured by
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Head Office, Baptist 5f.
fern, 5yd ney. N. S .W
B r-<3 nch
Sydney , Newcastle
Melbourne , Adelaide
BE.£>
Showrooms
Brisbane , Perth ,
Hobart & Launceston.
ĵ
The Only GENUINE 8 ORIGINAL
BOSCH Magnetos
BOSCH Sparking Plugs
BOSCH Lighting and Starting Sets
BOSCH 2-Note Horn
BOSCH Platinum Points and Spare
Parts
Absolutely Dependable
under Severest Conditions.
WARNING.— Our Genuine Bosch goods are
not made in America, but exclusively at the
world-famous original works of
Robert Bosch, A.G., Stuttgart (Germany),
and are marked with the name of Robert
Bosch and this trade-mark:—■
MELBOURNERobert Bosch Supply & Service
Co. Pty., Ltd., 140 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY:—Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co.
Pty., Ltd., 199 Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE:—Duncan &. Co., 104 Pirie Street.
BRlSBANE:—Eiphinstones, Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St
j
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL.
Tariff from 16/- per day.
Two Rows of Pretty Teeth
Belong to every smile
Learn now how millions get them
When you see pearly teeth —teeth
which add so much to beauty—please
remember this.
They come from combating dingy
nlm which hides the lustre of most
teeth. Millions now employ the met-
hod. The glistening teeth you see every-
where now show how much it means.
The method is at your call. This
offers you a ten-day test. Send the
coupon for it.
Just fight the film
Teeth are clouded by film—that vis-
cous film you feel. Under old brushing
methods, much of it clings and stays.
Soon it becomes discoloured, then it
forms dingy coats. That is why teeth
lose lustre.
Film is the teeth's great enemy. It
holds food substance which ferments
and forms acid. It holds the acid in
contact with the teeth to
cause decay. Germs breed
by millions in it. They,
with tartar, are the chief
cause of pyorrhea,
So one great problem
in modern dental science
has been to fight that film.
After long research, two
effective ways were found.
One disintegrates the film
at all stages of formation.
One removes it without
harmful scouring.
Able authorities proved these met-
hods by many careful tests. A new-type
tooth paste has been created and you
may apply these methods daily. The
name is Pepsodent,
To-day careful people of some 50
nations employ it, largely by dental
advice.
Many new effect*
Pepsodent brings many new effects.
It multiplies the alkalinity of the saliva,
which is there to neutralize mouth acids!
It multiplies the starch digestant in
saliva, there to digest starch deposits
on teeth.
Every use gives manifold power to
these great natural tooth-protecting
agents.
Watch its results for a few days.
They will amaze and delight you.
Protect the
Enamel
Pepsodent disin-
tegrates the film,
then removes it
with an agent far
softer than enamel.
Never use a film
combatant which
contains harsh grit.
Send the coupon for a
10-Day Tube. Note how
clean the teeth feel after
using, Mark the absence
of the viscous film. See
how teeth become whiter as
the film-coats disappear.
You will gain a new
conception of what clean
teeth mean. And you will
never return to methods
of the past. Cut out
coupon now.
Made in Australia
T I •““■“■■'■■'"'■■""■ill MARK §
Papsacigni
I us Aca;-’Oay Dzuirifzce
A scientific tooth
paste now advised
by leading dentists
the World over.
Sold everywhere in two sizes.
Price: 2/- and 1/3.
I 10-DAY TUBE FREE
The PEPSODENT CO.(Aust.) LTD.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
Mail 10-Day Tube Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
173 Piti St eit, SYDNEY (near Ring Street),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
UOOK OF SIMPLE CARD THICKS That Any.
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, l/(j.
PARLOR THICKS and MAGIC. 1/.. New
Book of l’uzzles, 1/.. Fun, Magic and Mysterv,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
Wins. RE ARDS, MASKS, *c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
<•»
\ V
9 91
Wastes.
FUNNIEST FOUIS
FAUCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents —Anril
Fools; Who Is Who;
lei on Parle Francais;
Who's to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
10W TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloqnial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6


m
m m
mm m
Brighten Your
Country Home
COUNTRY residents all over Australia
are blessing the day they decided to
instal Delco-Light in their homes, and
gave to their wives and families the boon of
electric light and power.
For Delco-Light brings cheer and brightness
into their homes, and floods every room with
brilliant electric light—convenient, safe and
economical.
It lightens housework by making possible the
use of electric vacuum cleaners, washers and
irons.
And remember! It costs so little to operate
that it soon pays for itself.
Send for full particulars of how easily you
can secure these benefits for YOUR family.
DELCO-LIGHT
Distributors:
WARBTJRTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELB., LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & GO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A* STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.
Comox Endurance Pressure Regulators
For all industrial gases, including Oxygen,
Acetylene, Carbonic Acid, Coal Gas, Com-
pressed Air, etc., Comox Regulators possess
many unique features that render them superior
in every way. It matters little whether a
Cylinder contains gas at 18001bs. or 181bs.
pressure per square inch. So long as that
pressure is controlled by a Comox Regulator,
constant working pressure from the fraction
of an ounce to over a hundred pounds per
square inch may be obtained at will by the
mere turning of a screw. The outstanding
features of these Regulators are briefly as
follows: —
SCIENTIFIC in principle, maintaining an
even and accurate balance at any desired
pressure. . .
SIMPLE in construction. Containing a mini-
mum number of working parts, they are not
liable to get out of order.
SENSITIVE in operation. The pressure may
be regulated to the slightest fraction, and
maintained without variation, thus ensuring
the best results.
SERVICEABLE. Made throughout from hot
stampings and solid drawn brass, ensuring
greater strength and freedom from porosity
than is obtainable from casting.
SAFE. All Comox Regulators are fitted with
safety valves of ample capacity to render
them absolutely safe under all conditions.
Fitted with Comox Pressure Gauges —the
best in their class.
MADE ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA. Repairs
can be carried out expeditiously by special-
ists familiar with their construction and
spares and duplicate parts are readily
obtainable.
By Specifying Comox you obtain the best
and support Australian Industry.
Comox Regulators are supplied in two
styles for Oxygen as follows:
“Low Pressure” to deliver gas up to 301bs.
per square inch for welding purposes only.
Fitted with atmosphere guage only.
“High Pressure” to deliver gas at all
pressures from zero to 1501bs. per square
inch for cutting and welding. Fitted with
atmosphere and lbs. per square inch Pres-
sure Gauges. '
Standard Regulators for Acetylene, Coal,
Gas, Air Hydrogen dr Carbonic Acid.
Prices on application.
Commonwealth Oxvgen and Accessories Limited
Foy Street, Balmain. Syi ney, N.S.W.
Agents :
BRISBANE: Queensland Oxygen
Ltd., Newstead Terrace, New-
stead.
LAUNCESTON: Harrison Bros. &
Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd.,
Murray Street.
co^'ox
Agents s
MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart,
362 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: The Western Oxygen
Co., Ltd., Bellingham Street,
Torrensville.
SUVA, FIJI: Brown & Joske.
Situation Vacant.
WANTED, WORKS MANAGER for
well-established Firm of Timber Mer-
chants. Must thoroughly understand upkeep
of Machinery and Sawing of Pine ana HarA-
wood, also Control Labor. Applicant with
Engineer’s Certificate preferred. Apply with
copy of references —stating age to
BOX 982 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
ADDRESS required of F. F. T. HAMIL-
TON, last heard from by letter re-
ceived in Assam, India, by his father,
Claude Hamilton, Lilliesleaf, Macedon, Vic-
toria.
M'
ATTHEW MANTON.—WiII Matthew Manton,
sometime of Liverpool, England, Ship Captain,
or any child of his, please communicate with me
undersigned in reference to the estate of Map' - ™
Bamford, late of Mount Gambler, in the State ot
South Australia, Widow' deceased. Dnv
GRUNIIY, FELLY & HARDV,
Solicitors, 27 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, South Am.
JOHN O’BRIEN left Murray Creek.
Westland, New Zealand, for Sydney,
N.S.W., about 15 years ago. Supposed to
be farming in N.S.W., For own advantage,
please communicate with
ROY, NICHOLSON & BENNETT,
Solicitors,
New Plymouth, New Zealand.^
TAWING, FRANK.— If Frank Ewing, sot l of the
JA/ i a te Patrick and Mrs. Sophia M. Ewing, oi
Belfast, Ireland, who about 1900 was at EUmoi?
station, Wanaaring District N.S.W and«j»o m
1904 was known to be in Sydney, S - V V., would com
municate with the undersigned, it would he to hi.
advantage. Anyone who can give inhumation
garding Mr.
Solicitors, Union Bank Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
•*l7 ILL MRS. ROBERT HILL, late of
W Eden, Carrickfergus, Ireland, who
came to Sydney about 12 years ago, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts, write to Job
Forsythe, 3243 Main Street, Vancouver, BA.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If yon are troubled with the complaint, write W and
we will send you our catalogue. fullydescnbingour
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbeisome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort frora ihe
first day’s use. It is the most scientific amdiance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comlortabfy under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you
it, and the trial costs you nothing, it >?
men, women and children, and the price » within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
07 Street, Melbourne


Public Notice.
THE COMPANIES ACT 1892.
XT OTICE is hereby given, pursuant To “The
c °ttipanies Act. 1892,” that the Registered
' >mce of The Loxton Racing Club Limited (to which
all communications and notices may be addressed) is
ituated at the office of BRUCE HOWARD LA PEER,
it East Terrace, Loxton. and is accessible to the
public on all days of the week (except Saturdays,
Sundays and Public Holidays) between the hours of
10 a.m. and 1 p.m. and the hours of 2 p.tti. and
1 p.m., and on Saturdays between the hours of
10 a.m. and 12 nocii.
Dated this 14th day of Anril. 1921,
SKEWES & BURNS,
East Terrace, Loxton,
Solicitors for the Company.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
Wool l k Pess. for hand
1. One “Perrier’s’
or power.
. One Skin-burring Machine.
* Wringing Machine,
. Six Oregon Skin Dolleys,
All the above are made by Humble & Son, and
new. Offers wanted. HUME STEEL
LIMITED, Box 660 G.P.0.. Melboui n.\
' Sfe V
SUPER CIGARETTE
Jpinet
Fine Old. Virginia (Ovals)
Cork Tipped
sw-cct s Seething as the Soft.relicatc
loncs of the Melodious Spinet of Old—
Suggestive of Old English Charm
and Kpmanca
Kaj.sat,iiß, \fsn.ijjs) lexDott
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. EL. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
BRITISH EVERY STITCH’^
British,
Every
Stitch.
..A....
; w
f
i'vV
' )
A
n
“C. 8.” Corsetry
beautifies every figure
You know what a vast improve-
ment a well-cut Corset makes to
your figure and therefore to
your costume and dress. If you
want to be assured that your
next new costume will compel
the admiration of your friends,
wear
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch.
Their gentle, restraining in-
fluence ensures perfect symmetry
of form and line with guaranteed
perfection of comfort. Obtainable
from all up-to-date Drapery
Emporiums and Stores at pribes
ranging from 6/11 to 63/- per pair.
Should you experience any
difficulty in obtaining the correct
C.B. Model write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO.. LTD.
Macdonnell House, Pitt St., Sydney,
179-181, Flinders L me, Melbourne,
for njime of nearest agent.
> t°i
ha
BRITISH EVERY sTUeH’’£
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Seven
Prize Medals
ĵ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Worka » rUrmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for afl
assorted Sample Box.
You are well protected
m
><
><_
><
-X_
r~) '
between Weed Bumpers
ENJOY the sense of security that
comes with riding between a pair
of Weed Bumpers. When collision
occurs, they absorb the shock—prevent
damage to your car —shield you from
harm. Have your accessory dealer attach
these handsome Weed Bumpers, front
md rear.
Weed Bumper, Safety Type, for light cars
Weed Bumper, Sturdy Type, for heavy cars
Weed Bumper, Sentry Type
it
WEED BUMPERS
ĵ
Made by the makers of the famous Weed Tyre Chains
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative:
Edward G. Vaughan, P. O. Box 845, Sydney, N. S.W.
17.1*24
12s
S, AITKC
m
POST FREE
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for,
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
654 George Street, Sydney.
j
Food
Trade A lark.
Milk at night.
Milk is known as a food of especial
benefit to all. Yet to many it proves
difficult of digestion: more so when
taken at night. This is because the miik
forms into indigestible curds when it
meets the natural acid of the stomach.
If the bed-time milk —whether for
child, invalid or athlete —is made into
Benger’s Food this formation of tough
milk curd is avoided.
Two tablespoonfuls of Benger’s with
a pint of fresh milk becomes a pint of
delicious food cream, pleasing to the
taste, soothing to the stomach, sleep-
inducing, and highly nutritive.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, etc., eoerywhere
Write for our free booklets:
Benger’s Food,Ltd., 117 Pitt St, Sydney
SoU Protrieton and Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, England.
Amusements.
g VI) N H V’S CII 1 E l*’ T JIEA XItE 8.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MA MIE ROSETTE.
CRITERION: AREN’T WE ALL?
ROYAL: THE GARDEN OF ALLAH.
NEW PALACE: ALADDIN.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty.. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.15.
HUGH J. WARD’S New Musical Farce Comedy
Co., headed by DOROTHY BRUNTON and CHARLES
HESLOP, in
TONS OF MONEY.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans ,at Nicholson’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and-8. v
MUSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
WIRTH BROS. LTD. CIRC U S,
ZOO & HUGE ELEPHANT HERD
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES, WED., SAT. AND HOLIDAYS,
j THIS YEAR SOMETHING EXTRA SPECIAL.
WORLD-FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Prices:—7/-, 6/-, 5/-, 3/-, plus tax. Children, half-
price to all parts except Saturday Nights and Holiday
Nights.
QONSERVATORIUM HALE, SYDNEY.
LEO, JAN AND MISCHEL
CHERNIAV SKY.
VIOLINIST, ’CELLIST & PIANIST—MAY 6, 8 & 10.
T' OW N HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Cravestock.
MAY 1,3, 6.
CHARLES HACKETT,
“BEST TENOR SINCE CARUSO.”
BRATZA, Violinist.
Clarence Raybould, Accompanist.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CABARET GIRL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE O’BRIEN GIRL-
Australia’s Greatest Musical Comedy Success.
Plans at Glen’s.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH .1. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
1 SLEEPING PARTNERS, preceded by
SCROOGE.
Plans at Glen’s.
j ING’S THEATRE, MELIJOU RN E.
MISS GERTRUDE ELLIOTT in
SMILIN’ THROUGH.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Alko SVIiMEL
i COLLEEN MOORE and MILTON. SILLS in
FLAMING YOUTH.
A FIRST NATIONAL PICTURE.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IEST IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
THE COUNTRY KID.
WITH WESLEY BARRY.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8. .
-HE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KSUEAREA N
PIIO DUCT lONS.
N.S'.W. COUNTRY TOUR:
Albury, May 2; WaggA, May 3 to 5;
Cootamundra, May 6; Young, May 7.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J, V. De Bat.vn.
Missing Friends.
ANY person having any information likely
to assist in ascertaining the whereabouts
or circumstances of the death of OWEN
MARTIN —last known address, Birdsville,
j Queensland, in 1894 —is requested to com-
i municate with
{ BAKER, GLYNN, McEWIN & CO.,
j Solicitors.
Morialta Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Dear heccie,—lela waiting
FOR YOU.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed
w
1
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: « Bridge Street. Sydney.


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things yon see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
brandies of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
«
»
There’s Money in the Pen.
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
VA-
1. HI
? r
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
310 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
BINOCULARS - - £8
We offer 30 pairs of screw-focussing
FRENCH Prism Binoculars, 8 mag-
nification, at £8 each. They are same
quality as glasses selling at double the
price. Sold under guarantee. Money
back if not satisfactory. Mailed any-
where. Offer cannot be repeated.
Write now while supply lasts.
The Optical House of
CHAS. SANKEY FRASER,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
OWN
j
MAKE
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS
TOBACCO STORES.
Trade Inquiries—
Box 171 G.P.0., Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TO GEORGINA GEARD formerly of Bothwell in
Tasmania the wife of Vincent Geard of the
same place Storekeeper’s Assistant.
A Citation bearing date the 11th day of January
1924 has issued out of the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania commanding you to appear and
answer the Petition of your husband Vincent Geard of
Bothwell in Tasmania Storekeeper’s Assistant pray-
ing for a dissolution of his marriage with you on
the ground of desertion. IN DEFAULT of your
appearing within 30 days of this advertisement' the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge your
absence notwithstanding.
Dated this fourteenth day of April 1924.
C. S. SIMMONS,
'v ' • , Judges’ Associate.
PAGE, HODGMAN & SEAGER,
Petitioner’s Proctors.
Public Notice.
VIVISECTION! Can it be Justified?
We Say No! Help Us to Abolish It.
For information and literature apply to
Hon. Sec., (Miss) Helena MacDougall,
60 Holmes Road, Moonee Ponds, Victoria.
Minimum subscription 1/- per annum.
5/- or more secures monthly magazine,
“The Abolitionist.”
Write now. and join
THE BRITISH UNION FOR
ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,
Melbourne Branch.
M
OUR LATEST
THE
“WINDORAH”
PARK SADDLE
This is one of our latest styles in saddles, designed
to add to the comfort and pleasure of riding. In it
the usual skirt is dispensed with, and a combined
flap and skirt is used, sewn direct on to the seat.
This gives a narrower, non-chafing, comfortable
grip. The knee pads are the popular Queensland
shape, and the panel has leather sides and extended
facing at back.. The saddle is high-grade throughout
in workmanship and material, and is fitted with
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
•PI Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
** Station on N.S.W. Railways.
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS.
Kangaroo Leather Right Through—Full of Life.
THONGS 7ft. Bft. Oft. HANDLES TO MATCH.
12 plait 19/6 22/6 24/6 16-plait, 16/6; 24-plait, 18/6.
16-plait 22/- 25/- 28/- If for 9ft. thongs prices
are 1/6 more.
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
Wri£e for Catalogue and Canvas Rug Price List.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
FWise Mothers serve Uncle
Toby’s Oats daily in place
of more expensive food
such as meat and fish. It
costs only 3d. to feed four
persons, and its food value
is magnificent.
CIETOBYS
OATS
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by Clifford Love & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Millions of Feet of Timber
IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD, AND
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF POUNDS
ARE SAVED EVERY YEAR BY
j
WOOD PRESERVATIVE AND STAIN.
Solignum is Death to White-ants and Borers.
Manufactured by
MAJOR & CO., LTD.,
London and Hull.
Stocked by
All
Stores.
Aust. Rep.:
W. PLANT & CO., LTD.,
220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Advantages of Using
the Best Steel.
Progressive engineers know the advantages to be derived from “AN EAGLE
ON A GLOBE” Spring Steel. Ip the first place they are "a product of
our own Sheffield works, that has been tested, proved and adopted for
sendee the world over.
in'.
sc
AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
SPRING STEELS
are made FOR EFFICIENT SERVICE. Generations of experience has
resulted in a correct grade. Our first quality “AN EAGLE ON A
GLOBE” Spring Steel costs you no more—but its superiority is world-
renowned. Send us just a trial order for “An Eagle on a Globe” Spring
Steels. Also ask especially for our post-free Booklet, “Balfour’s Hints
on Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.. Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Newcastle
BRISBANE ..
ADELAIDE ..
HOBART
379-381 Kent Street
342-348 Swanston Street
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
John Reid & Nephews. 34-36 Charlotte Street
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a lion tile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volu i-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Subscriber: There may be special circum-
stances in the case. Ordinarily to get the full
pension, the old-age pensioner must not have, with
the pension included, more than £.65 a year; and
free board and lodging is reckoned to be worth
£26 Ryn Chin: Too long; another got in first
with something shorter... .Prefect: But. actually
there are very few mixed unions in which Japanese are
concerned in the U.S.A. The Jap doesn’t readily assimi-
late ; and his Government doesn’t encourage it....
F.M.S.; Brush it up; it is worth the trouble....
Firpah: You trip as lightly as a prize ox —as halt
a prize ox, any way.... Dorothy L.: Doesn’t make a
story R.K.0.: The “Intruder” is only melo-
drama H.E.C.: Dreadful Harpoon : You don't
give the business any interest... .K.S.A.: Misses....
A. (Bacchus Marsh);: Get the stuff into something
like form.... Rustyface: Some good phrases; but
many of your lines wear yards instead of feet....
Rikki T.; Too ragged M.J.T.C.: Very poor verse,
chiefly the quintessence of commonplace... .Bush-
hog: Carefully rioted the fact that you sometimes
have a bath.... Mary T.: True, true—“children yet
unborn” will certainly have to live in “future ages”
N.E.S.: AVeak and very unsteady on its pins
Gerald N.: It’s on the road, but has still a long
way to travel... .Admirer: As slight as our acquaint-
ance with the Sultana of Zanzibar... . H.P.C.:
“Clancy” doesn’t thrill us. By the way, isn’t any-
body who drives sheep ever called by any other
name but Clancy ?... .R.H., Jun.: It doesn’t make
much of a yarn... .D.S.M.: Lame in all its feet; and
not made better by having a few loose ones....
S.M.A.: Don’t remember it. The verse is not
improved... .H.0.E.H.: Not up by a mile or 50....
Harris J.: Can t find the alleged mirth. .. .H.H.
(North Sydney): No use here.... J.J.M.: “Autumn”
is a feeble dirge without an original thought....
Sifter: Nothing in it... .R.S.A.: The gist of your
yarn could have been written in half a dozen sen-
tences Rata: Fluttered feebly to the basket....
J.S.T.: “Lucy” deserved all that happened to her....
M.R.N.: Must go back.... Chicot: Let the beautiful
thing bloom:
Down in the scattered ocean pools.
Among the rocks,
Crustaceans of leaden hues,
Creep about in flocks.
When the Moon is in the East
Ar.d the tide is out,
Fishermen in battered boots
Also creep about.
A shout is heard if a bloke has nabbed a tray ;
But it isn't such a joke,
If it’s round the other way,
And the crav has nabbed the bloke.
In the realms of Every-day Life
The cray plays an important part,
But it meets an ignominious fate
In restaurant and mart.
But man can learn many a thing
In that particular quarter;
For the crayfish has the grace to blush
Whenever it gets into hot water.
....Jimmy: Not strong enough... .A.L.F.: tt
stumbles too often.... J.N.A.: An old yarn and not
improved in the re-hash... .F.R. (North Sydney) :
Wobble and bump... . F.J.A.: Hasn’t enough interest.
Mary N.: It doesn't even look like verse....
J.M.Mc.: The “Intruder” goes on piling up words,
but never gets to anything... .P.0.R.: Poor sort of
yarn poorly told. .. .S.L.D.: Something more is re-
quired in a sonnet than a mere arrangement of
rhymes.... M. 0.: Horrible... .Billy S.: The first
requirement in telling a yarn is to have a yarn to tell.
... .P.R. (St. Kilda) : The lovely lady is as attractive
as a Good Friday bun left over till Christmas Eve.
....Mytho: Very wooden... .W.M.8.L.: Not as good
as it ought to be....Tui: It walks heavily along
the old track.... J.M.S.: Doesn’t strike u 5.... J.S.
(New Farm): Heavy verse that creaks at all the
joints... .Harry N.: You don’t make the best of it.
.. . .Simple S.: Far too crude.... J.F.H.: Tired verse ,
that tries to lie down at the end of each stanza....
Conklin: Thank you... .A.A.D.: He’d have impressed
us a good deal more if he had killed himself as well.
....Augustus W.: You have a delicate touch (we
suspec t you got it in Paris): —
When the leaves gentle roushing,
At night’s moan silver-shine,
And lovers together then are croushirg,
Fondly whisper “darling you are mine.”
They swear “love will last for ever,
There is nothing us could part;
To live without you I wuld never—
True love comes from our heart.”
When the flowers again are blooming
In our happy time of Spring,
And lovers then again are spooning,
When the birds their songs clo sing,
And the Riverflow are streaming
Amongst the hills, for ever past,
Sitting on the strand in daylight dreaming,
What future for us has fate cast?
.... Franagher: True; but we would rather have
matter than manner, and not many men can give
us both... .M.S.C.: All depends on whether the reply
is good reading. We certi'nly don’t print every-
thing submitted. Enough matter is offered for the
Red Page every week to completely fill from two to
three Bulletins. .. .Tresco: You don’t drive to
the point briskly enough... .R.A.M.: All true, no
doubt; but what a confused outburst!. .. Draco: Like
to encourage you; but really this isn’t a kinder-
garten class... .W.S.S.: Some merit in them; but
they hardly earn their space... .G.G.R.: That heap
has been too well raked... .H.D.: Brown is a light-
weight. .. .Crunch: Afraid there’s something the mat-
ter with your ear... .Arthur Mac.: What seems to
be a more practical suggestion is made elsewhe re....
B. : “Time” is beaten by Space. T.A.E.: God
gives you good ideas, and you kill them with care-
lessness ... .Oassim: Why don’t you write first of the
little things you know about —the ones at your
door? There’s something everybody knows better
than everybody else, and that’s what we want him
to tell us E. 0.: Sorry, but there’s no grip in
“White Man.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W. J.H.: Our policemen don’t appear in court with
batons in their hands, an i. they don’t call a
person “Mut"... .R.T.: A mustard plaster can draw
much better....K.M.: Still wandering in the wilder-
ness .... 8.W.H.: Nowhere near the mark.... L.T.:
Your art has no visible means of support... .C.0.H,:
Too reminiscent of fashion plates... .W.A.H.: An-
other miss... . Early Bird : Very wobbly... .M.E.W.:
Brutal treatment of an inoffensive nigger... .J.R.U.:
Some promise, but some way to go yet R.N.U.:
Ditto... .M.T.M.: Just plain smudge. A.E.: You
may get there some day. ..-JJ.G.: A fine collection
of antique jokes..; .C.M.L.: If you’ve never seen a
wombat you’d better stick to bunyips... .8.T.T.:
Pity to undress a poor girl with a figure like that.


away from you!
■ H
in*g
Is®'?
i w.k. 'HSfiia
H ■
■
H
fgywwmMM
m
■
.***
t m
k* * 1
ft jm %s^llk p
I |
3H
«
■"
■
1
■ fpEF
la
•:
■
H
4
an
m
m
a
■til
*
HB
.
K
t/
■
i
■
; ; :
w&tmWS'k
#;:
ILOTi
Come to Mount Cook for your holiday
MoiwtCook-New^alawd
Come away from the enervating heat and the dust;
look up to the cool, refreshing heights of New
Zealand’s Southern Alps.
Come and play, climb, laugh and live with us at
Mount Cook ! Sunshine and cool breezes, air like
champagne, acres of bewitching flowers, scenic
glory utterly beyond comparison—all yours.
Stay with us at the " Hermitage ” —the home of happy house
parties. We’ll give you exquisite food, wines, music, dancing,
to ride, cars, picnics—everything for everybody.
And you’ll be surprised how little it costs! 2400 miles
of glorious sea voyage; 200 miles of rail travel through
the Garden Province of Canterbury ; 280 miles of luxurious
motoring are embraced in a thrilling three weeks’ holiday
from Sydney to Mount Cook and home again. First-
class throughout, and includes ten days'
residence at the famous "Hermitage” and
£50 will do it !
We’ve got an interesting, illustrated
booklet for you. It is FREE and
tells you all about the wonderful Mount
Cook Holiday.
Either write direct to us, or get in
touch with the N. Z. Government
Tourist Bureau, or Thos. Cook 8C Son,
who will also give you all the inform-
ation you want. Come soon!
Mount Cook Motor Co. Ltd.
Dept. S.B.
Head Office : TIMARU, Nett* Zealand
w
a
in
m
“United” Prepared Paint
provides maximum sur-
face preservation at a
minimum cost for
cottage, mansion or
business building.
Paint more —save more ! But
use ‘ ‘ United .” It's A ustralia’s
Highest-grade Paint.
Obtainable from Oil, Color and
Hardware Merchants and Stores
throughout Australia.
Made in
Australia.
w
Wlr
\Oi
l 111 l
i
‘ . .j
i I I
fai
&
m
r 1
HtimJC
Utauil
tl
H
B*F= HI
Wl»t= I
[WiniinimmuiHniiHi
ii i
HI - IBM -:»!»■-
lUl~flilJI ; — IMU-lilt :
3XIHM
ly WJ
3-LIN
$
Ql
I 3 fe;:i II F*jf = '4j«l qj
!il|iili{jl!|» fa
a
| _____ _____


Capital Company.
FOR TOP VALUES, send your ‘Rabbit,
Fox, Kangaroo, Wallaroo, Whiptail and all
other skins to —
WINCKCOMBE, CARSON
* Salesmen, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
DICK’S
trade
ĵ
MARK
Genuine Balata
Belting.
Whether required for heavy service on
huge main drives, or for light service
on individual motor drives, involving
small pulley diameters and severe
fluctuation of loads—DlCK’S GENUINE
BALATA BELTING will transmit all
the power at lowest cost.
Also secure our prices for “BARRY”
Steel Split Pulleys; Cotton Wastes;
Leather Belting; Steel Shafting;
Lubricating Oils; etc.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 97 Collins Street
3^
&
¥oa
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horsei and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all- kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.,
5 ■!
Pishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
™6OUROCK
ROPEWOKK T mn
EXPORT CO. JJI Lf.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
mm
Office:
“Gresham House/'
Old Broad Street, E.C.3.
electrolytic zinc
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association [?£; (
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
%
Iff VIWJSTT
to?
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —■
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
The best cartridges are
ELEY & KYNOGH
They are loaded with
SMO KEL E S SOD IA MON D
“E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
: j *
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET-
SYDNEY
OBEIJ
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
,I'ON
k
gsg:-
Jr #
m
- ißf
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With tchich is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HBAI) OFFICE —273 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up . . £3,225,000
Reserve Fund Account 1,016,322
Heserve Liability of
Shareholders .. 1,312,500
£5,000,000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
Total
.. £6,454,322 BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Total Assets, 30tl» September, 1923, £35,382,530.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. (1. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 189 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 26 branches.
QUEEN SLAND—Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
F. H. Macartney, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 48 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 40 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand,
Agents throughout the World.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Randolph Rentless”: I have been inspect-
ing a sample of the “real solid rolled-gold
watches” which snide “auctioneers” sell to
mugs at “anything up to quids.” The in-
dentors are able to land these goods at such
a price that all they get over 2s. lOd. each is
profit. There is a “guarantee” for five
years delicately engraved in the case; but
who does the guaranteeing perhaps the Cus-
toms Department which admits these frauds
could tell us.
.** ■ * *
“Adamascus”: The British Cotton
Growers’ Association has spent £.107,000 on
a plant to extract the oil from cotton-seed, at
Winstanes, near Brisbane. The oilcake, the
residue after the oil is extracted, is well
known for its cattle-food value; there is a
steady demand for it in Denmark and other
European countries, and every chance of
opening up a remunerative export trade. It
can, it is believed, be produced at approxi-
mately £7 per ton; but that, of, course, de-
pends on the price given for tlie unginned
cotton.
**- . * •
"Niloc” : Jam- and fruit-canning factories
are continually crying about the cost of
sugar being responsible for the high prices
of their commodities. Actually in a 30oz.
tin of standard canned fruit, the added
sugar costs about fd., and in a lib. tin of jam
about 2d. If the canners export they get
a rebate, in addition to a thumping bounty,
which in many instances makes it more pro-
fitable to export than to sell locally. The
industry requires a close investigation in the
interest of the public.
“Nitric” : Re “buncliytop,” which has estab-
lished a firm hold on Queensland’s banana
plantations, and is getting a footing in
N.S.W. Northern River districts, Professor
Goddard, of Brisbane University, is investi-
gating the problem of eradication; but many
are asking why we cannot profit from the
experience of Jamaica. There the trouble
(known as “Panama disease”) is being
overcome ■by growing, a new variety of
disease-resisting ■ ban ana plant called Robusta
—a cross between the famous Cavendish and
Gros Michel varieties.
. : is largely a sporting boot that
is kicking the Chow vegetable-grower out of
his old claims in the vicinity of Sydney. In
the flats at the back of Rushcutter’s Bay
there was, 20-odd years ago, a huddle of
Chinese gardens,; to-day Hampden Oval
occupies the site. More recently the
Stadium, and later still Grammar School
Sports Ground and the White City—now
occupied by tennis-courts —caused acres of
cabbage-plots to disappear. Rosebery and
Kensington racecourses pushed out' more
Celestials. In fact, all over Sydney sports
grounds have taken the place of areas de-
voted to the succulent carrot and the juicy
onion. The latest Chinese garden to pass
out is a 40-year-old one at Arncliffe, which
is to be transformed into an enclosed Rugby
League ground for the St. George Club.
* * * *
“Clerk : Complaints have been made re-
cently through the Melbourne press that the
Government Tourist Bureau, run by the
Railways Department, but supposed to be a
source of information for travellers gener-
ally, puts inquirers wise only to particulars
respecting railway facilities. It is asserted
that the Bureau is conveniently quiet and
uninformative when would-be travellers in-
quire about services running in opposition to
the railways. Well, the departmental, direc-
hon to the officer-in-charge of the Bureau.
•J. C. Boyce, is surely precise enough: When
motor services are running in opposition to
the railways, information respecting such
services is not to be available to the public;
but when motor services act as feeders to the
railways, information respecting such ser-
vices may be-made available.
“Niloc”: “H. B. O’Hagan” (B. 3/4/’24)
says the Customs duty is responsible for
the tact that American cars cost from 100
to 150 p.c. more in Australia than in their
country, of origin. He is wrong: it isn’t
V/e tanff that is responsible. Taking a
£ooo car m the U.S.A., tlie landed cost in
Sydney would be approximately as under:
F. 0.8. port of shipment .. .. v'mn
Deduct value of body, tyres and
accessories (approx.)" . . .. .
Valpe of chassis (including engine,
axles, steering) .. .£9OO
Add ocean freight (say 5 tons)
measurement at 12 dollars per ton .. £l5
Duty 12) p.c. on assembled chassis
(duty is reckoned on fio.b. value
£2OO 1-10 p.c.= £220) .. 2g
Add duty on accessories, say f.o.b. value
£3O (value for duty £33) ; rate
.05 p.c. (highest).. .. .. 13
Add harbor dues, 4s. ton .. .. ]
Sorting- and stacking and cartage '! 5
62
Approx, landed cost of assembled chassis . £262
Accessories .. .. . . gg
Body (Australian) . . . . ’ ’ ' ‘ 80
Tyres (Australian) .. .. . ’ ’ ’ 4 g
£412
In round figures, a £3OO car in the U.S.A.
should not exceed £425 landed in Australia.
As a matter of fact, the cost would be less,
as the agent in Australia buys at the dealer’s
price, which would be considerably less than
the public’s price of £3OO. Further, most
car-agents import the chassis unassembled,
which is dutiable at the rate of 10 p.c., the
124 p.c. being applicable to assembled
chassis.
COMPENSATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Host- the sun and filled the morning
With a flame that reached to Heaven,
Witli a flame that woke me, warning:
Monday, March.... and half-past seven!
Dead my heart; in holes my stocking;
Nought for breakfast, bread or steak 0r....
God forgive me ! Hark, that knocking!
Milkman, butcher, grocer, baker?
Hell on earth! Could 1 but sleep on,
March could march (for me) for ever,
Monday be and seven keep on
With the honestest endeavor!
What’s the end of graft and glory?
Death hangs waiting- in the offin’.
Free of rent, we end our story
In a comfortable coffin!
K.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


jfpERFECTIOiS
/•Ola 11
■WHISKr
Dawson
SPECIAL”
Scotch Whisky
D *ST| tL £ R&
*** town (j Glasgow
he Wfiiska to drink with soohl uxit&r
pETER DAWSON Whisky has this rare quality, that
* it does not lose its fine character when mixed with water
or Soda Water.
Try a P.D. Scotch with Soda (ice cold if you can get it) and
you will realise how different it is from an ordinary whisky.
It has an individuality and charm of its own.
“ A Deeply Satisfying Blend ”
The Symbol of Supremacy
Whether it be on an Instrument
or a Record, the famous Listening
Dog Trade-mark is your assurance
of the most perfect and un-
paralleled quality.
It is this unrivalled quality which
has induced the world’s greatest
singers and instrumentalists to
make records solely Sr
“His
Master’s
Voice”
—but always remember, that to hear the
celebrities absolutely true to life, you must play
“His Masters Voice” Records with “His
Master s Voice’ Needles on an ‘His Master’s
Voice” Instrument No other combination will
give the same peerless reproduction.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments range in price
from 1 1 guineas to £94.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE’
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and name
nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
“Uis Master's Voice "
Regd. Trade-mark.
"Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.


j
i 11!,,.
hup-,
contents a ounces.
[HAMBtIHM
COUGH
CougtisXolds.
CROUP.
f,
bronchitis
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
*no &-t» Atrt cl«oi»> or inf
fHROAT and LUNGS
Relieves
S
i The Speediest Way \
to have the Name
"Plane
m \
<7^
on vs
any v
Fabric
MARK ALL LINEN
with the World famed
'CASH'S <®> NAMES
Your Name is woven into a Fine Cambric
1 ape in Fast Color—cusunct and attract,
ive. Always ready to attach to any Gar-
ment or article of any Fabric. “ A Few
stitches and they’re on.’’
Invaluable for the Household, Traveller
or School Outfit.
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices: 12 doz. 716. 6 doz. 5l3 doz. 316
Write for Style Book to
J. 8c J. CASH
:Vo:
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, Sv.C l .,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ĵ
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS and CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY- H O T
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Seccnd St., Cincinnati, 0., U S.A.
Icy-Hot Food Jar
j
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; .Tames Love, Esq.; VY. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager- M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. . BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney,, and 81 Branches in Queensland , also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic Eicftiid —32 per cent. Na2o.
Electrolytic Solid —70 per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little .Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE, VICTORIA.
The clean, fresh taste of
this rich, creamy Emulsion
makes it as pleasant as it is
healthful. In the treat-
ment of Serious Chest
Complaints, Debility,
Wasting-Diseases,
“HYPOL ,? has achieved
remarkable results.
Very pleasant to take. Try it !
Substitutes are not as good or nearly as good.
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty Ltd.
Melbourne
JAVA,
THE LAND OF
ETERNAL SUMMER.
Copies of this useful publication, also full information, are obtainable
on application at: —
Sydney Head Office, 44 Pitt Street,
Melbourne . . . John Sanderson & Co., Agents,
Brisbane Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Agents,
Royal Packet
Navigation
Company.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
Weeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
«1
■
si.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “HOUTMAN,”
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Messrs. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
A line from E. J. Brady:—
A par. (B. 3/4/’24) makes it to appear that “Aus-
tralia Unlimited’' was the joint work of Mr. H.
N. Maitland and myself. I was the sole offender —
1 neither required nor received any literary assist-
ance in the matter. I have never collaborated with
any writer. Collaboration I regard as a form of
senile decay, and my literary arteries are still pulsat-
ing freely.
“A.P.”: There is a motor-’bus at Ben-
digo with a curious history. Originally
built in America, it began its career —at least
the body of it did —as a horse-drawn coach
used by Cobb and Co. in the old digging
days, carrying on one side a representation
in metal of the royal arms and a knight of
some historic order. The old stager is now
starting on a transport service near its old
track.
“Yarrum”: Last week I went into the
house-agency business, and am doubting if
it is all that it is cracked up to be. The
first place I thought I'd sold I hadn’t. The
price was £1100, and my client wanted £200
cash. The lady buyer gushingly admitted
it was a bargain; but she hadn’t the cash for
the deposit about her. and would I take a
two-ton motor-lorry, a lathe, a mangle and a
lawn-mower? I inquired satirically if she
had a few fowls. Quite seriously she said
she was sorry she hadn’t.
“T.O.I.”: The tower of St. John’s Church,
Glebe-road, Sydney, has been condemned as
dangerous, and is to be demolished. Oppo-
site, where now is the post office, there once
stood a pub. When a license was first applied
for by the owner of the house, vigorous oppo-
sition came from the rector, the Rev. Mr.
Salienaire —a dark-complexioned gentleman—
and some of his parishioners. The license
was granted, however, and Bung, either out
of compliment or desirous of adding insult
to injury, called his tavern the St. John’s.
And St. John’s it remained until it was re-
sumed for a post office.
“P.P.” : Stamps would never become rare
enough to be valuable but for the incurable
habit of throwing them away. A collection
of those with the old Sydney Harbor view
on them—less than SO years old—has been
sold in London for £3000. But it doesn’t
always take age to bring philatelic value.
Recently in the “records” section of a Gov-
ernment Department a clerk noticed some-
thing unusual about an envelope. The
postage had evidently been threepence, and
the sender, not having a threepenny, had cut:
a sixpenny stamp in halves. It had been
passed and duly cancelled by the postmark.
A stamp-dealer reckoned the curiosity worth
half a guinea.
“Detective Dogwatch” : The Sydney two-
up insurance company (B. 27/3/’24),
for bailing out and paying fines of heads-a-
bob devotees, is not an isolated enterprise.
Some of the ’Loo’s really bad men are
credited with pooling some of their takings
for emergencies. They thus feel more com-
fortable from the financial point of view,
and are emboldened to accept bigger risks,
knowing that their womenfolk and depen-
dants will be assured of a weekly stipend if
an accident happens and gaol arrives. The
knowledge of the existence of this Criminals’
Benefit Assurance Association came to the
police by observing the arrival of bail money
from one source for many different men.
“X.D.” : A queer craft was mentioned dur-
ing a police-court case the other day—that
of an “artist” who supplies marked
packs of cards and “crook” dice to the order
of the gentry who infest mail trains and
steamers. His wares, it was added, fetched
a good price, and business was generally
brisk, although only done with clients known
to be “safe.” Marked cards are known
among the initiated as “readers,” and obtain
their value from an almost imperceptible
alteration of the design on the back; a good
pack may cost anything up to £10. “Crook”
dice are generally loaded with wax and
quicksilver, a specially-made box being sup-
plied from which to throw them. These
can be had for about £2 a set.
“S.C.”: John Chinaman is seldom seen
liotelkeeping in Australia. There was, how-
ever, over 30 years ago, a pub at Adaminaby
(N.S.W.), at the foot of the Snowy Moun-
tains, kept by a Mongolian named Booshang,
who enjoyed the additional distinction of
being reckoned a smart man with his fists.
Ill-fated Barcroft Boake, the poet, and his
hard-riding friend Charlie McKeahnie, of
Iiosedale station, were among Boosliang’s
customers. Boake was then (it was in the
middle ’eighties) assistant to a surveyor in
the Adaminaby district. The almond-eyed
Bung, as I remember him, was a lean, up-
right man, rarely seen without a scarlet
cummerbund round his waist and a cigar in
his mouth.
“Amyl’s” vignette:—
It was in a northern hospital. The steady tropical
downpour had reached its thickest about 10.30,
when the night nurse informed the night sister that
Jenkins, who was suffering from an excess of alcohol
in his system, was missing. The night sister, a
large, matronly looking, capable woman, gathered
up a hurricane lantern and a couple of convalescent
patients and searched the hospital and its immediate
environs without finding a trace of the lost sheep.
There was nothing for it but to return to more
pressing work and leave the wanderer to the care
of the special Providence who watches over persons
of his type. About an hour later there was a dis-
turbance on the front steps and an apparition
appeared in the hall. It was Jenkins. His saturated
pyjamas clung to him like a winding sheet, he
was covered in tenacious mangrove mud, and he
gave forth an aroma which put bone-mills and soap-
works to shame. The night sister descended
on him like an avenging angel. Before she could
launch her thunderbolts he grinned sheepishly and
said: “Don’t beat me, Mummy; take me to the
bathroom.” She stopped, swallowed hard, and, grab-
bing the delinquent by the hand, led him to the
bathroom door and pushed him inside.
SCRATCHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The books are his high priests,
The horses his gods;
lie’s always in trouble—
It’s over the odds!
“It’s,” raved the stern father,
“The finish for Bill.
No longer I’ll back him—
He’s scratched from my will!”
N.S.W.
HAMER


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving nev
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring; Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
SAMOA - - HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
~ QUICKEST
OF ANY
LINE.
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
City 2282
T H S North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONCBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply;—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY",
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 624-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors : Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
X. Yakxvood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todjian ;
Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.SAV.: W. G. lldll.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Faiudairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. ~ .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund . . . . .. .. 720,000
A,U3O,UOU
Reserve liability of shareholders . . 875,000
£2,470,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923
uelding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds .. ~ _ ]
Annual Income ..
£2,103,220
£3,500,000
£63,000,000
£7,865,000
■The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H- W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:. &e.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji, Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, sth JUNE; NIAGARA, 3rd JULY; MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) MAY 8
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) JUNE 5
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI. .... (11,350 tons disp.) .. . MAY 22
TAHITI. (13,000 tons disp.) JUNE 19
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
C \
«■*>*
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Ik to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book .your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—-
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, Firsts
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
i m
m
IP
• -v •
mm
tmmm
'
EM"*
■%
SSL
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established JiUJ,
Paid-up Capital
Keserve I'und
Reserve Liability
"M
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C,
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINKS
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street. E C.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ------ £3,427,662 10 0
RESERVE FUND 2,580,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500,000 0 0
TOTAL- - - £9,507,662 10 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.; O. E. FRIEND;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector ; J. R. DRYIIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailing's.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports),
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerliM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particuiars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service even-
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 24 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE nTy.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
the FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG. NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, rHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.'
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co,
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steans Navigation Co., Ltd
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lJlaekheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


Westclox
A good start for the day
With your Westclox set to call at the hour you
wish to rise, you can count on a punctual awakening.
The morning takes on almost a holiday air when
there’s time to dress and breakfast leisurely.
The result of the day’s effort shows the kind of
a start you had. Most workers who get through a
good amount each day rise to the call of a Westclox.
You will know them by the trade mark Westclox
on the dial and tag.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 101-
Blue Bird, 12/6; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o Lantern Luminous, 20/-
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
THE BANK of ADELAIDE
FIFTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith, for the information of Shareholders, the
Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March, 1921, and Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve
Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31st March, 1921 (including the
balance brought forward from previous year, £29,700 19s. 7d.) amounts to .. £115,521 6 1
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in
November last .. .. .. .. .• . . .. •• •• *• 13,750 0 0
leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £101,771 6 1
from which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent.
per annum .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. -. £13,750 0 0
to transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £750,000) .. .. .. 30,000 0 0
73,750 0 0
leaving a balance to be carried forward oi .. .. .. .. .. .. £28,021 6 1
During the year Agencies have been opened at Marion, Meribah, PenOng and Taplan.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room at the Head Office of the Bank, King
William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 7th May, 1921, at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will be
called upon to elect two Directors in place of Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., and Arthur Graham Rymill, Esq.,
who retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remuneration of
he retiring Auditors.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up £875,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 720,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 101,774 6 1
£1,696,774 6 1
Notes in circulation .. . . 7,073 0 0
Bills in circulation .. .. 184,220 8 9
Balances due to other banks.. 154,345 13 7
Deposits .. -. .. 6,143,316 14 5
Interest accrued on fixed de-
posits and rebate on bills dis-
counted .. •• •• 74,836 2 10
£8,260,566 5 8
BALANCE SHEET, 31st March, 1924.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
YEAR FROM 26th MARCH, 1923, TO 31st MARCH, 1921.
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion
and Cash Bal-
ances .. £310,008 16 0
Australian notes 886,300 0 0
Government de-
bentures .. 709,294 6 9
Municipal de-
bentures .. 500 0 0
Monev at short
call .. .. 521,390 0 0
Balances due
from other
banks .. 429,771 2 6
Notes of other
banks.. .. 1,197 10 0
Remittances in
transitu .. 456,907 13 6
£3,315,369 8 9
Bank premises and furniture.. 259,027 16 3
Balls receivable and all other
advances . . . . .. 4,686,169 0 8
£8,260,566 5 8
To Reserve Fund,
as below .. £20,000 0 0
Dividend in May,
1923 . . . . 36,260 0 0
Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1923 . . 43,750 0 0
£loo,ooo 0 0
Balance .. .. .. .. 101,774 6 1
£201,774 6 1
By balance, 26th March, 1923 .. £86,960 19 7
Net Profit, including Recoveries
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Reduc-
tion of Bank Premises, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits,
and Rebate on Bills Discounted,
and deducting Expenses at
Head Office and 56 Branches,
including Salaries, Rents,
Taxes, etc. .. .. .. 115,823 6 6
£201,774 6 1
RESERVE FUND,
To balance at this date ..
£720,000 0 0
£720,000 0 0
By balance 26th March, 1923 ..
Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1923
£700,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£720,000 0 0
R. S. YOUNG, Superintendent.
AV. I’. COTTRELL, Accountant.
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE
.JAMES R. FOWLER
HOWARD W. LLOYD
A. G. RYMII.L
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the year ending 31st March, 1924, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have
counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and Municipial Securities on hsnd at the Head
—the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates
of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of- the London' Branch as cabled
by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 15th April, 1924.
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A. 1
G. E. ANNELLS, F.C.P.A. /
Auditors.
RELIABLE GUNS
BY FAMOUS MAKERS.
Mick Simmons’ carry in stock the Finest Range of
Firearms in Australia? and can supply suitable
weapons for all classes of shooting.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free on request.
Owing to market fluctuations, prices here quoted
are subject to change without notice.
THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.U. GUNS.
Bl4—A reliable 12-gauge gun, fitted with 30-inch steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding
locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip and walnut stock; weight Cf 11 Old
about 71b. Price, delivered 3C J 1 falv
Bl6—The “Cert” Gun, as above, but of superior quality and finish. .d d
Price, delivered 3wO/AV/™
REMINGTON BROWNING AUTOMATIC
REPEATING SHOT GUN.
B4—A strong and well-built 12-gauge gun, fitted with slide grip, take-downsystem and
steel barrel. The magazine holds six cartridges; weight about 71b. r* Oil O I
Price, delivered ow lu|
B2 —’Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, six shot;
weight about Bflb. Price, delivered
£l5/15|-
STEVEN’S 5.8.8.1 j. GUN.
A handy and thoroughly reliable gun reasonably priced, 12- or 16-gauge, automatic ejector
top lever action, solid case-hardened frame, 30- or 32-inch steel barre l pistol walnut
stock; weight about 611 b. Can be taken apart same as an ordinary double- C I
barrel gun. Price, delivered l/v j
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY
POWDER.
AUSTRAL lb - * /6
DIAMOND GRAIN lb - 5/6
DUPONT’S SMOKELESS FOR RIFLES lb- 8 / 6
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lb- 10 / 6
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 201 b.
-i -t /a. iii ivr ft \sj .
SUNDRIES.
Reloading and Cleaning Sets.
12-, 16- or 20-gauge. Price. .... 10/6
(Postage, 11~ N.S.W.j 1/8 Interstate.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
strongly reinforced. Price..... 5/
(Postage paid.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
with Steel Spring Clips. Price.. 10/-
(Postage paid.)
16in. Canvas Game Bags,
with net, very strong. Price. ... 12/6
(Postage, 6d. N.S.W.; Bd. Interstate.)
Union Duck Call,
made of -cocobolo wood, metal end and
band; natural and lifelike tone; length
lib).; weight lloz. Price 3/9
(Postage paid.)
Perfect Pocket Oiler,
nickel-plated; very compact. Price 1/5
(Postage paid.)
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Guns and Rifles without
first obtaining a license.
Mick SimihonsPj
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St., Brisbane.


Rexona
Soap for
Health
and
Beauty
D
n
□
r
“My experience of
Soap ? Rexona Soap
stands alone for the
complexion.”
Miss LOTUS THOMPSON.
Why Not Enjoy a
Good Complexion?
You cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When
you wash your face, do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the
dirt, but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your
complexion fresh and free from blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very
pleasant, but do not assert this influeence, as you are well' aware. Many of
them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its
delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the
skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap,
but is medicated on the same
principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment, which is famous
throughout all of Australasia
as the Rapid Healer. That is
why Rexona Soap really does
for the skin and face what cos-
metics are supposed to do, by en-
suring not only a clean face,
but a pure and healthy skin,
and thus gives you a clear com-
plexion.
Rexona
m
MM
Nx
wm
C=H
llltllttr
lUiilieiJiiiiinimi
till
m
FOODS
PURE
I
iuii,ie=»mTTn«TO^7r!iWTTmffnTTw
IIIMOIH
unit
For your Lunch Basket—
for the Picnic Basket if you wish .
Take the conten-s of a Tin of
REX
HAM PATE
Add chopped Olives and mayonnaise. Cut
sandwiches —bread very thin —remove crust
and spread with softened butter and the sand-
wich mixture. Then roll!
Wrap Rolls in oil paper, twisting the ends and
pack in the picnic or lunch basket.
The bread cannot be rolled unless it is fresh
and cut thin.
The dainty appearance of these sandwiches
with their hint of mystery makes them a
marked addition to the out door lunch.
Truly Rex Ham Pate makes “ A Delightfully
different Sandwich Spread.”
TRY IT TO-DAY—JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
Curers of the Choice Rex Hams and Bacon.
F.J.28.
The Bait.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU might have snared her with a
ribboned rose
Or smoky pearls sunk in a wide gold
ring,
.Some moonstone trifle set with amethyst,
And been repaid when she was held and!kist—
That fragile, sweet, unsatisfying thing!
But you must bait your trap with honest love,
Must use true tongue to get you your desire,
Burn yourself, filching torches from the sun,
Where a pale pool of moonlight would have
done—•
A candle’s flicker, where you made a fire!
She wanted something she could tread upon.
You might have found a carpet, woven part
Of buds caught in the mesh that spiders spin.
You gave your blood a summer moth to
win....
And she forgets who dances on your heart!
QVEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Passing of Pewlingthorpe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rPO trace to its beginning my humiliating
subjection to Pewlingthorpe is to go
back to my wife’s suggestion that
there were worse ways of employing her
Uncle George's legacy than putting it into a
little place up the line. Had she not
But I will recount as concisely as possible
the facts, commencing at the moment when
Pewlingthorpe, large beads of perspiration
testifying to the strain, staggered with liis
melon to the seat beside me on the 9 o’clock
boat.
“Just on 401 b.,” he breathed proudly,
giving the vegetable a little cant with his
knee and slipping down its paper wrapping.
a remarkable melon certainly; but what
chiefly impressed me was a subtle something
about the man himself. A short, bald, quite
negligible person, Pewlingthorpe, with a wal-
rus moustache—one remembered him, if one
did remember him, by his moustache. It is
hard to define what distinguished him that
morning—an unwonted assurance, a poise,
an un-Pewlingthorpian aplomb. Never be-
fore had I had demonstrated to me so vividly
the benefits attaching to horticultural pur-
suits. It was as if something had said:
"Here is the most footling figure of a man
one could imagine. But —presto !—observe
him now that he has wrung a melon from
the soil.”
It is by miracles such as these that con-
verts are made. What I wanted, said Pew-
lingthorpe, as we made our way through the
turnstile, was a place somewhere the other
side of Pymble with a foot or two of land.
And three weeks later we had moved into a
cottage scarcely a stone’s throw from his own.
It was on the following Saturday after-
noon that Pewlingthorpe came over in refer-
ence to the garden. His apparel inclined to
the neglige—-he affected for the ocasion. I
remember, a pyjama jacket, a pair of dun-
garee trousers and a small black gabardine
cap. He brought with him a pick, a spado
and two crowbars, and having readjusted
his suspenders and loosened with some
ostentation the muscles of his arms, he
frowned for a moment at my demesne, clicked
his tongue, and, extracting from his pocket a
pearl-handled penknife, proceeded to gain a
more intimate knowledge of the soil.
I think it was at this moment that I first
began to hate the man. Later I learned to
hate him more completely, mentally dispara-
ging every thing about him; but at the
moment I just hated the cavalier way in
which he prodded my property with his pen-
knife. It appeared that the suspicions he
had entertained on the occasion of his previ-
ous visit —when the light was poor, I would
remember—were now only too plainly borne
out: the soil was characterised by a quite
remarkable poverty. I forget whether the
trouble was an outcrop or a deposit, but it
dated, I understood, to disturbances that had
occurred _ considerably prior to his arrival
in the district. I was consequently off the
true vegetable belt by—a peculiarly foolish
distance, it struck me at the time —about
half a perch.
He went into the thing at some length—
at such length, in fact, that he had time for
only the briefest and most dilettante demon-
stration with the pick before my wife called
us in to tea. He ■would not have rushed
away, he explained after the third cup. but
for having to go to the pictures. He would
leave the crowbars and things—l might slip
across with them when I had finished
trenching.
“Keep the subsoil down and breathe
through your nose,” came his fussy soprano
finally from the gate.
* * * »
To speak of trenching a garden while
breathing exclusively through the nose is to
confess, it seems to me, that one’s knowledge
is merely academic. Trenching took me a
week, breathing through everything avail-
able. I had marked out the paths and beds,
put in some geraniums and things, and
planted a fair-sized patch to buffalo and got
it nicely baffling when Pewlingthorpe came
ever again. His very first words annoyed me.
“By Jove, gaillardias!” he said. It
appeared that to waste a natural carnation
soil on gaillardias shocked him. It appeared
also that he couldn’t help feeling that I was
making a mistake in not employing couch for
the lawn, that personally (though it was
admittedly a matter of taste) he wouldn’t
have piffled round with petunias, that to put
m roses was simply to court disaster and
that, hard as it. might seem, I would be well
advised to pull them out right away. Look-
ing back I can see that the right and manly
nurse would have been to loose the simple
words that hurried to my lips and fling the
ellow from my holding. But my nature is
weak and amenable, and what I actually did
'hs to uproot the gaillardias and roses and
brood on my secret hatred of the man.
again be had three cups of tea and
again he went to the pictures.
b™ m thi i time on hatred of Pewlingthorpe
a c ?”? umi »S passion. I took
E nf J Sk ' Wh T Bt man With the back '
Snffrr iLc.w'?™’ 1 - asked myself, would
an iriflilmni t 0 r , emai ?. under the thrall of
fomler 3 ™? ™* o • degradin S ? Let him but
let t-im^but* ltem ° f |)atroni ’sitig advice—
And that afternoon, in particularly in-
spired mood, he came, over again.
“What you want there,” lie said, pointing
to the centre of the lawn, “is a nice tree-
fern.” A tree-fern, he said, was just one of
those apparently small things that made such
a big difference in a garden. Take oyster-
shells, for instance—what looked nicer than
a path edged with oyster-shells set in
mortar? A cousin of his who lived at Red-
fern— —
I experienced a moment of blistering,
blinding rage. Devil take the man and his
cousins and his oysters! Concerning the
oyster-shells, I said, he had asked me a civil
question and I would try to give him a civil
answer. Personally I could easily think of
10 million things that looked nicer than
oyster-shells set in mortar —I could, indeed,
conceive few more dangerous and entirely
silly. As to the tree-fern, if he would carry
his mind back about three weeks he would
recall that I had already dug up, in com-
pliance with his suggestion, his own sugges-
tion—
And then I stumbled and stopped. His
pale and fishy eyes fixed on me in tolerant
regard, he was picking his teeth.
I offer no theory as to why a pale and
fishy-eyed man so revoltingly engaged should
have set up in me a species of hypnosis—l
onlv know that with an overwhelming sense
of futility I relapsed into silence.
He made no comment upon my outburst,
but let elapse a chiding moment. Then:
“What y’ goin’ to do with that space by
the gate?” he asked.
“Anything, anything at all,” I answered
dully. I knew in my heart that any chance
or emancipation was irretrievably gone,, that
I would make of the space he indicated a
mushroom grove or a silk-worm run or any
senseless thing he might conceive.
He pondered. “It -would be a good place
for a hive,” he said at last. “You can’t
beat a few bees—they fertilise your fruit-
trees.”
I had no fruit-trees, but it seemed useless
to argue.
How strange are the ways of Providence!
Blessed little bees! Who would have guessed
that by my spiritless acquiescence I was to
make imminent events potent for my release?
The following day the statue from Aunt
Emily arrived.
•If * * *
I went to the door myself. I am a little
short-sighted, and my first feeling was one
of resentment that any man should make ,use
of such expressions to a child. Closer exami-
nation showed the man to be a carrier's
employee and the other figure, the shorter
only by reason of being on a lower step,
that of a plaster female supported by a
pedestal and bearing a goblet of mixed, fruit,
“Porrit?” queried the man brusquely, con-
sulting a tag tied to the female’s ankle.
I nodded weakly.
“Well, sign ’ere for one blarsted kewpie.”
I fancy he meant “Cupid.” Delicacy had
prompted him to drape his burden with a
piece of hessian. He referred censoriously
to those who compelled him to transport nude
statuary in the glare of day.
“Jas. Porrit, Esq., The Plaisance, Rose-
street, Roseville. From (Mrs.) E. Slatters-
by,” said the tag. With rather prim lips
my wife unwound the sacking.
“It’s not at all like your Aunt Emily,”
she said.
It resembled her, I agreed, in scarcely a
single feature.
“I mean,” said my wife stiffly, “it seems a
peculiar present for your Aunt Emily to
send.”
The explanation came the following morn-
ing with a letter from my aunt. Said the
letter in conclusion: “.... both of which
since our removal here on your uncle’s death
have been lying idle in the cellar. I only
send you one—the other is a relic of one of
those unbridled ‘artistic’ impulses which you
will remember characterised your uncle, and
recalls quite the most painful of our differ-
ences of opinion. It (the one I send) is a
little soiled, but it may form an acceptable
ornament to your garden.”
It seems to me that we did the only thing
possible under the circumstances. As I
pointed out, no family could wish for a more
jealous custodian of its morals than my Aunt
Emily, and to ignore the fact that she had
exercised what she apparently deemed a suffi-
cient discretion could only be construed by
her as an affront. I removed the evidences
of storage with some sandsoap, and that
night, while the moon picked out her charms
engagingly, set up the bare lady on the lawn.
Her advent was the subject of some re-
mark —not adverse remark in so many words,
but remark made adverse by its tepidnesses
and polite obliquities. Visitors commenting
upon the outlook gazed modestly through the
shape sustaining the goblet of mixed fruit,
only referring to it if compelled. All except
Pewlingthorpe. Pewlingthorpe took an early
opportunity of discussing honesty in garden-
ing, the conventions in relation to gardening
proper as distinct from mere cluttering up,
arriving ultimately in temporarily softer
mood at the subject of his sister’s grave.
Even in his homely sadness the man re-
volted me. Why, I asked myself bitterly yet
again, this enslavement to a person of such
oleographic. mind, a person unable to dis-
tinguish between a tombstone angel and the
goddess Ceres?
* . * * *
The letter from Aunt Emily informing us
that she intended paying us a visit arrived
while I was yet mentally shaping a graceful
acknowledgment of her gift. A growing
stoicism supported me in the receipt of the
news, but failed to assuage a certain dis-
quiet occasioned by her postscript. This my
wife referred to with unnatural calm as she
translated the epistle during breakfast.
“She says she hopes the vase arrived all
right.”
“The vase?”
“The vase for the garden.”
“The vase for the garden?”
Aunt Emily was to arrive at 4 o’clock,
and at 3.30 I left Pewlingthorpe (now a
sickeningly regular visitor on Saturday after-
noons) tinkering round in a proprietary way
with things in general, and went down to
the station. JVJy aunt is a large, beaded
woman, with an oratorical manner, and we
had covered a considerable portion of the
walk home before I was called upon to do
anything more than listen; but it had be-
come distressingly evident to me in the pro-
cess that in attempting to carry out the
(Continued on next page.)


A Fair Warning.
One That Should Be Heeded by All.
Frequently the first sign of kidney trouble is a slight
ache or pain in the loins. Neglect of this warning makes
the way easy for more serious troubles—gravel, dropsy,
rheumatism, and other serious forms of kidney disease.
’Tis well to pay attention to the first sign. Weak
kidneys generally grow weaker, and neglect is often
dangerous. People in Australia place reliance in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This tested remedy
has been used in kidney trouble for years, and is recommended all over the civilised world.
* Every Picture
Tells a Story "
m
m
w,
w
I
i
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. E. Mayhew, 48 Alexander Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says“l suffered
from backache and rheumatic pains all over my body, and was sometimes so bad
that I was almost crippled. I could not stoop without enduring torture; in fact,
every movement meant increased suffering, and 1 often used to feel quite knocked
up. To make matters worse, my rest at night was disturbed and I was also
subject to dizzy attacks. One day a friend heard Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
very well spoken of, so she advised me to try them. I bought a bottle without
delay, and after taking them for a few days my health began to improve, so I
persevered, and by the time I had used three bottles 1 was cured. The backache
and rheumatism have gone completely, and I feel splendid in every way.”
Four years later Mrs. Mayhew says':—“Since giving my testimony for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills I have had a slight return of kidney trouble, but I again
used this fine remedy and it soon fixed me up. I strongly recommend Doan’s Pills
to all who suffer with their kidneys.”
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham Street, Sydney, says:—“For a long
time I suffered torture from backache and kidney trouble. The pains in my back
were very severe, and I have been so bad that I could not attend to my work, as
every movement caused positive torture. The kidney secretions were affected,
being thick and cloudy and containing a red sediment. I w T as also subject to
dizzy feelings and could not sleep properly at night. Nothing T took gave me
any permanent relief, but one day, when I was feeling very bad, 1 heard good
reports of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I sent for some, and after taking
seven bottles I was cured. This remedy not only banished the backache, but
strengthened and toned up my kidneys and improved my general health.”
Mr. Wilson confirms the above eight years later, and says:—“l am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always have a bottle in the
house. By taking them every now and again my kidneys keep in a healthy state,
and I am never troubled with backache.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
j
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
orders of his mistress, drunkenness or native
idiocy had caused my aunt’s gardener to
attach to an ankle a label that should pro-
perly have been fastened to a handle. It
was also patent that of this fact my relative
had yet to be informed.
But we had arrived at the gate. With
regal mien my aunt greeted and pecked
my wife, and allowed herself to be piloted
down the curly strip of ironite leading to
the house. It was not until the second curl
that one properly saw the statue: then she
.°?n° lie ’ 1<: . fl £ld always seemed bo me,
wxth rather a piquant little plop. Exactly
ow she broke upon my aunt it is difficult
to say, but she gave me the impression of
!!qInfoI??!? b WS u- ? s to ag^avat: ? 5
weakness, to which my relative had
/, f, bedn . subject. Three times did Aunt
Emily strive to make articulate her feelings.
I „ ben - f sb , < l Bai< l; 9 b strangely did she
say it that Pewlingthorpe, busy some dis-
tbe b( ? se ’ turned With a ques-
T? V s dyes - . R a .fatal curiosity.
„-avn, ra t'J\ l f , watohed tbe . Et wobble and
1 A 1 n J\ * lO fiaanemamas to the bouvar-
hive ' f 10,11 u ‘ fl ouv ardias to the bee-
, , ....
•ill to™ LTff f 8 when life seems, after
alfi a very beautiful, a very balanced thing,
■i b sa ?£ to . my a®
' in «-> be air ‘ Assist
' ilia
h * oss ., of tim . e sbe Dflped me,
■mined tli? u a Wl £ b t> a 1* art
tb or ni an -minds of Pewling-
i nnd nf -Peii SCented Hlrf and *
sound of running •
“WilhcrforcM” 'f ,
“Tb-if will do A l „ e ,fp b » d T my •a' ltb i u gl ik St f
lliat will do. Agnes, I said coldly but
ZISSS in my 1 ,™rt.
chest T °think tbere’« mf j dl< ' ,ne -
auntie’s ” f e e ou ° b to p,llg up
aunties ears.
FRANK MIDDLEMISS.
Mrs. Ogilvie’s Nose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MISS JOHANNAH CROWN took her
nose to young Dr. Spencer because
he happened to be living in the same
establishment. Mrs. Campbell’s Residential
Mansions sheltered both the typist and the
surgeon. Miss Johannah Crown found fur-
ther inducement in the fact that John Spen-
cer was reputed to have been one of the
cleverest students at the University. True,
he had no other patients as yet, but there
was some satisfaction in being first to favor
a medical man so attractive as Dr. Spencer
seemed to be from the distance at which
Johannah had hitherto beheld him.
John Spencer took bed and breakfast—a
small bed and a tiny breakfast—at the Resi-
dential Mansions. What he did for his other
meals was left to conjecture. As he had no
visible legal means of support apart from
his profession it was assumed by those who
cared to give the matter a thought that a
rigorous abstinence was characteristic of the
doctor’s dealings with his daily bread.
Miss Grown also took a small bed and a
trifling breakfast at the Mansions; but as
she was in a steady billet, at which she earned
three pounds fifteen shillings a week, with
frequent additions for overtime, there was
no mystery surrounding the source of her
other meals. Long hours and steady work
accounted, too, for the little pile which
Johannah intended investing in a new nose
if it should prove to be within Dr. Spencer’s
powers to supply the feature,
“i want my nose half-soled and heeled,”
sa i d Johannah Crown, confronting the young
doctor in his “surgery,” a front room down-
stairs, for which he owed Mrs. Campbell
regularly the sum of one guinea per week
extra
Dr. Spencer gave the nose a perfunctory
examination. “There does not appear to be
anything much the matter,” said he.
“Look again.”
“it is not what I would call a symmetrical
nose.”
“it is, to be quite candid, as I understand
on e should always be with one’s medical
adviser, a perfect beast of a nose. It is,
as you see, a nose without a particle of
bridge. I hate it. I loathe it. If it were
not for my nose I should be a fairly good-
looking girl. As it is, I am simply a ridi-
omious object.”
“I could pack it up with paraffin wax, or
I could graft a piece of flesh from your fore-
finger on to the place, and so remedy the defi-
ciency,” the surgeon suggested.
“Which process do you recommend?”
“The grafting is more tedious, but more
Arable and dependable.”
“The grafting, then.”
“You understand that it is a fairly expen-
sivc and somewhat tedious operation?”
“j have trot £220 and T don’t nnrn
how tedi(>us the ta.t'Ly be, it you can only
assure me a shapely proboscis which I can
thrust into other people’s business without
being consciously absurd.”
“I think I can guarantee, at any rate, a
very shapely little nose. After all, between
a nose w ’.tfl no visible bridge and another
endowed like a noble Roman there is only
a matter of a few grains of flesh.”
“Yet what a world of difference to a face!
ay , have I got good eyes?”
“Beautiful.”
“Cherry-ripe and diarminS”
“Of course, it is; and my complexion is
good, my chin nice and firm and prettily
dimpled. Yet all these advantages are prac-
tically lost to me because I have an unfor-
tunate nose—a nose that juts into its place
like a peg.”
In agreeing that Johannah Crown’s nose
robbed her of half her charm, the doctor put
the matter in the mildest form. It robbed
her of all charm. It appeared in her face
suddenly, abruptly, without any proper rela-
tion to the surrounding features. It looked
more like the remains of a disastrous acci-
dent than a natural defect. It robbed her
of the generous attentions of the other sex,
it transferred her into a wallflower at such
dances as she had been foolish enough to
attend, had been provocative of much caustic
humor in shops and offices, and had inspired
small boys in trams with a wit that rankled
like a corrosive acid.
Dr. Spencer entered upon a congenial task
with zeal. It was his first job and one
worthy of his powers.. lie was resolved
that Johannah should issue from under his
scalpel a thing of beauty and a joy forever,
He had some facility with the pencil, and
drew a profile of Miss Crown as she appeared
minus her bridge, and another showing her
after a successful operation. In the former
tlie palpable defect was slightly caricatured;
in the latter the girl appeared with a nose
with just the slightest heavenly tilt to it, a
tilt that added ravishment to a face already
overflowing with charm.
“Oh, begin at once, please,” said Johannah.
“Shall I be like that? I look as if I’d be a
shocking flirt. And I know I shall be. I
have many things to repay.”
For a long time the girl sat in her room,
the fleshy lobe of her finger pressed to the
bridge of her lacerated nose and taking root
there. Eventually the finger was cut away
and the work of modelling begun. Daintily,
cautiously, with the pride of a sculptor in his
masterpiece, the nose-bridge was manipu-
lated ; and looking upon his work John real-
ised that it was good. He kissed Johannah
that evening as she went from the surgery,
and pride surged within the girl’s breast.
“It begins,” she said.
When eventually the bandage was taken
from Johannah’s nose, and she could survey
results, a tremendous joy possessed her. She
saw herself possessed of a quaint little nose,
very like the feature in John’s drawing,
straight to within a quarter of an inch of
the tip, and then touched upwards with the
subtlest suggestion of impudence—a nose
that could never escape attention, so charm-
ing was it in its naivette and piquant humor.
It was a nose that suited Johannah’s face
to the point of perfection, and John surveyed
his work with thrills of rapture coursing
through his being.
“I have made her what she is—she must
be mine!” was the thought that possessed
him. He looked very boyish and very hand-
some, and was aglow with enthusiasm.
Johannah came from her first dav back in
the office in a state of rapturous jubilation.
, M ! aew nose was a tremendous success. She
had been met by all who knew her with ex-
pressions of wonder and astonishment. Con-
gratulations had been showered upon her.
i 0 , been Particularly complimentary,
n ‘a vrl n- th( k° n J y Son , of • ogl A l y. ie ’
a ndlJ o pk m s,the firm emnloymg Miss
• R -° fi bert , s flattering words
nnnonranm C significant. Up to this
appearance with the regenerated nose Robert
had scarcely noticed her existence, and every
typist in the big office was more or less in
love with Robert Ogilvie
Dr. Spencer’s rise dated from his success-
ful manipulation of Johannah’s nose. It
gave the Residential Mansions, to begin with,
every confidence in the young man The
twin Misses Brown. Kate and Matilda, placed
their mutual dyspepsia in his hands immedi-
ately. Mr. Tobin had him look at his gout.
Mrs. Campbell herself, whether the trouble
were cursory influenza or her long-established
lumbago. would have no other physician
henceforth. And his practice extended out-
•side so rapidly that already within a month
marriage began to look anything but the
hopeless proposition it had seemed before
Johannah poked her nose into his business.
John put the matter to Miss Crown. She
did not meet him with the enthusiasm an
eager lover might have delighted in; but she
did not say “No,” and John had to. content
himself with the belief that they were an
engaged couple. They went about a good
deal together. He took her to theatres and
dances; they were often seen supping to-
gether at expensive restaurants. It
delighted the young man to note the admira-
tion in other men’s eyes when they looked
at Johannah; it was a tribute to his profes
sional skill and flattering to his judgment.
Deeply in love himself, he believed fondly
that the girl’s gratitude had turned to some-
thing deeper. Happiness possessed him.
Then, coincident with the rapid growth of
his practice and every 7 other occasion for
congratulation, came a sudden change in
Johannah’s attitude. She cooled off rapidly.
He began to find it increasingly .difficult to
get a moment alone with her. They had not
been to a theatre for a fortnight. Joh annuli
always pleaded a prior engagement or some
professional demand upon her time when
John suggested a dance or a supper. Miser-
able doubts assailed him, a wicked jealousy
gnawed at his heart.
She broke the news none too gently one
Saturday evening when he had been per-
sistent regarding a Shaw play then on.
“No, no,” she answered. “I cannot go."
“And why not?”
“It wouldn’t be right. 1 an engaged
woman!”
“Engaged to me!”
“Oh no. Engaged to Robert Ogilvie!'’
“What?” The cry was one of incredulity.
“Robert Ogilvie lias asked me to marry
him, and I have said ‘Yes.' Don’t be fool-
ish about it. Jack. I like you, I like you
ever so much, and of course I am grateful.
But Robert is very rich, and I want to be
rich to enjoy life now that it has become
so enjoyable.”
Of course he argued and protested. lie
even wept a little.
* * # *
It was late on a Saturday night. Theatre-
parties were racing homeward in their
motors, converging for the most part into St.
Kilda-road at Prince’s Bridge. Here it was
that Dr. John Spencer, driving his own car.
met with the big blue motor going in the
same direction. The blue motor, in a fit of
perversity, swung right across his bows.
There was a crash, and the blue car went
over on its side, while Spencer’s motor
climbed the ruins and hung there.
A young woman, one of the occupants of the
blue car, had been thrown practically into
John’s arms. Dismounting, he lifted her to
the roadside and gave her his attention.
She was unconscious. Her face was
lacerated rather badly, and Dr. Spencer dis-
patched her in her husband's care to the
most convenient private hospital. Nobody
else was injured.
Dr. John, endeavoring to extricate his car
a few 7 minutes later, made a rather grue-
some discovery. Clinging to his broken
windscreen was a small piece of human flesh.
John recognised it at once. It w 7 as the bridge
of Mrs. Ogilvie’s nose.
EDWARD DYSON.


-• mm, s£ GSHVI
m
M
r , .. .|
!r^SBB§J
W
M®§
;*$ Ipwn
?aT,S|
I*' 'f£
VI&SI
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGfiOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offiee—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J. Wildridge 8 Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
By far the best and greatest test of all for any plug
Is its use by every class of motorist, In every type of
engine, on every sort ol road, everyday.
The plug which most completely passes this
thorough going test is
THE
PLUG
which, by reason of its unvarying efficiency,
has considerably the largest sale in the world
of all British made plugs,
Lodge plugs are made to suit
all makes of engines, and are
obtainable from accessory
dealers, garages and stores
throughout the world.
We are exhibiting at The
British Empire Exhibition
(Motor and Cycle Section).
LODGE PLUGS Ltd.
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
Every part of every model
of the Lodge Plug is en-
tirely British made.
Illustration shows model
C 3 (standard metric), for
practically all engines
screwed metric. Packed
in sealed metal box.
Price 5/6.
Wet-proof Shotgun Cartridges
Factory Loaded.
VICTORIAN PIGEON CHAMPIONSHIP.
At the Melbourne Gun Club’s Grounds, Brighton, Vic., on the 7th
March “Rowsley,” using REMINGTON UMC “ARROW” grade shotgun
cartridges, ' VOn the above championship, killing 20 out of 21 birds from
mar , k - C. B. Meadway, using REMINGTON UMC “NITRO
CLUBS, from the same mark, tied for second place, killing 19 out of 21
birds.
Cartridges have long been made of so-called “waterproof” paper, but our
exclusive process is distinctly different. All REMINGTON UMC cases are
thoroughly wetproofed”—top wad, crimp and body; and are the only loaded shells
on the market positively sealed against wet. Smokeless powder necessarily contains
a certain amount of moisture. REMINGTON UMC “wetproofing” seals in this
moisture, thus preventing the powder from drying out or deteriorating.
* b 1 case of difficulty in procuring these high-grade factory-loaded shells, either
tor h lekl or Irap shooting, please refer to the Australian Representative.
D. D. BRYANT,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
90
0>
i'l
f /
3
’o<r*
BEEtNAMSrILLi
ĵ
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and ICillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Maequhrie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
\VU ±JJj ,
V
SAP Otifi
AM&V
PORCELA
FOR
c
WH
ITE
Beautify your home
with SAPOLIN
IT's a simple matter to make things about the
home look new with Sapolin. There is a Sapolin
Enamel, Stain or Glaze for every purpose: for
refinishing or “touching up” woodwork and furni-
ture; for making stoves, ranges and metal work
shine with brilliance; for making sinks and bath-
tubs sparklingly new.
Sapolin is easy to apply—full directions on each
tin. Sapolin works well in every climate. Be sure
you get the genuine look for full name
S-A-P-O-L-I-N on the label.
Sold wherever paint is sold
SAPOLIN
DECORATIVE ENAMELS
(Porcelain finish—in white, blaok and colours)
also
SAPOLIN Floor & Furniture Stains
SAPOLIN Carriage Gloss Colours
SAPOLIN Imitation Gold Glaze
SAPOLIN Varnish Stains
SAPOLIN Hot Pipe Aluminum
SAPOLIN Aluminum Enamel
SAPOLIN Bathtub Enamel
SAPOLIN Aluminum Glaze, etc.
Made by Gerstendorfer Bros., New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of “OUR FAVORITE" Imitation Gold
Enamel, washable. Best imitation of genuine gold leaf. Eco-
nomical and easily applied.
5-1-23


>
&
c
H
\
V
M
m
3
:S8
m
in
H?
Hi:!
i
■*
ii:
«
r
BATTERY
b
SERVICE
i
A Service to Help You
Conserve Y>ur Battery
Perhaps the first thing we can do for you is to show you
how to save the time and bother of regular visits by taking
care of your own battery.
Come in and let us demonstrate how easy it is for
you to test your battery and put in water. To neglect these
things is to invite expensive trouble.
If charging or repairs are necessary, we are
manned and equipped to put your battery in the best possible
shape.
When you need a new Battery, we have an Exi&e
built to give you the maximum combination of power,
dependability and long life.
We would like you to feel that we are here to help you
get the most out of your battery.
THE
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES .
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
WEST AUSTRALIA ..
NEW ZEALAND
LONG-LIFE BATTERY.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
Exide Battery Service Station, 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, “Radio House,” 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:—
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, P.O. Box 587, Wellington; also at Auckland and Christchurch.
