

m
em
AND
IS I
*
-
» .V*t
m
■ •■■ \.■
SI
■
*4
SKIP
'
v
PM*
■ ' ■'
we**;*!
■VSSM
\ •••
*)U
mi
»s
HUefe .
The Bulletin
Vol. 4s,—No, 2321.
Thursday, August 7, 1924,
Price 64
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
wn
C
The New 6-Cylinder *
20/4Qh.p. •
(23.9 R.A.C. Rating).
J Luxurious - Powerful-Dependable.
You could not wish tor a finer Car than this
iottin” production—every detail bears the
imprint of the master hand. It is most modern in design,
with a strength in every part that ensures long, efficient service under
all degrees of use. Brakes on All Four Wheels and Overhead Valves are two
of the many outstanding features. ' . „ • T *
Apply for Literature and Full Details Now.
Lawrence Morton CEL Co. Pty. Ltd.
Sole Concessionnaires for “Cottin-Desgouttes” in Australasia,
353 Flinders Fane, Melbourne. ’Phone, Central 3956.
SYDNEY AGENT: Walter H. Smyth, York Chambers, Market Street.
LYSAGHI
1 :
0
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Wfl
1:111111
8
SESHKHiIi
SERVICE
in transmission systems depends to a large extent on the
suitability o£ the belting for the drive on which it is used,
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is guaranteed to raise the standard of efficiency in the
factory if installed under the advice of our experts.
Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright Sc Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA; W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd..Launceston & Hobart.
Ink-tight
The Onoto Self-Filling Safety ia
absolutely ink-tight. No leaking no
“sweat-beads”-no inky fingers. It is_
the one self-filling pen you can safely
send full of ink through the post.
When in use a twist of finger and
thumb on the pen controls the ink
supply, giving you just as much or
as little as you need.
Onoto
thsPen
Onoto Ink
Best for alt Pens
&«fnw»atatlT»ff: NORMAN BAKER It LONOHURST LXB*
Sydney, Melbourne & Wellington (N. 2.).
Thomas De LA Rue & CO., LTD., HO Bunhili Row, London, E.C.L
Baby’s chubby
fingers !
0
S-\ 2~
•Baby’s chubby fingers clutch
eagerly at the feeding bottle
which contains Benger’s
Food.
Baby thrives upon Benger’s
because it is always prepared
with fresh new milk.
Besides modifying cow’s
milk to the delicate diges-
tion of a child, Benger’s
Food enriches it, and the
prepared food approxi-
mates in its composition
and properties to the
breast milk of a healthy
vigorous mother.
dlskfhgdfĝ
Food
Every home with children or
invalids should have Benger’s book
on “Infant and Invalid Feeding” a
work of authority, post free from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 2 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SoU Proprietors and Manufacturers: BENGER’S POOD Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY
MUMCAX,
HUDSON
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMBNTHOf. JUJUBEb
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary
they have a beneficial effect, as their . - P ,
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Saint Joan
The other night I saw Bernard Shaw s
new play, "Saint Joan," which is now being
presented, with Sybil Thorndike in the title
role, at the New Theatre, in St. Martin’s-
laue. Described on the programme (which,
it is almost superfluous to record, includes a
Note by the Author, though it extends only
to two pages, and is an unexpectedly business-
like memorandum) as a Chronicle Play in
six scenes and an epilogue, "Saint Joan
exhibits G.B.S. treading more nearly than
ever before in the footsteps of another dra-
matist, of some slight repute even after 300
years, who also concerned himself with
"Chronical Plays.” "Better than Shak-
speare V”—no. But as good as Shakspeare?
—in some passages, yes; and, moreover, in
those passages, Shakspeare at something like
his best. The general level of the acting, a
feature contributing considerably towards its
great popular success, is decidedly high, Sybil
Thorndike giving a remarkably arresting and
sympathetic delineation of the Maid.
As “Saint Joan” is not yet published in
book form, a brief sketch of the story’s treat-
ment may be of interest. Scene 1, the Castle
of Vaucouleurs (Feb. 23, 1421), opens with
a delicious bit of dialogue (which no one but
Shaw would, or could, have written) between
Robert de Baudricourt, the captain of the
castle, and his steward on the subject of—
eggs. The castle has been bewitched: there
is scarcely any milk; there are no eggs; Joan
lias put her spell upon everything —and, inci-
dentally, G.B.S. has had liis joke. There-
upon the action commences,_ and Joan, by
the sheer force of her simplicity and inspired
directness, soon prevails upon De Baudri-
court, adamant enough against her until her
arrival in person, to equip her for her expe-
dition to interview the Dauphin. Accom-
panied by Bertrand de Poulengey and sev-
eral soldiers she departs triumphantly on
her mission. Then you expect the curtain to
fall; but it does not fall —at least not till
the beaming steward re-enters, lugging a
basket filled with an outrageous number of
happily released eggs.
Scene 2 is laid at Cliinon, March 8, 1429.
Excepting Joan herself, the Dauphin (Ernest
Thesiger) is undoubtedly the most remark-
able character in the play. Shaw has made
him a grotesque figure, a peevish slip of
pathetic insignificance, whose court is a con-
tinuous mild riot, from whom nobody thinks to
take orders, whom everybody bullies, and who
consistently responds to advice tendered by
the ambitious Archbishop of Rheims by mak-
ing a grimace, and querulously objecting,
“Oh! another sermon !” And yet into this
poor mannikin Joan puts enough spunk
( Shaw’s word) to brace him up to assert
his royal authority, dismissing his commander
and putting her in charge of his army.
In the third scene, placed at the bank of
the River Loire, near Orleans, over two
months later, occurs one of the finest touches
in the drama. Dunois, the Bastard of
Orleans, is discovered praying (figuratively
only, for actually he is delicately cursing in
extempore verse) for a change of wind that
his troops may cross to attack the English
on the other bank. Joan arrives. She orders
him to advance. He explains, as to a wilful
child, why such a course is impracticable,
advising her to spend her energy praying
for a west wind. She clasps her hands in
prayer for a few moments, and they are just
leaving the stage together when Dunois’s page,
who is stationed at the foot of the standard,
flaunted ever in the unfavorable direction
by the obstinate breeze, suddenly sneezes.
The wind has changed, and Joan and Dunois
rush off to the attack. That homely realism
of the boy’s sneeze is admirable. It re-
minds you of Lear’s button.
An opportunity to analyse the situation
that develops when two men of fundamentally
different outlook essay to join forces is made
the most of in Sceixe 4, when the Earl of
Warwick and Peter Cauchon, Bishop of
Beauvais, meet in the former’s tent in the
English camp to discuss the putting out of
the way of Joan. The Bishop, passionately
seeking the Maid’s downfall solely on account
of his conviction of the menace her heresy
offers to the Church, is indeed a bigoted
figure; but a worse wrong than honest
bigotry is manifest in the suave opportunist,
who stx-ives to enlist the aid of religion for
his own political and military ends. War-
wick’s chaplain at intervals relieves the
tenseness with the familiar Shavian anti-
English jests. These retain a surprising
flavor of their pristine freshness, aud invari-
ably prove very popular.
In a short scene in the ambulatory of
Rheims Cathedral (July 17, 1429) Joan’s
influence is shown to be on the wane. The
Dauphin, now crowned Charles VH. by her
aid, refuses her further support. Dunois
characterises her previous victories as pos-
sible only because, behind her seemingly
reckless leadership, she has taken care always
to employ sufficient troops to carry through
her enterprises. The Archbishop of Rheims
adds his censure on behalf of the Church.
Joan, beginning to wonder if her Voices have
played her false, glimpses the fate in store
for her.
Shaw devotes a lengtlily paragraph in his
introduction to the question of the Trial, in
the Castle at Rouen (May 30, 1431), which
constitutes the last scene. His treatment of
her condemnation may best be summed up
in two short extracts from his note:—
In any generally accessible work of reference, and
in such well known books as those by Mark Twain
and Andrew Lang, it is stated that Joan’s trial was
corrupt, her judges scoundrels, and the questions
put to her devised to trap her into fatal admissions.
For these slanders of the Church and the Inquisition
there is not a shred of evidence in the records of
tlie trial. Joan’s judges were as straightforward as
Joan herself; and the law took its regular course.
Again :
Thus it cannot be too clearly understood that there
were no villains in the tragedy of Joan’s death.
She was entirely innocent; but her excommunication
was a genuine act of faith and piety ; and her execu-
tion followed inevitably.
Taking liis stand on this ground, he fills the
stage for close on three-quarters of an hour
with a very touching picture of Joan’s splen-
did simplicity and unquestioning faith tilt-
ing hopelessly against the dogmatic ortho-
doxy of her judges, both so ready, so anxious
to lie merciful if she will but make a formal
recantation. Recanting without realising it,
slie tears in pieces her confession of heresy,
is condemned and led off to the stake. The
pla£ proper concludes with as powerful a
piece of work perhaps as Shaw has done.
In depicting the effect of her death on those
witnessing it, in particular the remorse of
one of her most zealous persecutors, he shows
us, not for the first time in the play, some-
thing like a new Shaw, a G.B.S. who dares
honestly and simply to face the challenge of
the heroic. Shaw, the ironic, the purely
witty, the iconoclastic, the provokmgly in-
consequential, we have always known ; but
here is a Shaw who, as never before, treaus
the heights, recognising and allowing you to
recognise that they are heights. He is de-
veloping an earnest simplicity (dare one say
it is the simplicity of maturity ?) m the
treatment of his great moments which makes
you feel that here at last is that much-
discussed approach to Shakspeare.
Of the Epilogue it is difficult to speak. It
is a medley: in it are evident traces ot the
conflict between the old Shaw and the new.
Opening grotesquely enough as a bedroom
scene, in which a withered Charles, many
years after the close of the play, awakening
near the middle of the night, becomes fright-
ened, and in vain invokes attendance by
twirling an old-fashioned police-rattle, it
gradually develops, in spite of a few excur-
sions into the merely comic, into a splendid
tribute to the glory of the Maid’s life and
mission. One by one the characters m her
life-drama, since dead, reappear, and add,
each one in his own characteristic fashion,
some convincing touch to the picture ot her
great worthiness. Even the intrusion of a
gentleman in ultra-modern garb formally to
announce her canonisation in 1904-20 some-
how fails to mar the essential air of vaguely
happy solemnity. The sudden emergence from
Hell of an English soldier, a common man
of the rank and file, who gave Joan the tra-
ditional cross made of two sticks, is not
merely a spasm of levity, as once it might
have been. Performing his good action
scarcely knowing what fine deed he did, he
is still a little puzzled that for so trivial a
thing he should be allowed one day _s freedom
a year from his allotted existence in Hades.
Of this remarkable epilogue to a remarkable
play, Shaw himself says it is “obviously not
a representation of an actual scene, or even
of a recorded dream; but it is none the less
historical. Without it the play would only
be a sensational tale of a girl who was burnt,
leaving the spectators plunged in horror, de-
spairing of humanity. The true tale of Saint
Joan is a tale with a glorious ending, and
any play that did not make this clear would
be an insult to her memory.” And on that
high note it is but just that any review of
“Saint Joan” should end.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
The Moods of the Theatre
A distinguished critic, dealing with the
part played by physical suffering in Reg-
nard’s plays, ventured that the reason
sickness and death are no longer con-
sidered convenient food for laughter is
“the weakening of the spiritual ideals. ’
The Middle Ages held the idea that man
was, before all, a soul tending heaven-
wards. The human personality was
the “immortal spark,” which, temporarily
imprisoned in a perishable envelope, would
return to God. As for the human body, it
was only a burden, a mass of flesh to which
were attached low physical functions. The
soul could feel nothing but; contempt for its
despicable colleague. Given this point of
view, it was natural that the appearance of
pills, potions and poultices, and the presenta-
tion on the scene of the human body Under
the humiliating conditions of sickness,
should provoke former generations to laugh-
ter. For similar reasons we find the Art
of the Middle Ages expressing disdain for the
body by placing hideous grinning gargoyles
on the facades of its cathedrals. Literature
caught the infection, and the coarse jesting
which reaches its climax in the writings of
Rabelais was the result. Men were so con-
vinced of the inherent vileness of the human
body that jests on the subject were deemed
natural. It was not till Science made the
discovery that the body is a living organism,
to which certain faculties are attached, that
it became an object of attention and rever-
ence. As soon as this new aspect became
common property, the strain of coarse witti-
cism which had been echoed by the laughter
of former generations was felt to be dis-
tinctly opt of place.
It is not to be deduced from this that
society was any the better for the change of
mood. For a time grossness was replaced
by prudery, and the outbreak of naturalism
came as a violent reaction against the point
of view implied in the reproach addressed by
Moli&re to those women “whose ears are
more chaste than their bodies.” And though
the modern world may refuse to hear a par-
ticular expression, it will accept a play
turning on the idea the tabooed word con-
veys.
A further change became apparent when
Sedaine placed before an audience the simple
incidents of everyday life in a middle-class
home. “Le Pliilosophe sans le Savon-
marks an epoch in the history of the theatre.
Its author was a man of the people who had
received scarcely any education, but lie had
a “great heart.” (“Great thoughts come
from the heart.”) So he attained the climax
of art —simplicity. The moral atmosphere
of the home is unknown in Moli&re s plays.
His characters may speak of the market,
the kitchen, the garret, the pot an feu; but
we never realise their existence. His aim
is a portrayal, not of the domestic hearth,
but of the vices that disorganise it. (ms
characters —Tartuffe, Lourdain, etc.—are not
meant to represent fathers of families, but
hypocrites, upstarts, misers and fanciful
invalids. Ido not know that he ever pic-
tured a single good father, son or daughter.
The atmosphere of home cannot be felt un-
less all the members of a family accept the
duties arising from their relationships. This
is what we find for the first time m Sedaine s
(Continued on page 3.)


w aee
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
Continues on its Money-saving Way
Chinaware Savings.
White Granite Embossed Toilet Sets, 4
pieces, consisting of Ewer and Basin,
Chamber, Open Soap Tray. Usual Price,
Reduced to 13/6
White Granite Embossed Toilet Sets, 6
pieces, consisting of Ewer and Basin, two
Chambers, Open Soap and Brush Tray.
Usual Price, 25/- 1 Ck/ti
Reduced to **' ”
White Semi-Porcelain Dinner Set, 32 pieces,
consisting of six plates (Cheese, Pudding
and Meat), three dishes, two Vegetable
Dishes (Round), six Coupe Soup Plates,
one sauce boat. Usual Price, 37/6. OA/
Reduced to Ov/ ”
White Granite Cups and Saucers, Black
Handle. Usual Price, 11/- Q/15
Reduced to (half dozen) ** ®
White Granite Cups, only, Black Handle.
Usual Price, 7/6. C/l 1
Reduced to (half dozen) *
Cups and Saucers, Semi-Porcelain, Minton
shape, full size. White and Gold Sprig.
Usual Price, 11/- O/ZJ
Reduced to Zf/XJ
Cups and Saucers, Plain White, Black Handle,
Safety shape. Usual Price, 10/6. Q/
Reduced to * 7/ "
These stack in one another, standing firm,
and economising space.
Hotel Plates, Rolled Rim, 9in. overall.
Usual Price, 10/6. O/
Reduced to Of m
(Chinaware —Third Floor.)
For every member of the household
—and on every need —Bargains are
available. The reductions marked on
all these goods are remarkably gener-
ous, making it obvious that this is
a Sale where it is a fact that she
who spends most saves most. This
is your opportunity to practise sound
economy.
’Tis Easy to Save on Lamps & Stoves
Vestal Study Lamp, Nickel-plated, 25 candle-power, 20in.
Irish to top of handle. Detachable Elevated Oil Con-
tainer, holds a pint of oil, burns 7 hours. The light can
be adjusted to height required. IMn. Miller Chimney,
No. 0 Miller Wick, 7in. Opal Shade. Usual Price,
50/- AK/ m
Reduced to
Savings for Poultry-
keepers.
GENUINE AMERICAN CYPHER’S
INCUBATORS.
Nos. 0 1-2 3
66 140 240 390 eggs.
Red. to £l3 £l7 £24/5/- £29
Cypher’s Pattern Incubators,
locally made, hatching powers and
workmanship quite equal to the
imported machine. .
Nos. 1 2
140 240 eggs.
Reduced to . . £l3 £l9
“Robert Essex” Incubators, Stan-
dard Model.
100 175 275 eggs.
Red to. £lO £l3/5/- £l5/5/-
The Reliable Hatcher, made speci-
ally for those who want to hatch a
small number of chicks.
25 50 eggs.
Reduced to . . £l/2/6 £2/5/-
The Cyphers’ Pattern Colony
Hover, No 1, for room 12ft. x
12ft.. and to hold 600 chicks.
£7/5/-
loft., and to
£9/2/6
Reduced to
No. 2, for room 15ft.
hold 1200 chicks.
Reduced to
Rock Island Grist Mills, for grind-
ing corn, coffee, dried bones, shells,
grain, etc.
No. l|, weight 201 b.; Hopper
capacity 1 quart; grind per hour,
101 b. ■PI/9/fi
No. 3, weight 641 b.; Hopper
capacity, 21 quarts: grind per
hour, 501 b. tJO/1 7/C
Reduced to <*/<&/ 1 / / U
Household Ironmongery Bargains.
English Aluminium Saucepans and Covers, polished —
To hold . ... iy 2 2 3 4 6 8 10 pints.
Reduced to 3/0 3/6 4/- 4/9 6/3 7/9 8/11
English Aluminium Double Milk Saucepans—
To hold 2 3 4 pints.
Reduced to 4/9 6/9 8/6
English Aluminium Colanders, polished—
Sin. 9in.
Reduced to 2/8 3/3
English Aluminium Lip Saucepans, polished r no cover —
41in. Sin. Slin. Gin.
Reduced to lid. 1/- 1/3 1/5
Aluminium Graduated Jugs. To hold 1 quart.
Reduced to 1/9
Aluminium Pudding Basins, complete with cover —
Sin. Gin. Tin.
Reduced to 1/9 2/6 3/-
Alunv worlt Round Boilers, with Cover and Side Handles —
3t Sod ... .' 8 10 12 pints.
Rind tld to 6/- 7/6 9/6
(Household Ironmongery—First Floor.)
The Petrolia Brazing Lamp, burns
Kerosene. These lamps are very
powerful; suitable for brazing on a
large scale, Cycle Brazing, etc. The
flame is long and concentrated, and
can be regulated or extinguished by
means of the burner valve without re-
leasing the air pressure in tank.
Usual Price, 37/6. 00/tj
Reduced to °
The Koval Benzine, Self-heating Sad Iron is
made of steel, iron and brass, with a wooden
handle. All parts through which the benzine
passes are constructed of brass, which makes
it very durable and perfectly safe. There
are no complicated parts to get out of order,
and it is so simple that a child can easily
learn to operate it. The heat can be regu-
lated and changed instantly. Usual Price,
35/- *?A/
Keduced to
Bargains in Firearms.
The New Winchester (Model 36), 9 m/m Rim Fire
Shotgun. Usual Price, 40/- 35/-
Reduced to “
16-g. and 20-g. Belgian 8.8, Breech-Loading
Gun, rebounding bar locks, single bolt, steel barrels,
matted extension rib. walnut stock checkered, hard-
ened and marbled. Usual Price, £4/10/-
Reduced to £3 15/-
B.S.A. Martini Rifle, No. 12 Model. .22 bore, super-
accurate target pattern, weight Sib. Ooz. Usual
Price, £7/17/6. £7/1 5/_
Reduced to * * A J
Hollis & Sons’ 12-g. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun, treble-
bolted action on the cross-bolt principle, steel barrels,
left choke bore, good steel rebounding bar locks, well-
grown walnut heart stock, half-pistol grip, snap fore-
end fastener, engine-turned rib, proved for nitro
powders. Usual Price, £l2. -Plfl/lfl/
Reduced to llv/ IV/
Leather Cartridge Belt, 2{in. wide, with Steel Clips
copper riveted, leather straps at bottom, 12-g., to bold
25 cartridges. Usual Price, 17/6. IC/
Reduced to m
Big Reduction in
Silver-plated Spoons
and Forks.
-TAMES DIXON & SONS’ SILVER-
PLATED SPOONS AND FORKS.
(Old English Pattern).
Silver-plated Table Spoons and
Forks—
Quality Al. A. B. C.
Usually 68/- 57/- 51/- 46/-doz.
Red. to 59/- 49/- 46/- 40/- doz.
Silver-plated Dessert Spoons and
Forks—
Usually 51/- 40/- 36/- 34/-doz.
Red. to 44/- 33/- 31/- 29/- doz.
Silver-plated Tea Spoons—
Usually 32/- 23/- 21/- 18/-doz.
Red. to 26/- 17/6 16/6 15/6 doz.
Silver-plated Soup Spoons—
Usually 65/- 55/- 48/- 43/-doz.
Red. to 55/- 45/- 43/- 38/- doz.
(Cutlery—First Floor.)
Save on a Billiard
Table.
These Tables are manufactured
at our Redfern Works, of high-
grade materials and well-seasoned
timber. The Beds are of Slate,
covered with Genuine Billiard
Cloth. Fitted with Fast, Low
built-up Cushions and Brass-
mounted Pockets, three Balls, two
Cues, and Rest, Marking Board and
Chalk. Rules, etc., are supplied
with each Table.
COTTAGE BILLIARD TABLES.
Size over all—
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin. Usually £34/15/- -CQO/I C/
Reduced to L*J/ m
Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in. Usually £43/12/6. VAI
Reduced to ***
COMBINATION BILLIARD AND DINING TABLES.
A COVERED DINING TABLE, convertible in a few
moments to a BILLIARD TABLE, on which Pyramids,
Pool. Snooker, and other games can also be played.
Combination Billiard and Dining Tables in Maple,
complete as described, fitted with Maple Leaves, wax
finish, Semi-Auto Lift and Adjusters.
Size—
Of 4in. Usually £35/12/6. £33/12/6
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin. Usually £43. X?/4 1
Reduced to
Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., Avitli four 6in. legs. ITsuallv
£53/12/6. ' ren
Reduced to
Oft. Sin. x sft.. with four 6in. legs. Usually
£65/15/- GR9/K/
Reduced to Of -
(Sports Department—Second Floor.)
THE MARATHON BICYCLE.
Built of British Standard Fittings. Complete with
Tool Bag, Set Tools, Oil Can, Inflator and Clips. .CQ
Reduced to < *'* 7
If fitted with Coaster Hub, 10/- extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440


(Abridged) PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
50,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH
H. L. & S. Simpson & Company, Limited
(REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT OF N.S.W.) "
COMPLETE HOUSE FURNISHERS, 410 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
DIVIDED INTO 100,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
OF WHICH
25,000 shares of £1 each have already heen issued,
50,000 shares of £1 each are now being offered at par,
25,000 shares of £1 each will be held in reserve.
100,000
DIRECTORS:
JAMES LEE, Esq., “Canton,” Smith Street. Summer Hill (original founder of the firm).
GEORGE R. MARTIN, Esq., Director of Martin. Ltd.. Pitt Street, Sydney, “Tongwana,”
Greenwich Road, Greenwich.
(Two additional directors to be appointed, by subscribers of 50,000 Shares now being issued.)
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH and AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD. (Haymarket Branch).
SOLICITORS: f
Messrs. MARK MITCHELL and NELSON, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I* F SNKLLING Esn 85' Pitt Street. Sydney °< Fellow of tlie Australasian Corporation or
Public Accountants).
REGISTERED OFFICE: 410 Pitt Street:. Sydney.
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED ' ~ 0/f ,
for 50,000 ordinary Shares of fl each, payable as to 2/6 per share on
per share on allotment, and the balance as required in calls not: exceeding _/<» per'share
per month. Shareholders may pay up in full on allotment Dividends shall accrue and
be payable on request of the amount paid up from time to time upon each share.
Auditor’s Certificate.
The Directors:
Messrs. H. L. and S. Simpson
and Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Pursuant to your instructions I
have pleasure in certifying that the
Net Profit earned by the above
Company for the 12 months ended
30th June, 192’ t , amounted to 10.35
per cent, on capital invested. This
figure has been arrived at after
charging all administrative and
distributing expenses incurred in
the conduct of the business, in-
cluding due provision for Depre-
ciation of Assets, Bad Debts and
Income Taxes, etc.
Yours faithfully,
P. F. SNELLING,
Fellow of the Australasian Corpora-
tion of Public Accountants.
OF PROGRESS.
Business has an inexorable law of cither going forward or backward. It cannot
stand still. By giving .the best possible value and keeping faith with our customers we
have kept up a lively pace in the forward march. The illustrations give you a fair
idea of the splendid growth of the Company over a period of fifteen years. In this short
space of time we have built one of the finest Home Furnishing Businesses m the otate.
MILESTONES
Business established in 1910 by Mr.
James liee,
A—a.d. 1910.
It was in this Building that the present
flourishing Furnishing Business of H. L. & S.
Simpson & Co., Ltd., was founded by Mr. James
Lee, way back in 1910. Both Factory and Show-
room were accommodated in.,this Building.
tils
®|9»
(*>)
Five years later, under the same management,
B— a.d. 1914 —5 Years of Progress.
In 1914, just five years from its inception, the
business had grown by virtue of giving good value
to such an extent that it became necessary to remove
the Factory to other premises, and also take over the
four-storey buildings at the rear, the two buildings
being converted into Showrooms, a Modern Store
Front replacing the old one.
Four years ago to enable the business to operate
on a larger scale, it was floated into a Company
with a canital of £25.000.
It is proposed that the proceeds of the capital
raised will be principally invested in the new
premises now in the course of construction,
adjoining the present premises now occupied by
the Company. Immediately the ground and first
floors of the new building are completed the
business of the company will be transferred there,
although the plans provide for a seven storey-
building. It is confidently expected that with
the increased accommodation a greater output
and, bigger return on money invested will result,
Till first completed section will be ready', for
occupation by the end of this year. The business
of this firm was originally established by James
Lee, fourteen years ago, and was carried on
under the name of 11. L. & S. Simpson & Co.,
until June 30, 1920, when it was registered as
a Limited Liability Company with an authorised
capital of .£25,000, Since its inception the
busiiieifj has been most successful and the expan-
sion'has been such that the larger and moic
up to date premises became an urgent necessity.
Although the growing needs of the business
demand more commodious premises, it is confi-
dently expected that the ratio of trading expen-
ses will be iriuth smaller than at the present
time, the turnover in the new building should
be more remunerative.
Estimated Profit.
Mr. Dee, Managing Director of the
Company, estimates that on the
establishment of the new pre-
mises, the gross annual sales will
total approximately
£182,000
And as average rate of gross profit
of 225 per cent, on sales can he
expected, this will mean an an-
nual gross profit of
on sales. In addition, a conser-
vative estimate of the average
trade discount on purchases is
set down at per annum,
thus making a gross annual profit
of
£40,950
£43,550
After deducting the estimated gross
annual working expenses for.. £27,482
the net profit would be £16,068
representing a fraction over 21
ner cent, on the invested capital
£75,000
But, in order to allow sufficient margin
for incidentals, etc., that may occur, a
conservative percentage of profit, 15 per
cent., is practically assured. It will he
seen, therefore, that these figures disclose
a highly satisfactory return on money
"invested.
r~x
/ /
\N
03
ID
The Business will still be under the Management of the founder—Mr. Janies Lee.
C— a.d. 1924—15 Years of Progress.
The .proposed new seven-storey Furniture Warehouse of 11. L. and S. Simpson
and Co.. Ltd., which, when completed, will rank amongst the most modernly equipped
Furniture Stores in the State. The Ground and hirst Floors are now in the eourseof
erection and will be readv for occupation at the end Of the year, lo secuie increased
capital to operate on the much larger scale, the Company invites you and your friends
to become Shareholders, and thereby participate in the profits of the Company.
As it is the express desire of the Com-
pany that the business should be con-
ducted in the future on what might
almost be termed
A Co-operative Basis
it has been decided by the Directors of
the company that 10 per cent, discount
will he allowed to all shareholders hold-
ing 100 shares or more making purchases
from the Company. Bearing this in mind,
it is also considered that
The Small Investor
is the most desirable Meant for shares
that the Company ea , as the greater
the number of sli .*rs the bigger
the co-operation, anj*.f T 7;, , co-opera-
tion,
The More Remunerative
will be the turnover of the Company.
The most acceptable applications will be
for parcels of shares in multiples of ten
up to 1000 shares. It Will he seen that
the small investor will reap a great ad-
vantage from benefits derived as a share-
holder in this Company, as, for instance,
the 10 per cent, discount on all purchases
made from the Company. Furthermore,
the investment is a most desirable one
from a remunerative point of view, as the
above auditor’s certificate on past year’s
(ending 30/6/’24) operations will denote.
READY RECKONER FOR SHARE APPLICATIONS.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
H. L. & S. SIMPSON & CO., LIMITED,
Registered Office: 410 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Authorised Capital: £lOO,OOO, divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
T ° t] I C h! ' Loan'd ' S . SIMPSON & 00., LTD.,
, 410 P u tt S !fi;notinn d for y ’ Shares in H. L. and S. Simpson and Co., Ltd./in 1
1 l n f enmn'anv foV the "number of shares mentioned (or any less number that
ueiJli , ~A , t <?rec to 'pay
I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the above Company.
Signature
Date *
Occupation
in terms of the Company’s Prospectus, and authorise you to have
-*■ “'■*—*, 1,-"*- *■ nf Pnrrmfluv for the number of shares mentioned tor any less uuinuer that may be allotted to me). I hand you herewith the sum o
my name placed on 2/6 per share with application, and agree to'pay 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance on calls not to exceed -/6 per share per month.
Address
Full Name of Applicant
Make all" cheques’ and money’ orders payable to 11. L. and S. SIMPSON and CO., LTD.


dfg
PYJAMAS
O
Jii
dfg
?■>
' •
••
I ill
dfg
Smoke in “Osmanette”
Think in “Osman ette”
Sleep in “Osman ette“
Dream in “Osmanette“
You will find it the most comfortable
material you have worn, and Pyjamas
made of “Osmanette” are a real luxury
at a small cost. .
Retailed at 12/6, 13/6, 14/6 per pair.
Look for the “Osmanette” label on every garment.
plfiy, where we are admitted to the bosom
of an honest family, everything breathing
trust, confidence and mutual respect. It is
the first “home” of the French theatre.
“Le Philosophe sans le Savoir” (M. Van-
derck) interests us not only as the head of
his family, but also as a good man of busi-
ness. Here for the first time w r e find the
merchant-class—always an object of ridicule
in the old comedies —treated with respect.
The following dialogue, for example, is
almost an “apology” for commerce:—
-M. Vanderck (father): “What a position, my son,
is that of the man who, with a stroke of the
pen, can make himself obeyed from one end of
the universe to the other ! His name does not
need, as does the money of a king, that the
value of the metal should serve; as a guarantee
for the impress. He gives his signature, and
that is enough.”
Son (hesitatingly) : “I understand—and yet”
Father; “It is not a nation that he serves; he
serves all and is served by them. He is the
Alan of the Universe.”
Son : “All this may be true; but what is there honor-
able in such a position?”
Father : “Honorable! The position holds all the
nobleman claims in the right of birth: honesty,
integrity, straightforwardness.”
Son (admiringly): “Four conduct, father.”
Father: “A few audacious individuals cause kings
to take arms. War breaks out. Flames are
kindled. Europe is divided! But we mer-
chants, whether English, Dutch, Russian or
Chinese, stretch across the surface of the earth
like so many silken threads binding the nations
together and recalling them to Peace by the
necessities of Commerce. See, my son, what it
is to be an honest merchant!”
Here we note a sign of the times: the entry
of the middle-class and its representation on
the stage, hitherto confined to lords and gal-
lants. It is the forerunner of Augier’s
plays, which all turn more or less on the
role money can play in society. Another
original character is the cashier —a man of
the people, brusque in manner, narrow in
opinion, but devoted to his master’s interests,
lie is the forerunner of the line of faithful
servants which reaches its climax in the
touching character of Gaspard in “La joie
fait peur.” Here, again, is a contrast with
Moliere, whose servants are mostly rogues.
M. Le Maitre asserts that classical comedy
does not contain a single faithful portrait
of a young girl. She appears for the first
time in Sedaine’s play—“delicious, perfectly
innocent, but not insignificant as are the in-
genues of Scribes Theatre. She affords the
most exquisite picture of innocent love: love
that ignores itself. She has the frankness,
vivacity and candor of the child, and just
because she ignores the nature of her love
for her big foster-brother, she never dreams
of hiding it. Her naturalness constitutes
her charm.” Here, again, is a new mood
which corresponds with the views of woman-
hood in the world of to-day.
LAURA BOGUE LUFFMAN.
The "German lliad"
The Teutonic peoples had a highly-developed
school of epic poetry by the eighth century
of our era; theme and style were common
property of them all, as the remarkable re-
semblances testify which permeate the sur-
viving specimens—the lay of Hildebrand, the
Old English Beowulf, and the northern songs.
In the centuries of their migrations there had
been fashioned a huge complex of saga, dis-
torted history and myth combined, curiously
like the Trojan cycle in its preoccupation
Avith vanished peoples and extra-national
heroes. Central in this is the figure of
Attila, the destroyer of the Burgundian king-
dom on the Rhine in 437. This event be-
comes, in legend, the slaying of the Bur-
gundian princes on a visit to his court, far
away where the Danube turns southward to
the plain of Hungary. With him ranges the
figure of Theodoric the Great, brought back
almost a century out of his due time and
converted from a mighty sovereign into a
broken man and fugitive, and for 30 years of
exile there goes with him his old master-at-
arms, Hildebrand, the Teutonic Rustum.
The early epic of the mainland has perished,
and it is hard work to retrace the lines of
its development. So much seems certain, that
the legend and the poetry of “the Fall
of the Nibelungs” remained alive in Upper
Austria and the nearer neighboring Ger-
man lands; that, toivards the end of the
tenth century, Bishop Pilgrim of Passau
had a certain clerk Conrad set the matter
forth in Latin verse; and that, on this model,
there arose further vernacular poems, culmi-
nating in the Lay of the Nibelungs, the
composition of which, in its various stages,
falls in the last third of the twelfth century.
The kernel of the story is the fall of the
Burgundian princes, and they are the Nibe-
lungs. The name is just a patronymic and
has nothing to do with the realm of mist
and darkness. We must dismiss from our
minds all the gods and demons and monsters
that Wagner has mobilised to fill his stage.
Siegfried, the dragon and the treasure are
all an importation, most probably a doublet
of the quite independent story of Siegmund
the dragon-slayer who is converted into Sieg-
fried’s sire. Everywhere the attempt to fusie
this foreign matter with the older legend
fails; the reader may easily study in William
Morris’s “Volsunga Saga” how Brynhild, as
you try to grasp her, breaks up into three
distinct persons.
The Middle High German poem of the
Fall of the Nibelungs, which can be dated
about 1170, just at the time when German
poetry was opening its perhaps most glorious
period, now forms the last third of the epic
which we usually call the Lay of the Nibe-
lungs ; and, as in the Iliad we go for what
is distinctively Homeric to the poem of the
Wrath of Achilles, so, if we would rightly
appraise the claim of the Germans to have
produced an Iliad, we must largely disregard
the disproportionate expansion of the early
part of the story. All this region of the
epic has been sophisticated by the intro-
duction of court-manners, with frequent con-
tributions by the court-tailor. We must
not look for any sustained dignity of style.
The metre is most unfortunately chosen—
a popular song-stanza turned into a recita-
tive measure with a regular drag in the
fourth line, and carefully eschewing the
double rhymes in which German is so rich.
The consequent recurrence of the same rhyme-
words has brought Avith it a monotony of
set phrases and formulae. The Homeric
“repeat” is quite another thing.
The story opposes two persons who over-
top all the rest—Kriemliilt, the “she-devil,”
and Hagen, her foe, the poet’s darling. They
are well matched, and, if vindictiveness,
ferocity and ruthlessness are sufficient to
make up epic character, they must be pro-
nounced successful. It is noticeable that,
in this original poem of the Fall of the
Nibelungs, Kriemhilt docs not waste many
words on the wrong done her in the death
of her husband : it is the deprivation of her
treasure that is most present to her mind.
To get at the heart in her enemy’s body
she is prepared to wade through all the
blood in the w’orld. It is she who, when her
brothers beg to be let out of the shambles
of King Elzel’s banqueting-hall to die, if
they must, fighting in the open air, warns
the Huns not to grant their request; she who
has the roof fired over their head during the
night. But she is not the poet’s darling.
Well, Hagen, when the news comes to him
in hall that the Hnns are attacking his
friends, begins reprisals by striking off her
child’s head where it sits on her lap (and
his whole-souled admirer the poet charges
her witli fiendish intent in sending for the
child) and, next, the right hand of the min-
strel who had been so unfortunate as to be
sent to the Rhine to invite the Nibelungs to
Court. Such are the chief characters; tlio
action is that “slaughter grim and great”
which so delighted Kingsley. Nowadays we
find the thirteenth Iliad uninteresting because
of its Ifondness for dwelling on ghastly
wounds; the “German Iliad” revels in piles
of dead —seven thousand flung out of the
hall in one brief clearance—and streams of
gore. As silence falls after one storm of
fight, you hear the blood run out into the
gutters through the little openings which,
usually, would carry off any spilt wine; and
when the Nibelungs are parched with thirst
as they stand against the wall and, witli
their shields, fend off the falling beams of
the burning roof, Hagen bids them drink
the blood in which they stand.
The poem has one idea, the one idea in-
forming all early Teutonic poetry —loyalty
to one’s pledge. The Burgundian princes,
who are subordinate in interest to their sister
and their vassal, Hagen, win sympathy by
their refusal to purchase their lives by
surrendering him. And there is nobility,
beauty and pathos in the anguish of Rue-
deger, Count of the Marches, who, in ful-
filment of his pledge to his lord and lady,
must die in an attack on the guests whom
he was charged to receive and convoy, to
the youngest or whom he had betrothed his
daughter. He shines clear against the stark
savagery of the tale.
A “German Iliad” —when Coleridge was
told that Klopstock was a German Milton,
he answered “A very German one indeed!”
CHRIS BRENNAN.
Some Artists and a Sculptor
I have just returned! from visiting a Syd-
ney exhibition of pictures by the Younger
Group of Australian Artists. There was
nothing about it that pleased me very much;
but then, again, there was little to be
ashamed of. What struck me particularly
was the gallant way in which the landscape
fellows had poured out their blue paint over
everything. It rushed like a deluge upon
the critic, who had come Avithout his gondola.
There were evidences of imagination in some
fan designs, but the drawing was mostly
concealed weakness, and extremely fragile.
One artist has painted three portraits; and
in each case the sitter appears to be trying
to display his uncut adenoids to an em-
barrassed, if not entirely case-hardened,
audience. It is true, liOAvever, that the
open mouth is common among us, and
counts for one of the penalties of
our indeterminate climate. In a larger
figure-study the hands and accessories
show much thoughtful consideration;
but when we begin to analyse the face
it grows as characterless as the white disc
often seen in lieu of a head in English chapel
windows. Some pen-and-ink work in the
north-west corner of the room imitates Lind-
sayisms, and the result is like Avater in soup.
A few etchings are quite successful; and I
can remember a woodcut done after the
manner of hundreds of other Avoodcuts.
However, I will confess that the main
object of my visit to the exhibition had to
do with a desire to see “The Satyr,” by
Frank Lynch. This young Anzac (who in
order to come at Germany passed from the
Peninsula into France) probably staggered
over as much mud in that terrible cataclysm
as might have sickened an ordinary man for
life. But it is different with a sculptor.
When the last shot had been fired, Lynch
just went quietly on with the mud, making
it beautiful, making it laugh, making it
sing. Let us, then, have a look at this
Satyr of his. It is life-size, or, perhaps, a
little under. The pose is easy and exceed-
ingly natural; seated upon a slope, his body
swings back Avhile his head comes forward ;
and the hands, clasped across a drawn-up
leg, disclose a wonderful manifestation of
the artist’s skill in reproducing the
appearance of muscular tension. But
if we would catch the seminal idea, it is
surely to be found in the expression of the
face. I do not pretend to interpret; I do
not even assume to guess. It is as big a
puzzle as “The Lady and the Tiger.” From
a material point of view, there is something
approaching ponderousness in the lower
limbs. It might even be said that these
are the slovenly hoofs of an ox: 1 should
have preferred delicate quick feet, whose
dainty stabbing motion, born of a life spent
between one rock and another, would imi-
tate the dry rap of a drumstick on parch-
ment. Also he is, sexually, too human;
he ought to be animal from his waist to the
earth. I like his powerful, skull-smashing
hands; but it is when we examine the
strategic manner in which the torso has been
developed that the artist’s knowledge of the.
body becomes arresting. The subject is a
young satyr, not a faun. His skin would
be green to match the dryas he consorts
with, and he would have a voice like the
sound of a cask rolling upon an iron bridge,
not the tAvittering squeak which marks the
faun for Puck among the creatures of my-
thology.
Frank Lynch is to be congratulated; he
has given distinction to the exhibition of the
Younger Group of Australian Artists. His
effort is more than an effort: it is a coup
de maltre.
HUGH McCRAE.
The Most Poignant Chapter
I have been trying to find the most poig-
nant chapter in all English literature, and I
think Charles Kingsley wrote it in the
closing tragedy of “Hereward the Wake.” Ot
course, there are many great scenes in our
literature; but when you come to ex-
amine them a lot of them depend
upon their imagery, and a playing to
the gallery will be found common. Kings-
ley’s scene is stark, bare and terrible —the
very bedrock of simplicity; and towards the
end the chords of emotion are swept by a
master hand.
There is a moment of tense dramatic in-
terest when, in the half-light, that sweet and
splendid woman Torfrida, soul of magnanim-
ity, hollow-cheeked and sad, accompanied by
her trusty band of lowly, long-serving monks
from Crowland, comes upon that awful scen»
at Bourne to claim the body of her slaught-
ered husband. There is the litter of Norman
corpses still encumbering the hall, slain by
the mighty Englishman in that last terrible
fight, and with poor faithful Winter dead
amongst them. And in the moonray the
skinny madman Lightfoot sitting with his
beloved master’s severed head upon his knees,
crooning to it and comforting it, as a mother
might caress a wayward child, and stroking
back the golden locks from the clammy fore-
head.
And then the sorely wounded woman en-
ters upon the beautiful if somewhat gaudy
trollop cowering beside the headless trunk
of the beloved husband she had stolen from
Torfrida. There is no hysterics here, no
tears or sloppy melodrama, no bridling of
a woman’s outraged dignities. Strong in the
knowledge of Hereward’s undying love for her
and hers for Hereward, the glorious Torfrida
is above the paltry. A glance she casts upon
the creature who had robbed her of a living
husband, but who could not rob her of a dead
one—the traitress who had been, too, an in-
strument in the massacre. There are just two
awful words to show her estimate of that
unhappy wretch: two words of appalling
dreadfulness spoken at such a time, in such
a place, and coming from the lips of such
a woman as Torfrida.
After that the steadfast monks bearing their
precious burden in the moonlight to the
boat; the passage of the reedbeds througli
the slimy fens; the unutterable pathos of
the return to Crowland and the laying to
rest of Hereward, the mighty warrior who
never really loved any woman but his wife!
I think, too, that final thought of Kings-
ley’s is a very beautiful one wherein lie
makes these two, after all their troubles—
a glorious man and glorious woman —sleep
peacefully down the centuries, side by side,
in Crowland Abbey, the grand old sanctuary
of the martyred Danes.
S. E. PEARSON.
A Satchel of Books
Ordeal, by Dale Collins (Heinemann; and Angus and
Robertson). An oppressive atmosphere of nervous
menace is worked up by the assistance of a good,
wide vocabulary and an excellent sense of character,
The situation on the schooner is splendid: the gradual
domination of the “soft” but not thereby inferior
passengers by the primitive steward, helped by a
long calm and a shattering storm. The delicate
work in the presentment of that situation is very
good—very well done and not in the least semi-
toned or pernicketty, which is one of Conrad's
faults. Collins’s matter is full of force and vigor,
but kept well under control by the characterisation,
which is probably the best feature of the yarn. The
■people stand out all alive-o. There is nothing
■slummed, nothing dodged ; all solid, careful work.
High as one had set Collins’s standard of possibilities
when he got his chance, in these craftsman-qualities
he reaches it. That much said, one leaves the other
roses in the basket. The shape of the story is
bad. It started as an artistic presentment of a well-
imagined situation full of intricacies and difficulties;
and up to the moment of the sighting of the rescuing
ship it is really triumphantly carried out. But
that is the end of the presentment. The “soft”
characters are all rehabilitated by their ordeal; all
is well again and one is glad—the thing is done
so well that it has become personal. But that
rescuing ship and the cheering, the engaged couple
and the champagne—that is rubbish. Not even the
unexpected gift of pleasant irony can excuse the
hopeless letting-down of the good, strong picture.
The Play Box, by Mrs. Henry Dudeney (Heine-
mann). A book of short stories, that might be
shorter, to save the reader’s patience. In a forest
of dashes and exclamation points one reaches a con-
clusion that is no conclusion, but a change from
forest to mist. The modern reader of fiction does
not, like his Victorian parents, demand invariably
a happy ending, but he does expect some sort of end-
ing—somebody married or somebody killed. Here
the author has a way of leaving it all on the lap
of the gods.
_____
“Zanthus”: I may have stated only half the truth
in my remarks about Captain Cook’s claims on the
regard of Australia ; but my friend “0.K.M.” is not
definite enough about the other half. He is right
in saying that it was Cook’s intention to search for
the South Land when his scientific passengers had
completed the observation of the transit of Venus.
But the Terra Australis Incognita that Cook was
going to look for was not Australia. That is clear
enough, though too often ignored nowadays. Abel
Tasman, 128 years before, sailed clean round Aus-
tralia, and so showed that it could not be connected
with the great continent that was supposed to fill
much of the Southern Hemisphere. Tasman left it
an open question whether Maoriland was not the
beginning of such a continent. Cook proved that
this was not the case by circumnavigating the
southern islands; but there was still room for a
continental land-mass in the unknown regions to the
east and south-east. It was this question that Cook
would have settled in 1770 if the Endeavor had been
fit to face a winter passage of the Horn. In that
case it is very unlikely that Cook would ever have
visited Australia. On his second voyage Cook
cleared up the question of the supposed great southern
continent in temperate regions to the east of Maori-
land by showing that it did not exist. This was
Cook’s great work. To the navigator himself the
exploration of the east coast of Australia was a
mere side-issue. When he found that he could not go
on at the moment with what he considered his import-
ant job he took Australia in his stride. Cook’s own
view of the matter is expressed in the covering letter
which he sent when he forwarded his journals and
charts to the Admiralty at the conclusion of his
first voyage. On July 12, 1771, he wrote: “I flatter
myself that the discoveries we have made, though
not great, will apologise for the length of the
voyage.” If Australia wants a patron saint she
might find him in Banks, whose interest in the
continent which he had visited with Cook remained
unabated to the end of a long and busy life, and
to whom Australia owes far more than is usually
realised. It is not a question of robbing Cook of
his dues. Cook was a great man, but there is no
need to wrap his exploits in a haze of misappre-
hension.


rat
i<6
» .
t •
r # ",
mmm
! *
«k . '‘ ':
y"\ ■' -V *«-
i
*
•vy#;
J>j"Y Si
' I
J& '
Ar‘
T mm?*
.mmw
/yJ £
V -
Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Tas.
Constructed for Hobart City Council.
Engineer : H . E. Bellamy, Esq., M. Am. Soc. C. E.
Bituminous Macadam reinforced with
B.R.C. Fabric.
5
Road Reinforcements
B.R.C. Fabric is an ideal reinforcement for Tar or
Bituminous Macadam Roads.
By forming a continuous mattress it prevents
corrugations and potholes developing.
Maintenance costs are considerably reduced with
only a slight increase in original cost.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers, ’Phone- Cent. 8861.
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . .J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND. .A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston St., Wellington.
i»r
REED
rrnrmTrrrrnr;
amrrrnmm,


■ $ mi
Tour Hat-
"SV
The Murdoch
“Nail Curl.”
UY as the crow fIies!”—DIRECT. It pays!
This Smart Murdoch Model, besides being a
recognised leader, comes to you direct from
the Mills—saving you all jobber’s- -1 £* !£*
profits, thus giving you 21/- to 25/- Value for 1 O/O
THE MURDOCH “NAIL CURL” is a Pure Fur Felt Hat
blocked on distinctive lines, with a perfectly flat brim
neatly turned up at the edge only. Silk-bound. Your
choice from the most popular color tones of Slate, Steel,
Grey, Drab and Myrtle Green. Neat
Band with loose side bow. Sizes:
to 7if
16/6
Superior Qualities at 21/-, 25/- and 30/-
Postage
Paid to
Your
Poor.
In. Park St., Ltd., Sydney
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
When
writing
kindly
address
your
letter
to
DESK R.
y. S/s/x,. ,
162 PITT S T
SYDNEY.
m
/
CHOCOLATES!
£2^r-
i UK
y)\
llll
nirf
Si!! LiSTT;
ZM
V/'tZe.
Mm,
mm
“W/Jfflfi
li
fl*Ho|]ovvj
I c
y
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALIA
PER V.P PARCEL POST IF DESIRED
ftOX-WITHI/f
pSlRoX;
PRICES:
3/-
5/6
6/-
10/-
12/6
20/-
ok.ng streets 162-166 Pitt street. Sydney and 30/-
5 OLD ON THE SAME DAY
THEY ARE MADE.
ERNEST HILLIER
Washing cleans only
tine shin
bathing
-i 1 keeps the skin clean
and fresh. But far
more important to your
health and happiness is
internal cleanliness. For
on this depend a strong
body and a clear mind.
You cannot be healthy
if you do not keep clean
internally. A clogged
intestinal system is a
disease-breeder. Here
start such ailments as
headaches, bilious at-
tacks and insomnia—
each of which takes toll
of your health and vital-
ity. Poisons flood your
system and your power
of resistance is lowered.
Health, even life itself,
is threatened.
In constipation, say in-
testinal specialists, lies
the primary cause of
more than three quar-
ters of all illness, includ-
ing the gravest diseases
of life.
How to Overcome
Faulty Elimination
Laxatives and cathartics
do not overcome faulty
elimination, says a not-
ed authority, but by
their continued use
tend only to aggravate
the condition and often
lead to permanent in-
jury.
Nui ol
TRADE MARK
For Internal Cleanliness
Medical science, through
knowledge of the intest'
inal tract gained by X-
ray observation and ex*
haustive tests, has found
in lubrication a means of
overcoming faulty elim*
ination.
The gentle lubricant, Nujol,
penetrates and softens the
hard food waste. Thus it en-
ables nature to secure regu-
lar, thorough elimination.
Nujol is not a laxative and
cannot cause distress. Nujol
hastens the rate of flow of
the intestinal stream, pre-
venting intestinal sluggish-
ness. Nujol is used in lead-
ing hospitals and is prescrib-
ed byphysicians throughout
the world for the relief of
faulty elimination in people
of all ages.
Don’t give disease a start.
Take Nujol as regularly as
youbrushyour teeth or wash
your face. Nujol establishes
the habit of internal cleanli-
ness —the healthiest habit
in the world.
Ifyouwouldmaintainhealth
and youthful energy, adopt
this habit of internal cleanli-
ness. Nujol will make every
day brighter and your enjoy-
ment of life morekeen.Keep
a bottle of Nujol in the
bathroom cabinet as a daily
reminder.
For Sale at all Chemists .
Pp«J.al
:
9^
liijjol
Nujol, Grosvenor House,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me your 16-page free
booklet: “The Dangers of Constipation. ”
Name _
Address


The Laboratory of the General Mo*
tors Research Corporation at Day-
ton, Ohio, U. S. A., is the largest of
its kind in the world. It is located on
a tract of land of 35 acres. The labor-
atory itself occupies seven acres of
building under one roof. Its staff of
engineers and scientists has been
gathered from all parts of the world.
-'-N *>
IBM
Hi
*dSBS
For building better motor cars
ONLY 30 years ago the motor car was con-
sidered an impractical thing. Today over
15,000,000 motor cars and t.ucks are daily
providing transportation for people and goods
throughout the world —and one out of six is a
product of the General Motors Corporation.
General Motors, whose car and accessory di-
visions have played an important part in the
development of the modern motor car, has or-
ganized the efforts of the inventor, the scien-
tist and the engineer for the purpose of making
motor transportation still more useful and eco-
nomical as time goes on.
In Detroit and in Dayton, General Motors
maintains the largest automotive laboratories in
the world. In Detroit is the Production Labor-
atory, out of which come developments that
improve production methods, lessen costs and
so add value to General Motors cars.
In Dayton is the Research Laboratory, where
a small army of scientists is searching the fields
of physics, mechanics, chemistry, metallurgy,
electricity and the allied sciences for ways of
further improving motor transportation. To
these scientists nothing is so satisfactory that it
may not be improved—nothing so unusual that
it does not deserve to be tried. By ceaseless
testing and rejecting and testing again they
are separating opinion from fact and blazing
the path of automotive progress.
To you these great laboratories, supplement-
ing the engineering staffs maintained by the
car divisions, give a two-fold assurance: First,
that a General Motors car embodies every ad-
vance that science has developed and tested.
Second, that the process of research and bet-
terment of General Motors cars will be contin-
uous.
Further information regarding General Motors mag he had hy writing to
General Motors Export Company, M.U.1.0.0.F. Building, Castlcreagh
Street, Sydney; or General Motors Export Company, Bourlce House,
Bourke and Russell Streets, Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick . Cadillac . Chevrolet . Oakland . Oldsmobile . GMC Trucks
New York] .1 London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta , Shanghai . Manila . Honolulu
Sydney . Melbourne . Wellington . Madrid . Johannesburg . Mexico City . Sao Paulo . Buenos Aire*


VENUS
V PENCILS*
'• A
largest selling
quality pencil
in the world
17 degrees Black
S copying
THE BEST PENCIL
for ARTISTS,
ARCHITECTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by Higli-class Stationers Everywhereh
FREE 12 Beautiful Bound SKETCHES
of London’s Historic Buildings,
Monuments and Bridges, drawn by a celebrated
artist, with the 17 grades of Venus Pencils, posted
on receipt of 6d. to cover postage. Address J. A.
Burke, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Get Rid Of Irritations
By Using Cuticura
Bathe freely with Cuticura Soap and
hot water to cleanse and purify. Dry
lightly and apply Cuticura Ointment to
soothe and heal. Nothing better for all
roughness, rashes, eruptions and irrita-
tions. Cuticura Talcum also is ideal for
the skin.
Soap 1 •..Talcum li.3<f„ Ointment la. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
R.Town*& Co.. Sydney. N.S.W.”
Try our new Shaving Stick.
fflftl
m
*****rs iwb.'^
V..-W i*,*
THB
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
term. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney. N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCI& MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng.
i
mm,
»-.) 1
I
/>
3^
MEXICAN
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p er m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
Over 60,000,000 cubic feet of air
are being handled every minute by
TRADE
MINE FANS
which are liberally designed, of sound
construction, and thoroughly reliable
in every respect. Being highly effi-
cient they are, therefore, economical
in power consumption.
Surface Fans can be arranged for
reversal of air current. Auxiliary
Underground Fans are small in size
but large in capacity. Full particu-
lars on request.
DAVIDSON & CO., Ltd., BELFAST.
AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES—Ferrier flc Dickinson. Lid..
Royal Exchange. Bridge Street. SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Unbehaun & Johnstone. Ltd..
100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND —Engineering Supply Company of
Australia, Ltd.. BRISBANE.
VICTORIA—Fyvie & Stewart. 360 Collin* Street,
MELBOURNE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—Ackroyd-Stuartt, Ltd., PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND—John Chambers At Son, Ltd.
WELLINGTON.
IICISTKRB9
rHAtn MAH
Guaranteed*
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
t3, *Qsii
oisi
W»i|
*°*Sl Uka
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has n. finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
BEST FOR THE HAIR ON
ALL OCCASIONS
Anzora will master the most un-
ruly hair and keep it in place all
day. Anzora Cream for greasy
scalps, Anzora Viola for dry
scalps. Sold by Chemists, hair-
dressers, stores or from our agents
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
MASTERS THE HAIR
Agents for Australia:
Lyall Willis & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne—Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd. :
Sydney—Jones’ & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide—Arthur Glover.
Brisbane—-Gregory & Collins.
Perth—L. M. Cullen & Co.
Manufactured by
ANZORA PERFUMERY C*. 9 Ltd,
IP tiles den Latte, London, England,
ISrli
cj .V*
i
CREAM
MASTERS THE HAIR
U!
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 '.in. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS- TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
* Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines'). Sydney Femurs, Limited.
e it
mSmmm
>u /nmh&SMS a m tr
i/mmk
f /A\\
wmmm
i
m
mm
m
rmmm
mm. fm
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Furies.
Four Furies ride earth’s spaces,
And named this wise they be:
The Red Gale of the desert,
The Green Gale of the forest,
The White Gale of the mountain,
And the Grey Gale of the sea.
Wild deeds they have for telling,
When they, at times, ride home—
Of burning sands uplifted,
Of forest giants riven,
Of high-set peaks snow-harried,
And of hissing wastes of foam.
Within their black home-cavern,
While stars without burn red,
They tell of sun-dried corpses,
Of tree-crushed forest-dwellers,
Of lost men, lone and frozen,
And of pale men, drowned and dead.
Then, having told their doings,
Once more they issue forth,
And one goes howling southward,
And one goes raging eastward,
And one goes wailing westward,
While the last one gallops north.
Pray God, ye forest-rovers,
To guide ye on your path :
And pray, ye mountain scalers,
And pray, ye desert-strayers,
And pray, ye ocean-roarners.
When the Furies loose their wrath!
N.S.AV.
RODERIC QUINN.
Thyme.
Wistaria in a robe of gold
Whispers to every passing air:
Large leaves are hanging browm and cold
About the fig-tree stript and bare.
Though skies have hodden grey to wear,
A summer fragrance comes to me;
I breathe above the year’s despair
The thyme that scented Arcady.
Grey-green amid the withered weeds,
Ere wake the earliest daffodils,
It holds the piping of the reeds
Old shepherds blew on Grecian hills.
Pale music through the garden spills,
1 feel the floating gods go by;
And something far and tender thrills
Beneath a broad Aegean sky.
The white flocks dapple all the vale,
A sly nymph peeps between the trees.
On still blue water one white sail
Makes swallow flight before the breeze.
A tepiple on the mountain’s knees
Sends up a drift of solemn smoke;
I hear the murmuring of bees,
I see plough-oxen in the yoke.
And yonder, through the wooded glen,
Like some bright serpent in the sun,
I see the brazen march of men,
The bitter pomp of war begun.
Some clash of wills or evil done
Sets the day-flame upon the spears;
But high on scented thyme are spun
The dreams that glitter through the years.
Pipe, shepherd, pipe! The shadows creep
Across the plough-land and the stream.
The nibbled sward is for the sheep;
But shepherd eyes have caught the gleam
Of shadowy distances that teem
With sudden lights and ecstasy.
I breathe, far severed from that dream,
The thyme that scented Arcady!
NkjjLW.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Nocturne.
Night in a velvet cloak came down the stair,
Bearing a delicately-fretted bowl .
Of subtle fragrances,' which softly stole
Upon the sense; and coiled in her dim hair
And pressed on her cool forehead, glittered
rare
Translucent gems. Vainly I sought control
Of the emotion which oppressed my soul
At loveliness ethereally fair.
Rose-petals fell—symbols of Love and Pain.
On the deep silence, beautiful as Death.
A voice of silver strings came crystal clear.
Despair, remorse and passionate warm rain
Of sapphire notes rose on exalted breath,
Poising on trembling air a lustrous tear.
QUEENSLAND
E. COUNGEAU.
The Wanderer.
Cities and men did he behold,
Strange sights on land and sea,
For, like Odysseus of old,
A wanderer was he.
By hill and plain and lonely track
He passed from shore to shore,
With swag of cares upon his back,
A score of years and more.
But yet in all his wandering
Through bush and burning sand,
He never heard the Sirens sing
Nor chanced on Lotus-land.
Nor came unto that pleasant place
Where nymphs and fountains smile,
To dream at ease a golden space
Upon Calypso’s isle.
He only knew the mirage shone
Across the mocking skies ;
He only saw the track run on
And dust-clouds round him rise.
Though desolate the road he trod,
Rock-red or desert grey,
This wanderer met no shining God
To guide him on his way. .
Odysseus was fortunate.
Heroic travail past,
He found within his own good gate
Wife, son and hearth at last.
But he of whom no tale is told
Saw hearth-fires glow in vain,
Unlike Odysseus of old,
And took the track again.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


<s # /?
\
'\w
L/5?
✓
d
DEWAR’S
Whisky
Geniality is the sunshine in social life.
Human nature is as susceptible to its
warmth as a flower is to the sun. It
is the embodiment of a cheerfulness, full
of sympathy and optimism. And so is


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You. 45.—N0. 2321.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1924.
Pbice 6b.
MORE BLESSINGS OF PARTY GOVERNMENT.
“ Finding it impossible to get party unanimity aout the big things, Federal Governments devote their time to the small things, as to which
members don't to have strong opinions."
CAPTAIN BRUCE: "Yes, it's a foot of a game, I know. But, you see, some of these chaps don't like golf and tennis, tennis, and others don't like cricket and bowis,
so we compromise by playing marbles and tons."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Maji.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office ; Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly l
PI mouths, £1 os.; 6 mouths, 13s. 6d. ; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.: 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts., etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or. say.
SOf’O words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid lor same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
implying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Grondona, Australia House. Strand.
1V.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” ran he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. A Iso from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson
arid Sons, Cannon House, Dreams Dgildings, London,
E.C.i: E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Service, Ifi Fleet
Street, London, E.C.: “The British-Australasian,” 51
High llolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.S.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and .Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Illiodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Jew.!
Agency, Denoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, D.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Poland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Doulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 2~th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and ffind Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West .'list Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Go., Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt.—Jacques, Horn and. Co., The Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Pcrera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: P. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Padua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. 'Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Vls.’A.—j/’ Poland Kay Co., 161. East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Doulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji!
]ooz., Id. United Kingdom: ) to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 1/os.. Id.: All Sea Poute: 160 z., lsd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, ?.oz., id.
ffiuTfyxzlleim..
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1924.
THE SECOND BRUCE-PAGE BUDGET.
Eari.e Page has set a good example to the
State Treasurers by bringing down his Bud-
gets in July. And he must have startled
them last week by complacently proclaiming
1923-24 a year of wonders, inasmuch as “war
debt totalling £9,041,670 was redeemed out of
revenue and sinking funds.” However, when
the brotherhood of chronic borrowers
read in another part of Page’s finan-
cial statement that the Commonwealth
Government had simultaneously spent
£9,353,568 out of loans, they doubtless
felt relieved. It would be a reversal of all
precedent for an Australian Treasurer, in
office for a twelvemonth, to abstain from
pushing his country further into debt; a
financier so offending would probably be
dealt with by the Treasurers’ Union as a
blackleg and a traitor to his class. Page
began the year with an accumulated surplus
of £7,428,574, of which £4,915,755 was de-
voted to the redemption of war gratuity bonds
and the like. Ilis 1923-24 operations re-
sulted in a credit balance of £2,557,184, The
revenue was £65,077,810, or £4,078,810 more
than his estimate, and the expenditure
£62,484,169, an excess of £1,532,321. Income-
tax yielded £1.942,445 less than the Treasurer
anticipated ; Customs and Excise £6,100.000
more. The Customs and Excise receipts
reached the astonishing figure of £35.750.000,
as against £32,872,000 in 1922-23, £21,574,000
in 1919-20, and £14,978,000 in 1913-14. This
increase is unhealthy, and to some extent
deceptive; it is due chiefly to wild overseas
borrowing on the part of the State Govern-
ments, whose imports were taxed by the
Commonwealth Government, and to the
failure of the Greene tariff to do what it
was intended to do. The inflation of Cus-
toms receipts spells disaster to Australian in-
dustries, and a far-seeing Treasurer would
provide against it by ' sternly discouraging
overseas borrowing (there are many ways in
which he could apply pressure to the States)
and by raising the duties to a point at which
they would be really protective. But these
measures are too radical to be popular, and
they are not proposed. Instead, the Treasurer
has budgeted for another abnormal Customs
revenue, and has announced a series of con-
cessions to direct taxpayers and others, some
of which, in view of the fall in income-tax
receipts and the necessity for heavy Defence
expenditure, are certainly not justified.
* * « »
The favors to come are mostly in the form
of income-tax remissions, and in preparing
his list the good doctor has obviously been
mindful of votes. Westralia is to be grati-
fied by the exemption of gold-mining profits
from tax “until the whole of the working
capital invested has been returned to the
owner's,” The gold-mining industry is indis-
putably in need of encouragement, but the
proposition that a mining speculator should
be tax-free until he lias' got his money back
has the quality of taking the breath away.
There are Westralian companies that have
dragged huge profits out of the Golden Mile
and lost them in Africa, Asia, Alaska and
other remote parts of the world. If these
companies are to be placed in a privileged
position as compared with, say, the Broken
Hill Prop, in respect of its steelworks, the
Government will be asking for trouble. Tas-
mania is to be placated by the abandonment
of the 121 per cent. Federal tax on prizes
in Tattersall’s sweeps, which the State Gov-
ernment will presumably impose on its own
account. In this way the Treasurer obliges
an importunate client and ends an atrocious
hypocrisy of long standing—the taxation, by
one Commonwealth authority of an enterprise
to which another Commonwealth authority
refuses to deliver mails, on the ground that
it is beyond the pale. The Queensland Gov-
ernment will benefit from the ingenious
arrangement as regards its Golden Casket
lottery. For the rest, the general exemption
is to be raised from £2OO p.a. to £3OO p.a.
In 1922-23, when the exemption was lifted
to £2OO p.a., and the commonsense discrimina-
tion between married and single was dropped,
the number of individual taxpayers was re-
duced from 750,000 to 460,000, and the new
scheme will involve a further reduction to
200.000. On these 200,000 will fall the
whole burden of paying war interest and sink-
ing fund and claims arising out of the war.
From that honorable obligation single men
earniug between £4 and £5 15s. a week —in
short, the class that keeps the pony-races
going—are to be freed. The strangest
feature of this iniquitous proposal—iniquitous
from the moral as well as the financial point
of view—is that the Treasurer is evidently
proud of it. The general exemption “will
diminish £1 for every £3 by which the income
exceeds £300”; which means that the con-
cessions will stop at middle-class incomes of
£l2OO p.a. No relief is proposed for manu-
facturers and others whose businesses are
menaced by Labor Governments pledged to
usher in the 44-hour working week.
* * * *
The Budget is good in spots, like the Gov-
ernment itself. But it could have been made
a lot better if its authors hadn’t been so
intent on consolidating their position.
ARISTOCRACY AND ITS TITLES.
The unsentimental English builder who
entered the Conservative Club demanding
the knighthood he had bought and paid for,
will inevitably have sent thousands of people
digging around the foundations of hundreds
of British titles. Very few of the existing
peerages are of any great antiquity. Those
which have come down in anything like an
unbroken line from the Norman Con-
quest can be counted on the fin-
gers ; and a family ranks as very
old which originated from the ennobling
by Chaki.es I. of his favorite pawnbroker.
The Wars of the Roses tore the ancient aris-
tocracy of England to rags; the early Tudors
created peers on a wholesale scale to fill the
gap; and some historians have noted that in
the civil war of the seventeenth century there
were more names of long descent among the
supporters of the Parliament than in the
royalist army which tried to bolster up the
falling Stuarts. Elizabeth, realising the
decay of nobility, and having perhaps some
semi-democratic view of the whole situation,
tried to make knighthood the real sign of
aristocracy—the token of marked worth and
ability. Her knights were really greater than
her peers; and the title was made rare and
valuable. But James I. spoiled all that.
In the cheap Stuart view of life the fact
that knighthood was greatly desired by many
people, owing to the new dignity which had
grown about it, represented merely an oppor-
tunity for getting some additional cash. The
title was sold freely to all who would pay
enough for it: and the sons of the buyers
formed the bulk and the weakness of that
gilded and scented rabble that stood by
Charles and despotism when the testing
tirpe arrived. Since then titles have never
been sold so openly, but the general prin-
ciple has not greatly changed. Let a man
give of his fat wealth discreetly, but with
sufficient quiet advertisement to many chari-
ties, and he can easily rise rank by rank
to a middle place in the peerage. His son,
following a similar plan, may go even farther.
'He may enter politics with a great unearned
prestige,, make a mess of governing India or
holding a portfolio, and end still higher in
rank. He might do even better by marry-
ing a royal princess; but this would be
beyond the courage of most millionaires. The
general result of the system has been to
bring “nobility” into contempt. The thing
that is eagerly sought by a very small num-
ber of rich and cheaply ambitious people con-
stantly loses value in the proportion in which
they are successful in their seeking.
* * * *
Aristocracy was once a reality; and there
is a real aristocracy which must continue a
reality for ages to come. The king was once
the man who knew and could do things; the
duke was once the dux or leader; the marquis
was the man who held the march or frontier;
the earl simply the elder or alderman—the
name of the family head transferred an idea
to the tribal head. None of these titles
were strictly hereditary, though there was
always a tendency to give the son of a great
man the chance to prove himself the equal
of his father. These people were the real
aristocracy; by giving them the respect
naturally due to them the primitive society
of every European land was held together.
They were the leaders in peace and war; they
did the hardest thinking, took the biggest
personal risks, and were allowed to wear an
extra ornament or two and to have choice
of the best food for real and definite services
rendered to those about them. In lands
where slaves were held in great numbers
rank was an entirely different thing, though
probably much the same in its origin ; and with
the Norman Conquest of England the whole
original population was thrown into a kind
of serfdom which changed the idea of aris-
tocracy. William, having conquered the
country, held it as liis personal estate; his
nobles were his representatives in various
districts, holding all they had by his favor;
the people—as far as such an arrangement
was possible—were mere personal property
of those who held the lands. This was the
theory of things; but it was greatly modified
by the sturdy organisation of the townspeople,
by the growth of outlawry in the forests and
by the need of armies for foreign wars.
Those soldiers who followed their Norman
masters to the hard fighting in France re-
turned as English freemen; and between
these and the free artisans of the towns a
middle class grew up which was not really
contemplated in the original despotism.
Gradually the noble came to be looked upon
as a man of distinction in his district
rather than as its owner. At the same time
the great monasteries were constantly chal-
lenging the local temporal power ; and trade
was gradually rising from the mere huckster-
ing at a market stall to such size and opu-
lence that kings doffed their crowns to it
when they needed money. England’s Nor-
man aristocracy had changed almost to the
older idea of selective leadership before the
Wars of the Roses laid it in ruins; and it
is a notable fact that more leaders worthy
of the name rose from the ranks of that
Norman peerage in its last two generations
than in all the earlier years.
* * * *
The peerage of Britain as it is to-day
stands for a denial of all that was funda-
mental in aristocracy. Titles are indirectly
obtainable at a price ; and there is not only
no guarantee that a titled person has any
qualifications of leadership, but the title is
accepted by the mass of the people as
proof that he has none. The whole busi-
ness of ornamental names for very ordinary
and by no means decorative persons savors
more and more of comic opera. A title that
is without meaning naturally becomes ridicu-
lous ; and whatever little glamor still sur-
rounds the so-called noble person is due to
the fact that a few titles are still given
to generals, admirals and even statesmen for
services rendered or attempted. The various
orders of knighthood are in the same evil
case as the peerage; the letters which appear
in lists of Birthday Honors after the names
of rather undistinguished people are without
significance. Yet there is not the smallest
reason why a real aristocracy should not
still exist, or why it should not be distin-
guished by some real mark. Britain does
indeed possess one valued honor, apart from
some military signs, which proves that the
whole folly of titles ill-given or bought and
paid for has not destroyed the root idea. The
letters O.M. —Order of Merit —after a name
have not yet lost their power and charm;
and they will not do so while they are
sparingly awarded to those who are really
worthy/ The best thing that could happen
with regard to the majority of the existing
titles, however, would be their open sale to
the highest bidder. That would clear the
slate in a generation and probably bring back
most of the hoarded wealth of-the United
States to Europe. Millionaires’ daughters
would find titles easier to buy than to marry.
ARID (OR OTHERWISE) AUSTRALIA.
Dear Bulletin, —The periodical argument
has cropped up in the press as to whether
Australia possesses a desert or not, whether
(supposing there is a desert) it is large or
small or medium, and how (supposing there
is no desert) the report of one got about. A
despondent section talks as if most of this
country is unfit for occupation. It is a
small section, but it generally professes a
smattering of science, and it is very low-
spirited indeed. Its talc is mixed up with,
or merges into, the yarn that Tropical Aus-
tralia is a place where it is impossible for
tbe white citizen and citizeness to live and
work, and that all other tropical lands are
similar. On the other side is a section (the
“boundless natural resources” section) which
holds it to be the essential earmark of
patriotism to swear that the fertility of Aus-
tralia is quite exceptional, and that, when
fully realised, the resources are calculated
to exhaust the human capacity for astonish-
ment. This class has a remarkable capacity for
borrowing money on the security of the
boundless natural resources and then spend-
ing it in and around the cities. The worst
professional pessimists I have met have been
city folk also. The people who know the
country say that it is good, indifferent and
bad. I think an agreement should be arrived
at about this alleged desert, and that it
should be allowed to exist in moderation and
without hysterics.
* * * *
A great deal is said in a loose sort of way
about the possibilities of water conservation.
As a matter of fact, the Lord has done a
great deal in that way Himself —here as in
other places. The name of our recognised
Big Dam is Lake Eyre. A rough-and-ready
test of the rainfall is the amount of water
in the Big Dam, especially the amount in
proportion to the size of the catchment area.
Rainfall and evaporation are the matters
which make or prevent deserts. The Caspian
Sea, which, like Eyre, is at the bottom of a
hole and lias no visible outlet, is about twice
the size of Victoria, and over 3000 ft. deep
in its most excited moments. The Dead Sea,
another cul-de-sac, is 1300 ft. deep in spots.
The Sea of Aral averages 223 ft. in depth,
and is bigger than Tasmania. Australia's
Dead Sea is of rather dubious size owing
to the mildly imperceptible way in which
land becomes morass and morass becomes
water, but it is suspected of having 14ft.
of water at one corner. The recognised
Lake Eyre Basin, whose rivers feed this in-
land sea, covers 454,635 square miles, or
nearly one-sixth of the mainland. Along-
side the Basin is the Riverless Area (87b.389
square miles), which would also contribute
to the inland sea if it had any contribution
to offer. That makes a total of 1,334,024
square miles, and this space has been esti-
mated as enual to the supply areas of the
Caspian, Aral and Dead Sea combined. The
smallness of the result produced by all this
collection has. I believe, driven pessimists
to the conviction that there is a dry region
( i.e ., a desert) in Australia somewhere. I
find this in the Federal “Year Book” of a
few issues back, and I don’t imagine tilings
have changed much :
The “lakes” of Australia may be divided into three
classes, viz., (a) true permanent lakes; (b) lakes
which, being very shallow, become mere morasses in
dry seasons, or even dry up and finally present a
cracked surface of salt and dry mud ; and (c) lakes
which are really inlets of the ocean.... The second
class (b) is the only one which seems to demand
special mention. These are a characteristic of the
great central plain of Australia. Some of these (e.g.,
Lakes Torrens. Gairdner, Eyre, Frome) are of con-
siderable extent.
It really looks as if there was a dry spot
somewhere.
* * * *
It is a frequent and favorite gag that the
United States people also thought once that
they had an inland desert, and as they dis-
covered their mistake, and their desert proved
to be, a wheatfield, so it will be with us pro-
vided only we are patriotic and shout hard
enough. It is alleged that nothing worse has
been said here about the Great Sandy
desert (W.A.) and Gibson’s desert (W.A.).
which both appear on the latest maps, than
was said at one time about Uncle Sam’s
Middle States, and said by Uncle himself.
It is hardly worth while living with this delu-
sion. Early explorers found, over a great
part of the U.S. interior, buffaloes packed
thick, wild horses in herds over certain parts
and wild Indians in a great deal too many
herds. They were terrified by prairie fires.
FeXtmoke Cooper’s braves having’•lighted
the incalculable herbage to chase Fenimoije
Cooper’s hero off the map. The land was
desert, and may have been so described in tin;
same sense as Crusoe’s desert isle, through
insufficient civilised companionship, but that
is a different matter. There was, of
a limited amount of real desert in the U.S.
(about 200,000 square miles), for even in
a continent that is, on the average, 21 times
as high above the sea as Australia, with a
rainfall to correspond, something of the sort
is always liable to happen. It was there'
early, and it is still there. Very little that
was new has been found out about it, and
no miracles have been worked with it. The
latest maps still point out the Bad Lands,
the Painted Desert and other familiar fea-
tures. Nevada, after being a full-blown State
for GO years next October, has declined till
its population is seven humans per 10 square
miles, it being an infertile place which makes
a crust by granting divorces.
-X- * * *
In any case, what is the disgrace in having
a desert, any more than in having a grand-
father? It is a stately and picturesque pos-
session : I have known some deserts which
were far more respectable than some grand-
fathers I have known. This continent in-
cludes 1,119,152 square miles of land watered
by its coastal rivers, apart from the Murray
Basin, and with all that to work on why
worry about a theory ? The really bad desert
doesn’t block the way of the Soutli-to-North
railway, anyhow; so why not get on with
that? I once lived near a faitli-healer or
something of the sort —one of the kind who
hold that people only imagine they are sick,
and. later on, that they are buried. When
he burned some part of his anatomy one day
his shouts that there was no such thing as
pain were terrible. Some patriotic Austra-
lians try to deal with the desert the same
way.—Yours, etc., J. E.
DIVORCE AND THE LAW.
The influence of Christianity tightened up
the bonds of matrimony, and only in modern
days are we recovering the free and easy
divorce of early Republican and Imperial
Rome. In the illustrious days when Planctts
was Consul, Plancus had but to say to the
Roman matron, “My dear, I’ve had enough
of it,” and divorce went as a matter of
course. Nowadays we are approximating
that condition. Certainly the matter is
adjusted with less frankness and more guile.
We present a Janus face, one looking to the
law and the public, the other to the parties
in the background. The result is the same.
The early Christian Church, which eventu-
ally eradicated the “heathen” custom of
Rome, gave a new significance to marriage.
In blessing the estate of matrimony it sanc-
tified the home and the young life therein.
With the increasing power of the Roman
Church marriage was lifted beyond the law,
and was constituted a sacrament. The wide-
spread power of the Church compassed Eng-
land, and it was not till the much-married
Henry VIII., taking a special interest in
divorce, broke with Rome and constituted
himself the head of the Anglican Church,
that Englishmen found it no longer neces-
sary to go to the Pope for a divorce. But
it made their case scarcely a whit the better.
They fell out of the hands of the Pontiff into
those of the Ecclesiastical Courts. The 1
Church of England, while denying that mar-
riage was an ordained sacrament, recognised
in it a special sanctity, and closed nearly all
outlets of escape once the captive was im-
prisoned in that “holy estate.” The poor
man continued to bear his matrimonial
chains, but to the rich there came in time —
about a century and a half after the Refor-
mation—a means of escape. With influ-
ence and money he could secure a Private
Act of Parliament.
The Ecclesiastical Courts, while restrain-
ing divorce, invented as a compromise what
might be described as “a hell of Tantalus.’
It was entitled “separation a mensa ei thoro' :
no longer should the parties share the com-
mon meal and the old four-poster. This
was granted for certain causes, and required
security to be given by the parties that they
would during their married life live “chastely


and continently,” and not contract matri-
mony with any other person. Such was the
attitude of the law to divorce for centuries:
it was deemed well that the citizen of aver-
age means, and certainly the poor, should
be content with “a mensa et thoro” for
what it was worth, but that the rich should
haye Acts of Parliament. Sanctity without
relief was deemed good for Mr. and Mrs.
tirAWRAcoN up to the end of the eighteenth
century. Indeed, the Britisher took pride
in the strength of his matrimonial shackles.
Said Edmund Burke : "The Christian reli-
gion, by rendering marriage indissoluble, has
done more towards the peace, happiness,
settlement and civilisation of the world than
by any other part in the whole scheme of
divine wisdom.”
It remained for the new century, inocu-
lated with the ideas of Rousseau and Vol-
taire, to take another concept of “the divine
wisdom.” It was, however, slow to evolve.
The Ecclesiastical Courts had a grip on mar-
riage not easy to relax. Half the century
elapsed before any real reform came, and
then it was to some extent precipitated
through a clever satire by Sir William
Maule, Judge of the Common Pleas. Maule
had before him a prisoner convicted of
bigamy. The man pleaded in mitigation of
his conduct that his wife was given to dissi-
pation and drunkenness, and had proved her-
self a curse to her family. The Judge re-
marked : “I am not permitted to recognise
any such plea. You had entered into a
solemn engagement to take her for better,
for worse, and if you got infinitely more of
the latter, as you appear to have done, it
was your duty patiently to submit.” He
then traced the steps that would have had
to be taken by the man to obtain relief by
Act of Parliament:—
It would cost you, perhaps, five or six hundred
pounds, and you do not seem to be worth as many
pence. Hut it is the boast of the law that it is
impartial, and makes no difference between the' rich
and the poor. The wealthiest man in the kingdom
would have had to pay no less than that sum for the
same luxury, so that you would have no cause to
complain. You have thus wilfully neglected the boon
the Legislature offered you, and it is my duty to pass
on you such sentence as I think your offence deserves,
and that sentence is, that you be imprisoned for one
day ; and inasmuch as the present Assize is three days
old, the result is that you will be immediately
discharged.
This deliverance caused widespread interest
and comment, and in January, 1858, the
Statute 20 and 21 Vic. came into opera-
tion. It took from the Ecclesiastical tri-
bunals all civil jurisdiction over the subject
of marriage and its incidents, and estab-
lished in their places the Divorce Court, to
grant divorces “a vinculo matrimonii” (from
the chain of w T edlock). That antique relic
mensa et tlioro ” was thrown out with
other rubbish, and judicial separations, with-
out sureties of continence, were substituted.
Both husband and wife were given relief,
though, as usual in the law of the time, to
the latter it was given in a lesser degree.
It was enough for the husband to prove adul-
tery, but the wife against the husband had
to couple to it incest, bigamy, etc., cruelty
or desertion without reasonable cause for
two years and upwards. Some crumbs were
thrown to the ousted ecclesiastical jurisdic-
tion by a provision to the effect that a clergy-
man conscientiously refusing to marry a per-
son whose former marriage had been dis-
solved by reason of his or her adultery was
absolved from all fines and penalties, but
he must not prevent any other minister,
entitled to officiate in the diocese, from, if
lie saw fit, marrying the parties in the objec-
tor's church. Cases of conscientious objec-
tion arise to this day.
In N. S. Wales jurisdiction in matters
matrimonial was conferred on the Supreme
Court by the Act 36 Vic. No. 9, following in
its provisions the English precedent. In
1881 the rights of the wife were enlarged so
that she could obtain divorce on the ground
of the husband’s adultery alone, a conces-
sion beyond the English law. A further
extension of the grounds of divorce came in
1892, and in the following year additional
amendments were made, one of special in-
terest dealing with suits for “the restitu-
tion of conjugal rights.” It is the operation
of this amendment which is the bone of con-
tention in a bill now before Parliament.
A glance at the newspaper reports of
Divorce Court proceedings will show the
great preponderance of applications for “res-
titution.” This road out of matrimony is
both a fashionable and a crowded thorough-
fare. The provision in the Act was founded
on the English law, but diverged from that
law in what, though probably not foreseen,
proved to be a vital respect. The result has
been that a petitioner can, under certain
circumstances, obtain easy and speedy
divorce. If his wife leave her home, the
husband may invoke the assistance of the
Court to compel her to return. The order
of the Court must be obeyed unconditionally.
She cannot “talk” or make conditions. In
one instance the lady said she would go
back if her husband allowed her a separate
bedroom; but the Court said; “We can’t
have it,” and held that its order had not
been complied with. The lady must not bar-
gain, though had she returned uncondition-
ally she might have had her way, as it has
been held that the duty of matrimonial inter-
course cannot be compelled by the Court,
though cohabitation may be. A Judge is
said to have put the matter bluntly in these
words : “This Court cannot put a man and
his wife in bed together.” The Court can
only order her to go home.
There is an air of unreality about the
whole of these proceedings. To obtain a
divorce directly on the ground of desertion,
such desertion must have been for a period
nf tlnee years at least* but by the two~suit
process of “restitution” it may be' obtained
after. a few weeks only of desertion. One
suit is brought for restitution, and if the
oidei is not complied with the petitioner
brings another suit for divorce, produces the
order, and, proving the non-compliance o-cts
his divorce on the ground of desertion. Often
tlieic is much finesse in the game, especially
where the husband wants divorce but is
not quite sure that his wife is equally anxious
for it. She has left the home, but.' perhaps
only needs a little pressing, ardently applied
to bring her back. How to ask her to re-
turn without too pressing an invitation is
the husband s problem. He frequently leaves
this diplomatic question to his solicitor
But in many cases the matter is privately
fixed up between the parties themselves
The Court has expressed the intention of
seeing that an honest attempt is made to got
the wife to return to her home; but who
can penetrate the duplicity of two souls
with but a single thought and that—divorce?
It is an easy way out of matrimony, almost
as easy as the way in, and not much, if at
all, more expensive. Like that other popu-
lar institution, the picture-show, it will
doubtless continue to draw crowds.
T. B. C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Naval Gamble.
On July 113 the Brisbane, the present flag-
ship of the Australian Navy, grounded on a
reef near Bootless Inlet, off Port Moresby,
New Guinea. It has since been reported
that she was refloated without damage. If
this is correct, there is cause for gratifica-
tion : all the same, it would be well if the
Navy Department explained what a valuable
ship of her size and draught was doing there
at all. Every year, about the middle of
June, it is customary for the ships of the
R.A.N. to proceed on a winter cruise, and
almost invariably one or more of the light
cruisers is despatched on a solitary jaunt
around the islands. These maritime pic-
nics are arranged according to a rigid time-
table, and very little latitude is allowed.
The folly of sending a 5600-ton ship, 450 ft. in
length, drawing nearly 20ft. of water, worth
a million pounds, and with 500 lives on
board, for an utterly useless trip amongst
the uncharted waters of the North-West
Pacific has long been apparent to those offi-
cers whose unfortunate duty it was to carry
out these programmes. Only last year the
same ship passed over a coral
patch—now named the Brisbane Reef —off
the north-east coast of Bougainville Island,
in the Solomons. The ship at the time was
proceeding at 11 knots, following the inshore
channel most frequently used, and navigat-
ing on a modern German chart, the best
obtainable, and one which for that part of
the world was far above the average. The
day was bright and clear, the sea smooth.
Both sounding machines were being used
continuously, and a lookout was at the mast-
head. Suddenly, in a spot where the chart
showed 30 fathoms, a depth of five fathoms
was called. Subsequent investigation by
the then navigating officer of the ship dis-
covered a coral pinnacle with as little at 21ft.
of water over it. The Brisbane was draw-
ing 18ft. at the time, and had avoided hav-
ing her bottom ripped clean out of her by
just 3ft. The Fleet collier Biloela, and,
later, the Brisbane, reported a further shoal
patch a few miles from Samarai, likewise
uncharted. The Admiralty charts of that
part of the world are notoriously inaccurate,
and cases occur, as in that of the Aline reef,
off the Solomons, where the same obstruction
is placed on the chart in two places, miles
apart, and the light-hearted mariner is, so
to speak, invited to take his choice of which
position he would like it in. Actually the
reef is in neither of the positions shown, and
so a further zest is added to pilotage in the
vicinity. Very few of the outlying islands
of the N.-W. Pacific groups are charted
within even a mile of their correct positions,
and in many cases the chart is in error five
or six miles. There are whole areas the
size of Queensland with not a single sounding
shown on the virgin paper. All this is a
matter of common knowledge to any seaman
acquainted witli the islands, and the Navy
Department, even if it does not include any
seamen among its complement, has been re-
peatedly warned by competent naval officers
that disaster will one day surely be the price
of this habit of playing with fire. Again,
a squadron, led by the Brisbane, was des-
patched to cruise around New Caledonia, the
New Hebrides and New Guinea. Despite
the fact that the Brisbane is at present the
only efficient light cruiser on the Australian
coast—-the other two are propping up the
wall at Garden Island in various states of
disrepair, and the Adelaide is with the Special
Service Squadron—she is once more sent
forth on a suicidal cruise in little-known and
most dangerous waters. It is fully realised
that in order to maintain the Navy in an
efficient state it is necessary that ships
should spend as much time at sea as the
national exchequer will permit. A navy that
stays in harbor is almost useless —though
even such a force has more potential value
than one that rusts on a reef. Legitimate
risks are part of the day’s work, and acci-
dents during manoeuvres must be looked for
in an efficient force. It is impossible to learn
or teach the art of modern sea-warfare with-
out taking chances. All this is understood
by those competent to judge. But none but
fools risk things of great value when those
°f far less value will suffice equally as well.
If it is a genuine necessity that men-of-war
should visit the most inaccessible islands of
the Pacific, why not use a comparatively
valueless gunboat? Sloops of the Flower
class, of which there are two or three avail-
able, should be fitted out for the work. Ves-
sels of this type are employed by the Im-
perial Government in the West Indies, China,
Eastern Pacific, Red Sea and similar sta-
tions, where coral abounds, where the charts
fJTS. n one too good, and where a considerable
difficulty in safe navigation is experienced.
It is true that they have only one hull; but
double bottoms could easily and cheaply be
fitted, and if one or two officers of the sur-
veying branch were included in the comple-
ment, these at present useless and hazardous
cruises might be turned to profitable account.
- ♦
A Moral with Moss on It.
A pertinent contribution to the history of
land-settlement without capital has been
published in Westralia. Angwin, the Min-
ister of Lands, complained that a number
of Mitchell’s group-settlers had changed
their place of residence, and suggested that
“the wintry winter they have had to face
in the country” must be responsible. “The
Government/’ he went on, “is not prepared
to be continually paying the fares of settlers
who leave the groups in order to find work
in Perth, and, when they are not successful,
desire to go to some fresh group.” Having
thus relieved his feelings, he stated that the
position on July 34 was as follows:
Number of group settlements .. 124
Settlers on groups . . . . _ 2287 i
Settlers who have left groups ..' ~"c79
Settlers dismissed from groups . . 58
About three-fifths of these group settlers are
British immigrants; the Australians include
a sprinkling of A.I.F. men. The Govern-
ment charges nothing for the land in its
virgin state, but expects the blocker to begin
paying for the improvements, on long terms,
as soon as he can support himself, whenever
that may be. In the meantime he gets 10s.
a day, free housing and stores at current
rates; liis land is cleared and fenced “under
the direction of an experienced foreman,” and
he is provided with implements, seed and
stock. And, if he happens to be a “migrant,”
he has a good chance of getting a fully-
equipped farm for a lot less than it will cost
the country, for in the Mitchell Govern-
ment’s agreement with the Imperial authori-
ties, who are lending part of the money, the
“migrant’s” liability is expressly limited to
£lOOO, and that expenditure, in many cases,
is certain to be heavily exceeded. Yet, with
all these concessions, not one of which was
enjoyed by the pioneers of the Riverina, of
tin; Victorian Mallee, of the S.A. Pinnaroo
country or the Westralian wheat belt, nearly
a third of the settlers have departed from
the groups, which are all in the unproduc-
tive stage. Of 399 civilians, all Australians,
181 have gone; of 212 A.I.F. men 145 left
and three were dismissed; of 253 Imperial
soldiers 121 left and 20 were dismissed.
Apart from the financial aspect, which is
serious enough, it was an unkindness to
these men to take them from familiar call-
ings and thrust them into a strange and un-
congenial business, to become a misery to
themselves and a nuisance to others. Rut
that is the wilful fashion of Australian Gov-
ernments. Never will these fool-politicians
learn that the only kind of small settler
worth troubling about is the thrifty person
who starts with an outfit of experience,
laboriously acquired in working for others,
and seconds it with his own savings.
♦
Woman’s New Status.
Foe centuries there have been two conflicting
conceptions of marriage—both logical, once
the premises are accepted. The R.C. Church
says that marriage is an indissoluble sacra-
ment with which the State has no concern.
The opposing school claims that marriage
has nothing to do with churches —-that it is
a civil contract and to be voided, accord-
ingly, where one of the parties “lets the other
down.” In communities which believed celi-
bacy to be the ideal state it is clear that there
would be no sympathy with divorce as a pre-
lude to re-marriage; in fact, the Early
1 athers, carrying the spiritual idea of mar-
riage to its logical conclusion, declared that
a husband or wife who was freed from wed-
lock by death, and took another mate, was
guilty of “legal adultery.” So long as woman
remained in subjection this system worked.
In Britain ten or a dozen centuries passed
before it was seriously challenged. During
all this time women, outside a few great
families, had neither legal nor traditional
rights of much value; their overlords could
demand either their properties or their per-
sons. The position of married women then
and for centuries afterwards was particu-
larly invidious. Right up to the middle of
last century women had no real redress
against criminal, unfaithful or drunken hus-
bands; divorces could only be obtained by
costly Acts of Parliament, and the law did
not allow married women to own property.
During the last 75 years there has been a
clean sweep of the laws founded on the
theories of the Early Christians. The Mar-
ried Woman’s Property Act allowed a mar-
ried woman to hold property. English
Judges in the last few months have upset the
rules relating to divorce and to a wife’s lack
property rights in her own person. The
VVorld War accelerated the female movement
into business and the professions. To-day
woman stands virtually on an equality
with man, her emancipation completed.
It is irrefutable that “you can’t eat your
cake and have it,” and similarly it is ridi-
culous to emancipate women and expect them
to behave as they did when enchained. The
inevitable effect of each fresh instalment of
independence conferred upon the sex has been
to make them more reluctant to endure paren-
tal or marital controls which they put up
with formerly, because there was no alterna-
tive between submission and starvation. It
is also ridiculous for a country to deliberately
take the Bible out of the marriage ceremony,
so to speak -to go so far as to penalise those
who deny the validity of a registry-office
marriage—and at the same time expect
rational people to regard marriage as any-
thing but a civil contract. The natural re-
sult of the new conditions has been to cause
a demand for easier divorce. The world is
probably neither more nor less moral than
it was when every British home held its
compulsorily faithful and diligent female
slave: it is merely freer.
The “Vested Interests” of Prohibition.
Archdeacon Boyce has pointed out in Syd-
ney telegraph that “the two great U S
parties, the Democrats and the Republicans!
vUio are both very keen on catching votes,
lavor .prohibition”; and he deduced that
tins important law was no failure”:
The people themselves in the States know far more
than outsiders and they apparently now stand in
a vast majority in favor of the law, which the
elections m November next will most probably sup-
port. Their first-hand knowledge is of its effective-
ness and wonderful beneficence.
Lord Birkenhead, ex-Lord Chancellor of
England, has been investigating this verv
question in the U.S.A., and his conclusion's
were published in the San Francisco
Examiner :
No political party dares to embark upon deep waters
of controversy upon each side of which so many
powerful and immeasurable forces are ranged....
And the political difficulties, already great, are
enormously increased by a very singular circumstance!!
* first time in the history of any country the
whole influence of the drink trade—now an illeeiti-
mate, not a legitimate, trade —is thrown upon the
side of fanatical teetotalism. I was indeed informed"
and upon credible authority, that many bootleggers s
cheques, decorously marked of course, help to
swell the funds of prohibition. Could a situation
more savagely ironical be conceived?
In addition to bootleggers and prohibitionists,
the rich—who in America wield tremendous
political influence—are well satisfied with the
Volstead Amendment:—
Citizens of the highest consequence who have never
violated any other law openly and even smilingly
admit that they recognise no obligation under this
law. Many restaurants in large cities place alcohol
upen their table,s with the same openness as is to be
observed in London restaurants. Men, and women of
the highest position openly use the'expression “my
bootlegger.” It is indeed a notorious fact that the
exports of Scotch whisky from one great English house
to the U.S.A. have actually increased since the
adoption of prohibition.
There is only one considerable section that
objects vehemently to prohibition—the mod-
erate Laborites, whose views are voiced by
Samuel Gompers. Prohibition is proving
unpleasantly prohibitive so far as these un-
fortunates are concerned:—
The rich man can reinforce his drink supply be-
cause he can afford to pay an absolutely reliable
bootlegger ; but the poor drinking man must take
terrible risks; because the kind of bootlegger open
to him is less expensive and less discriminating.
Such are the social conditions that the Ameri-
cans have clamped on themselves; and that
any rational country is going to b« so
demented as to follow suit passes belief.
«
The Crime Wave.
It is bad in the two big States, has
been bad for three years or more,
and is apparently growing worse. The
Victorian law was a semi-paralysed
institution even before the Melbourne
force went on strike as a protest
against inspectors coming round by night
to discover whether the officer was “on duty”
or absent and in his bed. It was no better
after the strike, probably because the force
now consists to a considerable extent of men
who may mean well but don’t yet know the
criminal classes as they should. And if the
Prendergast Ministry carries out a threat
heard during the election campaign, and rein-
states the boys of the old brigade, the posi-
tion isn’t likely to improve. In Sydney
affairs are hardly so bad, for a percentage
of the stolen motor-cars are certainly recov-
ered, and the body is almost always identi-
fied even if the homicide isn’t; but they are
not good, and the Fuller Ministry, incred-
ible as it may seem, proposes to tighten up
the law in several ways. A number of causes
have been suggested to explain the crime
wave, some of them catalogued thus:—
The police, considered as men who should oe
furnished with something extra in the way of physical
fitness and courage, also with honesty, intelligence
and decision of character, are still poorly paid and
poorly pensioned; so the supply of “cops” is small
and the quality not wholly satisfactory.
There is too much maudlin sentiment in the way
of the release of “first offenders,” who are often
frequent offenders found out for the first time. The
shoplifting industry is said to be largely based on
this system. The boss lifter doesn’t lift personallv,
and the subordinates only lift till they are found out
and released under the Act. Then they are discharged
from the gang lest next time they should oe
tempted to buy immunity by giving away too much
of the show.
kar too few offences carry a three- or-six-months
minimum sentence. Criminals may not be reformed
in gaol, but a person who can’t get out to commit
crime is the same, for practical purposes, as if he
was reformed.
No attempt has been made on a large scale to
establish self-supporting and (in a small way) wage-
payiug gaols, where the sentence on the prisoner who
knows no trade shall last till he is proficient at
some lawful occupation. Yet this kind of education
is generally regarded as a great preventive of crime.
For some time the Law actually went out of its
road to indirectly furnish gratis vehicles with which
to proceed swiftly to a distant scene of law-breaking
and make a rapid retreat with the plunder or the
body. In other words, so long as the stolen motor
was presently found in a paddock, it was held that
nothing was gained by pursuing the matter further,
as a prosecution would only result in the thief getting
the benefit of the doubt as a harmless and high-
spirited humorist and a gushing child of Nature.
For lack of a system by which the serious offender
is made to lose his civil rights for a term of years
after his release, and thus cease to qualify as a voter
or candidate of any sort, the criminal has a political
value which he ought not to have, and the tendency
to pamper him grows.
The measure which is foreshadowed in N. 8.
Wales omits provision to meet some of these
defects ; but it has distinct merits. The indi-
vidual who goes off with another man’s
motor-car. or -boat is to be definitely regarded
as a criminal, even if he abandons the bulky
and incriminating article when he has done
robbing with it. And, among other things,
it is proposed to abandon the assumption that
when a very large wife commits a crime in
the presence of a very small husband she is
not responsible, he having driven her to it.
—v
The Tribulations of Theodore.
“Solomon Malaprop” discourses :
The inevitable cloud has come over the fortunes
of Premiei Theodore, of Queensland. He is the respon-
sible demagogue in office (he attained office solely by
being a demagogue) and he can't keep pace with his
followers, drivers and taskmasters, who are irrespon-
sible demagogues out of office. If Queensland were
an independent State this would be the time for
Theodore to disperse Parliament, put himself at
the head of the army, and either grant a new Con-
stitution which would disqualify his worst opponents,
or declare for a period of personal government, until
the community was more ripe for representative insti-
tutions. As matters stand, there are no rules which
wholly meet the case.
Theodore went to England with his course mapped
out for him. He was to offer no apology or redress
to anybody who had lost money through his pastoral
rents being raised far beyond anything that the terms
of the leases allowed. Instead he was to make it
clear to all concerned, as Rehoboam tried to do to his
subjects, that they might look for even worse things
in the future. Having made these matters plain, lie
was to negotiate the renewal of about £25,000,000
of debt on favorable terms, possibly arrange a new
loan or two, and come away With martial tread. If
the uprising of opposition made it necessary to give,
say, the Bank of England “one in the eye,” Theodore
was relied upon as the man for the work.
Unfortunately the people in London didn’t measure
up to the specification. Theodore had remarkable
goou fortune because High Finance had no desire to
pull down the whole show on its own head, but he
had to make promises as to future rents, and the
renewal terms were none too good. The agile Premier .
on his return denied having conceded anything, but
the position was too obvious. Old friends openly
suspected him of being a backslider, and remarked
thuu as he proposed leaving shortly for Federal
policies he might as well leave at once. To furnish
him with an open and precipitous way out, caucus
required Theodore to do two things which he badly
didn’t want to do, with, of course, the usual facilities
for resigning. One was to reverse the only bit or
economy on his record, and the other was to cut the
working day of all sorts of employees down to a maxi-
mum of 44 hours and a minimum of anything. To
give way wouldn’t be so helpful in Federal politics
as might be supposed, for Queensland Federal politics
are very different from Queensland State politics, and


T*£ Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“t25 a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums
Seventh year’s premiums. . . . ....
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
£8849
£87,728
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
Managing Director.
surrender would be very bad for the pose of the
strong' man. Yet it was no time for a shindy and
a possible downfall, for the nomination for a decently
safe Federal seat hadn’t been secured. Having
balanced the chances, the strong man caved in.
The matters which outstand in Queensland, the
most richly endowed of the mainland States by
Nature, are mostly bad matters, and the badness dates
from the beginning of the Ryan-Theodore regime.
Factory wages, according to the latest figures
1,1922-23), are below those of N.S.W., Westralia or
S. Australia, and below the Commonwealth average,
yet apparently they are higher than industry can
afford. At any rate, Theodore’s is the one State
where the class for which it is easy to provide short
hours and good wages on paper has long been a
diminishing proportion of the community. In this
connection the following figures will bear repetition:
Factory Workers per 10,000 Mean Population.
1914. 1922-23. Increase.
Victoria . . 832 940 108
N. S. Wales . . 626 695 . 69
S. Australia . . 611 670 59
Tasmania . . 450 479 29
Westralia .. 545 548 3
Decrease.
Queensland . . 641 541 100
But most striking of all is the comparison, which is
made airesh every time the Federal Statistician brings
out another annual batch of figures, between the path-
etically small value to the Commonwealth of Queens-
land under its present control, and of S. Australia.
The former has every variety of natural wealth. The
latter is the very poorest as regards minerals, has
the poorest rainfall, and hardly possesses a river of
its own. Yet the latest figures showed the returns
of the pair under six uniform Federal taxes or
sources of revenue to be as follows: —
Yield from Land, Income, Estate, Entertain-
ments and War Profits Duties, and P.O. Profits.
Queensland .. £2,085,811 £2 14 4 per head
S. Australia . . 2,102,947 4 3 9 „ „
The average all round was £4 ss. 7d. per inhabitant,
so the extent to which Queensland loafs on its neigh-
bors approaches the heroic. The only manufacture
that Theodore and Co. seem qualified to promote
is the manufacture of poverty.
♦
The Millstones of Erin.
“I am sorry we have to go to Timbuctoo or some-
where to find a chairman for the Boundary Com-
mission, but I don’t envy him his job.” — Lord Carson.
Much of Ulster’s political thinking is (lone
for it in London by men like Carson and the
Craigs, who have married English wives
and own English estates, just as the thinking
of the Southern republicans is done for them
chiefly in Chicago. The natural result is an
atmosphere of truculence which makes the
task of men of peace and goodwill, who live
in Ireland and stand to be ruined by a fresh
outbreak of hostilities, extremely difficult.
If the Carsons on the one hand and the De
Valeras on the other had kept quiet about
the proposal to set up a Boundary Commis-
sion, there might have been some hope of an
arrangement more acceptable, and ten thou-
sand times more profitable, to both parties
than the' present state of threatened war.
Now the position is clear cut. The Bol-
sheviks of the South will be satisfied with
nothing less than Tyrone, half Fermanagh
and the southern parts of Armagh and
Down, while the reactionaries of the
North decline to yield a foot of the terri-
tory held under the Government of Ireland
Act (1920). The Ulster extremists say with
an English accent that they are being asked to
give up a little as a prelude to being forced
to sacrifice the lot, and the republicans reply
in Bowery American that that is the posi-
tion. Last week’s decision of the Ramsay
Macdonald Government to pass legislation
enabling a Boundary Commission to come to
a decision without the help of an Ulster
representative should place the fat definitely
in the fire. Ulster will be deprived of all it
is keeping off the Boundary Commis-
sion for fear of losing, _ and the South
will not be satisfied. This will re-create
a situation w 7 hich has been exploited in
England and the U.S.A. by politicians
(chiefly prosperous “exiles”) since the Peace
Conference of Limerick. It pays ward
bosses in America and British members of
the Carlton Club to keep Catholics and Pro-
testants disunited—in Ireland. Not in Eng-
land, where the heads of the great Catholic
families are practically all Ulster Tories,
and not in America, where Hogan (R.C.)
and McNulty (Pres.) boodle hand in hand,
so to speak; but emphatically so in Ireland.
This is the real tragedy of Erin. If a very
old English Lord of Appeal such as Carson
(who has lived in London, with hardly a
break, for 30 years) presumed to interfere in
Australian party politics, the impertinence
would be strongly resented; and the same
sentiments would be aroused in any other
autonomous dominion if a carpet-bagging
half-breed like De Valera suddenly arrived
from New York and proclaimed himself a
saviour of the country. But there is some-
thing subservient about the character of the
Irish. North and South, in Ireland, that im-
pels them to welcome such sorry leaders.
When as a result of their activities revolu-
tion breaks out again in Ireland, they will
he heard from once more; the Carsons and
Craigs making anti-Labor capital out of the
omission of their political opponents to send
British troops to uphold Ulster’s rights, and
the De Valeras taking round the hat for
cash to prosecute the war against English
tyranny. It is a ruinous state of affairs that
can never be ended by Acts of Parliament
passed in London, but might end soon and
for ever if the inhabitants of the Green Isle
realised that it is time they stopped allowing
their legs to be pulled by alien adventurers.
+
The Tricks of Party Reach Egypt.
“Zaghlul Pasha announced in the Egyptian Cham-
ber of Deputies that he bowed to the will of the
people, and would remain in office to carry out the
policy of complete independence for Egypt and the
Soudan.” — Cable.
Egypt’s leader has been quick to learn the
tricks of the party game, and Ramsay Mac-
donald, President Cosgrave, of the Irish
Free State, and others who are being loudly
called on to redeem impossible promises made
as irresponsible Oppositionists are no doubt
envying him. Prime Minister Macdonald is
now at liberty to be as pacifist as he likes, and
there is nothing but the operation of economic
laws to prevent Mr. Cosgrave making his
part of Ireland blossom like the rose, as he
prophesied it would upon the departure of
the Sassenach oppressor. Actually, both
have disappointed, and in many cases alien-
ated, former supporters. The British Prime
Minister has found it necessary to strengthen
the Air Force and add six new cruisers to
the Navy, and the industries of Ireland,
which boomed during the war, are now lan-
guishing as a result of French and German
dumping. The position of Zaghlul was
more difficult than that of either of his
fellow-idealists when lie entered on his inherit-
ance. The British had governed his coun-
try equitably and well. In less than 40
THE FOOLS’ PARADISE.
“There is no system of defence to equal a prosperous and contented people.” —Sydney Worker.
BELGIUM: “Don’t believe him, brother. My country was prosperous and contented ten
years and a month ago.”
years Lord Cromer and his officials had
harnessed the Nile, introduced the nation to
solvency for the first time in centuries, and
freed the fellaheen. But much remained to
be done. The bulk of the population is com-
pletely uneducated; the slums of Cairo,
Alexandria and Port Said, while much more
sanitary than they ever were, are still festering
centres of filth, disease and crime; and there
are difficult problems bound up with land-
lordism and usury which threaten thousands
with enslavement. Ample scope here, it
might be imagined, for a patriot Minister
with the welfare of his fellow-countrymen
at heart. But Zaghritl Pasha, who
appears to be a kind of colored British
Empire Leaguer, clearly prefers flag-waving
to spade work. His platform has only one
fighting plank—the incorporation of the
Soudan in the kingdom of Egypt. It is the
most perfect example of a political ideal cal-
culated to last its framer for the rest of his
days. The British do not wish to leave
the Soudan, and the Soudanese, who have
benefited equally with the Egyptians from
British methods of administration, do not
want them to go. If Britain did go the out-
come would not be the incorporation of the
black man’s territory in that of his leaden-
hued neighbor, but another war between
these races, whose hatred of each other is
ingrained. The first essential in a party
politician is that he should present his fol-
lowers with something to hate, something at
which he may point as evidence of the desire
of the fortunate to oppress their proletariat
brethren • and the more illiterate and debased
his supporters, the likelier the ancient im-
posture is to come off. Zagheul is doing
in Egvpt what some of our Labor leaders are
doin'*- here: the only difference is that Britain
is the avowed instrument of tyranny in one
case and Capitalism in the other.
4
The present N.S.W. Government is this
much of an improvement on its squalid pre-
decessor—it has reduced the accumulated
shortage and paid off that miserable ghost,
the wheat guarantee loss. Bat it |tiU spends
loan money at the rate of over £10,000,000
a year. That is called economy now, though
at the beginning of the century it would have
been a case for a Commission in Lunacy.
Even the most cheeky Treasurer no longer
speaks of his loans as being for permanent
and reproductive works.” They are tor
“works and services,” which is wide enough
to cover domestic service and church service
and burial service. It is impossible to dis-
cover one outstanding or remembersome en-
terprise to show for over 20 millions of loan
expenditure in two years, but little jobs there
are in plenty. Two questions which should
be put to every Treasurer are these:—
If a man, in his national or private capacity, owes
a great deal more money every year, and reckons
he can’t get on without it, and can never repay
anything, do you think something will happen to
him in the end, and, if so, what ? Being the person
in authority and responsible, state your opinion about,
the best thing to do in such a case.
And the lion, gentleman’s telephone, bell
shouldn’t cease from ringing till a satisfac-
tory reply is forthcoming.
♦
“Nakhoda” : Having involuntarily provided
accommodation for malarial microbes, I can
sympathise with the inmates of the Stein-
hof, the huge Austrian lunatic asylum near
Vienna, who, at the instance of Prof.
Wagner-JatjregG, the famous specialist on
syphilis, have had these unpleasant tenants
forcibly quartered on them. It has been
known for a long time that when lunatics
suffer from high fever their mentality im-
proves ; accordingly the experiment was tried
of inoculating sufferers from progressive
paralysis (the grisly second brother of syphi-
lis) with carefully-controlled doses of
malaria. After eight or ten agonies the
malaria was checked with quinine, and an
improvement, sometimes lasting for years,
resulted. The aim now is to prevent the
development of the paralysis which usually
makes its appearance about 10 years later,
by treating syphilis in the first two years
with artificial malaria. Over 300 cases have
been treated at the Wagner-Jauregg clinic
since 1919, and the number of paralytics who
have to be nursed at asylums has declined.
Prof. Finger has achieved wonderful cures
by treating patients with artificial malaria
in conjunction with salvarsan. If a vital
part of the brain is affected, however, the
illness may be cured by malarial therapy;
but a scar will remain, causing a lasting de-
fect. It shows what a deadly poison syphi-
lis is, that it should be thought worth while
to cure it by inoculating the body with an-
other poison almost equally fell. But how
is it that while Austrian professors make
dazzlingly wonderful cures, even the preven-
tion that a drastic and properly administered
V.D. Act would ensure is neglected by Aus-
tralian Governments?^
“Country Ped” : The Vie. Education De-
partment has taken the school a step nearer
the life and occupation of the district. With
the assistance of the Department of Agricul-
ture, which supplies the experts, instruction
in fruit-packing is to be given in the fruit-
growing districts near Melbourne; the
classes will be held once a week at the cool
store nearest the school. The idea is capable
of being extended, and there are some ex-
ploded notions that might be dropped at the
same time. Seeing that the Department is
not teaching the young fruit-growers how
to grow trees and pick fruit —they learn all
that at home—why should it insist on its
country teachers endeavoring to explain the
fundamental truths of wheat growing and
other agricultural pursuits to children whose
fathers are engaged in those occupations?
Country boys need, rather, instruction in
elementary carpentry, farm blacksmithing
and leather-repairing. And their sisters re-
quire lessons in dressmaking, millinery and
domestic hygiene. When this is decided on,
the frippery country schools of a dozen
youngsters to one teacher will have to be
discarded, and consolidated schools substi-
tuted, on the U.S.A., Canadian and M.L.
principle. Large central schools, to which
the children are conveyed in motor-’buses,
adequately equipped and efficiently staffed,
are the natural corollary of the fruit-pack-
ing experiment, with experts in those extrane-
ous, but necessary, subjects travelling around
a circuit of such schools.
«.
“Quibus” : The Town Planning Commission
has taken a census of traffic in Melbourne’s
streets for 13 hours on a normal day, and
revealed some figures that should be useful
in the tram versus ’bus controversy. Of the
traffic 16.6 per cent, was composed of pas-
senger-carrying vehicles, exclusive of trams,
and the trams were only 9.9 p.c. of the total
traffic. Yet that 9.9 p.c. carried 72.8 p.c.
of the passengers. Compared with this fact
53.7 p.c. of the vehicles were motors, which
carried only 18 p.c. of the passengers, as
against 72.8 p.c. carried by the trams. Yet
there are clamant people, always owners of
’buses or cars, who tell us: “These trams
must go; put them out of the city streets.”
Here is another contrast: 30,897 motors take
up 521 acres of roadway, while 9557 trams
cover (54i acres. And the trams carry five
times more passengers than the automobiles.
Which, then, are the more useful to the public
—trams or ’buses?
♦
Ettie Rout dislikes some English methods:
In congratulating one of its political favorites, the
London Observer said “he met the situation with
a shrewd avoidance. ” This is the way the English
genius usually “expresses” itself; nothing is ever
quite decided and everything is always in a state of
suspense—ready to be “wangled” one way or an-
other, according to the need of the hour. Once this
is clearly understood, there is an end of recrimina-
tions about “perfidious Albion,” an end of charges
of national deceit and falsity. A nation cannot
fairly be charged with falsity to a decision which it
never arrived at. In England things are not
“decided upon”: they just happen. Take the sink-
ing of the German Fleet at Scapa Flow. Nobody
suggests—out loud, at any rate- —that, the British
Navy was “responsible” for this sinking. They were
responsible for the German Fleet, of course; and no
decision had been reached as to the allotment of
spoils of war. So presently the German Fleet just
went to the bottom. Take again the suggested base
at Singapore, actually approved by the Baldwin
Government. A Labor Government comes into power,
and decides to abandon Singapore ? Oh, no ! Decides
to postpone definite decision. Then, without further
discussion, the plant is for sale. Sale to whom?
What buyers are eligible and what buyers ineligible?
No decision has been come to as to that —of course
not. Again the Lausanne Conference. The publica-
tion of certain documents has been suppressed actu-
ally—nominally, held over. But every intelligent
observer knows that France claimed independent
representation for her alleged self-governing domi-
nions of Senegal, Annam, Morocco, etc., on the
same terms as Britain had granted independent repre-
sentation to Canada, Australia, etc., in 1919. To
grant this French claim in 1924 meant the total
disregard of any color-bar. That form of inter-
national enfranchisement was “unthinkable” —at least
it opened up thoughts too deep for words. So
Britain “informed” the self-governing dominions that
ir. had been agreed, etc., etc. But the fat was in
the fire when Canada refused to be bound by the
decisions of the Lausanne Conference on the ground
that she was not present. Now comes the discussion
on Preference. Quickly the House of Commons de-
bates reveal that here is something beyond discussion
—too serious for speech. So again nothing will be
decided. Every situation as it arises has to take
care of itself.


''For Ever Best.
TOOHEY’S
Stag Lager
is
the Best Lager Made.
100 per cent. Pure.
The Correct Lounge Coat
for sports or week-end wear.
&
m
Peapes illustrate here a very smart Sports
Coat in Grey or Fawn Mixture, durable
Donegal Tweed. It has tlxree-button front
and four outside patch-pockets. Finished
with leather buttons.
Made on free, easy yet smart lines,
combining exceptionally good
appearance with perfect comfort
55/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
, Please state Chest and Waist Measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS' OUTFITTERS.
George Street (opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There was a time when the Commonwealth
Income-tax Act embodied the salutary prin-
ciple that single men who didn’t go to the
war should pay something towards the cost
of it. In those days the exemption for un-
married persons was fixed at £lOO p.a., and
the minimum tax was £l. But Hughes, being
in need of votes, had the general exemption
raised to £2OO p.a. and applied indiscrimi-
nately. Now it is to be £3OO p.a. Which
means that the single man earning £1 a day
for 50 weeks in the year will contribute
nothing towards war interest and sinking-
fund (all the income-tax revenue goes in that
direction), although he is better off in many
cases than the married man on £5OO p.a. who
is wearing a Digger’s badge. The second Page
Budget has its good points, but in that one
respect it is rotten.
From the Gallery :—-
An early announcement will probably be made
about the North-South railway, the agreement to
construct which the Commonwealth has so long dis-
honored. S.A. Premier Gunn has had a series of
conferences with the Prime Minister, and on the
eve of his return to Adelaide his face wore the smile
of a man whose mission has brought him all he
wanted. The revival of political interest in the
alleged “dead heart of Australia,” and the surprised
discovery that it isn’t a dead heart at all, will
considerably help the measure which the Govern-
ment has in mind, and which will probably be pre-
sented to Parliament before the session closes.
The debates on the Fuller Government’s
Marriage Bill have shown that the number
of rabid sectarians and clericalists masquer-
ading as N. S. Wales politicians was under-
estimated. Connell, the Digger-Labor mem-
ber for Newcastle, managed to discuss the
measure without a trace of bias, but this
detachment was rare. An “Independent”
announced that “the Government, in bringing
in this legislation, has the entire support of
the Methodist Church, to which I belong, and
of whose Conference I am a representative.”
On the other hand, a Labor member, after
referring passionately to Napoleon, Henry
VIII. and Cromwell, “who told the Catholics
of Ireland they could go to Hell or Con-
naught,” ended his speech with a thunderous
“Hands off the teachings of our church!”
Practically all these misplaced enthusiasts
owe their political existence to Proportional
Representation. It is perhaps the most tell-
ing count in the indictment against that
elaborate piece of very doubtful mechanism.
Unless Country parties get to work ener-
getically to sweep away the present system
of government and instal Elective Ministries
in its place, their days in the land are num-
bered. Under existing conditions Country
parties do more harm than good: practically
their sole result is to let the anti-Labor
forces into office by a side-door. The A r ic.
Country party having forced a dissolution
and upset the Peacock Government, it is
now commonly assumed that the Federal
Coalition Government is bound to founder
in the narrow strait which separates
Tweedledum from Tweedledee. And the only
reason is that some of the minority gentle-
men who want foreign reapers and binders
imported duty free from Protectionist U.S.A.
and Canada have resolved on a wholly
unremunerative suicide.
During the five years to June, 1923, the
following moneys were paid out of the N. S.
Wales revenue in reduction of the public
debt £GS32 in 1918-19, £6976 next year,
£2566 the subsequent year, then nothing,
and then again nothing. A little interest
accrued to the sinking fund last year, but
it remains the smallest sinking fund in Aus-
tralia, and up against the biggest debt. At
last advices it was £441,844 as compared
with Tasmania’s £1,068,433. It grew dur-
ing the year by a whole £25,000. Simul-
taneously N. S. Wales is borrowing for new
schools and new roads; also repairs to old
schools and patches to old roads. And it
actually proposes to now reduce taxation—
presumably so that it may also charge its
bobbies’ uniforms up to loans.
A stop-work meeting of Queensland Gov-
ernment railway men has demanded the
Labor Premier’s resignation unless he imme-
diately raises the basic wage to £4 ss. and
reduces the working week from 48 hours
to 44. There is no mention of the fact that
the railways were run at a loss of £1,432,000
in 1918-19, £1.253,000 in 1919-20, £1,688,000
in 1920-21, £1,772,000 in 1912-22, £1,495,000
in 1922-23, and approximately £1,300,000
last year; their capacity to pay another ss.
TOO LOW AN ESTIMATE.
“The Federal Compulsory Voting Bill provides a penalty of £2 for failing to vote without reason-
able excuse.
THE BENCH : “The law is specific. You have treated it with contempt, and you are
fined £2 .”
THE ELECTOR: “That won't half cover my contempt, your Worship. Make it a fiver.”
a week per head for four hours’ less toil is
taken for granted. Or the point may have
been merrily _ ignored. By way of starting
to find the gigantic sums required the Gov-
ernment has added 7$ p.c. to the railway
fares, increased the rates on general goods
by 5 p.c., and fined consigners of sheep and
wool 15 p.c. extra, presumably for being
prosperous and non-Labor. Cattle freights
remain at the old figure. The Government
is in the cattle business itself. That is to
say, it owns vast herds, which are fed on
the State’s lOU’s when the grass gives out.
The transport of Australianism in which
Joel Moses Gabb, Labor M.H.R. for Angas
(S.A.), promised to vote for the first of
Bruce’s 10,000-ton cruisers was of brief
duration. His undertaking was made in the
most positive terms :
I believe that Australia should be defended. 1
believe, also, that her first line of defence is the
Navy. In this bill we have the first definite proposal
which has been brought before this Parliament for
naval defence. When the vote on the second reading
is taken, my vote will be east in its favor. . . .For the
reasons given I must vote against the amendment
[Anstey’sJ and for the bill. In the past l have
always boasted that, outside the platform which 1
have signed, I am a free man.
Six days afterwards the apostle of freedom
devoured his valiant words and voted for
Anstey’s amendment, which would have de-
stroyed the bill. The worst of machine poli-
tics is that it makes humbugs and cocktails
of ordinarily decent men.
N. S. Wales proposes to imitate its Fed-
eral parent by reducing taxation when it
would be much better employed in reducing
the public debt and the interest bill. Said
bill is reported to have leaped up another
£OOO,OOO. so it is presumably over
£30,000,000 a year now. That is more than
twice the figure for 1916, so Ma may be said
to be leading the crowded life. Last year
the loan expenditure was at the brisk rate
of £10,863,000 per annum, but it is to be
less this year, there being a difficulty about
getting more. Details as to how the last
lot went arc not available yet, but during
the five years to June, 1923, the loan funds
spent on purposes which even the State
Statistician hasn't the heart to call “repro-
ductive” were within a stone’s throw of
£16,000,000. The figure-man went so far
as to put river improvements in the repro-
ductive list, though a river is no easy mark
to collect an interest bill from, but the 16
millions were merely called “other works
and services.”
It is understood that the Forilsdalc, the
slow cargo-carrier which was built in Syd-
ney for the Federal Government for the
fearsome price of £BS per ton gross in order
to provide employment, will be held up in-
definitely unless the officials of the Seamen’s
Union are allowed to select the crew. If
the Commonwealth Ministry knows of a
remedy for this high-handed system of gov-
ernment by the few it should get its specific
ready. But if it knows of nothing save
passive resistance, and passive humiliation,
and passive waste of the people’s assets, it
should go out of the shipping business. To
build money-losing vessels merely that an-
other rod shall be made available for its
own back is more than foolishness. It is
premeditated grovel.
Says Sydney Sun :
The University has been asked to extend its activi-
ties to centres outside of Sydney, but at present it
has no money for this scheme.
Ninety per cent, of the country-dwellers now
demanding university decentralisation are
agreed that the only way to make a start is
with correspondence classes, after the Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and English models. And
far from lack of money being the bar to this
provenly inexpensive scheme, the position of
the Senate is that, if it remains obdurate.
Education Minister Bruntnell may withdraw
the State subsidy which now forms a con-
siderable part of the Uni.’s revenue.
The Brisbane railway men have decided
that, m the recent difficult negotiations,
when Queensland wobbled on the dizzy rim
of bankruptcy, Premier Theodore “sold out
to the London Jews,” and his resignation js
asked for. They don’t say what he should
have done, nor do they say that the bargain
he made for the renewal of two big loans
should be repudiated and the Jews be allowed
to whistle for their money. They don’t even
say how they identify the parties as Jews.
Mitchell, of Westralia, like Hughes of all
Australia, was a dweller on the high house-
tops, and strange happenings went on about
his feet without his knowledge. Thus a be-
lated discovery has been made of the Jan-
dakot Road Board, which has “done very
little banking” since early in 1922, ceased
to write up its books at the middle of 1921,
and accumulated uncashed cheques, over-
looked postal-notes and unanswered letters
in a kerosene-case. It was like the record
ol Hughes’s shipping concern, only worse
The outstanding need is for a new kind of
Auditor-General, who wouldn’t depend on
the vouchers supplied to him, but would
have the duty of demanding vouchers and
overhauling books, and possess the power
or suspending anybody whose accounts were
belated or not satisfactory. His department
might cost a pile, but with the right kind of
A.-G. it would be worth a pair of piles.
The ostensible cause of the recent Mel-
bourne tramway strike was the dismissal of
u gi ipman who, it was alleged, had refused
to instruct an immigrant because the latter
had been one of McCay’s specials after the
police strike. Now the newclxum has stated
m the. trammies’. newspaper that he was
never in the specials. He didn’t arrive in
Melbourne till three months after the police
strike, and then lie applied for entrance to
the regular force on hearing there were
vacancies. Moreover, he did not report tlm
gripman for having refused to teach him.
Why Choom held his tongue when things
were at the boiling-point is not explained.
At all events, apparently, no one took the
trouble to get his version.
According to the Age, “there have already
i that one of the first decisions of
the Parliament meeting at Canberra will be
to vote a substantial increase in the present
allowance of £lOOO a year to each member.”
The reason probably is that, as the
deficiency on the loan expenditure at ’Berra
already amounts to £90,000 per annum, an
attempt will be made to recover some of it
by a hostel tariff on members of not less than
a pound a day. Unfortunately the higher
salaries are raised the greater tiie blackmail-
ing demands made on members, and the more
desperate the devices of legislators to recoup
themselves at the country’s expense by side-
winds. It is a vicious circle that goes on
costing the taxpayer more and more while
securing him a worse and worse type of
The A.W.U., which has been more or less
depressed since the failure of its 1922 shear-
ers strike, has had a stroke of luck in the
Queensland Arbitration Court, where shear-
ers have been awarded £2 ss. a hundred,
")J a nds £5 2s. 6d. per week and keep
(±o. Is. od. for boys under 18), station-
hands £o 10s. p.w. and keep, and cooks 10s.
p.w. per man. The corresponding Common-
wealth rates are 385., £3 15s. 10d„ £2 Is.
2d., ana (s. 7d. “In Queensland, 99 the union
paper declares, “the Arbitration Court func-
tions m accordance with Labor principles
and McCawley, C.J.. has taken the emi-
nently proper stand that, where an industry
is prosperous, the workers should share in
the prosperity.” But the paper doesn’t men-
tion whether it is also a Labor principle that
the workers should share in an employer’s
adversity. The C.J. evidently thinks they
should; but how he is going to keep miners
tor instance, at work in a perhaps tem-
porarily unprofitable mine when there is a
chance to “share in the prosperity” of a
profitable one alongside he hasn’t so far ex-
plained.
WHAT HAPPENED TO GABB?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Moses Gabb, after stoutly declaring that
he would vote against the Labor amendment on ihe
Defence Equipment Bill, altered bis mind under the
influence of caucus discipline.”
What did they do to Moses Gabb?
Did they dub him “traitor” and brand him “scab”
For daring to say the thing he thought
And setting the caucus will at nought?
What was the discipline they applied
To the man who opened his mouth too wide?
Did his quivering hide the whip-lash feel
That brings the riotous hound to heel?
’Tis a secret dark and a mystery hid
No minute-book discloses,
And none may know of the things they did —•
Save they and he —to Moses.
Was he hazed and harried, poor hapless bloke?
Was he “third degreed” till his spirit broke?
Are there torture boots or a thumbscrew grim
In the caucus cupboard for such as him?
Was the “moral suasion” that brought him low
The sort described in “Stalky and Co.”?
What ruthless pressure, what fierce duress
W r as the lot of Gabb? You can only guess.
But he’ll know that to think for himself’s forbid
In future, one supposes.
The fearsome lesson of what they did
Will never be lost on Moses.
In a white sheet clad did they make him stand
AVith a taper held in his trembling hand
Ere he purged his crime? Did he have to drone
His Mea Culpa in tearful tone,
Or chant Peccavi to show his sense
Of his sin—and attest his penitence?
No use surmising what happened to Gabb,
’Tis a caucus secret that none will blab.
But of one delusion at least he’s rid,
That a Labor member throws his
Vote as his views and his conscience bid ;
It smashed that notion, the thing they did—-
Whatever it was —to Moses.
X. S.W.
T. THE R'.
AN OVERWORKED WORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This “Pact” suggests at most a truce
For purely temporary use
Between the ranks of Page and Bruce ;
Its limitations vex us.
When ties more lasting are inferred
“Entente” one would have sooner heard ;
Or that ecclesiastic word,
The “Nexus.”
What term so sinister as “Pact,”
So wanting in finesse and tact?
The name of that which should attract
Instead repels and cheeks us.
A “Gentlemen’s Agreement” would
Have easier been understood;
But where’s a synonym as good
As “Nexus” ?
A “Pact” across the sea unites
Disloyal Boers and Lahorites
Whose capabilities for fights
As comrades staunch perplex us.
If Bruce and Page in coming days
Would party diff’renees erase,
Their primal need’s some pleasant phrase
Like “Nexus.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Irdo St.cz. Jbt<zvcz.f~-nL<z.v<z.i*.
*' Th.<& J?cz.& <z:r ; bs v ti C<=>]o ; Yoyr J>riv:<2.rs jL»xc«*>s®, •
THE DEAD HEART EXPLORING PARTY.


V
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20 for Y 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
AN UNFOUNDED INSINUATION.
"Wummin, how dare ye twit me wi’ bein’ mean wi’ ma
money? Haven’t I let ye put the threepence in
the plate these last twa Sundays?”
“P.M.’ : Remarks on General Macready,
Colonel Elgood and other rigid disciplinarians
of the British type remind me of a crank in
whose camp we were stationed in 1916.
Standing orders for the district set forth
that afll troops on evening leave had to wear
belts. As we had no belts on issue, the
Colonel ordered us all to be confined to camp
until belts could be obtained from store. The
fact that the A.I.F. tunic is made with a
belt self-contained couldn’t be expected to
sink into the brain of this stickler for triviali-
ties. Next we were all commanded to carry
sticks, as per district orders. The Diggers
didn’t see any sense in wasting money on
canes, and one genius discovered a legal
point: the orders said merely “sticks” —no
particular kind. The result was that 200 or
so men paraded one day with sticks about
4ft. long and 3in. thick under their arms,
the exhibits including pieces of building tim-
ber and young saplings. We paraded for
our passes in this fashion about four days
running; then the camp adjutant gave 'it
best and decided the order should be no
longer enforced.
* * * *
Troophorse ’: I have read several pars
about the cruises of the brig Lady Nelson
on the Australian coast in the early years
of last century, but
none of them mention
the little vessel’s
tragic end. In 1824,
when the British Gov-
ernment sent a de-
tachment of men to
form a settlement at
Fort Dundas, on Mel-
ville Island (N.T.),
she was attached to
the Fort as a supply
ship, under a lieu-
tenant and 12 men,
and made several trips
across to Timor for
buffalo and other
necessities. On her
last trip in 1825 she
was attacked and cap-
tured by pirates off
the island of Babar,
of the Serwatti Group.
Nothing was ever
heard as to how the
crew fared. In the
same year another
small craft, tlx o
schooner Stedcomb—
owner and master.
William Barns, who
had much to do with
inducing the British
Government to settle
Northern Australia—
was captured b y
pirates off the south-
ern end of Timor; all
of her crew were
killed except a man
named Forbes —he was
found living on the
island some 12 years
later. He afterwards
died at Williamstown
(lie.). William Barns liad a contract with
the commandant of Fort Dundas for the
supply of buffalo from Timor at the rate of
Spanish dollars a head.
“Boronia” : “C oun t r y
Bed's” disparaging remarks
concerning the plio n ic
method of teaching (B.
10/7/’24) will not receive
much endorsement. The
phonic method enables a child
to be taught reading in a
quarter of the time required
by the old way and with little
or none of the drudgery.
When the art of reading is
acquired with little trouble
young children are encour-
aged to read for the pleasure
it affords. Nor is it clear
how the phonic system can
affect the spelling capabilities
of children in the higher
grades; once away from the
junior classes, the child
makes less and less use of
phonics, while in the senior
grades it is absolutely dis-
carded and the eye ‘ takes
most of the responsibility for
correctness in spelling. How,
then, can the phonic system
make it difficult for children
to get the hang of a dic-
tionary?
* * *
“ J.G.”: I once saw an
alleged hangman’s rope, being
sold (B. 24/7/’24). It was
on the last evening of a
Bendigo Easter fair, at
which one of the side-shows
had consisted of a model of
the Melbourne Gaol-gallows.
The rope auctioned was
alleged to be the one that
had hanged Deeming, and
there was a brisk demand
for pieces. P.S.—lt was quite good rope-—■
the showman had paid two bob for it at a
Mitchell-street store the day before the fair
started.
* * * *
“A.E.G.”: A young Sydney barrister re-
turned from the war with a German helmet
among his trophies. A woman seeking em-
ployment called at the house, only to learn
that the wife had all the help she needed. As
the toil-hunter was looking weary, she was
given a cup of tea. Before she left she said,
“I'd so like to work under the law, mum, as
I’d always feel so safe.” “Were you sent to
me?” asked the mistress of the house. “No.”
“Then, how did you know my husband was
connected with the law?” “Well, mum, I
saw ’is ’elmet ’angin’ in the ’all.”
* * * *
“One-Bar” : Enter Lieutenant Macswozzle,
First Wellington (M.L.) Battalion, for the
queer-wound competition. We were out of
the line somewhere back of Ilebuterne, and
a few of us were arguing about the bullet-
THE INDIRECT METHOD.
“My doctor says I'm suffering from nerves.”
"What rot! You’ve got no nerves.”
“No, darling, I know I haven't. But my wife has.”
stopping capacity of tlie German tin-hat
compared with our own. Mac stuck a Ilun
helmet, crown first, in a clay bank 15 paces
away, and fired at it with his service revol-
ver. The bullet just grazed the inside
of the helmet, took the full-bellied curve
of the crown and came back to give Mac-
swozzle a clip. Mac had a reputation for
fluent language, but he beat all his own re-
cords when he found he had to stand an in-
quiry (purely formal, of course) for a self-
inflicted wound.
* * * *
“To Pana” : When the minister read the
words ‘'love, honor and obey,” Hori inter-
rupted him. “Py korry, ehoa, more better
you korero [say] t’at some more, so my
wahine she catch’m plenty. No marrer ’bout
me. I bin marry befoa.”
* * * *
“Lexo” : If Mr. O’Grady, the British Labor
M.P., looked at the plans and description
of the Governor’s residence in Tasmania
when the vice-regal job was offered him, no
wonder he expressed a preference for tin;
Russian embassy. The house has 70 rooms,
and cost £120,000 to build. It was completed
in 1858 when Governor Young went to live
there. The ballroom will permit of the enter-
tainment of 800 guests comfortably. Pos-
sibly it is this fact which caused Mr. O’Grady
most concern, since it is well known at ’Ome
that the local society folk do not like to see
the space going to waste. The screw attached
to the mansion (Anthony Trollope declared it
to be the best vice-regal residence in the Brit-
ish Dominions) is £1750 a year, plus £5OO a
year for upkeep. Governor Gormanston used
to draw £3500 a year, and he also had the
benefit of a secretary at £250 a year and a
gardener at £BO. The gardener’s screw is
£2OO a year now.
* * * *
“V.C.”: A guileless and trustful brotlmr-
in-arms was Whizbang Smith; he even be-
lieved the cook’s yarn that when peace was
signed the Aussies were to be billeted around
Paris, so as to get over the war strain before
returning home. We were out resting at
Buire, and he got rheumatism. After fruit-
lessly parading before the Batt. doc., he
canvassed the platoon for home remedies. It
was big .Tack Simpson who came to his assist-
ance. .“Yaas,” drawled Jack, “I knew a
fellow in Noo South whose trouble was just
the same as yours. He had au accident, and
fell into a manure heap, and when they got
him out, an hour after, he was cured of liis
rheumatics.” “Go on,” said Whizbang.
“Dinkum?” “Yaas, dinkum, all right. Makes
yer sweat, and it all comes out of your pores.”
That afternoon Whizzy buried himself in a
Froggy manure heap, and after staying there
the prescribed time set out for the regimental
baths. His presence had such an effect on
three Diggers who were drying themselves
that they went outside in the snow to finish.
When the experimentalist returned to the
platoon it was having tea. One by one the
fellows grabbed their dixies and fled for the
open spaces. Whizbang felt hurt, and longed
for social intercourse, but threats of physical
violence induced him to undergo a probation-
ary period until he had sweetened sufficiently
to mix with his fellows. It may have cured
his rheumatism; anyhow, I never heard it
mentioned again.
* * * *
“Van Cat” : It takes a lot to discourage
a lovelorn Dago from suiciding when once
he has made up his mind; but sometimes
destiny intervenes. One Tony was turned
down by the keeper of a hash-factory adja-
cent to Boulder Block (W.A.), and intimated
his intention of finishing himself. Then he
faded away. No one bothered very much
until, five days later, some kiddies playing
near an abandoned shaft were frightened to
hear shouts from the depths. A windlass was
rigged, a burly Croat lowered, and tin?
Dago was brought up practically unhurt. A
week before his intended exit a neighbor had
thrown a dead nanny down the shaft and it
had broken Tony’s fall. Five days Avith that
ripe goat had thoroughly calmed his feelings.
* * * *•
“H.H.” : Victoria is so avcll satisfied with
the Avork of its Avomen police that tlieir num-
ber is to be doubled to eight. Collectively
the John Hops are pleased: the Avomen are
sent to inquire into cases of domestic desti-
tution Avliicli often embarrassed the male
Robert who didn’t know how to administer
first aid by washing the second-youngest in-
fant or providing a bottle for the youngest.
The women police have certainly found Avork
which they are better equipped than men to
do ; the revelation of some terrible cases of
starvation and suffering—alleviated as far as
possible when brought to light—might not
have come but for their activity.
“Roma” : The boy with his heart on the
wrong side (B. 17/7,/’24) reminds me of a
Digger I ran against in New York in 1919.
To all appearances he had stopped a bullet
in the centre of his heart, but as he
didn’t die the M.O. sent him to a base to be
X-rayed. The plate disclosed the bullet still
in his chest, and on further examination his
heart was found to be entirely on his right
side. He Avas duly “boarded,” and, after
making scathing remarks about the doctor
Avho had passed him into the A.1.F., the
Board marked him C 3, and Avitli several 1914
men he was allowed to return via America.
Happening on a doctor in New York who:
didn’t entirely believe him, he bet the medico :
ten dollars that he had a right-side heart,
and allowed a plate to be taken. Following
on his initial success, he elaborated a get-
rich-quick scheme; all the leading doctors
were visited in turn and asked to part up
ten dollars for the privilege of taking a plate.
They mostly paid up, but when last I saw
THEY HADN'T COMPLAINED TO HER.
ANYWAY.
"I don't think you should sit like that when
there arc young men about.”
"How you do worry about other people! I
don’t believe they object half as much as
you think, dear.”
the Digger he was packing up, and his cob-
bers were looking disconsolate. I asked his
trouble, and he said the quack he had just
left wanted to charge a consultation fee, so
he reckoned New York wuis just about played
out, and lie was going to “do” Philadelphia.
(Continued on page 16.)
THE LIDLESS LEGION.
(With apologies where due.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Sydney’s hatless brigade, which includes a number
. professional men, has been well in evidence this
winter. —-Fashion note.
There’s a legion that never was lidded,
That carries no tile on its crest,
but holds without help from the hatters
A chap can be properly dressed.
Some brows are obscured by sombreros,
Some blocks in hard-hitters are jainbed ;
U e traverse the pavements uncovered,
Who grins at our nobs can be d—d,
Dear boys,
Can go and get sense and be d—d!
Our thatches are mostly abundant,
And seldom receding or grey,
But that isn’t the reason we flaunt them,
W hatever the cynics may say.
No maze for the out-of-the-common
Our breeze-beaten craniums express,
Our cult’s hygienic—and also
A scoff at superfluous dress,
A plea
For rational masculine dress.
We've borrowed a leaf from the Bluecoats,
We’ve taken a tip from the blacks;
We’ll never hear hairdressers whisper
A warning that baldness attacks.
To blazes with Panamas costly
Or cabbage-trees plaited and twined;
We’ve shaken the Woodrows and Stetsons
And we wouldn’t have straws on our mind.
Get that!
Nor boaters nor caps on our mind.
Here’s a health to ourselves ere we scatter
Through thoroughfare, lane and arcade,
A health to our handful of Spartans,
Old Sydney’s bare-roekered brigade!
Once more through the winter our top-knots
Have weathered the wind and the rain,
In a very few weeks they’ll be basking
And baking in sunlight again.
Hurroo!
Be bathed in God’s sunshine again.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£3lB
Claude Heyward, Geelong
Hard-up Rusty Old Pal
£319
3 6
18 0
7
3 1
Contributions should be addressed to T iik
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
f
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
AS SOIA
prior to
183 b.
mmM
V. 0 '
■m
fp
J %- V
A Fine Old Scotch
Vigorous and Pure
YOU will enjoy a ■ “spot” of Young’s
Mountain Dew —our grandfathers and
tlieir fathers did; and the same high
quality has always been maintained. Ask
for the good old original Mountain Dew
(Young’s) to-day.
Whether or no you are a connoisseur, you
will admit its purity and flavour and mellow
richness.
The majority of leading hotels, you’ll find, stock
Young’s Mountain Dew. If unobtainable write
direct to the exclusive Agents: —
GATTINO & CO., LTD.,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Yarruin”: Police-sergeant Carroll, once
stationed at Michelago (N.S.W.L but now
retired, takes the book in the right hand
and swears to this. He dreamt one night
that he saw a man lying dead in a cave m
the Jingeras. Fie looked up lus Gazette
and found that his recollection of the corpse
answered the description of a man wanted
for burglary at Goulburn. Next day Carroll
rode into the mountains, and there he found
the body he had seen in the dream. Ihe
man had been bitten by a black snake that
lay dead beside him, and handy was a waddy.
“Light Horse”: The British War Office re-
cently published a list of battle honors
awarded in every theatre of war, and the
N S.W. Battle Honors Committee has been
allotting them to the units concerned. The
Light Horse list has been completed; the
period dealt with ranges from the Anzac
fighting of May 19, 1915, to the capture of
Damascus on Oct. 1, 1918. The N.S.W. regi-
HE MUST HAVE LEARNED
THINGS ALL WRONG.
NEW CALL-BOY: “Where can I find the principal hoy?”
ACTRESS : “I’m it.”
CALL-BOY: “ Gripes! If you're a hoy, then I must he a’ insect!”
inents present at these operations were the
Ist, 6th. 7th, 12tli and 15th, the last-named
being one of two regiments of Light Horse
formed from the Australians of the Imperial
Camel Brigade in April, 1918. and numbered
14th and 15tli. A composite French cavalry
regiment, with the N.Z. Cameliers as M.-G.
Squadron, went to make up the Fifth Aus-
tralian L. H. Brigade, Macarthur Onslow,
of the 7th L. IL, becoming brigadier. In
all there are some 18 honors, including but
one, Romani, for the Sinai operations. Hie
honors will go on the regimental colors ot
“affiliated units in the citizen forces’—to
which mighty few of the men who earned
them belong.
* * * *
“No Name” : The queerest war casualty of
my experience happened in a two-seater
squadron in France. We’d just landed after
a big scrap, and were waiting for the last
’bus to alight. It came in, landed and taxied
up to the tarmac, where the pilot shut oft
his engine. He waved his hand to us with
a grin, and then turned around to speak ‘o
liis observer. As he did so he went deadly
pale and collapsed—dead. What he saw
had killed him. The observer was held up-
right in his seat by his safety belt; he had
a bullet-hole fair between the eyes, and the
pilot had flown him home without knowing
it. The doc. told me afterwards that the
pilot suffered from a cardiac weakness, and
he’d warned him against high flying; but
he’d gamely kept going. Pilots were scarce
in 1916.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Simple Simon” (B.
24/7/’24) asserts that the practice indulged
in by the Indian cavalry in Egypt of parad-
ing two over the guard-mounting quota, and
then letting off the two smartest men, was
found unworkable in Australian companies.
Not always. It was in vogue with the Ist
A.L.11. Brigade at Heliopolis before and after
the Evacuation. It meant an extra night’s
leave in Cairo or elsewhere to the winners,
and competition was red-liot. the turn-out. of
the men being wonderful. On one occasion
a man who, as a finishing touch, had kiwi d
the instep arch of his boot-soles thought he
was a sure winner. But even he was beaten
for first place by a more thorough horse-
man who had also polished his manners.
* » * *
“Coot”: Among the ancient gravestones
removed last year from the old cemetery in
Queen-street, Melbourne, to the Fawkner
Cemetery, and re-erected there, was one which
had lost its upper half. The inscription now
therefore reads: —
Departed, sth of May, 1853.
Aged 37 years.
“A victim to a faithless and ungrateful wife.”
One wonders whether the lady had anything
to do with knocking the head off it.
“Spare Corp”:
If Diggers set no
great store on dis-
cipline of the pipe-
clay order for
themselves, there
were times when
they could respect
it in others. I
remember an occa-
sion in the dark
days of early 1918
when we of the
First Divvy had
dropped back into
Amiens prepara-
to r y to being
thrown north again
to stop the hole
that the break of
the Northern Army
had left. While
we waited to en-
train, the Dife
Guards detrained
after a heavy jour-
ney, stepping from
their horse-trucks
just as if they had
come out of band-
boxes. All their
leather gleamed
with polish; not a
button was awry:
they “die k-
clicked” past us
with the precision
of men on a well-
rehearsed cere-
monial parade.
And we knew the
job they had been
rushed up for. “Oh,
the splendid
bla n k y idiots !”
cried one Digger, as
he leapt to his feet
and cheered; and
that started the
cheering of a crowd
of men who felt,
nevertheless, that
“splendid blanky
idiots” was the
only appropriate
phrase.
“Reservist”: “Tarwoona” (B. 10/7/’24)
airily condemns as fiction stories of con-
demned men declining to be blindfolded at
military executions. Nevertheless, such
things did happen. I saw a youngster of Iff,
of the Ist Battalion Lincolnshire Regiment,
shot at Locre early in March, 1915. He
obstinately refused both chair and bandage,
and faced the firing party as cool as if he
were on parade. Curiously enough the same
lad had shown himself unable to stick front-
line work, and twice deserted when the bat-
talion was moving in through 1 pres. I was
one of the “stretcher party for the con-
demned man. “Tarwoona quotes Kings
Regulations as proof that such a tiling
couldn’t happen ; but most Diggers know that
that isn’t much of an argument. As tor
“ghastly results” that might follow were
HOPPED IT.
ZOE : “What did Billy do when your mother came in and found him embracing you?"
CLARE: ‘Oh, with great presence of mind he started to dance.”
a condemned man, untied and not blindfolded,
to lose bis nerve, how about members of the
firing party losing theirs? It was a not un-
common occurrence.
» * * *
“B.B.” : The young woman who places a
lialf-gag in her mouth, ties herself to a chair
in the kitchen and waits for the rest of the
family to come home from the “pitchers” so
that she can gasp out the story of her mythi-
cal ravishers, has become a weariness to the
police; but a new version arrived at
Auckland recently aboard a small coastal
steamer. All hands had gone ashore for the
evening except the mate. The first to return
was a steward, and he found the officer,
bound, hanging from the wrists half-way
down the hold, and having noddings on except
a loincloth. When the suspended gent, was
interviewed by the police he related that two
friends had come aboard, and boxing-gloves
were produced. An adjournment was made
to the hold, and when he stripped for a
few rounds the visitors seized him and dealt
with him as described. The yarn broke down
under cross-examination, and the romanticist
admitted that he had done the job himself in
a moment of impulse. How would you like
a dirty night at sea with a mate like that on
the bridge?
* * * *
“Alwyn”: Sydney’s first street-tram roll-
ing-stock (1861) consisted of two cars, one
called “Old England” and the other “Young
Australia.” The fare along Pitt-street, from
the Ship Inn, Circular Quay, to the old Red-
fern railway station, was threepence; each
car was built to carry 60 passengers. But
the service had a short and stormy career.
Something was wrong with the rails; and,
anyway, the shopkeepers along the route
hated to see possible customers carried past
their doors. So the service was discontinued
in November, 1866. During their brief life the
early juggernauts claimed at least one victim ;
on January 15, 1864, at the corner of Goul-
burn-street. Isaac Nathan, the Hebrew com-
poser, was knocked down mid killed.
* * * Ik
“Akran”: “Kyver’s” device for obtaining
coal in a Dorset rest-camp (B. 19/6,/’24) re-
minds me of the way our company collected
fuel from wrathful enginedrivers. Most of
the trains around Albert in 1916 were
driven by men of the A.S.C. (Army
Service Corps). A platoon of us were
on an ammunition-dump at -Meault, and fire-
wood was scarcer than usual. But a train
was passing. “Call ’em Ally Sloper’s Cav-
alry,” suggested some genius. The objection-
able term was chorused from a dozen throats,
and a barrage of the biggest lumps of coal
on the train was hurled in our direction. A
couple landed true, but that didn’t matter —
we got the coal.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The year 1924
is the centenary of some notable events in
the history of Sydney and N. S. Wales. On
March 5.1824, the first Chief Justice arrived ;
and the first Attorney-General, one Bannister,
on April s—the5 —the A.-G., by the way, was an
army officer, not a lawyer. With him came
William Balcombe, first Colonial Treasurer.
The Charter of Justice was promulgated on
Mav 17. The Supreme Court first sat in
criminal jurisdiction on June 10. The first
stone of Scots’ Church (Dr. Lang’s), on
Church Hill, was laid by Governor Brisbane
on July 1. John Macaness, first sheriff,
arrived on July 15. The Legislative Council
was proclaimed on August 11. John Stephen
arrived as Solicitor-General and Small Debts
Court Commissioner, and William Carter as
first Master in Chancery, on August 1. John
Oxley left to found the settlement at Moreton
Bay in September. The first Columbia press
arrived for the Sydney Gazette on October
R The Australian newspaper, issued under
the auspices of W. C. Wentworth and Dr.
Wardell, appeared on Oct. 14; the owners
had brought with them from England all the
necessary type, presses, etc. Trial by jury
was begun in the Quarter Sessions on Oct.
15. And Colonel Thornton, of the 40th Regi-
ment, arrived on Oct. 27, bringing news of the
death in London of ex-Governor Macquarie.
* * * *
“Gouger” : The Turk had the draw on us
for a long time in the desert campaign be-
cause of his wonderful sand-resisting rifle
mechanism. He could fight all day in a sand-
storm, and his rifle breech-block would not
choke through sand grit. Neither did the
steel require oil. On the other hand, our
breech-blocks had to be swathed in special
canvas covers, which had to be whipped off
before we could fire a shot. The bolt also
always needed a film of oil. In action it was
hell when the finely-drifting sand combined
with the burnt oil and intense heat to jamb
the firing-bolt. Then a man had literally
to sweat to keep his rifle talking, while
Abdul coolly whistled along five bullets to
our one. Centuries of desert-fighting have
made the Turk familiar with every phase of
sand, and, for all the disparagement thrown
on his intelligence, he has had the brains, to
manufacture steel which defies the choking
action.
* « * *
“C.M.”: Relics of “the system” are dis-
appearing at Norfolk Island as well as in
the Speck (B. 24/7/’24). Within the 10ft.
compound-walls the visitor may see what is
left of the radiating-cells, built in pentagonal
shape, and designed peculiarly, as Marcus
Clarke said, to drive men mad. Here and
there you stumble over the rubble- and
creeper-clogged entrances to underground
cells. The stonework of a very fine gateway,
built in 1847, is crumbling, and so are the
remains of the salt- and pepper-mills; also
the old hospital and stores. Situated beside
the water they are damp and unhealthy and
mouldering. An old stone bridge, called
Bloody Bridge, which the nervous islanders
won’t cross after dark, is about done. But
the shearing-shed at Longridge has been re-
novated, and is a dance-hall now, while one
store is a church and another a post office.
There are no subdivisions likely at Kingston,
the prison township, and no building specu-
lators ; so, unlike those in Tassie, Norfolk’s
relics of her bad days will quietly moulder
and crumble away."
THE WAKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“lyoops expressed great regret for liis action, and
stated that when he became sober after marrying
the girl, he wanted to shoot himself, but was pre-
vented.” —Police Court report.
When you have married Jane or Kate
(Whichever is your missus),
You wake to find, a bit too late,
That those pre-nuptial kisses
That seemed such ecstasy and bliss
Have some way lost their rapture—
That potent wine was every kiss
To drug you for your capture.
When all the visions of your mind
That so your heart elated
Have vanished like the empty wind,
You’re sobered up—but mated,
You face the bread-anu-cheese of life
With thoughts of suiciding,
But settle down to own a wife
And do the home’s providing.
Yes ; there is wine on tempting lips
With which young heads grow muddled,
And he’s a lucky man who sips
And gets away unfuddled.
You wake to find the single bunk
Is now a double-bed full—
Oh, every man who loves is drunk
And sobering-up is dreadful!
x.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


//
L
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
SffifiSgK
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.),
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safeuy c u««
Detonator*
Cartridg««
m
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
II
Obtainable at ail Store*
In Powder and Liquid Form
A, VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturers of 'VAULO* Brand Chemicals. Dips & Sprays
And at Head Office s Correspondence
Sydney & Brisbane 497-503 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE Invited
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank:—
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919. . £108,346 10 p.c. = £53,144 £55,202 £278,766
1920.. 104,673 10 „ „ 77,274 27,399 306,165
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922.. 126,819 124 „ „ 99,952 26,867 368,827
1923.. 159,350 124 „ „ 100,000 (,„ , lfi ~/ 7
Written off Premises .. l-10,000 t 49 ’ ,r!&0 418>1 ' 7
Premiums on new shares . . 147,512 565,689
1924. . 186.388 12ip.c.= 137,880 )„„ , ns iq7
Written off Premises .. £lO,OOO ) 604,u/
The latest accounts are accompanied by an
important official pronouncement concerning
the Q.N.’s prospective div. rates. In 1922
the bank celebrated its jubilee and its great
recovery from the ills of the ’nineties with
a special 2-J p.c. bonus. Twelve months ago
the bonus was repeated, so 121 p.c. p.a.
seemed to be the settled div. policy, especi-
ally as 80,000 of new shares, to be fully
called to £5, were being offered at £2 per
share premium, though at that price 10 p.c.
divs. would return 7 1-7 p.c. For the past
12 months the 21 p.c. bonus has again accom-
panied the div., the new money thus getting
almost 9 p.c. For the future, however, the
div. rate is to be a steady 10 p.c., payable
quarterly, and shareholders will be compen-
sated by an invitation, “from time to time
as business warrants it,” to take up new
shares at par. It is proposed to offer 60,000
£5 shares on these terms early next year,
a couple of months after the final instalment
on last year’s premium issue has been paid.
The proposals will place the scrip on a
sounder investment basis; both sharehold-
ers and the market will know what to expect.
Scrip values could not be other than sensi-
tive with one-fifth of the recent div. rate
distributable only as a “bonus” and with
new issues at unknown premiums confront-
ing shareholders. Premiums would, of
course, add substantially to funds, but owing
to the Q.N.’s almost unique position the
augmenting of reserves by share premiums
is not of great importance. Paid capital is
now £1,150,048 (it will be £1,200,000 in
November next), and visible reserves amount
to £604,197. These funds in themselves are
substantial to set against £8,217,388 of lia-
bilities to the public: only £4 13s. 9d. of
the public’s money carried for every £1 of
the bank’s own funds. The Q.N.’s great
strength, however, is in £3,091.669 of inter-
minable inscribed deposit stock which car-
ries only 3£ p.c. p.a. That lot represents
the 15s. in the £1 of certain old deposits
funded in the dark days which every bank-
manager wants to forget. This stock is really
very cheap fixed pref. capital.
The Q.N. is one of the few banks in which
credit has not been stretched to the limit.
Put another way, general-manager Haymen
is in the happy position of being able to
dangle the tempting bait of probable advances
to new clients whose business seems worth
capturing. The figures in the next table,
which also gives a 10 years’ survey of
balance-sheets, detail the position :—-
Liabilities.
t 1914. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Interminable £ £ £ £
: stock .. 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Other old
debt .. 86,098
Bills, etc. . . 162,150 350,078 415,263 487,656
Deposits . . 6,560,809 6,898,730 7,519,294 7,729,732
Assets.
Liquid
assets . . 3,791,633 4,056,621 3,968,912 4,103,058
Advances .. 6,488,057 6,994,272 7,756,322 8,451,967
Premises .. 305,126 500,411 559,169 565,640
At June 30 this year almost one-lialf of all
deposits and other current liabilities was in
liquid form: £1,729,544 in coin, bullion, Com-
monwealth notes and bank and cash bal-
ances ; £1,472,417 in Government securities
and British Treasury bills (£815,000 of the
total in short-dated scrip) ; £185,000 was at
short call in London ; and the balance was
made up of £716,097 of bills in process of
negotiation. These liquid assets are three-
quarters of a million larger than need
be held by a prudent management.
Consequently, with nearly £50,000 still
to come in from the last issue of
shares and the likelihood of £300,000 more
flowing in from shareholders in 1925, the
Q.N. is well equipped to expand its business.
At June 30 there were £4,114,330 of liabili-
ties not covered by liquid assets, and they had
the backing of £8,451,967 of advances, besides
premises written down to £565.640. In each
of the past two years £lO,OOO has been
struck off the latter account. The holdings
of public securities are also shown at con-
servative valuations, and advances and other
investments —mainly the Q. N. Pastoral and
Millaquin Sugar cos., which were formed to
hold and work foreclosed properties—are
strengthened by a chain of inner reserves
which were accumulated in the dreary years
when old-time creditors commanded any
profit which could be permitted to leave the
bank.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914. . £29,187 9 p.c. = £27,000 £2,187 £76,902
1915.. 27,809 9 „ ~ 27,000 809 77,711
1916.. 31,614 9 „ „ 27,000 4.614 82,325
1917.. 29,842 9 „ „ 27,000 2.842 85,167
1918.. 29,845 9 „ „ 27,000 2,845 88,012
1919.. 50,920 9 „ „ 27,675 23,245 111,257
1920.. 52,430 10 „ „ 35,664 16,766 128.023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 25,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923. . 51.469 10 „ „ 39,471 11.998 167,524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ „ 39,471 5,027 172,551
The directors don't claim such profits ; they
regularly carve off part of their earnings and
slip them into an insurance and repairs sus-
pense account. Net additions—there have been
no visible withdrawals —were large in some re-
cent years: 1919: £22,115; 1920, £11,105;
1921, £15,600; but for the past two years
only £9OOO and £2500 have been visibly
added. The reserve now amounts to £140,589.
Whether the total loss of two vessels during
the past 12 months affected the growth of the
fund cannot be ascertained from the pub-
lished accounts, which are presented in a
form giving a minimum of information. All
that is certain is that the fund did grow in
spite of marine losses, the fleet being “covered
by insurance,” presumably through usual
underwriting channels. The directors never
divulge how much gross they allow for de-
preciation, and that is a factor which
may have a big influence on the
amount of profit brought to light. Last
year was not a favorable one for the co.;
the dry spell in the early months cur-
tailed freights, and generally trade has
not been brisk. Lately the N. S. Wales
Railways pushed further into the North
Coast, and that competition, though per-
haps not serious, has had an effect on
earnings. Despite the lessened opportunities,
however, the usual 10 p.c. div. was quite
easily earned; and so it should be, because
visible reserves assisting capital are now so
large that 7 p.c. earned by funds gives 10 p.c.
on paid capital.
At June 30 the amount in shipping
assets and freehold premises was slightly less
than paid capital. An amount slightly larger
than reserves was in liquid form: £40,164
of War Loan; £27,603 surplus of deposits
and cash over and above all outside liabili-
ties ; £60,979 of book debts; £45,437 of
shares in other cos.; and stocks and stores
with a book value of £19,889. The fleet
account was reduced £30,000 on the year by
the loss of two vessels, by the sale of
two other old packets, and by the
unspecified cut for depreciation. Other old-
timers, whose book values are, no doubt,
small, and which do not find much employ-
ment nowadays, are also billed for the
market; on the other hand a new 1000-
ton ner is on order and another small cargo
steamer will be in commission shortly.
These additions will cut into cash
assets, though perhaps not to the ex-
tent that might be expected, because the
“new steamers account” which is combined
with fixed assets in the balance-sheet may
include cash specially held for the purchases,
besides the payments already made on
account of the new steamers. Anyway, the
co. is in a very comfortable position to pay
for the boats: at June 30 there w r as a surplus
of £194,000 of liquid assets over and above
all outside liabilities. The next table shows
the movements of balance-sheet groups since
1914:
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital . . £300.000 £315.000 £394,714 £394,714
Liabilities . . 26,249 34,098 31,828 33,818
Ships.. .. 257,223 244,529 394,184 364.015
Freeholds, etc. 26,998 28,835 28,755 28,912
Liquid . . 132,430 201,165 190,862 227,891
Since December, 1914, capital has been
increased by £94,714 anil liabilities by £7569;
and to show for that and its undivided profits
the co. has £108,706 more fixed assets (book
value), and £95,461 liquid assets. Part of
the new capital was issued to acquire some
of Allen Taylor’s timber packets and an
interest in Langley Bros. Meanwhile the
div. rate has averaged p.c. p.a. For the
previous 10 years the co. had paid 8 p.c.
p.a. consistently. The North Coast S. N. is
an exception among Australian steamship
cos.; thusfar it has issued no bonus scrip.
* * * *
A matter of life and death:—
Actuary O. A. Elliott has completed an investiga-
tion of the A.M.P. Society’s mortality experience for
the 20 years ended 1922, and, though the tables and
some of the deductions are mainly of value to the
expert, several items are of interest to the public.
When Richard Teece examined the 1849-1903 records
he discovered that the death rate under endowment
assurances was more favorable than among those who
had been insured under whole-life policies, except
that in the 15-28 age group it was heavier. Now Mr.
Elliott finds that for 1902-14 the 28-37 age group in
the endowment assurance section had a heavier death
rate than the same group in the full-life section,
and for 1920-22 the same feature marked the 28-42
group. Mr. Elliott, like his predecessor, is “unable
to explain this seeming anomaly.”
The figures for the five war years are of special
interest. The mortality was not only greater than in
the 1902-14 period in the military-age group, but
also for persons of all ages excepting those from 03
to 72. “This seems to suggest,” the actuary says,
“that the whole community suffered from war strain,
and not only those who went on active service.”
Investigation of the military-age group for three
post-war years gave surprising results:—
Many people anticipated that a large proportion of
those who went on active service would return witn
their health permanently impaired. It is found, how-
ever, that the mortality in the years 1920 to 1922
among persons aged from 23 to 57, which group
would include almost all the returned soldiers who
are policy-holders, is much lighter than the mortality
at the same ages in the years 1902-14. It does not
appear, therefore, that the vitality of the large
body of policy-holders who returned from the war
has been seriously impaired by their experiences
abroad.
Elliott’s summing-up endorses what had seemed
obvious from the size of the surpluses disclosed
regularly by the A.M.P.’s published accounts: that
the Society’s mortality tables “make safe reserves.”
Moreover, the variation in the death rates in four
policy sections—the participating and non-participat-
ing contracts for whole-life and endowment
assurances —is “not sufficient to make it desirable or
necessary to use different tables of mortality in calcu-
lating policy values,” although “the difference
should be kept in mind when new premium rates
are being calculated.” Generally the provisions
made for death in premium rates are so much in
excess of the actual experience—and a feature of the
investigation was the discovery that the mortality
rate among A.M.P. policy-holders had declined, which
may be accounted for partly by careful selection of risks
—that “it is almost impossible for the mortality
in any large section of the business to exceed over
any long period the mortality provided for in that
section.” In other words, the premium rates are
higher than is needed to meet claims as contracted
for. That means, of course, the probability of sub-
stantial bonus distributions to the assured who prove
good lives, giving them very much more at maturity
than they had provided for when taking out the
policies.
* * * *
Equity Trustees, Executors & Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re-
done, Profit. Dividends. 1 serves. Reserves.
1914. . £10,408 20 p.c. = £5OOO £5408 £39,953
1915.. 7,315 20 ~ „ 5000 2315 42,268
1916.. 9,503 20 „ „ 5000 4503 46,771
Transferred to capital, £25,000 21,771
1917.. 8,746 14 p.c. = 7000 1746 23,517
1918.. 8,730 14 „ „ 7000 1730 25,247
1919.. 9,260 14 „ „ 7000 2260 27,507
1920.. 11,898 16 „ „ 8000 3898 31,405
1921 9 117 14 ~ ~ 7000 2117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 16| „ „ 8250 5390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 „ ~ 9500 4269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9500 5789 48,970
Eight years back divs. had climbed to 20
p.c. on £25,000. Then paid capital was
doubled by a bonus issue out of reserves,
and, though the div. rate dropped to 14 p.c.,
£7OOO instead of the former £5OOO went into
shareholders’ pockets each year. For the
past two years the div. rate has soared to
10 p.c., but earnings have so grown that the
amount available for cutting up as the result
of operations for the last 12 months repre-
sented p.c. on £50,000 of capital. The
lay-by is consequently large after paying
handsome divs., and so much has been put
into cold-storage in the past that reserves
have once more got into a condition which
invites the attention of an inspector of boil-
ers : they are now within £lO3O of paid capi-
tal. The directors have decided that burst-
ing-point has been reached, so shareholders
have been asked to authorise the directors
to issue bonus scrip for up to £25.000 of re-
serves. There has been no announcement
as to the date on which the directors intend
to exercise the authority. Even with £75.000
of paid capital the div. rate should be big:
last year’s net profits were slightly more
than 20 p.c. on that amount.
llow the trust business has developed to
produce the rich returns shown in the intro-
ductory table is not disclosed by the pub-
lished accounts: the Equity is one of the few
trustee concerns that do not tell how the mil-
lions have rolled in. But this table of in-
come and outgoings gives a clue to the ex-
pansion :
Earnings. Expenses.
1900 .. .. £7,376 £3,022
'.910 .. .. 17,131 8,673
1920 .. .. 26,673 14,580
1921 .. .. 24,961 15,794
1922 .. . . 30,608 16,921
1923 .. .. 34,506 20,669
1924 .. .. 36,105 20,740
The improvement for the past 12 months
was not so great as the figures suggest:
£1619 spent on altering premises in 1923
was made a charge against revenue. Inci-
dentally, actual earnings for any year may
be larger than the directors admit, because
the accounts regularly show income less pro-
vision for contingencies, though that cut
may be only in conformity with the usual
trustee practice of reserving portion of the
corpus commission. In that case, of
course, each year’s income will also be bene-
fitting by withdrawals from this reserve of
unearned commissions as the estates proceed
towards liquidation.
The Equity’s guarantee of good behavior
is £98,970 of good-class assets and £200,000
of uncalled capital for which its solid share-
holders are liable. As its own securities are
of a quality not liable to deterioration, the
Equity’s principal risks are (1) that one
day it may misread a will and run an estate
into losses; (2) that an employee may trick
the frequent searching audits and disappear
with trust funds. Both are remote contin-
gencies under careful and watchful manage-
ment. Risks under (1) are smaller because
in case of doubt the trustee cos. can always
go to the courts for guidance; moreover, the
Equity has always been noted for the legal
talent adorning its Board-room. At present
Donald Mackinnon and Iv’s.C. Edward Mit-
chell and ,T. G. Latham maintain the horse-
hair atmosphere of the office; in the
past, half a dozen directors passed through
the Board-room to the Bench. The co.’s
funds at .Tune 80 were invested as follows:
Government and public securities, £56,775;
premises and equipment (written down)’
£10.724; book debts, £29,986; and cash,
£1560. Not a penny was owed by the co.
itself, though to assist estates it had raised
£87,068 overdrafts on clients’ securities.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Ke-
oet.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1914.. £30,263 8 p.c. = £10,482 £19,781 £83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 ~ .. 11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital, £26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed. £147 .. 75,595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
1917.. 36,016 104 „ ~ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 „ „ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 .. 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40,005 8 „ „ 25,098 14,907 109,622
1922.. 39,931 8 „ „ 25,098 14,833 124,455
June,
1923.. 25,993 8 „ „ 16,732 9,261 133,716
1924.. 40,282 8 „ „ 25,098 15,184 148,900
The £40,000-odd of net profit shown for the
past year may not represent the full harvest::
unmentioned provision for a variety of con-
tingencies by writing-down fixed assets has
always been a strong point with the manage-
ment, and the actual result for any account-
ing period depends on the extent of reserva-
tions. The co.’s principal activity is the sub-
division of suburban land and the financing
of home-builders, and it has made a wonder-
ful success of the business, especially during
the past dozen very favorable years. The
boom in land values, created and maintained
by a lavish expenditure of Government loan
money, and the house shortage, caused by
the deplorable policy of developing one big
city for the State, helped by the Fair Rents
Act (this for a time almost stopped the build-
ing of letting properties), have made
things easy for cos. like the Intercolonial,
and its alert management has made the most
of opportunities. The past 12 months, how-
ever, were not quite so favorable for the sub-
divisionists as were previous terms. Manag-
ing-director W. J. Douglas could not attract
so many buyers, and the returns from sales
declined; on the other hand, interest and
rents expanded, and the net result equalled
the average of recent years. Gross profits
amounted to £66,925; salaries and working
exes, took £10,389, and rates and taxes
£16,254. Paid capital of £313,724 includes
no less than £247,000 of bonus scrip issued
in the 10 years to 1920, so last year’s profits
meant more than 60 p.c. on all cash which
shareholders put into the business.
The next table shows how the principal
balance-sheet items have moved over 10
years:—
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1914.. £57,509 £214,231 £54,013 £7,900
1915.. 49,324 224,499 57,947 6,863
1916.. 38,995 225,629 56,623 10,503
1917 36,157 249,152 43,188 27,777
1918.. 30,095 246,016 57.979 30,547
1919.. 31,836 260.030 44,560 53,784
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1921.. 15,057 305,515 74,788 86,318
1922.. 17,404 360,990 67,837 55,805
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1924.. 25,044 379,429 94,786 54,103
A feature of the Intercolonial is its indepen-
dence of outside financing, which is a desir-
able condition in a business depending on
land values. At June 30 there were public
securities and cash for £54,103 against
£25,044 owing to depositors and sundry credi-
tors. The book values of advances and pro-
perties—both of record dimensions and re-
puted to be well protected by internal accu-
mulations, represent 30s. 3d. per £1 share.
Visible reserves now amount to nearly
£150,000, and the annual additions are so
big that if values are maintained and turn-
over does not slump badly, higher divs.
can be expected before very long. The
disclosed profit for the past 12 months gave
almost 12.9 p.c. on £313,724 paid capital.
Though at present dealings are affected by
the money tightness having stiffened mort-
(Continued on page 19.)


THE HOLD-UP HABIT IN VICTORIA.
“Mr. Prendergast’s new Labor Government in Victoria, being in a minority, has embarked on an orgy of prodigal promises, and the further it goes the more it is being asked for."
PRENRERGA ST (to the man on his knees): “It’s a case of YOUR money or MY life, old man, and —well, it’s not going to be my life."


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JULY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Allen Taylor
Argus Building Society
Assurance & Thrift
Australian Federal and
General Life
Australian Forests
Australian Glass Manu-
facturers
Automobile Insurance of
Australia
Bank of New.i Zealand
Blue Check Omnibuses
Mutual Life
Coogee Ocean Pier
Co-operative Insurance of
Australia
Cotton Development and
Machinery
Edwards Dunlop
Electric’ Light & Power
Supply Corp.
Garratts, Ltd.
Gibson & Howes
Goldsbrough Moit
Illawarra Blue Metal
Hotel Metro pole
Loch Catherine Colliery
Manufacturers’ Mutual
Insurance
Marchants, Ltd.
Marcus Clark (Victoria)
Mark Foy’s
Max YVureker
May Bros. & J. H. Jones
Melbourne Motor Services
Melb.-Suburban ’Buses
Mt. Morgan
Nepean Sand & Gravel
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Patience & Nicholson
People’s Prudential Assu-
rance
Prospectuses
Robert Harper
Singapore Hume Pipe
Swallow &. Ariell
Walter Reid
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—-thereby savin"
thousands. They can be installed to any type (3
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* J, * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines
sugar-pulls, breweries, confectionery works etc is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros’.. i’td.
O Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.’
—Advt.
*** . *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
inallgables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * At * *
The supreme test, of severe service conditions has
repeatedly proved the many superiorities of Pioneer
W oorl 1 ipe. This modern wood conduit is unharmed
by electrolysis, “bad soil,” acids, alkalies, frost or
neat. It does not rust, corrode, nor clog up with
pitting or growths, but preserves the volume of its
now absolutely unimpaired throughout its long life.
\Ve have prepared an interesting manual that will ne
ot service to all in search of reliable water convevance
at lowest outlay. Send for it. The Australian \Vood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Basse], Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
t IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi,uson & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * # *
, ‘‘ Nai 7 < »\a l ’’ Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
Romy 1 ortable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
. m ultimix Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co
t' ■, ltd. Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Dark, N.S.W.. for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
ThePacific Cable Board
HIST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \
BRITAIN )
3/- 1/6
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
iVeek-end 7 id. (minimum charge 12/6 20 words)
KRANGE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
\
3/- l/'6
Nil
N. ZEALAND 4 Id. Nil Nil
CANADA .. 2/4 1/2 7d. (minimum
, , ... . . . 11/8, 20 words)
Week-end 5Jd. (minimum charge 9/7 20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred ami
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorgre Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346.
Queen’s House, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central "084
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 Oorge Street. SYDNEY.
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
V
\ B\vlft & C»I>I|H»II.V Ltil., A list ruiaKikii A Kents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney!]
%
DT
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
Setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL.
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT.
ADMINISTRATOR OR ATTORNEY.
Established over 37 years, during which it has successfully handled almost
every class of asset.
33 TO 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
§j*B'G rates, the outlook is not unfavorable for
efficiently-run building cos. that have bought
wisely. The prospects of a good season and
profitable markets for produce have removed,
lor the present, at any rate, some of the
doubts which hovered over many businesses
a tew months ago.
* * * *
Melbourne sniffed when Alec Peacock
fired the prospectus of the Barrier Treat-
ment Co., Ltd., upon a liard-up public. The
iloat offers 100,000 shares of 20s. each for
subscription, 30,000 are held in reserve, and
20,000 fully-paids go to one S. J. Wheeler
as consideration for his option over 20,000
tons of slimes from the Barrier Silver Lead
Co., which takes £lO,OOO, payable £250 down
and the balance in IS months from the time
or the exercise of option. A concentrating
plant on the Barrier Silver Lead lease is
but a small part of the Treatment Co.’s am-
bitions. A smelter on the Darling River at
Men mdie is talked of, and the reasons for
locating it there are (1) available water
supply—when the river isn’t dry; (2)
cheap coal by carriage over the Sydney-
Broken Hill line; (3) “cheap” carriage of
concentrates to Mcnindie over the railway ;
and (4) “cheap” shipments of smelter pro-
ducts overland to Sydney. The big draw
in the float is supposed to be the Barrier Sil-
' or Lead Co.’s mine, which is claimed to run
a b to 10 feet lode rich in carbonates and
silver. Old Barrierites learn how sleepy
they have been to miss this little wonder. It
is on the Great TV estern lode,” five miles
from Broken Hill, and alongside the Southern
Cross and a half-dozen other mining up-
starts. A o report goes out with the prospee-
i us, but authorities,” whoever they may be,
expect the Barrier Silver Lead “to develop
a very big sulphide belt at about 110 ft.”
\\ hat makes the existence of these riches so
mysterious is that the show is on blocks
where the big Broken Hill mine did its sin-
tering. As it left behind a heap of the
slimes, they pass first to the Barrier Silver
Lead, and now on to Sydenham .T. Wheeler’s
ffoat The prospectus alleges that want of
(\ipiuil has so far stifled efforts to work the
lodes to advantage, but it doe's not explain
why the hard-heads of the Barrier, with
their unlimited financial backing, have not
bothered with this outside show. N. S.
’’ Govt. Geologist Andrews’s summing-
up of this portion of the field was that the
lodes appeared to be “replacements of irregu-
lar folds which have been dragged differenti-
ally in an area of intense folding.” Very
promising bodies of sulphides of moderate
size, he added, had been revealed by pros-
pecting, and, “if the method of following
, , c adopted, then they are worthy
or the attention of small cos.” Andrews’s
advice is to establish beyond doubt the posi-
tion of the lodes by drilling before attempt-
to chase them by shafts and crosscuts
*** * *
A last good-bye from an old comrade:—
The cables announce the death at Exmouth (Eng.)
of W. H. Woodhead, for many years chairman °of
the old British Broken Hill Prop. The end, from
heart trouble, was expected, even by the genial
Woodhead himself. Had he been in good health
it would have been almost a certainty that the
liiitish to-elay would not be the property of the
North B. H. Co. Although one of the kindliest of
men, he was a born fighter; courage and decency
his long suits. Originally an R.N.R. man, ne
drifted on to the Adelaide Stock Exchange in the
early nineties. In the 30 years that have intervened,
the Barrier outlook has entirely changed. The
payable production of the field was then confined fo
silver and lead ; zinc was stacked. The B. H. Prop,
domineered the field, and it wouldn’t even regard
the North, South, Central, British, Junction and
Junction North as little brothers. It actually man-
aged the British for the owners of that show, and in
their innocence many of them considered they
vere fortunate to have such an organisation in
control of operations. Woodhead thought otherwise.
Although only just over 30 years of age, he
packed his kit for London, where he fought William
Knox, then the driving force of the 8.H.P., for the
control of the British. Woodhead wen. On returning
to Australia he shifted the office of the co. from
Melbourne to Adelaide. His first job was to clean
up the accounts. More than a million of lost capital
had to be written off. Then he tackled the mine.
The British, despite the issue of pref. shares, had
only about £40,000 left in the till, but that, despite
a relatively poorly developed mine and no treatment
plant, was good enough for Woodhead and the staff
he gathered. He quickly perceived the merit of the
Hancock jig and Cornish huddle which the South,
under Greenway, was pioneering at the Hill. The
Hancocks from Wallaroo were called in, and a plant
was installed that made payable concentrates. That
was the beginning of the solution of the sulphide
problem at Broken Hill. From those simple devices
the concentration work as it is known to-day, embrac-
ing the treatment of all metals, including zinc, by
the Minerals Separation process, has grown.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (TV.A.)-output last year
was worth £238,884. The profit was £24,326,
and the whole of it and £5674 from the carry-
forward was taken by a 2s. div. Particulars
of costs are not given, but the Board’s com-
plaint about “onerous conditions” is pro-
bably a broad hint that figures are best left
unpublished. Ore reserves still exceed the
half-million mark, but the grade is only a
trifle more than B|dwt., and there can be
little profit in that.
Oroya Links’s (W.A.) total income for
the 12 months was £156,427, and the avail-
able cash surplus at December 31 was
£11,105. This and portion of the profits
earned during the current year enabled the
co. to pay a tax-free 3d. div. on July 4.
Assets, consisting of cash, Government bonds
and sundry securities, had a book value of
approximately £140,000. Almost one-fourth of
the ore treated by the co. last year came from
the old Kalgurli mine, which the Oroya
Links bought as a “worked out” show.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) operations for the
greater part of the year were confined to
retreatment of old tailings and re-organisa-
tion of the mill. The directors state that
costs have been got down; and recent
profit-earning gives promise of divs. in the
current financial year. Shareholdings in other
concerns include large interests in Cornish
tin and china-clay ventures, Plymouth Con-
solidated gold-mines (California), Central
European mines (Jugoslavia) and Raibl
mines (Italy). Of course, all are of “great
potential value.”
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s accounts disclose a
paltry profit of £2327. During the 12 months
£30,158 was spent on plant, and as this out-
lay absorbed all cash, no div. can be
found for shareholders. The new mill, started
nearly a year ago, has so far earned just
sufficient to keep the co. out of debt, but
better returns are expected.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) was about
£BOOO worse off at the end than at the be-
ginning of its latest financial year. The
directors report that operations at Kalgoor-
lie and Ora Banda are still giving a little
revenue, but that as nothing new is offering
in Westralia the Board has turned its atten-
tion to North-West Ontario (Canada). The
Mexican “golden holding,” El Befugio, of
which great things were expected, has been
abandoned.
* * * *
Despite its many widespread mineral de-
posits—gold, copper and some likely-looking
asbestos—Pilbarra (W.A.) does not progress.
Inaccessibility and costly transport are said
to be mainly responsible for its inactivity,
but bungling by many cos. which have been
interested in the field is another reason. Roe-
burne is the only centre where there has been
much push and _ hustle, but the principal
mines there are either idle, pending the rais-
ing of more capital, or marking time until
some suitable process is installed to treat
their sulphides.
* * * *
Ivalgoorlie is experimenting with oil-
flotation in the hope of improving treatment
practice on sulphide ores. Golden Mile
metallurgists have not yet decided the com-
mercial possibilities, but the progress of in-
vestigations has encouraged two of the cos.
to contribute funds for a pilot plant to
handle bulk lots.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) has told its share-
holders that it has not yet found a mine worth
attention. Latest accounts show a loss of
£792; cash amounts to a few thousands.
* * * *
Queensland’s gold yield for the six months
to June was 43.6930 z. worth £185,595, com-
pared with 40,4060 z. and £171,633 for the first
half of 1923. The larger output by Mount
Morgan, due chiefly to better gold values in
its copper ores, was wholly responsible for
the improvement. So far Gympie has been
the only Queensland field to get on the div.
list this year, and that with only £1714.
* * * *
There has been a little enthusiasm in the
Gympie district (Q.) over the discovery of
silver-lead near Widgee Mountain, and
nearly a dozen leases have been pegged out.
Most of them show some surface mineral-
isation. The find centres in the old
Alt. 4 r ictor silver-mine, whose reef is again
being opened up, though so far without any
notable success. The lode carries galena,
carbonate of lead and zinc, and is low in
gold and silver; it would require a big body
ot this composition to make the show attrac-
live, and at present it does not average a
foot thick. It is too early yet to decide
whether the reefs on the other leases offer
anything better. It is proposed to form a
co., but this seems premature: prospects
are all that can be offered to shareholders
at present.
***•«•
I ollowing the wave of silver-lead prospect-
ing m Queensland, still another show is be-
ing opened up near Cunningham, on the
Goondiwindi line. A shaft is down 70ft
on a small reef of silver-lead, afid is to
go to 120 ft where driving will commence.
Ihe reet shows fair promise • it was let
slip some years back when the lead market
was low. If preliminary work is encourag-
ing a co. is to be formed in Warwick to give
the formation a thorough test.
* * * *
One result of the Australian Oil Corp.’s
boring at Dunn’s, Beaudesert (Q.). was to
prove that any oil in the original bore came
from wash and not from the Walloon strata,
which Jensen thinks highly of as a possible
i°oApJ 0< - llCer ' j , ie ncw bore went down
100 ft. in mud clays and gravels and got
small traces of oil. Several other bores
within a mile of Dunn’s have also shown
traces of oil, and it will be a ticklish pro-
blem to decide whence the oil has travelled.
The find certainly seems to support the
theory that there is oil in the Walloons, as
this formation seems the only possible source
at Beaudesert. It would, therefore, be a
good move to put a hole down a mile or two
west of Dunn’s and pick a position in the
Walloons higher up the Overflow dome.
Toowoomba has recently been interested in
a gold and radium show in the ranges near
Cambooya. A syndicate was formed and
samples tested, and the rock has responded
slightly to tests: for radio-activity. Recently
it was reported that gold in payable quan-
tities had b.'cn found there, but no official
report on the find lias yet been made, and
unnecessary secrecy seems to have cloaked
the show. The Department of Mines is
rather sceptical, as the locality is mainly
basalt, apd no old metalliferous formations
are known there. A bulk sample of the
material is on the way to a European
radium plant for testing.
* * * *
“Nitric”: The “Wild , Cat’s” par. sug-
gesting the registration of mine-managers is
only one step in making respectable what
remains of the mining industry. What
about the “experts” and get-rich-quick pro-
moters who infest the game? The latter
invariably employ “quacks” in preference to
the many reliable men who leave their “gold-
tinted spectacles” at home, when on the job.
A long experience in all States compels me to
nominate the promoter as the biggest curse
of legitimate mining. Meaningless reports
of values without widths, audacious infla-
tion of quantities, erection of 10-head battery
at once, etc.j a bit of pigrootihg at
shallow depths—one and all have boomed
many worthless shows, and left good pros-
pects practically untried. A recent case
in point: One of these “experts” issued an
absolutely misleading report, the plan con-
taining levels which looked like big tonnages
in sight; and the usual 10-head battery was
advised. In testing this mine I found that
he had spent one day, less travelling time,
on the show, and in the few hours had to
examine three shafts and a tunnel, and
sample stone at grass. The efforts of
this show to live up to his inflated values is
giving shareholders a severe pain in their
cheque-books. One means of checking this
doubtful business would be to amend the
Companies Act and make directors liable for
more trouble than they seem to be for mis-
representation in a prospectus.
* * * *
Cornish United, Daylesford (Vic.), has
lured Sam Gullpck into harness again. After
John Bull made a market rise out of the good
old lias-been, the claim was let go to the
pack. A while ago, W. J. Plain’s backers,
believing that if the water could be got out
a lot of shallow ground worth prospecting
could be tackled, decided to give it another
go. Now they are crosscutting to get under
the old Angwin shoot. Gullock considers that
the English crowd made its hit at 1000 ft. out
of the downward continuation of the same
run of gold. As the best quartz at Daylesford
has always come out of shallow ground, the
gamble has possibilities. But should he de-
cide to go deeper the clearing of 2000 ft. of
old workings down to 1000 ft. will not be an
easy job.
* * * *
At the Wallaby, Gaffneys (Vic.), the task
is to find out if the dyke is of the Wood’s
Point type, and to have another shot at the
old Wallaby formation at. depth. The Mines
Department is helping with a £5OO loan.
* * * *
The Bundi dredge has been started on a
month’s trial run by the contractors, and by
the end of this month Sydney should have
another big producer on its Malayan tin lists.
* * * *
In a brochure of 43 pages Russian geolo-
gist De Ilautpick has spread himself on a
description of the physiography of the
Commonwealth, and in particular of
the Coorong (S. , Aus.), where he
has been superintending boring opera-
tions for the Coorong Oil Co. Three bores
Were drilled east of the Coorong. and two
miles south of Shit Creek; the logs of two
of them are given, though No. 1 is omitted,
possibly because the drill finished at 350 ft.
in a blue substance, described by De Haut-
pick as blue mud and by other experts as
ordinary slate. No. 2 borehole was stopped
in miocene pipeclay at 056 ft. without en-
countering oil. No. 3, one mile east of
No. 2. finished in pipeclay and white sand
at 701 ft. From 352 ft. to 370 ft. the drill
went through brown mud. oily and sticky,
the hole making a little water from 350 ft.
with “good showing of light oil.” From 370 ft.
to 385 ft. “brown mud, oily and sticky, to
379 ft. Grey mudstone to 385 ft. Good
showing of light oil.” The Robe bore ended
in jurassic yellow sandstone at 4507 ft., a
fact published for the first time, and about
which there has been a lot of needless mys-
tery. Tantanoola bore stopped at 1620 ft.,
and Tom Whaley’s Kingston hole at 1160 ft..,
both reporting tar sands. Hautpick favors
the theory that the oil found on the Coorong
and around the Mt. (Jambier district is due
to intrusive rocks, and he seems to despise the
anticlinal theory. He goes minutely into
the petrology of these volcanic intrusions
in order to prove that they are responsible
for what little oil has been forced to the
surface. E. Clarence Wood and Dr. 11. I.
Jensen arg called into evidence by De Haut-
jtick to emphasise the fact that coorongito
is of mineral origin and not vegetable. Haut-
piek recommends: (1) deep boring by a
British co. which has had experience of
drilling on Mexican oilfields; (2) until
boring plant arrives, to carry on research by
the torsional balance method to determine
the most accurate geological structure be-
neath the surface for deep drilling. The
likely depth he considers to be at least
2000 ft., but provision ought to be made to
drill to 3000 ft. Ilautpick is now on his
way to London to secure plant and drillers.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, iNew Zealand.
Ask for
ABBOTS
LAGER
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Kingsley Fail-bridge, S. African Rhodes
scholar and poet and founder of the Fair-
bridge Farm School, is dead in Westralia.
lie arrived in Perth in 1912 with 20 orphans
he had selected in the Fog, and started to
turn them into farmers and farmers wives
at Pinjarra. In spite of mean political
opposition, the scheme proved so successful
that the numbers grew to 206, and a larger
area of land had to be secured. But malaria,
contracted in Africa, set up complications,
and darkness descended on a fine spirit
at 39.
Harry Butler, the best-known resident air-
man of S. Aus., who died suddenly the
other day. never got over the crash °*
January, 1922, near his home at Minlaton,
on Yorke’s Peninsula. Butler paid his own
passage to England in 1916 to join the
R.A.F.; and worked up quickly in France from
mechanic to flight-commander. When he
returned, his little red Bristol monoplane,
and later a big biplane, gave the Adelaui.-
plains their first experience of flight as an
every-day thing. Since his one serious acci-
dent —in which his skull was badly fractured
—he had taken things more quietly as a
motor salesman. He was only 34 at the end.
Dave Watkins, M.H.R., had a birthday
this month —as a politician he is 30 years
old. During the whole period he has repre-
sented the same electorate —first in the
N S W. Parliament, to which he was elected
in 1594, and then in the Reps., which he
entered after the first Federal elections.
Austin Chapman and the Queenslander
Charley McDonald have similar records.
It was Roy Bridges who was responsible
for Jack Lemmon, Vic.’s new Minister for
Labor and Education, describing himself as
“statesman” in his nomination paper. A
year or two ago Lemmon met Roy, whom
he had known as a political reporter. Fresh
from reading one of Bridges’s novels, ne
greeted him with “Author!” “Statesman!
exclaimed Bridges, and Lemmon annexed the
tag.
Lawrence Birks, just dead in M.L. at 50,
was born and trained in S.A., and was one
of the early winners of the An gas Engineer-
ing Scholarship at Adelaide ’Varsity. He
was a lecturer there later, and then became
assistant engineer on the Sydney trams, be-
fore crossing the Tasman to be chief
electrical engineer of M.L. Public Works
Department. He had no idea that he was a
doomed man until three or four months ago,
when, on his way to Europe, he called in on
a doctor in Melbourne and got the shocking
new's. At once he cancelled his passage and
went back to his family.
Vic. Speaker Bowser has had all the luck
lately. He was re-elected unopposed for
Wangaratta. thus saving exes., and he went
on drawing his £l2OO a year in the interval
between the dissolution and the assembling
of the new' House —when a Speaker is re-
elected his services are deemed to have been
continuous. And he was placed in the chair
for the first time on April 30 last—only
26 days before the dissolution. In his ou
years in Parliament, however, lie has had
very few of the loaves and fishes. He was
Premier for four months, and Minister for
about 20.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) lost a distinguished
R.C. prelate the other day when Peter
Meagher died as the result of shock occa-
sioned by a slight accident. Born and edu-
cated in Ireland, he came to Coalopolis m
1878 under Bishop Murray, but over 30 years
ago was transferred to Singleton (N.S.W.),
where he remained till the finish, which
came at 70 years. He was vicar-general ot
the Maitland diocese, a monsignor, diocesan
consultor and censor of books —a job for
which his keen scholarship and deep culture
eminently fitted him.
“Simon”: David Storey was about the
best Australian example of how secure a
politician can be when he fits his constitu-
ency. He knew nothing about politics
when he defeated Edmund Barton in ’94,
vet he never afterwards looked like being
beaten, though his simple-mindedness about
everything outside business really increased
as years went on. A favorite amusement
of Parliamentary jokers was to see how
many times they could get Storey to tell
the same dull, frayed-out yarn on the plea
that they worn ted to learn it. When during
the war Holman, turned Nationalist, gave
him a portfolio in 1916. he appropriately
but nevertheless generously refused to take
salary. But that was only one of many
generous things that David Storey did.
Harold Nelson, M.H.R. (without a vote)
for the N. Territory, wants to prove his
belief in a country which is frequently de-
scribed as desert by getting a block as near
to the centre of Australia as possible and
settling his sons upon it. Two of his boys
are 17 and 20 ; and in his “family” he in-
cludes a Cliinese-abo. half-caste. Nelson was
A.W.TJ. secretary at Darwin 15 years ago
and this youngster used to steal into his
office and play with the typewriter. Nelson
had him clothed and sent to school, where
he shone at the head of his class. The Chi-
nese, however, as the youngster developed,
decided to send him to China; but, appealed
to by the boy. Nelson effected a melodramatic
rescue from the ship, smuggling him ashore
in a coal basket with the connivance of the
skipper and the wliarflumpers. The inci-
dent forced upon him the adoption of the lad,
who is now an improver in a printing-house
in Melbourne —he had his first experience
at the “case” in Darwin, where Nelson once
struggled to give life to a little paper.
Prendergast will draw at the rate of £1551
a year as Premier of Vic. and his seven
salaried colleagues £1207 each. Thus the
appropriation of £lO,OOO a year will be cut
out Two honoraries and a Whip will get
£2OO or £250 each' to add to their Parlia-
mentary screws of £5OO. Peacock, Opposi-
tion leader, will receive £2OO a year in addi-
tion to his £5OO as an M.P., and will also
be allotted a private sec.
T. B. Molomby, who has bagged the job of
third Vic. Railway Commissioner, has had
41 years in the department. He managed to
get in a couple of hours before the Pensions
E. W. KNOX,
after half a
century of
sugar-refining.
Abolition Act was assented to in November,
’B3 and rose to be general superintendent of
transportation. The £1750 a year he will
now draw will be a 75 per cent, increase on
the screw he was getting. Canny, a much
younger man, ran liim to the last post, but
from the time the Labor Government came in
(with a Premier of 70 at the head of it)
Molomby’s chance improved. He is. 57, and
to Prendergast a man of that age is in his
prime.
Both Laborites and Nationalists regard
the by-election for Glenelg (Vic.) as im-
portant, and the constituency will be flogged
by the heavyweights of both parties. Nearly
20 years ago there was a similar by-election
on the death of Ewan Cameron. The fight
was tremendous, and anti-Labor held the
seat. Since then the Trades Hall has cap-
tured the bone, and is depending on Ernest
E. Bond to hold it. Bond, a native of the
district, started as a junior teacher and is
now well up in the Department. The ‘Nash
party is backing Hugh V. McLeod, dairy
farmer and ex-Digger, who was defeated by
late member W. E. Thomas. He is a son of
the late Donald McLeod, once M.L.A. for
Portland, big and hearty, and appeals to
electors through his “jolly good fellowship
rather than by a knowledge of politics. Bond
married a daughter of the late member for
Glenelg, and McLeod shares his breakfast
with Pierette Elsa Langley, of St. Ivilda.
Died, at 65, while sitting in his office
chair, John Alexander Macdonald, superin-
tendent of St. Helena, Queensland’s big gaol.
He had over 40 years of prison experience,
having been stationed at Toowoomba, Boggo-
road (Brisbane) and Rockhampton before
going to his last charge in 1916. An uncle
with the same initials was superintendent
of St. Helena when Macdonald first entered
the service.
Matthews, M.H.R. for Melbourne Ports,
is a very sick man these days; yet there are
few who are more regular in attendance on
divisions. He sits in his chair in the Oppo-
sition room when obviously he would be
better in bed; and when the bells clang some
of his political cobbers help him up and into
the Chamber —a pathetic example of the per-
fect party man, who doesn’t need to listen
to a debate in order to cast a vote.
Probably the first woman in Australia to
walk under a river is Vera Morris, of Ray-
mond Terrace. The tunnel to carry the Chi-
chester water-pipes under the Humor River
was completed the day, and many
folks gathered to view the work, and some to
walk from bank to bank under the bed of the
river. Miss Morris was the first of the
sightseers to complete the journey.
Webber, Hon. Minister in the Vic. Gov-
ernment —a job which nowadays means pick-
ing up the work that other Ministers leave over
—was years ago the centre of a violent dust-
storm because of his refusal to rise to “The
King” at a public dinner. Nowadays a lot
of people who would like to dare not bring
up the old incident because he went to the
war and they didn’t. The affair showed a
vehemence of opinion which Webber still
possesses; but he has also a sense of humor
and the working capacity of an elephant.
A Vic. Gazette listed the 3650 bar-
maids registered under the Licensing Acts of
the State. And now we know what Tottie’s
real name is. There is plenty to choose from :
Juanita, Fayette, Dympna, Genevieve, Syria,
Trixie, Ila, Nerada, Melaine, Bidie, Naomi,
Leah, Imelda. Pansy, Angela, Prudence.
Melba and Stella, as well as numerous Sadies,
Pearls and Violets. Without special legisla-
tion no more barmaids can be registered, but
it will doubtless be many years before the
last of the 3650 disappears from behind the
beer engine.
A nephew of one of the most prominent
fathers of the Commonwealth Constitution
is earning his living by the sweat of his
brow on construction work on the Pine
Creek-Darwin railway. He himself was once
a barrister, too, but a more carefree life than
that of Chambers and the Courts called him.
“Len”: The wide press publicity given to
the Stefansson-Stradbroke-Dutton taxi-picnic
to Central Australia recalls some of the work
of the late David Lindsay. His Central Aus-
tralian Exploring Expedition was paid for
entirely out of his own pocket. Starting
from Charlotte Waters Telegraph Station,
he travelled into Queensland, through the
Macdonnell Ranges; continuing, he reached
the Barkly Tablelands, and surveyed 550
miles of boundary lines between the Queens-
land border and the O.T. line. And in 18S8
he rode on horseback across Australia, from
north to south, with only a black boy accom-
panying him.
“The Deacon” : The late Robert Campbell,
the King of Bangalow (N.S.W.), was a bit
ahead of the Hurstville hero nominated by
“Harold H.” (B. 31/7/’24) who married at
57 and now has 10 children. Campbells
first matrimonial venture produced 11; then,
marrying at about the same age as
“Harold’s” ancient, he was guilty of 10 more
before passing on in his early seventies from
appendicitis.
One of the identities of the islands, Johnny
Maori, celebrated his 70th birthday the other
day by getting married to a shy young damsel
of 65 or so. Johnny was born at sea of a
Maori father and South Sea mother, and
came with his father in the good old days of
the Kanaka to work amongst the pearls. His
father was killed in a sortie at Murray
Island when some of the crew were ashore
kidnapping women. Johnny later became a
policeman, and worked also with the Jardmes
at Somerset. Now he reckons he has earned
a pension; but he is not naturalised. He
has been a good worker for “Gubment,
though ; so a bag or two of flour will pro-
bably come his way.
Tunnecliffe is the second bootmaker of the
Labor party to be Chief Sec. of Vic. The
first was W. A. Trenwith, who relinquished
the leadership of Labor to join Turner’s
second Ministry (1900).
When the chieftains of the Trades Hall
foregathered the other day to welcome
Lemmon, the Minister for Labor, the new
Cabineteer became pleasantly reminiscent. He
was born in the caretaker’s cottage at the
Trades Hall, and when a youth of 17 (32
years ago) he would sneak in on a Sunday
afternoon and declaim to the empty chairs
or forms as a preparation for the soap-box
stage. Then came
trade-union organ-
ising (mainly at
night after . day
work as a tailor's
cutter), and a
seat in Parliament
since 1904. Eleven
years ago he was
Labor and Educa-
tion Minister (as he
is now), but only for
13 days. It must
have been very
tempting to Lem-
mon when refer-
ring to those who
loomed as giants
in his boyhood to
mention Trenwith
as one of his idols,
but he dared not.
LEMMON, Vic.’s
new Minister
for Education
and Labor.
Died recently in Edinburgh, at SO, William
Soltau Davidson, for 45 years general man-
ager of the N.Z. and Australian Land Co.,
and a director of the National Mortgage and
Agency Co. for 40 years. He did much for
sheepbreeding in M.L., and in conjunction
with the late T. Brydonc (to whom a monu-
ment is set up on a hill a few miles from
Oamaru) gave the dairying industry and the
frozen-meat export trade their first kick-off.
A SONG OF TRUE MATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve known my share of wasters and I’ve met my
share of cheats ;
They’ve crossed my path in bushland towns and
ci'owded city streets;
They’ve borrowed and forgotten and they’ve swindled
and they’ve lied;
They’ve sometimes punched below the belt and run
to save their hide.
But, after all, and after all, the world is big and
round ;
And roaming o’er its seas and lands true hearts I’ve
also found.
For life is filled with comradeship, as any man may
see —
I know that far more have bem true than have
been false to me.
Why should I only think of cheats who lied and took
me down
When mates have been as true as steel in many a
bushland town ?
Why should I dwell on city frauds with every cunning
wile,
Forgetful of my city friends whose ways are free
from guile?
Why should I grouse of borrowers who still neglect to
pay
Or those who work a shifty trick and dodge and get
away ?
I’ve known more men, far more, who’re straight, whose
ways are fair and free;
And mostly 1 have found that folk are on the square
with me.
I’ve had my share of trouble, and I’ve had my share
of fun,
The same as every other man since rose the first
clean sun ;
Kind hands were reached to help me through when
loads were on my back.
Kind voices bade me courage when the days were
dark and black.
DR. RAMSAY SMITH, Adelaide's
City Coroner.
Yes, even strangers passing, like the ships that pass
. at night,
Of human feeling have been full, and spoken greeting
bright;
For life is filled with comradeship, as any man may
see.
I know that far more have done good than have
done wrong to me.
And so when mournful singers chant of tragedy and
pain,
Of mates that always took them down and trust that
was in vain.
When writers tell their moving tales of love that
did not last,
And talk of hopes that withered in the hard and
bitter past,
I think of men, and women too, as true as truth can
be,
And all the joy of comradeship that life has brought
to me.
And 1 would sing of true mates—•
Oh, you have seen me through, mates !
I'd toll of not a few mates that made life good to me.
VICTORIA.
O’PHLMERTY.


&
mm
m 1
Vi
ms
■■l
M
m ■
1
SiS
111
■
m
m
m
W"
■
P®#*'
/
■f
lllililllll
f
/
■
fc
\
/
1:
i
#' #J| *■ && .- k
Wm
EMU
\
*


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service iV la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
!
i_.UI.jUI
Slmi mil
won
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caf6 and Hotel Proprietors.
Brisbane.
m
. s
m
FOUR-
HORSE-
POWER
ENGINE
The Wade
Does the
Work of
Ten Men.
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
Sole Australian Agents:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. AND AT
632 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. NEWCASTLE.
Agents for S. Australia: A. NOBLE & SON, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
NEW GUN
LONG-DISTANCE SHOOTING
34in. Barrel. 2f Cartridges.
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country
in the world, requires a gun strong in the
breech, because our varying temperatures
generate such high pressures in explosives.
Having a long experience of sporting condi-
tions here, we have all our Guns made to
suit these requirements, and the latest addi-
tion to SPECIALLY-MADE MODELS is the
Long-distance REINFORCED BREECH
Single-barrelled Gun. It has full choke,
finely-bored 34in. steel barrel, snap fore-end,
top lever, automatic ejector, half-pistol grip.
Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price 75/-. Postage 4/- all over Australia.
GUN CARTRIDGES freshly loaded on the
premises give best results. Write for list.
GUN & CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 L'TTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Takurua”: The old “tapu” restrictions
are still very largely in force among those Maoris
in the Bay of Plenty district who nphold the Ringatu
faith. A man will not put his hat upon a table, or
allow food to touch the crown of his head. While
staying with these people I slept in a room which
was furnished with a bed and table. The lady of
the house, on bringing in a cup of tea to me in
the morning, requested me not to put the cup on the
table, as it was “against the Maori rules.” Cups
of tea may stand, of course, upon a dining-table,
but not on a bedroom-table. Hats may be placed
upon the latter, but not on the former. The old
rules which kept all things connected with cooking
and with cooked food apart from clothing and
sleeping arrangements were' good ones, and it is a
pity they have broken down in most of the tribes.
Generally speaking, they made for cleanliness, but
not always. For instance, among the Ringatus, hot
water ranks as (‘poked food, and no Ringatu will
wash his head in hot water.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: “W.W.’s” tale of the two
turkey-shooters on Flinders Island (B. 17/7/’2l)
reminds me. Years ago my dad had a big mob
of turkeys which ran in a paddock, and when one
was wanted for the pot he would shoot it, they
being too wild to catch. One day, finding the
breech-loader hors de combat, he took the old Knfield
rifle we kids used and had christened Scatterbrain
Dick. Dad, however, didn’t know that the waggon
had run over it since he had last fired it. When
he saw a big gobbler strut out from the mob he
let fly at it; but the charge of marbles, nails and
gravel we had left in, flew to the right, straight
into the mob, laying out seven hens and eight
chicks, while the recoil sent poor old dad head over
heels. We never fired the old gun again after che
things dad did to it with an anvil and sledge-
hammer.
* * * *
“Reka”: A recent par. re the ability of
the abo. to foretell the season reminds me that
the Maori has this faculty also. In the Waikato
Ilenare will tell by the distance the wild ducks
build from the bank how high the
river will rise, aiid the amount of
bloom on the flax spells wet or dry fol-
ium. Sceptics tasted of his powers
when the electrical works were being
erected on the Wairua River in North
Auckland, and an apparently ample
allowance had been made for flood.
There appeared an ancient Maori who
stated that in the Dark Ages the river
had far exceeded the allowance, and he
prophesied that in the coming season
it would exceed it again. The engi-
neers smiled indulgently. A few weeks
later the result of their labors went
down-stream and the falls were a
roaring torrent. Then the ancient
warrior appeared once more with fur-
ther dire prophecies. This time he
was listened to with the utmost re-
spect, and the site of the works was
transferred. Not long afterwards the
flood eclipsed all records, and the fame
of the Maori prophet was great in
the land.
“Lao-dali”: An unexpected
item in Sydney’s exports is the beche-
de-mer, the Malay trepang. At this
time of the year the black sea-slugs
creep into our bays and harbors in
their millions, feeding on the young
weed of the ocean Spring. An enter-
prising Chinese market gardener near
Bronte collects, smokes and dries them
and ships them to China, where they
take the place of crayfish in the
theatre supper. But they have their
uses even at hiirie. Every year, if it
were not for the beche-de-mer, the
caretakers of the ocean baths would
have a busy time batfling with the weed, which
multiplies until it completely fills every inch of
the enclosed space. By the end of the winter the
futile-looking slug has cleaned up the weed in pre-
paration for the summer season.
* * * *
“S.S.”: I’ve heard of boxers with “iron”
jaws, but here’s the real goods. At Ivaiapoi (M.L.)
freezing works a cow was killed, and in the jaw-
bone was discovered an axehead. The side of the
hole where the handle goes in had been broken away,
and this had allowed the head to find a secure resting-
place, and the jawbone had grown partly round it.
Apparently the poor beast had in the first place mis-
taken the axehead for a bone. The iron measured
slin. by 3in. What a picnic Samson would have
had among the Philistines with that jawbone!
“M.S.”: “St. Kitt’s” (B. 19/6/’24) bandi-
coot with five little ones in the pouch isn’t a record.
My dogs killed one some months ago that had seven
youngsters in its pouch—even then there was one
vacant teat. I don’t know how long the mother
carries them in her pouch, but as the little ones
grow the receptacle stretches, and so makes accommo-
dation for the family. When the little ones are
fully furred they follow their mother about, just
as little pigs follow theirs. I’ve seen them doing
it, and my dad’s dog chased an old bandicoot, with
nine little ones following her, into a hollow log,
whence they were all poked out and killed. Some
people kill bandicoots in the belief that they root
out and eat sweet potatoes; but, although they ha\ e
free access to my potato patch, they do no mole
than scratch holes while looking for grubs, etc. It
is the kangaroo-rat that does the potato eating.
THE BAD BOY OF THE FLOCK.
PARSON: “Ah, Jacky! I think your hoy getting big larrikin .”
JACKY: “Gripes, yes! My bin tinkit him plurry white sheep alonga family.”
“Manxman” (B. 17/7/’24) asks
for an expert's opinion on the planting of suitable
eucalypts in his M.L. forest. Let him choose from these ;
White mountain-ash, narrow-leaved peppermint, mess-
mate, brown stringybark, yellow stringybark, white
stringy-bark, peppermint gum, silver top, red ironbark,
bluegum, greygum, forest redgum. These will grow
to a great height, and won’t take long about it. The
following are shrubs compared with the above: White-
top gum, yellow box, red box, Gippsland box, spotted
bluegum and longleaf box. If “Manxman” wants the
scientific names I will send them.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Tell “Manxman” to plant red-
gums. They will grow quickly—for the first few
years, at all events. In a hundred years or more
“Manxman’s” descendants will rise and call him
blessed. Bluegum grows well in its native Gippsland.
But artificially-planted bluegums seem to get diseased
in 20 or 30 years. I planted some redgums about
a foot high in July, 1918. Now (July, 1924) one
at least is 15 or 18 feet high, about 18 inches round
three feet up. This notwithstanding that it has been
cut back two or three times, being more for orna-
ment than use. I was laughed at when I said I was
planting redgums for firewood, that commodity being
scarce in our locality. But although lam on the
wrong side of 50 I may use some limbs of my trees
for firewood yet.
“Smilax”: I would recommend- “Manxman"
to try his luck with grey ironbark (Eucalyptus
paniculata ). Its habitat is the coastal belt of N.S.W.
and Queensland; it develops a tall, straight, clean
barrel, and for all-round quality and durability is
without a peer. Spotted-gum (E. maculata) and red
mahogany (E. resinifera) are both highly desirable
species, and so is tallow-wood (E. microcorys ). I
would specially recommend him to try to propa-
gate crows-ash or teak ( Flindersia australis ) and
yellowwood (FI. oxleyana). These are hardwoods
which grow in the scrubs or bushes of the coastal
belt and are probably the most valuable timbers we
have. The former is reputed to be impervious to
white ants and is unsurpassed for flooring. “Manx-
man” should get in touch with the N.S.W. Forestry
Commission or the Q. Forest Service, from whom he
would doubtless get seed and the necessary informa
tion respecting types of soil suitable to the various
species. Good luck to him, anyway, in his laud-
able undertaking!
* * * *
“Tarago”: Let me tell “Pat Busliie” (B.
17/7/’24) my version. For the past three years I
have had a magpie, and last spring he was ardently
courted by a damsel from the bush; but although
Johnno could fly, he preferred his three free feeds
a day and bachelor freedom to the woes anl worries
of matrimony. Finally the lady cleared out in a
pique, and married another bird; but she never
forgot her first love, and returned, bringing her
hubby with her. Now she struts daily up and
down the back yard with her fancy man, accepting
his invitations to dine, etc., while hubby is pushed
into the background to look for his own grub. My
flash gentleman never misses an opportunity of
hopping into him —preferably when he’s not look-
ing—and the lady referees a ding-dong go, apparently
barracking for her fancy man. She never attempts
to assist hubby; on the contrary, she chuckles when
he is routed, and resumes her philanderings with the
prospective co-re. I don’t know how it’s all going
to end, but I’m afraid there will be a grave scandal
when the wattles bloom again.
“Cartot”: “Bouragi” misses the point
about the similarity between Egyptian and Torres
Strait mummification methods (B. 10/7/’24). The
reason why the Egyptian mummymakers tied in the
nails of the corpse was that when the departed
entered the world of shades he should do so in just
as complete a state as he had lived on earth—
which was one of the reasons why they mummified
corpses at all. No such horror of bodily incom-
pleteness exists amongst the Torres Strait islanders,
simply because they have no idea of a future world.
Seeing that wherever mummification was practised in
the Old World it rested on a theological belief
which required the dead physical body to be pre-
served in order that it might participate in another
life, the mere fact that the Torres natives mummify
their dead argues that they obtained the idea from
some other people in a higher state of culture. Nor
is the knot with which the natives tie in the finger-
nails the same as the Egyptian knot only because it
is of a common variety. On the contrary, it is of a
most complicated pattern, which could hardly have
been hit upon by mere chance.
* * * *
“Russ.” : Electric eels are becoming com-
mon in the northern parts of Australia, and already
several fishermen have suffered shocks conveyed to
them along the wet lines. It has long been known
that the electric eel is found in marshes and stag-
nant pools in South America, and also in the islands
north of Australia, but until recently only an occa-
WHAT LITTLE GIRLS' HANDS ARE
MADE FOR.
CITY VISTOR: “So you wouldn't allow you
son to marry a girl who smoked cigar
ettes? Surely that is very narrow-
minded!”
COW COCKY : “No, it ain’t that. But every
milkin’-time that nicotine on 'er lingers
wouldn't do the milk no good.”
sional one has been found on the mainland. The
shocks which they are able to give are severe, and
in the north of Papua there is a road which has
been abandoned because the horses, in crossing a
wide ford, were often paralysed and drowned by the
violent attacks of electric eels.
(Continued on page 2-i.)
THE BUSH PARSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a track that leads to Milparinka
A swagman trudged in the dust and heat;
His swag was clumsy and loose and bulky,
His boots seemed glued to his blistered feet.
The track was fringed by a gidya forest,
Ahead was the blacksoil bleak and bare;
With gaping cracks in the dried-out gilgais,
Scant were the chances of water there.
His trousers frayed where his worn boots brushed
them,
, His bags and billycan hung like lead;
’Twas half a day since he’d tasted water
And long and dry was the stage ahead.
He waved a hand with a rhythmic motion
At each short step, as he chased the flies ;
A trickle of sweat ran round each temple
And cut like salt in his red-rimmed eyes.
He halted short in his stride to listen
iTo welcome sounds that were close at hand—
The spluttering snort of a horse’s nostrils,
The thud of hooves in the yielding sand.
As a horseman came at a loping canter
He dropped his billy’ and loosed his swag ;
The rider, a parson—new-chum bushman—
Carried no bottle or water-bag.
“I’m sorry,” he said, “that I have no water,
And we cannot eat till we have a drink ;
It’s a pity, too, that your boots are broken—
Like me, you are wearing eights, I think.”
He talked of the track and the bush an:l people
And spoke of the blacks as “the colored race”:
His heart felt sore for the weary bushman
With the dust and sweat on his wrinkled face.
AN ANXIOUS INQUIRY.
“What did the John take ’im for?”
“ ’E cracked a bloke on the ’cad with a bottle an’ smashed
it ter hits.”
“ ’Strewth, what did he spill?”
“I’m stiff,” he said, “and my legs need stretching;
I’ll tramp for a while, and you’d better ride.”
So the swagman rode with his swag before him,
AVhile the parson trudged in the dust beside.
They travelled on till the shadows lengthened
And the river timber was plain in sight;
Then the parson said: “I am loath to leave you;
But I’ve far to go ere I rest to-night.
“I’ll take your swag to the nearest water —
You’ll make it quickly without the load —
And when you come to an old ford crossing
You’ll find it lying beside the road.
It’s little that I can do to help you,
But rest and water’s your greatest need”—
With a friendly shake of the hands they parted,
Not knowing each other’s name or creed.
But long ere the swagman reached the crossing
He saw his swag, in a limb hung high ;
And traced beneath was a pointer facing
To a green-fringed pool in a hole close by.
A pair of boots from the swagstraps dangled,
And a soft white shirt with the neck still wet;
In the end of the swag where a fold was gaping
Was a well-cut lunch in a serviette.
A silhouette on the distant skyline,
While the sunset hung like a golden sheet,
The parson jogged to his destination,
The stirrups chafing his stockinged feet.
His journey, I think, was never lonesone;
Night wrapped the bush in a silence grand;
As the starlight shone on his throat uncovered,
I fancy that Christ was elpse at hand.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


ESTAB. 174-21
SCOTCH WHISKY
estab
17A2
SSI
11
IliSipll
IlSSliliiiliiiliili
11111181 l llllill ■ # 1
::v: =
llllill!
tm ■ y"
illli
mi
Hilly*
ESTAB
17A2
i
w
m am
■ I
1
/ : B ...
/
:«
■
1
* if)
y. . ..
\ -
[1
l *
is
...
l:j
.
>:
: V if,
a v
HI
Of
iiimi
v
m :
“AN EASY FIRST.”
m
meWfute Horse Cellar
am
%
i
fcSTAB. 174-2.
J
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD
Glasgow & London.
SJr
W'V’
esta b
174-2


NOW is the time to destroy
those Rabbits!
&
FUMO
BRAND
Now, before their increasing numbers in the Spring demolish
your Summer feed. Use the certain destructor,
CALCIUM CYANIDE.
It makes every opening visible, and makes it impossible for the
rabbits to escape, however deep the dead-ends.
The Minister for Agriculture says:—
“CALCIUM CYANIDE can be transported, handled and
applied, for the purpose of rabbit destruction, with almost
complete safety.”
It is economical, non-explosive, non-inflammable, simple and easy
to apply.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia :
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VlCTORlA.—Leighton, Simeon & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—S.A Farmers’ Co-op. Union. Ltd.. Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND. —Buzacotts (Q’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Perth.
There can only be ONE Best!
MAL/THOID’S record entitles it to that distinction.
MALTHOID is chemically pure and will not dry out.
MALTHOID is far superior to shingle, thatch or galvanised*
iron, and has many advantages over slates or tiles.
MALTHOID is cool in sum-
mer, warm in winter, and
water- and weather-proof all
the time.
Write or call for Samples
and Free Booklet.
*fke PARAFFINE COMPANIES In*
(F M PRINCE AustralajicmMnßciqei-)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of
P&. B MATERIAJL-T • vd«*v
~v
i
“Dry”: Tell “Anaf” (B. 3/7/’24) this
better way of tracking bees. Find a place where
they get their water. In the late afternoon sit at
the waterhole and watch their flight away till you
have a line of bees. Watch that line as far as
possible, then go and stand at the spot where you
last saw your bee. Listen for another coming. Watch
it as far as possible. Then on to the spot, and
continue this to the nest. Should it be difficult
at some spot to pick the line up, hang a bag con-
taining honey, syrup or water on a stick. The bees
will find it in 10 minutes, and you can start your
watching again from there. Note well, though, that
bees do not always fly straight; cross winds will
drive them out of true. Also you can walk faster
than a bee laden with water can fly in a head
wind; and with the sun on it you can watch an
insect for from 50 to 300 yards from a waterhole.
I have found as many as seven nests without leaving
a waterhole, because bees can be seen entering
JOB’S COMFORTER.
“I feel as though I’ve been through Hell!”
“ No w, Bill, you mustn’t go crossin’ yer bridges before
you come ter them.”
their nests much plainer in the sun’s rays a dis-
tance away from the tree than immediately under-
neath the vegetable.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: On Monaro (N.S.W.) I once
witnessed a stockwhip duel and can’t forget it.
The combatants were on horseback, and were riding
together when the disturbance started. The whips
whirled and cracked viciously, and the horses—who
got most of the welts —jumped and rushed all ways.
It was difficult at times to bring them into the
firing-line; but the duellists, expert horsemen both,
managed to keep them together for five minutes.
Much skin and hair flew around the scenery, and
WEFT FOR A RICE RIDE.
MRS. NAG : “An’ after the brute ’ad ’ad the row with his pore wife, I suppose 'e
cleared out.”
MRS. MAG: "Yairs —in the ambulance.”
the atmosphere was blue with curses. After a bit
a man with a shotgun ran across a paddock and
called upon them to stop. They took no notice of
him, so he let go and shot one of the poor mokes
in the rump. The neddy jumped almost out of
his hide and threw the rider. The peacemaker
and I attended to the fallen one’s wounds, mostly
across the back, but we had trouble keeping his
mounted antagonist at bay. After the latter had
cooled a bit we got him off and bound up his cuts
too. Then somebody bought a bottle of brandy.
They drank most of it and shook hands. The
trouble, I learnt later, was, as I expected, over a
lady.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: Recently a baby penguin
was found on Stradbroke Island, just outside South-
port, near Brisbane. This is supposed to be the first
time a penguin has been found alive so far north on
this coast. The little adventurer is bearing up well
in the warm Bananaland climate.
“Rcka”: In “Inver G.’s” re-
marks on the tui (B. 10/7/’24), he makes
no mention of the bird’s powers of mimi-
cry. The tui is known as the Maoriland
mocking-bird, and before the prohibition
on keeping them in captivity a tame tui
would afford great entertainment. Recently
I saw one that had been injured and had
taken up its abode at a bush homestead
apparently with the intention of staying
for all time. It would sit on the veran-
dah and imitate the baby’s cry, reproduce
exactly the hacking cough of the old
gardiner, and its plaintive mewing would
bring the cat rushing to see who was mal-
treating her kittens. After which the joker
would delightedly give his well-known
chuckle that everybody loves. Even when
wild, the bird will dance to an audience,
spreading its wings at the end of a beauti-
ful trill and curtseying with a quaint
little jump. Except for his white cravat
—which earned him the name now happily
almost unused —-there is nothing of the
parson about the blithe-hearted tui, and
a company of them dancing in a yellow-
blossomed kowhai-tree to the accompani-
ment of their melodious clamor is some-
thing never to be forgotten.
“Jcobb” (Darwin) : Let me into this
swamp-cancer wrangle. I am the modest bloke who
knows a lot about it. I have worked with and for
the best vets, that have been here since the Common-
wealth Government took over the place. I have seen
all the “cures” tried, and am convinced that what
will fix up one animal is useless to another. Strange
as it may seem, it is an established fact that what
will cure a mare won’t affect a gelding or sire.
Under Gilruth’s personal supervision and direction we
had all sorts brought in from the affected parts of
the Territory, and treated them for months. Most
cures were wrought with injections of antim. potas-
sium into the main vein—2 p.c. solution. All
the same, we had a solid opinion that many of the
cures were the result of the change from wet to
comparatively dry country and the hard feed that
the beasts received while under treatment. The
knife is the popular treatment all the way along the
coastal, belt from Darwin to the Roper, and it will
take a lot to convince old hands that any bottle
or powder is better. Only the other day a mob was
put into a yard at Brock’s Creek, and no less than
63 p.c. of them had cancers. The knife went into
the lot. The general impression up here is that a mare
badly infected when carrying her foal will invariably
pass it on to the offspring. Personally I always follow
the practice of shifting the affected animal on to
drier country. A 50-mile shift will generally do the
trick. I recently heard of a very fine mare at
Pine Creek which the owner ordered to be shot on
account of two dreadful cancers. The nigger, instead
of doing the job, took it with a mob of others to
Emulgalen, 50 miles away. To-day the mare is
clean, and probably the best in the district. Inci-
dentally, swamp-cancer is not known south of Daly
Waters.
* * * *
“Derf Commor”: The prophecy of “Wob”
(B. 10/7/’24) that his statement that all fish with
distended mouths are passive resisters would be met
with “It’s not true” is correct. In fact, it’s a crim-
son untruth. I have had years’ experience of fishing
in N. Queensland, on both the amateur and profes-
sional status, and I would like to introduce “Wob”
to one of our salmon or barramundi. Both of these
have distended mouths, are unable to chew, having
no teeth, and crush their food as it passes through
the throat to its final resting-place. And passive
resisters! My oath!
* * * *
“Gouger”: Lots of shellfish besides the
oyster have the power of producing pearls. I have
seen the niggers get an occasional one fi'om the
fresh-water mussel. Most of the bivalves of the
Barrier Seas strive to produce the delight of Cleo-
patra, but their products are seldom of much value.
Even the big clam occasionally brings forth a pearl,
though his is mostly a gradual accretion of irregu-
lar layers of shell over any foreign substance that
may have found its way in. The best haul I
ever made with pearls was when raiding a coastal
niggers’ camp in search of a runaway “boy.” A
piccaninny was playing in the sand with a mutilated
goanna in one hand and a pearl in the other. I
killed the goanna and made a present of it to the
kid. The pearl they didn’t value and had no use
for. It realised £213.
“Nollig” : The old expression “Hope you’ll
live till a dead cow kicks you” has lost its signi-
ficance. At Zeehan (Tas.) a youth assisting to butchss
a steer had actually severed the head from the body
when he received a kick from the carcase sufficiently
forceful to break his upper jaw and scatter his teeth.
* * * *
“Aglum”: “Te Whare” (B. 3/7/’24) must
have been reading the same Un-natural History as i.
That old libel about our birds having no song
seems to be dying out, but there are others taking
its place. Hutchinson’s “Animals of all Countries”
gravely tells its readers that, “although finches are
found in northern and temperate regions of the
Eastern and Western hemispheres, they are unknown
in Australia.” And yet if there are any prettier
finches in the world than the Gouldian grass-finch, or
the spotted-sided finch, I’ll eat my boots. But 1 hand
the belt to “Pears’ Cyclopaedia” for its description
of the bower-bird, which reads: “An Australian bird
which constructs amongst the branches of trees a
bower-like shelter to which it resorts, more especially
during the breeding season.” Now you know some-
thing.
* * * *
“Reka” : “VL7” (B. 17/7/’24) is correct
when he states there is no / in Maori; but in
most Maori dialects the wli combination is sounded
as / — e.y., “Itawhia” is pronounced “Kafiu,” and
“Te Ngawha” is “Te Nafa.” Also there is no
sibilant, but the i before h gives the effect of one,
as in “Ihumata,” called “Ishumata,” and “Ihongi"
is pronounced “Shongi” (now corrupted to “Hongi”).
Even Darwin in his Beagle records tripped over
the spelling of the name of the great Ngapuhi chief,
writing it phonetically “Shongi.” There is no <j
except preceded by n ; but “Otago” (Otako) remains
misspelt, as upon Government inquiry it was . found
that the cost of correcting the spelling of the southern
province would run to something like £20,000.
I have never heard of “Waihola” for “Waihora”
(foaming water), and probably “Monowai” is really
not a combination of Greek and Maori, but another
corruption, just as Lake Manapouri should he “Ma-
nawapouri” (the Lake of the Darkened Heart). All
lovers of a beautiful language deplore the corrup-
tion of Maori names. It really hurts a Maorilander
on a visit to Australia to walk through the Sydney
Botanic Gardens and note his native Koromiko labelled
“Koromeek.”
* * * *
“C. Coral” : I quite agree with “Parama”
(B. 8/5/’24) that the dress-diver in Torres Strait
doesn’t hanker after 40-fathom depths; but I think
he missed my point, which was that it is possible
to go beyond 30 fathoms. The English writer re-
ferred to in my par. said that it couldn’t be done;
I was pointing out the fallacy of that statement.
All the same, “Parama” himself errs somewhat —
there are not “scores of posts” marking Jap graves
on Darnley; and in his deep-diving the Jap is
quite ready'' to go down to the big depths if he
thinks the other fellow is getting a lead on him,
especially when they are “racing” for big hauls.
Cupidity, too, accounts for some of the cases of
paralysis he refers to. Talking to one old Jap hand
a little while back, he informed me that the cause
of his sudden disablement centred in the fact that
a friend of his desired some of the pearls he had
won (the pearls are the property of the Jap divers
now), and consequently arranged for him to be
hauled up too rapidly. “Close up X finish,” he
smiled ; “but other man he no get my pearls.” He
volunteered the information that he had decided
that pearl-diving was unhealthy, and was going to
return to Japan.
* * * *
“Wee Bobbie” : I watched the capture and
disposal of a brown lizard, about 9in. long, by a
carpet-snake of a species common in the Solomons —
a much smaller fellow than our Australian variety;
and I know no other ‘ snake so sleepy. He came
through the grass in an easy, purposeless manner.
As he got close to where I was standing I noticed
the lizard; it was hanging on a fork of a shrub
about 3ft. from the ground. The snake was a good
distance off when I first saw him, but he zigzagged
his way steadily to his prey. After he reached the
“BELOW THE DEEPEST DEPTHS."
“Well, how’s business?”
“No good.”
“Umph! How’s the wife?”
“She’s worse.”
foot of the shrub his action was too quick to follow.
He sprang off his tail, and next instant was on
the ground in a knot around Lizzie. Then he un-
coiled himself, save for two turns of his tail around
the hindquarters of the victim, and threw himself
round like the right-hand side of a capital D,
bringing his mouth over the snout of the liz. He
literally pushed the prey down his throat with Ins
tail. There was no sliming.
PASTORALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Twenty million British sheep will be bathed in
the next three months, in accordance with the order
of the Ministry of Health.'”— Sun cable.
The snow lies on the mountain,
But Spring sighs down the vale.
Beside tiie crystal fountain
Set towel and tub and pail.
Come, Phyllida and Corydon,
Shake off the bonds of sleep ;
A high emprise before us lies—
To-day we bathe the sheep.
’Mid Nature’s soft surroundings,
The just-awakened day
Smiles on the jocund boundings
Of lambkins at their play;
The while, amid the roses,
The kookaburras cheep ;
Tune up the pipe, the hour is ripe—
To-day we bathe the sheep.
From care and toil remitted,
The pretty creatures roam,
Nor fear to be submitted
To sponge and brush and comb;
See to it that the water
Be scented, warm and deep;
Make ready, too, the Reckitts blue—
To-day we bathe the sheep.
Deal with the dumb things gently
And guard their eyes from soap;
Don’t duck them accident’ly,
Yet firmly with them cope;
Before the final massage,
Warm towels upon them heap;
Serve each a tot of Bovril hot
When you have bathed the sheep.
Then, when the bath is finished
And manicured their nails,
With vigor undiminished
We’ll smartly bob their tails ;
Discriminating tweezers
Superfluous hairs will reap—
We are, you see, le dernier cri,
When bathing of the sheep.
With ribbons gay and brilliant
Now deck each snowy fleece,
And dust its locks resilient
With purest poudre de riz;
Then as the grateful muttons
In sweet abandon leap,
And sets the sun, our task is done—
To-day we’ve bathed the sheep.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


ALL STATES
3a
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
AND N.Z.
A Step in the Right Direction!
When you fit Dunlop Tyres to your car you can be
certain of obtaining quality, value, service and
freedom from trouble. Australasian road conditions
call for specially constructed Covers with ample
thickness and strength to withstand the roughest of
driving, and in this direction Australian-made
£
m
mmk
m
are supreme. Weight is not cut out of Dunlop covers and tubes
with a view to price cutting or profit making ample high-grade
materials to ensure many thousands of miles of travel being
incorporated in every tyre we make. “ Dunlops ” cost you no
more the difference is in the service they give. Fit Dunlop
Cords and you’ll be satisfied! Garages can supply


A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring-, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£l5.
3^
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Oold-
mounted liar-
rings, Black,
Blue and Red,
10/6.
A. Saunders’ Special
Jewellery Reductions.
fegmin
II
W: 10 ' 'hbiih
Ms
sm
A-
.B
5. ■.
k-7
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Expanding Watch Bracelet,
lever movement, £l2/10/
15et. Gold, £l5.
A Saunders’ Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
Larger Diamonds, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
9ct. (lold-
mounted Bar-
rings, Black,
Blue and Red,
10/6.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£lO,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, lBct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£5/1.0/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, real Platinum
set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£B.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunting
Imperial Waltham or Elgin Lever, f -plate,
jewelled compensation balance; 10-year
case, £4/4/-; 20-year, £6; 25-year,
£7/10/-
Higher Grades, £B/10/-, £lO.
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, flat, concave or
convex, 20/-
Heavier, 25 / 30 / -
15ct. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
ARML.E T
Saunders’ 9et. Gold
' Links, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s “Imperial” Open-
face Nickel Watch, f-plate lever move-
ment, non-magnetic time spring, 257-
Extra jewelled, 30/-
Highcr Grades, 40/-, 50/-
Pil 12
- 10*-s»u" Dtßs 2**\|
- SYDNEY *.V
■9
3:
tf.B
A.
5.
SV-.7
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Patent Expanding Watcn
Wristlet, jewelled lever movement, £3/10/-
others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Armlet, plain half round, 40/-
Narrower, 30/-, 25/-
Any design or width made to order.
SENT PER REG. POST FREE .
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face, lever movement, luminous
figures and hands, Nickel Case, £2.
Solid Silver, £2/10/-, £3.
Higher Grades, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
mti
mm
Miss JOSIE MELVILLE.
Miss GLADYS MON CRIEFF.
The Popular and Charming Williamson Theatrical Stars.
Dainty Advocates of Mercolized Wax for the Skin.
PURE MERCOLIZED WAX
“Imparts to the Face a Natural Grace.”
Invaluable for protecting the skin from chapping by keen
winds. Should always be used before the application of
powder, as it keeps the powder from clogging the pores,
besides being really beneficial to the skin. Positively does not
encourage hair growth. • Owing to the consistency of
Mercolized Wax, one 5/6 tin will supply all your face-cream
needs for from two to three months. It does not dry out,
evaporate, or grow rancid. A pot of .ordinary face cream
would not last you longer than two weeks.
BARRI-AGAR
“The Ace of Face Powder.”
Orange Blossom perfumed Face Powder, beautifully soft and
clinging. Supplied in four colors: Rachel, Cream, Pink, White.
Price 4/- per generous-sized dainty box.
In use by the women you admire, and obtainable from Reliable
Chemists, or post free on receipt of postal note for the value to
Dept. Q 4,
DEARBORN (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
NOT only is the Underwood Portable a necessity
to everyone with writing of any consequence
to do, but it is within reach of all. The reason-
able cash price of the machine, or our easy-terms
system of payment, makes it a simple and inexpensive
matter to own one. The standard portable keyboard,
the light, responsive touch and your own enthusiasm
will soon make you a proficient typist. No instructions
for use are necessary other than those contained in
the booklet accompanying each machine. Within a
fortnight you can free yourself forever from the tedious
drudgery of handwriting, give your thoughts clearer
expression and become a proficient operator. Mail
the coupon now.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
70 Pitt Street Sydney
Stott & Underwood, Ltd., 70 Pitt Street, Sydney,
I should like to know how easy
it would be for me to own and
learn to operate the Underwood
Portable. No obligation is incurred.
(Bulletin, 7/8/’24)
NAME .. .
ADDRESS
BUSINESS
DATE


SLJ
dfg
arc never sold as Orientals nor bought for Orientals,
but they arc worn in place of Orientals by women who
I actually own Orientals as well as by women who do not.
From £2/2/- for 16in. Necklet.
Others with genuine diamond clasps at various prices.
Also mounted as Rings, Brooches, Earrings, Studs,
etc., from £l/1/-.
Sold under a 10 years’ guarantee.
PROCURABLE ONLY FROM
“Lafaye,”
SCIENTIFIC PEARL AUTHORITIES:
“First Promenade,” City House, 164 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
ALSO AT
3nd Floor, Block Arcade (Collins Street
Entrance), MELBOURNE.
Late of “Tecla,” 7 Old Bond Street, LONDON.
The Only Firm of Artificial Pearl Specialists in
Australia. [W —McF.
Special! 6'6 Special!
Zephyr Shirts
This special offer makes it pos-
sible to secure high-grade shirts
at a remarkably keen price. They
have neat coloured stripes, double
cuffs, and reinforced neck bands.
Sizes are from 14| to 17| inches.
Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney.
FARMER’S
Farmer's pay carriage.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume.
P[?] [?]
MISS[?] MONK & DOVLE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
The social giddy-go-round lias slowed down,
and will stay so until the Cup Carnival
arrives. If it were not for bridge and com-
mitteeing Society women would be driven
back to fancy work anti days-at-home. Even
the orgy of flapper jazzes which cut in on
grown-up frivols has had its day. In years
gone by the winter season was invariably
brightened by a Gov. House shivoo or two;
but the present dulness is made duller by
the absence of both vice-regal groups.
Commodore Charles Marshall and the com-
mittee of the St. Kilda Yacht Club, which is
now privileged to fly “Royal” at its mast-
head, chartered the St. Kilda civil hall for
their annual hornpipe. Regal crowns glit-
tered on the scarlet and white club colors,
which ceilinged the room and spilled over the
balcony frontages. Lifebuoys and miniature
dinghies entered into the decorations, the
stage was artfully disguised as a coast-line
with a lighthouse sending out warning signals
across a painted ocean and the hours and
half-hours were rung out by a yacht’s bell
—all of which went to give a life-on-the-ocean-
wave touch to the affair. Mrs. Charles Mar-
shall was in raven satin warmed with a
black-and-blue velvet cloak that was very
becoming, while daughter Belle’s inky jazz
frock carried a sunburst of golden embroidery.
Skipper Grimwade, of the Geelong Yacht
Club, came up for the event with his wife,
who flashed diamente from her black-satin
drapings under an ermine wrap. The wife
of Royal St. Kilda’s vice-commodore shawled
herself picturesquely in Orientally-patterned
silk under which showed a splash of orange
and gold. Other notabilities there included
Senator Kingsmill and his wife, from West-
ralia; S. Finlayson, skipper of the Brighton
Club ; Pemberton Billing ; Mayor Allan, of St.
Kilda, and his daughter Merle; club sec.
Warren Taylor, who was also hon. sec. of the
ball committee; and hon. treasurer G. K.
Moore and his wife.
Isabel Allard, who is steaming to Colombo
and matrimony with Cuthbert Leefe aboard
the Maloja, called in her feminine pals to the
Quamby Club to drink a farewell cup with
her on Friday- afternoon. She breathed her
good-byes from under the upswept brim of a
black hat which topped a frock of blue-and-
grey silk stripes. Her sister, Mrs. Morrison,
there as second hostess, hedged in black crepe
with a mole fur coat under a black hat. Mrs.
Allard, who will convoy Isabel to the tryst,
was accompanied by a third daughter, Mrs.
Eric Robertson. Mrs. Gordon Allard came,
and Mrs. de Bavay, with daughter Vere.
Anne Willis, who will ’maid the bride, is
already half-way along the salt track to the
cinnamon isle. Another guest was Mrs. Geoff.
>Syme, wearing a happy smile in anticipation
of daughter Hilaria’s early return from Eng-
land. The latter, however, is to start off
again shortly and make her English fiance
happy.
The Melbourne Music Club heads are de-
termined that the musically starved shall
not go hungry if they can help it. Seldom
a month passes unmarked by a club perform-
ance. Last week members were beckoned
into the Albert-street Artist Galleries for a
night out with Arnold Bax. The selections
were the “E Sonata” for fiddle and piano,
in which honors rested evenly between the
two players—violinist Gertrude Healey and
pianist Violet Ewart. Thereafter Gertrude
played the soul-stirring “Legend” to a nice
piano-backing by H. E. Spry, and finally
Violet Ewart and Spry combined to delight
their hearers with the rhythmic Irish tone
poem, “Moy Mell.” Fritz Hart, in thank-
ing the players, mentioned that Bax —who,
by the way, is a writer of mystical tales as
well as a composer—was a fellow-student
of his in the days of their golden youth.
Most of the feminine crowd had furred them-
selves against the frosty air, and many of
the other sex did their best with overcoats,
though veteran president Tom Brentnall,
Fritz Hart and several other brave souls
bared their boiled shirt-fronts to the icy
I > last.
The Helm widow’s Hawksburn doorbell
was worked hard on a recent day by friends
who came to offer felicitations on a 90th
birthday. The newly-made nonagenarian,
who was born in one of the few surviving
Norman castles in Wales, fa rewelled her
native land when still in her ’teens to come
Australiawards with her husband, the late
barrister Helm, of Bendigo. Since leaving
the Golden City she has sheltered in her own
home, Tresylian, with two devoted daughters.
The canteen section of the Melbourne Hos-
pital Auxiliary had its first annual meet-
ing the other afternoon in an upper chamber
of the Town Hall under the presidency of
Mayoress Brunton. The balance-sheet
showed a profit of £l6O from the tea dispen-
sary, and a further £6O from cigarette sales.
The ball which lately whirled in the out-
patients’ hall will bring £lOO to the hospi-
tal maintenance fund. The Mayoress epi-
logued the meeting pleasantly with a musi-
cal tea in her parlors, where Madge Agnew
and Veronica Mansfield furnished some ex-
cellent vocal fare with the help of accom-
panist William Burrell. Mrs. Brunton was
in black satin with a dash of white about
the lower ends of the sleeves and skirt panel-
ling, and topped off with a black hat.
The Yorick, one of Melbourne’s snuggest
clubs, is again changing quarters. Ousted
from the star position at the corner of
Collins and Swanston streets when altera-
tions to the building were made a couple of
years ago, it took refuge over a draper's
shop higher up Swanston-street. Now it
is finding what it fondly hopes will be
a permanent haven in the renovated build-
ing at the corner of Flinders-lane and Swan -
ston-street that used to be the Queen’s Arms
Hotel. The State Savings Bank is to open
a branch in the very bar where thirsty souls
once drank deep. The Anglers’ Club will be
neighbors of the Yorick; and yarn-spinning
tournaments are already talked of.
A brisk lot of the Best Known dropped
into St. Peter’s Hall the other night to hear
what Prince Alexis Obolensky had to say
about Russia before and after the great up-
heaval. He spoke quite nicely, but had no-
thing to add to what his hearers already
knew. Mrs. George Chirnside and Mrs.
Fred Payne brought parties, and the Alan
Beepers, the George Dickson pair. Admiral
Hall Thompson, the Daryll Lindsays, Dr.
Nyulasy and his sister, and the Richard
Casey widow with the younger Everard
Browne girl were among those who crowded
the hall. And Canon and Mrs. Ernie
Hughes, of course—Alexis Obolensky has
been sheltering at St. Peter’s Church house
since the Grand Opera Co. introduced him
to Melbourne. The young man is now on
the way back to France, where his wife and
family are awaiting him. The former is said
to be making a living as a dress-designer.
Solicitor Maurice Blackburn, one-time
Labor M.P., has succeeded the late Speaker
John Mackey as a Public Library trustee.
His maternal grandfather, Colonel MacCrae,
came of an old clan. The MacCrae sisters
were the Melbourne beauties of their day,
and the loveliest of the lot was the late Mrs.
William Howitt, whose medical husband was
a brother of the explorer. The MacCraes
were linked up with the Ward-Coles, whose
name was one to conjure with in Society for
many _ years. Their old home at Brighton,
St. Ninian, sheltered some of the most glit-
tering parties ever held in the State. The
roomy house had been brought to early Mel-
bourne in sections; it still stands pictur-
esquely by the sea, but its spreading lawns
have been cut away and its priceless old
furniture and objets d’art have long since
gone on the auction block. The elder Ward-
Cole daughter is the sole survivor of the
family.
Mrs. George Bell, who starred in the recent
Repertory production of Milne’s “Dover
Road,” at the
Playhouse, is
photoed b y
Lafayette. The
clever little
matron h a s
had a lot of
amateur e x-
perience, re-
inforeed b y
some of the
p r o f e ssional
brand. As a
girl in England
she yearned for
a stage career,
only to be
frowned down
by her parents;
but after a
number of
amateur ap-
pearances she
managed t o
overcome the
parental objections when she was invited to
join Ada Farrar’s company at St. James’s
Theatre, and afterwards on tour. Although
she loved the work the little mum-
mer was quite content to pack away her
grease-sticks and set out on a domestic career
with Aussie artist George Bell. The pair
have now the loveliest babe in the world, an
Australian-born 19-montlis-old she-cherub
called ’Toinette.
The monetary results of Wattle Day totted
up to nearly £4OOO, which will be dropped
into the children’s charities funds. The pic-
turesque sentiment was quite overshadowed
by the button-selling and other money-grub-
bing. Each section worked from a stall
flowing over with fancy goods, produce, etc.
The Children's Hospital and Epileptic
Colony committees established a department
store in the shop by the Block Arcade, with
the Covent Garden part gladdening the Col-
lins-stroet window. Mrs. Walter Clark and
her daughter. Mrs. Billy Johnston, sweet-
ened the block from end to end witli Parma
violets, the spoils of a Macedon garden-bed.
Mayoress Brunton looked out over a car-
load of merchandise and flowers stalled by
the Town Hall portico. Two baby displays
staged in the Cathedral grounds tempted a
further loosening of the public’s purse-
strings—one from the Berry-street Foundling
Home, the other from the Lovell Clarke
Creche. Mrs. Jack Staughton and Mrs.
Pott combined to look after a Ministering
Children’s League kiosk at the Occidental
Hotel entrance; and bright-eyed flappers
did a roaring trade as flower- and button-
girls at Mrs. James Angus’s stall. The hon.
organiser of the campaign, Mrs. J. S. Winter,
had not left an inch of the city pathways
uncovered. The Block shop alone showed
a profit of £350.
Buskin snapped this picture of Ivy Car-
stairs, a Gippsland singing girl, who, after
using her rich
dramatic so-
pra n o fo r
charitable and
friendly pur-
poses only, has
no w decided
to transfer
it to the
p r o f e ssion al
platform. To
this end she
is having her
voice treated
to a special
concert polish
by Tlieophilus
Roberts. Ivy
Carstairs has
spent most of
her life at the
Lakes En-
trance, one of
Victoria’s
beauty spots,
but she put iu three years at seaside Warr-
nambool. She expects to take her first pro-
fessional plunge very shortly.
Melbourne has been worrying through the
combined awfulness of ’flu and income-tax
returns. Priminister Bruce’s wife has been
among the victims of the first infliction. Ironi-
cally enough she was put on the sick list
while taking a rest tonic at their Frankston
farm. When her temperature went over
the safety limit she was hurried back to her
South Yarra home for medical attention.
However, she is now well on the way to nor-
mal health again.
Too-Toorak shrugged resignedly over the
astounding intimation that Mandeville Hall
had been acquired for convent purposes by
the R.C. Church after being talked about
as a substitute for vice-regal Stonington,
The roomy place has been doing its bit as a
superior hashery under the direction of its
owner, Mrs. Tremearne, and her sister, Miss
Martin. The spreading park lands, which
formerly gave the property the appearance
of one of the stately homes of England, were
long since clipped off and sliced into villa
allotments. The place was built for the late
Joseph Clarke, father of big W.J.T., and
the family lived there until the financial
crash. After being long tenantless it was
leased by the Ross Soden widow, who shel-
tered unlimited entertainments in its big
ballroom and surrounding reception parlors;
then, following the second term of empti-
ness, the house was bought by Mrs. Tre-
mearne.
The East Malvern Hockey Club with its
supporters of both sexes got into jazz-slip-
pers on Thursday for a night out at the
Malvern Town Hall, where they whirled
joyously under a choppy sea of colored bal-
loons wobbling from the ceiling. The visit-
ing Ma State hockey team blew in under
convoy of their captain, Ormonde Wood, and
manager E. Edwards.
The Shawl and Poster Ball for the Civil
Ambulance is due to swamp Melbourne Town
Hall on August 27. The leading newspaper
offices and city firms are sending poster sets
or units, and now they’re wondering how
they will all manage to squeeze in. The
prizes offered for best and most original
posters, sets and so on are tempting the en-
trants to deadly rivalry, and a Limerick com-
petition is also being rushed.
The increasing popularity of the monthly
meetings of the Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers’
Friendly Union having threatened to over-
flow the Masonic Hall, the committee has
been driven to deal with the position, and no
new members will be enrolled. Incidentally,
Ethel Musther, the lion, sec., intimates that
anyone sending parcels of clothing, etc., for
ex-soldiers’ children should address them to
Mrs. W. Coxen, 83 Caroline-Street, S. Yarra.
Some Adelaide gossip :
Artists’ Week reached its climax in the Masked
Ball at the Town Hall, excellently organised by a
committee that was headed by the Moulden dame.
The decorations were rose and gold and purple, and
a balloon stall gave still more color. Prizes went
to a Bacchante and Philomena (Verna Hackett and
Mrs. Lav. Bonython) ; to Michelin tyres and a gorgeous
Chinese mandarin (Colin Wood and John Preece) ;
and to the eight members of the Watteau Set who
danced a minuet. Maxime Tolley and Bobbie Help-
man also gave an exhibition dance. The Bridges
were there and brought small daughter Alvida to sec
the fun. One of the youngest set was an adorable
doll in black satin, and another a black-and-white
ballet-girl warranted to break all hearts. Spanish
ladies were in plenty, thanks to the vogue of the
Spanish shawl —some of ’em Chinese, but what
of that?
For the rest, there have been the supper after
the Repertory Theatre’s “Laughing Lady,” the tea
at the opening of the Exhibition, and a dinner with
the United Arts Club as hosts. The dinner was a
masculine affair. Van Raalte was in the chair, with
his fellow members of the Club to back him up, and
among the guests were Sydney Ure Smith, Lionel
Lindsay, Harold Heruert and Charles Wheeler. The
Moulden dame did the honors at the tea, after his
Ex. had declared the show open, and the Repertory
Theatre hosted the supper, with Professor Strong and
Mrs. Ernest (food as their representatives.
The Conservatoriuin’s quota was a concert- in the
Elder Hall, the programme being entrusted to Maude
I’uddy, Harold Parsons, Harold Wylde, Hilda (till,
Sylvia Whitington and others.
Artists apart, it has been a dull week. Saturday
was wet for inter-collegiate football and Tattersall's
Cup (useful, though, in its way, as demonstrating
that a raincoat need no longer be a garment of drab
horror), but on Sunday a day of perfect sunshine
filled the Exhibition to overflowing for the concert
that is given every year to raise much-needed funds
for Minda. T. Grigg organised the show and waved
his baton over an 80-strong orchestra. There was an
imposing chorus from our own grand opera eo., and
Hilda Dayman sang, and was lucky in having as
her accompanist Topsie Doenau, who was Daisy Ken-
nedy’s accompanist when she was here.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The children’s party at Government House was
something new to Brisbane. Like many another
bachelor, Sir Matthew lores the infants, and all
kinds of unique amusements were provided for them.
Governor de Chair (N.S.W.) looked after the donkey-
rides, and there was an Aunt Sally and swing-
boats, and a magic post-office where every kiddie
on presenting an invitation card got a present. Hr
Ex.’s colors carried out in giant bon-bons decorated
the tea tables on the upper lawns. Sir Matthew
and Jack Turner, A.-D.-C., were postmen, and Lady
de Chair, Mrs. Leonard Turner and Keene Cullen
helped to entertain the little guests.
Parliament opened last week with the help of the
Governor and his aide and a troop of mounted police.
Quite a lot of well-known women looked on, among
them the Mayoress in black marocain, Mrs. T.
McCawley in cream satin striped cloth, Mrs. Gillies
in brown, Mrs. Leonard Turner in black satin maro-
cain, Mrs. M. L. Reading in navy, and her
daughter in floral marocain with a blue hat. Mrs.
Theodore came in a cerise hat topping a black chif-
fon velvet.
Died from tetanus, originating in a small abrasion
on his foot, A. J. Carpenter, sec. of the Union
Pictures. He was a son of Dr. Carpenter, of Kent,
won the D.C.M. in the S’Afriean War, came to
Bananaland to look into projected antimony-mines,
and, not being sanguine about them, settled down
as an accountant and married a daughter of the
G. Needham-Walkers.
Sir Matthew gave a tennis party the other after-
noon to Lilian Cannan, the Robertsons and K. Trot-
ter, and in the evening took Mrs. Tyrwhitt, Noel a
Tyrwhitt and Keene Cullen to Florence Menkmeyer’s
concert in the Albert Hall, Capt. Turner looking
after the party. Archbishop Sharp and his sister,
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, Mrs. Alan Jeffray, Judge and
Mrs. Shand, the Lockhart Gibsons and Mrs. George
Sampson were in the full house.
Mrs. Denny O’Connor poured the cheerful cup for
Mrs. Theodore at the Bellevue, which was decorated
with poinsettia and Spring blossoms for the “wel-
come home.” The hostess was in dove grey and black
fox, and Mrs. Theodore’s black-fox furs were worn
over a black-and-white gown. In the intervals cf
tea and chat Mrs. Robert Bell sang and an orchestra
played.
St. Paul’s, Roma, saw the wedding of Edna Win-
ten to John Cornell, of Melbourne. Wattle and
arum-lilies decked the church, parson Eva tied
the knot, and Elfrida Timbury sang “Beloved, It Is
Morn.” The bride wore cream georgette charmante,
with Brussels lace. The honeymoon trip is a
motor spin right through to Melbourne.
Margaret East, clad in pink satin, said she would
to Leslie Cooke, in St. Thomas’s Church at Too-
wong. Seventy guests fed at Eskmount after the
contract was signed. The honeymoon is being-
spent at Tewantin and Noosa, after which the pair
will settle down at Barcaldine.
The matron of St. Martin’s Hospital, Betty
Davies, is to “name the day” shortly, and the per-
son who will buy the ring is De Witt Batty, sub-
dean of St. John’s Cathedral.
A jewel-case of Queensland woods was handed to
Mrs. John Huxliam at the Tech., at a farewell func-
tion connected with the Domestic Sciences School.
The staff also presented a leather writing-case. The
pupils of the school fixed up a dainty afternoon tea
amid a sweetness of pea and mignonette, and all
the cooking was done by the cadets themselves.
There have been many semi-private farewells to the
new Agent-General’s wife.
On July 30 Elsie Scott, of the Mount Dawson
clan, was married to Keith Ekenstein, late of
Sydney and now of Condamine Plains (the old
stronghold of the Taylors). Parson A. M. Martin
tied the knot in St. Stephen’s, Toowoomba, and
the reception was at the Bluebird.


m
*
, \ 'j
1 f !
i
#mm,
«$»
m
Si
m — «*»
WAX Your Linoleum
JOHNSON’S POLISHING WAX (Paste and
Liquid) is endorsed by all the leading manufac-
turers of linoleum for polishing, preserving and
protecting their product. Read the paragraphs below,
which are quoted from a letter written by the
Armstrong Linoleum Co. on July 5. 1923, to S. C.
Johnson & Son: —
“Our Research Department has tested John-
son’s Wax on a number of occasions, and has
approved it very highly for use on Armstrong s
Linoleums. We have been recommending John-
son’s Wax in our advertising literature for pro-
bably ten years, and no user of our goods has
ever made a complaint to us regarding the satis-
faction secured by the use of Johnson s on
our linoleum.
“An application of a good wax, thoroughly
rubbed in, provides a film of wax over the surface
of the linoleum which hardens and prevents dirt
from being ground into the linoleum itself. It is,
therefore, much easier to clean a linoleum floor
that has been properly waxed, because the dirt
is readily wiped off the surface. Wax also pre»
serves linoleum and takes off a good deal of the
wear.
JOHNSON’Sm^S
PREPARED WAX
Polishes EvEimHiNGj LlJhed
C.JOHNSOK&SOH
FLOORS-LINOLEUM
WOODWORK H|
FURNITURE “
M-EATHER- SHOES
\AUTOMQ BILES'”
ZZJ/CZ^IICZ 3 r C
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia--*
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
from your local dealer—write us, mentioning his name
and we will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by *si
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.
Australia’s Best Humorous Verse
The Bulletin Reciter
The Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations. 1/- per volume.
No Australian home library is complete without these volumes,
containing the gems of Australian humor in verse.
Complete Catalogue of 150 Australian Novels obtainable free
from Publishers.
THAT BOOK YOU WANT
Commonsense Hand-railing — Hodgson E r - Ce
Practical Stone Masonry— Hodgson • • r } ce
Business Man’s Guide to Insurance—A. I’hilpott r^ ce
Cost Accounting— W. Ainsworth 4, r } ce
Guide for the Company Secretary—A. Coles £ r . ice
Hardwood Staining and Polishing— Hodgson T n . ce
Practical Cabinet Maker — Hodgson r^ ce
Motor-cycles and Side-cars — Page -L r . ice
Model Railways— H. Green ley
Saw Mills, Arrangement and Management — Bale Brice
Woodworking Machinery — P. Bale Brice
Art of Drawing in Lead Pencil- — J. Salwey r . lce
Drawing for Art Students —A Seaby Price
Student’s Commercial Book-keeping— A. Fieldhouse Price, posted
Plating and Boiler-making— J. Horner Price, posted
Boiler Construction— W. Cruickshank Price, posted
Cost Accounting— Nicholson & Rohrbach B r . ice
Marine Insurance — Winter Price
Pattern Drawing for Sheet-Metal Workers —T. Newton.
Price, posted
Handbook of Projection for Motion Picture Managers.
F. H. Richardson Price
Motion Picture Electricity— J. H. Hallberg Price
Australian Cotton, Its Growth and Consequence. .
N. D. Healy Price
Henley’s 20th Century Home and Workshop Formulas Price
Screw Cutting— F. J. Camm |. r } cc
Model Electric Locomotives and Railways - H. Greenley Price
Practical Boat Building for Amateurs- J. D. Potter Price
Woollen and Worsted Spinning— A. F. Barker I'™°
Strength of Materials — A. Morley •• • • * rlce
Plumbing, Art or Craft of the Plumber’s Sanitary Appliances.
2 v 015..... Price
Dykes’ Automobile Cyclopaedia • Price, posted
9/6
7/10
4/10
6/10
11/2
8/-
12/8
15/8
8/-
20/-
14/-
16/8
16/-
»/-
10/8
16/-
31/6
25/-
6/4
45/9
18/10
7/9
25/-
9/«
8/-
4/9
16/6
16/9
16/-
31/6
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
“Presentation
sterling Wilber ©Hare
NEWEST
PLAIN DESIGNS.
FINEST
BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
EXTRA HEAVY TEA AND
COFFEE SERVICE. £7O.
5% Cash Discount.
The firm invite: inspection of their large stock of Silver ’Ware
of all descriptions suitable for Presentation purposes.
Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


Royal
Warrant
AafJoso
•W'HOI
CHAMPAGNE
lesHeidsi
Reims
„«,»»•
Tg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cede
FRIDAY, AUGUST 15. I
<<
SAFETY LAST” BALL.
Prizes of £lO will be given for the best
interpretation of the title “Safety Last,”
£5 for the best impersonation of Harold
Lloyd, and £5 for the Best Lady Dancer.
Novelties—and a charming souvenir for every lady present.
A Supper-Dance of Distinctive Charm. Tickets 15 /-
Reservations—City 9931.
Nothing in Any Way Equals
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 12; Sat., till 1.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., 15/6.
Suppers from 9.30, 10/6.
Thur., Dinner de Luxe, till 12, 21/-
Sat., Dinner Revellion, till 1 a.m., 25/-
Supper, Thur., 9.30, 12/6; Sat., 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA,
7 TIED 9.
RALTON’S FAMED HAVANA BAND,
9 TILE 12.
Saturdays, 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF READ
DISTINCTION.
Luncheons, 5/-, or a la carte. Equals
London’s best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra 1 till 2.30.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours’
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain your friends at The Ambassadors,
which provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see Miss
Barker, in Palm Court; or ’phone M 3666, The
Ambassadors, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILKGLOVES
The Federal Exes, aren’t going to let the
Stradbrokes have all the vicissitudes and
hardships. They are contemplating the con-
quest of New Guinea; and Mrs. Pitt Rivers
and Captain Mulholland will accompany
them. Captain Pitt Rivers, having already
explored that region, goes off on one of his
science jaunts elsewhere. His special line
is anthropology.
By half-past 12 on Friday the Living
Skeleton could hardly have wedged himself
into Her Majesty’s; for the first-nighters
of 30 years ago and the dears they were
then courting came and brought their own
girls and boys to the glory of old favorite
Maggie Moore. The Profession, too, had
volunteered in fine style, and the programme
went on for hours. Variety artists came on
early, did their turns, gave encores, smiled
and dashed away to their regular shows.
Carrie Moore was the first of the lights of
other days to flash before an enthusiastic
house. “Up in Yorkshire” and “Queen of the
Summer Night” rippled over an audience
that knew every note of Carrie’s old suc-
cesses. And finally, when the star herself
came on as Lizzie Stofel in “Struck Oil,”
the house shouted itself hoarse. Women
waved hankies and programmes, men
stamped and megaphoned, girl flower-sellers
at the back of the circle hugged each other
as though it were a personal triumph. And,
last of all, when Maggie made the inevitable
speech there was a clearing of throats like
a battery of machine-guns. The gate-money
comes to something like £l5OO.
Sydney moved through a golden haze on
Friday. Golden sunshine beat down every-
where on golden wattle. Its yellow flufii-
uess smiled from father’s lapel and baby’s
hand; even the horses flew the symbol with
pride. The Wattle League distributed acres
of the bloom at the Railway and the Quay;
and even the hardest business man took his
sprig with a smile. Goodness knows down
what bush-track of boyhood it magicked him ;
but it was probably responsible for the rise
the junior clerk found in his pay-envelope
that afternoon.
The renovated Sierra enclosed its decks
with bunting, bedizened its outline with
electrics, and gave itself over to jazz in the
interests of charity on Thursday night.
Prince Alfred’s will be cheered by a cosy
cheque; for even if the liner is lassoed to
a wharf, and the intoxicating view from
one side of the decks consists of a long line
of sheds, people always flock to a dance on
a ship. Genial Captain Trask, who skip-
pered the Sonoma for umpteen voyages, and
is so popular that nobody ever holds his
dry skip in anger against him, assembled a
party that included bridge and foxtrot ele-
ments. Mrs. Charlie AValker, aided by a
group of auxiliaries, gave an eye to the
arrangements. Two nice-looking Houston
girls brought Persian blue and silver frock-
ing to the frivol, the graceful sisters May
and June Henry put a glow into the even-
ing with their flame-colored frocking and
beautiful dancing, and Mrs. Harold Vale’s
blonde prettiness shone above fuchsia-toned
draperies. Enid Ellis and Billie Norrie sec-
re taried, and Jane Vowles and Vera Gair
kept the cash register.
The old girls of Rose Bay and Kincoppal
Convents had a great foregathering at the
Wentworth. Here blew and curled the
schools’ streamers of red and white and of
blue and gold among the general decorative
scheme. Mrs. Wilfrid Spruson was presi-
dent of the reunion, which was to swell the
fund for the Catholic Women’s College within
the Uni. Mrs. Toohey and Miss Egan, who
are battling hard for the college, were early
comers. Well-known R.C. names like Oxen-
ham, Lane Mullins, Hughes and Sheldon
were heard on every side, and the dance can
claim to be not only one of the best financial
efforts, but also one of the most glittersome,
of a gilded week.
Hundreds of men, women and books
climbed to the roofy eyrie of the Bush Book
Glub last Thursday; and from early morning
till late afternoon the committee was at home
to its friends, and the teapot was on the hob.
By 4 o’clock most of the floor space
”! toe library was covered, mantel-
lugh, with hooks and magazines, and
workers were slipping Club covers and
labeL on the newcomers to the shelves.
Vice-royalty and Society came in the after-
noon, the G.-G.’s lady introducing the blue
aura of her frocking to the assemblage, while
Mrs. Pitt Rivers topped the Chinese em-
broideries of her coat with a small hat that
looked as though fashioned from red lacquer.
Lyceum Clubbers, Victoria Leaguers and
National Councillors buzzed in and out, and
Mrs. Mackinnon represented the Red Cross’s
sympathy.
The new Union refectory is a joy to the
undergrads. In the daytime it lends itself
to nourishment for their wasted tissues, and
in the evening to jazz for their jaded soles.
The undergrads.’ dance, which in other
years flitted from one floor to another, has
now a permanent home, and celebrated the
knowledge one evening last week 1 with extra
jubilation. The Union’s Jubilee happening at
the same time, the two celebrations ran in
double harness. No decorations except tall
palms trifled with the austerity of the big
room, but the dresses of the undergrads.’ best
girls and sisters supplied any lack of warmth
or color. The Professorial MacCallum couple
were the official guests of a crowded even-
ing, and Keith Kirkland, president of the
association, smiled on the 350 personal
answers to his invitations. Major Edgar
Booth (he’s president of the Union) and his
wife brought a large party, which included a
pretty artist Mack girl from London. Rupert
Markham, who also hosted a party, was sus-
pected of having something—a carillon or so
—in his vest pocket.
There was a pretty unrehearsed scene at
the Catholic Guild Ball at the Wentworth
when the only deb. of the evening, slim little
Mary Jensen with a Titian topknot, was pre-
sented to Toti dal Monte. The youngster
not knowing any Italian, and Toti not hav-
ing the English, matters were at a deadlock
till the Australian lass with native initiative
thrust her coming-out nosegay in its silver
lace-frill into the songbird’s hand. Then the
temperamental Toti was overcome. With
fervor she embraced the youngster, and, pick-
ing iip her own million pounds’ worth or so
of ribboned horticulture, passed it on to
Mary. Toti, who had come on after the opera,
was delicious in a pink moire all-tight
bodice and pompadour puffs, the Old-World
effect intensified by a circlet of pink rose-
buds in the curly dark hair. With her came
Scavizzi, very beautiful and dignified in
cloth of silver, moulded on the Grecian line,
and graceful little Aurore Rettore. Nevin
Tait and various operatic males finished the
group. Warden-General Maher brought his
lady in pink and silver. Both president Mrs.
Dwyer and vice-president Mrs. .T. E. Burke
clothed their official dignity in handsome
black trappings. The Guild Bursary Fund
benefits by the crowded house.
May Moore has here pictured Valetta
Cohen, of Neutral Bay, whose dramatic
work with
the Vagabonds
has marked
her off as one
of Sydney’s
cleverest ama-
teurs. Her
work is bright
and sparkling,
and she made
an outstand-
ing success as
the flapper in
“Uncle Ned.”
Another quite
d i s s i m i lar
study was her
heavily dra-
matic por-
trayal in “The
Love Match.”
Valetta has
studied danc-
ing with Min-
1 nie Hooper,
dramatic work with Bertram Flohm, and
made in her salad days several appearances
with Philip Lytton’s well-known amateurs,
the Players. She next appears in “Her Hus-
band’s Wife,” to be staged by the Vagabonds
on Aug. 14 and after.
The Apollos had their 209th concert and
a paeked Conservatorium the other night.
If handsome is as handsome does, they need
never change their title. Coud has them
m his grip, and every day in every way
they get better and better. The Bantock
arrangements were the most enjoyable, par-
ticularly “The Song of the Volga Boatmen” ;
but Conductor Alfred Hill’s Maori songs ran
a close second. Maorilander Mary Mac-
Cormick sprayed the air with a glittering
soprano in an aria from “Louise,” Reg.
Morphew was another soloist who pleased
the fancy, and violinist Elise Steele supplied
Chopin and Schubert exquisitely to friend
Gladys Teece’s accompaniment.
At half past two on Thursday the entrance
and lounge of the Cavalier were drenched
with the scent of violets. On a wave of it
hosts of women were washed upstairs till the
restaurant was crowded out. Tables had to
be jambed tighter and tighter to supply tea-
pot room for the thirsty who had come to
drink their 4 o’clock for the benefit of the
new hospital for women and children at
Surry Hills. Eight flower-sellers in white
muslins and lilac scuttle bonnets, suggestive
of an Austin Dobson rondeau, peddled violets
from trays slung about their shoulders with
violet satin ribbons; in less than an hour
they had sold out. Women came on from
the Bush Book Club at home, married women
came on from picking up their husbands,
young Women arrived with coming-on young
men. Dr. Lucy Gullett looked in on behalf
of sister medicoes interested in the new life-
saving establishment; the Mayoress of Manly
gave civic support, as the idea emanated
from that cosmopolitan village. Mrs.
Osbourne England and Mrs. Fred Sherwood
were secretaries of the-success, and the Nesbit
and Mcllvride matrons looked after the trea-
sury.
A dinner-dance for Prince Alfred’s tilled
the Wentworth’s white and gold ballroom
with fun and rich upholstery. To it came
Dal Monte, Aurora ltettore and the gentle
pianist Munz, with a dream of his native
Cracow on his eyelids. The surgeon McKel-
vey couple and the medical Cecil Pursers
were others well known among the hundreds
who applauded Eileen Bolger when her
shingled head was judged by Dr. Purser and
Mrs. Jack Campbell the most attractive in
the room. The prize was a gallon or so of
eau-de-Cologne and a frilled nosegay.
Last week May Moore made this picture
of Nurse Mann, who for over 17 years was
matron of the
Ryde Home
for Incurables
and its first
chatel aine.
The home
sprang into be-
ing, in the long
ago. through
the big-hearted-
ness of a Miss
Scha r d t
(known affec-
tionately a s
“the blind Miss
Schardt”) and
a young
Methodist par-
son, Harry
Pike, who still
continues h i s
good works in
his native Ire-
land. It was
soon after
these two started their philanthropy in a small
house in Redfern that Miss Mann, then a
district nurse, became interested in the
patients to such a degree that she cheerfully
set her life-work among them and their
suffering successors.
The French community had a night out in
the new Garrick Club rooms on Monday, and
the dancing space proved too limited. The
club quarters are artistic and all that —but
jazz will be served. Bertie Kelly’s orchestra
carried out a musical programme delight-
fully, and a grand-opera flavor was imparted
by basso. Huberdeau, who brought his .Tuno-
esque wife. She trod the dance with the
new French Consul in ivory brocades. Mrs.
Yivers, in a black frock cut to the new low-
ness, and with jewelled shoulder-moorings,
was one of the smartest frockers; and little
Ilenriette Segaert chaperoned father.
That great worker for Rose Day, Florrie
Howard, cast her net in medical and political
waters and drew the catch to the Ambassa-
dors on Monday afternoon to aid her pet
charity. Florrie, looking efficient and smart
in black and white, had Peg Parkinson as’
chief of staff, and was further supported by
a company of attractive and (what’s rarer
at these flutters) consistently good-tempered
girls. Pretty little Mrs. Dodd brought her
big husband to town for the party; M.L.A.
Lazzarini and his lady supplied nourishment
to a large tableful; and Judge Hamilton
was another who gave a helping hand. The
buffet tea was a new idea.
At the Keera house-party the other after-
noon Lady Forster declared the hostel for
the sunburnt women of Mulgaland opened.
The Country Women’s Association had Dame
Alice Chisholm to speak for the women and
kiddies of the hot, dry plains. The Polo
Ball killed the last of the debt on the new
seaside house at Dee Why, and there isn’t
a farthing to pay on its little pepper-castor
turret. Only Mrs. Irvine, the secretary,
can explain how the miracle was worked.
At the Lyceum Club Stella George gave
a reading that was full of the meat of her
recent travels. She saw the midnight sun
in Norway, had a look at the Laplander and
his reindeer, wandered from one end of Eng-
land to the other, and through Algeria. In
Ireland she had to get out of a train at
Mallow. The bridge had been wrecked
months ago in some bit of a shindy, and no-
body had troubled to mend it. So passengers
regularly got out of the train and took a
car to the next station.
There is mourning among many friends
for Katherine May Elder, who died at Mos-
man on Saturday. Katherine was one of
the several artistic women who have set up
camera studios in Sydney, and her child-
portraits brought her a wide connection.
The frail-bodied, stout-hearted woman was
the eldest daughter of the Rev. Frank Elder;
on her mother’s side she was one of that
great Australian, family which began with
Governor King.
Law-doctor Coghlan’s son Edward is the
happiest young man in Sydney, because Joan
Jefferson lias consented to accept a diamond
circlet with a view to above. Joan is a
daughter of H. G. Jefferson, of the McArthur
Shipping Co., and the young man, a director
of the Colonial Combing and Spinning Co.,
was_ during the war a pilot in the Royal
Flying Corps, and reached captain’s rank.
Dark-eyed Mona Ferrario, the violinist
who gained A.V.S.O.M. and L.Y.S.C.M.
while a pupil at Mount Erin Convent,
Wagga, and has since been successfully teach-
ing piano and violin in her native town,
caused a stir in local musical circles the
other day by entering into matrimony. The
lucky young man to win the popular girl: is
Argyle Miles, of the Bank of N. S. Wales,
Wagga-
In a week otherwise a matrimonial blank
the venture of Nancy Nettleton, until lately
of Warrawee, and Oswald Neill trailed an
extra cloud of glory down the aisle of St.
Philip’s. The bride, on brother Donald’s arm,
was a symphony in ivory and gold, the frock
itself being of draped ivory chiffon velvet, its
folds anchored by a weighty gold tassel, the
same adornment finishing off the gold-lined
train that fell from one shoulder. A billowy
tulle veil and a sheaf of hyacinths were
other “props” of the principal lady. The
two bridesmaids, Nell Brown and sister
Marjorie, shimmered in old-gold dressing,
their headwear being a lightsome arrange-
ment of gold tulle caught together with a
miniature feather cluster in golden browns;
and each supported her steps with a high,
beflowered staff from which floated golden
ribands. A small niece, Naomi Nettleton,
was train-bearer. Bride’s cousin Keith
Nettleton best-manned and Cecil Purser was
groomsman. The Australia housed the recep-
tion, Europe will stage the honeymoon. The
bridegroom comes from Manchester (Fng.).
Victoria Barracks hasn’t had a wedding
party in the long, old fashioned terrace known
as quarters for years and years. The next
to shake up the echoes will have as bride
golden-haired Marjorie, elder daughter of
Colonel and Mrs. Cox Taylor. Dr. Cosmo
Fowler, who has his brass plate within
eoo-ee of the Paddington Town Hall, will
be the leading gentleman. In England when
war broke out, the Sydney man went to the
Front in October, 1914, with a Guards regi-
ment, was decorated for bringing in wounded
under fire, and remained on active service
till 1918, when he was taken prisoner by
the Germans and had a few hungry months.
Melba is singing “Home, Sweet Home,”
again at “52,” where she will remain till
the end of the opera season. Daughter-in-
law Mrs. George Armstrong has been dug in
there for the past six or eight weeks.
Dame Alice Chisholm, who has been put-
ting the executive energy that made the Kan-
tara canteen famous among armies into the
building-up of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion, is going off to England on a long holi-
day. While she is away Mrs. Colin Venn
takes her place as president of the Cumber-
land branch of the Association. The monthly
meeting the other day ended as a good-bye
party. Every second woman had come with
a bouquet, pennies had been pooled to buy a
de luxe attache case, and finally Dame Alice
staggered away looking as though she were
giving an imitation of Melba on a first night.
The Feminists are deserting their subtex*-
ranean lair in the Culwulla on Friday (to-
morrow) to spread a lunch for Dame Nellie
at the Cavalier.
Josie Melville is busy raising £5OO for
the babies of St. Margaret’s, and “Lightnin’ ”
John O’Hara has enrolled himself as her
first lieutenant. Mrs. Stewart Dawson has
sent out cards for a meeting in the Australia
to-day (Thursday) to arrange for a dinner-
dance in support of Josie’s idea.
Dorothy L. Poole, who is to become head
of the C. of E. Girls’ School, Abbotsleigh,
at Wahroonga, made a name for the Bal-
larat C. of E. School while she was
headmistress there. Her father was Slaney
Poole, a brainy Adelaide canon; and Tom
Poole, J., of the S.A. Supreme Court, is her
brother.
The Arthur Davies couple are in the exodus
to Europe this week. On their way to
Wembley they will take an eyeful of Uncle
Sam’s land, and on arrival in England Mrs.
Davies will link up with sisters Mrs. Jack
Tooliey and Mrs. Weston. Daughter Cherry
remains in Sydney at boarding-school.
If you don’t fancy yourself in rompers
or a sailor suit, you may go to the Artists’
Ball as a character from a nursery rhyme
or a fairy story. Every set of artists—
Royal, Society, Black and Whites, regis-
tered and unregistered—is working for the
night’s success; and Gladys Owen represents
the eternal feminine on a committee other-
wise entirely male.
On August 14 the Vagabonds will stage
“Her Husband’s Wife ” at St. James’s, and
the season will last four nights. The first
performance is for a crippled boy the club
is helping over his stiles; then the Renwick
babies, Eastern Suburbs Day Nursery and
Church of England Homes will benefit in
turn.


RESCHS
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney^
EDGEWORTH
SSijTkjyii
"“•or
■"»cr>
lABUSBBRO
RICHMOxo
TOBACCO
In Vacuum Tins, all sizes.
Specially suitable for Country
Districts.
PLUG SLICE OR READY
RUBBED.
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
[4
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There were only five starters for the
£2lOO Australian Hurdle, and the field was reduced
to four at the second obstacle, where Groganite,
the 2-to-l favorite, and Sing parted company. Had
Mnemar managed his hurdles better he would have
been an easy winner. But the chestnut lost ground
at every jump, particularly the last, and Roisel
(5 to 2) wore him down in the straight, Sir Blankney
being a poor third. It was Roisel’s second success
(he won in 1921), and he should take no end of
beating in the big steeplechase next Saturday, in
which he has list. 91b. With Haoma withdrawn
and Fleetstone apparently off color, the hurdler s
most dangerous opponent should be the N.S.W. horse
L’albi, notwithstanding the latter’s failure in Bern-
bee’s Moondah Steeple. The Randwick visitor hit a
fence or two cn Saturday while rushing to overtake
Berribee, who doesn’t shape like a four-miler, but
in the more leisurely affair over the Caulfield timber
he will have time to attend to his jumping.
The Tye—Corteen—Cecil Godby alliance began by
collecting both divisions of the Crimea Trial; the
first with Darjeeling (Lucknow —Lady Honor), and
the other with Euphrates (Eudorus-—Marcobelle).
They are both three-vear-olds and were ridden by
Behsman, a jockey from Perth. Each youngster
improved on recent form, and in the case of Euphrates
the improvement was such that the stipendiary
stewards reported it to the V.R.C. committee. It
is a curious procedure but quite in accordance with
the rules of racing. Purser, racing in the same
interest, was heavily supported for the Malakott
Stakes and looked to have the race won at the
distance, but Lilypond (4’s) ranged up on the
outside and settled him by a few strides, El Dorado,
who travelled fast over the last furlong, breaking
e\en with Imputation for third place. It was a
fine performance on the Westralian chestnut s part,
for he ran past seven horses from the home turn
and galloped the nine furlongs in lmin. 54sec. ;
moreover, in addition to those mentioned, he defeated
Polytheist; Beeline and imported Prestongrange (all
three backed), All Sunshine, All Serene and Hen-
Apparent. Dempsey rode him, and his weight Cost.
131 b.) was 31b. more than he has in the Caulfield
Cup and 71b. more than his Melbourne Cup burden.
After the race Lilypond and El Dorado were a favorite
Cup double, but the Groper may be reserved for
the Flemington two-miler. He is trained by Holt
for the owner, Tommy Fov, a Perth man with inter-
ests in livery stables and trotters.
“Tuart”: The Westralians are seldom mistaken
in the horses they send to the effete East. Wnen
Easingwold came to Melbourne, a raw three-year-old,
in 1922 and was beaten by commoners like Alorne,
their judgment was thought to be woefully astray,
but in the following season the bis son of Mton
Lad—Bahloo proved himself quite first-class. There
were disparaging 1 remarks likewise when Luvpona
had his first public gallop in the Victorian capital,
but the Yarraside critics were silenced by rhe
dazzling run which disposed of Purser—on his day
one of the three best handicap horses in Australia.
In appearance, and in his rare combination ot sprint-
ing and staying powers, the chestnut is very like his
father, Lilyveil, who could win at any distance, from
five furlongs to three miles. Lilyveil was bougie, in
England by Jimmy Nicholas, who used to run ( oofi
and Co.’s line of coaches on the North Coolgardio
goldfields, and Peter Fox, well known on Sydney
racecourses. An untried son of Martagon, then an
unknown sire, he was sold for ;j, song, but he soon
struck form in Westralia and carried everything
before him till he met the late J. O. Peterson s little
crack, Artesian, who was just a shade too good.
Then he was brought from the Indian Ocean to the
Pacific, to win the 1914 Sydney Cup for Peterson
and P. A. Connolly, who had purchased him (at
about 20 times the English price) to complete a
double they had, backed for big money—Artesian m
the Perth Cup and Lilyveil in t.he W.A.T.C. Rail-
wav Stakes. The Westralian view of Lilypond is
that he is “Lilyveil over again.” If so, he has only
to keep well to have a winning chance in one of rhe
Cups.
The Bedonia bubble was pricked at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Backed as if he were a certainty
for the Three-year-old Handicap, six furlongs, the
leggy and lathy Limelight chestnut failed to go the
pace set by The White Diamcnl (so called because
he is as black as the ace of spades), and was beaten
a long way from home. Certainly he had 9st. 131 b.
to carry, but the weight didn’t worry him so much
as the' quality of his opponents, several of whom
were much superior to the cattle he has been beating
on suburban courses. The White Diamond, who is
trained by Dick O’Connor for J. J. Garvan and
will be a worthy successor to Braehead when he has
had more experience, ran out wide in the straight
but finished a meritorious third to the Magoie colt
Windbag (B’s) and the rank outsider Hemisphere.
Windbag is a good sort, but handicaps will probably
be more in his line than Derbies. (4’s),
beautifully ridden by Pike, shouldered lOst. 71b. to
victory in the Flying Handicap, but he was rather
lucky to defeat All Home, who had a very rough
passage. The same is true of Earl Liddell’s success
(at B’s) in the Cabramatta Handicap; if Collaroi
hadn’t got into all the trouble imaginable he could
hardly have lost. Weight of money or something
made Royal Howard favorite for the 11-furlongs
Warwick Handicap, but the pigheaded Queenslander
refused to try a yard, and Buckra and Ay gee cut
each other’s throats. Hermealdo (B’s) won convinc-
ingly from the ancient Ulandra and the much too
burly Polycletan; the son of Don Reynaldo is quite
a decent staver, and little Garrard—about the best
of the present lot of Sydney apprentice jockeys—
rode a well-judged race. Dareful (12’s) was awarded
the Hurdle on a protest, the erratic Cool King
having badly interfered with him at the last jump
when the pair were clear of the field ; and a really
interesting Steeplechase (a rarity for Randwick)
resulted in Grand Urchin (12’s) thrusting half his
plain but useful head in front of the Maoriland-bred
favorite, Royal Abbey, who had raced neck and neck
with him for a mile or more. The pencillers bags
were bursting with paper currency when it was time
to go home.
* * *
“S. Gumm”: Considering that seven fur-
longs is not his distance, and that he needs
another month’s condition at least, The Cypher
ran a really good race in the I 1 lying
Handicap at Randwick. He was always among
the first half dozen (there were 26 starters) and
beat 18 horses home. A very jaded little animal
when he raced in Melbourne during the autumn, he
has greatly improved in appearance since he came to
Sydney and has a distinct chance in the Metropolitan
with Sst. 10ib. Perhaps his most dangerous opponent
will be Highlander, for whom 2000 guineas were
recentlv refused. The handicapper has taken a usk
with this fast-finishing four-year-old in letting him in
with 7st. 41b. Sir Andrew made hacks of his field
AT THE TICKETS.
"You told me when that happened before that the referee had
swallowed his whistle. Whistle. the matter now ?”
“Must be a special stop-work meeting to discuss the basic wage.”
last year with Bst. 61b., yet the Woorak chestnut
didn’t run so well as a three-year-old in David’s
Sydney Cup as Highlander did in Scarlet’s at the
same age. In the St. Leger, moreover, Highlander
was just cut out of a place by Drongo, after having
been kept a long way out of his ground. And
Drongo is reckoned to have good Melbourne Cup
prospects with Bst. 51b.
“Chiron” : Most Tasmanian racing chibs
have had another disastrous season. The T.T.C.,
which races on two “off” days only—-the other
meetings are held at Cup-time and on holidays;—-
showed a beggarly profit of £167 for its year’s
endeavor. The fact of the ■matter is that racing is
conducted in the Speck for the benefit of (1) the
Government, which receives from the proceeds of a
race meeting approximately as much as the club
does : (2) the s.-p. bookmaker, who deprives the club
of totalisator revenue; and (3) Victorian owners,
who export third-raters and rejects to win Hobart
and Deloraine Cups—necessarily at the expense of
the island’s own thoroughbreds. And the money
goes from the club every time.
* * * *
A humorous situation has arisen in the
S.A. Jockey Club through the retiring chairman
(John Barker) and Tom Barr Smith having both
decided not to seek re-election on the committee.
The other retiring members, W. B. Carr (just
appointed chairman) and S. J. Jacobs, are standing
again, and a whole batch of popular sportsmen
(including J. H. Gosse, Barr Smith’s son-in-law) have
been nominated for the vacancies. Also, the chair-
men of Tattersall’s and Port Adelaide are nominated
by virtue of their positions. Some say that such
clubs should as a matter of course be represented on
the leading tribunal, which the S.A.J.C. admittedly
is • but others hold that officials of rival clubs should
not expect to interfere in the management of this
one. With about a dozen well-known men going for
only four vacancies, canvassing is lively, and the
result difficult to forecast.
“Pnntagruel” : A 18.2 brown pony named
Hector has been establishing jumping records at Queens-
land shows. At Rockhampton he got over 6ft. lOfin.,
and at Bowen, a few weeks later, he cleared 7ft. ,m.
And the wonderful little nag is nearly old enough to
have a vote. He was foaled, at Ipswich in 1904, and
is owned by A. L. Payne. #
“The Deacon'’: Cockfighting (B. 24/7/’24)
was the regular Sunday amusement in the Lambing
Plat country (N.S.W.) SO years ago. A neighbor of
ours used to breed fighting birds and sell them to
the station-hands round' about. Preparations tor
the fight were almost as nauseating as the actual
encounter. Many a night I sheltered a candle inside
my dilapidated old felt hat whilst our sportive
neighbor, by the fitful light, clipped oft the comb
from the bird’s head with blunt scissors. Other
portions of its head equipment followed, and the juiciei
fragments were fed to the rooster itself. Later on, it
the wild cats didn’t get if, and it refrained from break-
ing loose, as sometimes happened on the way to the
slaughter, it was equipped with two steel spurs and
sent forth to do battle with the pride of the adjoin-
ing parish for all the money that could be raked
together Occasionally a bird would refuse to fight
and would be buffeted out of the ring—the sweeper-
out, of course, being the, victor. One popular con-
vincing ground was just below the old Moppity
homestead, and there are no doubt many residents of
Young (N.S.W.) and the surrounding districts who
can vividly recall doing their money that way before
two-up came into its own.
* * * *
It was an inauspicious day for “Blackie”
Miller when he left tide R.A.N. to become a pro-
fessional bruiser. He had moments of poignant
regret at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
when Merv Williams; back-moved an ill-meant left,
countered with the right ■on “Blackie’s” jaw, and
completed his job with the same member. All in the
second round of a badly-arranged affair from which
most of the regular Saturday-nighters stayed avvay
with enthusiasm. “ Blackin'’ received £54 for taking
two punches, and some candid friend should tell him
to return to the heaving, ocean or buy into a long-
shore smithy.
**_ * *
“Harold Hardupp”: I was watching the
downfall of a once powerful Melbourne football team
when the man on my right sighed heavily. “Wot a
pity Fizzgill isn’t playin’ for ’em now,” he said.
Then he confided to me that only the previous night
he had had to go bail for Fizzgill, who was charged
with grievously ill-treating his wife. “He does
wallop his missus somethin’ terrible. But then,” he
added apologetically, “wfien a bloke’s a nathlete, and
’e gives up the game, Vs gotter ’ave exercise of some
sort.”
* * * *
A stormy winter dajt made the fireside
more attractive than the muddied oval in Melbourne
on Saturday; nevertheless, 30,000 enthusiasts betook
themselves to Essendon,
where Fitzroy, failing com-
pletely in the last quarter,
lost to the “Same Old” by
12 points—6l to Essendon’s
: 7.3. The game was so
strenuous that the umpire
twice called a halt, and at
' the end four players were
reported for irregularities.
This makes ’Roy’s fifth con-
secutive defeat. At Victoria
Park Collingwood got a
good grip on South Mel-
bourne at the start and
kept it, playing a fine
systematic game, though
their goal-shooting was
lamentable —’W o o d 70
points; South 61. Rich-
mond kept their place by
trouncing St. Kilda solidly
—7B points to 39; and
Geelong did ditto by smash-
ing Melbourne with 56
points to 39. Essendon.
being 6 points ahead of the
others, and having only
Melbourne and St. Kilda to
meet, are practically cer-
tain of the minor premier-
ship. South and ’Rov fol-
low, and Richmond, ’Wood
and Geelong are scuffling
for fourth place. Meantime
the argument stands
adjourned till the 23rd, r,n
account of the inter-State
matches in Hobart.
An Association XVIII met a team from Perth and
were beaten by 38 points to 36. On this form the
Jarrahlanders should be difficult, to dissever from
championship honors at Hobart, but the Vic. Leaguers
are confident, as also are the South Australians, who
have sent a strong team across the Strait.
“Hamer”: When things are not going well with
South Melbourne, the feelings of the dead-game sport
find vent in a hoarse cry: “Get your socks down,
Napper Tandy!” There is a tradition that Mark
Tandy never plays good football until his stockings
are Sagging around his ankles; then he bogs in like
five-foot-seven of corfcentrafed devilry. Fortunately
for South Melbourne, of which team he. is vice-captain,
he gets his socks down very early. Tandy, who is
32, will be the Victorian rover at the Hobart
tourney. - '
* * * *
“Clerk”: Amongst nine League and 10
Assoc, teams playing senior, football in Melbourne, the
Johnsons are the most numerous clan. Seven leather-
chasers sport that name (four belong to Port Mel-
bourne), while six boast the noble cognomen of
Smith. Then come the , Lewises, the Taylors, the
Watsons and the Wilsons, with four each. Jones,
Matthews, Laidlaw, Thomas and Hall have each three
representatives, and the twos are legion, but there
is only one Brown. He pursues the bag of air
for South Melbourne. There is a suggestion of the
movies about two of Richmond’s brawniest Tigers.
One is called Rudolph and, the other Valentine.
* * * *
Greatly to their, surprise, the English
Rugby Leaguers were soundly beaten by Maoriland
at Auckland on Saturday, the Blades scoring 16
points to 8. Some of the burly British forwards
have fallen foul of the M.L. referees, and in this
match Cunliffe was ordered off. As he seemed inclined
to disobey the mandate,’, the official looked meaningly
at a nearby policeman, but J. Hop’s services were
not required. The -day is coming when this pro-
fessional touring business will have to be legally
banned as a menace to .the good relations of English-
speaking people, as well as a libel on sport.
Overcome, perhaps, by their exertions in
the premiership final, Balmain and South Sydney
were beaten in the first round of the City Cup compe-
tition. Balmain, the premiers, lost by a point to
Western Suburbs, and St. George knocked the stuffing
out of South—3o to 5. Attendances were small and
lacking in enthusiasm, but that is generally the way
when the League premiership has been decided. The
inferior qualify of the competition football seen in
Sydney this winter has provided the public with an
additional reason for going to the races.
“Past Grammar”: Balmain’s League premiership
furnishes another proof of how superior forwards can
control a game. It is the Tigers’ sixth win since
the League began in 1908, the club winning in
the war years of 1915-16-17, and again in 1919-20.
“Centurion”: Last week a couple of un-
fortunate individuals were fined for having entered
the members’ stand at Sydney Cricket Ground with
tickets belonging to other people. One defendant said
a friend had lent him the ticket; the other time
he had bought it. Both could probably have pleaded
custom had it been any use, for members’ tickets
have been lent for the S.C.G. (and every institution
of the sort the writer has come in contact with)
ever since members’ tickets were invented. The pur-
chaser has also custom behind him, for it is no rare
thing for a member who doesn’t care to see League
footer in winter to lease his ticket for the season, or
sell it if he leaves Sydney permanently. There is
a strong impression abroad that the (rustees took
action because of the incident in the members’ stand
at one of the matches against the Englishmen, when
the referee was violently punched by a “member” on
returning to the dressing-room. For a registered
member such a blackguardly act would have meant
cancellation of privileges. That wouldn’t trouble
an individual who had borrowed or hired the ticket
for a day or a season.
* * * *
Patterson and O’Hara Wood had au easy
time against the Chinese Davis Cup team at Brooklyn.
Wei, Kong and Hung, all students at American
universities, were no match for the experienced Aus-
tralians, who overwhelmed them in both singles and
doubles, but indulgently permitted the youngsters to
win a few games. According to U.S. observers, the
Aussies played in their highest style—“a match for
any team in the world,” wrote one commentator
after the doubles. Brookes, too, has struck his best
form (or the best of which he is capable at his age):
partnered bv the industrious Sehlesinger, he heat
Richards and Hunter, the Olympic pair, in an exhi-
bition match at Brooklyn. Previously Patterson
and O’Hara Wood had conquered the powerful Kinsey
brothers in straight sets. All this suggests that the
Kangaroos have nothing to fear in the doubles from
any combination that may be brought against them,
whatever may happen in the other contests.
* * * *
Thn English cricket team for Australia,
according to last week’s cables, has been all-but
selected. It will consist of Gilligan, Tate and
Gibson (Sussex), Bryan, Woolley and Freeman
(Kent), J. W. Hearne and Hendren (Middlesex),
Sutcliffe and Kilner (Yorkshire), Sandham and Stfud-
wick (Surrey), Douglas (Essex), Mcßryan (Somer-
set), R. Tyldesley (Lancashire) and Chapman (Berk-
shire). This makes 16. and Duckworth (Lancashire)
is spoken of as the likeliest second wicketkeeper.
The most notable absentees are Hobbs and Fender.
The surprise is probably Douglas, not so much because
he is 42, but because, despite his indisputable excel-
lence as an all-round cricketer, there hangs about him
in England a certain reputation for _ stodginess as
a batsman and uninspiring, unenterprising qualities
as a leader. And if anything should happen to
Gilligan, Douglas will almost certainly be called on
to captain the side. The team has more than half
a. dozen of England's most prolific run-getters of the
last two or three seasons; it is rich in bowling on
paper, but there is no real express. As a fielding
side, it should prove above the average.
**. * *
“Shrewsbury”: lu a Yorkshire-Middlesex
match at Sheffield. Waddington, of Yorkshire, annoyed
at an umpire’s decision, made that appeal of mute
agony to the spectators which is now becoming so
fashionable in cricket. Thereupon the Blades gave
the Middlesex players such a barracking that Middle-
sex threatened to cancel all Yorkshire fixtures in
future. The writer, with a long recollection of big
cricket, places the behavior of the Old Trafford crowd
in Yorkshire-Lancashire matches as easily first for
viciousness and onesidedness, though Sheffield lads
at Bramall-lane are nearly as bad. The same Wacb
dinsrton, by the way, showed temper in the first
Test at Sydney in 1920 when given out by an
umpire. Hitch, another member of that team, caught
a player on the track at Brisbane Cricket Ground.
On the nit-out verdict being announced, as had been
arranged beforehand, in such a contingency, he petu-
lantly hurled the ball on the ground. Australian
cricketers rarely descend to these exhibitions of ill-
temper. The only really nasty protest I have heard
debited to an Australian was that of the Queenslander
Arthur Coningham, who went to England with rhe
1893 team. Fielding on a cold day in the outfield
at Bramall-lane, with two horribly barndoor batsmen
in, he lit a fire of dry grass and crouched over it,
to warm his hands.
* * * *
“Ex-Oxonian”: The arrival in Sydney of
Mrs. C. T. Studd on African mission work reminds
the S.M.H. that the lady’s husband and co-worker
for the benighted heathen was an international
cricketer of renown in his youth and one of Ivo
Bligh’s team which defeated Australia at Melbourne
in December, 1882. The hero of that game, by the
way, was C. F. H. Leslie, who was even younger
than Studd, being only 21 —he had captained the
Rugby School XI in ’79 and ’BO and played for
Oxford in the two succeeding years. This vigorous
youth hit up 144 in his first and last Test match,
enabling London Punch to announce that England s
sensational 7 runs defeat at the Oval a few months
earlier had been avenged. I remember some ot
the gleeful verse still:
Ivo Bligh,
England’s eye
Murdoch fairly wiped.
• Leslie’s gross
Retrieves our loss.
How he must have swiped!
Leslie didn’t continue long in first-class cricket:
he took to the Stock Exchange about the same time
that Studd took to missionary work, and prospered
materially. He died about three years ago.
DONE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A bookmaker at Albion Park (Q.) who had
offered 6 to 1 against a horse —by mistake, lie de-
clared—and then refused to lay if 60 to it 10, was
called before the stewards and fined £2O. The
chairman said there had been too many com-
plaints of backers being ‘chopped off’ by bookmakers/’
“Sixes” but once unguardedly I yaps.
In other walks of life you wouldn’t look
To suffer for a momentary lapse,
A slip of tongue, but strike me crimson, chaps,
It’s tough to be a book!
A politician’s Yes may turn to No,
With none to raise a howl or make a fuss.
Is there no mercy for an I key Mo
That what he says in careless mood must go?
No backing down for us?
To change her mind at will a woman’s let,
And ne’er a dead game sport will say a thing.
Why should so different a code be set
For those who earn their bread with shout and sweat,
Penned in a racecourse ring?
Each one-pound note, my friend, your pockets hold
Presented at the Treasury will buy—
The solemn promise on its face is scrolled,
The pledge in black and white—-a pound in gold.
Think you can get it ? Try!
See what they’ll say! Yet —isn’t it beyond
All bearing? Wouldn’t it give a saint the huff?—
When once to lay the odds your bag you’ve donned
A single bellowed word must be your bond.
It’s tough. My oath ! it’s tough !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Joj ;us3«-qns “piq ajj jjaqoM
P««I,D ‘aueqsug PH ‘AauaSy s»I*S IVIJ
# VM *p4l ‘uosaapuy anq^ay
•y°g ‘©preppy - -
’M'S’N ‘iteupAg ‘PH ‘sii^re^
•oi A - -- -- -- - •pi r j soijqsnpuj .reDojny
: s4o)nqu)si(] ireipjjsny
iiiiiiii! l !i!'!i l niiiii!ii|irii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiimiiiriiii!!iiiimiiiiiimiiimmiimiimniimi!imiiimiir!iiiiimiii!!iiiiiiiiimiiMmiiiiiiiiiiiniiliiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiii"mw /ntni'iniJiimimHiminHiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiriimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiimiiiimmiiiimmiiniimimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiraniiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiMmiHiiiiiiiiiiiimimiimiiiimi
saiaaAnaa aiviaawwi
-— sqjiXjl paddmbg X||nj
SIBS “ “ OIS “ JH-OSIOZ
SZ9S “ “ SOS “ "d'H’OZSI
OSfrS - - * ■ *«0 SuunojL ios JH'SI/Ol
'HmiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiimiHiMniiiiimmiimmiHiiiiiiiiimmiimmffliimmnmfflraiiimmiminmiiiiimmimmmnnmimimimimimmimmiiiimmmw j<nr.TiiYmiinifim!itnifiititmiitiiiinimiimnniniiii!rnnimiiiiiiiiuinifHiiiiniiiirmiiiiiitimmiiiimiiiintii!in!mitiimmitniiitii»>n»niuniiiumiimiii>im.
siNawaAoadiMi anvw saaaow ivimoioo
•S9oud aonpaj
oj sn 9[qeua Ajqjdbj XVI j 9 H) °) sjapjo pasßsaoui puis sspeg japssjQ
S3DIHJ
M3N
aoNnoNNv
puoi)BUJi9)U] jo aqj^
<n>
IUU
W/.
TJ.
X


SMILES.
"There are different kinds or
smiles, sir: smiles of impudence,
superior smiles, sad smiles, and
smiles of contentment which are
rays of human sunshine, sir, like
the Kensitas smile.
“Yes, sir, you do smile when you
smoke Kensitas.
“Y o u are con-
tented beaause
Kensitas are 'as
good as good
cigarettes can
be.’ ”
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
CiqaAjeX&J §VC
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturer*:
J. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Big Game and Pygmies: Experiences
of a Naturalist in Central African
Forests in Quest of the Okapi. By
CUTHBERT CHRISTY, M. 8.,
C.M., F.R.G.S., F.Z.S., etc. Illus-
trated. 21s. net.
The Scotsman: “For sheer adventure, risks,
hardships and discomforts, the excitement of
the incidents here recorded is stimulating and
enticing beyond the range of any imaginative
sensationalism.”
SECOND EDITION.
Amurath to Amurath. By GER-
TRUDE LOWTHIAN BELL. Second
Edition. Illustrated. 21s. net.
The Westminster Gazette: “Miss Gertrude
Bell has won just praise for her book.”
Outlines of Fungi and Plant
Diseases, for Students and Prac-
titioners of Agriculture and Hor-
ticulture. By F. T. BENNETT,
B.Sc. Illustrated. 7s. Gd. net.
The Gardener's Chronicle: “The book has
been prepared with marked thoroughness, is
well printed and arranged in very convenient
form. Most of the diagrams, which are freely
employed throughout the text, are original.”
Extinct Plants and Problems of
Evolution. By DITKINFIELD
H. SCOTT, LL.D., I). Sc., F.R.S.
With 63 Figures and a Frontispiece.
10s. Gd. net.
The Cambridge Review : “A most readable
and interesting volume. . . .Apart from its main
theme this hook is the best short account yet
published of the course of plant life on the
earth during past ages, and for that reason
alone should be very widely read.”
THE
ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any address within the Empire.
Leading contents for June:
LABOR AT THE HELM.
SOCIALISM AND UNEMPLOYMENT.
AMERICAN POLITICS IN ELECTION YEAR.
SHOULD AYE GUARANTEE A EUROPEAN
SETTLEMENT ?
IRELAND AS IT IS.
THE IRTSII BOUNDARY QUESTION:
EDITOR’S NOTE AND MAP.
Also Articles from “Australia” “New Zea-
land” “United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada
and “South Africa.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN& CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Y
'• A
THOSE SHINGLES!
THAT VERANDAH!
THAT SHED!
THAT FENCE!
THAT POW LHQ USE!
THAT GARDEN BORDER!
ETC., ETC., ETC.
DO IT WITH
dfg
The Perfected Stain that imparts to timber
the artistic effect and mellowness of age
that paint cannot give, and, at the same time,
absolutely protects from damp, white ant,
dry rot and borer.
Anyone can use it. Quicker drying than
paint, much more effective and cheaper.
Millions of feet of timber and thousands of
pounds saved annually by its use.
TT „ TJ j-, w »t -»■ * GT^ r r f inR , Ti , S H H. OROTH, JAIYffES SA^flX\ ,
£omIwOBTH T !S?PhlrsS5 R »lA*£ SltOS., WItUAMSON CKOJI. C KANE’S.
Guaranteed Product of Major & Co., Hull, England.
w. PLANT <ra CO. LTD., 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Weed Chains
grip
in sand and
mud
V
RUTTED, sandy and muddy roads
are quickly left behind a motor car
equipped with Weed Tyre Chains.
They prevent skidding; “hold the
road” under severest conditions. They
stop power losses through slipping
wheels —conserve petrol. They give
you a pleasant sense of security.
Note the special advantages of the
Weed De Luxe Chains!
Ask your accessory dealer to show
you both the original Weed and the
Weed De Luxe Tyre Chains.
Weed Be
Luxe. The
cros3 chain
links are
reinforced
by an addi-
tional link
as shown.
dfg
This arrangement makes four
points of contact with the road
Instead of the usual two. Re-
sult: double strength where It
is needed.
mmlP 30
aßßagni
With this Lever-Locking Con-
necting Hook the side chains
are drawn together and locked
securely with little effort. Oo
or off in almost no timo.
dfg
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales OHlces:
Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative: Edward G. Vaughan
P.O. Box 545, Sydney, N.S.W.
81-S-24
“De Luxe”
WEED Tyre Chains
f ikn Qmmd ifusmiu
~ tLm aMunl ] ht
m
Clefrae
JL
*
\x
s
W.
<g>
dfg
fg
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS TO YOU
Cletrac not only enables the Farmer to turn
over evenly-cut furrows at the rate of 8 to
10 acres per day, but in view of its extremely
light pressure it will go right on to the
freshly-ploughed ground and quickly wor it
down to a perfect seed bed, which will pro-
duce a better crop and at the same time a
bigger yield.
THIS MEANS MORE PROFIT FOR THE FARMER.
Literature Post Free with pleasure from —
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
383 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 469 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO., LTD.,
Light Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO,
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE INKY WAY.
AT THE DEAD HEART.
LFor The Bulletin.]
(From Its Own Explorer.)
| COPYRIGHT. J
Monday.- —Plunged this day into the Dead Heart
of Australia. Main desert road a seething' mass of
Fords, most of the passengers being titled. H’.s
Excellency the Governor of Victoria is driving a
1924 coupe. Staff and servants occupy four-seaters
and lorries respectively.
Tuesday. —An interesting feature of the desert
topography is the line of empty bottles which
stretches along either side of the speedway to the
horizon. Asked one of the road-maintenance men
the explanation. A taciturn fellow, like so many
in regions where the foot of civilised man has rarely,
if ever, trodden, he merely pointed over his shoulder
to a signpost containing a placard which read:
“IMPORTANT NOTICE.
“To Bottlers, Bottle Dealers and Others.
“The bottles of the undermentioned firms ARE
NOT SOLD WITH THE CONTENTS THEREOF,
BUT REMAIN THE PROPERTY OF SUCH FIRMS.
As soon as the bottles are emptied, they must not
be refilled, destroyed, damaged or used again tor
any purpose.”
The unharmed condition of the bottles affords an
interesting proof of the stark honesty of desert-
dwellers, which I propose to mention in my forth-
coming geography. The relative scarcity of sar-
dine- and jam-tins along the route is explicable by
the millions of goats which inhabit the wilderness.
Wednesday. —Had our first taste of genuine hard-
ship to-night. No sauce bearnaise with the filet de
bteuf. . „ ~
Thursday. —Reached Burke’s Creek in time for the
monthly pony meeting. All the ponies are owned
by one' man, and he is in partnership with the pro-
prietor of the course. Two of the A.D.C.’s lost
the whole of their ready money. At dinner to-
night they expressed the view that all had not been
fair and above board, a theory which was supported
by the Oldest Inhabitant, who affirmed that in all
his desert experience of 47 years he had never known
vice-regal visitors to w'in money at Burke’s Creek.
Friday. —-A trying day. Two blowouts, as a
result of which 1 was late for the civic welcome
at Maria Lake. His Excellency’s champagne was
no: iced to-night, and there was no savory with
the dinner. We are evidently up against it. Coun-
selled all who wore belts to take them up a hole,
and meanwhile keep a brave front to the world.
Saturday. —Saw our first mirage this afternoon. It
took the form of a hotel winter-garden with foun-
tains playing and white-coated waiters bearing long
drinks to languid visitors. Hundreds rushed from
the speedway, and, despite my warnings, clambering
over the sentinel bottles, tore across the pitiless desert
in the direction of the tantalising vision.
Sunday. —Am done with exploring. The perils
are too great. Entered this afternoon with a pro-
fessor in the car just behind mine for the Araminta
Springs Bridge and Mah Jongg Tournament. Dis-
covered when too late that it had been promoted by
the proprietor of the Burke’s Creek racecourse. He
and his partner—or, as I prefer to say, accomplice
—had reached the Springs by a cross-desert route
on camels. Inside three hours they had won the
whole of the expedition’s money. They then had
the effrontery to offer to toss us for our cars and
geographical instruments. Sent this wire to Mel-
bourne before dressing for dinner: “Menzies’: Re-
turning immediately. Reserve former suite.—
Ajalmir Tommsen, explorer.”
The hostess “was smartly gowned in black maro-.
cain, with georgette sleeves, draped to the left side
and finished with a large dining-room which had
been transformed.” — Adelaide Advertiser, describing
a social function at Port Elliot.
“Gallery”: Not so long ago Adam used to look
down from the Age leader-writer’s box in the Vic.
Assembly chamber on Cain, the Laborite from Jika
Jika who warmed a back Opposition bench. Promoted
to the assistant-editorship of Melbourne Herald, Adam
deserted the gallery; and now Cain has leaped over
the table and taken a place on the Treasury side.
“Frinigga”: Young America has started to throw
mud at its joss. A new novel, “Capitol Hill,” by
Harvey Fergusson, says that George Washington
“never worked half as hard being the father of his
country as he did taking away land from home-
steaders over in West Virginia. By way of recrea-
tion, he fought roosters and drank corn liquor. He
had a red nose, and sang hymns, and liked nigger
wenches.”
“Mel” : The Victorian Farmers’ Union is contemplat-
ing the launching of a daily paper in Melbourne early
next year. The greater part of the required capital is
already in sight, but the wiseheads of the union are
advocating, as an alternative, the enlargement of the
w'eekly paper, the Countryman (formerly Farmers'
Advocate). The collapse of the Hobart World and
the Adelaide Daily Herald and the vicissitudes of
the younger dailies elsewhere are warning signs.
Died at Stanmore (Sydney) the other day, at 79,
William Barnaby Howarth, proprietor of the Gren-
fell Record. He originally came from Hull, and
did presswork at Mudgee before settling in Grenfell.
Donald Campbell, superintendent of the Government
Printing Office, served his apprenticeship with Howarth
on the Record. Incidentally it was through W. B
Howarth’s paper that the Milburn Creek scandal
was ventilated 30 years ago—with disastrous results
to two or three highly-placed politicians.
“Sturt” : The Sun, a recent journalistic venture in
Adelaide, has been making heavy weather. The
other day the editor, the sporting editor and
a reporter all sued the paper for arrears
of salary, and got judgment for over £lOO between
them. A lawyer looked in to explain that the co. had
gone into liquidation. “My instructions are not to
press the defence further. It. is only out of courtesy
to the Court that I appear, and I shall now with-
draw.” The editor gave evidence that since the err 1
of May he bad received only £4 18s. 6d. ; but he had
remained at work till the previous day, when “they
told me it was useless sending in any more copy.”
“L.”: The present problem of the Outback news-
paper proprietor is how to keep his expensive lino
machine and highly-paid operator fully employed.
Some sheets collect and print an amazing amount of
local news, but to feed a demon that swallows seven
columns of copy a day the matter is written any-
how, punctuated anyhow and slugged up' anyhow. The
result is a paper that looks what it is—a mad
scramble to keep the lino going. A two- or three-
column council report is balm to the soul of the boss;
failing that he will have his monster fed with yards
of reprint. It is a pernicious training for young-
journalists because it tends to make them view con-
densation as a crime.
“Printer’s Dummy”: According to “The Australasian
Advertising Manual and Newspaper Directory” for
1924, a valuable annual published by the Weston
Advertising Co., of Sydney, Sydney sends out 262
papers and periodicals; another 32 are produced, m
the suburbs. Total 294. New York, with 8,000,000
people, produces only 600. In N. S. Wales there are
171 towns outside Sydney publishing 246 papers. Mel-
bourne publishes 131, its suburbs 13, and 146 Vie.
towns have 194 among them. Brisbane has /4, and
66 Queensland towns 85. Adelaide owns 52 and 37
S.A. towns 47. Perth has 46 papers, and 3 o othei
W.A. towns wrap up their meat with 45 more.
Tasmania manages with 30 (Hobart 18, Launceston
6 and five other towns have six between them).
Total: N.S.W., 540; Vic., 338; Queensland, 159 ;
S A 99 • W A 94 : Tasmania, 30. Of the Sydney
meat-wraps six’are Chinese, two Greek, one French
and one Italian; Melbourne has one Chinese, one
Esperanto and one Scandinavian. Sydney is kept
to the straight and narrow path by 22 religious
papers (11 different religions), while Melbournes
spiritual wants are satisfied with nine (six religions).
All that and a ton of other information— everything,
ir fact that the most exacting advertiser wants to
know —is laid out in detail in the Weston Manual.
Everv little rag is listed. Every hoarding (Sydncj
possesses 216) and every trade connected with news-
papers and advertising is there And finally, as
this is an Empire Exhibition number, the publish? .
decided to include some reproductions th:| t would do
Australia credit It is all Australian—blocks, ink
and printing. And the results particularly the
colored reproductions, will stand comparison with
anything of the kind in the A'Olid.


ye> p —
4TT&
Willard Threaded Rubber Batteries are CHARGED
BONE-DRY.
Filling the cells of one of these batteries with acid,
puts it in service for the first time.
This is not done until you buy the battery. Con-
sequently you get all of this battery’s life in your car.
Only genuine Willard Threaded Rubber Batteries
are CHARGED BONE-DRY.
These passenger cars and trucks are equipped by their makers
with genuine Willard Storage Batteries
PASSENGER
CARS
Anderson
Case
Chevrolet
Cole
Crawford
Cunningham
Daniels
Dixie
Dodge
Dorris
Dort (Exp.)
Duesenberg
Elrar
Fifth Ave.
Coach
Franklin
Gardner
H. C. S.
Haynes
Henney
Holmes
Huffman
Hupmobile
Jordan
Kissel
Lexington
Mercer
Meteor
(Piqua)
McFarlan
Miller
Nash
Ogren
Olds
Packard
(Exp.)
Paige (Exp.)
Paterson
Pierce-Arrow
Reo
Riddle
R & V
Knight
Sayers
Studebaker
Stutz
Tarkington
Velie
Westcott
Wills Sainte
Claire
TRUCKS
Acason
Acme
All American
American-
La France
Armstead
Atterbury
Austin
Avery
Backhus
Brown
Bridgeport
Buffalo-
Springfield
Chevrolet
Clydesdale
Commerce
Dart
Day-Elder
Defiance
Denby
Dependable
Detroit
Motor Bus
Dorris
Eugol
F W D
Fulton
Garford
G M C
Gotfredson
Guilder
Hahn
Highway-
Holt
Huffman
Hurlbut
Independent
Indiana
Kalamazoo
Kankakee
Kissel
Koehler
Krebs
Lewis-Hall
Little Giant
Master
Menominee
Nash
Nelson &
Le Moon
Olds
Oshkosh
Petroleum
Pierce-Arrow
Rainier
Red Ball
Reo
Rowe
Sandow
Sayers
Sea grave
Selden
Service
Signal
Standard
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tiffin
Titan
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
White
Wilson
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio. U.S.A.
fg


A Self Stropping Safety
Razor Set complete for
dfg
'k
vP
SK
s>
as
sms
3S
SffiS
Ask your nearest dealer for a demonstration
of the “VALET” to-day.
The blade sharpens itself by turning over and over on the strop
For three and six!
A new razor built in a less expensive way on
the well-known ‘ VALET model, with the
self-stropping principle that is now famous
throughout the world.
In it is the same service as in the 25/-
“VALET” —it strops its own blades.
A touch and it springs open ready to be stropped or cleaned.
A few seconds on the strop and its blade has a brand-new
edge every morning—as good to use 30 days hence as it
was to-day.
For every shaving reason —for comfort, efficiency, economy
and speed—whether you spend 25/- on the VALET de
Luxe or three and six on its more modest brother, you must
shave the “VALET” way.
Large new shipments just arrived.
Available at all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
VALET
A,lvLo/STlk>p
Safety Razor
British
Made
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Ease of
Expressive Playing
is a special characteristic of the VICTOR
PLAYER. PIANO. The operator’s interest
is always fresh, because the possibilities of
this splendid instrument are practically un-
limited. It is this characteristic musical
expressiveness that distinguishes the “Victor.”
Anyone without previous experience can learn
to play one of these instruments in a very
short time with satisfaction to a musical ear —
even a young child can do so. But the greater
your musical training and appreciation, and
the longer your association with the VICTOR
PLAYER PIANO, the better will be your
performance. You can go on and on
improving every day, each day getting added
pleasure from your instrument; each day
learning to produce music that will delight
the critical musician. And the wonder of these
instruments is that they accomplish by simple
means every demand made upon them.
dfg
338 George Street,
SYDNEY
N
,4
■
Your
Purchase of
VICTOR
Player Piano
is backed with PALING’S FULL GUARANTEE
because we know that it is the best instrument obtainable
at its price.
PALING’S EASY TERMS offer you the most liberal of
payments, and, if you desire, your present piano will e
taken in part payment.
We cordially invite your inspection.
Catalogue and Price List free for the asking.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore and Rockhampton.


GET RELIEF FROM
RHEUMATISM-
TAKE
Golcryst
SOLD EVERYWHERE
At 4d., Bd. 8 1/3
Everybody Appreciates *
[PLUM PUDDINCS
\ Obtainable
Crocers
2_»*
E
• *
* •
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc., etc.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Kempy’
Royal “Good Morning, Dearie
JNew p alack “Climbing Mt. Everest”
grand Opera House “Little Nellie Kelly”
Hoyt’s , Moving Pictures
• ivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
e uller’s Theatre .... The World’s Best Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Whirled into Happiness”
Royal Vaudeville
I rincess’s “Mr. Battling Butler ’
King’s “Madame X”
I alace .... Allan Wilkie Shakspearean Productions
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
I I voli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
One Sundry Showman, at any rate, would
like to have been at that first night at La
Scala, nearly 40 years ago, when the old
Master, Verdi, gave his “Otello” with a
grand gesture to the world. Plow the musi-
cal moderns of the day must have lifted
cocksure eyebrows when the oldster, for-
saking his sweetly melodious themes, entered
the Wagnerian lists and beat them at their
own tumultuous orchestration! At Her
Majesty’s, in Sydney, on Saturday, Melba,
picturesquely and gracefully robed, with a
crop of sheeny golden locks, presented a too-
sophisticated Desdemona; and at times the
music put a strain on her fading top notes
—as in the big scene at the end of the third
act. But in the fourth act, in the Willow
song which she has made her own, voice and
art were perfect. The youthful purity of
her tone was unimpeachable in the final
"Ave Maria,” and her last dying notes turned
the heart of her blackamoor husband to
water; whereupon he committed suicide like
a gentleman. Antonio Marques made an
('motional and dramatic Otello. His por-
trayal _of the man goaded to fury by un-
reasoning jealousy was masterly; and his
voice displayed a wider range of expression
than on his first appearance. In the Moor’s
very rare tender moments it rang with an
unsuspected lyric quality. The big duet
between Otello and Desdemona in the first
act went well, Melba carrying her part in
gallant style. Again Grariforte was an
arresting figure as Iago; lie is easily the
most subtle actor in the company, and his
baritone is pleasing. But judging from his
shabby attire, also that of the tuneful tenor
Cilia as the maligned Cassio, Otello must
have squandered not only his own but iiis‘
officers’ pay on his Venetian bride’s trous-
seau. The rather sketchy part of Roderigo
“DON PASQUALE ,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Dr. Malatesta (Luigi Cereso l) and Don
Pasquale (Gaetano Azzolini) searching
for Toti in a garden.
was played by Luigi Parodi, and tlie youth-
ful Carmen Tornari as Emilia introduced a
wobbly contralto to the domestic tragedy.
The chorus was admirable, and the orchestra,
conducted by Schiavoni, won a long succes-
sion of triumphs.
* * * *
“Tales of Hoffmann” held Monday night’s
audience in thrall —the queer adventures of
the young man whose love affairs are crossed
by an evil genius are just close enough to
fairy stories to be enjoyed by youngsters of
all ages. The stories themselves are unfolded
in music melodic and captivating, and with
Schiavoni at the prow the orchestra em-
barked on a sea of magic. Toti dal Monte
was a delectable doll. Her tiny arched feet,
scarcely visible under the billowing skirts,
moved as though on skates. And the shrilly
sweet .voice that rose higher and higher
and lingered lovingly on a cloud’s rim be-
fore parachuting to earth was not to he
easily forgotten. Aga Lalioska was a seduc-
tive lady who ruined men’s souls by the
Grand Canal—good-looking enough, but
vocally inefficient. The languors of the Vene-
tian primrose path do not suit the Polish
songstress. Vera Bedford, who gave the
Barcarolle its pusli-off, was one of the joys
of this episode; so was Vida Sutton as the
Voice. But the triumph of the evening was
undoubtedly Scavizzi’s. This lovely creature
as the fragile Antonia displayed some delight-
ful mezzo voce effects hitherto unsuspected.
White-robed and flaxen-wigged, she was soul-
fnlly despairing, and the house was in com-
plete sympathy. Dinio Borgioli made a
romantic Hoffmann. /He was poetic in the
three episodes, and his singing was sweet
and true. As the cruelly-eluded young man
of the second chapter he was still the captain
of his soul and top-notes. The versatile
Maguenat played with conviction ; Vera Bed-
ford was notably good in both voice and
manner as Nicklaus; and Luigi Cilia con-
tributed some small gems of acting. The
tavern choruses were the most striking on
that side —had just the right dash in them.
'!* *!* *!'
Pianist Munz had a pretty bad time at his
recital at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night, for fully three-fourths of the audi-
ence had come there to cough. One of his
happiest performances was the Beethoven
“Moonlight Sonata,” in which the Adagio
was beautifully played. A group of Chopin
pieces proved much to his mood, and the
Bach-Liszt “Variations” again demonstrated
the Polish pianist’s'ability as a Bach ex-
ponent. Kreisler’s “Liebcsfreud.” arranged
by himself, displayed his brilliant technique,
and was taken at break-neck tempo. Many
encores were demanded. To-night and Satur-
day are marked for the finfil Sydney appear-
ances. ••
At Sydney Cri. “Kerrtpy” continues to be
whirled altarwards at five minutes’ notice;
and John D. O’Hara makes a pure joy of
Dad Bence.
“Good Morning, Dearie !” with Josie Mel-
ville and the Sunshine Girls, makes Sydney,
Royal a gladsome place to be in o’ nights.
It’s the sort of piece' that might have made
Job forget some of his hfflictions or temnted
Simon Stylites to hop down from his pillar.
Eloping couples will hit “The Dover Road”
at Sydney Cri. for two more nights only.
❖ * *
That eminently likeable character, “Old
Bill. M.P.,” concludes a successful season
at Sydney Opera House with to-night’s per-
formance. “Tattle Nellie Kelly.” a sort of
twin sister of “The CPBrien Girl,” makes
her debut on Saturday.
At present Sydney Tivoli bill is below par,
though no blame is attachable to new-
comers Cyril Kay and Jenny Kcyworth. The
former is a humorist of high degree and the
lady chooses her songs carefully, for obviously
she is aware of her limitations. Landry and
Jails are French dancers who work hard to
entertain a crowd which has been too liber-
ally treated to similar turns ; so their danc-
ing deserves a better reception than it gets.
Hetty King continues to bolster up her mas-
culine mimicry by inhaling much tobacco
smoke ; Tex McLeod still twiddles a clothes-
line, Marie Kendall moralises breezily on the
handicaps of wedded life, and Ted Marcel
hands out his patter while he circumnavi-
gates the stage on a pair of roller-skates.
An aboveAhe-ordinary picture is “Safety
Last,” at Sydney Crystal Palace. Harold
Lloyd is the star, and a clamber up the face
of a 12-storey skyscraper is the climax to
a long run of laughs. Yet most people will
still prefer to stick to the elevators. “A
Slave of Vanity” and Its spider-and-fly
theme grips the attention of the Lyceum, and
is the pick of the week’s heavy stuff. Within
the same doors, Betty Balfour. England’s
Mary Pickford, is “Squibs, M.P.” Betty
has the suffragette movement to thank for
this opportunity to retail more of her school-
girl-paper humor. The Lyric has, dug up
“No Mother to Guide Her,” an olid bellow-
drama favorite; and Bill Hart destroys a
popular rumor concerning the torpidity of
his tongue by coming out as “Singer Jim
McKee,” at the Globe. “Desire,” at the
Strand, is the history of a maid who marries
the family chauffeur and takes to poison—
rather to the relief of the audience. “Snowy”
Baker is at the same temple. “Excitement,”
at Hoyt’s, lives up to its title, and “The
D»ve Master” carries attractive and popu-
lar scenes of dog life.
Although the last of the Cellini-Cimara-
Zacharewitsch concerts in Melbourne did not
receive half the support the melodious com-
bination deserved—probably because the
wealthy who believe in patronising high-class
shows are satisfied of their well-doing when
they can boast of one attendance, while the
real music-lovers who can afford to follow
a sequence are rare—file warmth of the audi-
ences grew right to the end of the season.
So did that of the critics who. inclined to
receive the show at first with coldness,
finished by spilling admiring expletives.
Over the long distance Zacharewitsch proved
the best stayer, his violin magic varying from
a display of strength in his set numbers to
a delightful lightness in some of the pieces
he gave as encores. Cellini, although patchy,
is a dramatic tenor of force. It was when
he abandoned the dramatic for the frivolous
that the patchiness displayed itself; yet his
Drinking Song from “Cavalleria Rusticana”
was admirable. Cimara must have a word,
too. His sympathetic work as an accom-
The Cellini-Zacharewitsch-Cimara combina-
tion, now charming Adelaide with “con-
cord of sweet sound.”
panist helped his colleagues vastly. His
way of sliding to liis seat as if to avoid pro-
minence is indicative of a modesty which,
amongst musicians, only pianists who are
effective accompanists seem capable of
possessing.
With their second variety bill at Mel-
bourne Royal the Williamson-Taits intro-
duced the Friday-night opening, and found
favor with the gods—likewise the d.c. and
stalls. The success will probably cause a
spread of the idea. With the exception of a
couple of turns which were next day dis-
placed, the fare was of an exceptionally high
standard. Irene Franklin is a perfect little
artist, with a keen sense of humor, and a
manner of “putting over” her points reminis-
cent of Wish Wynne. She was best as the
jealous wife of a fireman who was “bilious
but brave.” Her rival for star honors is W.
V. Robinson, who tells droll stories with
consummate art. The Hadji Kader Arabs
do some strong-man feats; Kiddy King is a
precocious infant who even gives some fresh-
ness to an overworked juggling act; and
Arthur Lucan and Kitty McShane (in an
Irish scena) would have got more notice in
a programme of less excellence.
Frank Harvey is still enduring the oppres-
sive gloom of “Madame X” at Melbourne
King’s. In real life he would probably leave
the gloomy lady with half a dozen bottles
of absinthe for consolation before she had
a chance to murder him ; but this not being
real life he will go on endui'ing until “East
of Suez” brings a change.
When it comes to whirls Cunningham and
Clements, who have been introduced to give
an additional fluri’y to “Whirled into Happi-
ness” at Melbourne, are the real goods;
their breathless dancing rouses the audiences
to a greater tumult than anything else in
the show. As the newly arrived Winnie
Collins is not billed to supersede Madge
Elliott, who is taking a holiday, until Aug.
23, it is to be expected that Cecil Kellaway
will continue to accept the amazing insults
of Frith and others in an amiable spirit for
some time to come.
. Of the show at the New Princess (Melb.)
xt can only be said that Mr. Butler will still
battle fox* some time to come, and Melbourne
citizens show no sign of going off their Dot.
The Music Club is performing a useful
service to the musically inclined of Mel-
bourne, and their gratitude was shown by a
wonderful house when Arnold Bax was
given his introduction through efficient inter-
preters. His Sonata for violin and piano
was the most important item, with Gertrude
I-lealy (with superb execution but a lack of
passion sometimes noticeable), and Violet
Ewart (displaying qualities which make the
rarity of her appearances regrettable) doing
the hard work. With the same ladv IT. B
Spry gave a fine rendering of an Irish
tone poem for two pianos.
At the Melbourne New Palace Carter the
uthrill the audience with an
abdominal operation upon a woimn who
looks surprisingly well after it for one
more week. On August 9 Allan Wilkie will
commence to give Melbourne the benefit of
his change-every-night Shakspearean shows.
Rosie Lloyd and Du Calion are new fea-
tures at Melbourne Tivoli. Du Calion, a
friend of ten years ago, is as loquacious as
ever, and has the audience as rocky with
laughter as the ladder from which he deli-
vers most of his patter—with an occasional
purple point not necessary with so good a
patter-maker. Rosie is the usual comedi-
enne, but full of vitality.
Linked with the Chaplin film, “A Woman
of Paris,” at Melbourne Hoyt’s, is “Her
Temporary Husband,” and some people who
know Paris consider it a suitable combina-
tion. The “Poisoned Paradise” is drawing
many people to the Majestic to see how
others behave at Monte Carlo ; but at least
an equal attraction is baby Pat Wilson,
winner of a first in an Empire baby com-
petition, who is to be on exhibition. Women’s
fancy for cave-man types is served at the
Melba by John Gilbert in “The Wolf Man,”
and at the Britannia Scotland prevails with
“Rob Roy.”
The spoken drama in Adelaide this week
lias been mostly a triumph for Catherine
Neill. The Repertory Theatre gave Sutro’s
“Laughing Lady” as its offering towards
Artists’ Week, and this chanced to come be-
tween two routine performances of Ibsen’s
“Hedda Gabler.” The reckless, warm-
hearted modern society woman and the self-
centred icicle of the Norwegian’s imagining—
Mrs. Neill (till lately Kitty Sullivan) real-
ised them both. The other members of the
Rep. gave their usual support, notably Roy
Marcus as the K.C.
From an Adelaide critic:—
The show of pictures got together in Adelaide for
the first “Artists’ Week” is sound rather than memor-
able. There are few things that demand to be taken
home forthwith. The only thing the S.A. Gallery
acquired—beyond a batch of etchings—is a large
Mclnnes, a mutinous-mouthed kiddie standing against
a well-painted curtain. Lambert has his large
“Hera” of the oblique eyes, and an attractive
“Squatter’s Daughter” in an Australian landscape.
Hans Heysen (who gave the exhibition strong sun-
port) has characteristic landscapes, also fine fruit
and flowers in his new manner ; in fact, the general
tendency towards “still life” is all over the walls.
Hilder and Cornier, Longstaff and Streeton, Manure
\oung and Bernard Hall, Eldershaw and Minns—
it is a welcome show.
Meanwhile the Norman Lindsay protest-exhibition
is in Preece’s small gallery. Governor Bridges, in
opening the other, described this as an “annexe,” and
told everyone to go to see it. Everyone is going;
and a visit means taking one’s place in a queue
outside. The three etchings banned frofti the other
are here, and don’t visibly shock anyone ; also a lot
of glorious water-colors, not for sale. Lindsay is
“LUCFA DI LAMMERMOOR,” AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
Lucia (Toil dal Monte) in the Mad scene,
with the Scotch-Italian chorus assisting.
seen in some instances at his most characteristic, in
some at his best. In particular, there is a riot of
figures straining to soar upwards, from a pit in
which shapeless monsters try to detain them, by
which he might be well content to let posterity judge
between him and his critics.
“Lond”: Ernst Toller’s political drama,
prohibited in Germany and censored in other
countries, lias come to London as “Man and
the Masses.” The heroine, a woman of
the people, works for a general strike, being
genuinely agonised by the sufferings of the
workers in factories and mines. Her begin-
nings are taken up by extremists, who carry
the party on to general looting and bloodshed.
Ultimately the revolution is crushed, but the
extremists make terms abjectly. She alone
won’t, and so is shot, leaving the position
very much as it was at starting.


DAVID versus GOLIATH.
(REDIVIVUS.)
We sort of called a truce with our old adversary, the Australian Mutual
Provident Society, the last four or five years.
Partly because we had achieved our object of demonstrating to the public
that the City Mutual, using only half and less than half of its available annual
surplus, could and did actually pay larger bonuses than the A.M.P. Society
was able to do even after using up more than 90 per cent, of its profit for
the year. _ ,
But our main reason was because during that period a lot of hew Life
Offices were brought into vogue, some of them, at all events, in utter disregard
of any interest other than that of the promoters.
The City Mutual deemed it the best thing in the public Areal to concen-
trate its energies upon urging the powers that be to exercise some supervision
and some control over these irresponsible floats.
SIR ALFRED MEEKS’ APPRECIATION.
And hence it was that when Smith's Weekly recently launched a stupid
attack on the A.M.P.’s method of calculating its premiums, the City Mutual
protested to that paper. Not that we held any brief for Goliath. We recog-
nised that an unwarranted and unjustifiable attack on the business principles
of Life Assurance, as exemplified by the Australian Pioneer Institution,
would not only invite ridicule, but would render almost innocuous the much-
needed criticism of the objectionable methods adopted by many of the
fledglings.
Smith’s Weekly did not publish our letter. But a copy of it was sent
to the Chairman of the A.M.P. Society, which evoked a cordial acknowledg-
ment from Sir Alfred Meeks.
ALL MY PASTURE.
But while we w r ere prepared to live in peace and amity with our neighbor,
seemingly the old warrior was unhappy, although he was thriving Avell and .
waxing fat. He is seemingly always looking for trouble.
True to the old traditions, this Institution does not like any rival in the
field. It wants the whole Life Assurance World for itself.
It surveys Australia with proprietorial eyes and reads the magic words,
A.M.P., to mean, “All My Pasture.”
It hurts Goliath to wake up to the fact that the City Mutual is at long
last coming into its own, and without limelight or publicity is getting a fair
share of Australian Life Assurance business.
WORLD SELFISHNESS.
In- this it resembles a somewhat large section of other traders the
world over.
There are in this world many merchants, many business men, many
bankers, many professional men —pity the number isn’t larger —who welcome
the success of an honorable contemporary, who look upon him with a kindly
eye and wish him Avell. Not so, unfortunately, the great A.M.P.
In Life Assurance, Goliath Avants to bestride the narroAv world like a
Colossus, and we petty men are to walk under his huge legs and peep about
to find ourselves dishonorable graves.
A.M.P. all the time —“ALL MY PASTURE” all the time.
THE CITY MUTUAL’S
EVER-INCREASING SURPLUS.
The ever-groAving annual surplus of the City Mutual hurts Goliath
pretty badly.
Here is a copy of a leaflet it lately issued Avhich drifted into us the other
day from far-off Western Australia.
When the City Mutual issues a pamphlet or a leaflet, it ahvays recognises
that the ethics of courtesy demand that the first copy after it IeaATS the printer
be sent to the other Office with our respectful compliments.
The leaflets of the A.M.P. Society, AAwitten nearly always on butter paper
quality, either reach us by the milk-can or are sent on to us Aveeks later from
a far-off State.
This may mean that the A.M.P. has a little saving sense of shame for
its publication. It may not.
Anyhow, here is the leaflet.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Memo, for Agents.
Be City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.
In a paragraph inserted in the daily papers it is stated: —
“The Actuary of the City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited reports
that he has completed the annual investigations of the Society’s liabilities as
at December 31 last. The surplus, after providing for all liabilities (assuming
that the rate of interest earned on the Society’s assets of more than two and
a half millions will he 3| per cent.), is £354,013. This represents over S 7
per cent, of the total premiums received by the Institution for the year 1923.
“The Board has decided to apportion £147,000 by way of bonus to the
policy-holders, which provides reversionary bonuses up to £4 10s. per cent.
The balance of £206,013 will be carried over to the current year.”
This is somewhat misleading,- as it implies that £354,013 is the surplus
FOR THE YEAR 1923, whereas it includes £133,000 brought forward from
the previous year, and the amount actually divided (£147,400) represents only
36.5 per cent, of the TOTAL premiums (including non-participating) received
during the year, as compared with our own percentage of 49. S arrived at in
the same way.
If our policy liabilities had been valued on the same basis as that employed
by the City Mutual (34 per cent.), our total surplus at 31st December last
would have been over £4,500,000, being 114 per cent, of the premiums received
during the year as compared with the City Mutual’s 87 per cent.
“Interest, Dividends, Rents, Profit on realisation of securities, etc.,” is
shown in the City Mutual’s accounts for 1923 to have been £lBl,lBB, or
£7 13s. sd. per cent, on its mean funds. The extra £2 4s. 3d. per cent, over
the interest rate earned last year by the A.M.P. suggest that it may be largely
due to profits made on land and property transactions, a form of finance which
can hardly be regarded as altogether suitable for the employment of the funds
of a Life Office.
H. W. APPERLY,
Sydney, 15tli May, 1924. General Manager.
H’m! Doth, ancient history record the exact color of Goliath’s orbs ?
There is one thing, at all events, for Avhich the policy-holders of ti.
A.M.P. Society should rise up and pass a vote of hearty thinks to the Cit >
Mutual —nem . con.
We have been largely instrumental in raising their bonuses from 2.
shillings per cent, in 1916 to more than twice that amount in 1923.
And it may, as a matter of interest, be added, that the City Mutual
bonuses to its constituents have ranged during those eight years from £2 10;
to £3 ss. per cent.
GEO. CROWLEY,
July, 1924. Chairman
ONE MILE OF FOX YARN WEIGHS
LESS THAN ONE OUNCE
a*
i
S 3
Si
m
m
'a
m
HI
i
kN-G
£>l
£5
2^
s
TRADF MARK
FOX
The fine West of England Cloths
of Fox Bros, are demanded to
the exclusion of all other cloths
by those who have once worn
them.
Fine cloths call for fine yarns,
finely spun from finest Australian
wools.
To produce a light-weight Fox
superfine cloth it is necessary to
spin the yarn to such fineness
that a mile weighs less than an
ounce.
Look for the Fox Trade Mark
which gives entire satisfaction
because it is backed by this
guarantee
Fox’s Cloths are all pure wool
and will not shrink or fade by
land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
, FOX .
UJest of England Highest Quality
CLOTHS
BkNCY WORSTEDS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS • TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
k
4
MOTOR
SPIRIT
THERES
0
UNLIMITED
® «N
iamraxah
MOTOR SPIRIT
KE/vr
9P
NEPTUNE
V'DNtS
VftPJP
MOTOR
SPIRIT
OIL C?,LT?
HIGHLY REFINED
AMERICAN
MOTOR CAR SPIRIT
CLEAN AND FREE FROM MOISTURE
EASY STARTING


ft
hKj’y " -- “ ~~
PIE
fewgib lipi
Igf
' * ip!
||||
n
THE WHISkV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
SHOE COMFORT FOR MEN
Style not sacrificed in Macnaught Footwear
There are many distinct advantages when you wear
Macnaught Shoes. First, you obtain that Macnaught
in-built quality—secondly, you get solid footwear
made to last —thirdly, you have the advantage of
absolute foot freedom and comfort. All this at
prices that are really reasonable.
THIS SMART OXFORD
In Black Box Calf. .. 37/6
Tan Calf 39/6
The New Havana Shade.... 39/6
Patent 45/-
OEDEB BY MAIL, —immediate
attention to your instructions.
n
(
WE PAY
POSTAGE
N.S.W.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
“We stand behind every shoe.”
189 PITT STREET—I3S KING STREET —SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“R.K.D.N.”: Pauline Frederick, a real
live actress, who has been wasting her talent
too long in the pitchers, is booked for a tour
of Australia. E. J. Carroll is to manage
the lady; his few theatrical ventures (which
include the Moffats in “Bunty Pulls the
Strings”) prove that he can pretty well gauge
the taste of his countrymen. Pauline has
been before the public a good many years
now, but if she brings us good plays the
public will not trouble about her birth-
certificate.
“S.T.S.”: The cable-man overlooked the
death of Cecil J. Sharp in June, yet he was
one of the biggest authorities on English
“folk” songs and dances. He published
dozens of little volumes and hundreds of
songs, was principal of a conservatorium at
Hampstead, founder of the English Folk
Dance Society, and at last received official
recognition from the Board of Education. The
Civil List gave him a small pension to con-
tinue his work and Cambridge made him an
hon. Master of Music. Australia’s personal
interest in him lay in the fact that he was in
Adelaide from about 1883 till 1893, first as
Associate to Way, C.J., and then as a teacher
of music. He wrote at least one opera, to
the libretto of Guy Boothby, then a clerk in
the Town Hall and not yet known as a novel-
list. “What sort of lyrics does he give you?”
I asked once, and he replied : “Boothby can
rhyme ‘mountains’ with ‘fountains’ as well as
anybody I know —and that is all that is
necessary.”
“Lud”: “Ellae’s” idea of the actor “speak-
ing direct to the people in the auditorium,
thereby roping them in as ‘buckshee’ supers”
(B. 24/7/’24), has been anticipated by many
dramatic authors of the newer school, notably
Galsworthy in “The Skin Game.” In the
auction-room scene, as done in London, the
audience were, in effect, public and bidders,
and several of the principal actors, including
the representative of Hornblower, sat
amongst the stallites. I don’t think this
arrangement was followed out in the recent
Oscar Asche production. Anyway, I never
heard of Oscar shouting out bids from the
front of the housfe, and his presence there
would hardly have passed unnoticed.
From Cockaigne:—
Describing the re-appearance of Lorna and Toots
Pounds in “The Whirl of the World,” at the Pal-
ladium, the Referee avers that Toots has “vastly
improved as a vocalist,” but bespeaks a better part
for Lorna, who hasn’t sufficient opportunities “to
show what a clever girl she is.” “The Whirl” had
a shaky start, and the newspapers were not at all
enthusiastic. However, it has been pulled together
and worked up into a genuine success.
“The Cautious Lovers,” by Helen Simpson, of
Sydney, has extorted from the Referee the praise
that it is “a clever new comedy by a young Aus-
tralian authoress.” It is written round a lady of
30, who, fearing that she would have to pass through
life without a single amatory adventure, engineers
one for herself by going to a masked ball in a
ballet-skirt taken from a younger sister’s wardrobe.
The comedy was produced at the Lyceum Club, the
principal meeting-place for high-toned feminine gos-
sipers in the West End.
There is a mention of Arthur Garner in the remin-
iscences on which H. Chance Newton, the veteran
dramatic critic, is now at work. Garner, described
as “an actor-manager renowned for many years in
England and Australia,” has written to Newton ex-
pressing his interest in the latter’s lucubrations, and
offering him a selection from “the hundreds of
theatrical photos I have collected during my half-
century’s association with the English and Austra-
lian stage.” Old Australian playgoers will remem-
ber Arthur as a very capable and versatile actor, and
as an original partner in the J.C.W. firm. He
drifted out of the combination early in its history
and formed a rival company, which attempted some
big things but failed to prosper.
“N. West”: Visiting Rockhampton (Q.)
recently, and unable to secure the regular
theatre for his show, Lionel Walsh hired
an open-air cinema contraption. On the
opening night 5333 crammed in to see
“Sally.” The attendances for a week panned
out at 23,300 —about 3000 short of Rock-
hampton’s population. Who says there’s
no money in Central Queensland?
“Abbot P.”: “Second Murderer” misfires
once or twice in his “Pinafore” reminis-
cences (B. 37/7/’24). He mentions Richard
Stewart, jun., as having played Corcoran in
the Stewart production. B. Anthony was
really the captain, and it was in June, 3879,
not the previous year. By the way, “Pina-
fore” first charmed an Australian audience
on May 30, 1879, at Sydney School of Arts.
The performers were Edwin Kelly as Sir
Joseph Porter, Edwin Lester as Capt. Cor-
coran, C. S. Fredericks as Rackstraw, Wil-
liam Ball as Deadeye, Eva Davenport as
Josephine, and “The Only Leon” as Little
Buttercup. Luscombe Searelle conducted,
and the show ran a fortnight.
“Thersites”: Sardou (B. 24/7/’24) has
been a strong drawing card to play in Aus-
tralia, too. The Majeronis did “Fedora” in
the mid-’eighties. So did Jeffreys-Lewis,
with Alfred Dampier as leading man. Many
others have had a shot at it since, including
Madge Mclntosh and Harcourt Beatty.
“Diplomacy” has been a favorite with several
companies, Brough and Boucicault among
them. “A Scrap of Paper” was in the reper-
toire of Arthur Dacre and Amy Roselle —the
writer played in it with them at Sydney
Majesty’s and Criterion. And Sarah Bern-
hardt gave us “La Tosca” and “Theodora”
in the original tongue. Other plays in Sarah’s
list were “Frou Frou,” “Adrienne Lecouv-
reur” and “Camille.”
SO REAR AND YET SO FAR.
FIRST POVERTY-POINTER : “Stinger's just
engaged me to go starring round the
country.”
SECOND POVERTY-POINTER [who has been
bitten before ): “ Hum! Sure you
haven't made a mistake? Sure he didn't
say starving?”
“Second Murderer”: Being a darling of
the gods or a d.c. divinity must be fatiguing
at times. Part of the prescribed ritual is
the submitting to embraces in public. Josie
Melville in particular seems to be a target for
these disconcerting attentions; when she is
sighted in the street or on the gangway of
a steamer the producer, the stage-doorkeeper
the commissionaire or some other high pan-
jandrum is so carried away by his emotion
that he wants to kiss Josie hysterically. At
the auction of seats for Maggie Moore’s
benefit, Jack Cannot, as in duty bound, kissed
the embarrassed little lady effusively, to her
obvious confusion. She blushed, but it was
not she who should have blushed at the im-
pertinence. Harry Lauder kisses John Tait
at the wharfside when he arrives, but that’s
different.
FORESIGHT.
THE FOOL: “Your birthday? Great idea! —
let's celebrate it by getting married.”
THE FAY: “Just the mean thing you would
do, and make one present serve for both
anniversaries.”
“Ilamfat”: Bert Levy, who made an Aus-
tralian black-and-white reputation with his
Yiddish jokes before he took his talents into
vaudeville and went to the United States,
is on his way back to see a mother who has
reached the age of 86. He lately published
a book in which autobiography and stage-
stories jostled one another —“For the Good
of the Race.”
“INero”: I fancy the published statement
that Hugh Ward has engaged Francie Ander-
son for an Australian tour is incorrect. Com-
munications received by the last American
mail indicate that the lady, now known on
Broadway as “Judith” Anderson, has recently
signed a three-years’ contract with David
Belasco at a salary which progresses until
for the third year it Avill reach a thousand
dollars a week. This important engagement
has doubtless been brought about by the
success the actress made in Martin Brown’s
curiously named four-act play “Cobra,” pro-
duced by Lawrence Weber a month or two
back at the Hudson Theatre. The critics are
unanimous in praising Francie’s portrayal
of a married vamp, one authority going as
far as to say that “Miss Anderson reveals a
quality which we have not seen since Sarah
Bernhardt.” It is therefore doubtful if we
shall see Miss Anderson here just yet.
“Pill-Face”: Emelie Polini has been en-
gaged to play “opposite” Guy Bates Post in
a Chicago revival of “The Deluge.” No
doubt the lady with the grievance against
the N.S.W. lawmakers will be seen in this
piece when she returns to Australia —-the
Firm holds the Australian rights.
“Rio”: When, in addition to the 225. 9d.,
or whatever it is, sixpence is charged for a
Grand Opera programme, the information
supplied should be correct. In my “Barber
of Seville” booklet the entry of Almaviva into
Bartolo’s house, disguised as a drunken
soldier, is ascribed to Act 1. This is wrong.
Then the period of the events is announced
as the sixteenth century. This, too, is quite
incorrect. Almaviva’s costume in the last act
and the uniforms, arms and accoutrements of
tin; soldiers are all of the second half of the
eighteenth century.
“T. 0.1.”: I am well aware that H. R.
Harwood was one of the four lessees of the
Melbourne Royal when Maggie Moore made
her first appearance there in 1874 (B.
31/7/’24). He was business manager, all
the same, and looked after the front of the
house. John Hennings was scene-painter
(his wife was a ballet-dancer in G. V.
Brookes’s time), Richard Stewart was
treasurer, and George Coppin a sort of sleep-
ing partner. I remember the six lessees who
arrived after Barry Sullivan’s long term. J.
C. Lambert was general-manager, Charles
Vincent (the husband of Miss Cleveland,
who brought “Leah the Forsaken”) was
stage-manager, Hennings was scene-painter,
Tom Bellair was assistant s.m., Richard
Stewart treasurer, Harwood business man
and “front of the house.” Vincent died in the
’sixties. Bellair became a boniface at Flem-
ington and the local mayor. Lambert made
his final stage appearance at the Royal, and
went to end his days at his home-town,
Wells.
“Dr. Nil”: The Adelaide orchestra un-
questionably owes much to Sylvia Wliiting-
ton (B. 17/7/’24), but don’t forget its debt
to the conductor, W. H. Foote. As a non-
professional I cannot speak with authority,
but I will venture to say that before Foote
took the orchestra in hand it was incapable
of performing a Tschaikowsky symphony “ex-
cellently,” or in any other way. The only
works of this class that I have heard better
rendered in Adelaide were done by Verbrug-
ghen’s organisation. Adelaide has good
right to be proud of the orchestra, but it
was Foote who licked it into shape.
“S.T.S.”: A new London play, “Before
Sunset,” is about an Australian millionaire
whose daughter is engaged to the son
of an English earl. The earl recollects that
the millionaire’s marriage was solemnised by
himself, masquerading as a parson when he
was on this side of the world years before,
and is consequently not legal; therefore Miss
Golddust is no fitting mate for his son and
heir. This foolishness (at the Aldwycli
Theatre, with no author’s name given on the
programme) sets the Referee speculating on
the worst play it ever saw. It awards the
distinction to a thing called “The Cousin
from Australia,” thoughtfully adding that
“this old friend was all too vividly recalled
by ‘Before Sunset.’ There does not seem
much to choose between them.” Surely
Australia has a ground of action against
these Cockney dramatists.
“1865”: “Nakhoda’s” suggestion (B-
-10/7/’24) that Mei Lau Fang should visit
the Commonwealth recalls that a company of
Chinese actors was brought to Australia in
the days of gold, when there were three or
four times as many Celestial inhabitants as
there are now. As in the Elizabethan drama,
the female characters were acted by boys.
A certain Kat-si-sieno, who was deserted by
a recreant lover, and who eventually hanged
herself, was impersonated so faithfully that
the performer is recorded to have burst into
tears, and some of the audience chewed
laundry tickets in the intensity of their
emotion. But a writer of the period men-
tions that “the beating of tom-toms and the
shrill sounds of pipes and triangles became
such a nuisance to Europeans in the neigh-
borhood that it was found necessary to for-
bid the musical accompaniment after 12
o’clock midnight; the other parts of the
performance were carried on until 1, 2 or 3
o’clock in the morning.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A par about “East of
Suez” states that “the cast includes some
Chinese who will arouse interest and aston-
ishment.” No doubt. On the stage I have
met all sorts of colored brudders, from
savages of Central Africa who, meeting white
people for the first time, expressed their sur-
prise in “pidgin” English, to the American
Indian in the “Octoroon,” whose sole ex-
clamation is “Ugh!” and they have nearlv
all aroused interest and astonishment. Par-
ticularly two buck Malays, impersonated by
the late lamented Jack Sweeney and a con-
federate named O’Grady. They were getting
along swimmingly when a tense situation was
interrupted by a voice from the gallery.
Good Hivins,” it said, “they’re Oirish!”
“Centurion” offers a showman something:
Melbourne Gaol, now being dismantled, has ori
hand a quantity of death masks of executed crimi-
nals, including such celebrities as Ned Kelly and
Deeming. These are duplicates of casts made for a
Melbourne waxwork show, but it would appear that
there is no market for the grisly curios nowadays.
The Art Gallery will not even house them in the
cellar. Madame Tussaud, of London, first set the
public fancy turning to a Chamber of Horrors ; but
Reynolds, of Liverpool, had his malefactors port-
rayed more vividly. He housed his treasures in a
basement, a walk through which was calculated to
leave some indelible impressions. It was a moot
point whether the gem of the collection was the
lolling plaster head of Charles Peace, protruding
tongue and all, with the deep groove (colored red;
where the rope had bitten deep, or the wax effigies
of Mr. and Mrs. Manning. These last were suspended
per col., the lady in her famous black satin habit
as she died. Each wore the cap drawn over the
head, but for an extra fee the visitor could have this
raised and gaze on the features of the affectionate
couple who in death were not divided.
“Hamfat” : A managerial genius who once
pervaded the provinces had a fondness for
adding local interest to the pieces he staged.
In “The Blood on the Butterbox,” for in-
stance, the Squire of Ruin Hall would figure
as the Squatter of Bungaree station, and
other characters would be similarly local-
ised. These improvements on the original
were very palatable to bucolic audiences;
but now and then there were complications.
One night the villain, having succeeded in
his nefarious designs, announced that he
was leaving for Sydney at once, taking his
ill-gotten gains with him. Whereupon came
the call of an anguished publican from the
dark auditorium: “Well, ye’ll pay your
board first.” There were shouts of mirth
from the “mob,” who recognised the voice,
and another gale of laughter greeted the re-
entry of the villain, manacled. “Your
money’s all right now, Squareface,” shouted
a voice from the blackness. “Go ’n’ get it
out o’ that five thousand ’e pinched.”
THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
‘ Before the place was closed, thousands of holiday-
makers paid Is. each to inspect the bungalow. It
was found necessary to open the bungalow and estab-
lish orderly queues because the inquisitive crowds
trampled down the garden and threatened to break
up the house. A refreshment stall sold a souvenir
confection stamped ‘Crumbles Bungalow Rock.’ ”
—Cable about the English “Crumbles Bungalow”
murder.
Our father’s got a motor-car, and mother’s got some
pearls;
There’s nobby suits upon the boys and fal-lals for
the girls ;
We’re pretty busy all the day, but every night
carouse,
Because a ripping murder has just happened in our
house.
The crowds come crushing daily in and gloating at
the floor
Where we have splashed some bright red paint that
they believe is gore;
We charge a bob, and sixpence more to swing the
blood-stained axe—
And then there’s tuppence to be paid for the amuse-
ment tax.
The side-lines bring in most of all. We bought up,
by the lot,
Whole bales of shoes and hair and clothes to sell
upon the spot.
As hers they vanish like hot scones. And talking
of hot cakes
The crowd has rushed the Bashed Brains Buns that
mother daily makes.
We queue ’em up and take ’em down. The splosii
comes pouring in.
If we sold pieces of the roof they’d gladly part their
tin.
And father says the lodger who event barmy never
knew
The splendid deed he did for us when he brained
Auntie Sue.
VICTORIA.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


Amusements.
g Vlt IS 1<: V’S CIII IS I'' TIIICA T R E s
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: KEMPY.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE:
CLIMBING MT. EVEREST.
piCKAItI) S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees': Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
piJLLERS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
J RAND OPERA HOUSE. SYDNEY
" Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Ptv.. Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT THE MATINEE.
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURN)
• ATTRACTIONS
HIS MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE
J. C. wmpjAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
IRENE FRANKLIN.
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
ING’S I’ll BATHE, MELBOURN E.
MURIEL STARR in
MADAME X.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH ,1. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
EDNA PURVIANCE in
A WOMAN OF PARIS.
OWEN MOORE and SYLVIA BREAMER in
HER TEMPORARY HUSBAND.
Prices as usual.
|yj A.IICS’I 1C THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
WESLEY BARRY in
GEORGE WASHINGTON, TUN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
rllE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEA REAN
PRODUCTIONS
MELBOURNE SEASON.
Palace Theatre Season, commencing August 9.
Head Oitice: 178 Castlereagn Street. Sydney
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Situation Vacant.
WANTED COMPETENT OVERSEER,
used to Western Queensland con-
ditions. Apply by letter to Manager,
Charlotte Plains, Cunnamulla, Queensland.
Missing Friends.
t information wanted of pierce lawless, who,
1 34 years ago, left Townsland of Toor, Parish of
Kileash, eo. Tipperary, Ireland. Himself and one
MICHAEL MADDEN, aged between 50 and 60, last
heard of 14 years ago: he then resided about Perth
and Fremantle, Western Australia. Anyone knowing
his present whereabouts will kindly communicate
with his brother, WILLIAM LAWLESS. 350 South
Oak, Casper, Wyoming, U.S.A.
cCLELLANIh ALFRED JAMES,
prospector, last heard of at Ravens-
wood, Queensland, 1904. Communicate with
his brother Dick, c/o The Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
fTIHE next-of-kin of BEDFORD CLIVE
JL BUTLER, deceased, formerly of Rock-
hampton, Queensland, but latterly of Sydney,
or any persons acquainted with the above
are requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Auction Sale.
Important Notice.
THE Public Curator of Queensland, under instruc-
tions from the Corporation of the City of
Brisbane, in furtherance of its scheme for improv-
ing the City, has been instructed to soli
BY PUBLIC AUCTION
DURING
CENTENARY & EXHIBITION WEEK
The Valuable Freehold Property in
ADELAIDE STREET,
right; in the heart of the City of BRISBANE, contain-
ing Oh feet frontage and 134 feet 7 inches depth.
This is an excellent opportunity of acquiring
land in the best business centre in the fast grow-
ing city, Queensland’s magnificent capital.
Further particulars as to terms etc., tnav be
obtained on application to THE PUBLIC CURATOR,
BRISBANE.
Bate of Sale: THURSDAY, 14th AUGUST, 11)24, at
11 a.m. on the grounds.
1
*
u
KQh
££oOr
*
He,
*
use
every
ions
For
occas
aU
for
an
i
cucu-
••
P
etc*
c ta tione rs
aU
PE.H
fro®
9tt
6*
to
dcg^ ccS
\7
LO
in
la
m
E. & A? en<
THE MARK OF,
a good razor;
THE \
PLOW;
.////Mr M
A*k any man you know who u»e* a PLUM-
S' r, ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he ha* ever used.. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
W*.
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street. Sydney.
Legal Notices.
/tvO GEORGE GREENWOOD ROBINSON formerly
I of Petrie Terrace Brisbane in the State 01
Queensland but whose present whereabouts are
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane No. 349 of 1923 by ADA CAROLINE
ROBINSON your wife in which she claims a dis-
solution of her marriage with you and by a Petition
tiled in the said Court on the fifth day of September
1923 she alleges that during the month of May
tine thousand nine hundred and fifteen you deserted
the said Ada Caroline Robinson without cause and
have never since returned to cohabit with her and
that it has been ordered that service of the writ
and petition on you be effected by this advertisement.
If you so desire to defend the said Action you
must within Thirty days from the publication of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such publication
enter an appearance at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane and in default of
such appearance judgment may be entered against
you.
Dated this twenty-eighth day of July 1924.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors for Plaintiff,
236 George Street, Brisbane.
TO GERTRUDE NELLIE TOMKINSON formerly
of Enoggera Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land but whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane No. 302 of 1924 by WILLIAM
JOSEPH TOMKINSON your husband in which he
claims a dissolution of his marriage with you and
b>’ a petition filed in the said Court on the twenty-
fourth day of July 1924 he alleges that continuously
for a period of five years and upwards you have
without cause or excuse deserted the said William
Joseph Tomkinson to wit since the twenty-fifth day of
August 1917 since which date you have never returned
to cohabit with him and that it has been ordered
that service of the writ and petition on you be
effected by this advertisement.
If you desire to defend the said Action you must
within Thirty days from the publication of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such publication
enter an appearance at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane and in default of
, ucli appearance judgment may be entered against
you.
Dated this twenty-eighth day of July 1924.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
STEPHENS & TOZER, Solicitors for Plaintiff,
236 George Street, Brisbane.
o
*}()! l! 1
I -"'c
/-/'
Blazing the Trail
on Electricity’s Highway
WESTINGHOUSE was a pioneer in bringing the great boon
of electricity to mankind.
It contributed the principle of the application of alternating
current in the distribution of electricity. After taking into con-
sideration the innumerable electrical appliances in daily use and
contemplating the progress made in the last decade, one cannot
but appreciate this contribution to civilization.
It is this infinite care and skill that has made Westinghouse the
leader in all things electrical.
In arranging for the distribution of its products tn Australia,
Westinghouse will be pleased to hear from firms interested in
acting as distributors .
Australian Westinghouse Electric
Company Ltdc
Cathcart House,
«« S' ..otl orU Gtw****t- G, J
fr ;
93
WEST1NCH0USE
ELECTRIC ,
Westinghouse


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
TWENTY-FOURTH REPORT
Of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting held at the Banking House, Sydney, on Tuseday, 29th July, 1924, at noon.
1. We submit the Accounts for the Year ended 30th June, 1924, which have been examined and
certified to by the Auditors, and show” the following results:—
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after making full
provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts, deducting Rebate
on Current Bills, and Expenses of Management, Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc., amounts to £235,776 18 8
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the Year .. .. 42,294 0 0
— —£193,482 18 8
Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits . . .. .. .. . . .. 50,230 0 10
Leaving to be carried forward
£49,517 19 3
2. During the year Branches have been opened at Paddington, in New South Wales, and Cairns, in
Queensland. The Branch at Erskineville has been converted into a Receiving Office, and the Branch
at Kandos closed. Receiving Offices have been opened at Binya, Pymble and Toronto in New South
Wales, and the Receiving Office at Deewhy has been withdrawn.
3. It is with very great regret we have to record the death of our late colleague, Mr. G. P. Todman,
who died on the Bth June.
4. The Board have appointed Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, MX.A., to fill the vacancy caused by
Mr. Todman’s death.
5. Inasmuch as Mr. Todman would have retired at this meeting, Lieut.-Col. Thomas L’oyd Forster
Rutledge retires in accordance with Article 109 and offers himself for re-election; al'-o Frank Nelson
Yarwood retires in accordance with the provision of Article 104, and offers himself for re-election.
6. In terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association, it is also necessaray to elect two Auditors
in the places of Win. Craig, F.C.P.A., and Milton F. Johnson, F.C.P.A., who retire in accordance
with the Articles of Association. The latter is eligible and offers himself for re-election, and Wm. H.
Perry, F.C.P.A., has given notice that he is a candidate for election in place of Mr. Craig.
Sydney, 16th July, 1924.
J MARK SHELDON,
Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET
OF
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE LIMITED
(INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—BY CABLE.)
30th June, 1924.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital
To Capital subscribed and paid up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Inscribed Deposits
~ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities ..
y, Government Deposits .. ..
i, Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable ..
;, Balances due to other Banks . .
4 Profit and Loss Account—
Balance
Brought forward from 30th June, 1923
..£2,000,000 0 0
. . 1,200,000 0 0
370,000 0 0
. . 1,245,116 3 3 ’
£2,815,110 3 3
.. 10,226,204 3 4
116,236 5 7
10,342,440 8 11
782,986 1 2
467,374 15 11
£11,592,801 6 0
51,252 17 10
40,265 1 5
91,517 19 3
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc;
for which customers are responsible to the Bank, £679,204 17s. Od.
£14,499,435 8 6
ASSETS.
By Coin and Bullion
~, Australian Notes
~ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London
~ Government and Municipal Securities
~ Balances due by other Banks . . . . . . . .
~ Bills Receh able and Remittances in transit
£648,263 8 3
836,508 10 0
737,477 1 4
355,392 10 2
340,702 11 3
1,776,282 1 3
Bills Discounted. Loans. Advances, all other Debts due to the Bank, and other Assets,
including provision, £15,000, in ten
Association ..
~ Bank Premises
Less appropriation from Profits
of Clause 163 of the Bank’s Articles of
£448,511 6 10
lO,OOO 0 0
£4,694,4126 2 3
9,366,297 19 5
438,511 6 10
£14,499,435 8 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (making £370,000) ..
,> Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account ..
~ Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
„ Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended ..
„ Balance to be carried down
. . £40,000 0 0
. . 10,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
. . £42,000 0 0
. . 42,000 0 0
—— 84,000 0 0
£134,000 0 0
9,252 17 10
£143,252 17 10
By Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1924 .. .. .. £235,776 18 8
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes .. .. 42,294 0 0
£193,482 18 8
From which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits .. .. .. .. 50,230 019
By Nett Profit for the year .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £143,252 17 10
By Balance to be brought down —after payment of £42,000 Dividend recommended .. £9,252 17 10
~ Balance brought forward from last year .. . . .. .... .. .. 40,265 1 o
To be carried forward .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £49,517 19 3
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
The Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of the Australian Bank of Commerce
Limited was held to-day, Tuesday, 29th .Tuly, 1924, at the Banking House, King and George
streets, Sydney, Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman of Directors, presiding.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet, the Chairman said: —
Gentlemen, —The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account which we present to you
to-day show continued expansion in our business; and though this expansion is not so
large as during some previous years, yet we think you will concur that it is satisfactory,
taking into consideration all the circumstances of the past 12 months.
Our Total Assets a year ago were .. .. .. .. .. £14.148.000
And on 30th June, 1924, had increased to .. .. .. .. 14,499,000
It is interesting to make some comparisons in this respect, so as to show the develop-
ment of the Bank’s business and its increased popularity with the trading public. Our
Assets in June. 1914 (10 years ago), totalled £0.237.000. while in June. 1919 (5 years ago),
they were £11,050,000. and at the end of last month amounted to £14,499,000, thus disclosing
an increase during the 10 years of £8,2(52,000.
It is interesting also to notice the increase in our profits which, for the financial years
ending June, amounted, in 1914 to £54,954, in 1919 to £97,254, and in 1924 to £143,252.
Coming now to the financial situation. Our holdings of Liquid Assets now are £4,694,626:
equal to Bs._ld. in the £ of our outside liabilities. 'This proportion is much the same as
a year previously. The amounts held under various headings of the more Liquid Assets
show some slight variations—but notning of moment beyond the difference, which is of a
temporary nature, in our holding of Coin and Bullioim-ineidental to settlements on the
last day of the financial year. Our Liquid Assets, you will observe, have increased by
£167,000, as against increase in Advances of £179.000.
The Profits for the past year again show slight increase as compared with those of 12
months ago, being larger by £2574.
. The Dividend for the year is at the rate of 7 per cent., absorbing £84.000. We carry
forward to the next year £49,517.
Me propose the usual provision of £lO.OOO in reduction of Bank Premises: and have
carried a further sum of £40,000 to the Reserve Fund from the Profit and Loss Account,
I his, you will observe, brings the total of the Reserve Fund to £370,000.
Weather conditions are generally favorable to pastoral and agricultural pursuits: and
v/00l prices, as we all know, have been excellent, and have been a great factor in the finance
ot the Commonwealth. Reports of the early lambing have been good, and everything points
to a good wool clip for the coming season.
- , Afplfultunsts, are experiencing seasonable rains; and at the moment prospects look
weL tor the coming harvest. Provided the increased prices now ruling in the world’s
markets tor wheat are maintained, this will be of distinct advantage to our country
producers.
. y ear the market for beef was not favorable; and although the present situation
is not by any means what we would wish in the interest of those engaged in the
industry, yet the position is slightly better; and we trust that during the coming year
this improvement will not only be continued, but that better returns will result than during
the last two or three years.
u,7oi a £!; an J:?™ en * catered into regarding Sugar Imports into Australia has materially
wil e . S S r prod BC ® rs . •? Queensland and in the Northern Rivers districts in New
w ! ifk we are t° n °te that the expectation as to Cane Cutting this year is
export ere 16 an inc rease in production, leaving a considerable balance of sugar for
the Fxch l 'ufip n «itn?iH?n tUl . e A l lstralian Baiik ing world during the past year has been
reaiKiftion 1 of th,”‘p vl I ,V „ aiU \* ■ o** 1 f:U Ify in securing the return of funds from London after
von Vo dnv— ’ s ,n . at ' ln »g there. This is reflected in our figures as pre-
ij-rel tor tlinn it TiuMno.J o •"T a bolding of funds in London more than £400.000
fo fb p r cvotvi«<L lunoTm™ . pei K l K as i t year. Much has been written and spoken in regard
wbv h ?h^ X diffl^nltw t nf dt ro+n’«? Il< f* ; , " < J,°uWfedly. the public have found it hard to understand
the' visible l>a 'iiice of Fvnortc f1,n , ls T to Australia from London should occur, seeing that
fi. lj H |ol ts and Imports has been' much in favor of Imports. The
figures published for the li months"ending 31st" UiTvast fiMndal\JS P
Imports ..
Exports
£129.366.203
112,344,529
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A. ) ~.t n
MILTON F. JOHNSON, F.C.P.A. j manors.
The situation, however, has been aggravated in the first place by return of
£6 000.000 of realisations on 8.A.W.1t.A. account which do not appear in the table c<f
Exports. These funds were brought out to Australia between the months of December
and March.
Moreover, there has been considerable Government borrowing in London, which has
added to the difficulty of getting funds remitted to this country. This borrowing by our
State Governments at this particular juncture has been embarrassing, and has to a certain
extent militated against the ready financing of the purchase of bills for our primary pro-
ducts —with the resulting effect of placing Produce Bills on London on a disadvantageous
footing. We are pleased to note that some steps have been taken by the various State
Treasurers throughout Australia to regulate their borrowings, and we hope that during
the coming export season this competition for exchange Will be eliminated or greatly
reduced.
The Commonwealth Parliament*is at present engaged in discussing a measure in con-
nection with the Commonwealth Bank and the control of the Commonwealth Note Issue.
Any move in the direction of providing an effective central or finance bank is in the right
direction, and must tend to the advantage of all classes in Australia.
A Central Finance Bank, as understood all the world over, must keep its assets in a
very liquid form, if it wishes to prove effective in such situations as we have experienced
during the past year: and we trust, therefore, under these circumstances, that an early
opportunity will be taken to separate the Finance and Note Issue portion of the Common-
wealth Bank from the activities appertaining to the Savings Bank Branch. The two classes
of business are entirely different, and would be very difficult for one institution to carry
out —just in the same way that it is most difficult for a Mercantile House to carry on the
business of a wholesaler and a retailer under the same management and control.
The period is approaching when the various Australian Governments make their Budget
announcements for the coining year, and we trust these Budgets will show a decrease in
Taxation. As it is collected by the Government to-day. Taxation is absorbing too much
of the income of the general public. This position is reflected in the Bank figures, both
of the Savings and of the ordinary Commercial Banks of to-day.
r The effect of the various Governments taking such large sums in the way of direct
taxation is indeed curtailing enterprise and development on sound lines. The position
in this regard is becoming acute, and is certainly not one calculated to encourage enterprise.
There have been many delays and disappointments in the return of Europe to a normal
condition. Conference after conference has resulted in failure; but we are glad to note
the more optimistic view of the prospects of stabilisation being brought about in the dis-
cussions now taking place. Stabilisation in Europe would reflect itself immediately in our
affairs, and it would not be too much to hope that once an arrangement of a permanently
satisfactory nature is arrived at between the contending groups and nations on the other
side of the world, we would see a gradual return to normal conditions in currency, as
confidence, would be gradually restored.
The restoration of confidence would undoubtedly help the solution of the international
Exchange position, which has for some time rendered business and intercourse between
nations difficult.
Since the last meeting, by the death of the late Mr. George Frederick Todman. we
have lost an esteemed colleague. The loss of Mr. Todman is a serious one to the Bank, as
his sound and ripe judgment was of great assistance in the deliberations of the Board;
furthermore, he was widely known throughout Australia as one of the leading business
men in the community. We place oh record on behalf of Shareholders. Staff and Directors
of the Bank, our appreciation of his services, and tender to his family and relatives our
sincere sympathy in the great loss they have sustained.
During the last year our General Manager. Mr. C. M. C. Shannon, has visited England,
the United States and Canada. China and Japan in connection with the business of the
Bank: and from the reports Mr. Shannon has brought ifhck to us, and the -experience he
has gained there, we feel sure the result of his visit to various financial centres of the
world will be of material benefit to this institution.
The motion was seconded by Dr. G. J. Sly, and carried unanimously.
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F Rutledge and Mr. F. N. Yarwood were re-elected Directors;
and Messrs. Milton F. Johnson, F.C.P.A., and William H. Perry, F.C.P.A., were appointed
Auditors.
A hearty vote of thanks to the Directors, General Manager and Staff was moved by
Mr. Kelso King, seconded by Mr. P. S. Chapman, and carried by acclamation.
The Chairman declared the dividend is now payable.


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear, that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
342 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
£0
f SSg \
SUPER CIGARETTE
Jpinrt
Fine Old Virginia (Ovals)
Cork Tipped
Sweets Soothing as the Soft,Delicate
loncs of the Melodious Spinet of Old—
Suggestive of Old English Charm
Rpmance
and
Ifsmijjs)
mu
tOXSOII
B. TOIVJiS & CO.. Sydney.
N. Z. li. & 31. A. CO.. J.TI)., 3lelbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
f
.THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
x AUSTRALIA.
No. 57 of 1924.
DIVORCE AND MATRIMONIAL CAUSES.
IN THE MATTER of the Petition of GEORGE
MONTGOMERY RENNIE WYLIE for a Dissolu-
tion of Marriage.
BETWEEN GEORGE MONTGOMERY RENNIE
WYLIE, Petitioner, and VERONICA ANTOIN-
ETTE MARIE WYLIE, Respondent.
To VERONICA ANTOINETTE MARIE WYLIE
formerly of Perth in the State of Western Aus-
tralia whose present whereabouts is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued in
this Honorable Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of GEORGE MONTGOMERY
RENNIE WYLIE formerly of Geraldton in the State
of Western Australia but now of Perth in the said
State formerly Licensed Victualler but now a Grazier
praying for a dissolution of Marriage. In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce sentence in re-
spect thereto. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within forty-
five days after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Central Office
of our said Court and there enter an appearance in
a book provided for that purpose.
T. F. DAVIES, Registrar.
ANDREWS & ROBINSON, of Surrey Chambers, St.
George’s Terrace. Perth, and of Narrogin, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner.
[To be inserted twice in the West Australian
Newspaper and the Sydney Bulletin.]
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
WHIPS
THERE ARE WO BETTER WHIPS THAN “OPERA” STOCKWHIPS
They are kangaroo leather right through, with inside plaited belly,
and are not filled with sheepskin, as inferior whips are.
Post Free for Cash.
Thong’s—
-12-Plait..
16-Plait..
20-Plait..
HANDLES TO MATCH.
16-Plait 16/6, 24-Plait 18/6, 32-Plait 21/6.
Loaded Handles for Oft. and l«ft.
Thongs are 18/-., 20/- and 23/- each.
815 REMINGTON KNIFE.
REMINGTON POCKET KNIVES
With the Reliable Blades,
IJIS BALLET KNIFE, Inis Pyreinite handle,
3 blades, and the shoe forms a bottle cap-
opener. 7/6. post 6d.
Write for List of Remington Knives and our New Saddlery Catalogue.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.. 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
w.
ew
fitfl
.•7a?
/-■•'.V
THE
S 3
IDEAL PAINT
For Indoor or Outdoor Work.
Withstands the ravages of climate
v;ijp
s;*
>V“.V
*/ % V f
PAINT
V.y
ram
Write for particulars to
S. J. SQUIRES & CO., LTD.
171 Elizabeth St., Brisbane,
For
WOOD
3NOI
LJL.
JU
tJZizLx.
CCwmC coc
c n
o'\\
C C 0 c c cc
CQOO o
><X\:
CEMENT
ETC
■A
&
;
-4— 'e
ME BEi
i r t
&e~“‘
Saving Means
Success!
TT is conceded that all are bom equal
•*- Economy and thrift place those who
practise them beyond financial worry
and those who disregard them among
the failures!
Which course are you following!
Let us help make you successful!
Start a Savings Bank account to-day !
iVo Inttnest up to 2500 anti 3y,
any exes** to 21000 /* paid on Saving* Account* by the
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF N S.W.
Head Office: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Uncle Toby's Oats, a practical, natural food
that is a source of energy for sturdy children
and healthy adults. Delicious in flavour, high
in value, low in price.
4 PLATES FOR 3d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO.. LTD.. SYDNEY
Uncle Toby’s
fev Oats apa
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Mary S.: The last time we heard that
story it was about turnips and the time before about
lucerne.... Vagabond: But it’s not like that now —
things have changed quickly... .A.C.S.: There was
no reason for taking the respective murder-figures of
the U.S. and Britain for 1921, except that they
were the latest available. Nor is there anything in
your manslaughter point. This cable arrived simul-
taneously with your criticism: “The Chicago Crime
Commission reports that there was a murder committed
daily in that city during June, the total since the
beginning of the year being 177. About half of
the persons indicted for murder were convicted”....
Dorothy S.: Let’s hear from you again. .. .7P.N.:
Don’t know him from a bandicoot.... Kilmeadoti:
Good stuff in it, but too many platitudes... .Syd ■.:
It hung in the balance. It is full of feeling; but
the idea is a little too wild. . . .D.P.J.: The chances
that “Immortality” had you killed with carelessness.
... .Pendlebury; You can’t hang half a column on
that Tantiloa; Afraid that yarn’s been told about
every two-pub town in Australia... .Phim,: “Smoke’
is a bit too clumsy... .M.H.H.: Reached the border;
and if it had been a little more deftly handled it
would have got over.... Pym: Quite hopeless; you
must have an ear like a turnip.... .May Bee: Not bad
of its kind; but this is a paper for grown-ups
Luke R.: The verse hasn’t enough point to make us
forget its raggedness... .M.H.H.: Rather a manu- |
factured yarn... .Nombak: A sturdy tribute to a '
departed citizen: —
Dearly beloved brethren, let us pray
For Moses Longodds, who died to-day;
He’s sadly missed,
Well known on the racecourse,
He’d bet on any horse —■
A philanthropist.
When his brother bookies laid six to four,
And the odds should be a little more,
He’d weep with vexation,
And cause a sensation,
By laying eight to nine.
And when some poor old bloke
Wanted to back a moke
That couldn’t win,
He gently put him on a ned
That won the race by half a head
At tens.
When his clients came to collect
And all his figures had been checked,
When he saw before him a massed formation,
A halo shone around his head
As he cheerfully said
“I’ll meet my obligations.”
Adelaide IL : Doesn’t strike us Omar: The
trouble about the “Character” is that he hasn’t any.
He is a jumble of a lot of things. .. .Beppo: Nc
good H.T. (Papanui): You don’t do your yarn
justice... .Tehoka: Yes “Write on! Hope on!” But
have something to say before you start... . D.A.
(Albert Park): No resemblance to verse and not much
to anything else... .E.M.E.: Hasn’t the feeling; and
the sonnet form is distorted... .W.H.T.: Crude little
attempt J.H.W.: Far too rugged Syd R.: 1
Wanted much stronger handling to make it amount
to anything. .. .Syd S. (Innisfail) : The trouble about
the Chinese girl is that she is not Chinese. .. .H.A.Y.:
You build up an impossible mystery and furnish no
key to it F.F.8.; Terrifying Allan Me.:
Couldn’t be much worse without being deadly....
Jill A.: Sorry, your mistake. “Delusion” is not
verse... .B.W. (Kensington): Not improved....
S.A.R.: Falls over its own feet too often.... Mary
N.: Weak album verse J.J.M.: Poisonous. And
commonplace. .. .F.L.A.: Fails rather badly. .. .Frame
F. : Sobs in vain... .L.S.J.: It falls by the way--
and that’s a good way from home M.A. (Pros-
pect): The verse hardly carries its meaning....
M.S.M.: Doesn’t make a tale A.L.R.: You seem
to have started off without knowing what you
wanted to say L.B. (Albert): Doesn’t get past
the mat. .. .R.M.H.: Poor attempt at a drawing-
room ballad C.F. J.: We don’t publish books.. .
C.E. (Allora) : Not enough in it... .E.M.8.: “The
Paradise Girl” is not our affinity. . . .J.C. (Cloncurry) :
The verse is too bad. .. .R.R.D.: “Wasted Resolution
is wasted effort... .R.C.H.: Thin, weak stuff. .. .
Frank F.: Needs better writing and a hint of humor.
R.G.N.C.: Lame little yarn A.E.K.: Melo-
drama poorly presented.... 0.M.: Moves very heavily
and makes dreary reading. .. .A.T.: “The Sin of
Their Father” is an unpleasant yarn, and not well
enough written to win forgiveness.... J.M.D.: Noth-
ing up to print-standard.... Egbert: Rather dreary
stuff about uninteresting people. . . .D.E.M.: Not for
this pedlar’s pack P. 0.: (Port Victoria): It
rambles cn without getting far; but we’ve got an
idea you could write if you had a real yarn
Quartermain: Above all, be natural. The unforgive-
able sin is insincerity... .R.8.H.: Crude melodrama
with a half-caste Abo. in the rfile of juvenile lead.
G.C.B. : Your friend is right. The verse is
very p00'r.... Augustus W.: The opening stanzas of
“Downtrotten in the Golden AVest” state the case
brightly:—
I came to Australia twenty-five Years ago
when I was a Youth the age of twenty-five ;
I went to the golden west, hardship I had so,
amongst the AA r ild blacks, in danger of life.
I tramped with swag and water-bag in hand,
looking for fortune in shape of gold ;
wished now I had never came in this land—-'
Billy Hughes made me a prisoner, to me my friends
were cold.
I had bad luck and good luck, then bad again;
I helped to build Australia up ;
the Reward I hoped was all in Arain—
for twenty years I slaved then I had to stop.
.. . .John F.: Joey’s pursuit of the pigs didn’t thrill
u 5.... Cassim: The last stanza spoils it Bessie F.:
That sort of thing is done a hundred times a week.
Try something f resh.... Emily R. (or some otnar
disguise): Goes only about 2gr. to the ton C.AV.
(Gordon): “The Waltz” is going back Ter.::
“Memorv” is too shadowy. .. .Midas; “The Inlet
fails G.M. (Edgeeliff): A long way off
Spero: An ancient yarn not particularly well re-
hashed AV.J.S.: Wants a stronger touch of reality.
. ...K.D.: Not up. Two initials alone are not suffi-
cient for distinction AV.F.B.; Commonplace in un-
attractive verse. . . .AV.E.C.: Misses... .E.D. (Sydney):
“The Curlew” calls in vain. .. . J.D.H.: “Red Mick”
is a bit mechanical W.G.Y.: The prose and verse
. run a race in futility.
TO AUTISTIC i AND IN AUTISTIC)
CORUES I’ON DENT’S.
R.M.L.: But what is it all about ?... .M. 8.: A
terrible trio R.R.: Too fashion-platey AV.N.W.:
Venerable joke badly illustrated... .G.S.: May do
as suggestion. ... S.F.: Why not draw with a pen
instead of a poker? H. 8 .: All below par
E.8.M.: We’ll break the news to you gently—you
couldn’t draw a tin-tack R.E.: Kindergarten stuff.
. ...S.V.N.; Amazing anatomical freaks... .J.L.:
Misses A.E.: As usual P.L.P.: Your sheepdog
looks like a tame plesiosaurus.


1
Gramola
No. 1.
LJ4^
m
Tasman
K
5 «
4 Studio
<■ i.
Grand.
“His
Master’s
Voice”
e 'His Ma ter** Voice’*
R'- ri Trade Mark.
ix
‘'Gramophone"
Regd. Trade Mark
The Symbol of Supremacy.
Over Twenty-two Different Models
from 11 Guineas to £94.
Fine cabinet-work, exquisite design, perfect finish, and a wonderful tone
all combine to make “His Master’s Voice’’ the decisive choice of those
who demand an Instrument that will give unfailing efficiency and
continuous satisfaction.
Any one of the wide range of models now available will add dignity and
refinement to your home, and will provide a means of musical entertain-
ment that will prove a source of delight to you and your friends for as
long as you like and whenever you wish.
CELEBRITY RECORDS ARE
NOW DOUBLE-SIDED
A wonderful boon to lovers of good music. Records by world-famous
artists such as Caruso, Melba, Dal Monte, Galli-Curci, Heifetz,
Paderewski, Elman, Kreisler, Hambourg, Tetrazzini, McCormack, Farrar,
Scotti, Battistini and hosts of others are now available as double-sided
at the same price or less than the previous price of one. Write for a list.
Illustrated catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest dealer on request
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Graniola
No. 2.
illjl
s&ism
mm
Melba.
1
■‘^l^iiV'*» I*l 3 V‘V iiti h ' l ',
$ !!k v'*’'. !;"■, ’ !
t
iml
m
$
i
1
Portable
Model.
Partial List of Recent Studebaker Achievements
1924
March 9-—For third consecutive
year Studebaker Special-Six wins
Gran Premio of Argentine, South
America’s foremost racing classic.
Twenty-five cars—-including some
of the highest priced European
and American makes—competed.
Feb. 18—In tests conducted by
Smith’s Weekly and the Daily
Guardian at Sydney, the Stude-
baker Light-Six won perfect
scores in Reliability, Petrol Con-
sumption and Brake Tests and
the highest average of any car
in its-.,class for the entire com-
petition.
Feb. 13—Studebaker Special-Six,
driven by John Burton, lowers
record from Freemantle to Syd-
ney by 16 hours, 12 minutes.
Smashes total of three records
in its 2900-mile trip across the
Commonwealth.
1923
Dec. 19—Studebaker Light-Six
completes circuit of Union of
South Africa, 2687 miles, in 99
hours, 46 minutes. New record
for speed and endurance estab-
lished.
Nov. 26—After completing
476,000 miles in service, a 1919
Studebaker Big-Six makes 4000-
mile trip across North America.
Despite that this car had trav-
eled a distance equivalent to 19
trips around the world, it ar-
rived at its destination on
schedule time.
Nov. .3 Studebaker Big-Six
breaks all previous records be-
tween Barcelona and Madrid,
Spain: 416 miles in 10 hours,
52 minutes and 58 seconds —two
hours less than former road
record. Four hours less than
express train schedule.
Oct. 14 —Studebaker Special-Six
establishes new record for speed
between Salt Lake City, Utah,
and Los Angeles, Calif. (U. S.
A). —853 miles in 23 hours, 43
minutes —the fastest time ever
attained by motor car or train
between these two points.
July 19 —Studebaker Light-Six
crosses the Syrian Desert from
Damascus to Bagdad. The first
single car ever to make the trip.
First
—in speed and endurance!
STUDEBAKER automobiles
are not racing cars. Neither
are they built for spectacular per-
formance. But the fact remains
that Studebaker is consistently
setting new achievements in speed
and endurance tests throughout
the world.
These successes are particularly
significant: Half a million miles of
continuous service—through mud
—over parched desert sands —rac-
ing at top speed hour after hour —
these are a few of the gruelling re-
quirements demanded of Stude-
baker cars.
Perhaps you may never make
such demands of the motor car vou
drive. But if you should, it will be
comforting to know that Stude-
baker cars have sufficient reserve
power and strength to carry you
safely, surely and swiftly through
any emergency you might en-
counter.
Every Studebaker is built to
withstand the unusual. Being so
constructed, they more than answer
the requirements of ordinary driv-
ing.
Seventy-two years of manufac-
turing experience form the foun-
dation of Studebaker’s present
enviable position—the distinction
of being the world’s largest manu-
facturer of fine motor cars.
I I
/
uiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiK
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Ind., U.S. A.
Australasian Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY.,(Q’land) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston v
ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
STUDEBAKER
' S largest producer of quality motor cars


Wool on the Scales
and its weight, like its- handling and all other par-
ticulars, will be found correct. It is in the wool
stores of
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling: Brokers. LTD.
Accuracy throughout and top market results charac-
terise the firm’s work.
Consign Wool: Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd.. Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY I!. <t J. DICK , INC.
The “BARRY” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest ami strongest inelal
pulley made. Its tubular construction
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
ami ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARRY” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for
your requirements at the most favorable
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & YVynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 91 Collins Street
The Speediest Way
to have the Name
"Plane"
5^
<r^
C’J'O'
"A*
'&oa
on
any
Fabric
MARK ALL LINEN
with the World famed
CASH'S <®> NAMES
Your Name is woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color— distinct and attract-
ive. Always ready to attach to any Gar-
ment or article of any Fabric. ' A Few
Stitches and they’re on.”
Invaluable for the Household, Traveller
or School Outfit.
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices : 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 51-, 3 doz. 316
Write for Style Book to
J. 8c J. CASH ltd!
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If yen are troubled with the complaint, write us and
wa will send you our catalogue, fully describing our I
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Thi* appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
07 Queen Street, Melbourne .
Ericsson Telephone Mfs. Co
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
ft
%
m
■/iwaxT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington ( N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Defiance Lever
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case
15 Jewels, 3 A Plate Nickel Movement
s
m
$ / «
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically
and Soundly
Constructed and to
Keep Accurate Time
Special Price:
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled
POSTAGE FREE
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Established 1871 NS W * LTO '
Two Sydney (412 George Street, Strand Corner
Establishments 1185-187 Pitt Street, near King St.
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sturt”: Tlie name of Conrad, one of
Adelaide’s oldest and best-known, is to come
down from the front of butchers’ shops in
at least three city streets. The business has
been taken over by the W. H. Bruce Co.,
which has live similar shops of its own
already, and manages to combine the meat
industry with a tailoring business of many
branches in three States.
“Geo Rich”: Re water in butter (B.
10/7/’24). The factory offered Is. 6d. for
butter fat and the country store Is. sd. for
butter; and still it paid to convert the fat
into butter. This way: 1001 b. of fat will,
with water and salt, make 1151 b. butter, and
the 1151 b. at Is. sd. was 14s. 2d. better than
the factory’s Is. 6d. for 1001 b. The
grocer knows he is dishing out a quantity
of salty water at butter price, but his clients
don’t. English importers insist on Austra-
lian butter being void of moisture; they are
quite capable of attending to any additions in
that line themselves.
* * * *
“2641” : A new sugar-mill crushing record
was established w T hen the State-owned South
Johnstone (Q.) passed 6539 tons of cane
through its rollers for the week ended July 5.
This will probably bring challenges from
Mulgrave (Cairns district) and Babinda,
recently handed over to the farmers and now
controlled by a board of directors. . South
Johnstone also holds the best season’s aggre-
gate of 182,000 tons crushed in 1923. High
costs of labor and machinery have made all
mill-owners increase their plant, and the
day of the small mill is past.
* -X- * *
“Norman H.”: Bananaland’s newly-consti-
tuted Prickly-pear Board is rolling up its
sleeves. “The spread of the pear can be
stopped,” says W. L. Payne, the chairman,
and goes on to talk of poisons and parasites.
The Government has given the Board an
area of 50,000,000 acres to work on, an area
approximately as big as Victoria. Tempting
concessions are held out to settlers who do
their bit, and local authorities are to be
subsidised by the Government to the extent
of £2 for every'£l put up by them. The
spiny curse never looked to have quite so
dangerous an enemy.
* * * *
“X2X”: Chemically the average Austra-
lian whisky is much purer than the imported
article (B. 24,/7/’24t. Most Australian
whiskies are distilled in a rectifying still,
which removes the higher 'and often injurious
alcohols and aldehydes formed during fer-
mentation. Some of the biggest Scotch dis-
tilleries still use the old type of pot still,
which leaves the harmful products of fermen-
tation in the spirit. Even storing in speci-
ally-prepared vats will not entirely eliminate
these products, and it is this which makes
the difference between imported and locally-
manufactured spirits. Still, as in other
branches of industry, there are a few. Austra-
lian whisky manufacturers whose aim is to
make quick profits, and to this small handful
belongs the blame for most of the prejudice
that exists against the Australian spirit.
“Topee”: Thirty years ago Sydney harbor
was disfigured by sailing craft cruising about
with patent-medicine advts displayed on their
mainsails. The nuisance was abated either
bv force of public opinion or by law; but
recently the atrocious practice has been re-
suscitated. For over a fortnight a catamaran
bearing a scarlet drapery advt. has been
haunting the borders of the North Shore
ferry tracks, apparently without incurring
the hostility of any public authority. If the
practice is permitted, the navigation of the
harbor will inevitably become more danger-
ous: and that is apart from the aesthetic
point of view altogether. Yet what better
can we look for when the public’s own most
highly-paid servants, the Railway Commis-
sioners, run advertisement tram-cars in the
most congested streets of Sydney?
* * * *
“Gouger”: I sometimes doubt if African
dates would be such a popular article of
diet if consumers could see the processes
some of them go through before being shipped.
The date oases of the Sinai desert are mostly
owned by Sheiks whose harem walls front
the Nile valley. Each season the nomad
desert tribes get a “contract” to wander
over the desert stripping the dates. The
fruit is picked nearly green, and thrown into
pits dug in the sand and lined with palm
leaves. The fire of the desert sun heats the
sand, which gradually ripens the fruit.
Yfterwards big brown and black men, with
Hat, sand-cracked feet that have doubtfully
ever touched water, jump into the pits and
stamp the dates down to compress them
for loading. When an oasis is picked bar.;
the dates are generally packed into palm-
leaf baskets and slung on to the mangy
camels and carried to Tort Said, which has
acquired the name of being one of the filthi-
est places upon earth. Isn’t it time Aus-
tralia grew her own dates?
CHEESE IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Owing to the unremunerative prices ruling, and
the scanty local demand, Melbourne wholesale houses
have decided to hold an ‘Eat More Cheese’ week.”
In the imperative it sounds despotic—
No “please” before it to take off the chill.
But there—concede the taste is not exotic,
As, for the sake of argument, we will;
Assume that munching cheese is patriotic,
Still, scores must feed to fatten or to fill;
■Bare the exception who can eat to aid
A waning enterprise or sagging trade.
The epicure may hear the call and foster
His appetite with Gorgonzola rare,
Stilton, or Gruyere choice, .or double Glo’ster,
Or smack his lips o’er creamy Camembert.
But he’ll be obviously an impostor,
No bull of local products but a bear.
Better, oh better far, forbear from cheese
Than sink your teeth in tack from overseas!
Stern duty calls. My pref’rences I’ll smother
And to my daily fare pressed curds admit.
But bear in mind, my cheese-exalting brother,
Cow-cocky from the North or grocer-cit
Of Melbourne, one good turn deserves another,
And if this week I do (and chew) my bit,
May / gazette another week some time
For chaps like you to Read (or Buy) More
Rhyme ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


f
□
Dawson
SPECIAL"
Whiskv
6, *»*Ul«S
V.-' OUI
t owno Glasgow
PETER DAWSON is the kind of Scotch
Whisky which is none too plentiful to-day. It
is a genuinely old whisky, matured by time in a
natural way and mellowed in wood. Its blending
is a heritage. Its character is something by which
men who know it can identify it.
.... , you get it, its quality
will always be the same.
peter dawson
Scotch Whisky
A Deeply Satisfying Blend
The
The Last Word
in Windmill Construction
Billabong” Enclosed-gear Windmill
SOME DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
OF OUR NEW “BILLABONG”
Rain-proof
Dust-proof
Double Gears
All Working Parts Run
inOil
Leak-proof Casement
Central Lift
Ball-bearing Bed Plate
Postive Brake
Perfect Governing
Ball-bearing Thrust on Wind Wheel
Wind Wheel Powerful and Rigid
dfg
Here is the Windmill that will task the
severest critic to find a fault, or to say
anything but good of the design and
Engineering Achievement of the Enclosed-
Gear BILLABONG. It will prove very
profitable to the users of Windmill power,
as the first cost will be about the only
outlay needed, where an Enclosed-Gear
BILLABONG is installed. Weather influ-
ences cannot affect the working parts;
and with its unsurpassed oiling system,
friction and wear and tear is practically
nil. This new BILLABONG undoubtedly
supersedes all other attempts that have
been made to obtain the Best Windmill.
John Danks <& Son
Pty.
Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Quick
Wn> ni coHTrwfs'-'a ounces,
COUGH
Coughs. Colds.
CROUP
WHOOPING COUCH
hoarseness.
BRONCHITIS.
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
ANO Qtutß AfflCfONS or tut
THROAT and LUNGS
Wonderful
FOR
croui
EVERY STITCrfffi
C.B.
British
Every
Stitch.
c
I !■>■■■ ' *
i i 1
I
! *
There is a Model
to fit every Figure
to Perfection.
—yours is among them.
C.B. CORSETS are made to
fit with that incomparable nicety
of detail which can only come
from artistic skill wedded to
perfect workmanship. You will
be delighted with the grace,
elegance and unique comfort
they impart.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch
are British-made throughout, embody-
ing the accumulated experience of
over 50 years of scientific corset-
making. There is a model for every
figure—a model that will improve
your figure. From all up-to-date
Drapery Emporiums and Stores at
prices ranging from 6/11 to 63/-perpair.
Should you experience any diffi-
culty in obtaining the correct C.B.
Model write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO., LTD..
Macdonnell House, Pitt St., Syoney,
179-181, Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
for name of nearest agent.
‘BRITISH EVERY STITCH”!
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Ollices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Q.N.
BANK
the queensl and national bank^umitep.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 863 w . h. Hart, Eq- »
Directors —James Milne, Esq.Chanman , James Love, q
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, nsq. HAYMEN,
General Manager M. G. ha JVRJSBANE
S r Wo”“ io thl. lb toS‘ofe.th. f»H«t (aofutie. (or the tr.ne.ction o> «1 - _
bankinsr business.
%
<57
/
e
n
Fashions change and
Customs alter but
there’s one “Nightcap”
that never goes out of
date— Wolfe's Schnapps, with
Hot Water, a dash of Lemon,
and Sugar to taste. TRY IT
TO-NIGHT and you’ll un-
derstand why the passing
of 80 years has merely
added to the popularity of
this supremely delicious
HEALTH-BEVERAGE.
miMwiiH'Hitniliuttaiiii^
y
U-i
mi.
<
ft,
s*
u
£
IT 1
z MZ
H
<T
<r<«l!w
z
50
<
c A ‘Blessing to Humanity
r All
shapes
now
M
Pipe Satisfa&ion
is dependent upon pipe
quality. <€ip> Pipes are made
in London by experts who
know how to achieve pipe
perfection in “ pipes with a
pedigree."
Made from the finest French
Briar that money can purchase,
every pipe shaped with skill and
faultlessly finished in every detail.
A wide range of popular shapes
for your selection.
Shape
No
909
Many shapes to please all tastes.
Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to—
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Id eal 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
m o t o r-t rips
through Java,
from Sourabayn
to Batavia and
vice versa.
dg
Special reduced
Through * a i ie
from Australia
to U.K. a' ld
Continent o}
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney.
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l-
- Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000~ Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOU THAN.
Full particulars from CuAnoV
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydn y
MESSRS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 11l William Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. DAEGETY & CO., Brisbane. ——'
“Martha Mushalini”: Vying with the
flowers of summer, the new blouses are blos-
soming in all the ravishing colors of sum-
mer.
My sisters, can’t you hear the call
Of summer hailing cheerily?
Though still the winter’s rains may fall
The world is blooming merrily;
In every street are gaily peeping
Such flowers as set the girl-heart leaping 1
Most sweet the city garden’s set
With blooms of wondrous witchery;
Here’s mauve and pink and violet
In Nature’s choicest stitcliery:
In joy of life the heart carouses,
For hats bud once again, and blouses l
Come, in these gardens let us go
Where beauty shows in gossamer,
Georgette and crgpe—a lovely show 1
Each window is a blossomer.
Hubby and dad to reason bring
And let them feel the touch of Spring.
“Radio”: Curious house names? My
entry is XQQME; it is in Campsie, a
western suburb of Sydney.
Back in Australia, Esmonde Higgins, a
brilliant young student who left with tn.
A.I.F. in 191 S. During his absence he did
a B.A. honors course at Balliol, and then
took up Labor journalism in London, He
is a nephew of Higgins, J.
“Norbell”: The superstition that a piece
of hangman’s rope is a mascot isn’t dead, by
any means. I heard of a soldier who went
unscathed through nearly three years ot the
Big Scrap, mostly in the front line, and who
attributed his immunity to a bit of Ketch s
hemp given him by some well-wisher betore
he left Australia.
“Chancery Lane”: In the Melbourne City
Police Court a lady was outlining the nature
of a slight disagreement with another ( lady
whom she was prosecuting for assault. She
ups an’ swipes me in the face with a broom,
screamin’ ‘Take that!’ ” “And what did.i/ou
do?” the presiding P.M. courteously inquired.
“I took it.”
“Coot”: Re the last appearance of Cobb
and Co.’s coaches on the road in Bananaland
(B. 24/7/’24). Their final appearance m
Melbourne was made some years ago,
when they were to be seen each morning in
the main street of Northcote with a load ot
care-free looking passengers. They were
lunatics being conveyed from Yarra Bend to
their new home at Mont Park.
“Yardley”: “Sturt” quotes (B. 10/7/’24)
Governor Bridges (S.A.) as speaking of a
friend who, after losing an eye and an arm,
returned to the firing line and gathered nine
more wounds. That record was eclipsed a
century ago. After losing an eye and an
arm,' Horatio Nelson added o 3 more wounds
to his score. The casualties are reported
by himself in his application for a pension.
And even after that he fell m action.
“Myoldern” : Very. ” lig /T, m 2 q/5/’24)‘
worry over a spell in gaol (B.
To them it is merely a pleasant interlude.
In fact, one dusky citizen, locally known as
Buckley, has adopted clink as his permanent
home, and refuses to be shifted. It is over 14
years since he was released, but ever since he
has camped in the gaol yard, absolutely re-
fusing to go elsewhere. Darwin prisoners,
white and black, get considerable license
So it sometimes happens that a lone
blackfellow fishing from the Fanny Bay
rocks proves to be a murderer serving a life
sentence.
Maoriland’s quaking politicians since the
pigeonholing of the Singapore scheme are in
un heroic contrast to Seddon the time of
the Boer War. When the Kaiser sent his
famous cablegram to Kruger, King Dick
mounted a Wellington platform, and, puiplmg
in his defiance, shook his fist to the quaiters
of the earth, daring the German or anybody
else to come on. “The chance of a foreign
foe landing a force on M.L. s shores, he
thundered, “is practically an impossibility.
There is no nation extant which could land
a body of men that would not be wiped out
within 24 hours!”
Australia’s first Antarctic explorer would
seem to have been James Ivelly, a native,
like John Batman and Hamilton Hume, ot
the old town of Parramatta. Kelly is best
remembered for his boat voyage round las-
mania in 1815-16, of which there are two
or three rather contradictory accounts. But
in 1832, according to Dr. Crowther, ot
Hobart, he went down to 72 S., or a long
way within the Antarctic circle, in search ot
new sealing or whaling grounds. Kelly died
in 1868, and was buried m old St. Georges
cemetery, one of Hobart’s 13 ancient and
mostly 'neglected graveyards.
Vic.’s new Labor Ministry is taking no
chances with Fate. Digger Webber, Hon.
Minister, has been made secretary, and it
will therefore not be necessary for Jimmy
Jewell, the Whip, to attend Cabinet meet-
ings and make a gathering of 13. The Lav
son-Allan mixture defied Fate and had 13
(including Groves, the Whip) at Cabinet
meetings, with the result that the Govern-
ment collapsed after six months, and two
(Nationalist) teams toppled after it. lhe
Hayseeds have 13 members in the Assembly,
but as Bowser is in the chair and Dunstan
sits in the Ministerial corner, nothing ter-
rible may happen. The other 11 are m the
Opposition corner.
“T P.” : It has often been said that Bernard
O’Dowd had a State school education, and
obtained his Merit Certificate at the age of
eight. This is only part of the truth. I
remember him at the Mount Pleasant (Bal-
buat) State School under the brilliant YV.
II Nicliolls, where lie, I believe matricu-
lated. He went on to Grenville College
/ a Buley, principal) and ran a dead
heat with Wasley (who later became a
. -iv*r rime of the school. Lack or
ience temporarily interfered with his ’Varsity
career and he had a period of country teach-
then he sat for the Civil Service exam.,
was’successful—and never looked back ihe
Merit Certificate was unknown in those far
back davs; but an absurd Standard Certi-
ficate which bore printed testimony to the
nunil being “sufficiently educated and saved
Hie parent from prosecution for his offspring s
non-attendance at school, was the parchment
won by O’Dowd at the mature age of eight
and by^ some other nippers at seven, trank
Tate when he became Director, very properly
relegated these Standard Certificates to the
rubbish tip.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
ANY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permit!ins.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply: —
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 624-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. . £l4,] 45,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.;
Lieut.-Col. T. 1,. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for IV.S.iF.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Faihrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shaves .. » . . .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
eland, and otl
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Irehtnd, and other places.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incokpokated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 750,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,625,000
875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. .
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income .. • •
£2.103.220
£3,500,000
£53,000,000
£7.865.000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping, Sta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSION TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
NIAGARA
MAKURA.
SAILINGS:—
(18,600 tons rlisp.)
(13,000 tons disp.)
AUG. 28
SEPT. 25
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Ihe Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
TAHITI
MAUNGANUI
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
. . . . (13,000 tons disp.)
. . . . (11,350 tons disp.)
AUG. 14
SEPT. 11
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
Hi
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHTLP & CO.. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to —
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
dfg
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
'•d'}
- £6,000,000
- 4,050,000
- 6,000,000
£16,050,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binme, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World ’
Foreign Bills
_ , General Manager; OSCAR t,TWF«
London Office—29 Xhreuunecdie Street, E.c!
states, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua and London.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,476,287 10 0
RESERVE FUND 2,700,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,500 000 0 0
TOTAL
£9,676,287 10 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN Chairman; Hon H. E.KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.: O E FRTFTVn •
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYHURST
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other nart* nt
the World. 1 or
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay. Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
ST''''MENS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Melbourn(
ar.u Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The l'ound trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE.
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia,
■7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
waffiKi
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U.S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
25*27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich-.U.SA.
Cable Address-KERMATH
Complete equipment for lifting and
moving weights at minimum expense
It is possible to effect great economies in time and
labor by installing a suitable “Morris” system. From
overhead travelling cranes, which pick up loads
easily without obstructing other work, and which
move them with greater speed and safety, to small
portable jib-cranes, every need can be met. All
“Morris” Cranes embody the latest engineering
improvements, and are subjected to a severe test
of 50% overload before leaving the factory. Their
capacities are stated in British tons.
“Morris” Portable Jib Cranes enable one man to
raise loads up to a ton in weight, and to tow them
wherever required.
tt
I
For speedy lifts
up to 5 tons.
“Morris” Electric Hoist-
Blocks will lift weights from
i ton to 5 tons at speeds
ranging from 22ft. to 40ft.
per minute. They can be
used on straight or curved
tracks. Supplied with plain
runners for push travel or
geared runners for racking
along by hand-chain.
Where hand-gear is required
a selection can be made from
the many types of “Morris”
Pulley Blocks. Chief among
these is the Gravity-lowering
Pulley Block, which lowers
weights at high speed under
perfect control. The hand-
chain does not move while
the weight comes down, and
safety is assured by the auto-
matic braking action.
State your requirements briefly, and we will supply illus-
trated booklets and complete information about the
“Morris” equipment that best will meet your needs.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., Newcastle, Sydney, Brisbane;
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart.
Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth, W.A.
The Cert Co.’s
D.8.8.L. Gun
£5/12/6
H
The
ERE is a reliable 12-gauge gun. It is fitted with 30-inch
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke,
snap fore-end, pistol grip, and walnut stock. r» il O £
weight is about 71b. Price, delivered
Remington Browning
Repeating Shot Gun .
Automatic
. £l2/12/-
'T'HIS is a strong and well-built 12-gauge gun, fitted with slide grip, take-
down system and steel barrel. The magazine holds six/J *| Oil OE
cartridges. The weight is about 71b. Price, delivered... .A. X A
Steven’s 5.8.8. L. Gun, £2/15/-
This handy, reasonably-priced, reliable gun, 12- or 16-gauge, has automatic
ejector, top lever action, solid case-hardened frame, 30- or, i ,E UlC ,\. stee
barrel, pistol grip, walnut stock. The weight is about fi-jlb. It can
be taken apart the same as an ordinary double-barrelled gun. ,£?Oi1 Cl
Price, delivered mUI X %JI
Important to Shooters.
You can now purchase Sporting Guns and Rifles without first obtaining
a license.
Gun and Rifle Repairs are a Specialty with us.
Powder.
Austral Powder, per lb. ... 4/6
Diamond Grain Powder, per /g%
lb o/b
Dupont’s Smokeless Powder q //>
for Rifles, per lb O/O
j'Amberite Smokeless Powder
per lb
10/6
Please note that powder cannot be posted. The minimum freight on any
quantity packed, up to 201 b., is 11/6 in New South Wales.
Shooters’ Sundries
Reloading and Cleaning Set. 12-,
16- or 20-gauge. Price: 10/6
(Postage 1/-, N.S.W., 1/8 Inter-
state.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge Belts,
strongly re-infbreed. /
Price, postage paid .... O' m
12-gauge Leather Cartridge Belts,
with steel spring clips.-
Price, postage paid .... lv/**
16-inch Canvas Game
net, very strong.
Price
Bags, with
...12/6
(Postage: 6d. N.S.W.; Bd. Inter-
state.)
Union Duck Call, made of cocobolo
wood, metal end and band;
natural .and lifelike
length 4h inches;
1-Joz. Price, postage
paid
Perfect Pocket Oiler, nickel-plated,
very compact. Price, * /j-
-postage paid I/O
tone;
weight
3/9
Owing to market fluctuations, prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
Illustrated Price List will be sent post free on request.
Mick Simmons T-i
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St., Brisbane.


Rexona Soap Gives
Health
and
Beauty.
OH
Q>.
a
o
□
so
o
K
Q
To
*53
■
“I have found Rexona Soap
perfection’ for the hair and
■omplexion.”
Miss MARIE NYMAN,
“Belevale,” Buller Street,
Woollahra, N.S.W,
Be Pretty! Be Dainty!
Be Attractive! Be a Rexona Girl!
Rexona and Rexona Soap are the Rexona Girl's aids to beauty. With
their assistance she rids her skin ot' blemishes and pimples, keeps her hair and
scalp in such perfect condition that she is the envy of all her friends. But the
Rexona Girl is not selfish—she does not keep the secret to herself, but wishes
all the world to rejoice with her. Over 5000 girls have written to the
Company the glad news that they are Rexona Girls, and find the Rexona
i roducts the most wonderful aids to health and beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap
keeps their skin and hair
healthy and beautiful, and
should be used by every girl who
values her good looks. They say
they are always linding new
uses for Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, and many of their letters
contain a photograph which
shows, by its beauty, that these
users are getting the best results
in health and happiness. Are
you satisfied with your looks?
Why not become a Rexona Girl,
too?
Rexona Soap
m,
ess;
-
vfc
'm
Westclox
A watch for hard service
The man who carries a high priced watch on
Sundays often wants a low priced watch in the
pocket of his working or sport clothes.
In Pocket Ben he’ll find a dependable time-piece
that will stand hard usage. If he prefers a watch
that glows time in the dark he’ll like Glo-Ben.
Like Westclox alarms both watches carry the trade
mark Westclox on the dial.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/-;
Blue Bird, 12/6; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 20/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
12
Runnin’ Smooth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE used to dance fandangos
In the stokeholes long ago,
When our ships was doin’ tangos
On a reckless ’eel an’ toe;
With the fire-glare white an’ searin’
Where the fierce draught blew a hole,
An’ a crazy ship careerin’,
Spillin’ cataracts of coal.
But to-day we’ve got no shovels,
An’ the steam don’t make no stir;
In the turbines smooth it grovels
With a crawlin’ kind o’ purr.
Oil an’ turbines is the reason
That there’s no loud music ’ere,
For the fireman who in season
Likes ’is share o’ noise an’ beer.
I am standin’ ’ere an’ listenin’
To the roar the oil-jets make,
As the blue flames flicker, glistenin’,
Where you couldn’t slice nor rake;
And there's just the turbines ’ummin’
Where the piston-rods should be,
Reatin’ loud to say we’re cornin’—
Cornin’ fast, an’ dam’ the sea !
It ’as set me dreamin’, sonny,
Lookin’ at these polished floors,
Of the days I earned my money
' Tossin’ coal in furnace-doors.
Out o’ ’Frisco port afloggin’,
Headin’ ’omeward round the Horn,
’Cross the Indian Ocean joggin’,
Leavin’ wakes all white an’ torn.
When we’d pass the Sydney bar-light,
With the next call Newport News,
In the silence and the starlight
You could ’ear our drummin’ screws.
Oh, we made the snowy vapors,
And she had to bust or go,
With our screw-blades cuttin’ capers,
How she danced it’ ’eel an’ toe!
Once there were no firemen sweatin’
Anywhere on God's wide seas:
Ships were sailed with tops’ls frettin’,
Sweatin’ sheets to hold the breeze.
But there came the paddle-packet;
And the fireman lie arose
With his clangin’ shovel’s racket
An’ the coal-dust on ’is nose.
When they missed the old wind-jammers
People said romance was slain
By the steamboat’s engine-hammers
With their loud and rough refrain ;
But the poets still found stories
In the steamers, after all.
In the moonlit funnel’s glories.
In the pistons’ lift and fall.
Aye. they’re runnin’ smoothly, sonny,
Makin’ music, sweet and low :
But to me it*s sorter funny,
Me that fired ’em long ago.
With the busy cross-heads ’ummin’
An’ the big-ends rather loud
Oh. the sea fish ’eard us cornin’
With our throws a-swingin’ proud.
With our smoke-trail brown behind us
An’ our ashes overside.
Though the bunker dust might blind us,
Oh, you should have felt ’er ride
’Cross the swells that broke a-boilin’
At ’er sharin’, roarin’ bows!
Yes. we made ’er go bv toilin’,
By the sweat of souls "u’ brows!
MID-PACIFIC.
WILL LAWSON.
The Wind in the Trees.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
URE you can do without the money,
Alice?”
“Oh, certainly—l wish it was
more.” The girl smiled faintly. The man
fidgeted, stroked her horse’s mane, touched
the thin hands that held the reins. He could
not thank her as glibly as usual, knowing that
Smith was sitting, ears pricked, in the hut
behind him.
“When shall I see you again, dearest?”
he asked.
The girl smiled again. Often she had (o
play long and pitifully for one endearing
term, and the young, attractive face of Shane
was magically tender.
“When the wind is in the trees —in March,
it is cool again and I can breathe.”
Then her dark eyes narrowed as she looked
at him and became unusually hard. “You
know, Pat,” she said with a frankness that
shocked her own well-starched little soul
immensely, “I’m a fool.”
As it did not suit Shane to agree with her
tocher face, he said nothing.
“Jimmy Smith wants me to marry him,”
she went on. “He says that he has'enough
money to take me for a trip round the islands.
It might make me well again, Pat. But
Ive said no.” She stared at him half-chal-
lengmgly, yet in her heart expecting nothing.
Shane'said lightly: “Smith’s got no money
—hardly one penny to rub against another.
Hes a blatherskite—all bark.”
“Well, goodbye,” said the girl, after a
moments silence, leaning from the saddle.
Seems funny—l’ll be a hundred miles away
this time to-morrow.”
He saw that she expected him to kiss her,
and he did so. secretly unwilling, for she
was an unhealthy little thing. But a smoth-
ered conscience stirred slightly. It subsided,
however, ere she vanished round the bend of
the road. After all, he had never exploited
her infatuation for him further than for
the extraction of a few loans. He had never
given her any reason to think that he might
marry her, had scarcely even flirted with her
On the whole she had got off lightly.
He went into the hut. Smith, his mate
was frying bacon and potatoes for their even-
ing meal.
Smith said without looking up • “Aliep
going to her mother?”
..niT«C re j lli< i d . Shai V 1 v st *<>PPing Ins razor.
Old Potts is doing without her for a while
His missus will serve in the bar.”
“I expect,” said Smith. “Alice has a nice
hit of money laid by. She ought to «o for
a trip.” ’ °
Shane felt the big man’s eyes on his face
She ought to have a bit,” he agreed care-
Jossly. U ish I had as much, anvwav Tine
reminds me—l think I’ll toddle down to
to-night. The cards might favor
Smith’s hands closed, and a dull brick-
rod suffused his face. Even now lit* could
see the bulge in Shane’s hip pocket where
a wad of crisp new notes reposed. Jle
began : “You're a bit of a”
“An ass?” Shane finished pleasantly. “To
think so much of a delicate little creature
like Alice? Oh, yes, but I do. I really
think I shall persuade her to marry me some
day.”
He shaved and smiled, while Smith sat
glowering at the fire.
* * * »
One day in February Smith spoke of a
mining trip which the partners had long pro-
.looted. ‘We might as well go,” lie said,
or the wet season will be over. You have
never been to Valhalla, have you? The water
runs off _ the hills there in no time. That
little claim I know of will be without water,
m a couple of months. But in that time we
could get two tons of tin.”
. Shane, cleaning rifles for a day’s shoot-
ing, voiced cheerful acquiescence. Alice’s
loan had gono the way of all loans, and he
was- deep in debt at Potts’s hotel. A little
work looked less unpleasant than usual. He
discussed preparations for their departure
with schoolboyish enthusiasm while Smith
watched him.
ouve no reason for wishing to stay
here longer, then?” said Smith.
"Lord, no! Glad to get out of the beastly
hole. Besides, you're the thinking head of
this company. What you say goes.” lie
smiled his own engaging smile into the other
man s eyes, and Smith shifted uneasily. That
he would also be the working head Smith
was well aware. He went away to mend
pack-saddles while Shane sauntered off up
the creek-bank.
The partners reached Valhalla, a decaying
tin district on the Coast Range, on the first
of March. It was a lean community. Shane
said, as he looked at the dusty, diminutive
township, “You won’t see me down here”;
and Smith smiled, knowing him/ They
pushed on next day, through rambling forest
pockets and patches of glittering jungle, to
their destination. Shane sang as he rode.
Smith, driving the pack-horses, maintained
a stolid silence. But this was usual.
The two men sat by the embers of the
fire that evening in front of the tent and
listened to the horse-bells ringing through
the forest.
“This hill air is fine,” said Shane. “Why
didn’t we come months ago?”
“You weren’t ready,” said Smith. “You
hadn’t squeezed your credit quite dry.”
“What's the matter with you?" asked
Shane good humoredly. “Liver or con-
science?”
Smith’s surliness had to be relaxed. He
had loved Shane first.
“I—-I don't care for it too much,” he said.
“The place is kinder lonely, with the sort
of loneliness a man can get afraid of, if you
know what I mean.”
Shane laughed. “Fear is the expression
of a primitive superstition,” he said, “and
I may say it doesn’t exist for me. The
loneliness is great—for a change.” He
rhapsodised about the loneliness and the
glorious hills and the advantages of remote-
ness. Smith listened and smiled.
“It’s fifteen miles from here to Valhalla,”
he said, “and in any other direction there’s
no one for thirty. Wait till you’ve been
here a month.”
In less than a fortnight Shane began to
feel a hankering for Valhalla and the bar
there. He mentioned the mail.
“All right,” said Smith. “It’ll be just
as well to get the horses in, anyway. It’s
a wonder they haven’t been in to camp to
get a feed before this. But old Ginger knows
this place, and he always makes for the hills.
I’ll take that race up while you’re away.”
He turned on his heel and walked off with
a swiftness that left Shane staring.
Shane took a bridle and went briskly
along a pad that threaded a belt of jungle
through which they had put their horses.
He had acquired a slight knowledge of the
geography of the country, and promised him-
self a pleasant walk. He came out on to
this first ridge of the uplands rising towards
the north of their camp, and followed a horse-
track through the grass. The air, pure and
bracing at first, became rather heavy, as the
sun ascended, with the sound of drowsy in-
sects and the smell of scrub wattle.
He went a long way, and there was no
tinkle of bells, though an occasional hoof-
print showed him that he was on the right
path. The soft drunken music of the bees,
the thin metallic singing of the she-oak
needles, the liush-h of the blades he brushed
through—-these were the only sounds. In
vain he listened, and the day dreamed on.
Shane gave a sharp exclamation as he
stumbled over a hidden log. The going was
difficult; among the host of grass-trees shim-
mering to the autumn sky, the gentle move-
ment of myriad blades dazzled his eyes, and
he was becoming tired. Then he leapt back
with a startled yell as a long, mottled bronze
and gold body slid over the frondage nearest
him, and lie caught the gleam of beady eyes
in the sun. Having neither stick nor rifle,
he yielded to a sense almost of panic and
ran, leaping obstacles, turning and doubling,
and pulled up suddenly against a tree, to
laugh at himself shamefacedly and look round
for the track.
He went up a ridge and down a ridge,
crossed one gully, came to another, and real-
ised that his sense of direction was gone as
utterly as though he had never owned one.
It had happened to him before, but never
with any serious consequences. Now he
turned, slightly perplexed, but as vet un-
concerned, to retrace his steps to where he
had seen the snake. After a quarter of an
hour’s walking in what he calculated by
the noonday sun must be the right way, lie
paused at the brink of a gully he had cer-
tainly not crossed before, for it had running
water in it. The trees were all unfamiliar:
the thousand hills that glimmered broad-
breasted to the glare were strange to him.
Now he cursed Smith and the horses with
fluency. He strained his ears to catch the
least sound of the bell. If he found the
horses the horses would find camp.
He began walking again, with the spring
gone out of his step.
Presently the wind began to rise. He
heard it coming down through the gaps in
the mountains, in long, soft, unhurried mur-
murs. With it came, clear and faint, the
first ting of the bell. He stiffened in his
(Continued on next page.)


JJ
i-v
> Picture
Tells a $
Every
Story
Tells on the Kidneys
Many People have found this to be true.
The strain of overwork tells on weakened
kidneys. The hurry and worry of business men
the heavy lifting and stooping of workmen, th
women’s household cares tend to wear, weaken
and injure the kidneys until they can no longer
filter the poison from the blood, and the whole
body suffers from the waste matter that
accumulates. Doan s Backache Kidney 1 s are
prepared especially for weakened kidneys, ire ,
worn-out backs have proven their merit m
thousands of cases. Convincing proof of their
worth is here told.
SYDNEY MAN TELLS HIS STORY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr H. Holder, 235 West Street, North Sydney, says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pill* are indeed a jm*jW
K'winov medicine I have proved this, hoi a ion* tun
I suffered agony from backache and trouble an
nnlv those who have been afflicted m this way nav .
idea what I went through. My limbs swelled consider-
ably the kidney secretions were thick and with a
red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. I
was treated by a doctor and tried all sorts of remedie
lint nothing save me the slightest relief. I was naturaiij
very worried* about the serious state of my
when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
mv notice I decided to try them. It was a grand thing
for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles
me oomnletely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan s 1 ms
and recommend them with every confidence to other suf-
ferers.”
Eight years later Mr. Holder says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Ividnej •
They cured me of kidney disorder eight years ago, and I
have had no return of the complaint since.
At All Chemists and Stores, 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 63 Eveleigh Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: A member of
my family suffered terribly with Pro-
truding Piles. The pain was so great
that he could not sleep at night, and
would toss about for hours. He had been
suffering for three years, and we were
always having advice and using dif-
ferent remedies, but nothing did him
any good until we got Doan’s Oint-
ment! This remedy proved excellent;
it gave complete ease. I cannot say
enough in praise of Doan s Ointment,
and recommend its use whenever op-
portunity offers.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Wark
says: “I am pleased to tell you that
the member of my family who was
cured of Piles by Doan’s Ointment over
eighteen years ago is still free from
this trying complaint. This remedy
is a certain cure for Piles.”
Mr. J. Mitchell, 26 Campbell Street,
Glebe, Sydney, says: “I was a sufferer
with Itching Piles for years, and 1
cannot describe the agony of this ail-
ment. Scores of times I have lost
my rest, sleep being out of the ques-
tion. I used a great many Pile reme-
dies, and was treated by a doctor, but
got no relief. Reading of cures effected
by Doan’s Ointment, I decided to try
it. A few applications gave me ease,
and by continuing the treatment I
found, to my great satisfaction, that
all the pain and irritation had gone.
I am very grateful to Doan’s Oint-
ment for my cure, and advise sufferers
to try this remedy, and am satisfied
that if they follow the directions they
will soon be cured.”
Ten years later Mrs. Mitchell says:
“My husband has been free from Itch-
ing'Piles since Doan’s Ointment cured
him, but he still uses this remedy now
and then, just as a preventive
against any return of his old com-
plaint.”
Price 2/9 per tin.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
tracks and listened. Distant and fitful, a
delicate ripple of distinct sound, it
touched upon his consciousness. Ihe aa-
vancing gust came rapidly down the hill-
sides. swelling to a breaking roar among tin.
she-oaks ; then, running away past and behind
him through the little ti-trees with a patter-
ing rush, it sent a shining wave across .
patch of everlasting flowers, and scampered
over the next liillcrest. Like a party or
skirmishers it came and went bcfoie th.
more solid battalions of the wind, which
rolled one after another down the slopes.
But the bell—lie heard it ringing clear.
He waited for a break m the tremendous
droning of a million swaying trees, that he
might determine where it rang from. JNo
break occurred. But he felt certain that it
came from the high mountain slope above
and before him.
The sound came unevenly, now between
the gusts, now racing down upon the mighty
unseen wings, now clear and sharp, now thin
and peevish as a mosquito song, lie toUee.
upwards with aching calves, for he was not
used to hilly country. The ridge became a
slope, the slope a steep. He stopped under
a tree, to wonder at the scarcity of living
things, and a company of green ants on the
branch above him told off a party o • *
zons who dropped down the back of lus
neck. By the time he had got rid of tin s„
inquisitive visitors and resumed Ins tramp
he felt slightly sick with pain and irritation.
On and on. with the summit ever reced-
ing and the bells no nearer; from crest to
crest, from narrow spurs to flat landings on
the mountain-side, as though he ascended a
"igantic flight of stairs! His head was sink-
ing with the wind and the bell. llls break-
fast now appeared to him in very distant
perspective. Shane, who had live •
life in sight of houses, decided that he did
not quite like the enormous loneliness, after
all The hot, sleepy afternoon sun flowed
round him, the wind possessed Ins conscious-
ness; his feet went on, stumbling automata.
He realised suddenly that lie had be_en walk-
ing half-asleep, cursed his weary legs, and
listened again, in a lull.
A sharp ringing this time, close, vibrant,
real. He turned up a spur to the left hope-
fully How he would race them home.
Keeping a bright lookout, for the horses
without bells might be anywhere about 1
took his bridle into his hand. lie stumbled
on to another landing and paused. The bell
had ceased. Probably the horse had seen
It was becoming late. The sun, half-way
down the western slant, was hidden now y
a grey, motionless blanket ot cloud, under
which small wisps of darker mist ran scurry-
ing. He walked across to a patch of scrub,
thinking that perhaps the horses were stand-
ing there. But not the print of a hoof could
he discover. This struck him suddenly as
strange. There should have been some trace
of them had they passed this way. _
The wind again began with increased
velocity to bend the bushes, to whistle in
the pandanus leaves. It came at him like a
wild thing, and tore his hair and stum, his
face with particles of fine sand. Hitherto
he had considered it pleasant.
Hark! Again !
The thin tinkle climbed down. It was
still above him. Lord, what mountain-cats
these horses must be! He trudged on.
Evening found him collapsed beneath a
tree, on a creek-bank. On finding the
creek lie had determined to follow it
down, for he knew that all the water-
courses on the western side of the
Divide flowed into the river that ran
through Valhalla. It never occurred to him
that he had crossed the Divide. He had
struggled over rock and bank, through forest
and jungle, since he had lost hope of finding
that unhallowed bell. He sat and watched
the dip and rush of the shadows in the twi-
light, the silver shimmer of a million graso-
trees in the wind vanish and reappear and
vanish, the unceasing, eddying movement in
the dusk, and hated it. Damn the wind.
It had lured and betrayed and lost lnm! It
it would only cease now, and rest his poor,
dizzv body, his poor, dizzy brain, and let him
think! But it mouthed and meowed in the
Ions: grass, it rustled and roared in the trees,
it came behind him on sly feet, and whispered
and passed; and the banksia-leaves turned
their white sides to the sky, and the trunks
danced like grey devils in the glade.
Now Shane began to be afraid ot the velvet
silence beneath the voices of the wind. And
he had not been afraid of things intangible
since babyhood.
He thought he would go on for a while, for
it was cold, and the full moon had risen.
But the fear walked with him; and presently
he came to where the creek dived into dense
jungle. He stopped and stared at it. I rom
black, moving depth, from black, moving
silhouette, the leaves that caught the moon-
light shone to the sky. They had no friendly
look for him. He sat down at the foot ot a
huge messmate, settled his head against the
bark drew up his knees and turned on Ins
side. The first chill of the night had gone
and fatigue had robbed him of all hunger.
Sleep did not seem a very remote possi-
bility. Clear-headed, refreshed, in the morn-
ing he would find his way—somewhere. Con-
sciousness faded. Subconsciousness all but
faded. Dreams floated into his mind.
He woke with suddenness, as though one
had touched his arm; found himself listening
to the plop and rustle of the falling twigs,
the groaning of bough on bough ; the creaking
and sighing of the forest, the long, low mono-
tol“Fear,” he told himself, “is the expression
of a primitive superstition. I’m going to
wind swept on—the infernal wind !
He did not sleep till an hour before dawn.
a pig came rooting in an anthill near aim.
and its grunting, breathing presence relieved
]iis ears.
At davlight he woke, and drank a lot of
cold water before he reflected that it was a
foolish thing to do with an empty stomach.
TTo was quite clear-headedly considering his
position, when again in the unceasing wind
lie heard the bell. , . TT
Hope and relief sprang into being. He
knew now what he had done. He had passed
tin, horses the day before, and gone too far.
S ot Ms feet had led him hack towards them.
He was on the right track. Possibly they
had turned and were making for . home
Tie started off once more, with a light it
somewhat uncertain step. The sun blazed on
Ms bare head, for his hat had been blown
away during the night. He whistled ftt brs ,
but not for long. The huge voice ot the
breathing atmosphere rebuked his puny tune.
The continual sweep and flowing ot tbe waves
of summer grass kept Ins eyes busy as sun
and shadow met and streamed and parted
with a limpid swiftness, and twisted agai
in patterns of gold and vio^t-brown.
as leaf shadows galloped and t,aHop it,
with never a goal; as soft footfall and whis-
pering voice and cantering hooves made them-
selves the companions of his way; as bandsful
of dried leaves skirled by his ears, and t .
soft, peculiar throbbing that is never wholly
absent from the jungle on the stiUest day,
the throb of moving sap and rubbing bud ai
stealing, flickering water, rang an under-
ly AmUhebells ! Bells ringing and singing and
iin° , -a-ling-linging! Bells ever befoie lnni
and lost in the wind! Bells, eternal bells,
ond the unceasing wind !
At noon he stopped on a knoll covered with
kangaroo-grass, and stared not at the camp,
nor at the river winding through Valhalla,
but at a blue, thin, semi-circle ot sea. _
He said to himself: “Fear is the expression
of primitive” Nevertheless, lie knew
fear It bounded down the slopes behind mm,
it gambolled in the leaping tussocks before.
It couched in the hollows, and whistled an
whickered between its teeth as it tore at t
ribbons of verdure. He sent up a cracked
quivering coo-ee, that of itself shrank back
into his throat almost before it cleft the wide-
flowing air. He felt as though bis alien voice
must bring a thousand curious eyes upon him.
“God,” lie said, “this looks like somethin*
I>rl He lt sat’down to rest—to stare at the piti-
less glimmer of the hills and the sea. He
thought, dimly and stupidly, that he had best
make his way to the seashore, since there it
was. One might wander for weeks in tlm
mountains. There might be blacks on th-
Sh Very dizzily he rose and dragged himself
'"‘l’m not afraid.” he said; “Fm damned if
I’ll be beat: ’ Still he was afraid
The day waned, became clouded. 1 he, win a
began to wail, to sob in its throat like a
beast which yearned for its prey. I e
stumbled on. with his lingers, m Ins ears.
Grey, racing dusk found him again. In <
patch of ghostly bushes he stood while the in-
visible fiend wheezed and nosed about.
“I’m not afraid,” he told the wind; I
W °But'Death was all about him. He realised
that now. Death it was that mourned over
the moon-swept waste. Things were in the
forest, things that moved and swayed and
bobbed. He heard the wild dogs howling on
the nameless hills. He heard his own
behind Mm Here
wT He'saw T gi"wnlkin? across .Sc
creenin o, grey grass. It shone out against
the sky for a second. It joined the bobbing
figures in the forest and was lost.
He fell upon his face.
In that instant the wind dropped. It
passed and came no, more. Silence was in
the world. » * *
Smith bent over a white-haired man whose
face quivered loosely in the strong sunlight,
and strove to coax recognition into the
vacant eyes. But the man without a soul
could only tell his tale in a thin voice. H<
drank the brandy given him as a greedy
Ano'ther^man, a small, dark youth, said
shortly to^ Smith : “Come on. We must „et
1U rode along, the youth said, glanc-
ing at the eldritch figure that swayed and
muttered on the horse to which it was
strapped; “He seems to think that he left,
your camp in the morning. But you told
me when I happened along that he d left m
the afternoon, didn’t you ?” , ~
“Yes” said Smith. He thought drearily
of the devil in his heart which had prompted
that lie to his visitor two days ago, and won-
dered where it had gone. . ,
“And then you got anxious all m a huriy,
didn’t you, after I’d been there a while.
Funny you should get a hunch like that all
of a sudden that something was wrong.
Good thing it came into my head to bring
vour mail up that evening. You might
hive rushed oft in the dark to look for him
by Smith' 'thought grimly: “No, I shouldn’t
1U The youth rambled on, garrulous, tire-
some, recounting their long search, shaking
a -wise head over Shanes mental condition.
Now Smith’s heart was breaking. £«r
in the mail which had come too late he had
been told of Alice’s death. * ,
As lie had loved Shane first, so he loved
him last. He nursed him for many weeks.
5 Sb»< began to notice little toga and
to recognise his nurse as a child 1 ecognise,
mother. Presently the littleoldl man
/ for lithe slenderness turned rapidly to
shrunkenness) could sit in the sun outside
the camp, and laugh at the romping of tli
So the strange pair live on. Shane has
learnt a few words besides those which he
o j. ii pjo tnie and can ask for things
M the table. He Mows Smith about the
ramp like ft child, and remembers nothing of
life before those tw T o days of wind. And
Smith spends all his spare time m making
him simple toys and amusing him. But it
is a backward child.
L. PATICIA FRANCIS.
Because.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When quite a little child of three
She answer gave without a pause;
She would do this or that, said she,
Because.
At thirteen slic’d not changed a bit;
With small respect for logic’s laws
She answered with original wit.
Because.
\t twenty-two she on the whole
For reason does not give two straws,
\nd loves one man with all her soul
Because.
VICTORIA.
E. D.


m
-■■■■ 'AV
y-i
u:
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Nz e, nmni!_«| :e t«i S T; H ?. IiMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. ° ° ’
VictoHan C^fflce--98^ueen r sVrce^*Meibn»?i^!» ng^on ' CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
BITUMASTIC
ENAMELS
Unequalled as a protection against Rust.
Extraordinary properties of Elasticity and
Tenacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE § SINCLAIR, LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
i
rtV
OF SPECIAL IMPORTANCE
Shire Engineers,
TO Quarry Masters,
Blacksmiths
for IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
OCTAGONSTEEL
ShikiSoS s *, ee1 ’ Particularly suitable for Crowbars,
and Road-making operations.
Sizes: fin., fin., fin., lin., ]Jin., liin.
Keen prices and ample stocks. Let us quote for your needs.
THe Eagle &. Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
fiYDNFY
MELBOURNE ‘!!!!!!!!! oVo Ida * a Bl K ? nt i* reet
NEVVCASTT e 342-348 Swanston Street
BRISBANE ‘i>Vj ‘ V. & Gray * I j td., Scott Street
sssar"""""" cS..! jss
HO “ ABT ' ALSO At' FREMANTLE JkS KM*,**™ 1 * 8 »“‘
—— Remington. =
Pen and Pocket Knives
“T hey cut keenly”
IN choosing a penknife, the important
thing to know is how good it is,
not how little it costs.
Scientific heat treatment, hardening
and tempering produce the fine blades
in all Remington penknives.
dfg
To be certain it’s
a Remington, look
for the mark of
quality stamped on
every blade.
Stocked by first
class dealers.
B 1
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
P* Q» Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
W
n
/ No.
RG7099-3
Gold Handle
No. R 6713
Stag Handle
dfg
AvaiJ yourself
of the experience of others.
The reputation of Beecham’s Pills is built
upon the experience of many thousands of men and women
who have found this specific of incalculable value as a
safe, speedy and pleasant tonic and corrective in cases of
digestive disturbance. There are very few people who
are not at some time troubled with Joss of appetite,
irregularity of the bowels, sluggish liver, biliousness, sick
headache, heaviness, depression of spirits and want of
energy, Beecham’s Pills are a reliable remedy for these and
other ailments arising from dyspeptic derangement.
Everyone needs a corrective medicine occasionally and
there is nothing more generally suitable than Beecham’s
Fills which, taken as directed, soon Tight the wrong and
restore a natural, healthy action to the organs of digestion.
A fair trial will soon convince you of their outstanding
merits and you will find that they are always dependable
and of unfailing efficacy. To keep yourself fit and well
you cannot do better than
TAKE
11l
UJ
IJJ
1
■ll
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELESSODIAMOND
E-C. or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOB
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
Nobel Industries Limited are Exhibitors at the British Empire Exhibition.
Your engine will run at its
best if it is fitted with
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
They give maximum power and con-
sistent service under all conditions.
ODG
Every part of every model
of the Lodge plug is of
British manufacture
All Lodge plugs are packed
in sealed metal boxes.
Refuse otherwise.
Lodge plugs are obtainable
from all accessory dealers,
garages and stores, in different
models to suit all makes of
engines. State name when
buying.
Illustration shows
7/8-in. regular
(model CT3).
Price 5/6
LODGE PLUGS LTD., RUGBY, ENGLAND.
LODGE PLUGS
STAND N°lo3
MOTOR SECTION
BRITISH
EMPI RE
EXHIBITION
WEMBLEY
April-Oct 1924
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
S 3
V. %
WOLFFS
£
0
m
oV c J, e n clls
ROYAL SOVEREIGN ’* HB
BRITISH
MADE
(#. flic


‘Born 182 o Still going Strong 1
You cannot buy a bottle
of <c Johnnie Walker ” that
is not mature at any
price, anywhere. That is
the world - wide secret of
its popularity.
■i \\
7
£T^ V
«
#5"
X
1 '
Guaranteed same quality
all over the world
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland
