

r •
; v-
1
c
■% •
. I
ft r
•v
-<
■
IN
PRIZES
“Main-Top” Tobacco Competition
Save the Coupons!
Save the coupons placed in each tin or packet of
“M ain-Top” Tobacco. Each coupon entitles you to
send one forecast for the Competition.
For each of the five Test Matches to be played
between November and March £2OO will be given in
prizes to those who send the correct or nearest
forecast of the respective results.
Full details on every Coupon.
Smoke
Test Match dates are: —
December 19 (Sydney),
January 1 (Melbourne),
January 16 (Adelaide),
February 1 3 (Melbourne)
and February 27 (Sydney).
Main -Top
LIGHT PRESSED TOBACCO
’.X / / 'J. ' . - v;> •/, V' +• . V ' r
It’s the flavour you’ll favour!
CIVIC
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
The Bulletindf
OBTAINABLE
OF ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
THE PIPE THAT HAS
NO FADS OR FANCIES
BUT IS PERFECTLY MADE
IN EVERY DETAIL
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2336.
Thursday, November 20, 1924.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE n NteW LIBRARY CATALOGUE fo*
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded pest free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 George Street, Sydney. ’
Conway Stewart
Lever Filler Pen
and a
Duro Point
Automatic Pencil,
complete in neat case,
151-
ladies’ Sets, 12/6, 17/6.
Obtainable all stationers,
Jewellers, etc., or direct
from
S. W. RAMSAY,
360 Post Office Place, Melbo
*4
THE UNIVERSAL COMBINATION SET ,
mm
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
in maintaining its reputation for absolute reliability and
freedom from mechanical defect repeatedly
SETS UP NEW SERVICE RECORDS
on the most difficult drives. It constantly maintains its
celebrated grip on the pulleys and ensures maximum pro-
duction by passing on all power generated.
Let our engineers advise you. They are experts.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co.. Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. P. Mann, 212 Madras St.,/Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalinina Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston & Hobart.
5^
A Perfume of
Refined and
Distinctive Character
THE FAVOURITE of the ,
fashionable world 1
SOLD BY CHEMISTS and PERFUMERS
Sole Makers; F. WOLFF & SOHN,
Perfumers, KARLSRUHE
2O FIRST PRIZES
a
•1 /
9
X
mm
Spinet
Super Quality
CIGARETTES
Fine Old Virginia
Cork Tipped Ovals
m
C,
c
n
2*6
*/»
H/
-e>
Of all Stores
and Tobacconists
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price l/»
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
w
mmm
1
ir;
mustdP
The Red Page
“Putting It Across”
Some wear a Vandyke beard and talk
largely and profoundly about Art, with a
super-capital. Others punctuate the air
with a restless and more or less grimy
thumb; others, again, adopt an individual
“note” in their sartorial embellishments.
These are the broader and more obvious
effects—crude tricks known to the trade as
various degrees of “preciousness,” and eye
patent to that body which loves to descril
itself as an enlightened public. It can l
said with assurance that there exist fe
men accepted as great artists by a larg
public who are not also great showmen.
The ugly glorification of the raw and tl
uncouth, so noticeable in the down-to-da
portrait painter; the dominant sensual not
in modern music, where the composers seem
to sit “with both ears spread wide for stra
echoes of Salome”; tire morbid realism
the typical drama of the day, whose author
often appear to write as squalidly and in
modestly as they dare—are these not large!
the more subtle methods by which the strug
gling artists and playwrights hope to “ge
across”? In dramatic work this feature
especially marked in contemporary produc
tionis, and even the best work of Eugen
O’Neill and Somerset Maugham is only re
deemed from 4 this stigma by its real elemen
tal strength and the vigor of its action
while a parallel might be drawn in the musi
cal world with the later compositions o:
Richard Strauss and Stravinsky.
There is, of course, in showmanship ai
art which conceals art —from the public, i:
not from less successful fellow-practitioners
Probably the violinists of , to-day would no
be particularly impressed by Paganini’
technique or musicianship, but there woulc
be no two opinions about his gifts as
showman. Liszt, with all his remarkabl
powers as a player and composer, did no
disdain this lesser but essential work. Alrnosi
every bar of his compositions exposes the
good salesman.
The Chesterfieldian postulate that “man
ners must adorn knowledge and smooth its
way” is as true to-day as ever, and unless
the executive musician “adorns” his work
with showmanship, it is little likely to make
any way at all, smooth or rough, througl
the world.
Everyone who is called upon to censoi
musical performances is sometimes chidet
for admitting that the demeanor of the
artist on the concert platform affects bis
appraisal of the technical and spiritua
aspects of the performance. “What has that
to do with the music?” friends and family
may protest indignantly, when it has mildly
been suggested that a restless newcomer
would do well to pattern after the imper-
turbable dignity of a Kreisler, if not the
glacial frigidity of a Heifetz. “Manners
makyth man” was the motto of William of
Wykeham; manners, one cannot help feel-
ing, are often the making or the unmaking
of musical artists. Showmanship is some-
times hard to define, but the musical public,
like other publics, is extraordinarily respon-
sive to its allurements.
It would be an interesting and amusing
task to analyse the methods by which the
outstanding artists of the present time cap-
ture the attention and admiration of those
who necessarily can have little real appre-
ciation of their higher qualities. These
methods are certainly a trifle less crude than
they were in the Paganini period; although
by skilfully-designed press advertisement
artists still attempt to surround with glamor
personalities that are actually not a whit
more romantic than those of Smith, Jones
and Brown, and other' fellows who catch
the 8.30 to the city every morning. And,
alas, there are still to be found in concert
halls and opera houses ladies and gentlemen
who exhibit a simple form of showmanship
by prolonging high notes to the extreme limit
of-their own and the audience’s endurance.
Every concert-goer is familiar with the more
sophisticated pianist who delights listeners
almost as much by his little conversations
a ? with his Chopin. There is the famous
violinist whose facial expressions when play-
ing would not disgrace a movie star, and the
conductor who —well, perhaps, conductors of
all musicians are the most envied for their
opportunities as showmen. Instances of un-
holy forelocks might be multiplied almost
indefinitely. Composers are, as usual, the
worst, off, although one of world-wide fame,
who. is also a conductor, has managed to
acquire a very respectable reputation. A
recent cable tells of Pachmann at a Lon-
don concert rising and dancing to the music
of a mazurka. This, in an old man of 79,
shows how the practice takes hold.
Even organists are not exempt. To this
day some perform with startling realism
a classic ehef-d’oeuvre entitled “The Storm.”
The left foot jambed down on half a do?en
pedals produces the thunder; glissades over
the keyboard, aided by the other foot pump-
mg the crescendo pedal, evoke the wind;
and in the midst of this “musical” turmoil
there is contained a hymn tune of such
mediocre quality that one would imagine
it more calculated to raise a musical storm
than to calm it. The simple-minded of
many generations have rejoiced in this pri-
mitive example of the organist’s showman-
ship.
On reflection one can only conclude that,
after all, it is really the public which pipes
the tune, through the box-office. Under
existing conditions the artist is not alto-
gether blameworthy if he dances to it. Some
artists, however, have the presumption
to believe that they can pipe a better tune
than the public, and actually expect the
public to dance!
W.B. SCHUCHARD.
Kipling
Macmillans, m their publisher’s adver-
tisement accompanying the latest complete
edition of his works, announce that they
have sold over two and a half million copies
of Kipling. To these must be added the
copies sold by Hodder and Stoughton and
by Methuen and other publishers. Theo-
retically Kipling is dead. The convention-
setters of the literary world have long ago
passed judgment; and the folk, and they
exist in vast numbers, who read only wha
the convention-setters say is the thing to
read, no longer read him. But the strung
tiling about him is that lie shows very few
of the customary symptoms of being dead
There is never a year goes by, for instance
that does not see some new edition of hi
works, and there are no cheap editions
Then in the second-hand shops you will fine
few copies of his works. And, last, yoi
can buy practically any book of his you lik
at any bookseller’s of standing in practical!:
any city of the English-speaking world. A 1
this., would seem to suggest that, in
of the convention-setter’s pronouncement
there must still be very many who read Kip
ling’s works. Who are they?
Kipling has, and always has had, an audi
.. once of his own. People who read books
for the pleasure they get out of them, anc
not because it is the thing to read them, usu
ally read with most pleasure those books
that most reflect themselves. The intro
speetive man, for instance, will get tremen
dous pleasure out of introspective books; the
mystic must have the works of mystica
writers, the clever cynic must have his
Shaw. And the man of action must have
the singer of action. Would you find Kip-
ling readers you must go amongst that
highly intelligent body of people—mainly
professional—who are far too busy doing
the world’s necessary work and thinking the
world’s necessary thoughts to spare time foi
reading only the books that should be read.
Doctors and lawyers are great Kipling read-
er's, and ships’ officers and ships’ engineers
and hunters, explorers and mining-men usually
carry some copies of him wherever they go.
Ilis readers are rarely great readers in the
accepted sense, and you rarely come across
one talking about Kipling’s greatness. They
do not soak in his works to be able tri compare
him with other writers, so in comparison
with other writers they do not know whether
he is great or not; and they do not care.
All they know is that Kipling satisfies a
demand in them in a way that no other
living writer does.
When an artist gives brilliant works of
art to the world as a young man he sets
standards with which all his after-coming
works will be compared. When a young
man writes a striking poem—a poem full of
color and vigorous action—-in these days he
is hailed as the Canadian Kipling, or the
American Kipling or the African Kipling,
and that is the highest praise that can be
given to him. If Kipling himself produces
a far more striking poem, it is at
once compared with his own still more
striking poems to show how he -is
not the Kipling he was. The poems Kip-
ling wrote during the war might not com-
pare favorably with his earlier verse, and
you never hear his name mentioned amongst
the great-war poets. Yet if anybody else
had written a poem like “The Children”
that writer would certainly take very high
place amongst the great-war singers.
In his “Story of Ung,” Kipling describes
how in ages long gone by Ung, a maker of
pictures, fashioned in snow an aurocli and
a bear and a sabre-tooth tiger “dragging a
man to its lair.” He pictured many other
things, and the hunters and trappers and
fishers came and admired. But when some
of them said, “Yea, they are like—and they
may be. But how does the picture-man
know?” Ung was annoyed, and told them
to look at the beasts when they hunted them,
and ran to his father, who was wise in the
craft. And his father said, “If they could
see as thou seest, they could do as thou
hast done. And each man would make a
picture, and what would become of my son?”
And he pointed out how all the good things
that came to Ung by way of reward would
come no more, and he told Ung, who could
see .so clearly, to go and rejoice that the
tribe was blind. And Ung went back to
his work, and whistled and sang as he set
about it, and became great iii the land.
lor 40 years Kipling has played the part
oi Ung to the English-speaking world. The
academicians always have criticised him and
always will. But those who, in our day,
correspond to the hunters and fishers and
trappers of Ung’s time, and are far too
busy doing things to watch all the time what
they are doing, _ come to Kipling in their
hours of relaxation to be shown themselves
at work. They come to him as they have
since the beginning, “pressing to his pic-
tures with opened mouth and eye, and a
little gift in the doorway, and the praise no
man can buy.” And what finer audience
could any artist ever have?
ALAN D. MICKIE
Why Am I So Clever?”
Lester Way wants to know why some
people stand out from the ruck in point of
cleverness (R.P. 30/10/'24).‘ A more effici-
ent nervous system must he reckoned the
main factor. All our actions are directed by
the messages which are continually flying
from the sensory organs to the central ner-
vous system and back again to the muscles.
The speed of such messages varies greatly
throughout the animal kingdom. In the
average man it is, reckoned to be about 180
feet a second, but in the clever person it will
be much greater. Further, the degree of co-
ordination of these messages is variable, and
will be high in the clever person. If he be
given a drug, which will slow down and im-
pair the co-ordination of the messages, he
will resemble a dull person in his actions.
There may be other factors in cleverness, but
if we keep the meaning of the word separate
from that of “greatness” or “genius,” the ner-
vous system plays the chief part*. If it be
asked why some people come to have such
superior nervous systems, the fact cannot be
wholly explained in the present state of
scientific knowledge, but it would be much
more surprising if all were equally clever.
All things in the universe tend to differenti-
ate. There are “sports” and freaks even in
the vegetable world. There are good causes
(Continued on page 3.)


A
uge
ANTHONY,
HORDERNS
FOR
TRAVELLERS’
k.m
\
REQUI^
i«u
&
W,
Kit Bags, Suit Cases,
Pure Wool Rugs.
The Handy Kit. Bag, made from
genuine cowhide, has piped seams,
heavy ring clips, and is lined
throughout with strong canvas.
Sizes 12in. 14in. 16in. ISin. 20in.
14/6 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/- ea.
Strong Fibre Suit Cases, with a
steel frame on body and lid of case;
nicely grained in dark tan color;
lined throughout. Secure locks and
clips.
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
9/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
Solid Feather Suit Cases, made
from specially selected cowhide, and
fitted with two sliding nozzle locks.
A case to give good service.
Sizes 20in. ' 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
37/6 42/- 45/- 49/6 54/6
Pure Wool Rugs, a wide range of
serviceable colorings and designs to
select from. Size 60 xS4 inches.
Price 21 /-
Pure Merino Travelling Rugs, in
beautiful colorings and patterns.
Reversible, with plain colors on one
side and fancy plaid effects on the
other. Size 60 x 80 inches.
Price
52/6
HARTMANN WARDROBE TRUNKS
The Trunk for a Lifetime, and the
Accepted Wardrobe Trunk of the World
Tlieir quality and distinction mark them as the finest
accomplishment of all travel luxuries, in which every
refinement of finish, every nicety of appointment, every
travel convenience is embodied.
Sizes are designed to conform to all baggage regulations.
Every Standard Trunk is 40 inches high and 22 inches
wide. The depths differ in sizes, to furnish the required
capacity for every travel need.
The “RITE-HITE” Wardrobe Trunk is made of
3-ply Veneer, covered Black Vulcanised Fibre, and
bound with Heavy Black Vulcanised Fibre. Brass-
plated Hardware, Corbin Snap Lock, with two draw
bolts and four clamps on vertical edges. Interior is
lined with fancy blue Cretonne, blue Velour protec-
tive cushion to lift-up top, laundry bag. retainer bar,
four drawers, linen-lined.
TAXI SIZE, 15in. deep, with six hangers.
Price £lB/15/-
REGULAR SIZE, 22in. deep, with nine hangers.
Price £l6/15/-
“Gibralterised” “RITE-HITE” Wardrobe Trunk.
The special feature' in the construction of this class
of trunk is that all the exterior edges are rounded
and reinforced, to which the massive Hardware is
tightly clamped, thus increasing immensely its source
of strength. For compactness, capacity and conveni-
ence, these Trunks are unequalled. This Trunk is
made of 3-ply Veneer, covered Black Vulcanised
Fibre, rounded edges, and bound with heavy Black
Vulcanised Fibre. Brass-plated Hardware, Double
Shield Top Valance, Corbin Snap Lock, two Draw
bolts. Interior is lined with figured Cloth through-
out ; protecting cushion to lift-up top. blue velour
laundry bag, retainer bar, shoe box, four drawers,
with locking bar.
TAXI SIZE, 35in. deep, with six hangers.
Price £17/17/-
THREE-QUARTER SIZE, 19in. deep, with eleven
hangers. Price £19/15/*=
REGULAR SIZE, 22in. deep, with eleven hangers.
Price £21
=r3*
Reliable Radio Equipment
The display of Radio Equipment will win your
approval, but when you reflect that it is merely
representative of a vast and wonderful assortment
offered by Anthony Horderns’, at very low prices,
you will realise that it is also valuable as pointing
the way to economy.
FOUR-VALVE RECEIVING SET, as illustrated,
in self-contained cabinet, of our own design, and
has been thoroughly tested by us, giving loud
speaker results, with clarity and good volume
up to 500 miles from Sydney Broadcasting
Stations. PRICE, complete with valves, bat-
teries, and pair head 'phones,
but without loud sp >aker. . ..
£52/10/-
The Best Loud Speakers for use with valve set:
Western Electric (Baby) 59/6
Pathe Price £6
Magnavox Type Ml Price £lO/10/-
The “Hordernia” Crystal Set is made expressly
to our order for use ■with head-’phones. The
LWble Slide Controls give a broader tuning
and make the receiver more selective. The
Tuning Coil is wound with two gauges of wire,
thus assuring a finer adjustment for lower
wave lengths. It will pick up any Broad-
cast Concert within a radius of 20
miies. 22/6
Price (without ’Phones)
Superior Head-’Phones, for use
Set:—
with Crystal
Genuine English MEL Head-’Phones, 4000
ohm.
Price 19/6 set
Western Electric Price 37/6 set
Trfinm’s Professional Price 45/- set
Trimm’s Dependable Price 32/6 set
The Protection of
A Silk Dust Coat
is Only Second to
its Smartness.
1X2 —Useful Dust Coat, of
excellent quality Natural
Assam; fashioned in a smart
wrap shape, with sash finish-
ing at sides. The collar,
cuffs and pockets are finished
with Silk Military braid.
Lengths, 46, 48, 50. un/1 1
Price * 1
1X1403 —Practical Light-
weight Dust Coat, of Fuji
Silk, in a quality that can be
depended upon to wear.
Smart, long, roll collar. In
shades of Grey, Almond,
Reseda, Beaver. Dark
Saxe. Navy or Black. A *7 ICt
Price *t//0
1X1237 — Dust Coat, of Fuji
Silk, roll collar, cuffs and
poeket effectively trimmed
with Silk Lacet Braid to tone.
In shades of Dark Reseda,
Nigger, Beaver, Navy
and Black. eT in
Price 0//0
1X1228—Smartly-cut Dust
Coat, in heavy weight Fuji
Silk; new wrap shape,
quaintly corded on hips and'
fastening on side with two
large buttons of self. In soft
shades of Grey, Reseda,
Brown, Saxe, Navy,
Nigger, Black.
Price
63/-
(Fashion Salon—Third Floor.)
Men’s Dust Coats
Made in own workrooms, with
Half-belt, or Belt all round.
Drab Crash.
Prices 14/6, 27/6
Drab Tussore (Cotton).
Pi ’ices 18/6, 22/6
Striped Repp.
Price 27/6
Tussore Silk.
Price 30/-
Grey Alpaca.
Price 42/-
(Men’s Clothing—Ground
Floor.)
Men’s High-grade
Caps
Men’s Tweed Caps, with one-
piece crown. Colors: Light,
Medium and Dark Grey.
Prices, 3/6, 4/6, 6/9, 7/6
Extra Fine Quality.
Prices 15/6, 17/6
Golf Shape, with quartered
crown.
Prices 5/11, 7/6
Gabardine Caps, with one-
piece or quartered crown.
Price 6/3
(Men’s Caps—Ground Floor.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
c o b., BRICKFIELD HILL.. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440


MW
7%
$S
%
7M777Mm7/m\
\\
//w?
■i
M
%
tiSS
mm
m.
i
m
1
P
i
I
l
UN)M
1
*>V~—
H.
%
pwiiw
fXSS
mm.
m
m
m.
i ■
m*>
Wk
m
a
je=s
1
m
mm
mk.
mm
wfc&mL
mm
I ----
mm
v- ;
=s§s
#4fe
s
m
/i
m
m
*
mV)
eg
i
PS
fit
Wm
mm
m
l^gg
i s^3ei
1
nm
it
pips
as
l^§
si
8§
'Him
Wa
>3
m
ZL
I
f
I
if
«
:<sg
m
I . .
r
vw\4sa\ — : —
More Pourer on ike Hills.
MUCH of the pleasure of motoring depends
upon the ability of your car to take the
hills on “top.”
This extra demand upon your engine requires
a motor spirit which is powerful, uniform and
volatile. Quick and complete vaporisation of the
motor spirit in the carburetter is of vital import-
ance. The conversion of the latent energy in
the motor spirit into 100 per cent, smooth, full
power depends upon volatility.
Plume is a highly volatile motor spirit.
Every drop is converted into gas for power;
there is no waste.
Volatility is fundamental. No other quality
or factor can compensate for the lack of volatility.
Motor Spirit
EasyStartin^Sweetßunnin^MoreMiles
Plume doesn’t jib on the steepest hill; it gives acceleration,
the necessary pull and power. Make a fresh start. Fill up
with Plume to-day and note the improvement.
For the correct lubrication of your car use the
grade of Gargoyle Mohiloil as specified in our Chart
of Recommendations. Make the Chart your guide.
Write our nearest Branch for Free 64-page Booklet™
“The Care of Your Car.” , P <>
OIL COMPANY PTY.LTD.


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN’S SHOPS
it
m
For business or office
ALPACA LINED SUITS
Price, 105/“
David Jones’ Alpaca lined suits are made from
all wool worsteds, mid or dark grey—plain or
fancy patterns, in one and two button models,
and are lined throughout with the best alpaca.
All sizes ... *’* 105
Motor or Train Coats
All Linen 21/-
An ideal motor or train coat, with all round belt,
and also halt belt at back David Jones’ offer
these at the remarkable price of ... 21/-
DAVID JONES’
OPP. G.P.O., —for Service -SYDNEY
influencing their formation, hut we know little
about them. We know less about such
“sports” amongst mankind.
James Mowbray.
Whv is Lester Way so clever? I cannot
tell him why, because I don’t think he is any
cleverer than the rest of us. A few weeks
ago my brother, my father and I stepped
out on to the back lawn to erect a 50ft. pole
for the wireless aerial. Now, we each knew
theoretically how it should be erected; but
when it came to practice we wcren t game
to have a go at the job because the pole was
to be put in a corner behind a shed and was
hard to manage because of its dead weight,
and we might easily have let it drop and
smashed the house. Next door to us lives
a retired farmer, and we called him in. He
took command of the situation —told us each
what to do clearly and concisely, then spat
on his hands, got hold of the pole and did
the job; and he did it thoroughly well, too.
Now, I say that man is clever. He can
do a hundred things just as easily and as
well as he erected that pole; yet he knows
nothing at all about wireless; and as to
writing to The Bulletin, he would sooner
cut himself while shaving. My brother is
clever also; he is an amateur carpenter
miles above the ordinary, and has a good
knowledge of wireless, yet he couldn’t write
to The Bulletin like I do; nor is lie cap-
able of saying clever words. He is a shock-
ing judge of the weather, too. People say
l am clever because I write a few words for
a few papers; but I am a dud at a
great lot of things, and I know it. My
father is clever. I’ve often heard people say
that he is; yet (thank Heaven!) he knows
next to nothing about many things. Lester
Way may be clever at one thing, but at an-
other he may be a blob. There are as many
branches of cleverness as there are jobs on
the earth. I cannot bake bread like our
baker, neither can our butcher, nor the
schoolmaster who lives opposite ; but I can
do something that none of them can do, and
I know that they each can do something that
1 can’t do. We are all clever: that’s my
explanation.
T. W. D.
Henare’s Reformed Religion
I do not agree with “H.J.T.” (R.P.
2/10/'24) that Henare added much of the
teachings of the early missionaries to his
ancient religious beliefs. From the researches
of eminent Maori scholars —Percy Smith,
Elsdon Best and others —it seems quite evi-
dent that at s me period in the past the
Maori was in touch with the culture that
existed about the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and
the Arabian Peninsula, the home of our
ancient religions. The higher priesthood had
a secret religion, or a higher religious cult,
denied to the common people, i.c., the worship
of Io of the Babylonians. There arc also a
number of Sanscrit words in Hen are’s lan-
guage, and “Ra,” the sun, is the same as
the ancient Egyptian. My aged friend Hai-
mona, who belonged to the oldest existing
Maori tribe in the South Island, the Nga-
timamoe, told me the story of Hina the
woman and Tuna the eel, which bears a
remarkable resemblance to our Biblical story
of Eve and the serpent, assuming the apple,
of which fruit Henare knew not, to have been
the creation of sexual desire in man. Hai-
mona’s story was to the effect that a lady
named Hina was bathing one day when an
eel came round her and excited her. She
sought her gentleman friend Tiki and suc-
ceeded in tempting him likewise. The sub-
ject, being a delicate one, does not admit of
the full details of the old Maori legend be-
ing set out, but from this act came “man’s
knowledge of good and evil.” Haimona
said the lady’s behavior was an evil action,
one that has worked much detriment to man-
kind. The tail of an eel is called “tara
puremu,” which term is to this day like-
wise applied to an adulteress. The phallic
eel or serpent is prominent in Oriental myths,
and Henare has carried his traditions with
him in the course of his wanderings through
Polynesia.
Perusing some old papers I came on an
article by Hare Hongi (H. M. Stowell) in
which he points out a striking parallel be-
tween the lives of Christ and of the Maori
god Tawhaki. Stowell dug into the traditions
of Samoa, Tonga, Hawaii and the Chatham
Islands (Moriori) for corroboration; and as
Henare had lost touch with these islands for
centuries prior to the advent of the mission-
ary, there can have been no collusion between
the various peoples in the way of including
the missionaries’ teachings in their tradi-
tions.
Searching old records dealing with early
purchases of land from the original Maori
occupants, I found a report of the history of
the South Island Maoris —I think it was by
Colonel McCleverty in the early forties of
last century—in which mention was made
that in the Vienna Museum were copies of
Arabian manuscripts, written in or about
the year 1312 a.d., wherein was an account
of an Arabian voyage to the islands in the
cold South Seas; it was reported that these
islands were inhabited by a brown race, and
that there were seen numbers of gigantic
birds called “see-moahs.” The Maori indefi-
nite article “he” (“he moa,” i.e., a moa)
when added to the noun was often rendered
by the early Europeans with an “s” sound.
For instance, “E Hongi.” the noted Maori
warrior, tvas generally called “Shongi” by
the early settlers. It is possible that some
old-time voyager from the birthplace of our
religion settled in these islands and grafted
his faith and traditions on to the ancient
Maori beliefs. Henare has in his traditions
various references to strange gods and fair
people who at various stages in his history
taught him useful crafts. We have it on the
authority of Elsdon Best, who lived amongst
the Tuhoe tribe when they were untouched
by the missionary or pakeha civilisation,
that the Maori tradition of the creation is
superior to that given in Genesis.
My old friend Haimona, who, so far as I
xmld judge, remained a pagan all his life,
old me a number of strange tales that were
undoubtedly from the original traditions;
aid it is generally admitted that the Maori.
when he is away from the pakeha settle-
ments, still clings, to a certain extent, to his
ancient beliefs, and still believes in witch-
craft and the power of the tohunga.
W.J.E.
A Satchel of B ooks
The Meaning of Dreams, by Robert Groves (Cecil
Palmer). The author holds that dreams are the
effect of a mental conflict; and, although the sym-
bolisation is largely infantile, infantile experiences
themselves have no significance to the conflict—this
in sharp contrast to the Vienna school, whose theory
is that infantile experiences are the real cause of
the conflict. The book gives an interesting account,
in non-technical language, of its subject.
The Unknown Seven, by Harry Coverdale (Fisher
Unwin). “The woman in the limousine” starts the
tale; enter a professor, learned in chemical processes
by which it is believed he can malcei human bodies
disappear completely, leaving no trace; a student of
criminology strolls on stage ; this body and that body
surcharged with mystery tumble in. A profound fog
of mystery envelops everyone. At the back of all
lurk “the unknown seven,” a sort of Fasc-isti combi-
nation for the suppression of crime. Justice is done,
and the reader, raising his eyes to the clock, perceives
it is long past midnight—and wonders what foolish
fascination has kept him out of bed and lost him
needed rest! Such simple story-loving children are
we all.
The Law of the Threshold, by F. A. Steel (Heine-
mann). A curious, inchoate story with a queer
air about it of having been written for the theatre.
The drama of Indian unrest is unfolded by means
of a handful of characters—“ash-smeared nakednesses,''
English officials, American devotees of Hindu cults,
Bolshevik emissaries and German spies, who emerge
from and fade into the terrible background of India’s
toiling, starving millions like persons in a play;
while throughout the performance is heard the music
of that sinister orchestra, the temple-bell of Kali-ma,
the Dread Mother, the most repulsive deity ever
conceived. She is the personification of the Woman
unbridled, revelling in blood and lust, anl 250
millions bow 7 to her.
Punch and Judy, by Maurice Baring (Heinemann).
Essays contributed to reviews, etc., and covering wide
ground, from Shakspeare, Goethe and Victor Hugo
down to the subject of the volume’s title. To the
modern child Punch and Judy are little more than
names attached to a puppet show in the dark age
of their parents’ childhood. In these days of the
kinema, which, after all. is but a grandiose puppet
show, there is no room for Mr. Punch or his drama,
and dog Toby died many years ago. Vet in this
perambulating street-theatre Mr. Baring finds food
for thought. Punch and Judy as a play represents
continuous action unretarded by scenic or other
accessory, and “I wish that the poets and playwrights
of the present and the future would go back to it
and the puppet show and learn of it.”
The Pipers of the Market-place, by Richard Dehan
(Thornton Butterworth). Since Dehan created a
sensation with “The Dop Doctor” she has written
comparatively few novels. Many short stories have,
however, filled the gaps, all showing thorough crafts-
manship. Her latest novel is a welcome contribution
to the class which illustrates those vital principles
upon which in the long run society must depend, if it
is to survive. In the tragic picture of Malvina
Braby we are shown a woman preserving her fealty
to a worthless husband. To the love of her only
son she looks for the reward of her years of toil and
ill-usage. The conclusion is what art compels, but
the reader will wish it had been otherwise and that
at last Malvina had found a haven sunlit and serene.
All the characters are well drawn, though some of
them, as also some of the scenes, are strongly remini-
scent of Dickens. They have not only a suggestion
of his touch, but hold something of his spirit. A
good novel when good novels are not plentiful.
The Garden of Folly, by Stephen Leacock (John
Lane). To be funny at order —what heavier task
could be assigned to mortal! On the whole it is
really wonderful how well Stephen Leacock keeps up
under it, and how good all round the output is. The
present volume is a satire on that class of advertising
which promises business efficiency in five lessens,
and assures the young man of success in life by
following the precepts contained in a manual at
four dollars a copy. Scattered through the book are
little crisp epigrammatic sayings. “A half-truth,”
savs he, “like a half-brick, is always more forcible
as an argument than a whole one. It carries further.”
Again: “Few people appreciate at its true importance
the selection of a wife. One has only to look at
other men’s wives to realise how carelessly they
have been selected.” Or “Family life is being re-
placed by Big Brother Movements and Little Sister
Agitations, and a grown-up man subscribes 25 cents
and wears a pink ribbon to help him to be kind to
his own mother.”
Smoke-rings and Roundelays, compiled by Wilfred
Partington (John Castle). To the smoker, the fact
that Columbus found tobacco equals, if it does not
transcend, the importance of his geographical dis-
covery. It was in November, 1492, that two sailors
sent by him to explore Cuba returned with news
whose importance they could have hardly appreciated.
It was that they had found the natives carrying
lighted firebrands from which they puffed smoke
through their mouths and noses. Sir John Hawkins
was the first to bring to his countrymen “the
peaceful pleasures of the pipe.” J. M. Barrie,
it is true, combats the destruction of the popular
notion that Raleigh was the man. “I am aware,”
he says, “that those hateful persons called Original
Researchers now maintain that Raleigh was not
the man ; but to them I turn a deaf ear. I know,
I feel, that with the introduction of tobacco, England
woke up from a long sleep. Suddenly a new zest
had been given to life. The glory of existence
became a thing to speak of. Men who had hitherto
only concerned themselves with the narrow things
of home put a pipe into their mouths and became
philosophers.” At this eulogium, which only the
tobacco-lover can appreciate, the ascetic non-smoker
will probably snort. How much he loses by iiis
abstention he may possibly realise from a perusal
of this very complete collection of tributes to tobacco
in prose and verse.
On an English Screen, by James ' Agate (John
Lane). The author, a popular essayist, makes
no pretence to dig into the heart ” of things,
but is content to skim their surface. With
a light touch and the suggestion of ' the
gaiety of youth lie carries us from subject to subject
with unbroken zest. One of the collection is “A Pri-
vate Show.” He attended and found arrant rubbish.
Yet he was held by it. "The plain fact is that J get
a childish pleasure out of almost any picture. And
there must be thousands like mp. In book form
‘Why Men Go Wrong’ would be pitched aside in 10
minutes; I would probablv not sit out the first act
of it performed on a real stage by living actors.”
“The moral?. . . .that an enormous responsibilitv rests
with the producers of the films. The fact that I,
an average member of an average audience, will swal-
low anything which producers care to put before me,
should make them peculiarly careful.... But does
it?” Does it?
Selected Papers on Anthropology, Travel and Ex-
ploration, by Sir Richard Burton (Philpot, Ltd.).
A collection of magazine sketches and lectures by the
Oriental scholar, collected from long-dead magazines
and scientific journals by his friend and biographer
N. M. Penzer. Some of the papers, particularly that
dealing with the sex customs of Dahomey, explain
why Burton was not popular with those who do not
approve of plain writing on such matters. His out-
spoken contempt for such missionary heroes as Living-
stone aggravated his offence and increased the in-
fluence which Exeter Hall never ceased to exert against
him, an influence reflected in the neglect with which
the Government officials of his time treated one whose
value to Britain as an Oriental official would have
been incalculable if his genius had been properly
employed. The papers rescued from oblivion include
a sketch of the famous journey to Mecca. Among the
others “Notes on Scalping” and a “Journey to Harar”
are most interesting; Burton himself considered that
his journey to this fanatical city of Mohammedan Soma-
liland was the most dangerous undertaken by him,
though he went as an Arab hakim. The opening
paper goes a long way to explain his methods. “It
is impossible,” he writes, “to acquire an intimate
knowledge of Oriental customs and manners without
mixing familiarly with all orders, low as well as
high”—a maxim that all students of anthropology
might paste in their hats with great benefit to
themselves.
Ding Dong Bell, by Walter de la Mare. (Selwyn
and Blount). “Ding Dong Bell” chronicles the
musings and fancies of De la Mare in three English
graveyards, and is rich with epitaphs of his own
making. It is jlifficult to understand why he turns
himself into a woman with a blue sunshade in the
first chapter ; but in any guise his conversation with
Sam Gilpin is worth while. They talk of epitaphs, and
Sam Gilpin says: “Ay, epitaphs; but very few in
this headlong country. The art is lost; the spirit's
changed. Once the living and the dead were in a
good honest humor with one another.... But now
we are too mortal solemn or too mortal hasty and
shallow”... .Nevertheless, he quotes some of Ins
favorites. Did three spinsters ever lie under the earth
with such a delightful memory as Rebecca, Anne and
Adelaide ?
Three sisters rest beneath
This cypress shade,
Sprightly Rebecca, Anne,
And Adelaide.
Gentle their hearts to all
On earth, save Man;
In hifn, they said, all grief
All woe began.
Spinsters they lived, and spinsters
Here are laid ;
Sprightly Rebecca, Anne
And Adelaide.
“And their nieces and grandnieces have gone on
saying it —with worse manners—until one’s ashamed
to look one’s cat in the face,” says Sam Gilpin. So
the book goes on —a thing enchanted by grace and
wit.
Dr. Angas Johnson writes from Adelaide: “Delver,”
writing of Josiah Wedgwood (B. 23/10/’24), refers
to the medallion which is reproduced by a vignette
in Governor Phillip’s “Voyage to Botany Bay”—and
adds; “The sculptor Mullane was responsible for it.”
In my copy, the 3rd edition, printed by John Stock-
dale, Piccadilly, London, in 1790, W. Sherwin ,'s
mentioned as the sculptor. There is an account of
the vignette, and towards the end one reads: “The
following verses in allusion to the medallion will
speak more powerfully for themselves, than any
encomium we could bestow”—
VISIT OF HOPE TO SYDNEY COVE, NEAR
BOTANY BAY.
Where Sydney Cove her lucid bosom swells,
Courts her young navies, and the storm repels,
lligh oji a roc-la amid the troubled air
Hope stood sublime, and wav’d her golden hair,
Calm’d with her rosy smile the tossing deep,
And with sweet accents charm’d the winds to sleep ;
To each wild plain she stretch’d her snowy hand,
“Hear me,” she cried, “ye rising Realms! record
Time’s opening scenes, and Truth’s unerring word.
There shall broad streets their stately walls extend,
The circus widen, and the crescent bend.
There, ray’d from cities o’er the cultur’d land.
Shall bright canals and solid roads expand—
There the proud arch, Colossus-like, bestride
Yon glittering streams, and bound the chafing tide ;
Embellish’d villas crown the landscape scene,
Farms wave with gold, and orchards blush between:
There shall tall spires, and dome-capt towers ascen 1,
And piers and quays their massy structures blend ;
While with each breeze approaching vessels glide,
And northern treasures dance on every tide!”
Then ceas’d the nymph—tumultuous cohoes roar,
And Joy’s loud voice was heard from shore to shore;
Her graceful steps descending press'd the plain,
And Peace, and Art, and Labor join’d her train.
Not a bad piece of prophecy, in the stilted verse of
the period, except for the canals.
The Way of the World, by R. D. Dugdale (Stock-
well). Christopher Withers, made the scapegoat for
his family in the disaster that befell its fortunes,
leaves England, and in Australia acquires a fortune.
After many years he returns with a scheme. “I
am going back to the hamlet where my boyhood was
spent,” he says, “in the guise of a homeless man,
giving no hint —rather the contrary—of my ample
fortune. If I find one of my kindred w'ho scorns not
a seemingly indigent old man and is willing to hold
out a friendly hand knowing nothing of my true estate,
then shall I feel that I have found one worthy of my
confidence, and his reward shall be wonderful. ’ It
is a “first novel,” by an Australian author, and holds
its own with English books of this class.
The Black Horse and Other Plays, by Vance
Palmer (Endacott, Melbourne). A limited edition
of four little Australian plays by a well-known
Bulletin writer; all of them have been performed
in Melbourne by amateur companies. With the ex-
ception of the first the plays have just that slight,
elusive quality which only finished actors can hope
to interpret without disaster. “The Black Horse,”
however, has strong dramatic interest. Harry Bain,
a cattleman, insists on his son, a timid and delicate
boy, showing he is a man by riding a savage outlaw
of a horse which even the black boys are afraid to
mount. His wife, whose hope of bearing any more
children has been ruined by a fall from a horse
her husband had once induced her to ride, feels fate
in the rough, cattleman’s inability to see his son’s
unfitness for the job, and her protests only increase
his determination. The boy is thrown and killed,
and the father finds relief in shooting the horse,
which has been made to dominate the play like
a black and fiery Nemesis.
The Human Pedagogue, by R. G. Jennings (Aus-
tralian Authors’ Agency). This purports to be the
story of an Australian public school, the term being
used in the English sense. The school described
bears the appearance • of a well-known Victorian
college. The narrator, himself of English birth,
has seen our Australian school life through
the colored spectacles of his old world train-
ing. He has in this setting placed a group
of Australian bovs who talk psychology and
art and ethics! Despite the melancholy east of much
of our literature, the Australian boy is a born
optimist—optimism came to him as a heritage from
the strong, building past. By morbid introspection
few human beings are troubled loss than is he.
Though his language may lack restraint and his ritual
of polite manners need some attention, and though
his knowledge of longer or shorter catechism may be
defective, he has his code of honor and a share of
stars to steer by—but he is not the youth of this
book. The story in itself is not uninteresting, and
the writer is obviously sincere. He aims at making
character, and making it in the public school—an
excellent object; but the means of attaining it are
not alike in all lands and under all social conditions.
Wild Poppies, by Linda Webb (Hutchinson).
Have we. yet evolved an Australian type of character,
a type distinctively ours? One is tempted to ask this
because of the number of Australian novels that are
Australian only by reason of their environment.
There are, surelv, circumstances arising ort <» our
specialised conditions, and character impressed on
our people by such conditions, that would furnish
material for truly Australian novels. Nevertheless
we find writers lifting plot and character from the
old land, dumping them into Australia, and then
calling the work Australian. This novel, pleasantly
written, with a conventional outlook on life, might
just as well have had its action in rural England.
There are drought and bush fire and other Australian
features, but they are merely stage properties. The
story opens with a simple-minded girl, Shirley Adair,
living a lonely life with some old folk on their
selection. She is betrayed by a wealthy squatter in
the district, who, breaking a promise of marriage,
throws money to her and washes his hands of the
affair. Shirley seeks her revenge, and in the end
succeeds in marrying her daughter to the son of the
man who had betrayed her, and in securing a settle-
ment on her of “the station which should have been
hers bv birth.” Revenge, however, brings remorse.
She confesses the plot to her one-time lover, thus
purging her conscience. He loses his life in a fire,
and so ends their eventful history.


flic
iiif
f
at
FOR YOU?
If the name you suggest
is adopted.
n „
IN
iooDS
The name “Camp Pie” appears on the register of Trade-Marks as our
property, but the Courts recently held that we had not the exclusive right to use
it; their judgments did, however, protect us against the deliberate imitation of
our label by a certain competitor.
To protect fully the hundreds of thousands of users of “REX Camp Pie”
throughout Australasia, we have decided to change the name.
We offer a cash prize of £lOO for a new name on these conditions:—
1. The name must be capable of registration as a Trade-Mark; it must
not be descriptive of the goods.
2. It must be distinctive, yet easy to pronounce.
3. For preference it should consist of not more than seven letters— a
hyphenated name is permissible.
4. The competition is open to all, except members of the staffs of Foggit,
Jones, Ltd.
5. Write clearly your suggestions (more than one may be sent by one
person if desired), attach to a “Rex Camp Pie” label, together with
competitor’s full name and address. Enclose in an envelope endorsed
“Competition for new name,” place this in another envelope addressed
FOGGITT, JONES, LTD.,
Sussex Street, Sydney.
6. Competition closes December 6; prize will be awarded and result
published on or before December 31, 1924.
7. If more than one person supplies the adopted name, the prize will
be divided.
8. The decision of the Directors of the Company must be accepted as final.
In the meantime say “REX Camp Pie,” and it will ensure
your obtaining the genuine article. “Rex Camp Pie” is made
from a secret recipe solely in our possession. It has won its
way into thousands of Australasian homes. The reason is
that the raw materials in all “Rex” products are superior to
those used in any factory in the world, and there is nothing
lacking in skill and experience in their preparation.
REX CAMP PIE is all meat —the daintiest treat cooked
ready to serve —packed in clear jelly. It is the most
economical meat meal possible to obtain.
FOGGITT, JONES LIMITED,
Curers of the Choice Rex Hams and Bacon
sc
E


Y PACKARD CAN BUILD A PACKARD
O N L
*«««** #*■ « *•*■,* * #:**'# *•#■*•*
I
PACKARD SINGLE-SIX SEVEN
PASSENGER TOURING CAR
IT is now nearly three years since the Single-
Six was first offered to the public. It was a
car that had no distinct price class waiting for
it. It had to be sold to men who had paid either
less or more for their motor cars. To-day some
40,000 Single-Sixes are in operation—thousands
of owners reporting that they are happier than
they have ever been in the ownership of any car.
The long low sweeping lines and exclusive de-
sign of the Single-Six are inimitably Packard.
Riding comfort is ensured by an exceptional
spring length of 15 feet 4 inches and wheelbases of
126 inches and 133 inches. With no exceptions
that we know of Australian owners are getting
from 16 to 20 miles and even more to the gallon
of petrol; 8,000 to 12,000 miles to the set of tyres;
500 to 800 miles or more to a gallon of oil, and,
with all this, experiencing a comparative freedom
from adjustments and repairs that is a revelation.
The durability of the Packard has earned for it
the description of being a "ten-year” car. Instead
of buying cars at a cheaper price and trading
them in at a low re-sale value after the first year
or so, owners are finding it more profitable and
economical to buy Packards and wear them out
over a long period.
The Single-Six combines in one car every
desirable motor car advantage —reason-
able first cost, long life, distinction, beauty,
comfort, safety, ability, and last, but by no
means least, economy in operating and main-
taining charges.
You will be proud to own a Packard. You will
be proud of the prestige it takes wherever it goes.
You will be proud of the wonderful results it
will give you.
Ask any of the 40,000 men who own one.
IRA L. & A.C BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors: 261,263,265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Fellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd., The Universal Motors Pty. t S. A. Motor, H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne Petrie's Bight, Brisbane 141 Flinders St., Adelaide Hobart, Tasmania
PACKARD
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE


sdf
CJ/xe ELECTRIC
REFRIGERATOR
FRIGIDAIRE maintains low, even
temperatures in chests of large
capacity.
RIGIDAIRE, the latest pro-
-1 duct of the Delco-Light
Company, is a worthy
companion to Delco-Light, the
complete House-Lighting Plant,
and represents a very distinct
advance in domestic and small
commercial refrigeration. Years
of patient research and unlimited
money were spent before Frigid-
aire was marketed, and then it
was thoroughly tested in the
home market before being re-
leased for export. The buyer,
therefore, is not experimenting;
he purchases a well-tested pro-
duct.
The Electrically-driven, air-
cooled compressor, which is
automatically controlled,
may he located alongside
the chest or in the basement,
if necessary .
Frigidaire converts the power of the electric
motor into cold—dry—intense—and constant.
The motor-driven compressor, situated alongside the chest or in the
cellar, compresses a refrigerant, which, in expanding in the cooling unit in
the chest, reduces the temperature to a point much lower than that obtainable
in an ordinary ice-chest. Automatic control maintains a constant temperature,
and cubes of ice may be made for butter, drinks, etc.; ice-cream and frozen
desserts are readily produced.
FRIGIDAIRE eliminates once and for all the long list of disagreeable
and annoying features of inefficient ice-cooling—the iceman, and the damp
and mud associated with his daily visits.
The i-h.p. motor can be run on any voltage from 32 upwards.
Frigidaire is not to be regarded as merely a country proposition—it is
indispensable wherever food is to be kept.
No residence, hotel or confectionery
shop should be without Frigidaire.
Send to the Agent in your State for Price,
details and further interesting information.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELB., LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.
For Those Who Sell Ice -cream
The FRIGIDAIRE
Ice - cream Cabinet,
illustrated at right, is a
complete, self-contain-
ed plant for keeping
ice-cream in the best
of condition.
»JL,
0
: : *1
.. .. , - . . v
:• -.v-
Photo of
General Motors Building,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Tlie entire financial, research
and engineering resources of
the immense General Motors
Corporation are behind
Frigidaire and all Delco-
Light Products.
DELCO-LIGHT


Keep Your Hair
Healthy By Using
CUTICURA
Shampoo regularly with a suds
of Cuticura Soap and warm water
and keep your scalp clean and
healthy. Before shampooing, touch
spots of dandruff and itching, if
any, with Cuticura Ointment.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
30BjT“ Try our new Shaving Stick.
Dry Batteries
they last longer
Best for bells, buzzers, gas
engine ignition, radio and all
general purposes. More power,
better service for a long, long
time.
Obtainable everywhere
at little cost.
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
Kamo*
&85TCS3*
m
m
J
.PLAZA
ohavinguea
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
ii should read the Beitish Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
9
m
sd
Us!
3,
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p er m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grej
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied —
waterproof. All Chemists.
€
t\
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Stockowners,
Protect Your Stock!
Be prepared for the emergencies of sickness or accident amongst
your sheep and cattle by having
DENVER’S VETERINARY
INSTRUMENTS AND SUPPLIES
ready to hand.
The necessary dose or attention given promptly is often the
means of saving a valuable animal.
Our goods are the latest and most efficient in use in Great
Britain and America—real safeguards. We cover every need.
Send for our Catalogue of Veterinary
Instruments, Supplies and Remedies.
Denyer Bros.,
Veterinary Specialists,
Dept. 1, 281 George Street, Sydney.
o
EUGENE RIMMEE
LONDON and PARIS, LTD.,
Perfumers by appointment to H.M. Queen Alexandra, to H.M. The King of Spain, and
H.M. The Dowager Queen of Holland.
' •:
'
Egtoaft
f’
t “oy>3L
SNAMROCK
ERfAWEL ©
[ONOOH I
P*Rl3
&
turn
ROYAL SHAMROCK—a favorite
most delightful perfume.
and
55C
EAU VELVETIS —for whitening the
skin. A soothing essence of absolute
purity.
Wholesale Agents:
One tablet added to the water pro-
vides a softened and beautifully
perfumed water. •
Makers also of the celebrated
LAVENDER WATER, TOILET
VINEGAR, etc.
ADELAIDE
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
BERTH
SYDNEY ..
LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.,
ARTHUR GLOVER.
GREGORY & COLLINS.
BALDWIN & SLATTERY PTI., LTD.
L. M. CULLEN & CO.
JONES & JOSEPH. LTD.
ALWAYS ORDER
fds
King of Table Waters!
From the Crystal Springs of N.S.W. The Finest of
Mineral Waters. Rich in Curatives containing
Lime, Soda, Lithia and Magnesia.
BALLAD AT MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
PURVEYORS TO VICE ROYALTY
IKGISTCIIKV
riiAOe u*tß
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
.
SS OMVISM3 Oiai^dlNS
iIBHCSHHOr aaHdOISIUKq
S et
w
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Raker & Longhurst
6O York Street. Sydney.
PLU
he
'NEMCLAM j>
SFEU
THE
PLUM
n
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices——
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Ileal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and Jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Plum-Blossom.
The peach gives pinkest petals to the morn,
The almond floods the land with tinted snow,
The apricot has spread its dainty show
To deck the triumph of the Spring new-born;
Yet sister Cinderella stands forlorn.
These have their trumpeters, their bards;
but oh,
There is another beauty that I know,
Unsung of poets, and the painter s scorn!
When I have seen your loveliness unsought,
Plum-blossom, in some orchard-place alone,
Rich with the promise of an autumn store,
I have recalled good women I have known,
Beauteous, maybe, yet counting this as
nought— .
Glad to be good and asking nothing more.
S.A.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Fate.
The tides go out beyond the Golden Gate
To take their courses o’er the sunny sea.
I used to make demand of time to wait
For youth that trifled with the hours of fate;
And when time laughed the sea-tides beck-
oned me.
The sun has e’er a trysting sweet to keep
Where., swathed in pearly clouds of morn-
ing mist,
The red-lipped dawns of far Australia sleep—
The dark tides surging through the channels
deep
May hurry on or loiter as they list.
While youth still clamors for the sun to wait
(As I entreated time to wait for me),
The sunset pales; and ere it be too late,
By Sydney Heads or at the Golden Gate,
The sea-tides bear him with his dreams
to sea.
There he will know the sea-winds’ steady
song, .
And see the drowsy stars at morning nod;
And feel the peace of ocean, cool and strong.
Bearing his thoughts by blue, deep ways along.
And he may hear the quiet voice of God.
CALIFORNIA.
WILL LAWSON.
The Little Sister.
I had a little sister,
And she hung above her bed
A cross of plaited palm-leaf,
And high a crowned head.
And ’twixt the yellow candles,
In cloudy-blue arrayed,
Calm-eyed and greatly-knowing,
Was Mary, Mother-Maid.
I had a little sister,
And she counted out her prayers
On beads that tinkled silver,
Like seeds blown unawares.
And sometimes in the silence
I knew that Mary heard,
For in and out the candles
Her starry mantle stirred.
And I fought the Mother Mary,
With her smile that mocked me so,
For I felt her passing from me
And I could not let her go.
I fought her in the midnights,
A-weeping: “She is mine!
She is made for love and laughter,
And earth and its moonshine!”
I had a little sister,
And her hair hung golden-pale;
But now her face holds secrets
Behind a dusky veil!
And the eyes of Mother Mary.
O’er the bed that once she knew,
Look down upon me, asking,
“Have I not given too?”
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Hills of Nadgee.
The far, high hills of Nadgee,
Each morning when I wake,
I see them dimly looming
Beyond the quiet lake.
When Dawn, a smiling maiden
In pink kimono, trips
Down seaways smooth by Gabo,
Where turn the long black ships,
Those sleepy hills of Nadgee
From wooded gullies throw
White sheets of fog, and stand in
A naked morning glow.
When Noon, with shining lances
Their rocky walls assails,
They bulk along the border.
Unguarding New South Wales.
Beyond them, greenly growing,
The flats of Bega gleam,
With Tilba and Narooma
Lost in a lazy dream;
Bodalla, in its beauty,
And sparkling Bateman’s Bay,
And drowsy Ulladulla;
Then north and north away—•
A queenly Cambewarra
In jungled slopes of land,
And ferny Illawarra,
Where sunlit palm-trees stand.
But when the moon is sailing,
A silver boat on high.
These hazy hills of Nadgee
In Dryad slumber lie.
Of soft and magic seeming,
Faint stars glint through their trees;
And cooling night-winds bring them
Some message overseas.
To these brave hills of Nadgee
A dreamer, when I roam,
I wave farewell outgoing,
And hail them faring home.
These long, blue hills of Nadgee
That face the Southern Sea
In sunshine or in shadow
Are ever dear to me.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


Choose Dependable
Sports Equipment
Golf Clubs
Maxwell Model
THE Maxwell design concentrates
the weight just where the golf
club touches the ball; it puts
the weight right behind the ball.
We have just landed a shipment of
these Maxwell model golf clubs—-
mashies, putters, midirons, ICL Id
cleeks. The price is, each, 10/O
Other clubs from renowned makers
are here in large variety. The com-
pleteness of our stocks makes pos-
sible a choice exactly suited to your
requirements.
Golf Tuition
MR. WILL CORRY, expert golf
professional, gives secluded
lessons in golf by appointment
on the Roof Golf Area of our Hay-
market building. Morning and
afternoon tea provided gratis.
£l2O Golf
Competition
A GOLF Putting Competition for
Amateurs will be held on our
Roof Putting Green, Head-
quarters, Haymarket.
The first prize will be an order to
value £5O; second, value £2O; third,
value £10; fourth, value £5; and
there will be 15 prizes each to the
value of £l. There will also be a
Special Prize, value £2O.
Entry form and full particulars as to
the conditions of this Competition
may be obtained from our Head-
quarters, Haymarket, or from any of
our branches.
Entries close 22nd November.
Cafe
OUR new Cafe, Haymarket
building, first floor, provides
dainty meals and pleasant
music.
Hairdressing
NOT only do men receive expert
attention under the most
hygienic conditions, in our
modern Hairdressing Parlor, but
ladies may have their hair bobbed
or shingled with every confidence.
Carriage Paid
WE pay carriage. Complete
price lists of equipment for any
sport in which you may be
Interested sent post free on request.
Popular Guns
STRENGTH and accuracy are built into the Stevens Arms Co.
D.8.8.L. Gun. It has ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever,
cross-bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right modified,
left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece. It
has walnut stock, pistol grip, low hammers, vulcanite butt plate, snap
fore-end. It is tested for nitro powders. Weight of 12 gauge is 7flb.
to B^lb.; 16 gauge, to 81b.; 12 or 16 gauge, with 30in. barrels,
carriage paid, £6/1 7/6; 12 or 16 gauge, with 32in. barrels, . .
carriage paid £ 7/5/ ■
Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib,
rebounding locks, snap fore-end,
pistol grip, X bolt, walnut stock.
Weight about 71b.
Price, carriage paid £4/26
Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-
gauge, steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding bar
locks, pistol grip, neatly engraved,
superior finish. Weight about
71b. Price, carriage _ . .
paid
Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-
gauge, cross bolt, tested for nitro
powder, rebounding bar locks,
left choke, pistol grip, neatly en-
graved. Weight about 71b.
Price, carriage
paid
£lOl5/-
Reliable Rackets
THE Haymarket Extra Special Tennis Racket is one in which you can
find a lot of satisfaction. Its excellent balance, its strength and
resiliency, will help you play your best and get the utmost enjoyment
from your game. This racket is made from seasoned ash and
first-quality gut. The price is 70-
M.S. Wonder Racket, 25/-
M.S. Standard Racket .
30 /-
C. 8.8. Quadruple Centre Racket,
with cork handle, 25/-;
C. 8.8. Double Strung
Racket ..... 27/6
Oxford Co.’s A 1 Racket, 40/-;
Titanic, with concave throat, 65/-;
Cyclonic, with concave __ .
throat oUr
Spalding’s, Ayres’ and Slazenger’s
well-known Rackets at
prices varying from 24/-to \y& m
Mick Slmihons ft?
The World’s Greatest Sports Store.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: Hunter Street, Newcastle, and 202-12 Edward Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2336.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
THE SAME OLD TUNE.
“Mr. Asquith says the old Freetrade Liberal Party will not die, but that at the next general election it must be heard in every constituency.”
ORGAN-GRINDER ASQUITH: “Here’s gratitude for you! Haven’t I made ’em all ’appy and prosperous? And what do I get for it? Not a penny!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ol
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SURSCRIHERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.: 3 months. Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” coumn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
SOCO words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
u-ill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
Direct reproduction. or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —-i.e., any picture
which has tq be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Grondona. Australia House, Strand.
W. 0.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. A Iso from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London,
E. E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; ‘‘The Dritish Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 H igh Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Phodcsia News Agency, Salisbury: Denoni News
Agency, Denoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., j } 1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver. D.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Poland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Doulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Drentuuo’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and .'find Street, New York City; IJotaiing's
News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 10.) Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Ecn'PT .—Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Dool; and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Daillie Street,
Colombo; P. D. Perera and Co., 8 Daillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Parker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus. E.CJi.
U.S.A. — J. Poland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Doulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10m., Id. United Kingdom: ) to 10 oz., ltd.; each
additional l/oz., Id.; All Sea Ponte: 160 z.. lid.
Dritish Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 2 0z., Id.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1924.
THE CALL FOR TARIFF REFORM.
Dr. Page, the Commonwealth Treasurer,
has some useful achievements to his credit,
notably the establishment of the sinking
fund and the strengthening of the Common-
wealth Bank; but prophecy is not his forte.
In July, 1923, he budgeted for a Customs
and Excise revenue of £29,650,000. The
actual receipts were £35,750,000, or about
20 p.C. more than his estimate. Portion of
the £35,750,000 was derived from duties on
commodities imported by the State Govern-
ments and paid for with borrowed money,
the amount of the duty being, in every case,
added to the loan; but it is the fashion of
all Australian Treasurers to call the pro-
ceeds of such financial jugglery “revenue.”
Another and larger portion was paid in the
first place by importers of goods competing
with the produce of Australian factories.
The very abundance of these goods, and the
serious (in some instances disastrous) results
to the Australian manufacturer and work-
man, should have convinced the Treasurer
that the Greene tariff, which was intended
to be Protective, has, in the abnormal state
of affairs brought about by the dislocation
of exchange, by debased currencies on the
European Continent and by the longer hours
of labor worked there and in America, be-
come a tariff for revenue, and ought to be
raised immediately. But, in an evil hour
for Australian industry, he decided to let the
importing boom continue and to apply bis
unhealthy and, in part, fictitious surplus to
"lightening the burden of income-taxation
by £2,000,000.” In the process of “lighten-
ing the burden” he reduced the number of
individual taxpayers by 260,000 and lowered
the rates in the remaining 200,000 cases, but
no concessions were granted to companies
other than gold-mining companies (most of
them were exempted), nor was any help
forthcoming for manufacturing enterprises
which have ceased to earn profits and are, some
of them, on the rocks. As regards the current
year's revenue from Customs and Excise, "1
do not think we can expect to receive more
than £84,000,000,” the good doctor said. In
the first four months of the financial year he
actually received £12,587,000, or £1,227,000
more than for the corresponding period of
the twelvemonth in which £35,750,000 came
in. Unless imports decline during the re-
maining eight months, which is very unlikely,
for the exchange situation is all in favor of
the importer, and there is a proposal for a
huge, “migration loan” which would swell
the volume of goods, his estimate will be
another £5,000,000 or £6,000,000 less than
the realitv. Meanwhile the tragic list of fac-
tories and workshops that have had to shut
down or shorten hands owing to the flood of
imports is lengthening every week.
* *■ ■»
“A remission or taxation on incomes,” said
the Treasurer in his Budget speech, "is
rendered possible only because we are receiv-
ing a large revenue from Customs and
Excise.” Considering that the revenue in
question is more bloated than ever, he is
certain to be asked next session for further
“remissions”; in fact, the suggestion has
already been made in Foreign-trade news-
papers. And inasmuch as his next Budget
will be his last before the Government goes
to the country, he will be greatly tempted to
yield. But if Australian industries are to
be saved from the ruin which threatens them,
and in which some factories have already
been overwhelmed, the temptation will have
to be withstood. In the serious pass to
which things have come, the granting of
income-tax concessions—worthless obviously
to undertakings which no longer earn
profits—because of an abnormal Customs
revenue, while leaving untouched the con-
ditions of which the abnormal revenue is the
result, will be a betrayal of Protection; and
the Government frequently declares that it
is Protectionist to the marrow. The Cus-
toms revenue is abnormal because the tariff
has ceased to be Protective. Make it Protec-
tive and the revenue will sink to normal ;
also, industries now languishing 'will be
restored to health and others will start into
life. In short, the community will enjoy
the solid advantages of a sound and general
prosperity instead of the illusory benefits
flowing from unsound Government finance.
The Ministry has been fertile of schemes for
the relief of industries of the soil which are
suffering because their home market isn’t
big enough (it would be if there were a
proper balance between primary and second-
ary production) and because the competition
in overseas markets is too severe. There are
bounties on canned fruits, sweet wines, Dora-
dilla grapes and live cattle; there are
advances to dairy-farmers and growers of
raisins and currants; there are to be Boards
to control the London marketing of butter
and dried fruits. But these are expedients
that might be adopted by any Freetrade
crowd. So far the Government has done
nothing for the Australian manufacturer be-
yond protesting every few weeks that it is
devoted to his cause. Yet some of the manu-
facturing industries are as urgently in need
of assistance as those which the Govern-
ment has taken under its wing. And if
manufactures were encouraged by a scientific
tariff the necessity for bounties on wine, fruit
and cattle would disappear; so, too, would
the necessity for advances to dairy-farmers
and growers of currants and raisins, and for
wire-netting loans and “huge migration
loans.” For there would be a prodigious in-
crease in the consumption of farm produce
and the like in the home market, which is the
best of all markets, and the demand for labor
would be such that population wouldn’t have
to be bought on credit, with interest added, and
kept going, perhaps, on bankrupt farms.
* * * *
If its Protectionism is not more cant and
humbug, the Government will put tariff re-
form first on its programme for next session
and call Parliament together early in the
new year. To be on the safe side it should
raise the tariff all round; certainly the duties
on textiles, iron and steel, machines and
machinery, manufactures of metals and
rubber and (because of the special circum-
stances) cinematograph films will have to
be substantially increased. A recent pre-
cedent, and a good one, may be found in the
U.S.A. After the post-war boom in that
country there was a frightful slump. At
one period there were three times as many
men out of work as there were in Britain.
But the Republicans, who came into power
when things were at their worst, didn’t let
things slide in the senile Freetrade fashion.
Instead, they mended the holes in the tariff
wall and elevated it several yards, with re-
sults so remarkable that they were able to
help Coolidge in his Presidential campaign
with this convincing statement of fact
Before the Fordney-McCumber tariff law was en-
acted there were nearly 5,000,000 Americans out of
work. Those men are now employed.
Incidentally, the party that stood for High
Protection was returned with a record
majority, whereas the crowd that demanded
a revenue tariff went down to its worst de-
feat. It is a fact worth noting by Bruce
and Page.
THE SOVIET FAILS TO BUY A HORSE.
In Russia the Government had to give up
the plan of making internal trade a State
monopoly—of doing, that is, in a universal
way what some Australian ass-politicians
attempted in a minor fashion when they
ordered that the hen-farming soldiers of
Bankstown should buy their lien-food and
sell their lien-erop solely through a Govern-
ment department. In the bright and early
days of the Soviet, the penalty, if Ivan sold
a loaf or half a sheep to Alexis direct, was
death ; but it wasn’t possible to scrag every-
body. and even an oligarchy of savages
dropped to the fact. Foreign trade is, however,
still an exclusive Government business, with
curious results. The stealing of the entire
foreign debt gave Russia its railways and
other public works for nothing, so the coun-
try has only to export enough to pay for its
imports. Yet, now that the stolen gold-
reserve with which the Ulianov-Bronstein
gang began business is pretty well used up,
the struggle is a hard one; for in a land
where industry is barely worth while there
is little to sell. When Ivan Boesiieviksky
came, with his battered cady in his hand,
half-whining and half-bullying, to capitalistic
Britain for a loan of £50,000,000, it was,
therefore, simply a case of his Government
trading department asking for goods on long
tick. The department is, however, such an
outrageously bad mark that the proposal of
Silly Macdonald to waste public money
on the loan idea hurried his downfall. The
other day the Soviet department tried quite
a minor operation, and was again severely
rebuffed. It wanted to buy 1000 horses in
Canada, the same to be sent to Russia and
paid for on delivery. In the case of almost
any other Government the terms would have
been good enough, but the Canucks saw a
vision of themselves being handed a bundle
of irredeemable Soviet notes at Odessa, and
said that some form of cash would be pre-
ferable. As the Soviet agents couldn’t or
wouldn’t part, no trade resulted. It is the
boast of the Sovieteers that their system gives
Russia an overwhelming influence in the
world of commerce. They point out that if
some country grossly insults it. by refusing
a loan or by hanging its star Bolshevik pro-
pagandist, the trading department can, by a
stroke of the nib, remove the entire Russian
business from that country, and confer it
and the profits thereof on some better-
behaved community. That is quite true. But
unfortunately hardly any country puts any
value on its custom.
* * «-
The Soviet land, according to its own offi-
cial returns to October, 1923, had over twice
Australia’s area and it had about 24 times
Australia’s population, and in its factories
(all but the merest handful State-owned)
it had a little over 21 times Australia’s num-
ber of workers. In “other words, over 7 per-
cent. of Australia’s population consists of
factory-workers against less than 1 per cent,
of Russia’s, and very poor workers the latter
are. _ As Australia is far from self-support-
ing in the way of manufactured goods, and
has to import largely, it is plain that the
amount Ivan Boesiieviksky wants from
abroad in order to get the wherewithal to
cover his hairy nakedness must be something
enormous. Year by year, too, even in these
piping times of peace, his stock of animals
tends to diminish, which is an absurd condi-
tion of affairs in a country so purely agri-
cultural. The official returns cover a very
few years, and read thus :
1920. 1922.
Horses . . . . 24,000,000 20,400,000
Cows . . . . 20,200,000 19,500,000
Sheep . . . . 47,000,000 46,700,,000
Pigs . . . . 14,500,000 6,000,000
These figures loom up on page 1258 of the
last Statesman’s Year-Book for all the
world to see. As regards agriculture, in
this once great agricultural land the chief
feature is the monotonous repetition of the
term “Famine Area.” That area has appa-
rently come to stay. The Statesman’s
Year-Book for 1923 stated the case as re-
gards the usually cultivated area, or so much
of it as the available returns covered, the
figures being in dessatines, a dessatine being
in the vicinity of three acres. These were
its figures:—
1919. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Famine area 4,622,400 4,227,400 3,160,400 4,476,800
P a r t i a 1
famine area 1,249,500- 1,157,500 1,717,100 2,066,403
Prod ucing
non-famine
area . . 2,242,400 2,080,700 3,574,100 3,745,100
Consuming
area . . 1,059,70-0 986,000 4,287,900 4,421,400
In the returns for 1923 the position is put
differently. Hunger and other areas are not
given, and it is merely mentioned that the
imports, all by the State trading, department,
were valued at 438.000,000 roubles of the
good gold money which existed before the
war. and of this swag of goods 170,000,000
roubles worth were for famine relief. So the
gigantic spectre is still on the premises. It
came with the Bolshevik regime, and it will
apparently last while the regime lasts. It
has been ascribed to internal war; but in-
ternal. war, which never amounted to much,
ended years ago. though internal executions
didn’t. It has been blamed on capitalistic
interference, but the Soviet doesn’t allow
capitalists to interfere unless it can borrow
from them. It has also been charged up to
the act of God, but leading Sovieteers say
there is no Gqd. The trouble probably began
with the promiscuous and erratic seizure
of alleged surplus grain to keep the bungled
Government going—about two million tons
in 1918-19; four millions in 1919-20;
about 51 millions in 1920-21; and close
on eight million tons in 1921-22. Now
the levy is fixed at a little over five million
tons as a steady thing, but Ivan the cocky
has got into the habit of dying rather than
risk having a surplus. He was never a very
energetic person in his best days.
«•*■**
One result of all this is that Soviet
Russia, which used to live by selling food
to the world at large, exported 7700 tons of
foodstuffs in 1922 (latest figures) and
imported 978,955 tons, which reflected the
famine conditions very accurately. How all
this trade was paid for, or owed for, is hard
to say, blit perhaps the tail-end of the old
gold reserve was still helpful. Figures of
a scrappy and unsatisfactory sort are pub-
lished comparing the mineral output of 1913
and 1922, the decline being from 67 to 97
per cent. Some of this is due to loss of
territory, but loss of territory doesn’t explain
the fall of 874 per cent, in zinc, 791 in
asbestos, 78| in lead, and 67 per cent, in
manganese—all from districts which have
been Russian all along. It is just part of
the general deadness of things, including
people—the number of dead people in the
Soviet country is remarkable. Britain did
all it could for the misfortunate country by
pouring the blessed oil of Freetrade on its
head, but Russia had less and less of any
value to sell (its sales to J. Bull dropped
from 33 millions to nine millions between
1920 and 1923), and it became more and more
truculent in demanding that its p.n. should
be taken for what it wanted to buy. When
a Government is the sole buyer and seller,
and that Government admits, as the Moscow
harlequinade did in 1921, that its expendi-
ture is six times its revenue, and it then
repudiates the paper money with which it
filled the gap, commercial relations make
heavy weather of it. Even a little deal in
horses becomes difficult. Soviet Russia is
doubtless a good place for the men who lifted
themselves by their peculiar brand of patriot-
ism to high places, and when some of them
lately re-opened the old Embassy in London
with a great celebration the display of wealth
suggested that the garish days of czars and
grand dukes had been born again. It is
represented as a fair sort of place by the
carefully-censored press, though there are
matters which can’t be wholly concealed. It
has an irresistible appeal to cheap amateur
brigands in other countries, who picture
themselves doing the acts of Lenin and
Trotsky and repeating their success, which
was probably also the idea of the boy mur-
derer who got into the waxworks. And the
masses are probably more content than they
might be, never having had a chance to draw
invidious comparisons between their land
and any other. An old proverb current
in a very dreary Atlantic isle runs : “Iceland
is the best land on which the sun shines,”
and there is no reason why people shouldn’t
say so if they know no better.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Meeting of the Executive Committee.
The ferocious anger of union officials against
anyone who attempts to do more than the
irreducible minimum of work was lately
instanced in Melbourne, where the Federated
Moulders were appealing to the Arbitration
Court for better conditions. The secretary
declared sadly that his members earned
hardly enough to keep their wives and
families, and then he was faced with a case
where his union had expelled a man for
earning more, and had conspired to pursue
him remorselessly all over Australia with the
hated name of “scab,” and to keep him and
his belongings, if any, in misery and destitu-
tion. The letter was by the secretary him-
self, and ran :
Following on advices given to us that you proved
a traitor to your promise and to the principles of
-our union by accepting work as a pieceworker, 1 have
been instructed to advise you that at a meeting of
the executive committee held on August 16, 1921,
you were fined £lO and expelled from the Moulders’
Union. Your name and description will be sent to
all shops in Victoria, also to all other districts in
Australia.
This extraordinary piece of blacklisting was
done, according to the secretary, “for the
man’s own good,” and “to stop him making
a beast of himself and going too far.” He
added that “anything can be overdone, in-
cluding work.” The situation that the petty
tyrants of unionism have set up is something
like this :—-
The artisan must be “class-conscious,” aware of
his low condition, and aggrieved at his poverty and
at the poorness of his prospects, or the total lack
of prospects.
Yet he must not earn more than the rate fixed
according to the average value of the output of his
equally dispirited companions, and, apart from the
chance of a win on a horse, or the remote pi'ospect
of getting into politics, or the hope of thieving
successfully in a revolution, he must be content to
remain “in the condition to which Providence has
called him,” as the ’aughty English squire used to
say to the ’umble English villager. This rule
applies even if there is plenty more work waiting
and yearning to be clone in Australia, as shown
by the import statistics, and even if the defendant
can earn £9 a week instead of £5 without turning
a hail'.
A unionist may “make a beast of himself” with
drink, drugs, strange women, vile language and
fat bookmakers, and the “executive committee” has
no official knowledge of the fact. It doesn’t even
recognise crime as a disqualification. But any
effort at improvement save by methods prescribed
by the executive committee, and any lack of prompt
obedience to the executive committee, are capital
offences.
Thfe daily papers generally alluded to the
case as showing the wonderful devotion of
the trades unions to the day-labor system;
but the long continuance of any tyranny
doesn’t prove that the slaves are devoted to
it. In this case the system appeals to the
unionists who aim to live on the game, for
it makes the rank and file more dependent
on the executive committee. Also it suits the
revolutionaries, who regard other people’s
poverty and discontent as excellent assets,
and it is adapted to those of the cave-
dwelling instinct who prefer little work and
the frowsy life to anything strenuous. But
there is no evidence whatever that it is really
favored by the commonsense workmen, who
are as eager to “get on” to-day as ever they
were.
«
Membership of the Rulers’ Union.
' Every few weeks Labor expels somebody,
taking away his right to be a Labor member
or candidate, and depriving him of his vote
at Labor selection ballots. So far as is pos-
sible. the objectors shut out the objectee from
what they profess to regard as the inalien-
able privilege of citizenship, and if he isn’t
wliolly shut out it is by no fault of theirs.
There are also cases of the objectee being
further suspended from the right to work
at his trade and earn a living for himself
and his dependants, not because he is a l’otten
tradesman or a party with criminal tenden-
cies. hut for lack of pliability and subser-
vience, and for working too hard. The recent
matter of the Melbourne moulder was a ease
in point. The process of excommunication
is apt to be high-handed, sudden, erratic,
revengeful and of the hole-and-corner variety.
Still there are traces of a valuable precedent
about the method if it was carried out in
an open and legal way. At one time too
small a section had the right to select the
country’s lawmakers and to make its laws,
through the non-inclusion of people for no
cause save that they lacked the acquisitive
habit. Now too large a section has the right,
through the non-exelusion of the undeserving.
Instead of deprivation of the opportunity to
help at governing one’s fellow-creatures —
cancellation or suspension of the kingly
authority, so to speak, or expulsion from
the Rulers’ Union —being one of the rarest
of penalties, it should be one of the com-
monest. In its application to the cominu-


nity at large it should be even more copious
than Labor bosses have made it within their
own sphere. Every year it is being made
clearer that electoral disqualification should
attach automatically to every conviction for
crime, for some period to be determined. No
doubt a number of the disqualified might
creep back on the roll in disguise, and against
this every possible precaution would have to
be taken. A side-issue of some slight import-
ance is that under the proposed system the
jobbing politician would pull fewer strings to
rescue his criminal constituent out of gaol,
because that objectionable character wouldn’t
be a constituent when he made liis premature
emergence. Labor leaders of the aggressive
type should receive this proposition favor-
ably. They should recognise that imitation
is the one invariably sincere form of flattery.
Further, they should admit that if it is advis-
able to be so particular about men who can
select a Labor candidate and blossom into a
Labor member it is good to be at least as
stringent about the man who can blossom
into any sort of member. And the Parlia-
ment of the whole nation has certainly as
much claim to decide what is reasonable
ground for excommunication as the A.L.P.
Conference has to decide it of a bit of the
nation.
♦
Pinning the Railway to the Map.
The agreement between the Commonwealth
Government and South Australia to carry on
the construction of a railway to the Northern
Territory marks the first serious attempt to
break the policy of niggle and neglect which
has kept a big portion of this continent dan-
gerously empty. Though, by the agreement,
the railway will only reach Alice Springs in
1929, and can hardly at this rate of pro-
gress link up with Darwin before the middle
of the century, such a speed of construction
looks feverish in the light of the past 20
years of sheer inertia. Even the tortoise
that starts is more likely to get somewhere
than the bare that sits down considering
whether the longest way might be shorter than
the shortest, and whether the hardest way
might prove the easiest by taking a zig-zag
course to nowhere. And there is solid
ground for congratulation in the fact
that the foolish suggestions about the
construction of a corkscrew railway through
any place that could command a few
votes have been definitely ruled out. But
it would be foolish not to see the dangers
that still lie ahead. The building of this
section can do very little towards creating
traffic; and it is easily possible that some
Government with narrow views of economy
may hold it up at Alice Springs in the pre-
tence of fearing heavier losses. A wiser and
safer agreement would have been one which
fixed a definite date for the final link with
Pine Creek. The present plans offer little
more than a promise that the carrying of the
rails a little farther north will eliminate the
idle discussion about other routes. But
there is no reason, even with the compara-
tively slow crawl towards the centre of the
continent, why a comprehensive business
view should not be had of the undertaking.
The railway is not a mere political move nor
something intended for direct military pur-
poses. It is true that, when completed, the
whole line will be the most valuable link in
a strategic system for the defence of the con-
tinent ; but the ground material for our de-
fence. is not strategy but settlement. North
from Alice Springs there is a good land wait-
ing to be filled with Australian homes; and
it is the business of the Federal Government
to devise means by which that country can
be briskly settled. With the advances made
in motor traffic it is now possible to skir-
mish far in front of the rails. The big
American lines showed how this could be
effectively done. Long before the metals
entered the rich wilderness of California
gangs of men were at work there making
farms —building houses;, erecting fences,
planting orchards, and even ploughing the
fields and sowing crops. Big irrigation works
were carried out; townships were surveyed
and public buildings planned; and masses
of attractive and perfectly truthful literature
were carefully prepared. When the railways
actually crossed the mountains and came into
the fertile areas, nothing stood between the
railway companies and their dividends. What
the companies did over there can be repeated
by the Commonwealth Government. Thou-
sands of tried and capable Australians would
be glad to join in the new settlement under
such conditions; and tens of thousands of
likely immigrant farmers —stiffened with a
good backbone of tested Australians—would
have far better chances of success in the
Territory than on any of the poorer left-over
lands of the south-eastern States. As the
railway moved northward—and under the
circumstances it would be likely to move
much more rapidly than present plans, sug-
gest—a great tide of active, enthusiastic
migration would follow; and the southern
section of the line might thus actually pay
some of the cost of the last northern links.
— ♦
The Birth of a New Baby.
Wu Pei-fu, the Chinese general who was
driven out of Peking through the ratting of
Feng, the Christian general, has, as was to
be expected, reappeared on the Yangtsze.
The basin of this mighty river is probably
the richest potentially and the most thickly
populated area in the world, and Peking is
a dry, dusty, poverty-stricken outpost by
comparison. Shanghai, the greatest city of ail
Asia, is the natural outlet for the growing
surplus of the area. By retreating here Wu
may hold the trump hand and compel thfc
foreign diplomats to shift their dunnage.
The silent struggle which goes on ceaselessly
between the various foreign Powers as to
which shall have the major control of this
gigantic wild cat, with its promise of endless
dividends, is at present going in favor of
Russia, though the Soviet’s ability to do
more than make an untidy mess of things, and
then leave it as usual for the capitalist
countries to clear up, 1s to be doubted. Being
half Oriental herself, Russia knows the lan-
guage, figuratively speaking, and her table
manners do not jar like the superior pose of
other Westerners. The Soviet pose of de-
livering the millions of China from the thral-
dom of European capitalism is a very inspir-
ing one to the distracted Chinese, tortured by
growing pains. If it results in nothing else,
it is quite likely to produce a Boxer out-
break on : a scale much huger than the half-
hearted affair which, engineered by the late
Ching dynasty with the object of exter-
minating the foreigner, recoiled on the insti-
gators and exterminated them. Calls to
unite in destruction of the foreigners are of
daily occurrence, and have the unwonted pub-
licity of an extensive newspaper service;
and they are always couched in the phrase-
ology popularised by Moscow. If, however,
China can succeed in keeping off her aggres-
sive enemies and her equally aggressive
friends long enough to put her house in
order, she lias every chance of emulating
Japan and becoming a modern State within
a generation. Alongside such old-world cities
as Pingtang, which has dreamed inside its
walls unchanged for 20 centuries; where
electric light and cinemas are unknown, and
the kitchen god (with his eyes daubed with
mud, so that he cannot see, and his mouth,
so that he cannot speak) goes up aloft each
year to report the family sins to Heaven;
where in times of poor harvest the temple
images are broken up and thrown on the
fields as fertiliser; where children are not vac-
cinated against small-pox, but have mirrors
hung on them, so that when the demon sees
his reflection he will pit his own countenance
with holes instead of the child’s; and where
men, in voluntary expiation of a crime, have
themselves built into a room for the re-
mainder of their lives—alongside towns such
as this are two-year-old hives of industry like
Wusih, on the Yangtsze, which has 75 mills
driven from a modern power plant, produces
soap, tooth-paste, cotton and silk goods,
aerated waters, bricks and tiles, and has a
plague-prevention service and a feminist club.
The fact is that the publicity given to her
politics has obscured the phenomenon of
China’s astonishing industrial development.
That development has gone on relentlessly,
despite every discouragement, and the break-
ing-up of the unwieldy country into handier
fragments would doubtless hasten the process.
A segment like the Yangtsze basin, with its
population twice as numerous as Uncle Sam’s,
would be quite large enough for one man
to handle; it would also be a record-weight
infant to add to the family of nations, and
one that would doubtless in the fulness of
time make its voice heard in the councils of
the Pacific.
The Glorious Revolution.
The seventh anniversary of the Bolshevist
Revolution was celebrated in Australia by
renewed outbreaks of job-control on the Com-
monwealth line of steamers and work-stop-
pages on the wharves. Also, there was a
cablegram from Moscow in which Tomsky,
described as president of the Russian Trade-
Union Congress, conveyed “greetings to
miners and transport workers in their
struggle against capitalist offensive”; and
another, signed “Zinoviev, secretary Com-
munist International,” in which “the bour-
geoisie and their agents” were alleged to
be “quaking everywhere.” These messages
were addressed to Gabden (imp.), secretary
of the Sydney Labor Council and of the
Australian Communist party, and were pub-
lished in Mr. Willis’s Labor Daily, to-
gether with a portrait of Lenin and a gloat-
ing account of the Bolshevist achievements
under the heading “Fingerposts of Revolu-
tion.” Some of the Labor Daily’s “Finger-
posts” are subjoined:—
1917.
Collapse of Czarism. Moderate Socialists seek to
carrv on the war. Bolshevik Revolution.
1918.
Socialisation of the land, expropriation of the
factories, publication of secret treaties, repudiation
of the loans, nationalisation of the banks. Red
Army and Red Terror instituted.
1919.
Third International founded.
1920.
Beginning of industrial revival.
1921.
Anglo-Russian trade agreement. New economic
policy. Famine.
1922.
Genoa and Hague Conferences. Agreement with
Germany. Economic reconstruction proceeds despite
famine.
1924.
Treaty with Britain. Death of Lenin. Foreign
trade expanding. Second bad harvest.
But the history is incomplete in numerous
important features, some of which are here-
with supplied:—
1918.
Great Bolshevist victory—the Czar, his wife,
daughters and crippled son stabbed and kicked to
death without trial. Overwhelming hordes of Finns
(pop. 3,000,000) expel Red Army of Soviet Repub-
lic (pop. 131,000,0001) and establish bourgeois gov-
ernment. Peace signed with German invaders, who
occupy the Crimea, the Ukraine, the Baltic Provinces,
Poland, etc., and are preparing to march on St.
Petersburg, Red Army being too proud to fight.
Battles of Palestine, Macedonia, Vittoria Veneto,
the Marne, August 8 (Ludendorff’s “black day”),
the Argonne, Flanders and the Hindenburg Line
won by Imperialist Allies, who are not too proud
to fight, and German invaders withdraw. The Soviet
Republic triumphs! Triumph celebrated by social-
isation of industry, production, distribution and
exchange (to be later adopted as Australian Labor
objective), together with repudiation of loans, in-
ternal and foreign, and plunder of churches. Revo-
lutionary tribunal greases its ropes and oils its gun.
1919.
Millions of intelligentsia and bourgeoisie shot,
hanged, drowned, beaten to pulp and blown to pieces
by Revolutionary Tribunal. Special corps of strang-
lers imported from China. Third International
starts world-wide propaganda, but no luck anywhere
except in Hungary, where Bela Kun, alias Cohen,
proclaims Red Republic and establishes Revolution-
ary Tribunal, but is forced to flee with the loot.
Bourgeois Republics established in Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, Latvia, Est.honia and elsewhere.
1920.
War with Poland (pop., exclusive of Germans
and Jews, 12,000,000). Unsuccessful. Horribly
licked, in fact, and obliged to cede 43,908 eq. miles
with 3:{ million inhabitants. Red soldiers famous
runners, but reluctant to face angry foreigners with
arms in their hands. Much prefer making speeches
about Karl Marx and the glorious Revolution.
1921.
Another great victory—Red objective adopted at
Brisbane Labor conference. White Australia policy
almost scrapped. Trade agreement with England
no bong. Find we have nothing to sell and nothing
with which to buy. Peculiar result of the nation-
alisation of the banks and other reforms on which
our Australian friends are so keen. Crops fail.
Multitudes of peasants die. We send the hat round
among the capitalist nations, and bourgeois relief
missions from imperialist America and Britain save
us. We repay them by redoubling our efforts to
Bolshevise their countries—the clumsy fools!
1922.
Send representatives to Genoa Conference to de-
mand loan of several hundred millions without
security. Demand refused. Economic treaty with
bourgeois German Republic. Have high hopes that
Stinnes and other plutocrats will do something for
us. But they turn away, like the English, when
they discover that, everything having been socialised,
currency, credit, production, industrial efficiency,
transport and so forth have gone to pot. And it
is no use reminding them that in the days of the
tyrant Russian exports were valued at 1500 millions of
roubles (the rouble being then worth two shillings
instead of a thousandth of a farthing or there-
abouts) per annum, and more in good years.
1923.
Supply of gold seized in the banks (a lot of it
belonged to Britain, France and the U.S.A.) and of
unsold valuables looted from the Crown, the Church
and the nobility running perilously low.
1.924.
Labor Government, in Britain. Negotiate huge
loan without security. Sell £BOO worth of Russian
bonds to Australian unions. More famine. More
hat. Ramsay Macshuffle defeated. All up with
British loan. La Follette defeated. All up with •
prospects of American loan. All up apparently
with us.
In some quarters it is considered marvellous
that a minority regime which has accom-
plished so many varieties of ruin should have
lasted seven years. But history shows that
on another occasion wdien Russia was a prey
to internal dissension an equally contemp-
tible minority of savages (i.e., the Tartars)
captured the country and ran it for two cen-
turies, parts of it for a great deal longer.
And the Tartar occupation, by Orientalising
the Russians (previously in large part a
Scandinavian or Nordic people) and giving
their minds a fatalistic twist, paved the way
for the Czarist tyranny and that of the pre-
sent lot of savages. What says Gibbon?
The civil discord of the great dukes or princes
of Russia betrayed their country to the Tartars.
The latter spread from Livonia to the Black Sea,
and both Moscow and Kieff, the modern an 1 the
ancient capitals, were reduced to ashes ; a temporary
ruin, less fatal than the deep and perhaps indelible
mark which a servitude of 200 years has imprinted
on the character of the Russians.
A wise old bird was Gibbon !
A Hustling Minority Government.
Though the Lyons Government of Tasmania
has spent less time in actual Parliamentary
session than most of its predecessors, it is
probably the best-advertised State Adminis-
tration in Australia. There was never
a Government in the Speck so adept
in keeping itself in the public eye,
and the material for advertisement still
seems, after a year of office, as plen-
tiful as ever. First it created an
Advisory Board of the ablest private citi-
zens it could muster, and then laid itself
out to encourage the Board to do its darnedest.
As a result all sorts of likely-looking pro-
posals for increasing production and trade
have been unearthed and given a healthy
airing. Forestry improvements, including
replanting schemes; a mining conference to
boom new prospecting areas and increase the
productivity of old fields; a conference (prac-
tically compulsory) of private companies in
possession of shale properties, which seems
likely to start a definite move towards amal-
gamation of all local shale interests; a con-
ference of landholders of the sparsely-popu-
lated midland districts with a view to pro-
moting closer settlement; an exhaustive re-
port by a mainland expert oil the suitability
of certain of these midland districts for in-
tensive cultivation under irrigation—these
are some of the many smaller activities which
have served to earn publicity for the live
Lyons during his short year of office. The
larger and really permanent performances
are (1) the successful canvass of the Federal
Government for financial aid, and (2) the
squaring of the State ledger. Such diffi-
culties as the solving of a sizeable unem-
ployed problem, keeping the Electrona car-
bide works from insolvency, and the conduct
of the more or less delicate negotiations
in connection with a change-over of Gover-
nors, Railway Commissioners and Agents-
General, and the disposal of the somewhat
battered remnants of the Lee Government’s
ill-fated shipping line, have been taken as
mere items in the day’s work. But every
week brings forth something new to keep
folks interested and to set tongues wagging
as to the chances of the Government in the
not improbable event of the Uppish House
so dealing with the vitals of the current
Budget as to give Lyons an excuse for pre-
cipitating an election before Christmas. A
week or so back everybody was talking about
the Government’s proposal to spend a few
hundreds in obtaining accurate measurements
of the fish-canning possibilities of the island ;
this week we have Premier Lyons announc-
ing, on the very eve of the call at Hobart
of the Norwegian whaling store-ship, Sir
James Clark Ross, en voyage for Antarctic
whale-fishing grounds, that negotiations are
almost completed with the Imperial Govern-
ment for the proclamation of a British whal-
ing- area covering all that valuable parcel of
water, ice-fields, seal-roosts and penguin
rookeries comprised in the triangle Tasmania-
Maoriland-South Pole, and of which Hobart
is the natural home station. What next
week’s advertisement will be no man may
tell, but a radio has just arrived from the
home-coming Siioobridge, M.L.A., to the
effect that a couple of America’s finest ex-
perts are to visit Tasmania to show how the
waters of her altitudinous lakes may be
cheaply induced to carry a double load —
power and irrigation—instead of as at pre-
sent power alone. It is perhaps worth not-
ing that so far, and finite contrary to ex-
pectations, no real wild-cat has been per-
mitted to shove its whiskers into public view
among the multitude of State Advisory Board
suggestions. It is true that some dead-
earnest proposals for setting up a sort of
fur-farm on part of Tasmania’s unalienated
bush and mountain lands were submitted to
the Advisory Board : but, despite the derisive
chuckles which rumbled the loiver chests of
ancient and ’possum-hating cockies, there is
a growing doubt as to’ whether the fur-farm-
ing idea is such a very wild cat, after all.
However, the Advisory Board turned the
proposal down, wherefore little harm was
done to the Government’s sound policy of
continuous publicity. Minority Governments,
though theoretically immoral from the Pure
Democracy angle, are often the most useful,
as they daren’t practise Go-Slow.
S’Africa as a Wool-grower.
“Deb Jong” : One day last month Duncan
Carson, of a big Sydney wool firm, came
back from a trip which included South
Africa, and had something to say on the
subject of wool-growing in those parts.
He seems to have been astonished by the in-
crease in quality and quantity of Cape wool
in the last few years. Yet he should not
have been. The Bulletin has been warn-
ing him and other Australians for years past
against the practice indulged in by many
Australian breeders of sending their finest
blood overseas to build up a dangerous com-
petitor in the world’s wool markets, at the
same time depreciating Australia’s principal
and most unfailing source of primary wealth.
The ignorance of Australian sheep-growers
as to the conditions, actual and possible, of
the South African wool-growing industry is
pathetic. Quite recently a well-known N. S.
Wales pastoralist gave as his reason for
pooh-poohing the “bogey” of competition
that South Africa had not sufficient country
to greatly extend her flocks, and this appa-
rently satisfied his hearers. As a matter of
fact, South Africa has, in the Cape, the Free
State and the Transvaal, millions of acres of
splendidly-grassed country, . permanently
watered for the most part, which has never
yet come under sheep, but has carried a few
cattle. Similarly, in Swaziland and Zululand,
the latter particularly, there are great graz-
ing areas now utilised only for a compara-
tively few cattle, and well suited for carry-
ing sheep. Some five-and-twenty years ago
sheep-breeding in S’Afriea, save in a few
Cape farms and others in Natal, was no
doubt a jest to the average Australian with
knowledge of his own country's sheep. The
Dutch farmers ran a lot of mongrels to-
gether, semi-merinos. Lincoln or Leicester,
native fat-tails and their mixed progeny, all
cheek-by-jowl, undipped and folded by night
in higli-walled stone kraals. Scab and other
diseases raged among them unchecked, the
veldt farmer of those days knowing and
caring nothing of infection —whatever hap-
pened was the will of God. Even on show
farms, like Olocolan, in the Free State, be-
tween Lady brand and Fiekslnirg, and
Eloff’s, near Pretoria, the type of the much-
prized flocks was lamentable. The energies
of the English repatriation staff in South
Africa after the war set a steady stream of
Australian sheep and dairy cattle of quality
flowing in to reinforce the few good strains
hitherto imported by one or two private in-
dividuals. Veterinary surgeons were intro-
duced to teach modern methods of stock sani-
tation and the treatment of disease, and a
steady trend upwards was begun. Since
those days the farmer has gone a long way.
He has learned to let his sheep run inside
jackal-proof fences, instead of jambing them
up at night in infected folds. lie has learned
that care and attention pay; and he has in
the Kaffirs a reliable and cheap labor. The
Kaffir is a born herdsman and shepherd, and,
if trouble is taken with his training, as good
and capable a workman in this line as the
average European. What we would call
station-hands get 30s. per month, and shear-
ing costs less than half what it runs to in
some parts of this country. With a fairly
equal quality, the infinitely lower cost of
production will give Sonth African wool a
big pull in the open markets, and all our
twaddle about superior methods of handling
and shipping will not avail us. A prohibitive
export duty on stud sheep is imperative; or,
better still, their sale out of Australia should
be stopped.
Black Brother—and Sister.
Nothing illustrates better how smugly-civil-
ised man overlays the real facts of life, so
that the sight of them in their naked ugli-
ness may not shock him, than our treatment
of the aboriginal proprietors of this our herit-
age (by extermination). It is not a matter
in which any but a few humanitarians take
much interest, but when it comes up for dis-
cussion something startling is usually pro-
duced. Up north, where life is rude and
rough and skins a little tougher, one may see
Black Brother being led about in chains or
strapped to stirrup-irons; further south,
where stomachs are apt to be queasy, he is
carefully swept up and put away in “reser-
vations,” like a casualty or a contagious
disease, so that citizens may not be pain
fully reminded of prior claims to the land
they buy and sell. The latest aspect of the
problem given a languid airing in the press
is the departmental method of preserving
the virtue of Black Sister, endangered by low
whites. So seized is the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment of the importance of preserving this
possession of hers that it goes to the length
of forcing upon Black Sister the life of a
vestal virgin. Its mind cannot conceive of
any other way of isolating the race from
alien interference. It catches her early, takes
her away from the bosom of the tribe, and
segregates her where none but the purest old
maids of the conquering race shall approach
her. In the chaste security of a Government
institution, with no risk of being distracted
in her useful studies by the gross attentions
of dusky Romeos, she learns those simple
arts that will make her most serviceable to
her white overlords, such as scrubbing floors,
peeling potatoes and washing dirty dishes.
When she has acquired proficiency in these
civilised accomplishments she is drafted into
suburban homes of good standing. There is
no danger of her ever seeing a black face;
male aborigines are practically forbidden to
enter the metropolitan areas. For her ser-
vices her employers pay 2s. Gd. a week for
the first year, rising to ss. in the fourth;
blit lest the possession of so much money
might stir a sweet contagion in her blood to
the imperilling of her virtue, the Department
takes 2s. in the fh*st year, in the second
3s. and in the third and fourth years 3s. Gd.,
and banks it. Thus in the pleasant environ-
ment of a suburban kitchen and back yard,
this daughter of Australia grows up, secure
from sin, sorrow and temptation. Every-
thing is done, we are assured, to see that
she is properly housed, fed and clothed. If
she should feel welling up within her the
desire for the free and open spaces inherited
from countless thousands of roving ancestors,
she can read the white man’s newspaper in
the kitchen after dinner and forget it. If
a desire for love and courtship and mating
with some savage hero comes unbidden to
her mind, she can exorcise the shameful
spirit by polishing her white master’s boots.
It is admitted that the system will lead to
the eventual extinction of the race—there
were only a dozen “black” marriages in N. S.
Wales last year—but what of that? At least
the process of annihilation is being performed
with due decency and decorum, and with as
little unpleasantness to the executioners as


ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN!!!
and the wisest thing to do is to safeguard oneself by effecting a policy with
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
The A.P.A. Standard
Premium from £1
covering all Accidents and Sicknesses.
Policy is the most up-to-date and attractive Contract offered by any Company in Australasia,
per annum upwards. Apply for particulars to the Head Office of the Association,
VICTORIA:
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
4 Surrey Chambers, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
77 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
or any of its Branches:—
QUEENSLAND:
Unity Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Temple Chambers, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Australasia Chambers, King William Street,
Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
possible. There is, nevertheless, a lesson
for the White Australian in this spectacle
of Black Sister, robbed of her country and
cheated of the birthright of a woman, going
thus mournfully to her virgin grave. Her
death-sentence was pronounced on the day
the first white man sighted Australian shores.
Her race had had centuries of isolation
in which to occupy this continent effectively,
and it had jailed to do it. A new race came
and found the conquest easy. So easy that,
after a little shooting, it was content to let
rum, venereal disease, phthisis and depart-
mental regulations complete the sentence.
But the biological law still operates, and
the only title to this sea-girt paradise that an
overcrowded world will permanently recog-
nise is effective occupation, whether the
nominal possessors are black as Bingiii was
or white as we are.
#
The Fall of Prenclergast.
The Victorian Labor Government is no more.
Having only 29 votes in a House of 65
members it held office on a precarious tenure,
and was doomed from the moment its oppo-
nents agreed not to disagree any longer,
which happened last week. During its brief
reign (or interregnum) it achieved little,
but attempted quite a lot. It appointed a
Royal Commission to inquire into the case
of the Melbourne police strikers, and released
a striker who had been given two years for
shooting with intent. It appointed another
Royal Commission to inquire into the admin-
istration of lunatic asylums, and re-appointed
a Labor J.P. who had been removed for
“irregularities.” It had vast plans for
appointing more Royal Commissions, for fix-
ing prices and compulsorily pooling wheat
and dried fruits. It refused a donation to
the Victorian war memorial on the ground
that it didn’t believe in “celebrating” war.
Also it introduced a Budget in which the
workers and their bookmaking friends re-
ceived preferential treatment. It wasn’t an
inspiring Ministry, and there were few re-
grets when it fell. All the same, it contained
two or three men who showed some aptitude
for administrative work and would render
useful service in an elective Ministry. And
an elective Ministry would be vastly prefer-
able to an arrangement in which a party
with a dozen members on the floor of the
House will have six Ministerial offices, and
a with 18 members will have the other
six. Which is how the Allan Government
is constituted.
From a sugar port:—
The Mackay (Q.) branch of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, which was dragged into the Sydney
overtime strike, soon learned that time and tide
are independent of trade-union decrees. Mackay
being a tidal port, cargoes must, as a rule, be
lightered between the anchorage at Flat Top Island
and the town, and hitherto it has been the custom
for the watersiders to proceed continuously with the
loading or unloading of a vessel until the job was
finished. But what with the day tide and Sydney
hours, toil has become a spasmodic affair. And this
at the height of the sugar season. Monday, Nov. 3,
was a late tide, and a coastal steamer ai'riving
with 180 tons for Mackay was able to discharge 40
tons only. The remainder was carried on and the
entire outgoing cargo of 70 tons left behind, because
the tide would not permit of the watersiders leaving
for Flat Top until 1 o’clock, and the strike would
not permit of their remaining there after 4.15, since
they must be landed at the wharf before 5. Straight-
way consignees were informed that no more cargo
would be received for Mackay until matters were
adjusted. The case of the large overseas steamers
is worse in proportion as the expense of holding
them idle is greater. An overseas steamer is at
the moment lying at Flat Top loading 2000 tons of
sugar. In ordinary circumstances the loading woul 1
take 21 days, but it will be spread over a week
and a half on the 9-to-5 basis. Incidentally, men
who were making good wages when working in
conformity with the decrees of Nature are now
wondering how long life can be supported on the
hot-air pumped up by union bosses a thousand miles
awav.
*
“Sol Malaprop” : The irrepressible Percy
R. MFggy is holding forth again in a Sydney
paper, the theme of his discourse being that
the sure road to prosperity and the positive
remedy for unemployment lies in abolishing
Customs duties and making the land the chief
source of revenue instead. I don’t suppose it
could be made the only source, for some-
money would still crawl in from public
works; but land is to take the place of Cus-
toms, anyhow. Curiously enough this inter-
esting experiment is being tried before Mr.
Meggy’s unastonished eyes. In Soviet Russia
the Government is the sole importer, and as
it sees nothing to be gained by taxing its
own goods everything comes in free. There
is perfect Freetrade. And seven years ago
the Government “took over” all the land,
and proceeded to rely on rents or land-tax
(one term is as good as another), so Percy
It. MEGGY-ism became complete. The agricul-
tural rents had to be collected in kind, and
they had to be heavy to make up for losses
in other directions; hence agriculture lan-
guished so that Russia became a food-import-
ing country, and manufactures languished,
and most things languished. Last year’s
figures show the estimated land-tax revenue
at about £32,000,000, and other taxes, which
have been reluctantly dragged in to fill the
gap, at about £39,000,000. It was a sincere
attempt at Freetrade and land nationalisa-
tion, conducted under good conditions, for
the public debt was abolished and the experi-
ment began with a clean sheet. As regards
the land the Soviet Government couldn’t
have MEGGY-ised better than it did. The
great tax burden can’t be shifted on to the
soil without confiscating (or plain stealing)
it. This may be done in fact and name
by taking the title and the income, or only
in fact by taking the income and leaving
the nominal owner the title ; but the differ-
ence amounts to no more than a figure of
speech.
&
The N. S. Wales State Government has at
the suggestion of the University agreed to
pay a subsidy up to £5OOO for cancer re-
search. This is good ; but it is equally good
to read a note in Science Progress for last
month suggesting it to be just possible that
we are sounding too high an alarmist note
in this matter. We have been told that
cancer is a disease of civilisation. Late
investigations do not, we are assured, sup-
port this idea. It was once thought that the
disease w r as rare or non-existent in Green-
land ; a recent survey by the Danish Govern-
ment shows it to be as common there as in
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST.
“Addressing a gathering of workers at Moscow, M. Trotsky said that the British election had proved a
revolution to be impossible until a strong Bolshevik party had been created in Britain. ‘But while we
have lost ground temporarily in Europe, we are winning in the East, where the gigantic yellow man is
raising his head. All the cities and villages of China and India are feeling Russia’s helping hand.’”
THE DELIVERER: “What a vision of innocence and ignorance! And without even a ballot-
box to defend her!”
European countries. And it occurs in all
sorts of animals, mammals, birds, fishes, etc.,
which don’t suffer the ills of civilisation.
Nor is the Science Progress writer able
to trace a connection between the increase in
the frequency of cases and modern dietetic
customs. Indeed, in his opinion, the conten-
tion that cancer is increasing at an alarming
rate is not itself borne out by English mor-
tality statistics, if carefully interpreted.
*
“M.D.” on the Black Death’s descendant:—
Los Angeles is passing through a ghastly pneu-
monic plague experience, and the doctors expect the
usual 100 per cent, of fatalities in the unfortunate
persons who approached the body of the first victim
Isolated outbreaks like this are only explicable on
the supposition that individuals exist who are carriers
of plague. It would be interesting to know if there
has been an epidemic of ’flu in the place now affected.
The pulmonary type of plague is certainly not carried
by rats or fleas. It has been suggested that when
’flu occurs in a chronic carrier, the Bacillus pesiis
emerges from its hiding-place in the inguinal glands,
and fatally attacks the lungs. As the bacillus is
identical in the two varieties of plague, this seems
a reasonable theory. There was influenza about
during Sydney’s solitary experience of pneumonic
plague, the cases of the latter occurring in 1906
in Mort-street, Balmain. I don’t think the tempera-
ture was unusually high in the first victim, whom I
saw, but I remember that the physical signs were of
the broncho-pneumonic type, and I was struck by
the marked cyanosis of the face and neck of the
patient, who rapidly sank. Fortunately for me, his
relatives did not like my opinion that nothing could
be done, and got other advice, to which circumstance
i probably owe my existence. But the Health autho-
rities looked me up pretty carefully for a while, and
I don’t blame them.
«
“Clerk” : The unkindly reference to < the
host of Government officials who are periodi-
cally smitten with ill-health (B. 23/10/’24)
would be savagely endorsed by Vic. Railway
Commissioner Molomby, who, when general
superintendent of transportation, made des-
perate efforts to ascertain why so many of
his staff were afflicted with mysterious sick-
nesses during Cup Week. The trouble in the
Yic. railways is that if a permanent hand
comes on duty two or three minutes late he
is “blistered.” On the other hand, if he
sees that he’ll be late and ’phones the office
that mumps, consumption, housemaid’s-kuee
or any other complaint that might occur to
him is keeping him away from duty, he
doesn’t hear any more about it. Needless
to say, the latter course is much the more
popular. Unfortunately for me, I had only
just become a “permanent” when I decided
to have a day off with the usual excuse.
Picture my disgust when I found that day’s
pay docked off my roll, with the terse ex-
planation that it was necessary for a junior
to serve six months’-probation before he was
allowed off “sick” with full pay when there
was a race meeting on. So I’ll have to
make up that day with 100 p.c. interest
when this year’s Tests are being played.
And I have no doubt quite a number of
“indisposed” cobbers will be with me.
In 1929 Britain should have 32 cruisers to
Japan’s 29; but of Nippon’s ships 11 will
have been constructed since the present year,
and, therefore, will be more modern —which,
since warships are perishable goods, means
everything. In five years’ time the present
programme will leave John Bull with eight
cruisers of 10,000 tons and the Mikado with
ten. If Australia can make up her mind
whether she is going to give the job of build-
ing her two projected ships to Britain or
build them herself, and can get them finished
before ffhey become quite obsolete, the odds
on the surface will be exactly even ; though
underwater, since Japan will have 73 sub-
marines and Britain but 31, they will be
horribly uneven. The fortune of war. par
ticularly naval war, being notoriously fickle,
the margin of safety does not look as wide
as a church door.
“Bouragi” : The Anglican Provincial Synod,
sitting at Rockhampton, has passed a resolu-
tion asking the Commonwealth Government
to rescind its order that German mission-
aries shall leave the mandated territories by
July 1, 1928. The motion would not have
amounted to much had it not been fathered
by Bishop Newton, of New Guinea —a fine
man who has worked his way up the ladder
from the bottom rung, and whose straight-
forwardness and sincerity have earned the
good opinion of all laymen who have known
him during his long service. These, however,
will be the first to appreciate the fact that
the Bishop’s good heart has over-ruled his
level head. The request, he says, comes from
every missionary body in New Guinea: they
all agree that the deporting of the German
missionaries is detrimental to missionary
work. Here we see the missionary attitude
that, so missionary work prospers, nothing
else, matters. In India, Central and East
Africa and other lands the German mission-
aries before, during and after the war were
earnest political propagandists. Even the
British missionary, however well meaning, is
often an active or inactive opponent of Gov-
ernment measures. But, apart from that, the
missionary of the conquered one-time owners
of the mandated territories is almost neces-
sarily a barracker for his own race and a
fomenter of discontent against the supplant-
ers. The German missionaries in the man-
dated territory have indeed already given the
Commonwealth good cause to wish them else-
where ; and even Bishop Newton allows
that their activities at one period were “a
mistake.” In 20 years perhaps wc may be
glad to welcome them back. For the pre-
sent safety demands that they shall go; and
the good Bishop’s admission leaves no doubt
about the wisdom of requiring it.
♦— ——
“Goodauss” goes fishing :
Writing in the Commonwealth Year Book for
1924, David G. Stead presents some remarkable data
and makes a noteworthy prediction concerning a neg-
lected industry. He declares that our fishing grounds
are so extensive and so abundantly stocked that it is
quite on the cards that the world’s centre of gravity
in commercial fisheries will some day be removed to
Australia. The extent of the fishable waters is
14,210 miles of coastline, bays and estuaries, and
they may be worked up to at least 20 miles from the
shore; 30 miles in some parts. No other country can
boast of such an enormous field available at all times
and seasons. No other country can show either such
a vast fish-fauna. Approximately 2000 species have
been taken from these waters, and the survey has not
been half finished.
From the. “whale” shark, an ocean Goliath 70 feet
long, to the little saw-shark, an excellent food fish,
but rejected as such, like many others, Australia
possesses the greatest variety of sharks in the seven
seas. All are suitable for drying and export to
Singapore and Hongkong; in fact, there is an im-
mense trade to be done with Oriental nations in tried
fish of all kinds. Members of the ray and skate
families are numerous and prolific; varieties no bet-
ter, if as good, are landed regularly in Grimsby, Aber-
deen and Hull. Mullet, perch and herring exist in
immense quantities. The pilchard or true sardine
is found in numbers unheard of in European waters.
Shoals 30 miles in length have been measured off
the coast of N. S. Wales; one shoal driven ashore
near Wollongong formed a mound two feet in height
for over two miles. Yet we import immense quan-
tities of sardines from Japan, Norway and the U.S.A.
The blue sprat lives in a section of the Australian sea
over sandy coastal beaches for a length of at least
2000 miles of coastline. Our herrings excel those of
other countries in size, flavor, variety and quantity,
yet they are practically unworked. We prefer the
foreign herring; also we import inferior fillets of
haddock, which have been dipped in annatto and boric
acid under the pretence of smoking them.
Beyond all these there are the inland fisheries,
which are more considerable than most Australians
imagine. Railway records show that 700,0001 b. of
Murray cod are taken annually from the Murray,
Murrumbidgee, Darling and Barwon rivers, and there
are few better edible fishes in the -world. In fine,
our fishing grounds could support a. great population,
and will some day, when the Australians discover
Australia.
* . _ '
“Sixenate”: The maintenance, law is in one
respect even more egregious than alleged (B.
16/10/’24). In N. S. Wales, at all,events,
it does not suspend the accumulation
of the debt during the debtor’s incar-
ceration. A man who, say, has failed
to pay £3 a week, going to gaol for
a sum of £3O, will have to stay there
for approximately 66 weeks (if he is lucky)
before it is “worked out.” And when he
comes out he will find himself with a debt
of £l9B to meet. Magistrates, whatever sym-
pathy they may feel for the debtor in such
circumstances, have not the power to wipe
out the debt without the wife’s consent. Ami
some wives use the weapon for all it is
worth ; I know of half a dozen ex-Diggers
who have been going backwards and
forwards between home and gaol ever
since their return, because their wives
would sooner have them “inside” than
out. The “wife-starver” nowadays is mt
upon “work.” and earns approximately 19s.
6d. per week, from which a Gilbertian admin-
istration deducts 10s. 6d. for board and lodg-
ing—the balance goes to wipe off the main-
tenance debt. Holidays in gaol—and some
are rigidly observed —simply mean enforced
idleness while the board-bill mounts.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office numbers amongst its staff
experts qualified to deal with all the special-
ised portions of the Office work.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, i\ew Zealand
ROCK DRILLS
THE “HYDROMAX” STOPER,
Complete with Bar Arm and Clamp, £42.
THE “CHERSEN” FOR ALL PURPOSES,
Complete with Bar Arm and Clamp, £42.
HAND HAMMER DRILLS, £2O,
GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
VELVET i
SHAVING STICK
NOT FOP ONE
PARTICULAR MAN
BUT FOR ALL
PARTICULAR MEN
K
0L
a-
79 r.
KWf
POLITICAL
POINTS
After lasting four whole months Vic.’s
second Labor Government was dislodged last
week by 34 votes to 28. The three Oppo-
sition parties combined to secure the majo-
rity of six; McLachlan was the only non-
Laborite who voted with P render gust. Labor-
ite Billson and Dunstan, the radical Cocky,
were away, ill. Prendergast sought a dis-
solution, which Governor Stradbroke refused,
and John Allan, captain of the Hayseed
dozen, was commissioned to pick a new team
after Peacock had assured the Earl that
the man from Rodney would get sufficient
Liberal support to enable him to carry on.
Allan is the first Cocky Premier, and already
his brow is furrowed with care.
A strike and an anti-climax: —
The demented “overtime” strike on the wharves
was a dud from the start. To avoid deregistration
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation, the strikers
resumed business on Monday with orders to load and
unload inter-State vessels during the previously for-
bidden hours, but to discriminate against overseas
shipping. Which means that the wharfies will work
all round the clock in Sydney, where the dispute
broke out, and where there is labor independent of
the W.W.F., but will prohibit overtime, as regards
overseas steamers, in ports where the W.W.F. has
a monopoly, and where there was no dispute. It ’’s
time the industrial law was so amended that a
federated union would automatically deregister itself
by striking against an award of the Arbitration
Court or by involving all its branches in a strike
affecting one particular district. The work of Aus-
tralia has got to be done, and “Nationalist” Govern-
ments have been far too lenient with the fools,
ruffians and Russian agents who won’t permit it to
be done.
The N.S.W. New State Commission con-
tinues to wander round like Ahasuerus, the
boot-repairer of Jerusalem, and when it
meets a person it asks him how he would
like a New State, and if he says he dunno
it goes on and inquires of the next man.
The solid results achieved up to now are: —
(1) Some people want New States.
(2) Some don’t.
(3) The rest are uncertain.
A simple device would be to issue an extra
ballot-paper at next election, and scoop in
the whole mass of public opinion in a single
day. But a Cornstalk Government never does
anything the way any other institution would.
An election that shouldn’t happen :
If the Sydney municipal election takes place, as
arranged, on Dec. 1, it will be the most remarkable
affair of its kind ever held in Australia. One c?
the aldermen has been expelled from his party on a
charge of being concerned in ballot-faking. Another
admits having taken a present of £25 for services
rendered, in the capacity of unpaid alderman, to a
ratepayer. The same gentleman and others have
named in an allegation that a ratepayer with
a claim for compensation against the Council could
have got £2OOO more than the price offered had be
agreed to distribute £lOOO in the right quarter.
A former Lord Alayor, while certifying to the
probity of two of the aldermen mentioned in the
allegation, has testified that “the many peculiar
things that went on in the Council pointed un-
doubtedly to ‘graft.’ ” There is a volume of evidence,
including the resignation of the city engineer, that
aldermanic meddling has reduced the administration
to chaos. A Government with a spark of resolution
would, in such circumstances, call the election off and
place the city under the control of a Board of
Commissioners until its affairs had been cleansed
and disinfected. There is still time for the Fuller
crowd to show that it is that sort of Government.
“H. Horsecollar”: My morning paper has
this warning from Canada :
A cable from Melbourne states that “strong oppo-
sition is developing in Melbourne to the Canadian
trade treaty, which the Government is being urged
to denounce.” It is felt that Australia could not
back out without committing a serious breach of
diplomatic and inter-imperial relations.
Well, let us do the serious “breach” and
chance the consequences. No doubt the Can-
uck will be huffy and bullying and dis-
appointed if Australia doesn’t walk into the
trap set for it, but we don't owe him any
debt of gratitude. Certainly he lent us Ste-
fansson ; but we paid cash for Stefansson —
too much cash. Canada also sent us, in
remoter years, the Independent Order of
Foresters’ life-assurance concern, said to have
a Red Indian chief as general manager. In
an old N.S.W. “Official Year-book” (1905-06)
I find a statement that the concern should
then have had £10,959,712 to be solvent, and
THE WHITE MAN’S BURDEN.
"Australia has shouldered a white man’s burden in true British spirit, said the Governor-General,
speaking of what he saw on his recent tour through the mandated territory.”
it really had £1,215,269 if the assets were
good; so the shortage was £9,774,442. We
liad no law then, and I doubt if we have any
now, to deal with such confidence tricks,
though we need it., being a mild lot and
easily taken in. No. I am sure we don’t
owe our Canuck brother anything.
From Macquarie Streetcont
With a chivalry at which the other side is grinning,
the N.S.W. Fuller Government declined to nominate
Josiah Thomas for the vacancy in the Senate, declar-
ing that the seat belongs to the Labor party. The
grins are prompted by the knowledge that when a
Nationalist Senator dies or retires, the Labor people
invariably run one of their own men—they did so on
Millen’s death last year, on Adamson’s in 1922 (a
Nationalist wasn’t even considered then), and on
Pratten’s transfer to the House of Reps in 1921.
Phipps Abbott is to be nominated by the Progressives,
and since the Nationalist M’s.L.A. and M’s.L.C. believe
in preference to returned soldiers, or say they do,
he ought to get their votes. Abbott is a Digger and
a distinguished one; Power, the Labor candidate, is
a pacifist. Moreover, Abbott stood in 1922 and
got 73,000 No. 1 votes (he was third in that respect
to McDougall and Millen), whereas Power is un-
known to the electorate. “bigger” Dunn’s claims
are superior to those of Power, inasmuch as he was
narrowly beaten by Millen in the final count two
years ago. But Dunn failed to secure nomination.
He doesn’t belong to one of the powerful cliques.
Although he is an M.L.C., which is a
handicap, one man made a wise remark to
the N.S.W. New State Commission :
In trying to stop the drift from the country to
the city, the Government started at the wrong end.
It advocated land settlement instead of encouraging
and increasing secondary industries in country towns.
Which is true. If Australia saved the 40
millions or so per annum which it sends
away for clothes, and had a factory or six
in every country town, settlement round
these towns would require very little artifi-
cial boosting with loan money. But the old
ideas stick.' Even Prime Minister Bruce got
off the aged gag the other day that “the
prosperity and development of Australia de-
pends on the primarv industries and their
expansion”—otherwise on the growing of
coddled or pooled or guaranteed or subsi-
dised vegetables for a precarious foreign
market.
The South-to-North railway shows signs
of moving at last. A survey is to be made of
the proposed new and superior route, which is
west of the old one, and this is to be ready,
with estimates, by next June. Then Parlia-
meat, returning from its well-paid repose, is
to discuss and authorise the work, toil is to
start, and a train is to steam into Alice
Springs, Australia’s central town, m 1929.
it is infinitely better than anything that
could be expected from a Hughes; neverthe-
less, it is far short of the ideal, and will
inue to be so until the community gets
£ fixedly in mmd that the whole South to
North line IS a rusll JOD.
Visiting the Speck the other day, Pratten,
]\J inister for Trade and Customs, had to
to a bitteP indictment of the Naviga-
. . ~, . . , . , ,
Lon Act without being able to presen. <
for the defence. About the same time the
inter-Stnte shipping companies were announc-
ing a 25 p.c. surcharge on cargo rates
“owing to the trouble on the wharves.” As
with the Commonwealth Government line of
steamers, the Navigation Act is being de-
stroyed by the very people in whose interests
it was introduced. Rightly ordered, reserva-
tion of the coasting trade for Commonwealth-
owned shipping would in time have built up
a great Australian mercantile marine; but
strikes, job-control and crippling freights
have made the thing a burden, and, in re-
mote parts of the Commonwealth, a curse.
Perhaps if the Act were suspended for 12
months the beneficiaries would come to their
senses and realise that there are duties as
well as rights.
Pearce’s Department of Home and Terri-
tories appeared as the usual graven image
in its latest attitude towards the hypotheti-
cal castaways of the Douglas Mawson. It
convinced itself absolutely, after a raid of
investigation which was advertised long in
advance, that no such persons survived the
wreck; therefore it flatly refused to offer a
reward for their rescue. Yet if the Depart-
ment is so sure the two women can’t be pro-
duced, it could quite safely be obliging, and
offer £lOO,OOO and a knighthood.
Westralia has got something again. A
special Commission has been appointed to
find out “what peculiar disabilities, financial
and otherwise, have been suffered [by the
State] since and in consequence of Federa-
tion,” and “to recommend the best means of
overcoming them.” The following informa-
tion, extracted from the latest Federal statis-
tics, may be helpful to the Commission: —
The annual pay of factory-workers, averaging men,
women, boys and girls, was: Westralia, £lB9 6s. 5d.;
N.S.W., £lB4 Bs. lOd. ;S. Australia, £l7B 16s. 7d. ;
Queensland, £l7B 3s. 2d. ; Victoria, £l7B 15s. lOd. ;
Tasmania, £167 4s. 7d. ; and the Commonwealth
average, £179 18s. sd. In Westralia and N.S.W.
wages had apparently been shoved higher than indus-
try could stand, and they were tending downward.
The other States were on the up grade.
The “value added in process of manufacture” by
each Westralian factory-worker was £302 per
annum against the Tasmanian toiler’s £3lO, which
was the next worst, and the Commonwealtli average
of £345.
The Commission might make a couplet of it:
The fault of the West is the fault of the Dutch—
It gives too little and asks too much.
The old spirit of be-a-worm-at-any-price,
once so popular in Freetrade and Dread-
nought fund circles, is not dead, 'but
drowseth. The other day Sydney News made
some joyous comments on the effect which
Baldwin’s victory in the British elections
might have on the Singapore base: —
If the new base will secure British sea-power in
this ocean, Australia should be able to save something
on defence. If, for instance, we needed to build two
cruisers when the Singapore scheme had been dropped,
why do we still need two cruisers now that it has
been revivified ?
Or, to translate into the vernacular, “Work?
Let father work!”
I-I. G. Wells’s impressions of Zinoviev,
whom he met at “Leningrad” in 1920, are
pertinent:—
He is a man with the voice and animation of
Hilaire Belloc and a lot of curly coal-black hair.
“You have civil war in Ireland,” he said —“which
do you consider the proletarians, the Sinn Feiners or
the Ulstermen?”. .. .That jig-saw puzzle remained
unsolved, and we then shifted our attention to Asia.
Zinoviev had recently gone on a pilgrimage to Baku
to raise the Asiatic proletariat. They held a congress
at Baku, at which they gathered together a quite
wonderful accumulation of white, black, brown and
yellow people, Asiatic costumes and astonishing
weapons. They had a great assembly in which they
swore undying hatred of Capitalism and British
Imperialism, and they burnt Mr. Lloyd George, AI.
Millerand and President Wilson in effigy. This
Baku conference shows a new orientation of the
Bolshevik mind as it is embodied in Zinoviev The
ideal figure of the Russian Republic may give place
to a modest-looking gentleman from Turkestan with
a number of knives.
A nice person, Zinoviev, for white men to
associate with. Yet there arc so-called Aus-
tralians who glory in the association and
alleged Labor newspapers that publish his
propaganda.
The interesting record of Federal Labor-
leader Charlton’s grand tour has been silent
for the last few weeks. On Mont Blanc or
thereabouts he announced to the Swiss, a
nation of citizen-soldiers, that compulsory
training, or what is left of it, would be
abandoned when he became Priminister. At
Geneva he demanded that the nations should
disarm immediately, if not sooner. And the
echoes of his voice had hardly died away
when the Japanese delegates proposed that
a nation which objected to another’s domes-
tic policy should be empowered to refer it to
a League tribunal or make war on the other
party without incurring the penalties pre-
scribed for aggressors. The advocate of
immediate disarmament thereupon took re-
fuge in silence, and emerged only to say that
the Russian treaty and the Zinoviev letter
settled Macdonald’s hash; also that “Bald-
win’s preference policy would be of consider-
able assistance to Australia.” It is expected
that he will come back a staunch Conserva-
tive Laborite and a confirmed pacifist with
a prejudice in favor of militarism.
THE PRECEDENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Sydney alderman explained to the Cropley
commission why he had seen no harm in accepting
£25 from a grateful citizen for some services
rendered in the matter of a petrol-pump. ‘Having
neither asked for it, nor inferred it was expected, I
never thought of it as a bribe. I looked on it as
the renowned £25,000 might have been regarded.’ ”
“You are old, Father William,” the alderman mused,
“In the ways of the world, I opine.
If your testimonial wasn’t refused,
Why cn earth should I boggle at mine f
“You toiled in a sphere more exalted, ’tis true,
Mere civic contentions above ;
Still for serving your country a stipend you drew,
My labors are given for love.
“Pure zeal for the public may urge us' and grip,
Be it laws or just by-laws we frame;
And when it’s a question of taking a tip
The principle’s surely the same.
“I never have heard you protested or sniffed
Or found that your feelings were jarred
When grateful admirers whipped round for a gift
To tell of five-figure regard.
“In your douceur was nought at which honor might
look
Askance, or uprightness decry.
For services rendered the boodle you took.
Precisely—-and why shouldn’t I ?
“They were simply discharging a debt that they
owed,
You felt, though detractors might grumble.
And what serves a statesman for ethical code
Can hardly be wrong for a Bumble.
“You are old, Father William, in wisdom I trow,
And you’ve mixed with the rough and the toner :
If you didn’t stickle at twenty-five thou.
Why the deuce should I shy at a pony?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


OUR PROGRESS ASSOCIATION HOLDS ITS SPORTS.


_7i
I
/
..d
Sm
st#e(psss
333
and be sure of having the best Virginia
Cigarettes stocked by your tobacconist.
I^6
MADE IN
LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
PAINFUL PLEASURES.
“There's no pleasure without its pain."
“That's so. Even breakfast in bed has its crumbs."
“W. J. Digger”: Ships that pass in the
night don’t always speak one another in
passing. At the end of ’lB, Captain Smitliers
was returning to Australia via Canada with
his chest all smothered with medal ribbons.
Entering a big departmental store in Mont-
real he encountered the bright eyes of Maisie
the typiste through the vitreous walls of her
office.’ Just then one of the directors bore
down upon him, and, after ordering his pur-
chases to be sent to his hotel, he allowed
himself to be shown over the establishment.
Again her dark eyes sought his, her red
lips parted in a dazzling smile and —he was
alone in the crowded street. He spent a
miserable evening at a picture show, where
her lips and eyes kept flashing across the
screen, and it was not until the dark hour
before the dawn that he fell into a fretful
sleep. The next day he had perforce to
continue his trek to the Pacific. A week
out from Vancouver he decided to sort out
his purchases, and on opening the Mont-
real package found a scented note, which
read• “Dearest Aussie— Something tells me
we were made for each other. Ring M 9512
This evening and ask for—Yours ever
Maisie.” Smitliers cursed softly, and then
he quoted Omar to himself: “The moving
linger writes, and having writ, moves on.
Montreal was thousands of miles away, Aus-
tralia growing nearer every day. Inc iasi
consideration reminded him that his wite
was almost sure to meet him in bydney.
* * * *
“Speed”: A leading place in the quick-
courtship competition (B. 30/10/’24) should
go to a shepherd who lived m the highlands
of Tasmania. His spouse died early one
morning and he rode in haste to the nearest
settlement with his grim burden across the
saddle in front of him. The inquest and sub-
sequent burial took place in the afternoon ; be-
fore sunset the chief mourner was well on Ins
return journey with a newly-made bride
seated behind him. P.S.—I was present at
both ceremonies.
* * * *
“Coot”: Re precipitate matrimony (B.
30/10/’24). In the early days of the bpeck
women were very scarce, and when vessels
were expected from England it was custom-
ary for eligible bachelors to arm themselves
with marriage licenses, meet the boat and
choose wives from the women aboard, the
weddings taking place at once. In 1818
John Pasco Fawkner determined to try ms
luck, and getting on board early selected the
handsomest girl available. He was escort-
ing her down the street to the Registrar
when a sliopmate accosted him with “What
have you got there, John?” “My wife,” re-
plied Fawkner. “No fear!” said the other;
“she’ll suit me,” and he promptly knocked
Fawkner down and convinced the lady ox
liis own superior attractions as a life part-
ner. Fawkner did not chase the couple, but
ran back to the ship, and was in time to
acquire another affinity. They married and
lived together happily for over 50 years.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Ex-Englishman’s” theory (B.
30/10/’iM) that the first-born child is un-
likely to be as strong physically as later
arrivals is sound only when applied to small
families. In large families it is the last-
born that stands the poorest chance in the
struggle for survival. One authority has
ascertained that while the death-rate of first-
born children in infancy is about 220 per
thousand, the death-rate of the seventh-born
is 330 per thousand. In the case of the
12th-born this observer found the death-rate
to be nearly 00 per cent.!
* * * *
“Rex”: Unless a man who has been
arrested and discharged for lack of
evidence lias the means to
bring a civil action for
wrongful arrest, it would
seem that he has no hope of
obtaining redress (B.
6/11/’24). Possibly he is
expected to be too thankful
for having escaped conviction
to want anything more. In
Cheshire’s case in Melbourne
serious injury was inflicted.
The unfortunate old man was
“detained” from his shop in
front of an angry mob. His
post office was taken from
him, and a placard request-
ing information about Irene
Tuckerman was posted in
his shop window. At the in-
quest the police even pro-
duced clippings from evening
papers of bathing-girl com-
petitions which they had con-
fiscated from his shop in an
effort to “create an atmo-
sphere” for the trial. The
fact that the prosecution was
dropped doesn’t wipe away
half of the mud with which
the victim of police precipi-
tancy had been plastered.
Parents in the neighborhood
still warn their children to
shun the shop and its owner.
Yet apparently it hasn’t en-
tered the head of the (lov-
eminent that any compensation for all this
undeserved suffering is called for.
* * * *
“G.A.M.”: Stowed away at Victoria Bar-
racks, Melbourne, is a forgotten relic of the
visit of King George (then Prince of Wales)
to open the first Commonwealth Parliament
—a pedestal, a pretentious affair covered
with scarlet cloth. As things turned out
royalty never made contact witli_ it. A mili-
tary review was held at Flemington race-
course, and an order was given to the Ord-
nance Department to construct the article
of furniture, from which the Prince would
mount his charger at Government House.
On the morning of the review word, came
that the Prince would drive to Flemington,
and that the pedestal must be sent there.
Ten minutes after its despatch further word
was received that the Prince would mount at
Government House. He did, and boarded his
charger from a chair.
“Chhota Peg”: Melbourne police are look-
ing for an elusive gallant. First heard of
in that city in 1920, when lie won the affec-
tions of an Albert Park damsel and decamped
with most of her cash, he is now wanted in
four States for bigamy, wife-desertion or
obtaining money by false pretences. His
latest-known exploit is a fair sample of his
methods. He met a widow in one of the
suburbs, wooed her for three weeks and mar-
ried her at 11 a.m. on a recent Friday. They
went for the honeymoon to a city coffee
THE HINT.
“Aren't my stockings in a bad way?”
“Abso-bally-lutely! On their last legs, in fact!”
palace, where at 4 p.m. he borrowed £2O,
made ail excuse to leave his bride a few
minutes and has not yet returned; The
strange tiling about it is that, though the
bride in reporting his disappearance to the
police did not mention his absence earlier
in the day, another widow has since come
forward with the statement that on the
Friday in question the deceiver had lunch
with her, and exercised the right of a pros-
pective husband by taking away the engage-
ment-ring her “first” had given her 1 to have
the setting altered.” Both women identified
him from a photograph sent to the police by
a still earlier victim in South Aus.
“G.W.M.”: I remember one balloon-
observer who fooled the Germans by a simple
trick. Our baft. was resting outside Sailley
in 1017. Fritz was then making a daily
practice of bombarding with long-range shrap-
nel a sausage moored thereabouts. The bal-
loon position was shifted from time to time,
and it would take the Boclie several shot*
to pick up the range. As soon as a burst
occurred too close to be comfortable, the
observer would be seen to leave per para-
chute, and Fritz, having no objections to an
observation-balloon without an inmate, would
discontinue his attentions. One day the
observer took the plunge and alighted close
to one of our billets. A few of us ran over
to make the aeronaut’s acquaintance, and
found —a dummy ! The ruse succeeded; no
more shots were fired that day.
“C.G.C.”: Diggers’ S’African War ribbons
were a source of embarrassment to the wear-
ers when they happened to meet South Afri-
cans of Boer stock. In charge of a Camel
Corps dressing-station was a whose
father had fought under Botha. When he
observed the ribbon on the tunic of a
“casualty” the doctor would drawl, “So you
fought in the South African War —eli?”
“Yes, sir” —usually there was a tinge of
pride in the response. The medico would re-
gard his patient contemplatively for a few
moments; then followed invariably: “I won-
der if you’re the bloke who shot my old dad?”
* *• * *
“Lex”: The proverbial readiness of the
Hebrew to turn any occasion to a brofit
kept a N.S.W. Supreme Court audience
amused lately, when Maurice Cohen and
Harry Stein' got into grips in a slander
action which had its beginnings in, of all
things, hot-cross buns! Stein was a baker
and Cohen a grocer, and though the occasion
which the bun commemorates might be con-
sidered as a matter of some—well, reproac ,
to Jewry, botli smothered their feelings and
sailed in to supply the Good Friday demand.
As the result of cut-throat competition for
the Christian's custom, both Hebrews at last
had recourse to the law. It transpired then
that the conversation which led up to the
cause of action was conducted in Yiddish.
Common as this is in New York, it is some-
thing of a surprise to hear of it being used
colloquially in suburban Sydney.
“Boronia”: To
run an Outback
school and make
good with th c
parents a teacher
must possess a
variety of attain-
men t s. Deciding
points of grammar,
spelling and eti-
quette, finding the
area of paddocks
and the capacity of
tanks are everyday
matters. Frequently
advice is sought on
questions of law,
fertilisers and in-
fantile maladies.
The pedagogue has
to be something of
a sprniker, an or-
ganiser and a dip-
lomat, and he
should be able to
go a few rounds!
with the best of
the local lads. He
is expected to prog-
nosticate weather
conditions and diag-
nose old Daisy’s
complaint. In an
isolated community
he has to do much
more. I know one,
anyhow, who dur-
ing the past year
has had to set a
broken femur bone,
extract nine teeth,
fix a dislocated
thumb, make three
wills and attend to
a case of snake-
bite. A person of
suicidal tendencies
even appealed to
him for some
advice on the best
way to cut a
throat.
‘‘.T.G.”: A while ago a squatter in the
northern district of Vic. announced his in-
tention of having a young lady to look after
the books, as there would be less chance of
her going into the township and getting drunk
once or twice a week. In due course a tall,
well-built girl arrived in answer to the adver-
tisement, and soon secured the usual admir-
ers among the young bloods about the station.
There was brisk competition for the honor
of taking her to district dances, and more
than one stoushing match in the back pad-
docks resulted therefrom. Then one day a
maiden aunt of the squatter’s wife, arrived
on a visit, and. being a nervous spinster, it
was arranged that she would share the book-
keeper’s bedroom. That night the station
people got the shock of their lives —the lady
clerk suddenly disappeared, leaving a mess-
DIVORCED.
“Is she a relation of yours?”
“No. Merely a disconnection .”
age to say that she had taken on the job
to prove that she could act as a lady for a
month without being bowled out, but that she
hadn’t anticipated the latest developments.
The letter was signed with a very unfeminine
name, and the writer conveyed his thanks
to the boys for giving him such a good time.
(Continued on page 16.)
SONG OP FORGETFULNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I really must say I have no recollection.”—
—Evidence before a lioyal Commission.
There sometimes will come, to the most blameless
man,
A request to explain an apparent omission
Of dash in the race that the favorite ran,
Or to lay bare his soul to a Royal Commission.
Should the querists insist, in their sinister way,
On replies which demand an extreme circum-
spection,
This absolute stymie’s the shot you snould lay:
“I really must say 1 have no recollection.”
If, alas, it should chance that the wine, wet and red,
Should color the course of a too earnest 01 gy,
And you face, in the midnight all darkling and
dread,
Your spouse, who exclaims as she seizes you,
“Georgy,
Whence the hair on your coat and the cray in your
hand;
And where did your legs lose their sense of direc-
tion?”
Your reply to that gambit is gentle and bland:
“IreaUymushshayiavenorecollhicshun.”
Perhaps you’ve been cracking a fat little crib,
Acquiring a really catholic assortment
Of plate and old silver, with jewels ad lib..
When a John heaves in sight, with portentous
deportment ;
And the Voice of Authority puts on your pot
With “Phwere did ye find this suspicious collec-
tion?
Shpake up now, me laad” —well there’s only one shot:
“I really must say I have no recollection.”
In the day when it finally comes to our turn
To hand in our cards to the scorer eternal,
And the question is whether we’ll worship or burn,
As harpists en fete or as cinders infernal;
When St. Peter is checking the points we have made,
And no time is left for re-play or correction,
We can try the old sidestep, his lead to evade:
“I really must say I have no recollection.”
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


~ a
J
Effective Bath Gowns
and Novel Beach Shoes at Peapes’
Some exceptionally good values in new and exclusive
goods at Peapes’.
MEN’S BATH GOWNS.
Turkish Towelling, in 1-incli block stripes of Helio
and White or Blue and White 35/-
Smart Black and White Chessboard design, a very
effective gown that will not easily soil.. 50/-
Smart Cotton Paisley/Blues and Browns.. 42/-
MEN’S BEACH SHOES.
All plantation rubber, solution soled, self color, 7/6
In two-color effects, with thick crepe rubber soles,
assorted colors 18/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurement; for
shoes, size only.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS.
GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter
Street), SYDNEY.
f
Italia
HTHE “Italia” Spark Plug is better
because it embodies more than mere material—each plug contains
crystallised ideas. There is the laminated mica insulator —unbreak-
able, absolutely preventing leakage. There ;is the solid brass body
to withstand many a hard knock. There are the thick points,
vitally necessary to a high-powered engine. There is the lock-nut
—but why not prove for yourself that in every way the “Italia”
Spark Plug is better? Economy is assured by this fact —if one part
does become damaged you can buy it separately at a fraction the
cost of a new plug. Ask to-day at the garage for “Italia” plugs.
So#© Agents: GATT!NO & CO. Ltd., 39-41 York Street, Sydney .
“Machete”: In the N.S.W. Divorce Court
the other day Owen, ,T., gave a ruling worthy
to rank with the famous dictum of Mr. Jus-
tice Starleigli in Bardell v. Pickwick as to
the non-admissibility as evidence of what the
soldier said. Counsel w 7 as cross-examining
a petitioner, and asked him if he had not
“kicked out” his son. as well as his wife.
The Bench interposed blandly. “If that is
meant to be a slang expression, I disapprove
of slang in this court. If it is not meant
for slang, the statement is not a fact on
the evidence.”
“Bouragi”: Touching graveside comment
(B. 6/ll/’24), I still recall the yarn spun by
a Papuan R.M. He w 7 as reading the funeral
service over a miner who had died at
Whitten’s store at Tamata. and there was
a full attendance of deceased’s mates. When
he came to the words “though he were dead
yet shall he live,” he paused impressively.
The silence was broken by an outsize in
hiccups from the chief mourner, who, ter-
ribly abashed at his faux pas, and with the
reader’s gimlet eye boring through him,
hurriedly attempted to cover up his offence.
“Too right, Mr. Warden, too right,” he mut-
tered placatingly; “a cove couldn’t put it
fairer than you’ve done.”
* * * *
“Sirius Cove”: I saw it claimed some
months ago in The Bulletin that the best
shock troops in the Allied armies were those
from oversea. The best judge on that point
should have been Fritz; and according to
some orders of Genei’al Yon Arnheim, found
A BIRD OF ANOTHER FEATHER THEN.
“That horrid Green woman said I was a cat.”
“I'll bet she’s never seen you in a room, with a mouse.”
on German prisoners, that commander gave
pride of place to the 51st Highland Division.
Von Arnlieim warned his divisional com-
manders to pay particular attention to the
51st, describing them as the best divi-
sion in attack and defence that the Ger-
mans had to face on any front. In another
captured order the 51st, one Austra-
lian and one Canuck Division were specifi-
cally mentioned. It was the 51st that took
Beaumont Hamel on a foggy morning with
the bayonet without the aid of guns, and
allowed our division to advance. After the
Somme they probably saw more service than
any other division of the Empire Armies;
and when they were seen to move behind
the lines everyone knew a hot time was com-
ing somewhere.
“Centurion” : The
craze for blazers
seems to have at
last reached the
blanky limit. The
other day I saw an
advt. in a fashion
paper announcing
that a free pattern
for a man’s blazer
would be given
away with every
copy, also “full
directions for cut-
ting out and mak-
ing up.” Time was
when a blazer was
a sacred thing only
to be granted by
such gods as a
school or university
captain, an inter-
state, international
or county-selection
committee. Even
the less exclusive
sort w 7 ere restricted
to active members
of genuine games
clubs; to assume
such insignia with-
out due authority
was looked on even
in Australia as pre-
sumptuous imperti-
nence, and in Eng-
i land as Unspeak-
ab 1 e Blasphemy.
The years have
brought changes
and introduced the
ping-pong club and
back-yard tennis
blazers, to say no-
thing of the
Joseph’s coats
sported by the
knuts w 7 ho never
play anything more
strenuous than the
ukulele. But a
home-made blazer,
cut out from a
tissue-paper pattern
by the head of the
family and be-
stow T ed presumably for shining at wasbing-
up or agility in exercising the pom—it hurts,
it hurts!
* * * #
“ Jesmond”: Don’t argue about the buttons
on the A.I.F. tunic; the number seemed to
depend on the whim of the manufacturers.
The one I was wearing when Fritz got me
had 14; that issued to me at Birmingham,
13 (none on the belt) ; the last one I donned
at the base, Melbourne, had 15 (2 on the
belt). My lucky number was 13, for that
tunic saw T me back to Aussie.
* * * *
“FY7”: Years ago I knew 7 a man in
Queensland wdio buried four w 7 ives in such
quick succession that he couldn’t get a fifth
for love or money, his reputation as a hoodoo
outweighing his personal attractions and pos-
sessions. I was reminded of him and his
troubles by a recent cable about a young
woman in England
who has lost, or as
good as lost, four
husbands in eight
tears. No. 1 and No.
2 w r ere killed in the
war; No. 3, a
miner, in a col-
liery ; now No. 4,
also a miner, is
lying under sen-
tence of death for
murdering his
wife’s sister. Yet
the chances are
that the much-
bereaved lady will
have no difficulty
in acquiring an-
other mate if she
feels that w r ay. A
chapter of acci-
dents like this very
often improves a
woman’s value in
the matrimonial market. And in her case it
must be the widow herself who is the attrac-
tion ; it can hardly be the widow’s mite.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : A claim made in the
police court .for the recovery of some clothes
and other personal effects has revealed the
existence in Melbourne of a robust land-
lady who apparently relies on direct action
to secure a husband. In this case a young
man engaged accommodation in her house,
and shortly found her taking it for granted
that he was going to marry her. When he
attempted to undeceive her she assaulted
him and locked him in a room. He escaped
through a window; but as the woman fiercely
declined to give up his property, even when
he took along a policeman to claim it, he
had to sue for the recovery of his other pants
SAFE DEPOSIT.
FRED: “Whem Teddie first came out all his worldly goods were tied
up in a handkerchief.”
MAUD: “And now they’re tied up in his wife’s name!”
and his extra shirt; and even when a court
order was made the lady defiantly declared
that she would go to gaol rather than comply
with it. Police evidence showed that twice
before young men had escaped from the
siren with no more than they stood up in,
and apparently the trap is still set.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: The pathetic sight of an old
woman pleading for her son and represent-
ing him as having been misled by worthless
companions is not a rare one in the courts.
But when the plea was made the other
day in Melbourne on behalf of a tough
waster of 56, with over a score of convictions
to his discredit, even the Bench looked as if
it thought this kind of appeal could be over-
done. Still, most Beaks are used to out-
size pleas on behalf of offenders, some of
whom produce written testimonials hardly
more convincing than the oral testimony
aforementioned. The prize exhibit, however,
was put in by a mother who desired to pro-
duce some evidence to bleach the character
of a son “up” on several housebreaking
charges. It was quite a respectable collec-
tion of the little text-cards issued to certify
frequent attendance at Sunday-school!
* * * *
“H.H.”: It is costing Victoria £323,459 to
look after the 14,000 “neglected children”
who come under the control of the Children’s
Welfare Department. The system lends it-
self to some curious forms of fraud. When
a woman satisfies the Department that she
has been deserted she can draw relief to the
extent of 10s. or 12s. 6d. per child per week;
and a -warrant i s issued for the husband’s
arrest. It is quite a natural thing for a deserted
woman, struggling to make ends meet, to
take a boarder; and if the family has removed
to a neighborhood where the husband is un-
known, it is difficult to identify him as that
boarder. One couple recently bowled out
were found to have been drawing £2 per week
from the Department for four years by this
means. It was the arrival of an extra infant
which put the show away.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Vic. Justice Macfarlan has
been listening to the details of a long-distance
obstacle race towards the Divorce Court. The
marriage knot he was asked to dissever was
tied in 1885 —nearly 40 years ago—and the
petitioner had lost sight of her husband,
after a few preliminary disappearances, in
1899. Seven years later she married again
believing her husband dead; but in 1913’
some doubts having begun to intrude, she
commenced divorce proceedings, and applied
for an order permitting substituted service
This, however, the late Chief Justice Madden
declined to grant, expressing the opinion
that the husband’s existence was “a more or
less baseless rumor,” and that the right time
to take divorce proceedings was when —if ever
—he was proved alive. In 1920 that time
arrived, for the lady met her long-vanished
consort again, and immediately separated
from her second husband. It took her four
years to get her petition to the court; but
after that all was smooth sailing.
* * * *
“Forebridge”: “Bay Webb” is torn by
doubt as to the correct interpretation of the
word “mile” in relation to the three-mile limit
at sea (B. 13/11/’24). He needn’t be. In
the spring of ’l7 a large German convoy,
proceeding from the Scheldt to the Ems, was
severely handled by a flotilla of British de-
stroyers. The Dutch Government alleged
that the British warships violated Dutch
territorial waters in the process. The ensu-
ing lawsuit produced some hard lying by both
sides, and some fairly flimsy excuses by the
British Government, but no one troubled to
argue about what sort of miles were re-
ferred to, although the whole case hinged on
where the three-mile limit ended. The miles
were, of course, nautical ones. That wasn’t
questioned. It was about the only thing
that wasn’t.
“Spencer”: Let me introduce the supreme
optimist. Smith and Brown are neighboring
cockies in South-West Vic. Smith was in
financial difficulties, and approached Brown
for a loan about the middle of last month.
“I can’t do it now, Jim,” was the reply:
“but early next month I reckon I can fix
yer up.” Three weeks sped, and Smith hope-
fully repeated his request, only to be met with
“Sorry I can’t manage it, old man.” Smith
ruefully referred to the. other’s half-promise,
and Brown explained. “Yer see, I hadder
ticket in Tatt.’s on the Melbourne Cup, and
I felt sure I’d land the bacon. Yerda been
set if I had.”
“Piriti”: The most disturbed funeral with-
in my recollection was an affair at which
another Digger and. I officiated in the col-
lective roles of sextons, pall-bearers, under-
takers and _ chief mourners. The deceased
numbered eight; there had been an advance
the previous day. Just as we got the last
one down to the makeshift “cemetery,” Fritz
opened up a barrage in the vicinity. My
cobber and I, followed closely by a padre
who had come to say the last w r ords, dived
into the open grave. There we squatted,
nose to nose, for a solid half-hour. Bill was
the first to speak. “Wouldn’t it be a blankety-
blank-blank if a cove w T as buried in the hole
he’d dug?” he remarked. “My oath!” I
managed to stutter. “On the whole, I’m in-
clined to think you're right,” w r as the par-
son’s contribution.
* * « *
“Dingo”: The aldermen of Lithgow
(N.S.W.) have been expressing their official
displeasure with the conduct of a lad of the
village who climbed to the top of the Mou-
ramba Copper Co.’s 100-foot chimney-stack.
Having reached the end of his climb, which
was assisted by a lightning-conductor, the
adventurous youth sat with one leg inside
the stack and the other dangling in space.
In due course he descended in safety. The
boy, who is apparently expected to" consider
himself lucky in having escaped a charge of
disorderly behavior, may live and die un-
known to fame. Still, history occasionally re-
peats itself. Nearly 200 years ago another
boy, whose Christian name was Robert, also
acquired a somewhat unfavorable reputation
for dare-devilry by scaling the lofty church
steeple of Market Drayton (Shropshire) and
FED-UP, TOO.
“Abysses yaimed all round me.”
“The poor dears —they must have been fear-
fully bored!”
viewing the world from a stone spout near
the top. The inhabitants predicted that
Robert would come to a bad end, and theirj
anticipations were so far justified that hq
died, before he was 50, by his own hand.j
But between the two events he laid the
foundations of an empire within an empire.
His other name was Clive.
NOVEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Like a dream by morning banished,
Like a bubble, Spring has vanished;
Come and gone;
And in sudden glory flushing,
Summer reigns with fruitage blushing
Where so lately blossom shone.
Days are long and nights are mellow;
There’s a spreading tinge of yellow
In the grass;
And, the raw tympanum drilling,
Comes the first cicada shrilling
Joyously his song of brass.
No time now for airy playing
Have the birds, nor careless straying
Where they will ;
Each is diligently winging
To and fro, forever bringing
Tucker, little beaks to fill.
Ants are toiling longer, faster,
For the ardent sun, their master,
Forbids ease ;
And, an elfin war-march drumming,
Comes the amazenian humming
Of the fiercely busy bees.
And should any man, reposing
In the shade and idly dozing,
Labor shirk,
Something with a sting will find him
And commendably remind him
Summer is the time to wcrlc.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne. A. AUBREY, General Manager.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland, Wellington and
Capetown.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Napier, Durban, Johannesburg and Bloemfontein.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobel
Samsonite
Qelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1916.. 28,753 20 p.c.= 25,000 3,753 707,840
Kept., 1916.. 27,140 20 „ ~25,000 2,140 709,980
Mar., 1917.. 28,390 20 „ ~ 25,000 3,390 713,370
Sent, 1917.. 27,716 20 „ ~25,000 2,716 716,086
Mar., 1918.. 28,253 20 ~ ~25,000 3,253 719,339
Sept., 1918.. 29,121 20 ~,,25,000 4,121 '23,460
Alar., 1919.. 29,560 20 „ „ 25,000 4,560 728,020
Sept., 1919.. 29,951 20 ~,,25,000 4,951 732,9-1
Mar., 1920.. 30,536 20 „ ~25,000 5,536 738,u07
Sept., 1920.. 32,056 20 „ ~ 25,000 7,056 745,.>63
Mar., 1921.. 32,806 20 „ ~25.000 7,806 753,369
Sept., 1921.. 30,384 20 „ ~25,000 5,384 758,753
Alar 1922.. 32,070 20 „ ~25,000 7,070 765,823
Sept.’, 1922. . 30,277 20 ~,, 25,000 5,277 771,100
New share premiums . . 10,238 781,338
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 . . 731,338
Mar., 1923.. 31,848 20 p.c.= 25,000 6,848 738,186
New share premiums . . 102,762 840,948
Sept., 1923.. 36,272 174p.c.=33,075 3.197 844,145
Mar., 1924.. 39,196 20 „ ~ 37,800 1,396 845,541
New share premiums .. 168,0001,013,541
Sept., 1924.. 40,878 171p.e.=38,413 2,4651,016,006
The. directors have never taken the share-
holders into their confidence, so far as the
Wild Cat knows, and told them what the
position really is. In ordinary circum-
stances, if a bank went on year after year
declaring dividends that mopped up all but
a few pounds of the declared profit, the con-
clusion would be that it was really doing
better than it admitted, or that the directors
were an imprudent crowd. There certainly
was a time when there were grave doubts
about some of the bank’s assets. It had
established itself at many mining towns
which were soon given up to the goats; and
there was naturally a doubt whether this
bank didn’t have many of the goats on its
books. To write off these bad debts may
have taken, and may indeed still be taking,
a good deal of undisclosed profit; in other
words, the bank’s current business may be
showing a larger profit than the management
yet feels itself free to admit. The same pro-
cess went on in Queensland, among the banks
of that State, for years; then the time came
when, all the bad and doubtful securities
having been written down to nothing or
thereabouts, and an umbrella or two having
been put in the rack for a rainy day, the
shareholders got the reward of long waiting.
There may, however, be quite a different
explanation. Instead of strengthening re-
serves out of profits in the ordinary way,
this Board may have determined that a
better plan is to use its right hand for fill-
ing shareholders’ pockets and its left hand
for partly emptying them by demanding
large premiums for new share issues. In 12
months, it will be seen, over £270,000 has
been collected in premiums; and that has
been the policy of the Board ever since the
gold finds woke up Westralia and gave this
bank profitable use for enormously increased
capital. One result is that the 20 and
17$ p.c. divs. don’t really mean anything of
the sort to the shareholder, who, because of
the premium he has had to pay, is getting
as little as 7 p.c. on some of his investment.
And for the same reason, though the addi-
tions made to reserves out of profits are so
insignificant, reserves to-day are more than
twice the size of the capital. It is, moreover,
the directors’ intention to continue this
policy, and shareholders have authorised a
further issue at the Board’s discretion. With-
out question there are disadvantages about
the present plan, with its rate of dividend
that is liable to mislead ; and a reconstruc-
tion, followed by the usual practice of feed-
ing the reserves directly out of profits, is well
worth considering.
If the profits disclosed are the true profits
then the business isn’t very fat. With new
capital coming in it is not possible to say
what shareholders’ funds are earning ; but they
don’t seem to bring in, as a rule, more than
about 6 p.c., and that revives the old doubt
about the quality of some of the assets. On
the other hand, one wouldn’t expect the
earnings to be very good. This table will
explain why:—
Sept.,’22. Sept.,’23. Sept.,’24.
Notes .. .. £11,435 £11,410 £11,359
Bills, etc. .. 118,089 118,357 95,216
Free deposits . . 1,584,272 1,619,331 1,638,764
Fixed deposits.. 1,562,074 1,698,858 1,332,842
Advances . . 3,233,742 3,597,997 3,545,353
Liquid assets .. 1,005,228 1,016,129 987,842
Premises . ■ 83,000 89,050 99,435
The public’s money with the bank at the
end of September was £3,078,212, and more
than half of that was current-account bal-
ances, which is not the best money to trade
with. Including it all there is only £2 of
the public’s money for every £1 of the share-
holders’, as against 7 or 8 to 1 in some bin
Australian banks. It means exceptionally
<T o od security for the creditor; but it sits
hard on profits. And yet without more capi-
tal the bank certainly could not safely lend
more than it had out on September 30. its
liquid assets were then rather on the weak
side. No doubt with more than half an eye
out for lenders the bank is looking an eld,
authority has been given to open
registers in the other States and in England,
and branches will probably follow. At pre-
sent there isn’t one even in London.
* * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
Sept.,’l4. .256,361 124 p.c. =203,125 53,236 165,891
Mar.,’ls. .272,708 124 „ „ 203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 |
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji and 1 235,474
N.Z. Co. stock) . . £3,250,000 J
Mar ’l6 261.250 64 p.c. =211,250 50,000 285,474
Sept’’l6. .143,004 64 „„ 105,625 37,379 322,853
Mar ’’l7. .145,758 64 „„ 105,625 40,133 362,986
Sept.’l7. .136,502 64 „ „ 105,625 30,877 393,863
Mar ’lB.. 142,641 64 „ ~105,625 37,016 430,879
Sept.’, ’18.. 137,816 64 „„ 105,625 32,191 463,070
Mar.,’l9. .147,611 84 „„ 138,125 9,486 472,506
Sept.,’l9. .130,012 64 „ „ 105.625 24,387 496,943
Mar.,’2o. .159,553 84 „ „ 138,125 21,428 518,3 71
Sept.,’2o. .171,642 84 „„ 138,125 33,517 551,888
Mar ’21.. 155,297 9.37 ~121,875 33,422 585,310
Sept ’21..206,201 9.37 „ 121.875 84,326 669,636
Mar.,’’22. .245,990 124 „„ 162,500 83,490 753,126
Sept.’22. .247,195 124 „ „ 162,500 84,695 837,821
Mar.’’23. .251,395 124 „ „ 162,500 88,895 926,716
Mai\!’24+.673,639 10* „ „ 446,875 226,764 1,153,480
Sept.,’24. .324,978 10 ~,,243.750 81.228 1,234,708
of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
tPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoril nd
cos. in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-
sheet issued.
The chief points in the chairman’s statement
for the half-year are: Australian mills fully
occupied; much of the estimated surplus ot
90,000 tons already shipped and sold;. con-
dition of the 1925 Australian crop indicates
a still heavier surplus (at this point Mr.
Knox drops a few tears) ; Fiji crop up to
expectations, with promise of something
good next year. There is no talk for the
moment of bonuses or return of capital,
although something of that kind has hap-
pened each year since 1920. But it w T as
liardlv to be expected after the events of
September, 1923, and March last-
Sept., 1923: Fiji and Maoriland co. liquidated and
assets revested in the parent co.
Capital returned, £1,625,000. Cash
bonus to shareholders from liquida-
tion, £325,000.
March 1924: Reserves capitalised, £2,275,000.
Disclosed profits for the six months left a
wide margin after paying the dividend; and,
though capital has now very largely increased
(it takes £243,750 to pay the 10 p.c. for
which £150,000 sufficed in the year before the
war), div. prospects are excellent. For one
thing, there seems to be a more general
determination than ever there was to do a
fair thing by the sugar-growing business. And
the more Australia realises the need to push
population north, the more assured will the
Common wealth’s assistance to the industry
be. There is. of course, always the possi-
bility that this co. will be attacked with
violence as a monopolist and an octopus and
all the rest of it; but that is a general risk,
and is a shade less than it was a few months
ago. On the other side there is the possi-
bility of greater economies in manufacture.
An officer is inspecting European refineries
to see whether improvements are possible.
Hitherto there has been some doubt whether
the co. has embraced every chance of im-
provement that has offered. At least one
officer of the co., finding it impossible to do
anything with the C.S.R., formed a co. in the
U.R.A., and on its last accounts published
in N’York looks liko making a great success.
Besides the reserves shown in the table
there is a replacement and depreciation fund.
£1,161,413. Judging by the past, most of
that is stored profit; likewise most of the
£21,235 added in the half-year is probably
true profit.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney : —•
f —Dividends — N
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. (10 p.c.) (10 p.c.) serves. serves.
1915. .£254,795 £123,750 £55,000 £76,045 £234,058
(9 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1916.. 159,922 111,374 35,500 10,048 244,106
(6 p.c.)
1917.. 138,653 111,374 33,000 238,385
Written off Extensions Reserve,
£70,000 168.385
1918.. 150,574 111.374 33,000 6,200 174.585
1919.. 145,007 111,374 33,000 633 175,218
(94 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1920.. 159,189 117.562 38,500 3,127 178.345
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
taken over.
(10 p.c.) (9 p.c.)
1921.. 213,949 160,215 49.500 4,234 182,579
(10 p.c.) (10 p.c.)
1922 . 235,175 169,167 55,000 11,008 193,587
1923.. 293.373 170.000 55.000 68.373 261.960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 84,988 346,948
Tooth and Co. is further extending its opera-
tions. The new field is the Riverina. Two
businesses which have been on the market
for some time have been purchased: those
of Mahon and Headley, of Wagga, and Lin-
coin and Co., of Narrandera. The Wagga
proposition is a brewery, cordial factory and
wine and spirit business, and the freeholds,
hotel properties and goodwill have been
bought outright. Lincoln’s hotel properties
and goodwill have been bought, but not the
brewery building. These two concerns have
-wetted much of the parched throat of River-
in a—most of the rest of it was moistened by
Melbourne. Now Sydney will come in, which
means increased turnover certainly, and in-
creased profits probably. Outlay will be re-
latively heavy at the start —there will be the
matter of advertising and advances to at
present free houses, for instance; but the
expenditure will not be recurrent, and there
will presently be a counterbalancing saving
in overhead and in increased production from
existing plant. Tooths’ intention is to main-
tain both local concerns for a while, but
to supply from Sydney as well. When trade
interests in the area have been amalgamated
—mid this will be made easier because the.
old cos. kept within rather well-defined areas
and there is very little overlapping—the posi-
tion will be reviewed. And you can guess
what that means in one try—Sydney is
going to gobble this trade, too. The
purchase price was in cash, and some of
the recent additions to capital (£247,205
paid as at Sept. 30) will be used to that
end. It is not a new development in
Tooths’ history, this acquisition of territories
instead of individual houses. Four years
ago there was a much more important pur-
chase, £250,000 being paid in shares for
Castlemaine and Woods, of Newcastle, where-
by Tooths got a firm hold on a big and
thirsty field.
• • • • •
Disclosed profits in the past year increased
by £18,333, notwithstanding that the new
capital was in use for only a few weeks —
£l7lB vims all that was paid in div. upon it.
Net profits were obtained in this fashion: —
Profit on Management,
Brewings, Wages, Balance
Interp«t. etc. Excise, etc. of Profit.
1913 .. £595,514 £348,970 £246,544
1914 .. 666,810 377,846 288 964
1915 .. 652,360 367,566 284,794
1920 .. 670.783 499,594 171.189
1921 .. 'mi,374 568.425 225.949
1922 .. 848,723 613,549 235,175
1923 .. 905 408 613.°95 203.773
1924 . . 955,987 644,281 311,706
Visible reserves are strong, and every known
test suggests that internal buttresses are very
solid. "So long as the Completely Dry
Party is alive, of course, it will be necessary
for brewing cos. to make substantial provi-
sion for quite a number of contingencies,
and Tooths are apparently taking no risks.
That the co. is in a position to meet any
ordinary trouble with confidence is disclosed
by these figures :
Assets
Breweries, etc. .. . . .. £2,218,909
Book debts . . . • • • 869,296
Stock . . . . . . • • 313,652
Liquid .. .. • • • • 98,797
£3,500,654
Liabilities ... .. •• •• 462,814
Net assets.. .. •• £3,037,840
The balance-sheet contains a note to the
effect that goodwill, “which is estimated at
a very substantial figure, has not been in-
cluded” —properly, of course; for goodwill
is a will-o’-the-wisp, and in no line is it
more wispish than in the one against which
the embattled hosts of Pussyfeet are drawn
up. Putting Pussyfoot aside, the co. is m
a very solid position, and div. prospects con-
tinue bright. The anomaly with regard to
the prefs. is to be removed. A previous sug-
gestion of the “Wild Cat,” that an amend-
ment of the articles should be sought to
allow holders tcf convert into ordinaries, is
now to be carried out, the necessary notice
having been given at the annual meeting.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Ke-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1914.. £6,488 10 p.c. =£sooo £l4BB £39,300
1915.. 6.609 10 „ „ 5000 1609 40,909
1916.. 6,724 10 „ „ 5000 1724 42.633
1917.. 6,758 10 „ ~ 5000 1758 44,391
1918.. 7,516 10 „ „ 5000 2516 46,907
1919.. 8,386 10 „ „ 5000 3386 50,293
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 293
1920.. 8,437 6 p.c. = 5800 2637 2,930
1921.. 9,528 6 „ „ 6600 2928 5,858
1922 14 104 9 ~ ~ 9900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,0r2 7*„ „ 8250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 74 „ „ 8250 5775 20,099
So far trustee cos. haven’t been highly com-
petitive; but here and there you can now
catch a sound of a knife being sharpened.
The outlook began to change when concerns
like Bagot, Shakes and Lewis and Elder-
Smiths, of S. Aus., set up their own trustee
cos.; and Maoriland insurance offices have
been fathering similar offspring. In N. S.
Wales and Vic., though nothing has been
done in that way so far, more and more this
co. stresses its "special and most important
feature” —it doesn’t charge its commission
on the capital value of the estate until the
trust becomes distributable. This really
means a good deal. An estate valued at,
say, £20,000, taking 20 years to wind up,
does not suffer the deduction of the corpus
commission at once, which would reduce it
to £19.500, but it remains a £20,000 estate.
Assuming that the estate is earning 6 p.c.,
this represents more than the actual corpus
commission. Straws show which way the
wind is blowing; and it looks as though as
time goes on trustee cos. may be driven to
do a bit more for their money. But they
will still be on a wonderfully good wicket.
It seems certain that year by year their
clientele will expand; and, apart from the
small chances they take when they invest
tlieir own funds, they really don’t have to
risk much. lake other people, they may
make mistakes; but if they are not sure
about the meaning of a will there is always
the court to go to for instructions.
Taxes and office charges were £1136 lighter
last year. But the increase of £lBBB in
salaries and fees more than offset that
advantage. Income and expenditure make
the following comparisons:—
Gross Taxes and
Earnings. Salaries. Office Charges.
1910 .. £11,743 £4,167 £763
1915 . . 14,515 6,102 1501
1920 . . 24,948 11,669 4020
1921 . . 27,672 13,536 4407
1922 - . 35,574 16,816 3954
1923 .. 37,182 18,555 5614
1924 . . 39,584 20,443 4478
Salaries (including Board fees) were 36 p.c.
of gross earnings in 1910; in 1920, 47 p.c.:
now they are up to 52 p.c. Certainly there
is this to be said: estates take more hand-
ling these days—there is much more work
to be done for the taxation people, for one
thing. As usual liabilities are next to no-
thing, and assets are a very solid lot:
1905. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Capital . . £25,000 £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities .. 23 933 4,019 4,186
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 20,289 26,804 38,774 43,657
Premises . . Nil 65,971 64,300 63,800
Sundry debtors 98 858 393 393
Cash .. . . 959 3,996 10,077 11,774
Capital is in 200.000 £5 shares, on which
only 11s. each has been paid ; and almost half
of that has been paid out of profits. Re-
serves were worked down very low by the
last transfer; nevertheless the present de-
cade ought to see another bonus rolled to-
wards the shareholders.
The Lang ridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added to
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £6815 6 p.e. = £4354 £2461 £13,391
Shares forfeited . . 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. = 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 „ „ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 „ „ 5593 891 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ ~ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 , ~ 5515 1083 23,809
1919.. 6446 8 „ „ 5515 931 24,740
1920.. 6696 8 „ „ 5515 1181 25,921
1921.. 7024 8 „ „ 5515 1509 27,430
1922.. 6742 8 „ „ 5505 1237 28,667
1923.. 6432 8 „ „ 5504 928 29,595
1924.. 6878 8 „ „ 5504 1374 30,969
Realisation of properties, 1646 32,615
When the Melbourne land boom burst, in
the early ’nineties the Langridge stood the
crash exceptionally well: it paid 20s. in the
£ and pulled through without reconstructing.
Evidently the management is determined to
live up to its reputation. It has kept its
dividends so moderate that the reserves
have reached more than half the capital. Those
reserves are standing to it now: without
them it is doubtful whether it could keep
its 8 p.c. going—at any rate without increas-
ing its risks by employing more deposits.
How small these are the next table shows: —
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54.245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105.956 3,378 6144
1920.. 16,863 103.768 4,187 7216
1921.. 16,842 106,147 3,378 7134
1922.. 13,780 105,146 3.433 6118
1923.. 10,305 106,008 3,398 3084
1924.. 8,678 107,673 2,624 4051
The security for the deposits is thus over-
whelming. But while so little outside money
is risked the profits cannot go much beyond
their present level. Still, apart from profits
on written-down assets, the past five years’
surplus has averaged nearly enough to give
shareholders an extra 2 p.c. p.a.; so there is
a fair margin for their comfort.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney) :
Business Profit To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits, on Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1914. £10,114 £2091 5 p.c. = £3812 £8393 £25,870
1915.. 9,721 824 5 „ „ 3812 6733 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital. £9529 23.074
1916.. 9,897 493 5 p.c. = 4289 6101 29,175
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 19,646
Loss.
1917.. 10,301 727 5 p.c. = 4765 4809 24,455
Profit.
1918.. 10,362 1627 6 p.c. = 5718 6271 30,726
1919.. 10,674 430 7 „ „ 6671 4433 35,159
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 41,159
1920.. 10,840 2600 10 p.c. = 9531 3909 45,068
1921.. 11,510 1500 10 „ „ 9528 3482 48,550
1922.. 10,935 4092 10 „ „ 9528 5499 54,049
1923.. 11,381 1336 10 „ „ 9528 3189 57,238
Assets written up, £7OOO .. .. 64,238
Loss.
1924.. 11,156 495 10 p.c. = 9529 1132 65,370
Time and the bad people who have been
building up a city of nearly a million people,
with less than a million in the country to


MUSICAL CHAIRS.
“The application of the defeated Prendergast Government for a dissolution was refused by Governor Stradbroke, who commissioned Country Party-leader Allan to form a Government, and another Coalition with the Liberals has resulted.”
VIC. STATE GOVERNOR STRADBROKE (to Prendergast): “According to the rules, you’re OUT and the Bing Boys are IN. One — ah— has to stick to the — ah—rules, you know."


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR NOVEMBER.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Adelaide Steamship Co.,
Ltd.
Australian Paper & Pulp.
Australia Hotel.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co.,
Ltd.
Beard, Watson & Co., Ltd.
Cascade Brewery Co.,
Ltd.
Chamber of Manufactures
Insurance.
Coastal Farmers’ Co-
operative Society, Ltd.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd.
Dunlop Rubber Co.
Elder, Smith, Ltd.
Farmer & Co.
Federal Building Society
F. T. Wimble & Co.,
Ltd.
Foggitt Jones, Ltd.
Gold’s Hosiery Mills.
Hume Pipe Co., Ltd.
Increases of Capital.
Industrial Building
Society.
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd.
Millaquin Sugar Co.
Mockbells, Ltd.
New Share Issues.
North Broken Hill.
People’s Prudential As-
surance Co., Ltd.
Perdriau Rubber.
Prospectuses.
Registrations.
Roval Bank of Australia,
Ltd.
Wright, Heaton k Co.,
Ltd.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s; Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/C per annum,
post free.
Twentv-flve thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
,*■»**
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* ■» * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [1
Speedy, simple installation and permanent satis-
factory service recommend Pioneer Wood Pipe to
anyone requiring a conduit for practically any pur-
pose. Pioneer Wood Pipe is light anti easily handled,
it does not rust nor corrode, and will safely carry
all kinds of fluids. “Bad soil,’’ frost and electro-
lysis have no damaging effects, and the volume of
its flow remains constant throughout its long service.
For mining, irrigation and industrial purposes, for
town reticulation pipes, for water mains, for outfall
sewers, etc., Pioneer Wood Pipe is putting up records
of service all over Australia. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt. #
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne. —Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.—Advt.
* * * *
A hifh-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Roristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are how
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole ’ Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. —Advt.
* * * *
The Svdney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
panv, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
of N.S.W., Ltd.
Capital Subscribed - - - - £1,000,000
Paid Up, £llO,OOO. Uncalled, £890,000
Estates under control exceed £9,000,000
Do your duty to yourself and safeguard your family. Appoint as
your trustee the Permanent Trustee Co., of O’Connell Street.
Security and satisfaction, efficient management and economy in
administration are assured to the clients of this Company.
We have special facilities for the investment ofi Trust Moneys, and
our thirty-seven years’ experience in dealing with all classes of
estate is proof of our ability to faithfully discharge the duties
required of us.
Booklet sent free on request—write to-day.
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant Manager. ,T. W. BARNES, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
PTY., LTD.
CONTRACTORS FOR CIVIL ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC WORKS OF ALL KINDS.
The First Section of the Hydro-Electric
Development of the Clarence District of Northern
N.S.W. is nearing completion, and power will be
switched on on November 25 next.
London :
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
S Groat George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
HEAD OFFICE:
395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Telephones:
Central 7091-2.
Telegrams & Cables
“Arwhitcoy.”
Sydney Bkanch :
lie Castlereagli Street.
Telephone, 84507.
Telegrams and Cables:
“Hydrocivil.”
(iioni have been working wonders for
i" co Thirty years ago it got into worse
[rouble than any saint should, and when its
lrilo fell off it owed £330,000. Lt couldn t
pay, of course, because the money was re-
presented by'bricks and mortar winch just
then nobody wanted to buy, so it told its
creditors to have patience, presently arranged
with them to take 3 p.c. interest and wrote
its own £lO shares down to £3, which meant,
also writing down the book value of the
bricks and mortar before mentioned. And
then time and the bad people also before
mentioned got to work; and the co. being m
no hurry to sell, prices were gradually real-
ised which allowed all the written-off capital
to be restored. Looking back over the past
an years nothing is more conspicuous m con-
nection with cos. which then fell into trouble
than the manner in which shareholders have
scored by comparison with and sometimes at
the expense of depositors, debenture-holders
and other creditors. True, it hasn’t been
always the fault of the shareholders: in some
cases they gave creditors the chance to come
in and take shares —which, as a rule, they
didn't do. More often, as in this case, by
accepting a very low rate of interest the
creditors practically cut off perhaps half of
their capital, without a hope of recovering
it; while the shareholders got all the benefit
of’the recovery in values. Next time there is
a smash creditors may know better. But
they probably won’t —there is a new crop
of fools every day.
Matters have moved like this since 1908,
which was the year when the co. began
definitely to feel its feet again :
1908. 1915. 1923. 1924.
Old deposits .. £69,608 £42,304 £12,553 £9,435
New deposits .. ■— 8,274 16,862 15,959
Other liabilities.. 1,057 873 369 290
Advances .. 43,360 110,197 109,497
old mortgages and
foreclosures . . 125,879 89,101 36,095 30,394
Premises . . 6,000 12,000 25,914 33,538
Cash and other
assets.. .. 7,325 19,638 26,649 22,466
The co. is taking small chances with other
people’s money these days, and holds a mere
handful of deposits. But. the reserves are so
substantial that there is no difficulty about
paying the 10 p.c. dividend; there are net
assets of 335. Sd. for every £1 of capital.
But it may be that the directors have done
quite as much writing up as circumstances
justify; anyway, they had to draw on re-
serves this year to square up a loss on the
year’s property sales.
* * * *
Amalgamated Zinc last, half-year, with the
aid of divs. from Electrolytic Zinc and other
shares held, netted £32,196, so that it, could
well afford to pay out the Is. div. in Oct.,
especially since, after the books were closed,
£15,000-odd was received as a div. from the
Risdon show. On June 30 the co.’s debts
were £77,003, against which were products
on hand £27,988 —a safe valuation —and
sundry debtors £15.327, not to mention
£251.457 cash. The surplus of liquid assets
of £228,457 was added to.by the subsequent
receipt of the £15,000 of Electrolytic Zinc
divs. so that, roundly, the co. had available
£243,500 to meet the October disbursement
of £25,000. That would leave £218.500 of
cash, plus such sweet plums as 53,250 £1
shares in the Mineral Separation and lie
Bavay’s Processes Co., and 300.000 £1 ordi-
naries in the Electrolytic Zinc, for share-
holders, should assets be divided. Y\. L.
Baillieu or Monty Cohen may have a lot
to say at the half-yearly meeting about the
impatience of the small holder. On the other
hand, they may keep the clapper down hard,
relying on the official utterance that "as soon
as progress permits of a comprehensive appre-
ciation of the prospects of the venture [the
paper-pulping scheme in the Speck], and
your directors have a recommendation to
make, shareholders will be called together.”
This is typical of Collins House. Holders
will be called together when a recommenda-
tion can be made. What they want is to be
told, directly news is to hand, what Dave
Avery learns abroad about pulping Austra-
lian timber and an estimate of what the cost
will be of dipping into the paper industry.
Most concerns of the kind have wanted half
a million at least, and often call for more.
* * * *
Kanowna Red Hill (W.A.) is still get-
ting good stuff. Receipts from the last
crushing showed over the ounce, and should
just about pay this month’s sixpenny div.
More ounce returns are anticipated ; but, as
previously stated on this page, the shoots. in
this show are not dependable, values being
liable to cut out without warning.
* * * »
Several hard up Adelaide cos. which
migrated to Mt. Grey (W.A.) a few months
ago have thrown in the towel, and others
are inclined to follow suit. Two, Empire Ex-
tended and Macdonncll Ranges, are holding
on, but, despite favorable official reports,
prospects hang by slender threads.
Devon (W.A.), the mine of “pleasing ap-
pearance” and poor results, is working again.
The Melbourne co. which owns it recently
raised additional capital on the strength of
a favorable report by a Bendigo expert, and
shareholders are being urged to buck up and
hope for the best.
A II Collier, of London, lias formed a
syndicate to do shaft-sinking,
and driving at VYilnna (W.A.) in order
verify the good results recently obtained b.v
boring. If they are verified, Collier is hope-
ful of floating a big co. to take over the
syndicate’s interests and make a fancy profit
on the deal. # *
Borneo Oil Concessions Co., of Perth and
Adelaide, has. issued another cheerful report
-—apparently on poor foundations. ,V s
time a Dutch petroleum expert is stated to
have estimated that one of the co. s Borneo
concessions will yield “over 21 years supply
of oil” and to have discovered seepages m
other places. Ilis examination is proceed-
ing and, in the meantime, some trading is
being done in the shares at advancing prices.
* * * *
Alec Campbell takes B. H. Block 10 into
liquidation without a call. In fact, he wrings
out a 54d. div. as a final solatium for the
long wait on the brink of bankruptcy. Mine
and assets go back to the old fold. Under
Duncan Mcßryde and John Warren in the
’eighties and ’nineties they made over a mil-
lion in profits. When he left the boardroom
after the row because Block 10 would adven-
ture to Misima (Papua), Mcßryde took with
him the luck of the co. Later, two attempts
were made to get the Broken Ilill plant going,
and each time the co. dropped money, and
Misima was, of course, a wash-out.
* * * . .*
The Biplane crowd is explaining its
troubles. The truth is that mostly where
the reef lives at 315 ft. it isn’t payable, and
where it is split by a mullock intrusion what
little gold was in evidence disappears. So
the co. has sunk No. 2 winze from the 240 ft.
level, south of the main winze to pick up
the Carroll run of stone which makes up
to 2ft:. Manager Kingston hopes to find it
riding over the top of the mullock intrusion,
but still holding on to its gold. He has had
a long hunt after Wallace’s reef, north of
the main winze, and, as a reward, has rooted
out 670 z. from a couple of crushings. To
explain a score of only 2860 z. from 839 tons
in a six-months’ innings, Allen Bowler will
need to be at his best.
* * * *
Work at 1520 ft. north in the Hercules
keeps everyone in a twitter. For 100 ft. pay
quartz is opened up. Then news leaks out
that the rich run is ended. This is not
absolutely confirmed, but the fact that Ben-
digo isn’t buying strongly is a first-class
indicator. To the north at 500 ft. the stopes
shortly will break into the 15dwt. ore proved
by the rise put up to 1475 ft.; and as further
ahead of the rise the main drive carries fair
stone, the show' has a stout prop here to
support it. The 1620 ft. level also will soon be
extended sufficiently to allow the shoot, fol-
lowed down at 420 ft. north from level
above to be worked, but soon stone at 1380 ft.
wall have to be relied on to feed the battery.
This means a shrinkage in yields and prob-
ably a dip into bank balances. Hercules is
a big claim and has points at depth where
more than ordinary possibilities exist.
* * * *
New Ristori has called up Is. lOd. to get
w'ater under control. Now it proposes to
lean on the Treasury for £9OO to help it to
reach the wash. With Alec Peacock back in
the saddle, who knows! To drain the gutter
the main under level is still going out, and, as
the puddling machines are being got ready,
there won’t be a halt in stoping once the
gutter can be entered. Some further mining
move is on at Allendale, as the Government
drill has again been set to w'orlc to trace
out leads. A lot of old-timers think another
Madame Berry may lurk under the basalt.
Hence the recurrent stabbing through the
basalt into pre-historic river channels.
* * * *
Mt. Isa Mines have struck their first drop
of underground water at 200 ft., so Ernest
Bails wasn’t far out in his prophecy. The flow'
is small, and as they have touched only one
spot on the w’ater table it is too early to
draw' conclusions as to the likelihood of silver
enrichment. Sulphide ore is already Visible in
the carbonates, but the first assay from this
mixture went only 15oz. of silver. As re-
marked last week, the next 50ft. of sinking
ought to settle the very important question
of silver enrichment at water level.
* * * *
Ravenswood mine (N.Q.) is still working
a narrow' vein of prill ore averaging about
Bin. thick. Clarks, on the Towers, paid
good divs. on a similar-sized vein, and this
one is even richer, picked ore going as high
as £6O a ton. The mine is turning out about
50 tons fortnightly; prill ore (12oz. to 150 z.)
and concentrates (averaging 160 z.) are going
to smelters, and the rest of the ore is aver-
aging soz. to 6oz. over the plates. This
little success has induced the opening of
several other old mines in the district, in-
cluding the Welcome, at Sala.
* * * %
The Q.C. Oil Concessions (North), boring
at Tewantin (Q.), struck a fault at 830 ft.
and are starting a new bore on the advice of
Dr. Jensen. Arrangements are being made
for Dr. Wade, W'lio is now investigating oil
prospects in Queensland, to inspect and advise
on this district.
Queensland gold yield to the end of Octo-
ber, 1924, is ll,00()oz. ahead of the first 30
months of last year, the total being 79,2620 z.
Kavenswood was runner-up to Mt. Morgan
last month with 11430 z., and Mt. Coolon
came next with 90Goz. Coolon figures are
due for expansion next year; and provided
Mt. Morgan keeps in action 1925 State
figures are nearly certain to surpass 1924.
* * * *
The Ajax copper-mine, Bajool (Q.), is
under exemption to enable a fresh co. to
provide the funds for working. This is the
show that Mt. Morgan had under option,
but developments below the promising out-
crop did not come up to expectations, and
the option lapsed a couple of months back.
* * * *
Progress is being made with silver-lead
mining on the Etheridge (N.Q.). The fol-
lowing shows are working: Cobar, Aspasia,
Silver King, Stonewall .Tackson, inter-
national, Dry Hash, Knights of Malta.
Weekly consignments of ore are going to
the State smelters at Chillagoe.
*- * * *
Indefatigable A. 11. Clarke, of Cairns, is
turning his attention now to the Palmer
River (N.Q.), in the belief that a few more
millions are to be got out of the deep ground.
Water beat the old hands at 10ft., though
there are records showing that in places the
deep ground was richer than the shallow
had been. There shouldn’t be much difficulty
in getting the necessary capital to give the
famous old river another chance.
* * * '• *
“Shareholder’’ on Queensland coal-mines:
I am not lying- by insinuation, Randolph Bedford
notwithstanding. He is fond of making bald state-
ments and denials, but never a tittle of evidence does
he bring along in support. My statement regarding
coal costs at Townsville was true. Bowen shipping
coal costs 16s. to 17s. per ton (Auditor-General’s
figures) at pithead, and Maitland mines have been
shipping coal 17s. 6d. f.o.b. Newcastle. Hence the
difference in past and present prices is mainly the
cost of freight from Newcastle to Townsville. Further,
if Mr. Bedford will visit Collinsville, he will find
the miners generally asserting that “Jones won’t
make a profit” out of them again, and he will further
find this philosophic attitude backed up by a record
of squabbles over the shrinkage of coal cut per
miner as well as a steadfast refusal to accept a
hewing rate (6s. 3d. per ton) equivalent to that of
their more contented brethren in the Consolidated
mine—a hated private-enterprise concern.
* * * *
Unlucky Laloki is in trouble again. .Tust
when it was about to earn something for
New' Guinea Copper Mines, Ltd., tliere was
a heavy fall of ore at No. 5 winze on the
footw’all side of the ore body, follow T ed by a
fire. The position is so serious that at latest
the question of flooding the workings w’as
being considered. If this is done an open cut
will be started to keep things going.
* * * •
Vimy Ridge, Rega (N.S.W.), has reached
stalemate. Funds are low, and a couple of
men hold the leases. For five months Boga,
where rain usually falls in sheets, has had
a drought, and the burst dam has not yet
been refilled; the 10-liead mill remains silent,
and the low-level tunnel is still a dream.
But that wouldn’t matter so much if the
ore-bodies didn’t have the nasty habit of
narrowing to a blade.
* * * *
“Dividends should be paid quarterly, be-
cause the dredge should commence gold re-
covery almost from date of launching.” This
is written of 195 acres on the Macquarie
River at Wellington (N.S.W.) ; and to get
the easy money 60.000 10s. shares are offered
the G.P.. 30,000 fully-paids go to the promot-
ing syndicate and 10.000 contribs. are held
in reserve. The trial boreholes are the work
of E. W. Finch, 1600 of them having been
sunk on a river frontage 2} miles long by
6 chains w T ide, and averaging 37ft. in depth.
Values from sd. to 31d. are averaged at 13.2 d.:
and Finch estimates 10 years’ w’ork at 40,000
yards a month. Costs at 6d. a yard would
leave £lOOO a month net profit from a dredge
to cost £25.000. The boring seems to be
thorough; but the estimate of costs is too
low r .
* * * *
At Billapaloola Plateau, 20 miles east of
Tumut (N.S.W.), an area of 67 acres, to be
known as Wyangle Gold Reefs, has had a
favorable review by A. P. Penman, and a
co. in 80,000 ss. shares is on the stocks.
The names of Ludowici and Markell appear
on the directorate. For the present, only
32.000 contribs. paid to 2s. are suggested, and
16000 are held in reserve. Describing the
mining aspect, Penman states that the reefs
are true fissures in granite, with a north
and south strike and almost vertical.
They traverse the Plateau for a known distance of
a mile and a half. Work done consists of a tunnel
160 ft. into Alt. Piper, a shaft sunk to 70ft. with
100 ft. of driving, and what is known as the Big Reef
workings, south from the shaft—an open cut which
exposes a surface show 10ft. wide with true walls.
In the tunnel there is a strong reef from 18 to 30
inches wide, with perfect definition, ore free from
mineral, and “assuredly gold bearing.” AVhere
sampled, the faces returned 15dwt. to the ten. In
the shaft workings, between the tunnel and the
open cut, values run to 25dwt. over a foot wide,
but here “no definite opinion can be formed of its
probable values.”
Penman concludes with the remark that
“systematic development and accurate testing
of values should precede any attempt to
erect a treatment plant.” The purchase price
is 32,000 paid shares, £550 cash and £1750
out of gold won. Somebody is going to
make sure of a bit, anyway.
* * * *
Christmas Gift, Cootamundra (N.S.W.),
put 311 tons through the battery for 262oz.
14dwt. This ITdwt. average is .sufficient to
stave off calls and continue development,
though the fact that it is only £3 gold de-
tracts considerably. Stoping from the winze
below the 200ft. level on Baulderson's lode
has developed an ore-body 45ft. long. _ On the
Federal lode the winze below 200ft. is show-
ing a strong body of mineralised stone. The
trouble at the Gift is that welFdefined bodies
between clean walls have yet to be found.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USIIER,
Managing Director.
Macnaughts “HARVESTER
BOOT
Macnaughts Harvester Boot is
specially built for hard service—ideal
for the man on the land.
The finest leathers and materials are
used. Water-tight tongue. Heavy-
weight sole. Vamp and counters sewn
with heavily-waxed thread. Extra
high leg. Sizes stocked, 5 to 10.
In Black or Tan. Exceptional value.
Write for a pair note.
dsf
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 Pitt Street SYDNEY 135 King Street.
SEND YOUR SHOE REPAIRS.
CIN
Equitable
L.
Eire
Assurance Company
of
Queensland Eld.
Head Office:
Farbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Fredk. Levy. Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LIMSEED
OIL
The Bulletin is in mourning this week
for “J.F.H.” (J. F. Hogan), who died in
London a few days ago, aged 69. Hogan was
brought to Victoria as an infant, and while
in the Education Department began to write
for the press. He was on the Argus
for a time. Settling in London in 1887 lie
presently began to contribute to The Bul-
letin, and in the ensuing 30-odd years wrote
some thousands of paragraphs—many of them
about British political personalities (he
was a member of the House of Commons from
1892 to 1900), more of them about plays
and theatres, upon which he was a high
authority. He had eight or ten books to his
credit, mostly biographical: in that class his
best was “Robert Lowe, Viscount Sher-
brooke,” though his “History of the Irish
in Australia” had the greatest popularity
in these parts. Hogan was all kindness: the
only people he never treated fairly were those
who had to read his spidery manuscript.
W. E. Abbott, who died at Win gen
(N.S.W.) last Friday, was a remarkable
type of the second generation of Cornstalks.
In his prime he was a magnificent specimen
of manhood, nearly 6ft. 6in. in height, and
48in. round the chest. His brain was well
developed, too; he was strong, stern and
fearless, and though inclined to be auto-
cratic there was a vein of sentiment and
kindness in him, never admitted by himself,
that led to the doing of much for his fellow
men that he took infinite care should not
be advertised. To most of the Com-
monwealth he was best known as “Wingen”
Abbott, who wrote many letters to the
papers, but in the Upper Hunter districts,
where all his life was spent, he was regarded
as an oracle upon almost everything under
the heavens. He was the second son of John
Ivingsmill Abbott {lie settled at Wingen in
1838) and a younger brother of the late
Speaker J. P. Abbott, and was in his 81st
year when the call came. All his life he was
a good Australian, who believed in liis coun-
try and its destiny, and grudged no effort on
its , behalf. He never married—“l really
don t know why,” he once said; “I suppose
it was because I could never stand the idea
of seeing a strange woman about the house.”
H. R. Ham, head of the ancient firm of
C. J. and T. Ham,
the Collins-street
estate agents, who
after a bout of ill-
liealtli was found
drowned in the
Yarra last month,
left an estate worth
£32,450, the bulk
of which goes to
his two children.
He left his part-
ners, Higginbotham
and Smale, his in-
terests in the firm.
HENRI VAN
RAALTE, etcher
and technical
adviser to Adelaide
Art Gallery.
After 17 weeks of rulership at £3O a week
Prendergast has. gone back to liis old job of
Vic. Opposition leader at £l3 Bs. 4d. He re-
tained the room at Parliament House with
which he has become familiar in the last 20
years, and will have his old-time sec., Percv
Dodds, whom ho had made a permanent
officer while he was Premier. “Prendy’s”
photo, will now go in the oblong frame in
the lounge—the frame that seems to incite
ambitious members to “shift” Ministries so
that they may get their turns.
Sir Arthur Lake, Bart., who died in a
Sydney suburb last week, enjoyed an empty
title. For some time before his death the
old chap was an invalid pensioner; failing
eyesight had at last prevented him doing even
the odd-job gardening that had previously
maintained him. In his more prosperous days
Sir Arthur was in the British Navy, from
which he retired to try sheepfarming in
Maoriland. He did remarkably well, too. but
lost everything on the Stock Exchange.
Drifting to Sydney, for some years he had
the job of ringing the warning bell to get
people out of the Botanic Gardens at sunset.
Next he turned to gardening, and many suc-
cessful tradespeople would have been amazed
had they known the status of the poor old
man whose failing sight made him so fearful
of uprooting seedlings instead of weeds. When
he could no longer garden lie tended some
ducks and fowls at Marrickville to supple-
ment his pension. A few months back some
wealthy connection of his family died and
left him a bit of money, but it came too late
to make any appreciable difference to the old
baronet, whose title dated from the Stuarts.
Three are mentioned as likely candidates
for the vacancy created by the retirement of
Justice Sliand from Queensland Supreme
Court Bench. They are Hugh Macrossan,
the barrister; Solicitor-General Webb; and
Frank Brennan, Minister for Education, who
was recently admitted as a barrister by
J. P. JONES, who made a capital impression
as Minister for Health (and other
things ) in the Vic. Labor Government,
goes bach to his old job—he has built a
fortune as a ready-to-wear clothing
manufacturer.
virtue of a new Act of Parliament which
permits solicitors to pass on to the barristers’
table. Macrossan has a lucrative practice,
but is being strongly urged to make a sacri-
fice if the offer comes his way.
From the Victorian Gallery:—
How easy a passage John Allan has had to the
Premiership compared with Duncan Gillies, the
previous member for Rodney to hold the job! Gil-
lies was first heard of as a Minister in 1868. He
did not reach the Premiership till 1886, notwithstand-
ing -that Deakin described him as one of the most
notable figures the House had known. Allan, who
finds it difficult to throw off his shire-councillor ways,
has been only seven years in the House, and with the
aid of a following of 12 has made the Liberals his
vassals and has usurped the throne. England is not
the only country under the Crown where Liberalism
is on the wane.
Henry Lawson left very little unpublished
work behind him. Usually he was in rather
a hurry to get his verse and stories between
book-covers, so publication in The Bulletin
was hurried up. Only half a dozen pieces
were in stock when he died; and, so far as
The Bulletin knows, only one piece of
verse remains unpublished. This, a poetical
story of the old diggings where Henry spent
his youth, will be printed in the Christmas
Bulletin, which will be published on Decem-
ber 13.
W. M. Hughes has decided upon closing
his Victorian home at Sassafras Gully, out
Dandenong way, and has bought a £4(X)O resi-
dence, with a creek and 2-1 acres of bush
attached, at Lindfield, within his North Syd-
ney electorate.
Vic. Acting-Justice Weigall is carrying on
for another year, and that will be his third.
His first chance came when he relieved
Cussen; then he had an encore while C.J.
Irvine went a-holidaying. Now Sclmtt is
going overseas for 12 months—without pay,
by the way, he being a comparative new-
comer to the Bench.
After 35 years as shepherd of the Collins-
street kirk, Dr. Alex. Marshall has laid down
his staff. For 12 years the Rev. W. Bor-
land, another Scot, has been his coadjutor,
and will, apparently, now become the meenis-
ter. Marshall was picked in the troublous
times that followed the doctrinal controversy
and outgoing of Dr. Charles Strong, now
head of the Australian Church. Whoever
was responsible for his selection showed
genius. He consolidated and tamed what
was left of a critical congregation, won back
seceders, purged out the old leaven of ill-
feeling, and made his kirk a force in the
community.
The Duchess of Atholl, who has been ap-
pointed Parliamentary Secretary for Educa-
tion in the Baldwin Ministry, was
before marriage Miss Katherine Mar-
jory Ramsay, a daughter of baronet
James Ramsay. Her husband, then Mar-
quis of Tullibardine, was in the Boer War,
and was nearly shot by a sentry at Mafeking
through getting too far ahead of the reliev-
ing army when they entered the city.
M. F. McNamara, Inspector-General of
the State Bank of S.A., died in harness,
being struck down at a Board meeting. He
was an accountant in the Lands Office when
Hie State Bank was established in 1896;
transferred to the new office, he ran its
finances for 25 years. Town-planning and
soldiers’ homes were his strong suits, and
the Commonwealth Government was glad to
consult him over its War Service Homes Act.
He was only 61 at the end.
Father Time’s scythe has harvested N. B.
McKay, who was associated with “H.V.” at
Sunshine for many years. He had a long
career as a journalist, founded the Cultivator
at Mildura, was part-owner and editor of
the Numurkah Standard, and later, when
not trying to sell harvesters, was a strong
booster of the Mildura irrigation selieme and
intensive culture generally.
-E. Spence, non-political head of the
N.S.\V. Treasury, has been appointed to the
Public Service Board, vice Loveridge, who
takes Lance’s place on the Harbor Trust.
Spence, who is 45, has whirled through the
departments. He began working life as a
school teacher, and in a surprisingly few
years was chief accountant of the Public
Works Department. Next, after the death
of W. A. Gullick, he was Acting-Government
Printer. Then the Treasury collared him
—or he collared the Treasury. His suc-
cessor, B. S. B. Stevens, is 10 years younger,
and had a varied career in commerce before
he dropped into a Government job.
Web Gilbert’s noble bronze statue of an
Australian Digger in action which the Mel-
bourne artist has sculptured for the Burn-
side District Fallen Soldiers—Burnside is
suburban to Adelaide—has arrived from
France, and will be unveiled shortly. Fred
Johns, the creator of Australia’s “Who’s
Who,” has been the hon. secretary and mov-
ing spirit of this memorial, and he and his
committee are joyful at the consummation
of their years of arduous effort. Johns is
also sec. of the National Statue to Flinders,
to be erected at Adelaide.
The widow of Dr. Allan Campbell, sister
of the late Chief Justice Way, and daughter
of pioneer Bible Christian Minister James
Way, has died at Adelaide, aged 81. For
many years she was one of the most loved
workers for the Children’s Hospital and
other charitable institutions.
For 45 years George Peake has pre-
sided over the organ and choir of the Inde-
pendent Church in Collins-street (Melbourne)
—the Bethel from whose tower a search-
light calls sinners to repentance. He has
seen seven regular parsons come and go. and
an infinite number of casuals, the regulars
including Dr. Bevan. Now lie feels he has
earned a rest; and a proud congregation
claims that he has put up for himself and
the church an Australian record.
From the State Gallery:—
The most effective interjertor in the N. S. Wales
Pailiament is Hughie Connell, the ex-schoolteacher
and A.I.F. major. His good-humored sallies at short
range are always apt to create a hiatus in the slug-
gish flow of muddy words from Government sup-
porters. Pie is also a champion leg-puller. Last
week Thomas ’Enley was in the midst of a character-
istic oration on water and sewerage matters, when
Connell solemnly interposed: “The matter becomes
clever with every sentence you utter!” ’Enley
beamed on his interjector and admitted that he
thought it did.
The first president of the Commonwealth
Association of Motor Clubs is J. R. Baker,
an Adelaide lawyer, son of Chaffey Baker,
first president of the Federal Senate. He
was one of the State’s earliest cyclists and
motorists, and about 30 years ago was tennis
champion of South Aus.
“Sixenate”: The remarkable Percy Mc-
Donald, who before receiving his latest sen-
tence of four years’ imprisonment told a
Sydney court a Dead wood Dick yarn about
the death of another eccentric, Percy Brun-
ton (sham detectives, he maintained, threw
the two Percys into the sea because they
“knew too much” and fired shots at them),
first struck the limelight as a street orator.
His specialty was making slanderous re-
marks about the Salv’army and collecting
money from the crowds who liked the slan-
ders. At last a maligned officer obtained a
verdict for £5O and costs, and McDonald
went to gaol for failing to pay, but made
a sensational escape over the wall of a lava-
tory. When next sighted he had enlisted
in the A.I.F. But he was never more than
an orderly at a camp hospital.
Among the visitors to the recent Tumut
(N.S.W.) Centenary celebrations was George
Reid, gardener, of Junee, who is just strid-
ing into his 90th year. Reid, who is said to
have been the first white child born at Tumut,
was employed at Wantabadgery station when
the Moonlight gang held it up. His com-
panions in that adventure, Seymour and
Kewley, still reside on the station.
The Mission Board of the Anglican Church
in Melbourne has shown its appreciation of
the work of the Rev. A. A. Yeates by voting
him £lOOO. Yeates knows more about the
poor of Melbourne
and the conditions
in which they live
than any other man
who fastens his
collar at the back:
and the strenuous-
ness of his work in
the slums has led
to a physical break-
breakdown. Th e
grant is to give him
a chance of taking
a complete rest.
General “TOMMY”
DODDS, who has
just left for Eng-
land as Digger
representative at
the War Office.
“Hamer”: Apropos of the pension drawn
for 46 years by the widow of Kennedy, the
sergeant who was killed by the Kelly gang,
there is another reminder of the bushrangers
in the annual expenses sheets of the Vic.
Police Department. Michael Reardon was
injured in the attack on the outlaws at
Glenrowan ; to-day he still draws the pound-
a-week pension granted him—an amount
pathetically little in real value to-day.
Harry Spicer, who died recently, was one
of the best-known citizens of Tasmania’s
nor’-west, and there is hardly an institution
in Stanley which does not owe its existence
to or was not fostered by his efforts. At one
time he was Stanley’s only medical man, and
was its magistrate too.
“McAwber”: Mrs. Roumieu, P.R.G.S., of
Southampton (Eng.), claims the record as
a woman traveller during the last 20 years
-—since she was 50 years old. I know a
better record than her 100,000 miles in three
voyages round the w r orld. Since we married
my wife and I have made ten voyages to-
gether round the globe, in all the. Seven Seas
and in every continent. In addition we have
made three trips to North America, covering
30.000 miles. Our joint record exceeds
400,000 miles, and we claim we are the only
two married Australians who have travelled
so far and so widely. Does anybody know
a bigger tally?
“The Deacon”: Had Tom Murphy, who
crossed the River the other day, written his
reminiscences, it would have been one of the
best clerical books of the decade. Over 40
years ago he was known throughout the
Nepean district (N.S.W.) by no other name
than “Tom the Dean” on account of his close
association with Dean Mahony, parish priest
of Penrith. Mahony made him a beneficiary
under his will, and Murphy rested on that
for awhile; but it wasn’t long before he was
back—this time at the Cardinal’s College,
whence a quarter of a century ago Cardinal
Moran translated him to be confidential fac-
totum at St. Mary’s, and he had been behind
the scenes there ever since.
STRENGTHENING DIET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Angels live on a diet of duty and light.” —English
magazine.
Beef for the angels! Scarce and ever scarcer
Appear to be their visits to the world.
An angel’s power is small. You can’t reverse her,
Nor can she loop the loop with pinions furled.
Merely a kind of glider with frail ankles
And lovely golden hair, she plays her harp.
It is the thought of all she might be rankles;
And all she isn’t makes the heathen carp.
Beef for the angels! Beef and rolls of butter,
Peaches and cream and other solid fare!
A dinner of pale light may cause a flutter;
Breakfast on duty sounds like eating air.
But if we want soft angels in their beauty
To roost with frequency in our back yard
We ought to feed them as a public duty
Till Heaven’s speedways seem less long and hard.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
THE GREATEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The most powerful man in the world—the Presi-
dent of the United States.” —Daily paper.
Consider what a lofty power is his,
A pow'er that almost seems without a limit!
Although he cannot drink a bright gin-fizz,
His name is lustrous and no shadows dim it.
He cannot make a law, nor hang a man,
Nor take a holiday from all his glory,
Nor shape his party to the perfect plan
It ought to take from his election story.
He cannot add a dollar to his screw,
He must be ready for some nice evasions;
To see the tangled scheme of party through
He has to work and smile on all occasions.
His hand, though powerful, is not his own ;
The whole democracy can come and shake it.
His very voice must take a certain tone
To fit his policy, as others make it.
He does more writing than a copving-clerk,
Attends more functions than a tired waiter;
And yet with reverence the people mark
The fact that he grows greater still and greater!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


■V
mm
£y-
m m
' v y,'
:/ s :
ww m
■
• ■■•
■ -
"
ITS PENFOLDS-
so he


a
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOtJSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I amsnn Store fn 102 Daking House,
Lamson Service ML, Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.—H. Little &■ Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
>
u
ct
o
imiiiii
111
o
o
1111 l
x
VE3
Vbu are ar/ared in. every bottle
of thatj-elfjrame/tarvdard <y**
excellence which, haf made
FAMO Uf THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded by connoijjeurf to be
JcOTLAND^cfOUNDEfT/TIMULANT
THE WONDERFUL
GENUINE WIENEKE
dfg
SADDLE
is still made
by Jack
W i e n eke
(late of
Roma). You
do not know
the real comfort
of riding until
3’ou have tried
on Cl Cut out this advt.
and I will sent you a new
illustrated book about
my experiences, 34
YEARS’ SADDLE
MAKING for Aus-
t, ra 1 i a’s Champion
Riders. Write now
Jack Wieneke
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., SYDNEY
or
434 Queen St., Brisbane.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bonragi”: The North Queensland blacks
used to rapidly lift and lower the spear-arm before
despatching their missile, whether it was the hand-
spear or the lighter womera javelin. There was a
tremendous “whip” on the weapon before its flight
began, and this imparted a curious undulatory or
“shuddering” appearance to it as it flew through the
air. Far away in N.-E. Papua the natives practise
exactly the same trick; and, as their rows usually
open with much speechifying and declamation, one
has a good chance to note it. In the hand of an
expert the vibrated spear makes a noise resembling
that of a small “bullroarer,” and this adds to the
impressiveness of the performance. I often tried the
trick, but, though it was easy to get the preliminiry
waggle on the spear, letting it go successfully was
another matter.
“Louden” : Let me introduce Westralia’s
veteran axeman, Jim Kelly, of Noggerup. Sixty
summers have passed since Jim first saw the light,
and he has been competing in first-class chops for
over 40 years; yet he is still conceding big starts,
and handicappers dare not let him out too far. Only
12 months ago he returned from a sports meeting
with £lOO chipped off by his own axe.
* * * »
“The Wanderer”: llow did the term
“ringer” originate in the sheds? I’ve heard various
theories from old shearers, but I stumbled on a
likely explanation in an old dictionary, which
states: “To bear away the bell: to carry off the
prize. To bear the bell: to be first*'*’ It is easy
enough to follow the sequence of ideas down to plain
“ringer.” What have the old-timers to say about
it?
* * « *
“Saaedi”: Many birds exhibit an extra-
ordinary affection for their mates, and the union of
a pair is often of lifelong duration. There are few
feathered creatures more timid than the topknot
pigeon, but the heroism of a member of this tribe
on one occasion I shall not readily forget. I had
shot one bird out of a flock of topknots, and was
walking forward to pick up the victim, when I was
astonished to see another pigeon fly down in front
of me. Spreading its wings protectively over the
dead body of its mate, the tiny creature defied me,
and refused to fly away even when 1 walked right up
to it. I have rarely felt so remorseful, and then and
there registered a vow that I would never shoot an-
other topknot pigeon.
* * * *
“1.L.1.”: Recently I rode on a queer-look-
ing object decorating the banks of the Normanby
lliver, Cape York Peninsula. It was a many-
branched tree stripped of its bushy boughs and foli-
age. On the broken limbs were impaled many alli-
gator skulls in, various stages of decay. Some were
brown, with the bones falling to pieces under the
weight of years ; others bleached white; others with
part of the hide still clinging to the strong jaws;
several just a few days old. Around the butt of
the tree lay countless long, sharp teeth which had
dropped from the jaws. Up the river is a large
niggers’ camp, which explained the apparition. So
long as the skull hangs high in the tree, the spirit
of the defunct lizard cannot go back to form a
nucleus of the body of a fresh ’gator. Incidentally,
alligator steaks are often nice and tender, a truth
not generally known. I digested the fact while
squatting by a niggers’ cooking fire.
* * * *
“Billy S.”: Dynamite and coal-gas are
not the only substances that will explode; sawdust
can put up a good ; concussion at times. In a big
Perth sawmill the sawdust and shavings are drawn
from the machines by pneumatic tubes and delivered
as fuel at the boilers.
One big fuel-bin, 20
x 20, was being
emptied after ten years’
constant use. High up
at the back tons of
most impalpable jarrah
dust had collected, and
although “flashbacks”
were of common occur-
rence, considerable pro-
gress was being made
in burning it. The
other day, just at the
moment when the fire-
box-door was open, a
big fall of dust hap-
pened inside the bin.
Puffing out through the
bunker-hole, the mix-
ture of dust and air
took fire; and after
filling the stokehole
with a tornado of flame
it shot back into the
bin and exploded with
sufficient force to wreck
three strong brick
walls. The fireman
and a lad who happened
to be in the stokehole
were horribly burned,
their clothing bursting
into flame —they were
left naked. So great was the heat that in the one flam-
ing second the paint on the engine-room door was
reduced to charcoal.
* * * #
‘‘Two Seas”: The Westralian red-gum that
“bleeds like a stuck pig,” mentioned by “Billy See”
(B. 23/10/’24), must be a near relation of the apple-
trees that grow on the Gwydir flats (N.S.W.). When
ringing them I have often known them to spout a
stream of dark brown liquid that looked and smelled
like bad beer—if there is any bad beer. Anyhow, it
had a tantalising whiff that conjured up visions of a
cool bar on a hot day.
* * * *
“Paddymelon”: I watched the growth of
a pea vine from the time it was abSut a foot high,
with a tendril on top, straight except at the end,
which was slightly hooked. At this stage a slight
stick was held about nine inches away from the
plant, which soon began to lean towards it. When
they were within an inch or so, the stick was removed
to the opposite side, and the vine began to lean over
the other way. The thing was repeated half a dozen
times and the stick held in various positions, and
every time the pea followed it. At last it was
held long enough in the one place, and the tendril
came in contact and immediately commenced to twine
round it. Since then I have been quite satisfied
that plants have intelligence.
“The Rumpus”: It is instinct for a nig-
ger to want to kill, and no matter how friendly
he becomes the desire is always there. Out from
Laverton (W.A.) my chief went down with fever,
and our trusted Tarpot did odd jobs in the tent.
THE WAYFARING MAN, THOUGH A FOOL.
“Give you a lift? ’Ow far do yer want to go?”
“As far as you like, sir. I’m the gentleman that’s walking around
the world.”
One night the chief called me to his bunk. “Be
careful of that blasted nigger,” he whispered; “he
started feeling the muscles of my arms and legs
to-day. Jokingly, I know, but he only wanted to
make sure I was weak enough. Don’t go too far
from camp.” I thought the matter out and deter-
mined to meet the black on his own ground. He
was a big brute and I called him into my tent.
Getting between him and the entrance, I began
running my hand over the muscles of his arms and
legs. The terror in his eyes showed his guilt, and
before he could gather up his courage I swung.
We lost a blackboy, but saved our lives.
* * * #
“A.A.”: How about this for persever-
ance? Tom McGrath, better known as Taranaki,
sank a shaft 67ft. deep at Bald Hill (Tas.) without
any assistance. He carried the mullock to the sur-
face in a bag. Sassafras saplings, with the limbs cut
off about a foot from the main stem, were used as
ladders. When the shaft became too deep for one
spar, a similar one was bound to the end of the
other, and so on, until at last “Tarry” decided the
show was a duffer and tried elsewhere. The shaft
was about a mile from the Osmiridium field. This
precious metal was valueless in those days (the
’eighties). About 1890 “Tarry” took a 71b. oat-
meal bag, nearly full, to Melbourne to see if there
was any market for the stuff. He failed to get
an offer, and it is believed threw the bag overboard
on the return journey. As the present price is about
£26 per oz., it was quite a respectable little for-
tune to throw away.
* * * *
“Riverina”: If the man who asserted in
The Bulletin that Hori has become a back-number
as a sailor will spend a little time about Bluff,
Riverton or Stewart Island, an apology should soon
be forthcoming. Many Maoris are engaged hereabouts
in deep-sea fishing, in waters that test the most skil-
ful navigators, while others are on ocean-going vessels
which make Bluff a port of call. The impression
prevails clown here that they are quite as dependable
and venturesome in all conditions as their white
shipmates.
* * * *
“Maeve”: I endorse the invective of
“Two Seas” (B. 30/10/’24) against the fools who
fire at noises and specks and then find they have
maimed or murdered some innocent thing. Mot long
ago a boy of 19, out rabbit-shooting, fired in the
dusk at a white patch on a rise near by, and was
startled to hear the patch shriek in terror. A
very contrite youth explained to a girl who had been
sitting waiting for the mail-coach to pass, that he
had mistaken her for a rabbit. Had the shot done
more than pierce the crown of her hat, he would
probably have been making the same lame explanation
to the Coroner.
• • • * -
“Sirdar”: “Adelaide’s” par contains the
assertion (B. 23/10/’24) that crows are only danger-
ous to very young lambs. This is ridiculous, as
crows cause the death of hundreds of grown sheep
by picking out their eyes as soon as they get down.
Among lambing ewes especially they cause great
disaster. They may do something towards coping
with the blowfly trouble by destroying the larvre,
but it is certain that they do a great deal towards
causing it by providing carrion in which the flies
can breed.
“•T.L.R.C.”: Believe me, Black Brother
is not so dull. As we were passing by Euabalong,
Billy Wollal, a pure abo., offered liis services, as
the boss required another hand in the droving team.
Billy was accepted, and was accompanied part of
the way by his gin; the
latter on going back re-
quested the boss tA send
part of Billy’s wages on
to her when the job was
finished. There was £6
coming to the abo. at
the settling up. The
boss tried to persuade
Billy to let him have
half of it to send to the
missus ; but £ 2 was all
lie could extract —Billy
ended up by saying she
wasn’t worth more than
“a couple of quid.” The
abo. did the usual thing,
and soon returned with
nothing but an un-
quenclied thirst. Then
he offered his dog to the
boss in the hope of get-
ting a little more lucre.
The boss gave him a
pound, which soon fol-
lowed the other four.
After this, Billy thought
it about time to hit the
trail homewards, and
had no difficulty in ob-
taining a passage by the
mail train. Meanwhile
the boss had posted the
remittance to Billy’s
wife. Billy, arriving at
his home town, at once
presented himself at the
post office, and asked for
any letters addressed to
Mrs. Wollal. The letter
containing the other end
of his wages was handed
to liim, and the inter-
rupted spree was pro-
ceeded with. His only
trouble was that he
hadn’t sent three pounds
to his gin instead of only two.
* * * *
“R.N.W.”: Here’s another queer accident.
During the dry months of early 1914 water was
carted to the Carpathia Mine, Ardlethan (N.S.W.),
and emptied into a galvanised-iron tank, having a
round hole on top and adjoining my assay labora-
tory. Distant sounds of threatening thunderstorms
were of daily occurrence, so when a deep rumbling
sounded nearer I concluded a storm was approaching
at last. But my ear began to detect a strange note
in the turmoil. Upon investigation I found that the
man who was carting the water had reached down
through the hole of the tank for a piece of piping
on the bottom, and had slipped too far, jambing his
body in the hole. Two of us seized his semaphoring
legs and managed to haul him out just in time.
W. Bates, late of Ardlethan, can vouch for the
foregoing—it was he who made the thunder.
* * * *
“FY7”: Three-year-old Terry McGroarty
did not long hold the record for a kid lost in the
bush (B. 23/10/’24). That has passed to Miss
Catherine Finger, of Brewery Creek, near Clermont
(C.Q.). A search party of over 100 strong, white
and black, turned out to look for Catherine, who
was found, very little the worse for wear or
wandering, some 36 hours later. These incidents
recall the precautions taken by a lady whose hus-
band looked after a gate in the Queensland-N.S.W.
border rabbit fence in the days of State Customs
duties. She had a small boy, and, as the country
DON’T KNOW WHEN HE’S WELL OFF.
“ 'Struth, mate, you’re rich! I’m down ter
tuppence!”
was very scrubby, and her offspring venturesome,
she kept a horse-bell round his neck, except at
bedtime. The youngster was quite used to his
jangling encumbrance, and the fame of the kid
with the bell was abroad in the land from St.
George to Walgett, and from Mungindi to Angledoob
for many a day.
(Continued on page 24.)
BACK TO THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The grass is wet with morning dew,
The merry magpies singing;
All sounds of gladness that 1 knew
Within my heart are ringing.
What matters it that years unkind
Brought only care and sorrow ?
The musk from fern-lands, silver-lined,
Breathed of a brighter morrow.
And, now upon the hills I love
I tread once more the mosses
And, smiling at clear skies above,
Forget life’s bitter losses.
Along the streams that gaily flow
The sun-flecked ferns are growing,
And fairy boatmen lightly row
Leaf-boats the winds are blowing.
1 hear each tone that thrilled my heart—
Earth-poems deeply pondered ;
Though long from joy 1 dwelt apart,
Here music ever wandered.
The rustle of the reeds and grass,
Bird-calls like children’s laughter,
And all the murmurings that pass
My heart would follow after.
Gum-blossoms’ honey-cups refill—
Fringed goblets, centuries olden—
And sassafras has wines to spill
In flagons small and golden !
The climbing wild-flowers, starry-eyed,
The lightwood tree arraying,
Seem wreaths upon a forest bride
With bowed head sweetly praying.
Handmaidens of the heart are here*
Linked hand in hand advancing;
And woodland elves in hosts appear,
To flutes of Klfland dancing!
A CONSCIENTIOUS WORKER.
INDIGNANT HUSBAND: “ Don't do nothin' for yer, don't I! Who
found you yer last job?”
Long, long within a city pent,
Bush-starved, in crowded places,
I could not breathe the tender scent,
1 lost the wild-flower faces.
Ah ! only they who dwell amidst
The forest’s faithful lovers
.May.touch her ring of amethyst
And know what hope recovers!
VICTORIA.
MARION MILLER KNOWLES.


It Pays to Feed Meggitts’ Meal.
Sy ... i 1 ..l J. ..HliWiiP. ■■Wifwmwniii' i"I ' I I 1" ——■ ■ll wi mm— vmm—mmKmammammmmmm —r
.. r : :
'
.
■
u
■
'
*.
I
I
m
■n
Hi
* •>
m
9
'J V. ,
1
—a— mrnm&mm
mm
mm m
*
" ' ;
: I
m
'Em
:
sm
1 ..... E
H
■
sbpw
B
:
fflm
H I
> * 7 | *%♦:
BBHHi
m
i
Top Producing Herd in the Victorian Government Herd Test, 1923-24. Actual yield, for
11 cows, 48781 b. of butter-fat in 273 days. Average per cow, 481 b. butter-fat.
Owned by Messrs. Flack & Sewell, Berwick, Victoria.
Even under delightful natural
conditions such as represented
in the above picture, it is profit-
able and essential to feed
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
Grass alone can never produce
the wonderful results of these
Champion Dairy Cows.
When you buy Meggitt’s Meal
you buy the best single ingredient
known the world over for all
classes of stock —Cows, Calves,
Horses, Pigs, Sheep and Poultry
—under all conditions.
Feed correctly and to instructions,
and you will maintain better and
more profitable stock.
UNSffoonnnj
m
neociTT
1
«4
( VAe boy on the baa
guarantees qualify
dsf
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 380, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. Denhams, Limited, Brisbane.
Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Messrs. Corser & Co., Maryborough.
Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Limited,
Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA:
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Pty., Ltd.v
Hobart and Launceston.
GGJ
JJNSffOOUMfW
m
MECCITT C*
Parramatta^
boy on the boo
guarantiees cju&liq/


1
m
m*
K
■
M,
a
■
I
Zt
m
i
* >
i
f!
■ ; ; '■
;
****
CASTLEREAGW
STREET,
SYDNEY
This hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTOX
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management J L£VY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141—10 lines.
“Troophorse”: I agree with “McG.” (B.
25/9/’24) that the reports of the disappearance of
dugong from our coasts is an unfounded rumor.
From Cape York round to Broome they are in
plenty. The flesh has a flavor between that of pork
and beef, and once having tasted the steak you will
prefer it to any other. I remember when, a while
ago, some hundred pounds of dugong meat was landed
at Darwin. Several of the pubs got hold of a few
pounds and dished it up as prime beef-steak, and
everybody wanted a second helping. Next morning
the same steak was served as dugong steak, but
only a couple of old hands wanted to tackle it.
“Ledraw” : I have had a few chance feeds,
too. My mate and I were going down through
Eugowra to look for harvesting. Three years’ drought,
had made the sheds a bad spec. There were hun-
dreds of men on the roads, stiff, like ourselves.
We were right out of grub when we found about
20 or 30 small potatoes, which had been thrown
out by a teamster. We camped at a creek at dusk.
I heard a rabbit squeal, and thinking that someone
might have traps set, went to investigate. On
the other side of the ridge I walked right on to
a dingo with a rabbit in his mouth. I let out
a yell, and he dropped it. AVe had rabbit stew
and potatoes that night. I was on the Congo when
THE ONLY OBSTACLE.
“I tell you straight, I can't retire on a mere thousand
a year.”
“ Heavens, old man, I could!”
“Oh, well, of course, so could I if I had it.”
there was a dispute between the Belgian and other
Governments re boundaries. My camp had been
isolated on account of heavy rains and floods. We
were getting desperate: hippo, meat was the only
available tucker. Just then Roger Casement with
his carriers came along. (He was not Sir Roger
in those days.) I got not only tinned stuff, but two
dozen of Bass and two bottles of whisky. Yes, T
said a sincere prayer for him when I read an
account of his execution during the war.
DIAGNOSIS.
“’Aren't seen yer 'usland about lately. What took ’im orf so sudden?”
“Seizure!”
“Wot, ’eart?”
“No. P’leece!”
“T.V.T.”: Jacky quid Mary came up to
the station homestead, drenched to the skin, after
a blinding shower. Mrs. Squattah went to the
door. “Good gracious, Mary!” she exclaimed,
“did you get all that big shower?” “No missus,”
said Mary; “baal gettim all. Jacky he get some
* * * *
“Contractor”: Regarding animal-traction
here and on the other side, and apropos of the
method by which the French farmers
steer their horses with a single rein
branching at the collar to both sides
of the head, the Frenchman and the
Belgian appeared to us Diggers to
rave his animals usually rigged too
far away from their work. They
use some queer combination teams.
We saw a team of two medium-
weight horses with a bull between
them, all working in chains and
spread out widely. They were draw-
ing two three-wheeled tip-drays or
waggons tandem and loaded with
coal-briquettes. On another occasion
a column of us advised three stout
passengers riding in a cart drawn
by four light dogs to exchange places
with the dogs. On still another
occasion some of us witnessed the
spectacle of a white pony, a yearling
heifer and a woman drawing a
loaded cart driven by a man. In
Britain many of the horses, and
particularly in the city teams, were
magnificent specimens and shifted
big loads. On the farms in Scot-
land they relied mostly on the two-
horse team and single-furrow plough.
In England, where the farming is
not as good, I saw three horses
tandem in a seed-drill, with a man
or boy at the head of each horse
and a man operating the drill. This
was followed by a man and a horse
with a light harrow. While perhaps
our farming may not be as thorough
in some respects, it made me think-
how efficient many Australian kids
are at handling big teams of horses
unassisted. These remarks are to
some extent prompted by the problem
many of us are faced with in trying
to adapt overseas men to working
teams of Australian horses. Not to
let the native-born horse-driver blow
his bags too much, and speaking as
a lover of draught-horses, there is
far too much unnecessary cruelty
through inattention to details of
harnessing and studying the characters of his animals
on the Australian’s part.
* * * *
“Yardley”: At Newmarket (Vic.) cattle
are driven from the railway siding to the sale-
yards. At street corners mounted men with dogs
are stationed to turn the mobs. One of the dogs thus
employed follows the mob, and hurries back to
his station to catch the succeeding one. He knows
exactly the moment when a race back to his post
will enable him to be on duty on the arrival of
the following mob. On occasions he cuts his work
so fine that he actually brushes past the noses of the
oncoming cattle. To the naturalist who is cocksure
that quadrupeds possess only instinct I commend
a study of this performance.
* * * #
“Micromegas” : Apropos of goats living off
the booze. Where karakela grows in Central Australia
cattle have been known to go for two years without
water and come out fat. Incidentally, 35 years ago
a flock of 300 sheep was sent to Charlotte Waters,
on the Transcontinental telegraph line, in lieu of
meat rations. They have since so multiplied that,
though thousands have been sold or eaten, the flock
now stands at 800. What is more, without the
introduction of new blood, they have retained a
frame and fleece at which the experts marvel —not
a bad argument for Central Australia!
* * * *
“Rouragi”: It may be true, as “Ragar”
claims (B. 9/10/‘24), that the art of line and rope
making has declined among the Papuans, but only so
in a few over-civilised
sections of th.e Papuan
peoples. Canoe lash-
ings alone use up many
thousands of feet of
nat i v e-m ad e line
yearly, for many tribes
prefer fibre lashing to
split-cane binding,
which is far less dur-
able. European line
would be too expensive
and ineffectual for a
dozen uses for which
the Papuan manufac-
tures rope and other
fibre products. Take
the beautiful cord pig-
nets of the Binandele
people, on the N.-E.
Coast, made of snowy-
white pandanus fibre.
These nets are very
large and heavy, and
would cost a small
fortune if duplicated
by European makers.
There are also the large
string-bags used by
the women of the same
people to carry loads
of taro, with, perhaps,
some pups and a baby
throwm in. They are
so cunningly woven, in
a most intricate mesh, from a special vine fibre, that
they contract when empty to quite small dimensions,
though their load capacity seems to have no limits.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Once, from the old Swansea
(Lake Macquarie) bridge, I watched a fairly big
octopus build a nest. Gathering a lot of shells around
herself with her tentacles, she flopped down upon
them, and rested for a while. Then she moved on
a little, and, extending operations, groped together
another heap. Getting back again to the first heap,
she shifted No. 2 up to it, and soon there was a
decent-sized mound. She then spread the shells
carefully, leaving the gaudiest on top to attract the
prawns and crabs which, with bulging eyes, soon
came along to gaze and wonder. They were quickly
pounced upon. It took three days to complete the
bungalow, and then a couple of lady friends called,
and were regaled with afternoon crab. One morning
I dropped a fair-sized gibber into the humpy. The
critter gathered it up in the folds of her feelers,
swam upwards, and tossed it a yard away. Later
on there was a family of five; but I never got a
look at hubby, who must have called always after
dark.
* * # «
“Red Rag”: Saturday shoppers in Strat-
foru (M.L.) last month were treated to a little un-
rehearsed comedy of the Yankee slapstick type.
Two bulls being escorted from a sale broke away
and barged into a large crockery and hardware
store. The first animal rushed through the store and
disappeared through the back door; the second took
up a strategic position in the crockery department.
Customers became excited: one woman took a flying
leap on to the counter, another bolted into the office
and sought to escape through the window; finding
bull No. 1 in the yard outside she hurriedly
scrambled back. Both animals proved unexpectedly
docile, however, and permitted themselves to be
herded back into the street, thereby giving the old
saw a jolt; not a single article was broken or a
pennyworth of stock damaged.
“Herodot”: “Pick” is mistaken in think-
ing that the rabbits which I saw going through dance-
like gyrations were fighting and not jazzing (B.
23/10/’24). That it was a scrap between two old-
man bunnies was the first thought that occurred to
both my companion and myself, but a second glance
was sufficient to show us that this was not so. At
intervals in the performance the two principals were
separated by several feet of space, and they remained
this distance apart for quite a couple of minutes,
during the whole of which they continued their
movements. Since then I have met bushinen who have
told me of similar happenings.
* * * #
“Mephisto”: Speaking of animal and bird
imitators. Many- parrots are quite good at it. My
galah clucks like a hen, and my king-parrot imitates
the chickens to perfection. One day Ma heard Pa
sharpening a saw underneath the house. She called,
but received no answer. The sharpening began again,
and, on descending, she discovered the galah furiously
putting an edge on an imaginary row of steel teeth.
Then he whistled shrilly and stunted on the trapeze,
apparently enjoying the joke. At times the king-
parrot gives an excellent imitation of a pair of
thrushes which visit a near-by gully. But the bower-
bird can imitate a typewriter; and I never heard
of a parrot doing that.
* * * *
“C.A.P.”: Does this go down as a re-
cord? Two duckshooters, with two barrels each,
collected 75 birds. The scene of operations was
Lake George, Beachport (S.A.), and the damage was
done with ordinary 12-gauge shotguns.
» # * *
“8.5. A.”: One of Australia’s finest col-
lection of native totem emblems and such like was
made* by the German Lutheran missionaries at Her-
mansburg, on the Finke River (S.A.). About the
time the' Big War started this was consigned to Ber-
lin, but the Commonwealth Customs took possession.
Eventually the Adelaide Museum secured it, paying the
German missionaries the same sum as they required
RENDER UNTO CAESAR.
PATIENT: “Well, you pulled me through, Doc.!”
DOCTOR (modestly): “It was the work of Providence
PATIENT: “Yes, hut you’ll charge for it.”
from the Fatherland. There are large numbers ol
specimens of totems and totem emblems used by
Australian tribes in North and Central Australia.
Included in the collection are many ceremonial
objects from the Arunta, Ilpirra, Urabunna, Luritia
and Ngambutya tribes of Central Australia. Some
of the productions are artistic; one piece of work
representing the body of an emu is particularly so.
Feathers of all kinds, grasses, twigs, spearheads, birds'
wings, scorpions and all manner of things have been
used in the construction of the waningas. The Arunta
tribe was responsible for the best of the work.
THE MIMIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A starling sat on an old gum-tree
And gazed around the bush.
“I haven’t much song of my own,” said he,
“But I can mimic the thrush.
And I can mimic the magpie, too,
And the goldfinch and the wren,
The crow, the plover, the wattle-bird,
And the warbler in the fen!”
But one fine day when the sun was bright,
The birds from far and near
Flocked, screaming, into the old gum-tree,
And the starling quaked with fear.
“You useless robber!” they yelled at him,
“You sit up here alone;
You steal our songs and you steal our food,
And sing no song of your own !
You sing no song of your own,” they yelled,
As they made the feathers fly,
“But you steal our food, and you steal our songs,
And, therefore, you must die!”
The small black spider down in his web,
Looked up at the old gum-tree,
And he laughed to himself —“Let thieves fall out!
No bird can mimic me! ”
But a wagtail happened to pass that way,
With a flick and a flap and a hop,
And the small black spider finished his laugh
In sweet-pretty-William’s crop !
SLA.
C. H. SOUTER.


sd
jfamcud
jHyeUcw
BACKWOOO—Winner of the
Melbourne Cup, 1924.
Owners - -
Trainer - -
Jockey- - -
Weight - -
- - E. L. Baillieu,
Wm. Clark &
Alan Hughes.
- - R. Bradfield.
- - P. Brown.
- - Bst. 21b.
Time
3min. 26^sec.
fit
I : m
■ V:
ililliii
1 ' £
mm
mm
; ■
MwM
■Sill
■
.
:
■ M 1.4,
m
m a
H
SS»
111
■till
i
HH
lliH
iiiiiniiiiii^
i ■
: 1
k n
n
m
jmmm
iJiII
i amHral
: « :
■ j |. I
Australasian Agents- B-SEPPEU6 SONS. L T °
SYDNEY• MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE-FREMANTLE C BROKEN HILL


TON
The Hall-mark
of Quality.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS
WITH AN
British Made.
Aluminium
Ensignette
No. 2
You can capture all your happy holiday moments and bring
them back with you.
The Aluminium Ensignette is admirably suitable for holiday
excursipns. It is so light, weighing only 70z., and may be
carried in the pocket comfortably, and as it is a camera for
roll films it can be loaded in daylight.
Clear, sharp pictures 3x2 are secured, and they make perfect
postcard enlargements.
Price, with Achromatic Lens, 50/-
Other Models at £3/5/-, £3/12/6, £6/7/6, £B/5/-
Postage 6d.
The Vest Pocket Ensign
is a fascinating little Film Camera for pictures 2f x If, and
is similar in construction to the Ensignette. Price, 50/-
A complete range of Ensigns, Carbines, Brownies
and Kodak Cameras always on hand.
us
The House for
Good Cameras,
Photographic and Radio Warehouse,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
BRANCHES at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Katooniba, Wellington (N.Z.).
Auckland (N.Z.). Representatives Everywhere.
HARPY B
JEW ELLER
sags
mi-.
m
Kutf C '■•. v.., „ ..' _ •
SEES
Tea and Coffee Services
in Sterling Silver
THIS handsome Tea and Coffee Service in Sterling; Silver is typical of
an exceptionally attractive selection. The Tea Pot has a capacity
of 2 pints; Coffee and Hot Milk Pots, Sugar Basin and Cream Jug
completing an extremely distinctive five-piece set.
Price, complete with Presentation Cabinet £l3O
Five per cent. Discount allowed for cash.
The Company’s new illustrated Catalogue is sent anywhere on request, and
goods are forwarded on approval throughout Au-tralia.
HARDY BROS. LTD
“The Hou.S'e of Exclusive Jewellers”
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON.
116-JlB Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
Isko Automatic Electric Freezing Machines
Your own Cold Storage
Plant at Home.
ISKO is a simple device that
Manufactures Cold, con-
verting your Refrigerator
into a miniature, self-operatmg
Cold-storage plant connected
with the house current, doing
away entirely with the use of
Ice in the home as a refrigerat-
ing agent, at the same time in-
troducing a method of food
preservation more convenient,
more sanitary, more economi-
cal than that afforded by blocks
of melting ice.
It is an independent unit, can
be attached to any refrigerator
or ice-box, and is absolutely
fool-proof.
It is automatic in operation
and so simplified mechanically
that it needs no expert atten-
tion.
It makes fifty cubes of Ice
every day.
The cost of current is trifling,
and the machine can be worke i
on any voltage from 32 Volts
upwards.
'•as®
s
L_
U
m
m
Refrigerator Cabinets made to order and machines fitted.
ISKO DISTRIBUTING DEPOT,
THE chambers and motor are mounted on a single base, which may be
set on top of the refrigerator or in an adjoining room. The glycerine-
tank, made in sizes to fit various standard refrigerators, is placed in
the ice compartment and connected to the machine by two seamless copper
tubes. The only moving parts
of Isko are the two rotating
gears of the compressor, which
run submerged in a sealed
chamber of oil and are direct
connected to the
motor. The refrigerant a
harmless gas—is also sealed m
its chamber. When cooled
under moderate pressure it be-
comes a liquid, and as such is
supplied to the expansion coil
of the tank, where it expands
into gaseous form, extracting
the heat from the chest. When
it has absorbed its quota of
heat the compressor removes it
from the expansion coil and
delivers it to the condenser
chamber, where the water, cir-
culating through the cooling
coils, carries off the heat, and
the gas again becomes a liquid
and is ready to start on another
journey. This simple process is
carried on in continuous cycles.
Isko is automatically operated,
and can be set to maintain any
suitable degree of cold in the
refrigerator, the current click-
ing on and off at the predeter-
mined temperatures.
412 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
TEL: CITY 2355.


EED
m
■&
ft
ft
ft
RAISINS
Stemmed-Ctea ned
and Seeded-Ready
for Use
Obtainable
AllCrocers
m
nnnniwwTnn|
(innnm-nnnri
nmm'imn
nnnmim
imnnmii
Single Room, with Break-
fast, from IS/6; Luncheon
or Dinner from ///-; Light
Luncheon in the Winter
Garden from 2/6.
Write for magnificently
illustrated 20-gage folder if
you intend visiting Sydney.
TO ENTERTAIN FRIENDS
No detail of comfort or luxury is overlooked; the
decorative setting is eminently worthy; the most
exacting of requirements in the sphere of doing
honor to one’s friends are met in ideal fashion.
Any special wishes communicated to the manage-
ment (Tel. 86441) will receive immediate atten-
tion.
T
he
1
Husti
lev
c
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Contral 1532, 1533.
His Majesty’s nearly rocked on its foun-
dations under the applause which told Gladys
Moncrieff how TSTelbourne felt at getting its
musical-comedy diva back again, and enthusi-
asts from front stalls to back gallery simply
yowled for a speech from the returned star
after the last curtain thudded. What could
a poor girl do but give it? Smiling out from
an ambush of flowers and ribbons, with a
chocolate-box as big as a week-end suitcase
tucked under her arm, she murmured the
usual “Glad to be back, and thanks awfully,”
with some pleasing variations. After which
John Ralston enchanted the gallery girl by
first kissing the star’s hand and then her
face. But that wasn’t the start of the kiss-
ing. A joyous chortle was sounded from the
gallery when Arthur Stygant made Gladys
laugh in the midst of her sweetest warble,
and another when she revengefully plucked
the offender’s wig from his pate. Stigant
forgivingly kissed the siren’s rounded cheek;
and the house cheered and cheered. It was
in a mood to cheer just anything.
The locally-minted version of “Tons of
Money” displayed its glitter on Saturday
night at the Princess’s to a packed house of
chucklers, which showed its approval of the
new coinage in the usual flowery manner.
But not even Hcslop could be tempted out
of the stage trenches to deliver a speech.
The dress of the women players held the
feminine eye from start to finish. The
most hypnotic of them was a set of rosy
hangings suspended to golden-locked Elsie
Parkes. Dot Brunton dimpled in crinoline
skirts, which made her look like a china
shepherdess come to life; but the uncovered
expanse of Dot’s white shoulders is a shade
too wide. In the last act she glitters in a
slinky frock of crystal, cobwebbing a white
background, and weighted with showy fur
at the lower edge. The artistic frocking of
the ballets calls for three cheers.
Nellie Melba managed to keep her date
with the promoters of the first art-show shel-
tered in the New Gallery, above Robertson
and Mullen’s bookshop: but a refractory
throat prevented her saying the opening
words, which were said for her by Frank
Clarke, President of the Leg. Council.
His claim that John Longstaff _ had
no superior anywhere as a portrait-painter
was received with incredulity by those whose
acquaintance with his work began with the
brace of chocolate-box beauties on the south
wall, and who had not seen his fine portrait
of Dr. John McFarlane.
The rival “Fifty Artists’ Show,” housed
in the Athenaeum Hall, was opened without
any formality by the janitor; nevertheless
the art-loving crowd surged in its twos and
threes to the private view. Acting-Justice
Weigall’s musical second daughter, Nancy,
just back from an English,trip, had evidenced
a practical interest in the sister axfi by tak-
ing charge of the exhibition. One of its
thrills is Bernard Hall’s presentation of
Grammar headmaster Franklin, whose fair-
skinned visage has been invested with a beefy
glow, giving the lehgtliy pedagogue an un-
wontedly dissipated appearance. After the
opening Dr. Bage took soundings of the vari-
ous canvases with the carefulness befitting a
Felton bequest expert. Russell Clarke, who
knows all about art, drifted in for a look.
George Bell’s decorative wife was there, like
her husband’s star canvas, radiating sun-
shine; and the Fred McGubbin widow, who
never misses a show, brought her daughter.
Old National Gallery students recovered a
little of their Bohemian dash the other even-
ing when they had a night-out in the East Mel-
bourne Galleries. The Philistines were there
only in ones and twos; and jazz and jollity
were introduced by a supper not a bit like
the sandwich and cream-cake affair on which
art has been starving for umpteen genteel
years. The announcement of the arriyal of
Signor Lobster and Madame Spaghetti pre-
luded the entry of two art souls, one bear-
ing a crayfish on a china charger, the other
a dish of spaghetti; others followed with the
beer, cheese and sausage. Chief amongst the
cheerful throng were president John Long-
staff and the McCubbin family. Trantham
Fryer, the veteran Peter Kirk and Mrs.
Monty Grover were there: and Mrs. Arthur
Adams had unpacked a ball dress on her way
to visit friends in Adelaide.
The Ambulance Ball committee brought
months of activity to a golden conclusion at
its final meeting, held in an upper chamber
of the Town Hall, when a cheque for over
a thousand pounds was handed to the Mayor-
ess by hon. treasurer Tom Brentnall. Cheers
were given for all concerned in the making
of the ball, with a specially loud one for the
lion, organiser, Gertrude Rennie. Mrs.
James Alston threw in a further £5 in ex-
change for a silk gift shawl which had made
a belated appearance. In his thanksgiving
speech, Civil Ambulance treasurer Hansford
implored all hands to signal a John Hop
if they sighted any ass playing tricks with
the CA. post-’phones. The cars are turned
out repeatedly in answer to bogus signals.
Thus, thanks to some callous fool who in-
vented an overturned motor-’bus at Brighton,
no car was left in the garage to attend a
genuine sufferer, and as a result a boy
with a broken leg lies in Melbourne Hospital
who may remain maimed for life.
The Victorian Opera Society deserves so
well for giving us the opportunity to hear
“Maritana” that criticism of an amateur,
and in many respects amateurish, show is
disarmed And, anyhow, the audience which
attended the Playhouse on Saturday for the
start of a six nights’ season applauded the
familiar number without any care for the
inequalities of the production. Ida Ashton
was outstanding as Maritana, scoring a
special success in “The Harp in the Air ;
and John Sullivan made a laudable attempt
to achieve the dash of Don Caesar de Bazan.
His singing was good, “Let Me Like a Soldier
Fall” being rendered with fine dash. Although
there were failures, some of the other parts
were quite well filled; and the chorus and
the orchestra (under Edward Hanstein)
were nicely balanced.
A big group of the A. E. V. Richardsons’
friends, led by Mrs. Dyson and her sister,
Mrs. Russell Jackson, farewelled the depart-
ing pair with jazz and jollity at old Admiralty
House on Tursday night. The supper-tables
were freighted with pansies and roses and an
extra board was requisitioned to hold the
posies lavished on the lady. Mrs. Richard-
son wore lavender and old lace, while Mrs.
Dyson and her sister enhanced their fairness
with all black. Mrs. Monty Grover brought
Mrs. Arthur Adams, in flame color; another
Sydneysider, Mrs. H. Goldstein, rippled
diamente down the side of her black chiffons.
Mrs. H. J. Robertson and her husband sat
at the Richardson table; Eileen Castles came
with sister Dolly Finn and, the latter’s medi-
cal husband : and James Angus smiled on the
revelry his blinded eyes could not see.
While Mayor Brunton was serving the
soup at a recent official banquet his charming
lady was carving cold chicken for the civic
v,fives and daughters and other feminine
lights in the old Council Chamber. A listen-
ing-in party in the Town Hall galleries pre-
faced the entertainment. Admiral Tlall-
Thompson’s wife and the Mcßeath, Garran
and Weedon dames helped to fill the Mayor-
ess's top table, which, like all the others, was
a rosy blush of pink blossoms.
Looking naively out of this picture by
Vandyck you see Bertha Collin, who storms
M e 1 b o u r n e's
amateur barns
an d elocutes
with distinc-
tion. The Rail-
way Institute
company was
the foundation
of her stage
experience, and
our old friend
Connie Ediss
added the
superstructure.
She will appear
amongst the
major constel-
lation in a
forthcoming
Playho use
show. She is
an active mem-
ber of the
Women’s Auto-
mobile Club.
whose monthly gatherings she brightens with
light-comedy recitations.
Melbourne’s first All-Australian Exhibition
closed after a two-months’ run, and organiser
F. L. W. Ashby, of the Chamber of Manu-
factures, is rubbing his hands delightedly
and making guarded references to a probable
slight profit. Half a million visitors paid
£15,000 to see the sort of manufactured goods
Australia is capable of turning out, and the
exhibits were as popular on the closing night
as they were when Federal Minister Pratten
made the opening speech. Adelaide gets the
next show —March 27 to May 23 next year;
then Sydney and Brisbane.
By their encouragement of musical talent
the Women Automobilists provide some com-
pensation for the dust they raise. Their
popular president, Mrs. H. ,T. Robert-
son, weighted the tea and chatter at
the first monthly at-home in their new
club rooms with an 18-earat musical
programme in which Victor Baxter was the
chief songbird, and Muriel Petlier, the little
Westralian ’cellist, startled the company
by the quality of her placing. Amongst the
tea-drinkers were Mrs. Felix Lloyd, in a
ravishing frock of embroidered georgette, and
Mrs. Robertson’s mother, Mrs. Reid.
A party of children from the Blind Insti-
tution made a swoop on Wirtlis’ Circus by
invitation of the management last week. At
the Institute there is a museum in which
the children are made acquainted with stuffed
beasts, and they knew the living counterparts
at once by touch. Their delight was path-
etic ; and their hearts were further rejoiced
at being able to sit on the backs of the
fatherly old elephants. Great-hearted and
philanthropic .Tames Angus, blind himself,
was present, sensing happily the pleasure of
the children, whose emotions he could appre-
ciate more deeply than seeing mortals can.
He is a vice-president of the Institution,
A contrast to the refusal of highly-paid
operatic artists to give a performance for
the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund without pay-
ment was the cheerfulness with which the
humble attendants of the circus gave up their
afternoon to the work of entertaining the
blind kiddies, making a pleasure of it.
Dickenson Monteith’s camera snapped this
picture of Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson, who
has just torn herself away from a large
circle of Melbourne intimates to return to
home - town
Adelaide,
where her hus-
band is to be
’Varsity Agri-
cultural Pro-
fessor with one
hand and direc-
tor of the
Peter Waite
Institute of
Scientific Re-
search with
the other. The
pair have been
pals since their
pinafore days,
when they
lisped twice
two are four
at the same
school: she
stilled a beau-
tiful soprano
voice and a
promising stage career in order to make him
happy. The lady's place here will be nearly
as hard to fill as her husband’s Melbourne
billet. The highbrows of the three Arts
foregathered under the cheeriest conditions
in her roomy Claremont Hall parlors. She
made a habit of extending a helping hand to
young and struggling artists. The family,
including a blue-eyed schoolgirl, makes a trip
to Europe before settling down in S’Aus-
tralia.
Tasmania’s Premier Lyons and his wife are
doing their share towards populating the
little island. The other day they added a
seventh son to their crowded nursery. The
mother of the seven little Australians has
not yet sighted her 30th milestone. The
Premier’s brother Ministerialists loaded their
congratulations with a presentation silver
cradle rocking on a blackw-ood stand, the
ornamental but perfectly useless gift being
a copy in little of the cradle approved of by
the baby clinic headlights. Mrs. Tom Mur-
doch designed it.
The Tubercular Soldiers’ Fund moneybox
is heavier .to lift since the Ex-Service
Women’s entertainment in the Melba Hall
last Thursday. The star thrill was a one-
act play by Mrs. Cruttenden, director of the
whole affair. The players were drawn from
association members, helped by a few ex-
perts from the Dickens Dramatic Club. Dr.
Ethel Osborne was doubly interested as asso-
ciation president and mother of one bright
little feminine member of the cast. An
orchestra under the baton of Dr. Day helped,
and Lady Forster, attended by Miss Carle-
ton. beamed appi’oval from a front chair.
Colonel Isaacson, w T ho helped officially in
the deportation of Germans during the war,
has arrived in Melbourne after a mooch
round the Pacific Islands. He likes Norfolk
Island so much that he is going to plant
bananas there, and if he could induce his
wife and daughter to like it as well as he
does he thinks he would be content to live
there for ever.
St. Vincent’s Hospital community is bless-
ing late Labor Premier Prendei’gast for help-
ing it to start its building extensions on the
Cyclorama site: lie made available a handy
£lO,OOO without interest to add to the £BOOO
in hand. The loan anticipates the big appeal
to be presently made to the public.
That rarity, an embarrassing success, came
to a small group of Melbourne people who
got together the other day to form a Records
Club for the circulation of gramophone discs.
Forty was to be the membership, and the
home of one of them was to be the club-
house. As a result of the chatter of the in-
vitees, 140 people, all with a determination
to join in the conspiracy, came along. The
constant stream of additional applicants that
has flowed since makes it appear that what
w T as meant to be a small, homely camorra of
enthusiasts will develop into a nation-wide
plot against suburban peace and quietness.
But they will do something of real value if
they will devise means by which country
dwellers can swap records with safety and at
small cost.
Randolph Lycett, the Victorian crack who
has been playing in first-class tennis in Eng-
land for many years, had as his partner in
the Roehampton mixed doubles the other
day the 21-year-old British champion player,
Joan Austin. They found the combination
so profitable that they propose to continue it
for life. The bride-elcct has a further claim
to distinction as the very first lady champion
to shingle.
Our old friend “the Doll lady,” otherwise
Mrs. E. Tudor, coo-ees from her sick bed for
gifts of sweets or toys for her Christmas-
tree party in the Praliran Town Hall, where
about 150 of the very poor children of the
district are to get at least one slice of the
cake of seasonal happiness. A tree like that
requires a lot of stocking, and the smallest
contributions are of value.
The elder George Tallis boy, Billy, who
tripped to the Stars and Stripes some time
back, has expressed his opinion of Miss
America by getting engaged to one of her.
An inspection of their prospective daughter-
in-law was included in the urgent business
which called the theatrical knight and lady
to U.S.A. The family expects to land back
here at the end of March, and the confetti
will be ordered a few months later.
Frank Clarke, President of the Legislative
Council, has produced a small book whose
simple label, “In the Botanic Gardens,”
covers the revelation of a man’s love for
trees and flowers, their romance and quaint
histories. Those who read the book will find
the place where the band plays and the
stray paper-bag gambols a home of individual
interest; and will also discover a new side
to the character of the Council’s President.
A P.S. from Adelaide: —-
Two thousand and more turned up for the Govern-
ment House garden party on the day before Lady
Bridges sailed for London; but an overflow of small
tables from marquee to lawns prevented any un-
seemly scrambling for the cake-dish and the tea-cup.
The gardens, still rejoicing over their wet Spring,
charmed wanderers into unexplored by-paths. Lady
Bridges, in putty-colored satin and lace with a
befeathered hat, valiantly shook two thousand hands
as they came in, and most of ’em again as they
went out. His Ex. goes to Victor Harbor for some
weeks before setting out in pursuit of his lady
overseas.
There is a movement afoot to perpetuate the memory
of the late Miss Thornber, headmistress for 50 years
of one of our best known girls’ schools, the memorial
to take the form of a University scholarship or
prize, a bed at the Home for Incurables (one of
the lady’s pet charities), or a memorial window in
her parish church. Old pupils who flaunted their
pigtails in Miss Thornber’s playground are asked to
send their mite to Miss Higgins at Sheffield-street,
Malvern.
The Trevor-Boothby wedding was heralded by a
tea at the Wentworth, with Mrs. Hugo Boothby
and Mrs. Percy Trevor as joint hostesses. The guest
of the afternoon looked slim and graceful in cherry-
colored satin-striped voile, topped by a black hat.
After drinking the toast the Wentworth broke the
glass, so to speak, by going up in smoke with the
Kichards Building that same night.
Poppy Day sales in the city totalled £726 —an
advance of close on £lOO over last year’s figures,
without taking suburban returns into consideration.
What with the performance of “The Lilies of the
Field” and the farewell to Professor Strong, bound
on a year’s leave in Europe, the Repertory Theatre
and Club have had a busy week. At the former,
which filled the Victoria Hall to bursting point,
the honors lay with Beryl Kook and William Devine.
A. A. Milne’s “The Groat Broxopp” was staged for
the Strong farewell, with a speech and a song or
two and a plea from the guest of the evening for
greater public support for Repertory work.
The Lyceum Club, long since outgrown its original
modest premises, has moved next door —to the upper
fiat of Dr. Violet Plummer’s house on North-terrace.
The new quarters give it a lounge and four sizable
rooms, which were duly house-warmed at a reception,
with the Club’s President, Dr. Christine Ivrakowsky,
as hostess. Plans for next year include circles for
discussion on most subjects under the sun—everything
from music to economics and from art to social
reform.
The Governor presided at the Children’s
Hospital annual meeting, and had a special
word to say concerning the “sympathy and
efficiency” with which the place is managed
—an efficiency, by the way, that reduced
this year’s working deficit by well over £660. The
hospital is one of the three charities to benefit under
the will of the late hydraulic engineer, C. A. Bayer,
and gets both a legacy and a yearly donation from
income. The other two are the Home for Incurables
and the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Brighton.
Mrs. Napier Birks, in navy-blue, with hanging-
fringe and embroideries of jade, rose and purple,
hostessed the tea at the opening of the Britton-Grey
exhibition, which shelters at the Society of Arts
Gallery, under Tyrell’s wing. Professor Strong,
with Van Raalte to introduce him, said an apprecia-
tive word.
Fate played us a scurvy trick a few days ago. In
a big new block of buildings in Currie-street, owned
by the Richards Motor Co. and largely occupied by
automobilists—the S.A.A.A. has its quarters there —
the Soldiers’ Settlement Department also had its
offices. Piles of plans were lately sent in for Adelaide’s
war memorial; and they happened to be under
examination in these premises when a fire occurred
and reduced the lot to ashes.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fsd
George V
Vintage 1914.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck
SHIMS -
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited,
SYDNEY.
CMAMPACNc
'-oarleslleidsiecK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
L
□
tJ)
t
m
Spring Street, Melbourne,
possesses every feature that means real service to guests.
Spacious Lounges, Smoking and Writing Rooms, Banquet and
Reception Rooms are here, and every bedroom has its own telephone
and hot and cold water service.
But not only so, the Hotel Windsor is veritably a “home from
home” —restful because of its quiet location overlooking
picturesque gardens, and yet right in the city itself within
two minutes’ walk of the Shopping Centre and principal
Theatres.
It is always best to Book well in Advance.
TARIFF:
Room and breakfast from 18/0 per day.
Inclusive tariff from 18/6 per day.
Telegrams and Cables “Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
'Phone: Cent. 9260.
Manager: B. C. Jones, late of N.Z.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, .Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
A WOMAN'S
SAY-
Kayser
SILK
STOCKINGS
The. Victorian League, feeling that a
special effort was due in farewelling its
friends the Chief Justice Cullen couple,
decided to empty the treasury and say
it in cutlets at the Ambassadors. With
Lady de Chair, whose black hat cascaded
a white feather foam over its back brim,
were seated, besides the guests of honor,
those high in the League. Here sat the Pre-
mier Fullers, the lady looking distinguished
in black frocking and black lace millinery;
Mrs. Tooliey, the Tom Hughes couple, Arch-
deacon Boyce, Mrs. Dillon, Miss Macartliur
Onslow and a host of others who eat regu-
larly in the cause of Empire. Among them
and their dress austerities Ailsa Cullen’s
yellow flounces took on an added jauntiness,
while Captain Coote’s smile was like a little
sunbeam in the home. Premier Fuller pro-
posed the guest in a lengthy speech whose
underlying motif was “When we were boys
together”—both Chief Justice and Premier
came from the South Coast. Prof. McCallum
added his verbal bouquet; but, alas ! distance
and a burr failed to uncurl the petals, and
only his near neighbors got the fragrance
thereof. The nicest thing about the Chief
Justice’s return thanks was the bit about
the chumship between himself and his wife.
(Ah, but one could tell a tale of a wedding
day long ago when the ring came near being
forgotten !) Last of all the law knight’s lady
spoke her piece, her eyes very blue under
her small black hat. It was a short piece,
but it was just what everybody liked. And
then the band played “Auld Lang Syne,” and
the 270 dissolved into so many atoms in a
crowded city afternoon. Early next year
the Cullens leave for Europe.
When the Taits finally acquire the knight-
hood that seems to come the way of all
successful showmen they should adopt as the
family motto: “Parting is such sweet sor-
row.” It will remind them of the golden
harvest they garnered even to the uttermost
gleaning from their opera artists. The last
remnant of them staged a farewell and a
final-farewell concert at the Conservatorium
last week, with one at Newcastle sandwiched
in between. Phyllis Archibald, Granforte
and the Piccalugas were the songstei-s on
the bill, and Schiavoni —unexpectedly big at
close range—provided the accompaniments.
Sydney loses the grand-opera habit hard, for
the Con. was packed tighter than a race-
tram or the petals on an old-fashioned dahlia.
Granforte of the speaking hands and the in-
imitable grace, who made his appearance in
pale-blue silk trousers with black braidings,
a swallow-tail coat and wrist ruffles, was evi-
dently got. up to suggest the . toreador after
he had retired from the bull-ring on his sav-
ings. Nino Piccaluga and his Augusta Con-
cato were radiant in the gladdest of evening
clothes, she as an after-thought covering
her heavily-beaded ivory marocains with a
fuchsia-tinted cloak. Phyllis Archibald,
whose vivid looks emerged resplendent above
a silver and rose frock that showed the latest
lack of length, sang a song composed by
Kathleen O'Connor for one of her encores.
Three and four encores to every number
were demanded by a greedy audience, and the
smiling artists came back again and again
till one pitied poor Schiavoni. who had to be
on hand all the time. The De Chairs, who
brought a Government House party, were
front-seaters.
At Edna Thomas’s concert on Saturday
night the brand-new Adyar Hall buzzed like
a night club, for Edna is a social as well
as an artistic success. (Sometimes measured
in filthy lucre the former means a greater box-
office return than the latter.) Everybody
seemed to knoAv everybody else under the
white-as-snow ceiling, and the seating accom-
modation for 1500 was in use. Up in tin-
front sat the vice-regal lady in her gold-
plate cloak and diamond tiara, supported by-
Mrs. Vivers, in a blue-and-silver wrap like
a Sapphic. Bertie Kelly was another front-
seater, and Mrs. Toohey shepherded a party
of which Laurence Godfrey Smith was the
moving spirit. The Consular Lawtons and
well-known Americans like the Jenkses and
the Lachlans were present. The fine white
head of Mrs. de Cairos Rego was an eye-
arrester ; Mrs. Dan Kelly hostessed a party
of expensively furred; and Mrs. E. J. Carroll
brought E.J.’s mother, who though 76 has
travelled from Brisbane to be present at the
opening on Friday of the family’s new
theatre. The singer’s frocking was of the
crinoline days’ architecture —she travels with
a wardrobe of flounced and boned frocks
made by an old negro woman in Louisiana.
For her third and light-hearted group of
songs Edna came out looking like a green-
and-gold telephone doll—no less than 22
flounces on her skirt, and across her shoul-
ders a grey scarf whose claim to distinction
lay in the fact that it was a gift from Jenny
Lind’s family.
The jacarandas at Quambi supplied a lilac
mist to the Peter Pan fair on Saturday.
Mrs. Kelso King, who was the Atlas of the
money-raiser, had cheerfully lent the family
grounds, and, probably at the suggestion of
imaginative daughter Olive, had re-named
them Kensington Gardens. Olive ran a
Pirates’ Lair, where bombs and explosives in
the form of ginger-pop were trafficked in—it
was an awesome spot! Elizabeth Cape, with
the sorrowful eyes of a fisherman who can’t
think of another excuse for his own empty
basket, handed out hooks (at 6d. a loan) to
enthusiastic neophytes who more or less suc-
cessfully fished for swans and ducks and am-
phibious bunnies in the round pool just below
Wendy’s house. This was the favorite pilgrim-
age of the afternoon. It was a riot of rosebuds,
and here the prize dolls hobnobbed —-the
beauty doll with a Parisian trousseau .fling-
ing a most encouraging look to that original
fellow the swaggie. Pamela Watt and Mrs.
Pat Levy worked overtime at this toyland.
On the lower lawn grown-ups wandered
about among the usual fancy- and flower-
stalls. Mrs. Willie Collins (in a plaid tailor-
made that extended southward to just below
the knees) bought bags; the Chief Justice’s
lady, who opened the proceedings, was in a
three-flounced discreet black-and-white geor-
gette; Mrs. Kelso King,, also in black-and-
white (the body-line was so elongated it
suggested that, like the Queen of Spain, she
had no legs) wore a beatific smile and a
heavenly hat that looked as though it had
been created under an irresistible stimulus
of Swinburne and purple vintages.
The social whirlwind of last week was
the Armistice Ball. It was organised in the
cause of the soldier, so the Army and the Navy
came in strong waves to the Palais at Moore
Park, where under the Moorish decorations
jazz blew like a sirocco. There was a guard
of honor of Permanent Artillerymen for the
vice-regals as they stepped from their car,
Sir Dudley in his full Naval issue of gold
braid. His lady was wrapped in the beauty of
gold brocade, with bright headlights of dia-
monds and a fan that looked like an Irish
Free State banner. Within the gates the
Government House party ran into a social
guard of honor consisting of the entire com-
mittee headed by the General Brand and
Herring couples. It must be a horrible
moment for any vice-reine when she is con-
fronted with a dozen pairs of raking female
eyes, conscious that the owners thereof are
straight from powdering their own noses, and
have just given that last soothing pat to the
hair. But Lady de Chair emerged without
a scratch on her reputation as a dresser.
Mi’s. Herring notched a success in. a com-
bination of silver tissue and Spanish lace :
and dame Waley’s boa ran a blazed trail
about her neck and shoulders. The ball
boasted Nellie Kelly as one of its secretaries,
but she says she’s not even a first cousin to
her who inhabited the Opera House for so
long. Captain Craufurd’s lady helped the
night to success in lorelei green and flame
frocking.
The thoughtful eyes gazing from this
Monte Luke picture are Dr. Fanny Read-
ing’s ; and Dr. Fanny is president of the
Council of Jewish Women, and probably
the greatest
o r g a n i fl-
ing genius
that body has
known. It was
a good deal
from her im-
petus that the
Sydney women
took up so
warm - heart-
edly the sub-
ject of the
baby clinic in
Palestine. The
Jewish immi-
grant and
Hebrew edu-
cation are the
two enthusi-
asms she has
always with
her. She and
her brothers
have been thor-
oughly grounded in Jewish literature, and
Dr. Fanny believes it is too great a heritage
to be lost to her people. Before the war
she was one of Professor Laver’s most bril-
liant pupils, and she had decided on mus'c
as her career; but the war made such an
impression on her that she turned her
thoughts to succoring her fellows rather
than entertaining them, and that is why
she set aside dreams of fame and is content
to be modest but singularly useful Dr. Fanny
Reading, of Kogarah.
Mosman’s grand girl, Dorrie Ward, must
be the most popular creature on the far side
of the bridge that is to be. Her suburb gave
her a testimonial concert the other night,
ostensibly because she has been sick, but
really just to show how glad it will be to have
her well again. Two thousand strong, the
North Shore invaded the Australian Picture
Theatre, and prominent heads, such as Chief-
Justice Cullen’s, towered here and there
above the lesser domes. The Chief Justice
brought his lady, Adrian Curlewis brought
our Ethel Turner, and the Mayor and
Mayoress of Mosman added civic sup-
port. The Cheer-ohs were the backbone
of the programme, and Dorrie herself was
twice on the bill. Her first appearance was
the signal for the wildest display of enthusi-
asm. And flowers —it must have taken a
motor-lorry to get them home! One magni-
ficent horseshoe of yellow blooms just fitted
over her shoulders, so the smiling girl swung
it into place well content with the effect, of
it against her own golden draperies.
In the interval Scott Fell handed over a
silver vase from the church choir in which
Dorrie raises her voice. Dorrie’s people, by
the way, have been 66 years in Mosman. She
has been eight years a member of the Cheer-
ohs, and the local statistician has divulged
that she has sung 1514 times in the cause of
the soldier.
This good-looking girl is Rita Kirkpatrick,
of Bellevue Hill, and one of Sydney’s best-
known sopranos. She has toured the East
that is north under the Freddie Shipman
man agement.
and now owns
some charm-
ing bits of In-
dian carving
presented to
her by Nabobs
and Rajahs as
marks of de-
light at her
melodic flights.
A week or two
ago Rita
staged one of
the most suc-
cessful reci-
tals the Con.
has known.
She is, by the
w*ay, of that
family of Kirk-
patricks which
called the late
Denison Miller
uncle.
The Ryde Home for Incurables had its
great annual event on Saturday, and the
Fair that once in the 12 months turns the
not-too-sick inmates into eager traders filled
the grounds with color and movement. On the
lawn the good-natured Police Band poured
out music, operatic and popular, the wards
where the sick-a-bed patients entertained
callers were banked with roses and carna-
tions, and Ryde to a woman turned out to
buy a fairing. Over £lOOO is expected.
Mollie Shaw, a clever graduate of Sydney
Uni., who had a fly at everything in the Art
way, even journalism, before she went to
America, has just sent Aunt Rose Scott word
of her engagement to Jules Menken, a gradu-
ate of Columbia. The young man, after
being a lecturer in economics at his home
University, went to Denmark as an exchange
student, and did so brilliantly that the
American Government commissioned him to
stay on and further his studies. Mollie, who
went to New Yoi’k just after the war, was
for two years secretary to the Vanderbilt
X-ray Institute. Her mother, Rose Scott's
sister Mary, was the second wife of Canon
Shaw, of Singleton. The poem-writing Wini-
fred is a cousin.
Iloary old St. John’s, at Darlinghurst,
was cheered by a pretty wedding last week
when Una Litchfield, of Cooma, went off
with Dr. Blakemore, of Strathfield. Ivory
satin and Venetian point were the chief in-
gredients in the wedding garments, served
with a light dressing of orange buds. Cousin
Maud Halliday, in a froth of pink tulle and
georgette, ’maided; and a congratulation
rallying-point was made at the Australia,
where bride’s mother hostessed against a
background of crimson and pink rosebuds.
The Northern Rivers district is pleasantly
agitated over the engagement of Vivienne
Street, of Murwillumbah, to Oscar William
Stevenson, younger son of Dr. F. C. Steven-
son. of Moss Vale.
Million Farms Carruthers’s son Douglas
Gordon, has bought an engagement-ring for a
nice girl. She is Constance Phillipson, of
Elizabeth Bay, and once upon a time of Perth.
Young Carruthers neither sows nor reaps, as
you might suppose. His job is doctoring.
On November 27 —that’s to-day week—
there’s to be an open-air market in the
grounds of Rose Hall. Here every conceiv-
able kind of Christmas gift made by returned
soldiers will be on sale from 10 in the morn-
ing till 6 in the evening; and you can do
your Christmas shopping to the strains of an
elegant band that will be playing the whole
day long.
If before the war you belonged to the
Scottish Rifles, or if you had a plaided soldier
pal whose memory you would like com-
memorated, you can send a subscription to-
wards the bell in the University Carillon
which the Scottish Rifles are anxious to have
for their own. Cheques can be sent to the
secretary, 32 Market-street, Sydney.
Fashion note:—
For six long years my bunny coat
Has warmed my shoulders and my throat;
Through time and moth its fur grows thin,
Its cuffs at last are real bareskin ;
And so from me there’s no Hooray’
Because the lords of Fashion say
Their slaves' fur coats shall be worn 10ng....
Instead, each day at evensong,
I cry “How long, O lords, how long?”
F. N. Robinson, who succeeded William
Mcßae three years ago as Bank of N.S.W.
inspector for the Northern Division of the
home-State, was lately farewelled by the
managers in the division on his promotion to
be Metropolitan Inspector, receiving besides
the verbal bouquets a signed address and
some glittering silverware and cut glass for
himself and his wife. One manager, who
found the train service inconvenient, drove
his . car over 200 miles from the black-soil
plains, arrived in the late afternoon for the
function, and hit the home trail again in
pouring rain the same night. Mr. Robinson’s
successor is J. W. Broughton. Present as a
guest, he added his quota to the bouquets.
On November 25 the Women Handicrafters
open their Show of Stitchery in the Educa-
tion Buildings.
Musical Sydney is keenly interested in
the production of “The Immortal Hour” by
the combined forces of the Repertory and
the Conservatorium. The music of Rutland
Boughton, allied to the dramatic and ex-
quisite poetry of Fiona Macleod, makes ‘The
Immortal Hour” a glittering jewel of the
English theatre. The season opens on the
29th.
Pianist Frank Warbrick, fresh from Lon-
don and the Royal College of Music, gave
Sydney admirers a chance to hear him inter-
pret the moderns subtly and the not-so-
ancient musically on Saturday. On a night
in which entertainments jostled one another
for hall room, the audience was of a satisfac-
tory sufficiency, and the player deserved all
the applause given to him. His Schumann
number was impressive, and he was absolutely
immersed in a group by Goossens. Cyril
Monk’s violin supported him, and once more
demonstrated its flowing richness.
Brisbane’s diary:—
On the sixth anniversary of the Armistice, Sir
Matthew, with Mrs. George Nathan and daughter
Pamela, opened the war-memorial library at the
Boys’ Grammar School. There was a very big roll-up
of the general public when the school saluted the
memory of the 175 Old Boys who fell in the Big
War in France. Jellicoe, Monash and W. M. Hughes
sent messages of congratulation, which J. L. Woolcocx
read out. The memorial contains a Golden Book, -n
which the records of the Old Boys who served in khaki
are written. The book lies on the altar of remembrance,
and there are nine gift-windows of stained-glass. The
cadet corps paraded and formed a guard for Sir
Matthew, and Headmaster Bousfield received him.
Ted England, who served in Egypt, sang “There Is
a Land, a Dear Land” ; and the Last Post sounded
a solemn Finis.
In the evening the Old Boys invited Sir Matthew
to their shivoo at the Bellevue. Blue larkspurs
proclaimed the school colors and white shasta daisies
the association’s monogram. About 80 Old Collegians
rolled up to shake their heads and reminisce.
Millicent Dinsdale had a ’ quiet wedding with
Frank Houston (late Lieut, in the A.1.F.) at St.
John’s Cathedral. Sister Beryl bridesmaided and
brother Anthony was best man, and a small group
of friends saw them off to a brief honeymoon before
they return to settle in Brisbane.
As patron of the Boys' Home at Enoggera, Sir
Matthew attended the 34th annual meeting. Thirteen
of the lads, since leaving the home, have built up
bank balances of over £4OO ; and one young capitalist
has nearly £6OO, which he is going to put into a
sugar farm.
All Saint’s congregation sacrificed an evening to
the cause of the Social Service scheme. Flowers and
fuchsia-colored streamers decorated the arena, and
among the gladiators were Madge Lilley, the Kellys,
Mrs. J. M. Thomson, and a Lobban maid from
Sydney.
The Rosendorfs arranged a dance at Whytecliffe to
help the funds of the nurses’ rest home. The fine
old house (once the Littles’ property) was decorated
with flags and flowers; and cards were played in
the hall, amid daisies and ferns.
Lyn McPhie, of Toowoomba, has been staying at
Government House.
Mrs. Mcßryde’s jazz and bridge evening at Mont
pelier drew some good coin into the “Save the
Children” appeal fund. The Gilbert Wilson and
Sutton matrons lent a hand, and there was a big
attendance of smart-setters.
For the Hcrston convent fete, Mrs. Tom Ryan and
Mrs. Lieut.-Governor Lennon had a jazz and card
afternoon at the Bellevue. Coral-hued gerberas deco-
rated the tea-tables, and music and guessing compe-
titions added their attractions to those of the
dance-floor.
The rain obligingly held off for one day only, and
that was Cup day. The Wliittingham, William Hooper
and Isaac Moore ladies, and Pat O’Shea, had tea
parties in the committee-room. Mrs. George Nathan
was sheathed in beige marocain with touches of
Egypt’s red. Mrs. Michael Rogers was in apple-green;
and Pamela Nathan in pink voile.


WATCH FOR THIS
ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25.
VJMWWiM
vwmmm
*''f" ’jtv ■ !?’■•
'
3.
iSj<^>nf
-g
I m
*3*.im
sp*
1
smmmm, I
m^!l^r'rm\iiTilt»<iiM>>»ill><»>»l'ili»'«l
P-
«KS!
£<•
l«C
I*l
\
*'*»««'•
r '
%I
S -
’Kt . I S'.
'.r"
:
mmmm
WA
¥
V.
**%#«
mm.
**■%».
*■ r
f m
im
«&§
1
i :;W
•k.-:»
f til Li
“_- —
%
feiM
m
ilfi
*
p*:
■
m
II4VVT ;
;
-: ; •. . ■ -i /
* T \*ii * %l.
Ut
a
■
m
■■■:■
WV!:^
V*4
CPJ
*W#
. 3$
»l*=sf§jS|lsp?r I m
j.,x
lb
I
Hi
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1924.
New Weekly
for Australian Women
A GREAT SERIAL
by Ethel Turner.
SHORT STORIES,
Fashions, Needlework,
Health, The Household,
Sport, etr.
CHILDREN’S PACES.
This Issue contains FREE PATTERN of the above Dress.
64
PAGES
EVERYTHING THAT INTERESTS WOMEN
THREEPENCE.
ORDER IT FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT AT ONCE.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Anstralian Distributors: BURNS, FIIILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
C*ia«i>wtt» «rf vgTji
I ..Hiyfc-Qraijt . 1
W to 08« *>«< 4p«€i»j •*#»*««#
{ w £$6€W$RH fOSAiCO » *«w fcs* <<*,-
| <&* saa «a* fee «#|
I #»*** *bJS*sco* »* ty*i &*&s!
«*««* w * *2“J* w, * Mr §
\ 'zLn3 *«*»#*s »festotf«p. I
£sfc
I V{
mm
m
Ready Rubbed
or Plug Slice.
EDGEWORTH
Extra High-grade
Burley
Smoking Tobacco.
Made in Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The dreary cricket in the England v. Vic-
toria match furnished shocking evidence of the
growth of I.W.W. principles in the Empiah. On tiie
first two days in particular the go : slow policy was
in full force among the batsmen; and it would not
have been surprising had any two of them emiected
in the centre of the pitch and sung the “Red Flag.”
Such a proceeding, in fact, would have brightened
the monotony of off-theory and blocking. The first
day’s dulness was the least excusable. The showers
which fell up to the time when heavier rain stopped
play had made the wicket more difficult for the
bowlers than the English batsmen, but the latter
paid stodgy trundling an undeserved compliment by
scoring a mere 113 in approximately three hours,
losing three wickets in the process. Next day the
wicket was more tricky, and by just before 4 o’clock
the Englishmen’s total had been painfully raised to
240. Douglas was. the only man who showed any
enterprise, his 59 in 89 minutes being quite exhilarat-
ing in the circumstances. Ryder got the
average (4 for 33), but Lidbicut (27 overs, 8 of
them maidens, 63 runs, 2 wickets) was really more
troublesome ; he kept an excellent length, and had all
the batsmen guessing. Starting at seven minutes
past four, the Victorians lost Mayne and Park for
an inexpressibly dreary 44, but long before stumps
were drawn the exodus for refreshment had started
in the direction of other places which close at 6
o’clock.
The wicket was slow and easy' when the Victorians
resumed on Monday, but the batting was never thrilling.
Hendry took 182 minutes to make 63, and his innings
was lucky as well as tedious. Ellis (36), Tarrant
(35) and Liddicut (31 n. 0.) were rather more
enterprising, but no one else got into the 20’s, and
the last wicket fell at 229. Freeman (3 for 37),
Woolley' (3 for 62) and Douglas (2 for 25) bagged
most of the wickets, and Kilner (1 for 10) is going
to be a thorn in the side of Australia when the
pitch is to his liking. Three of his six overs were
maidens. Hobbs (37) and Sandham (30 n. 0.) gave
England a good start in the second innings, and
Hobbs was perhaps unlucky, in being given out l.b.w.
to one of Tarrant’s slows; he was of opinion t hat
he had played the ball. At drawing of stumps it
was 2 for 83, and Tarrant’s average read: overs, 4 ;
maidens, 2 ; runs, 2; wickets, 2. And without an-
other run being scored off his bowling, he got a
third wicket next day. The veteran, who will be
43 next month, has strikingly justified the Victorian
selectors, and his claims for inclusion in the Aus-
tralian XI will certainly' have to be considered.
At the moment it looks as if the XI
to play in the first Test match will consist
of Collins, Gregory, Oldfield, Macartney, Kellewav,
Kippax, Mailey (N.S.W.) ; Ponsford, Hendry, Ryder
(Vie.), and A. Richardson (S.A.), with Taylor, Bardsle.v
or Vic Richardson as twelfth man. Arthur Richard-
son must be included because of his 200 n.o. against
Gilligan’s XI, and Macartney because of his left-
hand bowling—a left-hander will be priceless if there
is anything wrong with the wicket. Of course the
match N.S.W. v. Gilligan’s XI may alter the situa-
tion as regards Gregory, Taylor, Kippax, Bardsle.v
and Andrews.
“Hamer”; As I sat at the cricket match waiting
for something to happen, I struck this paragraph in
the Melbourne Megaphone of November 32, 1940:
“There are revolutionaries, who maintain that the
bowlers’ practice of throwing the ball about the
field to tempt batsmen to leave the crease, on the
ort'chan-e of getting them run out, should be restricted
in some way. Though it may not be remembered by
the present generation of cricket-lovers, the original
idea of bowling was to compel the batsman either to
play the ball or lose his wicket. Then off-theory
bowling arrived, and it was followed by leg-theory,
until the habit grew amongst batsmen of just standing
still and smiling as the balls flew by. The man
who hit at an off-theory or leg-theory ball was le-
garded as being a reckless fellow. It occurred to
some genius (the honor of the invention is hotly
disputed by two old-timers, Mayne and Park) that
it was at least as legitimate to throw the ball about
the field, and chance getting a run-out if the bats-
men decided to risk it; but players have learned to
he wily about this device also. The present match,
which has now extended into nine days (Victoria has
lost two wickets for 137), points to the need
At this juncture I woke up to find that in the 15
minutes of my sleep a whole four runs had been added
to the Victorian score.
* * « *
“Machete”: A. C. Maclaren told an in-
terviewer recently that the slump in the quality of
Australian bowling was due to our “insane practice
of covering the wickets.” And Maclaren was l-ight.
Modern wickets and outfields give the batsman a
tremendous advantage as it is, and to present him
with a wicket kept perfect by covering, while
bowlers and fieldsmen are further handicapped by
slippery footing and a greasy' ball, marks the apothe-
osis of the great god gate-money. Not only have
our batsmen of to-day lost the art of making runs
on a difficult wicket, as men like McDonnell,
Graham, Worrall and a dozen others used to do, but
our bowlers don’t know how to utilise one, if luck
brings it along. They rely r instead on the field and
the “swinger,” as they' are accustomed to do on good
pitches. Indeed eve have quite a lot of trundlers
of repute who only hit the wicket by accident, and
generally seem to regard doing so as bad form. They'
are helped to this sort of thing by' the adulation
bestowed on the bowlers of maiden overs by ill-
informed cricket writers. A bowler’s mission is to
get the other side out, even if it makes some runs
before going, and that is what the present generation
c.f trundlers has forgotten.
* * # *
“Adelaide": An unstable bail caused a
heap of trouble in the recent big cricket in Adelaide.
In the match with Victoria, it was found lying on
the ground after a batsman had made a stroke; but
obviously he had not hit his stumps, and, after con-
sultation, the umpires gave it “not out.” But a bail
down is strong evidence, and when it happened again,
to Vic Richardson (who had made 86, and put up
with his namesake a partnership of over 200), it was
found impossible to prove the negative, and he was
adjudged “out.” Later, the fool thing fell off
twice when a bowler ran past it, and it is now
generally admitted that V.R. was not really' out at
all —cruel luck on so important an occasion.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket” : As far as style went
the man who was put in eighth wicket down looked
good for a century. The manner in which he took'
block was the perfection of art, but the first ball
bowled to him got past his stately stance and
shattered his stumps. Then was a lady’s voice
uplifted in indignation at the ribald cries of “First
ball!” from those to whom his elegance had been an
offence. “Well if he did get out first ball,” she
exclaimed indignantly, “he’s the only man in the
team who has his trousers properly creased !”
* * * *
R. Myers: “Machete” (I>. G/11/’24) is
wrong in several particulars. The Vic. Junior Union
takes up the position that N.S.W. had no right, to
usurp control of the match against Gilligan’s XI in
view of an understanding arrived at in Adelaide last
Christmas. Queensland was not; left out ip the cold,
any moi’e than Tasmania or Westralia; these States
at present have no controlling body for Junior
cricket. Neither are most of the Vic. juniors
“thoroughly' accustomed to turf wickets” —no Junior
cricket in Victoria is played on turf. We Victorians
have no objection to M. A. Noble as selector; what
we do object to is the high-handed attitude adopted
by the N.S.W. Unicn. Even if three players are
selected from Vic. and three more from S.A., N.S.W.
will have five representatives in the team, and its
position in the Junior cricket world does not entitle
it to even that many.
* * * *
Sydney grade cricket is rarely thrilling,
but the match between Manly and University provided
some real excitement and had an unusual' result —a
tie. Manly scored 33 and 255; Uni. 191 and 97.
R. A. Bubb’s 6 for 32 was the bowling effort which
averted defeat for the villagers. Sydney, hitherto
GILLIGAN,
the English
captain.
one of the despised clubs, are leading for the
premiership. Their side includes the lefthander
Wall, who, though a dreadful failure in the deciding
Sheffield Shield match against, Victoria last season, is
bowling splendidly these'days; and three Jews, who
play most entertaining cricket. Ossy Asher is a
wily slow bowler who cither gets wickets or gets
pasted in a whole-hearted fashion, and the brothers
Cohen, forcing batsmen both, are much more interest-
ing to watch than certain methodical internationals—
Thirds]ey for instance. The younger and shorter Cohen,
who is as agile as a cat though uncommonly broad
in the beam, considers the day lost if he has batted
half an hour and hasn’t 50 opposite his name. His
great ambition seems to be to stop the clock in die
members’ pavilion with one of his giant pulls or
drives.
■X- -X- -X- *
“Past Grammar”: Five of the cricketers
selected to represent N.S.W. against Queensland
di-opped out at the last, moment, and one of them
was the skipper, Andy Ratcliffc. The side as now
constituted is a very scratch one, but it includes T.
Egan, the promising King’s School googly bowTer, and
Salmon, of ’Shore, who recently made 95 n.o. against
the bowling of Everett, Macartney and Punch.
Salmon has a sound defence, but for the present his
stroke-equipment lacks variety—a weakness he shares
with Mullarkey and other young left-handers. The
new skipper is TV. L. Trenerry (A.I.F. and Glebe),
and Bubb, of Manly, will help in the bowling
department. The Queensland team includes six
new players, one of them being W. H. McDonald, of
Townsville.
“Wink”: The prophets who picked out
Karl Schneider as a future Test cricketer when he was
only 16 are now rubbing their hands gleefully, for
Karl is steadily improving his style and averages.
AFTER ROSEHILL.
REVELLER: “Shay, old chap, whatsch shecond ’orse pay?”
Two seasons ago his precocious prowess with Xavier
College attracted the attention of the Melbourne C.C.,
who gave him a place in their pennant team. Well
handled by Warwick Armstrong, he made good at
once, and, chosen with the Vic. colts against the
South Oss youngsters, he made 43 and 64, and took
5 for 92. Later, given a chance against Tasmania,
he made. 55. Last season he actually headed Mel-
bourne’s batting averages with 54; and again chosen
with the colts against South Oss made 38 and 100
not out. This year he is captain of Xavier College,
and against Geelong College he scored a brilliant
120 n. 0., and took 14 for 106. With the ball, the
youngster has all the tricks of Arthur Mailey ; with
the bat and on the field, he is Park over again.
Like Park, too, he is the best college footballer of
his time.
* # * *
“S.T.S.”: Replying to sundry critics, I
know most of the possibilities of lob bowling, being
able to remember a time when it was a recognised
part of the attack. What 1 couldn’t see, in D. H.
Lawrence’s story, was how a ball which came down
on the stumps ovei’ the batsman’s head could be
“terrific.” Awkward it might be —but slow. Curi-
ously, Conan Doyle in a recent Strand tells of being
had by A. P. Lucas with “the most singular ball I
have ever received: he propelled it like a quoit into the
air to a height of at least 30ft., and it fell straight and
true on to the top of the bails.” But the real
masters of lob bowling didn’t often sacrifice their
deadly spin off the pitch for stunts like that. Hum-
phries of Sussex was about the best of them. He
went through the Australian XI of 1884 pretty badly
at Brighton and I distinctly remember the younger
men dancing out to the pitch of the ball and getting
stumped, the older ones mastering him by leaving
one toe at home and stretching light forward to
smother the break.
A variation of the original fixture-list
brought: the All Blacks up against Cambridge Uni.
last week, and though the Cantabs have not been
playing extra good football, they kept the formidable
visitors to a score of s—o. This game put British
barrackers in great heart for the next match against
a powerful side selected from the London clubs, and
including the two Queensland Rhodes Scholars, Lawton
and Rowe, both of whom play with Blackheath. The
All Blacks, however, won on the bit bv 31 —6, before
40,000 spectators at the English R.U.’s ground at
Twickenham. The first All Blacks did not meet
London, though the Wallabies and second Springboks
did, both winning comfortably. In their run of 18
consecutive wins to this game, the invaders have
scored 428 points to 48.
Although other sporting attractions
abounded, and there had been only one salary-day
since the V.R.C. round, a large number of punters
gathered at Caulfield on Saturday, resolved to pay the
tradespeople on Monday morning with winnings on
All Sunshine, Los Gatos and Metellus. However,
after Llanthcny (B’s), Bettine (16’s), Kanchani
(10’s) and Mr. Woo (15’s) had unpleasantly sur-
prised, the only bulging pockets contained handker-
chiefs. Jam-man Palfreyman and others collected
lusty sums on Llanthony at 12’s, 10’s and, finally, B’s.
The much-travelled Hobart Cup winner led over the
11 furlongs of the Armadale Cup, and though he
hung out a good deal towards the end, he finished
three-quarters of a length ahead of Englefi'eld and
another length or so in front of Baekwood, both
solidly supported at B's. The Land of Song gelding
has never been better than at present,, but he is
an in-and-out customer —on Cup Day he was last in
the Van Yean Stakes.
“Wodgil” : Among the newspaper cuttings
I treasure is the following gem from Smith’s Weekly,
dated October H :
To Ilei-oie, Derby winner, and J. R. Corteen, owner.
Dear Duo, —Some are born great, some achieve
greatness, and some get it through horses. The man
who possesses a classic colt becomes more famous than
a Prime Minister.
Already the horse has proved his game quality, and
the owner his solid sportsmanship. May these
continue.
Ancient nations cherished a hope that the Golden
Age would return ; so there is in Australia a tradi-
tion that some day will arise another Donald Wallace
and another Carbine. Well, why not ?
Thirteen days afterwards I read in a pony-racing
journal issued from the same office that Smith’s
Weekly had got the new Donald Wallace rubbed out.
* * * *
With a few exceptions the horses racing
about Sydney just now are an indifferent lot. One of
the few' is Valais Queen, a three-year-old chestnut
filly by Valais—Military Cross, who has wen a
couple of sprints in a style suggestive of more im-
portant achievements later on. At Rosehill cn Satur-
day, Otacre (evens) could never get near the slippery
filly, who was second favorite for the Flying Handi-
cap at 3’s. Certainly he was giving her lumps of
weight, but weight
wasn’t the trouble to
the massive black.
Cabochon is only a
moderate, but he proved
too good for the 13
opposed to him in the
Rosehill Handicap, for
which the faint-hearted
Buckra was a 2-to-l
favorite, only to cut up
badly again. Royal
Roue, who was highly
thought of last season
by his owner, J. M.
C. Forsa.vth. landed the
first division of the
Granville Stakes, in
which the contestants
were mostly fourth-
raters, after a dead-
heat with Avaunt. The
Gadabout gelding went
out at 7's, and the
stable recovered a hit
of the £l5OO which it
risked on him in Bally-
mena's A.J.C. Derby,
to the intense amuse-
ment of McShortodds.
Two of the eight win-
ners at Rosehill were
favorites, and two were
20-to-l shots, so the
man with the bag fin-
ished well aheail of it,
as he generally docs.
* *
“Hamer”: After the V.R.O. Derby the
police swooped down on two thinly disguised Mel-
bourne lotteries, and the amazing immunity they have
experienced is apparently at an end. Both con-
cerns sold picture-postcards of horses, footballers and
cricketers for a shilling a time, and some patrons of
art were so eager to buy that they would purchase a
dozen at once. The eagerness was prompted by the
fact that with each card went a chance in a winner-
picking competition on the Saturday’s race-meeting-
cash prizes were divided amongst the most successful
guessers, and a special reward awaited the man who
could “pick the card.” The marking of the full
card by hundreds on Derby Day led to the earth-
quake. ’ Binks, who that Saturday night bought
beer for dozens under the impression that he was
the only tipster who had given all the winners, was
enraged to learn next week that 150 others had done
likewise, and that the £lOOO of his amber anticipa-
tion had shrunk to £6. So Binks rushed to the
police with his indignant demand for action, and the
blow fell.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I was glad to see the seven-
letters superstition upset in the Melbourne Cup. The
simple fact is that, this being one of the commonest
lengths for a name, the bearers of it can’t help
taking a prominent share, by force of numbers. In
another sport, look at Murdoch, Darling and Gregory,
or Hayward, .Jackson and Lohmann ; also the present
Australian captain, and no fewer than seven of the
English team. In other fields are Chaucer, Shellev,
Dickens, Gilbert, Millais, Kendall, Roberts, with the
Prime Minister of England, the champion boxer,
the best known of all actors, our best billiardist, and
so on, wherever you look.
* -X- * *
“O.P.II.": The indignation felt hy Mel-
bourne Cup patrons who were asked to shell out an
additional pound to go into the new stand at Flem-
ington naturally caused inquiries to be made as to
the tenure under which the racecourse is held from the
Crown. The original deed, sign'd by Viscount
Canterbury (Manners Sutton) when Governor in ’72,
provides for a 99 years’ lease of ,320 acres at a
peppexcorn a year, “if demanded.” So there is a
trifle over 46 years to run, and Byron Moore, the
V.R.O. secretary, who was in the Lands Department
as a senior surveyor when the lease was signed, is
unlikely to have a hand in the renewal. In days
when the V.R.O. was not so grasping the flat was free
to the multitude, but now a charge is made. What galls
the racegoer who visits the course half a dozen times
a year is that he is ti'oated like a poor relation, while
the member who contributes six guineas per annum is
looked after like a nobleman of the ancient regime.
* * * *
“IT. Hardnpp” : Each fighter was obviously
anxious to avoid the other, but whilst one now and
again aimed a blow at the atmosphere, his opponent
did nothing but appeal for a foul. After the 15th
appeal, an onlooker spoke up. “Don’t talk to the
referee,” he said. “Suinmons him. Bill ; summons
him! You'll have time before he hits you again!”
Arthur Spencer (TT.S.A.) and Dos Smith
(Westralia) gave a fine exhibition of team-riding >n
winning the 100-kilometre bike race at Sydney Sports
Ground. Twelve of the 31 sprints were credited to
them, and their aggregate of points was 112 against
105 by Eaton and Wells and 76 by Grimm and
Dempsey. The lime, 2hr. 37min. 7see. —an average
of 25 m.p.h.—was good for the track. But a bad
spill in the course of the race put half a dozen top-
notehers on the repair-list, and suggested that the
riding isn’t as clean as it ought to be.
ON THE CROSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Minahan, M.L.A., an ex-president of the
A.L.P., said that 30 years’ experience had convinced
lum that most Labor selection ballots were corrupt.
Matters never went straight.”
You may go to the ponies and earnestly try
To imagine each owner is straight as a die.
You may flatly refuse on all jockey's to look
As venal, all trainers to schedule as crook.
You may feel that the stewards are basely' maligned
When a whisper goes round that they’ve axes to grind.
But there’s one sort of race where it’s quite out of
date
To kid even yourself that the running is straight:
To wit, when the coves
Assemble in droves
To battle for Laborite fishes and loaves.
You may get a fair spin where the pugilists strip
Or the pennies are flying aloft from the kip ;
At poker on four of a kind you may' bet
Without dreading a rival will show a quintet
In suit and in sequence. In short there are schools
From which you’ll be shot if you fracture the rules,
Where knavery engendoreth odium intense
And the mildest i hicanery is over the fence.
But when gather the champs
From the Laborite camps,
Stand by for the roguery! Look out for the ramps 1
From go-cart to hearse and from cradle to bier
All life is a gamble, you’ll frequently hear.
And the wariest he who is quickest to spot
If the dice that he plays with are loaded or not.
No use in a handful of nets and jacks
When the cards you are holding are marked on the
backs.
It’s a poor sort of man who’s aggrieved by a loss
When he’s squarely defeated and not on the cross.
But when Laborites wait
The news of their fate
In ballots, why is it things never go straight ?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Ask any Motorist who has given
“Castrol” a few months’ test —
Ask him what he thinks of
WAKEFIELD
r
1
<2
Q
52
MOTOR OIL
We are prepared to stand by the evidence of the regular
“Castrol” user.
He will speak—
Of a clean, sweetly-running engine,
Of the economy of “Castrol” usage,
Of low repair bills, and
Of motoring quite free from the lubricating troubles
inseparable from the use of low-grade, ordinary
oils, which are sometimes offered as “just-as-
good.”
Beware of the alleged “just-as-good,” and insist on gettin
genuine“Castrol,” obtainable from leading garages stockin
high-grade products. If unobtainable locally, write direct to —
Head Office for Australia:
C. C. WAKEFIELD g CO. LTD.,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 87465-6.
N> N)
fsd
Allow me
IT’S the man of ripe judgment
who most readily appreciates
Kensitas—the soft, mellow fla-
vour which comes as a revelation of
what good cigarettes ought to be.
If you’re not satisfied with just
ordinary cigarettes, sir, allow me
to present Kensitas the cigar-
ettes made by connoisseurs for
connoisseurs.
f
STANDARD
SIZE
VIRGINIA
20
for
I'6
50 for 3/9
100 for 7/6
Of all High-class
Tobacconists
cigarette
(pronounced "Ken-see-tus”)
MANUFACTURERS: J. WIX & SONS LTD-LONDON
'(She
m
V?-'
Trm.
tfS?:
(7^
n
f /('
3%
n
i
i
£l
1
v-
ro.
3*
,r^
YOUR XMAS HOLIDAYS.
IN beautiful surroundings the Clifton Gardens Hotel offers holiday-makers an ideal resort.
Here, in a chosen spot, on Sydney’s magnificent harbor, visitors have swimming, fishing,
boating, golfing and motoring all at tlieir pleasure. The premises have been extended,
making them homelike, where evenings of informal ease follow days of real happiness. The
dining-room has been entirely remodelled and enlarged, and the chef was carefully selected.
Catering for people of refinement and families, the tariff is from five guineas per week, with
special rates for prolonged stay. Twenty-five minutes by special ferry service from Sydney, the
location is ideal for easy pleasure and enjoyment without the cares, worries and noise of the city.
All inquiries apply
MANAGER,
Clifton Gardens Hotel,
Clifton Gardens, Mosman, Sydney.
’Phones: Y3Ol 2- 1 3-’ 1A- 15.


I
6Sff»
Transmission Equipment
The Works Manager who still uses uneconomi-
cal plain bearings for line-shafting equipment
pays for more power than is necessary.
Transmission bearings which absorb power in
overcoming their own frictional resistance
are quite as expensive as obsolete manufac-
turing methods.
Ninety per cent, reduction of frictional loss means 20 per cent, saving in total power.
This has been proved repeatedly in practical work. SKF Ball Bearings automati-
cally align themselves to shaft deflection or “whip.” This is a unique and valuable
feature.
Write for Transmission Catalogue mentioning this advt.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street. PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street. 377-391 Murray Street.
ADELAIDE—Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 157 Way- HOBART—Charles Davis, Ltd.
mouth Street. b.b. k>/’23.
Dddeeßrdtherb
TO URINE CAR
Fashionable and roomy in design,
with numerous refinements, in-
cluding a spring suspension that
guarantees luxurious travel over
the roughest roads, Dodge
Brothers Touring Car is every-
where accorded the kind of wel-
come it most emphatically
deserves.
Dodge Brothers. Detroit
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.. Adelaide. YVinterbottom Motor Co.. Ltd., Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
&
A
20/11/’24.
One of the best known of bloodstock
breeders went west the other day when
Harold McPhillamy died. A son of pioneer
Charles McPhillamy, he was born in Bath-
urst 60 years ago, and had lived there ever
since. Charles McPhillamy, another breeder
of notables, of Warroo, is a brother.
“E.”: lie the plate of salt on a dead man’s
chest (Yo ho, ho, and a bottle of rum!).
During the removal of the bodies from the
old cemetery to make room for the present
Central (Sydney) Railway Station, I visited
the home of one of the removers. On his
mantel-shelf was a row of china plates which
had been retrieved from sundry graves.
“Billy Cann”: Taffy, late of Aberwylly
and now of our irrigation settlement, has had
the corners knocked off his accent, but his
business edge is unimpaired. The other day
a gale blew his tank away from the stand.
Taff lost no time in getting to the branch
office of the insurance co. to inquire whether
his fire policy covered the damage.
Job Swift, just passed out in Adelaide,
had the virtues of his prophet-namesake. He
was one of the pioneers of the White Range
and Arltunga goldfields, and 50 years’ con-
tracting and mining in the Far North failed
to kill his optimism. After 30 years at
White Range he had no doubts about the
mineral wealth of the district. His father
was a “captain” of the old Burra mine.
Secretiveness isn’t a vice of J. A. Jensen,
now M.L.A. for Bass. When he was a Fed-
eral Minister he informed the G.-G. at a
public dinner that he used to hawk rabbits.
The other day, when the Tassie Parliament
was discussing McPhee’s Liquor Referendum
Bill, Jensen informed the House that during
his life he had probably drunk about 3000
bottles of whisky and 20,000 bottles of ale
and puffed away 75,000 cigars. But that’s
the sort of politician Jens August is.
John Deslandes, of Port Adelaide, is still
hale enough at 88 to carry out inspecting
jobs for the local council. Born on the
island of Jersey, he helped to build the sail-
ing vessel Evening Star in which he and his
family eventually sailed for Australia in
1554. The S.A. Government once employed
him to build a floating bridge at Escape
Cliff, Northern Territory, but the very day
the job was finished a steamer arrived to
remove the settlers. After that he was City
Surveyor of Port Adelaide for 17 years.
“Quiz”: In a delicensed hotel in Geelong
(Vic.) there is still preserved the figure-
head of the ship Lightning, which was de-
stroyed by fire 54 years ago. The clipper,
regarded by many mariners as the equal in
speed of the famous Cutty Sark, was loading
wool in Geelong when she took fire. She
was promptly hauled away from the wharf,
but ten hours later only her shell remained;
4000 bales of wool perished with her. On
her maiden voyage Lightning achieved 436
knots for a day’s run.
Among the old hands in the Vic. railways
who have taken their pensions recently are
Frank Moloney, metro, superintendent since
1019. and a veteran of ’79; 11. T. Robertson,
district superintendent, who also drew his
first pay in ’79; T. J. Lane, district superin-
tendent at Geelong for four years, who
coughed for the med. officer in 1880; and
W. R. McCormick, who joined as a porter
in ’Bl and has been stationmaster at “the
busiest station in the world” since 191 S. And
J. Conlon, head of the goods-train service,
with experience since 1881, will be passing
out shortly.
“Suburbia”: Talk of the cost of living
nowadays! I remember, over 60 years
I was travelling 2000 cattle overland
from Inverell to the Vic. goldfields, sleeping
under the stars most of the time. When I
struck a town I put up there and paid as
much as 30s. a night for a couple of feeds
and a litter for my horse. Corn was 30s. a
bushel, and hay £2O a ton. The pub mostly
charged five bob for breakfast, the same for
tea, and three half-crowns for dinner —-and
not much then. I paid that at Kilmore, Sey-
mour and plenty other places.
“F.J.Z.”; Saved from the scrap-heap to
which the A.U.S.N. Co.’s Bingera has been
doomed, the ship’s bell, always noted for its
exceptionally fine tone, has been sold by the
owners to the flock of the Congregational
Church, Cleveland, near Brisbane, and is
now installed in the belfry. The Bingera
was the crack ship in the Brisbane to Towns-
ville weekly mail run until the completion
of the through railway to Townsville. A
few hundred yards from where she lies in
the Brisbane River, the old Queensland Gov-
ernment yacht Lucinda is also being dis-
mantled for conversion into a lighter.
How £lO.OOO was spent in various forms
of hospitality is shown in the Treasurer’s
statement presented to Vic. Parliament with
the Auditor-General’s report. The Treasury
paid the Railway Department £1328 for
passes issued to M’s.P. for relatives or friends
at the opening and closing of Parliament,
and slightly over £3OOO was credited to the
Commissioners for free tickets for visitors
and “others.” The British Immigration dele-
gation’s whirl through the State -cost £1995.
For suppers and taxis during and after late
Parliamentary sittings the State had to part
up £258. Hundred-pound bonuses were
handed to four officers, and eight others had
from £3 to £3O stuffed into their pockets.
For little dinners and luncheons in London
and Melbourne something over £l3OO was
spent. And so the bell of the cash-register
is kept ringing.
The old order passing:—
An interesting development of the British election
was the success of a Labor candidate in one of the
Birmingham divisions. There are businesses in Bir-
mingham with almost feudal traditions, and when
I knew the place the workmen whose grandfathers
worked for the boss’s grandfather, and w-ho re-
garded the boss as a sort of Heaven-appointed chief,
could be numbered by the thousand. I stayed with
an uncle who was the high chief of a big Brum-
magem concern, and accompanied him on an inspec-
tion of his workmen’s cottages—a regulation event
much resembling an army-hut inspection. In one
shack he thrust his umbrella through a closed and
nailed-up .window, saying that he would send some-
one to mend it, but that the window was to be
left so that it could open in future. The old chap
was generous in his way, had a keen regard for
semi-feudal responsibilities towards “his people,”
and carried such a reputation as a “fair” man
that he was unanimously selected by both employees
and employers as arbitrator in a local industrial dis-
pute. He and his standing with his employees were
typical of an industrial condition which, the Labor
man’s success hints, is passing.


un
NP# /
I
-
TV
vis
m
Ni
V
?
'//s
<s
o
m
/
m
CJ>
im
74
§g
ti
c
V
NMM. '
no Styvr
ummer Holidays complete
- ‘with a REXOPORT /
Here are the technical details
concerning the wonderful
little Rexoport .
CABINET: Handsomely constructed of
imported Oak, with all parts attrac-
tively finished.
MOTOR : A strong, silent-running, Swiss
worm-drive motor.
SOUND BOX OR REPRODUCER:
Rexonola Concert Type, Aluminium.
TONE-ARM: Tapering Type, nickel-
plated.
REXONOLA PATENTED REFLECTOR
SOUND CHAMBER in modified
design, but following the same principle
as the standard Rexonola Models.
TURNTABLE has a nickel-plated and
polished rim.
TURNTABLE BRAKE is nickel-plated
and polished.
SPEED REGULATOR allows a full range
of speed adjustments to be made.
RECORD COMPARTMENT holds eight
double-sided records securely and with-
out risk of breakage during transit.
NEEDLE BOX is attached to the machine,
and held firmly closed when carrying, so
that needles cannot be spilled.
DETACHABLE LID, acting as a table
when pk ying, as shown in the illustration.
Not the least
wonderful feature
of the Rexoport
is the price - -
£5
The REXOPORT
ready for playing
Leave the dust and bustle of the city behind and get out into the great
out-of-doors this Summer—enjoy to the full the long days of sunshine
out in the country or at the seaside*
Wherever or however you go a Rexoport can add to the joys of Summer
holiday-making* It has been designed to enable you to take music with
you anywhere; it is truly portable—will add very little to your luggage
but much to your pleasure; it is entirely self-contained, including space
to pack eight double-sided disc records—sixteen selections —sufficient
for nearly an hour of music without repetition*
The Rexoport has rightly been called 44 The little instrument with all
the features of the big machines ” —the refinements and conveniences
that make it adaptable to get the best out of any record*
Most important of all is the design of sound chamber; there is nothing
freakish or unconventional about it, it is simply an ingenious adaptation
of the Rexonola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber used in standard
Rexonola models* If you already own or have heard a Rexonola you
will know what this means —full volume, rich, pure tone harmony,
clarity of reproduction and perfect faithfulness to the original artist.
Briefly the Rexonola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber is designed to
ensure correct “ tone focus/' without which it is impossible to obtain
volume without distortion*
Putting off buying a Rexoport is simply denying yourself additional
pleasures you might enjoy this Summer time, and for many years to
come, for the sturdy construction (genuine imported oak throughout) will
withstand the wear of many holiday seasons*
Here is the Complete c of xonola from
•which to make your selection:
LOUIS PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35 inches ;
in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark Mahogany.
Price (Type A) £52/10/-; (Type C) £62/10/- (with rich
hand-carving).
JACOBEAN PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35 inches ;
in Selected Oak, Dark Jacobean Finish. Price (Type B),
£35 ; (Type C), £46/10/- (with rich hand-carving).
REXONOLA No. 1 (Cabinet Model), Size 46 x 23 x 19*
inches; in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark
Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or Selected
Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak), £29;
(Mahogany), £37/10/-
REXONOLA No. 2 (Cabinet Model), Size 46 x 23 x 19*
inches; in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark
Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or Selected
Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak), £22; (Ma-
hogany), £3l/10/-
REXONOLA No. 4 (Cabinet Model), Size 41 x 19J x 17
inches; in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark
Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or Selected
Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak), £l6/10/- ;
(Mahogany), £22/10/-
REXONOLA No. 5 (Table Model), Size 22 x 17 x 17
inches; in Golden Oak, Mission Oak and Mahogany.
Price (Oak), £l2/10/- ; (Mahogany), £lB
REXONOLA No. 8 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x 14J
inches; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £lO.
REXONOLA No. 10 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x 13
inches; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £B/5/-
REXONOLA No. 15 (Table Model), Size 18 x 14 x 8*
inches ; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £6
REXONOLA No. 17 (Table Model), Size 16 x 12 x 8
inches; in Mission Oak. Price £4/5/-
THE REXOPORT (The Portable Rexonola), handsomely
constructed of Imported Oak, dark finish. As easy to carry
as a small suit case. Price £5
IF THERE IS NO REXONOLA DEALER
: NEAR YOU, USE THE COUPON :
- C O U P O N
Messrs. JACKSON & MACDONALD,
454 Kent Street, Sydney
A portable talking machine with a rich, full-volume tone interests me. Please send
me particulars of the Rexoport—and the complete range of Rexonolas.
Name ,
Address


H
4-Passenger
Speedster
Q
The Finest Super-Six
of All Time
Today’s Super-Six is the best value Hudson
ever offered. All models are priced lower in
proportion to their worth than any car we
know.
And the new improved Super-Six chassis
excels in every way even the famous Super-
Sixes of the past.
It continues the notable qualities of per-
formance, reliability and endurance which by
both official test and in owner service is
unsurpassed by even the costliest cars. And
to those advantages are now added refine-
ments improving every phase of operation.
Gasoline and oil mileage are vastly increased.
Owners tell us the gasoline mileage is 4 to 5
miles greater. Low parts prices and easily
accessible design make it the most economical
car of its class in maintenance.
Official proofs that are among the most im-
portant in motordom mark the Super-Six as
one of the truly great automobiles.
Respecting its good looks and substantial
quality you need no assurance other than
Hudson’s reputation as the world’s largest
builder of fine cars.
The four models—the Speedster, 7-Passenger
Phaeton, the Coach and the Sedan cover
every motoring requirement.
And the price of any Super-Six makes it
conspicuous not only among cars of compar-
able fineness, but even among those that you
never classify with Hudson in quality.
The
Coach
Miflfiuiffiii
n
n
fHE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
88-60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Victoria*
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, VV.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
IS6 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(H-FC-Ul6)


A *"Alston" Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Oyer 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
oft to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue flee
on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
4r.
7*
r;
Bf
regggg
ABBOTS
LAGER
Is Always To The Fore
As a Beverage
For All Occasions
d
720
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ••••••
Criterion t,ast of Saw
r oval “The Cousin from Nowhere.,
Grand Opera House “Broadway Jones”
'TjYQjj Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre Vaudeville
Ilorx's Moving Picture*
MEEBOnUNK SM'UVS FOI{ COMING. WEEK ~
His Majesty’s
Princess's “Tons of Money
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
George M. Cohan is a hustling playwright,
and when he wrote “Broadway Jones” he
hustled a little more than usual; but if he
had cranked himself up twice as fast he
would not have been fast enough for Sey-
mour Hicks. That astonishing actor tore
through his part like an expert but inwardly
calm machine-gunner anxious to get rid of
all his ammunition before the supply of
enemy ran out; while the audience that tilled
the Grand Opera House, Sydney, on Satur-
day night had to bite its laugh off short in
order to be ready with the next. This break-
neck pace, however, was only within the
capacity of one member of the cast, so
that Hicks’s charabanc had to stop every
now and then to give some footsore pedes-
trian a lift. The progress achieved, there-
fore, was made in fits and starts, and in the
rare absences of the speed maniac himself
the contraption gave a weird effect of going
backwards instead of forwards.
* * * •
Seymour Hicks as “Broadway” Jones is
a young man about N’Yoick Town who has
proposed to Mrs. Gerard (Mildred Cottell),
a wealthy octogenarian widow, in order to
keep himself out of the insolvency court. He
wakes up in the morning to a headache and
the news that he has inherited a fortune and
a chewing-gum factory. The endeavor to
right this trick played on him by fate occu-
pies him and Vivian Edwards, as Robert
Wallace, his faithful friend, for four acts,
at the end of which the widow voluntarily
abdicates in favor of Ellaline Terriss, as
Josie Richards, the capable young lady-
secretary of the chewing-gum factory.
* * * •
Stated to be an entirely new English ver-
sion of the original play which was first
presented here many years ago by Fred
Niblo, the comedy betrays its American
parentage by a constitutional inability to
“EAST OF SUEZ,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION .
Eily Malyon masquerading as a Chinese
Amah, and Frank Hawthorne disguised
as the lascivious Lee Tai Chung.
stick to its theme ; and the introduction of
the irrevelant Sam Spotswood, the moronic
son of. the equally irrelevant Judge Spots-
wood, is inexcusable even as a pathological
study, and adds nothing to the humor of the
piece. Nevertheless, Emma Temple makes
a tender Mrs. Spotswood, wife of the Judge;
and Mione Stewart, as her daughter, exploits
a giggle with complete success. Where
Seymour Hicks, in his most excited moments,
gets all the extra arms and legs from to
express several complicated emotions simul-
taneously remains a mystery.
“Whirled into Happiness” completes its
gyrations at Sydney Majesty’s to-morrow
night: “Betty” succeeds, with Alfred Frith,
Winnie Collins and other public favorites
still engaged in keeping the tambourine
rolling.
At Sydney Cri. crowds are being trans-
ported nightly to “East of Suez,’’ where vir-
tue per sc commands no particular considera-
tion, and the absence of a Decalogue is not
viewed as an irreparable calamity. It is
Muriel Starr, however—nqt anything in
bottles —who provides the intoxicant that
wrecks a few lives where gongs bang and
joss-sticks burn.
** * *
“The Cousin from Nowhere” will continue
his capers for another week at Sydney Royal.
After that the Dancing Tulips will fold their
petals—or whatever it is that tulips fold
at closing-time.
# sjs
William Ileughan finished up his kilts-
and-heather recitals in Sydney in a blaze of
glory. He has a happy knack of improving
with repetition, and there is something in his
songs and his voice that. Scotsmen will pay
real mtmey to hear. Brisbane and Maoriland
will know him next.
Edna Thomas, with her “spirituals,” has
been filling the Adyar Hall, Sydney, since
Saturday last. The singer has a magnolia-
smooth mezzo which she uses to interpret
the Creole ditties and negro hymns of the
“romantic” South —at any rate, Miss Thomas
keeps on saying” it is romantic. She was a
great success at the Coliseum in London last
season, and would be in the same setting
here, but her offerings grow monotonous when
spread over an entire evening. Besides,
there is a something in most of us that
cries out against exploiting hymns, even if
they are negro outbursts, for our entertain-
ment.
❖ * * sjc
The Chu Chin Chow who had his 39 retain-
ers boiled in oil at Sydney Palace on Satur-
day night was not as picturesque as the old
reprobate that Sydney welcomed two years
ago. The present bogus mandarin carries
out his abducting and hold-up business on
the screen, although an effort to capture
some of the gorgeousness of the original
stage-production is made in a prologue en-
titled “All Arabian Night’s Fantasy.” The
settings border on the spectacular without
being lavish, and replicas of the screen char-
acters contrive, with the help of songs, to
give the audience an idea of what is to
follow. Maida Mallory, as Zahrat, the desert
girl, sang well, but only wanted a trident
in the second-last act to turn her into a
presentable Britannia. Charles Melvin was a
lover who put much feeling into his seren-
ades. The ballet hadn’t much on, but even
that didn’t compensate for its unevenness. On
the silver sheet Betty Blythe played the
leading role, and the picture itself is an
artistic production that overshadows its
prologue.
“Lumen Gloriae,” the .Sergey Prokofliev
Concerto which lie was introducing to
Sydney, was the big feature of violinist
Zacharewitsch’s recital at the King’s Hall.
It proved brilliantly descriptive, the outpour-
ing of an original. mind, and the Zachare-
witsch interpretation made a deep impression.
The work, which has the “Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress” for its inspiration, is in turns poetic,
fantastic and religious, and its final passages
are stirringly emotional. The orchestral
background was supplied by Mrs. Evelyn
Greig, whose work at the piano was notable;
and Vera Tasma’s soprano lent charm to the
evening, the “Ave Maria” from "Otello”
being her most successful number.
Sydney Tivoli has a strong bill. Charlotte
Parry provides the star turn of the evening
when she takes seven different parts out of
nine in a pocket melodrama. Charlotte’s
protean powers have been so amazingly
developed, her change of roles and raiment is
so lightning swift, that it is probably only
a matter of time before she will be able to
put two editions of herself on the stage
simultaneously. She has a pleasing presence,
when it emerges from its manifold disguises,
and plenty of dramatic power. Fred. Lake
does some clever singing, and Bert Levy’s
sketches are a form of entertainment that
might be exploited more often in vaudeville.
Dorothy Varick puts in some spirited work
with a piano; Rich Hayes has such rare
juggling skill that he could afford to cut the
mountebanking out.
“Hullo, Marmadukc,” is the star-boarder
at Sydney Lyceum and Lyric this week.
Beaumont Smith is responsible for the film,
which looks as if it was expressly written
for Claude Dumpier. Dumpier, “The Perfect
Ass’’ of the variety houses, is renowned for
his impersonations of the Gussy type, and,
as the title implies, the central figure is a
sissy who can reasonably be suspected of
wearing corsets. Marmaduke is first seen as
a passenger on board an Orient liner, where
he keeps a strictly fatherly eye on a lady and
her little daughter. Disembarking at Syd-
ney. he does a little Domain dossing, and
drifts up-country to a goldfield, where lie
finds the lady slaving in a pub. The nuggets
being particularly prolific on Marmaduke’s
patch, he is enabled to send the daughter,
Margie, to a fashionable school for girls,
’l’liis turns out to be a providential brain-
wave in the end, for years later Marmaduke
rescues her from the sinking Australia, and
her boarding-school education fits her to be
the wife of a blue-blooded son of the Old
Dart. Most of it, of course, is merely the
pouring of fresh water over old tea-leaves,
but there is an improvement on the technical
side, and the comedy touches are amusing.
Other artists are Mayne Lynton, Lucille
Lisle and Bernard Butler.
❖❖ * *
At Fuller’s Theatre, Sydney, Stiffy and
Mo have entered the employ of a bank, and
“KEMPY," MELBOURNE
THEATRE ROYAL.
The irascible “Dad” Bence (John, D.
O'Hara) learns that Kemp James (John
Fernside) has the power to turn him out
of house and home.
their quips about counterfeit and the reserve
in the strongroom would crack the face of
the dourest manager that ever refused an
overdraft.
❖* * *
The return of Gladys Moncrieff in the
melodious “Maid of the Mountains,” revived
ac Melbourne Majesty’s last Saturday, was
a spectacular triumph. Gallery girls were
waiting on the theatre doorstep when other
citizens were eating their breakfasts. Per-
haps they brought their eggs and bacon with
them; most certainly quite a multitude ate
their lunch in the gallery, after the man-
agement had decided that they would find
waiting in the theatre more comfortable thau
in the queue, and had opened the doors at
about 11 a.m. Banking up their enthusiasm
all day. they let it out in a flood when the
ample heroine made her appearance. The
latecomers joined in the loud cheers; and
the play sailed through waves of enthusiasm
which so delayed its progress that it was
within an hour of midnight before the audi-
ence filed out, glancing backward at a flower-
strewn stage before which the curtain was
still bobbing up and down.
* * * •
Miss Moncrieff’s tempestuous Maid very
nearly deserved the almost hysterical appre-
ciation of the audience. The jealous mood
of Teresa leading up to the betrayal of Bal-
dasarre and his companions was well repre-
sented ; and if the lady was rather joyful in
the course of her last-act repentance, that
sort of thing is allowable in light opera.
Her numbers were all well rendered. Howmtt
Worster, hampered by a drought of singing
opportunities, was a stagey comic-tragedian
in the opening scene in the brigands’ retreat
in the mountains, but put force into his
Baldasarre later on; and John Ralston
atoned for mediocre acting by very fine musi-
cal numbers —he was Beppo. Blake Adams
failed to make anything like the best of
Tonio, yet succeeded in pleasing his audi-
ence; and Arthur Stigant, as General
Malona; Harry Ratcliffe, as Carlo; and
Leslie Holland, as Crumpet, were all good.
The arrival of a capable lead improved the
work of the women. Nellie Payne made a
very pleasing Vittoria, and the same can be
said of Bryl Walkley, as the Governor’s
daughter, Angela. A special posy is due
to the male chorus, first of all as a band of
unbelievable brigands with nice voices, and
later as fishermen more concerned with
melody than mullet.
** ❖ *
Melbourne is going to enjoy “Tons of
Money” better as a musical comedy than it
did as a farcical comedy ; and the thing
was no failure even in the latter form. On
Saturday night at the New Princess’s the
slick show ran merrily through its frivolous
dialogue, cheerful songs and well-arranged
and well-dressed dances to its h Vari-
ous conclusion; for, as Charles Ileslop
and Dorothy Brunton remain as cheer-
ful as ever in their final state of
bankruptcy, there is no reason for anyone
else to be mournful about it. Heslop flicked
through his troubles vvith characteristic light-
ness ; and as his wife Dot Brunton was, as
usual, charming. Mary Gannon made a like-
able Jean Everard, and the old-time favorite,
Lottie Sargent, represented Benita Mullet.
(Allington's Aunt) with a “young" make-
up under her greying hair. Compton Contis
was a satisfactory Sprule, the butler. Oliver
McLennan (“rung in” as a son of solicitor
Robert Chesterman to add froth to the
musical version) can be forgiven much for
his assistance in the frivols, lligginson was
a stiff Henry Sprule, and Leslie Pearce ar
indifferent George Maitland; and of the
others John Kirby, who made Robert Ches-
terman, the solicitor, much the same person
as the sleuth in “Rosie O’Reilly,” earned
applause as the man responsible for the stag-
ing of the production.
“Kempy” continues to get himself in a
tangle at the Melbourne Royal to the vast
amusement of its audience: and, although
given a sensation one day last week by a
shell-shocked soldier who tried to throw him-
self from the gallery, Melbourne King’s is
having an unruffled time with “Aren’t We
All?”
At Melbourne Tivoli, where Maidie Scott
has established popularity, the Cansino
Brothers and Stoneburn are taking away the
breath of the audience whilst miraculously
keeping their own in some whirlwind dances.
Arriving in advance of time for a forth-
coming Williamson production, their turn
at the Tiv. is limited to two weeks. Other-
wise the programme is much as it was when
this page last inspected it.
Hoyt’s big event this week is the engage-
ment of Walter Kirby—in great voice at pre-
sent —to sing at the De Luxe. At the
Majestic “After the Ball,” with Miriam
Cooper and Gaston Glass, is the star bill.
* $ -Jf
Wirths’ Circus is to continue only to the
end of this month. At the end of that time
it will resume its wandering life and visit
the truly rural towns of Victoria.
About Melbourne's “New Galleries” :
The most important event of the Art year in
Melbourne was the opening, a few days ago, of the
New Galleries at the summit of Robertson and Mul-
len's building in Elizabeth-street—-a really fine addi-
tion to the artistic utilities of the city. For the
occasion the artists who have been pushing the scheme
got together a representative collection of pictures,
although some big names were missing from the
catalogue. A sprinkling of the pictures, being lent,
were not for sale; and this lending business must
have caused some embarrassment to the committee.
With a last-minute enthusiasm, for instance, Dame
Nellie Melba, who opened the show, sent in some
pictures which were not Australian at all; and there
are some people who are blasphemous enough to
suggest that Australia’s Big Voice isn’t much of ; n
art judge, anyway. An old painting of “Coogee,”
lent by Streeton, is mainly interesting as a contrast
to his spacious “Blue Ocean, Lome”—a glimpse of
intensely blue extendfing seas seen through the
branches of trees on a height. Melnnes is represented
by a well-executed but rather commonplace “Mother
and Son,” the commonplaceness partly relieved by the
fine representation of maternal feeling in the pose
of the mother, and by his portrait of Professor
Masson; I.ongstaff by his insipid “Eve Gray” and a
study of Madame Maguenat. lie has also a landscape,
and one wonders why he allowed it to get there. Two
portraits by Norman Carter, the cne of himself being
specially good; one each by Charles Wheeler arid
H. B. Harrison; and a couple (not in color) by
J. S. Macdonald complete the portraiture. Penleigh
“WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.”
“Next, please!” Alfred the Great as a barber.
Boyd’s “Moonlight” is pleasing, and so is John
Rowell’s “Winter Sunlight”; but although there is
solid work in Bernard Hall’s “A Studio Shrine,” “A
Sunlit Glade” is more attractive. George Bell, in
a striking picture, “Crepuscule,” shows a lady looking
out of a window into the purple night, wondering
(evidently) when Clarence is going to arrive to take
her to dinner. His “Sunlight” is w r ell expressed.
A lady covered (in places) by a green dress, and
obviously embarrassed by her shoulder-straps, has
engaged the attention of Dora Wilson in “Entr’acte ’;
Hans Heysen has four canvases with a characteristic
treatment of atmosphere; and the “Autumn Idyll”
of Charles Wheeler is attractive. Work by E. Phillips
Fox (“The Promenade”), A. H. Full wood, John 1).
Moore, Percy, Lionel and Daryl Lindsay, A. E. New
bury, M. W. Sherwood, William Rowell, It. W.
Sturgess and Miss Traill gives a fair representation
of the style of these artists. Leslie Wilkie’s “<*>ld
House, Heidelburg,” is distinctly the best work in
(Continued on page 37.)


Wristlet Watches
Elegant and Precise
uJ
A / RISTLET WATCHES are so popular because they are distinctly
graceful and fashionable, yet at the same time useful to a
marked degree.
The Wristlet Watches we illustrate are selections from our
magnificent stocks, and represent value unequalled in Australia. They
are of superior workmanship, and so faithfully constructed that their
timekeeping qualities are beyond doubt.
Every watch represents the accumulated experience and skill of
nearly half a century and carries our guarantee.
Write to-clay for our new catalogue.
P 299
P2S3
m
P2Bl
;
mm
mm
P 279
1J298I J 298
<?7
6
P 284
P 305
1
3
■Mm,
h&mm
P3Ol
P 28-1 -Rectangular shape, set with diamonds, £35.
P 279 —Oct. gold, silk wristlet, £B/10/-. 15ct. gold, £lO.
P 281 —9ct. gold, silk wristlet, £B/10/-; 15ct. gold, £lO.
I’ 283 —9ct. gold, silk wristlet, £B/10/-; loct. gold, £lO.
P 298 —9ct. gold, rectangular shape, silk wristlet, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/- and £lO.
P 299—Oct. gold, silk wristlet, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
P 301—9 ct. gold Expanding Watch Bracelet, £10; 15ct. gold, £l2/10/-,
£l5.
P 305—Oct. gold Expanding Watch Bracelet, £7/10/- to £l2/10/-; 15ct.
gold, £l5.
Watchmaker - - - Jeweller,
(Opp. Railway Station),
805-613 George Street. Sydney
L T
riiiiani
Substantial Walls
built quickly and inexpensively
HOMEBUILDERS who have built their Walls of Durabestos,
the Wunderlich asbestos cement, will tell you all about
its convenience, and the great saving effected in cost.
Durabestos is a substantial, rock-like, fire-resisting material,
made in the form of sheets 3-16ths of an inch thick, suitable
equally for Interior and Exterior Walls. Why not investi-
gate, fully, the advantages which Durabestos ‘ offers? Our
profusely-illustrated Catalogue, D. 8.3, demonstrating the uses
of Durabestos, is post free, on request.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Showrooms: Corner of Cleveland & Baptist Streets, Redfern, Sydney.
Showrooms also at
NEWCASTLE:
63 Hunter St.
PERTH:
MELBOURNE:
243 Collins St.
ADELAIDE:
113-119 Currie St.
LAUNCESTON ;
71 St. John St
BRISBANE:
Amelia St., Valley.
HOBJtRT:
139 Macquarie St.
URABESTOS
£7/£? 'Wunderlich Isbastos-Cement
SHEETS SLATES
Obtainable Men’*
Stores Everywhere
=?a
wm
O
■I
5 mSB&x-rrzf-
m mu
■H
JW
ism
■ . .
i
’'pTS
; .' Swwirt? I
p/i ris
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on your pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney J 26 Flinders Lane, Melbourne


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
M
mm.
wmm
m
m
W. W. GREMffw
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHAM.
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street* Melbourne.
MARTELLS
For- Every 0
Occasion
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
Shipped, Solely from the
Cognac district
sdf
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service il la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
«tiona
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cate and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
oils of his yet seen. Out of the usual are two
quaintly designed works by M. Napier Waller and
the pictures of Christian Yandell, one of them
described as a “Stained-glass Design,” and the
other two answering to that description. Harold
Herbert has spaciousness and good, careful work in
The Market Place, Morocco” —perhaps someone will
paint “The Pub, Australia,” some day—but there is
stodginess in “An Old Barn, Windsor, N.S.W.” ; and
Sydney Ure Smith’s “Windsor, N.5.W.,” might be
treated as a libel by the inhabitants. Miss Bale pro-
vides an effective study in “Dahlias and Cloisonne” ;
and two striking efforts are Louis McCubbin’s “The
Grey Bush” (which, as shown, isn’t grey, and is
beautifully cool) and the “Noon” of W. Frater. Mary
Allen, George Colville, Alfred Collins (who sees the
drab waterfront in rather startling colors), Alf Clint,
Percy Leason, K. R. McQueen (who provides a nice
landscape as pasture for a spavined horse), Thea
Proctor, Margaret Preston, Florence Rodway and
Ethel Spowers (with quaint fairy-tale fancies) are
amongst the others n.e.i.; Blamire Young has some
curious drawing in “The Flight” ; Victor Zelman an
attractive “Drinking Pool, Croydon”; and Bernice
Edwell some of her miniatures.
Another good show :
Victorian artists have definitely decided that the
nude is far worse than rude —it is unprofitable. So
there is but one study in the altogether at the
Athenaeum show of the Australian Art Association.
And this “Model and the Mirror,” by Bernard Hall,
creates no desire for a return of the old craze ; for,
although the flesh is well painted, the lady has a
twisted leg. “The Lady with the Spcnge” shows a
young woman in a costume which allows what she is
carrying to be accepted as a sponge. She also has,
falling over her shoulders, a mass of hair of a hue
which suggests that there will be trouble at the
bathroom if there is any struggle for precedence. The
‘‘Portrait of the Artist’s Wife” is Hall’s best. Mc-
Innes has an extremely lively “Miss Neville Collins,”
another almost as good of “Mrs. Charles Dennis,” and
“Miss Joan Harper Bell” comes third in the same
class; but the well-drawn child in “Spring” is
carrying a stuffed velvet rabbit which is meant to
be alive. Georg£ Bell, in “Afternoon,” paints on
a larger canvas the same background that he uses in
his much better “Sunshine” at the New Galleries.
His “Airs. Edward White” is a good portrait. Carl
Hampel provides some of the best work in the show,
his “Moonlight in the Mallee” showing nice composi-
tion, and “The Mallee Farmyard, Morning,” conveying
its cheerfulness. Arthur M. Boyd’s “Cape Schank”
is a good picture ; A. E. Newbury secures luminous
effects in “Morning Haze” and “Sunlight and Rain,”
and Victor Zelman's “Glen Waverley” and “Gums at
Croydon” are appealing. So are a couple by Jo
Sweatman. It is rather painful to see Leslie Wilkie
throwing in such a thing as “Milking Sheds, Heidcl-
burg,” with “Study in Brown” ; not even their
location in the artist-sought neighborhood makes
milking sheds in themselves beautiful, especially
when cows and sheds alike are taken from Noah’s
Ark models. W. D. Knox has “Smiling Spring” on
much his usual lines; but the least ambu.ious of
his offering, “Moored for the Night,” with a delicate
suggestion of sunset glow on the masts of a moored
vessel, appeals most to this critic. Although Nor-
man Macgeorge’s “River Depths” don’t look as deep
as they are meant to be, the picture is the most
ambitious amongst the landscapes.
* >!= *
Yet another:—
A combined show at the Sackville Gallery, Mel-
bourne, shows painstaking work by three artists.
Henry W. Wicks has a desire for poetic expression
constrained by a commonplace outlook; but his
drawing is good and most of his 23 water-colors are
pleasing. There is a good effect of distance in
“The Hill Country” and “Distant Dandenongs,” and
a nicely-wrought study in “Evening.” “The Lagoon”
is the younger W. R. Coleman’s best. His colors
are inclined to be harsh, but he has an artistic out-
look and good craftsmanship. J. H. Cunningham
shows good color sense in four oils, of which “Dawn”
is best, and 16 water-colors. Of these “Gathering
Storm, Hurstbridge,” although rather flatly worked
in the background, is well conceived and attractive.
* * sis *
Allen Doone is back at Adelaide Royal
with a different and less specialised kind of
entertainment. “O’Kelly, Detective,” is just
a mystery play, but gives sufficient scope for
his well-balanced co. George Wallace, at
the Majestic, is foolish but funny in an
Alpine setting; Bessie Clifford is greatly
popular; and Maud Courtney and her spar-
ring partner revive old successes. In pic-
tures, the Grand is pleasantly Australian
(after a fashion). with McDougal topping
the batting averages. West’s has a mixed
bill: Stella Power singing, Backwood’s Cup
and a jolly motor-racing play.
sk * *k sk
From an Adelaide critic:—
A clever show is now on at the Society of Arts,
by Frederick Britton and Millward Grey, young
Englishmen respectively principal and instructor at
the North Adelaide School of Fine Arts. Each of
them has had sound London training. “Unemotional
arid scientific—he records without comment,” says
Blamire Young in a catalogue note on Britton. In
etchings, and more particularly in pencil drawings,
he shows various “bits” of Adelaide and the sur-
roundings. Grey is more versatile, restless and bril-
liant ; “treats everything emotionally,” as Blamire
Young says, but sometimes with a harshness that
probably is not intentional. He makes great use
of color, and has produced a series of characters
from “The Beggar’s Opera.” His most striking pic-
tures are those which group a few porcelain grotesques
to represent Gossip or some similar idea.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
“F.T.K.”: Comic-opera people may have
been ill paid in the past (B. 6/11/’24), but
Harry Rickards treated his headliners liber-
ally. Chung Ling Soo drew £4OO for a week
of eight shows of 50 minutes each. Little
Tich got £250 p.w.; Julian Rose, £175; Ugo
Biondi and Hackenschmidt, the wrestler,
£125; Carl Hertz (who died leaving, it is
alleged, £250,000) and Charles Godfrey,
£lOO. Other Riekardian importations were
Peggy Pryce and G. W. Hunter, £6O; Alice
Leamar, £4O; and Billie Williams, £35. But
Johnny Coleman, who was as popular as any
of them, could never persuade ’Arry—-I sup-
pose it was because he made his reputation
in Australia —to give him more than £l5.
“Hamfat”: Touching music-hall salaries
(B. 13/11/’24), Lauder is recorded to have
got £2171 for a week’s work at a Glasgow
hall. He had agreed to take half the gross
in lieu of salary. But in 1901 his screw at
London Pavilion was a mere £8 p.w. Even
in 1903 he was getting only a tenner. Oddly
enough, Harry’s first professional appearance
was made at Belfast, and the song with
which he tickled the Ulstermen (and the
Cockneys presently) was an Irish comic,
“Callagan, Call Again.” For 25 turns in
Easter week, 1901, London Pavilion man-
agement paid only £323 10s.; and Robey was
on that bill, too.
“Cliarlik” puts a conundrum: —
Is the bass voice becoming obsolete, or is it being
trained out of existence? Middleton, Heughan ami
other visiting stars are all either baritones or bassi
cantante. Modern composers seldom, if ever, write
for the bass voice, and in the recent opera co.
JOB'S COMFORTER.
FFIRST ARTIST (to depressed Brother Brush) :
“Don't take his criticism too seriously,
old fellow. He doesn’t know. And, any-
how, our pictures are never as bad as
they are painted."
Azzolini was practically the only man who could
have effectively sung Mozart’s “Within These Holy
Portals” in the original key. And yet what a glorious
organ a real bass voice is! 1 am old enough to
remember Carl Formes and a Scandinavian basso
named Behrens, a rich shipowner. Behrens had an
enormous voice, and it poured out like a torrent;
but it was a voice and nothing else, so he lasted
only a season or two. But Formes! The late Signor
Foli had a fine voice, but he would attempt too
much, and the voice is like a piece of elastic —the
more you stretch it the thinner it gets. Foli only
sang the part of “Elijah” two or three times; on
one of these occasions I was the tenor. Just before
“For the Mountains Shall Depart” he slipped a note
across to me asking me to sing it for him, as he
was dene. Being very young, I did, one of the
papers remarking the next morning that it was
“an innovation which might be copied with advan-
tage” ! Foli lost his sustaining power in later years
and used to “bark” his notes. But it was a fine
organ. The best natural bass voice I ever heard
was, strange to say, that of Riding-Master Gifford,
sth Dragoon Guards, the regiment in which I served.
He used to sing “In Cellar Cool” in D, and could
have taken it a tone lower. He was middle-aged
when I met him, and was absolutely unaware of
the gold-mine in his throat until it was too late.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Theatrical people have
a largely developed ability to see strange
coincidence in the most ordinary events;
therefore a remark attributed by a puff-
par agrapliist to Blake Adams may really
have been made.
Adams was playing
Tonio in the Lon-
don production of
“The Maid of the
Mountains” when
he heard of the suc-
cess of Gladys Mon-
crieff in the piece
in Australia; now
he will play Tonio
with Gladys in an
impending revival.
“It seems strange.”
he sagely said. It
reminds me of an-
other incident con-
cerning a stage-
struck knut wlio
got a minor part
with Julius Knight
and thrust himself
upon that some-
what aloof star
while he was stand-
ing in the wings
during a perform-
ance. “For yeai-s
I have come to see
your performances,
Mr. Knight,” he
said, “and for tw r o
years I have
haunted the stage-
door trying to get
a chance with your
company. It seems
strange that I
should at last be
appearing w i t h
you.” Knight
looked at him with
a “ Who-is-this-per-
son ?” expression.
“It will be even
more strange if
you ever appear
with me again,” he
said coldly. And
the young man didn’t.
“Johanna”: George Hyland, “producer"
for .T.C.W., scuttled over the other day from
Sydney to Melbourne to lend a shoulder to
“The Maid of the Mountains” revival, and
then rushed back again to his newest pro-
duction in Sydney. Hyland’s habit of hustling
like an ether-wave brought on a nervous
breakdown recently. He begged time off to
visit his native Canada; and a short furlough
amidst the snow and ice set the energetic
young man up again.
“Lond.”: You never can tell. “A Per-
fect Fit,” which Australia knew as “A
Tailor-Made Man,” lasted only a week in
London ; the equally American and very simi-
lar “It Pays to Advertise” has been one of
the outstanding successes of the season. And
Sardou’s old “Diplomacy,” a favorite full
40 years ago, has proved such a draw in a
revival at the Adelphi that it will run on
there while Owen Nares takes it touring.
“Hamer”: The work of William Moore
for Australian drama was given a kindly
reference by Henry Tate at the last gather-
ing of the Australian Literature Society, a
little circle which barracks in Melbourne for
Australian letters. “Bill” Moore started to
agitate for the staging of locally-written
plays over 20 years ago; and long before
Repertory societies arrived he instituted
“Australian Drama Nights,” at the first of
which Louis Esson’s “The Woman Tamer”
was produced. Only three of these “Nights”
were held —most enjoyable affairs —before
Moore went to England; but the movement
he initiated went on. Abroad, Bill Moore
(who is now on the Sydney Telegraph)
preached Australian art and literature to the
journals which were prepared to listen ; and
his articles helped Britain —and Continental
Europe, too —to realise that Australia'is not
entirely populated by the most primitive race
known to science.
“Lud”: Good plays are as scarce in Eng-
land as real statesmen. Hence, no doubt,
the revival of vaudeville. Two of London’s
best-known houses, the Leicester-square
Empire and the Oxford, have reverted to
variety shows, after trying for some years
to attract customers with regular plays,
and both look like getting their old-time
business back. A said-to-be pleasing little
interlude in the Empire programme of
music-hall turns is a one-act operetta, with
a score by Franz Lehar, called “Spring
Time.” In the cast are tenor Courtice
Pounds and baritone George Baker,
whose tuneful voices have charmed Australian
theatregoers aforetime.
A gentleman from Hollywood :
After swearing by all the greasepaint gods that
moving-pictures couldn’t be made in Australia on a
regular plan, the exhibiting amalgamation (it hates
to be called a “combine”) has imported a man to
make them. He is an American, of course, and,
instead of employing “legitimate actors and
actresses,” he is going to “pick types from the
general public” ; also, his films are to be produced
“on a strictly economical basis,” it being “practi-
cally impossible to manufacture an ambitious picture
in Australia for world-marketing.” One would like
to see a copy of the gentleman’s instructions. Ad-
mittedly it. would be mad to think of producing
STUDIO CUTTIN GS.
THE ART GIRL: “I scarcely recoynised you' with your hair short."
THE POETRY MAN: “Well it beca ne such a bother I just had to
have it bobbed.”
films in which extravagant salaries are paid to alleged
stars, and action (the all-in-all) is sacrificed to
grandiose effects —in a word, the D. W. Griffith type
of photoplay. It is largely because of Griffith and
his mania for presenting long-drawn-out spectacles in
which history is vulgarised and life distorted that
the pictures have taken the wrong turning. Another
harmful factor has been the Hollywood notion, noV
to be introduced here, of choosing the dramatis per-
sona from persons who can’t act. The result iia>-
been to crowd the screen with absurd creatures
with ham- and doll-like faces —self-conscious idiots
who “don’t know how to behave,” as Bernard Shav'
says, nor what to do with their hands. The bes*
pictures I ever saw were made by Pathe in Paris
about 15 years ago. They were short, episodical and
inexpensively constructed (I doubt if the most
elaborate of the series ran into four figures), but
the acting was superb, the effect thrilling. How-
ever, when the war arrived, Pathe, with his bril-
liant Mistinguetts, Simones and Signorets, had to
go out of picture-production; and in came Griffith
and the American press-agent and a swarm of
slaughtermen, waiters, typists and factory-lizzies
posing as actors. The so-called “art of the screen”
has slumbered ever since.
“Lud”: Tlie various “girls” having been
worked to a shadow, musical-comedy titles
are now of the floricultural order. Two
song-and-dance pieces which saw the light
in London within a week were “Poppy” at
the Gaiety and “Primrose” at the Winter
Garden. “Daffodil” and “Dandelion” may
shortly be expected, and after them the
vegetable garden will probably be explored
by the sheep-like librettists.
“Darley Street”: It was Alice Leamar
(B. 6/11/’24) who introduced to Australia
that delightful lyric, “Her Golden Hair was
Hanging Down Her Back.” While she was
singing it in Sydney she learned,that George
Edwardes was having it sung in his London
production of “The Shop Girl.” Off went
a cable to him: “Stop her golden hair hang-
ing down her back at once,” Promptly came
a return cable: “Let her golden hair go to-
night.” Alice let it go.
A PROTEST AGAINST WASTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An English critic complains that the word ‘bloody’
occurs in no less than 17 recent plays; ‘sometimes
it is dragged into dialogue that all the blasphemy
in the world would not make effective.’ ”
Time was one found in Sundry Shows
No hint or tint of gore,
Excepting it was in the nose
The low comedian wore.
Time was the stalls would have averred
Ev’n “damn” a most obnoxious word.
But with the lurid part of speech
One Shaw contrived a hit ;
Now fifty playwrights follow, each
Accounting it as wit
That’s safe to tickle and enthral
Packed houses —as in “Aren’t We All?”
Its over-use has made it cheap,
It finds its spell withstood;
Lo! scripts with blanks ensanguined deep
Are found no blanky good.
Come, budding Shakspeares, cease to cram
With “bloody” plays not worth a damn!
VICTORIA.
HAMFAT.


Amusements.
§ I)N]S Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: BETTY.
CRITERION: EAST OF SUEZ.
ROYAL:
THE COUSIN FROM NOWHERE.
piCKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees; Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
pU LEE R’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
J RAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
" Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
Every Evening at 8. Matinees Wed. and Sat.
BROADWAY JONES.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
Productions.
HOBART: Theatre Royal, January 1 to 17, 1925.
LAUNCESTON: Jan. 19 to 24.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SYBIL.
THEATRE ROYAL:
KEMPY.
ING’S THEATRE, 31 ELBOU R N E.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
AREN’T WE ALL?
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, 3IELBOURNE.
* Proprietors: Pullers Theatres. Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J WARD PRESENTS
DOROTHY BRUNTON & CHARLES HESLOP in
TONS OF MONEY.
SPARKLING NEW MUSICAL COMEDY.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
HIGH SPEED.
BLANCHE SWEET in
THOSE WHO DANCE.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, 3IELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
THE FIRE PATROL.
AN ALL-STAR CAST.
MatinCes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
JLYM P I A, 3IELBOURNE.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY,
SATURDAY AND HOLIDAYS.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS AND ZOO
(GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH).
A Complete New Company of English, American,
Continental and Oriental Artists.
PLAN AT GLEN’S.
Legal Notices.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS NEALON,
DECEASED.
"PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable
Jurisdiction dated the 16th day of April 1915 and
made in the matter of the estate of Thomas Aloysius
Nealon late of Raymond Terrace in the State of
New South Wales Roman Catholic Priest deceased
who died on the 28tli day of December 1913 in a
suit by Robert Arundel Mackenzie Ettie de Burgh
Persse and Augusta Sophia Persse Plaintiffs against
Henry Persse Mary Persse Delia Leo Mary Ann
Josephine Persse and Cecily O’Grady defendants
(No. 5768 of 1915) whereby an inquiry was directed
as to who are the next of kin of the said Thomas
Aloysius Nealon deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry either
as being children of Bridget Leo a sister of the said
deceased who were alive on the said 28th day of
December 1913 or otherwise are on or before the
seventh day of February 1925 to send bv post
pre-paid to Clayton Utz and Company Solicitors
280 Castlereagh Street Sydney New South Wales
their full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or Judge
or Master in Equity on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitors or Counsel before the Master in Equity
at his Chambers Supreme Court House King and
Elizabeth Streets Sydney on Wednesday the 25th
day of February 1925 at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon being the time appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims. A Claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in Sydney
to whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated this tenth day of November 1924.
W. A. PARKER,
Master in Equity.
CLAYTON, UTZ & COMPANY,
Solicitors for the abovenanv'd Plaintiffs,
280 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TO CORA ESTELLE FERRIS formerly of Thoona
in the State of Victoria.
Take notice that your husband Andrew Ferris has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce bn
the grounds of desertion for three years and upwards.
Unless you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Eighteenth day of December 1924 the case may
proceed in your absence and vou may be ordered to
pay costs. ERNEST HENRY HICK, Solicitor, 31
Queen Street, Melbourne. Agent for Messrs. Murdoch
and Living, of Wangaratta, in Victoria, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
pONYAN. —MARTIN and TERENCE, sons of
Martin and Ellen Conyan, of Burnley-street,
Richmond, in Victoria, will hear of something to
their advantage by communicating with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne
—Children and relatives of WILLIAM
•L TRODEN, a Gold Miner, who was married to
Elizabeth Blue, at Forbes, N.S.W., in 1862, should
communicate with Clayton, Utz & Company, Solici-
tors, 280 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Information
from any source will be appreciated.
GEORGE GUEST NORLAND.
INFORMATION is sought by the undersigned con-
cerning the whereabouts of George Guest Nolland.
He formerly resided at Iventhurst, near Parramatta,
N.S.W.. which he left in 1902. He went to Lvra,
Queensland. He was in or near Emmaville, N.S.W.,
about 14 years ago, and later went to Queensland
again.
GREENWELL, SHEPHARD & YORK, Solicitors,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 37 George Street,
Parramatta.
T7RANK CLOKE, last heard of six years ago in
-t 1 London. Any information as to his present
whereabouts will be greatly appreciated by his
Mother, 8 Avondale Road, Wimbledon, London,
5.W.19, Eng. Other Australian papers please copy.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
sw\
?(L >
Oa
e CANADIANPACIFICU
'FmJSm.umm tUw.
-
■*
mum
If ybur trip is to be one that holds all the luxury and comfort
of modern travelling; if it is to be so well planned that you
can see ALL the points of interest and ALL the beauty-
spots, travel across Canada, via
THE
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
RAILWAY.
This wonderful system taps all the points of interest
throughout Canada, and there are luxurious hotels or
jolly bungalow camps—both in the East and West—
where you can stay for weeks, or rest for a few nighty
Through tickets are obtainable in connection with the
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line to Vancouver,
8.C., and the Canadian Pacific Steamship Services
across the Atlantic.
Full information and descriptive literature are
obtainable from any office of the Union S.S. Co., of
N.Z., any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater,
Representative, Canadian Pacific Railway (Jo., Union
Mouse, 247 George Street, Sydney.
sdf
CRICKET
ENGLAND v. NEW SOUTH WALES
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND.
To-morrow, Friday, November 21,
and following days.
Commencing at 12 noon each (lay.
Admission:
2/- Ground, 3/6 Grandstand.
Children, 1/- and 2/-, including tax.
FRANK A. IREDALE,
Secretary N.S.W.C.A.
mM
&
aafe-
ntAU I>E COI.OO.VF
1
■VciciMuemni
Eaude
ologne
“4711,” with its cooling and re-
freshing properties, is an intimate
friend of every tennis player.
Obtainable at all Chemists, The Civil Service Store,
and other Leading Departmental Stores.
Head Office for Australia: 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BY ORDER OF SENATOR THE RIGHT HONORABLE G. F. PEARCE, P.C., MINISTER FOR HOME
AND TERRITORIES, COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
THE TERRITORY FOR THE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT.
CANBERRA,
THE CAPITAL CITY OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
FIRST SUBDIVISION AND AUCTION SALE OF CANBERRA LEASES, TERM NINETY-NINE YEARS.
COMPRISING 104 BUSINESS LOTS
AND
289 RESIDENTIAL LOTS,
TO BE SOLD BY PUBLIC AUCTION, ON THE GROUND AT
CANBERRA,
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1924.
AN EVENT OF HISTORIC IMPORTANCE
enabling buyers to secure at the FIRST SALE CHOICE HOME AND BUSINESS SITES in the FIRST CITY
OF THE COMMONWEALTH. CANBERRA, BECAUSE of its MAGNIFICENT SITUATION and DELIGHT
FUL CLIMATE, is destined to become the MECCA OF THE COMMONWEALTH. AN EXCELLENT
OPENING presents itself for the establishment of RETAIL BUSINESS, RESIDENTIAL FLATS, or PRO-
FESSIONAL CHAMBERS, as at present there are no local facilities. ALREADY approximately £2,000,000
has been spent, by the FEDERAL GOVERNMENT in BUILDINGS and SERVICES, PARLIAMENT
HOUSE, nearing completion at a cost of about £225.000. A HOSTEL costing about £140,000 will
shortly be available for guests. MODERN POWER-HOUSE. Excellent Water Service, Sewerage and
Electric Light and Power. Golf Links and Recreation Reserves. It is proposed that early in 1926 Parlia-
ment will meet at Canberra, and this involves the transfer of over 350 officials, in addition to Members of
Parliament. Allowing for families and subsidiary population, this would represent an addition of about
1000 people to the existing population of the city area, which, including workmen, already approximates
1500 persons. BEFORE the end of 1929 PERMANENT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES will have been
completed, and the transfer of officials undertaken. A conservative estimate of the population of CAN-
BERRA in 1929 is: Civil Servants, 1000; their dependants, 1500: unofficial population, 2500; total,
5000 Within a decade the population will probablv reach from 10,000 to 15,000, thus equalling cities
of the size of ALBURY, WAGGA, GOIILBURN, or'BATHURST. A RESIDENCE will be provided for
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL at CANBERRA, and it is expected that the CAPITAL CITY* will bet the
SOCIAL CENTRE for a large portion of the year. INTENDING BUY ERS wishing to inspect the sites
please call on WOODGERS AND CALTHORPE, QUKANBEYAN. PLANS AND PARTICULARS regarding
LEASES, BUILDING COVENANTS, and CONDITIONS, are available at the offices of THE COMMON-
WEALTH SURVEYOR-GENERAL, Goldsbrough House, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney; THE COMMON-
WEALTH SURVEYOR-GENERAL, CANBERRA.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED, 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
YVOODGERS AND CALTHORPE, QUKANBEYAN,
AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION.


m
V. .. \ -r
: : '
1*
•: ' ■ , ;
m
■r : -
._*? ....
:
A ‘
«**2l
. . v\\ ...
\
1
v
X
ii -
/
• • V •••
m*m w m
im
■Mi ww J.warjs
W~ sooHNoHias
OMIAUSSSRId MOd
,V «J
to] Smiicom
1
HI
.
i '■--•■
Ik
K
iii
■
i
m
k
1
PI
i
I
pi
£
r*,
*“*!*«s»
w
g>
1
f
5? fkMl
S* A ' i ra»
WM
s
%
1:
m
m
.
:SSf :;
m
§
- ,
ili
w
■ yv» :...:< ■
M ■ ■ ■ : M* >
- ' •. .....,-■
■ ■ ' ' '. .. ■■■; ■■■■- ■■■■'"
me?
m
1
re
.
'j
ill
m
mm
imn.,
....: *
r -i ■ nXywS^ 1
m i
* xs?
\ 'V. J l * • V»,
m i
■ m
■
om\
v »\\
H
■I
flk TO
—your factory, home, sheds,
outbuildings or any structure
of steel, iron or wood.
ERRODOR” Elastic Paint will protect them as it has protected the
1 Naval Bases of the British Admiralty, Australian Government
buildings and the factories of representative firms for over a quarter
of a century.
Rain, hail, salt air, extremes of heat and cold, and the oxygen and other
gases of the atmosphere will not affect your buildings adversely because
“Ferrodor” Paint is composed of indestructible peroxide of iron, which
successfully resists all corrosive action.
The elastic properties of “Ferrodor” give greater covering power and insure
that it will not crack or chip under any conditions.
Let “Ferrodor” shield your buildings, improve their appearance and save
you money. Make next year a prosperous one—at least, a saving one, by
painting with “Ferrodor” now,
Sole Agents for Australasia:
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO., LTD.,
Cr. King & Clarence Streets, Sydney.
And at
MELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street. BRISBANE: Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33-35 King: Street. ADELAIDE: Weymouth and Morphett Streets.
LAUNCESTON: 33 Cameron Street. NEWCASTLE: 53 King Street.
Sub-agents everywhere.
Entirely British.
Non-Poisonous.
Adshead—Rose.
I


THE “MOR”
(Reg’d)
Solves all Packing Troubles.
BY its special construction the “Mor”
case is automatically adjustable (so
simple that it can be operated by a
child) ; the average size case can be used at
will as a business case or a week-end case ;
or a week-end case may be extended to
contain 40 p.c. more and used as a travel-
ling-case ; similarly a small suit-case can
be readily adjusted for a long holiday.
Stocked by all Leading Stores or obtain-
able from the Manufacturers.
Gadsby & Company,
Commerce Buildings,
Martin Lane, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
H
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PIISK RUBBER
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4oooforl|-
Katoomba Thousand
No. 4
GIGANTIC ART UNION IN AID OF
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial Hospital
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General ol N.S.W.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p, Rolls-Royce £1750
2nd Prize, Wolseley Touring Car £625
3rd Prize, Diamond Set ... £275
Total Prizes value £4,000
(Values guaranteed)
Drawn Immediately Subscribed
or not later than June 12th. 1925
Results published "Daily Telegraph.” June 15th,
1925; other States, June 24th, 1925, or before.
1/- only TICKETS 1/- only
By Post, I/I l. Three or more Post Free.
Six Tickets for 6/~
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can win Prizes
value £4,000
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope for
result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co. (all
branches), all Hairdressers and Tobacconists in
City, Suburbs and Country, also Messrs, hrouds
Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
Auction Sale.
Gibson’s Grand Central Hotel, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Australia,
has Closed,
*nd the whole of the MAGNIFICENT FURNITURE
and ELEGANT APPOINTMENTS of this beautifully
■furnished up-to-date Hotel
Will be Sold by Auction
on the
21st, 25th, 27th of November,
by direction of the Directors.
Catalogues, price 1/-. Proceeds devoted to Charities.
THEODORE BRUCE & CO.,
( Auctioneers,
Auctioneers’ Offices and Salerooms,
70a Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Legal Notice.
TN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
x PROBATE, DIVORCE AND ADMIRALTY
DIVISION.
(DIVORCE).
To HERBERT BROADBENT HANSON, late of
Mountain Ash House, Thorney Wood Lane, Notting-
ham, in the County of Nottingham, England.
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in this
Division, endorsed with a Notice calling upon you
to appear and answer the Petition of GERTRUDE
HANSON, of 8 Beaumont Street, Longwood, Hudders-
field, in the County of York, England, praying for a
dissolution of marriage. In default of your so
appearing, you will not be allowed to address the
Court, and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto. And take further notice that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within 114 days after the date of this
publication, an appearance must be entered at the
Divorce Registry, Somerset House, Strand, London,
England.
W. INDERWICK,
Registrar.
JAOpES & CO., 8 -Ely Place, London, E.C.I, England,
Agbtfts for ARMITAGE, SYKES k HINCHCLIFFE,
Huddersfield, England, Solicitors.
m
DIAMOND RINGS
0/
Distinctive Design and High Quality
Unless you have positive knowledge of workmanship and jewels how can
you know whether you are getting full value for the price?
The responsibility of buying only genuine, dependable, high-class gems is
ours. We have the knowledge, gained during the experience of over 80 years.
And our wide resources enable us to get fullest value from the diamond-
cutter. You can put full dependence on any ring offered by us; our long-
established reputation is your safeguard.
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3O.
Choice Diamonds, set
in Platinum and 18et.
Gold Ring, £4O.
Choice Diamonds, set
in Platinum and 18et.
Gold Ring, £l5.
Nine Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lB/18/-
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring;, £55.
Choice Diamonds, set
in Platinum and IBet.
Gold Ring, £3O.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
«S v
FAIRFAX&ROBERTS u*
25&Z5 Hunter Street Sydney
t«*A : .Vr ». An I*?j Var.»«'AVt* t‘
CCC Vcccoc
S 3
4
»$&
iiy.%
.
*:«r.
O 1
i\o
c m
pm
’.v.
c r
c r .
Csccccc
«£•£
-3
Mv?m
IYKC
HM
s*£te
S»
AX
p
-« ! /I
M|
L-JI
Jgg!
-hH
H
•0.
_J!
Wk
m
MS \
THE
IDEAL PAINT
For Indoor or Outdoor Work.
Withstands the ravages of climate.
RIPOLIN
PAINT
Send for Color Card and Booklet.
L. A, CORMACK, Factory Rep.,
4 UNDERWOOD STREET
(Off 35 Pitt Street),
SYDNEY.
Telephone; B 3284.
MOON
“ c Uhe Six Supreme ”
MOON is the fastest-growing Automobile
Company in the World To-day—a fact which
proves conclusively that the public have awakened
to the soundness of the Moon principle of building
cars solely with specialised “proven” units.
MOON production to-day is Fourteen Times
Greater than it was Four Years Ago.
Your first ride will reveal a kind of motoring you
imagined impossible at such comparatively low-
price levels.
Literature on Request. Finance Arranged.
Communicate with your Local NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth Street
Adelaide
Vici ria and Tasmania:
Finlay Motors Pty. Ltd.
New Address:
290-4 Lonsdale Street
Melbourne
New South Wales:
Lockett’s Motors Ltd.
Cr. Crown and William
Streets
Sydney
if t;ou shun the Commonplace—
Buv a fi'oon
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
334 Beaufort Street
Perth
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stumped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.H.P.: “It Was Written" —the title is
a strange coincidence, because your yarn bears a
queer resemblance to a Bulletin story now in print.
....Panchaz: That old gentleman has already made
too many appearances... .Bay W.: Rather wearisome.
... .W.M.R.; You dawdled at too many lamp-poMs
on your way... .Thomas D.: Never heard a bush-
man’s wife say “Take not thy axe.” Anyhow, thy
screed containeth so many things that thou shouldst
not do in verse, and thou leavest undone so many
things thou shouldst do that there is no health in
it. . . .A.E.C.: Not badly done, but doesn’t seem worth
while... .Jarkgoc: Doesn’t strike us....Corian:
Short weight. .. .A.M.B.B.: A long way off....
T.R.T.: The. only cure for that sort of thing is to
grow older and read good verse... .R.L.J.: The
“sub” has been treated in that manner before; and
it’s not much of a manner, either... .W.G.K.: Not
within miles. .. .Bandy: 'Both miss, but they travel
in the right direction..... Irvine D.: All tagged out
with hard-worked commonplace... .D.D.D.: Very
rugged stuff. .. .Ida R.: The idea is a bit too extra-
vagant to be sincere... .A.B.R.; The verse doesn’t
carry it... .D.H.R.: Doesn’t say enough.... F.O.
(Candelo) : The “parent cow” can’t roost here. .. .
F. (Lindfield) : No more than a sort of prose
mockery of verse. .. .M.T. (Oemorne) : None up....
C.J.G.R.: Try to say things a little more freshly,
and don’t strain the lines out of scansion... .M.E.M.:
Weak and thin....C.W.J.: It follows a well-marked
track.... Black Watch: The idea has been far better
handled.... Lank Rob: There have been many worse'
first attempts ,T.M. (Broken Hill): The sorrowful
statement left us cold J.F.M. : No good
M.T.W.: The usual talk about wanting to sing. Why
not do it?....Stan II.: It’s an old yarn in very
lumpy verse J.R.: “The Caretaker’s Children”
get too much out of step C.II.W.: The “Wind”
misses... .Bertrand R.: Thin and aw’kward.... Dun-
can C.; It broke down... .T.J.C.: Left at the post.
. . . . W alker’s, Please: Doesn’t get near enough even to
wink at the barmaid.... Thistle: not for print.
. ...E.R.D.: The sonnet fails.... Caesar: Far too
rugged. .. .Ivy A.: Not quite enough in it. . . .Mervyn
Q.: It contains some very good stuff; but what is
it all driving at? W.B. (Peak Hill): Not the
apples for this barrow’....Torin: You seem to have
looked through the wrong window’ P.E.S.: It sounds
like a picture film with most of the context cut out
by the censor R.D.C.: The swallow doesn’t do
anything.... David M.: The ending spoils it....
W r .E. (Camperdown) : The baby is pretty, but doesn’t
quite manage to get itself adopted E.S. (Hobart) :
It has a good refrain. See if you can improve the
rest of it... .C.J.T.: Begins rather well and then
grow’s looser and w’orse.... W T .H.R.: The sonnets are
poor....Capta : Not quite. .. .Ripponlea : It is won-
derfully tuned to the music of bathing dogs:—
An old tin tub on the chassis of a pram •
A scrubbing brush not worth a ;
Some dog-biscuits and some clothes-line' rope.
Some phenol and some yellow soap
Is the stock-in-trade of my friend O’Grady,
Who inquires at the doors of rich and poor:
“Any dogs to be washed to-day, lady?
A shilling for a foxy, a poodle or a pup
If the hound is larger, two bob and up.
Anything between a
Dollar and a deener
Makes your dog as fresh as a little buttercup.”
Pushing his go-cart, onward he jogs,
Making a noise to locate th’ dogs;
Luxurious lolling w’ould suit him much more
As by-ways of Collingwood does he explore.
But he sticks to his job, does Birtwhistle O'Grady,
Who inquires from door to door;
“Any dogs to be washed to-dav, lady?
A shilling for a poodle, a foxy or a pug,
If the mung is savage I muzzle his mug;
Anything between a
Dollar and a deener
And I’ll guarantee he’s far more nicer to hug.”
. . . .The Emu : Embers gone up in smoke. ...E.A.T.:
lour fleas don’t bite. .. .Arev.: Can’t find a roost
for the ehooks. .. .H.G.M.; Might make a cinema-
picture. .. .Coldstream : The sword has fallen... .Te
Piki: Story would fit into any old life from China
to Peru. Wants local color.’.. .T.J.L.: The basket
overflows with gloom and tragedy Naomi: Added
to the woodpile S.W.: An oft-told typiste’s tale.
A. All capitals and cackle Hal G.: Too
untidy; you leave too many’ things unsaid and sav
too many other things too many’ times....W.E.B.: Still
ringing on the old triangle Dal: Good material
not well dressed.... Lone Hand: Corpse interred....
B. : Has been done before F. J.F.: “Bill
took the whole plot in with a glance.” And so did
we T.W.D.: Christmas stocking filled... .R.H.:
Not badly written, but only variant of old situation.
....Capta; Slang is not wit, nor want of grammar
style... .M.W.M.; “Travel” is unusual enough to
command attention:—
Siting still in one place,
Without courage to explore;
Like the rocks upon a moss-bank,
Lies the weakest and the poor.
Man’s greatest school is travel.
’Tis Nature’s university.
Do not lack courage to unravel,
For human interest and utility.
Then let’s be up and doing
Persistent, like man’s thirst.
Travel for knowledge of history,
Dig deep from the mother earth.
Travel creates more than knowledge,
It entertains the eye,
And builds a responsive personality,
That lasts until we die.
S.M. (Forest Lodge): They all have a hint of
something, but none of them are up. Try again.
.... Looker-on; The verse is too rough and you’ve
got the yarn mixed Centipede: First, decide what
you’re going to say. Then you will have a chance to
get your story into something like order. At present
it is like a statue with arms and legs sticking out
in the most unexpected places Ponley: Hasn’t the
touch of sincerity M.B.P. : “Words” must go
back.... Evaline M.; All poor, without a new phrase
or idea M.A. (Cremorne) : Doesn’t appeal to us.
. ...D.H. (Lane Cove): They have no freshness or
quality H.S.D. (Y.P.) : Sorry, but it’s far, far
away... . J.H.J.; The old commonplaces... .Pendry
P.: You don’t really say anvthing Loubruk: Not
enough there Una D. : Rather deficient L.R.P.:
Clumsy verse with a stub point Senex: Moves
heavily to say the usual things P.T.M. : Not for
us W.R.M.: The printed verse is weak and thin.
W.F.B.; Far off. *
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. : Auto-suggestionists may be queer people,
but they aren’t cursed with hands like starfish....
G.B.: Rough as the Gordon-road between Chatswood
and Turramurra... .H.R.M.: Too photographic....
W.F.M.: You know as much about anatomy as a cow
does of matrimony E.P.: That style infringes
Uncle Sam’s copyright... .J.McC.: They ran neck
and neck for the basket C.B. and B.P.: Not up.


CLOSING DATE
On or before December 15* 1924-
Shares will be allotted strictly in order applied for, subject
to right of Directors to reject or reduce any application.
A SAFE Investment
that should double your capital
in four to five years.
Seldom is such a remarkable opportunity pre-
sented to the careful investor. In 1900 a few
thousands were invested in the Portland Cement
industry in N. S. Wales. To-day that industry
represents capital of between two and three
million—largely paid from profits.
The existing works cannot supply the demand for cement. So the
Standard Portland Cement
Company Limited
(to be registered under the Companies Act of N.S.W. 1 899)
is being formed to meet a definite demand that will grow in
volume every year.
If you have money to invest, NOW is the time to act. Already a
large portion of the required capital has been subscribed by leading
investors and business men who see in this a rare opportunity to
develop a sound, secure Australian industry and make handsome
profits at the same time. Roads, bridges, railway and water works
are all crying for cement.
The Government of N. S. Wales has by a contract recently ratified
by special Act of Parliament ordered from the Company 150,000
tons of Cement. What better guarantee of success could you wish?
What plainer proof that the Company’s management is sound, keen
and thorough?
The Company will take over, at a very modest figure, the assets of
Cement Products, Ltd., who are willing to accept practically the
whole consideration in deferred shares, and in addition have agreed
to apply for 20,000 of the shares now offered for subscription.
Facts for the Investor
Government Con-
tract for 150,000
tons ensures continu-
ity of operations—
profitable price—
and no selling
penses.
ex-
Estimated return on
£425.000 capital is 18.52
per cent, on production of
80,000 tons per annum —
with 100.000 tons pro-
duction 24.64 per cent.
Capital mentioned pro-
vides for the latter instal-
lation.
Township Subdivisions:
A conservative estimate
of land profits shows suf-
ficient funds for the pay-
ment of dividends before
production of cement —
accordingly there should
be no wait for dividends.
Capital:
£500,000 divided into 500,000 shares of £1 each.
2/6 per share on application and 2/6 per share on allotment.
Balance extending over eighteen (18) months, at 2/6 per share
every three months.
Under arrangement with the Gov-
ernment of N. S. Wales, the Com-
pany must have its works erected
in two years’ time. They will be
ready long before that.
Act at once. Complete prospectus
with full details on request from
the Secretary. Application may
be made at the offices of the Com-
pany or through any recognised
broker.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To the Directors of
STANDARD PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
I hereby enclose you Cheque for the sum of £
being a deposit of 2/6 per share on application for
Shares ofi £1 each in the above Company. I agree to accept the above or
any lesser number of shares which may be allotted to me, and to pay the
balance according to the terms of the prospectus and subject to the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and I authorise
you to register me as the holder of the said Shares.
Ordinary Signature
Name (in full)
(State here whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, or title.)
Address
Occupation
Date
Applications will be received in multiples of 25 shares c*nly.
GREYS
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
QJuxurtAf soh Gm Qffotod
BIG
THINGS
of the
WORLD
vVW-
L\ *
V “
a
Commerce
«
$
The world is wealthy in wonderful things—things of grandeur,
beauty and marvellous construction. But greater than all these
is the creative mind of man himself —for every big thing was
once a thought.
Cigarettes are
notable favorites with
men who keep their minds
clear and their faculties always
alert. “GREYS,” too, are big
and thoroughly wholesome and
satisfying. You get a new idea
of cigarette smoking when you
begin with “GREYS.”
76e
GREY
SjJk Cut Virginia
TWENTY for 1/6.
Extra Large Size, 20 for 2/-
0/ all High-class Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere.
Manufactured by
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO.,
LONDON,
Branch of The United Kingdom
Tobacco Co., Ltd.
c.
m
0
srtK
CUT
Major
D «Ar>
WIM
'INSCO
I ® a 'cco
This reduced reproduc-
tion shows the famous pale
green packet of 20 “GREYS.
:y«


Artistic Walls
and Ceilings
m
Many a dainty room owes its charm
to the artistic panel effects of
its walls and eeilings, lined with
“1’IBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets.
Art, hygiene, fire safety and sound economy
are all secured by lining with “FIBRO-
LITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets. These
big sturdy panels are easily handled, cut,
nailed and erected. Being obtainable in
over 30 sizes waste is eliminated.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY, LTD,
Cor. York and Wynyard Sts., Sydney.
amp. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Cattle Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide and Hobart.
The Wool Off
and classed, baled, pressed and branded. Maybe that
work has been finished to your satisfaction. But
what about the sale of the clip? See that its results
are equally gratifying.
Send Your Wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane.
A firm, actively conducted by the Managing Directors,
alert, capable and thoroughly experienced.
: :
Nulite Double Mantle Table
Lamp Matchlighter, 400 C.P.
110 M. Price, 59/6.
Same, with Smaller Font, 55/-
Lanterns, 58/- and 55/-
Comfort Irons, 37/6.
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sumise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt ;
leaf 3in. wide—
will not sag; High
Crown, will stand all
weathers.
30/.
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Sire.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
RUPTUREi
A FREE TRIAL.
tl ym at* troubled with the complaint, write us end
We will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Ibis appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
prit day s use. _ It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street, Melbourne
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
My Baby!
Tl TONE but a mother can feel the ecstasy of murmuring
J V these words to her sweet, innocent baby; murmured
with a love that assures her confiding infant of a
mother's tender care.
Keep the joy bells ringing by seeing that no infantile ailment
is allowed to develop. By the daily use of Kruse’s Fluid
Magnesia, the stomach is kept in such a healthy condition
that the effects of teething and vaccination are hardly noticed.
Only small doses are needed. May be given to the youngest
with perfect safety, and results that, are satisfactory.
Kruses Fluid Magnesia
is bottled under sterile conditions, and is the safest and most efficient corrective
for Acidity, Indigestion, and Nervous Irritability.
DELIGHTFULLY COOLING IN SUMMER. RELIABLE ALWAYS
The genuine KRUSE’S has our name-FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co,
Pty. Ltd. —on the label.
Lower Prices for
4
r
THE
DECCA
PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
PRICES :
JUNIOR - • £4 10 O
No 1, Leather Cloth 6 6 0
No. 2, Fibre >BBO
No. 3, Solid Leather 12 O O
All Phonograph Dealers or
SUTTONS 290-292 Bourke St., Melbourne
Ballarat Bendigo Geelong Sydney
PTY. LTD.
BEST BRITISH BRIARS.
Finest Dark Finish, Gold Mounted.
'B N
BB
fsgjgiieg
At All First-class Tobacco Stores, 21/- each.
If unobtainable, write Box 171 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hamer”: The enduring properties of
Australian woods got an ad. when the Steve-
dore-street pier, Williamstown (Vic.), was
recently dismantled to make room for im-
provements. The box piles, put down 70
years ago, are quite good and sound; and
the more recent ironbark piles, 40 years old,
show no sign of deterioration at all.
* * * *
“Micromegas” : Brisbane expects to handle
record shipments not only of wool and wheat,
but also of maize, this year. The last is
flooding the wharves: 15,000 tons have
already been exported and another 35,000
tons are due to leave before the end of De-
cember. The freight rates have soared in
consquence from 275. 6d. per ton in August
to 40s. at the end of October.
* * * *
“Rowland Hill” :Re postal efficiency. On
the Mahana’s last trip to Auckland a letter
posted in Manchester (Eng.) was gnawed
by rats during the voyage. About half of
the envelope and its contents arrived at the
sorting-table in the P.O. All that remained
of the original address was: “ Lee,”
—n-road, —d, —ealand.” Within a fortnight
of its arrival in Auckland the tattered frag-
ment had been delivered to 21 Boston-road,
Auckland.
**. * *
“Pat Bushie” : At the Newcastle Warden’s
Court the other day an application by the
B. H. P. Co. for authority to enter lands
around Blackalls (near Toronto, Lake Mac-
quarie) was heard and gi’anted. The B.H.P.
is after coal, and the Warden fixed the rental
of the land to be entered at 6d. per acre per
annum. As the land is held by hundreds of
owners, not one of whom has more than half
an acre while many have less than a quarter,
the rent amounted to Id. in some cases, while
in others (the highest) it was 3d. The aver-
age amount to be paid was li-d. The B.H.P.
had to write 200-odd letters, and remit the
rent by registered post (postage 4|d.), with
a request for a receipt. Many of the owners
had to spend their year’s rent for the postage
on the receipt, and some were at a loss
of |d.
* * * *
“Sierra”: “Machete” (B. 30/10/’24) re-
fers to the importation of tinned crayfish
from S’Africa as an instance of carting coals
to Newcastle, and suggests that cheap colored
labor renders it possible. Well, I was in
the business in Victoria years ago, and know
that the cost of marketing crayfish (spiny
lobster) at Melbourne was 20 times greater
that at Cape Town. It is true that S’Afri-
can colored labor is cheap, but it takes a
lot more than that to account for cooked
cra.vs being sold in Cape Town for a penny
each. The explanation is that the shallow
waters between Robben and Dassen islands
teem with the “fish,” and it is merely a
matter of hauling them up by the netful
within a few miles of the city. Contrast that
with the Bass Strait method of inveigling
the shy, rare cray into a “pot” and nursing
the precious creature over a journey of 150
miles to market. In Sydney I have seen
crayfish sold at six shillings each !
* * * *
. “L’Fou”: If Henry Ford builds factories
m Australia, a few remarks he made lately
may suggest where they are likely to be:-
Industry is definitely gqing out to 'the country,
lhe big city is not an economical place in which to
manufacture. Increasing value of city sites, with
nigh municipal taxes, puts needless overhead on pro-
duction. 'lhe big factory is to be avoided wnerevei
possible, because it too greatly concentrates both
transport and men, and is difficult to administer
Certain kinds of work need big plant. But there is
no reason why the whole of most articles should be
made in one factory. Several vears ago we started
a valve factory out among the farms. The workers
all came from farms. Many owned farms. Three
hundred men are employed for five days a week,
which leaves a day for farm work. Harvest-times,
etc., some men stay away, but we always have enough
to do our work, and the men, lane enough time to
do their farm work. They earn city wages; what
they get from their farms is extra. And the plan
pays us. We thought we were making the valves
cheaply at High Park central factory. The farmers,
making only this one thing, cut production costs in
half. (They turn out 150,00,0 a day.) We are
doing the same thing in a lamp-making plant 20
miles from Dearborn. And we will extend the plan.
The rank and file of modern factory-workers do not
have to be trained as the old hand-workers. Some of
our jobs can be learned in a day; only a few take
as much as a week. The farm has its slack seasons.
So also has industry. They can be made to fit,
together admirably.
A NECESSARY COMMODITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The police sergeant, giving evidence, said he did
not think a hotel was needed at Old Junee. He did
not consider a pint of beer a necessity even for a man
who had been humping wheat all day.”
The old man spoke with deep disgust.
“I’ve lived too long,” he said—
The corks around his old felt hat
Danced as he shook his head.
“When I was young I never thought
That I would live to hear
A sergeant in a court o’ law
Blaspheme the name o’ Beer.
“He must be mad to say poor blokes
With thirsts, like you an’ me,
Could work without a drop o’ beer
To drown the memory.
“I’ve humped my drum along the road
From Hay to back o’ Bourke —
The hardest track I ever struck
To miss a bit o’ work.
“But, trampin’ through the dust an’ heat,
Sore tortured by the flies,
I still could smile when Hogan’s pub
Appeared beyond the rise.
“And when I threw Matilda down,
My throat all dry an’ queer,
A glorious halo seemed to shine
Around the casks o’ beer.
“And when a pot stood on the bt t
Crowned with its snowy froth,
It drew me to it like the flame
That lures the giddy moth.
“And as I raised it to my lips,—•
lives closed in hextasy—
I'd pray that beer might e’er remain
To help an’ comfort me.”
The old man wept. “Good-bye,” he said,
“It breaks my heart to hear
A sergeant in a court o’ law
Denounce Gold’s gift o’ Beer!”
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


m
#/
1
Wahl
Product
w3B f/ujtp
Give both!
AN ideal present.
matched by
WAHL PEN
Write •hand companions with features that casit he copied
Obtainable at All Leading Stores Everywhere.
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE & CHARTRES Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool Street, Sydney, H
In the Esteem of Overseas Motorists
the 20/60-h.p. six-cylinder Sunbeam holds a
very high place. Recognised as a superb pro-
duction of British engineering, it has proved
itself a car of outstanding value by its con-
sistently high performance and economical
running costs.
The 20/60-h.p. and the 14/40-h.p. models incorporate
the most advanced chassis design, including the four-
wheel braking system. Its coachwork provides luxurious
comfort. Its durability is that of supreme quality.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
Export Dept.: 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
Cable Address: “ Sunbeamoco, London.” England.
Authorised Dealers:—
WILLIAMS BROS., 255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
WJ9
'/0
C 4c OH ► °
Springs and Strength
It is imperative that the STEEL from which
any springs are made should be carefully selected.
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
BRAND SPRING STEELS
are made for strength and reliable service. Its quality lias won
world-wide praise, and is demanded wherever the best is required.
Owners and users constantly specify “Eagle and Globe” Brand
Steel for motor-car springs—they stand up to all road strains.
We want, you to test it for your own satisfaction, and your trial
order will have our prompt attention.
With your order ask us to include a copy of our free book,
“Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
Consult us on all matters relating to STEEL, our cumulated experi-
ence enables us to give you valuable help.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 342-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray. Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 31-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE .. Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd.. 88-90 Currie Street
lIOBART K. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
=RemiruHcm
Pocket Knives
The best blade steel
is used in Reming-
ton Pocket Knives.
They cut keenly.
This General Utility
Knife will serve you in
a dozen different ways.
No. R-3843
Two Cutting Blades
Screw Driver
Cap Lifter
Tin Opener
Punch or Reamer
Corkscrew
Ask your Dealer
lemmi
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
En G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
sdf
{pv»!s3
By Appointment to
H.R H. The Prince oj Wales
J-eJ \{/>uA QockPi +&enhsJ'
■&e vpuA. axhisxAf
not men to visit as
a last resource, not
men to associate with
painful operations and
unpleasant curative
treatment.
Above all let them
advise you regarding
your teeth. They will
tell you that gritty
pastes and powders are
a delusion and a danger,
whitening by scouring -
away the precious
enamel which guards
against decay. More-
over, they will strongly
recommend the twice-
a-day use of the most
economical and efficient
dentifrice-
-1
X\\\^ N VwnW^
•NTAL CREAM
SI


Vim, Vigor and
Vitality result
from the use of
Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They
cleanse and stim-
ulate stomach,
liver and bowels,
helping produce
perfect health.
Wonderful for Biliousness,
Constipation & Bad Breath.
VIM
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE■
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each.
I
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig eAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Shave in Comfort.
$
ee.
If you could shave
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
T Then tr y a perfor-
ated HONE. It puts easy
shaving' within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred—you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE, and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
l)ept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I 2
CUNARD & ANCHOR LINES.
The World’s Fastest Passenger Service
To England and Europe from America and Canada.
Including the Magnificent
S.S. BERENGARIA, 52,226 tons; S.S. AQUITANIA, 45,647 tons;
S.S. MAURETANIA, 30,704 tons.
A NEW FLEET OF 20,000-TON OIL BURNERS.
A NEW FItEET OF ONE-OLASS “CABIN” STEAMERS OF 15,000 TONS.
Special rates to England and Europe via United States and Canada in connection
with through tickets issued by the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., Ltd., & the Oceanic S.S. Co.
Atlantic accommodation reserved in Australia before sailing.
Apply to local agents, or
Commonwealth & Dominion Line, Ltd., 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 86 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
SKANDIA
Constructed especially for Pump-
ing Plants, Sawmills, Electric
Lighting Outfits, Chaffcutters,
Shearing Machines and all Farm
Work.
£B5
Complete as illustrated,
with Accessories and
Spare Parts.
STARTS IN Yz MINUTE.
RUNS FOR 2d. PER HOUR.
Larger Powers in
Stock.
Also
MARINE
ENGINES
from £95.
Further Particulars
obtainable from
the Australasian Agents,
NELSON S ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Kerosene and Crude Oil. Stationary.
4-5 HORSE-POWER.
o
m |
;
KITZ’S Cider
Dr. D. T. FERNIE, .London, states :—•
“Cider is not only the most wholesome
and hygienic of all drinks, but is a pre-
ventive of and a remedy for Stone,
Gravel, Gout, Obesity and Fermentative
Indigestion.”
RETAIL ALL HOTELS AND
STORES.
Head Office: Melbourne.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.
Tucker & Co., Etc!., Sydney.
Caldwell’s AVines, Ltd.,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Townsville and
Cairns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide Wine and Spirit
Co., Etd.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Richard Holmes & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
df
T\ON
k
•SSi
K
■Jt *
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
HEAD OFFICE—273 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
. .£10,000,000
£4,000,000
2,207,380
1,500,000
Total £7,707,380
Total Assets, 31st March, 1924, £38,209,226.
Directors :
SIR JOHN GRICE. Chairman. Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman. BOWES KELLY.
J. NEWMAN BARKER. H. M. STRACHAN.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept.: E. J. OSBORNE.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N. S. WALES-—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 29 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies;
E. H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 48 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 37 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand.
Agents throughout the World.
A pioneer and first-class judge of stock
went west when Jack Broughton died at
Young (N.S.W.) recently. Born at Appia
92 years ago, he was a son of that Brough-
ton who owned Broughtonville station, and
a grandson of the William Broughton of
Phillip’s time. He was a very Old Boy of
King’s School.
“The Deacon”: Someone was asking the
other day if the flag of Dantzic had yet been
seen in Sydney Harbor. Doubtful. But when
the cargo steamer Ivilcredane bucketed in
through the blow off Sydney Heads the other
night she had the tricolor of the Irish Free
State flying. And she is skippered by an
Englishman !
Died, at 86, Henry Gascoigne Dumaresq,
son of that Capt. Dumaresq who was in-
valided to the Speck from India in the
’twenties and who was able while surveyor-
general under Governor Arthur to secure a
grant of some of the best land in the Pateena
district. (Incidentally, he put up a record
by drawing a pension for over 80 years.)
Henry once sat for Longford in the House
of Assembly.
“Cwrw Bach”: Queer casualties ? On
arriving at Ismalia back from the Penin-
sula the 16th Battalion’s machine-gun sec-
tion decided to have its photograph taken.
While the men were grouping themselves
about the loaded gun it -was capsized, and
in some mysterious way the firing-key was
jambed home for some seconds. There were
five casualties; the sergeant, who was about
the only survivor of the original section at
the Landing, died that night from three bul-
lets through his stomach.
Managing-director N. Brearley, of the
W.A. Airways, Ltd., is returning from Bri-
tain -with a little more avoirdupois, some new
De Haviland ’planes and the conviction that
his regular air-mail service between Perth
and the Nor’-West flies as efficiently as any
in the world. Brearley, who was in charge
of the Gosport (Eng.) Flying School during
the war, was wounded in action, and an
M.O. warned him never to fly again, as his
heart was injured. Brearley promptly took
his machine up 20,000 feet to see if the
doctor was right.
Tauranga (M.L.) has just been to the
funeral of William Alexander Pillers, who
established and for 30 years conducted the
Ivynsham stud, Bristol (Eng.). Horses of all
classes were bred —draughts, thoroughbreds,
hackneys, polo ponies and mountain ponies.
The fame of the stud spread, and animals
were exported to Ireland and the Continent,
Canada, Argentine and Australia. About 15
years ago he sold a horse to a Maorilander,
and personally delivered it. The Dominion
took his fancy, so he sold the stud, and pre-
sently took up farm land at Papamoa.
The Queensland Rhodes scholar for 1925
is J. E. Barry. 8.A., born at Herberton,
and hence another product of the debilitating
North. His abilities are more on the scholas-
tic side than the sporting, his final effort
being first-class honors in history and econo-
mic science. He also led Queensland ’Var-
sity in the inter-University debates last year.
Barry is a Nudgee College boy, and intends
doing research in historical and political
studies, one particular aim being “the ques-
tion of the possibility of the realisation of
more complete economic justice through Gov-
ernment interference in industry.”
“The Deacon”: Mention of Monsignor
Hugh McDermott in a recent Bulletin as a
past president of the Cardinal’s College in
Manly (N.S.W.) recalls that of all the
foundation staff Monsignor Hayden is the
sole survivor in the college. Nearly 35 years
ago he came from Rome to take over
Scripture and Dogma, and has remained
ever since, latterly as president. No man
has missed the episcopal ’bus oftener than
he. But for an indiscreet magazine article
printed in Rome a few years back he would
have been long since wearing the purple
which has fallen to his half-brother, the
present Bishop of Forbes-Wilcannia.
“Wart”: Tasmania is only a speck, and
when the trappers slaughtered over a mil-
lion kangaroos and ’possums in a three-months’
open season last winter the Government de-
cided to let them see how much damage they
could do in two months this year. On
465,240 skins marketed the hungry Govern-
ment collected just under £9OOO in royalties
and licenses. The slaughter tallies were:
Black opossum, 16,154; grey opossum,
29,824; ringtail opossum, 273,421; kangaroo,
59,448: and wallaby, 86,393. The Govern-
ment threatens to make next winter a close
season ; but when interested people start to
pull strings it will probably weaken. A
few more seasons like the last, and some of
the most valuable species will be as extinct
as the Tasmanian emu.
“Bobbie Edzem”: I suggest that when
“Pyro” cleaned out the charge and removed
the time-fuse from his German curio (B.
16/10/’24) he overlooked still another
charge and percussion detonator. In
1917 Fritz began using a shell which
was designed, in a manner of speaking, to
turn corners. The time-fuse caused the first
charge, a small one, to burst immediately
over a trench or other excavation. This
had the effect of depressing the nose of the
projectile, thus altering its direction and
enabling the main charge to burst, on per-
cussion, inside the excavation. These mis-
siles allowed a flat-trajectory gun to be
used for howitzer work in indirect fire
against the exterior slope of rising ground,
and were highly valued by Fritz in undulating
country like that of the Somme.
Tas. Railway Commissioner Miscamble,
having partly sized up the situation in
regard to his new job, is substituting rail-
motors for heavy engines on ten or a dozen
of the Speck’s shorter non-paying Rues.
According to Railways-Minister Guy the
Commissioner is of opinion that some of these
rail motors will pay for themselves in a
couple of years or so, at the same time
giving a better service and aiming a shrewder
blow at road competition than was possible
under the old order. Miscamble is also out
with his snickersnee in search of some of
the tall poppies of the railway service, and
several early retirements are chronicled,
among them engineer Nairn and paymaster
Todd, both of whom can say, as Bret Harte’s
stranger assured the farmer, “I was with
Grant.” The general in this instance was
the late C. H. Grant, who bossed the Main
Line Co. long before State railways began in
the Speck.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
Via SUEZ.
♦OBAMA .
♦ORONSAY
♦OTRANTO
♦ORMONDE
FLEET.
Tons.
Tons.
20.500
20.500
20.500
14,853
♦ORMUZ 14.588
OKVIETO ... 12.133
OSTERLEY . . 12 129
ORSOVA 12,030
♦ORCADEs ' 10.000 tons.
♦First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 C 3 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OF
ANY
T H f. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Honda}', 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apptv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS. PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: 11. C. SLEIGII, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised. Capital .. .. .. £2.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14,’499’435
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Dysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge. M.L.A.
General Manager ; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.IV.: \V. G. Hull.
iil'.AD Oh h ICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Ivin 0 *
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares . . .. . . 1,500’000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3.000,’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
transacts all other usual Banking
Where to Stay
and
Where to Go.
ILLUSTRATED
Official Directory
for
Visitors to Sydney.
Complete Sydney Guide, Two
Colored Maps, List of City
Hotels and Boarding Houses.
Post 1 1 3 Free.
N.S.W.
Government Tourist
Bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, Ac.
CANADA, UNITED STATES,
UNITED KINGDOM
FORTNIGHTLY SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Auckland, Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver,
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
via Wellington, Rarotonga and San Ffancisco.
MAKURA 13,500 tons disp. NOV. 20 for Vancouver.
TAHITI 13,000 „ „ DEC. 4 „ San Francisco.
NIAGARA 18,600 „ „ DEC. 18 „ Vancouver.
MATTNGANUI 11,350 „ „ DEC. 31 ~ San Francisco.
Fast and splen-
didly equipped
steamers burn-
ing oil fuel.
Spacious Decks,
Unrivalled
Cuisine.
/ * ,s ... •
m
The Scenic
Routes to the
United King-
dom, via South
Sea Islands,
Canada, United
States. Stop-
overs at any
point en route.
TICKETS TO THE UNITED KINGDOM INTERCHANGEABLE FOR RETURN
BY OTHER FINES.
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES TO HONOLULU.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
("Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
\William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
ISLAND TOURS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
HP
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
m
■j
SB
11
wm i
■
\,
m
Kip
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offers you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to —
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, bv the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Auckland or Wellington, N.Z.
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500 \ ANCHISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES . . 14,500 | ASCANIUS . . 10,000
AENEAS . . 10,000 |
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. &O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANAT.D . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13.100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. . 11,100
.. 11.100
. . 11,100
.. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAIi SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC
SLEVIC
MEDIC
PERSIC
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
12.000 tons
12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Ilighest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THE.MISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
cLc.y uii application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1811,
I’aicl-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
-«.
Directors:
- £6.000,000
- 4,050,000
- 6,000,000
£16,050.000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq
The Hon. lieginald J. B 1
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Thremuieedle Street E C
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. .Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer. ISails from Sails from
Sydney. | Melbourne A-ents.
WYREEMA..
(Melb. onlv)
zealandia •
(All Ports)
BOMBALA. . .
(Melb. only)
KATOOMBA .
(All Ports)
WYANDRA. .
(Melb. only)
A.U.S.N. Co.. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Huddarr Barker,
Ltd.
10 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,
350 George St.
Mcll wraith,
McEacharn’s, Ltd.,
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart
ParkerLiE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAKT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Steamer.
Tons.
YOSMINO MARU
MISHIMA MARU
TANGO MARU
9002
7905
6880
Leaves Sydney
Noon.
Leaves
Brisbane.
Nov. 21
Dec. 26
Jan. 23
Nov. 24
Dec. 29
Jan. 26
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA.
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“NALDHAM.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS I OK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilackheatli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Uo.val Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES' at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary,
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Oilice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Politics m over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds £53,000 000
Annual Income £7.865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
MEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances elected on all classes ot
— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks oa Wool > Merchandise,
■ ■ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The ‘‘United” is an Australian Institution.
BAHTIN HAIGH, General Manager.


In high favour with Ladies
Lustrous finish and wide range
of color and design, give to
Fox Costume-Cloths their FIRST
irresistible appeal.
Remember that Fox materials
always wear better, and that they
retain indefinitely their beauty
of texture and their shape when
made up, simply because they
are perfect— loo per cent. good.
ALL Fox’s Cloths are guaran-
teed to be all pure wool, and will
not shrink or fade by land, sea or
air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset,
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cioths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
„ FOX
iVest of Sngland Highest Quality
MATERIALS
Fancy worsteds • flannels • saxonies • botany serges • cheviots • tweeds and
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
'LL
c
x
Leather to
the Foot
W] Rubber to
SU the Ground
. ■ :
*
1 mi
'
m
X-
: .
; J
jks.
. ■
■ .. .
gyp
Leather to t/iQ foot Rubber to the Ground
THEY’RE real lasted shoes—for men and
women—properly built—like leather
shoes, with comfort in them, and long
service.
You may choose plain, rubber soles or plan-
tation crepe rubber. When they become worn
they can be re-soled like new.
Carubo Shoes mean joyful feet.
Get a pair! They fit the foot and
grip the ground.
AT ALL GOOD SHOE STORES.
The Moonlit Glory of a
Summer’s Night
When the moon gleams down
through the scented air of a
Summer’s night, there seems but one
expression of the enchantment that
fills the hour—Music,
“His
Master's
Voice”
gives you music at its best—exquisite as the song
of the nightingale, true and clear as the chimes
of silver bells.
Through the medium of its perfect powers of
reproduction you hear Melba, Dal Monte,
Caruso, Chaliapin—all the greatest singers and
musicians of the world, as faithfully as if they
had become materialised in your own home.
On “His Master’s Voice” you hear whatever
music you choose, whenever you choose.
m
i
*4
m
t&E
f|g
N
x*
&
Instruments from 11 guineas to £94,
Illustrated Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists
and name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Limited,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s
Voice ”
Reg. Trade-
mark.
His Master’s Voice'
The Symbol of Supremacy.
"Gramophone”
Reg. Trade-
mark.


A Noted Singer
sd
Madame
Layton
Gaubert
(from
a
photo).
Praises
Rexona
Soap
Madame Layton Gaubert, acclaimed
by the London Press as an exceedingly
fine thinks the world of Rexona
Soap and writes us as follows: —
“I have used Rexona Soap for the
last ten yearSj and have found it most
satisfactory for the skin and hair.”
Rexona Soap Gives Natural
Beauty to Skin and Hair
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be imitated, can be
obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet
soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which
tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such
soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the
skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same sooth-
ing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, the
value of which in the treatment of
skin affections is known through-
out the world. Simply use Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap regularly
once or twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety.
m
P*
m
\0
Rexona Soap
1-
iftgpr •
The
Inimitable
Xmas
Present
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
EVERYBODY LIKES CHOCOLATES
THERE is hardly a gift that has as much personality as a box of
HILLIER’S CHOCOLATES. It somehow represents the giver, carrying
with it a suggestion of one’s own character and taste.
Packed in the famous Red Box, which is a presentation package created to
convey, by its artistry of design and distinct color, the quality of its contents.
The rich, smooth chocolate, made to the most exacting standard, the wonder-
ful centres, and the many varieties, have induced people to come to us for
confectionery that is new, that is different, and that always carries a flavor
remarkably good. The results are due to many things, principally, however, to
the fact that, having realised from the beginning of this business that the public
was entitled to the BEST-QUALITY Confectionery that could be made, we
have devoted all our energies to making it so.
“ You can taste the quality.”
Every care is taken in packing, so that each box leaves with the assurance
of reaching its destination in the same splendid condition which characterises its
advance through the. various stages of manufacture.
Freshly made —elegantly packed—promptly mailed. \
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia. Per Y.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
We know there are cheaper Chocolates, but that will not deter us from
our principle of maintaining the standard of quality
we established in 1914.
Send your order and we
will post to friends the
famous Red Bo* to your
instructions, with suitable
greeting cards.
fsd
162-166 Pitt "Street,
And cr. George 8 King
Streets, SYDNEY.
The Ballad.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BENEATH the hills’ exultant gold
Your gentler w 7 ay, green valley.
Winds on with pensive fold on told
Liko some fair ballad script unrolled,
Writ plain, but in an alien tongue.
A S from a harp by time unstrung
Notes of your hinted melody
Awake some shivering chord in me.
I crave your secret; none the less
y[y heart shrinks from your tenderness,
Green valley, storied valley !
T love the bush. My whole life long
Has known the gum-trees’ brilliant song
Of sharp leaves in the blue afloat.
You, tranquil place, are strange, remote;
The grouping of your rounded trees
Seems planned for other centuries
In other lands —oh, long ago!
What pang of passion wrings me so (
This spread of mosses emerald-clear
Cries out a tale I dread to hear;
I cannot bear their fragrance chill,
It wraps me in a swooning thrill.
Like gossamer, like iron bands,
The mastery of beloved hands
Slides from my shoulder to my side
And holds me sweetly terrified.
I)id this dear glen, aghast with haste
Of foiled escape, know two embraced
Where bliss and bitter parting blend—
‘•Heart of my heart, it is the end.
The moan of joy that welcomes pain,
The arrowed words of young disdain
And deathless love that laughs at fear—
All ended by a leaping spear?
For there were utter wrong and blame,
And icy pride and burning shame —
High rapture and high tragedy,
A shape on either side of me—
The years hold both so far away!
But one, I think, was fair and gay;
And one, I know, like stormy skies
Frowned dark on me with owning eyes.
Linos of a legend strung in rhyme.
Aeolian harpstrings’ broken chime.
A drama played, the words unspoke
Bv soft and smiling foreign folk —
Old words in sylvan letters penned
I would, yet will not, comprehend.
You, lovely little mountain rift.
Have set my very soul adrift!
And to the Bush’s careless gold
I turn again, green valley.
I read the warning dumbly told;
If shown the secret you withhold,
If from the clash of death’s alarms
Came back the clasp of 7m warm arms,
My heart would faint with agony
Of that ecstatic memory.
And though I mourn it all the while,
Keep it safe hid beneath your smile,
Green valley, haunted valley!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
“Whom God Hath Joined.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OVER the granite rises and down the
white road to Quartpot drove the
sergeant with Aloysius MeShane,
the newly-appointed Clerk of Petty Sessions,
Registrar of Births, Marriages and Deaths,
of Brands, Stock, Mines, Lands and Dogs.
McShane’s face was pale and his eyes were
blue; his brow high and his hands delicate.
Each of his scholastic achievements had left
its mark upon him, not in wrinkles, but in
the stamp of knowledge, laboriously acquired
and tenaciously retained. It was the face
of a man to be expected in a library, and
for his presence at Quartpot, as the small
town Pooh Bah of the central Government,
his habit of mind was responsible. The
usual alcoholic explanation did not fit the
case, although, as the sergeant and the
doctor and Denny Deneen found on the
first night of his residence, he was a charm-
ing companion, taking his whisky like a
gentleman, talking like an angel, and pro-
viding a feast of reason for the evening's
flow of bowl.
The sergeant drove the new 7 C.P.S. to the
hotel, and there, waiting to receive him,
was Denny Demeen, J.P., already favorable
to him for his name. Denny had rounded
up the doctor, the tw 7 o stock-and-station
agents, the rival hotelkeeper from the upper
settlement, the chemist and the State lands
ranger; and he received Aloysius MeShane
with open arms, and led the company to his
own room—with its portrait gallery of Irish
patriots—there to welcome MeShane w 7 ith
speeches and a glass of wine.
“Gintlemen,” said Denny Deneen, “charge
your glasses. We are met here to bid welkim
to Mr. Aloysius MeShane, the new 7 Clerk of
Pitty Sessions. He comes to us wit' all
the treminjus offulgince that his achave-
ments in learning, in law 7 , in science and in
art have besh.tow 7 ed upon his name. He
comes here wit’ the Gov’mint behind him —•
the personal fri’nd of the Primeer, the hon-
ored ayquil of Judges and barristhers. The
p’lice have a long expayrince of him; he
have successfully conquered the difficulties
of making himself an M.A., an’ 8.A., an’
M.1.M.E., an’ LL.B. an’ geologist. Quart-
pot is one of the finest gims in the jooled
di’dem of this ghreat and shplendid Shtate
of Queensland, and is w 7 ell rewarded for
bearin’ the heat an’ burthen of the day, now 7
that w 7 e have the finest Clerk of Pitty Ses-
sions in Ilossthralia an’ the great scholar
an’ the king of educated min. Air. MeShane
is Ossthralian-born, but his name is from
Oireland, the green, the ever fair, the ever
despised and oppressed w 7 it’ the contemslius
ig’n’rance of her Shaxon foes. I hope Air.
AlcShane will often come here as a welcome
guest to this room where the ould marthyrs
of the ould land look down upon us wit’
eyes that have already pierced the great
saycrct, but with mem’ries perennially green.
He will like us betther as he knows us
betther; an’ so, wit’out further prayamble,
I will commind to you the toasht of the healt’
of Mister Aloysius; MeShane, the scholar an’
gintlemin an’ thrusted fri'nd and servant of
this shplendid Shtate. Drink, you divvies!
They drank, and McShane’s attempt at re-
sponse proved that this man who could leain
and write and think could not talk. Wait-
ing and slow in his stage-fright, he suddenly
ran into long sentences, talked at over two
hundred words to the minute, and then sud-
denly dried up as if his eloquence had been
turned off at the main. lie had, further-
more, an irritating habit of breathing heavily
in the middle of a word, and a catarrhal
slurring of the end of a sentence; and if he
had learned voice-production at all liis
teacher had been a furnace-blower or a sigh-
ing whale. But the subtle reasons for a man
being liked were all there, and the little
toparchy of Quartpot left the new official
that day knowing that they all had warmed
to the man.
He made his first public appearance next
day as Clerk of Petty Sessions, and his
second the day after as Registrar, celebrating
the marriage between Henrietta Choquindie,
widow, and William Garden Puttifoot, bache-
lor. There were so many in the wedding
party that, on the motion of Denny Deneen,
J.P., the Registrar adjourned to the court-
room, where Bill Puttifoot, almost dazed
with shame and nervousness, stood up before
the whole world, as Mrs. Choquindie after-
wards described it; really he stood up before
about a dozen and a half of the interested
people of Quartpot. Denny and Mrs.
Deneen; Denny’s handy boy, Mickey, and
his mother; the long grocer and his wife
and the other employees of Denny’s store;
Galvin, from the hotel, and Galvin’s wife;
the sergeant and his wife; and a few of the
merely curious at the door, including Uncle
and a small boy in a cart, home-made of a
gin-case and perambulator-wheels, and drawn
by a black-and-white neutral goat who had
grown tall and bony since he had become a
wether doomed to drawing his exacting owner
uphill and downhill from morning to night.
Denny Deneen introduced Aloysius Mc-
Shane, who proceeded to business without
preamble, and almost tongue-tied with, ner-
vousness until he found his stride.
“A-a-a—-the bride here, if you please. And
you are the bridegroom?”
“A-a-a —yes,” stammered Puttifoot.
“Then —a —yes —stand there —yes, please.
Now —er —we all sit down while I prepare
the declarations. .. .Now ——
“ ‘I, Henrietta Choquindie, of Quartpot
Creek, in the State of Queensland, do here-
by make oath and declare that I am of
the age of twenty-one years’—l presume you
are twenty-one, Mrs. er-Choquindie?”
The mature bride simpered, decided on
Mr. McShanc as a nice man, and admitted
the more than fact.
“ ‘And that there is no just impediment
or lawful objection by reason of any kindred
relationship or alliance or any former mar-
riage, or the want of consent of parents or
guardians’—is that true?”
“Yes,” said the bride.
“Sign there, please.”
“ ‘And I, William Garden Puttifoot. of
Quartpot Creek, in the State of Queensland,
butcher, do on my oath declare that I am
of the age of twenty-one’—are you twenty-
one?”
“Y-yes,” replied Puttifoot, blushing furi-
ously ; and Mrs. Choquindie, seeing that the
imagined compliment was merely a formula,
recommitted for consideration her estimate
of the Registrar as a nice man.
“Right,” said MeShane. “We —er—ah
continue now —‘and that there is no just im-
pediment or lawful objection by reason of
any kindred relationship or alliance or any
former marriage or the want, of consent of
parents or guardians.’ Sign there, Mrs. Put-
tifoot, with Mr. and Mrs. Deneen as wit-
nesses. Thanks. Now, stand up, please.
Take the ring, please, and join hands. Now’,
Mr. Puttifoot, repeat after me :•
“ ‘I, William Garden Puttifoot, of Quart-
pot Creek, do hereby declare’ ”
“ ‘I, William G’d’n Puttifoot, of Quartpot
Ci’ik, hereby declare’ ”
“ ‘ln the presence of Aloysius MeShane,
Registrar of Marriages for the district of
Granite Downs’
“ ‘Pres’nce Alice MeShane, Register Mar-
riages district Granite Downs’ ”
“ ‘That I take Henrietta Choquindie. of
Quartpot Creek, to be. my lawful wife.’ ”
“ ‘Take Hen’retta Choquindie, of Quart-
put. be my awful wedded wife’ ”
“Not awful, Bill Puttifoot,” interrupted
Denny Deneen.
“Lorful, lorful,” corrected Puttifoot. “Beg
everyb’dy’s pardon.”
“That’s right—now the bride. ‘And I,
Henrietta Choquindie, of Quartpot Creek,
declare, in the presence of Aloysius MeShane.
Registrar of Marriages for the district of
Granite Downs,’ ” which the bride said,
enunciating very carefully, and living every
second of this day of triumph—cool as an
old hand should be, and knowing every comma
in the service.
“The ring, Mr. Puttifoot. That’s right.
Now, all sign. And there’s the certificate,
Airs. Puttifoot. Long life and happiness to
you both!”
“What’s the damage?” asked the bride-
groom, after having kissed the bride as if
it were a criminal act.
“What’s that?” asked MeShane in his
turn.
“How much?”
“Fees are twenty-five shillings; but I
always ask the happy pair to remember the
unhappy, and give three pounds, say, to the
hospital. The parson would charge you five
guineas, and the State charges you nothing;
but the hospital’s a fair tax.”
“My word!” said Puttifoot. “Call it a
fiver.”
“And a tenner from me,” said Denny
Deneen, “though I never got married to-day.”
“Hssh!” said Mrs. Deneen, the very quiet,
very happy woman who was Denny’s true
complement because with her he could
always find quietness when he was weary of
energies and roaring.
“Hush yourself, Kate,” retorted Denny in
great good humor. “You make more noise
than Uncle.”
So down to Denny’s hotel for the wedding
breakfast, and Denny proposed the health
of the bride and her new partner, and Putti-
foot was so nigh to collapse for shame that
Aloysius MeShane responded for him; and
having the best part of a bottle of wine in
him, made a good speech, full of praise of
everybody and attribution to Puttifoot of
(Continued on next page.)


i
Major F. FORBES-
LEITH (drawn from
a recent photo).
Another great advantage of Zam-
Buk over ordinary dressing ointments
is that its purity, wholesomeness and
complete medicinal efficiency are
never affected by climatic conditions.
The mineral drugs, artificial coloring
matter and animal fats which quickly
cause ordinary ointments and dress-
ings to turn rancid and useless are
entirely absent from Zam-Buk.
For its all-round value in so many
different emergencies of skin trouble
it is well described as “A Surgery in
a Two-inch Box. ’ It is proved a real
friend in need.
TEST ZAM-BUK FREE
A free sample of Zam-Buk will be sent to
all readers on receipt of name and address
by the proprietors, C. E. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Sydney. Please mention The Bulletin
when writing.
From England to India
by Road with ZAM-BUK
MAJOR F. FORBES-LEITH, R. 0., left England a few months
ago on his 6000 miles’ overland dash from London to Quetta.
This famous motorist is another notable addition to the long
list of eminent explorers, travellers, war correspondents, etc., who
publicly endorse Zam-Buk.
This concentrated herbal preparation is known and used the
world oyer for its ever-reliable antiseptic healing.
Over the desert and mountain trail,
through forest and jungle—thousands of miles
beyond the railroads—Zam-Buk is carried
where nothing but absolute necessities can be
thought of. Because of its rare herbal charac-
ter, Zam-Buk is as swiftly healing for cuts,
wounds, or abrasions, burns, insect bites, etc.,
as it is soothing and curative in troublesome
skin rashes, eruptions, sores, ulcers or blood-
poison.
Writing to the proprietors of Zam-Buk, Major
Forbes-Leith says: “Sirs, —On the eve of my dash
by motor-car from England to India, a trip that
will take me a distance of 6000 miles across 10
countries and through hot plains, snow-clad
mountains and many uncivilised regions—l write
to let you know that I am relying upon my supply
of Zam-Bvk for first-aid purposes. The reasons
for my selection of Zam-Buk are its splendid
healing qualities, its proved efficacy for all sorts of
wounds, bruises, sores and insect bites, and its
perfect keeping quality in all climates. I have
used Zam-Buk on previous expeditions and have
always found it a great boon.
“I congratulate you on having discovered such
a wonderful antiseptic healer. You may certainly
publish this letter; also my photograph.
<€
Yours faithfully.
I\6 and
3/6 per
box.
uk
am
All
Chemists
and Stores.
The World’s Greatest Antiseptic Healer.
fill virtues and physical beauties, until Putti-
foot, in that golden haze of kindliness and
wine, seemed not a butcher but a demi-god.
They drove with Mr. and Mrs. Puttifoot
to the railroad, two miles away, and all
Quartpot joined the procession—including
the small boy in the home-made cart drawn
by the black-and-white wetlier-goat. _ And as
the train pulled out they threw rice over
Puttifoot, and Denny, having reserved a
heavy boot for the final favor, threw it at
Puttifoot, missed him and struck Uncle on
the head —“almost scallapin’ me,” as Uncle
later explained.
But it was a good day and a good day’s
work; and Denny Deneen, J.P., and Aloysius
McShane, M.A., LL.B. and M.1.M.E., went
back to Quartpot arm in arm, and made a
real man’s night of it. And the morning
and the evening were the first day.
* * * #
Denny Deneen, sitting in the court-room,
his duty as magistrate well and truly done,
and having fined certain malefactors for per-
mitting cattle to stray, and mulcted one
drunken person in the sum of five shillings
/iwful moneys payable to Our Sovereign
Lord the State of Queensland, signed the
Bench-book and prepared to go his ways.
The sergeant had left before, and Aloysius
McShane, the Clerk of Petty Sessions, had
gone to Warwick for the day or more; and
as Denny walked to the door it opened,
showing a very tall, lithe bush Australian,
shy as a platypus and almost breathless
from nervousness. Behind him came a girl
of the bush —slender and tall, her comely
face expressing anxiety, the red flushing her
freckled skin.
“What’s the matter?”' asked Denny
Deneen.
“Me name’s Tatchell,” said the bushman.
“Registrar ain’t in?”
“He’s away; back to-morrow.”
“Oh, to-morrow!” said the girl despair-
ingly;
“We gotter be married to-day,” gasped
Tatchell.
“H’m! Have you? Come in, then. He
mightn’t be back to-morrer aytlier. I’m a
J.P.; will I marry you?”
“By cripes! It’d be a godsend if y’ did.”
“Come in, then. I’ll do it for you,” said
Denny, his vanity making him bold, his
memory of the procedure of Puttifoot’s mar-
riage ceremony deciding him on taking the
risk as the newest duty of a public man.
“Come on, then,” said Denny, and pre-
ceded them to the Registrar’s office. He bade
them he seated, found the forms of declara-
tion and certificate, and slavishly adhering to
the formula of McShane, proceeded with the
work.
“Names?” said Denny.
“All—er—Tom Tatchell and Eva Win-
dred.”
“I’ll put that down. Now, say you afther
me: ‘I, Tom Tatchell,’ where do you belong
—and her, too?”
“Billycan Creek; both of us.”
“Right, then. T, Tom Tatchell, of Billy-
can Creek, in the Shtate of Queensland.’
What are you?”
“Horsebreaker.”
“I don’t mean that. Are you maid, wife
or widow; I mean are you married?**
“What did I come here for if I was?”
“That’ll do. Don’t ask questions—you’re
a bach’lor. ‘ln the Shtate of Queensland,
bachelor, hereby make oatli and declare’ ”
“ ‘I, Tom Tatchell, of Billycan Creek,
Queensland, bachelor, do hereby make oath
’n’ declare’
“ ‘That I am’—that’s you, not me—‘that
I am of the age of twinty-wan years, an’
that there is no just imped’ment or lawful
objection by raison of anny kindred relation-
ship or alli’nce or anny former marri’ge or
the want of eonsint of parints or guardyins.’ ”
Tatchell said it with alterations, and
Denny told him to sign while he put the case
to the lady.
“Now, you, my girl. ‘I, Eva Windred, of
Billycan Creek, in the Shtate of Queensland,
shpinster’—though little you would shpin,
I’m thin kin’. You don’t say all that. Just
‘Eva Windred, of Billycan Creek, in the
Shtate of Queensland, do hereby make oath
and declare’ ”
“ ‘I, Eva Windred, spinster, of Billycan
Creek, in the State of Queensland, hereby
make oath and declare ’ ”
“ ‘That I am of the age of twinty-wan.’ ”
“I’m twenty-four, mister.”
“Twinty-four will do, an’ a trut’ful girl you
are. ‘And that there is no just imped’menl.
or lawful objection by raison of anny kin-
dred relationship or alli’nce or anny former
marriage or the want of eonsint of parints
or guardyins.’ ”
“My father wouldn’t consent, mister;
that’s why we had to be married like this.”
“It doesn’t matter —you’re over twinty-
wan. But, woman, you’re a trut’ful soul,
an’ rare they do be. Just say ‘That’s right,’
an’ you needn’t shtruggle through all that
rigmarole.”
“That’s right, then.”
“I’ll get the witnesses for you directly.
Now, the ring, Tatchell.”
The lengthy bridegroom took from his
pocket the ring, and Denny saw that it was
silver. It could not be poverty, so it must
be meanness; and Denny, who hated mean-
ness always and regarded it as more than
criminal in the crises of birth, marriage and
death, decided that he did not like Tom Tat-
chell, and that his proper duty was the sav-
ing of this honest girl from such a paltry
husband.
But, being so far forward, he proceeded.
“Now, then,” said Denny. “Take hould
of her hand and put the ring on her finger;
poor girl, God go wit’ her. ‘I, Thomas Tat-
chell, of Billycan Creek, do hereby declare
in the presence of Dennis Deneen, Justice
of the Peace for the State of Queens-
land”—
Tatchell bleated his lesson like a shy
schoolboy, and echoed the rest of it, and Eva
Windred declared that she took the said
Thomas Tatchell to be her lawful husband,
and Denny proceeded to the certificate and
walked to the door to make witnesses of any
passers-by. As he went he spoke to Tatchell
over his shoulder. “Annybody marri’d here
has to give t’ree pound or five pound to the
hoshpittle.”
“Oh, I say,” said Tatchell. “Go slow, 1
got no three pound. I’ll give y’ ten shillin’s.”
It would be better if honesty did not marry
this ghastly meanness. Denny entered to
Tatchell, the marriage certificate in his hand.
“If you’re mean like that at your weddin’,”
said Denny sternly, “you’d slitarve yom
wife an’ choild. A mean man makes me
shpit blood. T’ree pound is the lowest money
I’ll let you off.”
“I got no three pound. D’ y’ think I’m
Rothschild, or Jimmy Tyson?”
“Then I divorce you,” said Denny, and
tore the marriage certificate so that there
were sixteen fragments.
* * # *
In _ the two days that followed Denny’s
conscience troubled him for that girl who was
so truthful and who had looked so despairing
as her tall, sulky, mean lover drove out of
Quartpot and towards Billycan Creek. He
believed that such a marriage could mean
only misery for the girl, yet his own know-
ledge of the world told him, too, that none
can help others to live (except in the gross
sense of food), nor help anybody to die (out-
side of helping the dying physically) ; that
no man can absolutely know the motive of
another nor his neighbor’s secret springs of
action; and that the girl knew the man
better than Denny ever could.
His conscience became active when he saw
Jimmy Cleghorn ride into the town, and his
conscience directly charged him when Jimmy
Cleghorn told his story.
“I’m from Tom Tatchell, Mister Deneen.”
“That’s the mean felley that thries to
marry a good girl wit’ a silver ring, an’
then to buy marri’gc wit’ two-t’ree sliillin’s
inslitead of t’ree or five pound for the liosh-
pittle.”
“Tom’s not mean; he’s broke. He’s one o'
the best. Blewed all his money payin’ hos
pitals. Laid up for six months; smashed
under a horse, he was, but all good-oh again
now.”
“I’m sorry, thin. But what’s a man that's
broke want gettin’ married?”
“He’s got to!”
“What! The shcoundrel!”
“Yes —a baby. All her old man’s fault.
Mean old cow he is. Meanest man in the
Granite. She’s twenty-four and a good
daughter; an’ the old bloke wouldn’t let her
marry Tom, an’ they love each other; an’
what’s likely to happen then?”
“I know! I know! Her father, then, is
that dirty vill’in Joe Windred; took me down
wan pound twelve for potato bags? So
that’s the dirty felley. Well, what could poor
Tom an’ his honest girl do wit’ the tempta-
tions of loneliness about tliim, an’ them lovin’
each other, then? I thought he was mean,
an’ I desthroyed his marri’ge certifkit an’
divorshed him. The poor girl, too! And
was her baby near that they should come to
me—broke, poor t’ings; an’ in a hurry wit ;
a silver ring?”
“That’s it. And now it’s in such a hurry
that they can’t bring her to town. I came
in to see if I could get a parson to go out.
She’s at home, and that old scoundrel her
father is making her passage more cruel than
it is. And Tom’s out there in the bush, half
mad, and waiting for me to come back.”
“The parson’s away. There’s only the
priest. An’ yon know how bitther her father
is against Cath’lics, Jimmy?”
“I know. Well, then, what’s doing?”
“Wait you here—or come round wit’ me
to Aloysius McShane, the Registrar.”
They ran to the Registrar’s office and
McShane heard the story, and could not see
how he could help.
“You see, I’m Registrar; but I’m only
supposed to function in my office.”
“An’ what’s your office consliist of?"
demanded Denny. “On’y pin an’ ink, an’
blue official forms, an’ yourself.”
“There’s the signboard—‘Office of Regis-
trar of Births, Marriages and Deaths.’ ”
“If that’s all,” said Denny triumphantly,
“unshcrew the signboard and take it wit’ you
under your arm a-horseback; an’ go you out
to Billycan Creek an’ save a child’s name,
an’ the honestest, trustin’est girl ever fell in
love wit’ a man had bad luck.”
“But”
“Go you, Aloysius McShane, and help a
dacint man an’ a lovin’ woman, an’ shtop
the mout’ of her dirty ould cross-grained
father who would t’row it up to her till her
dyin’ day.”
“You’ve got me,” said McShane. “Un-
screw the signboard while I get my horse
and the papers ready; and if your friend
there will show the track I’ll take the Gov-
ernment of Queensland to Billycan Creek, or
whatever its dam’ ironmongery name is.”
“Aloysius McShane, M.A., RL.B., and
what more not, there’s a great heart in
you. Jimmy shall go wit’ you. I’ll inthro-
juice you—Jimmy Cleghorn and Mister
McShane, the finest Clerk of Bitty Sessions
in two hemispheres.”
The Registrar left Denny anxious for all
that day, and when he returned next noon
he had a tale to tell of a lost horse
and a compulsory waiting at Billycan Creeir
for the horse to be found again.
“How is it, then?” asked Denny.
“Good job you divorced them, and didn’t
go all the way with the certificate.”
“And why, then?”
“Marryin’ people without a license.”
“But I am a J.P.”
“You are ; and a J.P. can only marry people
in a district he’s officially gazetted for; and
never a license or a district or a Gazette
notice did you have. Under clause two of
the Amending Act, number twelve of 1872,
assented to twelfth August and amending
the Marriage Act of 1864, you could be
flogged and hanged for a year or two for
marrying people without a license.”
“Never mind that,” said Denny Deneen,
ordering the drinks. “Tell me, did you marry
them —the good girl an’ the unlooky man V"
“I did, and it will take a Judge and jury
to break it.”
“Good look to you, McShane!”
“And I registered the baby this morning
before I left.”
“A baby! An’ wdiat is it?”
“A boy—they called it Denis. She in-
sisted on it when I told them yon sent me.”
“Good look to mother an’ father an’
choild,” said Denny, lifting his glass for a
sunray to be meshed in it. “A hoy. an’ his
name Dennis! Good look to another Oss-
thralian that’ll grow up to fight whoever it is
that has to be fut.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


a
■ I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Hrisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SC.O
V
*ao
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
IVe have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. &. W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/0 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day *rom 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
dsf
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — p think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
worth
a
guinea
Cheerful at his work and reliable
too —the very embodiment of
resourceful energy and a pleasure
to work with. “ She ” keeps
pace with him and never seems
tired or out of sorts. They both
keep fit and well— always wi.h
Beecham’s Pills.
Points on Energy.
Eat well—sleep well—work
well and play well. The
“seasons” do not matter
to the “well ” person —and
the secret of keeping vig-
orous and keen is to assist
Nature to regularly cleanse
the system of all impurities.
Beecham’s Pills are safe —
certain—and assist —
gently, safely and certainly.
A dose at night will
keep you right
C. BRANDAUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
ce Med
f
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Work*. QlltninKhami England)
Speed Indicator
Mileage Recorder
Lubrication Guide
ALL IN ONE!
That’s what You get in this
Speedometer
for the Ford
Front view of the New
Stewart Oiling System
Speedometer showing
Metal Instruction Tablet.
In addition to recording speed and mileage, this Stewart Patented Speedometer for Ford Cars indicates by means of colored figures
when different parts of the Car should be lubricated, ✓ ’
Each instrument has a neat metal tablet attached, to which the driver can refer for oiling instructions whenever a colored dial is turned
up on the mileage register. A stiff-covered pocket-book, containing illustrated lubrication chart and ruled for recording petrol and
oil purchases, is furnished with each instrument.
Whenever a colored dial
appears, the hinged chart
should be pulled down
and the needed lubrica-
tion attended to.
This Patented Stewart Speedometer automatically informs the Ford” Car Driver whenever it is
necessary to oil or grease any part of his car. There is no guesswork— uncertainty or
worry—no troublesome investigation of inaccessible parts. \
The Stewart Oiling System Speedometer does
Your Remembering for You.
Price Complete, 85/-
For sale by all Accessories Dealers, including the following inter-State Service Stations:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros.,
Ltd., Brisbane; Cornell Limited, Adelaide; Arthur Christian, Perth.


Born 1820
Still going Strong /
m
X
a
□
o
Ik
Guaranteed same quality all over the world
Johnnie Walker ‘goes
everywhere ’ with a
universal passport —•
a world-wide reputa-
tion based on purity
and maturity.
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
HN WALKER & SONS, LTD.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland
