

TOOTHS
ms
iPik Bp
£
• i'
■ ’ J !
(M
wmmMM
m
a?;
S*
MI
a
f £.?:{
(-■a?
*0
. t*a
:
“The Best That's Brewed ,
\ITHEN Nature made man thirsty she also gave
’ * him an appreciation of fine flavors. That’s why wise
men select K.B. Lager, because K.B. is simply “liquid
goodness” —good in every sense. Its ingredients are the
very finest malt and hops and crystal pure water. Its
manufacture is the highest development of brewing skill,
and these together, produce the delicious flavor, the
refreshing qualities and the absolute wholesomeness
characterising K.B. Lager.
V
Take it with lunch and evening meal. Make it your
regular beverage right through the warm weather.
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LTD.
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2293.
Thursday, January 24, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
42S George Street, Sydney.
sms
Ci
<k
The Car
You’ll Be Proud
to Own.
Its beauty in appearance and threat reliability/
make it the car pre-eminent, yet it is offered at a
figure that is remarkable for its irioderateness, especially
when you consider the continental workmanship embodied.
The 15/20-h.p. 4-cylinder model awaits inspection. The 6-cylinder
20/40-h.p. 1924 model arrives early this month.
LAWRENCE MORTON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Sole Coneessionnaires for “Cottin-Desgouttes” in Australasia,
363 Flinders Fane, Melbourne. ’Phone: Cent. 2956.
SYDNEY AGENT: Walter H. Smyth, York Chambers, Market Street.
LYSAGHT
o
6
K
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
fSSSSSmIS ISKiHSnS!
SssHsSum
S.TS
sssan
UMMI
FfkJ
r
:v
BETTER SERVICE AT LOWER COST-
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING.
The better service results from the extra care exercised
throughout every detail of its manufacture. The raw hides
are subjected to the most searching expert examination before
acceptance, and our special tanning process is the result ot
a lifetime of practical experience and experiment. Lower
running cost invariably follows the installation of Mangrovite
Belting on any drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright is Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann. 5 Bedford Row. Christchunh.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
VICTORIA': W. Toliey, 20 Little Collin's Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Dr. D. T. FERNIE, London, states:—
“Cider is not only the most wholesome
and hygienic of all drinks, but is a pre-
ventive against and a remedy for Stone,
Gravel, Gout, Obesity and Fermentative
Indigestion.”
RETAIL ALL HOTELS AND
STORES.
Head Office: Melbourne.
The Bulletin
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
N.S.W.
Tucker & Co.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd.,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Burns, Philp & Co., Bris-
bane. 1
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide Wine and Spirit
Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Richard Holmes & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELES SOD I AM O N D
“E.G.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEE
SC OTTISH HOUSB
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY ffi’ 0 n)»
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-, Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magie Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-. .
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds —GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS. BEARDS, MASKS, kc.
CATALOGUES FREE.
** ✓
w.
• •
C'd'S:
I- *
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2 / -•. Contents —April
Fools; Who Is Who;
Ici on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of pur
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/G
———
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
NON P0150N003 POWDER.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
ml
I flies.
nax
Bugs.
fltogtj3oe&
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MIJiSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “T-he Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. is
The Red Page
W. B. Yeats
There is a popular misconception that
poets, especially Celtic poets, are frail and
feckless folk who live in a world of mist and
moonshine. So . far from being the pale
decadent of popular imagination, a fantastic
figure of the ’nineties, W. B. Yeats is a man,
of immense physical as well as intellectual
power; standing well over six feet, with
broad shoulders and a magnificent head of
iron-grey hair, there is a charm and mag-
netism about him. He is the most striking
personality in contemporary literature, a
great critic as well as a great poet, and on
no living author could the honor of the Nobel
prize sit more lightly.
About two years ago I had the honor of
visiting Mr. Yeats at Oxford. It was not
easy to associate the Irish poet with Oxford.
But he said he disliked London, and Oxford
was quiet, and he was near the Bodleian,
which was the pleasantest library in the
world. Every summer, however, he goes to
Ireland —he is a member of the Irish Senate
—and lives in a romantic old castle; for
from first to last he has derived his inspira-
tion from his own country.
In regard to the problem of literature in a
young country like Australia, he said: “The
people in Iceland became a distinct race and
created their sagas in less time than you have
been in Australia.... We have our country
life and our legends; and you have a life of
your own thpt should afford suitable material
for literature. I feel no lack of atmosphere.
Some day the life of the bush will be looked
back upon as romantic.” Mr. Yeats dislikes
whatever is abstract or cosmopolitan, any-
thing without shape or character. He be-
lieves in a nation being a spiritual unity,
with a bond between all its people, a sym-
pathy that is almost telepathic as it then
was in Ireland. In illustration of his mean-
ing he gave two picturesque examples. The
Elizabethan merchants would compose songs
and go into the London streets to sing them
before their apprentices; and in Venice, in
the eighteenth century, the fine ladies-; —we
can still see them dancing so engagingly
through Browning’s “Toccata” —would finish
their hall outside on the pavement, conscious
of the sympathy of the people.
Mr. Yeats, of course, is the founder of the
Abbey Theatre, which, though national in its
aims, has had the profoundest influence on
the modern dramatic movement in other coun-
tries. “Plays on national themes—l don’t
mean popuiar plays—will,” he said, “help
to build a uation; that is, will make the
people of a country realise their national
unity. The other kind of play, the so-called
intellectual drama —the triangle play, for
example—not on moral but on artistic
grounds, will shatter a nation.”
He understood at once (for in certain re-
spects Ireland is not unlike Australia) that
many of our leaders of thought, professors,
editors and critics, would regard it as a sign
of superior culture to disparage anything
Australian. How could an educated man
be expected to take any interest in bush
people, these crude yokels, when there were
such important people as themselves living
in the suburbs? “It was just the same in
Ireland,” he remarked. He did not regard
the opposition of academic and journalistic
critics as serious. But “they have to be
killed off first,” he said lightly.
Plays, he thought, should always be pro-
duced first in their own country. A small
audience, if enthusiastic, was better than a
large, indifferent one. He quoted the opinion
of W. G. Pay, a great comedian and the pro-
ducer of the first Abbey plays, that a theatre
should be a small place hidden away in the
town, and made difficult to enter, like a secret
society. The repertory theatre movement
had done little or nothing anywhere to help
national drama. In the early days of the
Abbey, Miss Horniman proposed to produce,
together with the local Irish plays, a.number
of English and European masterpieces. Mr.
Yeats said that he wavered on the question,
but Synge objected. “A theatre like that,”
said Synge, “never creates anything.”
Apart from the theatre, which has become
his chief interest, Mr. Yeats lias been con-
nected with every important literary move-
ment from the ’nineties. He tells a good story
of William Morris, who went out to decorate
a nobleman’s house, but soon returned, to
the surprise and dismay of his partner. “It’s
all right,” said Morris ; “I told him to white-
wash the lot.” He has a kindly feeling for
the memory of Oscar Wilde, who reviewed his
first volume of poems and talked about it in
London drawing-rooms, and he sometimes
quotes an old epigram such as “the worst
thing to do with a theory is to put it into
practice.” At the burial of Robert Brown-
ing in Westminster Abbey in 1889_Mr. Yeats,
then a very young man, found himself next
to Oscar Wilde, who turned to him and said:
“What will the Dean do now?” He men-
tioned the three great mysteries of the
Church, and then whispered, “And now there
are four of them!” Browning Yeats com-
pared . -with Balzac. He had a mediaeval
mind that went the whole round of life and
the sciences, and was quite unlike Meredith,
often wrongly compared with him, who was
an intensely modern man. Balzac was
another mediaeval mind. “At 12 noon, if
you met Balzac and told him the most ele-
mentary fact, he would look surprised, for
he was a very ignorant man; but at 12
midnight, when he took his black coffee and
sat at his desk, he knew everything in the
world.”
Though a lover of folk-lore, Mr. Yeats is
not a democrat. But he finds nothing wrong
with workaday people. ‘‘Mechanics,” he
said, with his usual precision, “is not the
enemy of poetry. The best audience I ever
had was at an American College of Engineer-
ing. I saw the men working at the fur-
naces ; they were all poets. No, it is the
abstract that is the enemy of poetry.” That
is why he had little sympathy with the nine-
teenth century, which he summed up by unit-
ing four names that had never been brought
together before: Tyndall. Huxley, Carolan-
Durand and Bastien Le Page. Le Page was
the founder of popular and sentimental real-
ism ; and Durand was a fashionable portrait-
painter, the Sargent of his day. These four
names serve him as symbols of the material-
ism of the nineteenth century which he thinks
is passing.
Mr. Yeats is a formidable as well as fas-
cinating personality. He has been a pro-
minent figure in almost every literary move-
ment of his time. He helped to found the
Rhymers’ Club, which used to meet at the
Cheshire Cheese in Fleet-street, and though
he himself was never a man of the ’nineties,
like Dowson or Davidson, he sang the elegy
of the poets “who had to meet their end when
young.” A little later he founded the Irish
Literary Society in London and Dublin, and
became the moving force of the Irish literary
revival. He discovered Synge, the greatest
dramatist of Ireland, in Paris, and sent him
to the Aran Isles in order to give utterance
to a life that had never yet found literary
expression. He collaborated with George
Moore in a legendary play, and the story of
the strange collaboration has itself become
a legend. But it was no less a critic than
A.E. who said that it was owing to the in-
fluence of Yeats that Moore ultimately be-
came a distinguished writer. He assisted
Lady Gregory in stagecraft, and sent Orpen,
the greatest painter Ireland has produced, to
London. He even put an English poet like
Masefield on the track, and warmly en-
couraged such young Irish writers as Padraic
Colum, Lennox Robinson, St. John Ervine
and others who have since become famous.
He restored the sesthetic element in Irish
poetry, distinguishing between poetry and
oratory, and set up a standard of dramatic
art in the Abbey Theatre that has served as
a model for other countries. As George
Moore admits, the whole Irish literary move-
ment begins with Yeats and returns to
Yeats.
He mentioned a great new project he had
for the future. After founding the Abbey
Theatre he has been influenced by the
mediaeval drama of Japan, and lie now
dreams of another creation, a theatre with
the slightest external trimmings, a place of
art and poetry, what he describes as a
Tragic Theatre. He may yet found such a
theatre in Ireland. In any case it is certain
that the Nobel prize will be devoted to the
cause of literature.
LOUIS ESSON.
A Humanist Theory of Humor
Every philosophic scribbler from Aris-
totle to Artemus Ward has advanced some
theory for the phenomenon of laughter. Every
voluminous preface to a new play by “G. 8.5.”
has a side-hit at a definition. William Ilaz-
litt, in a course of lectures on “English
Comic Writers,” devoted a preliminary dis-
course to the nature of wit and humor.
George Meredith, besides practising all his
long life as a consummate artist in the
realm ruled by the Comic Spirit, gave a
touch of his quality as a critic of his art in
a lecture on “Comedy,” delivered at the Lon-
don Institution —a lecture which he published
a decade after as “An Essay on Comedy and
the Uses of the Comic Spirit.”
Meredith’s conception of the Comic Spirit
is purely intellectual and modern. It is an
abstraction of the mental attitude of Twen-
tieth Century man of the most cultured type,
sitting somewhere aloft, like Dibdin’s dear
little cherub. Men’s future on earth
does not attract any attention whatsoever
from the Comic Spirit; but “their honesty
and shapeliness in the present.does” —“when-
ever they wax out of proportion, overblown,
affected, pretentious, bombastical, hypocriti-
cal, pedantic, fantastically delicate,” etc.,
“the Spirit overhead will look humanly
malign and cast an oblique light on them,
followed by volleys of silvery laughter. That
is the Comic Spirit!”
Thomas Hardy, whose perpetual theme is
the futility of all fulfilment of human effort,
has taken the Meredithian abstraction, de-
veloped it, and assigned it a place among
other specially created supernaturalitics in
his wonderful drama of “The Dynasts,” under
multiple forms of “Spirits Sinister and
Ironic.” But irony is not humor; nor is
the Critical Spirit the Comic Spirit. Dream-
land refuses to be analysed, and laughter
declines syllogistic statement. Moreover,
futility is not in itself a laughing matter,
and can be made such from only a particu-
larly selected viewpoint; for the greatest
measure of success is bounded by a limita-
tion, and “Time’s laughing-stocks” are
Death’s counters. “Hie jacet” is not a
witticism, notwithstanding the ironical epi-
taph on Sir John Vanbrugh, writer of
comedies and architect of Blenheim House:
Lie heavy on him, earth, for he
Laid many a grievous load on thee.
Hazlitt. lacking the refined modern psy-
chology of Meredith, seeks an explanation of
wit and humor in human selfishness. “We
burst into laughter from want of sympathy
with that which is unreasonable and unneces-
sary, the absurdity of which provokes our
spleen or mirth, rather than any serious re-
flections on it.” But he is too sweeping in
his enumeration of things laughable, and he
is much too inclusive in his “we”—“we
laugh at absurdity ; we laugh at deformity.
We laugh at a bottle-nose in a caricature; at
a stuffed figure of an alderman in a panto-
mime, and at the tale of Shaiikenbergius.”
But do wef Meredith is at pains to point
out that the discriminating laugher, the indi-
vidual who thoroughly understands what is
worth laughing at, in a Meredithian sense, is
as rare almost as a Momus-gifted humorist
—that the world contains a large percentage
of men incapable of laughter, of men who
bate laughter and who think it to be im-
moral. and of men so generous of laughter
that life is to them one long, senseless guf-
faw. Thomas Hobbes, in “Leviathan,” says ;
“Sudden glory’’ is the passion which maketh
those “grimaces’’ called “laughter”; and is caused
either by some sudden act of their own that pleaseth
them ■ or by the apprehension of some deformed
thing’ in another, by comparison whereof they
suddenly applaud themselves. And it is incident
most to them, that are conscious of the fewest
abilities in themselves; who are forced to keep them-
selves in their own favor.
But the temperament of this dour philosopher
probably disqualifies him as an authority.
Nevertheless, it is worth noting that Hobbeis,
in common with others who have made pro-
nouncements on the constitution of wit and
humor, derive these characteristics. of men-
tal attitude from something perverse and
unpleasant in human nature. It is, there-
fore, agreeable to find an author with a
(Continued on page 8.)


V
ANTHONY HORDERNS' GENMNE SALE
Offers Innumerable Opportunities to Save
There are innumerable oppor-
tunities of saving money —even
on the savings offered by
Anthony Horderns’ usual
Famous Low Prices —during the
currency of this Genuine Sale.
Here are some examples, but
you should take immediate
advantage of them —the quanti-
ties available are not unlimited.
Save on a Coat and Skirt,
D24m—Smartly Designed Coat and Skirt, in fine
All-wool Gabardine; coat shows step collar, nar-
row self belt, silk military braid extending from
shoulder seam and finishes below the waist line,
plain skirt; in Fawn. Reseda, Grey. Mastic and
I’utty. S.W., W., 0.l
REDUCED TO. ....
5. Lsual Price, £5/5/-
95/-
D629—Practical Fine Botany Twill Serge Coats
and Skirts, semi-fitting coat, effectively braided
on sides and back, step collar, lined throughout
with Jap Silk, smart, plain skirt. In Navy and
Black. S.W.. \V„ O.S.
Usual Price, £O/6/- X?C/1 C/C
REI >UCED TO 10/0
1)02“—Well-cut Coat and Skirt, in fine All-wool
Serge, step collar, smartly braided and showing
two slot pockets, cuff gives a finish to sleeve, nar-
row belt lined throughout with Jap Silk; the
skirt is plain. In Navy and Black. S.W., W.,
O.S. Usual Price, £O/16/0. £6/6/“
REDUCED TO.
(Fashion Salon-
-Tliird Floor.)
Bargains in Dress Goods.
30in. Plain Crepe, in Pink. Sky, (’oral. 1 nuix
Rose. Saxe, Nattier, Reseda, Grey, Lielio,
Brown, Navy, Biscuit and Black. /I 11
REDUCED TO, z
38in. Cotton Tweeds, in Stripes and Checks,
Usual Price, 2/G. 1/11
REDUCED TO 1
37in. Gabardine, Tweed Effects.
Usual Price, 2/11.
REDUCED TO,
2/6
38in. Cotton Repp Tweed, with neat fancy
Artificial Silk Stripes in Vieux Rose,
Brown, Saxe, Navy and Black.
Usual Price, 3/6. 0/1 1
REDUCED TO 611
54in. Gabardine, in Pawn and Grey.
Usual Price, 5/11.
REDUCED TO
(Dress Materials —First Floor.)
4/11
Save on Maids’ Wear.
FXBB2 —Maids’ Superior Quality Striped Fuji
Frock, full and well-fitting. Russian bodice,
finished buttons. Skirt is full on hips, and neat
waistband of self. Natural ground Saxe,
Rose and Navy Stripes. Lengths, J 7, Sif, do,
36. Usual Prices, 22/6, 27/6. 19/11
REDUCED TO
FXBB1 —Maids’ Well-made Striped Fuji
Frock. Magyar bodice, short sleeves and
square neck. Low. loose waistline; pipings
and tie ends of natural Fuji; Cream ground,
Rose. Saxe and Navy stripes. Lengths, 27. 30,
33. 36. Usual Price, 23/6. 18/11
REDUCED TO
FX361 —Children’s Excellent Quality Macin-
tosh Coats, fashioned with comfortable Raglan
sleeves and all-round belt, finished nickel
buckle. Lengths. 22, 24, 27.
Usual Price, 25/6. 15/1 1
REDUCED TO •••••••
(Maids’ Wear—Third Floor.)
A Silk Dust Coat for Less.
IXl44.—Dressy Ninghai Silk Dust Coats, de-
signed with large collar, which fastens over in
tab fashion; loosely belted at waist. Self
cable stitching is used as an ornamentation.
In serviceable shades of Grey, Putty, Beaver,
Saxe, Bottle, Navy. Usual Price, 63/- CC/
REDUCED TO - '***
1X730 —Good-quality Assam Silk Dust Coats;
four different style's, designed with large col-
lars, belts and pockets. Smart plain makes;
also with trimmings of colored silk or stitell-
ings to tone. Usual Price, 45/- OQ/1 1
REDUCED TO x A
IXl3s3—Exceptionally Light-weight Dust
Coats, in fine Shantung Silk, with shoulder
collar, patch pockets, and belt at waist. Colors:
Putty. Mole, Saxe, Brown, Bottle.
Usual Price, 59/6. 49/6
REDUCED TO w
(Fashion Salon —Third Floor.)
Blouses at Sale Prices.
DS223—lvory Jap Silk Blouses, roll collar,
long sleeves, daintily hand embroidered at
front. Usual Price, 16/11. "14/1 1
REDUCED TO
Ivory or Black Jap Silk Blouses, roll or con-
vertible collar, and long sleeves.
Usual Price, 19/11. 17/11
REDUCED TO **
Extra out sizes. Usual Price, 21/- 1 Q/l 1
REDUCED TO *
DSl27l—Striped Fuji Blouses, roll or con-
vertible collar, long sleeves.
Usual Price, 16/11. 14/1 1
REDUCED TO i-r/ x x
Extra out sizes. Usual Price, 17/11. 1 C/1 1
REDUCED TO A L
DSB44—Natural Fuji Blouses, roll or con-
vertible collar, long sleeves.
Usual Price, 14/6. 1 9/fi
REDUCED TO u
Extra out sizes. Usual Price, 15/6. 1 O/C
REDUCED TO I **
DSB69 —Natural Fuji Jumpers, roll collar,
long or | sleeves, finished into band at
"waist. Usual Price, 19/11. 17/11
REDUCED TO 1 / / 1 1
(Blouses —Third Floor.)
Underwear Savings.
Women’s Cotton Combinations, British
make, low neck, sleeveless, tight legs, lace
fronts. S.W. size only.
Usual Price, 3/9. 0/0
REDUCED TO 0/0
Women’s White Cotton Combinations, low
neck, short sleeves, tight legs, closed fronts.
W. size. Usual Price. 3/11. 0/0
REDUCED TO 0/0
Women’s White American Cotton Combina-
tions, low necks, sleeveless; open shapes,
wide legs, edged lace. Women’s size.
Usual Price. 3/3. 0/11
REDUCED TO “
Women’s Australian Cotton Combinations,
low neck, sleeveless, fancy lace fronts, wide
legs. W. size. Usual Price, 5/11. Af CL
REDUCED TO *>
(Underwear —Third Floor.)
Silk Sacrifices.
Heavyweight French Crepe tie Chine,
4t)in. wide. In shades of Ivory. Black,
Grey, Mole, Pink, Brown, Nigger,
Beige, Light Navy and Navy.
Usual Price, 14/11. 1 O/ \ 1
REDUCED to < per yd.) .. A A x
French Crepe Marocain, 40in. wide—an all-silk
heavy crepe weave. In shades of Black. Grey,
Mole, Saxe, Nattier, Navy, Jade, Brown and
NDger. Usual Price, 16/11. 14/11
REDUCED TO (per yd.) x A
Heavyweight French Georgette, 40in. wide. In
shades of Navy, Putty, Light Navy, Fawn, Coral,
Brown and Nigger. Usual Price, 9/11. 7/11
REDUCED TO (per yd.) '... #/ 11
Silk Satin, 40in. wide. In a wide range of beautiful
colorings—-Ivory, Black, Royal, Pink. Nigger,
Cinnamon, Turquoise, Brown, Grey, Mole, Lilac,
Navy. Fawn. Lemon, Champagne, Sky, Apricot
and Sand. Usual Price, 10/11. 7/11
REDUCED TO (per yd.) * ' 11
(Silks —First Floor.)
Big Reductions in Footwear.
“Harkness” White Nu-buek Lace Shoes,
with welted soles. The uppers have neat
patent leather trimmings.
Usual Price, 55/- 9T/fi
REDUCED TO
White Nu-buek Sports Shoes, with welted
soles and sports heels; white kid lining.
The uppers are neatly trimmed with Nigger
Brown Calf. Usual Price, 45/-
REDUCED TO ****' v
White Nu-buek Lace Shoes, with pump soles
and Louis heels. Plain fronts.
Usual Price. 60/- OA/
REDUCED TO
Women’s Satin Evening; Shoes, in various
colorings. Best English manufacture.
Usual Prices. 38/6. 42/- 1 GL/C
REDUCED TO
(Footwear —Second Floor.)
Bargains in Gloves.
Three-quarter length Kayser Pure Silk
Gloves, with double finger tips. In shades
of Mastic, Grey, Navy and White. Sizes
to 7. Usual Price, 7/11. C/C
REDUCED TO (per pair) J U
Short, Fine Lisle Gloves, in shades of White, Black,
Pastel and Grey. Usual Price, 2/6. 1/11
REDUCED TO (per pair)
Sixteen-button Length (above the elbow) English
Milanese Silk Gloves, with double finger tips.
In shades of White, Tan, Brown, Putty, Pastel
and Black. Usual Price, 12/6. Q/C
REDUCED TO (per pair) *' / U
Thi •ee-quarter length Suede-finish Gloves, with
smart fringe at side. In shades of White, Pastel,
Beaver and Grey. Usual Price, 6/11. d/1 1
REDUCED TO (per pair)... 0/11
Smart Suede-finish Gauntlet Gloves, with fancy
cuffs. The colors are: Black. Beaver, Pastel,
Grey, Mole and Nigger. Usual Price, 5/11. A/ Q
REDUCED TO (per pair) **
Sixteen-button Length Heavy Milanese Silk
Gloves, with fancy tucked tops. In shades of
Pearl. Pastel, Black and Beige.
Usual Price, 17/11. 1 C/1 1
REDUCED TO (per pair) 10/11
Write for the Sale Catalogue
A Copy of this Guide to
Economy will be posted
free.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
On Fashion Goods and Family Drapery in N.S.W.,
and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited,
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


/
J
t
/
7
A
A
t
m
T
J
= 1
I
r
\
zr*
-7.
>e»
Sg§FVi
7^,'.
VrVKk
,<7
©>6e
An all-British car of wonderful records
The world-wide reputation of WOLSELEY Cars has
never depended upon spectacular racing performances
by specially-built machines, but has been built up by
sterling merit in service over a long period of years.
In order to prove, however, that WOLSELEY standard
cars, if suitably adjusted to meet racing conditions,
could put up performances quite equal to those
designed for racing purposes only, a number of tests
have been carried out under official observation. The
results of these tests constitute a remarkable and
striking triumph for the WOLSELEY Company.
A standard WOLSELEY Ten, modified and properly
equipped to suit track conditions, on October 27,
1921, set up Two Records in the Light Car Class.
Fifteen further records were captured on November
24, 1921, and on May 2 and 3, 1922, the car was
run for twelve hours continuously on each day, making
another Thirteen New Records, and setting up the
first British Double Twelve-hour Record.
A WOLSELEY Fifteen, also slightly modified for
racing purposes, on August 28, 1922, was driven for
twelve hours continuously at Brooklands, in which
period it covered over 1015 miles at an average speed
of 84.64 miles per hour, setting up Forty New Records
in Class D. The following day it was run for a further
period of twelve hours, bringing its total mileage up
to 1922 miles 1620 yards, at an average speed of
80.1 0 miles per hour, this constituting the Double
Twelve-hour Record in Class D.
A 15-h.p. car was then fitted, as an experiment, with
a smaller engine, of 1991.3 c.c. cylinder capacity only.
On September 2 1 last this car was given a preliminary
run at Brooklands, when during a run of five hours it
travelled 376 miles, setting up Twelve New Records
in Class B. A fortnight later, on October 4, it was
driven for twelve hours continuously, covering in that
period over 935 miles, and capturing a further 23
Class Records.
These striking achievements, especially on the part
of practically standard cars, bear striking testimony
to the high efficiency of WOLSELEY design and the
robust strength of WOLSELEY construction. In no
single instance has a WOLSELEY Record been beaten
by a car of the same capacity, and at the present time
MORE CLASS RECORDS ARE HELD BY
WOLSELEYS than by any other make of car.
New Reduced Prices:
10-h.p. Single-seater de Luxe .
14-h,p. 4/5-seater . . .
. £430
. £625
10-h.p. 4-seater de Luxe £485
15-h.p. 5-seater £745
Arrange to-day for a trial and demonstration.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Olympia Motors, Ltd., 126 Russell St., MELBOURNE.
Simpson Motor Co., Ltd., Petrie’s Bight, BRISBANE.
M, C, Richards, Richards* Building, Currie Street*
ADELAIDE.
F. W. Cato, 1273 Hay Street, WEST PERTH.


•' v-.
\\m\ww
m
m
m
m
m
k\w r^-" L
j
?(« a avv
m
\m
m
Jor your own and your country's good
Canned
Goodness
IN every Can of Fruit
is packed all the good-
ness of perfect, sun-
ripened fruit—palatable,'
healthful. No cooking is
required.
CLING PEACHES
l»Grade 1923 Pack
Greatly Reduced
iiv Price
Serve CLING PEACHES whenever
there is a call for a different —more
appetising dessert.
A Set of Recipes Free.
Your grocer can give you a set of
Canned Fruit Recipes—gummed ready
for insertion in your cookery book. Ask him
or write Commonwealth Fruit Pool, Melb’ne
A DELIGHTFUL RECIPE.
PEACH DUMPLINGS.
1 Can Peaches.
5 Cup Rice.
4 Clips Milk.
i Teaspoon Salt.
1 Teaspoon Butter.
1 Teaspoon Vanilla or Almond Ext.
Drain peaches. Bring milk to boiling
point, sprinkle in rice and cook until
rice has absorbed milk, add salt and
butter and turn out to cool. Place
two halves of the peaches together,
cover with rice, tie in cheese-cloth
squares and steam for thirty minutes.
Untie, place on hot serving dish. Mix
juice w 7 ith vanilla, one teaspoon of corn
flour and one tablespoon sugar. Bring
to boiling point and serve with dump-
lings. Sufficient for 5 persons.
fresh viewpoint. It is undeniable that,
though wit may hurt and sting and infiiet
wounds t hat time itself is powerless to heal,
lim..or has in it a kindly, genial, humane
and Unable quality, and that we as often
laugh with as laugh at the object of its
p:uy;ul treatment, as witness such eternal
treasures of our affection as 1 >on Quixote
and Uncle Toby.
It is fitting that America, with its almost
brand-new literature, should evolve an
author with a new srsthetie view of laughter.
In “The Psychology of Laughter and
Comedy,” J. Y. T. Greig offers the world a
fresh, and a purely humanist, doctrine of the
origin of humor and the source of laughter.
He scouts the “derision” theory, almost uni-
versally put forward hitherto, and goes back
to the bedrock of babydom for the first in-
stinctive human inclinings towards what,
through development, ultimately becomes a
sense of the humorous. Greig refuses
admission to the oft-reiterated statement that
the source of humor is to be found in the
realisation of our own superiority and the
ridicule of those whom we imagine to be our
inferiors, simply because it fails to account
for the smile on the lips of a baby only five
weeks old. He concludes that the smile be-
gins with the behavior of the feeding in-
stinct, and that it is a kind of preparation to
suck. But:
This instinct is too businesslike to elaborate it
Tthe smile] and put the finishing touches to it.
It is within the behavior of the love instinct that
this elaboration is carried out, for the love instince
is first evoked in the situation —nursing embrace--
which satisfies the feeding instinct, and is, moreover,
a vague instinct, uncertain and not very urgent in
its early manifestations. The infant has leisure
to work embroideries upon it, and the smile is one
of the first of these embroideries. But as the im-
pulse of love gathers energy, and as experience
grows, the opportunities of interruption increase at
the same time. When behavior containing love as
an element within it is interrupted, energy is mobi-
lised against the interruption ; when the interrup-
tion is suddenly removed, or weakened, some of this
energy becomes surplus and escapes in the laugh.
The laugh thus marks an interruption to the behavior
of love which lias been overcome with a less expen-
diture of energy than was originally prepared for
the purpose.
The truth probably is that the comic element
in our mental make-up, our sense of humor,
our appreciation of the comedy in the life
that surrounds us, is no such simple thing as
the aesthetic writers would have us believe.
It is possible that humor is as complex as
existence itself, and is so intermingled with a
variety of other emotions as to defy extrica-
tion and analysis. It is, nevertheless,
pleasant to believe that the germ of Falstaff’s
rich personality, or the foibles of Parson
Adams or of the Vicar of Wakefield, can be
traced hack to the infant smiles of five-
weeks-old baby Shakspeare, or Fielding, or
Goldsmith.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
Second Chambers
Hie imminence of a Labor Government in
Britain makes the reform of the House of
Lords one of the most urgent questions be-
fore the statesmen of that country. It has
been debated, of course, for years, just as our
own Federation was ; and just as we decided
at last that the only way to Federate was to
Federate, so in Britain they will no doubt
find that the only way to reform the Second
Chamber is to reform it. Discussion of the
subject is endless: there is no last word to
be said. Every scheme of government is a
makeshift, and all the machinery of it a
compromise; and wherever there is compro-
mise there is necessarily room for argument.
To wait for the production of the perfect is
therefore vain ; it may also be very foolish.
Perhaps it has been in this case.
So much of a controversial character has
been written on the subject that any purely
academic inquiry into all the plans offering
is very welcome, especially at this juncture;
and H. B. Lees-Smith, Lecturer in Public
Administration at the London School of
Economics, has made an interesting contri-
bution in Second Chambers in Theory and
Practice (Geo. Allen and Unwin). On the
ground that the needs of foreign countries
are generally so different from those of
Britain, Mr. Lees-Smith thinks that “the
conclusions that can be safely derived from
them are strictly limited.” He therefore
turns chiefly to the Dominions, where “a
variety of experiments have been made by
people _ possessing many of our own tra-
ditions.” But Mr. Lees-Smith has fallen at
the very outset into what looks like a
fundamental error. He says that “the main
function of a Second Chamber is to thwart
the Lower House when and only when it is
legislating contrary to the desires of the
people.” Now, that is not true of the Second
Chamber of a Federation. In Australia, at
any rate, we should not have had a Second
Chamber at all if that had been its main
function. Federation is a bargain between
parties with equal rights; and the Austra-
lian Senate was designed as the protector
of those rights. Canada sought to make the
Constitution the protector; an Act of the
Imperial Parliament is required for almost
'any amendment of that instrument; and “in
the case both of the provincial subsidies in
1907 and the change in the number of
Senators in 1915 the Imperial Government
made it clear that it would not feel justified
in introducing legislation unless there was
practically complete agreement.” Inasmuch
as Britain is not a Federation, the main
function of a Second Chamber there must
differ from That of a corresponding Chamber
in Australia or Canada, or even in South
Africa, which is a union of States with a tre-
mendous common danger at their doors.
The newest of all the Constitutions is that
i • I ris h. Free State, and it was framed
chiefly to suit the wishes of a people who were
certain 1 y not afraid to make experiments.
I his people insisted upon a Second Chamber.
I lie authorities in England were not at all
keen about it. they saw that the subject of
a Second Chamber was beset with difficul-
ties, and they preferred to let the sleeping
it was not an indispen-
sable dog—probably not even a very useful
one. Darrel Figgis, chairman of the draft-
ing committee and chief architect of the
( onstitntion. put the case for a Second
House, as Mr. Lees-Smitli quotes him:
What may be called a Senatorial Person is n
the°S d fa , ct l\ n the history of all nations In
the push and jostle in the entry to the first House
such a Senatorial Person is likely to be set aside
eien if he or she is inclined to mingle in the fray!
He is consequently lost to the councils of the nation.
How shall a place be found for htm or lor her."
In this Constitution an effort was made to
prevent these “Senatorial persons” from be-
ing crowded out. while preserving at any
rate the semblance of popular election. Ihe
plan adopted is unique. The Australian
method of election by the whole State voting
as a single constituency was adopted, but
the choice of the electors is limited to "a
panel consisting of (a) ex-Senators who
wish to be candidates for re-election and (u)
45 additional candidates [l5 members are
wanted at an ordinary general election], of
whom 30 are to be nominated by the Cham-
ber of Deputies and 15 by the Senate, both
Chambers voting on the system of propor-
tional representation”; and the electors are
to vote on that system also. How the scheme
will work out remains to be seen. The sys-
tem of proportional representation may save
it. Hitherto Party has spoiled if not wrecked
every other plan devised. In Australia, for
example, the Senate, instead of functioning
as a States’ Chamber, came to be merely the
echo of the ruling party. It is at least
doubtful whether any elected body will nomi-
nate the real “Senatorial persons.” The
theory on which practically all nominated
chambers are based is that nomination will
give the country the services of specialists
who are quite unfitted to fight a popular elec-
tion. But few countries get anything but
ancient Party hacks and the benefactors of
Party funds. Canada has such a Senate;
and for practical purposes it is not a legis-
lative chamber at all. True, Party can just
as effectively wreck an elective chamber.
Our own Senate, for example, has long-
ceased to discharge the function for which it
was created. It is so little the guardian of
States’ rights that the Queensland or N.S.W.
Senator never thinks of fighting the battle
of South Aus. over the agreement which the
Commonwealth made with it to take over
the Northern Territory and complete the
North-South railway.
It is quite obvious that —outside a Federa-
tion, at any rate —two Houses with equal
powers are an anomaly; and if both are
elected by the people each will naturally
claim full powers. If the nominated or
partly-nominated system is ruled out, there
seems to be no better plan offering than that
which Norway employs. That kingdom really
has only one House, but the House divides
itself into two sections; the smaller one con-
sists generally of the specialists and the
academics, and its main purpose is to secure
further consideration for doubtful proposi-
tions passed by the larger body. If there Is
agreement between the two sections the thing
goes through; if there is not there is a joint
meeting, arguments are exchanged, and the
majority rules. It is very doubtful, how-
ever, whether that plan is practicable in
Britain without modifications. The House
of Lords is deeply entrenched, and it looks
as though any acceptable scheme will have
to find a place for the representatives of that
body-—perhaps, as the Bryce Committee re-
commended a year or two ago, in diminishing
numbers. For his part Mr. Lees-Smith seems
to incline to the opinion that a second
Chamber is not wanted, especially if a coun-
try adopts the referendum and recall, and
has frequent general elections. In theory
he is no doubt right. But he must provide
also for an honestly chosen single House.
And he may find that exceedingly difficult.
S. H. P.
Sidelights on Literature
The discovery of what are believed to be
a few lines in the handwriting of Shaks-
peare promises an addition of overwhelming
interest to the MS. saloon at the British
Museum. Hitherto pride of place in that
remarkable collection has been given to a
signature of the Bard. Six signatures have
been the only known examples of his hand-
writing. Two are affixed to his will, one
to legal papers and two to documents relat-
ing to the ownership of property at Black-
friars. It is one of these last which is on
view. According to the Shakspearean notes
of Robert Chambers, portion of _ this mort-
gage deed was sold in London in 1858 to
the curators of the Museum for 300 guineas
—“unquestionably the largest sum ever
given for a mere autograph.” The signa-
tures on his will are so indistinct as to be
almost indiscernible, and the correct spelling
of his name will always be a matter for con-
jecture. That neither of his parents could
write is shown by extant deeds to which both
of them affixed their marks.
An agreement dated April 27, 1667, be-
tween “John Milton, gentleman, and Samuel
Symmons, printer,” for the sale of the copy-
right of “a poem entitled ‘Paradise Lost,’ ’’
is another exhibit. The poet’s signature is
appended to this agreement, which shows
that he received £5 on signing and was to
get further payments of £5 each on the sale
oi: three editions each of 1300 copies. The
work was published soon after the disposal
of the copyright, and within two years the
first edition was sold out and another one
sent to the press. But it was not until 1678
—ll years later—that a third edition was
required. The poet was then dead.
Charles Dickens is represented by a char-
acteristic letter, written on the day before
his death, arranging to meet Charles Kent
on the morrow. It is headed “Gad’s Hill
Place, 8 June, 1870,” and reads: “To-morrow
is a very bad day for me to make a call.. . .
but. I hope I may be ready for you at 3
o’clock. If I can’t be —why, then, I shan’t
be.” On the following evening he died.
Daniel Defoe’s autograph is attached to
au undated letter (probably written in 1704)
to Lord Halifax, thanking him for a gift of
money sent through Halifax in recognition
of his (Defoe’s) writings on behalf of the
Ministry. He wrote: “I frankly acknow-
ledge to your Lordship, and to the unknown
rewarders of my mean performances, that I
do not see the merit they are thus pleas’d
to vallue; the most I wish, and which I
hope I can answer for, is that I shall
allwayes preserv the homely despicable title
or ‘an honest man.’ ”
While engaged in translating the “Iliad”
Alexander Pope wrote to Lord Halifax, First
Lord of the Treasury, on December 3, 1714,
submitting to him portions of his transla-
tions. which w T ere published in June of
the following year. “While you are doing
justice to all the world, I beg you will not
forget Homer, if you can spare an hour to
attend his cause,” the letter reads. “I leave
him with you in that hope, and return home
full.of acknowledgments for the favors your
Lordship has done me, and for those you are
pleased to intend me. Your Lordship may
either cause me to live agreably in the
Towne, or contentedly in the Country : which
is realy all the difference I sett between an
easy fortune and a small one.” When this
letter was published at a later date Pope
omitted many of the expressions of gratitude,
for his expectations of Halifax were not
realised.
An agreement with Messrs. Strahan and
Cadell for the sale of the copyright of the
“History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire” for £4OOO bears the signature of
Edward Gibbon. The rights for the first
three volumes had been previously sold for
a similar amount. Gibbon’s great work was
commenced in 1770, and, according to his
own admission, he was frequently tempted
to discontinue his labor during the first year
of writing. Three times he recomposed the
first chapter, and twice the second and third
chapters. For nearly seven years he worked,
and the first volumes were issued in 1776.
A letter written to his sister at the begin-
ning of his last illness, signed by John Keats,
reads: “ ’Tis not yet Consumption, I believe,
but it would be Were I to remain in this
climate all the winter; so I am thinking of
voyageing or travelling to Italy. Yesterday
I received an invitation from Mr. Shelley,
a Gentleman residing at Pisa, to spend the
winter with him”.... Keats sailed for
Italy in 1820, but his illness complicated,
and he died in Rome on February 23, 1821.
Shelley’s appreciation of Keats is shown by
the finding of a volume of Keats’s poems in
his coat-pocket when he was drowned, in 1822.
A letter to Bernard Barton written by
Charles Lamb on April 5, 1823, is of great
interest. "I wish’d for you yesterday. I
dined in Parnassus, with Wordsworth, Cole-
ridge, Rogers and Tom Moore—half the
Poetry of England constellated and cluster’d
in Gloster Place. It was a delight Even !
Coleridge was in his finest vein of talk, had
all the talk. . . .The Muses were dumb, while
Apollo lectured on his and their fine art....
I am scribbling a muddy epistle with an
aking head, for we did not quaff Hippocrene
last night. Marry, it was Hippocras rather.”
Lamb and Coleridge were old school-fellows.
Having heard of the death of Coleridge,
Wordsworth wrote to a nephew of his old
friend on July 29, 1834; “I cannot give way
to the expression of my feelings on this
mournful occasion ; I have not strength of
mind to do so. The last year has thinned
off so many of my friends, young and old
....that it would be no kindness to you.
were I to yield to the solemn and sad
thoughts and remembrances which press
upon me. It is nearly 40 years since I first
became acquainted with him whom we have
just lost; and though I have seen little of
him for the last 20 years, his mind has been
habitually present with me.” Aged 61 years,
Coleridge died on July 25. 1834. From their
first meeting in Somersetshire in the summer
of 1797, Wordsworth and Coleridge were firm
friends, and were for some years much to-
gether. They were associated in several
works, notably Wordsworth’s “Lyrical Bal-
lads,” to which Coleridge contributed his
“Ancient Mariner.”
In a letter to a friend, written in 1832,
Thomas Carlyle alludes to his failure to find
a publisher for his “Sartor Resartus”: “I
have given up the notion of hawking my little
Manuscript Book about any further: for a
long time it lias lain quiet in its drawer,
waiting for a better day. The Bookselling
trade seems on the edge of dissolution 3 the
force of Putting can go no farther, yet Bank-
ruptcy clamours at every door: sad fate! to
serve the Devil and get no wages even from
him.” “Sartor Resartus” was subsequently
accepted by the publishers of Frazer’ Maga-
zine, and was published during 1833-34.
Pecuniary difficulties are discussed by
Byron in a letter dated Athens, November
11, 1810, to his solicitor: “It is in the power
of God, the Devil and Man to make me poor
and miserable, but neither the second nor
third shall make me sell Newstead, and by
the aid of the first I will persevere in this
resolution.”
Many other famous men are represented
in the collection ; but apart from the auto-
graphs the documents are of limited interest.
C. D. ROSS SMITH.
A Satchel of Books
■ Eve out of Eden , by Bree Narran (Anglo-Eastern
Publishing Go.). Melodramatic rubbish; the plot
without ingenuity, and the writing without charm.
A Woman’s Impressions of German New Guinea, by
Lilian Overell (John Lane). The author spent most
of her time in the ex-German territory at Kuradui
as the guest of Mrs. Parkinson, sister of the famous
“Qu&en Emma” and herself a notable identitv in
those regions, who saw to it that her visitor was
given an insight into life in the tropics; consequently
ample material was available for a genuinely enter-
taining’ volume. The natives naturally absorbed a
good deal of the lady’s attention. Even the house
boys. “They have,” she discovered early, “an embar-
rassing habit of never knocking. They come noise-
lessly and peep to see if one is sufficiently clothed
for them to venture in. If not, they retire and
wait awhile before risking another peep.”
Adrian Lawlor in reply:
Mr. Powell misreads me (R.P. 27/12/’23), hut
perhaps the fault is mine: I should have been more
explicit. When 1 said that a poet writes “always
with an eye to the spectator,” I was thinking of the
problem of concrete definition. The power of
Shakspeare’s poetry lies in its passionate concentra-
tion of emphasis, not in any tender concern for the
reader’s moral susceptibilities. That he “may appear
to be moral,” as Mr. Powell says, is neither here
nor there. I can find “morality” in Shakspeare, of
course, as I can find everything else there; but not
the stultified moralising for which Gray’s Elegy is so
revered. Imaginative genius does not stoop to fabri-
cate these stodgy palliatives for the people. That
Gray and Shakspeare have points in common is un-
deniable. They were both Englishmen, and botli
poets. The resemblance ends there. There is no
evidence whatever that “Shakspeare was fond of
pointing morals.” He never wrote a didactic verse
in his life. Gray rarely wrote any (♦cher sort of
verse. Outside the Plays (and obviously you can’t
expect to find evidence there) there are the erotic
poems and the Sonnets. The poems—“ Venus and
Adonis,” “The Passionate Pilgrim,” “The Rape of
Lucrece,” “Phoenix and Turtle” —are no more “moral”
than a gallop before breakfast or a dance with one’s
wife is moral. Indeed, a vigilance committee would
see nothing but the most nauseating immorality in
these passionate flights of fancy. The sonnet-sequence
may or may not be autobiography. Nobody knows.
With this key Shakspeare locked his heart —how
securely we realise when mule-headed scholars advance
the opinion that they are but “exercises.”


-1
k
fm
t~a
m
m
.
1
■ • ;
%m&:k
m
m
m
His Master* voice
e °*v*ieH*
Look for the Trade-mark
THE world-renowned, trade-mark “His Master’s Voice” stands for
quality, supreme and unapproached. On a talking-machine it
guarantees an instrument of the highest grade, beautifully designed
and perfectly finished in every part. On a record it stands for the
best music and the greatest artists.
See that your Instrument and Records bear the famous trade-mark,
“His Master's Voice”
Instruments from 1 1 guineas to £94.
“His Master’s Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-marie.
Brass Artesian
Cylinder, with
Gunmetal Caps,
Stuffing: Box and
Gland.
The “Danks”
All Brass
Windmill Pump.
Brass Pump
Rod Socket.
WINDMILL PUMPS
and ACCESSORIES.
A FEW OF THE MANY LINES
WE MAKE.
Bolted Cylinder,
Fitted with
Double Leather
Bucket.
Brass Check Valve.
A very efficient fuli-
way valve fitted with
leather face.
Cupped Bucket Leathers,
for Single and Double
Action.
Made of high-grade leather
and thoroughly oiled.
Bolted Cylinder.
Fitted with .Ball
Valve Bucket,
with Double
Leather.
Bore Cylinder,
with flush-
jointed Screwed
Cap and Double
Leather Bucket.
Brass Bore Foot
Valve and
Strainer.
Brass-lined Bore
Cylinder.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES
Send for Our Windmill Pump Catalogue.
John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Brass Foot Valve and
Strainer.


So Another £3OOO
went into the flame.
HE walked into the office of
the Alexander Hamilton
Institute late one day and
enrolled for the Modern Business
Course and Service.
“Too bad 1 didn t do this
two years ago,” he said, “It
would have saved me £3000.”
“It took me a long time to
get that £3OOO together,” he
continued, “almost five years of
hard work and rigid economy.
And it lasted just exactly six
months after I set up in business
for myself. You have a lecture
in your Modern Business Course
—something about organising a
successful business.”
“Oh, yes,” said the Institute
man, “you mean ‘The Essentials
of a Successful Enterprise.’
“That’s it,” he replied. “1
picked up that lecture in a
friend’s home the other night. . .
It’s a bitter thing to confess, but
it’s true —if I had had just that
single lecture, just that tiny frac-
tion of your Course and Service,
I would be £3OOO richer to-day.”
He held out his hand.
“I’m glad to be enrolled,” he
concluded. “But tell me, if you
can, why didn’t I do it two years
•v »»
ago?
IN a home in a New England
town —it might be anywhere
—a man and his wife sat dis-
cussing the modern Business
Course and service. And while
he hesitated, she leaned across
the table and spoke:—
“Just think, John,” she said.
“You have been where you are
for more than fourteen years.”
“Fourteen years of petty
salary increases and hopes de-
ferred—of expecting always that
next year would bring the oppor-
tunity that has never come.”
The flame that consumes
the lives of men; that licks
up businesses and devours
the hopes of millions of
homes.
All men contribute some-
thing to feed that flame;
some men contribute every-
thing ; for the flame is
Indecision.
“How can you hesitate?” she
demanded ; “you ought to have
enrolled ten years ago.”
IN an office a vigorous man of
thirty-four filled in his enrol-
ment blank and pushed it
across the desk with a smile.
Then, rummaging around in the
top drawer, he produced a faded
coupon and held it up.
“I clipped that from one of
your advertisements in 1917,
and never sent it in,” he said to
the Institute representative. “I
have just one criticism of your
company. Why don’t you say
something in your advertising
that would tell a man plainly
what a fool he is to ‘put it off’?”
THE SAD PROCESSION OF
WASTED YEARS.
In that single paragraph he
summed up the whole problem
of the Alexander Hamilton
Institute.
The facts about the Institute
are known to thousands of
ambitious men.
Many a man, seeing the pro-
gress these others have made,
says: —
“Some day I will investigate
that training for myself.”
But he puts it off, and the
days lengthen into months, and
the months into years.
Are you such a man? Are
you one who is paying for this
training without receiving its
benefits? Paying in opportuni-
ties that pass you by because you
have not the courage to reach out
and make them your own? Pay-
ing in years of routine progress
when the progress might be
swift and sure? Paying in the
most precious currency in the
world—the hopes you have built
for the future of your wife and
your children and home?
Will you, in justice to your-
self and to them, spend one
single evening with the facts?
The facts have been condensed
for busy men into a 120-page
book:—
“FORGING AHEAD IN
BUSINESS.”
It tells just what the Modern
Business Course and Service is
and does; just how it has been
used by men whose position and
problem were precisely like
yours. Will you “put it off”?
Or will you clip the coupon and
post it now?
Victorian Representative Box 126 G.P.0., Melbourne.
New Zealand Representative Box J/.22 G.P.0., Auckland.
Queensland Representative Box 9J/.3 G.P.0., Brisbane.
Western Australian Representative .... Forrest Chambers, St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
Alexander Hamilton Institute,
42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Send me “Forging Ahead in Business,”
FREE.
Name •
Business Address
Business Position
8.17.


The Bulletin
NIGHT TENNIS —Without Glare.
The Bulletin
■
B
9 :
m
■
111
I
I ? J .-./ "' -v -vS>Mfi->, "" im -r'''
■ ■ ■. .. ;: ...... . : . . ■ V ~.= ■ ■ : \ \\; - .: x xx-x-x -V - > ' . :! .x . .- . ,x x . ■:
;:,x -;x:- ;: ; : .'■■■'. Xa. .: X x,.x V :- - " 'l' 'x x'
HMBBBMB
■ a
: :
—: s #
'x|f
liswls
&«xs
G.E. Installation, with Ivanhoe Metal Reflectors, Canterbury, Sydney; 2000 spectators saw the finals of Sydenliam-Bankstown
Championships.
First G.E. Installation in Australia—Mr. S. F. Newlands,
Wollstonecraft, N.S.W.
Night tennis without glare is now made possible as a result of successful research work of
(§4; engineers.
Tennis-court lighting is beyond the experimental stage. Working along definite lines to
achieve a certain goal @ lighting-engineers have evolved unrivalled installations for
correct tennis-court lighting. Ivanhoe Metal Reflectors, installed to specifications, provide
ideal conditions for “A”-grade tennis after sunset.
Spasmodic play is not conducive to best results. Players are unable to secure regular
practice, so necessary to produce best form. Progressive clubs are providing for night
playing, increasing membership of clubs and improving the standard of the play of
their members.
TESTIMONY THAT COUNTS.
Mr. H. M. Marsh, Secretary of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association, who, prior to viewing a G.E. installation, was
not favorably impressed, said:—“l am satisfied that night tennis has come to stay, that it will greatly help the game* and
where the courts are properly lighted up, as these [Canterbury] have been, the dangers previously alluded to by me as
arising from an imperfect sight of the ball are non-existent.”
The correctly-lighted tennis-court is a sound investment.
Night play eliminates perhaps the only disagreeable aspect of this fascinating game—
the heat arid glare of the sun.
Free trial games will be gladly arranged on courts with overhead or side lighting
installations.
Ring City 35 1 0, or write for our illustrated booklet “A”—“Night Tennis without Glare.”
G.E. Installation, with Ivanhoe Metal Reflectors.
Mr. S. P. England, E. St. Hilda, Victoria.
Australian Qfi.ne.rdi Flectric QJfcl
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Corner Wentworth Arenue and Oonlbum Street, Sydney.
AGENTS
Perth—Ohas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.
Adelaide —Ohas. Atkins & Co., Ltd.
Brishame—Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., Comer Edward and
Charlotte Streets,.
Hobart and Launceston—Oliver k Oliver Fty., Ltd.
The Bulletin


CUTICURA
SOOTHES IRRITATIONS
In the treatment of all skin irrita-
tions bathe freely with Cuticura
Soap and hot water, dry gently, and
apply Cuticura Ointment to the af-
fected parts. Always include the
Cuticura Talcum in your toilet, prep-
arations.
Soap Is.,Talcum Is. 3d.,Ointment ls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
HBp Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
No Mystery About
No closely-guarded Secrets
surround this famous Emulsion.
Hypol contains 50 per
cent, of refined Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural oil en-
dowed with nutritive and
healing qualities that no
mysterious formula can
equal.
Hypol also contains valu-
ab 1 e Hypophosphites,
forming a restorative for
sick people that is unsur-
passed.
Famous for Chest Com-
plaints—a food, tonic,
and healer in one.
Those of delicate constitution should
commence to take
HYPOL
Sold
Everywhere.
2/6
Large
Bottles.
Made by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Unm.su Austkai.asia.n,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Bkitish Aurthat.asian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
9
m
n
MEXICAN
That "Well-
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Ulen’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r a di-
eate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less ! All Chemists.
Full particulars of 3"y
'‘Sirocco” Plant will gladly
be given free of charge on
application to any of our
Agents.
• • ■ TRADE- • •
• MARK
HIGH-PRESSURE
FANS
There is a wide range of “Sirocco” High-pressure
Fans, capable of setting up pressures to 30 inches
water gauge, for supplying blast to Cupolas, Forge
Fires, Furnaces, etc. They are all of ROBUST
CONSTRUCTION, HIGH MECHANICAL EFFICI-
ENCY and maintain STEADY PRESSURES. We
also supply Belt-driven Fans fitted with Ball-bearings.
DAVIDSON & CO., Ltd., BELFAST.
AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES—Fenier A Dickinson, Lid..
Royal Exchange. Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSJRALlA—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd..
100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND— Engineering Supply Company of
'•...ralia. Ltd.. BRISBANE.
VICTORIA —Fyvie & Stewart. 360 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—Ackroyd-Stuarts. Ltd.. PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND—John Chambers & Son, Ltd.,
WELLINGTON.
Mar covitch
Cigarettes
are made from finest selected Vir-
ginia tobacco by Marcovitch, Lon-
don, and are packed in such a
manner that their wonderful quali-
fies of flavor and aroma are fully
retained. Ash your Tobacconist.
Sole Agents for Australia:
SCOTT, HENDERSON & COY.,
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents:
Vic. —Alexanders’ Ety., Ltd., Melb.
S.A. —Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide.
The Bulletin
E? 0
SR
5^
<&
■sse
THIS
BOPMER/TNG
AO Reeds 5 ; -
Also 6 OTHER TYPES 2 / -t012'6
t QR3'^tO.Yis.y_^d.Eß.Ej
"Boomerang" on a Mouth Organ meansthe same as Sterling
on silver, viz., it is the Hall Mark of the HIGHEST QUALITY.
d-ZILBERT Sc SON,
SYD
Kl
/N
39
DEPT
to
MELBOURNE
ST.
COLLINS
298
LIT.
294
TRADE SUPPLIED
% m
'/AW
S 3
0*
a*
m
m
m
r
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6».
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Triolets.
Milady frowns lest one should guess
His presence sets her heart astir
With sudden, vivid happiness ;
Milady frowns lest one should guess
That his dear coming brings to her
A blaze of light where shadows were.
Milady frowns lest one should guess
His presence sets her heart astir.
Milady smiles lest one should know
His careless words are barbed with pain,
As happily her gay words flow.
Milady smiles lest one should know
I-ler eyes with bitter tears are fain
To blot the brightness out agaiti.
Milady smiles lest one should know
His careless words are barbed with pain.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Weariness.
The seas of sleep are shallower than of
yore;
No longer do I sink through unrevealed.
Dark, utter depths where every sense is
sealed,
To lie in Death’s lap while his tides go o'er
My battered soul, cooling each burning sore,
Ere his fond arms, reluctant still to yield,
Lift me to meet the morning, stainless,
healed,
And eased of every burden that I bore.
For now I toss where thoughts incessant race
In troubled shallows, and the fitful
streams
Of haggard fancy stir through weedy
dreams;
Most wearily each weary moment ebbs,
Till like a blind moon hung with cloudy webs
Time to the eastward turns his withered face.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.
The Painting.
Within the canvas was the gleam
Of happy hues, unfinished still.
Yet showing how the artist’s dream
To Life could thrill.
Above the smooth face gaily curled
The sunny locks ; the background showed
A dim suggestion of a world
Where sunshine glowed.
I watched the artist as he spread
His paint, his brush a magic toy.
“The Joy of Life?” I, guessing, said,
“Or, simply, Joy?”
With cryptic smiles he answered mine;
Then, bending to his work again,
The artist drew a single line,
And there w T as Pain !
Where I had seen glad laughter glow
In eyes that scorned the care of years,
A subtle anguish seemed to show
The gleam of tears!
And all the shadows that had been
But background on which joy was lined
Threw ominously on the scene
The griefs behind.
Such small division holds apart
Our laughter and our pregnant woes,
One shadow thrown across the heart
And laughter goes!
N.s.w.
HAMER.
By Quiet Waters.
Tlie great lig arches o’er the lazy stream
That creeps and glides in snaky trails
below
Between worn boulders where the falling
beam
Gilds slate and granite with a fairy glow
Of rainbow colors —pigments of a dream
Of shining fields where magic flowers grow.
Along the banks the dark trees thickly grow:
And from their lofty boughs the creepers
stream,
Starred with sweet blossoms and white
orchids glow
Through radiant leaves that catch each
wandering beam,
And weave it in a net, then drop it low
To vanish in the gloom that lives below.
I watch and listen. Soft as in a dream
The jungle whispers. In the shallows
grow
Dim shapes that waver with the wavering
stream —•
Appear great-eyed within the limpid glow,
Shining and supple as the silvery beam.
To vanish in the gloom that lives below.
Where sight no longer follows down below,
The crayfish lurks, and unknown creatures
dream.
While the pale fig-tree flowers seem to grow
Reflected in the mirror of the stream.
Fringed, white and delicate. The petals
glow • *, ,
Distinct in every variegated beam.
Swift as an arrow or an errant beam
Of sapphire light from leafy coverts low,
A kingfisher darts from the ruffled stream.
Swallows his minnow where the orchids
grow:
And motionless again lie seems to dream.
His jewelled eyes alone with life aglow.
High, high the bean-tree lifts with scarlet
glow
Its scented roof and rafter, spar and beam.
Trails blossoming ropes to tent-pegs far
below —
A house for pixies or a poet s dream
Where glamors spring and phantom fancies
grow—
While from the wreathed boughs enchant-
ments stream.
Over the stream —and with the magic glow
Gilding the sands below with lambent
beam—
I watch and. watching, dream where fern-
fronds grow.
QUEENSLAND,
BLACK BONNET.


9
■
I
a m
m
■
■ I
■ :
mm.
mm. *
IS!
m
U
m
r
■
m
m
mm
mmm
m
mm
■i
■
* 1
I :
Sr
■
■
Js<yi4v
r
f n rt
unity


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45.—N0. 2293.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1924.
PmcE 6d.
THE WALLFLOWER.
“The British Liberal programme includes the employment of the resources of the State to develop transport and power, and assist farmers and house-builders: while
the Conservatives, in addition to Protection for the benefit of the unemployed, advocate an extension of unemployed insurance and old-age pensions, and a subsidy to farmers
who pay a liberal living wage.”
“Deserted even by my old lovers!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for, The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13$. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correstpondence” co.umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
condition; are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
ittantion. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient . merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
E. St. C. Grondona, Australia House, Strand,
WAL2.__Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludyate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.CJi: E. T. Hole., Ilolerth Satire Service, f 6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algor, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ffl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Hotaling’s News Agency, 203 West fist
Street, New York City; Washington: Liberty News
Co., Seattle, California; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co.. The Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peader Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. I Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — E. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludqatc
Circus. E.C.f.
U.S. A.-— J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: foz.,
lid.: for every additional 20z.. id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: foz., or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1924.
THE NATION’S FLOATING FUND.
A number of minor politicians (and most
politicians are minor) are already lodging
a protest against the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment’s sinking fund, on the plea that the
war was fought for the liberty of future
generations, and, therefore, future genera-
tions, the more remote the better, should be
presented with the bill. The argument
always advanced in favor of leaving the
peace debt to Posterity is that there is be-
queathed along with it public works, of very
insufficient value when new, and apt to be
sere and obsolete when Posterity gets them,
but still constituting a semblance of assets.
This view is even applied to the Federal
railways, which are apparently worth less
than nothing because they produce that much.
If Freedom (to which many meanings are
applied) is treated as a tangible asset, and
if we are sure the war gave us the genuine
article, and if Posterity is certain to get it
in an undamaged state, then the reasoning
applies as well, and no better, to the war
liability likewise. It is a fine splitting of
hairs; but the tendency to always give Aus-
tralia’s children the disadvantage of the
doubt has been for very long the corner-
stone of Australian policy. Indeed, the de-
mand for reduced taxation instead of reduced
liability is one which may become strenuous
at any moment.
* * • *
The Bruce-Page idea, in a general way,
is that the war debt should be wiped off in
50 years. It is proposed that all debts should
have attached a sinking fund of 10s. per £lOO
per annum (more in a few cases), so that
each loan may start with a slow but faithful
hound of repayment hull down on the hori-
zon, but still known to be in pursuit. A total
payment of £2,200,000 a year is talked of,
including an appropriation of half the profits
of the Commonwealth Bank, and to this may
be added aids from the surplus, when there
happens to be the kind of Treasurer who has
a surplus. Yet whether the Federal posi-
tion grows better depends, even with all this
provision, on the amount of new borrowings
and on how they are applied. There is no
visible prospect of the whole Australian posi-
tion growing better unless the Federal autho-
rity takes upon itself to create a reliable sink-
ing fund for all the State debts, by levying
special Federal taxation for the purpose on
the States’ people, who are also its own
people, and a vigorous agitation to accustom
the community to this idea is due. The next
big war may find Australia thrown much
more on its own resources, for the parent on
whom it and many others leaned so freely
in the late trouble may not be in condition
for another similar effort. And if the next
war finds Australia Federally solvent but
hopelessly State-bankrupt, then all the com-
mendable efforts of the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment to clear the deck for the ensuing action,
even if disreputable successors don’t nullify
them, may come to naught. In fact, the
Commonwealth’s unproductive war and other
debts may be cleared off, and still the coming
trouble may find its people with much more
unproductive debt than they have now, and
possessing neither money nor credit to fight
with in consequence. And the All-Austra-
lian authority, having a campaign on its
hands, and that being the first consideration,
may be driven to intimate that interest on
State debts is suspended, and that the six
parts of the country must be sacrificed that
the whole may have a chance of being saved.
The position of this country is wholly dif-
ferent from that of the United Kingdom.
After every big war Britain set to work to
pay off the bill, and though it was usually
too sanguine about the date of the next war,
which arrived in almost every case ahead
of schedule time, something was done during
these intervals in the way of getting ready.
But if minor authorities had been borrowing,
mostly abroad, ten times faster than the re-
payment process was effected, and subordi-
nate authorities under them had done the
same, the next war would sooner or later
have found the Old Man in London very
much unprepared.
The attitude of those who want reduced
taxation and immediate ease instead of re-
duced debt and early solvency is that the world
has been saved —and saved for good, just as
the saint is saved when he dies and goes to
Heaven. Speaking from this point of view
ex-SpeakeX Johnson was especially grieved
at the ideaXof applying any surplus to the
redemption of bonds :
It was to be remembered that the war debt was
not incurred to preserve Australia free for this and
the next generation only, but also for future genera-
tions, and there is no ethical obligation on us or
our children to take up the whole or even the
major part of the burden.
Johnson’s typical contribution is a striking
example of the mean and cruel policy of
always giving the children the disadvantage
of the doubt. A great debt was incurred to
“preserve” Australia, and if anyone can
prove that Australia will stay preserved for
ever, then almost any old future will do for
repayment. If it can even be proved that it
will stay preserved for a century there is suffi-
cient time, always provided the time is used
properly. But it is quite likely that any
scheme based on the theory that the next war
is even 50 years off is 150 per cent, too san-
guine. The world, which is just the same
bad old world, isn’t all exhausted by the
late struggle, though certain of the victors
may be. Some parts of it kept out, or only
skirmished on the fringes of the row, and
are tolerably fresh. The victory may have
been decisive, but it hasn’t necessarily taught
all and sundry that to try a fall with the
British Empire is blank suicide. Failure
loomed so near at times that they rather
marvel at Britain’s luck, and speculate that
it is much too good to last. It was by little
more than accident that Britain wasn’t found
unprepared by sea as well as by land. Up
to the llJth hour Ministers like Lloyd
George and Haldane and Morley and
John Burns and Harcourt urged the scrap-
ping of Dreadnoughts instead of aiming to
speed up the programme, and the story has
been told that the speeders were an actual
minority of the Asquith Cabinet, and only
beat the scrappers by energy and the superior
strength of their convictions. Even with all
the vigorous preparation that took place the
fleet wasn’t strong enough, or something was
not enough, to make Jutland a decisive suc-
cess, if it was a success of any sort. Sup-
posing the Kaiser’s new navy had possessed
the magnificent swelled head which a cen-
tury of unbroken victory (1814 to 1914)
had given to his old Prussian army, it might
have held that Jutland was a British defeat,
and proved it by acting accordingly—in the
Thames and elsewhere.
* * * *
When the next war comes Australia, and
not Belgium or any other place within long
gunshot of London, may be the bone of con-
tention. There may be a pacifist, anti-mili-
tary, anti-naval, non-financial British Gov-
ernment in power, one which professes no
care for the Dominions, and almost an abso-
lute dislike of the White Australia ideal, as
an outrage on the international brotherhood
of the proletariat. In other words, there
may be a Jack .Tones Government in power,
affiliated with Tom Walsh and his anti-
White Australia Seamen’s Union here; for
even if Labor met with only a qualified suc-
cess in December it proved itself a growiug
force, and the future is before it. It is diffi-
cult to suppose that* some Power wouldn't
try a fall with the British Empire in those
conditions. Therefore, war might find Aus-
tralia left to its own resources in quite an
unexpected measure. It can’t be said that
this country is taking any alarmist steps to
meet such a case. The naval, military and
air defence budget for the continent is under
£5.000,000, while that of the Irish Free State,
about the size of Tasmania, is £4.000,000.
Nobody is making haste with strategic or
other railways in the North. And there are
people who even hold that it is a work of
supererogation to put the finances in order,
one war being over, and the country being
consequently “preserved.”
THE LAND OF THAT’LL DO.
When the English writer D. H. Lawrence
made his mysterious stay in Australia a
couple of years ago, the thing that struck
him most violently was that nothing mat-
tered. The home-coming Australian is liable
to be just as hard hit by our habit of passing
almost anything as good enough. On his
way from the ship to his home or hotel he
will probably have his attention painfully
drawn to our casual way of making roads;
and at the hotel he will certainly be stag-
gered by the casual habits of the staff. This
characteristic of ours may have been the
only possible thing in the circumstances of
a former time. Australia was an “outpost,”
and you can’t have the niceties of metropoli-
tan civilisation in such places. But outpost
habits are apt to become intolerable when a
place has ceased to be an outpost. Nor is
this merely a question of personal comfort.
That, in fact, is only a small incident. The
trouble is that a community’s whole way of
thinking as well as of acting is affected.
When people who are interested in develop-
ing our trade in other countries tell us that
we shall have to put better wrappers on our
goods we are inclined to simply laugh at
them. What possible difference can the strip
of paper around a jam-tin make? If we
choose to print a picture of a bird on a tin
of preserved fruit —well, wliat does that
matter? And if we print it indif-
ferently—-well, what does that matter
either? Whether it ought to matter
is quite beside the question. We are the
sellers, and we have to suit our buyers i)
order to get their trade; and if we can’t suit
them nothing is more certain than that we
shall not get their trade except at a very
poor price. The sniff that used to go with
the word “colonial” has not by any means
disappeared. “Colonial wine,” “colonial
boots,” “colonial tweed”—there was some-
thing offensive about the name, and, to be
quite frank, there was usually something
offensive about the goods. They were ill-
finished, crude. In their home country they
had a market, partly gained for them by
patriotism, but chiefly because most buyers
did not notice that the goods were ill-finished.
And, anyhow, they were cheap. But pre-
sently two changes came over the scene.
First, in order to pay interest on our fast-
growing debt and to meet the bills for our
imports, we had to seek foreign markets for
the surplus of our “colonial” products; and
then owing to' rapid changes in industrial
conditions most of our goods ceased to be
cheap. We are, therefore, finding a difficulty
in selling our goods abroad, while at home
constant increases in Customs duties are not
sufficient to keep the trade for the home pro-
ducts.
* * * *
The people in the foreign markets who
judge the goods by their packing may be
as stupid as we sometimes profess to think
them; but it is just as well to realise that
they are not altogether without method in
their madness. That indifferent packing
shouts of the casual habits of the packers;
and too often an investigation of the innards
supports the conclusion already formed. This
is especially true of our preserved fruits:
they shriek quite as loudly as the packing of
the casual habits of the packers. Our com-
petitors offer, their wares invitingly : we seem
to act as though we had a contempt for such
considerations. If we elevate this to a prin-
ciple, Ave have no right to complain if we are
martyred, and see our competitors pocket the
money that we would not stoop to pick up.
Those people who are always telling Aus-
tralians that they are naturally wood and
water joeys are no doubt largely responsible
for the small pride which we take in our
manufactures. If we were told that our
very existence, certainly our prosperity, de-
pended upon the quality of our factory goods,
we wpuld naturally give closer attention to
them than if we were told —as we so often
are—that our future lies in the production
of wheat and wool, and that, in spite of our
great resources in coal and iron, we are little
better than wasting our time when we go
into a factory or a workshop. But it is not
only in regard to our manufactures that the
habits of pioneering days stick to us. A
vast area of our continent is natural cattle
country; there was a time when beef was one
of our most important export lines, and when
the trade promised to increase enormously.
Then, almost before we were aware of the
change, cattle in Queensland were selling at
a few shillings a head, and tens of thousands
of calves were actually being regarded as
vermin and slaughtered to get rid of them.
All sorts of explanations were, as usual,
made; but the outstanding fact is that here
again our competitors have refused to be
quite as casual as we. They haven’t left
things to nature: they have declined to re-
gard what would happen without any help
from themselves as good enough. They have
consistently bent their energies to the im-
provement of their herds; they have aimed
at the production of quickly maturing types;
they have developed means of topping up the
beasts intended for market before slaughter-
ing .them. On the other hand nothing could
be rbore primitive than our own cattle-raising
methods. Even when the professional cattle-
raiser has taken over sheep country—as he
did pretty extensively a few years ago—he
has usually allowed all the improvements to
go to wreck. And the Australian city meat-
eater may judge of the absence of “topping”
facilities from the disgracefully poor quality
of the beef offered him for his own home
consumption.
* * * *
What does it all mean? Our grandfathers
came into this country with little more than
their hands to help them. To a greater extent
than ever before they had to put up with
what nature sent them. They had to make
things do. Before they had finished neces-
sarily putting up with things, they had
schooled themselves into believing that the
hard life they lived was the best life, and
that the poor things they had were all that
anybody could want. They had adopted
things as makeshifts in the beginning, and
had not, therefore, troubled greatly that they
were neither comfortable nor tidy; and pre-
sently when they might easily have had better
things they did not want them. Naturally
their surroundings did a great deal to shape
their habits of mind and body. They gave
up as a bad job any serious attempt to tell
in advance what was coming, and developed
the quality of meeting emergencies as they
arose. Hence that resource and persomil
initiative of the Digger which was the won-
der of the armies in France. But unfor-
tunately that is merely the complement of
qualities which are not nearly so desirable.
The capacity for instant action had been
developed largely because of the habit of
letting things slide. No country which
hadn’t got into that habit could be in Aus-
tralia’s present financial state without worry-
ing about it. Nor could it see the number
of its skilled tradesmen dwindle through the
practical abolition of the apprenticeship sys-
tem. Our trouble will be that we will get
no more sympathy from the world than any
personal sinner does who is landed in a bail
atmosphere and doesn’t get out of it. Rightly
or wrongly they hang him when he commits
a murder or send him to gaol when he com-
mits a theft. And the Avorld will have—
actually has—no compunction about treat-
ing us in the same way. It will not pay a
farthing a pound more for our beef than it
thinks the meat is worth ; it will make no
allowances for the bad putting up of our
fruits or the mishandling of our hides; and
when we are caught in a cleft stick over the
renewal of a loan we shall be squeezed of
the last possible quarter per cent, in spite
of all we may plead in regard to our national
habits. The question, then, for us to seri-
ously consider is whether we hadn’t better
get rid of such of those habits as have out-
lived their day.
LEVERHULME BLOWS BUBBLES.
Lord Leverhulme tells us that no country
which has large natural resources can afford
to put walls around itself. “I don’t want to
force my opinion on you,” he says, “but the
most prosperous and progressive nation in
the world to-day has more Freetrade than
any other —I refer to America.” The
simple fact that Lord Leverhulme over-
looks is that that country has also more
Protection than any other in the world. The
American States are not fighting from behind
fiscal barricades with one another, any more
than the various branches of the wideflung
Lever business fight with one another; but
as regards the rest of the world they are
solid both in attack and defence, just like
the Lever business regarded as a whole.
And not only was the prosperity of the
United States built on fiscal barriers; it is
maintained on fiscal barriers. Thus, if it
were possible for Germany and Austria to
start bombarding the U.S. with cheap goods
to-day, an unemployment problem such as
that which is menacing the United Kingdom
would be instantly created. Freetrade among
States without Protection against the world
is exactly the same as friendship among
States without common defences against the
world. What good would Federation have
done this continent when the Great War
started if it had not been backed by the
Australia and the other vessels of the Fleet?
* * * *
Lord Leverhulme’s reasoning is as far
divorced from the practicalities when he tries
to get Australians, with the horrible ex-
amples of the U.S. and South Africa before
their eyes, to go in for colored labor. Also,
in this, as in his habit of opening or expand-
ing businesses in Protectionist countries,
he displays an utter contempt of Freetrade
principles. A point insisted on is that the
nigger is to be imported for no other pur-
pose than “to be used as a beast of burden.”
And it is obviously intended that he shall
be paid that class of animal’s wages. But
what is the right to employ coolie labor,
accorded to a given industry in a country
which predominantly employs highly-paid
white labor, but a protective bounty of the
most valuable description? If, on the other
hand, uxiion wages are to be offered to black
men in (say) the sugar industry, then the
degrading spectacle will shortly be offered
of white Britishers competing for jobs against
hordes of colored aliens, living with them
and assimilating their ways. The next de-
velopment will be the percolation of the
blacks to our at present 95 per cent, white
cities, and the next the formation of negro
quarters such as that of New York, which
is 120,000 strong, and of Washington, which is
100,000 strong.
* * * *
Protection has its surface disadvantages,
and no rational Protectionist tries to obscure
the fact. A country with industries like the
Ford works, where, according to Lord Lever-
iiulme, “no worker is paid less than £1 a
day,” can hardly expect as cheap a breakfast
as one might get in Devonshire. But there
is this to be said: no able-bodied craftsman
is in danger of remaining permanently un-
employed in a high tariff country, and even
though his food costs him more he is at the
worst able to buy it, and does not depend on
the charity of those associated with the few
specialist callings that flourish in a Free-
trade atmosphere. As for the alleged shame
which is put on a white man when asked
to labor in hot climates, and more particu-
larly to do work that degenerate whites have
been accustomed to pass on to blacks in
America and elsewhere, the best type of Aus-
tralian does not feel it. He has been edu-
cated to believe that it is as honorable to
work on a caneficld in Queensland as in a
sewer in Melbourne or a soapworks in Syd-
ney—that the one job is no more a “coolie's
job” than the other. A point missed by over-
seas black labor advocates is that the whole
of these conventions regarding the occupa-
tions white men may undertake, and the
regions in which they may practise them, are
senseless artificialities. White domestics —
notably men servants —are esteemed in Eng-
land ; a white Britisher who acted as foot-
man or groom in India would, in Lord Lever-
hulme’s words, “degrade himself.” There
are scores of callings that a white worker
can only engage in at the cost of his self-
respect in S’Africa, though in the United
Kingdom and Australia some of the best
specimens of the race are earning their liv-
ings on such lines. What the phenomenon
means is that there is nothing intrinsically dis-
creditable about any honest job: discredit is
imposed by the hue, the habits and the low
order of culture of the majority of those em-
ployed on it. A good deal of damage has
already been done in this direction in the
vegetable-growing and fruit-retailing busi-
nesses in the eastern States of Australia, and


it industrialists like Lord Leveriitjlme get
their way the prestige of agriculture and of
many of our manufacturing enterprises will
follow suit.
THE CHAOS IN THE COTTON
INDUSTRY.
[The writer was for many years the Queensland
Government’s cotton expert.]
Several Bulletin writers have recently
drawn attention to the position in which
cotton-growers find themselves in Queens-
land owing to adverse legislative action.
Mr. Crawford Vaughan, in a contribu-
tion, seeks to throw glamor over some of the
issues, notably that relating to the opinions
of oversea authorities as to the value of our
ratoon cotton. Mr. Vaughan merits the
good wishes of all interested in the growth of
the industry, inasmuch as his propaganda has
brought about a development widen the writer
has sought to accomplish in the past 40
years or so. Naturally he seeks to justify
the policy of his company, but the views of
the oversea experts whom he quotes as
authorities, and upon whose verdict the
Queensland Government took action, need
close investigation. In a few plain words,
the Government forbids the grower to leave
a cotton plant in the ground after the first
harvest. lie must then root it out and grow
another from seed, notwithstanding that cot-
ton is a hardy perennial.
This ban on ratoon cotton and the legisla-
tive action related therewith has created a
condition of chaos which will bring consider-
able odium on those responsible for the situa-
tion. The ostensible reason for the ban is
a danger from invasion of the boll-weevil and
the pink boll-worm, so far not in evidence in
Queensland cotton areas. Mr. Vaughan, in
instancing countries that have banned ratoon
systems, failed to prove that in any of the
cases instanced any amelioration had re-
sulted from that policy. He unfairly in-
stanced the United States as one of the
countries where ratooning was not practised.
He did not tell his readers that in that coun-
try it is impracticable to grow ratoon crops
on account of the climatic conditions prevail-
ing in all of the cotton-growing States other
than those on or near the Mexican border,
where tests have proved successful. Hence
it is no argument against ratoon to quote
American authorities, inasmuch as the system
is not in vogue for the territories with which
they are acquainted. Were it practicable to
ratoon upland cotton in the United States,
the growers would find in this practice a
means of actually countering the attacks of
the boll-weevil to a material extent; for the
objective of the American grower of late
years has been to advance the maturing
period of the plant cotton so that a three
weeks’ earlier harvesting can be obtained,
thus saving as much as possible of the crop
before the weevil emerges. Should this pest
unfortunately be introduced into Queensland
our ability to produce ratoon and perennial
varieties of cotton will be our principal safe-
guard.
No one finds fault with the enthusiasm
expressed by the so-called Lancashire delega-
tion when it realised what vast potentialities
existed for the production of cotton in the
Commonwealth; but when those gentlemen
showed the bias against long-tested systems
of cultivation, and moreover averred un-
truthfully that ratoon cotton was not legal
tender among cotton-spinners, they dealt
themselves and the industry a blow which we
are now staggering under. It may indeed be
taken for granted—and the view is based on
my full half-century’s intimate acquaintance
with the practical side of cotton-growing—
that, as far as Queensland and other parts
of tropical Australia are concerned, if the
growth of perennial cotton is proscribed, we
may well write Australia “off the map” as a
cotton-growing country. In N. S. Wales
and in the colder areas there is equally no
doubt that the plant must be raised as an
annual; but should the price fall to pre-
war values only the country able to produce
the article in the surest and most economical
way will be able to compete against the
countries of low-priced labor. As far as the
presence of insect pests is concerned, we
invariably find that plant cotton, due to its
tender and luscious condition, is affected
more than is the hardy and matured one- or
two-year-old shrub.
As evidence of the value of perennial cot-
ton ratooned for the past 17 years. I have a
shrub now flourishing, but awaiting its “sen-
tence of death” under the recent legislation,
that has during the past month furnished
lib. lOoz. of seed cotton, worth (in seed)
6d. per lb., the high value being due to its
long staple. And what has been picked is
but half of what is to pick. This shrub in
its best years has returned 61b. weight per
season, which would, at 1000 plants to the
acre, show a very good profit, did it give even
a quarter of the same return under field con-
ditions. Instances are common of much
larger yields got from perennial shrubs —in
instances up to 201 b. weight in a season.
What I demur at is the hasty decision come
to on the subject—a decision which has im-
perilled the interests not only of the farmers,
but of those who in their enthusiasm invested
large sums in establishing cotton-growing
plantations, as well as those shareholders who
have so liberally contributed to the establish-
ment of the 8.A.C.A., whose success all
would desire; but- to achieve it they must
shake off those.,sinister influences responsible
for what farmers call the “Lancashire
blight.” The immediate result of the insane
policy of repression is that hundreds of
acres of cotton have been sacrificed which
under ordinary conditions would have given
returns of £2O to £3O worth of cotton per
acre.
It is well to note that no parcel of cot-
ton has ever left Queensland but contained
more or less ratoon ; and as all of our Lan-
cashire sales have been on a basis of about
2d. per lb. over American middling, there is
clear evidence that the statements of the
delegation were far from accurate on the
question of the value of ratoon cotton. The
unfortunate mistake was made in confusing
American holly cotton with ratoon, and this
is largely responsible for the prejudice exist-
ing against our cultivating the plant as
hitherto. So disturbed are the growers that
they contemplate paying the expenses of a
representative to Lancashire to place the
position before the spinning trade A satis-
factory report was recently obtained from the
highest authority on the subject, viz., the
British Cotton Growers’ Association, a sample
of ratoon being valued at equal to American
middling; and if similar shipments in 50-
bale lots were forthcoming the association
undertook to act as agents and to dispose of
all arriving. From this it will be gathered
that there was no justification for the stric-
tures of the delegation, inasmuch as the spin-
ners approved of the ratoon cotton in every
instance.
Despite the trying season experienced,
growers continue confident of the success of
the industry under reasonable conditions; but
the total acreage under crop is hard to esti-
mate, inasmuch as the eradication of ratoon
plants has diminished the area materially,
and also because the time taken in destroy-
ing last year's plants militated against an
extension of the new- crop. Further, drought
conditions have been hard on new plants.
Thus a Lockyer grower who sowed 60 acres
was able to germinate only 15, just about
the acreage he destroyed of ratoon shrubs.
Despite the ban put upon ratooning by a
Government without knowledge, and misled
by gentlemen with no experience of Queens-
land conditions, cotton-growing stands in the
farmer’s mind as the most dependable of
all branches of agriculture. There is no pes-
simism other than that which arises from
doubt as to the trend of legislation.
DANIEL JONES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Human Values.
An Australian journalist, oddly indifferent
to the themes which engross the conductors
of popular newspapers—sport, crime, the
personal or ruffianly side of politics, musical
comedy, the movies and women’s legs—has
been telling the story of Lawrence Har-
grave, “the great Australian who showed
men how to fly.” After describing how Har-
grave’s experiments were ridiculed for a
quarter of a century, and how the N. S.
Wales Government and the Sydney Univer-
sity refused to find house-room for his models,
which now occupy an honored place in the
leading Bavarian museum, the writer pre-
dicts that in ages to come savants will visit
Sydney, not to feast their eyes on its harbor
or to recruit their flagging energies on its
ocean beaches, but “to see the grave of the
master who conquered the air for man.” The
prophet may be justified, but if the pil-
grimage started now the difficulty would be
to find a man who knew anything of Har-
grave or where he sleeps. Not having
made a century in a Test match, or ridden
the winner of the Sydney Cup, or discovered
another knockout punch, or devised a new
way of faking Labor selection-ballots, Har-
grave is not among tnose wnom ins native
country regards as celebrities, although his
name is increasingly honored abroad. Just
now the city in which he labored and was
laughed at has gone crazy about a 16-year-
old boy who has shown that he can swim a
bit faster than any man in the. business.
This youngster is described by the Evening
News —not jestingly, but in a spirit of rever-
ent admiration —as “Manly’s patron saint.”
And the Sun records with burning indigna-
tion that in a recent inter-State cricket match
the N. S. Wales eleven had to wait ten
minutes for their afternoon tea; also that
“the association frequently declines a player’s
request for a new cap or a new blazer,”
although “the blazers worn by one or two
men are torn.” Of* a youth who has made
a lot of runs this season the Australasian
remarks that “the honor of his State and
country will be safe in his hands.” It is
proposed to change the name of a Sydney
park to that of a deceased batsman, who
learned to play the game on its wickets; and
when a professional bike-pusher returns from
his annual quest of lucre on European tracks
it rains civic receptions. There is no record
of Hargrave, Lawson, Lindsay, Long-
staff, Farreb, Ridley or Alexander
Sutherland having been invited to sit at
any Australian Mayor’s mahogany, but bike-
pushers, swimmers, tennis-players, cricketers
and footballers get the “distinction” as a
matter of course. On a certain historic occa-
sion the chief magistrate of an Australian
town mustered his councillors to welcome
tw r o prize-fighters, one of whom was in an
advanced state of beer. And it is a melan-
choly truth that divers sporting celebrities
who kept well away from the war are far better
known to, if not more admired by> then-
civilian fellow-countrymen than the general
who commanded at Mont St. Quentin, most
brilliant of battles, or the ex-soldier whose
marvellous bravery prompted a London news-
paper to designate him “the super-V.C.,” or
that other Digger who won so many honors
on the field of battle that at the great Hyde
Park investiture in 1917 he was the first
man to be decorated by King George —his
name led all the rest. It wasn't an Austra-
lian who wrote that “the world knows no-
thing of its greatest men,” but it might have
been. The sentiment has a bitter applica-
tion to a country where a higher value is
set on brawn than on brains, where fame,
with its material concomitants—“£loo
pearls” and the like—is the reward of pro-
ficiency in sport and obscurity the guerdon
of service to the nation or the human family.
♦—
Wanted, a Steady Job.
A Vic. trade-union secretary, back from a
trip to Merrie England, described some , of
the sights:—
In London you see poverty everywhere you look.
Fine strapping fellows are selling anything and
everything lor a crust.... An artisan pointed out
St. Martin’s church to me and said, “Have a look
in it.” 1 found the church packed with people seek-
ing shelter and sleep. Waitresses in London hotels
get 11s. sd. a week. On the Isle of Man 1 found
they were getting 15s. and the occupation is seasonal
only. In Scotland the miners receive £2 a week.
The ..engineers in Leeds receive £-2 18s. (Id. a week,
and lose , two days a week. I was told on good
authority that round Bradford (the textile area)
there were 16,000 out of work because the woollen
stuffs were coming in from France. From Germany
boots and other goods are pouring in.
And possibly “woollen stuffs from France”
will come in harder now that France has
joined the list of countries with a grievously
depreciated currency. There are many draw-
backs about low-priced paper, but it has
an advantage in dealing with a country which
pays in good money and hasn’t sense enough
to protect its own industry. Once, when the
Frenchman sold material for a suit in Eng-
land for £l, that meant about 25 francs ; now
he may sell it for 10s., and that meant 50
francs the other day. Germany is on the
same basis, and one great ambition of Ram-
say Macdonald is to cultivate better and
larger trade relations with Russia, which is
similar. By reason of the late war Britain
threw overboard many of its old gods. It
adopted compulsory service and supplemented
it with compulsory agriculture and compul-
sory rations. It issued Government paper on
a considerable scale. It made a desperate
plunge into unemployment insurance. It
abandoned the Irish Union, which is a much
older fetich than Cobdenism; but it still
holds, though with a grip that is slipping, to
its joss of Freetrade, which is to say that
trade is free one way, other people being at
liberty to sell their goods to John Bull,
though John Bull isn't at liberty to sell his
to them; in other words, the marriage is
quite the ordinary sort, save that Smith is
married to Mrs. Smith while Mrs. Smith
isn’t married to Smith. The various schemes
for dealing with the situation, apart from
that of Baldwin, look dilatory as well as
nebulous. It is considered that if something
trenchant is done with the rich, especially
the rent-collecting rich, there will be more
pay for the working poor. But it isn’t likely
to set a single closed factory going again so
long as the only way to keep a factory going
is the Freetrade way—by underselling all the
world. The plan might have answered while
J- Bull knew how to undersell the world,
but apparently he doesn’t know now. An-
other proposition is better housing for the
poor, and they certainly want better houses.
But even if they had palaces it wouldn’t
affect the influx of French woollens and Ger-
man boots which keeps British factories
closed, and the crowd which can’t pay even
for the worse houses there are already would
still be found sheltering in St. Martin’s
Church. It is difficult to find a substitute for
steady employment, and the essential thing
appears to be that Britain should recover its
job, which is, in the first place, that of mak-
ing woollens and boots for its own wear.
Spain made great wealth in the 16th century
by a levy on capital and expropriation of
landlords (that it was a looting of American
aboriginal capital and landlords is a detail),
but it neglected to keep hold of the steady
job, and so it became a gilded derelict. All
sorts of other reforms and improvements may
be and should be added, but without the
steady job they are a mere building on sand.
♦
The Cockies.
In the Parliaments of the Commonwealth
and four States the balance of power has
shifted to third parties, all representative of
the country and generally distinguished by
that name. The movement first became
evident seven years ago in Westralia, where,
impressed by the universal sentiment in
favor of War Cabinets, the Coekies entered
into a working arrangement with the Lib-
erals and the Labor conscriptionists, and
have been represented in so-called National-
ist Ministries ever since. The Westralian
precedent has been followed in the Common-
wealth, Victoria and the Speck, though it
did not last long in the island State. In
N. S. Wales, Queensland and South Aus-
tralia the Country parties have preserved
their independence, and the Ma State Ful-
ler Government could not live if the
agrarians decided that it would be better
dead. Being the outcome of a nation-wide
revolt against Big-City domination, the
Cocky groups are hated by the city-bossed
Liberals and Nationalists, and from time to
time efforts are made to destroy them. In
South Aus., where there is no preferential or
proportional voting, it is hoped to crush
the Farmers between the millstones of Lib-
eralism and Laborism. The divide-and-cori-
quer expedient has been employed without
success in both N. S. Wales and Queensland.
In Westralia the city press is enthusiasti-
cally fanning the flames of a quarrel between
the three Country party Ministers and the
executive of the Primary Producers’ Associa-
tion. which has withdrawn its support from
the Ministers and their 11 followers, re-
garding them as Nationalists in disguise.
And the Victorian Nationalists, having in-
duced the Cockies, or the majority thereof, to
accept representation in the Ministry, have
raised the cry that their allies have “no
right” to contest Dalhousie, a rural seat, the
late member having been a Nationalist. This
monstrous claim is likely to be revived in
several Federal constituencies when the
BRUCE-Pages go to the country, whether in
1925 or earlier. It implies, among other
things, (1) that in the representation of
constituencies party machines are more im-
portant than the people, and (2) that the
smaller member of a partnership formed to
carry on the Government of the country has
no right to expand, having accented a posi-
tion of inferiority for all time. The Cockies
should repudiate these implications once
and for all. No alliance is worth such a
sacrifice of principles. Besides, the flow-
ing tide is -with the Farmers, in spite of
their domestic dissensions. They have had
some setbacks, and will probablv have more,
but they are obviouslv destined to grow at
the expense of the Liberals and the Nation-
alists. who, in the main, represent causes
that are dying or dead.
--
Prophet Pearce and His Disciple.
It is a poor prophet who can’t raise one
disciple, and Minister P’earoe of the Home
and Territories has found his admirer at
Darwin in the manager of Vestey’s meat
works, that unfortunate enterprise which
was born at great cost in 1917 and became
either temporarily or permanently dead at
great expense in 1920. Pearce recently
spent some time in the North, looking over
the Commonwealth’s mismanaged Possession,
and he evolved a plan. (It is a poor prophet
who can’t raise also one plan.) To begin
with, the control of the place is to be put in
the hands of men on the spot, which, assum-
ing it is real control, is the whole gospel of
Separation and New States. Long ago a
Federal Government, consisting of Pearce
and others, sent ridiculous caravans of offi-
cials up north to supply just that powerful
local supervision that is suggested now. But
they w’ere consistently over-ruled or ignored
from Melbourne, and as they lacked the
courage to assert themselves, and would pro-
bably have been sacked if they had tried, no-
thing happened save retrogression, decay and
expenses. Peabce proposes to add certain
highly-paid advisory Commissioners to the
existing spot-show, and they are to “recom-
mend” public works, and the remote absen-
tees in Melbourne (or Canberra) will have
full power to treat them like the rest. In
fact, the proposed management on the spot
seems the same old thing on the same old
spot. Still, the man in charge of Vestey’s
has great hopes of Pearce's scheme, especi-
ally provided it is spread out to include
extension of the isolated little railway to
Daly Waters, more trains on the railway
(the man who misses the vehicle now has
to wait two weeks for the next one), cheaper
motor-fuel, more i-oads, better roads, a better
wharf, more and better ships, abolition of
duties at Darwin, wireless telegraphy and
improved education and medical attendance.
Along these or similar lines the Minister and
the meat-man apparently agree that a patch
of isolated civilisation may be fostered in
the North, approachable from Sydney (2435
miles) and Brisbane (1925 miles) per occa-
sional steamer. It is the old policy which
considers Darwin as an island, consisting,
apart from some unavoidable sundries, of
Darwin wharf, Vestey’s meatworks, and
enough bullock country to supply Vestey’s
with meat to be shipped at the wharf.
The converse idea is that the Territory
wants, first of all, such population as will
justify it being set up as a self-governing
State, so that it will be really managed by
people on the spot. But there is no prospect
of any definite or permanent progress of this
sort while “settlement” consists of a little
industrial army cut off by many days’ jour-
ney from its base, and left to itself in the
hottest and least attractive part of the coun-
try. It is time that consideration was
diverted in some part from Darwin and
Vestey’s, and given to the south and centre
of the Territory (it has a south which is
wholly outside the tropics, and an elevated
centre) ; also to its ranges, its inland rivers,
and its great mineral belt, at present almost
inaccessible. These things call for notice
as well as the condition of Darwin wharf.
Further, it is highly advisable that the aver-
age travelling time between the northern part
of the Possession and some big civilised city
should be reduced by at least 80 per cent.,
with a larger reduction for more accessible
parts, and that the connection should be
once a day if possible—certainly oftener than
once in a monthly liner’s time-table. The
pioneering men who started with very in-
sufficient resources to make the Territory
part of Australia had no faith at all in the
idea of an isolated settlement, dependent on
one or two meat millionaires, and when they
handed over the contract and the assets to
the Commonwealth, at the Commonwealth's
request, it was still held and agreed that
direct and quick communication with older
and more settled Australia was the great
essential. Nor was it ever in the bargain
that the Possession should be treated as in
any manner an appanage of Queensland.
Yet local politicians at Brisbane pose as
if they had a lien on the place, or had done
something for it in a previous incarnation.
♦
The Case for Prevention.
When the newly-elected president of the
N. S. Wales Dental Association addressed
his colleagues it was significant that his
observations were concerned chiefly with pro-
phylaxis. Most of the dental troubles which
cause general ill-health, and even death, are,
it seems, preventable. A few weeks previ-
ously the chairman of the ophthalmological
section of the Australasian Medical Congress
had spoken to the brethren, and here, too,
the point stressed and stressed again was
the importance of prevention. Nothing is so
creditable to the doctors in every branch of
the splendid profession by which they live
than their insistence on measures calculated
to deprive them of fees. And to do the intel-
ligence of the Governmental authorities jus-
tice, they have usually taken the advice so
tendered, with wonderfully beneficial results
to the nation’s health and happiness. Lep-
rosy and plague, which were more feared by
the white races than war itself in the Middle
Ages, are now practically unknown outside
casual Asia. Cholera and typhus are con-
fined to the most backward regions of white
countries and to the cities and towns of colored
people who are ignorant of sanitation.
Typhoid is going, and small-pox, which once
killed or disfigured thousands in every gen-
eration, lias almost gone. The only excep-
tion, amongst mankind’s preventable afflic-
tions, is to be found in the venereal diseases
which rage more freely in the present cen-
tury than they did in Europe when a king’s
touch was the favorite specific for tertiary
syphilis. Yet the venereal diseases, and
notably the most dreadful of them, might be
banished as easily as any of those above
mentioned. No further research is required :
no new methods need to be devised ; and no
doubts exist as to the results of immediate
action. In a recent issue the Medical Jour-
nal of Australia had this to say about
“Venereal Disease in the American Expedi-
tionary Forces,” by George Walker, M.D.:
The most prominent feature of this book is the
proof of the efficiency of prophylaxis soon after ex-
posure. The fact that prophylaxis was responsible
for reducing the rate of infection in the American
Expeditionary Forces from 240 per 1000 per annum
amongst the white troops and 625 per 1000 per
annum amongst 'the ’ colored troops to an infection
rate of 31 per 1000, speaks for itself.
It is sometimes contended feebly that “society
is not an army”; that methods which are
practicable in war would be impossible under
peace conditions. But nothing more drastic
was done in the World War to counter V.D.
than is now the rule in civilised countries
when bubonic plague appears ; and the mea-
sures by which the doctors drove leprosy out
of Europe were more ruthless than anything
proposed for the frustration of the venereal
diseases which, first and last, are more agon-
ising to the individual and more costly to
the State than leprosy ever was. Common-
sense, modern science and the public welfare
all cry out for their extermination along the
only linos by which calamities of the sort
can be abolished, and only a distorted form
of pietism objects. The same people in the
same illogically obstructive spirit object to
what is. in effect, prophylaxis in the liquor
trade. The only remedy they will, have for
V.D. is the abolition of sin ; their only cure
for the drunkenness of a few is the denial


T 1 !? Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £8849
Seventh year’s premiums. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £87,72£
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
TJie Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
Managing Director,
of alcohol in any form to everybody. They
should be swept aside for the visionaries they
are while Australia addresses itself to the
urgent tasks of getting clean and sober by
methods whose efficacy has been fully and
repeatedly demonstrated.
♦
Fetiches and Filtli.
As another Health Officer sees it:—
“Dr. Nil” recently spoiled a good case for the
need of better care of the public food supply by-
decrying- the importance of one measure of food
supervision which is effective. “Pure meat” is
not a fetich. Hardly a week goes by at any large
abattoir without at least one beast, outwardly in
prime condition, being found to be riddled with
tuberculosis. Such a carcase is, of course, condemned
and does not go into human consumption. In
private and unsupervised slaughter-houses outside the
meat areas, tubercular-infected beasts are proportion-
ately just as common, probably more so. But from
these places they often go into consumption after
having the gross lesions removed. Of course, the
meat is cooked, but before being cooked it is handled
by the slaughterman, the butcher and the housewife.
It must always be remembered that in the unsuper-
vised slaughter-house proper care is not taken to
disinfect knives, etc., that have been used on an
infected carcase. Here, then, is a very likely
source of infection which meat supervision blocks.
Again, in many country slaughter-houses dogs are
found running loose when the animals are being
killed and dressed. This is contrary to law, and at
an abattoir under supervision dogs are rigidly
excluded or chained up, so that they cannot eat
raw offal. In Victoria many sheep’s livers are found
to contain hydatid cysts. Dogs eating these are
very liable to develop Tania echinococcus, which
is the tapeworm whose intermediate form is the
hydatid cyst. These dogs are then liable to in-
directly infect man by- pollution of water and
vegetables. You cannot expect the slaughterman to
be conversant with the life history of the Tasniae, nor
is it feasible to have an. inspector visit each little
country- slaughter-house when the killing- is in
progress to see that all regulations are strictly
enforced. “Dr. Nil” says that in 30 years’ experi-
ence he has never seen a case of illness arising from
the consumption of fresh butcher’s meat. How many
definite cases of illness can he attribute to the
consumption of fruit which has been packed in a
dirty case? Or to bread which has been handled
by- dirty hands ? Gan he definitely establish the
cause of every case of tuberculosis lie has seen ?
Finally-, would he have us believe that the patholo-
gists, on whose recommendations, after all, the meat
supervision standards are based, are all wrong?
Randolph Bedford’s Electorate.
“Damper” on Queensland’s Western lands:
Randolph Bedford, in “My Electorate,” mentions
its two curses, dingoes and Kidmanism. He foresees
other dangers, such as the extinction of the mulga,
overstocking, prickly-pear, etc., but his main text
is dingoes and Kidmanism. He does not mention
rabbits. Why? There are some left.
Of course the dingo is a serious obstacle to the
sheep industry. It is, and always was. Forty years
ago, when the Warrego was stocked with sheep by-
Victorians, there were just about as many- dingoes
as -sheep. At least it seemed so. By- concerted
action the “old, ignorant fraudulent pioneers'*
poisoned, trapped and killed by other means so
many dogs that it was rarely a dingo was seen
on the Warrego in 1889. There was no netting,
there was no benevolent Government giving a big-
bo mis for the perpetuation of the dog- menace.
(The bonus is really a premium on the preservation
of dogs, because no man making up to £2O per week
will destroy his business.) The old “frauds” simply
cleaned the country of dogs. They acted on a
principle which is older than Christianity. “The
streets of Jerusalem were kept clean by every man
sweeping the road in front of his own house.” 1
am not like Mr. Bedford. I am not a member of
Parliament. 1 am only a son of one of the “old,
ignorant, fraudulent pioneers.” “I dip my lid” to
them —anyway as far as the dingo question is con-
cerned.
Now we come to Kidmanism, Mr. Bedford's chief
raison d’etre, judging by- his recent writings. He
talks about the desolation of the south-western part
of “My Electorate.” It is true that it was desolate.
The recent rains will alter that in a few weeks.
It is true also that overstocking in the past helped
to make the country a desert. The old, ignorant
etceteras knew nothing about the carrying capacity-
of the country when they took it up and improved
it. How could they ? They were pioneers! They
saw the land when it was practically impossible
to overstock it with sheep. I know that on one
station—Coongoola, on the Warrego, to wit —one
10-mile block carried 24,000 weaners for eight months,
ar.d at the end of that period one could hardly- see
where they had been. Two y-ears later one solitary
horse left there died from starvation. If the “old
frauds” had seen the country in its later condition,
many things would have been different. For one
thing, Mr. Bedford would not have written his
article.
Mr. Bedford is quite right in saying that leases
should have a covenant that country should not, he
overstocked. In the present leases there is none.
Why- did he not lift up his voice to that effect when
he was an M.L.C. ? He quotes a case where a lessee
made a lot of money after lie drew- his block in
a ballot without ever seeing the place. This is
a libel on the Grown Land ranger of the district,
for the law says that a lessee shall live on the
block for five years. Queensland can be proud of
its Lands officers. We have clean land laws and
clean administrators.
I can forgive Mr. Bedford much: but I shall
find it hard to forgive him for calling the men who
made it easy for him and others to blather nonsense
in every corner of “My Electorate” “old, ignorant,
fraudulent pioneers.” Verily this w-as the live ass
kicking the dead lions.
♦
The Tragedy of the Eclipsed.
“10-2-4” on some lights that have failed :
The current London papers mention that when Sir
Charles Darling made his farewell speech in the
King’s Bench Division he broke down. It is under-
standable. For a quarter of a century his jokes
had been law, so to speak. Some were quite good,
and all were bettered by his method of delivering
them, but good or ill the audience was expected to
laugh. It is a heady power this of being always
able to compel attention, and nothing quite makes
up for its loss.
Pitiable, indeed, was the plight of many C.O.’s
when the war ended. For years they had been auto-
THE NEW BOSS.
THE OLD MAN: “What’s your experience of him?”
TTHE KID : “Such a pood fellow at heart that nearly anybody can take him down; so
Lord help you if he starts ‘nationalising ’ things!"
erats of their mess-tables. Any, expression of opinion
on politics, literature or art, however transparently
imbecile, brought respectful murmurs of approval
or a hurricane of loyal hilarity- from the assembled
warriors according as the pronouncement demanded.
“Rupert Brooke!” snorted one old Lark Hill
desperado, apropos an expression of regret that the
poet was no more. “Who the hell’s Brooke? Why,
I wouldn’t give one of my sergeants out there for a
dozen like him!” An exaggeration of esprit de corps
on the C.O.’s part, since Brooke at least was a
fighting man, while most of the sergeants were con-
firmed lead-swingers. Yet the adjutant failed to see
the discrepancy. “How true, sir!” he boomed (his
“word of command” was one of the finest on Salis-
bury Plain). “How absofootly true! You took the
words out of my- very- mouth.” Pause an instant and
visualise him standing there, tense, erect, his e.ves
glowing with admiration at his chief’s soldierly- deter-
mination to stand no aesthetic nonsense. Bloggs,
the C. 0., is back at his old avocation of news-
agent, with nothing but his uniform to tell of past
glories. No one listens to him for long on any
subject—not even his wife. Binsprinkle, the adju-
tant, is a prosperous solicitor with a house in the
same suburb. He has been cutting Bloggs for the
past two years.
But the most stunning blow of all has been
endured by the habitual Irish patriot. Never was
elimination more ruthlessly complete. It seems but
yesterday that the cables were full of disclosures
concerning “naked partition,” “county option,” the
“Times scheme” and the “Dominion plan,” “Lloyd
George’s theory- of “two nations” and the Observer’s
policy- of modified Home Rule. Any- of these obscure
and complicated problems was capab'e of lashing
the local exile from Erin into a delicious state of
fury. Often he was something in the pub-keeping
or bookmaking line, with the result that the bulk
of his associates were unable to cope with him in
controversy. They could have engaged him with
credit on the latest pony-racing ramp, but on the
ethical position of Dublin’s “G men,” or on the
comparative guilt of C arson and “Galloper’ Smith
in 1914 and the southern x-ebels in 1919, they w-ere
all at sea. The patriot dominated the situation: he
was judge, C.O. and deep thinker in one, till such
time as his truculent dogmatisings were stopped by
a bang on the nose. The present position is that
Ireland has dropped right out of the cables. It is
difficult to find a two-line mention of the place in a
London daily. The exile mutters distressfully of a
Sassenach boycott, and finds himself wondering, at
times, whether the old days when editions ran hot
with tales of massacred Sinn Feiners were not the
best, after all. But in his heart he knows what is
wrong, and that no cure for it exists. There is no
news coming out of Ireland, because news is chiefly
concerned with violence, and the once fiery little
place is at peace. It may never boil again: its war
is over and it has retired from the Bench. Some day
in the not far distant future an elderly Hibernian
will be moved to a half-forgotten explosion of
patriotic frenzy- by an experience of this sort: —
Persistent Reader of Blithers's Daily : “Say
Buddie, they eat whale’s blubber where you was
born, ain’t it?”
Elderly Hibernian: “!!!!”
P.R.8.: “Do tell! I was mixing your little burg
up with Zeeland. Yours is spuds, of course.”
O
“J.E.” : I like a clear-cut issue—the kind
that a strenuous debater can get his teeth
into. The question is whether the white
man can work in the tropics or not. I
agree with the learned proprietor of Sun-
stroke Soap, now on a visit here, that he
can’t, and I rest my case on evidence. Rock-
hampton (C.Q.) is popularly alleged to be
right on the tropic line; in fact, latitude
23| is supposed to extend along the middle
of East-street. Now, it is a notorious fact
that the white man can work and thrive on
one side of East-street (the side that the
Q. N. Bank is on if it hasn’t moved), and he
can’t on the other. Forty years ago I used
to toil on a paper on the north side, though,
of course, I and the rest of the staff lived
on the south side, else those of us who aren’t
dead wouldn’t be alive now to tell the tale.
Often on- a burning night, when the mos-
quitoes came in like a wall through the open
window, and the beetles poured down like
Niagara through the open skylight, and cock-
roaches entered continuously two feet deep
through the open door (you have no idea of
the horrors of animal life in the tropics). I
would snatch a few minutes from my labors
and go across the street into the pleasant
temperate zone for a smoke, and contemplate
the foolishness of White Australia. No-
body seemed to miss me at these times. The
rival daily on the south side of the main
street was rotten, both in its management
and in its politics, compared with ours; bur
the physical vigor of its staff kept it alive,
though I fancy it is extinct now. I have
met a temperature of 113 degrees 600 miles
south of latitude 23i. but knowing I was
600 miles south I didn't suffer. In Rock-
hampton there is a marked line where moral
as well as physical degeneracy begins. All
the illegitimate births take place north of
the line (any aged local liar who has no-
thing better to do will draw the necessary
streak for you with his walking-stick, for
they are always ready to enlighten the
stranger), but if the prospective mother is
removed to the hospital (which is south)
she invariably repents, and proceeds on the
instant to lead a better life all the rest of
her days. There is also a difference of 10 to
12f Per cent, in the death-rate, especially
as regards death from snake-bite. These
facts not only prove that the white man
shouldn’t attempt to live north of Capricorn,
but they also show beyond dispute where
Capricorn is, even though geographers may
blunder and put it somewhere else on their
maps. If only Lord Leverhtjlme would visit
Rockhampton and note the local phenomena
he would be confirmed in his opinions,
though I fancy that he is the kind of old
gentleman who, the same as Mr. Pons nap,
requires no confirmation. He goes on the
principle that if he says a thing that proves
it is right, and if a thing is right that
proves that he said it some time or other.
♦—
“Nitric”: “Lester Way,” who asks (B.
10/l/'24) whether molasses cannot be made
a commercial asset, is hereby informed that
it can be, and also is. At the Pinkenba
(Brisbane) Acetate Works the raw material
used is molasses, from the sugar mills of
the North. The molasses is converted by
fermentation processes into acetic acid (and
then vinegar) ; in the same factory the acetic
acid is converted into calcium acetate by the
addition of lime in the requisite quantities.
An intermediate product is ethyl alcohol,
which is “methylated,” or denatured, by the
addition of methyl alcohol (wood spirit) or
pyridine. But the coming use of molasses
will be for the manufacture of industrial
alcohol. This, to the shame of our Parlia-
ment, is at present taxed so heavily that it
does not pay to manufacture it from any
of the sources now available in Australia,
such as sweet potatoes, certain cereals, etc.
Alcohol is practically essential in the produc-
tion or refining of some 150 substances in
industrial chemistry and pharmacy, to say
nothing of its use in producing light, heat
and power. Incidentally, the Pinkenba
Acetate Works manufactured acetone during
the war, for the making of high explosives.
It was a brave start, and one of national
importance; yet the National Government
actually puts obstacles in the way of the
expansion of the industry.
* ;
Australia collected an insanely large
amount of customs revenue in the second half
of 1923, which is the first half of the finan-
cial year, and this meant that there was an
insane amount of importing to the detriment
of Australian industry. One reason is that
nearly completed Hun and other foreign
goods are pouring into Freetrade Britain, to
receive a finishing touch, and then come here
under the preference tariff as British. An-
other reason is that we are borrowing so
much abroad that we have to import goods
since we can’t import money—the export of
gold from Britain being prohibited. It is
a redeeming feature (a poor one, but better
than none) that the Government proposes to
pay off some debt out of the proceeds. Assum-
ing that the whole year’s revenue is on the
same basis, Australia will collect nearly
£36,000,000 of paper money at the Customs
in 12 months, and if the proportions remain
these will be the respective contributions per
inhabitant: —
N. S. Wales ..£7 S 2 | Westralia ..£4 19 0
Victoria . . (i IS 10 | Tasmania .. 118 0
South A us. . . 514 6 | N. Territory .. 110 6
Queensland . . 4 3 8 | Average .. 6 6 1
The Commonwealth returns to the States
255. per head of this and keeps the rest.
One astounding feature is the manner in
which the net contribution varies. But the
Territory is the shocking example. When
S. Australia handed it over, the first com-
plete year of Federal control (1911-12)
showed customs and excise revenue of £3
17s. 4d. per inhabitant. Now it is well under
30s. It is nearly time w-e decided what is
the matter.


"For Ever Best.”
STA(a
LA<£ER
TOOHEY'S.
The New
Pepys Room
at Peapes!
Country visitors are cordially invited to in-
spect tiie new Pepys room which has been
specially designed for their comfort and con-
venience.
Here in a large, well-ventilated and spacious
room clients may enjoy a quiet smoke, write
their letters, meet their friends or arrange
for conferences with their Sydney represen-
tatives.
The Pepys room is only one of the special
facilities which the house of Peapes has
evolved to make shopping pleasureable and
economical.
We would appreciate a visit when you are
next in town.
Catalogue on request.
Peapes Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN'S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
285-287 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Ba*fcs-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin
From an old Parliamentary hand: —
Another press-manufactured “crisis” has faded out
in'Victoria. Some politicians professed to believe
that the man who pushed Bowser out of his first
Cabinet, because the rhyme for “wowser” insisted
upon being head of a section of Liberals, would sack
Allan, Old, Goudie, Wettenhall and Crockett, his
present-day Cocky colleagues, because they couldn’t
or wouldn’t prevent an Agrarian candidate opposing
an all-wool Liberal in Dalhousie. But Lawson s
passion for compromise triumphed. He managed
to pull with him the bulk of his Liberal followers
whom he had quite unnecessarily called together.
The Farmers’ Union is to decide in March whether
it will have a give-and-take partnership with Liberal-
ism or yank its representatives out of the Cabinet.
Unless Page, Gibson, Stewart and the five State
Ministers have wonderful persuasive powers, the con-
ference will prefer freedom anti possible expansion
to stagnation and possible decay. It will not be
surprising if the present Legislative Assembly never
meets again. The revised rolls will be ready by
March 21, and a poll could be held on May 1.
Leverliulme supplies the news, that the
“industrial development” of the United States
lias been largely in consequence of the nigger,
but the gigantic industries whose names are
household words are in the States, where
the nigger is about as rare as he is in Lon-
don, and none of them are in States where he
swarms. The Nigger States aren’t back-
ward because they are in the tropics, either.
No part of the U.S. is in the tropics. It
almost looks as if they are backward just
because they have niggers.
Our interesting soap-boiling visitor says
that Protection is “a cheek on immigration.”
Yet people seemed to be leaving Ireland in
large numbers when it was a strictly Free-
trade country, and hurrying to the much-
protected U.S. In fact, it seems even now to
be the supreme desire of the Freetrade Briton
to get there before the quota closes. Inciden-
tally. Leverliulme assures us from the bottom
of his heart that manufacturing in this coun-
try will “never be more than a burden on
the taxpayer.” The old gentleman’s firm
runs a big factory here under Protection.
If that factory is a burden on the taxpayer
the matter should be looked into.
Barwell announces that he has “saved”
South Aus. £406.969 by deciding to import
rolling stock (£1.502,000 worth) for the
Government railways, instead of getting it
made in Australia. Particulars of the alleged
“saving” are vague and contradictory. The
“saving” on 1200 trucks w r as first £258,000 ;
then it w r as reduced to £217.800. Also, Bar-
well asserted in the Assembly on September
4 that the Government had been offered
English-made gondola cars for £575 apiece,
whereas, as an Adelaide engineering co.
points out, the lowest price he is paying
is £856 per car. Anyhow, “savings” which
involve the starvation of Australian indus-
tries—industries which would be absolutely
vital in time of war —are no good to this
Commonwealth. Barwell is riding for a
fall.
From the shadow of Leverhulme: —
The N.S.W. National Club which fed my Lord
on Monday was not impressed with his piebald-
labor arguments. He merely left the impression
that he was out to do propaganda work for his
native Lancashire, where the cotton shortage has
helped to make thousands unemployed: it looked
as though he would be quite ready to fill the
Territory with something a lot worse even than
African negroes if it would find his friends work.
He received just that amount of courtesy-applause
which the National Club thought a Lord should get.
Chairman Pratten, who followed, and in a few
sentences let the guest understand that he was
wasting his breath, brought the house down. Which
shows how the wind blows even in the National Club.
A hint as to what will happen if our
colored fellow-subjects are granted the right
to vote themselves out of the Empire is con-
veyed in an inconspicuous item from Egypt,
where, in the first elections held under the new
Constitution, the Zaghlul party has won 152
out of 211 seats. Zaghlul is the anti-British
leader who was exiled, like Arabi Pasha,
but has had better luck. His policy is to
get rid of the few remaining vestiges ot
British occupation, and to join hands across
the Suez Canal with his brother Abdul.
And, since it is the fashion among British
Labor politicians to rail at “this bourgeois
empire,” and to demand that Asiatics and
Africans should be permitted to become dan-
gerous nuisances to what is left of civilisa-
tion, the turban ed gent, has high hopes.
On the eve of his departure from Queens-
land on his big-game hunting expedition in
London and New York, Queensland Premier
Theodore said there “mustn’t be anything
that savors of control by moneyed interests.”
“WHEN ALL WERE FOR THE PARTY, AND NONE WERE FOR THE STATE.
“The Lawson-Allan coalition Government has had trouble over the Dalhousie by-election. -Mr.
Lawson regarded the electorate as a pocket borough for his party, but the tanners Lmon has lefusel to
give him if walkover, and has nominated a candidate. The Labor party regards the rumpus as a chance t
score, and meanwhile an independent Liberal has entered the lists.
THE DALHOUSIE ELECTOR (in the background ): “Seein’ as how its my pump the argu-
ment’s over, don’t you think I ought to have a say as to the color it’s to be
painted?”
It is heroic, but it is blither —miles, Theo-
dore and his Government are prepared to
repudiate their State’s debts. If they are
not, then “moneyed interests” are going to
dictate the terms on which the loans are
granted; and no hifalutin on the Premier's
part will alter that fact.
The way the middleman penalises the pro-
ducer, who may be a miner, or a shearer, or
any brand of cocky or cocky’s laborer:—
Recently one of the Hain Line of steamers (the
line to which the Trevessa belonged) called at Rock-
hampton. The wharf-laborers went so slow on the
job that the skipper came south to Brisbane —it was
actually cheaper for him to tranship the remainder
of the Rockhampton cargo at Brisbane and pay
freight back to Rockhampton than wait until the
wharfies unloaded. The same skipper had similar
trouble in Port Pirie (S. Aus.). His boat went on
the berth late on Saturday. Sunday was a day of
rest. Monday was a holiday. On Tuesday a union-
ist died, and his fellow-unionists took the day off
to mourn and the following day to attend the
funeral. Loading began on Thursday. The only
things that, didn’t waste time were the port charges
—they piled up merrily. And the Australian pro-
ducer has to pay them.
At his farewell banquet in Brisbane the
Premier “envied those who had control dur-
ing the halcyon days between 1905 and
1915”.
In that decade the revenue doubled itself without
increased taxation and without effort on the part
of the Government, the annual revenue increasing
from £3,800,000 to £7,700,000, railway revenue
increasing by about £250,000 per annum, whereas
for the last four years it had been stationary.
The seasons from 1905 to 1915 and the sea-
sons between 1915 and 1923 were much the
same —a mixture of half-good and half-bad
—yet in the former period, as Theodore con-
fesses, revenue boomed ahead “without in-
creased taxation and without effort on the
part of the Government,” while under Ryan
and Theodore taxation has increased by 89
per cent., and even that hasn’t been enough
to keep the accounts square. Queensland
Opposition has thrown a few bokays at itself;
but never one half so gorgeous as this.
A frequent boast of Mitchell, the West-
ralian Premier, is that his Government lends
settlers “the full value of their improve-
ments.” That is to say, if it costs 30s. to
clear an acre of light forest land, the Gov-
eminent borrows the 30s. in London and
hands it to the settler, who is expected to
repay it with interest. But if he fails, as
hundreds have done, he repays nothing, and,
though the Government is responsible for the
30s. and interest, it probably has to let the
next comer have the nominally-improved acre
for 15s. and allow’ him 20 years to find the
last instalment, for a bounteous crop of sap-
lings and scrub accumulates between for-
feiture and re-sale. Mitchell boasts pro-
fusely about “my settlement of the wheat-
belt,” but the whole truth has never been
told.
From the fact that colored people are found
in the tropics, sloppy thinkers like Lord
Leverhulme always assume that white men
can’t develop the tropics. Well, since almost
the blackest people known were found in
Tasmania, what hope is there for white
people in that small island? If the rule is
good for the tropics, why isn’t it also good
for Maoriland and Alaska?
“Galleryman” looks ahead :
Having authorised Wilson to go to Canada and
discuss tariff reciprocity, which has very little chance
of being carried, Bruce is returning home by way
of Gallipoli, and will meet Parliament at the end
of March. His first business will be a recital of
what was done at the Imperial Conference (there
is still a chance that an extension of the dried-
fruits preference will be salvaged from the wreck),
and then there will be a debate in which Charlton,
Anstey and brethren will celebrate the triumph of
Ramsay Macdonald. After that the Government will
have nothing to do but consider the bill appointing
a directorate for the Commonwealth Bank, and
present cne or two minor measures that will keep
the tongues wagging up to the Easter holidays. At
this stage there should be an adjournment to June,
when Bruce is expected to bring down a programme
of fresh legislation. Certain Foreign-traders among
the Cookies are keen on lifting the protective duties
from agricultural implements, and reimbursing e
local manufacturer with a bounty. The precedent was
established last year in the matter of wire-netting,
but its results haven’t been brilliant, and the Gov-
ernment has no money for further adventures of the
kind. The Treasurer has indicated that in his
recent speeches. Still there are two 01 tlnee leea
citrants in the agricultural corner who would risk
a “crisis'’ in their fanatic devotion to the plan.
The depreciation of European currencies
hits the rest of the world in all sorts ol
ways. There is a German ship lying m
Sydney Harbor whose crow had a strike the
other day because they said that their pay
didn’t run to ss. a week in Australian money.
That means such low freights that goods can
lie brought from Europe for less than it costs
to shift them half-way round the Australian
coast. A merchant in Cairns wanted three
crates of goods from the Calyx Pottery Co.,
of Subiaco (W.A.). But the order had to
b<: cancelled: the coastal freight was 4|
times more than for a shipment of goods just
made from Sydney to South America. And
the Holden motor-body works in S. Aus. has
been driven to get a shipment of timber from
Borneo because freight from North Queens-
land was by comparison simply prohibitive.
“T.P.”: I thought of an old experience
when I read Lord Leverhulme’s talk about
field-work in the heat not being white man s
work. In a temperature of 120 deg. in the
shade, with an accompaniment of glare, dust
and flies, my neighbor steered his ancient
stripper up and down the wheat crop of the
paddock in which my Wimmera school occu-
pied an inconspicuous corner. His plight
roused mv sympathy, and, remembering a bottle
of lager (with string attached) which lay at
the bottom of the school tank in the shade, I
whistled him over, and we said, ‘ Here s
liow.” I pressed the final glass on him, but
it was his turn then. “Take it yerself.
boss,” he said. “I’ve been a-pittyin’ yer all
the bally day, cooped up in that dam’ ’en-
roost with all them kids, whiles I’ve been
out in the open.”
The Solidarity of Labor got a notable advt.
when the Sydney breadcarters started help-
ing the employers and the public to beat the
Bakers’ Union, on strike against the return
to nightwork. An even more conspicuous
example of the United Front was the oppo-
sition of 21 unions to the registration of the
0.8.1 T. (shearers, navvies, agricultural
laborers, waterside workers and coal-miners),
some of them objecting to composite unionism
and others to political and newspaper levies.
Sydney Worker’s remarks on the “treacher-
ous attitude” of these Comrades (“those who,
in their insensate hatred of the A.W.U., and
actuated by the narrowest prejudices and the
most reactionary interests, are conspiring to
defeat the consummation of the Greater
Unionism”) are couched in the true spirit
of Universal Brotherhood.
The man who wins the Dalhousie seat in
Vic. Assembly may have the extraordinary
experience of not being sworn in. If the
Cocky convention at Bendigo on March
12-14 is rebellious, there will be a Cabinet
burst-up and a general election. This time
20 years ago, when lately-deceased Jack
Taverner took the Agent-Generalship, Mel-
drum was returned for the Donald-Swan
ITill electorate, hut never faced the Speaker,
because there was a dissolution. It was the
custom until then for members to begin
to draw pay when they were sworn in, but
they know better now, and start from poll-
ing day. .
Only 10 per cent, of the returned soldiers
of Victoria are members of the R.S.A. As
a general rule, when the men have settled
down and made good, they withdraw their
membership. A pity: for without a strong
fighting R.S.A.. many of their mates, not so
fortunate as themselves, will not get a
square deal. A “drive” is to be under-
taken shortly with the object of materially
increasing the roll, which now ends at 6000.
The “intellectual” vote for Vic. Uppah
House is so lightly regarded that
only 59 of the intelligentsia are now
enrolled as such. Yet there must be
five or six thousand graduates of Brit-
ish universities, teachers, naval and mili-
tary officers (on the active or retired lists)
and matriculated students of Melb. Uni. who
are entitled to take out the sixpenny voters’
rights. One theory is that they have no use
for the second Chamber ; another, that they
are too modest to label themselves intellec-
tuals, and prefer to enrol as ratepayers.
Most Labor M’s.L.A. would lose little if
members were paid by the sitting, instead of
by the year; but in the N.S.W. Upper House
records Laborites show up very badly. Last ses-
sion Higgins and Grayndler (the A.W.U. gen-
eral secretary) attended one sitting; Cecil
Coghlan two ; Paddy McGirr and Tom Storey
six each; and Connington seven. Certainly
Grayndler was off color, but there was no
excuse for some of the others. Among the
non-Labor lot Joynton Smith could find time
to attend only twice. Had there been a rule
that any member a.w.l. from half the number
ol’ sittings would automatically lose his seat,
the membership would have dropped from 83
to a little over 50.
THE PRICE OF PROSPERITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Australia had again experienced a year of great
prosperity.... A generous distribution of war
gratuities, repatriation moneys, war-service homes
and pensions, amounting to well over £100,000,u00,
had undoubtedly created a certain artificial pros-
perity.”—S. W. B. McGregor, British Trade Com-
missioner.
Oh joy! Oh gladness! things still gaily booming!
On with the jazz! Let joy be uneonfined!
What though the outlook’s black, and squalls are
looming ?
We’re right, and doing well ; so, never blind !
Why worry ? Who cares what before us lies ?
We’re happy as a kitten catching flies!
Where are the croakers now —those pessimistic,
Prepoxt’rous, perverse persons who contend
That, spite of propaganda eulogistic,
Here and in London loans must have an end?
We greet them with the loud Ha-ha! of scorn—
Poor chaps, they must feel sorry they Were born!
They mention Theodore; we quote McGregor.
They point to Fuller; we again refer
To Mac. (who seems an optimistic beggar)
And his report, which makes no little stir
Among those who the loan-disease deplore:
Kind Cohen, it may help us borrow more.
All anti-borrowing critics are confounded;
All pleaders for Posterity are dumb;
McGregor says prosperity’s unbounded;
He also hints it costs a goodly sum.
But, in the general gladness that astounds,
What is a trifling hundred million pounds?
We’re “highly prosperous”—and that’s official.
True, cost of living still tends to increase,
Arid Mae.; says something about “artificial”....
Can that mean our “prosperity” may cease?
We don’t believe so, not a little bit;
We’ve paid £100,000,000 for it!
QUEENSLAND.
MONTY PEET.


i
THE
MARK
The Bulletin
EFFICIENCY.
KEEP COOL
M-v
FANS
are bringing the breath of the moun-
tains and seashore into thousands of
homes.
Cool Comfort Always.
MTOSN
ntrTmri>- | - nil
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne;
213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuie
Detonator*
Cartridge*
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies*
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
The Bulletin
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, from the time it absorbed the London
Bank of Australia and purchased the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania :
Profits on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Ue-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1921 262,976 4519 10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 .. 1,619,240
1923 395,348 6004 12* p.c.=178,494 50,000 1,792,098
Figures for more than three years are not
of any value for purposes of comparison
unless the profits of the London Bank of
Australia and the little Commercial of Tas.
are added. Judging by the profits disclosed,
tlie amalgamation of the two big banks has
been thoroughly justified. In fact, the
growth of earnings has been stunning. Here
are figures for the three years:—
1921. 1922. 1923.
Gross profits .. £835,720 £1,094,685 £1,251,197
Management exes. 405,065 566,326 557,039
Taxes.. .. 163,679 182,885 223,311
Net profit.. £267,976 £345,474 £470,848
The gross profits are those left after cuts
had been made for contingencies and to pro-
vide for bad and doubtful debts. The expan-
sion is the more remarkable because only
£180,113 of new capital was raised during
the period—incidentally, the sale of frac-
tional portions last year brought in £18,150
of premiums—thus increasing it to a round
14 millions. 111 the introductory table votes
to an officers’ guarantee and provident fund
—1921, £5000: 1922, £15,000; and 1923,
£35,000 —have been deducted from profits,
and for the past year £4.0,500 more was taken
to pay a 10 p.c. bonus on staff salaries.
Even then the amount remaining was
£216,854 larger than the £178,494 required
to pay divs. at the higher rate of 124 p.c.,
which was a fourth as large again as the
previous best, and operated on a larger capi-
tal. Besides the profits made on banking-
operations, a little more is harvested from a
sowing in the financial drought of the ’nine-
ties. When the old E., S. and A. crashed,
depositors and other creditors thought they
had made the best bargain possible when
they accepted the bank’s promise to settle
by means of 4 p.c. debentures, 4 p.c. ter-
minable receipts, 3 p.c. perpetual inscribed
stock and 3 p.c. redeemable deferred stock—
the last-mentioned could go to 44 p.e. if
enough was made to pay it. There are 011
hand permanently £983,547 of 4 p.c. deben-
tures and £889,419 of 3 p.c. preferred stock;
but the management is obliged to set aside
a specified portion of each year’s profits to
buy in the £467.500 of 3 p.c. deferred stock,
which has had flic maximum of 44 p.c. for a
score or more years. The paper is pur-
chased in the market, and is, of course, at
a discount. During the past 12 months
£43,996 bought £50.000 worth, and the bank
thus squeezed £6004 from the deal. Inciden-
tally, the purchased stock is cancelled, and
a corresponding amount is written off pre-
mises; in 10 years slightly more than a
quarter-million has been struck off in this
way, and large internal reserves are hidden
in the cellars of the premises which are
given a book value of £792,933.
The misfortunes of the creditors of 30-odd
years ago. and the arrangements for repay-
ment which they gladly accepted at the time,
have put the E., S. and A. on a wonderfully
easy wicket in these dear-money times. Even
if invested only in gilt-edged securities their
money would show a good margin of profit.
Besides the earnings of the 14 millions of
capital, there is the harvest from If mil-
lions of visible reserves, the surplus of earn-
ings over interest from 24 millions of mostly
fixed stocks, and, on top of all, the sweet
profits which general banking operations
bring in. How the banking business has
developed in three years is shown in the
next comparisons:—
Liabilities.
1921. 1922. 1923.
Notes .. .. £1,340 £1,328 £1,287
Bills, etc. . . 2,954,344 1,736,144 1,755,056
Deposits at in-
terest .. 11,042,810 12,621,395 13,382,621
Free deposits.. 11,509,915 11,152,026 11,820,159
Total . . £25,508,409 £25,510,893 £26,959,123
Assets.
Liquid assets. . £10,941,447 £11,145,259 £11,673,711
Advances . . 19,069,034 18,950,421 20,313,043
Premises .. 774,817 807,652 792,933
Total . . £30,785,298 £30,903,332 £32,779,687
Prior to amalgamation the E., S. and A. and
London Bank between them held slightly
less than 21 millions of deposits; at the latest
balance the figures had expanded to
£25,202,780. All outside liabilities at June
30 last totalled slightly under 27 millions.
Shareholders’ and other fixed funds amounted
to £5,632,564, so less than £4 16s. of outside
money was held for every £1 of funds. The
management could safely accept up to £S, so
the E.. S. and A.'s position is very strong.
It could lose more than 5f millions —more
than one-sixtli of the written-down book
values of assets —before a penny of outside
money would be in danger. At June 30 last
43 p.c. of all liabilities was in liquid form.
From all points of view the big bank is very
comfortable —except, of course, for the un-
fortunate stock-holders who, under the agree-
ment which they were obliged to accept when
the outlook was decidedly black, are denied
a share in the recent prosperity. The bank
is so prosperous that, though additional
funds are not required, it will be no surprise
if, a little later, the directors decide to in-
crease capital to permit more profit to be
distributed. Incidentally, the 124 p.c. divs.
are free of British income-tax to share-
holders —a big concession to British share-
holders in these days of hungry Treasuries,
though a long-standing grievance to the very
large number of Australian holders.
The Australian Mercantile, Land and
Finance Co.. Ltd.: —
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1913. .£103,365 15 p.c. = £78,000 £27,975 £524,912
1914.. 177,125 12* ~ „ 65,000 10,609 626,428
1915.. 61,352 10 „ „ 52,000 30,000 605,780
1916.. 58,051 10 ~ ~ 52,000 100,000 511,831
1917.. 134,671 10 „ „ 52,000 26,000 568,502
1918.. 87,071 15 ~ „ 78,000 5,000 572,573
1919. . 84,976 15 „ „ 78,000 579,549
1920.. 79.287 12* „ „ 65,000 21,554 572,282
Internal reserve disclosed £25,000 597,282
Loss.
1921.. 32,726 10 p.c. = 60,000 504,556
Hill, Clark and Co.’s business purchased.
Profit.
1922.. 145,304 10 p.c. = 90,000 559,860
1923.. 202,262 12* ~ „ 112,500 649,622
The £202,262 of profit is subject to income
and corporation-profits taxes, and they will
probably take £30,000 or so. Excepting only
two years-—l9ll and 1914, when £189.349
and £177.125 net was earned respectively—
the past 12 months were the most profitable
the A.M.L.F. has had. But much more capi-
tal is now employed. Funds have altered in
this way in a dozen years:—
Paid
Capital. Reserves. Debentures.
1911.. ..£520,000 £506,092 £1,973,470
1921.. .. 780,000 504,556 1,898,640
1922.. .. 900,000 559,860 1,898,640
1923.. .. ’900,000 649,622 1,898,640
Profits lately have, therefore, not been rela-
tively so good as in some other periods.
Gross profits are showing bigger returns on
funds employed, but working costs and taxes
are making much deeper cuts. Turnover for
the past two years has been helped by the
Hill-Clark business (Sydney), purchased in
July, 1921. and J. M. Peck and Sons (Mel-
bourne), taken over early in the year under
review. The operations of Bawra and the
generally abnormal condition of the wool
markets discount the value of comparisons
of handlings ; but the following figures, taken
into consideration with improved prices, help
to throw light on profit performances: 1921,
53,512 bales (Hill-Clark’s turnover for the
year was 22,161 bales) ; 1922, 220,315 bales;
1923, 191,026 bales. Gross profits for the
same years have been: £139,606, £325.211
and £362,885.
Commission transactions are, of course,
only one corner of the business; the A.M.L.F.
is also a financier in a big way, a station-
owner on its own account, and an inves-
tor. The extent of each of these interests is
not ascertainable, because “loans on land,
stations, stock and other securities, fixed
deposits and properties owned by the co.,
less provision for contingencies” are in one
entry with a book value exceeding 2| mil-
lions. In addition, there are Government
securities shown separately with a face value
of £490,060 and taken in at £472,752.
Grouped balance-sheet figures have moved in
this way in eight years:—
1915 1922 1923.
Liabilities .. ..£408,660 £373,757 £499^043
Mortg’ages, proper-
ties, stock, etc. . . 2,413,047 2,483,721 2,568,198
Advances on pro-
duce . . . . 54,163 68,075 53,088
Book debts . . . . 154,376 192,429 174,129
Cash and invest-
ments . . . . 645,680 727,509 874,983
Premises . . .. 204,263 380,075 344,407
The position is wonderfully snug: against
floating debts of just under half a million,
at the latest balance £874,983 was held in
cash, short loans and Government securi-
ties, besides unspecified amounts on fixed
deposit. The investments in gilt-edged secu-
rities suit the co. very well; it is paying no
more than 4 p.c. for the £1,898,640 of per-
petual stock. The use of this cheap money,
the large clientele, many of whom depend on
the co. to finance their operations, and the
size of reserves in relation to capital should
assure good divs. under ordinary conditions.
And when seasons and markets are better
than the average there should be large sur-
pluses to help the A.M.L.F.'s future. Inei-
dentally, besides the amounts visibly added
to reserves, gross profits are tapped to pro-
vide for •‘contingencies,” ‘ but the outsider
cannot learn how much has been dropped
into inner reserves in that way, or how much
has been extracted to cover losses which are
inevitable in this business.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1913.. £1698 10 p.c. = £1292 £406 £5,780
1914.. 2199 10 „ „ 1292 907 6,687
1915.. 2067 10 „ „ 1292 775 7,462
1916.. 2276 10 „ „ 1292 984 8,446
1917.. 2942 10 ~ ~ 1292 1650 10,096
1918.. 4005 12* „ ~ 1614 2391 12,487
1919.. 4380 15 „ „ 1937 2443 14,930
1920.. 6319 15 „ „ 1937 4382 19,312
Transferred to capital, £18,324.. 988
1921.. 4995 7* p.c. = 2341 2654 3,642
1922.. 3477 10" ~ .. 3121 356 3,998
1923.. 3348 10 „ „ 3296 52 4,050
For several years the “Wild Cat” invited the
directors to consider whether the introduc-
tion of new capital was not desirable in view
of the extent of the co.’s dependence on out-
siders to finance operations. During the past
12 months 10,000 new £1 shares were issued
and called to 10s. But the new funds have
not been employed to reduce debt, £5352 hay-
ing been spent on re-building. Paid capital is
£36,210, and visible reserves, prior to pay-
ment of the final div.. amounted to only
£5786. Against total funds of just under
£42,000, the co. was working on £66,033 of
borrowed money. Here are details and also
comparisons going back to 1915: —
1915. 1920. 1922. 1923.
Deposits .. .. £18,949 £18,934 £19,814 £20,478
Mortgages . . 41,370 36,390 35,390
Other liabilities ... 3,007 9,341 11,346 10,165
Total liabilities £21,956 £69,645 £67,550 £66,033
Advances, stock,
etc 37,307 40,751 42,125 40,799
Freeholds, etc. . . 4,521 58,423 54,081 59,385
Liquid assets . . 1,397 4,773 9,513 9,152
The explanation of the heavy debts is in the
property investments; besides its Melbourne
headquarters the co. runs eight branches,
and in recent years has made extensive pur-
chases of premises. At October 31 they had
a book value of £57,106, which was 115,000-
odd more than total funds at that date. The
management had raised £35,390 by mort-
gages, but even then less thau one-half of
the co.’s funds were available for its three-
balls business. In that branch £40,799 was
in loans and stocks; and to finance them the
management was working on £20,478 of de-
posits and an overdraft of £8349. and it
owed £lBl6 to sundry creditors. The con-
tinuance of the highly profitable lending busi-
ness at its present size depends, therefore, on
the goodwill of the co.’s bankers and deposi-
tors. The management appears to have too
much faith in these uncertain financiers; if
they wanted their money, however, there is
£18,653 callable from shareholders.
Though the co. continues to do well, profits
are not nearly so good as they were a few
years ago, and for the past 12 months the
10 p.c. was barely earned; indeed, the co.
will have to do better to maintain that rate
on the enlarged capital. The record profits
were in 1920, and the figures for that year
and since have been as follows :
1920. 1921. . 1922. 1923.
Interest, gross profit
on sales and
property balances £21,591 £20,167 £19,765 £18,898
Expenses and taxes 15,273 15,172 16,289 15,551
The decline of earnings has not been ex-
plained by the directors, and the published
accounts have thrown no light on the matter.
However, shareholders have done very well
lately, particularly as paid capital was in-
creased from £12,911 to £31,210 in the 1921
financial year wholly by a bonus issue. And
results are the more glittering because so
much is tied up in properties. The co. has
had one disaster in its career: years ago it
was robbed of about £14,000 by employees,
and that necessitated writing £8668 off
capital.
Victoria Malay Rubber Plantation
Go.; Ltd., office in Melbourne, vegetables at
Seremban, Federated Malay States: —
Outlay Total De-
Divi- on Devel- velopinent De-
Sept., Profit. dends. opment. Account, ficit.
1913.. £2195 £7,370 £l7ll
1914.. -- 3485 10,855 2011
Preliminary expenses (net) £1550 ( , g ,
transferred to development account ) ’ 0
1915.. £l6O 3262 15,667 301
1916.. 1130 5 p.e. =£loso 3054 18,721 221
Reserves.
1917.. 2820 5 „ „ 1250 3239 21,960 1349
Loss,
1918.. 677 5169 27,129 672
1919.. 51 3423 30,552 621
Deficit.
1920.. 781 2581 33,133 160
1921.. 5595 - 1274 34,407 5754
1922.. 152 757 35,164 5906
1923.. 2564 35,164 3342
This is another of the Melbourne cos. which
arc rubber-growing in a small way in
Malaya. All have had a rough spin since
the market crashed towards the end of 1920,
and a couple of them have been kept going
only by raising costly pref. capital and with
the aid of advances from the F.M.S. Gov-
ernment. Lately the tide has begun to run
in again, but very slowly, and then only
because producers have restricted out-
puts and thus prevented a glut in the mar-
kets. Here are the figures for four .Mel-
bourne-owned enterprises (the Victoria
Malay’s figures are for the year ended Sep-
tember. and the others to June) :
. . Port
A ictoria Bukit Swetten- Malay
Malay. Kiilm. ham. Queen
Production (lb.) 155,153 158,200 150,000 94
Sales . . . . £8,051 £7,521 £7,424 £4’i7tl
Stocks rubber.. 3,971 635 638 1 929
Efxpenses . . 6,943 6,375 5,114 4’3l's
Profit - . 2,564 1,350 1,998 l’oiS
Here are some balance-sheet comparisons:
Capital ..£35,183 £30,000 £77,933 £25 148
Liabilities .. 9,472 3,066 475 4’3i9
Profit balance. . 1,350 1,997 ’450
Loss balance . . 3,342
The Victoria Malay is the only one of the
four with a debit at Profit and Loss But
while shifting that, profits are required to
repay the £91611 balance of loan on mort-
gage from the Malayan Government. The
co.’s position would have been very much
worse had shareholders not put in £5183 in
20 p.c. prefs. Divs. on that issue are
cumulative, and the bill is running up at the
rate of £lOOO-odd per annum. The outlook
is still uncertain. Under present condi-
tions estimates are necessarily based on re-
stricted outputs; other cos. reckon on har-
vesting only 65 p.c. of the possible during
the current year, and while the market is
being thus supported the smaller fry who
cannot cut down expenses are in an un-
pleasant position. This one’s all-in costs
ran into 10.81 d. per lb. last year, and the
market for best crepe lias lately been around
I4d. to 15d. for forward delivery, A clear
margin of 3d. on 160,0001 b. would give
only £2000; so apparently there is no alter-
native for cos. like the Victoria Malay
except to sit tight on the casli-box, spend only
just enough to maintain plantations in good
order, and hope for the best. The co. is
now in its loth year, and has 662 acres
which have been planted seven years or
more. Only two divs. have been paid—
-5 p.c. in 1916 and in 1917 —and the dreams
of riches entertained at the time of flotation,
when rubber was fetching around ss. per
lb., have long since been shattered.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston):
Dividends and To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1915.. £753 10 p.c. =£536 £217 £11,14!)
a ( 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
sept., 1910. . | Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916. . 882 15 „ 850 32 10.855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 „., 787 236 11,227
Mar., 1918.. 856 15 „ „ 787 69 11,296
Sent 1918 J 983 15 » » 795 188
1 -’ •( Written off. £5OO .. .. 10,984
Mar., 1919.. 853 15 p.c. = 795 58 11,042
Sept., 1919.. 994 15 „ „ 795 199 11,241
Mar., 1920.. 863 15 „„ 806 57 11,298
Sept., 1920.. 892 15 ~ ~ 800 86 11,384
Mar., 1921.. 820 15 „ „ 806 14 11,398
Sept., 1921.. 823 15 „ „ 806 17 11,415
Mar., 1922.. 833 15 „„ 806 27 11,442
Sept., 1922.. 1118 15 „„ 806 312 11,754
Mar., 1923.. 1085 15 „ „ 806 279 12,033
Sept., 1923.. 1018 15 „ „ 806 212 12,245
This little Launceston trustee co. manages
estates with a book value of £1,064,673, and,
having reserves of £12,245 to assist £lO,OOO
of paid capital, is paying a good rate of
div. on the money put in by its shareholders.
Heavier costs and taxes are bothering the
management a little, though: ten years ago
commissions, interest and rents contributed
£1793, and exes, took £892 (nearly 50 p.c.) :
last year earnings totalled £2290 and exes.
£1272 (55.5 p.c.). That looks a trifling in-
crease; nevertheless, it is equal to l-[: p.c. on
capital. The £lO,OOO of paid capital is only
one-fifth of the total to which shareholders
are committed. The £40.000 callable and
£22,245 of funds in hand and invested in
good-quality assets afford excellent protection
for clients.
British Australian Cotton Associa-
tion, Ltd.—Though the Australian cotton-
growing industry is still an infant, this co..
Which was formed to finance, handle, treat
and sell crops, already has a paid capital of
£347,602, and at August 31 it had also run
up an overdraft and other debts totalling
£114,151, mostly spent on constructional work.
It has completed six saw-ginning plants in
Queensland and one in N. S. Wales, and
roller-ginning plants in Vic. and S. Aus.; an
oil-mill is nearing completion near Brisbane,
and another is under way at Rockhampton
(Q.). To finance these and others contem-
plated, and to provide working capital, the
directors are now offering 200,000 £1 cumu-
lative participating prefs.: 8 p.c. p.a. is
cumulative, and after the ordinaries have
had the same rate in any year the
prefs. are to take point for point
with them until their maximum of 10
p.c. has been paid. Full subscription
is assured: the Baillieus (Melbourne), Deni-
son Estates (Sydney), B. Crompton Wood
(Liverpool, Eng.) and Austral Development,
Ltd. (London), have jointly underwritten the,
issue, and for doing so they are to receive
£lO,OOO cash and 10,000 fully-paid £1 ordi-
naries. In cash and shares they are, there-


HEADY ON SATURDAY.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JANUARY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Aerated Bread Co.
Austral Timber & Patent
Box Co.
Australian Mercantile,
Land and Finance.
Australian Mont-de-Piete.
Bank of N. S. Wales.
British Australian Cotton
Association.
Canterbury Frozen Meat
and Dairy Produce
Export Co.
Carlton Hotel.
Clifford Love & Co.
Colonial Mutual Fire.
Country Freezing Co.
Dalgety & Co.
East Greta Coal Mining.
Eastern Traders, Ltd.
English, Scottish and
Australian Bank.
Federal Building Society.
Fourth Victoria Building
Society.
Invincible Colliery.
Kauri Timber.
Langridge Mutual Perma-
nent Building Society.
National Mutual Life. _
Producers and Citizens
Co-op. Assurance.
Prospectuses.
Queensland Deposit Bank
and ' Society.
Queensland Probate
Insurance.
Begirtv '. New.
Sydney Cold Stores.
Tasmanian Wool-Growers'
Agency Co.
Victoria Malay Rubber.
W. E. Smith.
Ori sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Tiie Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/C per annum,,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Svdney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydneys
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
* * • »
Pioneer Wood Pipe—the wonder worker —will help
the desert to blossom at lower cost than any other
conduit. The durability and efficiency of this remark-
able pipe is a matter of intense interest to scientists
as well as to all progressive engineers and irrigation
experts. Send for our interesting book of informa-
tion and testimonials. It will have an important
influence on your waterworks plans. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Hoad, Lane
Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
A. E. Broue. Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagli Street.
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analvsis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World. — Advt.
Robert Davidson, metals and ores, 28 years’
service Dalgety and Co., Ltd., now operating same
agencies at 8 Spring Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The Clarence River District (N.S.W.) hales as the
dawn of a new era the commencement of the Nym-
boida harnessing (as installed by Sir W. G. Arm-
strong-Whitworth & Co., Ltd.), which will supply
cheap electric power. All the concrete for this
important installation has been mixed by Australian-
made concrete mixers, known as the “Multimix,”
manufactured and supplied by Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Macquarie
Place, Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne; and 21
Morphett Street, Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST I! OUT K TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT 1 3/- 1/6 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN ( 15/-, 20 words)
iVeek-end 74d. (minimum charge 12/6 20 words)
FRANCE
HOLLAND
BELGIUM
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND
N. ZEALAND 44d. Nil Nil
CANADA .. 2/4 1/2 7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
Week-end sfd. (minimum charge 9/7 20 words)
U.S.A. .. 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be ohtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
261 Ceorge Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346.
Queen’s House, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
3/- 1/6
Nil
%
&
LSwift & Company j J t<j.. AuM Agcnts^26^jO^Ciarence^StM^M|j|^y
DT
B O ORD SOK
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM _
TO THOSE ABOUT TO TRAVEL
AND WHO REQUIRE EXPERT MANAGEMENT AND UNDOUBTED
SECURITY FOR THEIR ESTATES DURING THEIR ABSENCE,
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
IS SPECIALLY QUALIFIED TO ACT AS
Attorney Under Power and Agent.
Regular Accounts. Moderate Charges.
The Company is now acting for many prominent Business People
and others temporarily absent from the State.
Write or call for full information:
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
fore, to receive an amount equal to 10 p.c. on
the issue, and even assuming tlie under-
writers pay 21 p.c. commission on all shares
(to stock-brokers) they will still bag 71 p.c.
In of the impressive- board of directors
—Hugh Denison (chairman), C. Latham
Baillieu, T. C. Beirne, Owen Cox, Crawford
Vaughan, in the Commonwealth, and Harold
Parker, W. S. Robinson, Rennell Rodd and
B. Crompton Wood, all of England—which
might be expected to assure a large sub-
scription independent of any underwriter,
the terms look unnecessarily stiff. These
underwriting agreements have become a habit
where the name of Baillieu figures.
The necessity for underwriters is also
questionable because the- public, having be-
come impressed with the immense possibili-
ties of cotton in the Commonwealth, might
be expected to be on the bite without their
assistance. Besides, the B.A.C.A. has been
operating at a profit. In its first year it
treated 3,800.0001 b. of seed cotton, and in
the 1922-23 season it received almost 12 mil-
lion pounds. The drought affected the crop,
but for the year ended August 31 last a profit
of £10,574 was earned. Profits for the cur-
rent 12 months are expected to be “consider-
ably larger”; estimated production for
1923-24 is 48 million pounds, worth a mil-
lion sterling. Accountant C. A. Le M.
Walker figures on a surplus of £75,000-odd,
which, he adds, “provides an ample margin
for divs. and reserves.” Provided the cotton-
growing industry is developed on sound lines,
the 8.A.C.A., being a big and influential con-
cern and first in the field, seems to have good
prospects. On the latest figures the £200,000
of prefs. will have the backing of approxi-
mately £559,000 of assets, a little of that
total being represented by goodwill, and the
value of most of the balance being more or
less dependent on the success of tbe cotton-
growing industry. The pref. issue is payable
ss. on application, with similar instalments
on allotment, on April 2 and on June 4.
For every pref. allotted the subscriber is
entitled to take up, by December 31, 1925,
one ordinary at par; certificates for these
rights, wdiich will be transferable on endorse-
ment, are to be issued to pref. shareholders.
* * * *
Sydney has put up £5OOO to give the old
Yerranderie (N.S.W.) silver-mine another
trial. The show’ lies between Bartlett’s
wonderful old property, wdiich appears to
have been given a new lease of life by a change
of development policy, and the New Burra-
gorang. In 20 years to 1921 the Yerran-
derie mine paid £BO,OOO of divs., but last
year operations were suspended, and account-
ant W. Tarleton snapped it and all plant
and machinery for £1750 cash. In the light
of recent developments on the field, the new
ciowd believe that the show can still be
coaxed to give a lot of rich ore. A main-
shaft is down 1500 ft., and from it 24 levels
were, put in. Production in the past came
from lenses in the vicinity of the shaft, and
500 ft. of unexplored country on the line of
lode lie betw’een old workings and Bart-
lett’s. Jim Hardman is confident that,
“according to all sound theory, other shoots
must exist in the unexplored portions of this
permanent and higlily-productive lode.” He
also considers that it wil I pay to go deeper.
Workings and plant are both in good order,
and the new co., Wollondilly Silver Mining
Co., N.L., expects to get on a profitable basis
for an expenditure of from £750 to £lOOO,
but is taking no risks and has made provision
to gather in £3OOO as additional working
capital. The £5OOO has been subscribed in
20 p.c. prefs. of £1 each, and for every pref.
taken two deferreds of Is. each have been
issued. The vendor takes the whole of his
consideration in deferreds; they are to get
all profits over and above 20 p.c. on prefs.
in any year*
* # * *
“Yerranderie”: Clxas. Kerry’s bad luck (B.
27/12/’23) on the Yerranderie field, in miss-
ing Silver Peaks riches wdtli his bore, recalls
another misfortune. The same C. H. Kerry,
associated with J. H. Cann, now N. S.
Wales Railway Commissioner, put down a
shaft on the Pyramid block, next to Bart-
lett’s, to tap the main lode. Water trouble
and heavy costs induced them to call a halt
and seek advice. They were told that their
shaft was wrongly located, and must inevi-
tably miss the lode. The hole w r as sold to
Bartlett for a small sum. Later work by
the new owner proved that had the shaft
been continued a few feet further it would
have cut the lode in one of its richest lenses.
* * * *
The fate of South Lucknow (N.S.W.) in
the spur recently tapped will probably be
known earlier than was expected. A blower
is being installed to make air conditions
tolerable, and work on both levels and on the
ore-body will be pushed on. The co. has
had so many ups and downs seeking for
spurs on the contact, where bonanzas will
lie, if they exist at all. that the future of
the show practically depends on the latest
soz. formation producing something to cheer
callpayers. Sydney backers have mostly
lost faith; Orange still remembers the glitter
of the old field and its 10 millions or so of
gold. Several of the locals have sunk prac-
tically their last bob in the present gamble.
Mudgee (N.S.W.) is contemplating a new
kind of gold rush. Dr. J. P. Frizell, of
Dublin, who was in the Mudgee district 85
years ago, has passed a long-held secret to
a district friend. The medico informs him
that he was shown about £12,000 in buried
gold by an old miner. He went specially
to see it. because he didn’t believe the old
chap’s tale. “It was buried 3ft. down,’’
adds the doctor, “near Barney’s liidge, about
a quarter of a mile off the road, in granite-
formation country. I would know the place,
though I have not been there for over 35
years. I will send you a map if you have
any interest in this story.” The news leaked
out, and the mail for Dublin has smashed
all records. Why the doctor wants to give
that map away and the £12,000 (if the “old
miner” hasn’t called for it) is not ex-
plained.
* # * *
Lloyd George (W.A.) has been passed
over to tributors down to the. 100 ft. level.
Royalty is 10 p.c., and a 50-50 share
in any gold premium. The co. itself
is searching for its lost prospects at 200 ft.
The certainty of further calls has knocked
the market endways: fully-paids have been
traded down to 9d. It is a sorry outlook
for a co. which won £15,000 worth of gold
last year.
Hampton Properties, Ltd., which owns
most of Hampton Plains (W.A.), had its
annual roll-up in Edinburgh last month.
Assets, apart from its Mt. Martin mine on
Block 45, included investments at cost
£19,721, made up of a one-fifth share in the
Celebration, on Block 50, £2500 loaned to
that co.—since converted into £2605 of de-
bentures and 2625 preference shares of Is. —•
£12,000 worth of 5 p.c. French bonds and
£ll7O cash.
Hampton Celebration (W.A.), according
to chairman Newton Moore, is steadily im-
proving at depth. The disappointing show
certainly does look a little better, but the
chances of it paying its way are still slender.
Ore reserves are now estimated at 38,000
tons worth 375. sd. per ton, which, at the
present rate of treatment, is equal to about
three years’ supply. But there cannot be
much, if any, profit in the ore.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) estimates
its profits for the past six months at £27,000,
and reckons that it will do much better
now ore is being raised on its own as well
as by tributors. Meanwhile, heavy expendi-
ture is being incurred in overhauling the
mine and equipment, but when this job is
completed a substantial reduction of work-
ing costs is expected. Chairman C. F. Bell
is to visit the mine next month.
* * -K- *
Oroya Links scrip is being billed in Lon-
don as “the cheapest mine share in the Brit-
ish Empire.” Mines and plant have a book
value of £168,000; stores, £8150; sundry
debtors, £4604; cash, loans and investments,
£127,169. In a prompt liquidation share-
holders would probably get considerably
more than the current market valuation. The
low price is probably accounted for by the
fear that much of the present value will
disappear before liquidation arrives.
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.) values its
investments at £160,509. They include 9113
Associated Northerns, 11.800 Huronian
Belts, 20,000 Keeleys and 327,674 Yiponds.
The last two are silver shows at Porcupine
(Northern Ontario), and the Associated
Board, which controls both, talks of making
a further distribution of their shares among
Associated holders, and thereupon writing
down the nominal capital of its own stock
from 10s. to ss.
Plymouth Consolidated Mines (Califor-
nia), in which Sons of Gwalia is interested
and which is bossed by W. J. Loring, a
former Gwalia manager, is issuing 240,000
ss. participating preference shares carry-
ing 10 p.c. non-cumulative. It is also pro-
posed to write down the existing 240,000 £1
ordinaries by ss. each. Dr. McLaren reports
that the main lodes go down, and that pros-
pecting for other oredbodies is warranted.
W. 11. Corbould, having got in early,
skimmed a fine lot of the cream of the Mt.
Isa field (N.Q.) for Mt. Isa, Ltd. Another
float that is imminent will include one of the
best, leases on the field, the Out-on-Iler-Own,
together with the Even Break, Argyle, Ibis,
Black Angel and several lesser lights. The
Out-on-Iler-Own has a remarkable crop
standing 350 ft. above the country, and the
cap of the lode for a width of Bft. gave 44
p.c. lead and 40oz. silver. A later cut at
the foot of the hill struck carbonate veins
assaying 62 p.c. lead and lloz. silver. Some
of the lead-carbonate gave 3620 z. silver. This
show offers a huge width which can be
worked by open-cut, with fairly high average
values. Some of these veins have been traced
in the Even Break, and that show lias big
possibilities. The flotation of the Silver
Lena and the leases around the Black Angel
will follow.
The Nightflower silver-lead lode, near Chil-
lagoe (N.Q.), is being vigorously opened up
on the principal leases, and results are satis-
factory. It is an important lode, but gives
no indication of comparing in size with the
best individual lodes on Mt. Isa. Besides,
the ore is not so clean, as zinc is freely met
with. The principal lease, the Argentum,
has four shafts down varying from 20ft. to
40ft. along a length of 200 ft. The lode is
well-defined and continuous, with solid ore,
carbonate and sulphide, up to 4ft. wide.
Silver values average 40oz. In the State
mine, the Central Niglitflower, the lode car-
ries ISin. of galena and cerussite at a depth
of 25ft.
* * * *
A find of cobalt near Pittsworth, in the
Darling Downs district (Q.), has been re-
ported on by geologist J. H. Reid. There
is a big body, at least Bft. thick, of low-
grade clay, with veins of cobalt wad. The
veins assay up to 11 p.c. cobalt, but the bulk
does not average 1 p.c., and as gravity-con-
centration on a commercial scale appears an
impossibility the deposit is likely to have no
commercial value.
The best crushing on the Ilerberton tin-
field (N.Q.) for December came from the
Great Northern, with 192 tons for tons
concentrates worth £l3OO. McGill and
Fraser got a rich patch in the Mug’s Hit, and
134 tons were worth £430, a shade more
than £3O a ton. Good rain fell during the
raonth, and the dams are all full. February
production should be the best in recent years.
Lander Oil Co. (Q.) struck a blow of gas
in. its Orallo bore at between 1500 ft. and
1600 ft. Until the composition of the gas
is known, no importance can be placed on the
find ; the bore had to pass through coal-beds
of the Walloon series, and it may mean a
local pressure of coal-gas only. On the other
hand, it may have some connection with the
gas horizon at Roma, and, if a wet gas, would
enhance oil prospects considerably.
A well-known mining-engineer discusses
the oil-flotation boom :
Most of the oil-fields of the world have been
known to some tribe or race of men for ages of
time. For a thousand years or more the Parsees
worshipped the “Eternal Fires” of Baku, and the
Indians of North America knew petroleum long
before the white man set foot there. Beeby Thomp-
son says:
There is nothing mysterious in the association ol
surface indications to oil structures, and, notwith-
standing all that has been inferred to the contrary,
it is amidst the greatest surface manifestations that
many of the most important oil-fields of the world
are located.
It is safe, therefore, to lay down as a cardinal
principle that oil outcrops in the form of either
gas, bitumen in springs or actual oil seepages must
be found before there is justification for wasting
large sums of money in boring this or that rock
formation solely because some “expert” says >'t
is similar to a formation he knows of at the other
side of the world.
When the oil-fields of North America were bored as
a result of finding ample surface indications, the
official geologists began to study the various strata
in which petroleum was found. They rapidly recog-
nised that there were oil districts, just as there
were coal districts, and ■ that formations in a
known oil district gave a better prospect of pro-
ducing oil than similar formations elsewhere.
Boring operations, therefore, in a known
oil district, even though oil seepages were not found,
were to some extent legitimate prospecting, but,
even so, boring on the blind in a formation
having no oil seepages, but in a known oil district,
became known as “wildcatting.” To bore similar
formations in an unknown district is a piece of
foolishness that the average American oil man has
a much stronger name for. It is on this class of
work that most money is being spent in the Com-
monwealth at present. “No more grave error can
be committed by geologists than to draw sweeping
deductions from data collected and applied with
some success in a limited area,” is a geological
axiom. It applies pertinently to most of the, state-
ments made by the horde of “oil-geologists who
have visited the Commonwealth. Because a certain
formation of miocene age contains oil in Mexico or
Russia, it does not follow that similar strata will
do so in Australia. The argument may be paralleled
if we say that because tin is found in a certain
type of granite in the New England district of
N. S. Wales, then all similar granites in Australia
must contain tin. We know they do not.
It is reasonable to predict that the first genuine
oil discovery in Australia will be made in ground
that has distinct oil indications on the surface, in
the shape of gas outbursts, bitumen springs or an
actual seepage of oil.
. * * * *
South New Moon, Bendigo, winch paid
over half a million in divs. from the shal-
lower levels, is now unwatermg to 1 < suit,
to have another go at the big quartz-body
tried there 11 years ago without success. Ihe
formation is allied to an east-dipping back,
and should have a chance. The yarn that
something of value was left behind on the
floor of the 1780 ft. is to be looked into; but
as the New Moon got nothing worth while
from the same make of stone the prospects
are not encouraging there. * #
Bill Garnett, the well-known Territory
prospector, has scratched a likely-looking
silver-lead formation at Barrows Creek.
Rough assays for 1100 ft. in length and 15ft.
wide are claimed to go up to 60 p.c. lead
20oz. silver and about a ’weight of gold per
ton, but, of course, these “stab” tests are
only of value as indicating that the show is
worth further investigation. S. Aus. geolo-
gist Dr. Basedow and staff are on their way
to examine the find.
* * * *
The Speck’s State Developmental Advisory
Board has recommepded that the Mines De-
partment investigate the gem-wash in the
North-East with a view to encouraging
sapphire-mining there. The investigation
will probably also cover topazes, which are
said to be more frequent than sapphires.
Some excellent specimens have been included
in the Australian exhibit for Wembley Park.
They are frequently unearthed around the
north-east tin-fields, and also along the
Killiecrankie Creek, Blinders Island (Bass
Strait), where they are called Killiecrankie
diamonds.


Earth Music.
(For the Bulletin.)
Hpkougjk m Ike City Pkn is mute ,
Not liking d-ust ajvd buslie ,
Lord over dl , lord absolute *
Me wkere Iree-lops rustle.
Oo -where you will ike tfc*ees
And you will ke2a* kirn s
sKiine -and shadow down, ike hmee^e
His melodies unenJin^.
In ween JM-cavdeS with dew
routl Heaa* His music ,
i} will seem to you
Or»Ty a. tiwuskis sii^in^ .
By nwkl «ovd noonkis pipes arc beard.
Tormcy xre silehl never ;
Somditncs tixey are a. sowing, bud
SomelbneS nver.
His wind-moles in Ike t*oSery morn
Ch- when fixe «ky parses ,
Are heard Hie waving corn
And whispering leaves and grasses -
The lke CiC2da makes
A 1 eventide , tmbidden ,
By zmdl lovely lcJk.es
VVihkim his pipes is hidden ,
TIS bidden there HU silence hends
A. wisVul ear arvd wtUu^’
Im tk*t nushed hour when peace descends
And dome is foil ssnd tilting •
Co where you will in or*
You 'll hear His Songj enUMraUm^ 1 :
And now ii is a cooing dove
And now Us »
From cLyy to dzey and year lo year
II is his Ceaseless duly
To le.ll and tell in music decor*
Earfti’s beivuly.
Though worn by care and skewing stripes
And scars <yf~ troubles ,
Let us , who Know and love His pipes
Rejoice Ural Pan is livings’ .
A. S.W.
Roderic Quinn.


Everlasting Plugs.
Look for the
word Italia
embossed on
every plug.
The Bulletin
The brain force of a motor engine is the
sparking vitality that flows unhampered from
ITALIA PLUGS
—steady, strong and sure, as the car courses
on.
Scientific skill and craftsmanlike construction
characterise these fine plugs.
Insulator of unbreakable mica and strong
body of brass, they will save you much, for,
when any part does wear out, it is easily
replaceable at a fraction the cost of the plug.
Buy yours from any good garage —they will
outlast the life of the car.
Sole Agents:
GATTINO & CO., LTD.,
39-41 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
7
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ate
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sammas”: Here is my queer war
casualty. We were enjoying a well-earned
smoke-o near Pozieres when a full issue of
shrapnel came along to disturb our tran-
quillity. After an eventful few minutes, dur-
ing which we sorted ourselves out and felt
for casualties, little Tompkins turned a white
face upon the mob. “Afraid I’m about done
TAKING IT LITERALLY.
HER LITTLE BROTHER: “You’ve washed it off!”
HER LATEST CAPTURE: “What, Willie!”
HER LITTLE BROTHER: “Dad said last night you’d got idiot written
all over your face.”
for, boys,” he gasped, clutching his breast:
“ ’ave a look, will yer, and tell us the news.”
Gingerly we unbuttoned his tunic. Instead
of a gaping wound, we found the burning hot
ash and the bowl of an old briar pressed
against his skin. We were speculating liow
it got there when we noticed Tompkins’s
cobber Bill with a pipe-stem and nothing
more clutched viciously between his teeth.
During the explosion the bowl had been cut
away from the stem and had found a new
home just beneath Tompkins’s heart.
“Herodot”: I have only once heard ap-
plause at a hanging. During the military
occupation of German New Guinea a China-
man was sentenced to death for carving up
one of his fellow-countrymen with a knife.
The gallows was erected in an open space
near Administration Headquarters, the car-
penters being several of the condemned man s
compatriots. There was some difficulty in
finding an operator, but at the last moment
somebody dug up from the garrison troops
an ex-prison-warder who professed to know
all about the grisly trade. The execution
took place at 3 p.m., the troops being paraded
for the occasion, while small patrols moved
on the crowds of niggers who had gathered
in pleasurable anticipation of the spectacle,
for the nig. loathes a Chinaman above any-
thing else that walks the earth. As the bolt
was drawn and the body shot through the
trap and dangled on the end of the rope, a
loud cheer arose spontaneously from the
dark-skinned section of the spectators. Their
disappointment was almost pitiful when they
afterwards discovered that the rumor that
henceforth a Chinaman was to be hanged
every Saturday afternoon was without
foundation.
* * * *
“Fana” : One effect of the recent adminis-
trative changes at Pentridge Prison is that
the “underground” route into the gaol has
been closed —temporarily, at any rate. For-
merly the “underground” was a flourishing
and well-organised institution, by means of
which a prisoner could obtain all kinds of
contraband luxuries, provided that he or his
friends had the money to pay for. them. It
had three depots, so to speak—two tobac-
conists’ shops and a hotel, all in the suburbs
of Melbourne; but the authorities at least
professed that they were never able to locate
them. To ensure a parcel being delivered to
a prisoner it had to be left—by an approved
client —at one of these depots, together with
the fee, which ranged from ss. to £l, and the
“underground” would do the rest within a
few hours. Mostly the parcels travelled in
one of the numerous vehicles conveying stores
to the gaol, but it is probable that a few of
the warders were not above earning a little
extra money as carriers. Lately, however,
everybody concerned with the traffic has taken
fright at the greatly increased risk of detec-
tion.
* * * *
“Pontius Pilate” : The case of four Mel-
bourne policemen who were admittedly guilty
of accepting free meals from an all-night
cafe proprietor has a significance in view of
recent events. The four had accused the
food-merchant of using insulting words, and
threw in an allegation that drunken men had
been seen leaving the premises in the young
a.m.; but his counter charge that they had
started the language because he had refused
to fill their stomachs
for nothing was so
plausible that the
Bench refused to con-
vict, and made re-
marks derogatory to
the gloomy quartette.
Clearly it was suspi-
cious that the cafe-
keeper’s previous phi-
lanthropy was not
without its motive.
This and similar
occurrences seem to
have fully justified the
appointment of “spot-
ters.” But where are
the spotters now?
Are they still keeping
a watch on their un-
disciplined subordi-
nates? I doubt it—
at any rate, in my
part of the world.
Since the strike the
care of one of the
public buildings near
me has fallen on to
assorted members of
the old force who are
not very remarkable
watchdogs. I have
myself seen them
sprawled in nOoks
reading the paper and
consuming fags secure
from observation from
the street; and from
the evidence of beer-
bottles I suspect that
they have found sur-
cease from care on
their monotonous even-
ing round. Yet it
is still claimed by
the supporters of the mutineers that spying
on these good men is an undeserved reflec-
tion on their integrity. Incidentally, the
loudest shrieks of indignation come from an
ex-licensing policeman who —but that is an-
other stoix
* * * *
“Stormy” meets Uncle Sam at sea:—
Pars regarding Uncle Sam’s prohibition problem
and his disregard of the rules of search recall
memories of an incident which occurred during the
Big Argument. A favorite dodge of ships carrying
contraband to our enemies was to partly load at
New York and then leave for Havana (Cuba)
apparently in ballast, and complete loading at the
latter port with sugar. , Then, if stopped by an
examining cruiser, they' would declare a full cargo
INCLUDED IN TEE AW ADD.
“That's a jolly nice girl you've got"
“Yes, and so sensible, daddy. Like stayed on with us for ten
shillings a week less because George calls her darling."
of sugar. On one occasion while on the New York
patrol we were given the names of five ships, with
orders to seize them as soon as they were outside the
three-mile limit. We managed to capture one, and
an armed merchantman another. Our capture proved
to be a Dutchman, but the other was flying the
Stars and Stripes. A very zealous R.N.R. lieutenant
who was sent in charge of the guard and navigating
party to take Uncle Sam to Halifax promptly com-
menced operations by hauling down . Old Glory and
substituting the White Ensign. Though quite in
order if the capture had been an enemy ship, it
was a serious breach of etiquette under the circum-
stances ; and Uncle made a. bigger outcry about it
than he did when the Lusitania was sunk. Needless
to say, apologies were "promptly tendered. It was
not hard to discern that Hail Columbia resented
our presence on his doorstep. While blockading
the Kron Prinz Wilhelm and Prinz Eitel Frederick
in Newport we were inf full view of Uncle’s Atlantic
fleet. He not only used to keep a watchful eye on
us, but frequently after dark a searchlight would
be thrown on us to remind us of his presence,
heedless of the fact that this revealed our position
to an escaping vessel or a raiding enemy.
* * * *
“The Curate” : Mrs. Grurnly has been re-
sponsible for the wedding of two people who
were ending their days in frugal peace in a
Sydney suburb on the old-age pension. ic>ome-.
one tried to force an entrance one night into
the house where both were lodging, and
chose the old lady’s window. At least, she
thought he did; and she was so disturbed
that the old gentleman gallantly offered to
sit in her room until she went to sleep. But he
dropped to sleep himself, and, although both
are in the seventies, censorious tongues
started to clack over the incident. Now
there is a parson in a drab district who will
remember as a bright episode in his career
the attempts of a prospective bridegroom to
justify an immediate marriage on the ground
that lie had innocently compromised the lady.
“Top Rail” : The brilliant rescue at Mur-
willumbah (N.S.W.) the other day, when
a man jumped from one horse to the back
of another that was dragging a stirrup-lield
youth at the gallop, confirms my belief that
the Northern Rivers have some of the best
horsemen in Australia. And grit! Recently
mention was made in The Bulletin of a
youngster who had stopped 29 shrap. pellets
in the war. After his return he was prac-
tising revolver-shooting with a rusty weapon
which missed fire. He turned the muzzle
and tried to break the breech, when an ex-
ploding cartridge brought _ his wounds _to
round figures. There is nothing so paralysing
as a bullet in the stomach, yet the injured
man went straight to a horse in the paddock,
climbed aboard, and without saddle or bridle
galloped half a mile to the nearest township,
Chindera. I think an army quack would
still mark him fit for active service.
“Ex-Dig.”: There
w ore occasional
cases of unautho-
rised fraternising
between Allied
troops and the Ger-
mans during the
war; and one of
the most notable
and most strictly
censored w T as
at Morville. A
number of g' un s
lmd to be worked
till the last minute
to embarrass the
advancing Fritz in
the push of 1918;
after rendering un-
serviceable every
gun they couldn’t
take with them, the
rearguard of Tom-
mies were to retire
in good order.
Passing through
Morville they were
delayed by the joys
of wide-open, de-
serted and well-
stocked estaminets:
and they were still
sampling the liquor
at one end of the
town when the Ger-
mans entered the
other. Now, the
Germans also dis-
covered the abund-
ance of free booze ;
and by and bye the
drinking parties
merged, and, decid-
ing that there were
better things than
fighting, called the
war off for a while
and drank together
amicably. It was
some hours before
the jamboree fin-
ished ; and though
some of the Tom-
mies were very
drunk, with a
little help they all
took up the line of route again. But, such
is gratitude, they got no thanks for holding
the German advance more effectively than
they could have done by fighting.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: A safe-blower was caught in
flagrante at Brisbane the other day. The
police searched their captive and removed
some gelignite and other oddments from his
pockets. On his way to the lockup in a
motor-car, he seemed overcome with despair,
hiding his face in his hands and gnashing his
teeth in apparent bitterness of soul. At the
lockup he hurled something away, remark-
ing in blasphemous wrath that the police
luck was as good as his own was bad. In-
vestigations showed that lie had kept a short
length of fuse un his sleeve, and during the
UNCEREMONIOUS.
“I don’t believe I shall have my trousseau
ready for years."
“Why wait?”
“Just like a man! You have no respect for
the marriage tie.”
car-ride had been determinedly exercising his
incisors and grinders on the attached detona-
tor with the intention of blowing his own
head off and possibly spoiling a policeman’s
uniform. Of course, he should have begged
for a fag and a match and lit the fuse,
which any average policeman would have
taken for a popular brand of cigarette if
he had chanced to scent it.
tContinued on page WA
THE STIPULATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lady would like refined lady., companion not
interested in men.”- — Argus, 14/l/’24.
Music she needn’t be dissevered from,
Old lace may still supply her with diversion;
There’s no embargo on the dog that’s Pom.
Where she is going-, or the cat that’s Persian.
But men, from glittering Generals to gents
Whose function is the rubbish-tin’s removal,
She must regard with blank indifference
Or —better still, conceivably-—intense
And frigid disapproval.
On objects less obnoxious, of course,
Her eyes may lightly rest, herself unchidden;
To praise a cow or to admire a horse
Will scarcely, one imagines, be forbidden.
On sheep or pig her soft appraising glance
May linger long, on rooster or on pullet;
One biped only she must view askance,
A second look at anything in pants
Will mark her for the bullet.
Males of her species less appeal must hold
Than cloistered monks in marble Aphrodites
Would find —or Cousin Jacks that delve for gold
Derive in contemplating iron pyrites.
Flowers she may study, china too, with zest,
Pictures in frames and cockatoos in cages,
But Man must never stir her interest,
’Twill safer be if frankly she detest
The being in bifurcated garment drest,
The heir of all the ages.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


MOTORING DE LUXE.
“The daily toll of motor casualties in Australia has reached scandalous proportions.”
THE MOTOR HOG: “Grand road, old man! There’s nothing like a good top-dressing of pedestrians for smoothing out the humps."


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£254 7 10
Frank Middows, Sydney .. .. 2 2 0
George Taylor,, Sydney.. .. .. 110
Alec McPhee, Deniliquin .. .. 10 0
“Hayeworray ,” Tarrowayah .. .. 2 6
£258 3 4
Contributions should be addressed to 'in;
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
The Bulletin
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet#
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. LTD.. LONDON.
“Francis Xeres”: After a little diimer
recently several started yarning about tlie
age of port they had drunk. There was one
who had tasted a liquor a hundred years
old. another who prattled of a rare brew
which had toppled over the courtiers of
Charles 11. Then the star liar had his say,
and we all shut up. “I recall a port,” he
remarked slowly, “that was found in the
cellar of an English duke. The cask had
rotted off it, but not a drop of the liquor
had been lost. It was all there, enclosed in
its own crust.”
* * * *
“G.R.” submerges:—
The attempts of Admiralty divers to reach the lost
submarine 1.42 recall the feat of Catto and Damant,
who worked at a depth of 210 feet in a Scottish
loch. This is the record for descents beneath the
water. The divers were an hour and a half in
coming to the surface, which allowed time for the
nitrogen gas to escape slowly without aerating their
blood. At 210 feet the pressure is about 901 b. to
the square inch. Augustus Siebe invented the
modern type of dress while employed on the wreck
of the Royal George in 1839, though, of course, it
has been improved out of knowledge since. Alex-
ander has always been regarded as the super-diver.
He walked 1000 yards up the Severn tunnel at a
depth of over 30 feet to close a valve in a steel
door. The distance was too far for him to drag
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
“What are the bows for?”
“My husband objected to this one-piece suit, so I added
the ribbons.”
his air-line, so lie carried instead on his helmet a
steel cylinder containing oxygen at a pressure of
120 atmospheres. It was Lambert who salved £70,000
in gold from a wreck lying in 27 fathoms. He
went down 33 times, and on his last descent re-
mained 45 minutes, became completely paralysed, and
never recovered. Tales of natives remaining down
in the nude for 15 minutes are all moonshine. Four
minutes is the limit for the most skilful diver who
has no mechanical means of supporting respiration
and two or three dives will put a man permanently
THE won ST OF IT.
THE BORE (telling the story of Ms life): “The event made such a wreck of me that
I decided to hang myself, I was actually doing it, too, but the rope broke"
THE BORED : “ Japanese , I suppose. That is the worst of these Japanese goods!”
out of action. It was the shark and the dog-fish,
however, which first drove the pearl and sponge
fishers to use Siebe’s dress.
* * * *
“Ulk”: Many a happy evening have the
Chinese of Wellington (M.L.) spent oyer
the fan-tan tables; but a trifling indiscretion
on the part of some interested party recently
caused the Law to turn a flinty eye on what
seems to have been previously regarded as a
harmless diversion. A few crisp notes were
offered to a couple of d.’s as a Christmas
box, and that put the fat in the fire. Haining-
street, Chinatown, was promptly raided by
outraged officialdom, and no less than 75
Chinese participating in the national pastime
were driven like sheep to the nearest lock-
up. Fines totalling £323 were later dished
out by the beak. Moral : Be sure of your
palm before you grease it.
“Herodot”: “Ex-Dig.” (B. 27/12/’23)
mentions the possibility of a few Australian
ex-soldiers being still prisoners of war in
Manchuria. It is at least as likely that
there are some former members of the A.I.F.
in the hinterland of Spanish
Morocco under the same con-
ditions. When the Spanish
Government attempted to
recruit a force of British
ex-service men in England
after the close of the Great
War for duty in its unlucky
Moroccan campaign, a cer-
tain number of Australians
undoubtedly joined. Some
were killed and others were
posted missing. Later, the
British Government de-
manded the repatriation of
its subjects who were in the
Spanish Moroccan Army on
account of the manner in
which they had been treated.
Some of those repatriated
have never disguised their
conviction that there are
Britishers listed as _ missing
who are prisoners in parts
of the inaccessible interior.
There is a story with a wide
currency in Spain that the
Spanish general who w r as
in command during the cam-
paign, and who was captured
by the Moors, is still alive, and
that his captors are in the habit of taking
him from one village to another to exhibit
him with a chain around his neck.
“Pli.D.” on a ruined calling:—
The competitions by which some papers are work-
ing up circulations of a sort have had a disastrous
effect on the fortunes of a small army of parasites
who have been battening for years upon the world’s
oldest profession. Previously a profitable trade was
done by stewards, baggage agents’ employees, etc., who
had access: to passengers arriving from overseas.
Their delicate job was to hand likely-looking males
the visiting-cards of local Rahabs, and in return they
often drew; handsome commissions both ways. An
employee of one of our biggest liners claimed that
after listening to the smoking-room conversation for
a week he knew infallibly the men to approach at
the journey’s end, and that he rarely made less than
£5O. What the sportive voyager now does is to
select a dozen photographs from (say) the Nudest
Factory ’Ands Tourney, and write to the
originals in terms of admiration whose infamous
purport is all too clear. An advantage of this method
from the standpoint of the wandering Juan is that
he knows what he is bidding for, to the extent that
the charms of most of the ladies are revealed as
fully as the photographer’s art and the police authori-
ties will permit. On the other hand, of course, lie
runs some slight risk of insulting a modest girl
who in an aberrant moment has allowed herself
to be snapped half-naked for the delectation of the
newspaper-reading public. But, apparently, that
happens very rarely.
“Ingomar”: A dealer in a southern'capital
delivered a piano under the usual hire-pur-
chase agreement. After protracted default
in payment a threat to recover the article
was lately met by a defiant “Come and take
it.'’ On the arrival of the carrier it was
found that, since the delivery of the instru-
ment, the doorways of the hirer’s house had
been altered, with the result that there was
no way of getting off with the goods. But
the dealer was not yet beaten. He arrived
in person with a screwdriver, and as he
could not legally touch the doorways, he
got to work on the piano and took it out
in sections.
“B.Y.E.’s’’ story (affidavits attached) :
The principals in my drama from real life are
four. Two are men, mates for years, both married.
One had a daughter, the other a son. The matesliip
began out-back and continued for years ; their wives
and family had never met. In August, ’l4, both
enlisted, one in the Engineers, the other in the
infantry. The son also joined up, the girl volun-
teered as a nurse. The two mates sailed for the
Box-on in Oct., 1914 ; the son in December same year.
The girl was sent to Egypt about the middle of
February, ’l5. She got there in time to nurse the
first hatch of wounded from the Peninsula, amongst
whom was the hoy, and a mutual attachment
developed. The mother of the girl went V.A.D.-ing
to England, the boy's mother attached herself to one
of the many Diggers’ canteens in Sydney. The father
of the girl, badly wounded at Lone Pine and invalided
to Aussie, met the boy’s mother, and they took
something more than a liking to one another. Later
came the news that the hoy’s dad was missing in
France. Meanwhile the younger couple were trans-
ferred to England, one to Harefield Park Hospital,
one to No. 1 Command Camp, Perham Downs.
About this time the girl’s mother was becoming
very interested in one of her patients, a lone Aussie,
who had been picked up in Le Havre, nearly
naked, stripped of papers and identification disc ,
and a cruel smash had robbed him of memory.
Kindly sympathy grew into a more tender feeling,
ml she had sufficient influence at Headquarters to
get him sent to Australia. Herself also. A Sydn \v
specialist, now deceased, operated on the
patient, relieving the pressure of bone on
the brain, so that memory returned, revealing
the man as her husband’s missing mate.
Next she got a letter containing a confession ot
infidelity on her husband’s part. A quiet meeting to -
lowed, then two divorce cases in different parts ot the
State, a redistribution of husbands and wives, and
later a family meeting with the boy find the gn ,
now married, plus a grandson. And not a note ot
recrimination or bitterness marred it all. -b-
Ha eh of the older couples now has a son. the
\ oungcr couple have already two boys and two gnls,
but it would take an expert to explain the relation-
ships of the new-comers.
“Yoyang”: On Jan 31, 1798, the first
public' clock in Sydney was erected on Church
Hill. The tower was of brick, but, like all
the earlier buildings in Sydney, it crumbled
away in a surprisingly short time on account
(if the insufficiency of lime —a defect was
afterwards met by gathering sea shells round
the harbor and burning them. Ims old-
time clock-tower was intended for St. Pin Up s
Church, but collapsed before the tabernacle
was built.
# * * *
“Shed Hand": Extract from the mass of
official instructions re rinderpest issued to
inspectors in Westralia: —-
Rhubarb and onions from Spearwood (infected
area) may be permitted beyond infected areas pro-
viding they are accompanied by a certificate fi’ofii
the grower certifying the latter is double-skinned
and the former dipped in formalin*
* * * *
“X2X”: A cable about the loss of the
British submarine L 24, which struck the
battleship Resolution, suggests that the crew
were killed instantly and painlessly by the
fumes which would be generated when the
sea-water reached the batteries. Let s hope
something else happened; for if their deaths
were caused in this way they would be any-
thing but painless or quick, Ihe fumes
produced by contact of the Salt water with
the generating apparatus would mostly be
chlorine, formed by the electrical decomposi-
tion of the sodium, magnesium and other
chlorides in the water. Anybody who had
any experience of this gas during the war,
when it was first extensively used by the
Germans, knows something of the tortures
it inflicts. When breathed in, a certain
GETTING IN EARLY.
“But, uncle dear, because you are about to
make your will it isn't to say that you
are going to die. For instance, now,
Eve made my will, leaving everything
to you, dear, and yet I’m sure I’ll stay
to look after you for years and years.”
amount of it is converted into hydrochloric
acid in the lungs and stomach, and this is
equivalent to drinking a cupful or so of
spirits of salts.
REGRETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They always come to me at n’ght,
Those dismal old regrets
lor things I've done or left undone —
Ghosts of dishonored debts,
A thoughtless taunt, a heartless jeer,
Some half-forgotten sin,
They linger •in • the fading light
As night is closing in.
The wind that races high to-night
is whistling overhead;
A branch is tapping on the pane
That’s close beside the bed.
They seem to come more frequently
The older that one gets—
Ah! Will they come to-night, to-night,
Those bitter old regrets V
A quarter moon lies on its back,
There’s lightning in the west;
Dull thunder rumbles like a dirge
Of souls that cannot rest.
A restless child is somewhere near —
Its cry stirs old regrets ;
The mother’s croon brings back to mind
The things a man forgets.
From a framed picture hanging high
A face is turned to me;
And in the eyes there seems reproach,
The lips smile wistfully.
The hair is looped beneath the cars,
Clustered beneath a net;
And every line and feature there
Brings back an old regret.
I’ll rise stiff-jointed ere the dawn
And watch for break of day—
The gleam of gold that lights the east
Drives dismal thoughts away.
The joy of life comes dancing back
The joy the sun begets —
And till the wind rides high at night
There’ll be no more regrets.
K.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Coin*
pensation, etc., etc.
B
IV
GEORGE
KING
\
Vbu a.re ajyaped in. every bottle
'of tKatj-eltyam.e_ptan.dard. of
excellence which, ha/' ma.de
FAMOU/* THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconnoijjeurj' to be
JcOTLAND/'JbUNDEfTjTIMULANT
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
if
Mu
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The only person living who really remem-
bers the Buffalo’s first voyage (1830) to
establish South Aus. as a province is 11. W.
Breaker, who was six years old when he
made the trip. Miss Marianne Fisher
was also on board, but she was too young
to remember much of it. Breaker followed
mining early in life, first at Burra and
then on the Victorian gold diggings, but for
the past half-century lie has been a store-
keeper at Moonta.
The new vice-rector of St. John’s within
the University of Sydney is Father Frank
AicEvoy, of Sydney. lie is the first Aus-
tralian" to be appointed to the job. Rome,
which gave him his D.D. in 1912, has de-
cided that the time has arrived for prac-
tising “Australia First.” The new man, who
has spent several years in the Lismore dio-
cese. will have, among other things, the job
of reorganising St. John's, and preparing
the way for spending £40,000 on additions
to the college and the erection of a Catholic
Women’s College. A brother of the new
vice-rector is Dr. McEvoy. of Murwillumbah.
“Uramao": The probability of Gov.-
General .Tellicoe not seeking a further term
in Maoriland has set the quidnuncs pricking
the cards. The presence of Lord Strath-
spey (a native of the country) in M.L. re-
Alderman
J. SAUNDY ,
Hobart’s new
Mayor.
calls that an effort
was made by some
people at the other
end to induce the
powers to engage
him for the job
prior to Jellieoe’s
appointment, but
little regard was
paid to the sugges-
tion. General God-
ley, who, since he
left with the main
body of M.L.'s Dig-
gers. has gone far
in the Army, hav-
ing been in charge
of the British
Forces on the
Rhine, is mentioned
as a likely candi-
date. But Massey
will first try to get
a son of the King
to fill the vacancy.
“Pollio": “E.F.’s” note on Lord Jersey
(B. 10/1 /’24) reminds me of one memorial
to the bygone Governor’s personal appear-
ance that few people suspect. In the ’nine-
ties it was the fashion to label natural beau-
ties with the names of important Govern-
ment officials and their like; and nowhere
was this practice commoner than at the
Jenolan Caves. Jerry Wilson, the chief care-
taker, was a great offender; it seemed quite
characteristic of him, therefore, that the
newest discovery should be called “The Jer-
sey Cave." On my first visit to it I pro-
tested to one of the then subordinate guides
—Joe Rowe or Chris Wyburd—against this
form of snobbishness. “Wait a bit," said
Joe (or Chris), “there’s more to it than
that.” So I waited, and presently Chris
(or Joe), stopping, said, “Now, then ?”
and pointed to a fine flat stalactite projecting
from the cave-wall, very much like a promi-
nent nose, its tip colored by iron-droppings
a brilliant Jersey red. And that is why it’s
the “Jersey” cave to this day.
Died in Sydney M. Boland, principal of
Bolands, Ltd., of North Queensland, public-
spirited citizen and clear-sighted Irish-
man. Thirty years ago the Boland brothers,
seeing nothing but hard work ahead of them,
decided to throw up their navvying jobs.
Starting a small store in Cairns, they pros-
pered, and to-day theirs is the biggest shop
in the north. The forethought and energy
of Mick Boland was responsible for the crea-
tion of the Cairns Harbor Board. He was
also responsible for the agitation that ended
in the building of the Mulgrave tramway,
and the opening up of the 1 rich sugar country
between Cairns and Aloomba.
Ash bolt’s term as Tasmanian Agent-
General in London will expire at the end of
June. The Lee Government had intended
to economise on this job by cutting it out
altogether, but the Labor Government
reckons it is good business to retain it.
Colonel Ecc 1 e s
Snowden may be
Ash bolt’s successor.
Snowden was at
the Front for a
couple of years,
and also took a
turn at a muni-
tion job in Blighty.
He was thrice
Mayor of Hobart,
was for a few
short weeks Chief
Secretary in the
first Lee Ministry,
and is now one of
th e Nationalists
who are keeping
Lyons in office.
LORD LEI ER-
RULME adrising
Australia to
go black.
Collected his last eight-and-fourpence, .1. B.
Waldron, of Launceston. Articled to Robt.
Byron Miller, and, after Miller became Attor-
ney-General, to Alfred Green, he was
admitted to practise in 1870. and lived to be
third oldest on the Tasmanian list. He was
one of the founders of the Launceston Par-
liamentary Debating Society, but could not
persuade the electors to give him a seat in
the State House or the Senate. A plucky
speculator, he was chairman of directors of
the Hercules, had large interests in Mt. Lyell.
and owned scores of the vacant blocks of
land around Launceston. The call came to
him at 79.
Taken the lift, at 53, that great judge
of stock. Arthur Hardman, once the “cattle
king’’ of the fine grazing land along the
Speck's north-east coast at Waterhouse.
The call came while he was at home on
King Island, where he was one of the largest
property-holders, and still rearing beef. His
wife was the daughter of the late Presby-
terian Rev. Thomas Cunningham.
Last month the North Queensland police
identified tw r o skeletons found in the York
Peninsula bush. They were those of 11.
Steebohm and E. Stephens, who left Sydney
in 1922 to walk round Australia. It was
the brass badge of the A.I.F. that revealed
who they were—or had been. They left
Weipa Mission, on the Gulf, on Oct. 17 to
cross to Normanton, over 400 miles of the
roughest and aridest country in Australia;
and nobody seems to have seen them alive
afterwards.
H. L. Heron, general manager of the
Commercial Bank of Australia, is a product
ot Hamilton. Western District of Victoria.
One of the younger sons of the Church of
England vicar there, he was born December
1. 1863. Entering the bank he soon made
his mark, and when the reconstruction took
place at the end of last century he was
given the big job, being then only half-way
through his thirties, and has made a very
fine success of it. He lost one son in France
and another returned badly battered.
Some years ago a boy from the Sobraon
arrived on the Richmond (N.S.W.), con-
signed to a well-known cocky with a pen-
chant for cheap and immature labor. When
his term was up the lad had managed to save
a few pounds, enough to pay a deposit on the
purchase of three acres of ti-tree swamp land
of apparently little value. He cleared it,
fenced the area, and put in a crop of sugar-
cane. Subsequently he bought another three
acres, and frequently since he has increased
his holdings. His cane cheque this season
was £4OOO.
Dead in Adelaide, at close on 70, James
Bailey, an identity of the Broken Hill field
almost from the beginning. He was born on
a mine (Kapunda, S.A.), and had experi-
ence at Wallaroo and in M.L. before arriving
at the B. H. Prop, in the early days. He
worked up from the bottom, succeeded Bar-
rett as underground manager of Block 11, and
became general underground manager when
Slee moved to Newcastle.
At 57 William Laidlaw, biologist for the
Vic. Agricultural Department, has been ap-
pointed director of Melbourne botanic gar-
dens. He was tried for a few months as
acting-head while the Lands Department
spread its net for a better man ; but he was
considered as good as the best of the other
If) who applied. Besides his £BOO a year
the director gets a house nestling in the
gardens like an English deanery.
The Macs will be heavily represented in
the tussle for the Dalhousie seat in Vic.
Assembly. Angus McNab bears the tattered
Liberal banner; Gerald James McKenna,
son of a Kyneton brewer who was
in the House 50 years ago, is the
Farmers’ white hope; the Independent
is John James McCarthy; and the returning-
officer is one of the McLennan clan. The
Laborite is Reginald Thomas Pollard, and
as he is a returned Digger and a farmer he
is considered to have something more than
an outside chance.
Lionel Boas, who travelled to Sydney as
one of the mentors of a sight-seeing contin-
gent of young Australians from Westralia.
is a son of the Jewish minister who had
charge of Adelaide Jewry for very many
years, and died a few months ago. Another
son, Harold, was Jewish representative at-
tached to the Australian Y.M.C.A. It fell
to his lot to make the representation to
A.I.F. headquarters which secured special
leave for Jewish soldiers on religious festi-
vals. When the privilege became known Boas
met some queer Jews.
Passed over at Newcastle, William Mac-
lcinnon Bolile, who had lived in the district
for G 2 years. Born in India, he came to
Australia after witnessing stirring incidents
connected with the Indian Mutiny, and soon
made north with sheep. He was present
at the first land sale in Townsville, long
before the discovery of Charters Towers.
His wife, who died six years ago, was a
grand-daughter of Mrs. Frances Oakes (for-
merly Small), the first Australian born-free
child—she arrived at. Parramatta in 178!).
11. Freeborn Johnston, physicist, of the
Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Car-
negie Institute, Washington, D.C.. is pack-
ing up his household gods preparatory to
setting forth for Perth. Westralia. having
been appointed Director of the Magnetic
Observatory there. He is a Canadian who
has already had quite a distinguished career,
and has in his scientific research visited most
spots on this ball, from Tropics to Poles and
back again. Mrs. Johnston is a Maorilander,
formerly Kitty Reading, of Christchurch.
She is the elder daughter of M. L. Reading,
editor of the Lyttelton Times, and practised
journalism herself before departing for
Canada and matrimony.
The Simpson tinware firm in Adelaide
has been taking a census of its employees,
and finds among its old inhabitants four
brothers who all joined at the same time 40
years ago.
A. Max Allen, of the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
Survey Office, will pack his bag for the Cold
Country shortly, where he will be' the Ma
State’s migration officer. His job will in-
clude lectures, interviews and general pub-
licity work, and he will at least put some
enthusiasm into it. You can call him Major,
and put an M.C. after the Allen: he had a
fine record with the A.I.F. Engineers in
Palestine.
“Buz Fuz" : The few pounds that the late
Senator Bakhap charged for his trip to China
on behalf of the Commonwealth Government
are a reminder of his care in the matter of
official expenses, arid he probably suffered con-
siderably in his pocket because he wouldn’t
debit the Government for sundries. Ilis
example has very few seconders in the Fed-
eral Parliament. On the contrary, members
make no bones about employing O.S. stamps
for private wires and correspondence, and
there was the classic case of the economist
whose bag flew open as he left the House
for home, exposing several cakes of Govern-
ment soap on the sacred pavement.
“Gallery”: When I saw Llewellyn Atkin-
son the other day wearing a furrowed brow
and a large stack of documents, I remem-
bered that he was stipendiary rubber-stamp
for his brother-Ministers, who were dispersed
all over the Commonwealth. . Since Bruce
went to England the Cabinet has shown an
increasing desire to wander in remote parts
and leave behind an understudy to look in
at the various departments at the “seat of
government.” This is the first time the
“compliment” has been thrust on Atkinson
and to give him his due, he has not been
highly inflated by the fact that he is, for all
official purposes, the Government for the
time being. On the other hand, he has de-
veloped surprisingly with responsibility.
The Hon. Charles George Holmes A’Court
just dead in England at 80. was an Australian
in a passing way, although, when he left the
Vice-Admiral
SATTO , command-
ing the Japanese
squadron, now in
Australian waters.
Queensland civil
service, four years
ago, he went back
to England to end
his days. His
father was Baron
Heytesbury, who
took that name
from a place in
England where
the r e was an
A.I.F. camp during
the war. Coming
to Australia when
he was 20, Holmes
A’Court was a
squatter for 10
years, but in 1877
got a job in the
Queensland Par-
liamentary ser-
vice, and climbed
steadily until In l
became Clerk of
the Assembly : o
1908. He was also
qualified to prac-
tise at the Queen,s-
1a n d Bar, but
didn’t. A son is a
Sydney doctor.
Another year would have given George
Hartwell Gifford his jubilee as an officer of
the N.S.W. P'ublic Library, where he was
first assistant; and as he goes on long leave
of 12 months, lie can be credited with the full
half-century before his term expires. He
joined as a cadet only a few years after it
became the Free Public Library: before
that it had been the Subscription Library,
and the centenary of that —Australia’s first
public or semi-public library—we shall sooil
have to think about celebrating.
“Xox" : One who seems certain of a job in
Ramsay Macdonald’s Ministry is Colonel
Jcjsiah Wedgwood, who has only taken to
the Macdonald brand of politics in recent
years. Wedgwood is a member of the famous
pottery family, but for most of his adult
life has mixed warfare with naval architec-
ture and politics in an extraordinary fashion.
He started his fighting against Kruger in
1899. As a naval lieut.-commander he swept
into Flanders in 1914 with a herd of armored
cars, and after a while tried some of the
close work on Gallipoli, where he received
a bad knock. Then he changed over to the
army, helped Smuts in the East Africa cam-
paign, and afterwards was sent on a mission
to Siberia.
All the present S. Aus. Judges are natives
of the State. Chief .Justice Murray was born
at Murraytown, Angas Parsons at North
Adelaide, and Poole at Strafchalbyn. Murray
and Parsons were 49 when they stepped up;
Poole, now 51, was appointed at 46.
During its 72 years as a separate State
Victoria has had only five Chief Justices.
William a’Beckett was the first (i 1852-57).
He was succeeded by William F. Stawell,
who lasted for 29 years. George Higin-
botham was Chief for six years (1886-92),
and was followed by John Madden, who
reigned for 25: then came the last and lone-
liest. William Irvine, in 1918. All except
the sturdy commoner Higinbotham accepted
knighthoods.
Captain Thomas Erskine Wardle, who has
been signalled as successor to Commodore
Addison as commanding officer of the Aus-
tralian Fleet, though practically unknown
in this country, has a name in the Fog. He
saw much real service in the Big War, and
wears a D.S.O. At the time of his appoint-
ment he stood senior officer of the reserve
fleet at the Nore, and though a good deal
junior to Addison carries a punch among
sailormen.
One of the impish things the late W. D.
Beazlcy did when Chairman of Committees
of Vic. Leg. Assembly was to whisper to the
gent.-help who was announcing names at a
levee that the next M.P. to be presented to
his Ex. was “Mister John Tobacco Isaacs."
So hot was the pace and so humorless the
A.D.C. that there was no time for sub-edit-
ing ; so “Tobacco Isaacs" it was. The victim,
a brother to the High Court Judge, took it
smiling. At the time lie represented Vic-
toria’s one and only tobacco-growing district,
and never tired of talking about its pros-
pects ; and this was a gentle hint that
the thing had got to be rather a bore.
AT THE END OF THE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They are all gone home
And my steps are slow—
In a dream 1 come,
In a dream I go!
They were all so dear,
My own plain folk;
I am lonely here
Where they moved and spoke.
Now walk they never
By the well-known spot;
1 seek them ever,
And find them not.
Once, here where I stand,
I could hear them speak;
And hand clasped hand,
And cheek touched cheek.
But now there is only
The empty air,
Where my hand grows lonely
For hands not there.
Will the night soon come,
And the dream that’s true?
They are all gone home ;
I am homesick too.
N.S.W.
DORA WILCOX.


Flake
18621-
%
C
Cut
1872
s>r
PATON
A New Wcu| to CdiTij cut Old Fi'ieiyd
o New Handy Havelock, Tin.
m.
%
It is only 3 /4 inch
throu<Jh but
it holds a full
Two Ounces..
i
It fits in your
Waistcoat Pocket
as as a watch.
IT is a narrow, round tin of only
threequarter-inch depth.
It slips snugly and easily into your
vest pocket, but it is packed with
2ozs.
It is absolutely airtight, ensuring fresh,
fragrant Tobacco whenever you may
buy it.
The Mew Packing if obtainable in both
DAMC £ AROMATIC
STRENGTHS'
Havelock
Iks absolutely
airtight t erasures
perfect condition.
m
The Tobacco is Packed
like this-Plenty of
room for your
when you wanta rill.
TOBACCO
CIVIC
The Bulletin
UNIQUE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLEOF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR;


Don’t Go to England This Year
without previously making arrangements for your
accommodation. The majority of London’s hotels
are already booked to capacity for the next
six months. If you are contemplating a visit,
write immediately to us, stating your require-
ments, and mention your steamer and date of
arrival in London. Accommodation will be
reserved for you and particulars sent to you
during the voyage over. On arrival we will
act as your personal agents, and relieve you
of all petty worries of strangers to London.
We can add comfort to your visit in manv
ways, and can arrange for your tours and
sight-seeing both in Great Britain and on the
Continent.
IN ADDITION, WE HAVE FACILITIES
WHEREBY WE CAN EFFECT A SAVING OF
AT LEAST 20% ON ALL PURCHASES MADE
THROUGH US. . , .
These facilities are exclusive to Australasian
visitors, and you are invited to take full
advantage of them.
THE ANGLO'AUSTRALASIAN TRAVEL
BUREAU,
STAFFORD HOUSE (opposite Australia House),
Strand, LONDON, W.C.
Cables: AUSTRAVELA, London.
Under the personal supervision of E. C. SMITH,
late Embarkation Staff Officer, A.l.f.
Correspondence mav be addressed to us free
of charge.
m
r
If You Want
DEPENDABLE,
TROUBLE-FREE
IGNITION
FIT A
SIMMS MAGNETO
THERE IS A TYPE FOR
EACH IGNITION NEED.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LIMITED,
279 Clarence Street, Sydney; 632 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Hunter Street, Newcastle.
High-power Rifles.
We specialise in these rifles, and our complete
catalog- will give you more details.
Savage .22 High Power. A Rifle that
fires a bullet more than half a mile per second.
£l2/10/-
Savage Bolt Action, 250/3000, having a
cartridge 25 cal. and a muzzle velocity of 30-00
feet per second. £l5.
Browning Automatic, 35 cal., flies 5
shots as fast as the trigger can be pulled.
£J2/10/-. This rifle is best automatic
ever made.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
Gb
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
DITCHED.
“And you say you lost control of your car?"
“Yea. I couldn’t keep up the instalments.”
“Biltong” : Re the young man at Albury
(N.S.W.) who was treated in hospital for snakebite,
left the institution on the Sunday and was again
bitten on the Monday. Even before “Hamer’s” par
could climb into print the young man had badly
beaten his own record. A day or two after he left
the hospital a second time he was bitten by a snake
on stepping down from a waggon. When he re-
covered from that third dose he went to Sydney
for a fortnight; and an evening or so after his
return he walked outside in his pyjamas to get a
drink, and was bitten once more —four times within
about a month, and on each occasion by a venomous
snake.
* * * *
“Pick”: The other day Jack Chinnery, a
Lake George (N.S.W.) cattle-breeder, discovered a
limpy steer on his run with a curiously malformed
hoof. Examination in the crush subsequently re-
vealed that in calfhood the beast had trodden fairly
into a strong jam-tin. The bottom had worn away,
but the tin had been an ever-tightening band around
the hoof, the toes of which had formed into a mis-
shapen horny mass. What the poor brute had suffered
from his unwelcome anklet can hardly be imagined ;
but, apparently, it had had little effect on his
condition, as he was fat and healthy, and could
toss a dog with the best of ’em.
“Bouragi”: “Cropley,” on the cat whose
domestic complications drove it to suicide (B.
27/12/’23), reminds me of German Harry’s duck.
Harry, who used to run the Jeera between Cook-
town and Samarai, was a keen duck-breeder, and he
(old me this yarn himself, so the facts must be O.K.
One trip he was taking across a pair of ducks to
a client in Samarai, and the duck was sitting on
a clutch of eggs. She died of heat or something, and
when Harry went to throw the nest overboard, he
found the widowed drake gazing aghast at a
large flying-fish sitting on the eggs. Resolved to
let the affair go on, Harry didn’t interfere with
the fish, which, with ail occasional flight overboard
to wet her gills, stuck to the job till the ducklings
hatched, which happened the day the Jeera opened
China Straits. The drake after the first, tragic
blow had remained in a kind of stupor, and had
been carefully tended, but now Harry thoughtlessly
led him forward to look at he family nestling
under their foster-mother. The bird gave but
a single glance, then jumped on the lee rail and
took a header over, never to be seen again.
“Jacky Roo”: These yarns about buck-
jump riders move me to record the performances of
a sailor of my acquaintance, who forsook the sea
and wandered out to the nor'-west of N. S. Wales.
Although he had previously never seen any but
white horses, within three months he was reckoned
the crack of the district. He had appalling “hands '
and mounted and dismounted like a ton of coal ;
but if, with the assistance of half a dozen men
holding the horse, he managed to climb into the
saddle, nothing short of au earthquake could shake
him off the worst outlaw. His game was to clamp
the Calves of his legs (they were as thick as any
Ordinary man’s thigh) against the girths, and wait
fot something to break. But nothing ever did.
“Tang-aloli”: Re “Wingella’s” mango-
tree (B. G/12/’23). A peculiarity of these trees is
their persistency in bearing fruit in spite of previous
failures in the same season. One 1 had in the
Siga-ioka River, in Fiji, began flowering early in May,
as usual, but a heavy rainstorm destroyed the blos-
soms, as heavy rain invariably does if it falls during
a blossoming period. The tree flowered again in
early July, and once more the blossoms were de-
stroyed by a heavy rainstorm. Notwithstanding this,
in early September it blossomed again, and bore a
large crop of good fruit.
* * * *
“Idle Ilnp” i Here is a tracking record that
will take some beating. In 1898 two swagmeu looted
a hut 60 miles from Brewarrina. Three
days later two black-trackers arrived
on the scene, and although 38 points
of rain had fallen since the looting
they set to work next morning, and by
the following evening had discovered
the stolen goods in four different hol-
low trees .about a mile from Bre-
warrina.
* * *
“Privateer” : Talking of freak
walkers, I met my exhibit at Queens-
town (Tas.) some years ago. He
went under the name of “The Presi-
dent,” owing to a certain likeness to
Woodrow Wilson, and he had an un-
quenchable thirst. One night we had
put him to bed three times, and when
he got up the third time the commit-
tee sat in judgment and refused him
another drink. He threatened to walk
to Strahan, 26 miles away, where, he
said, he had kinder friends, but even
this failed to soften our hearts. Next
morning he was missing, and we
became concerned about his safety.
The only way to Strahan from Queens-
town is along the Mt. Lyell railway,
across several open bridges with a
drop of about 100 ft. in some places if
you slip. It is hardly a road to be
recommended to a sober man at night;
but on inquiring we found that the
President had arrived safely at Strahan
by the time the pubs opened (6
o’clock), after having left Queenstown
somewhere about 11 p.m. He can
hardly come up to “Tabak’s” New
Guinea boy (B. 22/11/’23), but he
deserves a mention.
* * * *
“Tramp”: “Riverina’s” walker (B.
20/12/’23) br,ings to mind a queer old identity in
the Mt. Morgan district, commonly known as Teddy
Brown. This chap wa'ked from Yeppoon to Mt.
Morgan, GO miles, in 7} hours. Upon arrival at the
Mount he pushed himself into the bar of Jack
Tucker’s hotel, saluted the barman, and said, “Will
you take six stamps for a pint of beer?” The bar-
man agreed, passed over the pint and stood waiting
for the stamps. Teddy sank the pint in one breath,
stamped his foot six times on the floor, saluted, and
passed through the door on the return journey to
Yeppoon, which he accomplished in eight hours, f
passed Teddy on the road. Our request that he
should take a seat in the car met with a cold refusal.
* * * *
“Sylvester”: Re “Pantagruel” (B.
27/12/’23) on the poisonous properties of wild
passion-fruit (Passiflora herbertiana). This plant
is distinct from the edible variety. It is a paler
green and of more delicate appearance, and flourishes
in undergrowth and along the edge of scrubs. It is
definitely poisonous, and I have lost stock through
them eating it. All parts of the plant contain
a glucoside yielding prussic acid.
“Black Boy”: “Nitric” asks (B. 6/12/‘23)
if any one -can produce a lady drover. Yes; there
are three between Meekatharra and the nor’-west
of W.A., who accompany their husbands on all
trips. They take a hand at every kind of work, and
are as good as most men. Tip-top horsewomen
eve rv one!
ALL THE WORLD.
SILLICUS : “I say, I’m awfully in love with little Florrie—in the bar, you know; she's
all the world to me. What would you advise me to do?"
CYNICUS : “See a little more of the world, old chap, and get cured."
“Bola” : E. Nubling, the ornithologist who
spends most of his spare time studying the ways of
the satin bower-birds in the National Park (N.S.W.),
has found a dodge new to him in a bower which
he came upon hidden under some tall bracken fern
the other day. It was built on the cathedral plan,
with three entrances instead of the orthodox two.
It, had the passage right through and open at each
end as in the normal type, but one of the sides
was pierced as well. It was obviously no accident,
but an entrance deliberately made.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: A while back someone
said that the female kangaroo, as she heaves her
joey overboard when hard pressed by dogs, “camou-
flages the act with a stagger that is almost a fall.”
There is very little camouflage about it. What
really happens is that the old girl loses her balance,
and until she regains it she’ll keep on “camouflag-
ing.” Let anyone running his hardest throw a
weight of several pounds from him in any direction
with both hands and see what happens; then con-
sider such a thing being done by an animal neither
built nor trained for weight-throwing. And Mrs.
’Roo does not always do the unloading. Once Joey
is on the bop he’ll vault out of the cradle quick
and lively when danger threatens and streak for his
natural. But, of course, he’s no longer a tender
nursling when this happens.
* * * *
“Jarrah” : “Sarah” on bush doctoring (B.
6/12/’23) awakens memories. I often heard my
father relate how 70 years ago, near Hamley Bridge
(S.A.), where he was storekeeping, a blackfellow
clove a white settler’s skull with a tomahawk. The
settler’s wife, who was making bread at the time,
grabbed a rifle and fired, frightening the nigger;
then she took a dish of dough and clapped it on
her spouse’s gory plate. She had to drive him
30 miles to a doctor, but had the satisfaction of
hearing the medico state that her doughtiness and
dough had saved her from being a widow.
* * * *
“505”: Re the discussion as to the best
hide for ropes, etc., “Riverina’s” remark (B.
6/12/’23) that the hide from a white beast is of
a more even thickness throughout than one from
any other is nonsense. I have handled hundreds of
hides and find the only variation in thickness in
the belly part. Anyhow, when making ropes or
whips one generally pares the hide off the inside
surface—at least they do in nor’-west N.S.W. —so
one does not gain an advantage in that respect.
Also “W.H.K..” in saying a twisted rope is stronger
than a plaited one on account of its being composed
of less strands, makes me laugh. Fancy a twisted
rope of two strands being superior to a plaited
rope of four strands! But where there are the same
number of strands, give me the twisted rope every
time. (Of course, I’m assuming all the time that
all the strands are of the same strength.) I
have tried all kinds of hides for ropes, whips,
headstalls, etc., and I have found the hide of a
roan beast superior to others on account of its
being strong, pliable and easy to work up, and a
much better resister of water than the others.
* * * *
“Nitric”: Au entry for the Double Queer
Accident Stakes. A youngster of 10, travelling by
sulky from Charleville (Q.) to Quilpie, was thrown
out and had a couple of ribs broken. These pierced
his lung. Luckily a passing car picked the boy
up at once and started off with him to the nearest
hospital. On the way the car overturned and the
youngster was again thrown out. When he reached
hospital the doctor discovered that the ribs had
been withdrawn from the lungs, apparently by the
second precipitation. Had this not happened, said
Sawbones, the lad would certainly have lost his
life.
“Colub” : Some weeks ago the owner of a
sitting hen at Buffalo River (N.S.W.) placed his
hand under the bird and contacted with a large
black snake, snugly colled up there. The weather
being chilly, the reptile was probably seeking
warmth. But it is a curious fact that the domestic
fowl is one of the very few living creatures which
is not terrified by the mere appearance of a snake.
I have known a wriggler enter a fowl-run without
disturbing the occupants in the slightest—they
simply looked at it and went on feeding. Snakes
are frequently found in hen-houses, and there is
apparently some curious bond between them and
the chooks. In one instance, when a fowlshed was
dismantled, a family of snakes was found to be
living underneath it, and the signs were that they
had been in residence for a long time.
* * * *
“11.E.H.” : I’d been pulling corn for him
for a week, up at Tolga (N.Q.), when I asked him
for my cheque. “Why, what’s up, me boy?’’ “Only
the tucker,’’ I replied. “Porridge for breakfast,
corn-beef and damper for dinner, and more corn-beet
and damper for tea—it gets a bit stale.” “Yes,
I know it’s been rough,” he said sympathetically,
“but hang on a bit; the wife’s ordered a tin of
treacle and it ought to be here on Tuesday.”
1! * * * *
“Broome”: Do birds in long flight sleep
on the wing? Several times, in an experience extend-
ing over many years, I have, while at sea, seen snipe
returning from their annual pilgrimage to Northern
Russia and Siberia. In calm or moderate weather
they fly across the ocean at an altitude of about
20ft., and at a very moderate speed in comparison
with their ordinary flight—in fact, the motion of the
wings leads one to believe they are somnambulists in
AN EXHIBIT.
THE PARSON: “I know we don't often sec
you at church, Mr. Meckin. but to-night
tee are holding an exhibition of women's
work, and I do hope you will lend it
your countenance."
excelsis. I have seen a flight a hundred strong
making straight for the sails of a becalmed schoonei,
and when within line-heaving distance wake up, back-
pedal and scatter in all directions at anything up
to 80 miles an hour. Another second or two and
the cook would have had some plucking to do.
(Continued on page 2Jj.)
LOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“In a suit in equity before Acting-Justice Ralston
(N.S.W.) it was alleged that in the recent election
of officers of the A.W.U. a bag of 10 voting papers
came from Bongo and about the same number from
Bagadang, both places uudiscoverable on the map.”
Some try to find the reaim of Rrester John
On old-world charts, while others fain would guess
The whereabouts of beckoning Carcassonne
Or the locality of Lyohesse.
Such problems leave me cold. 1 scarcely care
About the Great Sahara or tile Congo —
They’re Darkest Africa’s (not our) affair.
But Wdii’t some good Australian tell me where
Bagadaiig swelters in the noontide air,
Aiid where is BoligO V
A flavor in the hahies hue seeiiis to sCiisC
Of scented gurils and sturdy pioneers.
Lean stockmen, stalwart soUls who shear find fence,
And sunburnt men iri bars absorbing bccfsi
Some like, for holiday, the salt sea's tang.
For far Fiji they head or td Hong liohg go j
Such jaunts I Would foiegd without a pdug.
If 1 Could hite si guide or join a gang
Prepared td hit the trail to Bagadaiig
En route fot Kongo,
Bongo iihd Bagadang! They Conjure up
Visions Of Sinewy afrits and straying gdats,
And dusty horseilien With a Cattle-pup
At heel. Qhite naturally uni.Wi voteis
Would coriie ffoni here in scores when ifleii of Weight
To Labor ballots resolute and strong go.
Strange that no maps or gazetteis relate
Just in what nook or corner of the State
Elusive Bagadang is situate
And shrinking Bongo!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The subscription list will open on 21st January and close 4th February.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
Of a new issue of 200,000 £1 Cumulative Preference Shares
British-Australian Cotton
Association Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts, State of Queensland, 1863 to 1913).
These Shares will bear a cumulative preferential dividend of 8 per cent, per annum, and will confer the right, after the Ordinary Shares (but
without any right of cumulation) shall have received a dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum, to share pari passu with such Ordinary
Shares in any further dividend distribution up to, but not exceeding, 10 per cent, per annum.
Nominal Capital: £1,000,000 divided into 200,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, and
800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
351,000 Ordinary Shares have already been issued.
49,000 ~ ~ have been ear-marked for issue to bona fide Cotton Growers. Of these 150 had been issued on 31 st August, 1923.
200,000 Cumulative Preference Shares are now offered for subscription at £l each, payable—
5/- per share on application.
5/- ~ ~ on allotment.
Bal. 10/- ~ ~ in calls of 5/- each on 2nd April and 4th June, 1924, respectively.
400,000 Ordinary Shares remain unissued, in respect whereof the rights as hereinafter mentioned in respect of 200,000 shares may be
exercised by the subscribers for Cumulative Preference Shares, and 1 0,000 shares will be required in respect of the Underwriters’
commission herein referred to. Such part of these 400,000 shares as is not so employed will remain in reserve.
1,000,000
Directors:
Sir HUGH DENISON, K.8.E., Sydney (Chairman)
Mr. W. S. ROBINSON, London.
Sir RENNELL ROOD. G.C.M.G.,
G.C.8.0., C. 8., London.
Mr. B. CROMPTON WOOD, Liverpool
(England).
Mr. C. LATHAM BAILLIEU, Melbourne,
Hon. T. C. BEIRNE, Brisbane.
Sir OWEN COX, G.8.E., Sydney.
Hon. CRAWFORD VAUGHAN, Syd-
ney (Managing Director).
Mr. HAROLD PARKER, Preston (Eng-
land).
So Heitors *
Messrs. NORTON, SMITH & CO., Sydney. Messrs. TULLY & WILSON, Brisbane.
Bankers:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.
Applications for Shares may be made through Members of the recognised Stock
Exchanges of Australia and Great Britain.
Brokerage will be paid as provided in Clause 3 of this Prospectus on allotments
made in respect of applications bearing the stamp of any Member of the recognised Stock
Exchanges of Australia and Great Britain.
Auditors:
Messrs. TANNER & SHIELD, Brisbane, Queensland.
Secretary and Registered Office:
R. W. VAUGHAN, 318 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Branch Offices:
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK CHAMBERS, Pitt Street, Sydney.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Coll ms Street, Melbourne.
55 KING WILLIAM STREET, Adelaide.
27 OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C. 2.
THE ABOVE ISSUE HAS BEEN UNDERWRITTEN BY DENISON ESTATES,
LTD., SYDNEY; MESSRS. E. L. & C. BAILLIEU, MELBOURNE; MR. B.
CROMPTON WOOD, LIVERPOOL; AND AUSTRAL DEVELOPMENT, LIMITED,
LONDON.
NEW ISSUE 200,000 CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES
OF £1 EACH.
200,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each are now offered to the public at
par. These Shares confer the right to a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of
8% per annum, and, after a dividend of 8% per annum (without any right of cumula-
tion) shall have been paid in any year on the Ordinary Shares, rank pari passu with the
Ordinary Shares on any further distribution of dividend up to, but not exceeding, 10%
per annum. In the event of a winding-up, the Cumulative Preference Shares are entitled
to have the assets applied first in paying off the capital paid up or credited as paid up
thereon, and, secondly, in paying off the arrears (if any) of the cumulative preferential
dividend, but shall not be entitled to any further participation in such assets.
Payment.—The Cumulative Preference Shares now' offered will be payable •)/- on
application, 5/- on allotment, and the balance in calls of 5/- each on 2nd April and 4th
June, 1924, respectively. . .
Option Rights.—Each Cumulative Preference Share allotted carries with it the right
to take up, until the 31st December, 1925, at par, one Ordinary Share in the Company.
Certificates evidencing such rights will be issued by the Company, and such certificates
will be transferable by endorsement.
Dividends. —Dividends on Cumulative Preference Shares will be paid on the amount
from time to time paid up on the shares. Shareholders will be given the right to pay
up in full at time of allotment should they so desire.
In the event of this issue being over-subscribed, the Directors will give preference in
allotment to the applications of existing shareholders.
Preference Shareholders will have the right to receive notices of, to be present at,
and to vote at General Meetings in respect of their holdings of Preference Shares only
w'hen their preferential dividend shall be in arrear or when a resolution is proposed affect-
ing the rights or privileges of the holders of Preference Shares.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The principal objects of the Company are (generally stated) as follows:
To carry on business in any part or parts of Australasia, or elsewhere, as Cotton
Ginners, Cotton Warehousemen and Cotton Brokers; to sell, dispose of, or deal in any
Cotton products, either in the prepared, manufactured or raw state; to manufacture
Cottonseed Oil, Linters, Cottonseed Meal, and any Cotton by-products; to grow and culti-
vate Cotton where it is deemed desirable; to finance Cotton Growers by making advances
on their Cotton Crops, and generally to conduct all business associated with the develop-
ment of the Cotton Industry in Australasia. . ..
The Memorandum of Association also contains other objects such as are usually
wdthin the purview' of a company of a like nature, and to such Memorandum of Associa-
tion applicants are referred.
ABBREVIATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st AUGUST, 1923.
LIABILITIES.
To Authorised Capital.. .. £1,000,000 0 0
To Subscribed Capital
„ Sundry Creditors, 1
inc’uding Bankers j
~ Profit and Loss Account —
Balance Ist Sept.,
1922 .. £ll6l 17 7
Net Profit year
ended 31/8/’23 10,574 6 2
£347,601 15 0
114,151 1 6
11,736 3 9
£473,489 0 3
ASSETS.
By Sundry Assets, including
Land, Buildings, Sidings,
Machinery, Plant and Good-
w iH . . £377,527 13 6
„ Bolling Stock, Furniture,
Tools, etc.
„ Storks
„ Advances and Charges appor-
tionable to future periods ..
~ Debtors
„ Cash . . • •
10,983 19 8
24,118 6 10
44;793 10 9
14,473 9 9
1,591 19 9
NEW ISSUE UNDERWRITTEN.
The whole issue is underwritten in pursuance of an agreement (which can be
inspected at the office of the Company) for a commission payable 5% in cash and 5% in
fully-paid-up Ordinary Shares of the Company. Out of this commission, the Underwriters
will, in such manner as may be mutually arranged between them, in pursuance of their
underwriting agreements, pay the usual 24% commission on shares allotted through
authorised brokers.
NEW CAPITAL.
The Capital raised by this issue is required to pay off the bank overdraft which has
been incurred for the erection of Ginning Plants, Oil Mills, etc., and for the further exten-
sion of the Company's operations, as circumstances may require.
PAST OPERATIONS.
The Association commenced ginning in Queensland in May, 1922, and for the first
year treated 3,800,0001 b. of Seed Cotton. For the season 1922-23 11,905,3501 b.
of Seed Cotton was received at the Ginneries. The abnormally dry season seriously
affected the yield, and consequently the earning capacity of the Association, but a profit
of £10,574/6/2 was earned for the year.
The Shareholders, on the recommendation of the Board, decided that such profit, after
providing for reasonable depreciation on such of the Company’s plant as was in operation,
shall be applied towards the extinction of items connected with the establishment of the
Industry.
With a much increased yield, which is practically assured, the profits for the
current 12 months should be considerably larger.
AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION.
The development of the industry in Australia has been rapid, as shown by the follow-
ing figures:—
Season 1920-21
„ 1921-22
„ 1922-23
1923-24 (estimated)
Number of
Growers.
800
2,000
14,500
Seed Cotton,
in pounds weight.
900,000
3,800,000
12,000,000
48,000,000
Production
Value,
£
22.000
SB,OOO
275.000
1,000,000
These figures demonstrate the confidence of settlers in cotton as a profitable industry.
EXISTING PLANT AND SOURCES OF INCOME.
Ginneries. —The Association has erected six complete saw-ginning plants in Queens-
land, one in New South Wales, and roller-ginning plants in Victoria and South Australia.
At Whinstanes, Brisbane, a fully-equipped Oil Mill is nearing completion, and the
machinery for a second Mill, to be erected at Rockhampton, has arrived.
The Income of the Association is derived from the ginning and handling of
the lint, commission on sales of lint, and the proceeds from sales of the Oil Mill
products, viz.: Oils, Cattle Foods, etc.
REPORT BY MR. C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, F.C.P.A.
Public Accountant, Sydney.
The Directors,
British Australian Cotton Association, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
During my recent visit to Queensland I inspected your Company’s plants at Rock-
hampton, Gladstone and Whinstanes (Brisbane), and obtained from the responsible officers
figures relating to the cost of running their various departments. These I have carefully
gone through, and submit the following as being conservative estimates: —
Assuming a total crop return of 48,000,0001 b. of Seed Cotton, being at the low
rate of 4801 b. of Seed Cotton per acre on 100,000 acres, the gross receipts
(on a conservative estimate) w 7 ould amount to . . .. .. £178,333
The estimated expenses total . . . . .. . . . . . . £86,650
Add payment to Queensland Government for 16,000 tons of seed at £1
per ton .. .. .. .. .. 16,000
102,680
Leaving a surplus of.. ~ .. .. .. .. . . .. £75,653
which, it will be seen, provides an ample margin for Dividends and Reserves.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, F.C.P.A.
November 9, 1923.
AGREEMENTS.
The Association’s relations with the Commonwealth and the various States are set
out in Agreements, particulars of which will be found in the appendix to the full Pros-
pectus, and can be inspected, together with copies of the Memorandum and Articles of
Association, at the Company’s head office. Copies may be inspected at any of the Com-
pany’s branch; offices.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares should be sent to the offices of the Company at Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, or through any recognised member of the Stock
Exchanges of the various States and Great Britain.
An excellent planting is recorded this season in Queensland; good cultiva-
tion has been practised, and, with the copious rains that have fallen throughout
the Cotton Belt, the picking season (March to July) should show yields fully
equal to estimates set out herein.


Try ISr
With Your Dinner
It'd Good
wns
mrn
I
a
There can only be ONE Best!
MALTHOID’S record entitles it to that distinction.
MALTHOID is chemically pure and will not dry out.
MALTHOID is far superior to shingle, thatch or galvanised*
iron, and has many advantages over slates or tiles.
MALTHOID is cool in sum-
mer, warm in winter, and
water- and weather-proof all
the time.
Write or call for Samples
and Free Booklet.
*!Jke PARAFFINE COMPANIES In*
<F M PRINCE AustralqjianManoqer) _
Original Manufacturers of CHALUSJHO
P & B MATERIALS
martin place
ayo n e »
The Bulletin
“Wessel”: In the past the top-knot pigeon
has not been recorded as nesting south of Port
Stephens (N.SAV.), but this season P. A. Gilbert
has found a nest in the National Park, which is a
little south of Sydney. Though it was 40ft.
up a tree, he managed to secure a series of pictures
of the nest in situ, showing the egg and then the
young in various stages of growth.
“Pat Busliie”: While the records craze
lasts. During a flood on the Peel River near Tam-
w'orth (N.S.W.) a few years back, 800 sheep were
marooned on a small rise. The owner made a series
of trips in a flat-bottomed boat, carrying five sheep
at a time, and transported the whole lot to safety.
“Cobba Cobba”: Since the discovery of
insulin, the new treatment for diabetes, there have
been occasional pars, in the dailies about a herbal
remedy- for the disease, said to have been used with
success in South Africa. The herb used is vinca,
a white-flowered plant fairly common in Natal. The
vegetable also grows wild in Queensland, and is
fairly common along the coast from Rockhampton
to Cape \ork. The Institute of Tropical Research
ought to get into communication with Natal, and find
out what the story is stuffed with.
“F.A.” ; The first bees to be imported to
Australia w-ere brought by Capt. James Wallis, .of
the ship Isabella. They were distributed about
Sydney in hives, and, according to information
supplied by Mr. Parr, of George-street, who had
four of the hives, and by Mr. Icely, who resided
in Mocquarie-place and to whom the skipper had
presented one, the climatic change didn’t affect the
little toilers in . the least. Getting bees across the
Blue Mountains was another story, however, for
although many attempts were made to land a’ live
colony at Bathurst it was not until 1839 that John
Hughes, of Sussex Farm, got a working colony in-
stalled near the City of the Plains. To Thomas
Arkell, of the same district, went the distinction
of being the first successful bee-farmer; lie sent the
first plunder to Sydney in 1842. Dr. Wilson, a
Government medical man, was the bees’ first foster-
parent in Tasmania ; he began operations in 1823.
MERE FLEDGLINGS.
THE WAITER: “Sorry, sir. Sold to us for fresh eggs, sir. Shall
I take them away, sir?”
HIS VICTIM : “Yes, ’course, take ’em away, take ’em away. Too
young to fly away themselves yet.”
“S.C.”: The herbage known as “barley
grass”—like cultivated barley, only very much
shorter —has already taken possession of the richest
black-soil flats and hills of Monaro (N.S.W.), and
is invading the coastal district below. It is suc-
culent and sustaining fodder for stock when green,
but not of much account when dry, and the sharp
seed capsules tend to stick in the animal’s jaws.
(Incidentally, they sometimes kill chickens and the
young of quail, etc., by working in near their eyes
or in other vital parts.) It is so hardy in habit as
to oust most other native grasses, including the
tough and wiry Parramatta grass. Another South
Coastal pest is a wild verbena, with small bright
purple flowers, which intermixes so closely' with
pasture grasses as to be difficult to eradicate, and
has been declared a noxious weed by' most shire
councils.
A FILLIP TO THE IMAGINATION.
THE PLAINTIVE ONE : “You know, ’Orace, I’d like to buy the
missus one of them gowns—she might get up in the
mornin’s then.”
“S.C.”: In addition to tbe well-known
Port Jackson or “bullhead” shark, named by
scientists lleterodontus phillipi in honor of the old
Governor, there are at least two Australian sharks
which are egg-layers, the egg being enclosed
in tough indiarubber-like cases which attach them-
selves by long curling tendrils to kelp and other
marine herbage. These are the small and harmless
collared and spotted cat-sharks, whi,ch run from
2ft. to 3ft. long. Trawlers raise these deep-water
species at times. I have found the egg-cases of the
bullhead- and, maybe, cat-shark occasionally, attached
to kelp cast ashore during rough weather ; but
always with a hole in one end through which the
sharklet'3 had escaped. The flesh of the “bullhead”
is firm and white, and may be edible, as the meat of
several other sharks certainly is.
* * * »
“Hayband” : In liis book, “Wild Traits in
Tame Animals,” Dr. Robinson explains that strong
follow-the-leader instinct of sheep which the Coun-
cil has been dis-
cussing recently. Do-
mestic jumbucks are
til descended from
mountain-dwelling an-
cestors. To these, liv-
ing mainly on narrow
ledges, and defiles, fol-
lowing a leader was a
compulsory part of
existence. Particularly
was this the case when
thev were travelling to
fresh feedi'ng : gfounds.
It also explains why
sheep travelling along
a road invariably jump
when they see a leader
do so, even though
there be nothing to
jump over. As the an-
cestral flocks dashed
about the wild passes
of their native moun-
tains, only the leader
could see any obstacle
or chasm in the way.
He jumped and the rest
did so unquestion-
ingly. Crowded by
their companions, it
would be impossible
for each individual
sheep to see the ob-
struction before it was too late to take off.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Frogs were bolding a full
choral thanksgiving service in the lagoon, which
was brimming over with the recent rains, when
two yellow and brown water-snakes broke up the
meeting by swallowing the leader of the orchestra
and the first tenor. I’ve been wondering where those
snakes came from, for there hasn’t been enough
moisture in the lagoon for months past to damp
the heel of a mosquito. Frogs burrow into the
moist mud at the bottom of a waterhole and lie
doggo until rain brings better times; but what
about the snakes? I’ve never heard of their loing
that sort of thing. Do they ?
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Werry” (B. 27/12/’23), in
reiterating that it is pos-
sible to explode gelignite
and dynamite by ordinary
concussion, overlooks one
very important point—
whether the nitro-glycerine
which is the real explosive,
held ordinarily in safety
by the jelly or earth, has
escaped from its bonds and
is again free. This often
happens, especially with
dynamite that lias been wet
or overheated, and a cart-
ridge showing signs of
“sweating” should be
avoided like the Strange
Woman. The girl in Vic.
who exploded the cart-
ridging-machine by a tap
from a metal nozzle was
undoubtedly unlucky
enough to land on a drop
of free nitro-glycerine,
which, by itself, is one
of the most unstable and
dangerous of all explosives.
“Werry” also refers to a
second accident, and says
that it was attributable to
a truck carrying nitro-
glycerine bumping off the
rails and exploding from
the concussion—as it was
a 1000 to 1 bet it would
do. But free nitro-glycerine
is very different from the
same stuff immunised by
gelatine or earth, and one
can do to blasting gelatine
or dynamite in good condi-
tions things that would at
once procure one an
assisted passage to the
hereafter if tried on the
touchy parent of -both of
them.
« # »
“Alfalfa”: I called on a fresh-looking
farmer some time ago at Pallamallawa, near Moree
(N.S.W.), and noticed that he was feeding his hens
“hopper system,” with a mixture of black soil and
grain. I puzzled over it for a while, and at last
asked him what the idea was. “Oh,” he said calmly,
“my book on poultry says ter feed ’em on ground
and whole grains.”
“Black Boy”: “Bushcat” (B. 6/12/’23)
describes a six-mile run in a car after a dingo. It
must have been a poor car or a very superior dingo.
Here (Meelcatharra, W.A.) a warrigal hasn’t a
“dog’s show” with a car, and they are frequently
run down within half a mile, when they are either
shot or killed through being run over.
“Buncliytop”: One of the queerest acci-
dents I’ve heard of occurred at Grafton (N.S.W.).
The river there is about half a mile wide, ar.d on?
of the crew of a dredge near the northern bank
sent a shot from a rifle at some birds floating mid-
way in the ■ stream. The bullet rieochetted, and,
passing through the neck of a farmer, stopped in
the heart of his wife, who was seated in a sulky
beside him. It killed both. The sulky was moving
at .a fairly brisk pace and was just three-quarters of
a mile from the shooter.
* * * *
“X2X” : In the coastal districts of N. S.
Wales there grows a small, dark-blue berry, not
unlike the blackberry, which is sometimes highly
poisonous and at other times quite harmless. The
shrub that bears it is seldom more than a couple of
feet in height and has a dark purple flower. The
toxic properties are usually present during the hot
weather, and death has been known to follow the
eating of a handful of the berries. There is prob-
ably hydrocyanic or prussic acid in the cells of the
fruit. In ordinary circumstances this compound is
in combination, or else only its elements are
present; but the hot weather apparently brings into
play a natural enzyme, with the result that it 1#
split off from the parent substance, and so exists
in the poisonous free state.
“Dodger”: While rabbit-trapping on
Monaro (N.S.W.) last winter I captured a full-grown,
healthy-looking buck in peculiar circumstances. *
had set a trap at a hole through a netting fence
one night, and the following morning found the
trap sprung and a rabbit lying beside it, free and
alive. When I picked him up I noticed that he had
been caught before, as a hind foot had been cut off
and a front one badly broken, but both had healed
and the rabbit himself was quite fat, had a good
skin, and in every way appeared in good health.
Now why did he stay there and allow himself to be
picked up ? Was he paralysed with fright, or what ?
* * * *
“Whizz Bang”: How is this for luck? I
had just got back to the homestead at dark, after
running station horses all day, and was in the act
of removing my leggings, when a dog-fight started.
With one legging on and the other off. I rushed
outside to separate the contestants, and just beyond
the door I trod on what I thought to be a piece
of rope or tyre, and simultaneously felt something
strike my legging', low- down. Upon my return to
the hut the same thing happened—again I felt
something strike the legging sharply. My curiosity
now aroused, I brought out a hurricane-lamp, and
found a full-grown death-adder lying right on the
beaten track. My. legging bore evidence of the
double attack, and my unprotected leg was, of
course, untouched. It certainly looks as though I
am in the habit of putting the right foot forward,
doesn’t it?
“Wonga” : The method of counting prac-
tised by the Pitta-Pitta blacks in the Boulia (Q.)
and surrounding districts is interesting. Black-
Brother has no difficulty in counting up to four,
but beyond that he can only refer to everything
as something tantamount to “a great number.” Still,
beyond four he has his own methods of reckoning.
Ask him how many fingers and toes he has and he
will give a practical demonstration, commencing
with the open hand, by turning the fingers by twos
into the palm. Each two he represents by placing
a small stick on the ground. This is continued until
he has completed the numeration. The sticks are
placed parallel to each other, and when the reckon-
ing is complete he gives his answer by calling
‘•pakoola” for every pair of them. This method is
practised by the elders in ascertaining the number
of individuals in camp.
“R.F.K.F.” : If the ordinary spider’s fame
as a killer of the loathsome housefly is not sustained
by modern research, she is still occasionally useful.
In some countries she is engaged to spin threads for
frail fabrics, after the manner of the silkworm, while
a particularly fine spider-thread is generally in demand
for making sighting marks on high-powered telescope
lenses. Some time ago a special kind of spider was
kept for this purpose at the Melbourne Observatory
—it habitually produced a three-strand thread in-
stead of the usual eight-strander.
* * * *
“Steve Hart” : The wallaby can stand a
drought longer than any other of our bush animals,
and w'hen it is at last driven by thirst to burrow
in the sandy beds of dry creeks for water, it is the
only animal that fills the hole up again. It digs
only to the moisture, and with its drink in those
circumstances it takes in a lot of sand, which soon
kills it. One I shot recently had over three pounds
of sand in its paunch.
i** * *
“Trevdee”: Talking of freak fowls. One
living at Newmarket (Vic.) doesn’t crow like a
rooster, or wear any extra legs, or lay three-decker
eggs, but for 16 years she produced her egg a day,
including Sundays, holidays and eight-hour days.
Now nearly 20 years old, she has eased up a bit,
but her owner reckons she is still the best layer
in the yard.
“F. Clinton” : All cultivated fruit at one
time flourished in a wild state, and the originals of
practically every species still grow in their native
condition somewhere on the globe. Usually they are
unrecognisable as the forebears of modern fruit-trees.
Australia has many neglected natives whi< h, by
systematic hybridisation, could be made to develop
into good table fruit. We have a wild raspberry, a
native cherry, various edible nuts and many sour
specimens like the lillipilli nuts which, by care-
ful breeding, could be worked up to something
attractive. Even the despised five-corner, ten-corne,-
and groundberry, if bred in with the right stock.
AN AGE FOR STOICS.
THE GIRL: “Gimme a cigarette, Bill.”
THE BOY : “Cripes, you wimmen make it too
’ot. ’Ere’s the mater collared the two
packets I bought this week, an’ if I say
anything she'll wallop me for smokin’."
would prove tasty. One advantage of the local pro-
duct in practically every instance would be its com-
parative freedom from disease and its partiality for
comparatively poor soils that are practically worthless
at present.
NARRABRI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mountains look on Narrabri;
And Narrabri looks on the plain !
Here let me pause and heave a sigh
For days that shall not be again.
’Tis thirsty yet, but not as erst
The goal of superhuman thirst.
In those brave days it still remained
The Heaven of all the teamsters’ dreams.
Great horses d la Lambert strained
Across the black-soil plain in teams ;
And camps were pitched each night more nigh
To gorgeous shouts at Narrabri.
Stout bullocks, too, ’neath snaky whips,
Swayed through the endless blazing days ;
The drivers swore with blistered lips,
But fainted not, for o’er the haze
In bright mirage each reddened eye
Beheld the pubs of Narrabri.
Rgin they ne’er prayed for, rather cursed;
’Tis easier facing dust than glue.
Mere water could not stay their thirst;
They lived on dreams of beer. They knew
That man might drink the Namoi dry
But not the pubs of Narrabri.
N.S.W.
CHARLES MACLEAN.


i mm in
!
' ! Hi
«mhi
■*>
II
11 'i"
• 1
: | :#
M
! 1
I
-
m
H 1
w. a
4T*
■ ■
m
m
iWmlm
m
m
i l:: •••;s
HI
I ■ IHI
. •
m
m
E
i
■rag
: : : ■' '■ ■
dfc
lillllUP
■a*«jkai
111!
♦
■
■
HHI
Hr
< Hi
M
• ■ ■■■- -
■
■§■
IIHfHHSBI
fmW
oral
I
Igapi®
«JT £ll
M !■■£ ft 4 3
Hi
HMi
i«
si’ '*<
HU'
<•
■
v'|VS : l"■'•'.■l? v/vl'l:
HR
f -V' ■•* ‘ ' * >**v,
’ * It **£* '
InH HII 1 ■ IISI ■B I : § |§® IS IBigg i n
11111
■
B ,IMHlk<^
a
liras: . 1 im
jL, iritfc#: : v : ti*,
V
■■" ' : • • <,., w£HT . s }' 1
.::■»■ ■ ■ :; : mu r ■ 5 \
. ' . ' ' ' ' ; . ' ' ' ■■ ■ '
•" ** : \y^- 1 -.aJR
Wm
msmom
: :'||| y.Mv-/: '■■ /al
i
■
gpF
H illiMHii
: ' ■ ■ ; .' :
HSpE IwfiliAlt 1
| t>V '.Js‘l i * T «A H§
i:
■
\
■
SI
n-
'
m
m
11
1
mm
■ill
s m£
:■■■■■
m
.'•/
o
£2
D
a
a
One of the chief delights of owning a car—.is the freedom it bestows, enabling one to travel where and.
when one so desires. There's no more ideal way of seeing the country, for variety and charm await one
in every direction. The pleasure of motor touring absolutely depends on the tyres used—.in fact it
is essential that you start away on tyres capable of withstanding hard service without giving trouble—
if you desire to get the best out of motoring. The safest thing to do is to fit your car with the latest
which are specially constructed with a view to standing up to the hardest of usage without giving the
slightest worry for many thousands of miles of travel over all descriptions of roads and tracks. Their
fine quality and scientific construction plus their larger size and bigger air space ensures users remarkable
service with extra comfort to passengers and longer life to car. No better cord tyre has ever been made
and none so suitable for Australian conditions. You can fit them with every confidence of obtaining
exceptional value and satisfactory service. Use them, it pays! All garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. and n.z.
ALL STATES


Under
Royal
Warrant
The Bulletin
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne,
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WENTWORTH CAFE.
THE DANCE - - - - INIMITABLE!
THE DINNER. - - UNRIVALLED!
THE DINNER DANCE
SUPERB!!!
in the refreshing coolness and ’midst the palms of the
Palm Court.
Summer Prices: Afternoon Tea, 3/- plus tax.
’Phone: City 9931.
GOLCRYST
Pure, healthy blood
means a fine, healthy
body! Let Golcryst
free your blood from
those impurities which
are the cause of so
many distressing
complaints.
4d. # Bd. &. 1/3 PacKets
AT ALL CHEMISTS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
A teasing wind; end-of-tlie-season track-
ing ; sunshades, many-colored as a mid-sum-
mer garden, that threatened to balloon from
the owners' grip and soar through the ter-
races of blue air like the magic mushroom
in Hugh McCrae’s “Ship of Heaven” —this
was liandwick on the opening day of the
A.J.C. Anniversary meeting. Even the band
seemed languorous, and the tired-out punter,
drowsing on the grass after his sure thing
had just managed to miss, felt that the play-
ers knew a thing or two when they boomed
out “Everybody Ought to Know How to Do
the Tickle-toe.” Society being still away
at Bong-Bong or the seaside, or just prepar-
ing for Europe, the stands were uncrowded.
The fracking was of the washing sisterhood,
and millinery was worn at a shady rather
than a fetching angle. Mrs. Herbert Clay-
ten’s wide-brimmed black hat bloomed with
white gardenias; otherwise she was a thin
black frock and a tall ebony cane. Apple-
green was the shade of Brisbane-girl Nell
Tully’s hat, which made a pastel color theme
in conjunction with her mauve fracking.
Mrs. Clive Robertson, whose likeness to Mrs.
Pitt Rivers is extraordinary, dressed her
fairness in leaf-brown. A lady in black car-
ried a sunshade that flew a crop of fully-
grown yellow ostrich plumes. Lorna Pounds
came for the first two races in white Swiss
muslins and cherry ribbons. Embroidered
pink voile swirled around Mrs. Dennis
Allen’s ankles ; Joan Osborne flew white and
red Caton crepe; and Irene Vanbrugh
crowned blue and white smartness with a
pet of a white satin hat. Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar suggested a cool stretch of beach
in sand-colored georgettes, the Belgian Con-
sular Segaerts were among those present,
and the Consul for Chile looked as hot as
the next man.
The Feminist welcome on Saturday to
Viscount Leverhulme was a triumph of en-
thusiasm over atmosphere. Everybody was
frightfully well dressed, though before the
speeches were half over most of the Femin-
ists would have gladly exchanged their moires
and brocades for the tub frock they had
thought not quite up to the occasion. Miss
Preston Stanley flung wide some gorgeous
banners—for instance, “this man who has
translated idealism into action.” Her speech
and Ruby Rich’s were only equalled in matter
by that of the great little deaf guest himself.
Leverhulme (the “hulme” came from his late
wife) looks as though he had stepped out
of Dickens, and speaks in the choked voice
of the deaf—a voice that comes from between
the back of his head and the bridge of his
nose. But his eyes are as bright as if they
were only 25 years old. In his speech he let
fall that he had eight sisters—eight of the
reasons why to-day he feared no foe, let
alone a gracious friendly gathering of women.
And nobody sang “Bubbles” !
The Ambassadors was stirred to wonder
last Thursday evening by the spectacle of
Lord Leverhulme jazzing. He wore Court
breeches and shoes, a tail-coat and a white
tie. His dancing step is a broken
polka, such as all the world affected half
a century ago, executed without raising the
heels from the floor, and without any refer-
ence whatever to the music. It is better
suited for those desirous of shining as stayers
than most of the other movements —far, far
better, for example, than that of a short,
stout man in horn glasses who, holding the
svelte figure of his partner far from him by
the fingertips, fairly gallops her round and
round the room. Still the one motion is no
more in danger of general imitation than the
other. In any event, Lord Leverhulme does
not show off his step to advantage: he makes
soap much better than he dances.
The Bubble King gave a monster after-
noon party at the Wentworth on Monday.
This foliow T ed a big dinner at the Aus-
tralia on Sunday evening; and everybody
who was at the first was told to come along
to the second. The Loi’d is not one of your
rude moderns who dances with the one part-
ner through an afternoon. Not. at all!
Looking somewhat like an amiable, middle-
aged cherub that Peter had let off the chain,
he flitted from flower to flower —whether in
the first or the second blooming seemed im-
material to him. He never varies his step,
and this with his rosy cheeks, bright eyes
and twinkling rotundity shouts the slogan :
“It’s Sunlight all the way.”
A remarkable feat was accomplished at
Bathurst on Saturday, when Jack Mclntosh
rode the _winner of the Cup. The point is
that he is 68, and in business hours is a
staid family solicitor. William Cope, of
the Union Club, is the only other attorney
in N. S. Wales, if not in Australia, with a
similar record for hardiness. He has been
to every war since the Soudan campaign—
which he attended with the N. S. Wales
Contingent—and has ridden many times in
jumping -events at the Sydney Show. Mr.
Mclntosh’s partner, by the way, is another
tough customer. He is Humphrey Brown-
ing, M.C.. who was three times severely
wounded in France, and still plays a hard
game of tennis.
When the Orvieto sailed away from Syd-
ney on Saturday it took .Teanie Jobson, who
for the next year will be travelling in Europe
and America with her aunt, Mrs. Trewick. of
Elmore (Vic.). Jeanie was for several years
first mistress at the High School at Bal-
larat, and there she wrote those letters to
the A.I.F. which brought - her name into
prominence. For the past year she has
been on the staff of the P.L.C., Pymble, of
which her sister Nancy is principal. Brig.-
Gen. Jobson is a brother.
Agnes Wilson, whose Sydney address is
Rose Bay but who had been Sister at Port
Moresby Hospital for some time, has under
taken to keep the sodawater cool for Lieut.
Leonard Logan, of Daru. The Chalmers
Memorial Church staged the event and
the bride in her ivory brocades was escorted
up the aisle by Resident-Magistrate Old-
ham. The Government and commercial
community turned out in force to the wed-
ding, to which a note of color was given
by the mission kiddies dressed in white, and
by the Native Constabulary, who very dash-
ingly clashed their bayonets in an archway
of steel for the new bride and her ’groom to
pass under. Then everybody made for the
Residency, where the wedding breakfast was
drunk, with the usual Island enthusiasm.
“Don” Symington, Lord Leverliulme’s
understudy in the Solomons, who marries
Margot Cowan early next month, is in Syd-
ney in company with a cluster of Island
lads, all drinking up long draughts of the
Wentworth and the Ambassadors, the sundae
shops and the theatres. Incidentally, Mr.
Symington is the only man in his group of
Islands licensed to dispense spirituous cor-
dials. Now, don’t rush the barrier, please!
Forward one by one and meet the gentle-
man.
Bessie Hay Buudock, of a Richmond
River clan, and Arthur Henry Mosely, of
Woollahra, exchanged the usual promises on
the threshold of the matrimonial estate early
this week. Padre Cakebread, with that good
Australian Padre Wiseman as Chief of Staff,
gave ear to the undertakings, and thereafter
declared that the gateway to Eden was duly
unlocked. The bride’s ivory satin was sleeve-
less and built on the simplest lines, the glory
of the outfit being the Honiton lace veil lent
by Mrs. Pattinson. Bride’s sister Alice
’maided in rosy-liued georgettes, and Sheila
and Margaret Holroyde, the tall ’groom’s
nieces, piloted the train. Later on oyer 100
guests poured out their congratulations at
the bride’s home at Randwick.
Pretty little Stella Marina, who made
such a success in Galsworthy’s “Windows,”
produced by
the Repertory
Society a few
weeks ago, is
the subject of
th i s Ma y
Moore pic-
t u r e. The
part of Faith
Bligh is one
that would tax
an experienced
actress, but
Stella, who
had never per-
formed before,
made the com-
plex Faith
seem very
human. Th e
clever girl,
who is half
Italian, is a
native of
, r , . loung. One
brother, Leonard, is a padre in W.A. ■ an-
other brother, Cam., and his wife, are clever
amateur actors.
Another Sydney girl who is flashing a
cuamond engagement signal is Beatrice
w'i’n?a n £ n S ton Coiirt. The young man
f Claude Medway Cox, now of Rose Bay,
formerly of Mudgee.
Inky-Wayfarer Isabel Ramsay hostessed a
large farewell tea-drinking in honor of Girlie
iooliey, who left by the Nestor on Monday
for Cape Town, where Justin Pagiter, M.C.
awaits her with impatience. Girlie is a
charming young person who has inherited
mother’s good features. These, a rose-leaf
skin and baby-blue eyes would make a hand-
some dowry for any bride; but as a fine
singing voice (there bad been talk of a career
before Cupid speared the two while they were
visiting one of the married Kidman sisters)
is thrown in with the orange buds, Justin is
getting something whose price is above
rubies, or even a whole diamond-field.
Mother and auntie accompany (iirlie to Cape
Town, where the wedding will take place a
fortnight after her arrival.
By a recent big liner there left a family
of three boys and a girl who will be re-
ceived with mixed feelings on the other side.
Dad came this way as a youngster, deported
by a stepfather with his mother’s consent for
an expressed intention of marrying his sis-
ter’s governess. The young fellow, about
18, who took his family’s behavior very
badly, knocked about the out-stations, and
when, years later, he was located and wanted
at home, he refused to go. The war made
him heir to an estate; but still he refused
to move. Then he died ; but first he arranged
to send his family to the old home. There
was more than a touch of the tarbrush in the
wife; and the children favor the mother.
Dad was a bitter cynic to the end.
Here is “Alf” Langan, who has survived
all upheavals on Sydney Daily Telegraph
for 42 years,
and has be-
come acting-
manag e r in
the latest staff
shuffle. La n-
gan is reputed
to have run
away from his
Vic. home to
join the D.T.
w hen Jock
Mclntyre, an
old-time Vic.
politician, and
late general-
manager Wat-
kin Wynne
brought
southern capi-
tal into the
s t r u ggling
venture.
Wynne ad-
vised young
Langan to return home, but he refused, and
was rewarded later by being made adver-
tising manager, a position he held for many
years. Three or four years ago he was
transferred to the secretaryship, and now
that ex-HERALD reporter R. W. Robson
leaves the manager’s chair to look at the
British Empire Exhibition for the D.T.,
Langan takes the bigger job. In spare
moments he is a yachting enthusiast, and
an officer of one of the big clubs. A doctor
son served in the war.
The R.C.’s have acquired another of the
big houses built in the days when people
who had made wealth in Australia advertised
it by establishing family mansions on Brit-
ish lines. They have taken possession now
of Galbally, the ancestral home of the Dal-
tons, of Orange, and will convert it into a
presbytery. The family itself is scattered,
and the head of the old trading firm is the
knighted Mark Sheldon, who married one of
the Dalton daughters.
TJ.S.A. organist Archibald Sessions left
the other day in company with his mother
after seven weeks’ holidaying in Sydney.
The young man, who had met sister-organist
Lilian Frost in San Francisco, was intro-
duced by her to the Congregational Church
instrument, and before he went away he gave
a recital on it in aid of the Mission in
Devonsliire-street. Among notables whom
the young man has accompanied are Melba
and D’Alvarez.
Maoriland is rejoicing in the return of two
of her songbirds. Irene Ainsley came back
last Spring to her native Auckland Avith her
’cello-like contralto improved by European
training and her experience with the Carl
Rosa Co. Irene is one of Melba’s protegees,
and is to be the Carmen of the co. the Dame
is now forming. Katie Campion is another
SAveet-voiced one noAv perching in Auckland
after years abroad. She has had her soprano
polished in Paris and London, and adds to
her liquid notes a charming stage appear-
ance. She has just finished a series of con-
certs in her native town. It was Katie’s
elder sister Gertie whom mother remembers
as a member of the Pollard Opera Co.
Those amazing young men, Teddy Cahill
and George Brooke, are still going strong in
London. This song-and-piano twosome,
without being in the least climbers or push-
ers, seem always to get the right social recog-
nition, and just the kind of engagement
they’re after. Perhaps it's Teddy’s optimism
does it. Anyway, they have finished their
Coliseum season and started on Sunday
League concerts at the Palladium; next they
tour the provinces, and in June appear at
the Victoria Palace. They played and sang
at a private concert organised by the Coun-
tess of Annesley and the Countess of Lim-
erick, and afterwards were presented to
Princess Louise, who congratulated them
and kept them talking about Australia.
If knighthoods meant anything in Aus-
tralia Stewart Dawson should get one for
giving Sydney the Ambassadors. Tfc**
economic effect must be to bring expensive
tourists here who might not come other
wise, and to hold others longer than
they would stay without such an attrac-
tion. A great restaurant advertises a citv
abroad in a marvellous manner. Thousands
know the Savoy in London, Delmonico's in
New York, and Maxim’s in Paris, who have
never visited those cities, and a previous °eu-
ei ation of globe-trotters associated Sydney
with Paris House and San Francisco with
the Poodle Dog or the Grillroom of the Palace
Hotel. It is a grim thought that if the
l’itt-street establishment can only keep to
its present standard it will soon be better
known in Britain and the U.S.A. than any
picture-gallery we are ever likely to own.
There are girls who have found Love’s
young dream so engrossing that they have
missed the last boat, from Manly, and a
couple of them will have a most poignant
remembrance of the incident. " Going over
the fence of the Quarantine reserve is not an
unknown adventure for sweethearts who want
to get away from the madding crowd, but
two cooing pairs who tried it at the end of
December were unlucky. The steamer
Taiyuan having arrived with smallpox on
board, the attendants were watching the
fences with more than their usual vigilance
to see that nobody got out, and the infatu-
ated persons who had strayed in were
promptly taken in charge as “contacts” and
detained. For a while the vicinity of the
quarantine area became much less popular.
An Adonis of the Surf who makes rather a
habit of statuesque attitudes to give the girls
delight was astonished at the mail which
reached him on January 2. Twenty-three
love-lorn damsels had taken the Leap Year
opportunity to offer him their hands, hearts
and other things duly specified, including
skill in cookery and (in one case) a sub-
stantial bank balance. The suddenness of
this matrimonial hopover certainly aston-
ished him a little, but he saw nothing abso-
lutely incredible in the fact that he should be
desired by beauty, and he set out to interview
the ladies and tell them that he could be only
a brother to them. The result was surpris-
ing; up to the time that he abandoned his
mission every girl had seoffingly denied that
the proposal was anything but a forgery.
When Adonis realised that he had been made
the victim of a systematised hoax, he was
about to sool the police after a clever forger;
and then a woman who was not amongst the
23 let the cat out of the bag by telling him
that she also had been begged to write him a
proposal, and, later, deny its authenticity. By
her artless (or artful) candor and sweet
compassion she. caught the surfer on the re-
bound, as it were, and their engagement is
announced.
A postscript from Brisbane: —
The Government having decided that his Ex.
has been good and deserves a new motor-car, the
thing has arrived; upholstered in blue cloth, and
with windows that open and shut like the eyes of a
wax doll. Since when Sir Matthew has been in-
specting factories—ironworks on the south side, and
pipeworks, and —and a concrete-mixer. Michael Rogers
(who becomes a benedict on the 24th) has helped
him in this gaiety.
Sir Matthew gave a dance at Government House
on an evening which loyally cooled down for the
event. Palms and gerberas decked the reception- and
ball-rooms, and Dobbyn’s band played. Michael
Rogers and Lieut. Turner helped Sir Matthew shep-
herd the lambs, etc., amongst whom were Mrs.
Holly Downs Chandler, in black georgette and lace
with floral girdle; Mrs. Glynn Connolly, in gold
lace; Mrs. E. K. Tully, in blue taffetas and gold
floating panels; and Mrs. A. 11. Whittingham, in
tulle and gold tissue with silver and amber floral
decorations. Margaret Prior was sheathed in silvery
mauve, Nanette Bruxner in rose-pink, Nell Tully
in turquoise green, and Beryl Collins, of Nindooin-
bah, in Egyptian red. Olga Bruche wore brocaded
taffetas in cherries and cream; and Margaret Ross
Munro, cream charmante.
One who loved Queensland’s sunshine went out
when Charles Holmes A’Couvt died in London last
week. Fourth son of Baron Heytesbury, he meant
to go on the land permanently when he landed in
Australia, but a dozen years of it sent him to be
aide to Governor Cairns, and thereafter for many
years he was in the service of the Parliament. He
had a charming simplicity of manner, and had more
than one matrimonial venture. His last was with
one of the pretty Jenkins girls, of the Nepean
Towers family. She was a widow when she married
him, and had several children of her own; one of
them, the only daughter, married a son of Holmes
A'Court by a former marriage. The old gentleman
had friends everywhere, and deserved them all.
There were many dinner parties at Lennon’s as
a curtain-raiser for the Government House hop on
Saturday. Keysen Barnes had the Collins girls,
Nan Bruxner, the Tomkins maid, Mrs. Pain, John
Flower and one Barnes at her table; Alistair Mac-
donald had platters laid for Mrs. Jack Chandler,
Mary Mort, Grizel Gibson, Sheila Mcßryde, Alan
Cameron and other social lights.
Mrs. E. T. Bignell and Mrs. Prentice farewelled
the Whitehouses .at a shivoo at the National. The
Whitehouses retaliated with a tea drinking on 16th.
Every guest had a pretty souvenir hanky to cry in
when the couple presently move off to the Cold Land.
Dr. Ethel Orchard has passed through Brisbane
on her way to Camooweal, where she is going to
fly her brazen banner.


(Zj&cuLmxleAj
Sill
A. Saunders’ Fruit or Ice Spoons and Server,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Spoon, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, in Silk-lined Case, 10/-
I!'-’ 1
Hh
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, containing' doz. Rustless
Table Knives, Xylonite Handles, £ doz. Table Forks,
pure Silver-plated.
Dessert size 607-
Table size 70/-
SELECTED SILVER-PLATED
CASED GOODS.
Special
Illustrations
and Prices
Forwarded
on Request.
A. Saunders’ Pie Servers, pure. Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved
and burnished, 507-
Fork and Spoon only, 35 / -
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
ORDERS.
■
!' ■ !.y
vi'. •
'
H
II
U
MaUM—
ß——s
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, Butter Knife, Pickle and > Bread §
Servers, Sugar and Jam Spoons, pure Silver-plated, Al. quality,
21/-
m
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A» Saunders’ Combination Case Afternoon
Tea Spoons, Cake Forks and Sugar Tongs,
A 1 quality, pure Silver-plated, 21/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter
.Knife, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
15/6.
Other designs, 12/6, 20/-, 25/-
202
Si
m
D
511
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and
Tongs and Cake Fork, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, complete in Silk-lined Case, 35 / -
WS
exchange
subscription tor in,
well-known humorous
journal,
Show ” (published
London) for 13 week
post free
:-v;
£
m
s*?
&
m
i
9,
PASSIN
VI R,GI NIA
CIGARETTES'
K 6
or
MADE IN LONDON
by
CARRERAS, LTD. (Est. 1788),
55, Piccadilly, LONDON/ W.
LONDON’S BEST HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY-"PASSING SHOW”—WILL BE SENT
YOU POST FREE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE COUPONS ENCLOSED IN EVERY PACKET.
Seed for Patterns of
The New Summer Suitings.
A complete range awaits your inspection. Send for them, fully confident
that the Suit we will tailor for you will come up to your expectations in every
English
Tweeds to
Your Order
9 51
Australian
Tweeds to
Your Order
Let yourself be “Lincoln Stuart” Tailored once —and you’ll insist upon bein
“Lincoln Stuart” Tailored always.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Ltd.
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Permanent Hair Waving
Accentuates Attractiveness
The many advantages of softly waved hair are
too obvious to need much commendation. To
the smart woman, so important a part does it
play in her coiffure, that it has become quite a
fashionable craze. Farmer’s use a special, per-
manent hair waving process which produces
exquisite waves that remain the same even
after shampooing, and does not in any way
effect the growth, or destroy the natural sheen.
Appointments may be booked by personal
application in the Hairdressing Salon, Third
Floor, or by phoning, City, Eleven Thousand.
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Box 497, Q.P.O.
&
is
(
The Bulletin
You can
Onoto
Dress
hang an
over a
Shirt
Onoto
SELF‘FILLING SAFETY
the Pen
Whenever you see
a Pillar Box think
of an Onoto.
—or pack it in your linen and it will not leak.
The self-filling safety Onoto only gives ink when you'want it. You
control the ink flow, you shat it off by a twist of the finger and thumb.
The Onoto fills itself by an original method. It is the best type of
self-filling safety pen on the market. It holds more ink than other pens.
Thomas Ob La Rue & Co., ltd,
110 Bunhili Row. London, E.C.I.
KapreseßtitlTu: NORMAS BAKES A LONGHCTM* In.
Kydetr. Uelbsanu A Wallin (tom <N.2J.
Onotolnk
Best for all Pens
The Bulletin
The Jap Admiral and a collection of his
officers had ;i bite with the Bruce-Page Min-
istry. The dinner Avas the ineA'itable House
affair, but the visitors politely consumed the
sustenance as if it came from a royal kitchen,
and also found merit in the champagne.
Admiral Saito and his captains fIeAV up to
the front entrance in taxis, but the under-
lings were draAvn to the feast in two glaring
char-a-biincs, one of which had previously
brought the Asama’s star band, whose gaudy
red tunics and plumed caps made Bourke-
street blaze like a fire in the big-gum country.
Lacking an efficient navigator, the bands-
men were almost lost in the great building,
but eventually were sent up to their appointed
stand in the main vestibule, where they pro-
vided obligatos to the gurgling wine. The
function Avas stiff and formal, but the Nip-
ponese speech of thanks, translated by a
good-looking Australian naval officer, was a
sustained effort of elocution that couldn’t be
beaten by several packets of crackers going
off at once.
Despite a scorching wind and a sunburst,
the 1 invited surged up the gangway in hun-
dreds when the Japanese Admiral Saito dis-
pensed hospitality on board his flagship, the
Asama. The Admiral and his chiefs, who
Avere lined up to welcome the oncoming
guests, looked pained Avhen one group of
early arrivals hurried past Avithout worrying
about an exchange of salutations. Polite-
ness is highly regarded in Japan, and a little
more of it wouldn’t do Australia any harm.
The squadron band dispensed plaintive
melody from a top deck; and the for’ard
decks, shut in with bunting from the sun,
contained potted chrysanthemums and morn-
ing glory (morning face, Japan calls it)
in paper editions. The entertainment
opened with a jiu-jitsu contest, between
professionals and cadets. Many of the latter
are sons of nobles (in fact, one youth calls
the Mikado cousin), but the new Japan is
democratic, and all fare alike. One or two
of this lot are wider of eye and fairer of skin
than the rest, but by general consent the
handsomest of all the jiu-jit. competitors was
a pro. The officers were politely troubled
by the fear that the Engleesh meeses might
blush before the nakedness of the golden-
skinned athletes who Avere exiguously draped
in loincloths. However, some western brute
effectively set tlieir minds at rest by a dis-
quisition on sun-bathing.
In the wardroom were lordly dishes piled
with sandwiches and cakes of local origin,
flanked by liquid nourishment with the names
of the drinks shown on neat tickets. Thirsty
young things, who sAvooped down on some
straw-colored nectar that flowed from metal
teapots, were considerably startled to find
themselves quaffing pale ale instead of milk-
iest tea. A terrific onslaught was made on
the area branded “Canton Cider” —Japanese
for lemonade. The crowd finally filtered
dovm the gangway amid cries of “Sayonara”
from the hosts, to which one or two women
responded with “Banzai” in the touching be-
lief that it meant “Thanks.” The majority
carried off little fans and flags, with packets
of Chinese cake —a delectable sweetmeat
compounded principally from rice and honey.
A sufficiency of trophies had been provided
for all; hut the souvenir fiends created a
shortage. As one Japanese officer ruefully
and poetically observed, “Some take too
many, some not get any.”
The dresses were mostly cottons, silks and
voiles, under protective hat-brims. Consul
Fullarton, who wears a grey moustache and
a genial manner, convoyed his wife in black
trappings, and daughter Betty, who shaded
her dimples under a fuchsia hat. General
Harry Chauvel and Captain Hyde brought
their wives, who provided rival studies in
beauty. The Barrett dame, the Stanley
Argyle pair, Mr. and Mrs. Inagaki, George
Landale and his small son, and Generals Sel-
heim and Coxen and their wives were pre-
sent; likewise Mrs. James Angus and Mrs.
Hidgcock, and her daughter. Mrs. Cust, from
Caster ton, who crossed to Sydney next day
with her medical husband. As illustrative
of the Japanese memory for faces, directly
the Admiral sighted Mrs. Russell Jackson he
recalled having met her four years previously
in his native land.
The final shivoo was at Her
The J.C.W. firm had dressed the occasion
in bunting, with a blaze of scarlet lighting
effects. Ropes of greenery garlanded the
ceiling—above a sea of rosy balloons, float-
ing from the stall and circle chairbacks—
and were brought to anchor above the stage-
front by an outsize rising sun. expressed in
a dizzy twinkle of red electric bulbs.
Admiral Saito was boxed on the O.P. side
with a brace of his officers, and two more
of these sat in the adjacent pen with Earle
Page and his flapper daughter. Littleton
Groom was stalled, and Premier Lawson and
his wife shared a pen with the Mayoral
Bruntons. To most of the star guests the
slioav Avas practically dumb crambo, although
the Admiral and his chief mate : appeared
to see the joke. Still, if the others missed
the spoken jokes the tumbling trio provided
something they really could understand.
The first party to the Earl of Harrowby,
his Countess and only daughter : occurred
appropriately in the Army Nurses' Associa-
tion rooms at Anzac House. It whs run by
the heads of the Returned Soldiers’ League
and the Nurses’ Club. Acting-president Gil-
ray, of the League, and Nurses' president
Mrs. Hume Turnbull received the guests,
who are keen on meeting as many of the
Anzacs entertained by them in London dur-
ing the Avar period as they can. Lady Ilar-
roAvby, who was loaded A\ 7 ith presentation
flowers, was smartly veiled in yellowish lace
over an under-sheathing of satin, while Lady
Frances stood by in cinnamon-brown silk
with an incidental little cape. The Earl
is a clean-shaven, well-built peer, whose
family business is Coutts's, the aristocratic
bank; his Avife is a pleasing looking matron,
of undoubtedly British quality: and the
daughter looks as if her charming exterior
were well backed with grey matter. They
are staying Avith the vice-regal Forsters at
the present writing, but should be in Sydney
by the time this screed sees print. Later
they leave for M.L., but will be back here
inside six weeks. The daughter of the house
then wants to meet our various school heads,
as one of her goods works is to keep an eye
ovi our boys who go from here to college
armed with letters to herself. Premier Law-
son and his wife, the Chauvel dame and
Mayor and Mayoress Brunton AA-ere amongst
the guests.
Rembrandt pictures for us Kitty Russell
Jackson, a young St. Kilda matron,
wiiose genius for clay-modelling has
attracted much atteution on the other
side of the globe. Her work—she
was Kitty
Boyes then—
was first pub-
lished in The
B ULTETIK.
One of her
star pieces is
a bust of
Lloyd George,
reproductions
of which have
appeared in
dozens of Eng-
1 i s h papers.
She spent a
week at the
the n Prime
M i n ister's
country home
during the
modelling pro-
cess. Amongst
other famous
people M r s.
Jackson h as
modelled from life are General Botha, the
King of Siam, Billy Hughes, Marquis
Okama and two of our late High Court
Judges, Samuel Griffith and Edmund Bar-
ton. She returned to Melbourne over two
years back, after live years’ foreign travel,
but has been too much taken up with a
delicate baby daughter to give much time
to her art. Now the child —who was born,
by the way, in Algiers—is well set up, so
she has ordered in a fresh supply of clay.
Incidentally, Kitty Jackson had aii amaz-
ing series of adventures early in the war.
They began when she crossed to Japan to
meet her husband, Captain Russell Jackson,
who had left here in charge of a transport.
She missed her date with him through being-
shipwrecked on the way across • and before
eventually linking up with him in Vladivo-
stock, she had been stranded in Jap.an, and
a Bolshevik prisoner in Russia, which she
reached as a stowaway. Being deported by
the Bolshies, she struck Singapore in re-
volt, and finally found herself in Rhodesia
after a trek through Portuguese West
Africa.
The tennis championship games began at
the Albert Ground on Saturday in an atmo-
sphere of excitement and in the presence of
a crowd which, though thick, did not rise
to the level of the extra gallery benches.
Lady Stradbroke, who brought the Ilarrow-
bys, colored the south stand with French
mustard draperies and a cherry hat. Lady
Harrowby was in all-black, and Lady Fran-
ces beamed appreciation of everything in
white. The head of their house displayed an
ancient suit that would have maddened the
editor of the Tailor and Cutter ; but, then,
lie is the type who wears shabby things with
distinction. A contrast was presented by the
faultlessly-clad Edmund Jowett. He is pre-
sident of the South Tennis Club, and seldom
misses a championship event. General
Brudenell White, like Mr. Jowett, had come
by himself —which is really the only way
to enjoy big tennis. A sudden call for the
fireman created a welcome diversion in the
middle of a particularly dull doubles set;
and things were further cheered when the
people inhabiting the eastern stand were
observed to be popping, up like packets of
squibs to an accompaniment of unfeeling
guffaws from the end-seaters. Several sweet
young things gathered their skirts around
them and twittered off as though a mouse
were running amok at their feet; but it
was nothing more dreadful than the spray
from the hose which the fireman was using
behind a wooden partition.
Hone, a well-built, S. Australian youth
with an ingratiating smile, and Esna Boyd
made short work of Fitchett and Miss Mclver
in the first sets, but the latter damsel put
on a sprint in the second round and materi-
ally helped her partner to win five games to
the victors’ seven. The thrill of the after-
noon was provided when the colts Mclnnes
and Hone just missed licking Patterson and
O’Hara Wood. The youngsters romped away
with the first games, and thereafter paced
their elders, game by game, until the final
set, when the latter got home by a narrow
majority. The crowd was all for the losers,
and they got an ovation for every good shot.
Hone and Mclnnes seem to pair naturally.
Mrs. Molesworth, the Queenslander, assisted
by Dorothy Rendall. daughter of the one-
time headnj aster of Haileybyry College,
easily outed the Morton-Farnswortk combina-
tion. Little Miss Akhurst, who partnered
Miss Lance, defied the sun and possible injury
to her eyesight with a white kairband. The
brown skins of our players fascinate English
visitors, by the way.
The vice-regal Countess fluttered her red-
crested yellow plumage and cheered Hester
rhillimore and Noel Heath through their
mixed doubles, but saw the pair go down
before Mrs. Molesworth and R. N. Roberts.
The English girl, though she has an attrac-
tive style, is not yet up to Mrs. Molesworth’s
form. She was clad more picturesquely
than sportingly in fleecy white hangings under
a white crinoline hat, with a bandana hanky
carelessly bandaging her hips.
Bob Schlesinger, one of our Davis Cup
team cubs, is leaving Melbourne for Sydney,
and his pals are disgusted. The Schlesinger
family, whose late father was a leading St.
Kilda medico, are all tennis cracks. The elder
boy, Frank, is nearly as good as Bob. Sister
Dorothy Hope, who unpacked her racquet
at Geelong over two years back after plung-
ing into matrimony with Ronald Hope, is
still one of Victoria’s lady champs. The
Schlesinger stepfather, Arthur Sprague, who
was an expert on the courts some years
back, can still keep the boys busy on either
asphalt or grass.
Frank Harvey will shortly marry that
bright little Sydney girl, Bobby MacMillan.
She is a daughter of the calico knight and
his present wife, and the pair crossed to
Melbourne the other day to cry “Bless yon,
my children !” Bobby has been using some
of her talents with the Emelie Polini com-
pany, and it was there she met her fate.
Frank Harvey started out as a naval officer,
but was blown out of liis seagoing career by
an explosion which temporarily affected Ms
eyesight. He comes of an old Jersey family,
and owns a picturesque grey-stone homestead
on the island. By an earlier marriage he
has one son, a good-looking boy.
Ltance, the late Judge Molesworth’s young-
est son (lie practises as a doctor in the
Fog), was due last month to marry a London
girl named Caryl Hoare. Her parents live
in Regent’s Park, by the Zoo. Two of the
Molesworth daughters, Elaine and CEnone
(they were all given Tennysonian names),
married and settled in England ; a third tied
up with one of the wool-growing Mathieson
clan in New South.
Kenneth Bailey, sometime a Rhodes
scholar and now a barrister, has persuaded
a charming young thing to give him domestic
wiggings in the not-too-far-off future. Yseult
Donnison is her attractive name: she is
described as a clever sculptress, can speak
several tongues beside her own, and is a good,
ali-round sportswoman.
The travelling scholarship, provided for
students at the National Gallery by the late
William Clarke, was won this year by a
lady, and there is a little romance attached
to it. One of the students was so far in
advance of the others that, although several
put their pictures in, they knew they had
not the ghost of a chance against his work.
His fiancee, also an art student, had such
a modest opinion of her own work, that she
never thought of entering it. The brilliant
student, however, persuaded her to send in
a couple of pictures, and to her immense sur-
prise, and to everybody else’s, she has been
awarded the scholarship.
The fire which destroyed the Empire Build-
ings in Flinders-street, and with it The
Bulletin's Melbourne office, consumed
everything in the rooms of the Anglers’ Club
on the second floor, barring an ice-chest,
wherein an astonished steward subsequently
came on three or four bottles of
beer resting on a still unmelted chunk
of frozen water. Which shows what living
in an anglers club can do even for
a block of ice. The worst loss sus-
tained was in piscatorial trophies. The
walls of one room were decorated with
stuffed fish of various sizes caught by mem-
bers over a period of 20 years or so. Gloomily-
surveying the ruins one cynic remarked that
there would be no check on fish-yarns for
many a year to come. A couple of fine por-
traits by Mclnnes were other prized pos-
sessions that went up in smoke.
Constance Burt, -who warbles so sweetlr
as the Sandman in “Hansel and Gretel,” at
the Playhouse,
and further
starred
brightly in the
role of Gretel
at a recent
matinee, is one
of the Melba
Con. girls who
called for ap-
plause when
she appeared
in scenes from
opera con-
ducted b y
Fritz Hart and
also on the
concert pla t-
form. She has
put in 15
months at the
Con. But
Melbournecan-
not claim the
clever damsel
as her own ; she is a Sydneysider who crossed
to this city to have her voice tamed. Rem-
brandt was responsible for the photo.
Some of the fashions of grandma's day can
never be made unbecoming. Among a dozen
or so of “Aladdin” damsels who come on as
“Girls of the Old Brigade” there is one in a
“pork-pie.” She reminds ns at once of an
illustration by John Leech drawn when last
century was in its sixties. No hat was
ever less aesthetic, and this specimen in Her
Majesty’s panto has an extravagantly long
feather stuck in the side to make it look
ridiculous. But, given the right cut of coun-
tenance beneath its artless roundness, no hat
can be more becoming than the style they
used to sing about when the youngest “grans'
of to-day were getting christened. Arabella
used to break hearts by means of her “pork-
pie hat with a little white feather”; and
one of those Girls of the Old Brigade sug-
gests how 7 the damage was done.
Willie Kelly made a brief appearance in
Melbourne en route to Sydney after an
absence in England and the U.S. of nearly a
year. He has brought back the last shriek
in cars. Its very side-lamps are different
with their neat cut-glass shades over high-
powered bulbs. He may come back to poli-
tics now that the Bruce-Page people are well
in the saddle. He couldn’t abide Billy
Hughes, and had nothing to expect from
him, whereas Bruce is a personal friend and
admirer.
Adelaide sends her regards:—
A cable from Agent-General Lucas tells that
Helene Taylor nas passed as a licentiate of London’s
Academy 7 of Music. England approves of Clara
Serena, too, and even the Morning Post finds her
a. “fine singer” and a “distinct acquisition to the
British National Opera Company.”
The Harrovvbys transhipped here for their visit to
the Forsters in Melbourne. Captain Mambleton met
them at the Outer Harbor and motored them io
Government House, where they lunched. The Bridges
have now 7 gone to Victor Harbor for a cool and
peaceful month. The Anehises also returned to ns
Mrs. George Box, founder and for ages secretary of
the Queen Adelaide Club, who has been living in
England and France for some years. Other home-
comers include two of the Patrick MacMahon Glynn
daughters—-Joan and Dympna.
Bruce Anderson, w r ho is bound for Cambridge and
a Doctor of Philosophy degree, will take with him a
B.Se., plus first-class honors and a heap of good
wishes for as much good luck and popularity on
the other side of the w 7 orld as he had here.
The youngest set went gay at Victor Harbor the
other evening at a dance given by a dozen or so
St. Peter’s boys. Duttons, Howards, Tennants, Hills,
Sangsters, McDonalds arid Brookes were among the
clans that provided jazz-fodder.
Joan Whitby was guest of honor at a tea given by
her mother at the Pier Hotel, Glenelg, the business
on hand being to wish her good-bye and good luck
before she sails in the Hobson’s Bay for her marriage
to Flight-Lieut. Flower. The color scheme was blue
and pink—delphiniums, roses and carnations —and
there was a muster of old friends that included Mrs.
Alan MacFarlane, Mrs. O'Halloran Giles, Mrs.
Compton Trew, Mrs. C. H. Angas, Mrs. Roupell,
Mrs. Legoe and her daughter, Mrs. Bray and hv
daughters, Mrs. Dudley 7 Hayward, Miss Doris Coles
and Mrs. Kenneth Duffleld.
Miss Elaine Dunbar Tweeddale has been
appointed to take charge of The Bulle-
tin’s “Melbourne Chatter” page; and com-
munications relative to if should be addressed
either to her or to the manager, 154-162
Flinders-street, Melbourne.


AUSTRALIAN HUMOR
ALL AUSTRALIA'S BEST HUMORISTS ARE REPRESENTED
in the
"Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
!/• per volume. Posted V 2 j
STEELE RUDD’S SELECTION NOVELS.
Have You Read His Latest?
“ON EMU CREEK”—Already in a Fifth Edition.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S
“Bridget McSweeney” Series,
And the World-wide Known “How McDougall Topped the Score.
EDWARD DYSON.
“Fact’ry ’Ands,” “The Missing Link,”
“Tommy the Hawker,” “Loves of Lancelot.”
CON DREW.
“Rogues and Ruses.” “The Doings of Dave.
“ ‘THE BULLETIN’ BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS.”
BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
One Shilling each.
THE IDEAL NOVELS FOR SUMMER HOLIDAYS.
Inquire at any Bookstall in the Commonwealth for a selection of
150 Novels by Foremost Australian Authors.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
Jewellery of Quality
*64
fSjjSUv-.
*»r yw _ I
Diamond and Platinum Wrist Watch, on MoirS Silk Band. Extra-
quality Lever Movement, £75.
Diamond Cluster
Kins?,
£25.
7-Diamond Ring,
£22/10/-
Exclusive Design,
22 Diamonds,
£4O.
Diamond and
Platinum Circle
Ring,
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£l4.
4-Stone Diamond
Ring,
£2O.
m
rel
Uiamoiul-i-et Bracelet Watch, finest Brilliants, set in
Platinum, £6O.
Jewellery set with Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds
and other Gems of the highest quality,
fashioned in beautiful designs, and offering a
better value than is obtainable elsewhere, will
be found displayed at Drummond’s Show-
room, 346 Collins Street. Inspection cordially
invited, or fully-illustrated catalogue will be
sent post free to any address.
Bvummonb & Co
The Collins Street House for Jewellery,
MELBOURNE.
1
1
1
1
1
I
1
1
1
1
1
I
I
I
I
■
/u
1
I
I
5s
1
&
i
i
Id
1
\w\
1
1
I
i
▼
y
In Full Swing!
The eager anticipation of those who awaited
MURDOCH’S Famous Bargain Event has been more
than rewarded.
Men’s and Boys’ Wear
Clearing Regardless of Cost!
Everything throughout the great Store (except a few
proprietary lines) REDUCED AT LEAST \O%, but
there are stacks of goods marked at almost HALF-
PRICE.
Send for the Bargain Catalogue FREE!
Men’s Tweed Sac Suits
Usually
63;-
12/6
32/6
27/6
GOLF,
Usually
6 11 to
9/6
TENNIS,
Usually
6/6
An attractive, ready-for-service model. Made from
reliable Australian Summerweight Tweeds of
excellent quality; in attractive shades of Grey,
Brown or Fawn, showing refined and distinc-
tive patterns. Coat, Vest and Trousers com-
plete. Ready for immediate service.
Men’s Tweed Trousers
Men’s Striped Cotton Tweed Trousers —a
material specially selected to withstand strenu-
ous wear. Made with side or cross pockets and
plain bottoms. Well made throughout. Ready
to wear.
Borsalino Hats
Oddments in Genuine G. B. Borsalinos’ Soft
Felt Hats of this world-famous make. In all
desirable colors of Brown. Cuba. Green, Mix-
ture and Navy. Fitted with neat Black Silk
Bands and Silk Side Bow. Silk-lined edges.
All sizes.
Men’s Boots
Murdoch’s Special Black Box Calf Derby Boots,
easy fitting, straight last and medium round toe
shape, strong welted soles. Also in Tan Year-
ling Calf with welted soles.
Golf and Tennis
Men’s Good Quality Cambric or Zephyr Golf
Shirts, made with soft turn-back cuffs and re-
inforced linen neckband. Blue or Black Stripes.
Also White Mercerised Tennis Shirts made with
Collar and Pocket and Button Wristbands.
RED SPOT PRICE
52/10
9/6
22/6
21/-
4/11
The Bulletin
Boys’ Tweed Suits
Boys’ Cotswold Suits made from selected Aus-
tralian and English Woollen Tweeds; also in
Navy Cheviot Serge. Coat is made with four
patch pockets, yoke and half-belt at back.
Knickers are strongly lined and have plain
knees. Sizes 4 to 12. fit boys 6to 14 years.
Usually 357-
RED SPOT PRICE .
24/9
Boys’ Cotswold Suits, in similar materials and
style as above; but Knickers are cut with
Baiid and Button Knees. In sizes 7 to 12, tit
boys 9 to 17 years.
Usually 42/6
RED SPOT PRICE .
29/3
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
At Sale-time—as at every other time—
Murdoch’s Guarantee the Goods — Perfect
Satisfaction or Money Refunded in Full.
When writing kindly address your letter to
Desk R.
The Bulletin
“The World’s Largest Men’s
and Boys’ Wear Store.”


THE DIFFERENCE IS IN THE PLATES
Greater Efficiency and Double the Life.
THE reasons for the longer life that is obtained from the Tudor Battery with
House- and Farm-lighting Sets are found in the Plates.
The Tudor Positive Plate is the Plante type. It is a solid casting of pure lead
on which the active material is formed by an electro-chemical process.
The active material is part and parcel of the plate— not a foreign substance pressed
into an open grid.
The Tudor Negative Plate is the Box type, consisting of a number of separate
compartments which contain the active material. Shedding of negative active material is
prevented by perforated sheet-lead envelopes which cover both sides of the plate.
The plates of the Tudor Accumulator for House- and Farm-lighting Sets are the same
type and design as the plates of the largest batteries built by the Tudor Accumulator
Co. for Central Station and Electric Tramway Service.
The first cost of a Tudor Battery for House-lighting Service may be slightly higher
than the first cost of other less suitable batteries, but when estimated in life and service
the Tudor is by far the cheapest battery to install.
1
ISH
■
■
A
■r
am
m
.
.
m • *
m
jsm
NB|
& , r i
wKmM
BUI
, * v „ ■ ;
u
** ■ % **? *
IIIS&
i«
■
;in:
■
:■;
SI
.
-'
■ '■.
» .RS
ym v
I
■
i:«
m
mm i
V, :
■ BIN
SM HS M
...
■nm
■ m ■
m
LOB
i»»«
' ' . * ~»w?vw .• >
?.. ..■... ~ !
I
» n
■ i
■ . ■
SB
...... , ; :;
kl
■
...
. '.JL. -' -
The TUDOR PLANTE TYPE BATTERY is
now standard equipment for DELGO-LIGHT
in N. S. Wales and Victoria by the Delco-Light
distributors, Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
thus bringing together a plant and battery
worthy of one another.
The Tudor Accumulator Co. Ltd. (London).
205 Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
BETTER.
TUDOR. BATTERIES ARE MADE IN


WAKEFIELD
m
users win in
I nternational
200-mile race on Brooklands.
13th October, 1923, “ Cas rol ”=lubricated cars were successful.
1100 C.C. —Ist Salinson 1500 C.C.—lst Alvis
3rd Salmson 2nd Bugatti
4th . . Morgan 3rd , \ . A.G.
“Castrol,” recognised as the successful lubricant, is specified by over 90% of
the manufacturers of British Motor Cars, and by the British Organisations for the
sale of leading American and Continental Cars‘in Great Britain. " “
LARKIN AIRCRAFT SUPPLY CO., LTD.. Melbourne.
BRITISH “CASTROL” OIL AGENCY, LTD., Brisbane.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
JAS. A. DIMMITT. LTD., Perth.
J. McKENZIE & CO., Launceston.
Head Office for Australasia— \
C. C. WAKEFIELD & CO., LTD., Sydney.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP * CO., LTD., Perth and Geral.lton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Kilkenny Lass made a brave attempt to
win the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes for D. Brennan, but
she wasn’t quite equal to leading all the way up
the straight—a severe task to set any horse, let
alone a three-year-old daughter of Absurd —and
Laneffe beat her by half a length, Uncle Alex,
Montoro (very late on the scene) and Bathos finishing
almost abreast of the tiring filly. The winner is a
five-j'ear-old brown stallion by Linacre —La Nieve,
and show-s all the spirit and quality of the Linacres.
Though trained at Randwick by F. Williams, who
has been very successful this year, and ridden by the
Sydney jockey P. Brown, who was seen to much
greater advantage than in recent exhibitions, he
has done nearly all his racing in Queensland, where
he is owned by Michael Ryan. Mick punts freely
when he fancies a horse, and the stable commission
caused Laneffe to firm from 25’s to 10’s (B’s in
places), but the extent of the clean-up has been
grossly exaggerated, as usual. It is impossible to
win big money on a race like the Challenge Stakes,
in which only a few horses are backed. Dynamite-
odds doesn’t permit it. A rough-and-ready method
of arriving at the truth in these matters is to take
the most extravagant estimate in the most sensa-
tional newspaper and divide by three. The result
is unlikely to be more than £lOOO in excess of the
actual winnings.
El Dorado ran poorly in the 10-furlong January
Handicap, which the nicely-handled Mont Clair
(6’s) won from two fast-finishing unfortunates, Note
and Stony. He will have to improve a ton on that
showing if he is to return the 3500 guineas which
T. M. Burke is reported to have paid for him in
the hope of landing the Australian Cup. It is a
great price for an animal which, being troubled
with soreness, is a difficult proposition for a trainer,
though unquestionably a good one when well. Per-
haps El Dorado will show in the Anniversary Handi-
cap next Saturday that he was unlucky in the
January, or that the distance was too short, or
that he needed the race. In any case, this page
will discard him on the score of his sorry perform-
ance and select Picardy, the other leg of the Queens-
land double. A seasoned six-year-old by Bardolph
-—Ringrose, Picardy was third to Royal Howard and
Spreadeagle in the Queensland Cup, after leading
into the straight, and in the Windsor Handicap on
December 1 he beat them handily, running the 12
furlongs in 2min. 32Jsec. The same jockey (Davis)
is to ride him, and being no stranger to Randwick,
and having only 7st. 111 b. to carry, he looks worthy
of a ticket, at least.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Australians who have seen Crow-
dennis race in England proclaim him a lot faster
than Claro, but the question concerning the stranger
—he is trained by “Jack” Holt for Norman Falkiner
—is twofold. Is Crowdennis sufficiently acclimatised
to win a Newmarket Handicap under favorable condi-
tions, and will those conditions be sufficiently “Eng-
lish” at Flemington on March 1? Probably Violon-
cello, never so dangerous in Sydney as in Melbourne,
would not have won Caulfield Cup but for the day
being chilly and the soft going to his liking. The
big fellow was not then so acclimatised as he was
a year later, when he had a run of successes in
Melbourne. He wanted favorable weather for his
Caulfield Cup. The Newmarket Handicap this year
may be run in a temperature of 100 in the shade,
or 40 degrees colder. All things considered, one
would rather fancy Falkiner’s English horse for the
Doncaster Handicap, and until he makes a promising
appearance in public it would be safer- not to fancy
him for anything. #
“Royoe Rolls”: Gerald McKenna. Cocky
candidate for the Dalhousie (Vie.) by-election, used
to manage a brewery on the Westralian goldfields
and later on guided a plough over a block at
Lake Grace. He is reckoned to be a good judge
of horses, and in the West was a friend ot t.ne
late Sam Mackav, for whom on one occasion he picked
out a yearling which, he considered, might do great
things. The animal was by Green Mountain out of
Corea, dam of the successful Uorstep, but it
never gave the judge any trouble and was ottered to
McKenna as a hack. After Mackay’s death the neddy
was acquired by a Victorian owner, and it figured
in the Novice Handicap at the fashionable Hanging
Rock (Vic.) meeting on New Year’s Hay. McKenna,
who was present, had nearly forgotten his early
fancy, but seeing its name, Mountain Jade, on the
programme, he had a flutter at fives for the sake of
Auld Lang Syne. His old friend rolled home in fine
style.
* * * *
“Fax”: V.A.T.C. records of weather for
Caulfield Cup week are no more favorable to the
gospel of Meteorologist Hunt than were the V.R.C).
statistics, referred to by “0.K.” (B. 13/12/’23).
Listen to the statement of John B. Gargurevich:—
“I think it is the consensus of opinion that the
seasons are changing somewhat. I well remember
that when 1 first joined the V.A.T.C., over 33
years ago, the weather for our Cup meeting was
invariably expected to be hot. Of latter years
ladies do not think of Summer frocks for the Caul-
field Cup.”
What Mr. Gargurevich has to say about expectations
of C.C. temperature more than 30 years ago is
confirmed by drapers, who speak from like experience.
Other authorities declare that, whereas Caulfield
Cup Day was formerly spoken of as likely to be hot
and dusty,” Guineas Day, a week earlier, was proverbi-
ally wet. The wetness of one Saturday, and the
warmth of the Saturday following, have long ceased
to be popular anticipations.
* * * A-
“Nitric”: The expression “dark horse,”
now in general use, first occurred in Disraeli’s
novel “The Young Duke.” “The first favorite,’’
wrote Dizzy, “was never heard of; the second
favorite was never seen after the distance post; all
the 10-to-l ones were in the rear, and a dark horse
which had never been thought of rushed past the
grandstand in sweeping triumph.” Disraeli wrote
that in 1831. 1 doubt if he imagined that it would
be freely used nearly a century later by punters,
sprinters, pugs and politicians.
* * * *
In the first (and less important) half of
the racing year in South Aus. C. L. Gardiner stands
alone as a winning owner. No One else has won half
as many races, or half as much in stakes. R. E.
H. Hope is the bad second, and among the also-ran
are the old prominent names, Hawker, Bowman,
Flannagan, Zed, and so on. But Adelaide has not
much racing, compared with the other capitals ; the
city and suburban area only sees about one afternoon
in a fortnight on an average, and a lot of those
days are bunched together in May. So there has
been no opposition to the formation of a new club,
the Licensed Victuallers’. The infant claims two
records, one in starting life with over 1000 members,
the other in putting £33,000 through the totalisator
at its very first meeting, for which it hired Victoria
Park from the A.R.C.
* * * *
R. M. Hawker, of Adelaide, has bought in
England a three-year-old, Bold and Bad (Swynford-
Good and Gay), recommended by Lord Rosebery’s
manager as likely to be a first-class sire. Bold and
Bad has four wins to his credit, and the price was
3000 guineas. The colt will be quarantined in
Melbourne, and tnen taken to Morphettville (S.A.).
Hawker writes that fashionably-bred brood mares
are bringing terrific prices in England and that Eng-
lish thoroughbreds are miles above our horses
“of that there is not the slightest doubt.” But it
wasn’t so in the days of Merman, Newhaven, The
Grafter, Georgic, Maluma, Aurum and Australian
Star.
* * * *
“Gadfly”: Bookmakirg is illegal in Tas-
mania, but the odds on races like the Hobart and
Launceston Oups regularly appear in the secular
press. Even the Mtsrcdry publishes them, and
Attorney-General Ogilvie, who owns trottahs,
doesn’t seem to mind a bit. Last session Ogilvie
introduced a bill to license bookmakers, stating that
c 100.000 was wagered in Tasmania on the Melbourne
Cun alone, and that at meetings where they had no
right to ply their railing they handled as much
money as the tote clerks, but the measure failed
to go through. Of course, Dynarm'teodds pays no
license fees, and bis tickets are not stamped, nor
are his transactions reviewed by the Income-tax
Comm' o!! 'oner. And the Speck is aunallingly hard
tip. Still it is over so much easier to cadge from the
Commonwealth Government than to wine out Dyna-
miteodds (his vote is not to be sneezed at) and get
more from the tote.
Australian-made tennis-balls were used
throughout the 11 days’ country tennis tournament
at the White Citv (Sydney) courts, and there were
no complaints. It speaks well for racquet-wielders
that there is a growing demand for the Australian
article; at present 140 persons are employed in
turning out the balls, and it is hoped to treble the
number before long. The titbit of the long tourna-
ment was Barraba’s success in the district competi-
tion ; in previous years the brothers Spencer and
Williams had been dogged by bad luck. J. M.
Ba.vley, the Orange crack, defeated Kalms, of West
Wyalong, in the final of the singles, and, with J.
Clemenger as his partner, was victorious in the
doubles. Miss A. Gray, a member of a numerous
Goulburn clan, was supreme among the sex that
sports white skirts and stockings.
“Pulganbar”: Bayle.v won the N.S.W. hardcourts
championship at the 1923 Dubbo tournament. He
was subseouentlv selected to contest an exhibition
matrh with O’Hara Wood, who defeated him. His
unorthodox style, which puzzles, many an opponent,
was acquired from his father, who used to be a
topnotcher himself.
* * * *
Tennis championships usually open tamely,
but by the luck of the draw a good house was well
entertained in the premier round of the Australasian
meeting in Melbourne. C. S. Buckley, of Grace
Park, showed unexpected temerity in daring to
capture a set from O’Hara Wood. He was all over
Wood in the second spasm, but couldn’t maintain his
brilliancy, and his achievement was dimmed by his
subsequent fade-out. The sensation of the afternoon,
however, was the prolonged duel between Finlayson
and Patterson. Though the champion won by three
sets to love, the second totalled 32 games before
Finlayson admitted defeat. Again and again he won
on his service, and again and again the big fellow
lost on errors, until it looked as if the good-natured
Patterson was trying to make the other a present
of the set as a reward for his sterling play. There
was also some smart work between Patterson-Wood
and Hone-Mclnnes in the doubles. The South Aus-
tralian’s severe hitting, abetted by Mclnnes’s decep-
tive placing, secured the first set for the new com-
bination, but, though they lost the next three, they
hoisted two scores of 5—7, which was ample testi-
mony to their fighting powers. Hone, who was
last year in the running for Davis Cup honors, is
a big, bravura player who seems destined to become
a delight to the gallery. His defeat of Clemenger
(N.S.W.) in the singles was a smashing performance.
* * * *
The Linton cup, which is to be competed
for annually by teams of tennis iuniors from the
six States, stays this year in Victoria as the result
of strenuous struggles at the Albert Ground, Mel-
bourne. The Victorian victory was brought about
by the superior work of Ben Dunlop, assisted by
Brown and Coldham, but the margin over N. S.
Wales was only 10 games in the aggregate for two
singles matches and one doubles. The long and
angular H. T. Hicks, son of the A.L.T.A. secretary,
was minus one game in the total against Dunlop,
scoring repeatedly with a low, sweeping drive off
the forehand, but failing when Dunlop mixed his
game with some of the choicest ots in liis repertoire.
Dunlop’s Sydney cousin, of the same name, lost to
K. B. Brown in the other singles, though he played
prettier tennis and had the bad luck to lose a set
on a line umpire’s wrong decision. In the doubles
Ben Dunlop, associated with Coldham, the mueh-
talked-of boy from Ballarat, had to face a doughty
pair in R. Dunlop and Berckelman of N.S.W., and
there was little between them for the first two sets.
But in the final chapter the Victorians broke out in
a rash of winners, with the result that the Harbor-
siders registered 0. Ben Dunlop was clearly the
most finished and resourceful, but his cousin and
Hicks are very nearly up to “A” grade pennant
standard. Hicks looks like a smaller edition of
J. O. Anderson, and gets something of J.O.’s kick
in his forceful returns.
* * * *
“Wilfrido”; Lawyer J. C. Peacock, who
captained the M.L. tennis team which visited Aus-
tralia last year, is on his way to England. He and
F. M. B. Fisher are to represent M.L. in the next
Davis Cup challenge rounds, an arrangement that will
help to keep the Shivery Isles cn the tennis map.
Peacock was M.L. singles chamnion as far back as
1901, and he and Fisher can still hold their own in
the doubles game. On his return J.C.P. hopes to see
his brain-brat of 75 new courts for the Windy City
grown into a rollicking adolescence.
* * * *
On his showing in the quarter-mile Arne
Borg seemed unlikely to extend Charlton in the
880 yards championship of N.S.W., but the Swede
made a grim race of it. For 800 yards there were
never more than a couple ‘ of feet between them,
but in the last of the eight laps the Manly youth
shot ahead of the tiring foreigner, and at the finish
he was a dozen yards to the good, the others
(Christie and Griffiths) being out of it. Charlton’s
time was lOmin. 51 4-ssee. —13 2-ssec. better than
his figures in the same event last year; Borg’s was
lOmin. 59 2-ssec. The
ARNE BORG.
Though thrice
beaten by Charlton
in Sydney,
he expects to turn
the tables in Paris.
Swede’s llmin. 9
l-ssec.; established at
Gothenburg last August,
is the accredited
world’s record, but as
far back as Sept.,
1905, Barney Kieran
registered llmin. 2
I-ssec. at Belfast, and
Dick Cavill was clocked
to do llmin. Bsec. at
Wanganui 22 years
ago. The International
Federation is to be
asked to set its impri-
matur on Charlton’s
‘wonderful performance.
In the race for the
furlong championship,
Charlton narrowly beat
Borg and Henry in
2min. 23 4-ssee., an
Australian record, but
the Swede would prob-
ably have won if he
' hadn’t steered a n
erratic course. Charl-
ton and Henry are
now to be spelled, an
insane idea of sending
the former south to
compete in the Aus-
tralian championships
having been abandoned.
“Hamer”: There was one Charlton enthusiast who
couldn’t contain his joy when the youngster beat Borg
for the second time. As the boy forged ahead the
enthusiast leapt wildly into the air, flinging his hat
skywards—it dropped into the water. “Ain’t he a
bonze?” he yelled. “Every time he swims he cuts
off a bit more time. If he goes on like this, he’ll be
finishing a race before he starts, some day!” Then
he gave another joyful bound and followed his hat
into the water.
* * * *
“Sammas”; Among those who finished
strongly in the Swim Through Perth, an annual
three-mile event on the Swan, was a deaf-and-dumb
youth who vows he will be first home in 1925. Years
ago, when the distance was five miles, the race was
won bv Friedlander, a goldfields giant paralysed in
both legs. Slipping from his crutches into the
water, Friedlander ploughed his way through a first-
class field with only his arms to assist him. But his
arms were magnificent.
When Alf Simmons met Plees on Jan.
12 he was no more fit to fight a fast 20 rounds than
Borg was fit to swim a record-breaking quarter-mile
on the same day. Both were sacrificed to the alleged
necessities of materi il-
ist ic managements.
And the Londoner was
in little better shape
for his match with
“Nutty-” Fairhall cn
Jan. 19, although, being
a stranger, a pro. and
a member of a race
which never turns
monish away, h e
dashed into the breach
at short notice. He
was the better man
till his condition gave
out, after which the
ultra-cautious Fairhall
piled u p sufficient
points to get Wallis’s
decision. But the com-
bat failed to thrill the
back-seaters, who fre-
quently implored both
parties to repair to
the Government Labor
Bureau.
BERT RIS-
TUCCIA, Vie.,
who holds the
featherweight title.
In the Vic. athletic championships in
Melbourne on Saturday, M. V. Boyd proved himself
an exceptionally good miler. Dashing away from the
held at the end of the first lap, he scooted to a
lonely position 40 yards in front of the next best.
Never seriously pushed, he romped home by to
yards in 4min. 26 2-ssec. —excellent time, for it
was a rough track. The Y.A.A.A. council recently
decided not to be represented in the Australian
championships at Hobart because Richard Coombes
of Sydney had been appointed referee; it blames
Coombes for the disqualification of one of the
Victorian competitors at Adelaide in 1922. ihis
stupid and unsportsmanlike resolution has been re-
scinded at a special meeting of the V.A.A.A.
executive, and although the verdict of that meeting
requires endorsement by a general gathering of the
V AA A. (these Old Boys of amateur athletics are
incorrigible formalists), the probabilities are that
Boyd and other local champions will represent their
State in the Speck.
* * * *
Though nearly 45 and looking as if he had
swallowed an alderman, Warwick Armstrong is still
handy with the ball. Playing for Melbourne against
P’ran he took 7 for 69, four clean bowled. Through
his mighty effort the shop suburb suffered its first
defeat this season by 33. At North Melbourne the
local team had the unusual experience of tiemg with
Richmond’s 285 just as the knock-off bell rang out.
They had a wicket in hand, but that mattered noth-
ing in the circumstances.
* * * *
“Tron”: A. L. Park, who has moved on
to greener fields at the age of 82, was the oldest
representative cricketer in N. S. Wales. His record
in intercolonial matches was not voluminous, for
he appeared against Victoria on three occasions only:
in 1862 —the seventh match of the series when he
went in first and made 13 and 0 ; in 1866, when he
failed to score; and in 1869, when he contributed
2 and 15. But for 22 of Victoria and N. S. Wales
against Stephenson’s English XI in 1862 he won
a prize of a cricket bat for the top score (20)
made by an Australian. The Kerlonials won vby
12 wickets—the Englishmen’s first defeat on Aus-
tralian soil. !
* * * *
“Bail” • N.S.W. cricketers have been
moved to wrath by the alleged remark of Mayne, the
Victorian captain, that Gregory bowled for the
man instead of the wicket. Mayne has taken to
giving lectures on the game to interested Melbourne
youths, and the statement anent Gregory was
ported to have been uttered during one of these
talks. What Mayne did was to compare Gregory
with Cotter; he stated that whereas Jack s deliyei iss
sometimes flew up dangerously, those of Tibby
seldom, if ever, did. The inference is, not that
Gregory bowls with the intention of frightening or
despitefully misusing his opponents, which nobody is
fool enough to believe, but that Cotter had better
control over the ball. Unprejudiced people who
have seen the pair in action will ,be inclined to
agree with Mayne. ' ’
* * * *
“Rice”: Ernie Jones, the great fast
bowler of two decades ago, still rocks’ enf in. Play-
ing on the Adelaide parklands lately, he finished
with these remarkable figures: 5 overs, 5 maidens,
and 5 wickets. Other recent performances by the
veteran, who took 121 wickets for the 1896 Aus-
tralian XI and 135 for the 1899 lot, were 8 for 36
and 5 for 20. The old ’un must be a man of
iron; I question if any other fast bowler of his
generation is playing the game to-day.
* * * *
The M.C.C. in England has solemnly cen-
sured Worcestershire for playing Crawley, an
amateur, last season, when his cricket qualification
for the county was not complete. There was some
talk of dropping the shire from the county competi-
tion next season, but it apologised and was pardoned.
The M.C.C. followed its usual custom of strict
privacy, and did not tell the newspapers what the
objection to the player’s qualification was, nor yet
how he and the county honestly imagined him to be
qualified and then found he wasn’t.
* * * *
“Nitric” : “Rice’s” par. (B. 3/l/’24) about
the idiosyncrasies of the cricket scribe reminded me of
the expressions employed by the Rugby reporter in de-
scribing the converting of a try. The most popu-
lar, perhaps, is “added the extras,” but “raised the
flags” runs a close second. Then there are “made two
points easy,” “piloted the ball between the uprights, ’
“toed the leather through the sticks,” and “put the
cap on the try.” And the chaps who report the Aus-
tralian game are equally eloquent; such delightful
phrases as “booted a major,” “managed a six-
pointer,” “hoofed the sphere for the maximum,” and
“guided the leather true” are common. I even recall
a celebrity who “negotiated the bag of wind through
the aerials.”
AN OUTRAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N.S.W. cricket XI pride themselves on being
the best dressed side in Australia, yet, owing to
the meanness of the Association, two players had
to turn out against Soutii Aus. in caps that were a
disgrace to the team.” —Sydney Sun.
Vou read of starving hordes in Muscovy
And shudder. Anon it cuts you to the soul
To think in “Merrie England” there should be
A million and a half “upon the dole.”
Are there no sufferers here from want’s grim stress
That you should send your sympathy afar,
None who consume the bread of bitterness
And drink the water of affliction? Yes.
’Tis sadly clear there are.
Friends, ’tis not of the needy bard I sing
Facing what Kendall calls “the life austere,”
Clinging to slender hopes that ravens bring
This evening’s dinner or to-morrow’s beer.
For many a Digger’s plight, sans work or food,
You hold a callous Government remiss,
But for the limit of ingratitude,
Oppression undeserved and stigma crude,
Show me the like of this!
Think of the feelings of that shining band
Who hurl the leather and the willow wield,
“Whose names are household words throughout the land
As forth they file to battle for The Shield—
Champions who, careless of the suns that blaze,
Six days on end will uncomplaining toil—-
When they’re denied for these momentous frays
Their adequate equipment. Spare me days!
It makes one’s blood to boil.
Is this the way officialdom should treat
The men whose centuries our score-books fill ?
Tell me, ye stands with cheering crowds replete,
Give answer, barrackers upon the hill!
The shame of it! The black corroding shame !
Only on Friday week a couple o’ chaps
Picked to uphold our New South Wales’s fame
Before the scandalised spectators came
In frayed and faded caps!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


TO AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
AND ARTISTS.
LONDON AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
A N Agency has been established by the under-
. signed at Australia House for the disposal, to
British journals and publishers, of articles, novels,
short stories, verse and artistic work.
Application should be made in the first instance to
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney, for full particulars a~s to
terms and procedure. A STAMPED ADDRESSED
ENVELOPE MUST BE ENCLOSED.
Articles or stories dealing'with bush life seem to
have a good market in England, particularly with
the British Empire Exhibition in prospect.
Arrangements har e been made with many of the
leading publishing houses for the expeditious hand-
ling of Australian manuscripts.
L. ST. CLARE GRONDONA.
Australia House,
The Strand, W.C.2.
London Representative of The Bulletin.
The Bulletin
■'a
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
NUS
PENCILS
The Bulletin
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
“Thank you, Sir”!
ISAID “Thank you, sir," but he
replied: “No, Jenkyn, I thank
you. I thank you for introducing
me to those delightful cigarettes.
Kensitas? Mustn’t forget the name.”
And he won t. I don’t tell every-
one about Kensitas, but I know a
good judge when I see one.
Something of a judge myself? You’re
very good, sir. I
know a few good
things, but nothing
quite so good as
Kensitas.
The Bulletin
Kensitas
CiqctAjeJtteJ $Vi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1(6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6.
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
WHOLESALE:
HARRISON & ATTWOOD,
Box 64 G.P.0., Sydney.
CORNELL/, LTD., Adelaide.
.esisterid
TRADE HARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
E*»»s|
£ KGIQ+I
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
T -. 50 York Street. Sydney,
1907
1924
9hS tsxc uprvmt
THE “SNAPPIEST” SPORTS MODEL
ON AUSTRALIAN ROADS, AND
THE MOST COMPLETELY EQUIPPED
HIS must be your verd ct when you see the latest Moon
Sports Model. □ TWO SPARE WHEELS provide that
extra insurance against inconvenience so necessary to Touring
enjoyment, /he LARGE LUGGAGE TRUNK at the rear
enables apparel and the many luxuries and necessaries
desirable on a long trip to be carried safely under cover,
without interference with passenger comfort. □ And these
features are just typical of the forethought that has been put
into every detail of design and equipment in this smartest
and most satisfactory of all Sports Models.
Literature on RtqueP Immediate Delivery Finance Arranged
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-35 W ymouth
St., Adelaide
Victoria:
Finlay Bros.
322-24 Elizabeth
St., Melbourne
Q’land & N.S.W.:
Moo • Motor Car
Distributors,
George St., Sydney
W.A. Agents
Era Motors
Co.,
Perth
If you shun the commonplace —
Huy a 3\/li,on
ON THE FARM-
MAKE THE
TANK~ TYPE TRACTOR
YOUR RIGHT-HAND MAN
Mi
C\&
a
Tradfli -^
ipe
"SS*
s*
Qetrac
TANK-TYPE
TRACTOR
to meet the
HARVEST rush.
A CLETRAC easily pulls a 10-foot Harvester —
replacing 8 Horses, and does twice the work —will
turn short and get the corners square—and makes
quick work of harvesting.
The CLETRAC does not stop with harvesting work?
You can make it busy the whole year round—ploughing,
seeding, hauling, tank-sinking, all road work, open-face
work in mines, and all stationary jobs.
Runs Economically on Kerosene.
Further particulars from
TRACTION AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd.
383 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd..
Light Square West,
Adelaide, South Australia.
469 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE, V.
Australian Machinery Co.,
371-373 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Prti
Seven
ce Medals.
The Bulletin
Works i Birmingham, Engtandi
These series of
Pensneither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
THE INKY WAY.
Cheezo ’: Just retired to browse among- his roses
and books, Harry Pinn, 40 years editor of the
“i- (N.S.W.) Evening Post. He started on
,o- a P rir *ter’s devil close on half a centurv
S' 0 M - Dixon, from the North Coast and later o'f
Sydney, now sits m the chair.
“H.E.R.”; Perth is apparently satisfied with its
solitary morning paper. The new Sun, which was
«n™ artl i e - f ? tate 011 eyerv da .V of the week, and had
®“ hd , baek * n .? Promised by squatters and primary
ha # t falled t 0 r ' se above the horizon. The
promoters, after some months’ canvassing, failed to
cispose °f the 70,000 shares stipulated for in the
piospectus, and the flotation has been abandoned.
Av Coorse”: W. P. Evans is not the first editor
ot the London Pink ’Un to go to gaol; Dr. Short-
rS»i h rs f 0 i Un u er of tl , le paper, was imprisoned for
a L bl > caus f he would not give the name
the actual writer of the libel, notwithstanding that
CorleH n J er i h e. d dece }\ ed him - A little later, John
house’s shoulder! y bU " dle ° f W ° rry ° ff Short *
ParlT^ d Jff' : Bes A des selling peanuts, standing for
Brart™ spouting and getting run in, Percv
rsi unton was once a newspaper publisher The
li ) 3 l hed al in W M 11 PERCY Brunton ’s News and was pub-
lished in Melbourne seven years back. Every column
ot its four pages was crammed with items pertaining
of Lw Cl | f Police-court adventures and accounts
how he lost his deposit at Darlinghurst, though
Rn rt wele a ; so , a lew ads. and one or two pictures.
wmi d° r nffi Sed - t0 the Penny rag himself, but
of vlnnll n Ve , aW t y free with a large order
t peanuts. It ran to about a dozen issues.
fomrnfr” 1 “M. 8.” in “Utopias” (R.p.
tta/ 12 ') • il l as , surel y overlooked Besant’s “Inner
House which fascinated me 30-odd years ago. Be-
abolitinn IS n h f ed l" d arranged for the artificial
beh!o- ,nt ehdd-bn-th the imagined consequences
all fnW + “A robbing of life of practically
pL I .' nt ‘ erest > substitution of the College of
Tnd nripsv« hea y tbe Arch-Physician, for all kings
and priests. Otherwise, it was a very ordinary
wonder wha/ef b °° k is still readable. I sometimes
IJtonhiA w hat the younger generation read instead of
Utopias. I don t read them myself nowadays. But
I would still like to know what 21 is thinking.
DiiuMm B ?, rr i nß “ P ? y ” a,ld Webster, of London
in r'Ji ’ 1 the n ‘° st conspicuous daily cartoonists
„ , n are " ow Aussies. Rick Elmes’s pen workr
for the Daily Sketch; and the Daily Herald relies
on Lance Mattinson. Fred Hiscock" the Daily
S E Dave SP l ow S „ C h lto L nist ’v is in the stable
as Have Low, who has been cheerfully burying
ha r s m a e iob n on th ßa 4 dWi " in the * TAR - Will Farrow
las a ion on the Standard and is doing good work
in other lournals. Fred Leist and Laurie Tavloi are
also freelancing extensively. Bill Dvson was list
noticed on the reorganised John Bull, but his mordant
humor was top much for the new proprietors so he
y mutual consent with handsome compensation.
hold° n of H the V n to f A me back t 0 S - vdne L a "d take
born fn thi q JA v/ 1 ’ Telegraph. He was almost
for the inh nF'prt’ Hebald office, and was reared
lor the job °f editor-even the few years he spent
Darling was part of the training. But, after
lie had been in the chair for a dozen years there
’ A " etlon ' Vlth Die new generation of Fairfaxes ;
;,' ld V, 1 subsequent explosion Heney retired and
When h L h fn C °V i be I , l ‘', lppy witl >out a steady job.
When he found he couldn't he went to Brisbane to
ftn 18 ol< friend Dr - Ward at the Telegraph
Sh Henry CJullett, was for “ ears
i be . Sydney Telegraph, and the family is
uatural/v'fn th nt T eSted in ’ hence Heney turned
nrl che IT, h<? Tel . egrap h as a contributor when he
and the Herald parted. Farmer Whvte, the retiring
editor, remains on the staff as an editorial wrilerf
*o h e and Heney resume the relations they had for
many years on the Herald. y
“Pedro” : Sabine Baring-Gould, the Anglican parson
who dropped off the tree of life in England the
other day at the ripe age of 89, wrote over a
I 0 " 6 , °/ th em—a novel—he concluded
the last chapter but one—to “dodge the dippers,”
, he explained, dippers being those who read a bit
i I ° n ok at the end, and finish with the book there.
n that story, by the way, are many parables. One
. 1 t eßs that when the Queen of Sheba was
visiting Solomon everyone thought she was a perfect
woman—everyone, that is, except a Didymus who
declaied that she had goat’s hair on her ankles. This
being questioned by the smitten courtiers, it was
v?r1 ed i!- h ?, t an a i ter sh , ould be spread over a eourt-
yard wh ch Sheba had to cross. When she came to
this puddle the queen lifted her robe; and sure
enough there were the billy’s whiskers on her
ankles. The moral is that we all sail along in high
repute until one day we come to the water, and—
then there s the goat’s hair.
W ill Ogilvie does not take a wildly optimistic view
of things in the Old World. In a letter to his old
friend G W. Seaborn, who, in the days when he
owned the long-defunct Parkes (N.s'.W.) Inde-
pendent, printed a good deal of Ogilvie’s early verse,
he says; “We live in desperate times now; and the
old Empire is in great peril. We may pull through
yet. Not, I think, by the strength of our ‘statesmen,’
but by the sound sense and stability of the middle-
classes. We have a very discontented and rebellious
proletariat and a very careless and pleasure-loving
aristocracy, driving their Rolls-Royces over a road
laid deep with gunpowder—nevertheless they smoke
unconcernedly! But the middle-classes—the despised
grocers and commercial travellers and publicans and
sinners—are not going to let the existing order be
turned upside down. W e are a nation of shopkeepers,
it is true, but we have sense enough to look after
our shops.” As to his literary work, Ogilvie says:
“My new hunting-book, ‘Scattered Scarlet,’ is going
very well, as did ‘Galloping Shoes’ last year (1922).”
“G.R.”: “T.P.” has gone back to Fleet-street once
more. The veteran (he is the Father of the House of
Commons, having represented the Scotland Division
of Lrverpool since ’B5) has had his ups and downs,
but has retained a hold on the affections of a very
large public. He was the editor of the London Sun,
which failed. He started as a junior reporter as
long ago as 1867. After a spell on the Daily Tele-
graph and New York Herald he was elected M.P.
for Galway 43 years ago. He founded the Star,
London’s Liberal evening paper, which still shines
brightly with the aid of David Low. His great suc-
cess came with T.P.’s Weekly, which had a circula-
tion of well over 100,000 and brought him a fortune.
Unhappily he embarked on other enterprises which
were not so successful, and he had to sell the paper,
which thereupon died. Now, in his 76th year, he is
back in harness again. Cassells, who started Cas-
sell’s Weekly, in competition with John o’ London,
were feeling the draught, but with “T.P.” at the
helm the voyage will probably be prosperous. But it
means war to the knife between Newnes and Cassells.
“D.”: An S. M. Herald reader wrote the other
day on the deplorable pass to which the modern
citizen is coming in the matter of his grammar,
and immediately—-as always happens in such cases
■ —-a number of other readers weighed in with blister-
ing exposures of his own grammatical lapses. Then
they all wrote exposing one another, and the original
man, bellowing like an Andalusian bull under the
attentions of the picadors, endeavored to prove that
he alone was right. It may comfort the type of
pedant who regards a reflection on his grammar
as an affront that can only be wiped out in abuse
to know that herein none of us is perfect. Some
years ago London' Westminster Gazette offered a
prize for the best list of common grammatical errors.
The winner conceived the original idea of selecting
his from the works of some of the most esteemed
authors of the day—Kipling, Compton Mackenzie,
Wells, S. P. B. Mais, Synge, Hugh Walpole, etc.
Mais, for example, in the Bookman had treated
“any” as a plural: “His one novel which is at least
as likely to live as any that have been written during
the last 30 years.” And then there were false
genitives; “that” used in a non-defining relative
clause; perfect forms doubled, and that commonest
of slips, the using of “one another” as a dual
reciprocal. Only a pedagogue in constant touch
with his Lindley Murray could be expected to dodge
all the pitfal’s which the language- spreads—and
who would bother to read him?


.
■
:
• . •••'■“ ..*.;
■
WKL,
m ■
a
m
m
■ ;a »■■•
Obtainable Men's
Stores Everywhere
P/IRIS
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on your pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney 526 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
\Juality!
HARDY’S
WINES
T INTAR A
wr
*W<rWß
&SK*
mm?
««>-
«mr-3efc»*vA
'\bur
Home
YOUR Linoleum will last longer and look better
if you polish it occasionally with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. Johnson’s Wax prevents crack-
ing and blistering—brings out the pattern and color —
protects linoleum from wear and makes cleaning easy
JOHNSON’S
Pas/e -Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
You can give every room in your home that delightful
air of immaculate cleanliness by using Johnson’s
Polishing Wax occasionally on your furniture, wood-
work, floors and linoleum. Johnson’s Wax cleans,
polishes, preserves and protects —all in one operation.
A FORM FOR EVERY USE.
Johnson’s Wax is conveniently put up in three forms
—Paste, Liquid and Powdered. Use Paste Wax for
polishing floors of all kinds —wood, tile, marble,
composition, linoleum, etc. Use Johnson’s Liquid
Wax for polishing your furniture, piano, woodwork,
linoleum, leather goods and automobile. Johnson’s
Powdered Wax makes perfect dancing floors.
miiiiiiti 1111 j ■
SH
WOmt
i H
®f
inu
5 - c .JOHNSONI«
Mm
INSIST ON JOHNSON’S POLISHING WAX— THERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE. FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.W.


primary Producers' llaak of Australia Jiib.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE MEN ON THE LAND.
Subscribed Capital over . . £1,370,009
The main object of the Bank is to render Banking Service to the Man on the Land. The keynote of the Bank’s Service lies in its sympathetic
consideration of its customers’ needs when financial stringency and droughts arise.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 11 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS: PROFESSOR IRVINE, W. T. JOHNSON, I. W. KERR, H. M. CARTER. J. FISHER.
Branches are now operating in the following towns:
QUEENSLAND:
Brisbane, Gympie, Killarney, Toogoolawah, Warwick; with
sub-branches at Allora, Yangan, Dirranbandi; agencies at
Wallangarra, Glen Alpin, Ballandean, Pratten, Tiaro.
No charge for keeping accounts.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney, Lismore, Young; with sub-branches at Wallendbeen;
agencies at Wombat and Alstonville.
VICTORIA:
Melbourne, Doncaster, Horsham, Harcourt, Quambatook;
with agency at Lalbert.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Adelaide, Tumby Bay, Balaklava; with agency at Owen.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Northam; with agencies at Gomalling and York.
TASMANIA: Wynyard.
Interest allowedl on current accounts. All interest payable quarterly on current accounts, on fixed deposits and on thrift department accounts.
In the THRIFT DEPARTMENT deposits from 1/- up are accepted, and interest at current rates is allowed on minimum Monthly balances.
F. W. STRACK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Eng.), General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow"’
Criterion “Mr. Pim Passes By"’
Royal “Kissing Time”
Grand Opera House “Rockets”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MEI,BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty's “Aladdin”
Royal “Sally”
King's “My Lady’s Dress”
Princess's “Little Nellie Kelly’"-
Palace “Mother Goose”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hott's Moving Picture*
Oscar Asche and his jovial fellow-buc-
caneers will quit brandishing cutlasses and
digging up doubloons and yo-lio-hoing over
ruin at Sydney Royal after to-morrow night.
In piquant contrast to such boisterous
doings, dainty Madge Elliott and irresistible
Alfred Frith will take the boards in “Kissing
Time.”
At Sydney Cri. Irene Vanbrugh and Dion
Roucioault will switch off Pinero on Satur-
day night for A. A. Milne’s comedy, “Mr.
Pim Passes By,” with J. M. Barrie’s “The
Twelve Pound Look” for an appetiser.
“Rockets” still fills Sydney Opera House
nightly and keeps the stock of Lorna and
Toots Pounds high in the market.
“The Merry Widow” is getting a warm
welcome at Sydney Majesty’s, and glad
approval in heaped-up measure. Gladys
Moncrieff presents a Sonia whose admirable
singing alone would keep her in remem-
brance, and the Prince Danilo of Andrew
Iligginsori is a heart-breaker of real distinc-
tion. “The Merry Widow” is hereby certi-
fied to have lost none of her charm, and to
have kept her tunefulness unfrayed by the
rolling years.
** * *
Pharus the Gyppo, who professes to be
able to cure aches and pains by what he
terms his “zonery system,” is the most
tedious showman the Sydney Tivoli has
seen for a long time. He guarantees to
prevent hair falling by rubbing the finger-
nails together. But there are worse afflic-
tions than baldness for which, apparently,
there is no cure. Will Evans has returned
to carry on his search for his gamp, and
Estelle Rose still puts Israel on the rack.
As good as Will Quintrell’s orchestra is, it
sounds like a riot in a tinshop when it
strikes up “Say It with Music,” as the cur-
tain rings down on Bert Ralton’s Havana
Band. Maud Courtney and Mr. C. deliver
a further batch of topical songs and breezy
gags, and Claire Solly’s voice is as pleasing
as ever.
** * *
“Penrod and Sam,” at Hoyt’s, Sydney,
should have been screened a week earlier,
before the youngsters went back to school:
it is just the sort of picture for them, full
of healthy nonsense and clean fun. For the
“ROCKETS:’ AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
John Kirby objects to the persistent request
of Wee Georgie Harris.
more sophisticated there is a sassiety triangle,
with peeps into wood-alcohol orgies and the
yearning of an oil millionaire for his wife’s
social secretary. The Lyceum has a Gene
Stratton Porter potboiler, “Michael OTlal-
loran,” to cajole the tears and cash, and for
those who love plenty of fighting and hard
riding there is Dick Turpin’s gallop to
York. Richard is putting the spur into
Black Bess at the Empress, too; and there
Tom Mix graduates from cowpunching to
the management of a hectic jazz palace.
“The Famous Mrs. Fair” is at the Strand.
She goes lecturing in the land of the 18th
Amendment, using the spondulix for re-
construction work in France; but her in-
corrigible family gets into nearly as big a
mess as the devastated areas. At the Globe,
which Waddington’s have taken over from
the Union Theatres, the mere male learns
that he can’t fool his wife. But he’ll go on
trying. Notice to quit has not yet been
served on “If Winter Comes” at the Crystal
Palace.
sk H: H* He
The hunt for the Archibald Prize:—
In the Sydney Public Gallery there is a show of
portraits entered for the Archibald Prize —the third
show, and the best. This annual award is worth
£4OO and the conditions represent one of Archibald’s
generous impetuosities. He wanted to encourage
portrait-painting; and the best way to do that is
by making it possible for the promising student 1o
continue his studies. Unfortunately this prize is
not for the student —it is for the man at the top of
the profession. In effect it does what Archibald of
all men was least disposed to do—it greases the fat
hog. So far every prize given has been awarded
to that first-class man. Melnnes. In a year or two,
if Longstaff remains in Australia, it will no doubt
go to him —which illustrates how wide it falls
of the purpose that Archibald had in his mind when
he provided the bequest. Apparently he realised
that he hadn’t fixed the thing quite as he wished, and
just before his death he sent for the Director of the
Gallery; but he was then too ill to be seen on
business, and the bequest stands —and must go on
standing unless- Parliament alters it. And Parlia-
ment will not do that without being quite sure that
the benefactor’s intentions are not being fulfilled.
Among the half-hundred pictures on show, the
one to which most sentimental interest attaches is
a portrait of the founder of the prize done by his
old colleague and partner William Macleod —-a
portrait painted from memory, and picturing the
subject as he was in his most brilliant day, say
25 years ago: half a dozen years or so before he
handed over the chair of Tub Bulletin to James
Edmond. It is a capital likeness of the Archibald
of that period, and is to be passed on to the Press
Club in Sydney. Mclnnes has four exhibits. He
wins with his “Portrait of a Lady,” though quite
as many will prefer his full-length Professor Mas-
son. But, as in the others, the hands here are
clumsy. A third very good entry is his portrait
of James Dyer. Norman Carter’s Leon Gellert is the
most ambitious of this Sydney man’s panel. It is
less formal than his Peter Board, in which there
is excellent work. Alongside are Bernard Hall’s
two entries, both vigorous yet restrained, and rank-
ing high in the collection. Another Melbourne exhibit
which has fine painting in it is Wheeler’s self-por-
trait. Self-portraits are popular. Muir Auld, of
Sydney, has one which carries a suggestion of what
he might do if he set himself seriously to his job ;
and Trindall includes another in his not conspicuous
bracket. Bell, of Melbourne, shows good brushwork.
1 Of the others considerable space is taken by Wolinski,
who has gone to Sydney Town Hall for four sub-
jects ; but they are disappointing—Wolinski ought
to be doing better work than this. Lawson Bal-
four and Florence Rodway do not add to their repu-
tations, though their work helps to maintain the
high average of achievement in this show; and, in
addition to the Archibald portrait above mentioned,
William Macleod has a portrait of Leason which
is so good a likeness that it could not be better.
* * *
Emelie Polini is again dreaming of herself
in several poses of assorted suffering in
“My Lady’s Dress” at Melbourne King's.
Whether as the all-night weaver, the pewer
manufacturer ot artificial flowers or the
homicidal dress-model with the noble con-
cern for muvver, Emelie is a prey to those
maudlin sentiments that are leaving the
stage these days and finding a home in the
movies. Pathos takes Bathos by the hand
in the episode of hump-backed Annie selling
her Niagara , of golden hair to finance her
frowsy sister’s wedding, and all the gruesome
sympathy aroused by Bill Anderson and
Marlow of yore rises again to choke the
utterance when the dejected Dago cheap-
jack allows his rival’s silk-worms to perish
of pneumonia. Anna’s coarse amour with a
grimy moujik is remarkable for the fact that
the partner in her passion presents a face
that would frighten a Morgue orderly to
death. John Fernside, who dramatises this
awful object, becomes the comparatively
presentable silk inspector who invades the
Lyons home where Raymond Lawrence is
a t.b. subject coughing between his lines of
dialogue. Frank Harvey continues to be
employed in a breathless dash from one
character to another, struggling gamely to
don a fresh nationality with every change of
raiment, and generally achieving a Protean
success in which his voice doesn’t always
participate. He is at his best when he re-
captures the spirit of the unpleasant man-
milliner in the last act. Katie Towers is
plumper and less acidulated than Eily
Malyon in the part of Moeder Ivaatje, and
also has a few moments as Mrs. Moss, the
hungry neighbor in the Whitechapel garret.
Kay Souper chortles Sir Charles’s unseemly
weakness for fillies, but his Mynheer Corne-
lius has evidently deviated into the
King’s after starting out for the wax-
works. As for Phyllis Best, the flaxen
French maid, she seems an enlarged edition
ot Little Bright Eyes speaking a piece at a
birthday party.
$
“Aladdin” is a fixture at Melb. Majesty’s.
It is perhaps to the credit of the J.C.W.
panto, that the appearance of three acrobats,
together with a kitchen-table and a strip of
carpet, looks rather like an intrusion. There
is humor in the Dame and Abanazar, and
a flood of infectious gaiety in Gus Bluett,
but there’s nothing truly funny or infec-
tious in the interpolated vaudeville turn.
The spirit of Ada Reeve is ever up to proof
“ALADDIN” AT MELBOURNE HER
MAJESTY’S.
The Nitos, comedy acrobats, and Hector
St. Clair as “Wishee Washee.”
standard. All the same, mercurial Ada’s
lapses into Cockney accent sound out of
keeping with her Arabian Nights character.
She even drops aitehes in the streets of old
Pekin, which is unpardonably careless of her.
The long predicted change of opera at Mel-
bourne Playhouse is to arrive on Saturday.
The Barber of Seville,” with a new Aus-
tralian prima-donna, will oust “Hansel and
Gretel.”
* * *
“Little Nellie Kelly,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess s, continues to be a prosperous reminder
that the name part libels Mamie Watson.
Nobody thinks of Mamie as “little,” hers
being the full regulation height for an angel,
*?.%>. sft. 7in. Hazel Harris, the other tall
lady of the co., was still without her danc-
ing partner last time this page called to
see about it, but Wesley Pierce was re-
ported to be mending fast. Ena Dale has
returned to business, and the others appear
to be doing as before. Mel Ward, who
lends active assistance as a dancing detec-
tive, does considerably better than before, in
a part where pose and gesture can be
elaborated until further orders.
At Melbourne Palace the Christmas med-
ley that masquerades as “Mother Goose”
continues, to revel in six matinees a week,
but evening services show a falling off in
the. d.c. There has been a rumor of mana-
gerial disposition to transfer the panto to
the Princess’s, and move “Nellie Kelly” to
the Palace; but why this game of “put and
take” should be,. projected rumor does not
explain, though in any case the furniture
vans would not have far to go. A lot of
fittings could, in fact, be exchanged over the
back fence- —if theatres have back fences.
•i* sj{ !}{
“Sally” goes on at Melbourne Royal with
differences in the cast. George Lane has
finally discontinued to be the Russian royal-
blooded waiter, and Dan Agar is breaking
plates in Lane’s stead. The difference be-
tween the previous and present waiters is
not great. Agar, in fact, closely resembles
Lane as regards utter lack of grand-ducal
suggestion. There is nothing " about his
accent or his manner of washing-up to
which the rudest Bolshevik could take excep-
tion. The other change is a resurrection
of Hilton Osbourne as the susceptible young
man who aids and abets Sally in her ballad
about Silver Linings. Herbert Browne
played the gentle hero for many weeks, but
Osbourne is now back on the easy job, with
much the same melodious plum in his speech
that distinguished him aforetime. Josie
Melville, Gee, Gracie Lavers and Gaston
Mervale remain where they were when the
century and Sarah were both younger.
* * -f
“Chastity” is bewitching the populace at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. Katherine
McDonald gives the virtue a vogue, as if it
were a new vice for the entertainment of
society. The heart throbs of newly-weds,
taking the t.p. road to happiness, provide
the comic relief, “Modern Matrimony.” The
Majestic’s leading film, “Sure Fire Flint,”
is no tax on the intellect, but the bump of
credulity receives a heavy blow, and the eye
is dazed by the garments of the principal
lady. A drama of a convict revolt entitled
Three Sevens is screened at the same
house, and “A Front Page Story” is the
latest cure for insomnia at the Britannia
The Melba has “Jazzmania” and Mae Mur-
ray’s gift for clothes to make the ticket-
sellers regret that they more hands.
A notable and significant happening at
the Paramount Picture Theatre in Mel-
bourne is the engagement of Stella Power
who is warbling under the title of “The
Little Melba.” But Stella Power is not
little. She’s great.
Normal summer has come back to Adel-
aide after the storms, and the North-terrace
out-door shows at Exhibition Gardens and
Austral Gardens are reaping the benefit,
Nellie Bramley has revived at the Royal the
old unlucky Wilson Barrett drama, “Lucky
Durham,” which gives Guy Hastings a big
chance in the lead. George Storey’s revue
co. keeps things merry at the Majestic, where
a batch of new artists is promised. Pictures
are attractive. Tom Mix is very jolly in
“Soft Boiled,” at the York. Becky Sharp
and the modern producer’s idea of Thackeray
are on the film at West’s, and at Wonder-
graph Thomas Meiglian goes to sea in vari-
ous kinds of craft, and has wild adventures
with Lila Lee. And Plurley is having a
good second innings with his Papuan pictures
at the York.
“Pedagogue”: Are movies educative? Well,
I know a lad who attended one of the Speck’s
State schools for years without being able to
read more than very simple words. Then
he left. A few months later he was again
enrolled. Questioned concerning his motive,
he confessed to a difficulty in reading the
elucidatory notes at the local flicker;.
Within six months he was reading quite well,
“Lond.” : The Old Vic. Theatre has broken
all records by completing—with “Troilusand
Cressida” —the playing on its stage of the
whole dramas in the First Folio Shaks-
peare,' with “Pericles” thrown in for luck,
But bricks were mingled with the bouquets
heaved by most of the London critics. The
management is so conscientious that it gives
the text unexpurgated in every case.
“Second Murderer” : Writing from America
to the S. M. Herald, Kate Rooney-Kirkham
said of the contraltos now raging in Metro-
politan Opera productions:-
Above them all towers Matzenauer, a colossal
figure, opulent in person as in voice. She can
study a new role without any instrument, from the
score... .and is probably the only artist who can do
so.
When an old operatic man of my acquaint-
ance read this he nearly threw a counter-
point. “Great God!” he exclaimed piously.
“Then all the artists of my day must now be
in Heaven ! Excepting me, of course.”
“Pohutu” : Importations are not the only
sufferers from the pirating of acts and gags
(B. 10/l/’24). A friend and I perpetrated
a musical sketch (the libretto was mine),
and carried it to a vaudeville management
for whom I had done a solo turn. The thing
went well, and we were promised an engage-
ment in three weeks. But before half the
Two of Oscar’s
pirates, Gasco (George
Ide) and Ah-wi
(Mason Wood).
“THE SPANISH
MAIN,” AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
period had expired I heard our stuff at a
tenth-rate songandance show on the out-
skirts of the city. It had been cold-bloodedb
pilfered and mangled in the pilfering. I
knew there was no chivalry among vaude-
villains, but ours was supposed to be a
private trial.
“Riverina” : I too remember the old bush
songs mentioned by “Flyman” (B. 13/1.2/’23b
“The Banks of the Riverine” was originally
“The Banks of the Condamine,” “Riverine
being substituted later for the sake of local
color. “The Prodigal Son” was another
ballad which old-timers will remember. Pos-
sibly an importation, and certainly not as
alluring as “The Condamine” or “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” it still had a wide popularity.
Apart from the chorus only two lines linger
in my memory :■ —
I’ll go home to my parents and tell what I’ve done
And ask them to pity the prodigal son.
But the chorus used to shake the rafters :
Oh, never, no, never ! Ho-o-o, never no more!
Ho! I never will play the wild rover no more!


The new 7/6 Model “C”
“Valet” jdutoStrop Set
The well-known Model “B Valet Auto-
Strop Razor has won its premier position
because it is the most economical and efficient
shaving implement ever invented. The Manu-
facturers now announce an additional and
entirely new Model, which embodies all the
practical features in a less expensive finish. It
is known as Model 4 C, and is on sale
throughout Australia at 7/6.
Why waste money on “throw- away razor blades when
you can buy a “ Valet ” Razor which is really a safety
razor and stropping machine combined, complete with
high-grade leather strop and three blades in durable
metal case for 7/6
Of all High Class Dealers.
Managing Agents for Australia :
f 3 HI PS ON & COMPANY, LTD.,
42, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Set No. 10l (Model C.)
Contains self-stropping Model
C "Valet" Auto Strop Razor,
tnree tested "Valet blades
and leather strop of good
quality, the whole in compact
and durable black metal case,
complete as illustrated.
3*^
%
9
Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the AuioStrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, England.
The word “Valet” on
BIG CHIEF OIL ENGINES
AT CONSIDERABLY REDUCED PRICES
For 10 Years the Standard Engine in N.S.W.
Stock now available for distribution throughout Australia.
MSCMTWH
SYDNEY
m
&
fi
m
IMPROVED
BIG CHIEF OIL ENGINES
Are unique, being the only Foolproof Oil Engine ever
offered which will give satisfaction and service. Nothing
to go wrong. Economical, Reliable and few working
parts. Used everywhere.
All Sizes from h.p. to 8 h.p.
Either Stationary or Portable.
EASY TERMS IN N.S.W. OR VICTORIA.
Every Engine is Tested before leaving, our stores. Spare parts m stock.
Ask for printed matter and copies of testimonials.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 75 KING STREET. MELBOURP /E, and 75 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE


LANCON’S BRUYERE
NIGGER-HEAD BRAND
DE LUXE
HIGH-CLASS
CRUSTED BRIAR PIPE
No. 909.
(Ml
a
Bent and
Straight
Shapes.
6/«
Made by the
Famous F.L.C. Makers.
At all Tobacconists, or P.O. Box Sydney
2939; Melbourne 954; Adelaide 155.
m
Iv RUBBBR,
CARPBTHNQ
Is practical!*/ Indestructible,
everlasting,iMs made in IS Color
Plain fr marbled. It has no canvas baekinq
to pat nut, &rS J r '&VOZZT//?lG.
S&P OZ/rCGSt afr
Pjzicjzs IvrTns 7Tok& Tj-ian Linoleum
f»i£ Australasia ?&. ™ „
2/57 Swarxstoo Si: ITfelb™* (3 J
F. W. Williams & Co., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney. ***
Poverty
Point
L.T. PIVER, PARIS
THE FACE POWDER
de Luxe
THE FLAW.
JONES ( looking at wife's portrait) : “Hum!
Er—not bad; but don’t you think that
there is a repose about the mouth that
is unnatural to her?”
“E.F.” : No theatrical manager is a hero
to his ballet.
Actresses and their ages:—
An actress who plays principal parts whilst she is
young, and presents a youthful stage appearance
when it belies her years, is invariably declared by
middle-aged possessors of muzzy memories and illogi-
cal minds to be considerably older than she is.
The late Dick Stewart, sen., once said: “Nellie
is my youngest child. People would make her out
.to have been born 10 years before I met her
mother.” Similarly, Ada Reeve’s spry appearance
as Aladdin in the panto incites the remark that
; she’s “a marvel for her age,” followed by the
explanation that she is “sixty if she’s a day,” or
“well over sixty,” or “getting on for seventy.”
It is the penalty smartness pays for remaining
before the public in young characters. The fact is
Ada was the newly-wedded wife of Bert Gilbert
when she made her Australian debut at Melbourne
Princess’s on October 30, 1897. She and Bert
were not married when the late J. C. Williamson
engaged them in Britain. The voyage to Australia
was practically the honeymoon trip. Anyone sum-
ming her up at “sixty if she's a day,” while pro-
fessing to remember her first appearance in “The
Gay Parisienne,” must have a darned bad memory
for what Ada Reeve looked like in October, 1897.
She was then a sprightly young woman who would
have passed for a girl in her teens.
“Oletyme” : A reference (B. 10/l/’24) to
the passing of Alice Rees prompted_me to
look up a treasured Bulletin of 16/7/1881.
Therein I read :
In Miss Alice Rees’s debut as Josephine, at the
Melbourne Opera House, her friends threw her about
two tons of flowers before she had sung a note.
This sort of thing spoils a young actress almost as
much as the oleomargarine of the Morning Rcm.
In another column was a paragraph about
the man Alice was destined to marry:—
Herr Vogrich, the pianist, is a true artist. His
technique is not much, if at all, inferior to Ketten’s,
and in musical feeling and the power of expressing
it Herr Vogrich may confidently challenge compari-
son. Besides, his hair is longer than Ketten s.
Another item records that “Mr. A. L. Bourci-
cault (brother of Dion), who was lately in
Sydney looking for a newspaper property,
has, we hear, bought the Gympie Miner.”
The Dion referred to was, of course, the
father of Dot Boucicault, now showing in
Sydney. The family has lost an r in its pil-
grimage.
“Santander”: Henry Russell, Melba's
major-domo, is reported to have offered
Evelyn Scotney a contract for the
opera season commencing at Melbourne
in March; but the coy soprano had to
decline, as she is booked for a tour abroad,
with Welsford Smithers in charge of the
piano. When Evelyn was trimming her
voice under Paolo Tosti, Russell heard her
sing. He gave her a place in the Boston
Opera Co., of which he was then the art
director, and there is a story that he was so
delighted with Miss Scotney’s work that he
ordered the treasurer to pay 20 times the
humble salary she had accepted in order to
get further training. It sounds like a press-
agent’s invention, but undoubtedly the Aus-
tralian earned bigger money subsequently.
She was with Caruso in one of his last per-
formances, “Da Juive,” at the New York
Metropolitan • and even a minor member of
a Caruso cast would command a substantial
fee.
“0.K.”: When Irene Vanbrugh was in
S’Africa she went with Ethel Wellesley to
visit Florence Perry, who now lives on a
sugar plantation 40 miles out of Durban.
Australia knew Florence Perry as the
original Geisha in this country. A pretty
little woman with a pretty soprano voice.
She, had a sister Beatrice who came this way
with her. After the comic-opera co. was
through with “The Geisha” a few of the
classics were revived, with Florence Perry
in prima donna parts, and she improved her
reputation ere her return to England. The
little lady was the daintiest of Phyllises in
“lolanthe,” and her Ma Mie Rosette was
a sweet young rustic, William Pauli playing
King Henri, and Dorothy Vane, of all people,
impersonating artless Martha, who had
buried three husbands. Seventeen years ago
Florence married Frank Greig, brother of
Bob Greig and Laurence Harding, and four
children call her mother.
From a London playgoer:—
Bernard Shaw has completed a drama on the
subject of Joan of Are. Shaw says he has ignored
accounts of the trial that pass for history but con-
tain more fiction than fact. He has gone straight to
the original records, and hints at “dramatic revela-
tions.” Sybil Thorndike is to produce the revela-
tions, if any.
Among the new Labor members is Pat Collins,
who runs circus roundabouts, and was born and bred
in the business. On his nomination paper he was
styled a “caterer for popular amusement.” Pat is
the biggest man in his branch of the profession, and
is estimated to be worth £200,000.
Iris Hoey has been out of the London bills for a
long time. She explains that she cannot get a
good enough play, so she is advertising for one.
Iris does not care whether it is tragedy, comedy or
farce, so long as it is well written and has a heroine
part that is “alive and dramatic.” Possibly some
Australian playwright will oblige the lady.'
“From Hoxton to Park-lane” is how the Star
heads an interview with Ben Fuller. Ben says he
began life as a ship’s steward, and went to Australia
in that capacity 30 years ago. The secret of his
success, it seems, is work —whether Ben’s Work or
other people’s is shrouded in doubt.
Westralia has sent a first-class fiddler to London
in the person of Montague Brearley. “His most valu-
able assets,” says the Telegraph,” “are a tone of
great sweetness and tenderness, and a sense of rhythm
which gave unusual lightness and brilliance to the
third movement of Bach’s Concerto in E,” and the
Times agrees in praising his unusually fine tone.
Brearley, a Perth man, studied in Fritzland before
the war, and got out just as the drums were throb-
bing. Enlisting in the A.I.F. he fought till the
Armistice, and returned to Westralia with a major’s
rank and a dainty French bride. Then he hit the
track for Germany again, to let a long-haired maestro
complete the job he had left half-finished nine years
before.
“J.H.” (London) : According to a writer
in one of the Rotliermere Sunday papers the
Gaumont people have made £50,000 out of
“The Sentimental Bloke” film. This is his
story:—
The film, which cost only £9OO to produce, was
made in Australia, by a practically unknown staff,
in the barest simplicity of surroundings. There were
no mammoth armies, no elaborate costumes, nothing
but novelty and sentimentality. The Gaumont co.
saw that it had in it the makings of a huge success,
and bought it. And the total bookings, after it had
made its tour of the world, were not less than
£50,000.
Which shows that British audiences are
not so one-eyed about the superiority of
million-dahlah productions as Yankee per-
doocers continually insist. The sooner Aus-
tralia gets to work on more films like “The
Bloke,” and puts them on the British market,
the better for an industry w 7 hicli, though
apparently without honor in the Common-
wealth. is capable of lining the pockets of
shrewd renters here. From my recollection
CONCLUSIVE PROOF.
“ They've rejected my drawings again.”
“Oh, I’m sure they were quite good enough. Why, they publish
awful rubbish at times.’”
of “The Bloke” when it first came to Cock-
aigne, crisp titles added to the good impres-
sion made by the photo-play. Whoever wrote
them went on the commonsense principle of
letting the picture tell its ow r n story, instead
of disfiguring the narrative with coarse and
long-winded slang.
“Ctesar’s Ghost”: About the nastiest
theatrical criticism I have seen is on a sign
in front of a Sydney pitcher theatre:—
Ip Winter Comes.
A Film from the Book, Not from the Play.
“O. Blin” : Dan Barry had arrived at
Bearup short of two extra gents, for his
grand spectacular production of “Seven
Buckets of Blood.” He asked for reinforce-
ments through the local paper, and to his
hotel came two apparitions who pretended to
have seen better days, though the period must
have been limited. Dan scanned them with
an eye to business, and, as a preliminary
to discussion, asked No. 1 his name. “Spottis-
w’oode,” answered the w'reck. Dan leapt up
beaming with recognition. “You don’t tell
me you are Spottisw'oode ?” he exclaimed.
Then, turning to the other, “Why, you must
be his old friend Footscray!”
“Nella”: A Sydney picture-show 7 limelights
its w r eekly enormity as “a photodrama of
flesh and steel.” It is a most appropriate
label to apply to the average American film.
But the printer shouldn’t mis-spell “steal.”
“Intermingler”: These stage ladies who
suffer accidents to their undergarments (B.
29/11/’23) are very pallid imitations of
thek grandmas. In Sydney cafes of ancient
days such accidents were expected to happen.
An artist who surpassed all her gay sisters
in these carefully rehearsed impromptus was
ohee doing a trapeze turn. At a critical
stage of the manoeuvres the drawing thread
or suspending string or something carried
away, and she slowly descended the rope
clothed in a tortoise-shell haireomb and bath
powder. The diggers—it was in the days of
gold—nearly wrecked the restaurant with
their applause, but the w r ow 7 sers of the period
made the incident the starting-point of a
campaign to shut up the reddest of the cafes.
In which they eventually succeeded.
“Fax”: The tw 7 o leading candidates for the
Tallest Baritone Stakes are appearing in
Alelbourne. William Reid, a young Austra-
lian who shapes admirably as the broom-
maker in “Hansel and Gretel,” stands
6ft. 3£in., and Nevile Townie, an imported
man billed as Emperor in the “Aladdin”
panto, climbs an inch higher than that.
“Second Murderer”: “Whitehall” (B.
10/l/’24) comments on Walter Kirby’s not
having been offered a job with the Melba
grand-opera co. But the concert or oratorio
soloist, however brilliant—and Kirby is that
—does not necessarily make a good grand-
opera artist. A tenor well known on the
Australian concert platform got a job with
Carl Rosa in England, and although trium-
phant in a concert atmosphere, he was a
failure on the stage. The two spheres are
totally different. Similarly, the operatic
singer is often a failure in concert or ora-
torio work. Norman Salmond. the 6ft. 4in.
King Richard in “Ivanhoe” (London), was
one of the finest bassos of his time, and shone
on the London platform, but he wasn’t a bit
successful in a part for which he had all the
physical requirements.
“F.A.” : Despite “Abbot Park's” demurrer
(B. 3/l/’24), I maintain that “The Mes-
siah” was first produced in Sydney in July,
1859. It had previously been attempted in
sections, blit in
the month and
year mentioned it
was done for the
first time. As for
Lavenu, he taught
in Melbourne for
years (Marie Car-
andini was a pupil
in 1854), and was
still in practice
there in 1859, when
he came to Sydney
t o conduct the
University Festi-
val, and the subse-
q u e n t operatic
season at the old
Prince of Wales’s.
Dying during that
season, his place
was taken by
Packer. Had he
been a Sydney resi-
dent, he, and not
Packer or Cordner,
would have shaken
the stick in the
oratorio productions
quoted by “Abbot
Pa r k.” for his
musical tonnage
was much greater.
Packer, by the
way, had the face
to alter the finale
of Verdi’s “Ern-
ani,” to be revived
by Melba’s Italians,
and the critics thought his version an “im-
pi'ovement.” At least, they said so.
“Thersites”: “E.T.” (B. 17/l/’24) is
laboriously sarcastic because I mentioned
that the S.M.H. had excused one of “The
Spanish Alain” mummers, who didn’t know
his bit, by remarking that the play had had
only 10 days’ rehearsal. I haven’t seen “The
Spanish Main,” but said, and say again,
that such an excuse merely aggravates the
offence, more especially in what is claimed
•to be a top-notch show. I now say further
that the imported actor who doesn’t know-
even the words of his part after 10 days of
rehearsal ought to hand over his job to some
capable Australian.
“Fax” heaves a brick:—
Homage paid to mummers and mummerism in ‘.lie
daily press is of small value to theatrical managers;
and a policy of pulling Australia’s leg defeats its
own ends in the long run. Jennie Hartley figured
on (lie top lines here as “a brilliant vaudeville artist,”
but on a recent programme of London Coliseum her
name appears in very small type, while Brooke and
Cahill, two Australian boys from our Tivoli circuit,
loom large on the bill. A year or so ago a lady
from London was said to have been brought here to
play heroine in “The Beggar’s Opera,” but she
didn’t sing the part. An Australian girl got it.
Eighteen months ago Wee Georgie Wood was stated
to be returning in a year’s time under pantomime
engagement. He didn’t arrive. Theatrical “news”
is coming to be regarded as impudently false, or
utterly untrustworthy. Stage-struck readers may
accept poor goods for a while at the managerial
valuation, but sooner or later something is bound
to put them wise to their ow r n foolishness. It
makes them rather mad to find themselves out.
“Herodot”: Re the astounding ignorance
or reckless distortions of Yankee film pro-
ducers. In a picture recently exhibited
in Sydney suburban theatres the plot
is woven around a young Englishman
who is transported to Botany Bay for for-
gery. Shipwrecked on his w r ay, he manages
to escape from custody w-ith a companion,
alters his course to the goldfields, and makes
a fortune; after w’hich he returns tp Eng-
land, marries, becomes an affluent manu-
facturer, and is finally recognised find black-
mailed by his former associate. Afi these
things are supposed to have happened in
the present century; there are references
to the w 7 ar in the concluding scenes, while
aeroplanes flit across the screen. I figured
it out that the hero must have been “sent
out” about 1909, and was on the diggings
in 1910 and 1911!
CRITICISM AND EGGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tliis is a free country, and there is no reason
why anyone should not express his views in the
manner that is natural to him, as long a 3 he
refrains from throwing eggs.” —The Age.
If you want to state your views
You can do so, if you choose,
With long strings of vile abuse,
And vitriol in kegs;
You may make your meaning clear
(For the country’s getting freer)
With a bottle made for beer;
But you must, you must refrain from throwing eggs.
Do not cramp your natural manner—
Ram your points home with a spanner.
Yes, or heave an old banana
At a tiresome speaker’s legs;
If you don’t like someone’s song—
Well, you can't go very wrong
With a well-thrown Chinese “bong.”
But you will not, if you're decent, heave him eggs.
If you think you see a way
To make things as plain as day
With a brick, it’s quite 0.K.,
Or, in summer, bar-room dregs;
And no Parliamentary speaker
Thinks a Klaxon horn or “squeaker”
Makes an argument much weaker —
But he’d be resentful if you sent him eggs.
You may yell and hiss and boo,
Throw most things that are not new—
Indeed, the rule is so far true,
That but one exception begs. ...
This, of course, is quite theoric,
But I fancy that historic
Old events ’way back at Warwick
Is the reason why we must refrain from eggs!
VICTORIA.
J.P.


I /
,n
,> 1
N
i
sy.
il.«
SH(
u
\
to
I
[0
n
WHAT KELVINATOR IS
AND DOES.
'^ed^Appt^'
Dewotwcnt of Household E , «iNEmNG 1
Good Housekeeping Institute
a U3'j
THE COST.
Any average household can afford Kelvinator
efficiency and economy. It is the right of
every housewife and mother in every modern,
well-appointed Australian home. The little
electric motor costs less than sixpence per day
to operate, and without attention gives you
perfect refrigeration. Consider what this
means to your home or business, and act now.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
W. A. Crowle, Ltd., 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.S.W Hoskins & Hoskins, 168-170 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Victoria Due & Le Quesne, 527 Collins St., Melbourne.
S. Acs Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
W. Aus Gilberts, Ltd., 47 King Street, Perth.
Queensland. . Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas, Ltd., 529 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand. .E. G. Foster, G.P.0., Auckland.
q KELVINATOR is the name of. the
ELECTRIC COLD PRODUCER that fits
right into the Ice Chest that you now have
(eight different sizes), eliminating for
evermore the inconvenience and ineffici-
ency of ice.
q It maintains a COLD, DRY, unvarying
atmospheric condition, which preserves
food —milk, butter, meat, fruit, vegetables,
etc., indefinitely.
q It also freezes crystal-clear ICE CUBES
for the table or sick room,
q It requires no attention —works automati-
cally 365 days in the year, and is a model
of cleanliness and sanitation,
q It saves labor—food—annoyance, and
COSTS LESS THAN ICE
q IT IS INDISPENSABLE to homes,
hospitals, cafes, clubs, shops, etc., in large
towns, and it brings hitherto unthought
of comfort and economy to those living in
the country districts.
Over 12,000 in Daily Use.
GET THE FACTS.
Write us for an interesting booklet, or call and see
a demonstration.
Kelvinator
COLDER THAN ICE


The Bulletin
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
Spares
always
available
AGENTS —
Packer Bros. & Begrie,
Mary and Albert Streets,
BRISBANE.
Duncan & Fraser, Lid.,
Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.
Flower, Davies & Johnson,
JfO-i Murray Street,
PERTH.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES
for the Transport of Goods and Passengers.
New 88/4 50-h.p. Engines are now fitted to Q and *W” type chassis
as Standard.
Short wheel-base chassis for six-wheeled attachments for freight and
passenger service.
Write for Catalogues, Prices, etc., to
THORNYCROFT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
18-20 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
And at 80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephones: 6(1313 (2 lines). Telegrams: “Thommotor, Sydney.”
Is your phonograph just
“a means to an end”?
Sit down before it some evening in a critical mood, and ask yourself the
question: “How much does it really mean to me)”
Very many machines are merely interesting mechanical achievements-—interesting for the faint hope of
what might be accomplished some day—for any sort of makeshift music is better than none, in its
opportunities for the listener to call upon his imagination. But when it comes to falling passionately in
love with what they have to give, it can’t be done!
The full glory of music is not its tunefulness, nor its massed harmonies, but its exquisite
richness in qualities almost too subtle to be given a name. If any part of it is left out,
then it is music with the soul gone—and music with the soul gone is just imitation music.
Yes, listen to the instrument in your own home—ask your-
self whether any quality is lacking that was present in the
original? And if the answer is “Yesi” then it is time to
change to the true Re-Creation instrument:-
O&NEW
EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Soui.”
We have a few copies of William R. Leighton’s delightful
essay, “The Music Passion.” May we send or hand you
a copy?
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
N
m
m
m “k
ITS
6 9
'Si
a
I
\\
&


Amusements.
3 '“ S 14 V 'S CII ltl I TIIIiAT II K S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
CRITERION:
MR, PIM PASSES BY.
ROYAL; KISSING TIME.
G KANI> OTKKA HOLS IS, SYDNEY.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty.. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. MATINEES DAILY.
HUGH J. WARD Presents LORNA and TOOTS
POUNDS and CHARLES AUSTIN, together with
complete New' Company, in
ROCKETS.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
J C. U lEI.IA.MSON LTD. .MEI.DOU KNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
ALADDIN.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SALLY.
DKINCESS’S .THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* Proprietors; Fullers' Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. i.td.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY UP RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen's.
IMPS THEATRE. M E I. II O U It N E.
EMELIE POLTNI in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
P AI,A c E THEA T R E. .MELBOURNE
1 Direi tion Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MOTHER GOOSE,
GRAND SPECTACULAR FAIRY PANTOMIME.
Plans at Glen’s.
UOVT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
1 * Also SYDNEY.
OWEN MOORE in
MODERN MATRIMONY.
KATHERINE Me DONALD in
CHASTITY.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
MAIN STREET.
A WARNER PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KS PEA REA >
PRODUCTIONS
TASMANIAN TOUR:
THEATRE ROYAL, HOBART.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V De Batvn.
c 77iq fior/Sct fienczf'^
/orpor/gci .
qi
The favourite of
everyone who has
once used it.
L & C. HARDTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agent:
J. MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. 165, SYDNEY.
Factory Czecho- Slovakia.
KOH-I-NOOR
Public Notice.
| VIVISECTION!
Do you realise that it goes on in Australia
here and now?
HELP TO ABOLISH IT ! 7
Minimum subscription 1/- per annum.
5/- or more secures monthly magazine,
“The Abolitionist.”
Apply for particulars and membership to
Hon. Sec., (Miss) Helena MacDougall,
60 Holmes Road, Moonee Ponds, Victoria.
THE BRITISH UNION FOR
ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,
Melbourne Branch.
• Lena I Notice.
NOTICE To BENEFICIARIES.
TO MICHAEL, AMBROSE MARTIN anil OWEN
MARTIN.
T} URSI ANT to ail order of the Supreme Court of
South Australia made in the matter of the
Estate of Thomas Martin late of Largs Bay in the
State of South Australia Farmer deceased Michael
Ambrose Martin and Owen Martin nephew and half
brother respectively of Thomas Martin late of Largs
Bay in the State of South Australia formerly of
llornsditle in the said State farmer who died at
Largs Bay aforesaid on the 3rd day of October 1921
and being persons benefitia.ly interested under the
Mill of the said Thomas Martin deceased are
required to communicate forthwith with the under-
signed. In default the executors will be authorised
and will proceed to distribute the assets of the said
Thomas Martin deceased having regard onlv to those
claims against his estate of which thev shall ihen
have had notice and the Executors will not b e liable
to the said Michael Ambrose Martin or Owen Martin
for the said assets or any part thereof so distributed.
Dated this 9th dav of January 1924.
BAKER GLYNN McEW'IN & NAPIER,
Solicitors.
Monalto Chambers,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
NOTE: Any person having any information likely
to assist in ascertaining the whereabouts or circum-
stances of the death of the abovenamed Michael
Ambrose Martin or Owen ■ Martin is requested to
communicate with Messrs. Baker Glynn McEwin and
Napier.
IREDERICK At-GUST SINAI late of Bingera
x near Bundaberg in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE THAT an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane No. 47l of 1923 by Augusta
Vilhelm ine Sinai your wife in which she claims a
lissolution of her marriage with you and by a peti-
tion filed in the said Court on the 27 th
day of November 1923 she alleges that in
or about January 1900 and other dates between July
ind October 1900 you assaulted and ill-treated your
said wife by striking her and catching her by the
hair and dragging her and making false charges
of immorality against her and that during the month
of October 1900 she was compelled to leave your
heme in fear of bodily injury and that since the
month of October 1900 you have deserted her without
reasonable cause and lived separate and apart from
her and have deserted her without cause continu-
ously for five years and upwards and that it has been
ordered that service of the Writ and Petition on
you be effected by this advertisement.
If you desire to defend the said action you must
within two months from the publication of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such publication
enter an appearance at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane and in default of
such appearance judgment may be entered against yon.
Dated this 15th dav of Janu«rv 1924.
(L.s.j CHAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
Delaney & King, Solicitors,
21 Victory Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
The Bulletin
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Spinet
Super Quality
CICARETTES
Fine Old Virginia
Cork Tipped Ovals
Of all Stores
and Tobacconists
r
m
Q
H/
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —Four (4) Type No. 5 Con-
uensers, for Marconi Standard 5-
Ivilowatt, Spark Stations for Shore Wireless
Installation. Price, £l5O, f.o.b. Sydney.
Apply— CONDENSERS,
Box 543 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
mO SQUATTERS OR COUNTRY
JL MERCHANTS desirous of purchas-
ing City Homes. We have for sale the fol-
lowing Choice Properties
Port Hacking. —Gent.’s Waterfront Brick
Bungalow, grounds two acres, ideal posi-
tion, electric light, boatshed, sea swimming
baths. Price, £2OOO.
Bexley. —Six miles from Sydney, on the
heights, Ideal Spacious Family Home.
Price, £2500. Eminently suitable for
Doctor, Nurse, or Private Hospital.
Brighton-le-Sands. —Facing the Bay, the
Finest Modern Brick Gent.’s Residence in
the district. Price, £4OOO.
Terms and illustrated leaflets from
JAMES WIT SON & CO..
Tramway Arcade.
Rockdale.
Correspondence invited.
The Bulletin
v.
Stop That
Cough f
Dissolve a Peps in your
mouth when 'he cough is
troubles' me, and the med-
icinal fumes that are
breathed into the inner-
most recesses of the lungs
will soothe and hrai the inflamed
membranes end all irritation and
stop the cough
i/6 or 3l - per box.
THEY COME AS A BGON S A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
For the most effective ignition fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
in your engine.
Universally acknowledged the finest plugs ever
made. Will greatly assist with: Easy starting-
regular firing running dead slow —great power at
high speed —no overheating.
Illustrated is the Lodge standard
metric plug, model C 3, the best plug
for British and European engines
taking metric thread.
Price •- -5/- eacti.
Ask vour dealer or stores for prices
and particulars of Lodge Plugs for
all engines.
Oarages, accessory dealers,
and stores stocking Lodge plugs
can give the best plug service to
th 'greatest number of motorists.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.
RUGBY,
ENGLAND.
LODGE
#4OOO
ONE SHILLING
The Big Four Thousand Art Union
(Bv permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General of N.S.WO #
In Aid of Children’s, Royal Prince Alfred and Sydney Hospitals—
The Three Biggest Hospitals in Australia.
Ist PRIZE, 23/60-h.p. Vauxhall Motor Car
2nd „ Australian Six Motor Car
3rd ~ Columbia Six Slotor Car
4th „ Emerson Player Piano
sth „ Indian Super Chief Motor
Cycle and Side Car
£l2OO
£650
£475
£260
£l9O
each Valued
3 Prizes,
3
20
100
£lOO
£5O
£25
£lO
£5
To be Drawn as soon as Fully Subscribed.
1/- ONLY TICKETS 1/- ONLY
By Post I /11. Three or more post free.
12 Tickets for 10/- 25 Tickets for 20/-
Help the Hospitals to-day.
Tickets Posted Direct from
J. L. RAITH, Hon. Promoter,
495 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
You might want their help to-morrow.
THE, STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE.
BB
BRIAR
PIPES
EVERY PIPE
FULLY
GUARANTEED.
The Bulletin
'B v
BB
BRIAR
PIPES
ALL THE
LATEST
SHAPES.
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS TOBACCO STORES.
TRADE INQUIRIES INVITED TO BOX 171 G.P.0., SYDNEY.


THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARItY J. WES-
TO N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided bv the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
K<3f\ \
the HARRY Je WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
291 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE,
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
1 his appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a reeling of ease and comfort from the
hrst day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
hrmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
07 Queen Street. Melbourne
Potted Fish Cremes
Packed in hermetically-sealed
FANCY VASES.
ELEVEN VARIETIES.
The fine, delicate flavor of each
variety is unsurpassed—they make
the most delicious sandwiches and are
invaluable for Luncheons, Picnics,
At-Homes and Card Parties.
Lobster*
Anchovy & Salmon.
Bloater.
Salmon & Shrimp.
Anchovy.
Salmon & Tomato.
Salmon.
Crab & Lobster.
Shrimp.
Prawn.
ST. IVEL FISH CREMES
are made only at
YEOVIL—SOMERSET—
ENGLAND.
Obtainable from Principal Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—
hYAIAj, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
ADELAIDE: Arthur Glover.
MELBOURNE: Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
PERTH: E. M. Cullen & Co.
SYDNEY: Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
IT’S ALL IN THE BLADE.
REMINGTON POCKET KNIVES
Made in the most modernly-equipped Pocket Cutlery Plant
is little that the Remington Company does not know about
knife the blade is the thing. 1
in the World. There
blade steel, and in a
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
Bls—Ballet Knife, Pyremite Handle, Two
Blades. Shoe Forms a Crown Seal Bottle
Opener. •'l|in. closed. 7/6; post 6d.
153803—Cattle Knife. Skinner.
Spey, Sheep-foot and Pen Blades.
Stag Handle. 3|in. closed. 12/6;
post, 6d.
154095—Stock Knife, Skinner,
Spey and Punch Blade. Pyremite
Handle. 3|in. closed. 12/6; post,
6d.
B23 —Jack Knife, 2 Blades, Stag
Handle, with Chain. Sfin. closed.
Price, 4/6; post 6d.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST OF
POCKET KNIVES.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
395 George Street, SYDNEY.
“ill. "
►ALWAYS AT YOUR.
w SERVICE '
Watepmian’s
( Idi^l)
FourftmjiPen
Three Types : Regular, Safety and Self-Filling (with
Patent Boxed-in Lever). Of Stationers and Jewellers.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,Kingsway,London, England
I Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarense St., Sydney.
Wentworth Falls Hotel,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Overlooking the finest view on the
Blue Mountains, 3000 feet above sea
level.
Every possible modern convenience,
also Tennis Court and Garages.
Golf Links—Special Cars, 2/- return.
Milk, Eggs, Poultry and Vegetables
from Own Farm.
Tariff, apply Manager.
’Phone: W. Falls 2; Kat. 7.
Twenty-five Pounds
for a Critical Essay.
X N order to encourage a more discriminat-
-L ing attitude towards Australian litera-
ture, we offer twenty-five pounds for the best
Essay dealing critically with those Australian
Works published since 1900.
Further particulars on application to
LOTHIAN BOOK PUBLISHING
COMPANY,
The Rialto, 497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.
FIRE BRIGADES’
HOSPITAL
ART UNION
PRIZES £3OOO PRIZES
Proceeds in aid of the Public Hospitals
of N.S.W. Tickets, 1/- each, can bo
obtained from all Fire Stations and
Hospitals, or from Hon. Secretary.
FIRST PRIZE—WOLSELEY DE
LUXE Motor Car. . 11l 100 value
SECOND PRIZE—SIX-CYLINDER
STUDEBAKER Motor Car—
£47svalue
THIRD PRIZE—JO-h.p.' Twin-
cylinder HARJjEY-DAVIDSON
Motor Cycle and Side Car—
£l9o value
FOURTH PRIZE—BEALE PIANO
and STOOL £l3O value
And 114 other valuable prizes, rang-
ing in value from £lOO down to £3.
BUY A TICKET, 1/- (by post 1/11),
and help the Hospital ART UNION.
Drawn on 27th March, 1924. Buy
four or more tickets, Postage Free,
and result slip will be forwarded to
any address. WINNING NUMBERS
advertised 29th March, 1924.
.T. J. Neville. Hon. Sec.,
Fire Station, Circular Quay, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
TT UGH WALLACE WILSON, who emigrated from
Scotland to Melbourne, Australia, in 1920, son
of the late David Wilson, 85 Cromwell Road, Cross-
hill, Glasgow, is requested to communicate with
McClure, Naismith, Brodie & Co., 77 St. Vincent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
THE present address of WILLIAM JOR-
DAN STEWART, born at Wagga, a
miner at Bendigo and a hotel waiter at Mel
bourne and elsewhere, is desired bv J. W,
McCOMAS, Solicitor, 450 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bool-seller.
RUDYARD KIPLING’S NEW
BOOK.
Land and Sea Tales. For Scouts anil
Guides. By RUDYARD KIPLING,
Commissioner, Boy Scouts. 4s. net.
THOMAS HARDY.
The Famous Tragedy of The Queen
of Cornwall. By THOMAS HARDY.
With two drawings by the author.
Second Impression. 6s. net.
W. B. YEATS.
Plays and Controversies. By W. B.
YEATS. With a portrait. TOs. 6d.
net.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
New Vol.
683. Compromise. By WILFRANC
Hubbard, author of “Shadows on the
Palatine.”
Human Australasia: Studies of So-
ciety and of Education in Austra-
lia and New Zealand. Bv C. F.
Til WING (LL.D., Litt.D.), President
Emeritus of Western Reserve Univer-
sity. 12s. net.
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER:
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
THE PROBLEM OF EUROPE.
INFLATION AND DEFLATION.
AMERICA AND THE PROPOSED ENQUIRY.
GREAT BRITAIN AND THE “IRAQ.”
IRELAND AS IT IS.
THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDI-
TION OF INDIA.
SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE
IMPERIAL 'CONFERENCES.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zea-
land,” “United Kingdom,” “Canada” and
“South Africa.”
To be Obtained from ali
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Nc
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
Yardley: Too far off our beat W.1.H.:
So roughly done we wore out two pairs of boots
tramping through it. ...New Hand: And when it's
all boiled down, there doesn’t seem to be two-
penn orth of difference between you. .. . A.E.li.: Con-
ventional and lacks feeling; but it has distinct
merits Ig. Colum: Must certainly use some of
it:—
Von asked himself
Whats in a name?” ’Twas a poser!
-Y}n Hathaway was cleaning delf
Which he was placing on a shelf
Carefully, in serried rows or
Lines in -neat, poetic maimer,
h en his eye fell on a banner
that floated gaily in a cup
Or plate iand bore a full-blown rose.
Simultaneously his nose
Inhaled the perfume that the bed
Ot roses in his garden shed.
The answer to his question came—
N rose by any other name
Hill give a perfume just the same.”
The thought consoled him; vou and I
who quote it glibly just to show
How little—and how much —we know
Of Shakspeare, but little trouble
■ that his spotless reputation,
* Which he once defined as “bubble,”
Should be swept away like stubbie
Jii a summer conflagration
M hen his niche and name were taken
By the interloper Bacon.
Philip N.: A bad example of the worst sort of verse.
. ...F.P. (Singleton): “Gor Save” is a pretty bad
Bong, but —well, we have seen worse... .M.8.J.: Too
thin and so weak that it fainted on the mat
M.R. (Bendigo) : “War” sounds like a rain of pea-
nuts on a tin cow. .. . Jeetho: McPherson is quite
light to refuse beer to anybody who writes verse
like that. . . .Eldernel: The same dear old yarn....
G.W.8. : All thin enough to be made into summer
frocks for Flossie. .. .Paddy: No story in that....
J..J.A.. Misses insanity by a narrow margin....
B.W. (Wellington) : The long screed is a collection
of bad lines and worse grammar. ... Scout: Not
enough in any of them. But there is promise in
some.... Mombak: The sudden development of the
plot takes away one’s breath:—
In through the window the burglar dropt •
Hearing a noise he suddenly stopt,
For the owner was visiting by stealth
To see no burglar was stealing his wealth
In the burglar’s hand was a pistol loaded:
The owner started, so did
He, and cocking- his gun, and sighting true
He sent a bullet through
The other’s heart. “My God,” said he
“From the Johns I’d better flee ”
And clambering through the window, alack
He fell on his fffioulder, and broke his back.
He cried for God’s mercy, and lav where he fell
And m five minutes his soul was in
And now somebody’s sure to write and quote:
Between the saddle and the ground
He mercy sought and mercy found,
... . Jarndyce: You’ve got ideas, but you tie yourself
into dieadful knots. Be natural. Twice as many
people would write well if they would forget they
were writing. .. .John M.: A horse going out of a
bedroom backwards through a window doesn’t call
for all that solemnity D.P.M.; Fish with a smell
has been accused in that way too often. It is the
usual variant of the dcad-cat romance... .T.W.D.:
Doesn’t say enough well enough A.A.K.: “Mur-
derers’ Hut ’ is made on a well-known recipe....
A.S.L.: Don’t waste so many words getting to the
point. .. .J.H.C.S.: Verse must be a great deal
better than that. .. . W.E.8.: Lacks interest. . . .Ellis
D-: All that mass of description to get in one little
bit of dirt C.H.M.: Rubbish Flicker: “The
Triangle” doesn’t convince.... Beryl L.: “Whitehall”
begins well, but falls away Claude J.: Doesn’t
get past the outer wall. . . .W.H.R.: Short of interest.
....Paddy L.: Not well enough done.... A.C'.T.:
No use to us... .Malunnah: Verse must be verse, not
tortured prose Matt R.: Too crude E.M.M.:
Not up by some distance Ripponlea: Interesting
as a side-liglit on modern domestic economy:—
A woman in our town of the name of Mrs. Meggs,
Nicked off to the fowl-yard to gather up some eggs ;
But as into nooks and crannies did she pry,
She found her source of hen-fruit had run completely
dry.
To buy some more and her egg-supply restore,
She sent her young son to the grocery store.
The shrewd young lad asked the grocer man
To kindly let him pick the egg of the black hen ;
And so he chose with care each and every egg,
Only picking out th’ ones that was big.
•• . . J.H. (Elsternwick) : No use. ... Cassius : It
doesn’t make a yarn. .. .A.G.W.: The dog mystery
isn’t the goods for this barrow. .. .G.M. (Cooma) :
Says the old thing in dull verse. ... J.C'.G.: Un-
grammatical as Hansard and weak as a curate’s
curse.... Mary B.: Misses C.L.C.: You really
can’t rhyme “dawn,” with “born” without dislocat-
ing somebody’s ear.... Frank: Doesn't get to any-
thing. .. .H.8.H.: “Mrs. Corcoran” is not bright
enough. .. .0.H.L.: “Enoch” doesn’t look any better.
. ...R.8.T.: Not much of a market for such things
here. .. .E.L.D.: They don’t get near enough to
join on even to the tail of the procession....
W.A.K.: Very poor yarn. . . .E.F.M.: It doesn’t score,
but it isn’t all bad.... Olive C.: Your naked dream-
ings are not very interesting.... Lone Hand: “Of
\\hat avail to tell in halting lines of non-success?
If it’s a riddle we give it up... .Ross D.: Doesn’t strike
us C.G.H.A.: Not. quite enough there.... Hedera:
What a nasty pussy!... .P.G.G.: Doesn’t move as.
... .Ilitcat: We went to sleep at the fourth page... .
Adam: “Manners” is fairly well done, but it is so
trivial A.C.M.: Too ungracious.... Dismal J.:
Humorous but labored. See if you can’t simplify it.
. ...L.8.5.: Can’t see your story for moss.... Bar
Two: You’ve got it tangled. Comb out your ideas,
and then have another shot at it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Gywn T.: Two figures out of perspective won’t
make a drawing, Miss Fourteen ; but, spite of that,
it shows promise J.R.V.: That’s not your best,
is it?....A.5.: An unimpressive collection of
scratches.... Bren L.: They breed queer mokes out
your way A.E.; A very old ’un L.P.: No
improvement on the last lot; but don’t be dis-
heartened... .H.C.: Not nearly good enough....
Tom L.: The four club-footed (or is it feeted?)
gentlemen go marching home....Jas. C.: All out
of drawing, and'that "adds an extra sniggle to the
humor... .J.C,; Autograph-book standard only.


■
m
iiii
: V; ■
s
n
: K
m
:
I
: SSI
Come away from the enervating heat and the dust;
look up to the cool, refreshing heights of New
Zealand’s Southern Alps.
Come and play, climb, laugh and live with us at
Mount Cook ! Sunshine and cool breezes, air like
champagne, acres of bewitching flowers, scenic
glory utterly beyond comparison—all yours.
Stay with us at the " Hermitage ” —the home of happy house
parties. We’ll give you exquisite food, wines, music, dancing,
to ride, cars, picnics—everything for everybody.
And you’ll be surprised how little it costs! 2400 miles
of glorious sea voyage; 200 miles of rail travel through
the Garden Province of Canterbury ; 280 miles oLluxurious
motoring are embraced in a thrilling three weeks’ holiday
from Sydney to Mount Cook and home again. First-
class throughout, and includes ten days’
residence at the famous "Hermitage” and
The Bulletin
We’ve got an interesting, illustrated
booklet for you. It is FREE and
tells you all about the wonderful Mount
Gook Holiday.
Either write direct to us, or get in
touch with the N. Z. Government
Tourist Bureau, or Thos. Cook 8i Son,
who will also give you all the inform-
ation you want. Come soon!
Mount Cook Motor Co. Ltd.
Dept. S.B.
Head Office : TIMARU, New Zealand
Hupmobile
The opinion of a manufacturer
may be biased, through enthusi-
asm —and so may the opinion of
a single owner; hut the com-
posite opinion of all owners is a
sure guide to the truth. Ask
every Hupmobile owner you
meet what he thinks ahout his
motor car.
Hiqiuokilt
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-71 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
N. S. Wales. „ „
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED. 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, yic.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-20 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
South Australia. „ „ , „ r * . ~
VENTURA MOTORS, LIMITED, 873 a Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Queensland.
DUNCAN. LOANE, West Devonport, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch, New Zealand.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, New Zealand.
R-. 10


The Bulletin
Weight
and
Quality
Tlmt is certainly a factor in the
sale of all classes of stock. But
good work in selling at the
yards, like good feed and goo !
blood, is also a decided influenc..
For top values—
Consign Cattle, Sheep and Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY 11. <£• DICK, LTD.
The “BARRY” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest anti strongest metal
pulley made. Its tubular construetion
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARRY” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and can quote for
your requirements at the most favorable =
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD., I
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets 1
MELBOURNE.. 581-88 Eittle Collins St. I
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street I
HOBART 97 Collins Street |
li' any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Insects are
Unpleasant
Company—
The Bulletin
they are not particular
whether they tease the
cat, torment the baby, or
bite father.
Insects are not fussy about their
habits or their place of abode.
They revel in filth, and, for the
good of mankind, such dissemi-
nators of disease should be
mercilessly destroyed; and the
easiest and surest way is by the
use of
Kruses
Insecticide
The beauty about this remarkable
destructor of noxious insects is
that it is quite harness to poultry
and domestic pets, but with Fleas,
Flies, Ants, Bugs, Cockroaches,
Mosquitoes, Moths, etc., one puff
means sudden death.
One tin of the genuine Kruse’s
Insecticide, intelligently used, will
keep a house free from Insects
for months. It is the most
economical and effective exter-
minator of insect pests obtainable.
Insist on getting the original and
genuine Kruse’s It never fails.
Sole Proprietors:
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
Va
zm.
Isy
re
s
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington ( N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
Useethe Wind
Water uour Stock!
_ X \ '"THERE is great Power in the Wind,
'"THERE is great
and the “ Comet ” Windmill can
use more of this Power for you. The
perfected sails of the “ Comet ” and
the special balancing of the simple
working parts make pumping possible
in light Breezes, before other mills
have started. This means mo:e water
for your stock. Hundreds of “ Comet ”
users throughout Australia testify to the
wonderful pumping capacity of the ‘ Comet.’
Our new Catalogue is very interesting.
May we send you a copy ? ... .
Works 6C Office:
SIDNEY WILLIAMS 8C CO. LTD.
Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Office : 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane and Townsville.
SW 14
COMET
%»WINDMILLSI
X
ET
V
I*B
ea
EDGEWORTH TOBACCO
in 2,4, 8 and 16 o i. Tins, also 1 lb. Glass Jars.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
Weeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
-4
< i
A* l
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “HOUTMAN.
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Messrs. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street. Melbourne;
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Pantagruel”: An Australian, G. East-
away, lias invented a cotton-picking machine
which, it is claimed, will reap an acre of the
fleecy stuff in timin. at a cost of 3d. Per-
formed by hand, this would mean a day's
work for two men at a cost of 355. The
machine is driven by an 8-li.p. engine, weighs
locwt., runs on two wheels and can be guided
amongst the plants. Its upkeep amounts to
2s. an hour, plus wages of two men. But
the initial cost —£1000 —will make the Man
on the Land baulk when the agents get to
work. If it answers there will be a clear
call for co-operation.
“Hobnobster” : Presently we shall be for-
getting that there ever was such a thing as
minted gold. The other day a drover pulled
up at a pub in nor'-west Queensland, called
for "one with a handle,” and tendered a
real yellow quid. "That’s no good,” said
. rs. Public-house —“only real money taken
i ':": cheques, notes and silver.” “Gripes,
->i:ssis,” put in the would-be customer,
"that’s a sovereign.” “I know,” pronounced
the lady, “but they’re out of date now.
Come on, real money or no drink.” It was
only the timely arrival of the local trooper
who certified the coin us legal tender that
enabled the thirsty one to get his pint.
* * * *
“G.11.Y.”: I know of a man whose skull
proved of considerable value long after the
rest of him had provided a hearty meal for a
band of Papuan headhunters. A bird-col-
lector friend of mine left Merauke in his
launch, bound for a Christmas spree at
Thursday Island. Halfway over he met
strong head winds, and was still 120 miles
from Thursday Island when his fuel tank ran
dry. YY itli his sails set he “crabbed” about
the mouth of Torres Strait for two days,
when he had the luck to meet one of the new
pcarlshell diving boats which are fitted with
a small, engine-driven air compressor. Then
the barney for fuel began. The diver had
two cases, but would part with only three
bottles. “Birds” had only £5 in cash aboard,
and he vainly offered this for one case. Tin-
argument was still going strong when sunset
drove them both to anchor under the same
coral reef. After tea the diver rowed over
to the launch again, and the first thing ln-
clapped eyes on was the mummified head of
a long-dead Papuan that “Birds” had bought
for half a stick of tobacco and two empty
salmon tins. Then bargaining was resumed.
But buyer and seller had changed places.
The diver had never before seen a head so
perfectly preserved: he simply had to have
it, at any price. He offered all his avail-
able cash, £lO-odd. But cash had somehow
lost its value out there. They took a long
time to come to terms, but eventually tbe
diver took the head to his lugger and sent
over a case of engine kerosene.
* * * *
From “Two Seas,” who has long been in
the business:—
“0.K.” (B. 3/l/’24), after pricing fruit in shops
and barrows, makes the same old mistake of con-
cluding that the grower is on a good wicket, and
asks: “If it doesn’t pay to grow large oranges at
three for a shilling or small ones at six a shilling,
what do the growers expect to obtain from foreign
markets?” Of course, it is the off-season for oranges,
but let that pass. The answer to “0.K.,” who evi-
dently imagines the grower is solely responsible for
‘the prices quoted, is that if he got a third of the
retail prices for fruit he would be quite satisfied
with the home market.
There is an idea among consumers that fruit
costs very little to produce, and should therefore be
available at a nominal price. As a matter of fact,
it costs more relatively than any other crop grown
here. And it is absolutely the most precarious. In addi-
tion to the common risks of farming, such as drought
and floods, the fruit farmer faces the risk of losing
the whole 0 f his year’s work in a few hours by a
late frost, a hailstorm or a windstorm. In some
districts if he gets one decent crop in two years
it is as much as he expects. In a good season
there i* always a glut of fruit, and most of it
wouldn't pay for the labor of picking, apart from
the cost of packing and transport. About the only
time the grower is offered a fair price for fruit is
when a late frost has destroyed it.
“0.K.” suggests that fruitgrowing “deserves no
Government encouragement whatever as long as the
town consumer is charged such prices as prevail at
present.” If “0.K.” knew anything about the condi-
tions. of the industry, he would be aware that the
grower exercises no control whatever in the sale
of his perishable fruit. He has to take- what the
retailer considers -is the lowest price the agent
for the grower will accept, and the grower is
often thankful if he hasn’t to pay to have his stuff
sent out to the rubbish-tip. Even when he gets
what is considered a fair price at the fruit markets
it should be remembered that, after paying for
cultivating, pruning, fertilising his trees —with many
spring and winter sprayings—he has still to pay
marketing expenses (freight, cartage, , commission,
postage, etc.), which average 25 per cent, of his
gross. He isn’t the profiteer that “0.K.” imagines.
Even the retailer doesn’t deserve all the abuse
that the indignant consumer heaps upon him. He
can’t keep fruit on his shelves when it is “gone”
like the righteous grocer keeps tinned meat. A cold
snap or a spell of wet or “muggy” weather will send a
lot of the Dago’s stock to the rubbish-tip, and the
200 per cent, he adds to his cost price is designed
to cover that risk. Even the Bd. and 9d. per lb. for early
cherries is very reasonable, and “0.K.” would think
so if he had to dodge around the trees to find them.
A few years back they cost only Id. per kerosene-tin
(well bumped down) to pick, and it took a smart
man to earn 4s. per day of 12 hours. But awards
have changed all that. Like dairymen, fruitgrowers
require large families they can work to the limit,
to make the occupation pay on a small scale. 1
have seen more than one cherry crop left to the
birds because the price wouldn’t allow of the employ-
ment of outside labor to market them.
Nevertheless, I agree with “0.K.” that .no assist-
ance should be given to the fruit industry. Let every
disgruntled consumer grow his own fruit. But the
returned soldiers who are nursing young orchards
into bearing have my sympathy. The main trouble
in the industry is over-production, and it is going
to be a lot worse, particularly for soft fruits, which
have to be sold at any price or sent to the tip.
Over-production was, even before the war, an anxious
topic among soft-fruit growers, and there was no lack
of sellers' when the war ended. Some of our big
orchards, p-ere gladly passed over tq the Repat. to
be cut tin for returned soldiers. The political idiots
who enticed them in against the advice of old growers
who had grubbed their fruit-trees • out, ought to be
forced to jive upon the profits of one of the soldiers’
orchards.


&
—-
■
x
m
«
■ ■
yiU Cake. fS&iiC
leAind
HILLIEPS
CHOCOLATES
ii the Aeiucn. f<fi t&eih (jjucditu
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes and
Mailed to You the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
OuuStHiMicA
EQ SCu^ekxo «,
162-166 PITT Stree*
6 Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
Sc
He never
wore boots
Known as the The Father
of "THE G%E TS,”
Genaral Sir Thomas Dalziel
was the frit commanding
ofreer in 1681. c An
extraordinary - looking man
of whom it is said, he
never wore boots. cA
tough soldier, and a sterling
character.
' | ’HERE is a distinct ‘personality 5 about
" GREYS 55 Cigarettes that you will like
• . . . a subtle distinction in their flavour,
a delicate smoothness pleasing to the palate
and kindly to the throat.
grlys
SjJk Cut Virginia
GREYS, 20 for 1/6
Extra Large Size 20 for 2/-
Manufaetured by MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LONDON
Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Limited
L
Sim
cut
NRofflU
This reduced reproduction shows
the famous pale green packet of
20 "GREYS"
“His
Master’s
Voice”
GRAMOPHONE
is the instrument
for your home.
This wonderful instrument will entertain and give you
and your family pleasure for many years. Its exquisite
1 one brings out every feature of the original perform-
ances of the world’s best artists—every word and every
note comes out “as clear as a bell.”
Why not buy one to-day and make this year and many
more to follow full of musical happiness—“ His Master's
Voice” Gramophone will add to your appreciation
for music.
Let Paling’s endorsement be your guide to complete
satisfaction.
Prices from 11 guineas to £94,
Call or write for full Catalogue and Price List, or for
latest Record Lists. You will find them very interesting.
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS.
(M
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore
and Rockhampton.
S'SZ
Mo
UJ
X
h
L,.
m
h
O
O
>
D
(t
t*
x
C^D
y
■HITT
2
tJZ
mil
PALING’S EASY TERMS
make the purchase so easy that you may order His Masters
Voice” Gramophone at once. While you pay off in small
monthly amounts you reap a bounteous harvest of musical
happiness which this world-famous instrument always provides.
Send for particulars to-day.


It's a Cert!
Do you awake in the
morning full of life
and energy ? Work
all day with vigor and
enthusiasm ? If you
do it’s a cert you take
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They bring health
and happiness, vim
and vigor to all.
Every Tablet a Live one—Brim
Full of Health and Happiness.
Easy to take. Pleasant in effect.
The Bulletin
D.O.M.
Yes
Sir!
KNOT
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS and CARAFES
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
IGY-IIOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. fLook for name ICY-
HOT ion bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Secand St., Cincinnati, 0., 0 S.A.
Icy-Hot Food Jar
High-Grade Guns Sent on Trial.
PRE-WAR PRICES. Avoid retailers’ huge profits. Send direct to importer.
We have just landed a shipment of Guns made by one of the largest gun-
makers in the world to our own specification, as follows: Nitro-proof steel barrels,
bored for either 2iin. or 2fin. cartridges. The right barrel is modified, the left
fully choked. 12-bore. It has solid bar steel rebounding locks, fittted with Greener
crossbolt. Anson and Deeley’s patent push fore-end, hammers below the line of
sight, box spring triggers, matted rib, beautifully figured walnut stock, half-pistol
grip, weight from 7to 71 pounds, according to your choice. This gun is equal to
any sold in Melbourne at £lO. and we feel sure it will thoroughly satisfy you. It
is sold under the “Mercury” brand. These are beautifully finished guns and great
killers. If you are not satisfied after fortnight’s trial, return gun. We will return
your money'. Out of last shipment 1100 guns) only two returned. We are sole
distributing agents for the famous Ithaca hammerless guns—used by the, leading
trap-shots of the world. Special catalogue forwarded. Reference, Bank of Victoria,
Collins Street. Melbourne. Parcels post anywhere. 4/6; two guns sent post free.
Send cheque or money order; if notes, please register letter. JOHN TAYLOR
& CO. Importers, 531 Collins Street, Melbourne; and 406 Queen Street,
Brisbane. Specially licensed by the Victorian Government.
Back from fhe Laundry
-and Everything Right
The Bulletin
When you have all
Linen Marked
with the Noted Reliable
CASH'S <@> NAMES
They are a great convenience, because
your Name (woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color) is always ready to
attach to any Garment of any material.
They are invaluable to the Housewife,
Traveller and School Outfits.
.i|nn]iiMnmMnnnninniininnnillUHllHimmHHHllHmi
I I
Actual Size, Name Style No. G
SOLO BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices: 12 doz. 716, 6 doz. 51-, 3 doz. 316
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH [To
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne.
I
£4016
BUT IN <IXO PRIZES
ENLIST NOW! in our Limbless and Maimed Soldiers’
44 Great Austral.” AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST ART UNION
COMMITTEE: —Sir Joseph Carruthers, K.C.M.G.; Sir Hugh Denison, C.8.E.; Sir
Owen Cox, Sir Alexander MacCormick, Sir Arthur Rickard, His Honor Judge
Backhouse, Mr. J. T. Easterbrook, C.B.E. (and others)
Tickets One Shilling each Direct from secretary,
C. DRYSDALE, BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Postage Free on Two or More Tickets- Agents Everywhere
THE MARK OF /
A GOOD RAZOR
/ THE'I
Aik any man vou know who uses a PLUM—
aik him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
S'
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
mm mery in every
UYEGUAtID TIM
O&lk sen/ms£,
TVER on guard, protecting the
particular housewife against
milt imnnntip? and inferior rnillc
qualities.
Rich in cream and flavour and
nutriment, Lifeguard is indeed a
boon to Australia’s babies.
11 is Safe It is Dependable!
LIFEGUARD
AUSTRALIAN
• MILK *
i
•j**-
n&oo
paton
F. Jackson, the chief of the N.S.W. fire
brigades, was 60 on January 9, and spent it
supervising a strenuous battle. The Chief
has been in the business for 33 years, work-
ing up to his throne from a fourth-class fire-
man’s job—the bottom rung. He is the first
to make that climb in the State.
“Selector” asks a pertinent question:—
Randolph Bedford (B. 27/12/’23) suggests that
it should be compulsory for a candidate seeking
a selection, which is a very small portion of a
huge State, to pass an examination board. Will
he approve of a similar examination for candidates
for the management of the whole State (including
the selections), or would ho still allow them to
attain their positions without any credentials, and
merely by promising anything to everybody from
the heights of a soap-box?
“Uramao”: Following on investigations re-
garding the suitability of Maoriland woods
for paper-pulp purposes, the State Forest
Service, in conjunction with Bryant and May
and Bell and Co., is looking for match-
making timber. Kauri has been used suc-
cessfully, and a test has been given to white
pine, kamalii, red beech and silver beech.
White pine was found to be well adapted for
matches and match-boxes, and red beech also
made fairly good splints, although it shrank
pretty badly.
When H. E. Barff ceases to be Registrar
of Sydney Uni., he will probably be suc-
ceeded by his understudy, W. A. Selle, now
Clerk of Examinations. Selle, who holds an
Arts degree, was formerly Maths. Master at
Fort-street, and used to run the school's
swimming carnivals in the days when Harold
Hardwick, Albert Barry and Les Duff were
small boys splashing towards the cham-
pionship class. “Wazzy,” as Fort-street
used to call him, was also one of the
pioneers of Australian rules football in
Sydney.
“Iford”: T. P. O’Connor has undeniable
claims to the title of “Father of the House
of Commons,” although Agg Gardner was
there before him (B. 10,/l/’24). For “Tay
Pay” has not only sat continuously for the
Scotland division of Liverpool since 'So;
during the five years before that he was
M.P. for Galway. Ergo he has nearly com-
pleted 44 years of Parliamentary service.
What is the Australian record? Henry
Parkes, who was first returned in '54 and
died in ’96, must have had close on 40 years
of membership.
“Cartot”: “Pollio” asserts (B. 10/l/’24)
that “Von Spec detached the Emden from
Pagan (in the Ladrones) to raid Anglo-
Indian commerce.” The Emden was never
in the Ladrones. She was stationed at Kiao
Chow, the German Chinese possession, and
was not under the command of Von Spee.
When war broke out she left port with no
definite purpose in view, according to the
memoirs of her navigating lieutenant; it was
over a month before Von Muller saw and
seized his chance to get into Indian waters
to damage enemy commerce.
The first Leg. Council of N. S. Wales was
established in August, 1824, when Thomas
Brisbane was Governor. The members were
James Bowman, principal surgeon; Francis
Forbes, Chief Justice; Major Frederick
Goulburn, Colonial Sec.; John MacArtliur,
of Camden ; John Oxley, Surveyor-General,
and Willidm Stewart, Commander of the
Forces and Lieut.-Governor. These were re-
appointed on July 17, 1825, with the excep-
tion of Oxley, whose seat was vacated on
May 10, 1825. New appointments were made
in July, '25: Robert Campbell, “of the
Wharf,” Alexander Maeleay, Archdeacon
T. Hobbes Scott and Charles Throsby.
“Saint” : Henare, of the dry King Coun-
try of M.L., had solved the difficulty of get-
ting his adequate supplies of waipero with-
out undue publicity; it was periodically
railed in casks legibly and conscientiously
labelled “Motor Oil A.” But a cog slipped
somewhere, and when a consignment sud-
denly opened up true to label, Henare had
to employ Sherlock Holmes methods. His
investigation led to a settler’s homestead.
The boss was out, Henare was told; he
had taken the car to Ohakune, to be re-
paired after falling over a bank. A great
light dawned on the inquirer’s mild brown
eyes. “Py korry,” he said, “I know why.
That car plooming well shickered!”
“Herodot”: A Melbourne engineer is about
to patent a device to make safe-breaking a
more unhealthy calling than it is at present.
It consists of a small cylinder charged with
“tear” gas at. high pressure. The valve is
attached to mechanism which releases it;
when the safe door is opened by any but
legitimate methods, or during close seasons.
The gas will stupefy the intruder, rendering
him incapable for some hours, although it
does not inflict any permanent injury. A
clockwork device inside the safe —where it
cannot be tampered with —enables the mech-
anism to be set for periods of 12. 24 and 36
hours or longer, at the end of which time the
valve is automatically closed and the safe
may be opened.
“Q.K.” : The cabled story of the Spanish
turkeys which were fed with pearls by a
four-year-old boy, with the result that the
owner of the valuables. Count Romanones,
ordered his servants to buy every turkey on
the market and dissect it to recover its share
of the lost treasure, is practically the plot of
a once-popular English farce called “The
Goose with the Golden Eggs.” A young
married couple received an evil-smelling dead
bird by carrier, and they promptly gave
it away to the dustman or disposed of it in
some such contumelious way. Then came a
letter from wealthy Auntie informing the
young couple that she had sent them a goose
with a £5O note secreted near its gizzard (if
geese have gizzards), and her blessing en-
closed in the note. Whereupon the rejectors
of the goose cursed their luck and sent mes-
sengers abroad in quest of Auntie’s gift.
Odorous items of poultry came from all
sorts of people, and were submitted for iden-
tification. but none of the shocking corpses
seemed the right goose. In fact, many of
them were not geese at all. The farce con-
cluded with another letter from Auntie stat-
ing that she had thought better of her sur-
prise-packet idea, and was enclosing £5O in
the letter instead of entrusting it to the bird.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA . LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Pures till classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Vosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY [50.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND .MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLT.ONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OUARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—-
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHJLP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq. ; \V. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. I.uya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at Loudon, Melbourne, Sydney and 83
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570.265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mark She:,don, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Topman ;
Duncan Carson; H. R. Lysaght, O.B.E.; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiej Inspector jor N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
, London Director: A. Dornis Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary' Shares .. . . . . 2.250,000
Reserve Fund k Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital . . £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 720,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,595,000
875,000
£2,470,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 97 Branches and Agencies in that State.
Loxdon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, Ac.
Caiwdiait-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA .....(13,000 tons disp.) FEli. 7
NIAGARA (18,000 tons tlisp.) MAR. 13
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part o( the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey' across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) FEB. 28
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) MAR. 27
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON k CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
w
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
huiin's, child & co., ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS.
BOOK your passage to LONDON for the
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924, with our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
We offer the following attractive tours: —
(1) TO JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent Steamers “MARELLA” and “MONTORO,”
sailing from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane every month.
7-weeks trip for £9O lst-class return.
(21 SYDNEY TO COLOMBO (Ceylon), £65 lst-class return.
(3) SYDNEY TO HONOLULU, via N.Z. and Fiji.
£B5 lst-class return.
Special round Eastern Tours, calling JAVA, SINGAPORE,
CHINA, JAPAN, MANILA. BORNEO and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
From £129 lst-class return throughout.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
The Bulletin
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£6,000,000
3,900,000
6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq
The Hon. Reginald J, B 1
Charles Binnie, Esq.
.James Burns, Esq.
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. IT. Palmer. Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Tltreadneedle Street. E.C.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP -------- £3,000,000
RESERVE FUND 2,580,000
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,000,000
TOTAL £8,580,000
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E.'IvATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES. M.L.C.;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager; H. H. MASSIE.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK AY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 24 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.YTkTLINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE.—All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS. -
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central 'Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
JJlackbeatli Collieries. Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Established
1849.
The Largest anil Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922 £1,826,921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £60,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


Modern
Machine Tools
The Bulletin
The Key to Higher
Speed and Lower Costs
in every industry.
Finer limits and
Greater Produc-
tion, too, are ad-
vantages we offer
in Modern Machine
Tools of every
description for
every need —by
the world’s best-
known makers.
Investigate our Stocks and Prices
before Placing Your Order.
in Stock for Immediate Delivery—
Lathes, Milling Machines, Drilling, Shaping,
Slotting, Screwing, Grinding and Sawing
Machines. Portable Electric Tools, Exhaust
Fans, Blowers, Forges, Woodworking Machinery,
Laundry Machines. All Engineering Requisites.
Catalogues and all
particulars of any
class of machinery
gladly forwarded
Post Free.
The Bulletin
PARKE S LACY CO.
LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at 119 Scott Street, Newcastle.
F. H. FEARON—REPRESENTATIVE.
Telegrams and Cable Address-“LACY.”
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
The Bulletin
“.4. marvel at the price."
82. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Itiile, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
N eight, about 2*lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26/-
The Bulletin
Simple ana extra strong in cons tv action."
810. Winchester Single-shot ltiile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all, open front sight; weight about 41b. - _ y.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
The Bulletin
81. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim tire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, ISin. long, bored
a art rifled with tne same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 25/"
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
The Bulletin
Remarlrahly accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
832. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
inerless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight about 71b., muzzle
velocity, 2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing
from point blank adjustments of sights: soft-nosed, metal-patched
bullets (70 grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds:
freight paid
£l2/10/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
The Bulletin
“Shoots ivith guaranteed accuracy .”
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
.Model, 10-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short long or long rifle cartridge:.; weight, about si!b. ..
’ Freight paid,
£5/10/
The Bulletin
“A cheap and reliable weapon
84. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight,
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
42/6
The Bulletin
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
828. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle. Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight oilb. q
Freight paid, J
"MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
The Bulletin
818. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/2032-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round B*rrel Freight paid, £8
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
817. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, J/£ /
20in. round barrel, weight about sJlb Freight paid“
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
New Edition Illustrated Shooting Catalogue free on request.
ric
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.


Be a Rexona Girl!
0
o
a
n
nn
n
&
Use Only
Rexona
Soap.
“I always use Rexona Soap,
and I have proved it is the best
for Hie skin and hair. It keeps
the skin in the pink of condition
and the hair soft and silky.”
Miss E. M. DALE,
Quandary, N.S.W.
Rexona Soap Gives Natural
Beauty to Skin and Hair.
That natural beauty- of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be
obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet
soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which
tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such
soaps can only cleanse ; they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing, healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of
which in the treatment of skin
affections is known throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap regularly
once or twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe and
cleanse the pores, lessen the
tendency to pimples, and leave
the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
Rexona Soap
m
■m
y- .
SB*
o\b
mmk
mmsa
(/yVICHEOH
c
3
'/S
■///'
N.. 7 2J\
The Stenographer says:—
“Round about 1 p.m. I’m really famished
.—ready for a really' nourishing lunch to
keep me going until knock-off time.
“It’s then I welcome my Rex Luncheon
Cheese sandwiches — they’re so sustaining,
and far more beneficial than the hurried
pie and cup of tea that was once my regu-
lar mid-day meal.
“I like Rex Luncheon Cheese very much.
Its delightful piquancy gives an added zest
to sandzviches, and being so economical is
a regular favorite in our home.
“Most certainly I recommend it—it is so
dainty and appetizing.”
At all Grocers in hygienic tins .
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
T»PY
KLa
LUNCHEON
CHEESE
Branmgan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRANNIGAN lived at Reservoir, on the
road to Old Boree.
And as fine a man was Brannigan as
ever you’d wish to see;
pot the luck he had was a cruel thing—what-
ever he would be at
'flu* Devil came with a stranglehold, and that
was the end of that:
pis orchard failed and his herd went dry,
and all in a single night
flis hit of a young potato patch turned black
with Irish blight.
put pluck was deep in the soul of him,
though his heart and hands were worn;
■lt'll all come right.” said Brannigan, "the
day my son is born.”
prannigan was a single man, and the thing
he said was queer,
And careful folks would shake their heads,
while the idle ones would sneer;
put Brannigan went his lonely way, and the
set of his head was proud—
The careless jest men made of him they dared
not speak aloud.
They saw him bend to the axe and plough as
he took up his task anew,
\Vith a patient word for the broken haft or
the trace-chain snapped in two.
put whiles he’d turn to the westing sun —
and his lips knew a sober scorn —
,\s if to say "It’ll all come right the day
my son is born.”
Came a time when the rains had gone, and
the cold earth warmed to Spring.
\Vhen the tender green of the sapping trees,
was a fairy’s fashioning;
When the opal dawns were a mystery, and
the evening's golden dim.
And the ranges swam in a purple cloud on
the far horizon’s rim.
That Brannigan. with a horse in lead, rode
wide on the Boree trail,
Ilis fine face wrapt in an ecstasy, like a
knight of the Holy Grail;
And the flying hoofs were an organ voice
from the sunset silence torn :
“He’ll be all right—all right—all right—the
day his son is born.”
Night flung down on the valley side and a
molten moon rose high,
Where the silhouette of the primal hills
showed black against the sky ;
And the pallid face of the sleeping earth,
with a soft effulgence smiled,
And the breeze sang over the silver-grass like
the laughter of a child.
For Braunigan’s bride was home at last—a
slip of a girl, no more—
Who held her face to Brannigan’s coat as
they stood at the open door;
And the moonlight flowed on the loosened
hair that was yellow as ripened corn.
As she sighed, “Dear Heart, it will all come
right the day our son is born.”
Drouth and fire and a pestilence and the
moan of a stricken host.
For never a man on Boree plain but stood at
the whipping-post!
And the seasons gathered a nightmare toll of
a harvest of human crain.
Till the winds unleashed to a devil’s din in
the van of a record rain.
The night the rivers swept their banks, and
the levee burst in foam,
The girl-wife looked on the running flood,
and knew that her time was come;
And she put her hands to her swelling breast
while the darkness seemed to mourn
For the time and tide of the dreadful hour
that Brannigan’s son was born.
Midnight rallied the straining gale to a fierce
and final stroke,
While the iev breath of the rushing flood
spread like a pall of smoke;
The lowlands turned to an ocean bed, and
the highlands clutched the sky,
And Brannigan’s home was rent in twain as
the storm-fiend galloped by.. . .
Men tell the tale in Old Boree of a sunrise
chill and bare.
And a dead child held to the quiet heart of
a girl with corn-ripe hair;
And Brannigan. who lay beside, with calm
ewes towards the morn.
And the peace of God on his tired face, the
day his son was born.
Victoria.
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Tender.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS Pagely, diver and owner of the pearl-
ing lugger Venus Girl, released his
hold of the rail and began the
'lescent to the sea-floor, he glanced up
through the face-glass of his helmet at Oka,
his new Malayan tender, and a sudden, sear-
hig flash of memory made him aware that
ho was about to take the most dangerous
risk of his life. And this despite that in his
foamings of the shell-beds of Torres Strait,
down the Barrier Beef, and
bartering for plantation-hands and copra
tfinong the man-eaters of Western Papua, he
bad had his full share of those physical risks
Which in the out-of-the-way places were part
of the everyday job, and many others which
kere not.
It was that there was an emotional basis
to this particular risk. For among the many
komen, brown-skinned, dark-eyed women,
k'hose slumbrous passions he had awakened
’kto dalliance with him, was a Thursday
Island half-caste, beautiful, with the soft
and lazy beauty of the tropics, married, but
hone the more virtuous on that account, with
Whom he had spent the most delightfully
Passionate hours of his life in the darkness
of the little beach which edged the sea at
the back of the settlement; and the man to
Whom he was about to trust his life on the
sea-floor, this new Malayan tender of his,
Was none other than the half-caste’s hus-
band.
He had never seen him before this trip.
An illness overtaking his regular tender just
on sailing-time, and the Malay offering his
services—with a recital of his abilities, and
an eagerness which even at the time seemed
more than a little strange—Pagely promptly
accepted, wondering the while at his good
fortune in securing such a man ; for the name
of Oka was known all over the Strait as
that of a tender of great experience and
exceptional carefulness, matters of keen and
abiding satisfaction to a diver.
Hut though the name had seemed to Pagely
vaguely familiar in some other and indefinite
connection, the half-caste had made but the
most infrequent mention of her husband,
and it was only now, just as Pagely was
dropping beneath the surface on the first
descent of the trip, that the truth flashed
ui)on him.
Her husband! M'alays were notorious for
the vehemence of their jealousies and for
the cunning and savagery of their revenges.
Did he know? Had he guessed? Was his
presence on the lugger part of a plan to
adroitly devise the semblance of an accident,
whereby he would achieve his revenge with-
out having to answer a charge of murder?
-Vs he dropped down through the translucent
depths, with these questions racing through
his mind, Pagely remembered the eagerness
with which Oka had accepted the tender's
job—an eagerness now distinctly ominous.
And he recalled that on the way out to the
shelling-ground the man had spent most of
his time with the diving apparatus—examin-
ing the air-pump and the arrangements for
greasing it; trying the fastenings of the
helmet’s windows and its grip where it
locked on the metal corselet; bothering him-
self with various other details when there
was no particular need to bother with them
—all of which Pagely at the time accredited
to the exercise of that care for which Oka
was noted, so that he congratulated himself
afresh on securing a tender of such great
conscientiousness. But he saw these things
now in the light of a sinister significance. And
the way the Malay had completed the dressing
of him in the heavy canvas-and-rubber suit
made it all more sinister; the man had
seemed too eager to get the business over,
and in his eagerness had fumbled with the
various fastenings, so that, instead of slip-
ping them deftly into place, he made as many
mistakes as the merest novice. And when
at last it was completed there came into his
half-oblique eyes a look of satisfaction, and
he said quickly, agitatedly: “You no fright.
Tuan. Not fright. Oh, no. I, Oka, the
good tender. Oka.” At the time Pagely
had taken them for words of assurance and
of apology for clumsiness; but now he knew
them for words of mockery. And the man’s
agitation he recognised as due to exaltation
at the proximity of vengeance.
As down he went, with the air hissing into
the helmet, bringing with its slight scent of
a hint of the pulsing of the pump,
Pagely’s thoughts were racing as never they
had raced before. They tore back to the
half-caste and those dark nights on the beach,
and then forward to the man who, in tending
the air-pipe and life-line, held his life in his
hands. A half-dozen plans by which the
Malay could achieve his awful end impressed
themselves upon him in a series of sharp-
edged vignettes; and in the matter of awful
accomplishment each was so much worse
than its predecessor that he felt all power
of ordered thought leaving him and the con-
fusion of hysteria taking its place.
Whereupon, making tremendous effort, he
forced himself to a certain calmness.. There
was only one thing to do —go up at once.
He could plead a sudden sickness as reason
for abandoning the descent, even though Oka
divined the falsity of the excuse and, en-
raged at the failure of his plan, ran amok in
the manner of his kind, and attacked him
as he reached the deck. That encumbered
by his leaded boots and heavy dress he would
be hard put to it to defend himself mattered
little. The thing was to get up. Up! Out
of this position where his life hung on a
thread of rope and a rubber pipe !
He jerked the life-line in the haul-up sig-
nal. There was no responsive increase in the
tightening of the line or of the pipe coiling
up through the water like a long, thin snake.
Instead, both line and pipe came suddenly
slack, and he landed sprawling in the weeds
and slush of the bottom. The tender had
slacked away instead of hauling in.
Pagely set his teeth. The damn Malay
wouldn’t haul him up, eh? Well, there was
another way. The fool might have known
that so long as the air was coming to him
he could come up when he liked. Any
tender knew that. He’d only to shut the
outlet valve of his helmet, and, as the dress
filled with air, he would float up. The
pressure on his body would be increased, of
course; but it wouldn’t be for long.
Eagerly he felt for the valve and turned
it shut; and presently the wrinkles began to
go out of the dress and the growing pressure
of the air was lying in against him like a
cushion of peculiar softness, and he began
to rise.
Pagely knew that, with so much slack of
pipe and line, instead of ascending perpen-
dicularly, the tidal and other movement of
the water would drift him so that he would
reach the surface some distance astern of
the lugger. But that mattered little. The
thing was that he was going up. Up there
he would have a chance. A chance! He
repeated the words aloud; and the sound
of his voice so mingled with the hissing of
the air that he scarcely recognised it as
his own. Up there he’d beat that blasted
Malay! Those of the crew-boys not engaged
with the handles of the air-pump would see
him floundering astern like a weighted bal-
loon and know there was something wrong,
and bear a hand at hauling him in. He
could trust those boys. They were good.
He’d had ’em for years, and they’d soon put
in their spoke if the tender tried cutting the
pipe, or going at him with a knife, or any-
thing. They’d be expecting him, anyway.
They’d know' by the absence of bubbles that
he’d shut his valve and was floating up. And
they’d be wondering why the Malay was
paying out instead of hauling in, and be get-
ting suspicious of him. and watching him,
and be ready to sling him over the side if he
got up to any nonsense. Torres boys hadn’t
any love for Malays, thank God !
He looked down at the slowly receding
greenery of the bottom; then, tilting back
his head, he peered up to where the surface
made a sheet of thin blue light with silver in
it. He was not yet half-way up. It was
a long time since he’d given that signal, he
thought. He’d have to rise quicker than
this—a lot quicker. That slant-eyed fiend
would be thinking tip another scheme.
He decided to signal for more air. With
the greater inflation of his dress his ascent
would be quickened. And he would make
(Continued on next page.)


'EveryPiehir\
f tells a Story
sc
lOin
Is Backache
Crippling You ?
Is that dull, nagging backache making it hard for you
to get around? Are you lame, sore and tortured with
sharp rheumatic pains at every step? It’s time, then, you
gave some attention to your kidneys! Nature, you know,
has a way of warning you when all is not right with the
bodily machinery. A dull, persistent backache is one
of her first signals of kidney weakness. You may have
, . . 1 daily headaches, too, with dizziness and annoying
bladder irregularities. You are depressed and nervous —worn out and miserable. You feel years older
than you are. WTiy let this condition continue? Kidney troubles, if treated early, are usually easily
corrected. Neglected, the way is paved for fatal kidney disease. Don’t take this risk! Begin now
with Doan s Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your
neighbor.
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
Mr. H. Holder, 235 West Street, North Sydney, says:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are indeed a wonderful kidney medicine. I have proved this. For a long' time I suffered
agony from backache and kidney trouble, and only those who have been afflicted in this way
have any idea what I went through. My limbs swelled considerably, the kidney secretions
were thick and cloudy, with a red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back. When I
stooped it was as much as I could do to stand up straight again without assistance; my
back was so stiff and lame. I was treated by a doctor, and tried all sorts of remedies, but
nothing gave me the slightest relief. I was naturally very worried about the serious state of
my health, and when Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under my notice I decided
to try them. It was a grand thing for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured me
completely. I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Pills, and recommend them with every
confidence to other sufferers.”
Six years later Mr. Holder says:—“l have still the same good opinion of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. They cured me of kidney disorder six years ago, and I have had no return
of the complaint since.”
The Bulletin
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
The Bulletin
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
the signal with all his strength, so that the
c^e^ T 'k°ys could not fail to see the jerking
of the line. They would obey, even if the
tei ju 110 heed. He gripped the line
and began hauling in the slack, which with
that of the pipe swayed from him like aim-
less tentacles.
And then lie stopped. There was some-
thing wrong with the air! He sniffed once,
tentatively; then again, with deliberation.
Ihere was no doubt about it! Its smell of
rubber was mingled subtly with another
smell—one faintly acrid, and in a vague way
a little familiar.
He realised it with a shock which for a
moment robbed him of volition andpporerw r er of
connected thought. The Malay was sending
down poisoned air! Some Malay poison he
had fixed into the pump somehow ! That was
why he’d spent so much time with the appa-
ratus—trying it over to see it would work
all right, the cunning swine! And the stuff
was pumping into the dress and filling it;
and if he didn’t look out it’d get into his
lungs and he’d go unconscious; and when
they hauled him up he’d be a goner; and it’d
look like he’d pegged out to too much pres-
sure, or diver’s paralysis, or something.
Wherefore he shut his mouth firmly, held his
breath, wished he could get a hand inside the
helmet to close his nostrils, and, hauling in
the slack of the line, gave a tremendous jerk
—the signal for immediate ascent. Then he
took a hurried half-hitch about his waist, for
almost at once the line tightened respon-
sively in his hands and the bottom began
to recede more rapidly.
Ah, that was better! The crew-boys had
seen the jerk and were taking a hand!
They’d guessed there was something wrong.
Good boys! If only he could keep out the
poisoned air long enough, he’d beat that devil
of a Malay yet!
But it was hard to keep it out. Dam’
hard. The increasing pressure was driving
it into his nose, trying even to force it
through his shut lips. And his lungs were
feeling like—like bits of flat leather, or some-
thing.
He was going up horribly slow. Why
didn’t those crew-boys put some of their
weight on to the line? If he got out of this
alive he’d shake them up. the lazy hounds!
But would he get out of it alive? There were
still three fathoms to go. Too slow alto-
gether !
And liis head was aching now—aching like
the devil; and he'd have to vomit soon ; and
the air was shoving harder and harder and
flattening his hair and pushing his eyeballs
back into his head. If he opened the valve
he'd relieve some of the pressure, but he’d
be heavier to lift then and go up slower, and
he was going up slow enough as it was.
And he’d have to hold his breath just the
same.
He'd have to go up quicker than this.
He couldn’t stand this slow hauling. He’d
jerk the line again, telling them to shake it
up. But how could he? You couldn’t jerk a
line already taut. He was a fool. That’s
what he was—a fool. If he’d had any sense
he would have remembered at the first that
Oka was the half-caste’s husband, and got
somebody else. Nice girl that half-caste.
Damn it, was he moving at all? It was
funny how Oka had found out —must have
spied on them there on the beach. He’d
have to breathe. One little breath. Too
much air outside and none within. He
couldn’t stand it any longer. A fathom to
go now. The sea was looking queer through
the face-glass all at once. Gone kind of
dark. He must be fainting. How long was
it since he’d given that second up-signal?
Holding your breath made the time drag
like hell. He’d have to breathe. But he
mustn t. The air was poisoned. Poisoned !
Oka had rigged the pump somehow. Only a
fathom now. His lungs were aching. The
sea was getting darker... .darker. .. .black
And then he found himself outstretched on
the lugger’s deck, with the helmet removed
and the crew-boys looking concernedly down
at him, and the Malayan tender holding
water to his lips and saying:
"Tuan, it was all my fault. Though on
the way here I tried to find out how the
pump worked, and the helmet fitted, and the
dress, I did things all wrong. When you
have make the first signal for haul-up I
thought it was for slack-away, and it was
the crew-boys who understood the- second
time. And now they have tell me I put the
pump-grease in the wrong place, so that
its smell must have gone down to you with
the air.”
tie paused, and added in the manner and
tone of one who by confession seeks forgive-
ness for a fault:
“I lied to you. Tuan, and for my lie got
a great fright when we hauled you in, for I
thought you_ were dead, and that my mis-
takes had killed you. I was out of a job
and hard up. I said I was Oka, the good
tender, that I might get the job. But never
have 1 tended before, Tuan. I am not Oka
at all.”
JACK McLAREN.
Perjury and Creamed Potatoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
SHE went to the front door in response
to three agitated rings. On the mat
stood a tall man, his shabby hat
pulled down over a lean face and harassed
eyes. On the lapel of his coat was a sol-
dier’s badge.
“Lady, can I sell you a bargain in silk
this morning?” He had not the whining
fluency of the professional hawker: the
words came with difficulty. “Ten yards.
You can have it for 15 bob!”
Fuji! The thing her soul yearned for;
10 whole yards—and for a fourth of its
value! Hadn’t she bought some for her new
undies at three and eleven a yard, and
going back for more three days * after the
Japanese earthquake been asked six and
eleven! “A much better quality, madam,”
the suave young man behind the counter had
assured her. And, most amazingly, with
her deprecating smile and twinkling eyes
she had walked out of the shop while the
silk still gleamed alluringly in his hands.
Her eyes came, back to the man on the
mat. She handed the silk to him with a
determined air.
“You're offering me this at less than half
its value. Why?”
“It’s he hist piece, lady. I want to get
rid of it."
She looked again at the medal, at his
hollow shoulders and worried eyes. Sud-
denly she smiled.
"Where did you get it—Digger?”
lie straightened on the instant, and as
he did so a sound of running feet reached
them. He looked at her and plunged.
"I've got a cobber who’s in with the gang.
I’m broke, and he gave it to me. You can
have it—if you’ll let me hop over the back
fence.”
Decision was one of the characteristics so
oddly at variance with her smile. She drew
back, pointing the way.
“Quick! There!” She thrust a pound-
note into his hand. “That’s your only way.
Up hill and turn to the right. Good luck!”
Hands on top of the fence, he looked down
at her—a queer look, in which faith struggled
dazedly witli cynicism and won. “By
God, you’re a sport!” he said. Then, with
a heave of his shoulders, affording her a
glimpse of bare soles through his worn-out
boots, he was gone.
But the luck with which she had started him
did not hold. That very day, Fate, in sar-
donic mood, brought him face to face with
retribution in the shape of a policeman who
knew him and all about him.
And now Sue and her husband, across
their dinner-table, were discussing the im-
pending court proceedings. Her identifica-
tion of the criminal was necessary to link
her 10 yards of Fuji with a vast haul of
stolen stuff. With her twinkling, deprecat-
ing smile she had just informed her spouse
of the back-fence incident. His face length-
ened.
“You didn’t tell me that before!”
“Well, no.”
“I wish you had. It was a most inadvis-
able thing to do. However, you can make
up for it by getting him the punishment he
deserves.”
Crumbling her bread she smiled in the
way that puzzled him still, after nearly 20
years.
“I was thinking, James,” she said cryp-
tically, “that it’s as well the poor devil will
be up against my wobbly ethics instead of
your rigid code!” and she closed the discus-
sion with her deprecating smile—and a
proffer of his favorite creamed potatoes.
In the sombre mood induced by a cold,
gusty November morning, Sue took her
place among the witnesses for the Crown.
Slowly, from out chaotic sensations that
seethed at this her first contact with crime
and its avengers, a dominant emotion
crystallised. Her sympathy had always been
for the under-dog. Now, with something of
a jolt, she realised herself as frankly upon
the side of the criminal; and straightway
turned upon the jury her deprecating smile.
Slowly, pompously, like some gigantic,
creaking old windmill, the machinery of the
law began its painful grind. She looked
from the Judge to the barristers, and from
them to the big, brutally good-tempered
policeman, talking with a sleek-haired de-
tective who somehow- made her think of a
hungry cormorant, ready to swoop on what-
ever should be churned by that remorse-
lessly revolving wheel! And then she heard
her name called: “Susan Farquhar Allar-
dyee!”
With her eyes twinkling at the applies-
tion of that sonorous name to such an in-
determinate-looking little person as herself
*l Hi stepped into the box and stood mur-
muring mentally, “Sister Susie, sewing
shirts for soldiers.” Next she was swearing
to "tell the truth, the whole truth and no-
thing but the truth,” after which she again
smiled her deprecating smile—to the Judge
this time. As her glance came down from
his Honor’s impassive countenance, just for
a second her eyes met those of the soldier
in the dock.
A relenting ray of sunlight had struggled
in. Quivering with or bringing into sight
the myriad motes that drifted helplessly, it
struck into Sue’s eyes. Perhaps it made
them glow as through a mist,
The man in the dock wondered.
Truth, perjury, justice—the words
chased each other through her mind. What
and where were they? What was she there
for—in the witness-box? And why was this
square-jawed, hungry-eyed man in the dock
—glared at, gloated over, annotated by all
these sleek, or gross, or saturnine, unscarred
dispensers of the law? Her smile dawned
widely, as in answer to the final question of
her examination she turned from scrutinis-
ing the prisoner’s face. Looking into the
eyes of the Crown Prosecutor she gave her
head a shake of reluctant negation,
“No. that is not the man who offered me
the silk.”
As she stepped into the street after the
verdict a man pushed a tiny bunch of pink
carnations into her hand. Attached to them
was a bit of crumpled paper. Only after
reaching the solitude of her railway ear-
riage did Sue straighten out the missive and
read it.
“One dinkum sport like you makes every-
thing worth while,” it ran. “I’m going
straight from now on.” And then, crowded
in as an obvious afterthought, “I was a bat-
tery captain over there.”
At dinner that night James Allardyce
frowned across the pink carnations. “You
women are all alike. Absolutely no sense
of honor—or of the responsibilities that must
be shouldered by the citizens of a civilised
community !” He flicked the evening paper
with self-righteous indignation and a fat
forefinger. “You make me blush at the
sight of my own name—in print—uttering
rank perjury!” He blew his nose on a large
white handkerchief, loudly,
Sue jumped. She always jumped at that
bugle-like habit of his—had never got used
to it in all .their years together. She laid
down knife and fork, her eyes looking very
big and bright, as she spoke with her depre-
eating smile. “Yes, dear. I’m sorry! Won’t
—won't you have some more of these
creamed potatoes? Thev are delicious to-
night!”
M. B. PATON.


m
::
M
ms
8?
-
Wmrn^
EJSfe'-M
’i, :I; w ."■■ • ■
::i fi%
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WAI
BITUMASTIC
ENAMELS
Unequalled as a protection against Rust.
Extraordinary properties of Elasticity and
Tenacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDCE S SINCLAIR. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MARK
TRAD
capital:
COMBINED “CAPITAL” High-Speed
Steel and Iron Woodworking Knives
Last three times as long as ordinary Carbon Steel Knives
with Iron Backs.
We invite inquiries for Planer Knives from 4in. to 24in., on cut x 3jin., 4in.
and 4iin. deep. , , .
CHIPPING IRONS, liin., 2in. and 24in., on cut x 4Jin. and sin. deep.
REBATING KNIVES, from 4in. to liin., on cut x 4in. and sin. deep.
Investigate Combined “CAPITAL” Knives, and know the better service they render.
Ask for our special booklet—“ Balfour’s Hints on Steel” —post free.
The Eagle &. Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfopr & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
RYPNFY a... 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 342-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE ............ John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
" ALSO*AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
NITRO CLUB Wetproof
Shotgun Cartridges
TTARD HITTING—UNIFORM —is the
judgment of the army of sportsmen
using Nitro Club either for game or at
the traps.
No hand loaded cartridge can be expect-
ed to compete with Remington’s
way of loading—precisely and uni-
formly the most modern auto-
matic machinery
The proof of a cartridge
is the shooting!
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
■m
I
KI3
em/
m
m
Wm.
m
W:
1
m
m
liliil
\
m
: ' - - ';
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and IviJlarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Feruies, Eimitep.
The Bulletin
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castiemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries lor ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest-Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd
AGENTS
SYDNEY:
Jj. Stinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
Francis Cliapnmn Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.


/7
/7
/7
*
\
s
&
d
0
Tv
Tv
✓
d
DEWAR’S
PURITY
»
Purity is the safeguard of
health and the rock on
which the reputation of
Dewar’s stands. It is this
domination of purity in all
the stages of preparation
that makes Dewar’s the
Aristocrat of Whiskies,
whose companionship is
ever a source of unceasing
delight and happiness.
