

-
#
life
:.yj
m
■-y
;yzdSi y-
y y
Afmu^t
«+as
'***i
:
yy
■ *****
*»*g
%*«4*
k^m
msoi
m
m
l-v:
mm
:: v '
mm
m
£
2* SvSSf**
. .
;v
#
V
mf.
. :
:•:• •'
■%> ' jfe
r,-
.
'* ' - • • • # -■ ; v .
*smootK tke way
on iroiund day.
Highly finished in polished nickel, the Edi-
son Electric Flat Iron conies to you neatly
packed, ready for use. Its cleanliness
and the ease with which it can be
i
#
CorncrWfeniworth Avenue t GoulburaSt'
• • ■ SYDNEY ■ • •
dsf
Comer Queen, £ Little Collins Si?
• •MELBOURNE- •
Phone : City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O.
Phone : Cen. 2646 Box 538 G.P.O.
AGENTS
BRISBANE- -The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C.A.) comer Edward & Charlotte Sts.
TAS.—Oliver fic Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins Si Co. Ltd., Currie St.
PERTH—Charles Atkins Si Co. (W.A.) Limited
"Mazda” House, 894 Hay Street. '*■'.?
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2316.
Thursday, July 3, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


rnHE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
I 1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
1
p
MANGROVITE
Leather or Raw-hide Belting
has proved its efficiency on hundreds of drives throughout
Australian industries, its sturdy strength and tenacious grip
invariably functioning perfectly even under the most adverse
service conditions.
Our engineers are always at yo'ur service and will give you
the benefit of their advice without any obligation.
MANGROVITE, BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWJ&I, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. and G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and
Hobart.
A School Song Wanted
For the Scotch College, Melbourne.
PRIZES of £l5/15/- and £26/5/-
Particulars from Hon. Sec., Old Scotch
Collegians’ Association,
59 William Street, Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in 'Europe and at < home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Under Strenuous Conditions
of service the 14/40-h.p. Sunbeam has won
unanimous praise. Embodying the latest
achievements in design, this supreme British pro-
duction has proved that the highest value is
derived from intrinsic quality. Considering its
power, comfort, running costs, and outstanding
distinction, the 14/40-h.p. Sunbeam is amongst
the most economical of cars.
For those who wish for a larger and more powerful
car the 20/60-h.p. six-cylinder model makes an
immediate appeal.
Both models fitted with four-wheel brakes.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
Export Dept.: 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
Cable address: “ Sunbeamoco. London." England.
Authorised Dealers:—
WILLIAMS BROS., 255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
%r
\; v\l
LJ
ripi
ii
“There’s no doubt about its
being the best.”
“Absolutely, none whatever.”
Made in
Black, Tan, Light
Tan, Dark Tan,
Nigger Brown, Red
Stain, Patent and
White .
HSITOd xoos
lliiF
dsf
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beine- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
I'.kely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
16 a Tin.
m
m
c»
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
Rupert Brooke and Swinburne
Has anyone noted the interest Rupert
Brooke manifests in Swinburne? Once you
realise it is there, you find evidences of it
cropping up all over the place : so much so,
indeed, that I expect the circumstance must
already have been commented on by some-
body or other. At the same time, it is so
far from being anything like a commonplace
of criticism that I have failed to meet with
it. Hence the present notes, which are
based on the one hand on the data afforded
by the “Collected Poems” accompanied b
Edward Marsh’s admirable “Memoir,” an
on the other on my own acquaintance wit
Swinburne. ‘ l ) Kj , , 3
A letter written by Brooke to a friend, anc
dealing with the intriguing subject of clam
chowder, says:—
I have my joys. To-day 1 ate clam-chowde
That’s' romance, isn't it? I ordered it quite reck
lessly. I didn’t know what it was. I only kne
that anything called clam-chowder must be strain
beyond words:
If you were like clam-chowder
And I were like the spoon,
And the band were playing louder
And a little more in tune,
I’d stir you till I spilled you,
Or kiss you till I killed you,
If you were like clam-chowder
And I were like the spoon.
(But you don’t know Swinburne.) Clam-chowdei
My God! What am I coming to ?
The impromptu song inspired by the dish h
found so bizarre is an exceedingly neat litt!
adaptation, both in form and in matter, o
two separate poems by Swinburne—“A
Match,” with its opening
If love were what the rose is,
And I were like the leaf,
and a stanza from “Before Dawn”:
Ah, one thing worth beginning,
One thread in life worth spinning,
Ah, sweet, one sin worth sinning
With all the whole soul’s will;
To lull you till one stilled you,
To kiss you till one killed you,
To feed you till one filled you,
Sweet lips, if love could fill.
In another letter (to Edward Marsh, fron
Tahiti) at the end of a dissertation 01
ghosts, quite Elizabethan in the circumstan
tiality of its forthright description of natu
ral magic, he suddenly announces, “Tki
morning I’ve been reading ‘The Triumph o
Time’ and ‘Bartholomew’ Fair.’ ” To ai
expression in the former poem, “and leap
spirit to spirit as lovers use” (ldth stanza)
may perhaps be traced the origin of the firs
line, and even, possibly, of the notion for the
theme itself, of the poem beginning
The way that lovers use is this ;
They bow, catch hands, with never a word,
And their lips meet, and they do kiss,
So I have heard.
The quaint touch of pretended personal igno
ranee of his theme so felicitously achiever
in the last line of the stanza (an attitude
equally happily kept up in the remaining two
stanzas, with their respective conclusions, “1
have read as much,” and “So lovers say”)
has an interesting prototype, by the way, in
an ancient ditty by Richard Rolle (14th
century), “Love is a Light Burthen,” which
ends:—•
Love is a light burthen ; Love gladdens young and
old,
Love is withouten pine; as lovers have me told.
Again, compare the following lines from
Swinburne’s “A Leave Taking”:—
And though she saw all Heaven in flower above,
She would not love,
with the sestet of the sonnet “Unfortunate” :
She will not care. She’ll smile to see me come,
So that I think all Heaven in flower to fold me.
She’ll give me all 1 ask, kiss me and hold me,
And open wide upon that holy air
The gates of peace, and take my tiredness home,
Kinder than God. But, heart, she will not care.
Not only is the theme here treated practi-
cally the same as that on which the earlier
poet’s effort is entirely based —a state ot
affairs which by itself might well be
accounted for as being mere coincidence
(since the motif is a common enough one)
—but, what strongly suggests imitation of
some sort, we have in both poems the iden-
tical phrase, “all Heaven in flower,” an ex-
pression I have -not met in any other author
that I can recall.
Turning from the matter of parallel pas-
sages to that of rhythm, is it not rather sig-
nificant that we find Brooke attempting, and
publishing, two “Experiments” in choriam-
bics—a species of foot whose employment in
English verse is of very rare occurrence, but
which is used both frequently and elegantly
by that lover of, and adept in, unusual
rhythms, A. C. Swinburne? Other evidences
of the younger writer’s familiarity with “the
last of the giants” which, if less recordable,
are yet no less certainly felt during any
careful reading of his works, all combine to
lend their weight, in the aggregate scarcely
to be denied, to support the contention of a
certain genuine similarity of outlook arid
technique. Such, for instance, is Brooke’s
marked preference for rhyme, not a single
poem in the two volumes published during
his lifetime being devoid of it; while of two
unrhymed examples given in the appendix
to the “Collected Poems,” a tour-de-force
is in blank-verse (save only for the Fitzgerald
couplet) ; but the other,’ a war-time frag-
ment, after beginning in that metre, drifts
when about half-way through into rhyming
couplets. Such, too, is his indulgence in the
characteristic Swinburnian practice of using
long strings of adjectives, even to the extent
of forming a whole line, or more, of them;
a trait illustrated by such remarkable ex-
amples as “Straggling, irregular, perplexed,
embossed” (“Thoughts on the Shape of the
Human Body”), “A foul, sick, fumbling,
dribbling body and old” (“Jealousy”), “And
you, august, immortal, white, Holy and
strange” (“Dining-Room Tea”), and “Divine,
dear, terrible, familiar” (“Mary and Cab-
riel”). Finally (for the second half of the
problem, that including theme, thought-eon-
tent, general philosophy, etc., though offer-
ing important corroborative data, cannot be
dealt with in the limited scope of these
notes), there is the matter of similarity of
vocabulary—an aspect which merits a whole
article to itself. Suffice it here to say, how-
ever, that even a glance at Rupert Brooke’s
poems reveals the fact that they are liberally
sprinkled throughout with typically Swin-
burnian “beautiful” words of the ’ type of
“infinite,” “ecstasy,” “heart” (in file voca-
tive case), “lithe,” “flame,” immortal,”
“sweet,” “gold” and so on through tlio whole
ornamental list.
With such tangible facts and pertinent
hints before us, I think that—without fruit-
lessly committing ourselves to any dogmatic
assertions of wholesale imitation, which
would be quite unjustified—it may fairly be
claimed that there is ample evidence to show
that the Georgian manifests keen interest in
the work of his Victorian predecessor.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
Anatole France and Margueritte
The question of the viciousness and obscen-
ity of Victor Margueritte’s romance of con-
temporary manners which he calls “La gar-
conne” occupied a much larger share of
public attention in Europe than it would
have done had not Anatole France, perhaps
the most distinguished man of letters in the
world to-day, eloquently championed the im-
peached writer, and plunged into the contro-
versy with all his old energy and fire, put-
ting up a magnificent fight on behalf of a
fellow-novelist whom he thought was bein
treated scurvily by a large section of th
community. He ridiculed the idea that s
celebrated an author as Victor Margueritte
who had 40 books to his credit, had beei
moved by a sudden desire to write obscenity
for mere gain, or had written otherwise than
as an artist depicting manners as he saw
them, no matter how unpalatable the resul
might be to the class of society whose de
pravity was being exposed by a daring pen
There had been other instances in the pas
in which writers had been condemned fo
alleged offences against decency, and in th
end the proscribed authors had been acknow
ledged as bright constellations in the literary
firmament. Baudelaire’s “Les Fleurs di
Mai’’ was a case in point, and so was Flau
bert’s “Madame Bovary.” Might not “La
gargonne” prove to be worthy of being placec
side by side with the masterpieces of Baude
laire and Flaubert? Such was the tenor
of an open letter which Anatole France ad
dressed to the Council of the Order of the
Legion of Honor; but the appeal failed to
stem the tide of hostility against Victor Mar
gueritte, and on January 1 of this year Pre
sident Millerand signed the decree expelling
him from the Order. One result of this
action was to send up the circulation of the
novel by leaps, and my copy bears a two-
inch light-green band intimating that the
sales have reached 350,000, which is pheno-
menal when one considers that it had been
published only within the last few months.
The only other writer I know whose sales
approach this is the Italian Guido Verona,
who is the delight of the “fast set” in his
country. Victor Margueritte accepted his
expulsion with philosophy, and determined
to make no appeal against the verdict; but
he wrote a vigorous defence of his book in
a letter addressed to the Council. In it he
alleged that the real reason of the hostility
towards him went much further back, and
that it was the historian who was being
penalised and not the author of a romance
of society. He had written a book called
“Au Bord du Gouffre,” in which he had
attacked the “heads” who were responsible
for the disasters to the French arms in the
early days of the war; and when, in addi-
tion, he produced a romance painting the
manners of the upper classes in their true
colors, his fate, he said, was sealed.
In what he calls a “postface” to the 150th
thousand, Margueritte declared that he had
greatly understated the case, and that society
was far viler than he had depicted it. His
detractors, and they were very numerous,
charged, on the other hand, that he had be-
smirched his country, and had calumniated
the good name of the women of France.
Certainly a more frightful state of society
than that depicted by the novelist could not
be imagined, and one might well believe that
he was reading the sixth satire of Juvenal
or the verses of Catullus or Martial. Every
vice that was known and practised in ancient
Rome is described with a shocking absence
of restraint. The heroine, Monique Lerbier,
is the leader of a vile band of degenerates,
homosexualists and drug-addicts. And the
novelist would have us believe —and so would
his apologist, Anatole France —that this girl,
whom they aver was virtuous at heart, was
after some years of unbridled licentiousness
able to shake off her evil habits and environ-
ment as easily as a snake sheds its skin, and
triumphantly re-enter decent society as a
married woman. Such a denouement is in-
conceivable. Almost invariably when a girl
has burned her boats like Monique Lerbier,
she is beyond redemption. But Anatole France
thinks differently, and regards Monique’s
adventures as a mere sowing of wild oats
by a bachelor girl. It appears to me to be
taking a much too lenient view of her de-
pravity. Significantly no excuse is offered for
her conduct. She was a clever girl, Avell
brought up, who threw herself into the arms
of the first stranger she met in the street
merely because she saw her fiance at a res-
taurant with another woman. She related
the adventure to her mother, and later flung
it in her fiance’s face. With the capital she
inherited from an aunt, who was killed by an
autobus at this juncture, she opened an art-
furniture shop, and proceeded to “see life"
as a bachelor girl. Incidentally, she con-
sorted with Lesbians, drug-addicts (she her-
self preferred the, silence of opium to the
garrulity of cocaine, and fitted up a “joint”
where she could retire when the fit was on
her) and other degenerates, and had as many
fugitive love affairs as George Sand and
Madame de Stael.
Allowing even that the picture of French
society is true, the conclusion is false. And
because it is socially dangerous as well as
false, “La gargonne” is a bad book. It is
time we made up our minds that the plea
r>f “It is Art” does not justify everything.
The murderer Wainwright's victim no doubt
did have thick ankles; but we probably did
right to hang him. notwithstanding.
I cannot see why publishers escape scot-
free when books of this kind are held up
{Continued on page 8.)


dsf
Pay Less for Your Son’s Clothing Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
HORDERNIA (Junior)
The “Hordemia
Junior” Sac Suit
The Coat is made with a two-
button front, outside breast
pocket, no vent. The vest
has medium opening, four
pockets. The Trousers
possess side and hip pockets,
cuff buttons.
Dark Fancy Tweeds.
PRICE 57/6
Fox’s Rough Serge, Indigo
dye.
PRICE 68/6
Fine Rib Serge, Indigo dye,
PRICES . . 90/-, 98/6
Good looks are the first credentials
Boys’ and Youths’ Clothing must
proffer to a prospective purchaser,
then comes the question: “Will
they wear?’’ Boys’ and Youths*
Clothing, ma d e in Anthony
Boys’ Durable Knickers.
Made from reliable materials, with strong lin-
ings and plain bottoms.
In Dark Fancy All-Wool Tweed.
PRICES 8/6, 9/-, 9/6 each.
In Fox’s Rough Serge. PRICE 10/-
In Fine Rib Serge, Indigo Dye.
PRICES 15/6, 16/6
Boys’ & Youths’ Overcoats
THE BANGOR.
A popular shape for the smaller boy, up to 1 0
years. It has a double-breasted front, half-
belt at back, strap cuffs.
Fancy Tweeds. Sizes oto 2.
PRICES 25/-, 33/6
Fancy Tweeds. Sizes 3to 6.
PRICES 26/6, 30/-, 35/6
THE RAGLAN.
Made with easy slip-on shoulders, vertical or
flap pockets, turn-back or strap cuffs.
Neat, Fancy Tweeds. Sizes 7to 12.
PRICES 45/-, 47/6, 53/6
Neat, Fancy Tweeds. Sizes 13 to 2^.
PRICES 48/6, 50/-, 58/6
Fawn Gabardine, lined wool check. Sizes 7
to 12.
PRICES 57/6, 62/6
Sizes 13 to 2^.
PRICES .
62/6, 67/6, 75/-
sdf
Men’s and Boys’
English Gabardine Raincoats
Men’s English Gabardine Raincoats, in plain
or belted models. (As illustrated at left.)
Obtainable in the newest shades of Fawn and
Mole, lined with either wool check or shot silk.
PRICES (Lined Wool Check),
84/-, 95/-, 105/-
PRICES (Lined Shot Silk), 84/-, 105/-, 115/-
Plain Model, without belt.
PRICES (Lined Wool)
75/-, 80/-, 95/-, 115/-, 126 -
PRICES (Lined Shot Silk)—
84/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-
Youths’ Fawn Gabardine Raincoats, lined
with check material.
PRICES 67/6, 80/-
Horderns’ own workrooms, and
presented in wide variety, immedi-
ately please in both these respects.
And the lower price, made possible
by the elimination of intermediate
profits, will appeal to your sense
of economy.
JjS
XWI
XW3
DXe SCOUT
xw2 jm Xvmsm mm Durham
XWI. “THE DURHAM” SUlT.— ldeal for
School or Best Wear. The Coat has patch pockets
and belted back; Knickers are plain, or have band
and button. To fit boys Bto 1 6 years.
In English and Australian Tweed, dark shades of
Grey and Brown.
PRICES: 34/-, 36/6, 42/-, 45/- to 65/-
In Rough Serge, Indigo Dye.
PRICES 40/-, 42/-, 45/-
In Fine Rib Navy Serge.
PRICES 60/-, 65/-
Band and Button Knickers, 2/6 extra.
XW2.—“THE PARISIAN” SUIT. —For smaller
boys, up to 9 years. Coat has pleated front, half-
belt at back, open at neck. The Knickers are plain.
In Neat Dark Fancy Tweeds.
PRICES 31/6, 33/6, 42/-
In Fine Rib Serge (Indigo Dye).
PRICE 45/-
XW3.—“THE SCOUT” SUIT is very popular with
boys, and it is most serviceable. For boys up to
9 years. Obtainable in Fancy Tweeds, neat Grey
and Brown effects.
PRICES 22/6, 25/-, 35/-
Carriage Paid on Men’s and Boys’ Wear in N.S.W.
and to the nearest port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712
Telephone: City 9440.


ONLY PACKARD CAN BUILD A PACKARD
m
PACKARD EIGHT SEVEN-PASSENGER TOURING CAR
The Intimate Details of
PACKARD CONSTRUCTION
For twenty-four years Packard has main-
tained a reputation which has permeated
every corner of the earth—a reputation
for the best that modern science and skill
can produce. The Packard is superior,
therefore, in many definite ways, and in
the accompanying paragraphs we
have given the intimate details of
Packard Construction, to show how this
superiority is obtained.
Beauty
Recognition of Packard as typifying the ideal of vehi-
cular grace is universal. Here are the things which
make it so.
1. Its long wheelbase (126 to 143 inches).
2. Long, low sweeping lines.
3. Packard exclusive design.
4. HAND PAINTED bodies, as distinguished from
machine painted. Packard hand painting consists of
thirty-three processes.
5. Packard exclusive Town Car Blue and Dust Proof
Grey.
6. Valences, mudguards, etc., are stove enamelled.
7. All bright parts are heavily nickel-plated over
copper.
The outstanding beauty of this car will serve to draw
only exclamations of praise and admiration from your
friends.
Comfort
The riding qualities of Packard we believe to be with-
out parallel.
1. The body rests on an exceptional total spring length
of 15 feet 4 inches.
2. There is an entire absence of vibration.
3. There is no body-sway going round corners.
4. Shock absorbers are fitted as standard equipment.
5. Extra long wheelbase, from 126 ins. to 143 ins.
6. Ample leg room.
7. Deeper cushions than usual.
8. Scientifically CORRECT seat angles.
9. Wide doors (that chuck solidly shut).
10. Weatherproof side curtains.
11. Silence. A marked absence of aggravating squeaks
and rattles.
Flexibility and Acceleration
From a gait of two miles an hour in top, the Packard
will ascend the steepest grade with an ease and grace
that is almost incredible. Here is power of such flexi-
bility and accessibility as to be akin to electricity.
Following are the contributing factors to a result
which has been an outstanding feature in Packard’s
success.
1. Perfect engine balance—with 7 bearing crankshaft
on the Single Six, and 9 bearings on the Straight
Eight.
2. Crankshaft machined ALL OVER.
3. Scientifically correct power-weight ratio.
4. Perfected carburation achieved by the Fueliser—an
exclusive Packard feature.
5. Instantaneous pick-up, vigorous and easy, smooth
and strong.
6. Inability to stall the motor by depressing the accel-
erator. This is achieved by the exclusive carbura-
tion system and Fueliser employed.
Ease of Control
Packard has given an entirely new and
momentous meaning to the term, “ease
of control.”
1. Specifically, Packard has all hut com-
pletely eliminated the use of gear-
shift and clutch.
2. The power weight ratio is such that
the lower gears are seldom necessary.
3. When it does become necessary to
employ them, the clutch action is so
swift (almost impsrceptible) and the
gear change so easy that a novice can
operate this car with confidence.
4. The Packard has been recognised as
an excellent car for ladies to drive.
“Base of control” provides the rea-
son for that recognition.
5. The controls are all conveniently
placed.
6. Steering is as light as a wisp of cig-
arette smoke, and perfectly steady.
7. Brakes are smooth and powerful and
require very little pressure to operate.
8. The turning radius of the car is par-
ticularly small.
9. The vision from the driving seat is
commanding—with relaxed comfort.
Steering
1. The Packard steering gear is an important improve-
ment in its elimination of friction.
2. It also automatically straightens the car out of a
turn, thus greatly reducing guiding effort.
3. Steering is as light as a feather hut perfectly steady
at all speeds.
4. There is an entire absence of hack-lash, because of
the steering knuckle pins hearing on hall races.
5. “Centre pivot steering” is employed on both models.
(This means that if the axis of the king pin were
produced it would meet the centre line of the tyre
where the tyre meets the road). This is the safest
and surest method of steering that can he employed.
Brake Action
The Packard Straight-Eight was the first prominent
American car to carry four-wheel brakes.
All Packard models are now equipped with four-wheel
brakes.
1. An interesting feature of the Packard brake design
is that the four-wheel brakes actually involve no
greater number of parts than the conventional brakes
used on rear wheels only.
2. Then there is perfect compensation between all
wheels:
ACROSS THE CAR—between front wheel brakes and be-
tween rear wheel brakes.
LENGTHWISE—the front and rear wheels are compensated
in such a manner that it is quite impossible to lock the front
wheel brakes.
3. There are two shoes on the front wheels and two
shoes on the rear wheels, and these four are con-
trolled by the foot brake.
4. In addition, the hand brake operates two shoes on
the back wheel, which are additional to the front
brakes.
5. In all, there is a total of six brakes.
Because of the exceptional ability of the Packard in
acceleration, safety demands extraordinary ability in
retardation. Let us demonstrate the rapidity and
smoothness with which the Packard may be brought
from express speed to a standstill, to the complete
elimination of skidding and side sway.
Economy and Durability
Packard determined, in the first instance, to produce
a very fine car free from the haunting thought of costly
maintenance. And now Packard owners are a unit in
the conviction that Packard advantages of fine manu-
facture and fine performance come to them at a cost of
maintenance and operation so low as to be without
parallel.
In Australia Packard produces the following fine result:
Single Six.
Miles.
Miles per gallon of petrol 16 to 20
Miles per gallon of oil . . 500 to 800
Miles on rear tyres . . 8,000 to 10,000
Straight Eight.
Miles.
12 to 14
500 to 800
8,000 to 10,000
Packard workmanship and material are so universally
recognised as being the very finest, that they need no
comment.
Packard engineers have built America’s foremost car
since 1899.
Packard cars are not built to a price, but to a standard.
Packard reputation is your insurance policy on a
quality product.
IRA L. & A. C BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors: 261, 263, 265Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Ring M}s4B for demonstration. Write or call for catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
The Packard Agency,
141 Flinders istreet, Adelaide.
The Universal Motors Pty.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
ASK THE MAN WHO
OWNS ONE


Ohe Graded &mvt ztfer Launched
hif ‘David Jones'
r%
/\ow
. For
DAVID JONES'
SALE
Commences June 30* Ends July26*
SENSATIONAL REDUCTIONS
Less in the £. for cash
in all Departments, (except
on a few proprietary lines).
DAVID JONES*
Opp.G.P.O. Sydney.
to execration as being inimical to decency.
They get all of the “plums” and none of the
punishment. They should be sharers in the
obloquy, since they take good care to boom
such a novel —in the case of “La gargonne”
the author had nothing to do with the two-
inch band that catches my eye. So, too, the
publishers have been sending Verona’s books
all over the world and making much money
out of them; but in this case a recent cable
stated that the Fascisti had selected him
for punishment, regarding him as an obscene
writer. In the “clean up” the publisher
will, however, go unscathed.
L.G.D.
The Other World
It would be unfair to laugh at this remark-
able book (Voices from Another World, by
F. Giirtis: Allen and Unwin), however in-
credible it may seem, for nothing is incred-
ible. It relates the experiences of a band of
German artists, men '.and women, while
operating a machine called the psychograph.
This, a sort of improved and mechanical
planchette, is supposed to put man in touch
with the world of spirits.
Indeed, their experiences, if true, were
most remarkable. Priests, harlots and states-
men, dead these centuries, spoke to them;
humanists, robber barons and even Martin
Luther were haled from their graves at the
touch of artistic fingers operating this dia-
bolical contrivance to break their rest. Poets
burst into song at their will; girls talk about
things that no modest girl talks about; and
all sorts of frank disclosures are made which
emphasise the truth of Huxley’s definition
of spiritualism as adding a new terror to
death. Are we to have no rest even beyond
the grave? Are our most harmless pecca-
dilloes to be rushed ruthlessly into print at
the word of a German artist? Are even our
“dainty knickers” not to remain unmen-
tioned?
But Mr. Giirtis is no credulous spiritual-
ist; he attempts an explanation in scientific
terms. According to him these mediaeval
autobiographies arose from inherited ances-
tral memories affecting the unconscious minds
of the sitting artists. It is probably quite
true, as he thinks, that the so-called
“spirits” of an ordinary spiritualistic sitting
are merely projections from the sitter s un-
conscious mind which are trying to. reach his
consciousness and can only do so in a sym-
bolical form; just as in dreams the “manifest
content” may bear but a remote resem-
blance to the “latent content.” But when
we come to postulate inherited memories we
touch upon quite another pair of shoes.
It is quite true that the inborn qualities of
the unconscious are transmitted —all its
instincts and its power to acquire uncon-
scious impulses by education —otherwise
civilised man would not be the orderly and
kindly creature that he has become. But to
suppose that acquired memories are trans-
mitted would appear to transgress the well-
known dictum of Weismann that acquired
qualities are never transmitted. Of course
in science there are no dogmas, and Weis-
mann’s dictum must not be considered divine
truth. The difficulty, from Mr. Gurtis’s
point of view, is that it has not yet been
proved to be untrue.
And when Mr. Giirtis says that his dis-
coveries appear to indicate a state of Pan-
theism throughout the Universe one can only
say that it is doubtful whether Mr. Giirtis
has fully realised what thoroughgoing Pan-
theism implies. It does not mean what Mr.
Giirtis evidently thinks —a good-natured God
of eternal light surrounded by a fluttering
horde of disembodied spirits which retain
memories of their sins and mistakes in their
earthly life. That is sheer theism and anthro-
pomorphic. Rather if is a somewhat mysti-
cal but often grim philosophy which postu-
lates an infinite God, infinite alike in His
good and evil attributes. If He must be in-
finitely good in that He sent us Jesus and
Plato to teach us, equally He must be
infinitely ! But it leaves no room in the
Universe for an individual immortal soul in
man. It is, of course, possible that when
Spinoza was “intoxicated with the intellec-
tual love of God” he was merely listening to
the still small voice of his own unconscious,
and that what he mistook for the Divine
Attributes were in reality purely human con-
ceptions which to him appeared as necessary
truths. That is the real objection to that
philosophy of Pantheism which has so
strongly impressed modern men of science,
including the vast majority of the medical
profession. The hypothesis of the uncon-
scious, which, beginning with Spinoza, has
forced its way through the philosophies of
Schopenhauer and Nietzsche to modern psy-
chology, has cast a doubt on all past thought,
and is largely swaying our philosophy to-day.
The mystic must take heed, lest in com-
muning with his God he is in reality hearken-
ing to the voice of his own unconscious.
We are living in Time and possibly the
conception of Eternity is entirely mystical.
It is doubtful whether man ean conceive of
such a truth as endless time, unless it is to
be conceived as a purely mathematical sym-
bol, such as we conceive infinity; and pro-
bably that thought was responsible for
Huxley’s stern agnosticism. We do not know
what is going to happen to us when we
get into Eternity. The only thing of which
we can be fairly sure is that there will be
nothing to fear. We batter our way into
the world in an experience of pain which to
the becoming infant must be altogether fright-
ful ; but we do not know anything about it,
though it' must influence our subsequent
characters.
Apart from these inconsistencies Mr.
Giirtis has written an extraordinarily inter-
esting book. We cannot explain the marvels
which he narrates, but we are only just be-
ginning to know something about the human
mind. When the real explanation comes it
may prove to be something surprisingly
simple. If he had entirely invented his little
thumbnail sketches of unknown mediaeval
personalities his book could not have been
more interesting.
C. McL.
Were there Any “Early Christians”?
Nothing could better illustrate the danger
of citing an authority at secondhand than
“C.McL.’s” note (R.'P. 15/5/’24) on the
authenticity of Pliny’s letter to Trajan about
the Christians. This letter, says “C.McL,”
“has been the subject of fierce controversy.
Edwin Johnson said that the Latin in it was
that of a mediaeval monk. Solomon Reinach
pointed out that the sole authentic manu-
script of it perished unaccountably in the
16th century; and J. M. Robertson was far
from being convinced of its genuineness.” It
is plain from this that “CjMcL.” cannot have
been aware that, in the book from which his
citation comes—the “Short History of
Christianity”—M. Reinach describes the con-
ditions and circumstances in which Chris-
tians lived throughout the Roman Empire at
the time when “C.McL.” thinks there were
no Christians anywhere. Moreover, in the
very sentence from which “C.McL.” quotes,
M. Reinach says expressly that doubts about
the genuineness of Pliny’s letter are without
foundation. This is the sentence: —
The picture Pliny prints of the Christians is so
greatly to their credit that the authenticity of his
letter has been (quite groundlessly) suspected; un-
fortunately the unique manuscript from which it was
transcribed at the beginning of the sixteenth century
has disappeared, no one knows how, and doubts as
to the accuracy of the published version are possible.
It is a fact —though M. Reinach does not, I
think, advert to it—that the manuscript was
in existence in Paris when the Aldine edition
of Pliny’s letters was printed in 1508.
With great respect for the authority of M.
Reinach (who is a man of immense erudi-
tion ), I have the hardihood to submit that
doubts about the substantial accuracy of the
published version of the letters are not pos-
sible. For, in the second century (about
a.d. 197), the redoubtable Tertullian uses
Pliny’s letter and Trajan’s reply as the
groundwork of his attack on the Roman
authorities for their treatment of the Chris-
tians ; and in the course of his invective —-
which will be found in the second chapter of
his far-famed “Apology”—he gives a sum-
mary of the two letters, which differs in no
material respect from the printed version.
These are his words: —
Pliny the Second having put many Christians to
death, and being still astounded at our numbers,
sends to the Emperor Trajan for orders how to pro-
ceed, alleging withal that he could find nothing more
in our religion than obstinacy against sacrificing to
the gods, singing hymns to God and Christ, and
prohibiting wickedness. Upon which information
Trajan writes back, that such kind of men were not
to be searched for; but yet to be punished if brought
before him.
I must confess to complete ignorance of
Mr. Edwin Johnson’s qualifications to pass
upon a matter of Latin scholarship; but it
is not easy to understand how his mediaeval
monk got back into the second century, and
hoodwinked Tertullian. _ Mr. J. M. Robert-
son, on the other hand, is an able man and a
formidable controversialist. _ _ His classical
scholarship is, however, negligible; and when
there is a question of Christianity he has a
whole hive of bees in his bonnet.
HENKY MOLONY.
The Apostate
From early morning the intelligentsia of
the capital had been arriving at the little
house on the hill. Some had come by train,
some by motor-car and some by a cheap
char-a-banc excursion arranged by the
Academy of Militant Poesy, and they were
all grouped in the garden watching the
strange being who sat on the verandah Siz-
ing into infinity with fathomless eyes. He
was Raymond McQuoin, the radical poet,
who had wrung from his soul great, chal-
lenging words that had made democracy un-
safe for democracy. In solemn quatrains
and sulky sonnets the tocsin had clanged to
many reformers, and he had been recognised
as the one man in the land who had put
intellectual defection into rhyme. As Paul
N. Blibber, the American critic, had re-
marked in his monumental “Poetry of the
Nineteenth Century,” Raymond McQuoin
was no daisy-chain weaver, and was heavens
removed from the leering lyrists. But
McQuoin had been silent for many months.
It was thought that his fire had died for
ever, until one day it was whispered by an
intimate friend that he had been hunched
for some time over a pad of paper, while a
clerk had sat by tremulously turning the
leaves of a rhyming dictionary. The news
spread rapidly. There was the wildest ex-
citement. Professors suspended their ordi-
nary labors to speculate on the possibility of
a volcanic revival. Then had come the
advice of a definite heaving of the mountain.
And so had followed the pilgrimage to see
if the Himalaya would bring forth a tiger.
The gathering was representative of all
the cults, but the great majority were old
admirers, many of whom only lacked lan-
guage and an inspiration to deepen their
sympathy into plagiarism. Prominent
among them was Professor Eustace Woomp.
the famous literary archaeologist, who had
revealed traces of “The Deserted Village”
in the Talmud. He held a notebook in a
fat, clammy hand, and he peered at the seer,
his eyes a throng of interrogations. Near
him was little Frederick Granose, who had
discovered Bleats, the Manx poet, in an
eighth-floor attic in the Rue de Pisaller,
Paris, and had since been explaining the
genius, from his faiths and ideals down to
his ties and trouser-buttons. Dithers, the
president of the Society for the Prevention
of Literature in Journalism, was only there
out of curiosity, and Felix Croon, the editor
of Smirk, a poetic monthly, which had been
dedicated to Catullus and Swinburne, had
obviously come to sneer, while loath to pray.
But all were waiting for a supreme divina-
tion—for some new message to a moody
world.
They stood and perspired in the hot sun
as McQuoin sat gazing into infinity, his
face dispassionate, but for a mouth which
Croon declared was “like a bloated sob.”
McQuoin scarcely stirred. He was possibly
thinking deeply. Occasionally he raised a
hand to flick away a fly or to pull reflectively
at his beard, but no word issued from his
lips. The audience became restive, atten-
tion relaxed, and two professors engaged in
an argument as to whether Saintsbury or
“Claudius Clear” was the last of the Stoics.
Someone then said that Dickens was the
mystery of “Edwin Drood,” and it was plain
that, without some violent intervention, the
Dark Lady of the Sonnets would soon be
exposed. Even Woomp deflected his arte-
sian glance to a passing bird in the sky.
The situation was critical. Interest was
flickering out, and boredom threatened to
supervene. But just as Dithers was reach-
ing for his time-table, the Muse sprang to
life. Vague voices faded away in a hush,
and all pressed forward, their intellects cran-
ing under the impulse of a passion that
only Literature knows. Pencils were poised
to take down the words. Democracy was
about to exult and autocracy to shudder.
What rapture!
But what was this?
Was this the old McQuoin who, after a
preliminary cough that seemed to have a
shameful note of apology, had opened with
the line:—
O lustrous limbs of Lal-a-ge—
They stared at one another. Had they heard
aright? Perhaps the poet would repeat it.
He did:—
O lustrous limbs of Lal-a-ge—
and added in a roaring, insurgent baritone
that brought the pinks to Jjis cheeks • —
O little breasts that woo,
O Aphrodite’s apogee,
O you, you, you, you, you !
God, by some wondrous alchemy,
Put poems in thine eyes
But they didn’t stay to hear more. With
almost one accord they broke from the apos-
tate and streamed down the hill, Woomp,
leading the way, all breathless blubber and
perturbation, while he muttered, “My God,
my God!” and then again, “My God, my
God, my God!” Dithers laughed rudely,
and Granose, seething with rage, shrilled to
the empyrean: “I must write to Bleats
about this....Yes, yes, I must and will. I
shall tell him all.”
Merely the editor of Smirk remained be-
hind to shorthand the ecstasies that bubbled
forth and say in his piercing Toledo tone:
“Mr. McQuoin, I must print this in our
next number. Afterwards, when you have
produced more, we shall publish them under
the title of, say, ‘The Swoons of Eros.’ ”
McQuoin didn’t answer. He was looking
sardonically at the distant dust where men
were scurrying home with the remnant of
a reputation.
C. R. BRADISH.
A Satchel of Books
Undream’d of Shores, by Frank Harris (Grant
Richards). A series of short stories, vividly and artis-
tically written, and full of clever revelations of char-
acter.
The House of Broken Dreams, by Christine Jope-
Slade (Nisbet). A story of possible people in impos-
sible situations. Good dialogue, fair characterisa-
tion, ability to keep her story moving—good bricks
in an unsound structure.
The Little Tigress, by Wallace Smith (Putnam’s).
A volume of stories and sketches of modern Mexico
written by a man who has a talent for picturesque
description. The tales deal with revelry and war,
the quick knife and the firing squad, and there is
always some dancer or soldadera to give a little
extra devil when the devil is needed.
Capitol Hill, by Harvey Ferguson (John Lane).
According to all the conventions of polite fiction
Ralph Dolan, the hero of this excellent novel, is a
blackguard. He is a hypocrite, a cold-blooded
seducer of women, and a swindler who graduates by
low cunning to the status of a political crook at
Washington. Also, he is a vulgar snob and almost
incredibly illiterate. The reader leaves him the hus-
band of a fat, stupid millionairess, and on the high
road to business eminence—a bitter satire on one
aspect of American life.
The Cathedral Folk, by Nicolai Lyeskov (John
Lane). Isabel F. Hapgood, the translator, says that
Lyeskov (1831-95) was an official in various Govern-
ment departments, and is regarded as “the most
accurate portraitist of national character and types,”
and that “The Cathedral Folk” (published 1872)
“ranks as the most noteworthy picture of the Russian
priesthood.” To the reader who wants quick action
this English edition will certainly not appeal. Rut
to those who are groping after settled opinions about
Russia and its more or less recent upheavals and
what is called its problem, it can be warmly recom-
mended. Its very defects, from the English story-
reader’s point of view, are illuminating. The inter-
minable talk of some of the important villagers of
Stary Gorod, where the cathedral is; the average
villager’s vast capacity for arguing interminably
about nothing and getting nowhere with great satis-
faction to himself; the extraordinary simplicity ot
the many and the extraordinary duplicity of the tew;
the general ignorance and superstition; the appalling
poverty of the majority—you are not told of these
things, but you realise them as you go through life
with Archpriest Savely and Priest Zakhariya and the
mighty Deacon Akhilla. It is better than any
ordinary half-dozen books which set out with the
deliberate purpose of telling you what manner of
people the Russians really are; and it makes the
apparently inexplicable easier of understanding. Above
all, it is recommended to those who think that
political methods which might be called for in
Russia —at any rate, might have some justification
in Russia —are the proper medicine also for Australia.
The New Examiner, by Philip Boswood Ballard
(Hodder and Stoughton). A Master of Trinity once
described the then, and still current, form of literal y
examination as “a presumptuous attempt to gauge
the depths of human ignorance.” In view of tne
artificiality of the system there was truth in the
Master’s satire. As things are it is objected that
memory counts for more than true intellectual grip.
Also the examinee is subject to the varying standards
of the examiners. To test intelligence and its appli-
cation by reasoning, also to devise a means of making
the examination “fool proof,” is what the author
aims at. At present, except in mathematics and the
manual arts, the essay dominates the whole proce-
dure, and he denies that this is a good means of
measuring anything—even the examinee’s knowledge
of his mother tcngue. The scheme he advocates fol-
lows, broadlv, the lines of the psychologist, lines
which are now being applied increasingly in child
criminology and elsewhere. A simple illustration
will show, in principle at least, the method adopted.
When the American army in the late war was being
constituted a scheme of testing intelligence was
devised. One of the questions out of over 100 was
“Why is beef better food than cabbage?” Were this
set at an ordinary examination it would produce a
crop of diffuse and varied answers. This waste of
words and temper was prevented by the simple ex-
pedient of attaching these possible answers:—
Because it tastes better.
Because it is more nourishing.
Because it is harder to obtain.
The candidate was required to put a cross in front
of the best answer, and his intelligence was judged
accordingly—though, of course, not on this answer
alone.
«
“D.F.”: What is likely to prove the most notable
book on the aborigines of Australia since Spencer
and Gillen’s work is to be published in London
shortly. It is by Dr. Horn, of Melbourne, with a
collection of photographs by Dr. Brooke Nieholls;
but most of the information comes from old resi-
dents of Central Australia. One in particular has
known the natives intimately for half a century or so.
“Sierra”: The English translation of Ibanez's
“The Torrent” teems with crude and offensive
Americanisms that discredit the publishers (Fisher
Unwin). The cultivated Leonora damps Rafael’s
ardor with “I guess I know what young men are
like. We are through with such nonsense.” A
more energetic repulse sends Rafael off muttering to
himself: “You peasant! You provincial ass! You
rube!” Ancient don Andries admits “We had
to go some to quiet things down’'; and Cupido,
who keeps the “barbershop,” owns to a “Republican
grouch.” Other like terms lend their aid in
jolting the reader’s thoughts from Ibanez’s old-
fashioned Spanish town to modern Chicago.


c
G
VALVE-IN-HEAD
CHEVROLET!
>
MOTOR CARS
-^rc/of
the
*CU#
Offil
1
s( Oak land
st
01?
QVG
These are the trademarks of the motor cars and trucks made by General Motors. Over
3,000,000 General Motors cars and trucks are in active service today throughout the
world; and one out of six of all motor vehicles is a product of General Motors.
The utmost in motor car value
WHETHER you buy a Buick or a
Cadillac, a Chevrolet or an Oak-
land, an Oldsmobile or a GMC Truck,
you may be sure of one thing: because
it is made by the General Motors Cor-
poration, it represents the utmost in
motor car value at its price.
The reasons are four:
1. By co-ordinating the purchasing power of
its many divisions, General Motors buys the
highest quality of materials at minimum cost,
whether the materials be steel (of which Gen-
eral Motors uses 375,000 tons a year) or tiny
lockwashers (of which it uses 15,000,000 a
year).
2. The volume of motor cars and trucks
which General Motors builds and sells is so
large (800,000 cars and trucks in 1923) that
the margin of profit on eacn car need be rela-
tively low.
3. Although the oldest motor car company
has been in existence only about 30 years, the
aggregate experience of the several car and
truck divisions of General Motors totals 117
years. This experience is available to each di-
vision through the interchange of engineering
talent which General Motors makes possible.
4. General Motors maintains the largest au-
tomotive laboratories in the world to make cer-
tain that its cars and trucks will always em-
body every improvement in construction that
organized scientific research can develop.
+ *
For these practical reasons General
Motors cars have become standards of
motor car value and performance in
every country of the world.
Further information regarding General Motors may he had hy writing to
General Motors Export Company, Manchester Unity Chambers, Sydneyj
or to General Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Melbourne.
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick . Cadillac . Chevrolet . Oakland . Oldsmobile . GMC trucks
New York . London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta . Shanghai . Manila . Honolulu
Sydney . Melbourne . Wellington • Madrid • Johannesburg • Mexico City • Sao Paulo • Buenos Aires


Take Music with You Out-of-doors
ffie ftEX©PORt
ready for playing
dz
«S
ceSv
'm
W
7
There are new pleasures in store for you if you take along a Rexoport on your week-end
camps, your holiday trips, or your motor tours. There are new delights awaiting you
in the wonderful little talking machine that enables you to carry your music with you
wherever you go.
The Rexoport is no trouble to carry; it is as neat and compact as a small suit case ;
look at its sturdy construction —the handsome appearance of its highest grade imported
oak casing; notice how neatly the features hitherto only found on larger machines
have been incorporated in the Rexoport; observe the special compartment which
holds eight double-sided disc records—firmly and securely to eliminate all risk of
breakage in transit.
Probably the most remarkable feature of all is the sound chamber, on which its rich,
full-volume tone depends; it is not of the makeshift or “ freak ” variety; it is an
ingenious adaptation of the wonderful Rexonola Patented Reflector Sound Chamber
used on all standard Rexonola models—designed to reflect and " focus ” tone cor-
rectly and make it pure, clear, and resonant. *
Listen to it play a few selections and you will realise the truth of the description.
the only complete
PortableFhonograph
witty a ricty full volume toi\e
Read this description of the wonderful little Rexoport
CABINET. —Handsomely constructed of Imported
Oak, with all parts attractively finished
MOTOR. —A strong, silent-running, Swiss worm-
drive Motor
SOUND BOX or REPRODUCER.—RexonoIa Con-
cert Type, Aluminium
TONE-ARM. —Tapering Type, Nickel-plated
REXONOLA PATENTED REFLECTOR SOUND
CHAMBER in modified design, but following the same
principle as the standard Rexonola Models
TURNTABLE has a nickel-plated and polished rim
TURNTABLE BRAKE is nickel-plated and polished
SPEED REGULATOR allows a full range of speed
adjustments to be made
RECORD COMPARTMENT holds eight double-
sided records securely and without risk of breakage
during transit
NEEDLE BOX is attached to the machine, and held
firmly closed when carrying, so that needles cannot be
spilled
DETACHABLE LID, acting as a table when playing,
as shown in the illustration
The Rexoport is only one of the range of thirteen distinct Rexonola models , most of which
are made in several different finishes. There are Table models priced from £4 os. o d. to
£lB ; Cabinet models priced from £l6 IQs. o d. to £37 10 s. o d. ; and luxurious Period
models priced from £35 to £62 10s. od.
The complete range of Rexonola models
LOUIS PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35 inches;
in Selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark Ma-
hogany- Price (Type A) £52/10/-; (Type C) £62/10/-
(with rich hand-carving).
JACOBEAN PERIOD MODEL, Size 32 x 22 x 35
inches; in Selected Oak, Dark Jacobean Finish. Price
(Type B) £35 : (Type C) £46/10/- (with rich hand-
carving).
REXONOLA No. 1 (Cabinet Model), Size 46 x 23 x
igi inches; in selected Queensland Maple, finished
Dark Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or
Selected Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak)
£29; (Mahogany) £37/10/*.
REXONOLA No. 2 (Cabinet'Model), Size 46 x 23 x 19*
inches; in selected Queensland Maple, finished Dark
Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or Selected
Oak, Golden or Mission finish.- Price (Oak) £22;
(Mahogany) £3l/10/-
REXONOLA No. 4 (Cabinet Model), Size 41 x i.9i *
17 inches; in Selected Queensland Maple, finished
Dark Mahogany, full French polish, bright finish, or
Selected Oak, Golden or Mission finish. Price (Oak)
£l6/10/-; (Mahogany) £22/10/-
REXONOLA No. 5 (Table Model), Size 22 x 17 x 17
inches; in Golden Oak, Mission Oak and Mahogany.
Price (Oak) £l2/10/-; (Mahogany) £lB
REXONOLA No. 8 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x
14J inches ; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £lO.
REXONOLA No. 10 (Table Model), Size 20 x 16 x 13
inches; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £B/5/-
REXONOLA No. 15 (Table Model), Size 18 x 14 x 8i
inches; in Golden or Mission Oak. Price £6
REXONOLA No. 17 (Table Model), Size 16 x 12 x 8
inchesin Mission Oak. Price £4/5/-
THE REXOPORT (The Portable Rexonola), hand-
somely constructed of Imported Oak, dark finish. As
easy to carry as a small suit case. Price £5
IF THERE IS NO REXONOLA DEALER
. ..NEAR YOU, USE THE COUPON . ..
AND THE
PRICE IS
ONLY
COUPON
Messrs. JACKSON & MACDONALD,
454 Kent Street, Sydney
I am interested in a talking machine which will play music as the artist intended. Please
send me particulars of the full range of Rexonola Models, including the Rexoport.
Name
Address


'■
I
:
" 1
t m
———
■ i
Ifel-S? t
-
■RggHl* ~ \>S£\y y^y^:
Bhhß ■ o ,; ■■■
Ml
: ni>f ;ii:l \
u
1
■■■■■■l
• jf ■ ;:,.
. ? f
ii . -
§hh
•■"■ :-
"‘ I : :i;i■■ I;-;. -I
WBBSBBm
; .
mmmm
: •.^I
w
.
* -' ■:
w
■ :: ■
a
I
■ 'T- /' i: /Sil
«»«■< ?
1
m
'>»V
——■ 1
:. ■ .
: ■ 1
fr-
nan
&&•
MW ®i ;
WmmM
mm
. I
H
In ill
mm
IH ''
*****
urn
s
jjpjip
.:lly; : '\ :
lltllStff
-jj
WtMmmsr : MB
■HHmI
i - r .
:
■ .
.1
li
■
i K
111
.
Illgl®
.
i 111
our
goes only skin deep
REFRESHING and necessary
as the bath may be, it se-
cures only external clean-
liness, Far more important is
internal cleanliness . For on this
depend health and youthful
energy.
You cannot be healthy if you do
not keep clean internally. A
clogged intestinal system is a
disease-breeder. Here start such
ailments as headaches, bilious
attacks and insomnia —each of
which takes toll of your health
and vitality. Poisons flood your
system and your power of resist-
ance is lowered. Health, even life
itself, is threatened.
In this clogging, say intestinal
specialists, lies the primary cause
of more than three-quarters of all
illness, including the gravest
diseases of life.
Thousands of healthy men and
Nuiol
TRADE MARK
For Internal Cleanlimss,
women have learned to prevent
illness by maintaining internal
cleanliness through the regular
use of NujoL Nujol is not a laxa-
tive. Nujol prevents intestinal
clogging by lubrication, the
method now employed by med-
ical authorities throughout the
world.
Nujol lubricates and softens the
food waste and thus hastens its
passage through and out of the
body.
Don’t give disease a start. Take
Nujol as regularly as you brush
your teeth or wash your face.
Nujol is not a medicine. Like
pure water it is harmless. Nujol
establishes the habit of internal
cleanliness—the healthiest habit
in the world.
If you would maintain health and
youthful energy adopt this habit
of internal cleanliness. Nujol will
make every day brighter/and your
enjoyment of life more keen.
Keep a bottle of Nujol
in the bath room cab-
inet as a daily reminder.
For Sale at all Chemists .
Regular a)
Constipation
Everywhere physicians are sounding
urgent warnings of the growing men-
ace of faulty elimination. In an ad-
dress before a leading Medical Society
recently the medical director of one of
the principal insurance companies
stated that the lowered vitality caused
by faulty elimination made the entire
body a prey to dangerous germs. He
further declared that if the absorp-
tion of poisons from clogged intestines
was stopped, it would largely do away
with the numerous untimely deaths
that occur during middle age.
Why Physicians Favor
Lubrication
Medical science, through knowledge
of the intestinal tract gained by X-
ray observation and exhaustive tests,
has found in lubrication a. means of
overcoming faulty elimination. The
gentle lubricant, Nujol, penetrates
and softens the hard food waste.
Thus it enables Nature to secure regu-
lar, thorough elimination. Nujol is
not a laxative and cannot cause dis-
tress. Nujol hastens the rate of flow
of the intestinal stream, preventing
intestinal sluggishness.
Nujol is used in leading hospitals and
is prescribed by physicians through-
out the world for the relief of faulty
elimination in people of all ages.
Complexion Troubles: Science now
knows that poisons from intestinal
sluggishness are the chief cause of
personal unattractiveness. Carried
by the blood they reach every body
cell the millions of cells that compose
the skin, the roots of the hair and the
eyes. No wonder that through faulty
elimination the skin becomes sallow,
muddy, roughened, blotched or dis-
figured with pimples or other blem-
ishes. It is not strange that the hair
loses its sheen and the eyes become
dull.
Nujol should be taken regularly for
the complexion. Nujol overcomes
and prevents intestinal sluggishness.
It thus keeps the body free from
poisons which are the principal cause
of complexion troubles.
Nujol is the most effective aid to a
clear, healthy, lovely skin.
Elderly People: In youth and perfect
health the intestine supplies a natural
lubricating liquid in sufficient quan-
tity to soften the food waste and
hasten its movement out of the body.
In advanced years this lubricant de-
creases in quantity. Hence the need
for something to give assistance. The
action of Nujol so closely resembles
that of Nature’s lubricant that it is
especially beneficial to those in ad-
vanced years. Nujol softens the
waste, thus enabling the intestinal
muscles to move it along and
out of the body. .
Nujol, Grosvenor House, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me your 16-page free booklet: “The
Dangers of Constipation”.
Name -
Address


nave iou inea me new
Cuticura Shaving Stick?
This delicately medicated antiseptic
Soap produces a rich creamy lasting
lather, enabling you to shave with-
out the slightest irritation. Indis-
pensable for those who shave twice
daily. Properly used, it will prevent
ingrowing hairs.
Soap Is., Talcum Is. 3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
R.Towns&Co., Sydney. N.S.W.”
1W Try our new Shaving Slick.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
i* a Food-Drink which maintain*
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLiCK's daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SI-OUGM. BUCKS. ENG.
©
eSsss^Sa-ss??
In 4 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
Columbia
Dry Batteries
« ,| they last longer
Obtainable everywhere at
little cost ; give more power for
a longer time.
OIJV NOUiXo,
aoi
ffss-saq
tftNEXM®!
s
for
Bells
Buzzers
Radio
Gas Engines
and
All general
purposes.
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 Hast 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
1
**ST'P
mi
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNUT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
OR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless—
Waterproof-—Permanent I
All Chemists.
Jhe
inyer
clastic
fi
us s
Rupture Sufferers
THE BEST SAFEGUARD IS
The Denyer Elastic
Truss
It is scientifically made and most comfort-
able to wear. All sufferers can rest assured
of the best possible relief if a Denyer Elas-
tic Truss is worn; it eliminates all worry
and anxiety, and offers the most efficient
safeguard for your health. Send for Truss
Pamphlet to-day—delay is dangerous.
Prices: 27/6 single; 37/6 double.
POSTAGE EXTRA..
T"T| a <*• IMt ««/*\ ® Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
vJ & “ <*/ A UX w • Belts and Artificial Limbs,
2SI GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CEt ISTERB9
TRA6F MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable Never requires cleaning.
at
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
BRITISH EMPIRE. EXHIBITION, 1924-
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept.),
141 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address—“Smadaburo,” London), who will arrange:—
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses,
Furnished Flats, etc,,
Trips to Battlefields,
Continental and Provincial Tours.
Motor-car Hire —Sightseeing—Passports,
etc., etc.
T,r*'vr>nv wtt,t, Ttw 'pttt.t,
WTrTT'T," OTJ PABT.Ti’ vmv
- _
COMET
COME
RvNJK
, /-v *
Repeat Orders
Prove Satisfaction
'pHE greatest proof of satisfactory service
is when a purchaser “comes back”
again. Here is a letter from a satisfied
“Comet” user —it tells its own story.
SEND FOR THIS BOOKLET
-ITS POST FREE
“Tubbo,” Darlington Point, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, September, 1923.
We are well satisfied with the 12ft.
Mills purchased from you this year. Proof
of this is that our repeat orders now total
18 mills. Strong features are, the Simplicity
of Construction and Smooth Running in a
Light Breeze.
For the Tubbo Estate Co., Pty. Ltd.,
(Sgd.) JOHN A. CULLEY,
Manager
rOMET
1 “COMET” Mills purchased in A FEW MONTHS after many years experience with
20 other makes of mills. Such a good example of “Comet” Superiority is good support
for our claims of long, trouble-free service, greater pumping capacity and safety
through storms. The extremely simple “Comet” has many excellent features which
are sure to give you satisfaction.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Works and Office—DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY. City Office—2ssa GEORGE STREET.
S.W. 19 Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, and Townsville.
Australia's Leading Mill
4
s
3
SI
*
r
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that sha,ves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Ileal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths: fin. and fin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
_ each. Post Free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evening in a Garden.
If one should come in some far year
Amid the sons of these great trees
And pause upon the path to hear
The merry kin of this soft breeze,
I wonder if the happy light
Would lie as now on hill and vale,
And yon slim moon above the height
Hang in the west as sweet and pale.
I take the world against my heart,
So full of tenderness it seems.
The fig leaves murmur as they part
With autumn’s yellow crown of dreams;
But one great quiet rose is set
In splendor ’mid its crimson leaves —
The days glide on with no regret;
I hear no voice of aught that grieves.
The grand procession of the year
With dancing steps and laughter light
Moves by for ever; but I hear
A stranger music in the night.
I wonder of the days to be—
The pictures rise and glow and melt—
Will he who follows after me
Be heir indeed to all I felt ?
Richer than I in grace of truth,
In knowledge that is lord of power—
But here the air is in its youth
And Heaven with stars begins to flower!
Change drowns in change ; law fades in law,
The fragrances are blown and cease—-
I would I saw as Sappho saw
The starlight on the isles of Greecfe!
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
We Think.
If you were I and I were you
What most amazing things we’d do !
If I had half your pulsing power
I’d tame the wise-heads in an hour!
If you had half the charm of me
We’d paralyse eternity!
But what is there that we can do,
I being I and you being you?
victokia.
L. LUCAS.
Remorse.
I have blasphemed Love—and Love is dead!
Startled, I stand. Before my straining eyes
An empty world revolves. I hear my cries
Come back to me like echoes demon-sped.
Terro, has gripped my heart and bowed my
head;
And all my days march past in mourning
guise.
My soul beats at the gates of Paradise —
“O Love, forgive me for the words I said !”
Yet since I sinned my secret heart has known
I must exist, but never more may live;
And for that crime which can have no
defence,
Here on my knees before Love’s altar thrown,
I, who denied and lost his light, can give
Only my own dead heart as recompense.
N.S.W.
P. O’R.
At Sea.
Sunset.
The muezzin calls from day’s high, crumb-
ling dome,
A starred tongue clanging on the bowl of
night;
Old praying waves bow, shriven, in their
flight
To bear the dying god westward and home
Over complaining desert seas that rue
Incessantly a thousand sweet suns gone
To some foam-fortressed, watery Avalon
And mermaid-haunted depths of riven blue.
Clamor of color! .Now empanoplied
In crimson-smitten gold his great thighs
heave,
Lolls out the gilded tongue in one last cry;
And rapture-breathing purples sigh and cede
Their glory to cool greys. Forlorn clouds
grieve;
And one black mast divides the sentient sky.
Duse.
Co softly, heart, the little day is sleeping
Within the sea-wrapt silence. Though the
pain
Of beauty seen but held not stirs again,
Go softly lest you wake her with your weep-
ing;
And let the shadows hide you in their hair
Down-drooped to comfort you. For if the
wise
Speak truth, then beauty lives within the
eyes
That worship her; so, heart, why should
you care?
And now the bugle breaks the mellow frame
Of quiet; and the people rush for seats
And good roast English beef. “I always
feel
So sad at sunset!” sighs an amorous dame.
“A pretty sight!” the pimpled draper bleats,
And falls to loud dispatching of his meal.
Midnight.
A dead sky trysting with a lifeless sea—
Cold lips on frozen lips in fruitless kiss
Fall vacantly apart; and Lachesis
Takes the grey hour and weaves maliciously
A sad strand through some morrow’s web.
The last
Far-venturing bird wheels back; its fading
moan
Empties the night, of sound and -winds new-
grown
Impale the bloated moon upon a mast.
Slow-stumbling down the sky the pale stars
go,
Stricken with loneliness; and soon their
drowned
Gold ghosts are bloodless phosphorus-fish
eluding
Unmerrily the greedy deep. And so
The ’fight goes daywards, hopeless-ejmd and
bound
In melancholy scarves of silver brooding.
ENGLAND.
PAMELA TRAVERS.


V
w
<2?
a
In exchange tor 120
of these coupons we
will enter »•«»
subscription i°* th *
well-known humorous
journal, the » Passmg
Show" (published m
London) tor lSweeks,
post „
a
M&/
m
. mom
/
9
£
i
■
o
0
w
!
%
ft
z
1
/j
*
ifym
0
PASSING
SHOW
VIR.GI N IA
CIGARETTES’
20 A V(>
MADE IN LONDON
by
CARRERAS, LTD. <Est. 1788>,
55, Piccadilly, LONDON, W.
LONDON’S BEST HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY—“ PASSING SHOW’’-WILL BE SENT
YOU POST FREE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE COUPONS ENCLOSED IN EVERY PACKET.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2316.
THURSDAY, JULY 3, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
SEE THE CONQUERING HERO COMES!
“Charles Kingston carried legislation excluding the bookmaker and proprietary pony and other private racecourses from South Australia. The Parliamentary
Labor party proposes to wipe out that law.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d. ; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, las. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Corresiiondence” co umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A l communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sona r applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and 'White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humbrous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C- Gromlora, Australia House. Strand.
W C. 2. Copies of “The Bulletin” ran he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludyate Circus; and IF. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
K.C.1,: E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, •'/« l'leet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,' ol
High llolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban ;
RhodCsia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Sews
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.— G. S. Fcriyth and Co., W Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C. .
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6tli
Avenue and J/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West Ijlst Street, New York City:
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Ilong
/f °CETLON.—IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. „ „ ,
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. 'Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgalc
Circus. E.C.lj.
U.S.A. — J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: .) to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional l t oz.. Id.: All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
27uT$xiile£z/ri.
THURSDAY, JULY 3, 1924.
PLEASANT DREAMS AND GRIM
REALITIES.
It is significant that the real rulers of the
three leading European Powers —Ramsay
Macdonald of England, Herriot of France,
and Mussolini of Italy—were communists
and pacifists and are supporters of militar-
ism and the capitalistic system. As for
Trotsky and his colleagues, they appear to
favor citizen regimentation and territorial
expansion as warmly as Matthew Arnold’s
“preaching old drill-sergeant” who founded
the late German Empire. This is not to say,
as many disillusioned idealists imply, that
only traitors can gain the confidence of their
fellow-countrymen; nor does it mean that
wars and millionaires are in themselves de-
sirable. It is simply a recognition of the
fact that nations, like every organisation
which they contain, must struggle if they ai e
not to go under. # # #
The militarism of a politician such as
Prime Minister Herriot, who scandalised
the Germans by choosing as War Minister
the most ruthless occupationist at Ins dis-
posal is not so inconsistent as pacifists who
are not charged with the duty of keeping
the peace make out. He probably hates
armaments even more now than when lie
talked of revolution as an alternative to the
law of 1913 which fixed the term of first-line
service in the French army at three years.
Armaments are more burdensome than ever,
and France is incomparably poorer. At tlie
time Hekkiot was proclaiming the merits of
disarmament Nokman Angbll had just writ-
ten a book to prove that the war-spirit was
dying, slain by a realisation on the part
of civilised humanity that war was barbarous
and did not even pay the winners. In a few
months the world’s record war came and dis-
proved all Angell’s claims, but not the pre-
mises on which most of them had been based.
There is nothing more disastrous and heart-
breaking than the winning of a great war,
except the losing of one. There is nothing
more ruinous to commercial prosperity and
social enjoyment than war taxation, except
that servitude which is eventually imposed
on those who neglect to protect their posses-
sions. As a general proposition, it may be
said that all violence is futile as a means
of achieving immediate wealth. It took
Germany a generation to recover from her
victory in 1870. No revolution of violence
has paid those who fought in it. This par-
ticularly applies to the revolutions of the
past three-quarters of a century, during
which period they have ceased to be out-
breaks conducted by civilians with impro-
vised weapons, and have become civil wars
with victory inclining to the side that first
gets control of the field artillery, ammunition
depots, aeroplanes and the experts capable
of using them. If official figures were
available it would certainly be found that
more Russian workers perished of cold and
hunger while their country was passing from
the despotism of Czarism to that of Trotsky-
ism than in the reigns of any three Roman-
offs combined; and the end is not yet.
Strikes notoriously hit the workers who par-
ticipate in them harder than any other class,
while the general strike, unless it collapses
in a few days, is as fatal to the aged, ailing
and infant poor as a military invasion. His-
tory shows that predatory violence—war for
100t —does not even pay in the long run.
Enervating wealth inequitably acquired
undermined fifteenth-century Venice and
sixteenth-century Spain, as it had under-
mined Imperial Rome and the Egypt of
the Twentieth Dynasty. There is only one
road to lasting comfort and safety, and the
name of it is Hard Work. Unfortunately,
superficial observers are attracted by the appa-
rent exceptions to this rule. Hence we have
statesmen who advocate wars of conquest,
communists who favor expropriating the
classes with money, and demagogues who
argue that the idle and uneducated may be
enriched by strikes. It is the prevalence of
these lunatics —never more numerous, oddly
enough, than after upheavals which have up-
set all their theories —-that has caused the
Prime Ministers of Britain, France and
Italy to fisrure ns renegades to pacifism and
world-brotherhood.
* * * *
Australia is in a unique position to achieve
greatness, wealth, security, everything that
represents material happiness, along legiti-
mate lines. Not happiness for everybody;
not a happiness commune, so to speak. In
Melbourne the other day a pony
named Cornflower gave away sst. in weight,
and beat the field. By what system of
economic handicapping could that intellectual
Cornflower, H. G. Wells, be put on a mark
with a brother-Socialist in the rock-chopping
or wharf-lumping industry, and kept there?
The best in this way that any State can
aspire to is to add to the number of the
prosperous and contented. Some Govern-
ments are unable to attempt it on the grand
scale. The human material is inferior, as
in parts of India; or the country is inad-
equate in size or quality of soil, as in Japan.
Here a picked race holds one of the richest
regions in the world. We are not making
half the use of our wealth that we might, and
we are putting up with a gigantic volume of
crime, disease and physical degeneracy, repre-
senting infinite misery and financial loss, for
no other reason than that we will not make
an effort in the right direction. A proved
agent in bringing prosperity and enjoyment
is education. A weakness of our education
system is disclosed by the growth of crime-
newspapers, sex-cinemas and leg-shows. The
phenomenon suggests that the average level
of adult literacy is not much above that of
the lads for whom “comic supplements” are
produced. At present thousands are denied
the opportunity to assimilate the higher
thought and disseminate it, by the monopoly
in advanced education which is held by
the few big coastal cities. The removal
of this handicap would provide ambitious
individuals with opportunities, and the
nation with an asset as valuable as many gold-
mines. Such are the paths to which our Com-
munists would turn if they were honestly
desirous of bringing the greatest degree of
contentment to the greatest possible number
of people. And a steadily rising standard
of individual efficiency, physical and mental,
is also the pleasantest and cheapest solution
of the problem which is worrying the once-
pacifist rulers of Europe. “Germany,” com-
plained the new President of France last
week, “appears to be preparing for a war of
revenge instead of fulfilling her engagements.”
The world has had its Germanys from the
beginning of recorded history. They are
not always inspired by hunger; they take no
notice of the axiom that war does not pay ;
and the only argument they understand is
force. Their natural prey is the type of
nation that disarms militarily, and weakens
itself economically by penalising its
H. G. Wellses for the benefit of its loafers
and incapables. The way is still open to us
to make this country safe for white Austra-
lians for centuries to come. But we cannot
afford to delay the enterprise much longer.
THE SACREDNESS OF FOOD.
When ancient Jerusalem was at the top of
its fame as a religious centre, at certain sea-
sons of the year droves of oxen and sheep
thronged all the highways leading to the
city; and the temple which was the focus of
all the devotion and enthusiasm of a zealous
nation became a great slaughter-house. The
smell of blood mingled with the fumes of burn-
ing and roasting animals; and the crowds of
pilgrims breathed the tainted air as some-
thing holy. The agonies of the slaughtered
beasts were not thought of lightly or as a
mere matter of trade. They were the.pains
which men should have borne for their
offences transferred to the victims offered up
by the priests. Illogical as the whole idea
now seems, there was nothing of wanton
cruelty about it. The Mosaic law prescribed
it: it was fixed by long custom; and it was
exactly in the feeling that the pain inflicted
was a dreadful thing to contemplate that the
force of the sacrificial rite lay. In all civil-
ised countries to-day enormous suffering is
inflicted upon animals that the people may
be fed. Whether meat-eating is wise or de-
sirable is a question which may be lelt to
the vegetarians and their opponents; the
fact remains that in most countries the habit
of meat-eating has grown and is growing.
A Spartan might show himself the greatest
fighting-man of antiquity on a handful of
peas and an onion; the first men of the
desert who sharpened themselves into the
sword of Islam might prove themselves on
a diet of dates and water; the porters of a
past generation in the Canary Islands might
carry the heaviest loads ever put on the
shoulders of men and sustain themselves on
fruit • but none of these things touch the fact
that there is an enormous trade in meat,
which means an enormous trade m death and
suffering. The majority of the white people
of the world believe that they cannot get on
without meat; and there is untold agony to
supply that demand.
* * * *
Admitting that meat is necessary, and that
the agonies incidental to its supply are part
of the settled order of our civilisation, there
is very little difference between the sacrificial
offerings of the ancient world and the sacri-
fices of the modern slaughter-house. The
ancient rite was to provide a substitute m
the eyes of the Deity for man ; the modern
slaughter is to provide energy for man that
he may render the service due to the com-
munity. The provision of that energy should
be as sacred a thing to people in the modern
world as the idea of sacrifice was to those
in the ancient. If we must kill, let us at
least feel the weight of the killing. If we
must inflict agonies, let us at least remember
that we do inflict them. To say that the
trade in meat should cease might be absurd ;
but to say that it should be modified and
lifted above the merely sordid is not absurd.
As the business is now conducted, we not
only slaughter animals with little thought
of their sufferings; we regard them as merely
so much living money wholly at our disposal
to treat as we will. There is a Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but
what chance has such an organisation against
the universal trade in death? The owners of
sheep and cattle treat their wares specula-
tively from birth. Hunger and thirst for
long and dreadful periods are merely inci-
dents. Sheep are crowded on pastures in a
gamble With the weather; tormented on their
way to markets; huddled in railway trucks
for journeys which are unnecessarily long
and slow; and at last butchered with no
more thought for their agonies thap a busli-
man shows for the trees he cuts down. And
any effort made to lessen that suffering—by
country killing, for instance —invariably
meets with implacable and not generally un-
selfish opposition.
Extending the idea, all food is sacred.
The community of man arose out of the
necessity for combination in maintaining the
food supply of the race. The honest sweat
that goes to win our bread from the soil is
not a thing to be treated lightly. A country
like Australia, which holds the possibilities
of a food supply infinitely beyond its own
immediate requirements, is holding those pos-
sibilities as a trust for the race. Yet in
plain and sordid fact there is nothing which
we treat with such easy contempt. Half the
food put before Australians js either wasted
or spoiled in preparation, sometimes by the
manufacturer and dealer and sometimes by
those whose daily standards of living are
too loose to regard the maintenance of life
as worth a little trouble. Loaves of bread
are tossed about by unclean hands; the
deadly frying-pan makes a quick and evil
meal for the worker in homes where the
women have never given an honest thought
to their job. Overseas trade in foodstuffs
has been frequently crippled by wantonness
in handling and a disregard for the consumer.
Uncleanness, wrong labelling and careless
packing have been among the most notable
crimes of those who have placed a little im-
mediate- profit above the gaining of a perma-
nent repute for honest wares. Yet while these
things are done by those who hold the food
supplies of Australia in trust for the race,
cities have been starving for the very things
that too often we pollute or waste. Fortu-
nately our record is not entirely one of
blame. We have sent food products abroad
that are in good repute, and their worth
appears to be gaining fuller recognition; we
do send away vast quantities of the means
of life in decent shape and true to descrip-
tion ; but it is very much to be questioned
whether in the mind of any trader there has
been a serious difference made between the
demand for human food and that for some
other commodity of far less vital importance.
Yet if such a trader would see himself in
his true place, he is filling the mission of the
ancient priest—meeting the deepest needs
of these crowded years by saving the peoples
from despair. When, therefore, a British
Minister of the Crown seriously proposes to
consider whether the food produced in Aus-
tralia could not be sold at its cost price in
England, there is no reason why the pro-
posal should fail of a sympathetic hearing.
A more ideal proposition might be the pro-
hibition of the transference of food from land
to land, thus forcing the world’s populations
to seek their living in the lands where the
means of life actually exist. But that might
be beyond the realm of the practicable. On
the other hand, if Australia came to be re-
cognised as one of the great food-sources of
the British people, a new element of faith
and responsibility might be introduced which
would have an almost religious appeal. Cer-
tainly the moment the growing of grain and
the slaughter of food animals begins to take
on a higher significance, much of our lost
idealism will come back to us as naturally
and sweetly as the return of some lost spring.
A MACQUARIE CENTENARY.
One hundred years ago last Tuesday there
died at a London lodging a man to whom
Australia owes a great deal that is not so
widely remembered as it might be. Indeed,
had it not been for the fact that his own
peculiar vanity prompted him to print “Mac-
quarie” all over the map of Old Australia
and on many buildings there would exist
in the Commonwealth no memorial at all to
a man who had as much to do with the
sound laying of its foundations as any public
or private pioneer who has existed here, in
the century that has gone by since he died.
To no one but himself does he owe any out-
ward and visible sign that may recall to
posterity the debt of respect Australia should
have for his memory. Sydney has statues
of Captain Cook, of Governors Phillip and
Boukke, and of an assortment of more or less
valuable politicians and public men; but
neither statue, entablature nor architectural
memorial has been established to commemo-
rate the existence of a man who did more
for her, considering the means at liis com-
mand, than any other before or since his
time In the defence of his administration
forced upon him by criticism and censure
that time has proved to have been ungener-
ous and undeserved, Macquarie wrote in his
last years:—
I found the colony barely emerging from infan-
tile imbecility, suffering from various privations
and disabilities; the country impenetrable beyond 40
miles from Sydney; agriculture in a yet languishing
state; commerce in its early dawn; revenue unknown*;
threatened with famine, distracted by faction; the
public buildings in a state of dilapidation; the few
roads and bridges almost impassable; the popula-
tion in general depressed by poverty; no credit,
public or private; the morals of the great mass
of the population in the lowest state of debasement,
and religious worship almost entirely neglected.
He did not exaggerate, any more than when
he said: “I found New South Wales a gaol
and left it a colony; I found Sydney a vil-
lage and left it a city; I found a popula-
tion of idle prisoners, paupers and paid offi-
cials, and left a large free community, thriv-
ing in the produce of flocks and the labor
of convicts.”
The settlement along the Tank Stream
was, as he has said, nothing more than a
penal establishment. It was still more of
a camp than a town. There were 1100
houses in the district, but they were for the
most part slab huts with thatched or shingled
roofs. The most pretentious private resi-
dences were verandahed, two-storeyed brick
quadrilaterals, and only the best of them had
glass windows. Prison-like bolts to doors,
iron bars to all openings, and stout shutters
to windows were significant architectural de-
tails. Its buildings were placed almost any-
where and anyhow, sometimes bordering on
tracks that had been made through the scrub
by the First Fleeters 20 years before, occa-
sionally conforming to the semblance of
irregular streets without consistent alignment
or uniform width, but most often simply
occurring haphazard. The thoroughfares
were similar in only one or two respects—
they were bogs and quagmires in wet
weather, and were full of tree-stumps.
Phillip’s plan of a Sydney with 200-foot
streets and regular building allotments had
never materialised. The place to which he
gave a name had only enjoyed a painfully
neglected childhood. But when his Excel-
lency the Captain-General and Governor-in-
Chief in and over his Majesty’s Territory of
New South Wales came ashore from H.M.S.
Dromedary on that Sunday morning, the last
day of 1809, there also stepped out of the
boat the first Lord Mayor, Town Clerk, Min-
ister for Works and Inspector-General of
Police to be seen in Sydney, and the name
of each of them was Lachlan Macquarie.
In the opening 12 months of their adminis-
tration their energy and activities completely
altered the aspect of the place, changed it
from a bivouac into a borough, and made
possible the city which was to come after-
wards.
In the Sydney Gazette of October 10,
1810, Macquarie issued liis decree: —
His Excellency the Governor, being extremely desir-
ous to do everything in his power that can in the
least degree contribute to the ornament and regu-
larity of the town of Sydney, as well as to the Con-
veniences, Accommodation and Safety of the inhabi-
tants thereof, has already in prosecution of these
views divided- the town into five Separate Districts,
and has given directions for the Erecting immediately
of a proper Watch-house in Each District, for the
protection of the inhabitants from night robberies,
and for the more effectually securing the Peace and
tranouillity of the town, and apprehending all Dis-
orderly and ill-disposed Persons committing nightly
Depredations. . .
In further prosecution of these views His Excel-
lency also intends to establish a well-regulated and
Street System of Police in the town as soon as the
Watch-houses are completely finished.
As a necessary preparatory step to the proposed
arrangements His Excellency deems it Expedient to
give regular and permanent Names to all the Streets
and Ways leading through the town, and to order
posts and finger Boards, with the Names of the Streets
painted on them, to be erected in conspicuous parts
of the different Streets where they cross, each other,
as well as at their respective Terminations. .These
Posts and Finger Boards are accordingly to be imme-
diately put up, and the Streets are henceforth to be
known and called only by the new Names now given
them.... The following Plan containing the Names
and Description of the New Streets of the town of
•Sydney is now published for general information.
So ill-dressed rows with no proper align-
ment took on the character of regular high-
ways, uniform, if too narrow—at first 50
and then 60 feet was their ordained width.
Iligh-street, Spring-row and Sergeant-
Major’s-row became George-street, Pitt’s-row
became Pitt-street, King-street was created,
as were Market, Park, Macquarie and Bent
streets; Chapel-row was re-named Castle-
reagh-street, and Back-row East Phillip-
street; Bell-street was to be known as Hun-
ter-street, and South-street as O’Connell-
street; Bell-row changed itself to Bligh-
street. No allotment-holder was permitted
to trespass on a right-of-way. If houses
were not in their proper places their owners
were compelled to put them there. Com-
pensation was allowed to the n on-con tu-
macious. Those who opposed the alteration
and improvement of the town were sternly
ordered out, and their dwellings were demol-
ished. The Governor was only just in time.
As soon as he saw the place he recognised
the necessity of drastic re-arrangement, so
that its inevitable growth should not be ham-
pered and hindered. Had he not acted with
promptitude and determination it is difficult
to imagine what sort of a burgh would have
grown up on the south side of Port Jackson
—something that might well have been an
irremediable municipal nightmare. Cook
and Phillip deserve the statues that com-
memorate the foundation of British Aus-
tralia —or, if you like, the latter doesn’t alto-
gether deserve the sort he got—and Sir
Richard Bourke was not unworthy of his.
But if at any time the City of Sydney were
to consider the question of similarly com-
memorating its benefactors of the past, it
is altogether certain that no name should
precede that of Lachlan Macquarie. It is


literally true that he turned a gaol into the
makings of a city. It is not the perfect city,
but if it had not been for him it might easily
have become the most imperfect one that
was ever blessed with an incomparable situa-
tion.
J. H.M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Warning.
The Victorian farmers have repeated a
truth on which the half-Priministers should
ponder long—Labor doesn’t beat Cocky mem-
bers where there is preferential voting with
an “open go.” At four recent elections where
these conditions have obtained (i.c., in the
Commonwealth, Queensland, Westralia and
Victoria) it gained heavily at the expense
of the Nationalists in metropolitan and coun-
try-town electorates, but fared badly in its
arguments with the Country-party. The
only constituencies, indeed, in which it has
unseated Cockies are Greenough (W.A.).
where the Agrarian vote was split (even so
the old member, who had been repudiated by
the Farmers’ organisation, was beaten by a
microscopic majority) and Flinders (S.A.),
where the first-past-the-post rule enabled the
representative of a minority to win. The
fact is that the Country party gets a lot of
its support from agriculturists who used to
vote Labor and do still when they are re-
stricted to a choice between a Labor candi-
date (often a likeable character who lias
grown up in the district or worked on the
land himself) and some Nationalist. And
they are not to be dragooned into voting
otherwise by any after-dinner arrangement
that Mr. Bruce and Dr. Page, or Owen
Cox and Mr. Hunt, may make. If Bruce
is a wise man he will abandon the pact, let
country electors determine their own political
destinies and tell his Nationalists to get busy
in the dozen or more metropolitan and
country-town constituencies where they have
been losing ground ominously, and where his
Government’s fate will be decided. And it
wouldn’t be a bad scheme to acquire another
party designation—“ Nationalist” is a word
on which so many dreary old humbugs have
traded that people now shy at it.
Mcßook, the S.A. Labor Party’s Friend.
One of Charles Cameron Kingston’s
many services to South Australia was a
racing-reform measure which has stood the
test °f 30 years. Recognising the impos-
sibility of abolishing betting, the great demo-
crat sought to regulate the practice by resttrict-
it to racecourses controlled by amateur
C j U i s k.V protecting the punter against
odds-crampers, welshers and exploiters with
vested interests in glorified gambling-hells.
In that spirit lie had betting made illegal,
except on courses equipped with the totalisa-
tor, and permits to instal the machine were
denied by statute to clubs which had gone' or
thought of going into the business for what
their shareholders could make out of it.
IvtNGSTON's Totalisator Act saved thousands
of S.A. working-class homes from the un-
healthy excitement, knavery and misery asso-
ciated in other States with the starting-price
bookmaker and his trade. It cut out the
proprietary-course cancer and prevented the
gambling interest from becoming, as else-
where, an unsavory factor in local politics.
It S.A. racing is free from features which
have made the business abominable in parts
pervaded by Mcßook and the pony-club capi-
talist; if Adelaide manages with one meet-
njg a fortnight or thereabouts, as compared
w ith three or four a week in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane ; and if the Wheat State
punter can back his fancy with the reason-
able certainty that it isn’t owned or con-
trolled by some bookmaker, and that he will
get fair odds on the machine that never stif-
fens or ’takes the knock” (all of which is
indisputable), the credit is chiefly due to
Kingston’s Act. But if the State Labor
party has its way the good work will be un-
done. This party was supported at the
recent election by the parasites who make
furtive "books” in shops, back lanes and hotel
bars; and at least one of its prominent men
is on intimate terms with the Melbourne
pony plutocrat, Wren. Before the tumult
and the shouting had died it was reported in
Adelaide that the new Labor Government in-
tended licensing bookmakers as soon as it
got into its stride. Asked for a statement
on the subject, Jelley, the exuberant Chief
Secretary, denied that any definite decision
had been arrived at, but added significantly
that there is much to be said in favor of the
proposal on account of the crushing and
inconvenience suffered by. the investing
public on our racecourses.” It has
since been announced that the Parliamen-
tary Labor party has resolved to legalise
Mcßook by way of a private member’s bill,
which has been drafted already. If the
measure goes through both Houses it will
doubtless be followed by a removal of the em-
bargo on proprietary racing in the interest
ot Wren or some other “friend” of the work-
ers who has grown wealthy by exploiting
their weakness for horse-gambling. Then
the number of meetings will be doubled or
trebled; a sport that is comparatively decent
Mill be transformed into an unspeakably
sordid business; and starting-price betting
will become as big a curse to the Adelaide
wage-earners as it is to those of Sydney and
Melbourne. Also, the professional gambling
element will attach itself to the party that
preaches exalted ideals and is about to prac-
tise the deadliest sort of materialism; and
in process of time the tricks of the pony
trade _ will be introduced into Labor pre-
selections by ruffians who hover on the fringe
of the game,” as in N. S. Wales. Fortu-
nately, the spirit of Kingston is not quite
dead among the workers for whom he strove,
fhe Adelaide Trades and Labor Council has
lodged an ‘emphatic protest” against the
licensing of bookmakers on the ground that
such legislation would be detrimental to
working-class principles.” It will indeed
be more than detrimental to “working-class
principles ; it will be a betrayal of them.
♦
Army Pensions.
The most important part of Lieut.-General
Chauvel’s 1924 report as A.M.F. Inspector-
General dealt with pensions in the permanent
forces. But there are two aspects of the
military-pension question, both scandalous,
and any Australian Government that pro-
poses to take the long view on defence will
have to consider them together. The moment
the Armistice arrived —in some places, in
fact, as soon as it was realised that the Ger-
man effort had failed —a drive began against
sick and wounded members of the A.I.F.
Acting under political instructions, M.O.’s of
high rank began securing from Diggers writ-
ten admissions that their disabilities were
“not due to war service.” Thousands having
been got off the Government’s hand in this
manner, a start was made on the residue by
the creation of the Repatriation Commission.
Nominally, this Commission is unbiassed: it
has a so-called soldiers’ representative. Actu-
ally, all the members depend for the retention
of their highly-paid billets on the same
pliancy that so many M.O.’s had already dis-
played. The Commission is there chiefly to
pare down pensions in the interests of the
revenue. It performs this pious work by
making periodical examinations of the flotsam
and jetsam of the battlefield that still re-
mains six years after the finish of the fighting
' a duty which has the additional merit of
keeping the Commissioners’ jobs alive. Many
deserving sufferers are not drawing pensions
of any sort, owing to the Government’s
■slim” tactics at a time when the average
Digger did not realise either how ill he was
or how soon civilians cease to make allow-
ances for those who have been physically
handicapped in warfare. About 50 per cent,
of the others never know when their pen-
sions will lapse. The situation of the perma-
nent soldiers is almost equally unsatisfac-
tory. W.O.’s—men who both in peace and
war are constantly called on to help and
advise junior commissioned officers —receive,
m the bitter phrase of the Inspector-General,
"Pay below the basic wage of the laborer” ;
and they are retired at 60 with 12 months’
leave at this rate of pay—it is their sole
claim against the State. Commissioned offi-
cers come under a superannuation scheme
which may provide a captain retiring at 50
with _ about 16s. a week for the remainder
ot his days. These are among the chief
reasons why our permanent forces are being
shunned by good men, and they provide
deadly arguments for the internationalist
section in favor of leaving participation in
future wars to the classes that can afford to
be cast aside, like old boots, when they have
served the turn of the military authorities,
ao do the latter justice they are outraged at
the condition of many who gave all but their
lives to the nation’s cause. Roberts, Kit-
chener, Haig and some of our leaders, such
as Monash, have held forth indignantly at
different times on this subject ; but the poli-
ticians, who consider that more votes may
be won by supplying fit ex-soldiers with
gratuities than unfit ones with pensions, have
always been against the generals immediately
the danger appeared to have passed. No
economy could be more short-sighted. It is
neither necessary nor desirable for Australia
to support a large peace-time army; but it
must possess a military frame-work, and if
the material —more particularly in officers
and n.c.o.’s—is not of the best the force
might as well be disbanded for all the good
it is likely to do in a sudden crisis. And
with the recognition of this principle goes
the presumption that nothing in reason is
too much for men—volunteers especially-
who have come back from a war seriously
depreciated in a wage-earning capacity. The
only way to solve the first problem is to
initiate an adequate pay and pension sys-
tem for the permanent forces, as in the U.K.;
while the least that might be done in the
matter of the second is to wipe out the
lagging Repat. Commission and admit that
all those Diggers who at this time of day
are incapacitated, or half- or even quarter-
incapacitated, will be so for the rest of their
lives, and are entitled to permanent pensions
Notes and Queries.
Unless the Notes Board, which seems to
present a certain resemblance to a blind man
looking for his spectacles in the dark, can
find some way out of the currency muddle,
there will arise a demand that Australia
shall revert to the practice of letting the
joint-stoek banks issue their own notes, with
due regard to security, and, it is to be hoped,
cleanliness. (The cleanliness was very much
neglected in earlier days.) Maoriland sticks
to the old method, and makes a trifle by
taxing the issue, and is much better
supplied with change than Australia is:
nor are the banks driven to refuse loans
to solvent citizens on the grounds that
every new loan makes anew deposit, and
the amount of paper money on hand to
meet possible withdrawals is too small, and
more can’t be got even though Government
bonds and gold are offered as security. The
latest figures available showed that the
amount of paper money actually circulating
in Australia was about £4 Bs. per inhabitant,
while in Maoriland it was a shade over £6.
In addition the Australian banks had another
£2 7s. or so per head to play with, not count-
ing the swag of foolish £IOOO notes which
are not useful currency. Considering the
vast number of branches over which this had
to be spread to keep business going, it wasn't
an amount with which big things could be
done. Maoriland had apparently another
£lO or more per inhabitant which could be
lent out if good security was offered, and if
someone desired to start anew industry or
enlarge an old one, and thus add to the
profits and wages bill of the islands. A
Maoriland bank may issue as many notes as
it pleases provided it holds 6s. Bd. in the £
in coin and 13s. 4d. per £ in Government
securities against them. They are also a
first charge against all assets, so the security
is of the best. At the date of the figures
quoted the M.L. banks had very large unused
issuing powers, and between money in circula-
tion and money in reserve Smith didn’t fail
to get the cash for his new- factory because
his bank was short of the commodity, but
only because it was short of confidence in
Smith. The M.L. system can’t lead to in-
flation, because even if the currency does
rise suddenly the surplus notes wander
back to the institutions which issued
them, and they become waste paper
—neither assets nor liabilities—until, or
unless, they go out again. Government
notes which are lying idle in a joint-stock
bank figure as an asset in its balance-sheet,
and if there are too many of them, and they
are of the non-convertible sort, they may
become a suspicious asset; but its own un-
used notes never do. When the promise to
pay in sovereigns on the face of the Govern-
ment’s paper becomes a fiction there are two
obvious risks. First, there is the rare chance
that the people in charge may be unduly
cautious or stupid, and may not issue enough
to keep business going as it might otherwise
go. Second, there is the exceedingly common
chance that they may issue too much, with
the result that the old shilling cab-ride be-
comes worth £2, and this state of affairs be-
comes more aggravated till, money being of
no perceptible value, the cab stops running,
so that business is damaged worse that way
than the other. Seeing that the Australian
banks held 5j millions’ worth less notes
early this year than in 1919 with which to
confront 55 millions’ w r orth more liabilities,
the talk about “lack of elasticity” in the
Australian system certainly wears a sem-
blance of plausibility.
♦
The Homicide in the Car.
vr ,u s a rare thing t 0 P ick lI P a Sydney or
Melbourne newspaper nowadays and not
light on a brief item about the slaving of a
child or elderly person by a motor-car. In-
cluded in the Sydney bag in the week before
this was writteh were:—
.•A hoy of H knocked down in Petersham. He
died of concussion and shock.
A boy of seven knocked down in Lindfield. Death
was due to a fractured skull.
A woman of 50 knocked down in the Parramatta-
road. Cause of death, concussion and injuries to the
lungs.
On the day the woman perished the law
decided to assert itself :
t> S - Compton, of Carlton, was, at the Kogarah
i oliee Court, fined £8 for exceeding the speed limit
when driving a motor-car. Compton raced the car
over the intersection of Test-street and Frost-road
at a speed of 30 miles per hour. He disregarded
two discs showing the crossing pace was four miles
per hour, and was blind to the traffic-officer’s signal
to stop.
There are circumstances in which a high
rate of speed is more or less excusable. But
most of the public menaces who are mak-
ing the populous areas as dangerous as
battlefields to those with any sort of physi-
cal handicap have no legitimate reason for
haste. They are simply tearing from one
drink to another, so to speak. It is ques-
tionable if. the death of one healthy Aus-
tralian child is worth all the time saved by
all the speeding motorists of the Common-
wealth in a year; but however that may be
the slaughter of innocents which is proceed-
ing at present is an economic disaster—to
make no mention of the sentimental aspect
of the question. To fine a man or woman
affluent enough to own and run a motor-
car £8 for conduct which in effect is equi-
valent to bomb-throwing is so farcical that
the magistrate responsible for it ought to
be relieved of further attendance on the
Bench until he gets things in better perspec-
tive. The legal definition of manslaughter
is “unlawful homicide without malice afore-
thought.” Said Lord Coleridge :
If a person will, without taking proper precautions,
do an act which is in itself dangerous, even though
not an unlawful act in itself, and if in the course of
it he kills another person, he does a criminal act
which in law constitutes manslaughter.
Arguing from that basis a driver who acts
as John Compton did deserves at least six
months. But homicidal conduct in a car
has somehow come to be regarded as in a
different category from any other sort of
homicidal conduct; and there is greater
social danger in that than at first meets the
eye. It is, in short, by just such official
favors to the apparently rich that civil
strife and revolutions are produced.
♦
“The Ponies” and the A.J.C.
The ideal as regards pony-racing in N. S.
\A ales is, no doubt, that it should be wiped
right out. It makes no pretence of improv-
ing the breed of the animal that is still an
essential of warfare: a pony strain is the
last feature to be desired in gun-horse or
charger. It causes great misery in working-
class homes. And it is an increasing evil :
from small beginnings it has grown during
a few years into a gambling-hell of an esti-
mated value of half a million sterling. Con-
cerns of that magnitude are in a position to
offer Parliamentarians big inducements to
stand by them, so it may be assumed that,
barring miracles, pony-racing will continue
in a State that would recoil from the thought
of a casino with roulette and trente-et-
quarante rooms, after the Continental
fashion. However, public opinion is insis-
tent that something must be done, and that
the mildest acceptable palliative is A.J.G.
control. Two instances may be cited as.
showing the difference in the moral standards
of registered and proprietary racing respec-
tively. Bailie, who at one time trained
David, was called before the A.J.C. com-
mittee on suspicion of dummying (by no
means a heinous offence), and as his explana-
tion was unsatisfactory he was deprived of
his trainer’s license. At about the same time
this passage was occurring before the Pony
Commission :
Counsel: You are associate-editor of Sydney
Sportsman, and you are out to keep racing clean"?
Witness: Yes.
You have said certain things shout Skelton and
his horses?
Yes, very definite things.
You are here protected as a witness. Why did
you not publish that statement in the paper f
I have over and over again severely criticised the
running of his horses and he has not dared to come
at us.
The least the public has a right to expect
of the proprietor of a gaming establishment
is that, when a croupier is “severely criti-
cised” for his handling of the rake, he shall
clear the atmosphere by a public denial of
the charge. If an A.J.C. trainer were libelled
in his profession—not over and over again,
this Sydney Sportsman claims that
Skelton was, but once merely—it may be
assumed, from the attitude adopted in' the
Bailie matter, that there would be action
The trainer would have to establish his in-
nocence or change his calling. No such con-
vention exists in pony-racing; till it is intro-
duced the public will remain wholly unpro-
tected against dishonesty; and nothing is
clearer than that it will never be introduced
till the A.J.C. takes charge of the insanitary
business. The only paper in N. S. Wales that
supports the perpetuation of the present sys-
tem issued the strongest argument it could
think of against A.J.C. control a few davs
ago^
... on . e ~o f the things that, apparently, has not struck
the followers of pony racing who have been advo-
eating that they should be taken under the wing of
the A.J.C. is the fact that this move would pro-
bably be attended by a very considerable loss of
dates upon which to race. Probably the registered
courses would retain the Saturdays, leaving the
Wednesdays for ponies, and it is unlikely that per-
mits would be granted to race on any other day.
This pre-supposes that out of the 72 days'
racing per annum now indulged in by the
proprietary clubs only 22 will be lopped off.
But if the commonsense and sense of decency
of the community is to be interpreted, the
pruning will be far harder. Week-day rac-
ing is a curse and an anomaly in a country
that has to work for its living: if the pony
business were allowed to function on a
selected number of Saturdays and public
holidays, amounting to perhaps 30 in all,
the legitimate gambling needs of the popu-
lace would be more than met. In approach-
ing this question sight should never be lost
of the fact that the pony-courses—whether
run villainously as now, or reputably as they
might be under other direction —have no
claim to be considered worthier, nationally
or economically, than legalised two-up or
pitch-and-toss “schools.”
Labor in Daily Journals.
Returning from the funeral, an old friend
of the departed soliloquises:—
Hobart World, which changed its name from the
Daily Post when Labor Papers, Ltd., took it over
six years ago, has passed quietly away, negotiations
for its sale as a going concern having come to
naught. The plant, which includes a job-printing
outfit, is now being sold piecemeal. As the Speck
is without a Labor paper of any sort (for the first
time in 31 years), and as the Labor Government is
not so firmly fixed in office that it can afford to
depend wholly upon anti-Labor journals for propa-
ganda space, it seems likely that an effort will be
made to secure sufficient of the World machinery
to set up a small Labor weekly capable of expan-
sion into a daily propaganda sheet on special occa-
sions. And, after all, it is questionable whether a
Labor weekly with an unfettered punch is not a
more effective champion of Labor programmes and
principles than any daily. Before Tasmania owned
a Labor daily there were as many Laborites in
Parliament as there are to-day. And every one of
the States, bar one, achieved substantial Labor Gov-
ernments without daily newspaper aid.
Even in Queensland, where the Labor daily appears
to have been a less conspicuous white elephant than
usual, the animal has got away with a heap of
provender which probably would not have been
available but for the fact that so many of its owners
have been for eight years in control of Government,
positions necessitating a maintenance of appearances.
Probably £IOO,OOO would fail to cover the loss
of good Labor money in daily papers in Australia.
The same amount expended in setting up co-operative
union ventures in more simple and familiar indus-
tries would have stood a much better chance of show-
ing a profit, besides providing consumers with better:
commodities than those supplied under the clock-
watching wage system. But of course working
steadily at a job they understood, and gradually
feeling their way into the mysteries of successful
business management, was not spectacular enough for
brilliant and impetuous Labor leaders like Billy
Hughes and Bill Holman. It was Hughes and
Holman who, spurning the advice and ignoring the
lack of support of the older and more cautious
trade unionists of N. S. Wales, started Australia’s
first Labor-daily venture, the short-lived Daily Post.
Another Billy of that period, Lane, the only one
of the bunch who knew’ anything of the newspaper
business and Labor’s limitations in connection there-
with, builded better, with the union-owned and
-controlled and -subsidised Worker (Brisbane), fol-
lowed shortly after by the Worker (Sydney) on
practically the same lines. Lane’s view w’as that
the time was far from ripe for the entry of Labor
into the risky and highly technical.business of selling
the daily news for profit. Judging by visible re-
sults the passing of a quarter-century still leaves the
time a bit on the green side.
Certainly it may be claimed that the money spent
on Labor-daily ventures is not all loss—-that these
papers, so far and so long as they went, exercised a
restraining influence on those established dailies
whose arrogant attitude towards everything Australian
was a standing insult to democratic ideals. In one
way it may be said that the £IOO,OOO spent by the
workers in running their own news supply lias com-
pelled the anti-Labor journals to spend at least an
equal amount to meet the competition. Which
means, a better and a better-mannered new’s service
for the pennies of the community. It can also be
shown that party rancor has been considerably modi-
fied. In this connection the A.J.A. has proved a
mighty mingler and modifier, and no longer is it
expected of a newspaper employee that he shall be.
or pretend to be, of the identical political or social
or religious color of the paper that. buys his labor.
News-faking, suppression or mutilation of a political
opponent’s speeches, and the manipulation of cable
messages in the interests of certain trade or political
juntas—all these, rife enough a few years ago, were
made impossible by the advent of Labor dailies in
at least three Australian cities. The nebessary co-
operation of all daily papers in cables, to keep down
the cost, has left the most rabid party organ with
nothing to manipulate but the cable headings. Actual
suppression of unfavorable news and views from
overseas is no longer possible. Perhaps the healthy
habit of supplying unadulterated new’s, which the
presence of Labor dailies has forced on the estab-
lished sheets, will be continued. There is no cer-
tainty, indeed, that Labor’s next daily champion will
be absolutely owned by organised Labor. The fact
that at least half the total number of Australian
electors hold Labor views, and will accord general
support to any paper which gives prominence to those
Mews, has not escaped the attention of those whose
business in life is to purvey the daily news of the
world to all who are willing to buy that news sand-
wiched between business advertisements. Already
we see the beginnings of the change in the so-called
Labor Notes” published by most of the daily papers.
*
Conference Up to Date.
The American convention which nominated
Calvin Coolidge as Republican Presidential
candidate was run “with all the latest effects”
and some new’ ones. The “old familiar
am * worn-out slogans” were bright-
rill playing of bands and orchestras,
floodings with colored lights, singing of songs
and choruses, quarter-hour “good-feeling de-
monstrations,” marchings, chants, whistles
cinema lights and various other features!
The deadbeat phrases and slogans we know
well, and some of the other features have
a familiar odor; but there seem to be points
on which Australian Labor-party managers
are not quite up to the minute. And as the
pnrty is quite willing to adopt any unreason-
able suggestion as long as it isn’t Australian
some bright young Meatwrap reporter’s


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS - - £300,000
FUNDS EXCEED - - - - - - - - - - - £875,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT and PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, J.P., Governing Director.
Representatives wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
account of next conference may read like
this:—
UNIONISTS’ EASTER EGG
NOT UP TO STANDARD OF CURATE’S.
The Easter Conference of the A.L.P.
was held in Boom No. 13 at the Trades
Hall. When the doors were opened it
was found that an Australian flag had
been left, there from a previous function.
Not many delegates saw it before it
was hurriedly removed, and the
awkward incident passed almost un-
noticed. A large spike had been driven
into each of the wall panels, to show
that they were fixed.
The proceedings commenced with
“The Red Flag,” each delegate being
requested to sing it in his own
language. The effect was novel. The
chairman’s gavel bore the word
“Strike,” and every time he called for
order it came down on a wooden effigy
of Australian Industry. Frequently
several delegates were on their feet and
talking at once. When the tumult be-
came unmanageable, however, at a sign
the band played “God Save the King,”
and all delegates were instantly on
their hams.
Much attention was attracted by tableaux staged by
the investigation committee. They represented, in
three stages, a body drifting down the Red Sea —(a)
The Movement I Was, (b) The Movement I Am, and;
(c) The Movement. 1 soon Shall Be.
“THE MEATWRAP”
at the conference.
A delegate at the A.L.P. Conference
emphasised his points by striking one
fist with a tightly-wrapped copy of
The Meatwrap held in the other.
Delegates recognised The Meatwrap,
and cheered it to the echo.
The 135th report on the ballot-box inquiry was
preceded by the trombone solo “Sliding Jim,” and
was received by the delegates standing - , with bowed
heads and closed noses.
The reports on the selection ballots indicated that
they were genuine in parts, but there was some
disagreement as to which parts. Eventually it was
decided to elect an executive, corresponding in
number to the State electorates, the members of this
executive to be the selected and endorsed candidates;
all others to be considered as expelled from the
Movement; any member questioning this decision to
b i fined £ 50.
A collection for the fighting fund was taken up
while harpers accompanied the Softly-sung anthem
“I Hate You — I—No, 1 —No, I Love You, Mr. Booze!”
Before the close of conference a notice was flashed
on a screen:—
READ “THE MAZURKA” REGULARLY—
Don’t Bea Week Behind the Party’s Policy.
The last • motion submitted was one to find a
means of closer unity within the Movement. On
this the delegates split into five factions, each of
which expelled the other four. The conference broke
up singing “Solidarity For Ever.”
The Results in Victoria.
The unexpected rarely happens at Victorian
elections, and there were no surprises at the
affair of last week. Labor wrested a few
seats from the Nationalists; the five Lib-
erals who broke away from the Government
over the Redistribution of Seats Bill were
returned with imposing majorities; and the
Country party polled strongly, and will hold
the balance of power. All this was generally
anticipated; indeed, General Anticipation
got nearer the mark than General Prender-
gast, who —still an optimist at 70, despite
27 years in Opposition—apparently per-
suaded himself at the last moment that his
party would acquire a majority. At all
events, McNamara, his election organiser,
announced on polling-day that "we will gain
at least ten new seats, and I think we have
a sporting chance of winning at least five
others.” In point of fact, Prendergast’s
party gained Ballarat East (by eight votes
out of 7226 polled), Bendigo West (by 174
out of 6646), Bulla (by 176 out of 7205),
Daylesford (by 231 out of 5039), Prahran
and Essendon, both Labor seats at one time,
as also was Bendigo West. It failed to
annex East Melbourne, which it had reck-
oned among its certainties, and was sub-
stantially beaten in the other Nationalist
and Cocky electorates it essayed to win;
moreover, its 1921 majorities were reduced
from 415 to 118 in Glenelg, from 968 to 500
in Dundas, and from 364 to 285 in Gren-
ville. Only in Essendon, where a minority
of 2161 was converted into a majority of
2246, was there any substantial turnover of
votes in Labor’s favor, and it is doubtful if
the party would have fared any better had
it been given the equal electorates for which
it longs—or says it does. As often happens
in these cases, the distribution of seats —
bad as it is, and savagely as it has been de-
nounced —did the Opposition no harm. Among
its results are that a Nationalist, Liberal or
Cocky represents 63,123 peonle in Boroon-
dara, 35.932 in St. Ivilda, 30.536 in Brigh-
ton (there was no Labor candidate in any
of these constituencies), 32.143 in Haw-
thorn, 24,441 in Toorak, 21,313 in Swan
Hill and 19 505 in Dandenong. On the
other hand, 4256 persons have a Labor mem-
ber in Grenville. 5192 in Warrenheip. 6185
in Daylesford. 6360 in Maryborough, 6704 in
Dalhousie, 7313 in Port Fairy, 7738 in Mel-
bourne, 8204 in Bendigo East and 8256 in
Dundas. Of course, the distribution is utterly
abominable, and should be scrapped in favor
of some such compromise scheme as the
division of the 20 Victorian Federal elec-
torates into 60 State electorates, metropoli-
tan constituencies to have one-fifth more than
the quota and country constituencies one-
fifth less, so far as it could be arranged—
and due regard would have to be paid to the
community-of-interests factor. But it would
probably take an elective- Ministry to get
that sort of redistribution placed on the
Statute Book. And aii elective Ministry is
not likely to arrive early in the Vic. Assem-
bly, although it would be the best thing
that could happen.
Apprenticeship in Queensland.
The Apprenticeship Office of the Depart-
ment of Labor explains the position in
Queensland: —
Under the present regulations any boy wishing to
become an apprentice must register with the Direc-
tor of Labor for any trade he desires, and any em-
ployer willing to employ an apprentice may take any
boy whose name appears on the Register. Every
boy is given the right to select his own trade, and
on being registered is allowed to seek a position
for himself. Should he find a position he is allotted
on three months’ probation, at the end of which, if
satisfactory, he is indentured. It is found that
most boys desire to become motor mechanics, elec
tricians or fitters and turners. Any boy choosing
one of these trades is advised of the difficulty of
finding employment, but if he still desires registra-
tion in that trade no obstacle is placed in his way.
THE WORST OF ’EM ALL THIS WEATHER.
SENATOR SOAPBOX: “We shall get rid of Bolshevism, Socialism, Anarchism and
Sovietism.”
ANCIENT VOTER : “While yer on the job, Mister, yer might chuck in rheumatism."
The office takes every opportunity to advise boys to
enter proper avenues of employment. • A corres-
pondent (B. 19/6/’24) complained that should
a boy desire to become a fitter he is
made a carpenter, or vice versa. This state of
affairs never existed in Queensland; but some solu-
tion of the difficulty caused by boys all seeking
employment in three trades only had to be found.
The Apprenticeship Board has therefore advised all boys
who have passed the examination and selected motor
mechanics, electrical work or fitting and turning to
consider other trades. The result of this advice
has been that many a boy has been placed in a
skilled trade other than that of his selection, always
to his advantage. The Apprenticeship Regulations
give the committees power to deal with the training
of apprentices in the workshop and in college classes,
and the scheme in Queen land is working satisfac-
torily from the points of view of the employer, the
parent and the apprentice. The question of appren-
ticeship is not a local one. It is world wide. And
in Queensland t-.ere are numbers of men, both
employers and employees, who are unselfishly giving
their time for the benefit of the boys in order that
Queensland may have a sufficient supply of skilled
tradesmen.
Black Brother of the North.
From The Bulletin’s old contributor
“Platman”
Every word set down by that North Queensland
writer on Black Brother (B. 12/6/’24) can be en-
dorsed by those who have spent much time in the
remote parts that climb up towards Cape York.
In 1912 I sent in a report to the Government on the
eonditicn? Of natives about Lloyd’s Bay. It was a
very frank document, and had so much effect that
Appel, then Home Secretary, spoke of having a
hospital established on Tnursday Island for the treat-
ment of venereal disease and leprosy, both of which
were rampant amongst the natives. But the 1914
elections intervened, and, though the diseases are
worse rather than better, the subject has never since
been mentioned.
In 1910-11 a party of Swedish scientists arrived in
Australia and visited Mornington Island in pursuit of
their study of anthropology. On their return to Bris-
bane they made an earnest an 1 pathetic appeal to
the Government to declare the island a sanctuary for
the aborigines. Unknowingly they did the blacks a
bad turn, for soon afterwards the Protector of
Aborigines poked his nose into the island, and called
further attention to the nitives, who previously had
lived their natural life practically unmolested. Then
followed, as usual, the missionary, and the natives
were handed over to the care of the Presbyterian
society. Not satisfied with dealing w’ith the island
natives, they must needs bring Burketown Peter and
one or tw T o of bis mates over to the island. Result:
Hey, the principal, was killed by Petek, and another
White missionary was wounded. Peter was trans-
ported to Yarrabah, where “Cbstus,” of the N.Q.
Register, later, saw him sitting on a rock, solitary
and suffering from that nostalgia which takes its
most virulent form in the Australian black. Later
he was transferred to St. Helena, from which he
escaped on a raft; and rather than be saved by the
Wyreema, which tried to pick him up, he dived cff
his frail float and drowned himself.
The only man who seems to have had any real suc-
cess as a missionary on the Queensland coast is
Schwartz, at Cape Bedford. From Cooktown to Cape
Flattery the niggers come to him —and “go bush”
when the spirit moves them. For over 40 years he
has lived amongst them, and no man in Australia
understands or can deal with them better. lie
is never guilty of the unforgivable cruelty of holding
them in captivity.
*
“R.G.N.C.” on progress in education: —
Irrepressible James Barrett, Melbourne's chair-
man of all sorts of movements, has dared Mrs.
Grundy in her home town by issuing a new “educa-
tive” film which, under the title of “The Gift of
Life,” tells with remarkable frankness the story of
birth. By means of actual moving pictures where
practicable, otherwise with clever diagrams, the
phenomena of reproduction are pursued from the
dividing amoeba and budding yeast plant, through
water-scums, fish-spawn and birds, to mammals and
man. With regard to the birds, development of life
is actually photographed day by day and week by
week until the chick is seen to break its shell and
emerge into life. With flowers a diagram “acts”
the sexual procedure from fertilisation to bursting cf
the seed vessel; diagram and photograph are com-
bined to show the reproductive processes of fish and
rabbit. In dealing with the human action an actual
uterus is photographed. With a few strokes of a
crayon by the “moving Anger’’ on the screen a
female form is sketched around the photographed
organ to indicate its position in the body, and
thenceforward the Aim returns to section and dia-
gram. A series of parallel studies show the relatic e
progress of development in a seed of maize, a chick
and a child—thus exemplifying the similarity of
Nature’s ways. The whole series is fascinating, not,
only biologically, but as a feat in handling a difli-
cult subject and as an excursion in cinematography.
A huge mixed audience, much of it composed of
young folks gathered casually froi* the street,
watched a Sunday Aiming with close and respectful
attention. The whole incident was remarkable. It
was noteworthy, however, that the producer of the
Aim —an American zoologist and publicist daring
as he was, did not dare all. He eschewed all pie-
sentation of the male element, from the Ash stage
onward, in photograph or diagram. Brave as it is
in invading a very difficult terrain, “The Gift of
Life” Aim therefore leaves a certain sense of unful-
Alment. It is, nevertheless, a very valuable contri-
bution to education. And later it may be possible
to go further without administering too great a
shock.
♦
“Saaedi” : “Corriedale” doesn't improve his
ease for the crossbred sheep. (B. 19/6/24)
by vague claims concerning its capabilities
as a woolgrower. What he aims at suggest-
ing, obviously, by generalities rather than
specific instances, is that crossbreds are nearly
equal to merinos as wool-producers. In
isolated cases, no doubt, crossbreds possess-
ing a high percentage of merino blood might
be shown to be superior as wool-producers to
inferior merinos; but there is no compari-
son between the two types in this respect
if you can call crossbreds a type. In the
16 years from 1906 to 1922, the highest price
paid for merino wool in N. S. Wales lias
exceeded the highest price paid for cross-
bred wool by from Bd. per lb. (season ’OB- 09)
to 30Id. (’2O-’2l). Further than this, the
average disparity in weight of wool produced
per head has been nearly as great, the differ-
ence being in favor of the merino always.
In the matter of meat-production no one
doubts the superiority of the crossbred. What
is distinctly doubtful, in view of the chronic
depression of the meat market, is whether
much value can be placed on such superiority.
It may be. granted, as “Corriedale” asserts,
that large tracts of inferior pastures are
more suitable to the crossbred than to the
merino, and that in many cases crossbreds
might pay better than cattle in such areas ;
it would certainly be hard for them to pay
worse. But the point is this, that the cross-
breds’ superiority to the bullock is almost
entirely due to the former’s capacity to pro-
duce wool. For this reason lie might dis-
place cattle with profit, but he certainly can-
not displace an animal that produces better
wool and more of it. The popularity of the
crossbred of late years may be partly attri-
buted to the fact that he is a much easier
animal to produce and preserve than the
merino. And somehow we incline nowadays
towards easy methods of doing things.
♦—
“Cartot” : The law permits grocers as well
as chemists to sell certain medicinal prepara-
tions, and obviously there are many of such
compounds which require no technical know-
ledge or skill for their handling. But it, is
questionable whether persons without medical
or chemical knowledge should be allowed to
sell such “lines” as gland extracts. There
are certain cases in which such extracts may
do considerable, even irreparable, harm. Yet
the better-known ones are sold by grocers
with the same freedom that Epsom salts are
handed over the counter, and I once heard a
country storekeeper “prescribing” thymus-
gland extract as an excellent remedy for
headaches. In their own way these prepara-
tions can be nearly as deadly as strychnine,
and they should be handled accordingly.
♦
“Chant Pagan” puts in a word for the Don :
Apropos the immigration of Italians into Aus-
tralia, I believe there is a much more promising
stream that might be tapped if Australian-bound
steamers would call in at Vigo and Cadiz. In
spite of bull-Aghts, the Armada, the Inquisition,
Charles Kingsley, and the Spanish army in Morocco,
I have always found the dinkum Spaniard a real
white man, with a good knowledge of sheep and
cattle. As for his pioneering capacity, he planted
settlements which are still going strong all over
America south of Mexico, and did it in less time than
it has taken us to wander from Sydney to the
Arafura Sea. He has a liking for “los Ingleses.”
and he has preserved his national courtesy, which
should count in his favor. Admittedly he looks
askance at machinery; if he can get an hexagonal
shafting to turn round in an oval bearing, it is quite
good enough for him. But he is an artist in all
classes of leather work and in some classes of textile
work; and he is an A 1 man among brick and stone.
He also knows how to build a house that will keep
cool in the hottest of climates. It is sometimes
objected that he will live on the smell of an oil rag.
But when I am eating the spuds and mutton dished
out by the “doctor” on a M.L. station, I think with
longing about the salads, olives, lemons and fried
chicken that I should be getting in a similar posi-
tion among “los Espafioles.”


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches- and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Wellington, New Zealand.
The Extraordinarily high reputation achieved by Tilling-
Stevens Motors Ltd., in England, is now being recognised in
Australia.
The Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board have just
given their first order for
12 Tilling-Stevens Petrol-
Electric Chassis.
A vehicle with a Tilling-Stevens Chassis was recently exhibited
in London which had put up a mileage record of 286,500 and is
still in good condition!
Concessionaires:
GUTHRIBGE LIMITED, Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Having lost half a dozen supporters, and
having on his flank five candid friends, Vic.
Premier Peacock has made up his mind to
let the new Assembly decide the Ministry’s
fate. Cocky-leader Allan has thrown out
a Barkis-is-willin’ hint about another com-
posite Ministry, but the Premier wants to
give Prendergast the chance, for which he
is itching, to move another no-confidence
motion—the ninety-ninth or thereabouts. If
Labor gets the k.o. in the first round, bar-
gaining for a composite team will begin.
In ’l7, Peacock, just back from a general
election, handed over command to John
Bowser. Within four months the House had
thrown him out and put Lawson (who had
been Peacock’s lieutenant) in charge for
six years; and the Kookaburra hasn’t for-
gotten it.
The mauling of the Nationalists at the
Vie. Assembly election is an omen of, disaster
to the Bruce-Page pact, in its present form
at least. It transpires that the Westralian
delegates to the Federal Cocky conference,
which adjourned without coming to a deci-
sion, were instructed to vote against the
arrangement. The S.A. Agrarians are also
hostile, and the Speck’s objections were
voiced by McWilliams, cx-M.H.R. for Frank-
lin, who has a personal grievance besides.
Queensland and N. S. Wales are favorable—
the Ma State Country organisation has a
high opinion of Bruce, while sternly dis-
approving of Fuller—but the Vic. Farmers’
Union is divided, and after what happened
on June 26, Stewart, M.H.R., and Dun-
stan, M.L.A., are likely to gain support for
their contention that ratification will be a
cheap way of buying trouble. Meantime
the V.F.U. paper and the official organs in
two other States are saying the harshest
things about the pact.
The new Minister of Trade and Customs
made a good beginning. Britain has abol-
ished the speck of preference it used to
grant this country. In view of this, Pratten
said it was doubtful whether Australia
should continue giving preference to British
goods. (Discontinuance, of course, will not
prevent resumption when the other party
gets a lucid or friendly interval.) The
British mercantile class, Australia is told,
puts little value on the preference which
Australia gives it, at much loss of revenue and
some damage to our own industry. If the
British community is right, it won’t feel the
loss when the concession is stopped. If it
is wrong, the stoppage will give it a chance
to learn better sense. Anyhow, whether the
other party is Ram Mac in England or
Ram Bhux in India, nothing is gained by
acquiring a reputation for being kicked
with impunity.
So much time is devoted now in N.S.W.
Labor circles to pre-selection that there is
little left for high thinking and noble action.
To an Industrial Conference the other day
Mr. Garden, of the Labor Council, said that
last year “crook” ballot papers were used at
every metropolitan selection. So it was re-
solved that the final authority in the choice
of men to carry the party banner should be
an Electoral College, its members chosen by
a variety of Labor bodies. Said collegians
are to be robed in spotless white, and pure
as a young snowball. They are not to allow
themselves to be canvassed or bribed; but
how anyone will find out if they do, and
what will happen to them if they do, are
mysteries. Each applicant for nomination
is to bring to the College a nomination paper
signed by 200 members of a union or branch,
not including any dummies, ghosts, hired
supporters or forged signatures, if such can
be kept out. Some people are sanguine about
the reform, and some think that the end
will be the same as the beginning, only more
complicated.
Solemn Lang, who moves the monthly no-
confidence resolution when the N. S. Wales
Assembly is sitting, was nearly deprived of
the privilege last week by Tom Mutch, of
Botany. He was one down in the first
Parliamentary Labor ballot for the election
of a leader, but was saved by being the
second choice of two supporters of Stuart
Robertson. Meanwhile the welkin has been
dented by cries that the Cootamundra pre-
selection, the first held under the new A.L.P.
regime, (i.e., the “reform” crowd, with which
Lang is identified), was as bad as any-
thing denounced by the purificationists, and
there are demands for a campaign to reform
the reformers.
There is an impression in the Speck that
Premier Lyons is looking longingly towards
the Commonwealth Parliament. Lyons has
done pretty well without a working majority,
but he would be more comfortable with one,
and under the island’s freakish electoral sys-
tem the article is very hard to get. At last
election the Nationalists polled 1800 more
No. 1 votes in Denison than the Laborites,
yet the parties got three seats each. Some
of Lyons’s followers are lamentably weak,
and one of his colleagues is proving difficult
to manage. To an easy-going man thus bur-
dened with worries the prospect of a safe
Senate seat is tempting.
South Aus. having acquired a different
Government, a fresh attempt is to be made
to roll the log of the Port Augusta-Hay
railway. The latest proposition is that if
S.A. will allow the line to be built, the
Commonwealth will extend the South-to-
North railway as far as Alice Springs. Ex-
Premier Barwell’s attitude was that S.A.
GLAD TIDINGS.
“Asked if any new money was available to the Queensland Government in London, Mr. Theodore
replied; ‘I cannot say anv more than that we have access to the London market for new loans at
the current rate of interest.’”
THE VILLAGE INEBRIATE: “I’ve had a skinful; and, what’s more, the boss is ready to
serve me again any time I care to write him another IOU.”
wasn’t taking any more Federal bargains till
the old promissory-note to connect North and
South was honored, and probably his succes-
sor will feel likewise.
The “thousand houses” scheme of the
S.A. Labor Government has been given a lift
by contractor Joseph Timms, who says he
is able and willing to tackle the lot. ‘ Ten-
de.rs were asked for in batches of anything
from 10 to 1000, the State Bank having the
handling of the scheme. There were two
tenders for the whole lot, one at £692 per
house and Timms’s at £636—in brick. How-
ever, Owen Smyth, who was for over 40
years Superintendent of Public Buildings in
Adelaide, is sceptical. “Where,” he asks,
“are the skilled mechanics — bricklayers
especially—to come from ? Is the Govern-
ment going to make them? The making
ought to have been started a quarter of a
century ago, and kept going ever since and
always. But the dog-in-the-manger system
adopted by weak Governments kowtowing to
the Trades and Labor people so curtailed
apprenticeships to the skilled building trades
that now one may seriously ask where the
bricklayers are to be procured for the actu-
ally essential work of S.A.”
A brisk little spasm of railway-building is
being engineered for the Monaro district of
N. S. Wales. In fact, it seems possible that a
time will come when Monaro will be joined
on to almost every place except its adjacent
port of Eden. The Federal figure man
occasionally sorts out the oversea trade of
each State, dividing it up between the capi-
tal, the next place (the next two places in
S.A.’s case) and “other ports.” The last
N.S.W. record was: Sydney, £87,795,617;
Newcastle, £3,483,155; “other ports,”
£55,217. Even Victoria contrived to do
£1,394,751 worth of foreign commerce at
“other ports.”
The Speck’s useful Statistician, Major
Giblin, speaking at Hobart the other day,
mentioned some of the difficulties that met
the statistician. For instance, the rate of
Australian exchange, which local exporters
were finding very high, was puzzling many
perfectly sane citizens. For the last four
years the excess of imports had been shown
to be about £33,(MX),000. Now, had the
imports really been so excessive, exchange
should have veered against Australia;
out there were still large credits in London
which turned the scale in favor of Australia.
The explanation, says Giblin, is quite simple :
the export figures are not accurate. For
instance, the profits on Bawra wool, pro-
bably amounting to £34.000,000, had never
been added to the Australian exports. The
Customs did not correct the export figures
at all, while returns of imports were always
watched and checked and made subiect to
correction for months after they were landed.
“It is possible to tell lies in any language,”
Giblin assured his interested audience,
“whether Latin, English, Hebrew, mathema-
tics or statistics. But it is easiest to tell
them in statistics.”
General Hertzog will be the third Prime
Minister of the S’African Union, also
the third Dutch Prime Minister, and
the third who held the rank of Gen-
eral. Now the question is being asked
harder than ever- whether the Boer States
will stay in the Empire, or whether they will
go out alone, or whether they will leave and
take the other two provinces with them. It
is rather akin to the query whether an Irish
republic will one day quit on its own, or
whether it will Scotland in passing.
Hertzog, like Baldwin in London, has appa-
rently the biggest party behind him, but one
not quite big enough for anything drastic.
So his attitude is that secession is a dead
question till it comes alive again, and that
nothing will be done till there is enough sup-
port to do something with.
After 15 Federal Ministries had been im-
mersed in thought for 24 years Australia it
at last promised a uniform bankruptcy law.
It doesn’t seem any more urgent than a uni-
form banking or insurance or divorce law —in
fact, it looks of minor importance by com-
parison. But when traffic has been held up
so long there is satisfaction in seeing any
sort of truck take up the running again.
The Nationalisation of Mines Bill, which
was enthusiastically rejected in the Commons
last month by the two anti-socialistic parties,
was in some ways heroic. It provided that
all “the mines and the mining and coal busi-
nesses” in the country should be bought by
the nation and vested in an administrative
council of 20, ten councillors to be nominated
by the Miners’ Federation and others by the
Government to represent unionists not in-
cluded in that organisation. The Council
was to be empowered to fix. wages, working
hours and prices of coal; to control distri-
bution in the home market; to return all
profits to the miners and debit all losses to
the taxpayers, who might have been swindled
already as consumers. And although the
worker might be getting £1 an hour for a 20-
hour week, he was to enjoy the right to
strike. Presumably this is what is meant
by the mines-for-the-miners policy on which
N. S. Wales union officials spout copiously,
whOe avoiding details as they would a disease.
The moral of Baldwin, Smuts and Peacock,
if there is a moral, is that a Premier shouldn’t
rush to the country, but should proceed
there slowly, stopping often for refreshments
by the way. The man who knows how to
do things is Ramsay Macdonald. He has
been licked six times (at least it was six
the other day) on large issues and small, by
large and small majorities, and takes no
notice. He probably remembers that the
brightest spot in the modern history of
stormy Mexico was the case of Diaz, who
lasted 30 years by not rushing to the country.
Long-deferred, if not altogether adequate,
justice has come the way of a postal assist-
ant named Glanville, who, having obtained
departmental leave, joined the A.I.F. and
was made wireless operator on a troopship.
When his leave expired, the Postal Dept,
wanted him to resume duty, so he resigned
and remained to see the war through to the
cud. When he applied for re-employment in
the postal service he was grudgingly
readmitted, but placed on the lowest-
grade salary. Having reviewed the case,
Public Service Arbitrator Atlee Hunt
fixed Glanville’s salary at the maxi-
mum of the grade he would have at-
tained had he not volunteered, but his resig-
nation and its acceptance stand in the way
of anything further.
Miscamble, the new Tas. Commissioner
of Railways, has taken on a tough contract.
The staff is no more contented than it was
when Wishart Smith was suspended in
August. Moreover, motor competition is grow-
ing in the passenger business, the volume of
goods handled doesn’t increase to any extent,
and the deficit has become chronic. Again,
the stranger will be expected to extract
profits from several new lines of the “develop-
mental” variety which only politicians would
build. One of them is the Preolenna exten-
sion, which had just been completed to meet
the convenience of the coal people there when
their mine closed down. Still, Miscamble
will have the distinction of being the highest-
paid official that the Speck has ever had.
He gets a whole £2OOO a year.
THE ROCKS, SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I were dead and hours and days were not;
If all sublimity of stars were long forgot,
My soul would grope its way to Sydney’s Rocks,
Where hapless children go in tattered frocks.
There walks a mite, sore on its brittled feet,
Red-lidded eyes, lacking enough to eat,
Downshifted glance, pinched to its very bone....
I hate the Rocks! Here Christ might die alone.
If Man were sure there’d come a Brotherhood
Of happiness wherein the common good
Would be his crown, his heart, his very breath,
How gladly would he now bear pain and death
So that no more a little child might weep
Nor dream all brokenly in hungered sleep !....
Alas, upon the Rocks that hope seems dumb —
I wonder why the good God doesn’t come.
N.s.w.
JOHN BARR.
A DEEP-LAID PLOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The British Ministry has decided to appoint a
Labor member Governor of Tasmania.” — Argus.
A Laborite as Guv’nor. What?
Now, say, could anything- be cooler?
Some quite absurd old working pot
In regal clo’es
To strut and pose
As our appointed social ruler 1
Extraordinary and unique
An innovation is the future’s-
The horny-handed, so to speak,
Will pose and prance
And lead the dance
In bowyangs arid in hob-nailed bluchers!
It is a ruse, that’s very plain,
Of someone in a high position
To give our Very Naicest pain,
And have all be
Set eagerly
On Guvment House’s abolition.
Can we suppose the Argus grave
Would still hold needful to the nation
A Governor who usea to shave
Its editor,
Or one who bore
A shovel for the corporation?
VICTORIA.
S.S.


Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1916)
ia now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315*317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches : Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta. Toowoomba. Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tht> Standard of Quality throughout tho Ernplro.
MonoUel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
** * *
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbkough, Mobt and Co.. Limited, the
wool people: —
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1914 £224,359 £73,014 20 p.a =*i40,548 £601,449
1915 178,127 71,422 10 „ ~ -0,2-4 537,880
1916 188,449 70,418 121 „ 8-,842 068,069
1917 222,067 69,686 15 „ „ 105,411 615,039
mg 68,985 15 „ „ 105,411 690,630
Transferred to Capital, £70,273.- 620,0*7
1919 222,950 68,338 .15 p.c. = 115,90 l 659,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 t 612,146
Drought exes, written off, i£20,000 j
Premiums on new shares. £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. = 84,493 6 1 7 ’? 2 !?
19-79 237 039 65,641 15 „ ~ 137,527 651,29-
'Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd , bought out.
Premiums on new shares .. £37,500 o«s,, a-
-1923' 230,833 65,324 15 p.c: = 145,027 709,2/9
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
The figures in the first, column are not the
net profits; they are the earnings after meet-
ing all working costs, taxes, etc., but prior
to extracting debenture interest. 1 he next
table gives another view of operations tor
seven years, and shows how much was left
for shareholders: —
Provi-
Gvoss Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1918 £366,644 £116,657 £68,985 £181,002
1919.. 359,317 134,367 68,338 £2OOO 154,612
14)20! . 299.901 161,862* 66,960 2000 59,0-9
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 58,81*
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165, 009
19*4 498,039 205,280 64.569 2500 226,690
including £25,000 drought exes.
Though disclosed results for the past 12
months are the best in the two tables, they
are by no means a record. A dozen years
back as much as £382,000 was shown, and
there were fat harvests just previously.
However, there has been more solid sub-
stance in latter-day earnings. The big
figures of .1012 and thereabouts had to be
considered in relation to happenings in the
'nineties, which necessitated several recon-
structions to put the Goldsbrougli-Mort house
in order, and to the troubles following the
big drought early this century. The subse-
quent great recovery made by the pastoral
industry and the appreciation of values were
responsible for substantial portions of the
apparent rich profits disclosed, and which
permitted the directors to restore some of the
scrip which had been torn up previously. The
recent expansion has, in part, been accounted
for by the earnings of the Harrison. Jones
and Devlin business, which was under the
Goldsbrough-Mort roof for nine months of
the 1923 financial year and for the whole of
the past 12 months. But there are other
explanations. Twelve months ago, follow-
ing a couple of unfavorable seasons which
seriously affected lambings and wool-clips —
the co. is itself a big station-owner —the
directors were not very cheery about the
outlook. When the figures were made up
ns at March 31 this year they found that the
turnover in their wool-sales business had
slumped from 191,956 bales for 1923 to
143,435, and that average quality was
poorer. The world’s demand for wool, how-
ever, compensated for the reduced handlings;
opening strongly, the market closed bril-
liantly. The prospects of a continued keen
demand, for several seasons at least, and the
indications of a favorable season ahead,
probably had a big influence on the amount
of profit which the Goldsbrougli-Mort direc-
tors decided to bring into public view in their
latest accounts. Not for many years have
the prospects for sheep seemed so rosy, and
just at present there is less need to provide
for the numerous contingencies of the erratic
industry.
The year’s net profit returned slightly
more than 231, p.c. on £966,849 of capital,
so there was a substantial lay-by after dis-
tributing 15 p.c. Visible reserves now
amount to nearly £790,000, and as there are
also very large internal reserves, profit-
earning, calculated on total shareholders’
funds, and taking into account also that
debenture stock is carrying only 4 and 5 p.c.,
if-s not large, and the div. return is really
moderate. Since the reverse of 30 years ago,
the co. has very carefully nursed book values:
for instance, old freehold and leasehold prop-
ertied are at 4900 valuation, less full allow-
nnce for lease amortisation: premises which
cost £577,860 have been written down to
£418,034; and all other groups are but-
tressed by hidden reserves. The next table
gives a 10 years’ survey of balance-sheet
figures:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Capital .. .£702,737 £773,010 £966,849 £960,849
Reserves . . 606,859 716,447 505,463 889,127
debentures 1,642,118 1,504,648 1,479,028 1,460,998
Other liabili- „„„ ...
ties . . 144,908 118,411 280,000 298,782
Assets.
Liquid assets 513,401 647,455 703,152 -12,830
Advances .. 1,970,640 1,967,430 2,018,66- 2,10a,676
P and* stock 360,153 220,723 393,212 334,360
Premises, etc. 252,368 212,803 ,>80,506
Other assets 64,105 43,808 44,85-
Though the holdings of gilt-edged securities
have expanded considerably, there have also
been large increases in the groups which are
the backbone of the business, partly, ot
course, as a result of the Harrison, .Jones and
Devlin absorption. One feature of the 1914-
24 period has been the accumulation ot
£285,300 of visible surplus profits after hav-
ing given shareholders a thoroughly satis-
factory average return.
The Goldsbrough-Mort position is very
snug nowadays. Including the past year s
final divs., current liabilities amounted to
£395.406, and £14,000-odd more than that
was lying in the banks at fixed deposit or on
current account, and the co. had £303,000 m
public securities. Both lots of debenture
stock are interminable: there is now £B-2, T00
carrying only 4 p.c., and £588,243 taking
5 p.c.—all very cheap capital in these dear-
money times. Balance-sheet figures are again
undergoing a big change: the Bagot, Shakes
and Lewis business, of Adelaide, which has
been established 36 years, is being absorbed,
and to accommodate the purchase Golds-
brough-Mort’s nominal capital has been in-
creased by a half-million to 1 > million. If
the Adelaide co.’s shareholders of
the deal, they are to receive 285,000 fully-
paids.
* * *■ *
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd.: —
March, Paid Capital. Net Profit.
1917'.. £276,005 £27,367
1918 . . 276,005 23,023
1919 . . 276,005 20,309
1920 . . 276,005 51,106
1921 . . 442,489 65,524
*l5 months.
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
Nominal
Net , Dividends. —To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923- 139,370 18,375 10 p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment .. 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. = 77,570 53,887 84,488
*l4 months.
It is impossible to learn from the accounts
how much profit was bottled for the 12
months. At March, 1923, there were ‘'re-
serves” of £119,009 apart from £20,000
voted into a general reserve fund which held
only a few hundreds. This big reserve
has disappeared altogether from the latest
accounts : most, of it was taken to write down
the book values of buildings, plant and
machinery, etc. The published accounts do
not tell how much was voted from the past
year’s earnings for depreciation, and there
is no way of ascertaining whether the trans-
fer of reserves brought book values to a
fair level, or, by writing them down below
that level, created a substantial inner re-
serve. Possibly there has been much plant-
scrapping : one object of the amalgamation
was to modernise manufacturing methods,
and new equipment has been put into all
branches. Indeed, the handsome profits
have been largely accounted for by the con-
solidation of scattered businesses having
displaced expensive hand-labor by machinery.
The co. certainly is baviug a great: run.
After providing for depreciation other
internal charges, and placing £65,522 in a
reserve for taxation, and paying the prefs.
9 p.c., the accounts show £131,457 left for
£775.695 of ordinary capital. That return
of 17 p.c. would be extremely handsome if
there was no froth in the capital account;
actually no less than £114,500 of the ordi-
naries'were issued for goodwill, and the
assets may not have been taken over at bed-
rock values either. The goodwill item has
so far not been written down, hence reserves
in the introductory table. are treated as
nominal. However, so much has been left
from two years’ trading after paying 30 p.c.
that more than two-tliirds of the goodwill
capital is now covered by visible accumu-
lated profits.
Balance-sheet figures have moved in this
way in 12 months :
1923. 1924.
Land and buildings .. . . £195,188 £206,007
Machinery and plant . . . . 502,159 451,361
£697,347 £657,431
Less specific reserve .. .. 119,009 —-
£578,338 £657,431
Liquid assets—
. Stocks £223,481 £316,225
Book debts 114,011 127,901
Cash, investments, etc. . . 27,282 18,816
£364,774 £462,942
Liabilities (inc. taxation reserve) 29,432 153,029
Liquid surplus . . . . . . £335,342 £309,913
Apart from the provision for taxes, which
appears to have been made on a very liberal
scale if the disclosed profits are the actual
profits, the outside liabilities were: Over-
drafts, £40.138; and sundry creditors,
£47,370. The co.’s position was, therefore,
very comfortable. So far Australian Glass
Manufacturers’ earnings have lived up to pre-
amalgamation anticipations; the margins of
surplus profit have been so large, after
smoothing off the rough edges of the welding
of the four old businesses, that the possi-
bility of something more than 10 p.c. does
not seem remote. Judged by earnings, the
balance-sheet position, and the grip the co.
has on the trade —it has some lengthy con-
tracts on hand —the market price of 30s.
(allowing for the Is. div.) is not excessive.
At that price the 10 p.c. divs. return 6§ p.c.;
and last year’s visible surplus profits put
almost 4.7 p.c. on the market price into
reserve. At the annual meeting last w r eek
an issue of 155,139 new ordinaries at par
(one for five) was announced. The co. pro-
poses to lay down a sheet-glass plant.
* * * *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light
Co.. Ltd. —As far back as 10 years ago the
“Wild Cat” urged the shareholders to dis-
cover whether they were not living in a
fools’ paradise; it also suggested that they
should call in a qualified accountant to go
searchingly into the co.’s affairs. This was
prompted by a writing-up of assets in 1914,
which had been followed by the issue of
£lOO,OOO of interminable debentures as a
bonus. The published accounts and the div.
position gave no sound reason for any writ-
ing-up. Two years previously, however, the
N. S. Wales Government had begun experi-
menting with price-fixing, and there was a
probability that Queensland Labor would fol-
low suit. The directors became angry with
The Bulletin for its persistency on the
subject. Subsequently, after a Queensland
Gas Act had come into operation, the Gas
Referee valued the undertaking at £160,051;
the co.’s books showed assets for £318,500.
The Bulletin pressed for an inquiry to
discover whether the Referee “was violently
wrong in his conclusions, or whether the
management of the co. had been guilty of
something very like conspiracy to defeat the
law” ; whereat the directors became angrier,
and at the February, 1918, meeting, having-
declared their innocence, shareholders unani-
mously recommended the Board to “go for
The Bulletin for defamation or whatever
it may be.” Having considered the matter,
the directors issued a special circular in
which they told shareholders that The Bul-
letin “would better have maintained what-
ever reputation it may hold for fair-minded-
ness had it taken the trouble to ascertain the
facts before publishing an article which, on
the face of it, showed a combination of igno-
rance and vindictiveness.” There was “not
even a scintilla of truth in the charges
made”—nevertheless, the directors “did not
think any good purpose could be served by
spending shareholders’ money in prosecuting
The Bulletin.” So no writ arrived. That
was in April, 1918.
Then the Government decided to take a
hand, and in July the Chief Audit Inspector
presented a report. He found, among other
things, that the “valuation was not bona
fide” ; that six years’ balance-sheets “had not
represented the true position of the co.”;
that “the directors must be held respon-
sible”; and that tliei auditors “had failed to
discharge their duty.” Nevertheless, the
principal directors concerned in the writing-
up of assets persisted that they had acted in
good faith : they “honestly believed that the
value set oil assets was there.” But though
so much light had been thrown in dark cor-
ners, not until this year did the Board —
mostly a new one —take the step suggested
by The Bulletin in 1914, and call in an
outside expert to ransack the co.’s affairs.
The result was that public accountant J. P.
Macfarlane presented a report last month
which is a most damning indictment of the
conduct of the co.’s affairs over a number of
years.
Shareholders have been living in a fools'
paradise. Fixed assets, Mr. Macfarlane con-
siders, were “over-stated by £156,756” at
December 31 last, and he recommended a
drastic reduction of the capital account,
affecting debenture-holders and pref. share-
holders as well as ordinary shareholders.
Failing some such re-arrangement the direc-
tors concluded that the “only alternative
seems to be voluntary liquidation,” and
in that event “there would be very little
left for distribution” after paying off lia-
bilities. A recent meeting decided to defer
decision on Mr. Maefarlane’s recommenda-
tions until a committee of shareholders had
gone thoroughly into the position. Most
of the directors who charged The Bulletin
with a “combination of ignorance and vin-
dictiveness” are no longer on the Board, and
one shareholder at the meeting proposed that
“the directorate should be so altered that no
one who voted for- the move to issue deben-
tures should be retained on tlje Board.” By
a strange twist of circumstances, Maurice
Herring, who. as Gas Referee, caused a
commotion with his 1918 determination,
finds himself on the committee which is at-
tempting to salvage the wreck. Mr. Mac-
farlane’s proposals for reducing capital do
not seem altogether satisfactory, but tne
justification for his recommendations depends
a good deal on the involved position of the
rights of bonus debentures and pret. capital
in relation to the ordinaries, bomething
must be done to straighten out the tangle,
because under existing conditions the co.
cannot attract the additional capital it needs
for developing the business.
The Co-orEKATivE Insurance Go. of Aus-
tralia* Ltd., which began with £825 of its
capital absorbed by establishment costs :
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Defied.
1919.. £630 e£o 30
Additional establishment costs,
Reserves.
1920.. 7.17 S 7 p.c.= £2lOl 5,077 1,599
Additional establishment costs, £1023.. 3,076
1921.. 18,025 7 p.c. = 3127 14.89 S 18,4,1
Additional establishment costs, £lOl..
1922 14 344 7 p.c. = 3563 10,781 29,104
1923" 9 765 7 „ „ 3929 5,836 34,990
1924:. 20,015 7„ „ 4303 15,712 50,702
The C.I.C. has made excellent progress in its
six years. For the past five it has paid
7 p.c. on capital regularly, and at March
31 last reserves equal to two-thirds ot
last year’s premium income had accumulated.
That was a good deal more than half as
much again as is considered necessary to pro-
vide for unexpired risks, and as capital and
reserves are a trifle more than 11 times pre-
mium income, this young office is a sturdy
little underwriter. It began in Victoria
under the auspices of two dairy-produce co-
op, concerns, and has since linked up the
principal dairy-farmers’ cos. in N. S'. Wales
and the big co-op. Fanners’ Union of South
Aus. They are the shareholders and. the.
agencies which gather in the business ; but
the insurance office is co-operative only to
the extent that these produce-agency concerns
lift whatever profit is made from insurances
of their own assets and in connection with
trading on behalf of customers. No pro-
vision seems to have been made to give the
individual policy-holder insurance at cost
price, and that', theoretically at least, would
be the proper basis of co-operative effort.
However, the farmers’ societies themselves
probably account for the bulk of the 0.1.C.’s
business.
For the five years in which the co. has been
taking’ risks, gross revenue has amounted to
£462,399, but in every year almost one-half of
the premiums lias been laid off. Last year s
gross premiums amounted to £138,895, and
£62,071 went in re-insurances. Despite the
generally unfavorable claims experience of
late in both fire and marine, the C.I.C. s
losses have been remarkably light. Here
are each year’s underwriting figures: —
Net P re- Ex- . boss Expense
miums. bosses, penses, Ratio. Ratio.
1920. . £14,235 £1,689 £6,477 11.9 p.c. 45.5 p.c.
1921.. 46,564 6,963 23,924 14.9 ~ 51.4 „
1922.. 55,274 11,293 32,177 20.4 „ 58.2 ~
1923.. 62,884 15,487 40,490 24.6 ~ 64.4 ~
1924.. 76,823 19,246 41,416 25.1 „ 53.9 „
The expense rate came down with a run last
year, but is still too high considering the ease
with which much of the business is har-
vested and the extent of the transactions. A
further cut in the rate would appear to be the
first objective the directors should set. Owing
to the mildness of claims, a trifle more than
one-fifth of premium income stayed in the
office last year, and to the £16,161 thus won
interest earnings added £3854. Assets are
in good condition: Government securities.
£45,001; deposits, cash and accrued interest.
£60.422; book debts and unexpired payments.
£4804 : agents’ balances, .£44,624 ; furniture
and equipment, £4592. Paid capital is
£66,270 ; 15,004 shares of £5 each, less £8750
uncalled.
* * * *
Patience and Nicholson, Ltd. —Fiv<
years ago G. H. Patience bought a small plant
and commenced manufacturing stocks and
dies in Melbourne. Later he was joined by
Francis Nicholson, and the production of
taps was begun. In 1920. having received
outside financial backing, the partners trans-
ferred the business to a proprietary co. with
£5OOO paid capital. From these small begin-
nings, and in competition with erratic prices
of imported goods, and for a time with no
more than the promise of tariff protection,
the business lias so developed that a co.
with a quarter-million nominal capital, and
which is issuing 118,500 £1 shares for a start ,
is in process of formation. The prospectus
states that “P. and N.” tools “rank with all
leading brands” in the market, that they
“are stocked right throughout the hardware
trade,” and that the N. S. Wales and Vic.
Railways, Public Works Boards, 11. V. McKay
and the Castlemaine Thompsons are “regu-
lar users.” The business to be transferred
is still small: the new co. has purchased it
for 18,500 fully-paids (no cash considera-
tion is to be paid), but this purchase price
includes 10,000 shares for goodwill. The
approximate values of tangible assets arc :
Plant, etc.. £4000; stocks. £3000; and book
debts, £lOOO. Accounts for the 12 months
to June 30. 1923, showed a net profit of
20.3 p.c. on turnover, and 18J p.c. on capital.
The principals consider that when new works
are in full swing “it should be possible To


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JUNE.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Aerated Bread
Arthur Rickard Extended
Australian Medical and
General Assurance.
Bagot’s Exec. & Trustee
Bank of Australasia
Bank of N. S. Wales
Bushells, Ltd.
Castle Salt
Citizens and Graziers'
Assurance
Co-operative Wool and
Produce.
Country Producers’ Sell-
ing Co.
Dental & Medical Supply
“Echo” Reproductions
English Electric of Aus.
Foster's Australian Fibres
Goeben Wheels
Gordon & Gotch
Guarantee & Finance Co.
Life Assurance Amalga-
mations
Life Insurance Coi. of
Australia
Metters, Ltd.
Myer’s ( Aus.), Ltd.
National Bank of Aus-
tralasia
New snare Issues
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
N.Z. Trustee & Agen;y
Pacific Insurance
Primary Producers’ Bank
Prospectuses
Provident Life Assurance
Registrations
Seymour Gravel and
Concrete
Sign-Ads.
Shortland Islands Plan-
tations
Sun Newspapers
Victoria Glasin Pty.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, l’itt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Ollicc. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/C per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces an
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable . from Messrs. Klliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
» * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
“This would have saved hundreds of pounds if we
had known of it ten years ago ’’ was the remark a
municipal engineer made recently after he had
installed Pioneer Wood Pipe and learned the real
facts. Do you realise that, in ail probability, it is
also true in your case ? Our 68-page, free, illustrated
book is full of reliable information to prove it. May
we send you a copy? The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & ITassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writs
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W., for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horse-power. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gasworks. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which- is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grinnvade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
of N. S.W Ltd.
PERMANENCE
Estates under control exceed £8,000,000.
Safeguard your beneficiaries’ interests by leaving
the management of your Estate in experienced and
careful hands.
No individual Trustee could possess the advantages
offered you by the Permanent Trustee Company.
The Company is always in O’Connell Street —it
cannot travel, disappear or die.
Protection of clients’ interests and absolute security
are guaranteed—the whole of capital and assets
being liable for the fulfilment of the Company’s
obligations.
Arrange an interview or write for Booklet.
E. V. T. Whittle, Assistant Manager. J. W. Barnes, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Coll ns Street
(National Mutual Building).
Telephones: Central 7691-3.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong',
Whitworth & Co.. Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
pay 15 p.c. divs. with due regularity.” They
propose to employ the £lOO,OOO of new capi-
tal as follows: Land and factory. £20,000;
new plant, £50,000; stocks, £20,000; leaving
£lO,OOO for working capital and for flotation
costs. Though only 6d. per share is pay-
able on subscriptions through usual channels,
the directors are authorised to spend up to
Is. 6d. per share. The future of the enter-
prise depends mostly on whether turnover
can be permanently and profitably enlarged
to correspond with the big expansion of
funds proposed.
* * * *
The Lake View and Star Board puts a
good case for the purchase of the Ivanhoe
(W.A.). The latter has large reserves which
it is unable to treat profitably with its pre-
sent plant, and Lake View and Star runs
an up-to-date mill which is successfully treat-
ing ore of lower-grade than Ivanhoe’s reserves.
The amalgamation will certainly be benefi-
cial to shareholders of both cos. Overhead
charges should be substantially reduced, and
when the scheme is in full swing a big saving
should be made in treatment costs. That will
make lower-grade stuff available and prolong
the lives of the mines.
* * * *
Prospectors and tributors have a sheaf of
requests to place before Minister for Mines
Troy when he visits Kalgoorlie. They de-
mand deletion of the provision of the Act
permitting the imposition of fines in lieu of
forfeiture; deletion of the provision for the
imposition of fines for non-payment of rent;
reduction in cyanide charges; increase in the
percentage extraction to 90 p.c.; the fixing
of a maximum tribute royalty at 10 p.c.;
the writing off, when leases are abandoned,
of money advanced as a developmental sub-
sidy; and the right to enter and prospect any
lease which in the opinion of the Minister
is not being properly worked. They also
want the Minister to publish a mining jour-
nal monthly.
*»# * ■
Westralian option-seekers continue active
in taking up shows suitable for market flut-
ters. There have been several instances
lately of working-options having been taken
by impecunious cos., whose chief assets have
been forfeited shares. The practice is to
raise money by selling the forfeiteds, under-
take a little development, await a temporary
market revival, and make the pace while the
going is good. Several parties which have
gone in after such shows have been aban-
doned have done well out of the treatment of
ore developed.
* # * *
Some time back McLeod’s Reward, near
Marble Bar (W.A.), was said to show suffi-
cient ore to keep a 5-head mill going for two
years, and a little later the market was favor-
ably influenced by a report that a mill had
been installed and crushing had been started.
Since then nothing has been heard about the
mine, and no returns have been published.
Rumor says that the manager has resigned,
and that the show is now in the hands of
the debenture-holders, but this lacks confir-
mation.
* # • *
Devon (W.A.) recently offered 20,000
reserve shares at ss. apiece, and now claims
that most of them have been sold. A Ben-
digo expert who made an examination is
said to have told the Board that, in view
of the general belief that the shoots were
short, he was agreeably surprised to find
stopes 6ft. in width, and continuous from end
to end of the drives. Moreover, the ore had
every appearance of continuing in depth.
Yet for the 12 months ended February, and
under new management, the eo. received only
£2933 for gold, and with £3535 of calls and
£441 from shares sold showed a credit of
only £lO2. Considering the pleasing appear-
ance of the mine, an explanation is due to
shareholders to account for. the poorness of
results.
* * * #
A Westralian crowd, mostly Perth politi-
cians and local business men, are attempting
to revive the old Lady Shenton at Menzies.
Between 1895 and 1905 this show yielded
over half a million sterling, and paid about
£120,000 in divs. Then the shoot cut out at
depth, and operations were abandoned. A
year later the former manager started to
work the property on his own account, and
by the end of 1914 an additional £130.000
had been extracted. Since then an occasional
return has increased the value of the total
output to more than £700,000. Shaft-sinking
has exposed two parallel veins to a depth of
40ft. They range from 4ft. to 44ft. in width,
and from 70s. to 765. in value. Developments
so far look promising, but payable lengths
of ore have yet to be proved.
* * * *
Two overseas geologists have met in con-
flict over the possible oil-bearing capacity of
the rocks of the West Kimberley district of
Westralia. E. M. Di Villa, of Borneo, re-
ported favorably of the work being done by
Talbot in charge of Freney’s borehole. He
also approved of geologist Blatchford’s work.
Now Dr. F. G. Clapp, of U.S.A., is said to
have reported adversely on the possible pres-
ence of oil in commercially payable quan-
tities on block No. 1H in the Kimberley divi-
sion.
Dr. Jensen is at Beaudesert putting down
a ICOft. hole a few feet away from Dunn’s
old bore, where the smell of oil proved such
an attraction last year. Jensen was one of
those who considered it a true seep, but the
Government Analyst got reactions from it
identical with those from the oil-fuel used
on the pumping plant. Jensen is watching
every inch of the drilling to see if the bore
gives the same indications, in which case
there would be a case for the Government
Analyst to answer. If they can find no
trace of oil around Dunn’s bore the chief
recommendation for boring the Beaudesert
district will vanish in thin air.
* * * *
The Eclipse reef, at Brookfield, near Bris-
bane, has just been given its most hopeful
report so far by geologist Morton. It is,
however, still not much more than a pros-
pect. The lode is in a well-defined fissure,
and the reef in the bottom level looks like
going down, so that further sinking and de-
velopment are warranted. The syndicate is
sinking to 100 ft. for a start. Morton
thinks the question of local treatment should
be left alone for the present, as the stone
is complex and cannot be treated by amalga-
mation. He recommends that the heavy
sulphides (which contain very high values)
should be bagged and sold to smelters, and
the balance of the stone stacked till the mine
is sufficiently developed to warrant a treat-
ment plant.
w * * *
The Anakie sapphire field (Q.) has had a
poor spin this year ; the average i di idual
return for the 200 or so men at work has
been very small. For April and May the
official returns showed a total output of less
than £BOO per month, but, in addition, there
is an unreported turnover for fancy gems.
The Government buying scheme is sti 1 in
operation, and a new buyer and grader, for-
merly on Rubin’s staff, has jest bean
appointed. Prices for high-grade hi res have
revived lately, so prospects are a little better,
though not good enough to entice new-comers
to the field. Minister Jones negotiated the
sale of £15,000 worth of Anakie sapphires in
Paris last month.
* * * *
A Mackay syndicate is preparing to give
the Mt. Spencer silver-lead show, near Eton,
another trial shortly. It is some years since
any work was done, but some rich parcels
were taken out. Silver-lead prospecting is in
the boom now up north, and there is talk of
opening up the Mt. Barker mine, near Eun-
gulla, which Dr. Jack reported on very hope-
fully a generation ago.
* * * *
Hcrberton tinfield (N.Q.), which has been
going great guns during the past few months,
has , slumped with the fall in tin. April
and March each turned out ore to the value
of more than £l2 000, but May figures de-
clined _to the vicinity of £7OOO. The
Arbouin as usual did its bit with low-grade
stuff: 703 tons for 24.6 tons concentrates
worth £2730. The Wild Irishman had the
only other crushing worth notice: 81 tons
panned out £l3 10s. a ton. The Great
Northern should figure well in this month's
figures. The price of 70 p.c. concentrates
hovers around £l3O on the field.
The Ulam (Rockhampton) marble in-
dustry, which three years back seemed to
have a rather promising outlook, is pretty
well down and out. The Mines Department
assisted several cos. in the past, but is at
present removing the machinery from the
Australian White Marble leases. Both the
other quarries are idle at present. Apart
from the competition of Italian white marble
the Ulam stone was in general too coarse
in grain to find favor in the southern States.
“C.F.D.”: The Mount Coolon (Q.)
“£l5OO battery” deserves less scornful
notice than was given it by a corres-
pondent (B. 5/6/’24). The machine
is. a modified slow-speed Chilian mill
with £in annular mercury recess between the
crushing die and discharge screens for inside
amalgamation. A low central platform
carries local material to add to the crushing
weight:The owners, Gavin and Taylor
(designer), expect to commence crushing at
the end of August at a total capital expendi-
ture of under £3500. and to approximate the
performance of a 10-head stamp battery at a
lower running cost. Mines Minister Jones
approved the deserving effort, and recom-
mended a loan of £l5OO under the Machinery
Advances Act. There is ample work for such
a mill. The Sunbeam lease (Gavin is part-
owner) is developed.to the ICST. level adjoin-
ing Barclay's Native Bear boundary, and
an assured minimum of 3500 tons of pay-
able ore is blocked out above 75ft.; the Vic-
tory Syndicate, sinking near the Coolon boun-
dary to meet a rich shoot of ore, reports
improving values; while the Golden Horse-
shoe has 460 tons ready for crushing. Quite
apart from the technical interest in this
small-scale effort to replace the stamp bat-
tery, the performance of the mill will be
worth following, because, if successful, it
will result in the opening up of many so-
called low-grade shows which do not warrant
the high cost of a gravity stamp-mill.
* * * *
The Furnace and Power Plant Construc-
tion Co. of Australia has developed a scheme
for utilising brown-coal gas which seems to
offer considerable possibilities. At a demon-
stration in Melbourne a heat of 1500 deg.
Centigrade was easily generated. As the plant
has given 2(JOOdeg., the co. is confident of
being able to smelt iron cheaply. The inven-
tion employs an ingenious method to dis-
perse the volatile gases from the brown-coal
and burn the carbonised material. O. S. Neill
and F. Fox, joint managing-directors of the
co., put their heads and bank-books together
to develop the idea.
Leongatha Oil Wells, Gippsland (Vie.),
encouraged by H. S. Lyne’s opinion of possi-
bilities, has pushed its No. 1 bore down
nearly 1500 ft. and is thoroughly satisfied
with the log readings. “A close study,” a
recent report says, ‘’shows a jurassic series
down to iwUit.-oud, after which thick beds of
mudstone and shale approximating 700 ft. are
in evidence, forming excellent cover and satis-
factory degree of carbonaceous matter.” But
so far no oii has trickled into the borehole.
* * * *
Biplane (Vic.), after flattering the market
with I4SJoz. from 250 tons, collapsed to
36}oz. from 160 tons. The 240 ft, shoot, which
was to have gone to the surface, stopped short
before_ it readied 150 ft. The hope is that
the winze north of the shoot of stone will
pick up gold underfoot. With all payable
stopes depleted, the Biplane will need a fresh
coat of gold paint before it can again get on
the wing.
“Allendale” : “Old Alluvialist’s” statement
that it costs from £59.000 to £lOO,OOO to get
an alluvial mine on the div. list is correct so
far as the Ararat field is concerned. But
Allendale is quite a different proposition. The
Ristori, which adjoins the New Itistori, called
up only £6650, and it yielded £430,918 worth
of gold and paid £231,650 in divs. and royalty.
New Ristori has so far called up £lO,OOO, and
potholes have already proved wash of a
highly profitable character and perfectly dry.
The gutter is 6ft. to Oft. under the level, and
to command this ground a reef drive has been
started 40ft. below the 170 ft. level. While
this work is in hand a temporary puddling-
plant will be erected, and sufficient profit
should be made out of the gold to instal a
steam puddling-plant, costing about ±oooo.
* * * *
Bob Johnston is still battling with his
dredgirg plant on the old Elsie ground, near
Tent Hill, Emmaville (N.S.W.). At first
results were disappointing, but recently
ground which was not considered of much
account has been yielding rather well. The
plant has been winning a ton of tin per week.
The Leona (old South Esk) mine, owned
for a second time by a Melbourne co., is be-
ing equipped with a Kynoch suction gas-
plant, with electric generator, motor and
pump, wherewith to work the deeper alluvial
tin ground, the contents of which may have
had their origin at Story's Creek, 1590 ft.
higher up. Manager Tom Bailey is confident
of the future, and local people are backing his
opinion. There are many doubting Thomases,
particularly in Melbourne, but the crowd
now running the show say that it re-
sponded well to recent tests.
* * * *
A prospectus is. out for Busai Gold-mines,
in 120.000 10s. shares, of which 55.000 paids
go to vendors and promoters, and 65,000 to
be paid to 2s. on allotment are available f or
the public. Two leases covering 25 acres of
Busai Hill, on Woodlark Island (Papua),
are the attraction. From 1909 to 1913
15330 z. were won from 1679 tons, but water-
level saw the end of prospectors’ efforts. A
syndicate of wireless men has since driven
a tunnel 700 ft. into Busai Hill, and located
seven reefs. One is said to be 12ft. wide,
and assays nearly 16dwt. Another is 34ft.
wide, and is claimed to give soz. gold worth
more than £4. The prospectus does not say
at vvhat depth the reefs were cut, but mining-
engineer Tom Horton states in his generally
favorable summary that the tunnel is shal-
low. He advises that the reefs should each
be driven on for a distance on both sides
from the tunnel, and that intensive check
assays should be made.
Taranaki (M.L.) oilfield is to be re-
opened by a Melbourne co. now being formed
bv the Baillieu group with £150,000 capital.
Taranaki oilwelis were destroyed by the
water allowed to flow from offset boreholes
into producing wells. More than a million
gallons of oil were produced from wells near
the sea at New Plymouth, and were refined
in a plant erected by the Taranaki Oilfields
of N.Z., a London concern. There were no
laws then to insist upon water being shut
off by prospecting wells or in abandoned
holes, so the flood chased the oil for, it is
estimated, about 15 miles until it was
stopped by impervious rocks. Ten years
ago F. C. Grebin, a Russian geologist, sug-
gested drilling a prospecting hole 13 miles
south-east of New Plymouth. Dr. F. G.
Clapp recently examined the district, and
advised boring in the neighborhood. Both
consider the geological structure favorable.
* * * *
When Takuapa Valley (Siam) first sought,
a high-capacity dredge, steel was at £4O a
ton, and quotes ran into £130.000. When
steel fell to £2O, a contract was written for
£65,185. British Diesel engines using crude
oil were decided on instead of wood fuel, and
the cost was increased to £80,860. The
engines will be installed on the pontoon, and
table space of 8000 ft. is much greater than
the ordinary. Elevator power provides for
handling 150,000 yd. a month. The start-
ing whistle is expected in August.


THE JAMB IN THE TART-SHOP DOOR.
"Despite his losses at the Vic. State polls last week, and the fact that Labor will be the largest party in the new House, Premier Peacock has decided to
meet Parliament on July 8, and leave the future to members.”


sdf
A Choice at 42/-
Two Lines of Durable
Riding Trousers.
These have been cut and made entirely in Peapes’
own workrooms, great care having been bestowed
on them to ensure comfort, strength and durability.
Hiding Trousers, Stockman pattern, in Pawn-Grey
English Whipcord, with indistinct contrasting
stripe. Cross pockets, belt loops, all seams strongly
sewn 42/-
Also in plain Fawn-Grey, side pockets, and cut'f
bottoms, slightly wider in legs 42/-
Peapes pay postage.
Please state waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
The original Pilsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops,
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported.
Guaranteed free from all chemicals.
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass or
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors:—
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney,
Or their Queensland Agents:—
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Percy Pawnticket”: When young Adol-
phus told me that he had declared his
passion for Gwendoline and found it re-
ciprocated, I naturally asked him when
it was “coming off,” only to receive the
seemingly irrelevant information “We
haven’t found the boarder yet.” But I
understood. Adolphus, enjoying the benefits
of the basic wage, looks to the discovery of
a suitable boarjder to enable his bride and
himself to surmount the difficulty of high
rents. Naturally the (as it were) honey-
moon boarder must be chosen with care,
even if the search keeps love’s young dream
marking time. Later on the couple may be
less exacting. A man I had not met since
his marriage, about 10 years ago, told me
that his wife was “keeping a regular board-
ing-house now.” “You see,” he explained,
“when the kids started to come along we
found we couldn’t manage with only one
boarder.” Then, unexpectedly, he unveiled
a vein of bitterness. It was about Bloggs.
Bloggs, it appears, had been their “honey-
moon boarder,” and after 10 years of some-
thing resembling preferential treatment had
intimated that he was leaving the establish-
ment in which the family had grown around
him. He might have been forgiven his de-
fection ; what was unforgivable was that he
was taking another boarder with him. Bloggs,
in short, was going to get married himself,
and he was making the usual provision.
* * * *
“John Wellington”: A big job was done in
Gisborne (M.L.) the other day when the
Muriwai Hotel was shifted holus-bolus
55 chains. It is a two-storeyed wooden
building, and the first intention was
to cut it in halves and remove the
pieces to the new site and there re-
construct it, but that idea was aban-
doned. The weight of the pub was estimated
at 70 tons, and the time of journey was 18
days. Three hundred feet was the longest
move in one day. The inevitable drunk, of
course, had to have a place on the pro-
gramme. He was a stranger, and they took
him in before the job of migrating was com-
menced. Alongside the window of the bed-
room which he occupied was a fruiting
apple-tree, and he reckoned, as far as he
could bring his mind to bear on the matter,
that he would have some of the produce in
the morning. He was sure of that, but
when he came out of his beer swoon and
saw no apple-tree, and, further, discovered
that the prize earthquake of the century was
doing its worst, he leaped frantically from
the premises and fled, trouserless, for the
open spaces.
* * * *
“Sierra”: Commenting on “Trooper
Ketch’s” tale of a firing-party on the veldt,
“Panchaz” (B. 26/6/’24) declares that at
all military executions the revolver is used,
even if there-is no need for it. Well, I have
a vivid recollection of the execution of three
white men, convicted of train-wrecking at
Taaibosch Siding, during the S’African dis-
turbance. The victims, who sat facing the
firing parties, toppled over simultaneously on
the word “fire” ; and, after a cursory inspec-
tion by the military surgeon, the bodies were
wrapped in blankets and lowered into their
graves. No revolver was needed, or used;
all the rifles of the firing-parties were loaded
with ball-cartridge.
* * * *
“Hamer” drops a tear into his pie:—
During some industrial pro-
ceedings initiated by the Hotel
and Restaurant Employees’ Union
the remark was confidently made
that the day of the “three-course
meal” is done. However this may
be, there is no blinking the fast
that a man may pay four or five
times as much for a meal that is
only half as good as that of 15 or
20 years ago. In that glorious
period Comino, in Sydney, used
to give a large plate of soup, what
looked like half a fowl with real
oysters in the sauce, a sweet if it
was wanted, with tea or coffee and
all the bread and butter the cus-
tomer could eat, for a bob—and
made his fortune out of it. At the
Trocadero there was a choice of
three courses for is. 6d.—good
courses, too —and a couple of other
courses, with light wine thrown
in, could be had for a shilling
extra. Hotels ran their “shilling
ordinary'’—Roberts’s, now van-
ished from Farmer’s George-street
corner, being the best-known to
ordinary lunchers. The “three-
course” system had a general re-
cognition ; but at Chinnery’s in
Hunter-street one might lunch ou
a bit of excellent fish, roll and
butter—for ninepence. And he
didn’t go broke either.
‘Chhota Peg”: It was not only among the
“other ranks” that the A.I.F. laid itself open
on occasions to charges of lack of discipline.
A senior officer on divisional headquarters
on Gallipoli was feeling very fed up with
life in general and official correspondence in
particular, when he was handed a pile of
papers two or three inches thick marked on
the top sheet “For immediate action.” He
read some—enough to discover that they re-
lated to the loss of Private Billjim’s false
teeth while he was in hospital 18 months
ago—and forwarded them to brigade for
inquiries to be made from Billjim’s battalion.
They were returned in a few days with the
information that as Billjim had been in-
valided home 12 months before nothing
further was known of him. To avoid the
possibility of any more trouble concerning
the matter, the officer placed the whole file,
together with a fresh -“For immediate action,”
in a large envelope, and addressed it to the
Governor of Bermudas. For all I know that
INNOCENT TO BEGIN WITH.
“No use looking around, I never use a model. All my pictures
are born of my imagination.”
“Well, old dear, they aren't born to be hung, anyway.”
worthy may be still puzzling his brains to
discover how he is concerned in the loss of
an Australian soldier’s teeth in a military
hospital.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: An unusually cheerful Sydney
divorce respondent before Justice Owen the
other day frankly admitted that he had
more than once threatened his wife to “do
her in,” and had once “larruped” her with
a belt. But that, he protested, was when
she had thrown a saucepan of scalding water
over him and hit him on the side of the
head with an axe. The lady, for her part,
admitted both the hot water and the axe,
and recalled a few other things besides. His
Honor, with a pained expression, was be-
ginning some remarks about a terrible state
of domestic infelicity, when the respondent
cut in. “I can assure y’r Honor we’ve been
very happy in spite of our little tiffs,” he
remarked. And the way he said it implied
that in his opinion his Honor was taking
quite a wrong view of the case—and pro-
bably indeed he was.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko” also remembers:—
I have no grievance against Dr. Stefansson for
telling me some of the things about the Arctic
which I knew years ago and which tens of thousands
in Australia know. But I’d like to say something
about Greenland and other inclement regions and
suggest the most likely origin of the “blond, blue-
eyed Eskimos.” When little more than a kid I came
to know Upernavik, Ivigtut, Jakobshavn and Chris-
tianshaab. I saw daisies, grass and (principally)
moss, for it was summer; but all around the patches
of meadow was the blanket of ice busily forming
bergs. These Danish settlements in Greenland were
very old; and two steam-auxiliary barques, Vidjornen
and Nordlyset, were regular seasonal traders to them.
During their stay at Greenland each member of the
crew, as a matter of course, had an Eskimo wife. The
Eskimo had (and according to Dr. Stefansson still
has) no conception of what we call morals ; and wife
and daughter were eagerly traded. This habitual
making over of wife and daughter to whites has gone
on now for centuries with whalers, sealers and traders,
and it would be astonishing if a blond and blue-eyed
type of Eskimo hadn't eventuated.’ The Eskimo may
be as childlike as we have lately been told, but in
trading of all kinds he was exasperatingly sophisti-
cated.
Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, which I know too,
are in no wise comparable for cold with Greenland,
because of their situation in the Gulf Stream. In
some respects these lands are quite fertile, yet so
cold is the soil on Iceland that I have seen “forests”
of birch reaching, fully grown, the height of six feet!
Stefansson says the summer in the icebound North is
quite hot. Well, I have seen the midnight sun up
there; also south of Cape Horn, near the fringe of the
Antarctic, when there was but one hour’s absence of
sun, and that hour filled by brilliant moonlight; and
it was rarely warm and never hot. The Polar summer
is merely a green-painted winter. It is quite true
about the mosquitoes being there. But that is really
not an inducement for immigration to the Polar
circle.
“E.D.”: Among the things that may
happen to a man in Melbourne is the casual
unregistered little one. A resident of one of
the superior southern suburbs (call him
Crunch) was about to leave his home by
the front door the
other evening, when
he nearly trod upon
a bundle left upon
the mat by some
person unknown.
The bundle con-
tained a baby, ia
feeding-bottle and a
note to the effect
that Crunch could
look after his own.
Mrs. Crunch was
early upon the
scene, and her atti-
tude towards hex-
faithful spouse was
distinctly hostile.
Like a wife she
went clean over to
the enemy, and so
behaved towards
poor Crunch that
he was constrained
to spend the night
in a soi-t of moral
quarantine, suffer-
ing the pangs of
injured innocence,
while sorrowfully
meditating his next
move. He had re-
solved to hand the
waif over to the
police first thing in
the morning, but
very early the
anxious mother
arrived and claimed
her infant. She
proved to be a late
maidservant of the
Crunch family, who
had been turned
adrift by Mrs. C.
for good and suffi-
cient reasons. The
girl was happily
candid, and to
Cx-unch’s melan-
choly satisfaction
admitted she had left the child on the mat
merely to spite the missus.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The recent death of an old
arti;<!»; in Wellington recalls a famous St.
Patrick’s Day procession of other years. The
committee found, on unfurling the banner,
that the saintly nose was missing. They
rushed to a painter to rectify the omission
in time for the morrow’s celebrations. He
worked overtime to adorn St. Pat with a
new nose, but he warned the Irishmen not
to furl the flag, as the paint would remain
soft and moist for some hours. Neverthe-
less some irresponsible Hibernian rolled the
bunting, and on the morning of the proces-
sion the flag-bearers were hurried to their
allotted positions. The parade through the
streets of Wellington, with St. Patrick nurs-
ing his nose on his knee, while a huge blank
occurred in the centre of his face, is still re-
membered.
MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
MAGISTRATE (to witness): “Your conduct is
most reprehensible You knew this poor
creature was being done to death at your
door, and you never stirred to pre-
vent it!”
WITNESS: “You must consider the weather,
sir. The rain was ’eavy, an’ there wasn't
a rumbrella in the ’ouse.”
“Bogota”: Re military executions (B.
12/6/’24). In the early part of 1916 three
men belonging to an English regiment were
court-martialled for disobedience while mem-
bers of a firing-party. The evidence showed
that the party had consisted of six men,
that only three bullets had lodged in the con-
demned man, of which none had caused imme-
diate death, and that the coup de grace had
been administered with a revolver. In con-
sequence of admissions made by themselves
and overheard by others, the three “defaul-
ters” were arrested and charged. They were
each convicted and sentenced to 12 months’
hard labor, and as far as I know they served
out their terms. Efforts were made to have
the sentences annulled, but they failed badly.
£Continued on page W.\
THE ELDERLY LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poets, being very young
And full of self assurance,
Have love and loving ever sung
As of but brief endurance.
They bid us gather while we may
Our cherries or our roses,
For love is bound to fade away,
And come not on a later day.
At sixty life discloses
A very different point of view—
At least I find its aspect new.
To me dear love is not a rose
And not a ripened cherry,
A thing that for a season glows
And then is fit to bury.
Love’s not for youngling souls alone ;
I scoff at callow passion—
A love that’s immature and prone
To sigh and sob and moan and groan.
In rude and hasty fashion
It wastes; itself and halves its joy
In hot and feverish employ.
A poor, bull-headed thing is love
As boys of twenty know it.
It sets emotion far above
Plain sense, as young bards show it—
The victim all unlaced, untied,
Excitable and shifty.
But trim and tidy we abide,
And self-contained and very wide-
Awakei we are at fifty.
We take from loving, as I live,
All sweets that loving has to give.
Go gather roses if you must
And pluck your cherries quickly!
The cherries soon will turn to dust,
The rose is always prickly;
But love is sturdy, love is strong,
As age at last discovers.
It has no thorns, no searing thong;
’Tis not capricious, sad and wrong
When sixty finds us lovers.
Then love is sweet. To know him best
With wisdom you must temper zest.
Love is to tameless youth a thing
Precarious and fleeting,
A butterfly upon the wing,
The lover ever cheating.
HOW THE TIFF STARTED.
THE HUSBAND : “What d'ye want to go there for? Pm
beginning to think women must have a constitutional
love of the horrible.”
HIS LITTLE WIFE : “A good thing for you, or you might
have been a bachelor to your dying day.”
At sixty it is true and kind,
A joy to all my being.
At ripened sixty-one I find
That Cupid is no longer blind,
But wide-eyed and far-seeing.
His youthful blindness signifies
That boys to bliss have closed their eyes.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


INCOME-TAX DAY.
“So, naturalists observe, a flea
Hath smaller fleas that on him prey;
And these have smaller still to bite ’em,
And so proceed ad infinitum.”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£314 18 0
P. Gearon, Oberon .. .. .. 3 <5
£3ls 0 6
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Oflice, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
m
v
vs
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20a / 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
"Laurie”: Something quite new in reasons
why a death sentence should be commuted
has been put forward in Adelaide —by the
foreman of the jury, too. “On the evidence,”
he says, “there is no reasonable ground on
which one can base even the shadow of a
doubt as to Morse’s guilt” ; but “the precipi-
tation of a criminal into the spiritual world
unregenerate makes it possible for him un-
seen to work much mischief.... When you
have a criminal in the body you know where
he is, but when his body is destroyed he is
beyond your reach”; wherefore w r e should
"render to the criminals love for hatred and
mercy for violence, and so win them back
to the fold ultimately.” In other words, the
right thing to do is to offer prizes and pre-
miums for vice and crime, so that when the
malefactor comes to his end he won’t have
the heart to worry the earth any more. Some
people may. however, think it rather a big
price to pay to buy off an evil spirit, especi-
ally as the evil spirit may strike for a higher
price, and be more cantankerous than ever
until it is granted.
* * * *
“Sursurn Cauda”: “Chliota Peg” (B.
•19/6/’24) on the accuracy of aerial bombing
does not exaggerate in the least. The same
bomb-sight was also used for aerial photo-
graphy. It is, by the way, quite possible
for the pilot of a bombing ’bus to take a
snap of his own bomb striking its target,
for the curved trajectory of the bomb is for-
ward as well as downward. In witness
thereof I can produce a photograph of a
201 b. Cooper bomb hitting the water in the
solitary tank of a Turkish camp in Pales-
tine. The comparatively accurate dropping
of missiles without using the sights is also
possible from a low altitude. Members of the
Nth Light Horse will remember their ride from
Wasta. on the Nile, across the desert to
that hotbed of rebellion, the Fayoum. Work-
ing in conjunction with the Bth was Y Squad-
ron R.A.F. One of our jobs was to fly out
from Beni Suef to Midenet el Fayoum,
loaded up with small-arm ammunition, bully-
beef, biscuits and food, for the rebellious
THE SILVER LINING.
SHE (looking up from her reading) ; “It
must be a terrible thing to be blind:’
T HE WORM: “Oh, yes. But it has its com-
pensations.”
Gyppps in the form of bundles of propa-
ganda. A small detachment of Tommies was
marooned in the barrack on the outskirts of
the town, and we unloaded our freight (car-
riage paid) into the barrack square at 70
miles tier hour. By letting go of the package
before reaching the courtyard wall it in-
variably hit the ground inside the prescribed
area.
* * * *
“Swiss”: “Jimmy Darwin’s” Binghi pri-
soners who objected to being locked out of
clink (B. 29/5/'24) remind me of the easy
discipline Jimmy Simpson maintained over
his multi-colored flock on Thursday Island.
Late one night gaoler Jimmy was aroused
by a loud knocking. “Who’s there?” he cried.
“Me, Felicio,” said the owner of that name.
“What are you doing out there?” said Jimmy.
“I bin go down town with Warder Blank,
lie stop alonga pub, and I no can get him come
home,” pleaded the benighted prisoner. “Go
arid fetch him, and don’t you dare come back
without him,” commanded the gaoler. And
he didn’t. Next day a notice was posted:
“All warders not in by 6 o’clock will be
locked out."
* * * *
“Ragar” : I’ve an uncle getting on for 70
years of age who boasts that he’s never had
toothache, nor required the services of a
dentist. When he was 47 he started cutting
another set of teeth, the new arrivals coming
into position immediately behind his ordinary
set; and within two years the second set was
complete. Not one of his other teeth was
either missing or decayed, and with the two
sets he was able to crunch up pretty well
HOPELESS.
THE MINX : “They say a man’s arm is equal in length to a gin's
waist.”
THE SLOCOVE : “ Weally! If I had a tape measure we could
prove it.”
anything. Now his son, at 43, is follow-
ing his father’s example, and is getting a
second row in his lower jaw. I have met
only one other case of a man being shark-
toothed, and that was over in the Cold Coun-
try many yesrs ago.
“I. Arty”: Melbourne souvenir-hunters are
falling over one another to secure one of the
small sections of wood in the possession of
a warder who has officiated within
Melbourne _ Gaol for years. When the scaf-
fold was dismantled for transfer to the new
gaol at Coburg, this officer managed to secure
the trap-door; he had it sawn up, and has
since been distributing fragments among his
friends. As this door has been in use since
the first hanging in Melbourne, it is prac-
tically certain that some of the centre sec-
tions have borne the weight of every criminal
executed there. Angus Murray was the 173rd.
* * * *
“Fana”: Re queer jobs in w T ar-time (B.
22/5/’24). One I know was held b ,r a very
eminent scientist from one of the English
universities. His business was
to conduct research work into
the life-story and habits of the
ordinary louse, Pediculus vesti-
menti, and to find ways and
means by which the pest might
be checked. With a couple of
assistants he labored in a well-fitted-up
laboratory in a town in France. Many a
soldier had reason to bless him, though few
enough may have known it.
“Bookra”: The yarn of the Digger who
placed his hat on Gladstone’s statue at Aus-
tralia House (B. 1.2/6/’24) reminds me of
the morning when Cairo awoke to find a
Mungaree nosebag placed in correct position
on the sculptured steed of Mahomet Ali in
Opera-square. It was no mean feat, for the
horse’s head is quite 35ft. from the ground.
The perpetrators of the outrage were never
discovered. All that was established was
that some cheerful souls had pinched the
ladders used by the Gyppo street-lamp
cleaners and invariably left chained to the
last lamp-post, and tied them together until
rhe required height was reached.
Lester Way’s parable of the King:—
The Great King’s favorite loved him very dearly.
His face was kind and noble and beamed with love
for all mankind; and this, she thought, explained
her love. Then, one day, she found that the beauti-
ful face was false. T.was but a neatly fitting mask,
“Remove thy mask, O King,” she begged, “and let
thy love-mate look upon thy true countenance.”
The lips of the mask smiled gently as the Great
King shook his head.
That night, after the King had tired of loving
and had fallen asleep, she crept softly from his
warm embrace, and deftly lifted off the mask. A
quick shudder ran through her slender frame; for
the face she saw was ugly and cruel. It was as the
face of a beast. In horror she replaced the mask
and crept back into the Great King’s arms.
Next morning, when the King seemed to smile so
kindly on her, she felt she must confess what she
had done. Her bosom could not hold so great a
secret.
“I have a confession to make, O Noble One,” she
murmured, twining her arms about his neck. “Last
night while you were sleeping I removed your mask
and saw your real face. Forgive me, Omy Lord.”
But the King laughed softly. Then, looking into
her moist eyes, he said: “What you saw was not my
face. It was another mask.”
“Topo”: I was talking the other day to
Carmichael, a full-blooded Australian abori-
gine, Mt. Gambier tribe, and he delivered
himself of this pearl, without stopping for
breath: “After all, is your civilisation worth
boasting about? You plaster your hoardings
with that” —nod-
ding to screaming
posters heralding
the newest and
smelliest Yankee
film. “Your laws
regarding marriage
would have dis-
gusted my tribe,
any of whose mem-
bers, if they com-
mitted a fraction
of the offences
again st decency,
would have been
speared. Your
youth of both sexes
ar e allowed, o r
take, liberties un-
dreamed |Of
amongst us. You
think shame of our
original nakedness
—i s not that
worse?” pointing
to a suggestively
clad woman. I in-
terrupted wit hi
“Who educated
you?” “Mr. Hage-
naue r,” he an-
swered —“God bless
his memory! He
knew the Austra-
lian blacks, and
gave - his life to
them. In his time
half-caste rubbish
were not allowed to spend their time loafing
in Government settlements, playing two-up.
TJ gh .
* * * *
“(589”: “Gouger” (B. 12/6/’24) mentions
the attachment between men and horses in
the Sinai and Palestine campaign. It was
more than a friendship. The horse became
part of its owner’s very life ; and many Dig-
gers felt the same sentiment that the Arab
has known for centuries towards his steed.
Lost in admiration for equine pluck and en-
durance troopers would construct every de-
vice possible for protecting the animal from
the glare of the sun. Down in the Jordan
Valley, at 120° in the shade, and pestered by
the Surra fly, nobody who appreciated cour-
age could forget the horses; but when one
remembers that, according to General Chay-
tor, one waggon-team of the Desert Mounted
Corps from D.H.Q. was without water for
84 hours and the N.Z.M.R. Brigade without
it for 72 hours —both doing continuous heavy
work over heavy country and averaging 20
miles a day—is it any wonder that the part-
ing between man and beast remained for
the average horseman one of the saddest inci-
dents in the campaign?
* * * •*
“Sir Spen”: Some people acquire boots,
others have boots thrust upon them. At
Dubbo (N.S.W.),
some years ago,
when Midwinter
was being tried for
a murder on the
Darling River, a
Louth fisherman
appeared in court
without boots.
’S’Onor pointed out
that the dignity of
the Court was
being threatened by
such incompleteness
of dress, and wit-
ness was forthwith
despatched to pro-
cure the necessary
footwear. No shop
in town had a pair
o f boots large
enough to fit him.
Eventually an o.s.
in sandshoes was
procured, and even
these had to be slit
down the fronts to
allow the toes to
straighten out. As
soon as he had
given evidence the
fisherman made a
beeline for the steps
of the court and re-
moved the encumbrances.
*** ; *
“Kyver”: There was no excuse for this
except that we were desperately in need of
coin. On evacuating Anzac our company
was shipped to Imbros Isle. Strolling about
after the first night in camp, we looked envi-
ously at the Tommies, who had just been
paid, buying up at the Greek “shops.” The
six members of our section searched their
pockets, but all that came to light was a
double-headed penny and an Aussie florin.
It was Bluey who had the brain-wave. At
his suggestion we crossed to the chooms,
borrowed two pennies, and introduced to
them the national Australian game. The
Tommies soon fell to the fascination of it.
but they proved very modest gamblers, and
it wasn’t until Bluey had headed ’em 3(i
times that we succeeded in breaking the
school. Then, magnanimously, we gave our
cleaned-out brothers-in-arms two bob each,
and tried not to feel hypocrites wheu they
applauded our freehandedness.
* * * *
■‘Topee”: I met an old friend in Georgt-
street the other day. He is a professor of
music and owns much property which, to his
sorrow, he has no child to inherit. He asked
me if I had seen a mutual musical acquain-
tance lately, and I told him I thought the
citizen in question was too much engrossed
with the newest of his half-dozen babies to
linger in town after business hours. The
Professor sighed. “Lucky fellow!” he says.
“What a technique he has!”
“Wilfrido”: “Green Tape” (B. 12/6/'24)
mentions the damages awarded to Mrs. Gem-
mell by a M.L. jury against the wealthy
farmer now doing 12 years’ hard labor for
killing the plaintiff's husband. But the case
involved something more than an illustration
of the right to recover damages from a
moneyed assassin. The murdered man,
according to the evidence, was a waster, who
made no attempt to maintain his wife, and
had been, in fact, sued half a dozen times
in the Maintenance Court. The point in
issue was —to put it crudely—-what was he
worth to her? The jury reckoned it at £2OOO.
Probably the worthy 12 took into account
the fact that Gemmell had been kicked to
death by the drunken Moghan, a hulking
brute of a man with a long list of convic-
tions for such petty offences as assault,
obscene language and breach of the peace.
Nevertheless, I have an egotistic glow when
I consider what I must be worth myself.
* * * *
“Dave Shep”: I was completing a formal
declaration under the Queensland Oaths
Act, and it was necessary for the person
being sworn to certify that he was either
a natural born or a naturalised subject of
the King. When I put this question to the
victim he seemed a hit doubtful as to the
meaning of it, so I repeated it. He scratched
his head for a moment and then remarked:
“Well, sir, so far as I know I was born
quite naturally.” I let it go at that.
* * *
“Pink Tape”: An ineradicable feminine
characteristic was shown at the Sydney in-
quiry into what is known as “the Long Bay
murder” when a woman witness testified that,
she could identify the clothes of the victim
but not her face. And then she described
the raiment down to a bunch of flowers, and.
becoming interested in her work, threw in a
few details about what the man was wear-
ing. Not long ago a woman witness was
called to assist the police to convict a man
who had pleaded an alibi. She said that the
tie he was wearing was blue, and, cross-
examined by the lawyer for the defence, was
“prepared to swear to it.” Counsel sat
down with a satisfied look, for the neckwear
in question had already been described as
purple by police witnesses. But when the
THE DIPLOMAT.
SUE: “I can’t help it if I’m not perfect. There’s only "been one
perfect little girl.”
MOTHER: “Oh! And who was that?”
SUE: “You, mummy, when you was little.”
tie marked as an exhibit was produced,
she said: “That's the one; that's blue.” And
blue it was —a royal blue, although purple
had been near enough for the male witnesses.
AUTUMN-END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A dying- peace holds all this quiet hill.
Brownly the gl ass droops, seeded dark with sleep;
And under it in slumber cold and deep
The yellow autumn lies, nor feels Time’s chill.
Tlum branches redden and at the wind’s will
The apricot’s last leaves fall. Robins cheep.
Down from the trees the red-breasts fluttering sweep,
As if Spring mocked the world with color still.
Hush! Like a lover, fondly, gently now'
Calm winter comes to claim his holy dead.
He mourns her there beneath a paler sun
And puts a last kiss on her lovely brow;
Then pacing round her corpse with ,solemn tread,
He lights the banksia candles one by one.
x.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


Usher's Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
'Wondei'Qsmoh
f om m£ r i
ir
mi
OtTS*
V
LaRUS $ FW fYI. • P irHT^TONQXA.
Extra High-grade
BURLEY
Smoking Tobacco
Australian Agents:
R. TOWNS & CO.,
SYDNEY.
sdf
VELVET 1
SHAVING STICK
NOT FOR ONE
PARTICULAR MAN
BUT FOR ALL
PARTICULAR MEN
•r
\\
7/1
/
\\
P'V
3- G*
79<*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Some July birthdays:—
Prof. W. H. Bragg (formerly of Adelaide); 62, on
2nd; Vjc; artist M. J. McNally, 52, A. \V. Piper,
K.C. (S.A.), 59, and Canon Girdlestone, 61, on sth;
W. .J. Isbister, K.C. (S.A.), 58, and Col. R. J. A.
Massie, 34, on 7th; H. C. E. Muecke (S.A.), 82,
pianist-composer Percy Grainger, 42, and Canon
Portus, 50, on 8tli; Brig.-Gen. Wilson, 53, on 11th;
Crawford Vaughan, 50, on 14th; Prof. E. Harold
Davies (SAi), 57, on 18th; Tetley Gant, M.L.C.
(Speck), 68, on 19th; Admiral Creswell, 72, on
20th; E. F. Mitchell, K.C. (Vic.), 69, and E. S.
Cunningham (Argus), 65, on 21st; Chief Justice
McCawley (Q.),- 43. on 24th; N. S. Wales Gov.-
Astronomer W. E. Cooke, 61, on 25th ; Justice Crisp
(Speck), 50, on 27th; Surgeon Alexander MacCor-
mick, 68, on 31st. ,
N.S.W.’s most persistent election-time
comedy relief. “The Only Jones.” lias issued
a manifesto that he has joined the National-
ists, from whom he optimistically expects
a selection. “The Only” has contested 13
elections, at which he has got as few as
3 and as many as 27 votes. Only the neces-
sity of finding the
foredoomed deposit
has kept him out
of other contests.
Jones got his sob-
riquet through hav-
ing “The Only
Independent Candi-
date” blazoned on
his banner in by-
gone fights. He is
a sign-painter by
trade, and that
helps him a bit.
G. E. EMERY.
Inspector-General
of Vic. State
Savings Bank.
He has just set
out on his second
fifty years’ service
in the hank, whose
deposits he has
watched grow from
one to fifty million
pounds.
It took a remarkable collection of quali-
ties to hoist a man from the ranks of the
pre-war British Army to a position in which
he was entitled to sport the crossed swords;
and the late Brigadier-General Harry Finn
was remarkable. Like Sir William Robert-
son he enlisted in a cavalry regiment, and,
like the F.M. and that other famous ranker,
Hector MacDonald, was a commissioned
officer inside ten years. The most spectacu-
lar feat of his life was his leading of the left
wing of the now defunct 21st Lancers at
Omdurman. He charged into the depression
in the desert that contained the Mahdi’s
doomed supporters, carrying as his only
Weapon a riding-whip. He was a competent
administrator and business man, as well as
a brave soldier, but he lacked the mental
strength of the two great rankers who were
his contemporaries. After being successively
Queensland and N. S. Wales Commandant
and C.M.F. Inspector-General, he was re-
tired, and turned to a commercial life. The
influence of his friend Kelso King got him
the secretaryship of the Walter and Eliza
Hall trust, and he was made secretary to
the Lieut.-Governor last year. He was 72
at his death, looked 10 years yoir’ger. and
until a few months ago had hardly known
a day’s serious illness.
Russell Watson, who died on Monday of a
chill caught at General Finn’s funeral, was
a born soldier and looked it. Beginning his
military service in the Scottish Volunteers
—as a 12-year-old trumpeter—he was one
of the first Australian volunteers for the
S’African War, in which he earned a “men-
tion” and the privilege of demanding the sur-
render of Pretoria. He went to Itabaul
under Holmes in 1914 ; was hit at Lone Fine ;
participated in the evacuation under Antill;
was wounded again at Pozieres, and on leav-
ing hospital was given charge of Sutten
Yeney Camp, with the rank of Brigadier-
General. He was a dentist by profession,
but had been interested for some years in
the paper industry. His widow is a sister
of Sam Hordern.
Adelaide is to have a permanent memorial
to the late Sammy Lunn, the quaint citizen
who did great work during the war. With
an unfailing flow of talk —mostly in rhyme—
and a complete
absence of bashful-
ness, he was the
ideal collector. His
pet personal side-
line was a fund of
his own gathering
and administering,
which pushed “five
bob for you, old
man,” into the
hand of every re-
turned soldier as
he landed.
JETHRO BROWN,
President of the
Industrial Court
in South Aus-
tralia, who decided
the other day that
it was impractic-
able to declare
one standard wage
for the city and
others for different
parts of the country.
Robert Stout has been receiving generous
and (more rare) honest felicitations on
reaching his quarter-century as Chief Jus-
tice of M.L. Probably there is no man
living in the Shaky Islands with such a
romantic history. He was born in the Shet-
land Islands 80 years ago, learned his let-
ters at a parish school, became a pupil-
teacher, and then knocked the icebergs off
his boots and migrated to M.L. in 1863. In
Dunedin, which was then practically a bush
settlement, he continued teaching, went in
for law and politics, and appeared for the
first time in the Reps, in 1875. Three years
later he was Attorney-General in the Grey
Ministry. And that led on, first to the Pre-
miership, and then to the chief place on the
Supreme Court Bench.
Arthur Robinson waited till the morning
after the Vic. general election to lodge his
resignation as Attorney-General, tie said
he had made up his mind before, but didn’t
want to weaken the Ministry during the
campaign. And now it is being asked why
lie took office at -all so recently as April 25.
He has had a long innings—so long that he
has appointed the whole of the present
Supreme Court Judges except Cussen.
Queensland’s bachelor Governor, Sir Mat-
thew Nathan, finds himself at times with em-
barrassing honors. While doing the gracious
the other day at a feminine flutter of which
a wife would have relieved him, he confessed
to holding some strange offices. He is a mem-
ber of the Countrywomen’s Association,
although, as he remarked, he does not live in
the country and is disqualified in other ways.
He is also a Girl Guide! And, finally, albeit
a Jew, he is the one male member of the
Young Women’s Christian Association.
Walter Sully, dead in England at 87, spent
all his best years on this side of the world.
As a boy he deserted his ship at Melbourne
to try the Bendigo diggings. Later, he had
interests in gold on the Thames (M.L.)
and in copper at Hawker (S.A.). He knew
the Barrier before silver was thought of
there; was one of the first business men in
Silverton, and later in Broken Hill. Sully
had a big interest with Charles Rasp in the
Proprietary, and, retiring to England on
making his pile, was at one time chairman
of the London Board of the big co. For
the last 10 years or more he had been blind.
The British Labor party is hoeing a hard
row in the matter of its overseas Governors.
The Westralian choice enraged the stalwarts
of the party, being a Tory, and last week
W. S. lioyce, M.P., died on top of a ’bus
while going to accept the Tasmanian billet.
Royce would probably have been little more
acceptable than the other man. He ’verted
to Labor a couple of years ago, after a life-
time in the Conservative camp, and was a
capitalist of the assertive, self-made order.
The Vic. election wasn’t a good one for
doctors. Argyle is now the only sawbones
in the people’s House. Harris, of the Hay-
seeders, is the only M.C.C.
Regarding the headship of the Peter Waite
Research Institute in S. Aus. as offering a
better opportunity for usefulness than his
present joint job in Vic. Agricultural De-
partment and Melbourne ’Varsity, A. E. V.
Richardson has decided to make the change.
Whatever he discovers will be broadcastea
for the benefit of all Australia, and, sorry
as Vic. is to let him go, it recognises that
it is better that he, a competent Australian,
should take the post than that it should go
to somebody from overseas who would come
to learn rather than to teach.
The Oddfellows in Vic. lost their oldest
member the other day when James Blaclmey,
93, passed out at Avoca. He had worn their
ornate collar since lie was 20.
One of the surprises of the Vic. election
was ex-policeman Cummins’s poll of 6523
against McPhairson’s 9358 in Hawthorn. No
doubt most of the 2800 cast for the Inde-
pendent, 11. C. Mason, would have gone to
the absent financier in a straight-out fight;
nevertheless Cummins’s figures are remark-
able considering his association with the
police strike and the nature of his political
creed.
It was through one of the late Downie
Stewart’s clerks going on a prolonged jag
that Robert Stout, Chief Justice of Maori-
land, . got the chance to become an articled
clerk—a kindness he lias never repaid, for
he has been a water-waggoner all his life.
Dead in Adelaide, at 73, J. T. Fitch,
proprietor of the big Rundle-street rag store
which was founded by liis father in 1857.
He was the first in S. Aus. to employ travel-
ling retail salesmen. These visited all parts
of the State and built up a huge country
business, especially in the distant West
Coast country. Fitch’s great ambition was
to witness the completion of the big addi-
tions to his Rundle-street premises; but
Death , said “No.”
One of the old-timers of Selborne Cham-
bers, Melbourne, was William Sliiels, who
answered the call from aloft the other day
while visiting his son in Sydney. He was
no relation of the brilliant Premier of 1892-
93, and one William rather resented being
taken for or associated with the other. The
man just gone did not often appear in
court; in fact, his last appearance in a big
case was as far back as 1894, when he was
counsel for the plaintiff in a libel suit against
the Evening Standard.
Vic. Railway Commissioners have ap T
pointed afi Australian Assistant Chief Elec-
trical Engineer—a praiseworthy break from
the custom of bringing in outsiders. The
new' man is C. G. H. McDonald, a 31-year-
old South Australian. While on the Adel-
aide tramways he won the degree of Bachelor
of Engineering and the diploma of Applied
Science at the Adelaide ’Varsity, then spent
nearly nine years in North America, and has
since been doing responsible work in Spain.
In September he comes home to a salary of
£lOOO a year.
Jacob Fotheringham, just dead, had a lot
to do with putting Australian heads into
Australian hats. He was one of the Vic-
torians w'ith a knowledge of manufacturing
who rushed to Sydney upon the arrival of
Federation and Protection, and he helped to
establish W. and A. McArthur’s hat mill, but
later left to open the Australian Hat Fac-
tory on his own account. At the time of
his death he was managing director of Fother-
ingham’s, Ltd. He served a short term as
member for Footscray in the Vic. Parlia-
ment in 1900, and was in a more uncomfort-
able place in 1917. when, the Laconia hav-
ing been torpedoed in the Irish Sea, he spent
10 hours with 21 others in a W'ater-logged
boat. He passed his job in the Vic. Parlia-
ment over to “Blank” McDonald, the man
who, by successfully moving to create a blank
in Irvine’s civil service reduction bill,
brought on the penal dissolution of 1902.
The far-flung Butler clan in the Speck
has been celebrating the landing of its
founders, Mr. and Mrs. Gamaliel Butler,
who arrived in Tasmania on July 2, 1824,
after a six months’ voyage in a merchant-
man. Although all the professions have
been represented at various times by mem-
bers of the clan, there has been throughout
the century an unbroken association with
medicine and law. The firm of Butler,
Mclntyre and Butler, one of the oldest legal
firms in Hobart, was founded by Charles
Butler, grandfather of the present head, and
was carried on for many years as Butler and
Butler before John (afterwards Justice)
Mclntyre was taken into partnership. When
he went out his son Alan went in.
A film of PROFESSOR WALLACE, Chief
Commonwealth Censor of Books and
Motion Pictures.
“The Deacon”: “The Acolyte” suggests
(B. 19/6,/’24) that Apostolic Delegate Cat-
taneo probably wonders, when new R.C.
bishops are being consecrated, why the Vati-
can’s wish that every country should provide
its own hierarchy is not given effect to. But,
if it isn’t, Dr. Cattaneo himself is mainly
responsible, so far as Australia is concerned.
The priests entitled to vote — i.e., parish
priests—have their say; then the bishops
veto or approve; and the Delegate has the
final word. In one case at least it is more
than hinted that he made the final selection
himself, and the winner was an Irishman,
where there were Australians with overseas
experience in Rome and Ireland, who had
filled important posts in their diocese.
John Cross, who got the call suddenly in
Melbourne the other day, was teacher and
inspector in Vic. for more than 40 years,
and one of the most likeable of bachelors.
A sexagenarian, he had left the service a
few months before and was riding his hobbies
joyfully when the trumpet sounded. An en-
thusiastic birdlover, he was a heavyweight
in the Ornithologists’ Union, and that body
wall now have to look for another secretary.
“X.N.0.” : Admiral Rosslyn Wemyss is a
strong tip for the approaching vacancy in
the G.-G.-ship of Maoriland ; his rapid rise
of late years has rather surprised those in-
side the service. I cannot remember his hav-
ing held any active command for years be-
fore the war, except as Commodore of the
Royal Yachts, a drawing-room job, though
filled at times by first-class men, such as
Brand, who was here in the Delhi with the
Special Service Squadron. Wemyss, how-
ever, looked as if he had become a back num-
ber, when suddenly he was presented to the
Empire as First Sea Lord. The Armistice
negotiations found him in office and brought
him boldly into the public eye, and “Rosie’s”
name was made. All this is not to. say he
won’t be a good G.-G.; the chances are all
in favor of it, for he is excellent company,
tells a real good story, and carries about
with him a cheery, eye-glassed countenance
that should endear him to caricaturists.
D. Swiss Davies, who is among the 37 who
are after the Labor selection for the Senate in
Bananaland, was one of the original N.Q,
Laborites, and in the interval has had four
escapes from entering the State
House—in such scattered electorates as Port
Curtis, Townsville, Burke and Warwick;
Despite the continental flavor of his name
he is an Australian of British stock, he earns
a crust as managing director of Ipswich
Wines and Spirits, Ltd., and is known to
old Bulletin readers as “Mamoose.”
James Allen, M.L.’s High Commissioner
in London, who can call the King of Den-
mark Christian since he trotted him around
Wembley in a friendly way during last
week, is a South Australian, born in 1855. He
was forwarded to England for education, and
got it in Cambridge and the Royal School of
Mines. First elected to the M.L. House of
Reps, in 1887, for many dreary years he was
Massey’s right-hand man in Opposition. Dur-
ing the war he was Minister for Defence, and
was M.L.’s first Minister for External
Affairs —the appointment was necessitated by
the mandate over Samoa.
THE SINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At 12.40 a.m. Mr. Yates, after commenting on
the Commonwealth’s need of a national anthem,
insisted on demonstrating the merits of ‘The Song
of Australia’ by singing the first verse.... The Prime
Minister subsequently protested.”
. It rose upcn tne midnight clear
That wintry night in June;
One almost fancies one can hear
The words, and catch the tune.
In lieu of noise like scraping tripe
That tells or dull debates
Men listened to the jocund pipe
Of legislator Yates.
These are tne walls in other days
And this the roof that rung
To Toby Bartcn's dulcet phrase
And Death in's silver tongue;
Here Billy Hughes the lash would crack
And loose the tongue that rates- —■;
Where now the rafters echo back
The booming staves of Yates.
Here Kingston’s scornful accents smote
And Lyne’s indictments shook;
El’tsoons across the floor would float
The rasping snarl of Cook.
Where Reid the waggish jested erst,
Convulsing foes and mates,
Abruptly into song there burst
The blatant bass of Yates.
One filled his lungs, one oped his jaws
Among that drowsy throng
With “Make who may the nation’s laws,
I’ll troll the nation’s song.”
And on the cushioned- seats there woke,
Pop eyes in shining pates,
A flock of sadly flustered folk
As on a startled House there broke
The melody of Yates.
sdf
IFORD.


BLACK
WHITE
|#lllS#Blil
I
k : ■
. -
1 '
£ - : ■' :;>;;v -&<s;■
kfllf J
»J>V' / ;.-■; ..* ’ _ / -t- ',' 3 ,&.
i,t|A .■:.> '. ": .■ «:!“G : -;'vS ; jJJvSr ...
'■’:•■■■ ".■' - >.’■
u{tl>' * • : *;* - ■*"}»£•«*- . ■ :
/?£4L SCOTCH.
- - , .., ‘ : ~ %-*>
.
.. : '•: '■ i..,. v .
.
■ ■ .
•- r ;
Mm
m
■
■ as mm
mMKKKKKmmm
u
■
.
mm
i
■ .VI rjußßamA
a,
; ■
“
■
i
a
n
* H
I
: :W
Hi
£ .-V-' #5 ■ ■ 4feM
A
%
IjaHl , s
|P|#§|
SCOTCH WHISKY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, and their
Associated Companies are in the predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards
of 29,000,000 GALLONS of Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks of this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky.


SBSBSW
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearin g to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., 102
Olderfleet. Collins Street Melbourne
N.Z.—John Proctor 200 Hi ß h St Chnstchurch
W A.—H. Little dr Co., 851 Hay St.. Perth
OFFICIALLY RECOMMENDED.
CALCIUM
KUMO
BRAND
CYANIDE
for
RABBIT DESTRUCTION.
Dust which is blown into the warren and gives off deadly fumes over twenty-four hours. No
rabbit can escape, no matter how deep the dead-ends.
Economical, non-inflammable, non-explosive.
The Minister for Agriculture says: “It. can be transported and handled for the purpose of rabbit
destruction almost with complete safety.”
The machine for its application is of the knapsack type, simple, light, portable.
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VICTORIA. —Leighton, Simpson & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. —S.A. Tanners’ Co-op. Union. Lid., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND.—Buzacotts IQTand), Ltd., Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA. —Harris, Scarfs « Samlovers, Ltd., Perth.
0 *->
Every
POLO
Player
Should have
a copy of
our
Season 1924
Booklet of
I.atest Rules
and Polo
equipment
prices.
Very handy for
reference.
Write to-day
for yours
(Free).
JOHN BRUSH (and Butler’s),
Saddlers and Polo Specialists,
371 George St., and 434 Queen St.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE (Q ).
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Mafutu”: “Bouragi’s” trial by ordeal (B.
12/6/’24) was not quite as painful as a case I
investigated in the Mandated Territory. While
patrolling the coast near Potsdamhafen I heard
screams coming from the tall grass close to the track,
and 1 managed to get near the operating theatre
without being seen. Four big bucks and an elderly
gentleman were squatting round an old woman, who
was being held flat on her back by the young fellows.
SHOP!
“What, want to beg another sixpence! Why, you cadged
one yesterday. Aren’t you making it rather hot?”
“Well, sir, I used ter be a retoucher by trade.”
“Oh, did' you? Well, you’ll find the answer in the
negative.”
The old chap (who I learned later was the boss sor-
cerer of the district) was busily pushing slivers of
wood resembling toothpicks through the lady’s skin,
one in each thigh, one on either side of her stomach,
one through each breast; and, when I called time,
he was having some difficulty in forcing a blunt
sliver through a skinny forearm. With the aid of
my native police I pinched the venerable surgeon
and his assistants, and took the old lady to the
nearest mission. The third degree elicited that the
woman was suspected of having caused the death of
two neighbors by witchcraft, and, relations of the
deceased having sparred up the necesary fee, the sor-
cerer had got to work. The wooden slivers had
been stuck into a decomposed fish prior to the trial,
and the inevitable blood-poisoning would, in the event
of the patient dying, indicate that the accused was
guilty. If she recovered she would be let off with a
caution. In this case she died, so presumably she
was guilty all right. The dusky judge and jury
got a lengthy term in calaboose—and once again
Brown Brother reckoned white-feller law an ass.
* * * *
“Lily-Beale”: There is at least one man
on the land who has cause to be grateful to Bunny.
During the droughty months of 1923, James Andrews,
of Baradine (N.S.W.), was sitting on his verandan,
thinking of his perishing stock and telling a visitor
of the hard lot of the man on the land, when lie
noticed a rabbit run across the road a few hundred
yards from his homestead. Following his usual
custom of spending the latter part of the day in his
armchair, he again saw Bunny, and, thinking it
strange that the rabbit should appear about the
same time and in exactly the same spot, he investi-
gated. To his delight he discovered a small damp
patch. Sinking next day he struck water, and at
12ft. he now has what has proved a never-failing
supply.
* * * *
“Kurrajong”: Has anyone remarked that,
though Binghi has made good as a ped., he has
not shone as a swimmer ? Few of the blacks from
the interior can even paddle, and this fact upset
the calculations of a bystander on the arrival of
the weekly steamer at Cairns some years ago. One
of the local drunks fell off the wharf amid the
general excitement, and an abo. who was leaning
over with distended eyeballs and mouth agape watch-
ing the struggles of his white brother was pushed in
as a protest against his lack of initiative. This
considerably complicated matters, as one non-swimmer
in the water was quite enough without the addition
of another who had arrived only that day from
the Never Never. It was with some difficulty that
they were both fished out.
“Anaf” : Some time ago I saw an ingeni-
ous method of locating bees’ nests, based on the
fact that about 99 times out of 100 the bee
makes for its home in a perfectly straight line. A
couple of bees are caught and carefully dusted with
flour, so as to make them easily distinguishable amid
the foliage. (No, it’s not the old story of sticking
a feather on a bee and following him home.) Then
two persons, each taking one bee, release them from
points about 400yds. from each other, and watch
the courses taken. It is a matter of simple geometry
that these courses consisting of straight lines’, the
nest will be found somewhere about where they
intersect. Those who showed me the method were
two men who made a business of honey-gathering, and
they declared that it was very rarely unsuccessful.
* * * *
“Gouger": What’s the greatest height an
animal can jump from without being
hurt ? A frisky terrier put my
mate’s cat up an 80ft. tree yester-
day. Puss refused to descend
until the tree was felled—l be-
lieved she was scared to cpme
down from that height. She
jumped as the tree toppled; I
should say she bounced 7ft. lOin.
—and she is still running. Once
when I was shooting along some
rocky bluffs back o’ Broken Hill,
a mob of wild goats came bound-
ing at a great rate from rock to
rock, and followed the leader over
a sheer bluff, 40ft. in height, land-
ing on a dry sandy creek below.
Here they steadied up, and they
took the next hill quite uncon-
cernedly. They had not been
startled by anything, and I be-
lieve that jumping the bluff was
merely a pastime of theirs.
* * *
“Morob” : It is extraordi-
nary how quickly the domestic
fowl will revert to what is
probably the original type or
thereabouts once it gets the oppor-
tunity. Sometimes in the bush
a house is deserted and the fowls
are left to look after themselves,
and whenever this occurs it is not
long before they are back in a
perfectly wild state. Succeeding
generations become more adapted
for flight than their progenitors
of the hen-house, their bodies being-
longer and narrower, while their
wings have a greater spread.
They fly with the greatest ease,
and usually select the tops of
the tallest trees for roosting-places
—probably an interesting survi-
val of the period when their
forebears lived in Asiatic Jungle-s-
-and snakes were amongst their
chief enemies.
“Caloola” : Whenever fox and dingo meet
in combat put your cash on Reynard. One day last
year I erected a “cover” about 50yds. from a skinned
bullock’s carcase and waited for crows. Shortly after-
wards a fox sneaked towards the meat. Hardly had
he congratulated himself on his .find when a dingo
came out of the scrub and howled a challenge.
Reynard apparently regarded the beef as his, for
he immediately cleared for action. (As I was to
leeward 1 was out of range of their noses.) After
a lot of snarling and showing of teeth they/ collided.
For fully 20 minutes they boxed ion; and, as Rey-
nard’s weight was against him in the clinches, it
looked as if the warrigal would get an easy win.
But science won in the end. Each time the fox got
a hold it was on a vulnerable spot, and at last the
dingo skied the towel and began to back away. V
bullet from my .22 put him right out. An old cockv
tells me he has witnessed a number of similar battles
and that the fox won every time.
* * * *
“Linklater”: The brumby pest in the Cape
York Peninsula (N.Q.) has become a grave menace
to cattlemen, and wholesale shooting has had to be
resorted to. In two months W. Massey and his son,
of Rokeby station, accounted for 964 head. Several
DISQUIETING.
“Mamma, why did you marry papa?”
“So you’ve begun to wonder, too, have you?”
thousand more remain to be wiped out. The brum-
bies, in addition to eating the best grass, also make
the cattle wild. Led by a savage stallion, they will
charge down upon a contentedly-feeding mob and
apparently enjoy the fun of chasing the startled
beasts.
* * * *
One of Nature’s short circuits: —
“Olive”: Tell “Y4R” (B. 5/6/’24) that the centi-
pede I saw ate her eggs, because she left half of the
last few behind her and her mouth and front legs were
smeared with egg, which she carefully cleaned oft
when she had finished. I cannot say whether the
lady that my brothers saw swallowed hers whole or
not. Neither of them is here now, or I would ask.
“Olive’s Brother”: In spite of “Y4R’s” assertion
that a centipede mentioned by “Olive” only put
her eggs in a cavity specially made for
the purpose, the fact is that Mrs. C. broke
each egg before swallowing it; also she left
an egg and a half behind. I am quite willing to
believe that centipedes have cavities all over them
for holding small goods in general, but I’m blowed
if I believe that mashed-up eggs will hatch. There s
no use in “Y4R” saying we didn’t watch her properly,
because we saw her suck every egg.
“Wilga”: “Olive’s” centipede reminds me of a
many-legged lady I disturbed a few years ago in a
gravel heap. A family of young ones, snow-white
and very small, was scattered about. She cruised
around until she had collected the lot apparently
swallowing them—and then moved off in search of
a fresh home.
* * * *
‘‘Wee Bobbie”: Talking of seagulls, has
any Abo. seen one pick up a flying-fish on the wing?
I saw it done once in the Bougainville Straits, and
though I have asked many old salts since, none of
them ever saw a similar incident. My gull caught
the fish as neatly as any hawk you ever saw make a
kill.
“Lily-Beale”: I was travelling from Wal-
gett to Tamworth with 4000 wethers, and shortly
after taking delivery about 1000 of them developed
“pink-eye,” which rendered them totally blind. W e
travelled the route which follows the Namoi River
as far as Gunnedah, and had great trouble when
watering the sheep owing to the blind jumbucks
swimming in and not being able to find their way
out. My two dogs, Jackie and Dick, got that used
to us sending them in to turn the “suicides” to
the bank, that towards the finish of the trip they
would, on seeing a sheep in difficulties, immediately
swim in, and taking each an ear would lug it to
the bank. Jackie, by the way, was well knowh
throughout the North-West and 1 refused many
tempting offers for him.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Ever since I ventured to throw
a doubt on the published statement that wild
camels had been seen in the desert south of the
EaSt-West -railway (B. 13/3/’24) persons have been
spasmodically arising to assure me that more or less
emancipated dromedaries are shaking a free leg in
quite different parts of Australia—not to mention
Central Asia and Spain. “AdeL” (B. 19/6/’24) is
the last who arrives with the Information that
“large herds.,.of camels, branded and unbranded, roam
the desolate wastes in the Northern Territory’s
south-east corner” and parts adjacent. All of which
is interesting but irrelevant. I asked who had seen
the camels which are supposed to have cast off the
hobbles of servitude on the Nullarbor Plain —there
is no other desert south of the Trans-line —and
where they saw them froth ; also I indicated a mild
disbelief in the beast’s ability to thrive in such
surroundings. Before anyone locates another lot of
camels sampling the delights of freedom at the
other end of Australia, I want to hear some more
about these.
* * * *
“8.W.L.”: A while back some Abos.
doubted whether dingoes and emus could be run down
by motor-cars. Well, on May 14 a car doing 23
miles an hour on the main road between Mt. Barker
and Albany (W.A.) came upon a dingo on the
top of a rise. The dog tobk no notice until the
car was within a few yards of him. Then he merely
loped along in front. The driver gradually in-
creased the pace until the speedometer showed 35
miles an hour. Even then it did not seem to push
the warrigal, and if it had not been for a bridge in
the way, which caused the dog to turn and slacken
his speed, he would have been alive yet. The car
hit him in the middle of the back and a funeral fol-
lowed. His skin and scalp brought 255. in Albany.
Some barbering beginnings :
“FY7”: Re “Zanthus’s” curiosity about the in-
vention of shearing and shears. The “tongs” came
in with the use of bronze. In the flint age the wool
was probably plucked, as it is in the Shetlands
to-day. Razors, shears and similar instruments were
well known to the bronze-makers, and specimens
survive. The Phcenicians were great wool-dyers and
dealers, and Egyptian, Greek and Biblical literature
is full of references to shears and shearing. In
Judges 16 will be found a reference to a historical
shearing feat, put up by one of these lady barbers
that Abo. writers are always telling us about. Her
name was Delilah, and I hear a lot of Dagoes have
been making a song about her stunt.
“F.A.”; The “tongs” are quite a recent invention,
according to such an authority as Luccock, who was
a wool-stapler at the latter end of the eighteenth
century. He says shearing was introduced into
Europe in 1785 or thereabouts. • Until then the
jumbuck's coat was removed by plucking. The Per-
sian graziers of a thousand years back used to gather
HERE’S ANOTHER SWINDLE.
COLLECTOR: “Say, missus, I’d like to know
when you are going to pay for that floor-
polisher you bought from me some weeks
ago.”
MISSUS: “Pay for it? Why, you said it
would pay for itself!”
the wool between January and May, that being the
season of abundant feed, which, according to their
doctrine, helped the sheep to cast off his coat in its
entirety. In most ancient woolgrowing lands the
gathering took place every two years, though in
countries-of chill temperature as many as four years
were allowed to drag by before the plucking began.
Fink, a Saxon wool expert, said: “A sheep clipped
once iii two years will certainly give one-third less
wool than if it had been clipped four times in
two years.” It was subsequently discovered, however,
that shearing a sheep more than once in a year had
a deleterious effect upon the wool. Machine shearing,
of course, was introduced in 1885.
(Continued on page 24.)
WASHING UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.'Sweet Helen standing in the steam,
An apron white about her tied,
With rose-red lips and eyes agleam,
Is filled with true housewifely pride.
I rub the plates with special care
And deftly range them on the shelf;
Arid she with diamonds in her hair
Demurely washes up the delf.
Let manly fellows brawl and rave,
And all the cavemen scoff and jeer,
I would not be considered brave
Were it to discommode my dear ;
Arid so I handle carefully
The blue tureen and gravy jug,
Each cup and saucer after tea,
The meat-dish and the baby’s mug.
Arid when the pans and pots are scoured
And ranged below the shining cans
(I do admit I’m somewhat soured
Disporting with the pots and pans).
Wo sit beside the winter fire
And Helen thanks me with a kiss.
What more, I ask, could heart desire?
What should I bargain for but this?
In days of yore in Paddy’s hut,
I’d wash or wipe and never miss;
I loathed the job like Sheol, but
There w'as no Helen then to kiss.
1 towel up the cups and plates,
I polish china, delf or tin;
And what another husband hates
I take a sort of glory in!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


sdf
H OSPITAL
BRANDY
cl
a o**o /;
7%ip ia% trm
cuA tb'Clous
II
\
*
mm B
■
m&S.
H
S«5


rIH
a
N|
■
■
,
■
M
h
-Zl'&i > ■
t
castlereagh
street,
SYDNEY,
This Hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia!
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management
J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
N.Z.,
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141 —10 lines.
“Kaiebi”: Reverting to “Riverina’s” re-
marks about Binghi’s bark canoes (B. 10/4/’24).
Small one-piece crafts, from 12 to 14 feet leng, and
pointed at both ends, were common enough in the
early days along the western side of the Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.), and the method adopted by the
builders was altogether different from that of “River-
ina’s” blacks. The go-slow principle of stripping the
bark was not practicable in these parts. Operations
started at the beginning of the wet season, at a time
when the trees were in full sap, and the skin was
taken off as quickly as possible, before the sap dried
and the bark wrinkled and cracked. First of all a
straight-grained, free-barrelled stringy-bark tree was
THE WOMAN PAYS.
“’Struth, only had two bottles, and there goes the wife’s."
selected, and forked sticks were placed against the
trunk to the desired height. On these an old buck seated
himself, and with his crude stone tomahawk circled
the bark with cuts after the fashion of saw teeth
or divided herringbone. This completed, he worked
his way down, making vertical cuts as he came.
Younger bloods then circled the lower portion of the
trunk with similar incisions. This done, with the aid
of Binghi’s stone implements and pointed sticks the
bark was prised off, being beaten with sticks through-
out the operation. The final stripping of the bark
always reminded me of the busy green ants building
their home of leaves, as every particle of space was
taken up by a naked worker. After the bark had
been removed, the outside fibre was burnt, and scraped
—a process which smoothed and toughened the sheet
—and then it was placed, flattened out, bark’ .side
uppermost, in a muddy creek and anchored down with
stones. This was to season it. One moon passed
then it was lifted and washed, and while still‘ limn
and leathery the ends were fashioned and stitched
together with fine strips of a cane much resembling
the lawyer-vine and called by the blacks of Cape
York “budger.” Bark treated in this manner will
not split or curl when exposed to the sun, and
when dry will last out iron roofing.
* * * ’• *
“Archbell”: I came across a fisherman on
the Loddon Biver (Vic.) recently carefully skinning
alive a large bullfrog, for cod-bait. I asked if he
didn’t think he should have the S.P.C.A. on to him,
and his reply was: “Frogs have no feeling whatever.
Skinnin’ ’em makes ’em more lively on the hook.”
As he could not explain how taking the hide off
something that has no feeling will tend to make it
more lively, I appeal to the Council for a verdict.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A Kogarah (Sydney) girl the
other day almost lost her hand as the result of the
bite of a spider, which, according to her description,
was a green one. This is the first I’ve heard of a
poisonous spider sporting such an overcoat. The red-
rumped black is well known to be dangerous, but it
looks as though, in view of the Sydney girl’s experi-
ence, the belief that all others are harmless will have
to be revised.
* # * *
“Wax”: I hasten to assure “Niloc” (B.
29/5/’24) that the silver wattle ( Acacia dealbata)
will help to make him a better Australian if he
uses it for axe-, pick- and hammer-handles. I have
been using one such gxe-handle for 15 months. Silver
wattle has the advantage of being easily worked.
Select large trees and avoid the sap wood. Much of
the imported hickory nowadays is immature, and
twists and warps.
**' * o
“St. Kitts”: The old idea that the teeth of
horses fed on molasses soon decay is rapidly dying
out. At present I am working prads nearer 30 than
20 years of age that have been fed on nothing but
chop-chop and molasses, and their teeth are still good.
Horses take readily to it, and it keeps them in
great health. From a nutriment point of view it is
not in the same street as maize, although analysts say
that, weight for weight, the two run neck and neck.
Molasses in the sugar districts costs 7s. 6d. for 200
gallons (about SOcwt.), and maize costs about Bs.
a bushel; consequently molasses has it all its own
way when £ s. d. is considered.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Few Papuan tribes buried
their dead in central plots, as “Homfrey Beale” (B.
12/6/’24) asserts. In the west of Papua, if buried
at all, the corpses were
laid in graves dotted about
the village “square”—
graves fenced in and
adorned with the deceased’s
weapons, and platforms
erected for food offerings.
Many of the Western tribes
preferred to let their dead
friends deliquesce on plat-
forms in the sun. Under-
neath sat privileged rela-
tions and friends, grate-
fully bathing in the juices,
and thus absorbing the
dead man’s virtues. Later,
the bones were collected,
scraped and painted. Cn
the n.-e. coast the corpse
was invariably buried
under the house of the
relations. One of the first
duties of a magistrate on
opening up new country
was to have these corpses
shifted to a selected site
outside the village, the site
being purchased from the
village or individual who
owned, it. It was a beastly
job, since personal super-
vision was often necessary.
In the Upper Kumusi coun-
try in the early 1900’s,
when it was full of raiding,
fighting villages, the
A.R.M. of the district had
sometimes to supervise SO
or 40 disinterments in new
villages visited and “paci-
fied.” Very often the sub-
jects were of recent date,
and this made it more un-
pleasant. At the next visit,
six months later, perhaps
the whole darn family of
departeds would be found
back in their old dug-outs,
with several new recruits
to keep them company.
“Parama”: “Bouragi” (B. 29/5/’24) was
absurdly wrong in telling “E.S.S.” that dugong “exist
in vast numbers from Brisbane northwards.” They
were plentiful enough years ago; but you may sail
those waters now for months on end without seeing
a sign of one. Even between Townsville and Cairns
you seldom see them, though north of the last-
named port and over by the Barrier, where some
of the grass beds are, there is a chance of coming
across an odd one or two feeding. My oldest “boy”
(he’s over 60) declares “dungal [dugong] ’e alla-
gedder gone. One time ’e too much eberywhere.
Plenty good kaikai. Now plenty people ’e too much
walkabout allatime. That feller dungal ’e no lak;
’e close up pinnis.” He talks of the good old days
of 40 years ago when he and the other young men
used to go out dugong spearing with the “wap” in
the canoe, and one was even then considered cause
for great rejoicing and a big-feller feast.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: In Papua I have often
heard of the budabuda-tree, out
have never seen it, and have been
able to obtain very little informa-
tion about it. The natives regard
it as sacred, and impress on the
inquirer that if met with it should
not be interfered with in any way,
as it is the residence of The Spirit.
They say that dire calamity is the
penalty of touching it, and an
agonising death will ensue if it is
cut down or injured in such a way
as to cause it to die. They also
believe that any person who sees
a branch of the tree drop from
natural causes has fighting or death
immediately ahead of him. Have
any Papuan members of the Coun-
cil seen this tree? If so, can
they tell me if it is identical with
or related to the Australian budda
or budda-budda—a tree greatly
resembling the dogwood, except
that it: bears berries which in
appearance and size are much like
Barcelona nuts, and masses (about
2ft. in diameter) of tiny and ex-
tremely sweet -smelling blossoms ?
I know that Australian blacks have
a sort of semi-sacred regard for
the budda-budda, but I do not
understand the exact belief be-
hind that regard.
“Te Whare”: It is surprising to find in
an otherwise fine and, on the whole, accurate Eng-
lish work on natural history, our old friend the black
snake (Pseudechis ponphyriacus ) masquerading as
“purple death-adder,” while what seems from the
color description to. be the tiger-snake (Notechis scu-
tatus) is labelled “short death-adder.” The maxi-
mum length, too, of the. black snake is put at about
7ft., but the late “Professor” Fox captured one which
measured lift., and I myself have seen the skin of
another (killed in a mountain swamp) over Bft. in
length. These two snakes are described in con-
junction with the true death-adder (Acantliopis
antarctica), but, except that they belong to the
same order, they are of course entirely different
species. Another piece of news is that the natives
of Australia believe that no one ever dies from the
bite of a death-adder. As a matter of fact,
Binghi well knew and respected the death-adder's
great toxic powers.
A testimonial impugned :
“Norman H.”: “Country Ped” was a long way off
the target when he said “every tree-lined country
road is free from scours” (B. 29/5/’24). Let him
come up here (Crows Nest, S.-Q.) and change his
views. .Just outside my place there is—or rather
was —a scour big enough almost to bury a horse in.
Ai least, it took two fair-sized logs and a few dray
loads of rocks and earth to fill it in. Similar wash-
outs are to be seen everywhere round here, although
there is not more than a 100yds. stretch of road not
lined with ironbarks and wild apples.
“Caesar'’: Here on the Upper Brisbane River (Q.)
I haven’t noticed that ring-barking trees causes the
land to scour ; but if the Government prohibited the
cutting of road trees, as suggested by “Country Ped”
—well, the coekies who have farms close to the roads
wouldn’t get the amount of their Shire rates from
their crops. Last year my dad planted a piece of
virgin land in potatoes. A couple of old gums grew
at one end. We had a good crop, but towards the
end where the trees grew the spuds were only the
size of marbles.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: A rifle barrel, despite
its thickness, can be very easily burst, if you really
want to do it. A mate of mine once got an ordinary
leaden bullet stuck in the barrel of a .32 Winchester
at the muzzle. After vainly trying to blow it out,
first with a few grains of powder and then with a
full charge, a ball cartridge was put it. There was
a dazzling flash and a deafening report as my mate
fired out into the night, and when the rifle was
examined the octagonal barrel was found to be burst
down one side for two inches at the muzzle. A
curious thing was that there was no explosion when
powder only was used in the effort to shift the
jambed bullet, the only sound, even when the full
charge was used, being a prolonged hissing from
the breech as the compressed gas from the ignited
powder slowly escaped.
* * * *
“Caloola”: I was once judge in a brownie-
making competition in Western N. S. Wales. The
prize was three bottles of overproof rum, and there
were 18 entrants. The cake had to be baked in
the ashes and be not less than four pounds weight. Old
Tom O’Hehir, the gun cook, romped home with the
finest cake I ever tasted, and all hands unanimously
declared him the winner. When it was only half-
cooked he had to put a heavy slab on top to
keep it from rising too much and cracking. As
Tom is not listening just now I’ll pass his secret on.
In addition to the ordinary ingredients, one emu egg
to every two pounds of flour did the trick.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Walking along a stretch of
beach between two rocky headlands 20 miles north
of Sydney, I counted 47 gulls’ wings among "the
rubbish washed up by the tide. In every case the
bone was roughly broken. Is the explanation that
big fish take the swimming gull, missing the wings
as the bird opens them in its sudden effort to rise
and escape? I ! m inclined to think this is so, for
among the gulls which gather in the early mornings
at the water’s edge I have frequently seen birds that
have only one leg—the other, most likely, has been
snapped off by some fish. But 47 wings distributed
over something under a mile of beach points to a
rather wholesale destruction. Sharks should have
moved to warmer waters at this time of the year;
so what is it that does the slaughtering?
INVENTION TEE MOTHER OF NECESSITY.
THE INVENTOR: “Well, if this gadget doesn't work
I’ll”
HIS WIFE : “Have to.”
“Tedski”: At the Chinese garden in Wal-
gett (N.S.W.) are several black-and-white butcher-
birds, which are kept for the purpose of driving
sparrows and other winged marauders away from the
young plants and fruit. The butcher-birds have
been trained by one old Pong, and it is laughable to
see them perched on his shoulder, and to hear them
jabber away in Chinese, in which lingo, according to
the Chows, they can say almost anything.
A BALLAD OF LOGAN’S FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world was young on Logan’s Flat,
The new-split posts were raw;
The little robins wondered at
The various things they saw.
For nine bark humpies there were set
And nine small squares of corn;
And people worked with foreheads wet
From very early morn.
The pumpkins grew with eager haste
To music that was strange,
Where axe-strokes sent the trees to waste
Along the echoing range.
Great forest wealth went up in smoke
That scented all the air;
And heavy oxen in the yoke
Were toiling everywhere.
Brave hopes there were on Logan’s Flat
And on the hills around;
The stock grew numerous and fat,
Faith ploughed a willing ground ;
And where the old bark humpies stood
New homesteads swiftly rose;
The years were kind, the seasons good
For everything that grows.
The people toiling on that land,
Though far from all their kin,
Beheld in dreams a future grand
Their children’s toil might win.
They thought of lines of linking steel
To bring their produce down,
With whistle shrill and flying wheel,
To markets of the town.
Their strong sons grew, their daughters wed,
Life went with even stride;
But hope grew faint and sick and dead
And men forgot their pride.
The slattern homes and careless farms
Told all the bitter tale
Of stoutest hearts and strongest arms
And toil of no avail.
And while the unbroken distance held
Their souls in such a chain,
The roaring city grew and swelled
And called in language plain
To those who felt that life was pent
In poor and narrow ways,
Till bitterness of discontent
Filled all tneir nights and days.
The world was dull on Logan’s Flat,
The fences crumbled down;
The little robins wondered at
The paddocks bare and brown.
And in the night a small green thing
Came uown the dry creek bed,
Sprung from a seed the wind could fling
When all the land seemed dead.
None marked its growth through weeks and days
Till, lush with life and fat,
It walked through all the summer’s blaze
Along the careless Flat.
Vv here axe-strokes sent the trees to waste
Their timbered strength in smoke,
It grew with green and easy haste
Before its foes awoke.
THE WATER-COLORIST.
And when they knew its strength and hold
Upon the conquered land,
No hope was high, no heart was bold
The menace to withstand.
Mile by swift mile it gathered in
Their fifty years of toil;
They left the green and growing sin
Full master of the soil.
The homesteads crumble to decay
Where once bold dreamers sat
And talked about the finer day
To dawn on Logan’s Flat.
Through aisles of green the cattle graze—
Some grass is left them there—
The rest is one unbroken maze
Of prickly, hopeless pear.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


sdf
In Every Way This Is
A Finer Super-Six
The world’s largest fine car
production gives the Hudson
Super-Six quality and price ad-
vantages possible in no other car.
For instance, in the new Hudson
Coach you get the distinction and
comforts of a fine closed car at
less than other open cars of
comparable mechanical value
would cost.
And the Super-Six chassis of
today is the finest Hudson ever
built. It retains the qualities of
power, reliability and superb per-
formance for which Hudson is
famous. And it adds advantages
of economy in fuel and oil, and of
superior smoothness and easy
operation that will surprise even
old Hudson owners.
Low cost of replacement parts
is another advantage that will
appeal to you.
The great number of Hudson’s in
service in this territory shows
how well their outstanding value
is appreciated. It is an added sat-
isfaction of ownership to know
the car you drive is built and
backed by one of the world’s great-
est companies, of many years
standing among the leaders of the
industry. That too, speaks for the
most advanced policy of service
to owners, which makes Hudson
service a standard of convenience.
lififf
n
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 Georgre Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
Hobart, Tasmania.
WEST HAITIAN MOTORS, LTD,,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
NEALS’ MOTORS TTY., LTD.,
68-60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A.
(H FC-1005)


Charles
toSIECK'S
Vintage 1914
cum®
!iE PLUS ULTRA
-'I.
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
sdf
Diamond and Platinum Ornaments.
The Company has a comprehensive selection op Diamond and Gem-set
Ornaments in the newest ide as. Inspection is invited.
sf
I
fr rp.pr : ro r
Diamond and
Platinum Ring,
£l5O : 0 : 0.
Diamond and Sapphire Brooch,
£55 : 0 : 0.
Also in All Diamonds, Diamonds and
Onyx, Emeralds, etc.
From £l5 :10 : 0 to £250 :0: 0.
Full Particulars ok Application.
Diamond and
Platinum Ring,
£l4O : 0 : 0.
WILLIAM FARMER &C? lIP
Jewellers. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers* Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
Kayser
SILK GLOVES
The year turned down-hill with a shining
morning face on. July 1 for the opening of
the State Parliament; and once again Mac-
quarie-street glittered in the midday sun and
looked proud because of the passage of not-
ables armor-plated in gold, of leaf-brown
soldiers and the statuesque mounted police.
As the gun boomed the midday hour Sir
Dudley took his place, the blue-and-gold of
his admiral’s trappings reproduced diminu-
endo in Commander Craufurd’s and Com-
mander Grant’s uniforms. The slim and
graceful Coote sported his horizon biue kit,
with the elegant black busby quivering aloft.
Not a flush of crimson in the procession!
In 9 0 minutes the ceremony was over, and
in that time a policy that would keep any
but a Roundhead Parliament busy till the
crack of doom was outlined. The Usher of
the Black Rod shuttled back and forth
through the crowded aisles. Lady de Chair,
in ermine and velvets, watched her husband
take command of a new kind of
quarter-deck. Mrs. Grant, very rosy
above a pony-skin coat, was tremend-
ously interested in it all. After the
Governor had inspected the guard and driven
off — a nd already the carpet was being rolled
up and taken indoors till next year—Mrs.
Flowers led the way to the President’s room,
and there, from a navy outfit heavy with
embroideries, extended a hospitality large-
hearted in its intentions but circumscribed
by space. Here the Governor’s lady,
knight Fuller’s lady in grey suitings, snugly-
fitting black millinery and long crystal ear-
rings. and Mrs. Dooley were among the tea-
tasters. Mrs. Earle Page, in nutmeg
browns, made an early departure; the Car-
ruthers couple, Speaker Levy’s sister, the
venerable Bishop Langley, with his daughter,
the Fitzpatricks and Walter Kirby, fresh from
singing “O Paradise” at Colonel Watson’s
funeral service at St. Mark’s, were a few of
a crowd that overflowed into the members’
dining-room, along the passages, and down
the stairways.
Sydney competitors did themselves proud
at the Polo Club’s gymkhana last week. Ken
Austin took both light- and heavy-weight
polo pony championships—his beautiful mare
Mira winning universal admiration in the
second event —and his sister-in-law, Mar-
garet Allen, was easily the best girl-rider on
the ground. She 'won the flag and barrel
and bending competitions on Tony Hordern’s
handy little mare Hippy, and country visi-
tors were entranced by her strong seat and
light hands. The men’s flag and barrel event
was the predestined property of A. S. Pitty,
of Goulburn, who has been winning this com-
petition wherever he has competed for a
dozen years past.
The usual long trail of motalis carried
their hundreds to Kensington on Saturday
for the beginning of the struggle for the
Dudley Cup. It was filthy weather, and the
unfortunate plebeians who had merely
trammed to the hallowed spot paid for their
hardihood by being nearly washed out of the
uncovered stands. The Ross brothers, as
usual, were the most dashing of the centaurs.
Captain Pitt Rivers, in spite of his light-
weight, was a force to be reckoned with.
Every camera was trained on the honorable
and his lady as she fed her husband’s noble
brute with a rosy apple. Every car car-
ried its own hamper, and tea became a
movable feast. Lovely women, mostly in
fur or leather coats, stood in sensible foot-
wear, individual fancy breaking out in
sports stockings—one pair of sweet tartan
hose was reminiscent of schoolgirl legs in
the Southland of M.L. Gay velour and
leather hats and buccaneering neckerchiefs
supplied the color tone in an otherwise drab
horizon.
The atmosphere is heavily charged with
Grand Opera. Even the butcher hands
one the evening chop with an expressive
flourish and a remark as to his preference
in sopranos. Seavizzi has the honors so
far, principally 'because she is “such a
fine figure of a woman.” Dal Monte is
chattily spoken of as Totty; and of the
male song-birds, Ceresol, who high-priested
m “Samson and Delilah,” is the favorite.
Vice-Regals continue to scintillate in the
middle of the circle every night, and the
G.-G.’s claps are as hearty as those of
any Mere Bloke. Sir Dudley and his lady
were away Pinaforing on the hight *>f
Scavizzi’s debut, but other first nights have
seen them with their colors nailed to the
mast.
Phyllis Archibald is probably the most
comprehensive Delilah that Sydney has
known. The magnificent and alluring Cis-
neros was not always sure or her note; and
Edna Thornton, who came with the Quinlan
combination, sang the part exquisitely, but
was so ultra-respectable she would not re-
move her corsets to display the sinuous
vibrations that are a part of Delilah's out-
fit. Phyllis Archibald can both sing and
act, but the management should provide her
with more seductive attire for the first and
third episodes. Anyway, there’s too much
of her frocks.
Kathleen O’Connor, who grows more exotic-
looking every day, beckoned a large group
of her Elizabeth Bay neighbors, and coo-eed
those from afar, into the family fiat on
Friday for the purpose of a friendly chat
with the English prima donna. There, in
an atmosphere surcharged with Chopin and
Suchong, Phyllis, in a magnificent nest of
musquash, talked everyday things and
dimpled as joyously as though the night
before she had not re-enacted the most famous
shingle-cut in the history of hairdressing.
Delilah off stage resolves into a clear-skinned,
bright-haired young Englishwoman, her
only claim to an Australasian connection be-
ing that her aunt is Mrs. Wilding, of
Maoriland, mother of Anthony, the tennis
champion. Her Sydney stay promises to
be as great a social success as her Mel-
bourne season. On Thursday night she was
borne off to supper and dance at the Went-
worth. In ivory georgettes heavily weighted
with silver embroideries, the shoulder straps
finished off with tiny cameos, Phyllis, still
hugging one of her monster bouquets, was
more effective than a stop-traffic cop. Every-
body stood still and stared; then some-
body clapped, and the storm broke.
Lady Lawford tells this Letter that her
considerable allowance from the Watt pro-
perties hasn’t been affected in any way by
Oswald Watt’s death. As to Howlong sta-
tion, it is to be sold and the proceeds incor-
porated with the rest of the estate.
The Hospice for the Dying must be Syd-
ney’s most popular charity, judging by the
sympathisers who in their hundreds wedged
themselves into every nook and cranny of
the Wentworth one afternoon last week. At
an early hour dancing became something of
a juggling feat; but as long as the saxophone
wailed willing feet beat out the pattern of the
broken notes. Mrs. Macleod was president
of the money-raiser, and carried off a bowpot
of white and pink blooms, handed over by
Mrs. W. E. Ward and Mrs. Magney,
treasurer and secretary respectively. Mrs.
John Barlow was another of the day’s hard
workers ; and the pauses between dances were
filled by Mrs. Bannon’s violin and Faith
Quinlan’s singing. And songstress Carrie
Lancely as an amateur auctioneer pirated
shamelessly in chocolates.
The Cavalier was like a bit of Macquarie-
street the other night. Every second man
or woman seemed connected with the Pro-
fession ; and scattered about were aspiring
actors and actorines like young Maorilanders
MacCallum and Betty Sharman. Mrs. Eng-
land, Mrs. Foulds and Mrs. Harold Yale
stage-managed the happy little affair, and
Grammar Chief Dettman’s tall wife repre-
sented the higher education, in emerald green
drapings. The gate-money goes to the Out-
post Kindergarten.
Here is the newest picture of Matron
Kirkcaldie, newly appointed to keep the
wheels running
at the Child
ren’s Hospital.
Miss Kirkcal-
die has four
years’ war ex-
perience to her
credit, of which
she has vividly
told the story
in her book—
“In Scarlet and
Grey.” Since
her return to
civvies she has
been assistant
matron at
Prince Alfred
and matron in
charge of the
beautiful home
at Darling
Point handed
over by the
A.J.C. for the
use of wounded soldiers.
To fill the linen-chest of the new cancer
hospital at Ryde Mrs. Oscar Backhouse and
Mrs. W. H. Eyres mixed a heady cocktail
of jazz, mah-jong and bridge at the Ambassa-
dors 'in the last days of June. The effort
was crowned with an extra laurel of success
because of the wide appeal made by the
Ryde Home for Incurables, of which the new
hospice forms part. Her State Ex. brought
Government House approval and smart navy
frocking to the assembly, with aide Coote
to spread his charm evenly over a heavy list
of the local peerage. A flower-stall in the
vestibule and the sale of home-made cakes
in the lounge added coin to the afternoon’s
takings. Matron Ocock, of the Home for
Incurables, and the matron of the new cancer
home were among the notables present.
There was a great swaggering at the
Ambassadors the other night when it housed
the ball for those Siamese twins the Bush
Book Club and the Victoria League. Luckily
the committee had picked on a repeat night
at the opera, so the first-nighters could turl
their musical banner and turn a willing ear
to jazz. Colo enthusiasts in town tor the
Dudley Cup were met at every turn, and
both the G.-G.’s and the State Exes, came to
the party. Lord Forster’s lady, much dia-
monded about the head, was green-and-gold
draped and trained seductiveness. Lady de
Chair welcomed her in graceful burnished
bronze. Mrs. George Vivers, who was one
of the evening’s best-lookers in white geor-
gettes dusted over with diamonds and pearls,
entertained a tableful of lads and lasses, in-
cluding Moira Brady, very sweet-lookmg m
white satin and pink rosebuds, and Barbara
Allen, the picturesque Herbert Allen chick
who has just broken the social shell. Berry
Hay and Jimmy Watt were others in the
group. Brother Theo Marks also gathered
a group about his board, the Claude Par-
burys being of it. The newly-returned Mrs.
Herbert Allen weighted apricot georgettes
with crystal embroideries. The wives of the
Premier and the Chief Justice smiled on the
gathering; and Gwen Fuller in pale pink
iridescence charmed the goddess of luck and
plucked a prize balloon —it meant seats for
the opera. The Geoffrey Hughes couple
brought her mother, Mrs. Vidal, who is on
a visit from England. Strong reinforcements
of Onslows, the Tonv Horderns, Dudley Gib-
sons and Maple Browns, handsome matrons
like Mrs. Tooliey and the Hughes lady, and
the younger married set —Mrs. Pitt Rivers
and Mrs. Jimmie Burns and others —jostled
good-naturedly in the crowded rooms. Melba
came on after the opera. And the belle of
them all was Lady Forster.
There’s to be another Violet matinee for
the Paddington Women’s Hospital. Mrs.
Pitt Rivers is at the helm, and her Vice-
regal mother gave the function a running
start the other day by holding the first com-
mittee meeting at Admiralty House. This
year “The Dover Road” is the play picked
for presenting the good-looking young woman
in an attractive comedy rble. The Reper-
tory Society will support her and postpone its
intended production of “Hedda Gabler.” Gre-
gan McMahon will see that all the wheels go
round; and the committee, strongly rein-
forced by Society, includes the Tony Hor-
derns, Frank Osbornes, Ken Richards and Din
Garvans. A curtain raiser will give the Hon.
Rachel a chance to exhibit her voice. A
brigade of attractive girls is being enrolled
for violet selling; and the thousand-pound
mark reached by Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s two
former matinees is aimed at.
East met West the other night at the
Palais in a Garden of Allah Ball for the
Church of England homes and hostels. Only
the mind of youth could have bridged the
chasm; but Youth did it very gloriously, and
the dance was a popular event in a crowded
week. The committee of girleens got into
the most alluring of harem trousers, Moira
Brady, one of the secretaries, scattering a
whole gallery of purple pansy-faces over her
mauve outfit. Barbara Laidley was the other
secretary, and Cecile Huntley and Barbara
Bowker were the purse-bearers. A group of
Impressionist balloon-sellers added to the
night’s joys.
St. John’s within the Uni. turned on a
blaze of light for the annual dance. The
long avenue was outlined with lanterns, and
inside the wide-flung doors fires blazed
merrily, reflected on the beautiful Austra-
lian woods that panel reception-hall and lec-
ture-rooms. The students had turned their
rooms into sitting-out places, and trellised
the long upstairs corridor with vivid-hued
streamers through which flowers coyly thrust
their faces. Downstairs butterflies hovered
everywhere, and the prehistoric animal in the
corner, thinking he was in the lift, kept his
opera-hat on. Dr. O’Reilly, the rector, one
of the finest hosts in Sydney, was at the
helm.
The State Governor and Lady de Chair
gave the second of their friendly “musicals”
on Saturday afternoon. The second half
of the alphabet was bidden this time, so that
her State Ex. greeted from the letter Iv
downwards, wearing for the occasion black
chiffon velvets with beautiful pearls. As
usual the rooms were cosily arranged, that
depressing vice-regal atmosphere having
been entirely banished. In spite of the
polo there was a tremendous roll-up; and
about 5 o’clock women and men who wanted
to both have their cake and eat it rushed in
from Kensington to be in time for the
music. Mrs. Walter Swinson’s wizard
fingers wove a pattern of sound that held
sadness and earth-music and the threnody of
raindrops. Among the listeners were the
newly-arrived Jervis Bay potentate, Lane-
I’oole, and his brown-and-saffron-clad wife;
the operatic Maguenat couple ; the consular
Teppemas and Segaerts; artist Ethel Ste-
phens, sporting a barbaric necklace and a
pheasant’s tailpiece; and the good-looking
Denison Miller sisters. And Lady Forster,
who dared in hat and frock the experiment
of shiny blue —something like the blue of
the old poison plates—and emerged trium-
phant. The afternoon’s vocalists were soprano
Ethel Osborn and Mr. .Biddulph, and Gerald
Walenn was the violinist.
Before her reception on Saturday Lady de
Chair had spent an hour or two with the
kiddies who are being picnicked by the Sun-
shine Club at Manly; and, although the
skies were grey, the big shed where the nip-
pers ate their buns and cakes and played
their games was filled with sunshine. With
her Ex, was Mrs. Lane-Poole, and both are
now keenly interested in the sunshine-makers
and their plans.
On Friday evening choirmaster Mewton
took his boy songbirds to Government House,
and the youngsters filled the ballroom with
shrill sweetness in their individual numbers,
and with that extraordinary charm of song
that only a boys’ choir can attain.
Looking at you from beneath this toque
is the interesting face of Mrs. Leonard Shoe-
maker, professionally Ursula Faucit, a
grand-niece of Helen Faucit (Lady Martin),
the famous
tragedienne of
the Victorian
era. Mrs.
Shoemaker
graduated
t h e a trically
with the F.
It. Benson
players at
S h akspeare’s
own town,
S t r atford-on-
Avon, and
has appeared
with Forbes-
Robert son
and George
Alexander in
London, where
finally she was
the melancholy
Dane himself
in “Hamlet.”
As a result of
this an American engagement eventuated, and
in 52 towns of Uncle Sam’s territory Ursula
Faucit did Shakspearean selections in cos-
tume, later playing under the Belasco
management and with the Sothern-Marlowe
combination in classic and modern drama. Her
husband’s affairs (he represents an American
tyre) brought her to Australia, and in Sydney
recently she appeared in “Suppressed De-
sires” and a Hamlet soliloquy with the
amateur Players. Now, again as Ursula
Faucit, Mrs. Shoemaker is to make her bow
professionally in Australia, and will open in
Brisbane with Kenneth Brampton presently,
in the “Eyes of Youth” and things like that.
Minister for Works Ball handed over
daughter Esther during Saturday afternoon’s
inclemency to Sidney Walbank Pickering,
of Concord West. Padre Tinsley riveted the
gyves, and Stanmore Baptist Church was
his locksmith’s shop. The bride is a good-
looking fair girl, and ruffled in her ivory
satins and silver laces. The frock, by the
way, was made with the new long close-fitting
sleeves and yoke of lace. Dorothy Ball
’maided in blush pink and silver bravery.
The Empire Hall. Petersham, staged the
wedding party, with the bride’s aunt, Mrs.
Kennedy, as hostess.
Enid James, daughter of the Justice
James couple, got her betrothal I’ing last
Sunday from the hand of surgeon Victor
Coppleson, of Macquarie-street. It’s a soli-
taire in a Tiffany setting.
Denison Miller’s widow has “gone on the
land” near Gunnedah, up north, on a pro-
perty where ex-Minister for Lands Ashford
had his first experiences. The Ashford home-
stead has long since perished—the late Sir
Wm. Broun last held the property —but the
old “Ashford’s Well” still remains. The
widow will have the assistance of her brother
and her son Bob to shear profits from the
lambs. Son Jack, architect with the Kirk-
patrick firm, will remain in the city. Son
Bill is on the land at Wellington. The two
girls, Lily and Marjorie, go with their
mother. All are tennis enthusiasts and keen
sports. And they will carry truckloads of
good washes w 7 ith them.
The Ernest Jenks couple gave a cheerio
to the American Dr. Clyner, who is Melba’s
osteopath. The proceedings started with
dinner at the Jenks temporary home, Alwyn,
in Ocean-street, and went on to jazz and
bridge. What with those invited to the
dinner, and those bidden to the reception, the
rally w r as 50 strong.
The newly-born Garrick Club offers two
innovations: it is the only non-sporting place
of the sort that admits both men and women,
and it proposes to organise Sunday-evening
entertainments, as so many clubs are doing-
now in London and elsewhere. Sunday used
to be quite dead in London till the Lyric
Club appeared with its own theatre and a
long list of prominent stage members. An-
other idea of the committee is to institute
mixed bridge-parties during the afternoons;
there are many —too many —suburban
women who would gladly have a rubber over
a cup of tea round about 4 o’clock.


sf
i »-«>»■ ' ; St
v
1
.i
.*•2
Engraved Sterling Silver Toilet Service, comprising
pair of Hair Brushes, with best-quality Bristles, Hand
Mirror, Cloth Brush, Hat Brush and Silver-mounted
Comb, in Silk-lined Case £2O : 0 : 0
Solid Silver Toilet Services.
LI ANDSOMEBY cased Toilet Services, uncased Sets and
individual Brushes, Combs, Mirrors and every imagin-
able Dressing-table appointment are included in Hardy-
Brothers' stocks, at values which are specially attractive.
Brush bristles are of the finest quality it is possible to obtain,
and the mounts of sterling silver are of sufficient weight to
ensure many years of constant daily service.
Selections sent on approval throughout Australia.
Five per cent. Discount allowed for Cash.
HARDY BROS. LTD
“The House of Exclusive Jewellery"
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-30 D Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON-
116-118 Queen St,
BRISBANE.
RADIO
THE FUTURE HOME ENTERTAINER
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Cordially Invite You to
Free Practical Demonstrations
In Listening-in and the Construction of and Erection of
RADIO RECEIVING SETS
at the
EXHIBITION HALL
in their
PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSE
386 GEORGE STREET
(Between King Street and G.P.0.)
on each
MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY
from 2.30 p.m. to 4 p.m.
and
FRIDAY EVENINGS
from 7.30 to 9.
We will also be pleased to give courteous attention and advice freelv
at any time at our RADIO DEPT.
BUSINESS HOURS:
Monday to Thursday 8.40 a.in. to 6 p.m.
Friday .. 8.40 a.in. to 9 p.m.
Saturday .. .. 8.40 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Country clients are assured of a prompt reply to all their
inquiries.
B'A'
XX,
X/
//
// /
WHITE
[•Afc
LEAD
The quality of “8.A.L.M.” White
Lead is guaranteed in every respect
equal to any imported White Lead.
The Capital of the Company
is entirely British and Aus-
tralian, as the name implies.
//
r%.
t
i /
U T .P
s ' R
X"
TSAtTANXeAS
tun
TOfTO
Factory at Concord, New South Wales.
"8.A.L.M.” White Lead is obtainable from Oil and Colour
and Hardware Stores throughout Australia.
British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty. Ltd
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.
r
i*
a*
Associated
Manufacturers.
Alexander, Fergusson & Co.,
Ltd., Glasgow.
Cookson & Company, Ltd.,
Newcastle-on Tyne.
Foster, Blackett 4 Wilson Ltd.,
Hebbyrn-on-Tyne.
Locke, Blackett &
Co., Ltd.,
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Locke, Lancaster &
W. W. & R. Johnson
& Sons, Ltd.,
London.
Walkers, Parker &
Co., Ltd.,
Chester.
And others.
I;
i
i
I
a
C
m
i
£
£3
55
62
>' WARRANTED *
UfN u/we Australian
Jt ACK MADt
111. ground
WHITE LEAD.
56fb*Net.


FARM E R’S
Cash Bonus Sale
June 30th to July 19th.
Greater Price Reductions & a Bonus for Cash !
FASHION GOODS, HOUSEHOLD NEEDS—ALL ARE REDUCED.
c All sale stocks are
Farmer’s standard,
higkest-grade goods.
d
d
d
d
sdf
The bonus saves all
cash buyers a further
2f- in every £ spent.
SEEDED
RAISINS
a
PAcrrg.
S&SJS
709 Z.
Stemmed-Cleaned
and Seeded-Ready
for Use
Obtainable
>AU Grocers
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1532, 1533.
The Gallery Students warmed the St.
Kilda Town Hall on Friday night with their
annual beano, which started at 8.30 and
finished at 5 a.m. after “sausages and mash.”
Hundreds of yards of fabric and quarts of
gold paint were used in the making of the
Early English banners which petticoated the
balconies, with battleaxes to hold them fast.
The title “Bal Masque” was a misleading
one, as scarcely a dozen masks were sighted,
and even these were of the sort which don’t
pretend to keep people guessing. The gather-
ing- differed little from any other public
dance, except for its fancy dressing; this
was mostly mediaeval, and evidenced a nice
attention to period and detail. The brief
three-act pageant which agreeably interluded
the jazz was introduced with a fanfare of
trumpets by two green-clad heralds—Mary
Maclean, the ball president, and Marjorie
North, lion. sec. One old-time maid struck
envy to the hearts of the bobbed and shingled
onlookers with a wealth of shining curls
rippling down to her knees over a blue silk
cloak, goldenly patterned with fleur-de-lis;
but the most ravishing pair of all were a
debonair Monsieur Beaucaire and a lovely
young thing crinolined in snowy tulle puffings
and flouncings, with an 18-inch waist and
a curly white wig. Art-director Bernard
Hall beamed approval from the side balcony.
Vere Herbert Casey, to whom Judge Moule
granted a certificate of discharge from his
ten years' insolvency in Melbourne lately, is
again in the courts. It is alleged that his
brother is only the nominal owner of various
assets; and barrister Hogan, with solicitor
Joe Woolf to proiy.pt him, secured an in-
junction, and is asking for an order of
discovery just to see how the affairs of the
Casey brethren stand. V. H. Casey’s
largest creditor during liis insolvency is Mary
Gourlay, whose young affections were trifled
with to the tune of £470. As her bill for
the breach of promise and certain loans is
still unsatisfied, she is greatly interested in
the present action.
Violet Hiskens, daughter of the Moonee
Valley Race Club sec., was married to Briga-
dier-General Irving’s son Ronnie by her
uncle, John Barnaby, in the Collins-street
kirk. The bridal group wore a sunshiny-
autumn look, with the principal man and
his supporters. Ronald Hopkins and A. E.
Knox, in khaki and the bride and her maids
a dazzle of white and gold. Violet’s satin,
with golden embroideries at the hem, was
glitteringly back-sheeted with gold tissue
under a tulle veil, which floated from a coro-
net of orange blossoms. Little Elyne Chauvel
and Viva Derham looked after her train, and
ix>rna Hiskens and Sybil Irving were the
bridesmaids. After the triumphal exit under
an arch of steel, a mighty procession
of limousines, etc., took the long trail
to Moonee Ponds, where corks were
drawn. Mrs. Hiskens hostessed in grey
crepe, delicately inset with silver on
the side panellings, and topped by a
black-feathered hat. Mrs. Irving struck
a contrasting note in vivid blue silk with
shaded blue feathers flying from an inky hat.
Lady Helena Rous came under the wing of
the Chauvel dame. The Dame Bridges was
there with daughter Babbie,* also General
Brudenell White and his wife, airman Goble
and his, the Alec McCrackens, Col. and Mrs.
Willie Robertson, Henry Madden, and dozens
’rid dozens more in the military and sporting
sets.
Suburban mayoral jazzes and the early
frosts are raging together; but, thanks to
the electric heater, even the oldest dancers
decline to be scared off by any cold snap.
Fitzroy got its share of both when Mayor
and Mrs. J. A. Boell gave their hop in the
local Town Hall. Festoons of pink and
mauve canopied the ceiling, while draperies
of the same colorings covered the nakedness
of the wAd-s. Mrs. Boell smiled her wel-
comes iii black georgette, weighted on the
lower deck with glimmering fringes of black
and white and steel, and the official group
included several civic headlights from rival
suburbs.
The Malvern Mayoral Ball decorations
might have wrought envy in a Mayfair deco-
rator. The walls were panelled with green
leaves sconced with great branches of pink
blossom; festoons and bunches of falling
blossoms smothered the ceiling, balloons
were everywhere, and the whole was illu-
minated with Chinese lanterns and Orientally
shaded lights. Mrs. Waters, the Mayoress,
was in a glitter of black jet over satin
sheathings. There was a big contingent of
visiting bunny-skinned dignitarieq, headed by
Gaud Mayor Brunton and his wife, she in
rich mauve velvet brocaded over with gold. A
dozen white-clad debs, came along to prove
that the war had not altogether ended the
formal budding of the female of the species,
and among the jazzers were the J. K. Merritt
pair, Dr. Stanley Argyle, George Maxwell
and his daughter, the George Selby pair, and
Fred Chamberlain. Town Clerk Crosbie
Goold was stormed with congratulations on
his success in building up the shivoo.
A London society paper prints an interest-
ing photo of Lord Dicky Nevill, Lord Den-
man and the Hon. Judith Denman watching
the United Hunt’s chases at Lingfield (Eng.)
lately. Lord Dicky’s pale eyes look out of
the same untroubled countenance, and he
appears as up-to-the-minute as his smart,
mottled overcoat, which gives him the lines
of a proposition in Euclid. The Hon. Judith,
clad in quiet, well-cut tailorings, reveals
that she is a. big girl now, and,' unless the
camera has lied, her papa is qualifying as
an advertisement for a baby food. His face
is more than chubby. Though the London
journal doesn’t say so, Melbourne’s old
friends were probably present at Lingfield
on the invitation of Dicky’s brother, Lord
Henry Nevill, who is Master of the neigh-
boring Eridge Hunt.
Although the hour of the knot-tying of
Jean Andrews (a charming figure in her
white bridal rig) and Dr. Edgar North in
the Horsfall Chapel at the ’Varsity on
Thursday evening was supposed to be a dead
secret, the meds. and other undergrads, of
Trinity found it out and determined to play
a part outside- if not in the church. As the
newly-wedded pair emerged they were con-
fronted with a double row of kneeling white-
covered figures, through which they had to
pass to the waiting car, and when they
reached that vehicle there was a wild
hooroosh of cheering and a furious bombard-
ment of rice and confetti. Only a few close
relatives and friends attended the health-
drinking, which took place at the Mia Mia.
Dr. and Mrs. Ernest Shuter lost their
fine young son Mark through a motor acci-
dent in England a few days ago. The lad,
who was qualifying for a business career at
Bradford, was a clever boy, with an endear-
ing personality, and very genuine sympathy
goes to the parents.
Priminister Bruce’s wife unveiled Mrs.
Phipps’s show of paintings in the new Sack-
ville Gallery, and did it in black trappings
with a blue lining and an attractive version
of the inverted bowl we call a hat. The
artist herself looked charming in all black
with a dash of white at the neck, and she
had her naval-medical, husband to support
her. The Very Best crowded the gallery all
the afternoon; sighted in the throng were
the Chauvel lady, the Arthur Robinsons.
Admiral Hall Thompson with his wife and
elder girl, the Byron Moore, Emmerton,
Groom and Raynes Dickson matrons, and
so on.
Here is a Broothorn glimpse of Mrs. G. G.
Henderson, who, as president of the District
Nursing Association, is actively concerned
in the direct-giving appeal to be sounded
on July 7,
when the
public will be
invited to drop
three pence
each into speci-
ally - erected
letter - boxes.
Throughout
the war years
Mrs. Hender-
son proved
herself a very
live head of
several patri-
otic organisa-
tions, and
since then
has helped to
direct a num-
ber of laud-
able activities,
among them
the Bush
Nursing So-
ciety and the National Council of Women,
of which she is vice-president (and ex-presi-
dent). And she had a special compliment
paid her when the State Government ap-
pointed her to the Charities Board as the
metropolitan lady member. Mrs. Henderson
and her husband lost two fine sons in the
war. A third son, Kenneth Thorne, who
was one-time chaplain of Melbourne Gram-
mar School, is now at Oxford, but is ex-
pected back next year.
That energetic spinster Effie Ball had
busied herself for weeks beforehand engi-
neering the Cabaret Ball which rolled cheerily
over the old Admiralty House jazz-boards
on Thursday night. The affair had the dual
objective of providing a friendly gathering
for the lady’s fellow-committee workers and
boosting the St. Vincent’s Hospital linen
fund. Yellow streamers dripped from the
ceiling; there were great yellow light-shades
emblazoned with witches, black cats and
other “hoodoo” items; and cabaret toys .of
distinctive manufacture, the gifts of Mi&S
Ball, weighted the little tables, while colored
balloons bobbed above. A group of medical
students, headed by Alec Aitken, sandwiched
.burlesque turns between the dan’Ces with
much noise and some ingenuity. Effie Ball
was in black velvet inlaid with gold about
the waist. The crowd held a big medical ele-
ment, which included Norman MacArthur,
Barry Thompson, Murray-Morton, Grantley
Shelton, Garnet Leary and Herbert Hewlett
and their wives.
Margarite Kavloff, pictured herewith
by Ruskin, has a pure-toned and well-
trained dramatic soprano of considerable flexi-
bility, which she uses with a fine musi-
cal understand-
ing. The gifted
young lady is
A u s t r a lian-
born of Rus-
sian parentage,
passed most
of her school
years in a
seminary i n
Paris, is able
to sing and
chatter in six
languages, has
a pen that
prompts her to
prose and
verse, and
hopes one day
to write a li-
bretto based on
the work of
that skittish
person, Boc-
caccio. Mean-
while she is off —some time this month
—to prospect for vocal laurels in
Europe. She was to have gone earlier,
hut stayed on to study voice production with
Theophilus Roberts, whom she first called in
to mend some slight break in her warble.
The accomplished young Russo-Australian
starts on her prospecting tour equipped with
a repertoire of nine operatic redes.
Mrs. Roystone Davey signals from
Sydney that she is coming over with her
husband for a fortnight with their Melbourne
pals. The pair will unpack at Menzies’,
and if no one has bagged the afternoon of the
9th the popular matron will beckon in her
friends on that date for tea, music and
chat.
The East Melbourne Con. flushed a fresh
covey of singing birds at the annual Pupils’
concert in the Assembly Hall. The feminine
section was white-clad like the Heavenly
Choir, and some members of it were less
obviously nervous than others. Millie McCor-
mack, a scared-looking flapper, aired a long-
range voice of pure quality and much pro-
mise; the Melba Scholai’ship girl, Alma
O’Dea, showed improved form, and Dulcie
Cherry and Constance Burt released rival
sweetnesses of tone. Half a dozen budding
Carrenos did skilful things with the piano,
and two others revealed nice temperaments
and astonishingly sound technique with their
fiddles. A brace of youthful male performers,
Michael Gagliardi (violin) and Roy Shep-
herd (accompanist), also came in for ap-
plause. Fritz Hart and his wife, who smiled
approval from the front seats, had Mrs.
Colin Fraser and her mother in their party.
Although it is many years since the
Grice family shook the plebeian dust
of Fitzroy from their well-shod feet,
they retain an interest in their old
parish church, St. Mark's, which, during
the 18 months’ incumbency of R. G.
Nichols, of moving-picture fame, has taken
on a new lease of life and usefulness. The
old church, architecturally one Of the finest
in Melbourne, has been thoroughly reno-
vated at a cost of £lOOO, towards which
John Grice was a liberal contributor. He
has now promised another £lOO for parish
work, Hilda Grice is giving £5O to the build-
ing fund of the new clubroom for men, and
her sister has handed out another £5O to-
wards the ’Varsity Settlement on which par-
son Nicholls has set his heart.
Haw-Hawthorn is mourning R. W. E.
Hooke, who saw the place develop from a
hamlet, and helped, as councillor and
Mayor, to push it along. Incidentally, as an
auctioneer and estate agent he must have sold
and re-sold half of the suburb.
Dot Brunton had some trouble to squeeze
her way into the Prahran Town Hall on
Friday afternoon, because of the surging
crowd which had gathered outside and
flooded Chapel-street for half a mile. The
little lady was there to carry out her promise
to hand Mrs. Tudor’s collection of 300 dolls
to Mayor Lumley, to be sold for the Salva-
tion Army’s rescue work fund. The results
of the sale will he richly reinforced by the
profits from admission buttons and the tak-
ings at stalls laden with plain and fancy
work and with sweets. Probably no one
enjoyed the affair more than the invalid
promoter. She had been brought to the
scene in an ambulance and was overwhelmed
with congratulations from all sides.
Chief Justice Nicholls, of the Speck, who
has been on a health trip to Lord llowc
Island, came home the other day, and auto-,
matically resumed the Administratorship
from Justice Norman K. Ewing. Nicliolls’s
return was hastened by the fact that Ewing’s
illness and his gubernatorial duties had
piled so much work on to the shoulders of
Judge Crisp that the latter seemed likely to
become submerged. During the C.J.’s leave
Ewing has carried on at Government House
with considerable success and without an
audible whimper, though the entertaining
must have hit his banking account rather
unpleasantly. Now he gets out of the big
building, and is probably glad of the chance.
The C. J. simply refuses to inhabit the expen-
sive homestead on the banks of the Derwent,
so it is again tenantless. Incidentally, the
long and almost furious demand of Hobart
society folks and fashionable drapers for an
imported Governor died down in gasping
echoes when the cable announced the other
day that Ramsay Macdonald’s Chairman of
Committees, W. Stapleton Royce, was men-
tioned for the job, and a confirmation of
that cable will hardly set the Best People
turning handsprings of pure delight. Still,
Stapleton Royce sounds quite presentable:
for, oh, they might have sent us Jack JOnes!
Mrs. Frank Tate, wife of the Director of
Education, accompanies her husband on
some of his ever-recurring country tours, and,
incidentally, emphasises her practical interest
in the girl teachers out back. Her winning
personality thaws the reserve of the shy
damsels away from home and mother for the
first time, and a timely word to her Man-
at the Helm often alters the course of the
educational boat to the advantage of those
of her own sex standing up to their jobs
under primitive conditions. Most of the
Tate olive-branches have in very recent
years left the family tree. The eldest,
Frank, a six-footer, returned from the war
to do his final medical year, and start
practice in Melbourne; Alan is in his final
term as a sawbones, and the Voice that
Breathed has whispered over others.
The 1924 attempt at climbing Mount
Everest, the sodden Buddhist giant that can
be seen from India 1 about once a year when
the rain leaves off so that the fog may start,
didn’t supply much copy as compared with
the previous effort. Two of the leaders broke
their necks so early that the business; was
finished almost before it began. Possibly
Everest will be stormed from above by
Melbourne-man Brennan’s helicopter. ! The
business of a helicopter is to be able to stay
still in the air and reconnoitre, whereas the
restless aeroplane must keep moving, j and
the “cop” descends gently and perpendicu-
larly ; wherefore it requires a minimum of
space to land, in, and can come down in an
old maid’s flower-garden by night without
disturbing Miss . Araminta’s virgin slumbers.
It seems the right machine for mountaineer-
ing. Or possibly the big hill will be scaled
from within by a spiral tunnel—an insidi-
ous and wormy process, but one which
affords shelter from the weather. The direct
outside approach is certainly at a discount.
Dr. Mayo, the brilliant surgeon lately in
x\ustralia, showed on his return to his clinic
at Rochester (U.S.A.) that his enthusiasm for
Dr. Devine (Melbourne) hadn’t cooled down
on the voyage home. He had hardly unpacked
before he was delivering a paper on the Vic-
torian’s technique with the knife, which had
impressed him as startling in a village so
remote from the centres of science. Devine
should be prominent at the New York
Medical Congress in October, which he is to
attend on the invitation of the Rochester
man. He is Melbourne-trained.
Hetty King, who is inviting comparison
with Ella Shields at the Tivoli, reveals
plumper contours and a lighter voice. Ella's
musical tones had a masculine quality which
gave a suggestion of reality to her imper-
sonations, but Hetty, though a delightful
impersonator, never loses her feminine lure.
Anyway, she is helping to pack the Tivoli
at every performance, even at the week-day
matinees—a circumstance which suggests
that there are a terrific number of unem-
ployed males of all classes and ages in this
village.
Now that Toorak is tottering under the
villas which are white-anting its fine old park-
lands, and the gilt-edged craze for skipping
backwards and forwards across the equator,
its output of jazz and frivolity is no heavier
than that of any other Melbourne suburb.
Local Sassiety simply shrieks for a leader
these days. Some of the old-time social
lights who have lately landed back after
some years of England have been cut to the
quick by the painful discovery that their
names no longer carry weight here. Inciden-
tally, one ex-Victorian who has been reintro-
ducing herself to her native sunshine indig-
nantly asks: “Why do Melbourne women,
irrespective of age or class, all dress and
amuse themselves to one given pattern?”
She is not the first to wonder why we all
yearn to be as like one the other as we are
able to be. No one yowls louder against
this awful sameness than the local dress-
builder, who finds no outlet for her most
brilliant inspirations.


A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
Smaller Diamond, £5,
A. Sauna, is’ double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Real Platinum set.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
CATALOGUE
SENT FREE
ON REQUEST.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Knife-edge Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £5, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Ladv’s 9et. Gold Expanding- WrMlnt
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £l2/10/“
15ct. Gold, £l5.
Others, £B/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
lBct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, IBct.
Gold, Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A.
double-cut Diamond
and Sapphire Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£7/10/-
A. Zanders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Exclusive Jewellery.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9et. Gold Watch, jewelled lever
movement, Silk Ribbon Wristlet, Gold Mounts and
Buckle, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Imitation Pearl Neck-
let, graduated, with plain 9ct.
Gold Snap, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-
With Pearl Cluster Snap,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
real Platinum set,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Pleonest Ring, set
Fine Diamond,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£5/10/-,
£6/10/- ,
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond Bow and Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
Isct. Gold, £7/10/-
Smaller Diamond, £5.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
ORDERS.
A. Saunders’ i>cc. Gold
Earrings, set Pearls,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Fine Diamond Bar Brooch, lset.
Gold, £3/10/-
Xif
IA
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, jewelled lever movement, £3/10/-
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/- to
£l2/10/-
ONE MILE OF FOX YARN WEIGHS
LESS THAN ONE OUNCE
S 3
C 3?
So
me
Is
kb
&
m
m
[m
ss
n
TRADF MARK
FOX
The fine West of England Cloths
of Fox Bros, are demanded to
the exclusion of all other cloths
by those who have once worn
them.
Fine cloths call for fine yarns,
finely spun from finest Australian
wools.
To produce a light.weight Fox
superfine cloth it is necessary to
spin the yarn to such fineness
that a mile weighs less than an
ounce.
Look for the Fox Trade Mark
which gives entire satisfaction
because it is backed by this
guarantee
Fox’s Cloths are all pure wool
and will not shrink or fade by
land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
uJest of SnglanJ highest Quality
CLOTHS
fiANCY WORSTEDS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS • TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
urabeslos
The WUNDERLICH
jtsbestos Cement Sheets & Slates
Ideal Walls for
Farm Building or
Home.
You will obtain permanent
satisfaction from the use of
Durabestos (Asbestos-Cement)
Building Sheets for the Walls
of your new structure, whether
it be Farm Building or Home.
These Sheets are made from two
fireproof, indestructible, hydrau-
lically compressed materials —
Asbestos Fibre and Portland
Cement. Supplied in many
handy sizes, which transport
compactly and cheaply, Dura-
bestos Sheets enable you to
build your Walls quickly, and
at remarkably moderate cost.
Write to us for samples, prices and
full particulars.
SSSS
m
m
.. )
mm.
r s?=2*fi®?€fc.2ifs3s2&s£&s& > o~sy'.<S
W#&.
V-:-
:Si
u
4 ■-.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY
PERTH
NEWCASTLE
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
HOBART
ADELAIDE
LAUNCESTON


Tohio, 18/6/’2 If.
Very satisfied with results, CASTROL excellent.
iroisr.
The above was cabled by D Oisy to our
London Head Office after his remarkable
flight from Paris to Tokio in a Breugeut War-
plane at an average speed of 120 m.p.h.
OIL THAT
fRi
SjCUIATESEVMVIVte
AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX RACES
Goulburn, N.S.W.
Prince of Wales’ Birthday.
OUT OF 5 EVENTS
“Castrol”-lubricated Machines won Fastest Time of Day,
2 Fastest Times and
5 FIRSTS, 4 SECONDS, 4 THIRDS.
SWISS GRAND PRIX
Geneva, June 14.
OUT OF 5 EVENTS
5 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS.
All these successful entrants used Regular Grades of
“CASTROL.” Obtainable from Leading Garages.
Head Office for Australasia:
C. C. WAKEFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
Atlas Building, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
WAKEFIELD
Regd
□
MOTOR OIL
Leading Engineers Specify
Pioneer Leather Belting
Engineers in large industrial plants realise the importance of efficiency in
power transmission in increasing the productive capacity of their plants.
Manufacturers realise what this means in increased profits and less idle
time through breakdowns and repairs.
That is why
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been specified on important belt drives in many of the largest mining
and industrial plants in the Commonwealth.
The illustration shows one 48-inch and three 34-inch Pioneer Double-
Cemented Leather Belts supplied for the largest and most difficult belt drive
in Australia —that in the Rod Mill of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Manufacturers and engineers are invited to confer with us on their
belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
The Rosebery Trade-mark is the Certificate of Quality.
The “Rosebery”
Power Pump
An. ideal Pump for General
Water-supply Purposes, and
particularly suitable for
Long-distance Pumping.
Single Cylinder, Double-acting:
For pressure up to 1001 b. per
inch, or 230 ft. beads..
Best materials only are used in
the manufacture of this Pump,
combined with best workman-
ship and engineering skill—yet
sold at a very reasonable price.
Machine-cut Gears; interchange-
able Bearings; heavy Brass Lin-
ings ; large and accessible
Valves.
FIG. 531.
ROSEBERY LOW DOWN POWER PUMP
: ■
m
r m
B
m
YSi
Js
ii
A. compact, strongly-
built Double-actilig
Pump, designed for
Pumping a gainst
■noderate heads —up
to 175 ft. Gan be
operated by a small
oil-engine or other
belt power. Valves
easily accessible by
slackening four
bolts.
Prices are uniform
in all Australian
capitals.
ROSEBERY ENGINE WORKS, LTD.,
ROSEBERY, WATERLOO, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal and Power
Pumps, Cylinders. Hand and Power Sprayers, Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and we will put yon in touch with the nearest distributor.
df
Australian-made Weighers.
%
-
■
mm
S'
\
%
I
The Storekeeper—-
The Cotton Grower—-
The Fruit Grower—
The Manufacturer—
The Warehouseman—
all need this " Asco ” Utility Platform Weigher. Its rugged
construction gives it the capacity to withstand heavy knocking about,
while the Hardened Steel of the Bearings and Knife-Edges preserves its
weighing-accuracy for years. Wholly manufactured at our works
in Sydney on the principle of the famous B< itish " Avery ”
Weighers. A standardised production and moderate in price.
Capacity 3 cwt. Range 28 lbs. by 4-oz. divisions.
Call or 'write to any of our branch Showrooms.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
217-219 THOMAS STREET HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
BRAMCHES
\sco Ad. 132
37 BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE
132-4 CURRIE STREET
ADELAIDE
89 CUBA STREET
WELLINGTON. N 2.
2SS-7 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
389 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
26 BUR HAM STREET
AUCKLAN D. N 2.


Joseph Rodgers—the
De pendable Cutlery
See that your cutlery bears the well-known mark
A of J° se Ph Rodgers & Sons, Ltd,,
OK? Sheffield.
Famous for highest grade cutlery since 1682.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Victoria Chambers Ea<de
Street, BRISBANE 17 Bolton Street, NEW CASTLE. (MELBOURNE) Pty.
k" d, \ 4 £ 3 nE > T l Arnc kc n reet ’ MELBOUF NE. Darling Buildings, Franklin
lorn J. PERThS'.T ““ ElUabeth Str£etS ’ HOBART - Also
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD,, Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern. Sydney,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPEALY
The generality of punters couldn’t do any-
tning right at Kandwiek on Saturday. They began
by letting Yandarlo (10’s) run against them in the
Hurdle, and then a monotonous procession of out-
siders rolled home—Ararat (10’s) in the Flying
/ lca f’ Sankip (12’s) in the Nursery, Hamilton
>,r i Kylemore (12’s) in the divided Farm
Stakes, and Hermealdo (10’s) in the Warwick. The
last-named had been finishing on in his races, but
there was a notion that he wouldn’t like the heavy
going whereas he revelled in it. And, to complete
the chapter of misfortune, the ex-pony performer
Lascelles, now known as Mountbatten, made a one-
horse race of the Liverpool Handicap, in which he
was chased home by Sea Risk, who was thought to
be unready, and Gambler’s Gold. Mountbatten’s
price was 20 to 1 ■ Sea Risk’s 25 to 1 ; Gambler’s
Gold’s 33 to 1. After that Ikey the Pessimist was
heard to say, “Yeth, Motheth, I’ve hat a pat day,
bud id vould ha’ been vorse if all dose vavorites
had von.”
* * * *
Although Ben doc had fallen at Caulfield
and had 10 others to meet, McShortodds refused to
lay better than 5 to 4 at the start of the Port
Phillip Hurdle at Williamstown. It was a first-
class argument for the tote. The favorite duly won,
but he was lucky to the extent that Argosy Bov
came down, Jackstaff lost his rider (both were
backed), and Loja was interfered with at the home
turn. Perhaps I.oja will turn the tables in the
G. N. Hurdle at Flemington next Saturday, but this
page expects Rahtla to beat them both. Rahda has
been raced into splendid form, and the handieapper
would add at least 10lb. to his lOst. 21b. could
the work be done over again.
* * * *
“Lexo”: There are three Tasmanian-
owned horses still in the G. N. Steeple, and the
Speck has hopes of Miraree. Like Chrysostom he
has won at his last four starts, and the farther they
go the better he likes it. Miraree got away with
the Deloraine National (3j miles) on Easter Monday,
the Meander Steeple (2 miles) next day, and a 2«-'
mile affair at Mowbray on King’s Birthday; the
other success was in a Jumpers’ Flat. In all four he
was ridden by his trainer, Alf Law, who will pro-
bably have the mount at Flemington. No Tas-
manian has figured in a National finish since
Bribery won in 1906.
* * * *
The new V.R.C. weight-adjuster began
his Melbourne Cup handicap with Rivoli at 9st.
71b. Considering that the beautiful son of Repartee
ran second as a four-year-old with 9st. lib., con-
ceding 291 b. to an exceptionally good lightweight,
he is by no means badlv treated. Nor has the
handicapper been harsh with Lilypond (Bst. 61b.),
Seremite (Bst. 61b.), Drongo (Bst. 51b.), El Dorado
(Bst. lib.), Stony (7st 131 b.). Mirthmaker (7st. 71b).,
or the Maorilander Nigger Minstrel (7st. 51b.).
Report speaks highlv of Lilypond—“the spit of his
father, Lilvveil,” the Westralians say, “and good
over any distance”—but trying to pick the winner at
this stage is a mug’s game. Indeed, the framing of
handicaps for the two Cups and the Epsom rnl
Metropolitan might well be postponed till the end
of August. The practice of issuing them in June
has outlived its usefulness, if it ever had any.
* * * *
N. S. Wales and Victoria might be two
different nations judging- by their respective attitudes
towards what Adam Lindsay Gordon considered the
highest form of sport. At Moonee Valley last week
half a dozen amateurs turned out in the Melbourne
Hunt Steeple. (Some of them, by the way, figure in
the saddle fairly often against pros, and win 'n
their turn, too.) In the Mother State, which has
more money and a bigger supply of leisured young
men than ever in its history, the appearance of an
amateur in a steeplechase would cause a sensation
similar to the appearance of a totallv vn lothed
bookmaker in the Leger reserve. The nearest
approach to hunting in the neighborhood o f
Sydney is an annual paper-chase over the Kensington-
La Perouse sandhills, organised by the staff at Vic-
toria Barracks, and it required a paper-chase at
Maitland the other day to awaken the metropolitan
press to the iact that hunting, in that affluent and
horsey centre, had been dead for just 30 years 1
* * * *
The Dudley Cup polo tournament opened
at Kensington Racecourse, Sydney, on Saturday with
games between sporting combinations whose chances
are practically hopeless. Burrowa and Gilgandra, for
example, have only just been formed, and Sydney 11.
is composed of enthusiasts who have few opportuni-
ties to practise together. Glen lnnes, beaten by
Seone, contains two Whites, father and sen. Cro-
marty, which is an all-Munro team, composed of
members of the family that was a tower of strength
to Goondiwindi last year, gave Muswellbroolc a bad
beating on Monday. But the game of the day was
between Sydney I.—now without Tony Hordern and
his great string of ponies—and Goulburn. Goulburn
crashed on the post. The Cressbrook team is ex-
pected to win again at the time of going to press,
with Harden and Wanderers as dangerous rivals.
“Rio”; Although polo has been traced back to
the time of Cyrus the Great, the modern game is
of comparatively recent growth. In 1862 Lieut. George
Stewart brought the sport from the frontier io
Calcutta, and the 9th Lancers in 1871 took the
sticks and balk home to Aldershot. At that time
real ponies of 12 hands were used, but by the
’eighties animals up to 13.3 were allowed. Nowa-
days there seems to be no height limit. The cost
of playing, too, has enormouslv increased. The
original 12-hand Indian ponv cost £4 or £5, but
the price rose in the ’eighties to near £lOO, and
with the spread of the game to the Continent and
America the value of animals fit to play in first-
elass matches may go to a thousand pounds. As
each player requires several ponies, which have to
be stabled, fed and groomed as well as transported,
polo is no poor man’s sport. Some ponies take
naturally to the game, and all seem to enjoy it. A
A MEETING OF THE SOCIETY FOR IMPROVING THE
BREED OF HORSES.
Sydney crank writes periodically to the newspapers
complaining of '‘cruelty” to the mot nts, because of
the use of spurs. He might as well argue that
boys are cruelly treated because they lose a little
skin occasionally playing football.
* * * »
Cabled accounts of the disqualification of
Thompson at the Wemblev Rodeo suggest that he has
not had a fair deal. His offence was that he used
a crupper. But how any ordinary saddle could be
kept on an animal that really bucked —bucked as
Skuthorpe’s Bobs understood the term, for example
—without irrefragable attachments both fore and aft
passes the comprehension of those w’ho are familiar
with the habits of outlaws in this part of the world.
Thompson’s claim that the saddles of the cowboys
weigh up;to 381 b., and his offer to take on any "of
the Yanks in an event in which saddles of not more
than 81b. are used, establish an interesting position.
Either of the Dempsey brothers, of Queenslan 1, could
first single-handed catch and saddle the most malevo-
lent of equine desperadoes, and then ride him to a
standstill in a light hunting-saddle. If Thompson
can do as much he is clearlv a better horseman than
a cowboy who has to pile an attachment like a
palanquin cn his broncho before defying the animal
to do its worst.
* * * *
Pat Gleeson, who had been trying
for years to get a 20-rounder at the Sydney Stadium,
got it on Saturday night, an! also got what was com-
ing to him. That was Eddie Butcher’s left to the
chin, which knocked him out in the sixth round.
Patrick would have done better had he stood off and
boxed his man instead of bogging in as soon as he
heard the bell. The pair divided £BO 19s. 6d. for
their 17 minutes of undulterated stoush.
“Jamwood”: Matrimony seems to agree with
bruisers. Butcher, who comes from Boulder (W.A.),
got married not long ago and hasn't lost a fight since.
Neither has Billy Grime. Spargo and Godfrey, two
of the best men in the business, are steady-going
Benedicts. A capable little missus is the best invest-
ment a promis'ng pug tan make; without her, as a
dozen Awful Examples show, he has a tendency to
“go to the pack.” And the same is probably true
of young professionals in other sports, although I
once heard it denied. We were picking an opponent
f rr o ceiPR-r who had agreed to race on
a remote river, and Boater’s name was mentioned.
“He’s a ratting good man.” one of us said, “and
I know he’d be glad to go. He told me it would
be a flue honeymoon trip—there 11 be a Mrs. Boater
next week.” ‘‘Scratch him off the list,” interrupted
the grim veteran who was adviser-in-chief to the syn-
dicate. “No rowin’ man’s ever any good after ’e
does the altar-walk.” So we ruled out the impend-
ing victim of eonnubiality, and selected a youth
with a dial like rudely-hacked granite, who furnished
proofs that he hadn’t entered the married state.
“Never met a tabby ’oo’d look twice at me,” he
confided.
* * » *
“Tin Hat”: I once saw a man knocked
out by a snooker ball. The tip had come off A's
cue, and he was crouched down looking for it
when B played hard at the brown ball. It was
going straight for the pocket when it rose from
the table, flew r over the top of the cushion and
caressed A on the right temple. When we brought
him round he was with difficulty restrained from
fighting an onlooker who, he imagined, had stoushed
him from behind.
“Amyl” : An incident unique in my experi-
ence of bowls occurred in the final of the N.y.
champion pairs, held at Cairns. At the completion of
the last end but one the scores were; Townsville
19, Cairns IS. Ryan, of Townsville, put down the
jack about nine yards from the ditch. His first
bowl took the jack clean, and both jack and bowl
finished in the ditch, about eight inches apart. The
jack was in such a position that no bowl on the
green could beat Ryan’s “toucher” in the ditch, in
short, a win for Cairns was an absolute impossibility.
* * * *
The Australians competing at Wimbledon
did a lot better than was expected at either end of
the world. Bayley, one of the Commonwealth’s
Olympic representatives, causeu a sensation by winning
three sets to one against Randolph Lycett, and then
just failing to beat Washer, the Belgian, in a long
five-set duel, though they were level in the aggre-
gate of games. Lycett is an old Davis Cup player
who was only licked
by Patterson in the
final of the Wimble-
don singles a couple
of years back. Washer
was runner-up to John-
ston in the finish of the
European hard-courts
championship in Paris
last year, yet the Corn-
stalk was guilty of the
unprecedented feat of
taking a love set from
him. Then Bayley’s
team mate, Willard,
ran England’s Davis
Cupper, Wheatley, to
five sets before cramp
compelled him to re-
tire—it had hampered
him throughout the
match. But even those
achievements were
eclipsed by the remark-
able return to form of
Norman Brookes, who
reached the fourth
round by conquering
Hunter. The latter is
fourth on the ranking
list of U.S. players.
He has been the in-
door champion of
America; he has de-
feated Gerald Patter-
son and Vincent Rich-
ards, and 12 months
ago he fought out the
Ist round of the
Wimbledon singles with
his countryman, John-
son; yet the Austra-
lian veteran proved to
be his master. To do
five sets with such an
opponent in a hot sun
was a great achieve-
ment for a man who
will be 47 in Novem-
ber and who had prac-
stremious singles game since hemet t£° Americans
in Auckland over four years ago. Unfortunately, the
' f , toran . struc k a bad streak when he met Washer,
who gamed ever- set, ana then Washer was elimi-
nated by the brilliant Frank. Lacoste.
“15-30” : tfrookes’s victory over Hunter demon-
strates once more that it isn’t necessary to be a
slogger to become a champion. Hunter is known as
the hardest forehand hitter in the world, and he gets
l good deal , weight behind his backhand shots,
let, with all the advantages of youth and training,
he couldn t beat a man who declined to be impressed
by his baresark methods. A good driver will “pass”
a first-class volleyer often—the Irishman. Parke, did
I* 1 " 1 /™ 1 success against Brookes in Melbourne in
, a out a volleyer with Brookes’s uncanny method
ot deflecting balls to anv cn»le should generally prove
too good for the Hunter kind of player. Hunter it
seems, scored a good deal with side-line drives, but
Brookes kept him at the back of the court, where a
natural fighter is bound to wilt unless he has the
stroke equipment to get himself out of his predica-
ment. The American didn’t carry enough guns to
hammer Brookes off the net, and he was plainly
inferior in tactics, for he let himself be lured into
chas nr sharp-angled returns which were impossible
to retrieve. In this wav Hunter’s demoralisation set
in, and he found himself double-faulting and missing
. critical stage in a reckless attempt to score
with outright aces. Brookes’s provocative strategy
brought about this disaster. It was another case
ot the triumph of mentality over meat.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: A recent big chess tourna-
ment was disturbed by a gent, who had evidently
strived from the Rugby League match. “What d’ver
call that piece?” he demanded to know. Having
been frowned upon and “S’shed,” he weighed in with
adviee. . Take his knight. Black,” he shouted.
You 11 win if you take his knight!” There was a
scandalised Ptir. and the interrupter being quietened,
the st-'id silence in which great brains think fell'
age-n for a few minutes. Then it was broken again:
‘What d’ I tell yer? Should ’ve taken his knight!
lm backin’ Black—an even dollar no Wh'te!” There
was an angry argument as the owner of the profane
voice was hustled towards the door. “Not allow
barrack in ?” he went on. “Vou’ll never make the
game poplar if vou don’t allow barrackin’!” An-
other couple of paces took him to the door. “What
do you call the blasted game, anyway?!’ he roared.
The door closed upon him and he fell down stairs, but
furred to see if he had hurt himself. It was
relt that a man who could behave like that deserved
to break his neck.
* * * *
The championship of Adelaide’s leading
golf club, at Seaton, has been won by Digby Giles
" ,? s f strong point is consistent steadiness, just
suited by the conditions of this match, three rounds
or stroke play. He was under 80 every round, with
75 as his best, and a total of 232. Legh Winser,
holder for three years but now away, took 241 to
win last year (but the weather was not so good).
Second to Giles was Tom Cheadle; Swift and Nott
came next. The final of the ladies’ championship
was left to Mrs. Cedric Hayward and Mrs. Britten
Jones. The former (a war-bride who learned the
game in England) had beaten Miss Gordon, holder
of the Australian championship ; but Mrs. Jones the
present holder (formerly Miss Hilda Fisher) ’won
the honors easily.
* * * *
In a magnificent game on the Sydney
Cricket Ground, muddy for once, the English Rugby
Leaguers repeated their 1921 performance of winning
the rubber. Early in the piece Aynsley got over for
Australia, and that was the only score till within
five minutes of time. Then Parkin, the English cap*
tam, grubber-kicked towards the line. Holder came
fast from the wing, but mulled an attempt to pick
up the ball (he could have fallen on it) and Parkin
achieved a try. Sullivan adding the goal. There was
no further score, although the Australians made
two great efforts to pull the match out of the fire;
m one the ball was carried the length of the field
and Armbruster grassed it, but he was two feet over
tne “dead” line. Then came the whistle. England
was again splendidly served by her heavyweight for-
wards, of whom Brough, Burgess and Thompson were
perhaps the best, although all were good. The most
conspicuous Australians were Craig, Gorman, Aynsley
Armbruster and Potter. ’
“S. Gumrn”: There was no repetition of the inci-
dents which made the first match so unpleasant Be-
fore the proceedings began Burgess shook hands with
1 otter, who had punched him on the previous Satur-
day, and when the whistle blew for the last time
Latta, an eminently fair player, reached for the near-
est Englishman’s fist to congratulate him. Also,
Duncan Thompson helped to carry Parkin to the mem-
bers pavilion, from which the hooters of the week
before had vanished. The English forwards are better
than ours, and thev have a vastly superior goal-
kicker. In other respects the advantage is decidedlv
tn our side. Given a dry ground at Brisbane I
expect Australia to succeed in the third argument,
but I shouldn’t care to bet on it.
* * * *
“FY7”: My friend Binkswoggle is a
gloomy citizen these days. The Friday before the
Englishmen won their first match against Australia
he confided to me that a mug 1 in his warehouse had
accepted £lO to £5 against the visitors, when
ail the heads were offering four or five to one.
And that was not all. He and some pals had drawn
I lgswhiskers in the Capricornian Cup, which was
to be run on the following Monday. “We wired
the owner askin’ what he’d want ‘ ter give it a
spin,” said B “He wires back that a thousand ’d
do him, an that he wouldn’t start th* moke in a
race he was down for Saturdee, so as to keep it
warm for us on Monday. What you might call a
real sport eh?” Alas, the supposed mug pocketed
Binkswoggle s tenner, and Pigswhiskers ran “down
a lane,” as the saying goes, in the Capricornian
Cup. It s a hard world.
* * * *
“Hamer" : Along the Southern line in N. S.
Wales football is part of the serious business of life.
\Vhen femora defeated Cootamundra, which had held
the Maher Cup for three years, the conquering town
had another Armistice Day. It had practically
emptied itself into Cootamundra, but after its elated
citizens had seen “Coota” trampled upon they raced
back by special trains to have the banquet ng tables
ready and the band playing “Conquering Hero” when
the winners came home. The night was full of loud
cheers and liquor, and the revelry was still in pro-
gress when a messenger arrived from “Coota” with
a demand for amther match, in which “Coota”
undertook to erase the memory of a mere accident.
~ Past Grammar :It is just 40 years since
the first Rugby team from Maoriland landed cn these
shores. The side (H. Y. Braddon, of Dalgety s, was
a member) won all its eight matches, scoring 167
points to 17. Saturday’s game between N.S.W. and
M.L will be the 32nd of the series- the 411
Blacks have won 24 and one (a 1905 match) was
?v aw ?’ x — S ’ catching the visitors just off
the boat, mav win, as they did a couple of years
ago. However, it is questionable whether our men,
the backs especially, are up to the 1922 or 1905
standard, and the writer expects the Fern-wearers
to come through in triumph.
* * * *
After Saturday’s Melbourne League games
nobody is quite sure what’s which or who’s how.
Some 28,000 persons parted with £577 to see Carl-
ton wallop Fitzroy, previously undefeated. The Old
Blues had been thrashed by nearly every team in the
first round, and their captain and star forward,
Clover, was injured; yet, playing like the Blues of
old, they ran rings round ’Roy—Carlton, 104; ’Rov,
56. Consistent South Melbourne let the Richmond
Tigers do a lot of bullocking to little purpose, said
steadily piled up goals against their opponents’ be-
hmds; in the end they owned 61 points to Rich-
mond s 43. Melbourne avenged an early defeat by
collecting 63 points to St. Hilda’s 51; and Essendon
trounced Colhngwood solidly, notching 60 points to
34. It was ’Wood’s fifth successive defeat, and the
thing is getting monotonous.
“Trekle”; Odd how one outstanding footballer
sometimes keeps a first-class team low on the list
T'-ke the rase of Carlton. In that XVIII Horry
Clover stood out as the greatest half-forward of
hls time—one worthy to be spoken of among the
stars of the past. Under his captaincy the system
was that everyone should kick to him and he’d do
the rest; and as he had no rival as a mark and
kick, this looked feasible. Opposing captains socn
learned, however, that instead of being a match
winner he became a dud if guarded by two or more
burfy backs whose only work was to jostle him out
of position. Clover obstinately persisted in the
kick-it-to-me scheme and the Blues soon rested at
the foot of the list. Last week all Carltcn predicted
an even heavier defeat than usual, for Horry was
the field. But instead of the expected
debacle the game proved a most glorious victory.
Without the brilliant impediment of their captain
the almost forgotten pre-Clover system worked like
machinery, and the Old Blues crawled all over ’Roy.
THE FOOTBALL REFEREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f n f!* e a PPearanee of the referee was the signal
hall ;T 1S min B'l e< l with hoots and cat-calls. Foot-
. el erees, however, are men of nerve and regard
such outbursts without dismay.”— S. M. Herald on
the second Rugby League test.
iron-nerved and game as blazes,
V\ hether approval or abuse they roar,
> upremely careless if they shout his praises
Oi howl for his gore.
Assurances of warm esteem collective
And lurid threats to tear him limb from limb,
Applause and hoots, encomium and invective,
Should both be absolutely ineffective
To rattle him.
Dai iv imputations he’ll be always facing
Howe er his verdicts go, from tongues uncurbed;
Bias they’ll charge, and something more debasing,
And he must listen to it unperturbed.
All he can hope for, while with pains laborious
He strives to give opposing sides their dues,
Is that they’ll prove, who leave the field victorious,
A trifle less offensively censorious
Than those who lose.
Who never had his fill of war’s bombarding?
( Who with contempt patrician for the mob
Combines the hangman’s knack of disregarding
The odium attaching to his job?
Who s of the stuff that craves a martyr’s ending,
Like Christians who supplied the lions with tea?
If such there is—stern, unafraid, unbending—
He ought to need no further recommending,
When teams at Rugby League are next contending,
As referee.
N - 8 -W.
PIPARDS.


%
%
%
>7
Safety
First
is a slogan that can be
almost universally
applied.
In connection with
machine plant it can be
very definitely applied
to Belt Pulleys.
Safety at high speeds
is a necessity to maxi-
mum production, and
it is here that the
SPLIT BELT PULLEY
is a definite help.
The binding action of the steel rims on the cast-iron spyder in the operation
of mounting, combined with the entire absence of rivets, eliminates any
possibility of bursting at high speeds.
Ask Us for Full Particulars.
Gardner, Waern &. Co. Pty. Ltd
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street.
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE —Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.. 157 Way-
month Street.
PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
377-391 Murray Street.
HOBART—Charles Davis. Ltd.
S.P.-2/23.
□odeeErothers
TOURIN6 CAR
Where mud, sand and rocks make
going next to impossible, Dodge
Brothers Touring Car is regarded,
by its owners, with an esteem
which amounts almost to affection.
Douse Brothers,Detroit
/
4*
—A
->*SS
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
3/7 ru,
“Dido”: My friend tells me that in certain
parts of the Mallee adjacent to the railway
you can buy 15 tons of mallee roots for 15.
That same quantity retailed in the Mel-
bourne suburbs realises £4B 15s. I don’t
know whether it is business or buccaneering,
or just stupidity in crowding so many people
into the Melbourne area that the cost of
distributing goods among them is poisonous.
There was such a rush for the quiet but
not too lucrative job of Secretary of the
Sydney Museum that it took the trustees five
months to make a selection. From among
nearly 500 people, including a few women,
the choice has fallen on William T. Wells,
recently sub-accountant to the Rural Indus-
tries Board; one of his previous jobs was
that of manager and accountant of the State
Bakery.
S. J. Prowse, inspector of mines at Ben-
digo (Vic.), has stepped into the job of
Chief Inspector vacated when Merrill became
head of the Public Works and Mines Depart-
ments. He entered the service as inspector
16 years ago. Part of his job will be to
keep an eye on metropolitan quarries. But
not o’ Sunday mornings. That’s the job of
the police who are told off to deal with two-
up schools.
Died in Sydney a few days ago, aged
75, W. R. Sando, who 35 years back carried
his shiny tail-hat out of Philip Santo's
counting-house into the Adelaide mining
market. In the next two decades he was
sec. of some scores of companies. Few of
them succeeded; but the failure of the others
left Sando with the high reputation he always
had. Family ties dragged him to Sydney in
his last years.
Federal Health Minister Wilson tells a
story of his recent experience in England
with a beautifully-dressed stranger—silk hat
and spats complete—who claimed to be the
official ratcatcher of the City of London, and
wanted a similar position in Australia.
“‘And about political rats?’ I asked —‘Can
you deal with them too?’ But the profes-
sional killer modestly disclaimed any ability
in that direction. ‘They would beat me,’ he
admitted; ‘the other little beggars are hard
enough to catch.’ ”
“Pantagruel”: Donald Larnach, mentioned
(B. 5/6/’24) as one of the pillars of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, had also interests in
Queensland. In 1872 he started boiling-down
works at Lake’s Creek, Rockhampton ; these,
now controlled by Macdonald, Hamilton and
Co., have developed into one of the largest
meatworks in Queensland. Incidentally, as
the result of the decease of Sydney, Donald’s
son, the Exchequer gets £470,000 in death
duties. Many of the bequests are to charities
-—the Salvos, score £5OOO.
Vic. Forestry Commission is not a happy
family, and unless things are made more to
the liking of chairman Owen Jones he may
not accept a second term even at an increase
on his present £lOOO a year. H. R. Mackay,
second commissioner, will be 65 in August,
and it looks as if he will be allowed to take
his pension at the end of the year; but Code
may be retained for another two or three
years. It is proposed to give the Commis-
sion wider powers and authorise it to spend
£1,000,000 —loan money, of course—in de-
veloping timber plantations.
They believed in teaching by example at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) in the old days. On
June 15, 1804, Lieutenant Menzies wrote to
Governor King;—
On the 29th ultimo James Field, one of the three
persons which run off with Sergeant Day’s boat from
Sydney, gave himself up; he was quite naked,
speared and beat in several places by the natives, and
had not eat anything for five days. I took him just
as, he came in and showed him to all the convicts,
and I could wish to be allowed to retain him here
as I think from the account he gives of his misfor-
tunes and the truly miserable and wretched spectacle
he exhibited it will be the means of preventing
others from attempting the like with any of our boats
that go up the river.
“G.8.L.” : The meaning of the word Can-
berra will exercise philologists one of these
days. Dr. F. W. Robinson, in his recent
work, “Canberra’s First Hundred Years,”
mentions two prevalent ideas: (1) that the
word has a connection with the phrase “can
of berries, (2) that it is a corruption of the
name Campbell. There is much stronger evi-
dence that the word is a native one. W.
Davis Wright, of Yass, who wrote “Can-
berra,” has told me that to the binghies who
roamed over the district when the first white
settlers appeared there (1823), the word
signified “a meeting place,” or “the place
where big corroborees are held.” His father,
one of the early settlers, was his authority
for this.
Edward Mitchell, K.C., unofficial leader of
the Vic. Bar, is a disappointment to the
Farmers’ Union, of which he is a member.
He wouldn’t nominate for the recent West
Gippsland by-election, nor for Walhalla in
the general election. He has “nearly” been
a candidate for one House or the other several
times, and was just as “nearly” made a
Supreme Court Judge 16 or 17 years ago—
Cussen beat him in the last lap. Mitchell
owns a big lump of land in East Gippsland,
and champions a line towards Omeo ; and be-
sides his Bar practice is a trustee of the
Edward Wilson (Argus) estate. His dad,
who died 40 years ago, was a former Vic.
Chief of Police, Minister in three Govern-
ments and President of the Dreary House
(1870-1884).
“Bond”: Elizabeth Marbury, the veteran
Anglo-American theatrical agent, tells a
story of Seymour Hicks and Ellaline Terriss.
whom a “stodgy couple” at the play applauded
“because they lead such a beautiful home
life and have such dear little children.” Also of
how Sara Bernhardt had an argument with
Mrs. Kendal, the Mrs. Grundy of the Eng-
lish stage, “a whole vice commision in her-
self.” The latter handsomely went round to
Sara’s dressing-room to congratulate her on a
fine performance, but felt bound to add : “It
is a pity that your plays always deal with
passion, so that I cannot bring my young
daughters to see them.” “But consider,
madame,” said Sara, with the remorseless
logic of the French, “if it we're not for pas-
sion, you would have no daughters to bring.”


sdf
ill: : : 1 :3 Sjs : : : ; : ; A
WIWJUUMMU' vkhUSmT
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A,
What is good logic in buying a motor car applies
to the purchase of a battery.
A Willard Threaded Rubber Battery is an
economical battery to own because you can distrib-
ute its initial cost over a long period of time.
This sturdy battery gives you a sense of con-
fidence that soon makes you forget its presence in
your car. Its initial cost is moderate too, when
you compare the service it gives with that given
by other batteries.
But be very sure you get a Willard. All Willard
Threaded Rubber Batteries have the Willard
Trade-mark shown in this advertisement im-
printed on the case.
*
'SAT
Willard
'■NLJS 0 *
Mpn&k
am


A “ Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to litrht
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lnbr
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
!
4
Ask for
ABBOTS
LAGER
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Huh Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “l.ilae Time’’
Royal “Good Morning, Dearie'’
New Palace Carter the Great
Hoyt’s - Moving I’icluien
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS KOI! COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s “Whirled into Happiness”
Royal Vaudeville
Princess’s “Mr. Battling Butler ’
Palace “Rain”
King’s “The Garden of Allah”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
Town Hall .... Charles Hackett-Bratza Concerts
o
“Tosca" introduced lithe and beauteous
Scavizzi to Sydney as the imperious beauty
of the name part. More perhaps than any
other, this opera demands subtlety and in-
tensity in its acting, and opera-goers were
not disappointed in any one of the princi-
pals. Scavizzi was everything one expects
of the imperious, jealous heroine, with a cer-
tain air over and above that which makes
her Tosca unforgettable. She dressed the part
richly, in attire striking in its combination of
color and revealing in its line. Her soprano
is strong and smooth, though in no way
record-breaking; but her art is at once
suave “and brilliant. From her first entry
she was in the picture. She knelt to pour
out the “Bissi d’ Arte” number after the
realistic fashion set by Geritza. Scarpia
was personated by a fine figure of a man
with the stirring name of Apollo Granforte,
a sympathetic baritone, with the most speak-
ing hands the company has so far displayed.
Granforte, dripping fiendishness from every
flourish of his exquisite wrist-ruffles, leering
like a satyr and working the glad eye over-
time, was the refinement of villainy; and
when the overwrought Tosca stilettoed the
bubble of his conceit, there wasn’t a man in
the stalls who stretched for his first-aid
kit. The chorus was crisp as a fresh
lettuce leaf; the spectacular effects at the
end of the church scene impressed the. audi-
ence deeply; and new conductor Schiavoni
got some thrilling effects from his orchestra.
* * * *
English songbird Phyllis Archibald burst
into the Italian aviary with a remarkable
rendering of Delilah in Saint-Saens’s pot
pourri of Bible story and vamp drama. The
music is suitable to the atmosphere, and
“SAMSON AND DELILAH," AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
Samson (Antonio Marques) being vamped
by Delilah (Phyllis Archibald).
may be described briefly as appropriate,
with bursts into tunefulness, as in the
immortal “Softly Awakes”; but the whole
episode is a gloomy one, and is never men-
tioned in the Best Circles of Gaza to-day.
Phyllis betrays the strong man to the fatal
haircut in an expressive and dulcet con-
tralto which sang the difficult numbers in
perfect time, though it seemed a little light
for the music (or was that only because
Paolantonio’s orchestra was rather over-
whelming’?). She is further helped to her
nefarious ends by an attractive personality,
fine eyes and a seductive though somewhat
overworked arm-action—it rather suggested
a Lorelei in deep water during her invocation
to the goddess of Vamps. Marques, who
has been doing double shift since various
tenors of the company have knocked up,
was badly placed as Samson; and the big
middle act which the two carry did not go well.
The two bright spots in Marques's pre enta-
tion occurred when he was flexing his biceps
in the first act and during his later prayer
for strength to push over the temple. Which
same being vouchsafed, the story ended.
* * * *
“Rigoletto,” on Saturday night, reintro-
duced the round Dal Monte, who was respon-
sible for some unforgettable moments, not-
ably her trilling outburst in the ‘'Caro
Nome.” The Gilda of those far-off bad days
was not more tender nor more innocent a
iamb than she of Saturday night. On the
way to her betrayal and sacrifice by the
roving Duke, in every way was she delight-
ful. Granforte, who made such a striking
Scarpia, gained still another triumph as the
deformed jester. His rich baritone, brimful
of pathos, never failed to be impressive;
and from the terrified dismay of the first
“Mia Filial” he was heart-breaking as the
father racked with anxiety for his one trea-
sure. Di Lelio, as the assassin Sparafucile,
meticulously honest in the matter of deliver-
ing his corpses, was again a satisfactory
basso in an unpleasing r6le. Honesty is not
always the best policy, however, and his copy-
book maxim resulted in the knifing of the
unfortunate Gilda. Cappelli, old friend of
the Gonsalez days, came back to an enthusi-
astic audience as the naughty Duke. Dis-
playing a pair of legs tightly hosed and un-
ashamed, he made the Duke seem possib'e
as a home-wrecker even to the cold hearts
and shingled heads of his up-to-date listeners.
Three times during the evening he threat-
ened to hold up the melodic traffic, but the
just-beginning applauders were suppressed
by scandalised sshes ! However, he got his
moment when his voice rose to the final star-
bursts of “Da Donna e Mobile.” His work
in Rigoletto’s garden with Gilda, and later
on with the reedy-voiced Maddalena _( Carmen
Tornari), was graceful and convincing. Car-
men Tornari will have to develop something
more than youth if she is to go on gaining
an honest living by luring young men to
their doom. No young man would seek
Sparafucile’s house of rest for the little Maa-
dalena of Saturday night. Her voice is
small, and has a quiver like a dissolving
jelly through it, and during the final big
quartette it was apparently a silent worker.
Bizet's “Carmen” kept Monday night’s
audience enthralled once the dispirited first
act was over. Not all Dahoska’s art and
polka-dotted flounces could galvanise an act
whose opening chorus sounded so doleful;
even the baby soldiers were formal and con-
strained, with the exception of one little
warrior in the front row whom the music
had plainly infected. Bizet’s score is light,
graceful and unconventional, and Paolantonio
and his orchestra did it justice. Sydney
took to it with a warm appreciation, and it
is obviously in for many repetitions. Aga
Lahoska in the name part lived Carmen.
That gypsy lass of the many shawls has
probably never had a more subtle interpre-
tation; and what her voice failed to convey
her speaking hands and vibrant body more
than supplied. Her voice holds no particu-
lar allure, and seems to fluctuate between
mezzo and contralto : but her buttercup frock
and lace mantilla in the last act no doubt
encouraged her to the magnificent heights
on which the final curtain fell. Here her
vocal work with Escamillo reached its best,
and her passionate impotence against Don
Jose’s murderous stab was terrifying. Pic-
caluga’s Don Jose was a manly, simple soul
rising to two magnificent moments —in the
Flower Song and in the demented fury
of the final act. Edmomlo Grandini
sang well, but not enthrallingly, as the
Toreador, and somehow managed to convey
the impression of a respectable family
butler disguised for the Artists’ Ball. The
graceful Aurora Rettore ouite thrilling
as the faithful Micaeln. The little lady in-
fused fire i”to a usually colorless part, and
wore her Milkmaid-brand outfit with an air
of sweet simplicity. As for the chorus work
in the Cabaret scene and Mountain Caves,
nothing could have been more infectious. A
great performance.
* * * *
The matinee of “Boh&me” brought Aus-
tralian tenor O’Shea to the fore as the pot t.
His is a charming voice of melodious quality ;
but his acting has to be coaxed along. This
coaxing Melba supplied, her guiding hand
being noticeable even in her own death
agonies. This (Thursday) night introduces
“The Barber” to Sydney.
After breaking musical-comedy records
with 502 performances. “Sally” sang her
last lilt and executed her final twirl last
night. On Saturday the curtain at Sydney
Royal will rise on “Good Morning. Dearie,”
presented by Josie Melville and a selected co.,
and guaranteed to be as full of sparkle as
the best diamond Israel ever sold for
eighteenpence.
sjc sjc V
At Sydney Grand Opera House “Old Bill,
M.P.,” represented by Seymour Hicks, con-
tinues to carry the lip-thatcli and the pliilo-
sophy of the trenches in to the coal-mine anti
the Parliamentary election of At
is computed that already 30,000 Sydney
people have been moved to laughter and tears
and other creditable emotions over Old Bill.
The melodies of Schubert, rich and rare
As music borne upon the midnight air
From bells that chime
Soft as the dews descending from the shy,
Are still being wafted out at Sydney On.
In “Lilac Time.”
** * *
“Carter the Great,” who hands out leger-
demain and conjury at Sydney Palace, con-
“THE GARDEN OF ALLAH,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Domini (Muriel Starr) learns that her hus-
band, Boris Androvsky (Frank Harvey),
is a renegade Trappist Monk.
tinues to fill youth with rapturous bewilder-
ment and the mature with less faith than
ever in what they see and hear.
Sydney Tivoli still has ventriloquist.
Arthur Prince on its wage-sheet, and Ins
latest turn, “The Last Survivor of the Ship's
Mule Party,” is refreshingly clever and
humorous. Ruth Astor’s impersonations of
well-known mummers leave the impression
that some of the original artists must be a
little envious of the mimic.
The bill for crusted old port is steadily
mounting at Melbourne Majesty’s. Every
evening and at matinees Arthur Frith is
“Whirled into Happiness” on half a decan-
ter of the fluid. It isn’t much of an allow-
Shce for a deep-seated thirst, but Frith be-
haves as if he had been allow’ed the freedom
of a ducal cellar.
*O * #
At Melbourne Palace Barbara Hoffe is
still calling on the rain of “Rain” to go
away and come again another day. The Bul-
letin fervently echoes the sentiment. The
dampness of the play is depressing at a sea-
son when Mr. Hunt’s frequent “showers
invite one to don the full /armament of sea-
boots, oilskins and sou’-wester.
“Battling Butler” continues to divert the
multitude at Melbourne Princess's. Dorothy
Brunton and Charles Heslop keep the
Comedy alive, and the modest sweetne; s of
Mary Gannon is something the eye dwells
on without getting tired.
“The Garden of Allah” changed its mind
and slipped over to the King’s at the week-
end, leaving Melbourne Royal to prepare
for the influx of Bransby Williams, Alice
Lloyd, Victoria Carmen and Landry and
Julls, who will be conspicuous in the Firm’s
debut as a vaudeville management on Satur-
day. Williams is understood to be a star;
Alice Lloyd is a sister of Marie. The pro-
gramme will be given twice a day at bar-
gain prices for the matinCcs, and ranging
from 6s. (reserved) to Is. 6d. for the even-
ing show's. Meanwhile “The Garden of
Allah” has settled down at its new address
with some expectation of proving a bigger
draw than it was in Sydney.
Hetty King is still a tailor’s delight at
Melbourne Tivoli, and her personality is no
less inviting after a second or third inspec-
tion of the turn. The Hanlon Brothers are
again in the throes of simultaneous action,
but their counterfeit mirror act is the adroit-
est thing in their bundle of tricks. Carr
Lynn, the animal mimic, is also at work,
and a few minutes have been allotted to
tenor George Castles and harpist Torzillo in
a programme of familiar musical items.
Some of the numbers have the smell of moth-
balls about them, but, coming from such a
competent pair, they fall very pleasantly on
the ear.
It takes a fire- and water-rescue to put
“Lucretia Lombard” on the track to happi
ness at Melbourne Majestic this week, but
the way is easier for little Mary Jn the oth
feature, “At the Stage Door. Marssi im-
pregnable innocence as a cliorus-lady attrac s
a youth with the Rockefeller habit, and there
is nothing else to do but order a parson
and a wedding-dress. The monkey-gland
treatment is invoked by Connne Griftth to
arrest the hand of Time m Black Oxen,
at Ilovt’s. But with all her newly-acquired
youth "she cannot recover the zest to Jove m
the old manner. “Jack o Clubs is the right
bower in the game of cut-throat that foUows,
but the tale isn’t very absorbing. The nitty
nicture of the week is Daughters ot lo
day,” at the Melba, and this paper has no-
thing to add to the published statement that
“the heroine took a through ticket on the
iov-ride line.” Collectors of cabaret pictures
are urged to haste to the Britannia, where
“April Showers” is showing something new
in suppers. ( , A
I’wo little shows in Melbourne:
Merit in Mrs. Gayer Phipps’s work at the SacK-
ville Gallery is almost confined to the miniatures.
Of these she hangs 19 striking examples. “The Blue
Gown,” “Mauve and Blue” and “Lady in a Cap are
especially good, and make one wcnder why a lady
who is so well equipped in this branch of art should
bother herself with other forms in which she is
manifestly inferior. A couple of portraits in pastel
are about the only likeable achievements in the
throng of larger efforts, of which a big proportion
are Oriental landscapes painted in an undistinguished
manner. Her portrait in oil of General Irving leaves
little scarlet tunic to be desired, but that is all that
can be said about it. Nor can one conscientiously
praise the etchings, which are much below the
average of performance in this countiy.
J. R. Eldershaw makes much of Tasmania s old
bridges in his latest collection of water-colors at the
Athenaeum, and in most respects his efforts are
attractive, though little crudities suggest that he
hasn’t gained full control of his medium. With a
bit more practice he should be able to avoid the
sharp edges and occasional emphasis of details which
are noticeable in his more sombre productions.
He puts his best work into “Evening Near a larm,
wherein the subtle darkening of the scene is charm-
ingly depicted. “Afternoon Light” is another agree-
able picture of Nature in a tender mood, and the
feathery effect of trees against a cloudy sky is a
commendable feature of No. 15. Of his bridge
studies the rusty brown arches of No. 9 have evi-
dently afforded him the greatest pleasure, but the
shadows in “The Bridge at Evening” test his palette
to the utmost. A ketch with its sails flapping in
idleness (No. 1) reveals sound drawing, but Elder-
shaw is not a gifted painter of aquatic views.
From an Adelaide critic: —
Maude Priest has an unusual kind of one-woman
show at the Society of Arts Gallery. For one thing,
she, unlike almost all other Adelaide painters, does not
show the influence of either Heysen or the Ashtons.
For another, most of her present work is gleaned
from foreign travel, the scenes being mainly Devon-
shire or France. She is weakest in figures and fore-
ground rocks, and wisely employs the former very
little. She is strongest in water and boats, and has
some charming river scenes.
Gertrude Elliott, greatly regretted, lias
passed on with her clever company from
Adelaide Royal, after reviving several of her
“OLD BILL, M.P,” at SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Old Bill (Seymour Hides) to Lieut. Cheerio
(Cyril Gardiner ): “You are not going
down the mine, daddy—in your mother’s
bloomers!”
former successes. Adelaide remembers her
as a young girl overshadowed by her big
sister Maxine, and is glad to see her as a
finished and versatile player. Robert Greig
is coming in with farce. The Majestic bill
has been strengthened by Fred Bluett, who
has some new songs and the old efficiency.
At the P. of Wales, “Nellie Kelly” (which
brings the final curtain down on one of the
jolliest chattering choruses ever heard) is
having a long run.


Special Suit Offer.
£7/17/6 Indigo Blue Twill Suits
To Order
y
£6/19/6
OUR AMAZING SQUARE
DEAL OFFER
The famous “Quality” Suit in
genuine Indigo Blue Twills, All
Wool in light and medium
weights. Made from super
2-ply Worsted Yarns. Fault-
lessly tailored in the latest
style and finished with the best
quality linings and trimmings.
£9/9/- “Super-Quality” Suit
(In Specially Selected Worsteds and
Scotch Tweeds.)
To Order
SQUARE DEAL PRICE
SPECIAL SELF-MEASUREMENT CHART
AND TAPE POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
£B/8/-
ORDER BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE
PHONE 9840 ( 3 Lines).
Leviathan
pty.utd.
Cr. Swanston and Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
$
&
V
o
£
o
3
c
o
A*
VO
„ *
///>
<y *
S'
v-CW
.O'- o
!a\'
A FULL POUND
of
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
&
EVERY WEEK for a YEAR to me
successful holder of a CERTIFICATE.
A NEW DEPARTURE.
HILLIER S CHOCOLATES are now packed in I lb. RED
METAL BOXES at 4/- per lb.
A new departure must be advertised. This is our Novel
Advertisement.
Once during every month for the NEXT TWELVE MONTHS,
an order will be secretly placed in one of these New Metal
Boxes which will entitle the holder to a FULL POUND BOX of
HILLIER’S CHOCOLATES FREE EVERY WEEK for P
MONTHS.
You have the same chance of winning this free offer if you order
by Mail or purchase direct from our two Stores.
The offer for one whole Year from Ist July, 1924,
In 1 9 1 4 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both prices and quality have remained unaltered
4
per lb. In Red Metal (11b. to 51b.) Boxes
POSTAGE EXTRA, viz.:—
HiiiieA
TWO STORES:
lib. Box
21b. „
Sib. „
41b. „
51b. „
N.SAV.
9d.
1/-
1/3
1/6
l/»
OTHER
STATES.
1/2
1/8
2/2
2/8
3/2
162-166 Pitt Street, and Cr. George and King Streets, Sydney.
DOUBLF
m
i=
■H
GRIP
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
You’ll like these double-grip
PARIS if you’re on your feet a
lot —at work or play.
Lovers of sport and men of
action prefer them for their
double security and extreme
ease.
Whichever of the styles illus-
trated you prefer, be certain to
get the genuine PARIS. They
will hold your hose put, set your
mind at rest and give your legs
real evidence of ease efficiency.
" 3,000 Hours of Solid Comfort"
Obtainable Men’s Stores Everywhere
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
5 0 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
J 26 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
SINGLE
dsf
GRIP
co py right
HOLEPROOF
SILK SOCKS
Sold by Leading Mercers Everywhere.


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
REENER
4M
S
m
m
m
W. W. GREfIUr
GUNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
r
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only):
W P THOMPSON & CO, PTY.(
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
'' i-s *
mm
Z
O
[Sill!
o
Tfl
liiiiiiii
o
©
<
ybu are arfuredfliv every bottle
'of that/elfjrame rtarvdard of
excellence which haf m.a.ae
FAMOUS THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded by connoitfeurj* to be
/cOTUND/-jrOUNDEJT/TIMUUNI
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
WON
Tariff
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
Doris Champion writes: —
Referring to the happenings at Melbourne King’s
Theatre on the night of June 13, “Stage Wait” (B.
26/6/’24) asserts that “only one of the east did not
choose to stick,” and adds that “with moie experi-
ence she may learn better sense.” If the reference
is to me let" me reply that I ended my engagement
with the expiration of my contract, which ceased on
that memorable night in June. I hope my more
experience and better sense” will never allow me to
become one of those miserable artists who are so
lost in self-respect as to become the craven creatures
of managers. I have no doubt “Stage Wait” knows
the type I mean.
LACK OF TASTE.
WIFE OF HIS BOSOM (bursting in suddenly
upon artist and his model) : “I come in
and I find you with a—a — a—frightful-
looking creature like that!”
“8.R.C.” : Actor Paul Plunkett is plunging
into management on his own account, and
his first venture will be an attempt to shake
Tasmania out of its siesta with the drama
“Scandal.” He is touring the island with a
company including his wife (Homi Fergu-
son), Lorna Helms, “Pip” Coghlan and
Beatrice Tildsley. Plunkett, who was last
seen in Melbourne as the airman with the
Cassanovan record in “The Silver box, is
iust the right type to dash down the key on
the bed in Cosmo Hamilton s midnight shud-
der. He will play lead, of course, and his
wife will presumably appear as the lady
whose hard lying induces the brute to invade
her privacy.
“Santander”: The Firm talks of trying
Wagner in Australia next year, but there
will be much anxious questioning before that
comes to pass. The first company of Ger-
mans to stage Wagner m the U.S. since 1913
has gone home with the sad assurance that
war prejudice takes a long time to perish.
If J.C.W., Ltd., decides on a Wagner season
it would be wise to do the operas in English;
then our own Florence Fawaz might he
given a chance to repeat the Brunnhnda
which so impressed the London critics. But
a management with the present ambition ot
presenting opera every two years need not
regard Wagner as the only alternative to the
old stereotyped repertoire of Italian and
French works. There are the modern Rus-
sians, Moussorgsky and Rimsky-Korsakott;
Montemezzi, who is almost unknown in Aus-
tralia, is worth a hearing; and even old
Massenet, whom the highbrow musicians
pretend to despise, has produced compositions
that even some of the elect wouldn’t yawn
over.
“A.8.W.”: According to “Mummer” (B.
19/6/’24) “the flagitious feature of Asche's
outburst at Melbourne King’s was its pre-
meditation.” If that is so, what terms should
be applied to the premeditated refusal ot the
management to announce Asche’s final ap-
pearance? When Cyril Ritchard decided to
sever his connection with the Australian
stage, the news, not that it greatly mattered,
was advertised a month ahead. Fair play.
Fiddlesticks!
“Ancient Prompter”: There is only one
little error in "Stage Waits” resume of
the Asche-Williamson “Skin Game '(1».
26/6/'24). The amors are thrown out ot
work.
“0.R.” : Adelaide is to have another ama-
teur dramatic society. It is the University
undergrads, who have broken out this time,
though graduates and others are to be asked
to assist. The idea is tor give Adelaideans
opportunities of seeing Elizabethan works and
pre-Elizabethan miracle and morality plays,
as well as examples of the modern poetic
drama. It sounds ambitious, but there is
nothing like trying.
“Lond.”: George Tully, whom Australia
saw in “Billjim,” “The Man from Toronto
and "The Saving Grace,” lias returned to
England from New York. In mid-Atlantic
he scattered on the waves the ashes of
George Giddens, here 30 years ago with
Harry St. Maur and “Jim the Penman.
Giddens, who died in America, left instruc-
tions in his will for cremation and this final
scattering ceremony to follow.
“B ”: “Norbell’s” reference to “A Mess-
age from Mars” (B. 26/6/’24) is a re-
minder that the old drama has been teach-
ing the virtues of unselfishness to packed
houses in Westralia. Bob Greig, who has
just done eight weeks 111 Collier s State,
mentions that the “Message justified its
inclusion in a repertoire ot which the prin-
cipal features were Officer 666 and it
Pays to Advertise.” But this is not the
first time that Groperland has been found
responsive to the sentiment of Halves
partner, halves !” It is a good ( old stand-by
almost anywhere in the ‘ smalls.
“Paree”: The “high-class English theatre”
in Paris lasted only about a fortnight. A.
A Milne’s “Dover Road,” shortly to be
done in Sydney, was the trial production.
The Parisian has no use at all tor tne
British drama; and Anglo-American resi-
dents complained that the local publicity
was so poor that they never heard of the
place till the shutters were going up. Ly
the way, some travelled Parisian has called
the latest all-night restaurant m the artistic
quarter “Le Dingo.” A casual visitor says
it’s “the noisiest, maddest place this side of
the Hereafter.”
“Wilfrido” • The overwroughtness which
leads a J.C.W. producer to embrace leading
ladies (B. 12/6/’24) is almost part of the
show. I recall the opening night of The
Maid of the Mountains” in Melbourne (Janu-
ary, 1921), when Gladys Moncneff was the
recipient of these pent-up affections. The
producer, stumbling through what looked like
acres of flowers, clasped his star tenderly,
exhorting the audience to Advance Aus-
tralia !” Gladys wept. Like the moonshine
that flooded the robbers’ cave as the curtain
rose, it was most effective. Sitting, next to
me was the reverse of S. Gumm s coal-
lumper. She was a dear old lady who, con-
fusing Teresa with Carmen, and not recog-
nising me as an unemotional Maonlander,
asked me if I didn’t think it all too delight-
fully Italianesque.
“F L H.” • “Second Murderer (B.
12/6/’24) is justified in praising Fred Eng-
land, but his enthusiasm led him astray when
he said that Fred’s fine bass voice has
boomed out as Dick Deadeye to every Jose-
phine Australia has known. Two pre-
decessors in the part at Melbourne were
T L Hall with the Lingards and George
Leopold in the Stewart production, lhen
Tom Rainford played Deadeye in days now
remote, and I saw Hugh Ward as the ab e-
seaman at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, in 1900
Other Deadeyes were Ned Farley and Albert
Kavanagh. , ...
“Up Stage” : “Westral,” in his dispute with
“Thameside” regarding “Coriolanus (B.
19/6/’24) is in error about Osmond Tearle.
I was associated with Tearle for five, years,
and during that period Conolanus was
never once played. Tearle’s Fnday-night
production was invariably “The Merchant of
Venice.” Also, “Virgimus, his most attrac
tive part, is neither "pompous nor dead ,
the trouble is that we haven t real actors to
do it Lastly “Westral” might be interested to
know that Conway Tearle, of the P «ure S is
not a son of Osmond Tearle. His name is
I evv and his father was a noted cornet-
player who toured Australia about 40 years
ago.
“Ex-Englishman”: The death of Capt.
Paul Boyton in New York was evidently not
thought worth cabling last month. Half a
century back—he must have been a good bit
older than the 73 the papers gave him—he
was a star item. With a buoyant life-saving
Tuit of his own invention he was the first
to swim—floating and paddling, really—from
England to France. On the strength of that
feat he made a steady income by exhibiting
in lakes and ponds, where he ate, drank and
smoked while lying about on the water in his
cork-and-rubber suit. Soon afterwards, how-
ever, Capt. Webb swam the Channel genu-
inely and Boyton found himself pushed out
to the position of a mere inventor and show-
man.
THE INCENTIVE.
PRODUCER (to raw recruit ): “Put more vim into those kisses
and hang on to them longer. Remember it’s not your
own wife you are supposed to be hissing!
“John Wellington” : Last week the inmates
of Long Bay (Sydney) Prison were given
another film treat, when The Loves or
Pharaoh” was screened in the gaol chapel.
It was in “The Loves of Pharaoh” that the
German, Emil Jannings, who is declared by
capable critics to be the greatest screen-
actor in the world, made a name tor himselt.
“Peter the Great” was another photo-play
in which he did wonderful work, but his
finest portrayal is probably that of Danton
in “Loves of the Mighty.”
From a theatre in Cockaigne
After a profitable run at Drury-lane, Seymour
Hicks’s very well-written “Good Luck” has
withdrawn to make way for “London Life, b>
Arnold Bennett and Edward Knoblock. Henry
Ainley impersonates the statesman who is the lead-
ing character in this political play, and a reception
on the terrace of the House of Commons is por-
trayed in one of the scenes, in which more or less
eminent politicians are represented.
Evelyn Scotney and Gladys Cole are receiving
favorable mention in the musical papers. Evelyn has
been warbling delightfully at the Albert Hall, and
Gladys made an encouraging start at the Queen
Miss Cole is credited with “a voice of much bril-
liance, wide range and considerable power.” >(
Dreadful was the first-night failure of “Come In,
at the Queen’s. It flopped unmistakably, and Clay
Smith, who composed the music, didn t improve
matters by addressing the audience as “Ladies,
gentlemen and this to the jeering gallery.
Two or three critics had a kind word for Billie
Lockwood and our old friend Fred Leslie, and the
authors are now engaged in seeing how long radical
reconstruction and lavish advertising can postpone
the inevitable hour.
“F.L.H.”: The passing of Walter Forster
at Melbourne recalls the cyclorama ot the
Battle of Waterloo in the early nineties, at
which his fruity voice was heard as lecturer.
He did similar work at the Siege of Paris
in a Bourke-street building. I orster, who was
getting on for SO at the end, had a hand in
many games and was at one time a sclioo -
master. The old Waterloo cylorama building
still stands, and among other things has been
a boxing stadium and a hospital extra ward.
The Siege of Paris contraption met its end
by lire.
“Norbell”: “Cmsar’s Ghost” lias never
heard of any Australian manager embellish-
ing his show with an elephant
The Firm introduced one in Kound tne
World in Sixty Days” at the Sydney Lyceum
in ’94, and Henrietta Watson made her en-
trance on Jumbo’s back. The interesting
beast had a trick of reaching out with his
trunk and pinching comedian Robert Court-
neidge’s hat. As for Charles Arnold s .New-
foundland dog, it grew so old and feeble
that an understudy had to be trained to take
its place in “Hans the Boatman. One
night, in Jo’burg, the old dog was too weak
to go on, and the youngster was given Ins
chance. Arnold told me it was pitiful to
watch the crippled old chap whimpering and
whining in the wings because he couldn 1
play.
“Hamfat”: When we did “The Flying
Scud” (and the public) throughout M.L.
we had to depend upon any horse we could
get to represent the Derby winner, which
was always _ led on
after the big race
scene. The intelligent
animal invariably got
a “hand,” even when
bright spirits among
the audience remarked
on his association with
a baker’s cart or a
stock-agent’s buggy.
Our greater worry was
the character actor
that played the
trainer, Nat Gosling,
who, when the jockey
has been doped by the
villain, himself puts on
the colors and rides
the horse to victory.
Our man was a good
actor, and his make-
up w r as perfect; but
be hated horses. The
full strength of the
company not other-
wise engaged would
have to group off-
stage around the
horse, gripping its
head and tail and
holding it steady
whilst others lifted
the nag-shy actor into
the saddle. Even
then w 7 e were scared
to death left the
trainer who had
ridden that wonderful
race might fall off
while the winner of
the Blue Riband
walked on. Yet one
night a crowd of men
with “horse” written
all over them called at
the stage door, and
insisted on making the
actor their guest at
supper. “We had to
show how we appreciated you,” said their
spokesman. “We could see you knew all
about ’orses.”
“Norbell” : These showmen can’t shake off
the superstition that every mummer must be
a dud unless he’s imported. The “Rain”
crowd at Melbourne Palace have been per-
sistently referred to as a “New English Com-
pany.” I find that the names most mentioned
in the papers are Jefferson Taite. Jack Kirby,
Brandon Cremer and Maurice Tuohy. Jack
Kirby is as Australian as an R.S. badge can
make him. Brandon Cremer has been a well-
known mummer-manager here for about 30
years—he ran the Adelaide Tivoli for a long
time, inter alia. Tuohy, another Australian,
has been the haloed hero of Newtown’s (Syd-
ney) bellowdrama for years. Jeff Taite was
cited in this page some years ago as the Com-
monwealth’s long-distance villain —I played
with him under Holloway and Anderson in
’97 and he wasn’t a novice then. It’s only when
they get to Fogopolis or Gogginsville, Neb.,
that our native mummers are labelled Aus-
tralian.
“Nella” : These were in the Sydney cast of
“Ma Mie Rosette” in 1894 at the Lyceum:
Wallace Brownlow, Howard Vernon, George
Lauri, May Pollard, Lucy Cobb, A. Lissant,
Joseph Tapley, Florence Young, Marietta
Nash (Mrs. Lauri). Nina Osborne, Florence
Esdaile and Nellie Stewart. Yes, I trill say
it—they don’t get casts like that nowadays.
“Lond”: The Graham Moffat family has
dropped into the Garrick with “Susie Knots
the Strings.” As the name implies, it deals
with the earlier history of some of the
“Buntv Pulls the Strings” characters. Mr.
and Mrs. Moffat, as an elderly pair with a
love affair, are just as clever as when Aus-
tralia knew them ; and daughter Winifred, now
quite grown up, is the heroine. But one of
the most popular characters is a newcomer
who represents the aforesaid Bunty as a
small girl.
OUT OF A JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ex-King George of Greece, finding that he cannot
live on the interest of his fortune of £25,000, because
of the heavy expenses of aides-de-camp and ladies-in-
waiting, announces his intention of writing film
scenarios for a competence.”
When you were king, oh George, when you were king,
You really hadn’t got to do a thing
To earn your tucker. Drachmas, and to spare,
They gave you for a radiant band and rare
Of nimble aides tneir frames around to fling,
And maids-of-honor fairly glittering
With all the gewgaws women want to wear,
When you were icing.
When you were king, by George, when you were king,
I’ll bet you shot at folly on the wing.
In glowing youth, to crown and threne the heir,
Toil must have seemed a dull and drab affair.
Who would have thought a fickle race would swing
You out, with lamentably less in “jing”
Than would have kept your court in fitting fare
When you were king?
When you, a monarch erst, no more were king,
You didn’t smart ’neath dispossession’s sting
Like Austrian Karl who pelted through the air
To find his whilom subjects didn’t care
Two pins about him. Hopes like those you sling,
Your hat will not again be in the ring.
Unto the realm no more will you repair
Where you were king.
If you were king, oh George, if you were king,
To movie managers you scarce could bring
Scenarios with lines that bray and blare,
And plavs with plots that raise a wowser s hair.
Buck in, old bean! To fame you yet may spring,
And have all Hollywood upon a string
Far less precariously than Hellas where
You once were king.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


'=r j 0‘ r
: BTIITA'IN
r> /001702 Q
J / HOMES J9IICENSUS
=l®
p
(4
N
T
005
¥ HOMES
S.AUS
104^295
.HOMES AJ&?>
' \ - jinusw””."'
ft
/ W.A
7DJBS
HOMES
- U/.
A
T*
.KTlii
-TTTT ‘
•u i mu
P*.
O.KJ-
un f 4
TAS
44432
HOMES Jf
y'C V
dtiwii, <*r
' Y>
7ke guardian
of tkoD{oniQ.
What percentage of homes come under the classification of
the cynical humorist who defined " Home" as " a place where
one sleeps and has one's breakfast ”. Fortunately for the British
Empire such a classification applies to but a small percentage of
the Ten Million and more homes revealed by the census 1921.
To the best types of the British race Home has a particularly
intense appeal To them " Home "is no mere edifice of brick
or timber, no mere casual dwelling place but rather that upon
which is centred the bulk of their desires and aspirations. Mark
the insistent appeal of " Home” as represented in John Howard
Payne's song " Home Sweet Home ” As poetry it does not
rank high, but it is firmly anchored in the hearts of the English
speaking race solely by reason of its sentiment. Holding such a
high place in the estimation of the Anglo-Saxon as it does it is not
.surprising that the desire to protect—to preserve —to safeguard
the home is the predominant instinct. The Grim Reaper is no
respecter of persons or contracts, and consequently, many a
home is left half paid for when he appears on the scene.
Right up, through the centuries, the breadwinner has bent his
energies to building up some final bulwark for the preservation
of the Home. His methods may have been many and
devious, but have always been aimed at the ultimate object,
" Home Protection.”
The COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY is proud
of the fact that for the last Fifty Years it has proffered the public the
best of Home Protection. During that period over £81,000,000 of Life
Assurance has been placed with it. Last year, its Jubilee year, the
amount of Life Assurance taken was over £5,000,000. Behind the pro-
tection given to its Policy-holders now stands over £7,170,000 of Funds.
During the time of its existence it has paid over £10,500,000 to its
Policy holders or their representatives. The Society’s total Income is
now over £1,300,000, and the Surplus shown last year enabled Bonuses
of from £2 per cent, to £6 per cent, to be declared.
For those whose income is limited, it provides “Home Pro-
tection ”on the basis of weekly premiums. The Annual Bonus for
this class for last year was £1 per cent, to £2 per cent. For
these it also provides, free, Visiting Nurses to look after them
when ill, and issues from time to time valuable Booklets on
matters of personal health.
This Health Propaganda goes on unceasingly year after
year, and forms a “Home Protection” of the highest class. That
it is National in its scope, is evidenced by the cordial co-operation
of the Society in every movement having for its object the
improvement of Public Health. The Society has prepared an
interesting Booklet on the subject of its Health Work entitled
“ It Pays to be Healthy,” which will be forwarded on application.
... The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
Principal Office: 419-421 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.


AROMATICS
Nature's exclusive gift—the
aromatic hydro-carbons so
essential to a motor spirit—
Shell possesses these to a
pre-eminent degree.
sdf
AROMATICS are the series
l of hydro-carbons from which
the combustion energy of motor
spirit is most efficiently produced.
Pre-eminently endowed by Nature
with these vital constituents :: :: :: ::
after a quarter of a century's ceaseless
research by eminent scientists still sets
a higher standard than ever before.
Where you
do not see
this Sign—
Pure
SHELL
'?tor SV'i
—demand
your Shell
in Tins —
Insist at all times on pure Shell
Motor Spirit and Shell Lubricating Oils.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL
OIL COMPANY LIMITED
rHROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
s.s e


h
V .
When
out of
sorts —
Benger
Food.
Not ill, but not well.
Food disagreeing-nerves
jangled. This is the time
when a change of diet,
a rest from the ordinary-
food for a few days, will
work wonders.
Benger’s Food gives the
needful digestive rest with
complete nourishment.
You prepare
sdf
Food
with fresh new milk. It is
dainty, light and satisfying,
being the most highly
nutritious of foods. It
soothes internal distress,
is the food most easy to
assimilate, and the most
interesting to prepare.
THE BOOKLET OF BENGER’S FOOD
contains dainty recipes wh'ch
give relief from the i amen ss
of milk and similar diet. The
recipes are so li'ht as to give
nour shment whh dige-tive rest.
Post free on request from
BENGEK’S FOOD Ltd., 117 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufactur rs:
SINGER'S FOOD Ltd., MA.,CHESTER, Eng.
If any illustration appearing in Ttte
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
g \l).\ K V’S CII 1 K !•' TIIKA T K H S
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: LILAC TIME.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE: CARTER THE GREAT.
DICKA K 1) S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY —2.30 and 8.
MUSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
Missing Friends.
HUGH WALLACE WILSON, who emi-
grated from Scotland to Melbourne,
Australia, in 1920, son of the late David
Wilson, 85 Cromwell Road, Crossbill, Glas-
gow, is requested to communicate with
McClure, Naismith, Brodie and Co., 77 St.
Vincent Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
Legai Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
x WALES. IN EQUITY.
No. 33 of 1922.
ARCHIBALD MACLEAN DECEASED.
Pursuant to a Decretal Order made by the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity dated the
third day of November One thousand nine hundred
and twent.y-two and made in a Suit No. 33 of
1922 IN THE MATTER of the Trusts of the Will
of ARCHIBALD MACLEAN late of Hunter’s Hill
in the State of New South Wales Shipowner deceased
(w *• ’) died on or about the twenty-third day of
February One thousand nine hundred and one) Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited) against The
Public Trustee and Hugh Mac Lean whereby the
following inquiry was directed viz. Who were the
next of kin of the said testator Archibald Mac Lean
living at the time of his death and whether any of
them are since dead and if so who are their legal
representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said inquiry or as
widow of the said testator are to send by post
prepaid to Messrs. Sly and Russell 369 George
Street Sydney New South Wales a notification in
writing reaching the said Solicitors on or before
he thirtieth day of September 1924 containing the
full Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions of such persons and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitors or Counsel before the Master in Equity
at his office Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney
New South Wales on Wednesday the eighth day o
Jctober 1924 at eleven o’clock in the forenoon being
the time appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in New South Wales must
tend with particulars of his or her claim the name
ind address of a person in New South Wales to
whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated this sixteenth day of May a.d. 1924.
W. A. PARKER,
Master in Equity.
SLY & RUSSELL,
Solicitors for Perpetual Trustee Co. (Ltd.),
369 George Street, Sydney.
r
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
* ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and B—Commencing8—Commencing JULY 5.
BRANSBY WILLIAMS.
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
) KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen's.
IN (J’S Til EAT RE. M IS LBQ U R N E.
MURIEL STARR in
THE GARDEN OF ALLAH.
JOWN HA LL, M ELBOUBNE.
JULY 5,7, 9, 11.
CHARLES HACKETT,
WORLD-FAMOUS TENOR,
BRATZA,
SERBIAN VIOLINIST.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Direction E. J. Gravestock.
Amusements.
PA I, AC IS TIIISA T It IS, MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE DRAMATIC SENSATION OF THE CENTURY,
RAIN,
With BARBARA HOFFE,
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also slots IST.
CORINNE GRIFFITH AND CONWAY TEARLE in
BLACK OXEN.
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
THE JACK OF CLUBS.
Prices as usual.
A.IKSIIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
ALICE CALHOUN in
THE MAN NEXT DOOR.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
-pOWN HALL, ADELAIDE.
JULY 8, 10, 12.
STEFANSSON,
EXPLORER LECTURER.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
“HIS ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KS PEA It ISA N
PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
SCHOOL OF ARTS, ROCKHAMPTON,
JULY 5 to JULY 12.
Head Office: 178 Castlereagn Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager; J. V. De Batyn.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Pi*S*e Medals.
Works l Birmingham, England)
dsf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor sptirt.
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for as
assorted Sample Box.
You are well protected
©
><
between Weed Bumpers
ENJOY the sense of security that
comes with riding between a pair
of Weed Bumpers. When collision
occurs, they absorb the shock—prevent
damage to your car shield you from
harm. Have your accessory dealer attach
these handsome Weed Bumpers, front
and rear.
Weed Bumper, Safety Type, for light cars
Weed Bumper, Sturdy Type, for heavy cars
Weed Bumper, Sentry Type
=S3F
WEED BUMPERS
rM.Pi:
Made by the makers of the famous Weed Tyre Chains
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, In Co
Export Sales Offices: Grand Central Terminal Building
New York, U. S. A.
Representative:
Edward G. Vaughan, P, O. Box 845, Sydney, N. S.W.
fi 7-1-24
Hawaii
-where it’s never cold
Without increasing transportation cost you can arrange
with your booking agent for a stopover of one or two weeks
in Hawaii, on your next trip to Europe or America.
Better still —-plan NOW an 8-weeks’ holiday, at total
cost of £125 to £l6O, that will give you the delight of a calm
ocean voyage in luxurious comfort and 3 or 4 weeks amid
the romantic scenes of tropic islands.
You will travel first-class and spend an interesting day
ashore at Suva, Fiji, or Pago Pago, Samoa. In Hawaii,
surrounded by all the conveniences of a modern community,
you’ll enjoy fresh tropic fruits: papaya, mango, avocado,
guava, poha and pineapple. You’ll drowse in the purple
shade of giant banyan or monkey-pod trees, splash in sun-
drenched waves along the many warm beaches, or indulge
in your favorite pastimes: golf on splendid courses, tennis,
mountain climbing, motoring, deep-sea fishing.
Standing safely at the edge of Kilauea Volcano in Hawaii
National Park you’ll watch the fire-imps play in that stupen-
dous cauldron —one of the world’s greatest spectacles.
Hotel accommodation, 12s. to £2 a day including rooms
and meals; also ample housekeeping cottages, apartments
and rooms without meals.
Plan NOW to enjoy this unusual holiday! Ask your
nearest travel or steamship agency for exact sailing dates,
fares, etc.; also fill and mail coupon below.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU.
Australasian Branch, Dept. B, Box
241 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.; or A
82 Fort Street. Honolulu, Hawaii, JNlame
U.S.A.
Send free copy of your new, illus-
trated Booklet, giving: general infor- q, ,
mation on Hawaii, and of Tourfax, otreOt
giving detailed data on fascinating
inter-island cruises, rates, living
accommodations, etc., to the address n, ,
at right • Pity otate


CAN YOU DRAW?
You may think you can’t, but really
you can, for if you can write you can
draw; the same principles apply in
each. With the thorough tuition you
receive from the Weston Course, there
is no reason why you should not in-
stantly dash off free, bold sketches
similar to the one above.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
takes you step by step from the rudiments of
sketching to the highest branches of art.
The lessons are simple, interesting and effi-
cient.
Remember, we teach to DRAW not to COPY.
Learn more about the Course! Post three
stamps with your name and address, and you
will receive a copy of Mr. Weston’s interest-
ing Booklet —“There’s Money in the Pen” ;
it explains all about the Course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
334 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
Ik
■V - \ :
BRITISH
MADE
PerYectiorv
rusk: rubber.
23
Only for Connoisseurs.
“Of course, sir, tastes differ. Some
people have judgment and others have
none. But I’ve more respect, sir, for
the man who smokes always an in-
ferior cigarette, than the man who
smokes good ones one day and just
anything the next. Yes, sir, I can
say it positively hurts to hand Ken-
sitas to such smokers.
“Ivensitas were not intended for
such poor judges
because Kensitas
are too good to
waste.
“No, sir, they
were made for you
and all good judges
of good cigarettes.”
dsf
Kensitas
(Pronounced "Ken-see-tus’*)
eujaAjztfzA SVC
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J, Wjx & Sons, Ltd., London.
SKANDIA
Kerosene and Crude Oil. Stationary.
4-5 HORSE-POWER.
Constructed especially for Pump-
ing Plants, Sawmills, Electric
Lighting Outfits, Chaffcutters,
Shearing Machines and all Farm
Work.
£B5
Complete as illustrated,
with Accessories and
Spare Parts.
STARTS IN % MINUTE.
RUNS FOR 2d. PER HOUR.
Larger Powers in
Stock.
Also
MARINE
ENGINES
from £95.
Further Particulars
obtainable from
the Australasian Agents,
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
dsf
fTTttfb/W* tfieQup&catSx
M Qptis in tommies
works like a £lO machine. Price 27 /6.
Postage 2/-; other States, 3/6.
Wr , to fnr H. DIBBS & CO. (Dept. B),
Wnte for Manufacturers,
particulars. B 2 065 G.P.0., Sydney.
Missing Frieads.
BOSS —IF CHARLES BEAUMONT
i ROSS, formerly of Richmond (brother
of the late James Ross), will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO.,
LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
Missing Friends.
SYDNEY BEET, who resided in Marrick-
ville about 12 years ago and who was
last heard of at Nyngan 12 years ago, please
communicate with his sister Elsie, 140
Trafalgar Street, Stanmore. Or anyone
knowing the address of the said Sydney Beet
is invited to forward his last address, or, it
deceased, date and place of his death.
THE Next-of-Kin of JOHN FRASER, the
eldest son of Angus and Margaret
Fraser, of Caithness, Scotland, and who
settled in Australia 40 or 50 years ago, are
requested to communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Dunedin, New Zealand, for-
ivarding full particulars of their relationship.
the Super
CIGARETTE
Fine Old Virginia,
Cork-Tipped.Ovals.
20 for 2/-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. R. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
Soothing
as an
Old Time
Melody
m
m
11l
1907-1924
MOON
tt( Tjh.e Six Supreme ”
The car salesman who raises his eyebrows and says,
“The So-and-So Car is an assembled job,” unknow-
ingly pays that car the greatest compliment possible.
The thing that makes this talk about “assembled cars
so ridiculous is this: Practically every American car to-
day is using units —whether few or many—made by
specialist!".
What chiefly distinguishes the Moon is that the makers
have carried the advantages of specialism out to their
logical and complete conclusion.
Human instinct always eventually turns to the Specialist.
Communicate with your Local Agent NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth
St., Adelaide
New South Wales:
Lockett’s Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Bros.
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
Roadster
£ passenger
Queensland:
Johnston’s Motors Ltd.
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
St. George’s Terrace
If you shun the Commonplace-
Buy a Moon
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F. : Afraid we can’t find space for them.
.... Simcn: Thank you; the lady was wrong.
Eugene Field and not Riley wrote “Little Boy
Blue” Ardent S.: Forty-odd years ago J. F.
Archibald drafted it like that (1) to express exactly
what he meant, and (2) in scorn of a rule that
nobody had any authority to make; and as it has
been printed like that ever since we’ll let it stand
Charles S.; You drag your Spaniard over well-worn
tracks.... Ham (Brisbane) : Please send us your full
address D.M.: Of course. But where’s your plan
for getting rid of those slums? The B. has one
—new States Peter S.: It rages and rambles, and
both metre and rhymes are p00r... .A.D.8.: “Time
Was” is unconvincing.... Tarago: “The Gun” is too
mechanical... .J.M.0.; Very lumpy and without any
general interest... .E.L. (Highgate) : Falls so far
short that the verse-mender’s lifeline couldn’t reach
it E.M. (Gisborne) : Not bright enough nor well
enough done... .Mary T.: The verses are so bad that
we’ve sent them to a reformatory E.C.0.: “Joy
Ride” misses.... Pallis: You w T rite the. easiest sort
of verse, and still contrive to say very little....
Helas: Commonplace in verse so thin that the wind
blows through it... .Rambles; Doesn’t move u 5....
H.G.L.; There’s an old-fashioned cottage where you
once lived ; and you may go back. That is all you
say Alan; Not up to the mark... .P.R.A.: It
wobbles and staggers and gets to nothing... .Jilted:
Bumps like a wheelbarrow going over Mt. Everest
5.0.5.: Doesn’t work out well L.R. (Deewhy):
Not much of a yarn....C.W. (Toorak) : A long
way from home.. ..Mae: They both miss.... A.S.M.:
It has neither rhyme nor rhythm and doesn’t appear
to mean anything... .P.T.F.: The apple that fell
from the aeroplane doesn’t make a yarn. .. .M.H.J.:
It didn’t get past the mat Dry: Goes too heavily.
... .Calidore: You don’t make enough of pretty good’
materials P.O.N: Commonplace in loose verse.
Aura Z.: Suitable for singing in a suburban
kitchen G.T.D.: Misses T.R.L.: “The Never
Never” is a dreary screed. .. . A.E.C.: Too stiff and
pompous. .. .A.L.H.: That idea of making the first
and fourth lines rhyme and leaving the intermediate
ones to kick loose is no g00d....8.C. (Balgowlah) :
It’s on the way, but doesn’t quite carry itself
0.W.8.J.: The “Horseshoe” yarn is mostly melo-
drama Stinkwort: Yes, but not very interesting
r0t.... Bellerive: “The Wanderer’s Return” has real
pathos:—
Seclusion was of no avail,
He set off on the roam,
And Mrs. Foley shrieked with joy,
When Bob the cat came home.
He was welcomed with a bowl of milk,
And for the gay old sinner
She cut a slice from off the steak
She’d bought for hubby’s dinner.
Hubbv had no time for Bob,
He’s very name did spurn,
And swore to quit the bally house
When he learnt of he’s return.
Mrs. Foley pleaded for
Compassion on poor Bob,
Snugly nestled with content
Upon the fire hob.
Lethe: Weak little flight that falls into the
dust... .Molly B.: Doesn’t carry the idea... .Celyn:
Too slight D.M.1.: Prose that pretends it is verse.
Potluck: Not well enough done.... Gus A.: it
misses, but there is some force in It C.H.R.: Not
f or ua Ump T.: Comb out your brain. You’ve
got ideas, but they’re all tangled Hunter C.:
Keep off parodies, especially till you’ve grasped the
Bietre used. The prose hasn’t enough interest....
D.W r .H.: Pity to waste such good writing on so poor
a yarn E.M.P.: Mere words Lone Hand: Dull
stuff that contains no yarn W.H. (South Bris-
bane): Can’t remember it... .C.L.P.: Too absurdly
impossible W.W.R.: No use here H. 11.8.: The
swollen youth must go back.... Tauwarra: The
color is good, but the yarn isn’t... .L.1.J.: Feeble
little flutter Mark VII.: Wooden verse with
creaky joints. .. .R.H.S.: No use at a 11... .M.A.R.:
A fair attempt. Go on and do better. .. .Audrey J.:
“Van Dering” is a bit too wild. .. .N.O. (Cessnock) :
Doesn’t get near J.M. (Charlton): The verse
misses Wad: Too local. This paper has to inter-
est the woman of Cape York and the man who
straddles the Leeuwin... .C.W.A.: Too lifeless....
P.S.A.: But why not tell your own yarn? Why
make confusion by putting it into the mouth of
somebody else? Crums: It fits in here nicely:—
THE WIND IN THE VENTILATOR.
Come, let us sit beneath the kindly trees
And kiss more kisses. Love, your nose is cold!
And will you love me. Sweet, when I am old
And my convexities no longer please?
Ah, clasp me close, for cruel thoughts like these
Cannot creep in when your dear arms enfold.
Oh, I love love! I don’t care if it’s bold;
Let’s’ cuddle down and lap it to the lees.
Yes, here we’ll sit while passing seasons bow.
You know they’re ladies very plump and neat
With. .. .well. ..-in fact with mighty little on;
Here summer doffs....tut! better she should don.
Turn round this way ; you have not kissed me now
For quite six lines; I feel neglected, Sweet!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.J.C.: So you have been learning drawing? Keep
on learning... .W. A. H.: All depends how they arc
finished W.G.: Uneven work, but promising
G. ; Looks like a tame earthquake.. . .E.M.E.:
Some fair drawing in it, but painfully stiff treat-
ment R.C.J.: A good way to go yet E.D.L.:
Oh Art, what crimes are committed in thy name!...
E.V.F.: All below the mark H.T.: Herbert, how
can you treat a lady so ? A.M.: See what you
can do with something distinctively Australian.....
R.D.M.: Carelessness written all over it....L.M.:
Next time you feel impelled to draw, go fishing....
W.J.L.: Both facing the home track.
“F. Clinton”: “Wilfrido’s” enterprising
gentleman who pieced the unobliteirated
parts of stamps together and used them
again (B. 5/6/’24) recalls a Sydney bank
clerk (securities section 1 through whose
hands there passed practically all the docu-
ments which required stamping under the
Stamp Duties Act. He noticed that fre-
quently there was not much space on the
documents for the stamps, which were afnxe
in such a manner as to overlap. This t,a\e
him the idea of using stamps which had
been cut in halves. He would place the
halves on the documents so that an overlap
would cover the swindle, and would nnisn
off the job by using a whole stamp, we
was at the game longer than the bank cares
to remember, but, growing a little careless,
was detected. The bank fired him without
assigning any reason, and for many months,
lost weight wondering whether the
Duties Office had smelt a rat. But therq,
was nothing doing. For once it had slipp- ••


(A copy of this Prospectus has been filed for Registration with the Registrar-General of Victoria.)
PROSPECTUS
of
Foster’s Australian Fibres Limited
(To be Incorporated and Registered in Victoria under the Companies Act 1915.)
Authorised Capital - - £125,000
Divided into 125,000 shares of £l.
75,000 Shares are now offered to the public for subscription, payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the
balance as and when required.
25,000 Shares are to be issued to and taken by the Vendors or their nominees on account of Patent Rights, Processes, etc., acquired. There
is to be no cash consideration.
25,000 Shares are to be held in reserve.
125,000
Directors:
HERBERT GEORGE PEACOCK, Yarra Street, Alphington, Manufacturer.
FRANK NORMAN JOHNSON, 16 Ash Grove, Caulfield, Architect.
WILLIAM FOSTER, 467 Kooyong Road, Gardenvale, Manufacturer.
BERNARD WESLEY MOREY, 97 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Accountant.
Solicitor:
Y. WJSCHER, Stalbridge Chambers, Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Auditor:
GEORGE S. ANDERSON, F.C.P.A., Collins House, Melbourne.
Bankers:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Chapel Street, Prahran.
Secretary (pro tem.):
BERNARD WESLEY MOREY, 97 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Accountant.
Registered Office:
AUSTRAL CHAMBERS, 97 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Foster’s Australian Fibres, Limited, is being formed for the purpose of manufactur-
ing Fibre from the bark of the well-known Australian Eucalypts.
The Australian public will be interested to know that a further waste has been going
on at the same time and in the same way, the saving of which should not only mean
millions of pounds sterling by way of salved waste, but also in that it should be possible
to build up one of the greatest of Australian industries from the actual process.
For over 20 years Mr. William Foster, the discoverer of the process by means of
which Australian barks can be put to commercial use, has been experimenting with the
barks of Australian trees, with a view to the manufacture therefrom of a fibre of commer-
cial value. It is only within the past six months that success has been achieved, and the
Vendors are now able to place this valuable product on the market.
The story of the discovery and of the 20 years’ battle against all manner of diffi-
culties is one of those rare instances of a man’s inborn imagination, his keen observation
and his indefatigable determination. Like many other great discoveries, the beginning
was quite accidental. Mr. Foster was one day walking through one of our forests,
when he saw in his path a piece of stringy-bark, the edge of which had been burred so as
to leave, as it were, a bunch of fibre staring at the explorer. Immediately Mr. Foster
set eyes upon it the thought flashed through his brain —fibre; the only other thought
w r as, how to prepare it. That has taken 20 years to accomplish. Though it was a task
that proved most difficult of solution, Mr. Foster can afford to look kindly upon those
weary years’ labors, for he has succeeded. The Vendor Company is now handing over to
this Company the whole of the Patent Rights, Processes, etc., whereby the fibre is prepared,
and the patent rights for machinery specially designed for the purpose of manufacturing
the fibre into commercial products.
The net profit on the output of the first unit of plant is £35,811 Os., after allowing
lor contingencies. Y\ ith £75,000 Capital Subscribed, and £25,000 Vendors'Consideration,
there is a total Capital issued of £lOO,OOO, upon which the above profit is equal to 35.81
per cent.
I hereby certify that I have examined the costs herein set out, and checked the
machine output and the number of employees, and am in a position to state that the
•output is based on conservative lines, after provision has been made for .Contingencies.
J he rates of wages are in all cases maximum, and so far as can be at present estimated
are not in any case likely to be exceeded. It is my opinion that the costs as set out
are correct.
(Sgd.) ALBERT E. METCALF,
Manager of Milford Woollen Mills Pty., Ltd.
_ (Consulting Expert to Forster's Aust'n Fibres, Ltd.).
Thomas Street, Tarraville, Victoria.
22nd May, 1924.
I hereby, certify that I have carefully examined the foregoing costs relating to the
manufacture of Corn Sacks, and hereby state that it is my opinion that these costs are
correctly set forth, and show the true'cost, of manufacture after allowing for all con-
tingencies. So far as machine output, rates of wages and number of emplovees is
concerned, I have accepted the certificate of Mr. Albert Metcalf, the Consulting Engineer
and Expert to the Company, which appears as above. It is my opinion that the costs
are conservative, and the results justified. Based on 50 weeks’ running (one shift only)
per annum.
Collins House, Melbourne, (Sgd.) GEORGE S. ANDERSON.
30/5/’24. F.S.A.A., F.C.P.A.
HOW TO APPLY FOR SHARES.
Call or write to —
BURNARD W. MOREY, F.A.1.5.,
Public Accountant,
97 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Already a large parcel of Shares has been disposed of, so intending investors are urged
to make immediate application.
Thi. Prospectus is not a full Prospectus within the meaning of the Companies Act 1915, but a full Prospectus may be obtained at the office
Ot W • Morey, 97 Queen Street, Melbourne*


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
l~i b r>e» 1 i
m
By building your new home with
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROLiITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Roof of “FIBROLITE”
Slates, you can reduce your costs and
secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs no more than weather-
boards and lining boards and is superior to
either in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is
fire retardant, white-ant proof and improves
with age. Not only are “upkeep” costs elimi-
nated but big concessions are secured in in-
surance rates. Before building, send for full
information.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan's Buildings, Wellington, N.Z
Adelaide—Hobart.
LIFT YOUR
RETURNS FOR
mi
r*
m
-'£l4
FOX AND ALL
OTHER SKINS
by the surest possible means to the highest possible
levels.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
RABBIT
dsf
EureKa
Driving Lamp
(DIETZ)
A reliable weatherproof kerosene-
wick Lamp, with ruby rear lens
and bracket. Price 13/6 each.
List of Benzine Lamps, Lanterns
and Irons on application.
LUX LIGHT CO. OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in Tint
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
c 7sq fior/oct fionciJr^
/arper/eci w>ora£—
f
dsf
The favourite oi'
everyone who has
once used it.
L & C. HARDTMUTH, LONDON, Eng.
Agent:
J. MACDOUG-ALL, G.P.O. 165, SYDNEY.
Factory Czecho - Slovakia.
KOH-I-NOOR
No more blunt
razors
df
With the aid of a Per-
forated Hone you can
put a keen edge on the
dullest razor in a tew
minutes.
A few strokes every
week or so, and the
razor is kept in per-
fect cutting condition.
No barber’s skill or experience
is necessary. “It’s all in the
holes” —they absolutely dispose
of wire-edge.
THE PERFORATED HONE
lasts a lifetime. All Hardware
Merchants, 5/-, or Post Free
from us for 5/6.
If it doesn’t make your razor shave
to your satisfaction return it to us
within 30 days and get your money
back.
THE PERFORATED HONE CO,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
41
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers,
Castlereagrh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
locomotive, agricultural, mining and general engineers
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Onoto the Pen
Onoto the Pen
Stream Une
Model, 17/6.
is famous
for its NIB
The Onoto writes with a won-
derful velvety smoothness.
The nib of Onoto the Pen is
made of solid gold, hardened to
just the right firmness It is
tipped with osmi-iridium.
There is a complete range of
points for Onoto users—a nib of
the right breadth, slant and flexi-
bility to suit every style of
handwriting.
Onoto
SELF •FILLING SAFETY
the Pen
ThAmas De La Rue ft Co.. Ltd.. 110, Bunhill Row. E.C.L
Eeditttn stub.
Fine
turned up.
Representatives: NORMAN BAKER A LONGHURST LTD-
Sydney, Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.)
ono to Ink, tor all Pens
|l Vf/ J
j 0 \¥ 0 ey
fi e o
V
Nothin6 is Richer in Vitamins than Cod Liver Oil
IS COD LIVER OIL—MADE PALATABLE.
This Rich, Creamy Emulsion Banishes
Chest Ailments, Strengthens the System,
Increases Weight.
HypOl is a Genuine Restorative for
yr Building Up Sick People —a
Food, Tonic and Healer in one.
To Feel Better, Look Better, Work Better-
Take HYPOL
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, CRIMWADE & CO. PROP. LTD.. WeP’'»irne
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Spud”: The local kirk treasurer, a cocky,
who kills an occasional pig to sell to his
neighbors, has favored me with this letter:—
Dear Mr. Spud,—Will you please let me have your
quota ot £2 2s. at next Sunday service, as we
want all the money in before 30th June, being the
end of our financial year.—Yours faithfully, Robert
Blank, Treasurer.
P.S. —Please add 6s. to your cheque for 81b. of
pork at 9d.
“Pill Puncher” : “Cartot” charges chemists
with Sunday trading in “kick medicines” (B.
5/6/’24). In Victoria and Tasmania it is
illegal to sell medicated wines on Sundays
and after 6 p.m. on week days. I have spent
many Sundays behind the pharmacy counter
and found the demand for these goods very
small indeed. Personally I don’t approve
of the law. Medicated wines are either alco-
holic beverages or tonic medicines. If the
former, chemists should not be allowed to sell
them at all; if the latter, there should be no
restrictions.
* * * *
“T.P.”: The Postmaster-General might
keep an eye open for acquisitive philatelists
in his department. I have collected stamps
all my life, and have a mutual arrangement
with certain collectors in other countries to
put special stamps on papers and letters,
get them obliterated cleanly and carefully,
and sent on. Often correspondence is deli-
livered 0.K.; but the stamps are missing.
Nobody should know better than I that col-
lectors are conscienceless; but I’d like to
have the blood of the man who’s annexing
my stamps.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: What has become of the
cabbage-tree hat industry? The last of such
headgear I saw were exhibited as children’s
w’ork at the Wollongong Public School 14
years ago. One was presented to an inspec-
tor, and he golfed in it for 10 years. It is
still, I’m told, as good as new. There are
any quantity of cabbage-trees in the Illa-
warra district, and they are things of
beauty; but the only use made of them now
is for pig-troughs, the trunk being easy to
hollow. By the way, Bill Beach, the sculler,
was once presented with a cabbage-tree hat
valued at £2O.
* * * *
“H.H.” : Many projects for the beautifica-
tion of Sydney G.P.O. block have gone Dy
the board with the alterations now being
made. These earnest visionaries wanted the
whole block to King-street resumed and re-
constructed, allowing for a plaza in King-
street. At the back of the G.P.O. building
proper is a large space temporarily occupied
by makeshift buildings. These are to go,
and a steel-framed edifice is to shoot up as
high as the regulations allow. This, it is
considered, will give all the floor space re-
quired. But it probably won’t add to the
imposingness of the Post Office tower.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The Federal Viticultural Con-
ference in Adelaide was given a literary
touch by Purnell, of the Public Library, who
read a paper on “Wine in Literature.” The
first real wine, according to the lecturer, was
made in Persia, and by accident. The
monarch, accustomed to drinking grape-juice,
found his stock had fermented and thus
gone bad. He labelled it Poison, and put
it away; then one of his wives, being tired
of life, discovered it and helped herself
largely—with unexpected and entirely pleas-
ing effects. After that, all hands and the
cook took kindly to “poison.”
* * * *
“Simon”: Generally speaking, Govern-
ment departments are quite ready to utilise
the informer. Every now and then a sacked
clerk will write to the Taxation Department
(mostly anonymously) and tell them that
Dodger, his late boss, had two sets of
accounts —the ones he paid his tax on, and
the genuine ones he had cold-stored in the
cellar. In such cases Dodger is pretty cer-
tain to be called upon to pay up on an
amended assessment, and submit to a heavy
fine. The Stamp Office also does little things.
I know of a case where a widow who keeps a
boarding-house fired a boarder after he had
fallen several weeks in arrears. To get even
he sent into the Commissioner an unstamped
receipt he had received from her in the days
when he did pay his board. Of course, the
widow was fined. She had no sooner
recovered her breath than the despicable
person bunged in another unstamped receipt,
and then settled down to a regular bombard-
ment until his ammunition ran out.
“C.M.”: “Wart” wonders (B. 29/5/’24)
whether the sloop Norfolk ever returned to
her birthplace, after Bass and Flinders had
finished with her. She did, once at least,
early in 1800, reappearing in Sydney on
March 26, with the bad news of the failure
of the island’s maize crop, owing to lack
of rain. Her seaworthiness during the cir-
cumnavigation of Tasmania is her chief
claim to fame; but she did good work also
in a month’s cruise up the coast to More-
ton Bay in 1799, Flinders being again in
command. Touching the recent revival of
shipbuilding enterprise on N. 1., shown in the
construction of a 50-ton schooner from the
native pine, the only anchorage at the island
is in Emily Bay, and the narrow passage in
the reef is to be blasted wider so that the
boat can get through. When this is done,
the export of fruit and vegetables to M.L.
should bring in regular returns for the fer-
tile but neglected place.
* * * *
“Chloe”: The pearling industry at Broome
is taking a turn at last; for the first time in
four years the demand for shell equals the
supply, notwithstanding that a surplus from
the barren years is being worked off.
The price is touching £2OO for first-class
shell, and the arrival of new French buyers
has made a stir. The rise comes just too late
for some of the poor fellows who have hung
on, hoping against hope—many of them re-
turned men with splendid records who, when
right up against it in Broome, found no
backing from the Government, which had
been lavish with promises. The Broome folk
deserve their belated good fortune; they are
the best of Australians, and good sports who
never whine for help even when faced with
disaster. Yet a long-sighted Government
could have staved off their recent disaster,
and without loss, if it had been as ready to
support its own industries as to advance
capital for the use of outsiders.


’pCRFECTIcS!
TVHISKV 3
wan
f *tß
Dawson
"SPECIAL*
Scotch Whisky
Vy o'*'. lLE «S '““Sh
(2 a>orth pressing /Sr
PETER DAWSON is an old old whisky,
matured by time and mellowed in wood. The
kind of whisky which is none too plentiful to-day.
If you cannot get it easily, make your demand a
little more insistent, because you will find it
worth pressing for.
Peter dawson
Scotch HVhi&%c\r
“A Deeply Satisfying Blend”
Mr. “Ford” Owner!
Don’t Oil and Grease by Guess—
MAKE SURE!
Fully 80 per cent, of repair expenses, it is estimated, are due entirely
to faulty and haphazard lubrication, and it was to remedy this source
of trouble that the STEWART OILING SYSTEM SPEEDOMETER
was designed. No longer should the Ford owner trust to memory
or to chance; this NEW STEWART SPEEDOMETER, besides
indicating speed and mileage accurately, automatically tells you
when and where to oil and grease your Ford Car.
HERE IS HOW IT WORKS:
The Figure Dials of the Total Mileage Register have different
colored numerals, which automatically turn up at regular intervals.
When a colored figure shows, a glance at the neat metal chart, which
is hinged below the Speedometer, will serve to indicate the part
or parts requiring lubrication. For instance, a red numeral turns
up every one thousand miles. By referring to the metal chart you
will note that opposite the red dot are instructions to “draw oil
from crank-case,” and “add grease to differential.”
A little book is included, containing full lubrication directions and
pages specially ruled for recording lubrication expenses.
iMQWWib
OILING SYSTEM SPEEDOMETER
Product of the Stewart-Warner Speedometer Corporation.
STOCKED BY ALL ACCESSORIES DEALERS,
Including the following Interstate Stewart Service Stations:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd
Melbourne, Vic.; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Brisbane, Q.; Cornell, Ltd
Adelaide, S.A.; A. H. Christian, Perth, W.A.
M
•>
'
**
it-
A\ /'^V'v<- >^^ v .i' 4 '.V '' 0- i<
V
T“ f?
: ...
11 * ~/ , . HH V> AS. J
jilts
ik
H0:0: 0 03 808 CD
# add OIL TO moros* Ke**> level be*
tween eranfc. ppfpppfcs. Use light high
grade oil,
♦ OlL—Pill oil cups. Give special attention
io commutalor.
GR£AS£'-Ftll alt grease cups irtcimlmg
cup oh speedometer swivel joint, Note™
To lubricate new style fan bearing, un-
screw plug and use heavy fluid oh.
i OlL—Apply oil to alt bearing surfaces
not supplied with oil cups,
GREASE—FiM all grease cups. Grease
wheel bearings liberally.
J QltV Drain oiHrorn cranK case, following
directions in Ford manual,
GREASE-Add grease t» differential not .
more ihar» one-third full.
GREASE—Reduction gears tti steering
whceL
Price 85/-


Quick
kSure
IW’eoMTfwTsa ounce*.’
Os
REMEDY
. hr
Coughs. Colds.
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUGH.
HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROAT.
INFLUENZA
\«o a»»I(tio*o 0* »"f
THROAT and LUNGS
Flu
MAN
NEWS
29/6
Pair
df
The
"MEXICAN” Riding Boot
Is patented under No. 4322, because it
has the new two-fold strapped tops,
which can buckle and fit closely around
any instep. Made of light, tho’ strong
Wallaby Skin— cut on riding pattern,
with S.S. Soles and low Heels. All sires.
Mail to Desk “ 5.8.” State size-
Pike Brothers
limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKEH
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
&
25 Cigars.
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
' Sampler
containing
cigars, Is.
free.
Box
two
Post
Craig sAitken
6546 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
incorporated Under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18 72. .
Directors— Jatties Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. nan,
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HF4D OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 86 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions A u st rala S ia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the tiansaetion of all general
banking business.
w
\^'m\
m
Model 99-F Repeating
Lever Action. Takedown
Style. Light weight tapered bar-
rel. Weight tV2 lb*. Calibr^:
.22 Hi-Powet, .30-30, .3Q3 With. 20
inch barrels ,250-3000 With, 22 inch
barrel; .300 With 24 inch barrel.
More than
Half a Mile a Second
df
Model 23-Band 23-C
S porter. Repeating Bolt
Action. 25 inch round
barrel. Calibres .25-20,
and .32-20. Also in cali-
bre .22. Weight 6 lbs.
A 45
The terrific muzzle velocity of
Savage .22 Hi-power Rifle
ACCURACY with the Imp—the Savage .22
L hi-power, means more than simply pre-
cision. It means snapping out the little bul-
lets with a spin that hurls them head on at the
amazing speed of half a mile per second
accurate and true for the longest sporting
distance.
No guessing how much to hold over, or
ahead, you simply hold dead on —the wicked
little bullet bites in right where you aim. An
allround gun —the Imp —for the farm or the
“back of beyond” country.
Savage guns always function right. You
can depend upon the smooth, sure action.
And accurate —you can’t beat a Savage for
deadly, lasting accuracy.
Send us the name of your dealer and we will
forward you copy of our illustrated catalogue
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
SO Church Street New York, U. S. A.
m
4X INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO £5OO AND
3 '/ z 7. ON ANY EXCESS TO £IOOO
Cheque Recounts opened fox fndii?idu.als, Idixms. Companies ox fit &ti Iti li ons.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED.
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in N.S. W.
ddsf
“Super Fx & K Watch, ’ in Open-face Silver
Case, 84 /-
Or in Oxidised Steel Case, <»(» /-
A well known wire-
less expert empha-
sises as follows, the
UNIQUE
RELIABILITY
of the
Super Fx S R
Watch.
Messrs. Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
“Dear Sirs,
I wish to tender you my
thanks for your kind assistance
in providing two Fx & R
Watches for my recent experi-
mental radio trip on the
K.M.S. ‘Tahiti.’
These two watches gave every satisfaction under the worst conditions.
The wireless cabin was situated at the stem of the ship, and the vibration
was particularly bad. In spite of this, both watches kept excellent tune
throughout the voyage, and on our return to Sydney one was about a minute
and a half slow (your correction being minus 2 seconds per day), and
the other about three minutes fast. The correction being plus 4 seconds
PPr When we realised how bad the vibration, we fully expected to be
without Sydney time, as it seems incredible that any watch could keep
going under the circumstances.
Again thank you.’’
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fairfax&Roberts D? (
ZbkZb Hunter Street Sydney *\
The latest Vic. head to be awarded a trip
is Dr. S. S. Cameron. Director of Agricul-
ture. who is going to the IT.S.A. over the
selection of machinery for reconstructing the
Maffra sugar-beet plant. Presumably his
exes, will be charged against the Maffra fac-
tory. which is now working at a profit—
£l3.29o in 1923.
A lady who did well for her adopted
country was Mrs. Mary Blundell, who
arrived in N.S.W. as a girl of nine, and
when she died the other day, 81 years later,
left 153 descendents —113 in the third genera-
tion. Her family first settled in Singleton,
but she lived at Tamworth from 1871 until
in her extreme old age she came to Sydney.
F. J. E. Bootle, one of the senior sur-
veyors in the N.S.W. Lands Department, has
retired after 41 years in the service, mostly
in the Moree, Dubbo and Orange, districts.
He is a descendant of the pioneering Bootle
family that settled in the Collarenebri
< N.S.W. ) district in the early ’fifties, and
at one time held. Wearibilla. Culgoa and
Bokira stations.
“Perdix”: Lucky accidents? A traveller
motoring from Launceston to Burnie the
other day ran over a piece of broken bottle,
but congratulated himself on being able to
complete the journey before the tyre gave
way. When examining the cut later for
fragments of glass he discovered, embedded
in the rubber, a diamond which was valued
by a jeweller at £2O.
There was an echo of the Tokio earth-
quake in Sydney the other day, when the
Equity Court granted leave to presume the
death of Charles Markell and his wife, who
were missing after the ’quake and are pre-
sumed to have died in the wreck of the Grand
Hotel, Yokohama. What are believed to
be the ashes of the well-liked pair were
brought from Japan a couple of months ago
and given burial in Sydney.
The retirement of M.L.’s Chief Inspector
of Machinery. N. D. Hood (he was also sur-
veyor of ships and chief examiner of
engineers), recalls that when the vessel
Daphne was being launched with much
ceremony on the Clyde 40 years ago she
slipped into the water with 200 people on
board and then heeled over and carried
about 140 of them to their doom. Hood was
one of the survivors, and in the rescue work
saved many lives.
“Blanc” : I’ll swear to this. Pulling my
new “six” in alongside a Lizzie in a dark
shed at Wollombi, I smelt petrol very
strongly. My lights showed a pool of juice
under a somewhat dilapidated-looking Liz.
Then a whiskered voice asked, “ ’Ave yous
got any of them safety-matches? I’ve got
plenty er wax ’uns, but they ain’t safe to
look for the ’ole in me petrol tank.” I
backed out into the pub yard before explain-
ing.
“ J.G.” : Queer how luck ran in the Great
War. On the Sydney-road at Wallan (Vic.)
stands a soldiers’ memorial. It bears the
names of 53 men who enlisted from the little
countrv district: nearly all joined up at the
same time in 1916; 13 made the supreme
sacrifice during the war, and two have died
since. At the neighboring village of Darra-
weit Guim approximately 40 men enlisted.
They joined about the same time as the Wal-
lan boys, fought along with them under the
same command, went through the same hell.
Yet every one of them came back, and not
one was severely wounded.
“0.W.T.” : Stated in an article on “Black
Brother in North Quensland” (B. 12/6/’24),
by a “contributor whom The Bulletin has
found trustworthy,” that “Far Northern
blacks are now transported to Frazer Island,
and from there the desirable boys are being
taken in parties by the police and let out to
cane-farmerjs on the Johnstone River.” The
comment I wish to make on this is that the
aboriginal settlement on Frazer Island has
been closed'for many years. Except for a
portion under grazing lease about Platypus
Bay, the whole of Frazer Island is reserved
for forestry purposes. What blacks there
are on the island are. a few bullock herders
employed by the timber-getters.
“G.8.L.” on V.C. statistics; —
Somewhere about 1000 V.C.’s have been distributed
since the decoration was instituted in 1856. Approxi-
mately 580 were won during the Great War, 66
by members'; of the A.I.F. and two more by Aus-
tralians who served' with the British expedition in
North Russia. The Crimean War yielded 111 V.C.’s,
the Indian Mutiny 182, the S’African trouble 78.
The first V.C. ever awarded went to Mr. (after-
wards Rear-Admiral) Lucas; as mate of H.M.S.
Hecla he picked up a live shell from the deck and
threw it overboard. The first to be gazetted in
the Great War;, was Capt. F. O. Grenfell, 9th
Lancers, who gained the honor on Aug. 24, 1914, and
was killed in action on May 24, 1915. Lance-
Corporal .Tacka earned the first V.C. among the
Aussies; and Corporal C. R. G. Bassett, of the
N.Z. Div. Signal Coy., was the first Maorilander to
get it.
“T.O.L”: Talking of Vic. Parliamentary
doctors (B- 12/6/’24). the early ones were
William Glarke Haines, who farmed on Bar-
rabool Hills, and became Chief Secretary;
James Frederick Palmer, who made soda-
water and other teetotal drinks, and became
first Speaker and later President of the Leg.
Council: Alexander Thomson, who came from
V.D.L. and settled at Geelong; Augustus
Frederick Adolphus Greeves, who kept a pub
in Flinders-street. was editor of the local
paper, became Commissioner of Public
Works, and ended up as a consulting sur-
geon ; Francis Murphy, son of a Cork gaoler,
who took a job as road superintendent and
was Speaker of the Assembly for some years;
and Andrew Aldcorn. Most of these, finding
Port Phillip too healthy in the early days,
struck out for a living in various ways.
Haines. Palmer and Murphy did not prac-
tise. In the late ’fifties Alexander Hunter,
a clever but eccentric surgeon, was elected
for East Melbourne. He wore Dundreary
whiskers and Hessian boots with tassels.
George Fawcett burlesqued him at the old
Princess’s Theatre. Hunter it was who in-
vented the slogan : “Eight hours’ work, eight
hours' recreation and eight hours rest •
and someone added for him : Light bob a
day” He went to ML. in the first rush
to - the Shotover. Wilkie and Hope
were medical M’s.L.C. in 1860, and Girdle-
stone (Ararat), John Macadam, I. D. Owens
(editor of the Leader) and L. L. Smith
were in the Assembly in the first ’sixties.
In the 1863 Assembly were nine who held
diplomas, one chemist and one undertaker.


Shlppin*. --
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots ——Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
ANY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.tn.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILF & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. O. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY. (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland : J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Kosciusko
Snow Carnival
Fixtures
June 20 to July 10—
STATE HIGH SCHOOLS’ SKI
CLUB CARNIVAL.
July 10 to July 23
KOSCIUSKO ALPINE CLUB.
July 23 to August 15—
SKI CLUB OF AUSTRALIA.
August 15 to August 24
MILLIONS CLUB.
August 24 to September 16—
GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
NON-STATE HIGH SCHOOLS.
September 26 to October 7
TEACHERS’ FEDERATION.
Full Information at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping, *c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSION TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.)
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.)
JULY 3
JULY 31
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ean be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) JULY 17
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) AUG. 14
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
df
df
df
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. PHILP & CO.. LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC! DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to-
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return,
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
2^
m
fl
mm
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
14,500
14,500
10.000
NESTOR
ULYSSES
/ENEAS
Tons.
ANCHISES . . 10,000
ASCANIUS . . 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Conuell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE GAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT . . 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11.100
11,100
11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa,
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tone
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Ilighest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
"DIOGENES 12,500 tons
"New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
WA LES
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817,
Directors:
£6,000,000
4,050,000
6,000,000
£16,050,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threanueedle Street. E.c!
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping* at Melbourne for Geelong and ot er
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poits,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLjH
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
anu Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Br idge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER. '
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars applv.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line o£ Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker. Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2,103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. . . .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” U an Australian Institution.
BAHTIN HAIQH, General Manager.


DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd .George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
' SA& sAM Acute ?fto&i<c
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write u» and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
I 97 Queen Street. Melbourne
TRIAL
TUBE
FREE TO MEN
SEND
FORM
Six Secrets
of a successful shave
There are just six reasons why Palmolive Shaving
Cream should find a permanent place in every shaving
cabinet.
(1) It multiplies itself in lather in an amazingly
abundant manner. A tiny bit—just | -inch—
suffices for a shave.
(2) It acts quickly and softens the toughest beard
in 60 seconds.
(3) No finger rubbing is necessary. Hot towels
are eliminated.
(4) The lather bubbles are small but tenacious.
They hold the hairs erect so that the razor
goes through them and not over them.
(5) The small bubbles make an enduring lather
which maintains its creamy fullness for ten
minutes on the face.
(6) The blend of palm and olive oils soothes all
irritation. The skin is left smooth and
velvety. Delightful after effects are the best
effects of all.
We want you to try this newshaving cream—to realise
to the full how quickly and easily the morning shave
can be executed; how delightfully soothing are the
after-effects. We ask you to do so at our expense.
There is enough for ten shaves in each sample tube
but one trial will be sufficient to enable you to solve
for all time the secrets of successful shaving. Use
the form below. Post it to-day.
PALMOLIVE
SHAVING CREAM
On Sale Everywhere at 1/9
Follow with Palmolive After-Shaving Talc —a scientific in-
visible powder for men. It assures that well-groomed look.
10 SHAVE TEST FREE
Simply insert your name and address and post to
The Palmolive Company (Australasia) Ltd., Dept. 260, Sydney.
Name *
P.S.C. 19
Address
FOOTBALL
SEASON
1924
tX&S
All
Codes
Catered
For.
Try us first for all your Equipment.
Rugby Match Footballs
(All Guaranteed Hand-sewn except Nos. 1 to 4.)
1. Nicholson’s Royal, strong practice 6/6
2. Nicholson’s Royal, superior 8/6
3. Nicholson’s Royal, specially selected 12/6
4. Nicholson’s Royal Special 15/-
5. Nicholson’s International 16/6
6. Nicholson’s A.N.A. Special 18/6
7. Nicholson’s Lightning 17/6
8. Ford’s Interstate 18/6
9. Gilbert’s Best English 27/6
A PHENOMENAL SUCCESS.
“DALLY M.” Rugby Ball—the Finest Made.
Price, 21/- complete.
Soccer Match Footballs
All Guaranteed Hand-sewn except Nos. 11, 12, 13.
11. C.8.8.—8-panel, 8/6; Special 10/6
12. Rival, 8-panel 12/6
13. “Albion,” 8-panel Superior 15/-
14. Special Capless 17/6
15. “Haymarket,” waterproof, 8-panel 20/-
16. Official League, 12-panel 22/6
17. Ford’s “Interstate” 22/6
18. “Cert,” selected chrome, waterproof,
English, 12-panel 25/-
19. “Cert Special,” chrome, with patent
vent, 11-panel 27/6
20. Syke’s Tuphine, English, 12-panel 35/-
Rugby and Soccer Match Balls are fitted with best-quality octotropi-
cal red rubber bladders, or with extra-heavy bladders, 1/- extra.
Sundries.
Shin Guards, continuous straps . . 2/6, 2/9, 3/3, 4/9
Shin Guards, Gold Cape . 4/-, 5/9
Ankle Guards, blocked 3/9
Ear Caps 3/3, 3/6, 4/6
Elastic Bandages, knee or ankle, pair 10/6
M.S. Rugger Boots, special 15/-
Dally M. Rugby Boots 18/6
Pocket Inflators 2/6
Football Inflators 3/-, 3/9, 5/-, 7/6
Referees’ Whistles l/3, 1/6, l/9, 2/-
Jerseys—Cotton, 8/6; All Wool. . . 10/6
Stockings, All Wool 3/11
Rnickers, Heavy Drill—White, 4/6; Blue .... 5/6
Euseptol Training Oil 1/6
Row’s Embrocation 1/9
ILLUSTRATED FOOTBALL PRICE LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
Ttficfc SmnhonsTtg
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: Hunter Street, Newcastle; 202-12 Edward Street,
Brisbane.


REXONA SOAP is
“The Best Ever,” says
Miss
BERNICE
CLIFFORD,
M. P. STAR.
si:
H
m,,
I
Rexona
Soap
a Hollywood Star
Miss Bernice Clifford, the per-
fect blonde who, with the title of
M. P. Star, attributes her remark-
ably fair skin to the use of proper
soap. “What soap do you use?”
was asked by envious fellow-
workers. At a recent Fashion
Show, at which Miss Bernice
Clifford participated, the secret
leaked out when a cake of Rexona
Soap was discovered to be a most
important part 6f her equipment
in removing make-up. “It’s the
best ever,” says Bernice. She is
small, very fair, and possesses
wonderful big blue eyes. Her
complexion is perfect. Bernice is
considered one of the most beauti-
ful of all Bathing Beauties.
Rexona Soap Gives
Natural Beauty to
Skin and Hair.
«!
I 'mii
m
l/l'/i
Will
'/m
if
m
m
j 'mgk I
A
A
A
d
\\m
Flavour
QNE judges a Cigar-
ette chiefly by its
flavour. The flavour of
PRINCE CHARMING
CIGARETTES, made
from 16 growths of finest
Virginia leaf —is guaran-
teed , and so is the
Quality.
10&9'2plorl l 6
also in so* in vacuum tins $2 in 100 9
inboxes. On sale everywhere.
HUiccCfumrmq
CIGARETTES'
Manufactured by £%Coustafa Ltd., 165 Piccadilly, London, W. I. England
The Three Songs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAW three travellers in the dawn
Ride down the Beacon Hill;
Deep lay the dew on field and lawn,
The singing birds were still;
And as they passed by Bernerslyme
They heard the Bells of Mercy cliime.
Then he who rode upon the roan
Sang softly to the bells’ clear tone
This Song of the Grey Tower:
Wake you within the Grey Tower,
0 I?ose of the Morn!
Greet the young day that is never as fair
As my love in the midst of her shimmering
hair,
That falls, a pale shower,
Against the Grey Tower.
Gome you from out the Grey Tower,
0 Heart in the Spring;
Gold are the woods that have squandered
their bloom,
Petal of windflower, dust of the broom;
But there grows no flower
Beside the Grey Tower.
Sing you within the Grey Tower,
0 voice of my love;
The wind in the rushes is plaintive and sweet,
But the song of my love is a rapture com-
plete;
Yet she has as dower
Naught but the Grey Tower.
Now they have passed by Demon’s Ridge
And through the slopes of fern
Where downward to the bentwood bridge
The fires of autumn burn.
So gold the plain in sunlight bathed,
So blue the hills in morn-mists swathed,
That he who rode the long-tailed black
Sang as he found the winding track
This Song of a Fair Land:
I wonder if ever again
I shall walk in Romaine,
So warm in the delicate sunshine,
So sweet in the rain.
I wonder if ever again
I shall see her green bowers,
Her sheltering arbors of fern,
The wonder-kued flowers.
I wonder if still in Romaine
The blue river twines
Through farmlands of amber and brown,
By purple-hucd vines.
I wonder if high in the night.
As the white moon rides high,
The crests of the pines pattern still
The star-spangled sky.
Oh. mists in the valleys at morn!
Oh, blur of grey rain!
I wonder if so it may be
I shall see you again.
The long brown road runs from the hill,
And onward to the west.
I saw the travellers riding still,
Care-free, with easy jest;
But when they rode by Silvermeads,
The wild birds stirred the river reeds,
So he who rode the white-maned grey
Sang as he ambled down the way
This Song of the Black Swans:
Three black swans across the moon
And a long wind over the sea;
And I sent a message yesternoon
To my home in the West Countree.
Three black swans across the moon,
Three shadows in silent flight;
And I would I were shod with magic shoon
When the black swans fly by night.
Three black swans across the moon
And a silver track on the lake;
And I must folloiv, late or soon,
The road the black swans take.
Far have they passed into the mist
That lies on Brgnksome Height;
But I can hear the three strange songs
Through all the murmuring night.
N.s.w.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
Twin-bed Dialogues.
ABSENCE MAKES THE HEART GO
YONDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE first commandment for husbands is:
Never take your wife by surprise.
I am talking now of marriage, not
of honeymoons. A honeymoon ought to be
declared off if it does not consist of surprises.
It should be full of surprises, especially for
the bride. That is the chief charm of honey-
moons. In marriage, however, there is
no room for surprises. After ten years of
it, even with the incalculable Babette, there
aren’t many surprises left. In the twin-bed
era of marriage the chance of a surprise is
rare.
The prevailing impression is that a wife
likes nothing better than a surprise. She has
settled down to the contemplation of a dull
family dinner and a long, long evening around
the fire, hubby dozing over his paper and
wifie darning his socks, when her husband
rings up, tells her that he has got a couple
of front-stall seats for the new play, that she
must hurry into something smart, leave the
kiddies with the nurse, cancel the home din-
ner, and meet him at the best place in town
for a real decent dinner and a riotous night
out. In the novels she jumps up with delight,
drags on her new theatre dress, which she
has been aching for a vpeek to wear, casts the
home dinner and the children overboard, flies
for her tram or rings up for a taxi, and
meets her husband in the lobby of the hotel
in a flutter of excitement.
In real life, however, the wife who re-
ceives that telephone message drops the
receiver in exasperation. Here she has been
preparing just the sort of dinner that her
husband loves—and now it is all wasted.
She hasn’t got a dress to wear; she meant to
finish the embroidery upon her new blouse
that evening; the youngest child is fretful—
It might be influenza or measles; James had
gone out that morning with a frayed collar;
and her corn would torture her if she had to
'wear those new evening shoes. Besides,
being of the conservative sex, she hates being
bustled.
The wise husband gets his theatre tickets
five days ahead, and tells her about them.
Babette, being a wise wife, insists on me
taking my annual holidays by myself. She
says that my absence for a month enables her
to rediscover my good points as a husband.
But Babette was waking up. The absence
of a loved one made her fonder of someone
else. During my absence she seemed to
have a much more exciting time than when
I was there to protect her. Strange men
invited her out to dances and dinners ; with
that thoroughness she shows in all things,
she kept the flirtation industry flourishing.
I was playing golf in the Mountains when
Babette wrote to toll me that she had got
influenza. True, she made light of it; her
loving letters implored me not to hurry home.
I did the only iiossible thing, especially as I
was bored by too much golf. I admit that
this statement may seem ludicrous to any
golfer; but the charms of golf, after all, are
few compared with the charms of Babette. I
knew that if I telegraphed and told her that
I was taking the first train home, she would
be furious at me cutting short my holiday.
I decided to pack up and come home without
giving Babette a chance to head me off.
I planned to arrive the following night at
8 o’clock. The ill-luck that dogs husbands
delayed my train for hours, owing to a smash
on the line blocking all the railway traffic.
The result was that, instead of getting home
at 8, it was 1 o’clock in the morning before
I reached my home. As I expected, the
house was all dark. Babette, sweet thing,
was fast asleep, dreaming of me. I took
infinite precautions not to make a noise as I
stole up the path and gently inserted the
latch-key in the door. I felt a delicious
thrill of a clandestine assignation with a fair
but frail lady. She would not expect me;
but how slid.would welcome me! I crept up-
stairs. Th'e twin-bedroom door was open. I
stole silently in, fearing to frighten her if I
turned on the light. I made out the ghostly
form of the twin beds. I tiptoed to Babette’s
particular twin. I bent to waken her with a
kiss.
The pillow was undented. Babette was
not there!
I admit that for a bleak moment I saw
red. No, I did not suspect her; but where
was she at this awful hour? Had she
become temporarily deranged by influenza
and destroyed herself? Was there a note on
the pillow? No! I confess that I hurriedly
looked under the pillow of her bed. Thank
goodness, her nightie was there! It wasn’t
her usual nightie, not even the one she re-
served for our recurring honeymoons. It
was a new one, ready for a house-warming
on my return. Though, judging by its tex-
ture and its ample ventilation, it would not
appreciably warm Babette. Still, she was
a brave little soul: she never minded suffer-
ing for my sake.
Where was she? I hurriedly tiptoed into
the children’s room. The two cherubs were
sleeping soundly, happily innocent of the de-
pravity of their mother.
Babette had left me. I went straight down
stairs. I looked in the ice-chest. A bottle
of beer was on the ice. A cold chicken re-
garded me with a welcoming look. I set out
a little supper on the kitchen table. I had
had no idea how hungry I was. And then I
undressed and crept into my lonely little
twin bed.
Of course I heard her come in. Her
light laugh echoed through the silent house.
A robust baritone answered it, evidently
belonging to a man with a bull neck.
Babette, in her closest confidences, often
confessed that she liked men that way. The
proper thing for me to do in this situation
was dreadfully obvious. I should arise in
my marital dignity and confront the two
sinners with a haughty stare. But the
only suit of pyjamas that I had been able
to unearth lacked all the buttons and had
no cord to hold them up. And my only
dressing-gown was packed up in one of
my suit-cases. How could I act the part
of the dignified accusing husband when I had
to hold up my pyjamas with one hand and
with the other cover my manly chest from
view? No; the only thing I could do was to
lie still and pretend to be asleep until she
dismissed her admirer and came to bed.
I heard her open the ice-chest. I caught
her startled, half-stifled cry. I contemplated
her visit to the kitchen, the wreck of the
chicken, obviously meant for other and
sounder teeth. I pictured her hurried return
to the living-room, without even the whisky
bottle, her whispered exclamation, her shoo-
ing off of her companion in crime. The
front door softly closed. They did not linger
for a good-night kiss.
Then on the stairs I heard her guilty step.
I composed myself to slumber, suffering all
the tortures of a husband. I waited to be
waked from my innocent dreams by a re-
pentant kiss. I almost felt sorry for the
poor thing, thus so compromisingly caught.
She switched the light on. I did not move
an eyelid. She bent over me—l could feel
her warm breath on my cheek; her lips hov-
ered close, and then she calmly remarked:
“It’s no use your shamming to be asleep,
darling!”
I ought to have known better. I abruptly
woke up.
It was no weeping and startled penitent
that I saw. It was a new Babette, much
annoyed.
“How dare you sneak home at this hour,”
she cried, “without letting me know you
were coming? I’ll never forgive you for
this, James! Of all the mean things! What-
ever will Jim think of me!”
I wondered who Jim was; but it was more
important to explain—Babette was furiously
angry. I explained it all, while Babette
gazed accusingly upon me, the mean and per-
fidious husband who spies on his perfectly
good wife. I told her of my anxiety about
her illness, and the mishap to my train, and
of my late and lonely arrival. It ffid not
soften her. Obviously I was dreadfully in
the wrong. Why hadn’t I sent her a tele-
gram? Why on earth had 1 chosen a train
that would be held up? And then she ex-
plained that it had been only a slight attack
°l * n h uenza > ar >d that when she got the
chance to go to a perfectly respectable little
jazzing party she had rushed it. I had no
right to leave her so long alone.
Then she crumpled up and slid down on
my * aTld P ut her arms about me. and a
tear fell on my lips. But she kissed that
tear away. Oh, darling, it’s so good, you
(Continued on next page.)


ESCAPE
fK
\ *
J ;?
:: i
Everybody deeds
h
m
I
YM
Va
?:
<a
W//L
W/A
m
w
Si
HP HE healing effect of Peps on the throat, chest and lungs is so
1 remarkably like the famous curative Alpine air that a handy box
of Peps is popularly described as “A Pine-forest in Every Home.
The Potency of Peps is due to the ingenious idea of sealing
within a silver jacket certain volatile chest-strengthening medicines
which are concentrated in every tablet.
When you remove the silver-
wrapping, and let a Peps tablet
dissolve on the tongue, the heal-
ing and germicidal fumes given
off are carried with the breath
down the throat and bronchial
tubes direct into the innermost
recesses of the lungs.
The Peps medicine thus
reaches all vital parts, and heals
sore and inflamed places beyond
the reach of old-fashioned liquid
“cough cures.’’
Peps put an end to coughs,
colds, sore throat and bronchitis,
and strengthen the entire breath-
ing system. Do not rely upon
mere sweets which possess no
curative value. P cps are a
genuine throat and chest medi-
cine. Being free from all harm-
ful drugs Peps can be taken with
perfect safety even by the frail
old folk or the young.
POSTCARD BRINGS
A SAMPLE.
The Proprietors are giving
away to each reader one r
Trial Sample of Peps. To
obtain your sample simply
send a postcard to C. E. Ful-
ford (A/sia), Ltd., Sydney,
mentioning The Bulletin
3/7/’24.
HOME
®V
FOREST
N
V/Vf
A
Prices: 1/6 (35 Tab-
lets) and 3/- (105
Tablets) of all
Chemists and Stores,
or at same prices
from C, E. Fulford
(Aus.)» Ltd.
being home again!” she murmured. ‘ But
you must forgive me. You know how a
woman hates getting a surprise, even if it
is such a dear surprise as you, you old dear.
“But I’ve been so lonely,” she went on.
“And when I thought of you, on your holi-
day, there were times when I almost screamed
for some strong male shoulder to sob on.
The world must be full of shoulders made to
sob on, but nobody offered. And then when
I got the invitation to the party, I simply
rushed it.” She broke off to shed some ot
her clothes.
“What was the crowd?” I asked.
“Oh, nobody that you know; nobody that
you would like,” she answered.
It dawned upon me that Babette, my
loyal wife, was getting to know a crowd to
whom I was a stranger. Often I had seen
her bow and smile at some hefty well-
dressed male with the possessive chin that
1 so dislike. But there was something in
her intimate and lingering smile that
annoyed me. It looked like a renovated past
or a contemplated future.
“Really,” she said, as she sat on the edge
of my bed undoing her suspenders, “these
jazz parties are the limit. The only jazzers
I meet are bad old men or cheeky young
ones —the men who used to bath me or the
men that I used to bath. You’re the only
man I know that is just the right jazzing age.
Nice stockings, aren’t they?”
She put her leg up on the bed for me to
admire them. It was a nice leg.
“It was a dull old party to-night,” she
hurried on. “At dinner”
“Oh, it was a dinner, too?” I said.
“Yes, but frightfully boring. The wine
wasn’t iced.”
“But any decent hotel would see to that,”
I queried.
“Oh, it wasn’t at an hotel. Hotel dinners
are so dreadfully public, aren’t they ? So
conspicuous! As your wife, I hate to dine
publicly without you, darling. No; it w r as
in his flat. They are comfy corsets, aren’t
they? I hadn’t even to break them in. They
give the flat suggestion here, don’t they?”
“Who was the man in the flat?” I sternly
asked.
“I think you’ve met him before somewhere.
He’s a Mr. Jones-Jones ; old, but very rich.
1 always thought my figure was bigger in
front than Mrs. Castaway’s; but when she
came with me to see me fitted for these
corsets, fancy, she took a size larger than
I! And mine were actually loose on me!”
“How many were there?” I asked in a
cold, husbandly voice.
“Oh, only a cosy four. Mr. Hitherward
and his wife were the others. You’d like
her. Terrible flirt. Old .Tones-. Tones seemed
to like her. Yes, you haven’t seen these
jazz garters before. I think they’re silly,
spoil the shape of my leg, don’t they?
Look! They break up the lines. But men
seem to like ’em.”
“Four!” I muttered. “And I suppose you
flirted hard with Hitherward, and his wife
did her best with the old chap?”
“Oh no! Quite a dull dinner. I told you
about the wine, didn’t I? We started off
with two cocktails. Just enough to make
me sparkle up, dear. I had to do something,
hadn’t I, to make the dinner go?
“After dinner. But it was rather stuffy
in the room, so I wandered out on to the
balcony. Oh, it wasn’t a large balcony —
just room for two. Hitherward —he’s got
nice eyes—name out to keep me company.
He saw that I was lonely. No, it’s no use
you looking me in that accusing way, dearest.
Nothing really happened. How could it V
They could see everything we did, if they had
wanted to look; but old Jones-Jones was
too much interested in Enid for Bill to try
on anything with me.”
“You call him Bill?” I snarled.
“Well, it was only common politeness,
especially with a man with such a silly
name. And he had forgotten what my
married name was and heard the old chap
calling me Babette.”
“He called you Babette, too?”
“Oh, he always does. In a fatherly way,
you know. Why, wlien we were sitting
down to dinner, he leant across and kissed
me before the others. All above board, you
know! Like a father kissing his daughter.
I hate those kisses —not a thrill!”
“Nice, friendly party!” I growled.
“Yes,” Babette agreed hastily, slipping
off another garment and affording me a fleet-
ing glimpse of what I always regard as the
finest torso landscape in the world. But
that fleeting glimpse—for Babette with an
expert flick had got into her nicest nightie
—was worth while. I was utterly ashamed
of myself for mistrusting that dear thing in
her nightie, so business-like and so uncon-
sciously graceful in doing her hair before
the mirror, but —well, I ask any husband of
any Babette!
“I cannot understand you letting yourself
be kissed by a senile old fool!” I expostu-
lated. “If it had been a young clean man
who kissed you, I could understand it. I
could even forgive you!”
Babette turned round and came to the
side of my bed. “I’m so glad, old thing,
because the decent young man did kiss me!
It is nice of you not to mind!”
She moved back to the mirror, and I heard
the snapping of electricity from her brilliant
hair as the brush swished. It was with her
back turned to me that slie went dreamily on.
“Not much of a kiss, dear; but there
we were, alone on the little balcony in the
dreamy mood that comes after a good dinner,
and nobody would play bridge or turn on
the phonograph—l hate wasting an evening,
don’t you? And what was a gentleman to
do? I could see the poor worried fellow
making up his mind. No, I didn’t encourage
him the teeffiest little bit. Remember, love,
I am your Wife T
“Pity you didn’t!” I Snapped.
“But I did. I wofe my far-away, don’t-
wake-me look. I’ve practised it till I’m per-
fect. And it has never failed. Nobody was
more surprised when he grabbed me and told
me that I was the most attractive Woman in
the world. Yes, I know he’s said that before.
But. after all. what else is there for a man
to say when he finds himself alone with —
well, with me? They all say it; even you
do!
“It wasn’t a real kiss, of course. _ You
know that, don’t you? He seemed to like it,
but it was nothing to me. I was most indig-
nant at first; but what’s the use of being
indignant when a man doesn t mind. tie
just went on and on, but he didn t get
'"'••You could have stopped him!” I cried.
“And spoilt the whole of a perfectly good
evening! Remember I was a guest. 1
couldn’t flounce into the room and demand to
be sent home at once. Besides, I would
have rudely interrupted the other pair,
though, judging by when we did come in, it
wouldn’t have worried them very much. But,
dearest, really that was all that happened
just a mucked-up kiss or three, with no re-
sponse from the fair thing being kissed. All
perfectly respectable, my dear old dear. But
I’m glad I didn’t spoil the evening. I was
wishing all the time that you were there
instead of old Jones-Jones. You would have
rather liked Mrs. Hitherward ; and, of course,
if you had been there, 1 would have felt safer,
and might have gone a little further.
She had done her hair and now sank down on
my bed. As a penitent but perfectly straight
wife, Babette knew her part off by heart,
This was by no means her first appearance
on the matrimonial stage. She tentatively
cuddled me. 1 wriggled from her arms.
•‘And look how late you were coming-
home!’’ I muttered into her nice neck.
“If I’d only known that you were waiting
to kiss me good-night, old husband mine . And
really nothing dreadful happened m the car.
He was quite nicely behaved. The old chap
took his wife home. I was so relieved, I
thought he would want a turn with me.
After all, he was the host. But Bill just
picked me up and plumped me into his car;
I felt such a fool, being treated like a paper
parcel. Remember the time you tried to
carry me upstairs to bed?”
Babette was taking an unfair advantage of
me. In the days when I was an impetuous
husband she once laughingly challenged me
to carry her to bed. Only once. No doubt
she pictured me like Doug in the films. But
I was no Doug; and when all the charms of
Babette are weighed there is a good deal of
her. At least, for a man of my physique. _
“But.” she went on cooingly—the coomg
stage is -a dangerous one with Babette-
“nothing could be more proper than Bill s
behavior in his car. You see, he was driv-
ing it himself. Oh, yes, I was m the front
seat. The back’s so bumpy. And when
something went wrong—personally, I don t
think it need have gone wrong, especially at
that time of night—he was so busy tinkering
with the thing that he had only time to kiss
me twice.”
“The bounder!” I snarled. .
“Yes.” agreed Babette eagerly, that s just
what I called him for taking such a mean
advantage of me. But he didn t seem to
mind. The more you fight, the worse they
become. And I told him that if he had
another breakdown I’d get out and walk.
“Then you invited him into the house —my
house!” , . .
“Well, he had behaved so nicely over the
last three miles that I had to offer him a
spot. You wouldn’t like me to get a name
for lack of hospitality, would you? I had to
consider your reputation. Fancy bringing a
man all that way in the middle of the night
and not offer him a drink! He wmuld never
kiss me again! But wasn’t it lucky that
when I went to the ice-chest I knew that
you were home? When he saw I meant it,
he took it like a gentlemanly lamb. But t
saw enough of his character then never to
dine with him again. Thank goodness, jou
were home!”
She leant over me. . ~ , .
“Of course, old thing, I was to blame ; but
how did I know you would be home to-night.
And then I'm so inexperienced- —you must
make allowances for that! But it was leally
all your own fault. It's tempting I rovulence
to leave a perfectly good wife like meat home
by myself. And that reminds me! 1 m going
out for another evening to-morrow no, to-
night ! I don’t really see how 1 can get out
of it. Everybody thinks I’m a grass-widow
and grass-widows are in the boom. And
when I accepted that invitation I never
thought you’d be such a dear as to hurrj
home like this. I’m afraid I’ll really have to
go. But, of course, you need not worry. It 11
be just as dull a party as to-night s. You
can have the end of a perfect day at your
dear old club ; but. don’t wait up for me. And
after that it will be just you and I, dearest!
She hovered deliciously nearer. I think
there will be room for me ? she suggested.
“Good-night!” I muttered sternly and
sadly.
But it wasn’t.
JAMES JAMES.
Ancient Fires.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HVT OT liabit rules us all our days;
rv We do not always tread the ways
1 1 That Time has paved for us to
tread;
At vagrant moments we return
To ancient fires that dimly burn,
Grey-embered but not wholly dead.
I have seen restless men who sought
To rid themselves of too much thought
Forget the world and its distress—
Quit town and toil to breathe again,
As once they breathed as primal men,
The peace of waters limitless.
And thus it is with some who ride
On western tracks at sunset-tide,
With glory lighting all around;
Still limb and leaf, grey plain and range,
They feel that something, vague and strange,
That is and is not, holds them bound.
At times the very gums, that dream
At drowsy noon, green comrades seem
We know not how, but it is thus:
Most ancient of all melodies,
The singing wind in leafy trees
Recalls a vanished world to us.
Thus, lured by far lights of the dawn,
The soul, at secret whiles withdrawn
From grooves that weary, thought that
Seeks wistfully, a spirit wan,
To breathe the airs of aeons gone,
And warm itself at ancient fires.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


fc
fc:
m j
WESTINGHOOSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
IMt WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
flcsr
-;vi
s
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. &. W. Chandler limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Better to use ‘‘Ultra-Capital”
High-Speed Tool Holder Steel
(in ready-hardened lengths).
M A lift
ffftAftK
CAPITA!.
The most strenuous use makes but little impression on the keen cutting-edge, which
is forged to extreme hardness, and is READY TO GRIND. Ready hardened
lengths of “ULTRA-CAPITAL” Tool Steel are appreciated by careful engineers
in every branch of industry, because of their long and satisfactory service. Send
just a trial order that you may be able to judge for yourself the further advantage
of using the high quality guaranteed by the world-famous brand,
“ULTRA-CAPITAL.”
Why not nut “Ultra-Capital” to the test?
dsf
AsJc for “Balfour's
Hints on Steel,”
Post Free.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
SYDNEY 379-381 Kent Street
MELBOURNE 343-348 Swanston Street
NEWCASTLE Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE ..... Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
Also at FREMANTLE and KALGOORLIE.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
clay from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
df
. THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Gua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dsf
VCktproof Shotgun Cartridges
“Never mind the weather”
UNIFORMLY GOOD during the rainy
season or when it’s hot and humid.
Climatic changes do not affect Reming-
ton Cartridges.
No swollen cases to spoil sport by “jam-
ming” at a critical moment.
Remington’s patented exclusive wet-
proof process seals and protects the car-
tridges; they are air and water tight.
Examine the head for REM-UMC
It means factory loaded .
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
G?
do o\s
before retiring for the night,
*Preserve your health and appetite•
*33*
A
Don’t put off till to-morrow what you
should do to-night. “Now” is the time to
treat the many ailments of the digestive system.
Declining appetite is often a sign of poor health, and when
accompanied by headache, biliousness, sleeplessness or loss
of energy, the cause of the trouble is generally a disordered
digestion. Beecham’s Pills will soon set matters right. They
speedily bring about a change for the better.
Before YOU retire be sure to preserve your health
BY TAKING
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Returning 9.46 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferkies, Limited.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemain
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest-Grade Machinery Supplied.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Kinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PEKTII:
Jas. Hay don. '
1,0 NOON:
Francis Chapman Son & Peekes, Australia House, Strand, London.


Prepare fi
r
y
Ss3
l It '
1
LET the fallowing proceed apace from now
on. Plough, and plough deeply, opening
up the soil to the stern but beneficial influ-
ence of rain and storm and frost during what
remains of the Winter months.
The thorough permeation of the land by the
Wintry elements of Nature is the all-important
initial step in the preparation of the seed bed
for the Smile of Spring.
But you need abundance of power to take full
advantage of what Nature bestows. Power is
the problem—the CASE Tractor is the answer.
The CASE Power Tractor ensures more
acreage of fallow and more intensive work-
ing of the land ; it can be utilised when
weather conditions absolutely prohibit horse-
team work, and in all the farm operations
—ploughing, fallowing, cultivating, seeding
and harvesting - the CASE will enable
you to do more work and better work, to
reduce labour costs and get better results.
Kerosene Farms General Purposelracto?
It offers numerous advantages over other
Tractors of similar power; is specially built
to stand the heaviest strain on difficult
land—-up steep grades, in heavy soil, new
ground or rocky formations; delivers maximum
pull at the drawbar and being light on oil and
fuel is economical to operate.
There is nocomplicated mechanism to get out of
order; it is spur-geared throughout and every part
can be renewed and adjusted on the farm, sav-
ing time, labour and expense in case of breakage.
CASE SERVICE ensures to owners
of CASE Tractors a skilled engineering
staff to keep them mechanically efficient.
Spare parts are available at all Branches.
Write for Catalogue .
Sole Australian Agents:
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd
Branches i
QUEENSLAND : Bowen Street (off Ann St.), BRISBANE.
Box 1036, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 7591.
NEW SOUTH WALES : 114 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Box 2664, G.P.0., Phone, M 3764.
VICTORIA : Corner King & Flinders Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 3049, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 3124,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street, ADELAIDE;
also Graves Street, KADINA.
Box 674, G.P.O.
Sole Agents in West Australia t WESTRALIAN FARMERS LTD*, 569 Wellington Street, PERTH
Head Office: Richards Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Phone, Cent.
