

A
99
pictures
at Easter
There’s a happy holiday season
conning—be sure you preserve
its fun in “Kodak” pictures.
“Kodaks” are priced from 42/-; Box Brownies from
11/3; and Folding Brownies from 47/6; all are
described in the new Folder: “For Happier Holidays.”
KODAK
Same Day SERVICE
for Developing and Printing will provide you
with finished pictures in the shortest time. The
words “Kodak Print” on the back of each are
your guarantee of best results.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
%
W&7
kodak
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
George Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane
and The Valley.
I
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
* -• p hoto Supplies Co., 672 Hay Street,
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical an
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner L
and
t, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol 45.—N0. 2305.
Thursday, April 17, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


WRITE for our Library Catalogue, also
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
INSPECT NOW, THE NEW
6-cyl. 30/40 H.P. MODEL
(23.9 R.A.C. Rating.)
This new and luxurious car further
emphasises “Cottin” leadership. It sets a
standard of perfection for design, comfort, beauty,
performance and dependability.
Tiie speed is a revelation—you may drive at 80 miles :er
hour—comfortably. Cf&B
Other distinctive features include Brakes on all
four wheels and overhead valves.
Literature and Demonstration with Pleasure, j
Lawrence Morton 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
(Sole Concessionnaires for “Cottin- ,
Desgouttes” in Australasia.)
353 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 2956.
Sydney Agent: yvalter H. Smyth,
York Chambers, Market Street.
i
I
-ritfsswj
LYSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
The Bulletin
RELIABILITY
plays an important part in factory production, and the
service records of
Mangrovite Leather Belting
point to a freedom from transmission troubles that Is
exceptional. Manufactured by experts, solid service is
built into every inch of it.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
Wi.ST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Franked & Co.. Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA : W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ecersa/ys/r cvQ/ys
r bye res —
w
re
re>?
~~5
Barr Cre
e
C t «a
NETTWi^^
LIFEGUARD
MILK PRODUCTS
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
are loaded with
SMOKELES SOD I AMO N D
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY
MO
s^vOA
IUMWTWWJH
wtwwmy
BIS
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines. EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary
hey have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Byron and Missolonghi
Lord Byron died, at Missolonghi, April 19, 1824.
We started across the Gulf of Lepanto in
the little steamer bound for Missolonglii
early in the morning ®f a clear summer day.
The long light fell upon the bare Greek hills
and bathed them in rose and amber. Be-
hind us the town of Patras, with its mean
streets and shabby buildings, faded slowly
into the universal brown of the shore. Only
the Aero stood out, crowned no more by glit-
tering temples, but occupied now by a for
ress and a prison, symbols, perhaps, o!
modern civilisation; and beyond it, ay
knew, there were vineyards and grey-gree
olive-groves.
The sun rose up; sea and sky became ii
tensely blue, and the dark mass of serratec
mountains across the strait seemed to grow
higher as we neared them. On the dec t
of the steamer a group of pale, black-eyec
Hellenes was disputing over the everlastin
question of politics; a smaller party wa
disputing equally violently over the equally
everlasting question of the modern Gree s
tongue—should coined and foreign expres
sions be allowed, or should the language b
purified according to classic tradition ? Awa
aft some sailors were singing Klephtic song
whose strange melodies, in Eastern modes, an
with musical intervals unknown to u
sounded drearily in our ears. They wer
singing of that Ali Pasha whom Byron i
his youth once visited in Albania.
When we landed a little train was wai
ing to take us on to Missolonglii. The wa
wound at the foot of hills burnt to pale
amber in the fierce heat of summer. On th
marshy ground to the left, in caked am
fissured mud, asphodels and purple static
were growing amongst bitter herbs. Wil
and desolate was the country that lay unde
the blue sky and dancing sunbeams.
Whatever Missolonglii was like in the tim
of Byron, it is not now a town, nor even
village, according to Western ideas. It i
simply a collection of miserable building
mostly raised in sun-dried brick. We wen
up and down along unmade streets wher
open gutters festered beneath the sun, ant
past heaps of refuse where thin fowl
scratched for a living. A child stood ami
stared at us; its eyes were lashless and red-
rimmed, and there were flies in the corners
A good-natured Italian, speaking Greek
stopped to ask whether we desired to see th
grave of Marco Botzzaris. He led us to
a public garden, fairly well-kept, inside th
fortification, where lies the body of the gal
lant Greek patriot, killed before Byron coulc
meet him. Pepper-trees waved there, ant
pink and white cosmea were growing out o ’
the hard, dry earth. We sat upon the edg
of one of the bastions; and looked upon al
that Byron must so often have seen. Th
valley below was comparatively green witliii
the great wall of the hills. Near by, ii
roughly-ploughed ground, many relics of th
battles between Greek and Turk were stil
visible lying half-buried in the soil —Turk
ish guns, whose woodwork was curiously
inlaid with ivory; curved knives; Aveapons
strangely shaped, of engraved! and cliisellec
steel.
We returned to the town, to the smells anc
the dirt and the flies. Somewhere in tha;
squalid place Byron, denied the quick, clean
soldier's ending that he desired, passed the days
of his agony. There his white and beautifu
body wasted in fever, and upon his brain
the most brilliant in Europe, fell the numbing
chill of death. Many women had loved him
passionately, but none was there to tend him
at the last. He had devoted friends of his
own race and class, but they were not with
him in his need. There is no moral to be
drawn. Many another poet has died in
wretched surroundings, and some of the most
virtuous of the earth have died alone.
But the details of the passing of the great
English milord are startling in comparison
with those of his glittering, many-colorec
life.
Byron’s mind was far too acute not to
realise the faults and failings of the Greeks
of his day, but he was sincerely devoted to
the cause of liberty and of Greece. Perhaps
he was happiest in that last phase of his
life with a definite and unselfish ideal before
him. Perhaps lie slept -more soundly on his
hard campaigner’s bed than ever during the
golden days at Venice. Perhaps Ins Avild
Suliote followers gave him what he did not
receive from the gay women and merry men
who revelled with him in the P'alazzo Mocen-
igo. For Byron was no mere pleasurer find-
ing satisfaction in sensual delight; he Avas
rather the Pilgrim of Eternity seeking through
every variety of human experience the un-
attainable. There is no need either to recall
the unpleasant incidents of his last journey
home, j The broken body of Byron is like
the ruins _at Sunium or at Corinth —only
valuable in so far as remembrance can
help to fertilise the germ of the creative
spirit in the living. It is that same undying
spirit of creative beauty which built the
Greek temples, and informed the mind of
Byron, that grows and blossoms into music
or art or literature or architecture in modern
Greece, in India, in England, or in far Aus-
tralia.
It was already evening when we left Mis-
solonghi. The sun set in gold and crimson
behind the dark hills; the long light faded.
On board the steamer other groups disputed
the same questions, and the sailors were
again singing their strange and melancholy
Klephtic songs. The stars came out one
by one in the blue night sky, and a cool
wind swept over the tideless sea. Across
:he heaving, foam-tipped billows we saw the
lights of Patras stretching along the shore
DORA WILCOX.
Psycho-Analysis and Youth
It is pleasing to learn (R.P. 13/3/’24)
that the psycho-analyst cult has at last been
subjected to “critical examination,” and that
by a gentleman with the unexpected name
of Wahlgemuth. Their teachings have been
sporadically attacked, mainly for their nasti-
ness ; but no one had touched the root of
the matter, which is that the whole busi-
ness is a welter of dogmatic assertion un-
supported by a tittle of scientific evidence.
It is an insult to the scientific conscience.
That there is a sub-conscious mind no psy
cliologist doubts; there is overwhelming evi
dence of its existence. That it exerts th
influence. upon life and conduct and char
acter upon life the psycho-analysts maintain
there is no evidence whatever. It lias been
peopled with foul-smelling ghosts made in th
image and likeness of their creators.
This prostitution of science is seriou
directly and indirectly. Indirectly because
the young teachers are being instructed ii
this jargon and are passing it on to
school children; that is, the minds tlia
should be training others to think are, in
fact, swallowing, hook, line and sinker, i
lot of theories that any independence o:
thought would impel them to reject; anc
persons who would look at you pityingly or
angrily if you were to ask them to accept the
inspiration of the gospels will treat startling
and unsupported assertions with the rever
enee of a zealot towards Holy Writ. Freuc
solemnly lays if down that to dream of teeth
is a sign of a tendency towards sex-perver
sion. I have not yet met anybody wdio has
not at times dreamed of teeth. But some
of us in our youth learned the rudiments of
inductive reasoning, and we would ask before
assenting to so sweeping a dogma that some
evidence should be given not only that al
persons who dream about teeth have ten
dencies toward sex-perversion, but that al
persons who have no inclination to this
obscure nastiness are free from dreams about
teeth. The investigation would be valueless
unless it embraced the whole human race.
Freud would say that persons with this
kink do not know that they have it—it is
repressed, and the dental dream is a mere
distorted image of it. It may .be askec
timidly how did Freud find out. The reason-
ing seems analogous to Fanny Squeers’s—
she knew she must be suffering from interna'
injuries because she had no outside signs of
violence. Freud says that a certain dream
indicates a sex-complex, but he does not say
how he knows or even why he thinks so
The denial of patients that they have any
such impulse is merely treated as confirma-
tory evidence that they have; that is to
say, the patient, who is the only person able
to describe the processes of his own mine
-or the feelings of his own body, is completely
disregarded, and in the place of diagnosis
based on symptoms and fortified by the
accumulated experience of the doctor and
others, the psycho-analyst comes to an arbi-
trary decision churned up out of his own
inner consciousness. A dream about teeth,
or about clocks, or about falling from a
height, which the patient shares with prac-
tically all physically and mentally normal
persons, seems, when uncorroborated, insuffi-
cient evidence to prove that the individual
is in an internal welter of diabolical pas-
sions. _ The effect of these “unsavory phan-
tasies” upon the adolescent mind scarcely
bears thinking about. Freud himself toils
of a girl of 18 suffering from those ordinary
“nerve” symptoms which frequently follow
shock or prolonged strain —fear of crossing
the street, of being in a room alone with the
door shut, irritation at the ticking of a
clock, excessive fidgetiness as to the placing
of things. He works out by a train of rea-
soning which is screamingly funny or very
nauseating, according to the reader’s type of
mind, that the girl is obsessed by a peculiarly
revolting sex-passion; and, in spite of con-
tinuous and sustained denials, by persistent
pressure lie breaks her down to acquiesce.
That is to say, he finds her a nervous girl,
he leaves her a sex-pervert. At a recent
educational conference in England, a psycho-
analyst announced that a nursemaid of the
wrong sort could do more harm to a child
in 10 minutes than a teacher could undo in
10 years. Doubtless this is true; but I
would back an able-bodied psycho-analyst
of the wrong sort to do more harm in five
minutes than can be wiped out in a lifetime.
The serious effect of this mental and moral
garbage when applied to teachers and
children in the \fcay it is being applied in cer-
tain quarters seems insufficiently appreci-
ated, and the community which' shuts out
Boccaccio and places the more putrid
examples of psycho-analytic literature in our
public libraries for the browsing of the
youthful mind is suffering from a lack of a
sense of humor and a sense of proportion,
and will suffer from a lack of that funda-
mental sense loss of which peoples lunatic
asylums. There is another sinister aspect
which seems to have been overlooked. One of
the standard books from wlr.ch I have
quoted has in its English translation a
laudatory preface by an English mental
specialist. Apparently the deductions drawn
from dreams about teeth are fully accepted
by him as a scientific fact. Yet the lives and
liberties of citizens may be in the keeping
of such a man. Juries may have his scien-
tific eminence pointed out to them. Wills
may be upset, divorces granted and people
shut up in asylums on the testimony of a
man who knows that the person in question
has dreamed about watering-cans and is
therefore no better than he should be! Facts
like these lift the psycho-analysis craze well
out of the realm of the merely laughable.
There is a residue of truth in psycho-
analysis, once it is shaken free of the obses-
sions of the Freudians; but in so far as it
is true very little of it is new. The hope-
inspiring personality of some persons, helped
out no doubt by the patient’s belief that they
have some new and mysterious power, may
have a potent effect; but above all it is sug-
gestion—suggestion in some form or another
that touches the root of the matter. To
quote a scholarly writer in a recent English
review: “Applied by the right people to the
right people in die right way, psycho-
analysis can do definite though limited good.”
Unfortunately it seems able to do quite un-
limited harm. _
ANNA T. BRENNAN.
Assonance
Having recently broached the subject of
the unsatisfactory customary usage of
“Cadence” (R.P. 28/2/’24), I here offer a
companion note in the shape of some re-
marks on another prosodic term, which usu-
(Continued on page S.)


w
Furnish Your Home Economically and Well
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
The Bulletin
Fine Furniture for homes of comfort and
good taste is one of the things the House of
Economy specialises in. When you buy
Furniture from Anthony Horderns’ you gain
an immense advantage from the fact that they
are both manufacturers and retailers. These
examples are typical of the better-than-
ordinary quality at lower-than-usual prices.
m
m
G 853. —The “Hay” Rocking Easy Chair,
stuff-over, with fairly high back. It has a
soft seat and is an extremely restful chair.
Upholstered in Shadow Tissue in very
effective patterns, or covered to suit your
taste,
PRICE
GBsB.—The “Bentley” Rocking
Chair, show-wood. It is hollow
seated and beautifully balanced,
which adds greatly to its comfort.
The legs and arms are slightly
curved, and it is upholstered in
Tapestry or Fabrikoid.
PRICE £6115/-
!F
£857. —The “Smoker” Easy Chair, with
a pipe-rack at one side. This chair is
adjustable to various angles, and very
comfortable. The arms are shaped, and
it is upholstered in Fabrikoid of the most
reliable quality.
PRICE
-£6|sl-
G 856. —The “Cosy” Easy Chair.
The contour of the arm is a feature
of this chair, which adds materially
to its comfort. It is upholstered in
superior-quality Fabrikoid or Tapes-
try, and has rung supports under
seat.
PRICE
The Bulletin
GBs4.—The “Minerva” Bureau Book-case, 4ft. 1 1 in. wide. It
has two wood panelled doors and two drawers in the centre. The
fall, which is used as a writing-desk, has automatic supporting slides
and useful pigeon-holes inside. On either side of fall are two
clear Glass Lead-light doors, which enclose the book space.
PRICE ~ , £18118!-
We welcome
a visit of
inspection
to our
extensive
Furniture
Show Rooms.
The Bulletin
Our
Reputation
stands behind
the goods we
sell, and we
guarantee
satisfaction
with every
order.
The Bulletin
G1068.-~Taibboy, a very convenient and
serviceable article of Furniture. It is fitted
with boot space, trays and shelves on one side
and full hanging space on the other. It is
fully enclosed from view by two wood panelled
doors. It stands 64in. high and is4Bin. wide.
PRICE .. £l6/16/-
GBs9.—*The “Craftsman” Writing
Table, with Book-case ends, drawer
over knee-hole. The top is covered
with Pegamoid, and finished with large
oxidised copper nails on four sides.
Size on top, 36in. by 22in.
PRICE ... £4|15l-
GBss*—-Writing Bureau, 2 ft. 6in. wide of
good construction. The fall has two pull-out
supports and convenient pigeon-holes. Below
are two wood panelled doors, enclosing a cup-
board, containing one shelf, and one drawer,
which has square wood knobs.
PRICE
£6|lo|-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
... •, v,-.
Telephone: 9440.


7
iift Pfifc
PI
» ,
MERIT
WIN S
r i
1®:
si
2?
I H
■ •
-
m
0
B
,
a
■
■1
jwi
11
/
3
> \
:
|
u
/T"
I
y
A
%
„ -^r'T/r
■
p ERd
rift
pt?
Hlau
I
a
CORnc
m
■ ■
agisß.aß«a«a
§
S V^ (
*
MERIT wins with Tyres. The quality of the tread, the cord, the impregnation,
the workmanship and the curing determines the quality, and the skill
of the driver dictates its life, f
There is no finer material, no more scientific production method, no better
tyre workmanship in the world than that used in Perdriau Master Cords, the sure
winners of the Australian race for tyre supremacy.
Sold on a guarantee basis of 5000 miles, but more often than not covering
twice that distance in the hands of a skilful driver; costing less in the first place
and still less in the long run; with a standard of free service to the Motorist often
envied but never equalled; an investment yielding 1 00 % dividend in tyre costs is
offered to every Motorist who insists on the genuine red-walled Perdriau Master Cord.
Stand No. 30 Royal Agricultural Show, Sydney.
Cords
Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth, Sydney.
Depots at Lismore, Newcastle and West Maitland.


k
k
I
MOTOR
SPIRIT
THIS IS A T HIGHLY REFINED
AMERICAN
MOTOR CAR SPIRIT
CLEAN AND FREE FROM MOISTURE
EASY STARTING
M
SPIRIT
L—-{
MR. AS
o
UNLIMITED
IK
MOTOR SPIRIT
NEPTUNE
OIL C?,LT?
ally shares am equally rough fate at the
hands of the text-books on versecralt—-
Assonance. “Assonance” is employed, • we
are helpfully informed, as an offset to con-
sonance” (signifying, of course, full rhyme'.
And there, usually, the matter blissfully
rests. The variety of meanings to 'which it
is thus given over serve to render the term,
unless further defined, about as useful as a
pocket-knife without a blade. Below is an
attempt, based on the suggestion of admitting
three aspects, or grades, of assonance, to
supply the blade. ,
Discussing the subject with a friend some
little time ago, I quoted (not scntentiously,
but illustratively) “a stitch in time saves
nine”; whereupon he remarked in surprise
that he had hitherto always taken it for
granted that “time”-“nine” was a genuine
rhyme. This species of partial rhyme, often
closely simulating the dinkum article, I sug-
gest calling full or true assonance. Its char-
acteristics are a combination of identity of
vowel-sound in the accented syllable with
a similarity (instead of identity, as in
rhyme) in the terminal consonantal value.
Tliis form is an important element, partially
or completely superseding ordinary rhyme, in
some Continental literatures, especially
French and Spanish. Contemporary French
verse, among the non-Parnassians (one has
only to think of the names of Francis
Jammes, Paul Fort, Kahn, Jules Laforgue),
is full of it; and to it admirers of vers
Hire enthusiastically point as being oue of
the special beauties associated chiefly with
that form, if one may name it such.
In English the usuage of full assonance in
place of rhyme is frequent in nursery
rhymes, which yield such pairs as “dame-
la&ie” and “Dumpty-plum-tree.” It is exceed-
ingly prevalent also in the old Border bal-
lads, which abound in such creditable speci-
mens as “morn-storm,” “mate-take,” “sharp-
heart” and “ring-chin.” In more consciously
literary verse, however, it is much less fre-
quent, though it is, of course, quite common
in, and well adapted to, anything in the
nature of burlesque. George Elliot, import-
ing the idea from the Spanish, essayed its
use in two of the lyrics in “The Spanish
Gipsy” (1854-55) ; while Mrs. Browning,
though, it is interesting to note, sticking ex-
clusively to rhyme in her earlier work, after-
wards employed this substitute, along with
the other types of assonance, to such a re-
markable extent —with the aim, it is said, of
giving her poems the appearance of the haste
of emphasis and sincerity—that she has led
the gallant Professor Saintsbury to salute
her as “perhaps the worst rhymester in the
English language—perpetrating, and attempt-
ing to defend on a mistaken view of asson-
ance, cacophonies so hideous that they need
not sully this page.” During the last few
years a certain sporadic and indecisive at-
tempt has been made to naturalise the prac-
tice ; but, on the whole, with indifferent
success.
The second type, which I would designate
partial assonance, diverges still further from
rhyme, insomuch as it manifests congruence
of vowel sound only. Possessing so limited
a scope, it naturally has to be content to
forego any claim to officiate instead of the
actual rhyme, and accordingly takes its place
as an element of vowel-music functioning
elsewhere than at the end of the line. A
most striking case of the effectiveness of
its judicious handling in this way is afforded
by the following stanzas from Poe’s “For
Annie” (the vowels to which attention is
directed are given in italics; and, since those
of the rhyme-words themselves share through-
out in the process, for convenience they also
are similarly indicated) :
And ah! Let it never
Be foolishly said
That my room it is gloomy,
And narrow my bed ;
For man never slept
In a different bed —
And, to sleep, you must slumber
In just such a bed.
My tantalised spirit
Here blandly reposes,
Forgetting, or never
Regretting its roses—
Its old agitations
Of myrtles and roses.
This extensive aspect of word-beauty in
poetry, despite the importance which a pas-
sage such as the above clearly establishes as
characterising it, seems hitherto to have been
singularly neglected, or, at best, granted the
most offhand treatment by certainly the
majority of critical studies of versecraft.
Having recently gone to the trouble of list-
ing and systematically examining the 10-000-
odd vowel-sounds of the accented syllables in
Shakspeare’s sonnets, I have found my labor
amply repaid by its bringing to light a lavish
employment, almost amounting to an ela-
borate scheme, of this partial assonance, per-
vading the whole series. In the event of the
“Red Page” finding a niche for some of the
quite remarkable conclusions thus arrived at,
I shall be able still further to emphasise
the significant bearing the presence of iden-
tical vowel-sounds . has on verse-music in
general.
Though some authorities (including Web-
ster) have chosen to restrict the application
of assonance to vowel-effects, it is simpler—
since we must have a name for this kindred
matter —to permit of its extension to include
the factor of consonants. I move, there-
fore, that the title “virtual assonance” (or
even, if preferred, “consonant-assonance”)
be bestowed upon pairs of words which, while
not containing the same vowels, manifest
the property of identity or great similarity
in consonantal structure. Two excellent in-
stances, both modern, of such virtual asson-
ance, and here, incidentally, also of their
value in establishing the balance of a line
(so that they act as a sort of pseudo-leonine
rhyme), are “clamber-remember'' in “High
iip I clamber, and I remember” (from
Rupert Brooke’s poem with the paragraph-
title about Ambervalia) ; and the more
subtle "crumble-remember” in this line from
a delightful epitaph by Walter de la Mare:
"And when I crumble, who will remember?”
In the hands of a fine craftsman this device
can be made, as here, one of considerable
beauty. Serving as straight-out rhymes, we
find m the Border ballads “girdle-middle,”
xarrow-morrow,” “breast-priest’; while, m
addition to the widespread and familiar
makeshifts of “river-ever,” “heaven-even,”
bosom-blossom ’ and the rest, a random
selection of a dozen specimens from as many
poets gives “vile-toil” (Keats), “creature-
nature’’ (Wordsworth), “tarni shed-bur-
nished” (Francis Thompson), “early-barley
(Tennyson), “faces-presses” (E. B. Brown-
ing), “God-cloud” (D. G. Rossetti), “east-
west” (Herrick), “scarcely-parsley (K.
Browning), “hither-weather” ( Slnikspearc),
“quarrel-barrel” (Blake), “tierce-perverse’
(Swinburne), and “fraught-not” (Shelley).
Virtual assonance takes in those examples
traditionally known as “sight-rhymes
(“alone-one,” “grove-love”), for the not in-
frequent use of which by even the most fas-
tidious rhymesters among the “standard
poets the sad paucity of perfect rhymes for
that most popular, nay, indispensable, word
“love” is, no doubt, in part responsible.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
Diseases of the Ancients
One naturally feels diffident about con-
tradicting a student like “C.McL.”; at the
same time one is bound to say that there
arc statements in his interesting article on
the diseases of the ancients (E.P. 20/3/ 24)
which are at variance with the views of
other authorities on the subject.
Despite the comparative wealth ot medical
literature in the preceding period, it is not
until the sixth and seventh centuries that
we find in contemporary writings descrip-
tions of scourges which we can unmistakably
identify with those of to-day. Take, for
exampie, diphtheria, which one might reason-
ably expect to have been specially prevalent
under the filth-ridden conditions; that pre-
vailed everywhere at the beginning ot the
Christian era. In the medical bibliography
of that period there is to be found mention
of complaints which might and might pot
have been it, but the first easily-recognisable
description of the disease is iii the writings
Of Aetios, of Amida, in the sixth century.
Similarly, we find no mention of small-pox
until Rhazes, the Arabian physician, de-
scribes it somewhere about 925, and the chief
reason for his having devoted so much study
to it was that it was a new disease,
according to him, then making its first
appearance in Asia Minor and along the
Mediterranean. Yet this complaint, had it
existed to any extent in the previous period
of the world's history, is one of widely we
might expect to find frequent record. Even
later is the first definite mention of some-
thing we can swear was bubonic plague, the
credit for compiling the detailed information
concerning it being due to Avicenna, who
lived at the close of the tenth century. His
book, “The Canon,” the most consulted trea-
tise of its kind at the time, contains an
excellent description not only of bubonic
plague, but of filariasis as well. And to
practically the last period of all belongs the
initial recording of complaints like trau-
matic tetanus and rabies, for not until the
fourteenth century do we meet with these, m
the writings of John Ardern, an Englishman
who was an exceedingly careful observer.
While the social conditions at the time of
the Peloponnesian Plague certainly suggest
that this scourge was typhus, its clincial
manifestations point to its having been some-
thing quite different. On the strength of the
descriptions of Thucydides and Diodorus,
who both mention that its victims exhibited
a blood-red color of the tongue and throat,
and that there was a crisis on the seventh to
the ninth day, it has been advanced that it
was really malignant scarlet fever, which
could have originated in the filthiness of the
age just as easily as typhus. More difficult
to diagnose is the great plague winch
attacked Rome in a.d. 165, and which Galen
called typhus. Some have thought it anthrax,
a disease much more prevalent in ancient
times than is generally believed, and pro-
bably one of the oldest, if not the oldest, of
all the afflictions which have ravaged
humanity. The clinical nature of the Roman
plague, however, is against its being this
disease, and there is a possibility that it was
some complaint which is now extinct.
There is room for intriguing speculation
as to whether it took mankind ages to evolve
the different pathogenic organisms to which
it is host; and on this by no means impro-
bable hypothesis it is possible to account
for the existence, a couple of thousand years
ago, of diseases now unidentifiable, due to
incompletely-evolved bacteria and protozoa,
which were the ancestors of those respon-
sible for our modern diseases. Certainly,
biology looks upon the microscopic forms of
life as the first living creatures. But, then,
the pathogenic organisms may belong to a
much later classification, having been
evolved from these earlier forms, and, per-
haps, being still subject to evolutionary influ-
ences, so that the diseases of two or three
thousand years hence will differ consider-
ably from those of to-day.
R. W.
More Harris
Frank Harris seems always to see genius
with its shirt hanging out. He may greatly
admire a practitioner in one of the Four
Arts, but he cannot refrain from publishing
some perturbing personal anecdote that will
rob the creature of his charm and dignity.
Thus in the fourth and most interesting
series of his Contemporary Portraits (Bren-
tano’s, New York) we have Tolstoi chuck-
ling gorgeously over an insanitary episode
in the life of Gorki and pressing the narrator
for details of the lady whom Gorki had
smacked in a tender place with a shovel.
Some of his great skill as a writer and
raconteur is seen in his interview pith the
late President Harding. He maliciously re-
cords that he found in Harding’s room at
Marion, Ohio, the President’s photo next
to masks of Washington and Lincoln. There
is a biting picture of Woodrow Wilson. “I
was struck by memories called up by Wil-
son's face: where had I seen that long, hard
jaw and chin, the prominent thin nose, the
cold grey'eves, the spare nervous figure? In
Ulster, of course: the Presbyterian-minister
type accentuated.” Roosevelt is “snapped”
at a London dinner-party posing as an inter-
national traffic policeman at the cross-roads
of Right and Wrong. Then Harris’s curious
taste in morbology leads him to disclose that
Richard Wagner induced one of his early
mistresses to prepare him an elaborate set
of silk underwear because he was suffering
from erysipelas. He notes that Renoir, the
French painter, was twisted and practically
helpless through a most painful form of rheu-
matism. au(l a happy chapter on a meeting
with Charlie Chaplin includes a visit to
Sing Sing, where both listened agape to a
pathological description of a victim of “the
Chair.” Harris’s hatred of the trite and
bourgeois is everywhere exhibited in bitter,
ironical phrases, whereas his love of the odd
and whimsical, his regard for reformers who
are splendidly alone, flames out in astonish-
ing enthusiasm. Emma Goldman, the little
Jewess whom the world casually knows as
an anarchist, has her long, eventful history
unfolded, arid it is impossible for any unpre-
judiced person to deny her the virtue of
courage. She has been roughly handled in
America for ideas which would be tolerantly
listened to in England—one of the most per-
nicious of her activities in Yankee eyes was
an early advocacy of birth control. But.
stranger than all, he'who despises England
and Englishmen for many things still retains
in his cynical old age a veneration for the
English law and the English gentleman. The
“bestial stupidity” of American courts in-
spires him to praise of the British judicial
system, and one can only suspect what con-
tacts elsewhere were responsible for this
opinion:—
The English gentleman is probably the highest
national ideal to be found in the world; unfortu-
nately he is not intellectual enough to satisfy other
peoples; at his best he is apt....to cherish judg-
ments that are ludicrously wrong and prejudices that
alienate; but how honorable he is, and kindly and
loyal—the salt of the earth !
Altogether a worthy book, though it gives
one the queer feeling of watching a vacuum-
cleaner at work in an olc-clo’ shop.
C. R. B.
A Satchel of Books
J.S'.F., by John Rhode (Geoffrey Bles). A cocaine
novel. The interest lies in the ingenious methods by
which the drug is manufactured and distributed to
addicts in England.
The Man Who Never Understood (John Lane).
This anonymous work is a revelation, by means of
letters to one Ronald Boyne, R.N., of the sold of an
over-sexed woman. It may be summed up as well-
written pornography.
The Romance of Paris Streets, by M. D. Steuart
(Chapman and Dodd). A guide-book to the Quays,
Boulevard Si. Germain, Jardin des Plantes, Porte St.
Denis, etc., which stresses their human interest. The
residences of the famous men and women of old
France are indicated, and anecdotes —-edifying or
scandalous—retailed about them.
The Fighting Thirteenth, by Capt. T. A. White
(Tyrrells). An exhaustive history of the wonderful
battalion which boasted such men as Murray, Y.C.,
Buckley, Y.C., Marks (who, after fighting practically
from Landing to Armistice, was drowned in an
attempt to rescue a woman at Palm Beach, near
Sydney), Burnage and many more of all ranks. The
storv is told in the colloquial language of an A.I.F.
mess and is illuminated by dozens of trench maps.
Fifty Years in Madagascar, by James Sibree, D.D.
(Allen and Unwin). A detailed account of mission-
ary life amongst the Malagasy and of their reactions
to Christian teachings. The writer, though a member
of one of England’s most famous missionary families,
planned to visit Madagascar originally in his capacity
of architect. Then came the chance to go as a
missionary. There are many photographs, and an
impartial account of the conquest of the island by
the French.
Two Royalist Spies of the French Revolution, by
G. Lenotre (Fisher Unwin). This is really a history
of the secret service which was maintained by the
Royalist Party in France from 1792 to 1914. Faucne
and Perlet.—the two soies of the title —were respec-
tively an honest but futile toady and a scoundrel.
Neither got much consideration or cash from Louis
XVIII. on his return: Pellet, in fact, died in a garret.
Most of the facts are documented by papers in the
National or police archives.
The Abbey Court Murder, by Annie Haynes (John
Lane). One undesirable is slaughtered by another
and for about 250 pages suspicion falls on the
blameless heroine. Most of the characters have titles.
Spanish Lore, by Juanita Savage (Geoffrey Bles).
“Terror gripped Dolores’ heart as the brigand dragged
her into the entrance of a cave ; never had she known
such ghastly fear.” This kind of thing goes on till
the concluding chapters, when Pedro, the passionate
matador, is revealed as an admirable character, a
Count, ; nd in other respects a worthy husband for
Dolores.
Gerald Cranston’s Lady, by Gilbert Frankau
(Hutchinson). Herein a cold marriage of conveni-
ence struggles along through 370 pages of mutual
aloofness and misunderstanding to end in a passion-
ate embrace. Cranston is an armor-plated egotist
too immersed in his problems to notice the beauty
of the lady who has taken his name. When later on
she repels a belated advance, he turns to another
female. This is the first sign of loosened emotional
control in the hero, but it takes a strike, a con-
cussion and a sick bed to reduce him to a condition
suitable for grabbing his yearning wife and holding
her to his panting heart. The yarn is suggestive ot
Stephen McKenna, but the latter is more economical
in his evidences of luxury. He can generally stage
a high-i lass affaire with a pearl necklace, a Rolls
Boyce, and a couple of suppers. Frankau requires
a whole procession of luncheons and dinner parties,
while georgeous limousines buzz over almost every
page.
The Cult of the Abdomen, by F. A. Hornibrook
(Heinemann’s). F. A. Hornibrook is the husband of
the energetic Ettie Rout, who has for a moment
abandoned the war on the spirachaete while he under-
takes the less thankless task of curing middle-aged
people of constipation. An excellent little book, with
an introduction by Sir William Arbuthnot Lane, and
largely composed of the teaching of that eminent
master of surgery upon the large intestine. It was
Lane who first pointed out the admirable effect of
pure paraffin as a lubricant to ageing intestines, and
Mr. Hornibrook concurs. When a man passes the in-
definite border-line between youth and old age—
which probably occurs at or about 50 —he invariably
finds it necessary to treat himself. And, according
to both Lane and Hornibrook, the best way to do
it is by half an ounce of pure liquid paraffin taken
before meals two or three times a day ; and a greater
volume of pure water should be taken than is general:,'
absorbed. In Hornibrook’s experience a good regimen
of exercises to strengthen the muscles of the abdomen
is a great help; and the numerous photographs
explain how these exercises should be carried out.
♦
The Old Scotch Collegians’ Association in Melbourne
wants a school song, and is offering good prizes to
get it. Types of the kind of thing wanted are
Harrow’s “Forty Years On” and Eton’s “Boating
Song,” and the words should go to some well known
and rousing Scotch tune like “Bonnie Dundee” or
“The Campbells are Coming.” The prospectus of the
competition sets out that something is required “that
will appeal to the boy and dwell in the heart of the
man.” A prize of 15 guineas will be awarded to
the most suitable song sent in; and to this 25
guineas will be added if the winning lines are adopted
as the school song. Any song which does not win
may be retained for singing at the school concerts of
1924 and 1925 ; and in this case a fee of a guinea
will be paid to the competitor. Copyright of the
winning song is to be vested in the Scotch College
Council on the payment of the prize money. The
donors of the prize wisely call attention to the
fact that “Poetic flights rarely make good songs for
school gatherings” and that nothing of a “boastful or
bragging character” is wanted. So the field is fairly
open to anyone who can write good verses; and the
judges are likely to have a. stiff task in making a
decision among the many offerings. Manuscript must
be submitted not later than the last day of July,
1924, to Arthur Robinscn, Collins House, Melbourne.


“Torrent” High-Duty
Centrifugal Pumps.
SINGLE
STAGE
The Bulletin
MULTI-
STAGE
Designed for direct coupling, or belt drive. Built for hard service, carefully and accurately
machined on the finest tools obtainable. Special attention has been given to the balancing and sealing
of the impellor to secure efficiency and prevent end thrust.
. All sizes will operate against extreme heads, with maximum discharge. Volute type casing,
swivelling to discharge in any direction, dispensing with a bend. Suction bend is included with all
sizes from 2|- upwards. Companion flanges supplied with all pumps.
Water-sealed Gland.™ Does not need constant or tight packing, is always cool, and packing will
give long service.
Base. —Of deep section, will maintain correct alignment and not “spring,” of ample strength to
withstand any strain. Support flange for casing cast integral with base, gland and bearing part of
casting, bored in position, securing correct alignment.
Gland. —Of generous length with ample room for re-packing, brass water seal ring, gland and
bearing bushing easily removed by easing one set-screw. Perfect water seal requiring little or no
attention, loose packing preventing friction and loss of power.
Bearing. —Ring oiled, bush renewed at low cost, oil pocket of ample capacity for long runs
without re-filling.
Casing. Of best grey iron, volute type, carefully proportioned, with smooth water passages
to reduce eddies and friction. Bolts attaching to flange head move in an annular slot to permit
discharge being directed to any position.
Impellor. —Enclosed type made of best grey iron (bronze or any other metal fitted for special
service), waterways smooth and scientifically curved. Fastened to shaft by key and cover nut.
Shaft. Of best mild steel, ample diameter to transmit the necessary power to meet the extreme
load when driven by overhung pulley.
Pulley. Regular equipment is fast pulley only, but loose pulley and belt shifter can be supplied
at slight extra cost.
Bedplate. —Special plate to accommodate motor or extended plate with outer bearing can be
supplied for any size.
PUMPS FOR EVERY SERVICE.
OIL, GAS and CRUDE-OIL ENGINES.
OILS, GREASE, SHAFTING, PULLEYS, BELTING
and all ENGINEERS' REQUISITES.
William Adams 8 Company Limited
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS & CONTRACTORS,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at London, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston and Newcastle,


Power That
Flattens Hills
I
A V, '
\ y '
• i-\...
yMi'i.
'£
o
\\
N
r-
\
*
w
s
A
m
&
"Hi
\
/
\
Why Not
A Modern Car?
n
□
WITH THE, UNIQUE,
TRAFFIC TRAKMIffION
GEAR-
Introducing the greatest
Improvement since the self-starter
® .» e ti .1.
If you will visit any of our Agencies throughout the Commonwealth a practical demonstration of the Pikes Peak
Motor and the wonderful Transmission Gears incorporated in the new Chandler will be gladly given.
New South Wales:
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.,
244 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY
W. Australia:
Sharpen & Riches,
1001 Hay Street
PERTH.
Victoria:
Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE
Queensland
Hobsons Ltd.,
284 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
« •
S. Australia:
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.,
125 Currie Street,
ADELAIDE
Tasmania:
Williamsons Motors’ Ltd.
Collins Street,
HOBART.


r
The day of the Knight is here!
WHAT is the WILLYS-KNIGHT
SLEEVE VALVE MOTOR?
HAVE you ever watched a magician perform some
mysterious, seemingly-complicated trick that amazed
you because it seemed so difficult—only to have him
later explain how really simple it was.
You feel much the same way once you grasp the
simplicity of the Knight motor. Instead of the hammering
of cams against push rods, the clicking of springs and the
lift of valve heads, you have two simple metal sleeves which
glide silently up and down between the cylinder wall and the
piston, one working within the other. Ports, or openings, in
these sleeves register with each other and with the cylinder
ports at proper intervals, forming large and unobstructed
passages for intake and exhaust gases.
The function of the sleeves is simply to regulate the intake and exhaust of
gas. 1 hey are not called upon to hold compression as are the valves in other
motors.
There are but 92 parts in the valve mechanism of the Knight motor. Com-
pare this with 362 parts in the valve mechanism of the best-known poppet-
valve car in its price-class, and you can then appreciate why the Knight motor
is recognised by well-posted, impartial engineers as the simplest, most trouble-
free type of motor ever invented.
The Knight motor positively improves with use- —it wears in while others
are wearing out. Carbon, the foe of other motors, actually increases compression,
therefore giving greater power, flexibility and economy.
THE PRINCE OF WALES
DRIVES A WILLYS-KNIGHT
A Masterpiece of Silent Power
GET IN TOUCH WITH NEAREST AGENT AND HAVE A DEMONSTRATION,
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q’land,
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.
Neals Motors Pty., Limited,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Overland Sydney, Limited,
147-49 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.


W. JNO. BAKER
STROPS
Itself
” VALET ”
A ufo£J?rx>iD
<> 3 £
No. 50—NICKEL SET
Contains heavily silver-plated self-
stropping Razor, twelve tested “Valet”
Blades, and genuine “Valet” Strop;
complete in beautifully domed nickel
ease, lined velvet and satin.
25/- Complete.
Cost Free.
sm
m
&
is
«ii
seSes^S
Esife3i>2siKsi^s
fetfSSfgßgS^aij
«i.. IM n, BAKER SYONEV
No. 351—DECORATED NICKEL SET,
Contains heavily silver-plated self-strop-
ping Razor, three tested “Valet” Blades,
genuine “Valet” Strop, in Hat metal
■ase, handsomely embossed, with plain
iliamond space in centre of cover for
monogram.
22/6 Complete.
Cost Free.
i
tn
jl'tOß/tytt
%
JsSsS
56
SSgS
SSS 3
5>65?5
SSfio
m/m
Hi
SOAP
3RUSH
W. JNO .BAKER
so. 42— NICKEL-PLATED TRAVEL-
LING SET.
ontains heavily Silver-plated self-strop-
ping Razor, 12 “Valet” Blades and
ombined Shaving Brush and Soap
Container.
42/6 Complete.
Post Free.
w
MODEL “C”—No. 101.
Nickel-plated “Valet” Auto Strop Razor,
three “Valet” Blades and Strop, in
durable metal case, 7/6 complete.
1010, same as above, but with Gold Gilt
Razor and two only “Valet” Blades.
7/6 Complete.
Post Free.
Extra Blades (packet of 5) 3/-
Packet of 10 67-
Extra Strops 3/6
Postage on Blades and Strop, 3d.
1 our Name or Initials engraved on any
of the above, 1/6.
Illustrated Catalogue, Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
“The House of Steel,"
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
The
TRADE
•••MARK
Full particu-
lars free on
request.
AIR WASHER
Removes all grit and dust from the air,, rendering it
clean and pure. Imparts an invigorating freshness to
the air supply for buildings. Used widely for cooling
electrical machinery. The air leaves the washer in a
thoroughly clean, cool state, with no trace of fme
moisture. Economical in water and power consumption.
Low* resistance to flow of air through washer.
DAVIDSON & CO M Ltd., BELFAST.
AGENTS: •
NEW SOUTH WALES—Ferrier * Dickinson, Ltd-
Royal Exchange. Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Unbehaun & Johnstone. Ltd.,
100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND —Engineering Supply Company oi
Australia, Ltd., BRISBANE*
VICTORIA—Fyvie A Stew.rt. >6O Collin* Street.
MELBOURNE.
WEST AUSTRALIA—Ackroyd-Stuart*. Ltd.. PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND—John Chamber* & Son. Ltd.,
WELLINGTON.
MEXICAN
That “Well-
preserved
Look”
I spends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Mien’s Wal-
nut Sta i u
and Eradi-
cate those „ ,
(IREV HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less ! All Chemists.
Cnticura Quickly Relieves
Irritated Skins
Bathe with Cuticura Soap and hot
water to free the pores of impurities,
dry lightly, and apply Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal. Cuticura
Talcum is ideal for powdering and
perfuming,
Soap Is.,Talcum l«. 3d.,Ointmentl».and2«.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: "R. Town* & Co„ Sydney, N. S. W."
jgßf' Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
<5,
DRY & LIQUID DRESSINGS
For Black Suede Shoes
®312
The Bulletin
Will restore the original density
of color and will not lay the nap.
Fashionable Footwear retains us
charm and freshness when these
high-grade dressings are used.
At all good Shoe Stores.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91, Haymarket, Sydney.
S 3
rr
w*
c
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists,
CD-
each.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45 -
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post free.
CRAIG § AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Keil Cigar Factory.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sunset Rain.
The old sun reels toward his bed
Drunken with sunset wine ;
The western lands are running red
With vintage of the vine,
Where his last cup spilled out its sweets
Across the table-plain.
But now the staining wine retreats
Before the cleansing rain ;
For Day, his maid, begins to weep,
Sinks weary to her knees,
And softly cries herself to sleep
Amongst the shining trees.
x.s.w.
SYDNEY GORDON.
“It Is More Blessed"...
[ have forgotten your smooth white face,
The curve of your lips, the lilt of your
grace,
The turn of your ankle, your banded hair —
It caught the' light as I kissed you there;
My heart knows well the place !
These I forgot, but my heart can thrill
To the larkspur eyes I remember still—
Remember now and forever till
Death shuts down my own.
They were never mine. You kept your
stores
Of joy as a princess her palace doors;
You never gave, but you took all things.
You danced your dance; and a fool still
sings
A tune for your feet alone.
Ah, dear light woman, in flame, in flame
llell’s high scriveners write your name!
Up in His Heaven God puts by
A golden crown that was meant to lie
On your smooth white brow as the sunshine
spills
Over the powdered larkspur hills;
And softly the angels cry.
VICTOR] A.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
Song of Delights.
These things I’ll love until I die:
Boughs drooping dark against a sky
All green with evening, where the frail
First light of trembling stars is pale :
September, when the fragile Spring
Laughs at her lattice, and there ring
Bells of enchantment, silver-clear.
Swung in the turret of the year;
Waves opal-hearted as they curl
< )ver lone beaches pale as pearl.
Where neither dawn nor the gold moon
Breaks the slow litany they croon.
And yet of all these joys 1 know—
Stars in the summer, waves that flow —
Most dear at dusk when first lamps shine
Are the loved hands that gather mine.
FIJI.
A. SMITH.
The Poetess: Arabia, 728 B.C.
There was a singer once who rode upon
A mighty elephant that slowly paced
Through Old Bagdad; and as she rode she
sang
In chant and cassida that fancy wove.
Upon her throat there rose and fell the
while
A trembling emerald of kingly worth.
As though all Spring had fused into a leaf
To hide within the hollow of her breast.
As pallid ivories were her slender hands
And all in scarlet was her great beast
dressed
With 'broideries of gold. The swaying
trunk
Made a slow rhythm to match her piping
song;
Its sombre eyes blinked on the market place,
Where there were slim and peaceful men of
Ind,
Who sold their bamboos for Arabian spears,
And travelled Ethiopians, purple-black
As autumn plums among their glossy leaves,
And fakirs screaming with a yellow bowl,
And silent men from Mecca, turbaned green,
And kneeling camels, snarling at their loads
Of spotted leopard skins and odorous woods.
There was an Arab lad who loitered by,
A swart, fine lad with eyes of desert-brown,
Who carried in his robe a sprig of myrrh
Me plucked at dawn beside a far-off well.
He saw a woman on an elephant
Where other men saw only wisdom throned--
An elephant with monstrous, flapping ears
That picked its way among the lighting dogs
And whining beggars, cringing, merchant-
Jews.
And rotting fruits and tumbling, naked
babes
And bales of rainbow silks and priceless
rugs,
Colored like storm-clouds, shot with gleam-
ing threads
Of summer lightnings. And he heard her
sing
The whimsies that she made of nightingales
And bruised pomegranates, heavy with old
blood.
She was a noble bard, the sherif said.
Even the caliph hearkened when she sang;
And wise men sought her counsel at diwan,
And many dinar filled her treasure chest.
The Arab saw not any poetess.
Nor any cold and sexless loveliness.
Tie saw a Woman bonding over pots,
Milking a lean she-camel at the door,
Suckling a naked baby in the sun.
The singer rode upon her elephant;
It set its foot upon a sprig of myrrh....
The Arab lad into the desert went
And all the way he carried in his heart
A woman crying of her loneliness!
QTJKE N ST. A XI).
M. FORREST.


m
V * . V
%(»•?/ *.v? y A : ;i'
raw
|-K^|
fffiPPMf
.*'• 1>-J
/wp*l«*Jfi!
sssss
“ fc’-i’VV^Ji: •www;
G^Kf&pgs
w v ■
Mwasss
■
3
@SS®1
ill^i
£’5iv*37-*$S
•N'J.
Sr
*}»Vj
SjVw.iv:*?
flr
fedgsasSsra
I. •; V'*
mw
:/i'i tii ‘jw^SagTSS!
si
wVf.j3
■
5>.V,/ : ,I.’^Vj• .ritiv,^/<^>gp£s5F.£v? To i -y.* *■:
nHHui
■
HMtti
. -
'3 , -ir*-J“
.-./.vv:, »;V». 'A'/i-<AS
“iivir V irl
frttp J»w£
G ,.j5
isilifil
mMwmm
KSii
SciwW
WroS
x-.-xirc-r>i^
■•'•*. .V.. ;rjr~>’£:Sj {S f v
' -
SBJ
VM
R5R
XVi
■*&
' ;>S;j’.' >^.
*■*1
S'
V“
.
as
g,; M,
£+&&&&
35V*SgB
SiJNP
c-.j-/:
'
3£*as»i is
ARTAIETAG ceilings
Distinctive Ceilings for Every Home.
FROM amongst the hundreds of beautiful designs we have
available, you may select just those Ceilings necessary
to complete the attractiveness of your home interior. An
atmosphere of dignity and refinement will be created by the
judicious choice of artistic Ceilings in Wunderlich Art Metal.
Whether for cottage or mansion, we have designs which ideally
meet the need.
And not alone will the demands of appearance be fulfilled.
Our Art Metal will ensure permanence, freedom from petty
troubles such as warping and cracking, and a full measure of
protection against the spread of fire. From the point of view
of Utility, Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings are eminently desirable.
Such advantages as we offer do not mean extravagant expendi-
ture. On the contrary, our Art Metal Ceilings are obtainable
at very moderate prices, and the cost of transport and fixing
is extremely low. Any tradesman can fix our Ceilings.
Learn more about these distinctive Ceilings from our Home
Builders Catalogue—post free, on request; or send us plans
of your rooms and u:c trill gladly submit designs and quotations.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Manufacturers.
HEAD OFFICE: Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Showrooms.
SYDNEY: Baptist Street, Redfern.
NEWCASTLE: 53 Hunter Street.
MELBOURNE; 243 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 119 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Amelia Street.
PERTH: Lord Street.
HOBART: Maecuiarie Stpeet.
LAUNCESTON: St. John Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.
Vol. 45. —No. 2305.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1924.
Pbice 6n.
TOO LONG IN THE TOOTH.
“There is no concealing the fact that Nationalism is a party of old men with old rinds.”
THE BOSS: “It’s easy enough to dye him a different color, as I have before. But how am I to keep the public from seeing his mouth?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRITiERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Acstralasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, los. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of t’t-l* paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co umn
till contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches f those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
30<0 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A l communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return, all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sona’ applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
•illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in Bondon is
Ij. St. C. Grondona, Australia House, Strand,
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Anstralia House. Alsc from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.-’i: E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, \6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.: “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London. W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury ;• . Benoni Nevis
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C. „ ,
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner . 6th
Avenue and ’{2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst. Street, New York City:
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, IJong
Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera. 16 Bailin', Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing So 7 ion, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.1,.
U.S.A.— J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The* Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
100z. 9 Id. United Kingdom: i to 10 oz. 9 lbd.; each
additional !,oz.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1924.
THE GUESSING COMPETITION.
All the world is engaged in a huge guessing
competition; and the prizes of the next
generation go to the nation that guesses most
correctly. The figures relating to the in-
tended naval construction of the immediate
future fill many of us with a puzzled dread;
yet those figures do not necessarily mean the
passing of naval power—or any other power
—into new hands. In the thirteenth and
fourteenth centuries the main fighting factor
among European nations was the knight in
armor. It is rather startling to read in
VillehaedoUln’s Chronicle that 700 good
knights were supposed to be a match for
40,000 infantry. At that time the construc-
tion of heavy armor meant the safety of a
nation. Plenty of men could be found to
wear it, but the plates of iron forming the
protective dress were expensive and took
time to hammer into shape. Yet by the
early part of the fifteenth century any calcu-
lations built upon the number of suits of
armor a na’ion possessed would have been
utterly wrong. Arrows from the strongest
bows had failed to pierce the thick defensive
plates, though a rare shaft found its way
between the joints; but the moment the
primitive cannon began to roar everything
was changed. A new weapon had been
brought into the field which necessitated new
tactics; for the cannon-shot knocked the
armor-plated knight down and left him to
smother in his iron-bound helplessness, bo
the odds became all in favor of quick move-
ments of horse and foot; and victory -was
likely to rest with those who had made the
best guessing about the effect of the change.
At the present moment it is impossible to
say what shapes naval offence and defence
will take. One authority clings to his faith
in the big ships; another thinks the sub-
marine is to be the main weapon ; a third
holds that air-craft must make a quick end
of both. The battleship and the cruiser in
the late war did not greatly prove them-
selves as destroyers of the enemy, but they
did prove themselves as trade protectors —
and therefore as food gatherers —at a time
when Britain was in danger of starvation. It
is not a wise thing to turn down any tried
weapon until it has been demonstrated that
it is useless; and in the present instance the
British Admiralty refuses to guess that the
big ships are useless.
* * * *
But among the currents and cross-currents
of human thought and endeavor swirling:
from the present into the future, the room
for guessing is so wide that defence may not:
depend upon any mechanism of war at all..
There are people who bravely guess that the:
League of Nations will become a great reality,
that out of the present bickering will arise
a grand harmony. On present appearances
such guessing seems wild,“ but there is always
the chance that it may be right. In spite
of truculence of speech and fierce newspaper
propaganda, there have been real indications
that sore nations are eager for a kindly
and healing word; and it is distantly pos-
sible that a better understanding all round
may reduce the necessity for making large
preparation to meet the worst evils. But
looking at the new map of Europe, and con-
sidering the course of events since the war
ended, the prospect is not one to make for
happy guessing. There are ,too many
bottled-up dangers, too few safety-valves. If
the past is to be any guide to the future,
the whole field is sown with bombs ; and the
firing of the least of them may cause the
explosion of all the rest. Every nation,
great and small, is a house divided against
itself on economic and social questions; yet
practically all the jarring factions distrust
those whose aims they do not understand.
Racial feeling runs just as strongly as ever:
and it is much complicated by political in-
trigue. Desires and ambitions of exactly
the kind that smashed Germany are but
thinly disguised in some corners; and small
new States have learned so little from the
war that they actually dream of succeeding
where that mighty combination of Central
Europe failed. The likeliest guessing sug-
gests things that are not good to contem-
plate; but there is also the guess that these
may be wrong.
* * * *
In this guessing, as in that commercialised
guessing called gambling, there is nowhere
any safe system to follow. A time may
coine when charts of universal mind may be
compiled like those of the weather, and when
storm and fine days in the human atmosphere
may be predicted with moderate accuracy;
but all that is still far away. No one in
the ages that are gone could have predicted
the rise of Rome, much less its fall, though
now we are able from the vantage point of
the years to find pretty good reasons for
both. None could have guessed that the
enduring influence of Athens would be greater
than that of Babylon and. Thebes. The
whole business of guessing is in the main a
mere picking of horses from the card, a mere
plunging on what seems to us to be likely.
Yet in the matter of betting there are. book-
makers who, by a system of setting off pos-
sible losses against possible gains,
always to win, whichever horse may get the
judge’s decision. Wise statecraft will make
its book, too. A nation must not be kent
from dreaming its best dreams; but it should
not fail to make provision in case its worst
and blackest guesses prove to be right. In
viewing the world to-day and considering the
likely trend of events to-morrow, we need the
optimism of the greatest enthusiasm for
humanity to carry us through. Let us
believe in mankind; for onlv so shall we be
able to bear a hand iri lifting the world to
a stable and safe place. But it is danger-
ous to leave the matter there. We must see
that there is due provision to meet the
failure of our best guesses. Though we
refuse to believe that we may be in another
huge, cruel, devastating war within, the next
few years, we ought to have an insurance
against our belief being wrong. The surest
way to peace is probably a peaceful inten-
tion ; but the quietest man among his neigh-
bors may be well advised to keep a revolver
in his lonely house. Where all is. guess-
work, the people who guess most are likeliest
to guess right at some point.
A CHOICE OF TWO CULTURES.
“The ouestion arises: ‘How are we going to protect
our country in ease of invasion by a foreign Power V
If we had twice the present population, with the
huge coastline we have, what chance would we have
against a strcng naval Power? Not much. Would
it not, therefore, be wise for us to court the friend-
ship of the United States of America?. .. .Would it
not be wise to give them an interest in Australia
by borrowing from them one-half pf the money we
require for renewing our loans, and also half of
what we will require for developmental purposes?”—
Sydney Telegraph correspondent.
This issue had to arise with the hanging-up,
for however brief a period, of the Singapore
scheme. To the superficial eye Australia is
already closer, not only geographically, but
spiritually and politically, to the U.S.A.
than it is to England. Our foreign problem
is the same: both countries have rich coastal
belts, sparsely populated, and capable of
supporting millions of Asiatic agriculturists.
We went to Washington for a Constitution
quarter of a century ago, and the tendency
ever since has been to move towards Ameri-
can governmental methods. The ward boss,
Tammanyism, corrupt party politics, the in-
trusion of Big Business into administra-
tion, the handing of palm-oil to men in
power, and the multiplication of officials —
all these recognised American features are
with us now. It is not too much to say
that, with the exception of a corrupt judici-
ary, we have assimilated to a greater or less
extent every undesirable convention known to
the Washington lobbyists; and there are
clear signs that the integrity of our Courts
is threatened. Ninety per cent, of Austra-
lians derive practically all their ideas about
foreign manners and customs from films,
which in 95 per cent, of cases are of Ameri-
can origin, and represent the poorest type
of Americanism at that. The extent to
which these productions are acting and re-
acting on th £; public may be gathered from
an examination erf the press which is grow-
ing up side tfcr side with them: both pander
to blood, criiMe and nudity, while shouting
their highmindedness in a voice as unmis-
takably American as that of a professional
prohibitionist. Ethics and taste apart,
these are affecting our language,
sports and soofral customs. Australia will
have to decide* shortly whether its orienta-
tion is to be n(cst or east; whether it is to
remain the easily recognisable British com-
munity it was when the World War began,
or become a nation of synthetic and second-
class Yanks, joined to the republic on the
other side of the North Pacific by a tie
compounded oP Ford cars, Hollywood art,
vaudeville and musical-comedy stars, and
dollars.
A common Illusion that badly needs to be
dispelled is that we could borrow enough
from the U.S« to make it worth Washing-
ton’s while to come to our assistance in the
event of trouble with Japan. The notion is
akin to those* glittering fictions by which
sharpers show their dupes an easy road to
wealth. All the money owed to Wall-
street by all the nations of Europe would
not have the U.S. into the war in
1917, but for a realisation by the people that
if Germany won it would be their turn
next. There is also an idea that the Repub-
lic would leap to arms if a colored race
menaced the WUite Australia doctrine. But
over 12 million American citizens are them-
selves colored, £fcid, in addition, there is an
immense German and Latin population
whose members would not raise a finger to
preserve the rafle-purity of a neighbor. The
miscegenation Which has been proceeding in
the U.S. fo,r generations has made it a coun-
try exceedingly hard to unite on any foreign
issue. It is so divided, nationally and raci-
ally, that no Government dares to make a
bold move in a matter of foreign policy:
even an {approach towards the League of
Nations hais to be camouflaged, and the only
universally popular doctrine is that pro-
pounded by the Republicans—that the U.S.
must entirely dissociate itself from the
troubles of the rest *of the world. Far from
its being ivi the national interests of the
U.S.A. to intervene between the Common-
wealth and* .Japan, it would suit Washington
well to hc*ld aloof. It is generally recog-
nised that 1 the virile race to our north is
going to someone for a place in the sun
during the/ next half-century or less. What
more fortunate, from the hundred-per-cent.
American /standpoint, than that Asia should
satisfy itsi land-humger in this part of the
world rathtar than on the Pacific slope? A
sop Of that magnitude ought to satisfy the
Japanese Cferberus for centuries to come.
* * -X- *
So the Commonwealth’s only real hope of
security Ifyjs at present, and must till such
time as the country is adequately populated
and industirialised—for. say, 50 years, at
least—with Britain. The tie will only be
preserved tin the strenuous days ahead by
looking re&olutgly away from Los Angeles
and towards London, away from Washing-
ton and towards Westminster. It should be
easy eimugSn The jazz-culture of the U.S.A.
which is fyeing grafted on young Australia
by the agency of Yankee pictures, plays
and periodicals is alien to the whole spirit
of the 98-per-eent. British race which in-
habits this -continent. We have been handed
a heritage o*f freedom. America talks a good
deal of liberty, but, like the type of lady
who talks much of her virtue, hardly knows
the thing by sight. The Volstead amend-
ment is a negation of freedom in itself such
as would not be endured in a country like
Britain, where the doctrine is understood;
and each fKesh attempt to enforce the unen-
forceable-—«ew shipping laws, new laws as
to domicilljjry visits, ‘new anti-smuggling
laws, new haws for the control of hotels and
restaurants-] —delimits liberty further and
benefits noite but the myriad of officials who
are making; fortunes out of the campaign.
America is a great, a rich, and in many
respects an enlightened_ country (though, as
to the last, its 110 millions of people cannot
show a front-rank name in art, literature or
music ; but it is a country where
a white majy get 20 years’ penal servitude
for making an honest woman of a negress;
where such men as Dr. Meiklejohn (late
president of Amherst College) and Professor
Ross (late of Leland Stanford University)
may be ousted for stating truths that' are
platitudinous elsewhere; and where Jews
and Roman Catholics are liable to be shot
on sight. Britain’s civilisation is better
adapted to this country, and British friend-
ship is better worth having despite the snarls
and jeers of those with grievances against
England or monarchism or both. The
strengthening of a tie which has been fray-
ing considerably of late can be achieved by
activities as profitable to ourselves as to the
United Kingdom. A ban should be placed
on those who, not content with blocking
immigration by every means in their power,
make a point of behaving like hoodlums to
British immigrants. The educative influence
of the cinema is enormous, for good or evil,
and we should insist that of the films shown
here a fair proportion shall be the admir-
able ones now being produced in the United
Kingdom. And, above all, there is defence.
Australia and Maoriland can co-operate at
sea with the British and with no one else.
The British, despite the Ramsay Mac-
donald Government’s attitude towards the
Singapore-base question, are obviously
anxious to join in a comprehensive scheme
of Empire defence, provided those Dominions
which are vitally interested abandon their
selfish old traditions and make the necessarv
financial sacrifices. They will be made
quickly enough when the Australian
is brought to understand that the safety of
his country lies in an approximation to" the
cultural and naval traditions of Britain:
if we are once effectively Yankeefied they
.never will be made.
MURDER, THE MIND AND THE
LAW.
Murder is a particular kind of man-
killing, and only in minor detail has the
law, in the course of time, varied its con-
cept of what shall constitute the crime. The
Common law was in the davs of James I.
defined by Coke to be as follows: “When a
person of sound memory and discretion un-
lawfully killeth any reasonable creature in
being, and under the King’s peace, with
malice aforethought, either express or im-
plied,” he is guilty of murder. “Malice
aforethought” has been a battlefield foi
jurists. Its modern equivalent, "intent,
is the essence of the crime. In olden days
such malice was implied from a field of inci-
dent it would not cover to-day. Thus
in those days A. went out carrying a gun.
but with no homicidal intention. On his way
he saw a neighbor’s hen, and was tempted
to kill and steal it. He fired at the fowl,
and, being an atrociously bad shot, missed it.
but unfortunately hit a stranger just arrived
on the scene. When A. fired at the bird he
did so with the felonious intention of appro-
priating it, stealing another man’s property.
Once seized of this felonious intention lie
became responsible for all the consequences,
whether foreseen or not, that flowed from
his act. The wounded man refused to under-
go an operation that, probably, would have
saved his life, and died nine months after
the wounding. The hard luck of it was that,
had the man lingered three months more and
a day, A. must have been acquitted of mur-
der, since after the lapse of a year and a
day the law infers that some other cause
of death has intervened. In A.’s day all lar-
ceny in which the value of the article stolen
exceeded one shilling was a felony punish-
able by death, the sentence being generally
commuted into transportation. A. was there-
fore sentenced to death. Had he lived in our
midst to-day lie would have fared quite dif-
ferently. Trying to shoot another man’s lieu
is not, even with the most unskilled citizen
soldier, “an. act obviously dangerous to life,”
done recklessly or wantonly, or “a crime pun-
ishable bv death or penal servitude for life.’
The Crimes Act of N. S. Wales defines
murder as follows :
Murder shall be taken to have been committed
where the act of the accused, or the thing by him
omitted to be done, causing the death charged, was
done or omitted with reckless indifference to human
life, or with intent to kill, or inflict grievous bodily
harm upon, some person, or done in an attempt to
commit, or during or immediately after the com-
mission, bv the accused, or some accomplice with
him, of an act obviously dangerous to life, or of a
crime punishable by death or penal servitude for
life.
All other punishable homicide is man-
slaughter. Acts or omissions which are not
“malicious,” or for which the accused has
lawful cause or excuse, do not come within
this definition, and it is specially provided
that no punishment or forfeiture shall be
incurred by any person wlio kills another by
misfortune only, or in his own defence.
The popular conception of murder is asso-
ciated with acts of violence or the active
doing of something to the deceased, such as
the administration of poison. But the atti-
tude may be an absolutely passive one, as
where a father knowingly and callously let
his child die of starvation; or it may be
with reckless indifference, as where an un-
filial son carried his sick father, against his
will, in a severe season, from one town to
another, and in consequence the old man
died. He was found guilty of murder. Even
mortal temptation may not excuse. Imagine
a broad expanse of sea, a boat with starving
sailors in it, eight days without food, and
no sail in sight. At the bottom of the boat
lies a boy, helpless, and seemingly dying.
Despite his protests the sailors kill him and
live on his flesh for four days. They plead
that their only chance for life was to kill
one of their number, and the boy, being
weaker than the rest, was likely to die the
first. They are held to be guilty of wilful
murder.
Provocation, such as bodily violence, may
reduce the killiug from murder to man-
slaughter • but mere verbal abuse or calumny
was, at one time, not sufficient. D. was
sentenced for a gross libel to be flogged from
Newgate to Tyburn ; “and as lie was return-
ing from Tyburn, F., a barrister, asked him
in a jeering way whether he was run his
heat that day. He replied in scurrilous
words, whereupon F. ran him into the eye
with a small cane in his hand, and of the
wound D. died and F. was executed for his
murder.” The broad rule is that the provoca-
cation must be sufficient to deprive an ordi-
nary man of self-control; and now statutory
provision is made that “the use of grossly
insulting language or gestures” is in - this
respect equivalent to a blow.
The juryman seeking a loophole for escape,
or mercy, may not delude himself that the
prosecution will have a hard task to sheet
home malice or intent. It is uot the Crown’s
duty to do so. Said Byles, J.: “The prose-
cutor is not bound to prove that the homi-
cide was committed from malice prepense. If
the homicide be proved, the law presumes
malice.”
The other root-element in the crime of
murder is expressed in Coke’s words as
“sound memory and discretion.” The mean-
ing attached to these words has . widened
down from precedent to precedent. The
danger of an interpretation so broad as to
endanger the safety of society, or so narrow
as to be inhuman, was pointed out as far
back as the seventeenth century, by Sir
Matthew Hale, C.J.: —
Doubtless most persons that are felons of themselves
and others are under a degree of partial insanity
when they commit these offences (felonies) ; it is
very difficult to define the line that divides perfect
and partial insanity; but it must rest upon circum-
stances duly to be weighed and considered by the
Judge and jury, lest on the one side there be a
kind of inhumanity towards the defects of human
nature, or, on the other side, too great an indul-
gence given to great crimes.
He gives a standard in these quaint words
The best measure I can think of is this : such a
person as, laboring under melancholy distempers
hath yet ordinarily as great understanding as ordi-
narily a child of 14 years hath, is such a person as
may be guilty of treason or felony.
In the following century the case of Lord
Ferris advanced the matter a little further,
it being held that it was sufficient if the
accused were possessed of such rcasou as
enabled him to apprehend the nature of his
actions and to discriminate between good and
evil. The notable case of Hadfield, charged
with the high treason of shooting at George
111., again raised the question ot murder and
madness. Hadfield labored under the delu-
sion that he had “constant intercourse with
the Almighty Author of all things.” Ebskixe.
who appeared for the accused, declared that
“it is agreed by all jurists, and is estab-
lished by the law of this and every other
country, that it is the reason of man which
makes him accountable for his actions, and
that the deprivation of reason acquits him


of crime." The .prisoner was acquitted. In
1848 McNagiiten’s case created so much
Parliamentary and public interest that the
Judges were called upon to declare the true
state of the law as to insanity and the crime
of murder. The result has been summarised
as follows:—
To establish a defence on the ground of insanity
it must be dearly proved that at the time of the-
i ommitting of l he act the party accused was laboring
under such a defect of reason from disease of the
mind as not to know of the nature and quality oi
the act lie was doing, or, if he did know it, that
lie did not know lie was doing what was wrong.
As to the “partial insanity’Teferrod to so
long ago by Hale, the Judges held that “not-
withstanding the party accused did the act
complained of....under the influence of in-
sane delusion, he is nevertheless punishable
if lie knew at the time of committing such
crime that ho was acting contrary to the law
of the land.” That the delusion may be
directed towards some supposed benefit to
others, or to society as a whole, is imma-
terial.
There the law stands to-day : and though
it is an advance on the position laid down
by a Judge in 1723, that to exempt a man
from punishment it must be shown that “he
is totally deprived of his understanding and
memory, arid doth not know what he is doing,
no more than an infant, than a brute or a
wild beast.” it is thought by some-that it
has still further to go—Hint it does not
cover the whole field. There is the position
described by a Continental alienist where “a
person who commits a criminal act may be
perfectly well acquainted with the laws and
their prohibitions, and yet labor under aliena-
tion of mind. He may know that homicide
is punished with death and yet have no free-
dom of will.” Our law appears to assume, in
such cases, a clear-cut line between “partial
insanity” and the restraint of will by reason.
It does not recognise impulse made irresis-
tible by insane delusion. Reason, control-
ling the will, may sit apart in a “dry light,”
while some part of the mental whole is tor-
mented and awry by the intense pressure of
circumstance, by delusion, or by spiritual
phantasy.
T. B. C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The War that Is Still On.
“The conditions of health in Australia were so
alarming that a Royal Commission should inquire
into the matter. It had been shown that the incidence
ot typhoid (a preventable disease) in Australia in
1922 was greater than it was in France among
•>,'000,000 troops living under war conditions in
1916-17.”— Neville Howse, V.C., 3I.H.R.
Tiie buttress of disease is mankind’s lack
of imagination. When nations go to war
they are not long without object-lessons in
the meaning of the business. The lists of
the dead and wounded are starred, maimed
figures appear in public, prices rise: those
affected do not shrink from the most despe
rate efforts to end such a state of affairs.
Rut there is another sort of war, identical
in its effects and equally cruel, to which
scant attention is paid by politicians or the
general public. An an early stage of the
< iallipoli campaign the army doctors realised
that a war within a war was on; that it
was as necessary to beat disease as to beat
the Turks or Germans—in fact, that the
second undertaking could not be accomplished
without the first. In course of time the
preventable diseases were reduced to negli-
gible proportions. By the middle of 1917
there was profound truth in the epigram
coined by Mrs. IT. B. Irving that “it was
safer to be a soldier in the trenches than a
baby in England.” The soldier might be
blown to pieces or bayoneted: he could be
sure of pure food and an untainted water-
supply. The war of violence is over, but
an equally deadly though insidious one is in
full swing. Typhoid kills as effectively as
any bullet, and where it fails to kill it may
leave sequelae as crippling as shrapnel or gas.
No one bothers outside the medical profes-
sion and the more intelligent inhabitants of
the districts affected. Yet in this conflict
the casualty lists are enormous and the
economic losses are in proportion. In every
war the combatants are spurred on by talk
of the shame and misery that will befall the
women and children in the event of failure.
The venereal diseases (which were reduced
in the A.I.F.’s last year in France to one
case per 200 men) do more damage, year
in year out, to the women and children of
Australia than the Germans did in any one
year to the women and children of Belgium.
Because no serious steps are being taken
to limit, much less eradicate, V.D., babies
are being born blind, deformed or mentally
deficient, and women are being exposed at
the best to unsexing operations liable to
leave them invalids for life, and at the
worst to death. The means of checking this
offensive are known. If put into operation,
on the business-like lines adhered to in field
warfare, V.D. would be routed as inevitably
as a pro-Jutland warship that engaged the
Hood. The armies of science whose members
have a unique opportunity to see the horrors
that are occurring daily are eager to
advance; but for a variety of reasons they
are held hack—in the case of V.D. by a dis-
torted piety which sees the Creator as a
bend desirous of punishing newly-born in-
*ari ts for the sins of their parents,
and by a distorted feminism which
prefers that virtuous wives should be in-
fected and their inexperienced sons trans-
formed into lepers rather than that prosti-
i utea should he discriminated against by
man-made laws. But, after all, these repre-
sent a noisy minority. They correspond to
those pacifists who. when a predatory enemy
has their native land by the throat, advo-
rare non-resistance on a point of religions
principle. The bulk of the popul ation are
apathetic .because they simply cannot real-
ise what is going on, and till the nation is
(luigntened no serious move is to he expected
from its parasites, the party politicians.
~T7 ♦
The Migrant as Voter,
Hijiierto Nationalist politicians have been
keen on State-aided immigration of land-
sett ers from Britain, and Labor politicians
have been hostile or lukewarm. The zeal of
the Nationalists was stimulated by an im-
pvessiou that the average immigrant had
strong Conservative sympathies, and could
be trusted to vote the right ticket. This
belief was shared by the other side, whose
opposition was stiffened thereby. In West-
ralia, however, the group settlers brought
in by a Nationalist Government have stag-
gered that combination by supporting Labor
candidates. In Murray-Wellington, where
most of them are located, they polled so
strongly against W. J. George, the Minister
for Works, that his majority was nearly
wiped out, although it is a seat in which
Labor never had a hope before. On one
group the voting was 48 to 2; on another 22
to 2; on a third 22 to 4-—all for Labor
against the Nationalist Minister. Of the
total group-settlement votes counted in
Murray-Wellington, the Labor man got 480
and the Nationalist 117. No doubt many
of the newcomers had grievances against the
Government, but that doesn’t wholly explain
their remarkable refusal to do what was
expected of them as a body (one paper pub-
lishes an affecting caricature of a “pommy”
hound biting the hand that had fed it. the
hand belonging to an anguished Nationalist
Premier). The truth is that the post-war
immigrant is saturated with the sentiments
of the now British democracy. In his own
country, perhaps, he voted for .Tack Jones,
or Sakeatvyea the Parsec', or Newbold
the Communist, or for some Poplar or
Clydeside demagogue who maintained that
the* unemployed should be entitled to draw
£5 a week from the rates and live rent-free.
And, unless he was born with a genius for
pioneering, change of environment is not
likely to moderate his view's. On the con-
trary, it is apt to give him new grudges
against society, inasmuch as he gets lots of
time to brood on the fact that he has been
taken from his homeland, which was to have
been “made lit for heroes,” to grub trees
and wrestle with stubborn soil in A far
country, where the wind whistles eerily at
night. Not all the “migrants” answer to
this description, of course, but many of them
are radicals in politics, socialists of a type
more aggressive than .we are accustomed to
in Australia, and there will be some note-
worthy recantations and conversions among
the legislative gentry when the fact soaks
in. The public may yet see vast immigra-
tion proposals introduced by Labor Govern-
ments. and opposed by Nationalists on the
ground that they are really nefarious schemes
for strengthening the Labor vote.
♦
A Great Natural Industry.
The successful protest made last week
against a proposal to supply imported wines
at the Federal Government’s Fleet dinner
in Sydney points the way to an over-due cam-
paign. There will always be ostentatious pri-
vate citizens eager to supply their guests with
whatever is exotic and expensive, regardless
of the quality of the article. For genera-
tions in Australia hosts have been getting
the financial advertisement, and their guests
the morning headache, because it has been
fashionable to offer imported sparkling wines
at dinner instead of the local article. Be-
fore the war some of the most abominable
aerated alcohol known to civilisation came
to Australia labelled “French champagne,”
and was lapped up appreciatively. These
concoctions were indispensable at all Gov-
ernment House and club dinners, at every
kind of public function, and at private festi-
vities given by those who were not con-
fessedly the possessors of beer incomes. The
liquor was necessarily inferior, since, while
the same process of absorption was going
on in almost every solvent quarter of tin-
globe, the strip of French soil on which
champagne is produced is extremely small.
In those days practically the whole of the
good sweet champagne that was exported
went to Russia < then an abode of multi-
millionaires), while the dry was divided
roughly between London, Berlin and New
York. Visiting foreigners marvelled at the
powers of resistance possessed by the Aus-
tralian stomach after a sample beaker of
one of our imported celebration wines, and
connoisseurs, such as Melba, were careful
to bring their own champagne ..with them.
Our own wines were practically' tabu: in
1014 the conventional citizen would no more
have admitted that Australian-made hock
was drinkable than lie would have believed
that Australians could be turned into sol-
diers equal to foreign fighting men. Yet by
11*14 Australian vignerons were turning out
wines of a claret, hock and champagne type
far ahead of the majority of the chemical
outrages from overseas which were then
in favor, and their price was low. The posi-
tion is different to-day. Much of the old
prejudice against Australian wines has van-
ished. so that they now figure in the lists
of all the big clubs, and are offered without
shame at expensive social functions. On
the other hand, the competition from abroad
has been growing of late, and it threatens
to be intensified. America is importing, in-
stead of the bulky wines of the Rhine and
Champagne districts, the whisky of .Scotland
and the rum of the West Indies; and Russia
is too poor to celebrate on anything more
expensive than vodka. Also, the franc is
still down, and the mark shows no signs of
getting up. lienee French champagne
which, three years ago. would have been from
255. to 80s., is now on offer at 10s. od. The
Australian vigneron really has little to hope
for- —in the immediate future, at any rate —
from the over-stocked European market.
Ilis best market is his own market; and
to get that he must cut vigorously into the
imported wine business —as lie did last week.
And then he must increase the light-wine
drinking population—a matter partly ot
bringing down his prices, and partly of re-
spectabilising the trade.
-♦
The Need of a New Currency Htandard.
“J.8.D." pays the Empire's war-debts:—
A Chinese Emperor, having been impoverished by
war, instituted a new coinage in the form of pieces
of white skin. Before doing so lie herded together
all the white deer from which the skins were taken
and made it a capital offence for any private person
to own an animal of that breed. This is virtually
what America has done as regards' gold. There is
locked up in the U.S. Treasury and the Federal
Reserve Banks over five times as much gold as the
United Kingdom holds and over three times as much
as there is in the British Empire, This vast store
is being added to at the rate of about £5,000,000 per
month. America does not dare to let the stuff
into circulation: to do so would mean starvation for
millions. And gold has lost its old pre-eminence as
an article of ornament. Only cheap jewellery is
set in that metal nowadays. The dinner-services,
goblets, etc., which were the delight of the nabobs
in Thackeray's time have been broken up as
evidences of profuse v ulgarity. Our profiteers eat off
rare china, which, while more extravagant in the
long run, appeals more to the present-day taste for
reticence. Platinum is the precious metal which
is in world demand. It: is what gold was before
the war and for 50 centuries before that. It
possesses every currency requirement—durability,
beauty, portability and value. It is found all over
the world. If Britain decided to replace her distant
prospect of a resumed gold standard by an almost
immediate platinum standard, the scheme should offer
few obstacles. The advantage of abandoning gold as
backing for notes would, be the speedy overthrow of
the curse which is now threatening us with Govern
ment-inspired inflation, and its result in the form
of deflated incomes. That is to say, tile war debt,
and notably the debt to America. The British Empire
produces about twice as much gold per annum as the
rest of the world. If tnis, together with a proportion
of the gold held by the Bank of England and the
Dominions, were diverted to the payment of the
U.S. debt, the value of the metal would slump. The
more, it slumped the easier repayment would become.
Washington might object. But no nation has yet
presumed to dictate to another on its choice in
currencies—-a predilection which has found expression
throughout the ages in such varied articles of value
as cattle, women, slaves, hides, bones, lead and iron.
And, in any event, the ethical distinction between
hoarding gold to maintain its value and distributing
it with the opposite intention is too fine to be worth
discussion.
Galen’s Greatest Failure.
Neville llowse, V.C., the medical member
for C'alare (N.S.W.), startled the House
of Reps, the other day by suggesting that
"a good many of those in this Chamber”
would die of cancer. He might have added
that cancer is a disease peculiarly fatal to
politicians, as witness the fact that in the
course of three years it struck down three
cx-Premiers of a State in which there have
been only 1.” Premiers altogether. Yet the
politicians, as politicians, have been strangely
insensible to its ravages. There are Aus-
tralian Legislatures which have never voted
a shilling for cancer research. Private En-
terprise has done a little in that field, but
Public Enterprise has pretty well confined
itself to making a record of the dismal facts.
Which facts are that cancer, once second to
tuberculosis among the scourges to which
Australians are subject, is now far more
destructive, that the mortality practically
doubled in 20 years (there were 2921 deaths
in 1908 and 4708 in 1921), and that the vic-
tims are mostly persons at that time of life
when the intellectual powers are at their
height. “And we haven’t the slightest rudi-
mentary knowledge of the disease,” says Dr.
llowse, with rare candor, lie states, how-
ever, that, while there are cases which defy
all treatment, cures have been effected by
X-rays and radium, and life can be pro-
longed by the surgeon’s knife. His report
to Parliament concluded with two useful
suggestions: (1) That the Commonwealth
Government should establish a research fund,
preferably as part of an Imperial arrange-
ment. and (2) that the disease should be
studied in every country associated with the
League of Nations. Some of the facts
already known are highly suggestive. The
world’s lowest death-rate (10 per 100,000
persons living) is found in the tropical island
of Ceylon. Jamaica, another tropical island,
also has a low death-rate (17 per 100,000),
and so have certain Balkan States (Rou-
mania, 19 per 100,000; and Serbia. 14 per
100,000). At the other end of the scale
are Scotland (122) and Switzerland (124) :
the-figures in every case are for the latest
recorded year. Our Australian rate (now 87)
used to be a lot below the world average,
but of recent years it has advanced alarm-
iagly. The low mortality in tropical coun-
tries where the people live mainly on fruit
and vegetable products suggests that a world-
wide study of climate and diet in relation
to cancer might have results precious to
the race.
* :
“What Shall We Do with Our Jews?”
Tiie measure of a country's progress may
he gauged, to a great extent, by the status
of its Jews. The reflection is provoked by
the news that Russia's Soviet Government is
“forming Jewish colonies on the Crimean
Peninsula and adjoining coast territories.'’
“It is thus hoped,” the message naively con-
cludes, “to bring the Jewish problem in
Russia nearer solution.” The best use the
Russians have been able to put proletariat
Jews to of late has been to cast them for
prominent parts in pogroms—this though
the central executive is largely in the
hands of bourgeois Jews. The explana-
tion is not unflattering to Israel. Wherever
a nation’s standards of intelligence and edu-
cation are low the Hebrew is bound to
prosper by reason of his vigor, mental and
physical; his capacity for assimilating learn-
ing; his acquisitiveness. In the Middle Ages,
when few possessed knowledge except ecclesi-
astics, the history of one Jewish family was
much the same as that of another. The
father settled down to match his wits against
those of the dullards around him, and grew
unpopular in proportion as he grew rich.
The inevitability of the poor Jew’s rise to
affluence is even more annoying in a com-
munity which for itself can see no avenue
of escape from the miseries of want. In the
circumstances violence appeals to the popu-
lace as the only remedy. It was not the
Church that was hostile to the Jews of Eng-
land in the thirteenth century; in fact, tin'
Franciscans gave thousands of them sanctu-
ary. As in Russia it was chiefly the poor
who insisted that they should be marked
with a distinguishing sign (in England two
pieces of wool worn on the breast), denied
civil rights and eventually slaughtered. And
their offence was the same then as it is in
Russia to-day: they made too much money.
A literate community can hold its own
against this astonishingly efficient race, and
derive benefits from it. The captains of
commerce in Britain and the U.S. to-day are
not Jews; on the other hand, Judaea
has supplied England, in recent times,
with a Prime Minister, a Lord Chief
Justice and a Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer; while Browning, Matthew
Arnold, Charles Kingsley, Henry Irving
and General Booth, amongst thousands of
other men and women, were Jews or near-
Jews. But. in Russia the Government can
only “hope to bring the Jewish problem
nearer solution” on the lines resorted to in
Edward I.’s reign. Edward exiled Eng-
land's 16,000 Jews, and Trotsky evidently
proposes to act similarly with those of
Russia, though the enterprise bears a dif-
ferent name. The habitable southern coast
of the Crimea is fully occupied ; so that the
migrant Hebrews are offered a choice be-
tween the centre and west of the peninsula
and the north and north-east, which are re-
spectively a desert steppe and a malarious
region watered by the Putrid Sea. Russia’s
unwanted Jews, may even make good there,
as many are reported to be already doing-
in the almost equally unpromising land of
Palestine. But if they do they will only
create a fresh problem, as the Zionists have
done in the Holy Land. The Colonial Office
report issued by a Commission appointed by
the High Commissioner for Palestine (him-
self a Jew) found, infer alia :—
That there is an undue proportion of .Tews in iiie
Government service.
That a part of the programme of the Zionists is
the flooding of Palestine with a people which posesses
greater commercial and organising ability than the
Arabs, and will eventually obtain the upper hand over
tiie rest of the population.
That the immigrants are an economic danger to
the population because of their competition.
There was more to the same purpose, and
it. all went to prove the same thing—that it
is cruelty to the uneducated to foist Jews
on them, and in the long run not a good
tiling for the .Tews themselves. If Jews arc
to be transplanted they should lie directed,
not to the sort of environment they have
already made too hot to hold them, but to
one of the forward lands- —the U.S., Britain.
Australia —where, instead of doing harm,
they would add to the country’s prestige in
statecraft, finance, art and literature.
♦
“Hanno”: I freely grant “Mapiien” (B.
27/3/’24) and others that there are a num-
ber of Australian doctors in England. But
they do not constitute 1 per cent, of the
total of practitioners on the Medical Regis-
ter of Britain, while from 15 to 20 per cent,
of medicoes practising in Australia are
graduates of British and foreign Universi-
ties. Moreover, Avith the exception of a
few specialists, who are right at the top of
the professional tree, the majority of Aus-
tralian doctors in the U.K. are men and
women bent on gaining a wider experience
in the hospitals of London and other cities
before returning to this country to settle
down, Avhereas practically all the English
graduates here are permanent residents. My
main point, however, is that Australia is
one of the very few countries in the world
that do not give their native-born-and-quali-
fied practitioners an advantage over out-
siders. An Australian, no matter how ex-
cellent his qualifications, cannot go to, say.
the United States or France and hang out
his shingle forthwith. The laws of those
countries require that ho must first either
pass an examination conducted by the State
-—sometimes so stiff as to be almost prohibi-
tive—or else complete the local medical
course, which takes from four to six years.
But there is nothing whatever to prevent
the graduate of an accepted American o'-
French University coming to Australia and
being registered as a medical practitioner
purely on the strength of his alien qualifica-
tion. It has never been harder for many
Australian doctors to make a decent living,
and yet there is a constant stream of new
practitioners coming in from outside to com-
pete with newly-fledged graduates of the
local medical schools. Surely the Austra-
lian medical profession is entitled to ask
for at least as much protection as other coun-
tries give their people.
The Earth Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mitch shall bo said of tho makers of thunder-
ous noises,
Roaring of cannon and truculent cry of the
wheels,
Clatter of engines aloft where the broad wing
poises
Over a discord of waters torn by the rush of
the keels ;
Speed and perpetual tumult deafen the earth
in her turning,
Rending explosions have shaken the base of
the far-dreaming hill,
Flames from the furnaces leap with a roar
of white burning—
These shall have praise for their speaking
of man and his will.
Yet shall the makers of quiet at evening be
Stronger,
They who have led us through silence to
happier sound.
Making a music of peace when the shadows
are longer,
Calling green sweetness to whisper of holier
ground.
Out from an uproar unthinkable, flaming,
stupendous
Earth crept away the full length of her
chain from the sun ;
She with the shadow of evening and dusk
shall defend us—
Earth and the children of earth in their
longings are one.
Murmur of dusk and the lisp of the clear,
falling waters,
Whisper of boughs on the hill and the. whimper
of reeds,
Sigh of the brown river oaks that are un-
do lant daughters
Of melody tuned to the silence of exquisite
deeds —
These did the earth of luxurious eye-dream-
ings fashion,
These that are soul-voice and pulse of the
day's desire.
After the noise shall be quiet—the deep,
gracious passion
Of singing under the trees and the stars’
white fire.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


T l }? Farmers'& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA us Jl?. ! ?
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CUPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums .. . . . . . . .. .. .. • • £8849
Seventh year’s premiums.. .. .. .. .. .. .. • • £87,728
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
TSe Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
Managing Director.
Captain Craufurd, Engineer-Commander
McNeil and five others. At 2.31 Captain
Craufurd pushed an electric button, and
with a muffled boom a charge of gelignite
in the forward depths of the ship tore a
great hole in her bottom, while simultane-
ously the Engineer-Commander opened the
sea-cocks aft. The signaller informed us
at 2.31: “Everything is opened.” Almost
immediately afterwards Captain Craufurd
and his party left the ship, and came aboard
the Brisbane. And then for 21 minutes
we stood sorrowfully by and watched that
strange and impressive death agony.
How she turned over, thrust up an
immense geyser through the hole torn in hex-
bottom, and sank stern first at 2.51 p.m.—
it is not necessary to linger over the details
of her final death struggle. But it may
be suggested that the traditions of the Royal
Navy might very fittingly be carried out in
perpetuating her name in the Royal Austra-
lian Navy. There have been more than one
Victory, London and Revenge in the parent
service. It would not be'a bad beginning to
bestow the name of the Australia upon
the first of the two new light cruisers
to be completed. And, incidentally, there
would be nothing wrong with calling the
other one Phillip in honor of the first naval
officer to do anything very material for Aus-
tralia, after Captain Cook had put the.
island continent definitely on the map.
The Treaty provided that the ship must be
either destroyed or permanently sunk within
H.M.A.S. AUSTRALIA.
[Fop. The Bulletin.]
Beating of wings and churning screws,
Moving out on a mournful cruise.
Oh, lifeless hulk with the black tugs towing,
Where are you going,
Where are you going?
Cruisers swift with spinning cranks,
And speed-foam hissing along your flanks,
Why do you cease your joyous racing?
Why are you pacing,
Silently pacing?
The wide wings cluster and circle round,
The dull screws cease their drumming sound.
As the crying bugles call to quarters
Hear the sound of the waters,
The swallowing waters!
Drumming of screws and throb of wings,
Sailing home where the sea-wind sings.
Oh, five black tugs with your tow-ropes
trailing,
Where is she sailing,
Where is she sailing?
n.s.w. Will Lawson.
4
A NAVAL OCCASION.
It was a beautiful early morning on Satur-
day—clear, cool and cloudless —when we
walked down to Man-o'-War steps in Sydney
Harbor to attend at the deathbed of H.M.A.S.
Australia. There was no Australian amongst
the tugful which went off to the light cruiser
Brisbane who did not feel a little unhappy
in contemplation of the day’s work ahead.
That venerable lie about the Australian s
lack of reverence is a little more libellous
to the native-born than the notion that he
is without sentiment or enthusiasm. To be
about to witness the passing of the ship that
had served us so w r ell almost a decade ago,
and had been the pride of our young but
efficient navy, was much the same sort of
thing as going to see a friend shot by a
firing-party. There was little joy in the
prospect. To us who had to witness it in
order to chronicle it, it was scarcely less
repugnant than it was to the sailormen who
had to do the murdering. One will not easily
forget the hushed quarterdeck of the Bris-
bane as the great ship sank and the guns
crashed out their farewell, officers and men
of the R.A.N. standing at attention and pas-
sengers bareheaded. The writer has no shame
in saying that there was a lump in his throat,
and suspects that he was not the only one
who swallowed hard. The eock-a-doodle-
doing of an excursion steamer’s whistle as
the blue waters closed above our pride seemed
blasphemous, damnable—though, to be sure,
it may have been well-meant. Her captain
had no guns to say good-bye with.
The strange business of leading the dis-
mantled battle-cruiser out to her destined
resting-place, 24 miles eastward of P’ort
Jackson, took more than six hours. The
rudderless, listing hull, scarcely controllable
by the four tugs that towed her to her deep
grave, 150 fathoms beneath the surface of
the Tasman Sea, yawed and lurched slowly
and painfully across the sunlit waters, pre-
ceded by the Brisbane at a pacejtliat barely
gave steerage way. It was 2.15 when we
came to the spot where she now lies nearly
1000 feet below the daylight, and we had
slipped from our moorings near Harden
Island at 7.50. HAL ships Delhi, Danae,
Dauntless and Dunedin overtook us on their
way to Queensland in the early forenoon,
with the blue Australian ensign flying at
half-mast, and Rear-Admiral Brand’s flag-
ship firing a salute of 21 guns as his squad-
ron passed by the doomed ship, for whom
the Brisbane made acknowledgment with a
similar number. And at length came the
final and indescribably pathetic ending to
this sad and singular voyage. The tugs left
her, and the last scene began.
On the deck stood the 14 officers and men
who had navigated the ship on her last short
voyage, under the command of Captain A. G.
Craufurd, R.N., Captain-in-Charge at Gar-
den Island. Two of the Brisbane’s boats
were manned and lowered to take them off.
We lay some 70 yards from her port side,
and her heavy list was in our direction.
Her great bulk slowly heaved in a moderate
swell. Overhead aeroplanes from the coast
began to buzz. About the dying battle-
cruiser H.M.A. ships Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Anzac and Stalwart, the four tugs,
four densely-crowded excursion steamers be-
longing to the Newcastle and North Coast
companies, a couple of motor-boats and a
steam launch lay in a rough circle. The
mailboat to Auckland passed by, dipping her
flag. At the stern of the Australia flew the
red cross of St. George, and at the bows
the Commonwealth’s blue ensign.
Standing beside the after-turret, a sig-
naller flag-wagged to the Brisbane at 2.20:
“Will open sea-cocks as soon as second boat
leaves.” Half the crew went in the first
boat, and there remained on board only
THE LAST POST.
a certain limit of time. The destruction as
defined therein had to go so far as the
removal of the bottom and side plating; in
other words, total demolition. This w T ork
could not be undertaken by any firm in Aus-
tralia within the limit of time laid down,
Still less could it have been done with any
prospect of profit to those concerned. The
sister ship of the Australia, the New Zealand,
was sold in England for £21,000. Much
more than twice that value of stores, fittings,
etc., were removed from the Australia..
“You may be able to emphasise the fact,”
said a navy friend, high in the service, “that,
seeing by the Washington Agreement we
cannot build capital ships, our next arid
most urgent requirement—in fact, exceeding
in importance all other put together—is the
provision of modern vessels to replace our
present cruisers. It would be no less than
murder to send out officers and men to meet
modern vessels which they could neither
overtake, fight with, nor run away from.
Moreover, Australia as an island is dependent
on sea-borne trade, inward and outward, and
cruisers are required, for the defence of that
trade, of such strength as to be able to
engage successfully any enemy vessel seeking
to interfere with it. In other words, they
must be of the maximum dimensions allowed
by the Treaty. Many people, including, I fear,
a large section of the press, are of the opinion
that submarines and aircraft would consti-
tute in themselves sufficient defence for this
country. No argument could be more absurd.
In the first place, were there 10,000 sub-
marines, or one for every mile of coastline,
and an infinity of aircraft, yet our sea-
borne trade would remain unprotected, and
those submarines and aircraft could only
operate for a few days until the oil supply
in the country became exhausted. Moreover,
submarines are frail craft, and for every
one at sea it may be taken that in wartime
there will be two refitting. Also, anti-sub-
marine devices are progressing at such a rate
that many thinking people are of opinion
that the submarine’s day as a weapon in
coastal waters is almost done. Again, as
regards aircraft, they could offer no pro-
tection to our trade, as their radius of
action is limited to, say, a couple of hundred
miles from a coastline.
“In speaking of a possible war with a
Power in the North, one often hears it
stated,” added my naval friend, “that it is
necessary to provide against military raids
on the part of the enemy during the first
few weeks while he is temporarily in com-
mand of the Eastern seas, and before the
main British fleet could arrive from Europe.
To my mind this is a risk which will have
to be taken; also it appears to be a very
minor risk. With all the teaching of his-
tory to guide him, it is most improbable
that the enemy would divert any con-
siderable force to attack any portion of
Australia until the main British Fleet had
been decisively defeated; and even should he
do so, with a coastline such as ours, and
with the absence of railways and other
means of communication, it would be im-
possible for us to prevent such a raid, unless
it were on the N. S. Wales or Victorian
coast; and that again is most improbable,
owing, for one thing, to the distance from
the enemy’s bases.”
This is no place to dip into the whole
question of Australian defence. But it seemed
to me, coming from the burial of one who had
done so much for us, that justice to her
memory demanded that we should realise —
and especially that our politicians should
realise—where we stand. The Navy cannot
do everything. Settlement must stride along
with other defence measures. The interpre-
tation clause of the Four Power Pact really
rips blie bottom out of the Treaty so far as
we are concerned. It expressly excludes from
the operation of the Treaty quarrels between
the contracting Powers arising out of questions
of domestic jurisdiction—racial exclusion, etc.
Further, as regards the League of Nations,
Article 10 of the Covenant will not always
maintain its present form. The League ot
Nations is not merely a league of white
nations. Therefore some day when some
colored race comes to the League and says,
“We are overcrowded and require room tor
expansion,” the question will be put to the
vote, and that vote must go against the
country in possession of territory which it
declines or fails to populate, or to utilise
as it should be utilised. .
On Saturday we lost the ship that
saved Australia from Admiral Von Spee ;
but we have not yet lost the R.A.N.
It may be a trifling thing; but it is a
nucleus. And, above all, it maintains a
tradition—the tradition which speaks through
the voice of my naval friend; the tradition
which, with effective co-operation _ from the
Parliaments, we may still hope will save us
in the darkest days that can break for us.
J. 11. M. Abbott.
It has been mentioned for the manyth
time that there is no prospect of the Darwin
meatworks resuming till a new wharf is
built, and if the N. Territory had a few
votes to sell someone might listen. As it
is -the somnolence continues, and it looks as
if the big province’s one manufacturing in-
dustry will lose another year.
“Obbor”: My experience was that the
Australian and the Scot on active service
developed a mutual liking (B. 3/4/’24) from
the moment each found out that, the other
thought there was too much blanky talking
on the job. Billjim’s impassive silence
blended with the dourness of Jock in making
them friends. There were many times in
France when too much talk “got on a
bloke’s nerves.”
Molloy, a former Chief Electoral Officer,
and Lang, Surveyor-General, are helping
Gilder, head of the electoral branch, to redis-
tribute Vic. Assembly constituencies on a
basis of 68 seats. There are to be two new
electorates south of the Yarra, one north of
the Yarra, and such alterations in the coun-
try as will make Mildura the centre of a new
constituency in the North-West. In the
course of the redistribution the pocket
boroughs of Grenville, Allandale, Warren-
heip and Ovens are in for a bad time.
“Enque”: If “Hanno” contented himself
with objecting to the admission into Aus-
tralian medical ranks of graduates from
countries which do not reciprocate he would
be on safe ground. But his attitude towards
Britain in the matter is altogether one-
sided. One of the leading anatomists in
the U.K., a man who also holds an inter-
national reputation as an Egyptologist, is
an Australian medical graduate. If the
British authorities had taken up the selfish
position that “Hanno” would have the Com-
monwealth adopt, it is doubtful if this emi-
nent doctor would ever have reached the posi-
tion he now occupies. Neither would the
Australian universities enjoy the kudos they
now have from his association with them.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Pratten, M.11.R. for Martin (N.S.W.), brought a
glow of interest to the dreary debate which preceded
the Easter adjournment with a knowledgeable speech
on finance. He had studied his subject, and his views
on the growth of Australian credits in London, which
possibly he over-rated for the purpose of making his
argument more arresting, were received with the
silence which- —in the House of Reps., at all events —
always betokens respect. His assertion that our
banking system is archaic will be disputed by
bankers generally, but it wasn’t contested in the
Chamber, probably because the matter was about as
intelligible to the bulk of his hearers as cuneiform
inscriptions are to a cow. Of course, there were
immediate suggestions that Pratten is ready to
take the post of Treasurer. But why shouldn’t he
be? It is further alleged that Bruce would favor
a reconstruction that would give his own party a
bigger voice in the Government; but if he men-
tioned it to Earle Page the latter might consider it
ground for a divorce.
The catchpenny debate about the Grafton
bridge proceeds. In the first place N. S.
Wales undertook to fill in the little gap at
the border and join its North Coast with
Brisbane, The promise was neglected for
years, because it meant giving the northern
people access to a Queensland port. Sud-
denly Hughes, that agile greaser of the fat
pig, made himself pleasant with two bunches
of votes by proposing that the Common-
wealth should carry a large share of the
cost. This looked final, but it wasn’t. At
Grafton, far away from the Queensland bor-
der, there is another break. A bridge is
required across the Clarence, and it is now
suggested that the Commonwealth might as
well build this also, thus debiting Tasmania
and S. Aus. and Victoria with their shares.
Possibly it will yet be proposed that the
States as a whole shall pay for the Sydney
Harbor bridge, which is likewise a coastal
“link.” These grabs by big, rich States,
which have such a genius for discoverine
that almost any sort of work inside their
territory is “national,” are not only sordid;
they delay progress.


“For Ever Best/'
STA 6
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
A Good Briar Pipe
which -Peapes guarantee
8/6
WARRIGAL
This is the “P.P.P.” (Peapes’ Perfect Pipe),
obtainable only from Peapes, for whom it is
specially made from selected briar roots.
All Shapes .... 8/6
Another Peapes’ Speciality is—
Peapes* “Warrigal” Mixture,
blended in Australia of the finest imported
tobaccos, medium strength.
3/3 per £lb. Tin; 12/- per lb.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Some Governments have a very solid
belief in hanging on to gold and making it
the basis of a large and well-secured not*
issue, so that there may be plenty of money
Avith which to pay wages and carry on busi-
ness. Australia, the “mug” in many finan-
cial lines, allows its gold output to be sold
abroad, though it can only get in return:
(1) Other people’s banknotes, of no more
value here than Julius Ca*sar’s cheque; (2)
other people’s silver money, ivorth perhaps
half its face value when melted down; (3)
other people’s goods, of which we receive too
much already. It is hard to get a new idea
started in Australia; but the matter of
hanging on to the only coin-material which
is any good to pay foreign debts with (and
we have undertaken to pay a vast amount
of foreign debt) is surely worth considera-
tion.
Thanks to 225 electors in Pilbarra having-
preferred the Labor man to Rufus Under-
wood, Labor M.L.A. for the district from
1906 till 1917 and a Nationalist since, West-
ralia’s Collier Government will be able to
put a member of its oivn party in the Chair
and still be in a majority of one. Had
Underwood got a dozen of the other chap’s
votes Collier would have had to ask a favor
of George Taylor, Labor M.L.A. for Mount
Margaret from 1901 till the Conscription
business and Nationalist Speaker for the
last six years. Collier has promised to alter
the amazingly favorable distribution of seats
to which he owes his Premiership. It is a
safe prophecy, however, that he will leave it
till the last session of Parliament, like
Scaddan in 1914 and Mitchell in 1923, arid
then, maybe, the customary accident will
happen.
The S.A. Labor party, which had only 16
Assembly seats in the last Parliament
(there are 46 altogether), will have 26 in
the next. For this it can thank Barwell
and his colored-labor sentiments; also his
pigheaded refusal to have anything to do
with electoral reform. A simple preferential-
voting measure, Avhich could have been
shoved through in a few days when his
crowd numbered 26, would have prevented
representatives of Labor minorities from
gaining one seat in Wooroora, another in
Barossa, and three in Burra Bnrra —con-
demned their party, in short, to remain in
Opposition for another three years, although
the Government mightn’t have been Bar-
Avell’s. The really remarkable thing about
the B.A. election is, not that Labor regained
office Avhen the conditions were all in its
favor, but that nearly half the votes went to
Liberal candidates, Barwell notwithstand-
ing.
When the Queensland Parliament resumes
business Moore, the Cocky member for
Aubigny, will lead the embattled Opposition,
which has hitherto had two chiefs, 'the
Gnashers and Agrarians having arranged an
entente cordiale under his captaincy. Each
ally is to preserve its integrity, and there
are to be separate as well as joint party
meetings, but clashing in the constituencies
is to be avoided by the Cockies organising
country seats, the Nationalists urban _ and
industrial seats. With a little tact on either
side a similar understanding could have
been arrived at before the general election.
It mightn’t have prevented a Labor success
at the polls, since the electoral boundaries
were all in Theodore’s favor, but it would
have averted a lot of ill-feeling and invective.
Some of Vic. Premier Lawson’s friends
want him to take the Speakership, vacant
through John Mackey’s death. Peacock
(who is not keen on it), McGregor, Billson
and Toutcher are others available, but none
of them is a Lalor or a Mackey, the State’s
best two so far. Lawson has become un-
fashionable as Premier, and if he were put
in the Chair there would be a chance for a
new Liberal leader. Naturally Peacock
would get the offer, but it is thought that he
would seek to pass on the commission to
Argyle, the present Chief Sec. There is no
hope of Liberalism getting a working
majority at next election, and as another alli-
ance with the Cockies Avill be necessary
Argyle would be more acceptable to the
Agrarians than Lawson. The transfer of
Lawson, if it comes off, will therefore be a
first step in political bridge-building.
It grows the least bit Avearisome, the
several-times-per-week news that Japan
keeps on being mighty glad that, the present
British Government won’t build a naval
base at Singapore. The news comes from
all sorts of quarters, and apparently it will
continue to come till the last Jap of the
NEXT MAN IN.
slightest importance has had his say, and put
his happiness on record. The latest to be
affected is Baron Matsui, of the Foreign
Office: —
We are glad that Britain has decided against
creating a naval base at Singapore. We know that
such a base would' not be designed in hostility to us,
but since we are not a potential enemy of Britain,
and since there is no other Eastern naval Power, to
construct such a base needlessly would cause a feel-
ing of regret and disappointment.
But why should it cause a feeling of regret
and disappointment? Who feels sorry when
a neighbor puts a lock on his door? On the
whole it might have looked better if our
good-natured little neighbors hadn’t behaved
so much like someone with a vast load off
his mind.
Two or three divisions have been carried
against the Ramsay Macdonald Govern-
ment, and people -who would cheerfully pole-
axe some of its members and regard it as
a duty they owed to society are asking why
it doesn’t resign. The reason is to be found
in Rammac’s announcement, made when he
met the House as Priminister, that Ms Gov-
ernment wouldn’t, quit unless the boot ivas
applied by Baldwin or Asquith in the way of
a direct no-confidence motion. It is a per-
fectly reasonable attitude Avhere there are
three parties. Had Australia adopted it
when the Cockies arrived, a lot of the trouble
that has come upon this country, in the
shape of taAvdry Parliamentary intrigues,
weak coalition government, depressing faction
feuds at election-time, and acres of dreary
newspaper rubbish about “the necessity of
united action against the common enemy,”
Avould have been avoided.
“0.K.”: Melbourne Trades Hall’s attempt
to save Angus Murray from the gallows Avas
ill-managed in all respects. Young men stood
in the middle of the footpath facing the
crowds coming from theatres and cried “Don’t
be clans-prejudiced. Sign the petition for
Murray!” What thought of class-prejudice
could be in the public mind save the thought
that the Trades Hall was again associating
itself with the criminal class? To the bulk
of the public Murray was a born criminal
Avitli about half a century of convictions
against him. To stand in the footpath and
accuse people of “class-prejudice” because
they didn’t worry about this fellow getting
lawfully killed in society's cause was “coming
it a bit thick.”
“Superannuation and a contented service”
will be a Liberal catchword at the next Vic-
torian election. Where the State’s share of:
the pension fund for 40,000 public and rail-
way officers is to come from is not easy, to
guess. Pensions w r ere abolished in the civil
service in 1881 and in the railway service
in 1883, but the State outlay is still half a
million a year. Not quite 8000 ex-employees
draw allowances ranging from £l5OO to £65
a year; the average is slightly under £l7O.
What McPherson dreaded when Treasurer
was that, once a superannuation scheme was
adopted, the public and railway servants
would agitate for and obtain rises sufficient
to pay their contributions to the fund, throw-
ing the whole burden on the taxpayers. At
the best they will have to pay something.
But under our system of party government
what are taxpayers for if it isn't to supply
election bait?
A Victorian Gallery note: —
I can see Farmer Allan losing the leadership of
the Vic. Country party at no distant date. Allan
took his ejection from the Composite Cabinet with
an amiability which has annoyed the young militants
who are striving for control of the organisation. By
these fiercer spirits his bonhomie is regarded as
weakness and his lethargy as lukewarmness; the
feeling, in short, is that he is too friendly to oe
effective. Dunstan, who played a big part in the
meeting at Bendigo, is named as a likely successor.
Dunstan is a good speaker, and has immense energy
and ambition, but whether the F.U. will ever run
Victoria, even under his vigorous command, is open
to doubt. Unquestionably it has lost considerably in
membership of late, and a lot of persuasion will be
required to bring the deserters back to the fold.
The party’s only hope is to press for Elective Minis-
tries as complementary to proportional representa-
tion. While the Labor party can win office through
the splitting of the Opposition, thousands of people
who are not really Nationalists will refuse to break
away from that party. Or if they have broken away
they will always tend to come back —especially after
a Labor win against divided forces.
When Queensland ex-Minister and Agent-
General Fihclly quitted London before Pre-
mier Theodore’s arrival, and came back to
Australia as an unofficial citizen, some
people wondered if he was really the home-
sick youth he was represented to be, or ii
he had been recalled by reason of his dash-
ing threat that the British people might get
a lot more repudiation if they went on com-
plaining about the instalment they had
already. Now that lie denounces Theodore s
financial doings in London as “an undigni-
fied climbing down,” and recommends that
the Agent-Generalship be “absolutely abol-
ished,” the impression grows that —well,
that, at the least, some compliments were
exchanged before he left.
A Westralian Commission has reported
that the group-settlements on the Peel Estate,
near Fremantle, will cost £1,250,000 instead
of the Government estimate of £lOO,OOO,
and that the settlers will have to be charged
£1836 apiece for blocks promised at £lOOO.
Sooner or later, of course, the difference will
be debited to the taxpayer, along with the
bulk of the mountainous expenditure on the
drainage of “huge swamps” and the making
of day-labor roads —that lie will have to pay
in any case. And there will remain the ques-
tion whether 25 p.c. of the settlers will make
good, for there is no provision for markets
in Premier Mitchell’s “scheme.” "Lack of co-
ordination” on the part of that affable mud-
dler, his Ministers and official heads is said
to be responsible for the frightful mess. So
much harm has been done in Australia by
infatuated old settlement-boomers of the
Mitchell type that The Bulletin sometimes
regrets that impeachment has gone out of
fashion.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Of all the speakers who used to enfilade the
Government from the Ministerial corner of the Reps,
only Prowse and Maxwell are left. Prowse occa-
sionally emits three hearty British groans for
Protection, and there is still a lot of indignation
in the hon. member for Fawkner. The other night
he entertained his constituents at AVindsor (Vic.)
by administering slaps to both wings of the Coali-
tion. The Cockies were trounced for grabbing the
three most important Cabinet billets. They were
informed also that they were not representative
of the people and w T ere bound hand and foot to
an outside organisation with purely sectional ambi-
tions. This was followed by a snort about the
Nationalist influence in handing the contract for
the Oodnadatta locomotives to an Australian firm.
AVhile delivering this complaint,, Maxwell made
the audience grin by dubbing himself a “good
Protectionist,” but didn’t explain how he reconciled
his comment with his fiscal faith. It would appeal'
from this and other discourses that the old gentle-
man is offended about something. If he had not
declared himself a' disinterested spectator of political
events one might almost suspect that he wanted a
portfolio.
Assuming that the epoch of politeness, and
reason, and complete disarmament on our
part, and partial disarmament on other
people’s parts is all right, there are still two
big murky clouds in the Australian sky.
First, somebody may go to court to upset
our policy of discouraging the influx of
colored people; and we may learn that the
judges in the case are against us. And,
second, it may be alleged that that half of
Australia on the far side of a line drawn
from Burketown (Q.) to Geraldton (W.A.)
lias become common land for lack of
serious settlement, and is open to be taken
up. Arbitration may again decide against
us. Then this country may wish it had
maundered a good deal' less about arbitra-
tion as a universal panacea, and armed a
good deal more.
The Canberra capital bustles along. Dur-
ing 1923 the population of the 940 square
miles increased by 65, mostly by reason of
the arrival from Sydney of bricklayers who
get 5 per cent, extra wages and reduced rents
to compensate for the monotony. Nobody
is alleged to have settled at Canberra volun-
tarily during the year. Nobody was born there
voluntarily either. It remains the same
mild little townlet, situated on a little branch
line, which juts off a big branch line, which
latter never pays Avorking expenses, and leads
only to another townlet, and has pursued
that blameless life for 40 years. N.S.W.
authorities have again refused to finish the
big branch by carrying it to the adjacent
port and making it a through line, so the
dreamy life has apparently come to stay.
M ERELY PRACTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Internal dissension in tlie Labor Party cannot
be avoided and need not be feared. I don’t worry
in the least when Comrade Smith declares that
Comrade Brown is an unmitigated scoundrel or Brown
retorts that Smith is a rascal of the deepest dye. Jt
shows that Labor possesses within itself that spirit
of conflict without which the world would never move
forward.”— The Worker.
When Davidson and Gregory McGirr
To daub each other’s hides with soot begin,
The evil stigma and unpleasant slur
That either on his colleague seeks to pin,
The innuendoes black and sinister
Occasion me no atom of chagrin.
Can you not see their tongues are sharpened so
For keener conflict with a mutual foe?
When Willis features Bailey as a crook
For ducking in a horse-trough fairly fit,
And Bailey asks how honest men can brook
Control from such a nauseous hypocrite,
Asperities like these I overlook,
Their squabble doesn’t worry me a bit.
With repertoires improved they’ll both cut loose,
When they have fought it out, on Stanley Bruce.
When Garden turns his batteries on Lang,
And Lang, still pale and reeling from the shock,
Leaps to the combat, falling tooth and fang
Upon the equally pugnacious Jock,
Though each of them accumulates a gang
Of partisans I never lose my block.
With such a stomach for a private fight
They’ll be invincible when they unite!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


f
I
The
Mark
The Bulletin
of
Efficiency.
“Metrovick”
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged in construction
and are obtainable in all sizes, A.C. or
D.G.
Buy direct from the Manufacturers.
<
*H
§
ft
7T3
ft
£
<*>H
M
z
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.),
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Cendcafs Specndti^
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
lift
Sydney,
Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
Oli I>IX A K Y O E P A R T .ME N T.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 966,104
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 867,947
1910.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1913.. 3,990,266 2,179,021 345,680 27,342 1,438,223
1914.. 4,190,018 2,312,728 367,601 33,568 1,476,121
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
1916.. 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 1,366,664
1917.. 4,863,710 3,436,591 434,986 37,566 954,567
1918.-5,078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43,096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097,941 477,688 60,471 1,555,287
1920.. 5,634,997 2.6‘58,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
1921.. 5,882,755 2,816,764 595,440116,191 2,354,360
1922.-6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422 235,525 2,153,338
1923.. 6,579,192 3,450,862 665,855 291,286 2,171,189
The A.M.P. has now been writing policies
for three-quarters of a century: it was estab-
lished in Sydney in 1849, and 15 years later
opened a branch in Victoria. Altogether it
has issued 1,317,693 policies for 266 mil-
lions, and has in force 738,215 contracts
assuring nearly 1464 millions. Its growth
in recent times has been phenomenal. In-
come has doubled in a dozen years, the
increase during that period thus equalling
the total annual harvest when the society
had been in business 63 years. The wide-
spread nature of operations is disclosed by
this analysis of policies in force at Decem-
ber 31 last: —
Policies. Assurances.
N. S. Wales .. 220,386 £41,539,744
Victoria . . . . 215,868 34,544,599
Maoriland . . . . 113,979 26,873,728
Queensland. . . 66,868 14,428,781
South Australia . . 55,600 11,392,029
Westralia . . . . 38,474 8,292,099
Tasmania .. .. 17,573 3,783,764
England, etc. . . 9,467 5,603,013
Ordinary and Industrial figures arc com-
bined in that table. The latter department
is growing at a great pace; its income is
eight times greater than it was 12 years
ago, while Ordinary income has moved from
slightly more than 34 millions to 64 millions-
odd. How business is accumulating is. how-
ever, best explained by comparing the size
of last year's new assurances with those
which dropped out through deaths, maturi-
ties, surrenders, forfeitures and all other
causes: —
12 months to Annual
Dec., 1923. Policies. Assurances. Premiums.
New business .. 74,498 £15,329,690 £548,792
Discontinued . . 38,285 6,547,293 255,058
Year’s gain .. 36,213 £8,782,397 £293,734
The A.M.P. at 75 is certainly not suffering
from senile decay.
The outstanding feature of the Ordinary
department last year was the big increase in
figures almost everywhere. But most note-
worthy of all was the increase in the amount
available for cash bonuses: the department
showed a surplus of £2.022.456, compared
with £1,872,328 for the previous year. The
amount which becomes available in cash on
June 30 next (£1,967,456) for holders of
with-profit policies is equal to slightly more
than half the total premiums contributed
under those policies for the 12 months ended
December. This is easily a record: the
ratio of bonuses to premiums on partieinat-
ing policies is now one-fourth larger than
in the boom years of the late 'eighties, and
early ’nineties
1888-1893.. 40.3 p.c. 1917 18.6 p.c.
1893-1898.. 34.1 „ 1918.. .. 32.6 „
1898-1903.. 34.8 ~ 1919.. .. 88.0 „
1903-1908.. 36.0 ~ 1920.. .. 38.8 ~
1908-1913.. 38.2 „ 1921.. .. 42.4 ~
1914 .. 39.2 „ 1922.. .. 47.3 „
1915 .. 30.8 ~ . 1923.. ... 50.9 ~
1916 . . 30.1 „
Very little of the bonuses is taken in cash,
however; last year £118,262 was paid out.
but that was only Is. 4d. in the £ of the
total available. The balance was employed
to buy additional assurance. This year’s
£1,967,456 would give reversionary additions
of more than 3-r millions.
There are several contributories to these
surpluses. To begin with, premiums are
fixed by actuaries so that they will, within
. the anticipated or (in the ease of endow-
ments) certain life of policies, produce the
full amount contracted for and at the same
time pay all expenses. All doubtful factors
are safeguarded by allowing margins for con-
tingencies, and if business is conducted
within these margins surpluses become avail-
able for distribution in the form of bonuses.
The A.M.P.’s death claims last year were
only 54 p.c. of what its actuaries had pro-
vided for. Costs ran-out as follows :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1005.. £8 15 6 p.c. I 1918.. £8 10 8 p.c.
1910.. 8 7 1 „ I 1910.. 0 1 0 „
1914. . 8 15 5 ~ s 1920. . 9 17 3 ~
1915.. 8 9 7,. I 3921.. 10 2 5 „
1910.. S 16 3 ~ ! 1922.. 10 1 3
1917.. S 18 10 „ I 1923.. 10 2 s_„
Those percentages are affected by the high
cost of winning new business. Estimated
on the basis that new business is 10 times
more costly than old, expenses last year were
89 and 8.9 p.c. of the respective premium
incomes, the latter being very much less than
the loading for expenses provided in the
premium rates. Another accepted method ot
calculating the cost of new business is to
allow 7 p.c. on renewal premiums as a rea-
sonable charge for old business and to charge
the balance of exes, against premiums from
new business. In that way we get these
figures:—
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiunis. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c.
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 ~
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1910 . . 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 ~
1914 . . 2,421,995 219,570 367,601 89.6 „
1915 .. 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1916 ..2,634,290 276,803 408,350 80.6 „
1917 .. 2,777,533 261,363 434,986 91.7 „
1918 .. 2,836,991 332,635 433,514 70.4 „
1919 .. 2,906,091 319,998 477,05 S 85.6 „
1920 .. 3,153,682 334,682 555,863 99.9 „
1921 . . 3,281,006 310,120 595,440 117 8 „
1922 . . 3,422,427 339,068 626,422 113.9 ~
3923 .. 3,562,316 387,063 665,855 107.4
As costs all-round are heavier than formerly,
while premium rates have remained un-
altered, probably something more than 7 p.c.
should be allowed for renewal business. But
whatever extra is flowing out in costs has
been fully recovered by better investment
earnings. On average funds the A.M.P. is
now collecting more than 5| p.c. p.a.; that
is 17s. sd. per £lOO over and above the 1914
return, and gives £418,921 additional income
on present Ordinary funds. How the invest-
ment returns have grown over many, years
is shown next: —
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. ! 1919.. £5 1 5 p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8., | 1920.. 5 4 10 „
1914.. 4 12 10 „ I 1921.. 5 5 5 „
1917. . 4 19 4 ~ | 1922. . 5 8 9,,
1918.. 5 1. 9 .. I 1923.. 5 10 3 „
Throughout the Ordinary department for
many years the management assumed that
at most it would receive 21 p.c., but though
returns have improved it has become
more conservative, and now weighs all
liabilities on an expectancy of only 8 p.c.
The fact that; the society is earning so. much
more, and will probably continue to do so
for many years, gives promise of big -sur-
pluses from this source alone. How the
conservative reckoning of interest affects
the valuation in an office handling millions
is disclosed by the statement that every half-
point increase in the interest rate would pro-
duce 2i millions more surplus in the policy
valuations. Put another way, the A.M.P.
could pay larger bonuses than it does if it
provided loss for remote contingencies.
Nevertheless, life assurance is purely a trus-
tee business, and the greatest safeguards
provided against the worst that can happen
—even national catastrophes—are advisable
in the interests of clients who are providing
for their declining years or for helpless de-
pendants.
Besides having accumulated huge internal
reserves by over-estimating liabilities, the
A.M.P. in recent years has been fortified
in other respects. For instance,- prior to
disclosing the latest surplus in the Ordinary
department £205,4(51 was taken for a reserve
against depreciation of investments, making
the total of that account £600,000, and
£86,820 was also written off premises.
The next table shows in detail how the
Industrial department lias grown :
Industrial D e r a ii t m f, n t .
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1911. . £140,560 £5,775 £67,555 £67,230
1912.. 187,912 6,677 74,998 106,237
1913.. 230,388 8,829 86,776 134,783
1914.. 275,118 9,589 90,558 174,971
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1916.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 235,452
1917.. 432,038 29,635 127,432 274,971
1918.. 503,360 35,14 Q 145,262 322,958
1919.. 593.859 30,850 181,379 381,630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420,270
1921. . 830,709 68,326 253,515 508,868
1922.. 967,988 107,579 276,749 583,660
1923.-1,118,109 138,902 299,250 ) r. 58 737
Written off, £21,222 )' bj8 ’ 7do
The expense rate continues to improve:
26.8 p.c. of income last year, compared with
28.6 for 1922 and 80.5 p.c. for 1921. The
surplus for the 12 months in this section was
£126,358, and £115,931 is being made avail-
able for bonuses.
At December 31 Ordinary funds totalled
£48,105,863 and Industrial £4,1727237.
Assets now tot up more than 534 millions,
and tliree-fifths of them are in gilt-edged
securities and cash, and almost one-fourth
in mortgages. How heavy purchases of War
Loans affected the investment account is
shown by the next comparisons:—
1905. 1915. 1920. 1922. 1923.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage. . 48.5 36.7 22.9 23.7 24.8
Public securities . . 26.7 41.3 59.3 58.4 5«.4
Premises . . . . 1.8 1.8 1.7 -1.8 1.8
Loans on policies . . 20.5 16.3 13.2 13.3 13.4
Other assets . . . . 6.4 3.9 2,9 2.8 2.6
Lately the A.M.P. lias revived its interest in
mortgages.
-;<• * * *
The Queensland National Pastoral
Co., Ltd:—
Reserves.
Adjustment payment by vendors, £50,000. . £50,000
, Dividends- Writ-
Profits. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten Off.
1915. .£67,083 £17,500 6 p ; c.=£36,000 £56,399 7,184
1916. .106.510 17,500 7,, ~ 42,000 21,375 32,819
1917. 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 21,144 56,470
1918. .124,335 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 ~ ~ 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss. „ _
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,/27
Profit.
1922.. 10,550* 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 0,544
This is another Queensland pastoral co.
which has had a bad gruelling since war con-
tracts expired and the bottom fell out ot the
beef export market. But it has been more
fortunate than a few others. It was formed
to relieve the Q.N. Bank of some of the
properties which had been thrown, in after
the big smash of the ’nineties, and its Board
is still made up of Q.N. directors and officers;
consequently during four, troublesome years
it has not wanted for adequate backing. At
December 31 last it had run up an overdraft
of £40,974 and owed £23,640 otherwise.
Since then it has paid £18,594 in pret. divs.
and taxes thereon, and the directors have
lately authorised an expenditure of £BO,OOO
on the Cork and Lucknow stations, which
are being dog-netted and turned over to
sheep. The decision to go in more ex-
tensively for sheep affected profits for the
past 12* months, no sales having been made
of woollies, so that the Cork and Lucknow
properties might be stocked. Income
amounted to £166,960, including £108,666
from wool and Bawra divs. and £50,411 from
cattle. The latter was for 6158 beasts,
mostly fats, and the average was £8 3s. Bd.
per head, compared with 9222 sold for an
average of £4 7s. lOd. (total £40,,»33) in the
previous year. The stations were affected by a
severe drought throughout 1923, and that not
only reduced current earnings, by putting the
brake on marketing, but also affected the
future by curtailing the increase of flocks.
Brandings for the 12 months totalled
and approximately 13.320 cattle were lost.
Lambings ran into 29,111. but 23,92! of
sheep losses were written off. The Q.N.
Pastoral holdings now comprise 67,903 acres
freehold and 10,250 sq. miles of leaseholds,
and livestock at December 31 was estimated
at 121,942 cattle, 175,329 sheep and 4326
horses.
The beef market is still generally unfavor-
able, and pastoralists in the north, who lack
adequate chilling and transport facilities,
are unable to win the much better prices
which are ruling in southern capitals. This
co. is anxious to sell a lot of stock on its
northern stations, but at present it cannot
find a satisfactory market. Meanwhile,
sheep and wool are the mainstays of the
business. flow balance-sheet figures have
been affected by the adverse conditions is
shown in the following comparisons:—
1919. 1920. 1922. 1923.
Liabilities .. .£ 31,930 £150,630 £67,047 £64,614
Leases,' etc. . . 224,999 252,848 245,353 253,7/8
Freeholds * ’ 68,605 68,605 08,605 68,605
Plant etc ** 55,447 79.56-1 81,10,5 80,189
Livestock . . 583,239 627,445 509,832 506,305
Stocks wool.. 28,157 37,504 13,130 10,99/
ta debts, b et c° k . 36,119 22,967 16,122 18,877
At the 1919 balance the eo. held £22,000 of
War Loan, and had a bank credit balance of
£13.868. In their place is an overdraft oi
£40,974, but trading debts are down a few
thousands. The biggest reversal has been
in respect of livestock values: —- .
1920. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Cattle .. £492,228 £402,161 £389,719 £388,918
Sheep 100,215 100,88/> 94,121 96,431
Horses " 35,002 25,410 25,992 25,956
“Cattle values are being steadily cut down
year by year,” the directors report, “to con-
form with ruling prices.” Altogether in
four years 345. 6d. per head has been carved
from book values, but whether that has
brought them to bedrock is not disclosed. To
some extent they are nominal only, because
no markets whatever are available for some
of the stations, and it is therefore impossible
to place a value on stores and breeders. The
effect of all the writing-off and adverse mar-
keting of the past four years has been the
reduction of reserves from £98,000 to £5044.
Ordinaries have not had anything for three
years, but the directors have managed to find
the pref. divs. regularly. Freeholds, by the
way. have a book value of 20s. 2d. per acre,
and leaseholds (with improvements), £24 15s.
per sq. mile.
* * * *
Torrens Insurance Co., Ltd.—This new
insurance co. is being launched iii a fog of
mystery. It was registered in Melbourne in
January, but proposes to establish
may be termed a South Australian msti -
tion”: an office has already been opened
Adelaide to transact fire, marine anffi general
business. The only prospectus obtainable
from Melbourne headquarters is designed n 1
circulation in S. Aus.; it. admits that it does
not comply with the, requirements ot tlie ' ie.
Companies Acts, and states that a copy ot
the “original prospectus" may be had trom
the Adelaide office. The co. was registered
in Melbourne, the prospectus says, because
the S. Aus. Act does not permit ot t he incor-
poration of an insurance co. in b. Aus.
But that is uo excuse for inviting subscrip-
tions on a document which fails to give the
investor information he is entitled to. J-hat
a co. can register in one State to operate in
another, and may issue a prospectus which
does not conform with the Acts ot the State
of registration, shows how necessary it is to
supersede the present State laws by a Com-
monwealth measure which shall run trom
Cape York to the Leeuwin.
Nominal capital is £lOO,OOO in 400,000
shares of ss. each, and 150.000 are offered:
shares are to be fully paid within six months
of application. A feature is made of the
“important fact” that no cash consideration
is being paid to the promoter, but the, docu-
ment on which applications are being re-
ceived omits to mention whether any con-
sideration is being paid in shares. The
failure to give that information stamps this
“abridged prospectus” as at the least inade-
quate. And it may be even worse than
inadequate. If a share consideration is being
paid, it is questionable whether applications
could be enforced if made on the strength of an
“abridged prospectus” which does not mention
that consideration. The “abridged prospectus"
also fails to fix a maximum for brokerage
and preliminaries; the directors are merely
“making the utmost endeavor to keep broker-
age at less than 10 p.c.” _ The co. is claimed
to have commenced writing policies with
“very unique facilities,” because it has made
“excellent arrangements” for re-insuring.
That is all very vague; it would be much
more to the point to reveal the standing of
the re-insurance people and whether the
T.I.C. is to be taken into the circle ot
associated fire cos. A unique feature of the
enterprise is the proposal that the eo.’s offi-
cers should also act as “taxation assistants
and/or experts for the preparation of re-
turns” : the co. “has come forward to com-
bine the two important and profitable
businesses of insurance and taxation work--
in other words, to protect both person s
assets and income.” Alexander W. Clarey
is the promoter and has “entered into a
binding agreement” to stay with the co. for
10 years.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, hardware
merchants and general importers at Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
1914 .. £13,417 10 p.e. =£11,580 11,83. tlB,3<'B
1915 .. 21,890 15 „ ~ 18,000 3,890 22,198
191(1 . . 25,021 15 „ ~18,000 7,021 29,2 >
1917 .. 28,342 15 „ ~18,000 10,342 39,50
Transferred to capital . • 30 >660
1918 . . 28,980 15 p.c*. = 22,500 6,480 16,041
1919 .. 30,071 10 ~ „ 15,000 15,071 31,1 -
Transferred to capital • • 25,000 0,11-
Co. re-constructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £65,000 and seven £1 fully-paids in
new co. issued for every four in old.
N e t To Reduce
Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920 ..£32,279 10 p.c. = £17,5751
(6 mos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 j- £5,704 £a9,-9i.
Employees’ bonus, 3.000 )
1921 .. 26,588 61 p.c. = 21,969 4,619 04,0,.
boss Added.
1922 . . 39,425 21 „ ~ 8,787 _48,212 162,889
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 00,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,836 .. *'6,
1923 .. 2,960 Nil 2,966 01,966
After the presentation of tiie 19““ accounts
3s. was struck off the 351,500 shares to per-
mit trading losses to be wiped out
and to allow stock values, to be written down
to replacement cost. The revised book values
were still too high; so another years sur-
pluses were used to get the ship on an even
keel, and the directors now consider that a*
a result of this (current) year’s trading the
co. will be in a position to pay divs. its
troubles appear to have been accounted tor
mostly by the directors’ misjudgment ot the
“prosperity” which was experienced during the
war-time boom in shipping and in hardware
values. Having paid high rates of divs.
from inception on comparatively small capi-
tal, the directors in 1919 issued foO.OOO ot
bonus shares from accumulated profits and
in 1920 £25,000 more. But they were not
content with having thus increased paid capi-
tal from £120,000 to £170,000, making 1
p.c. divs. return 141 p.c. At the top of the
boom, and perhaps influenced by Labor
threats to make raids on profits in excess o
“reasonable” div. rates, the directors decided
to reconstruct. They issued £l. >O,OOO more
bonus scrip, giving- seven £1 fully-paids tor
every four in tlie old co.. _ The published
accounts did not disclose quite how all the
bonus scrip was found: £65,000 came from
introducing goodwill for that amount,
approximately £23,300 of visible resen es
were absorbed, leaving a balance of aboii .
£61,700 to be covered by writing up assets,


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR MARCH.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Gas Light
Australian Gypsum
Australian Stock Breeders
Australian (Yellow liock)
Portland Cement
Brisbane Timbers, Ltd.
British Tobacco Co.
City Mutual Assurance
Society
Castlemaine Brewery
(Fremantle)
Commonwealth Life
Assurance Society
Domara Hirer Planta-
tions
F. T. Wimble & Co,
Home Recreations
(Edd.ys) Ltd.
Huddart Parker
Industrial Building
Society
J. C. Ludowici & Son.
Bindley Woollen Mills
Lofts Safety Electric
Irons
London Stores
Mangrovite Belting
Manly Hotels
North Shore Gas
I’atakalana Cotton Estates
Prospectuses
Queensland Meat Export
Registrations, New
Sargents, Ltd.,
Siegwart Beams & Cin.l-
erete Bricks
Southland Frozen Meat
Standard Mutual Build-
ing
Standard Portland
Cement
Sydney Exchange Co.
Sydney & Suburban
Hydraulic
Victoria Coffee Palace
Wellington Trust, Loan
& Investment
Wyper Bros.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand: at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders inay be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/« per copy; or 22/6 per annum,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Seales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Coimell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
„ —Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
46 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * »
The rapidly-increasing popularity of Pioneer Wood
Pipe is the surest testimony to its efficiency. There
are now miles of this economy conduit in every
State in use for water-mains, irrigation, mining and
industrial purposes, etc. Pioneer Wood Pipe does not
corrode, choke nor foul, and its initial cheapness is
further borne out by its lightness, simplicity and long
life. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.. Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
A. E. Broue, Catheart House, 11 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World.— -Advt.
Inventors.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W. for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horsepower. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gas works. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
f hePacific Cable Board
IiKST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Ordi- Daily Daily Letter
nary. Deferred. Telegram.
GREAT \ 3/- 1/6 9d. (minimum
BRITAIN I 15/-, 20 words)
iVeek-end 7 ki. (minimum charge 12/6 20 words)
FRANCE s
HOLLAND
BELGIUM V 3/- l/'6 Nil
GERMANY
SWITZERLAND J
N. ZEALAND 4*d. Nil Nil
CANADA .. 2/4 1/2 7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
AVeek-end s|d. (minimum charge 9/7 20 words)
U.S.A. . . 2/4 to 1/2 to Nil
2/8 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru. West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
261 Georgia Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346.
Queen’s House, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Tel. Central o*4
J. MILAVARD. Manager in the Pacific.
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
YG
BOORD&SOk
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
Setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL.
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT,
ADMINISTRATOR OR ATTORNEY.
Established over 37 years, during which it has successfully handled almost
every class of asset.
33 TO 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
chiefly properties, whose book value soared
from £51,153 to £112,307 in 12 months. One
effect of‘the shuffle was to give the manage-
ment the problem of finding divs. for
£351,500 of capital instead of £120,000 only
a few years before. When the bottom foil
out of the shipping boom and hardware
values crashed Paul and Gray had very little,
if any, internal reserves to fill holes, and
the directors liad to. go back on their tracks
and write doWn capital. For the past year,
the writing-down not having been adequate,
all trading profits and a bit more were re-
quired for further patching: Had book values
not been written up for reconstruction pur-
poses, internal reserves inigilt have per-
fiiitted the directors to deal With collapsed
stock . values perhaps without shareholders
becoming acquainted with inside adjustments
which would have been necessary. Cer-
tainly, had. there been nO reconstruction, the
CO:’S financial position wotild now have been
thoroughly sound;
Even With capital written down froixi
£351,500 to £298,778 the scrip account is
heavily inflated, if only because of the
presence of £59,000 of goodwill—That iteni
equals almost one-half of the pre-boom paid
capital: In addition fixed assets still have book
values which give the co. the status of a
1920 flotation which paid £59,000 for the
right, to take over the trading connection of
another CO. Nevertheless, with stocks down
£129,892 compared with two years ago, the
balance-sheet position at December 81 last
looked much healthier
i 919. 1926. 1922. 1923:
Capital ~. £150,000 £351,50.0 £351,500 £298,715
Reserves (iiic,
taxation) ~ 55,813 32,279 262 328
Liabilities . , 82,400 223,950 174,618 161,257
Premises,
Riant, etc, 62,715 138,593 161,988 145,474
Stock ~ 163,779 316,470 220,328 199,131
Book debts ~ 53,091 70,485 49,031 48,429
Cash, etc. ~ 8,628 27,187 2,143 5,359
Goodwill ~ 65,000 59,000 59,000
The £161,257 of liabilities include £49,595 of
mortgages: Against the £111,662 of sundry
creditors were stocks, book debts and odds-
and-ends of cash assets totalling £252,919,
One trading trouble at present is that
shipping and mining industries are still de-
pressed ; nevertheless, if bedrock has been
reached with stock values, the present volume
of trade should give divs. Last year’s gross
profits amounted to £73,814 compared with
£48,683 in 1914. On the other hand work-
ing costs are much higher, and perhaps some
of the overhead exes, which were elevated
when all was smooth sailing are not easily
reefed. Average annual profits for the eight
years prior to the war were £10,618, addi-
tional capital and general expansion raising
the average to around £13,000 during the last
few years of that period. To pay even 6 p.c.
on present capital calls for just on £lB.OOO.
* * * «•
While news is being awaited from the
Lauder co.’s Orallo bore, the Tewantin hole
is being continued and another co. is being
promoted to bore to the west of Orallo
with Arthur Moore in charge. In addition,
the A. 0.0. is to test Beaudesert. Dr. Jensen
lias given each of these three shows his
b’essing with varying degrees of enthusiasm.
Tewantin bore is down about 400 ft. and
appears to have overcome water troubles.
Reports from the co. frequently record
traces of oil. but so far these traces do not
appear to have been collected and submitted
for official analysis. Arthur Moore’s bore
will be the one of supreme interest in
Queensland. He will not use a rotary, and
every likely sand will be tallied for test and
correlation. Jensen has selected an anti-
clinal structure for him to drill, and it is in
an area where other geologists besides Jen-
sen are favorably impressed with the pros-
pects of finding petroleum in the Walloon
formation.
* * * »
Dick Osborne has nursed the Mutooroo
co.’s cash-box so carefully during the search
for a mine that it still holds £12,500. The
Hampton Plains leases have been scrapped,
but they gave Osborne the chance to dis-
play his wits by selling when the market
was brisk. Mutooroo has had a shot at
the Mighty Atom and dropped it; gold there
was scanty. Since then he has had 40-odd
blocks offered. His terms are a nominal
cash deposit and a share interest if an option
is exercised, so the wild-catter who wants
a big cash consideration for a peep at his
show gets no hearing from Mutooroo.
Osborne has been through the Mutooroo,
Artunga and Kalgoorlie booms, and his head
is pretty hard now.
* * * *
Promoters who pegged miles of country at
Wiluna (W.A.), and Adelaide gamblers who
bought up forfeited and other scrip for a
song, will have a wait before learning much
about prospects. Boring for the Ivanhpe co.
on the Gwalia Consolidated group has been
slow on account of bad ground, and at the
present rate of progress that co. will not
know its luck until the end of the year.
* * * *
Copper Separation, Ltd. (W.A.), claims
to have £3OOO backing from Adelaide to erect
a treatment plant at Ravensthorpe. A con-
sideration is likely to be paid in shares to-
gether with an option on other shares. A
good deal of publicity has been given the
process, but so far it has not passed the
acid test of bulk treatment. The Ravens-
thorpe venture should decide its applicability
on a commercial scale.
Brilliant Co., with £3OO cash in hand,
recently took an option on a show for which
thousands were asked, and cited the neigh-
boring Gnow’s Nest mine (production
20,000 oz.) as a recommendation for the
ideality. But in the same issue of the Perth
paper in which this boost appeared was an
advt. calling for tenders for the purchase of
the Gnow’s Nest and plant dn Rccodnt of
unsatisfactory values at depth;
* * * *
Mt. ghenton, operating between Laveftdn
and the S.A. border, is blest With riches so
far as surface indications ate concerned,
gold having been fbund over a wide area
at numerous points. But nothing perma-
nent has yet been struck. On Chapman’s
Reward East 3ft. of £5 ore has been ex-
posed, and the cO; is concentrating its atten-
tion on this in the hope that it will go down:
* * * *
After further bitting, Golden Butterfly
has alighted at Siberia (W.A.). It has paid
a deposit On a show for Which £7OOO and a
tenth interest are asked. Ives Prop, has
become interested in the same locality:
* * * #
Since December, the Biliy Hughes, Nor-
man by goldfield (N:Q.), has confined its
operations to the Resurgam mine. The shaft
is down 60ft:, with a well-defined Ift. reef
in the bottom. Samples have given 4oz. per
ton. Some prill ore going an Ounce of
gold and 20 p.c. copper is being bagged for
shipment. The sulphide zone is expected
at about 80ft., and as water will then be
troublesome a small winding plant will be
installed.
* * * *
An attempt has been made to open up
several copper-lodes at Silverwood, in tile
Warwick district (Q.), but so far prospects
are not promising. The ore is patchy, and
occurs mainly as small lenses in a lode in
silicified slate. The most disappointing fea-
ture is that none of the ore gives more than
a trace of gold, and without the yellow metal
there is little hope, although a limited ton-
nage of up to 10 p.c. copper could probably
be developed.
Oaks Consolidated is putting down test
shafts on the big low T -grade Mt. Buchanan
show, Palmer goldfield (N.Q.). Work was
held up by the wet season, but the shafts
were baled out and sampled by C. H. Wray,
who is furnishing a report on the best
methods of proving the lodes.
* * * #
One of the few copper shows in operation
at present in Queensland is the Normanby,
in the Mt. Morgan district. It is receiving
Government assistance, as prospects are
considered good for rich ore at water level.
Leached gossans are conspicuous near the
’crop, and their promise is responsible for
the attempt to produce in the present low
market. The shaft is down 60ft., and a
crosscut is being driven to the ore body.
* * * *
A boring plant has been put to work to
test the wash on the Russell River (N.Q.),
where preliminary investigations indicated
2dwt. of gold and }lb. tin per yard. If all
works out well, the co. will equip the pro-
perty with a dredge on which an option has
already been taken.
* # * *
A favorable report having been tendered
by J. B. Lewis, the old Renison Bell tin-
mine (Tas.) is to be taken over by a new
co. in 40,000 £1 shares. The vendor co. is
to receive 10,000 fully-paids and £7500 cash
within three years. The new co. expects
to win big profits from the treatment of
pyritic ores and also from the oxide by-
product reject from the re-classification of
the roasted concentrates. Too much reliance,
however, cannot be placed on the return
from these by-products: ferrous sulphate
and ferric oxide, especially the latter, fetch
low prices, and frequently the winning of
them as a by-product from a tin calcinating
roast is not easy. The trouble is the latent
acidity of the oxide. Of course, if the co.
gives preference in its operations to by-
products it can certainly win them; but
the future of the co. depends rather on
the cost of producing tin-oxide and not
on a product like red oxide, which is worth
£2 to £3 per ton, and on which freights of
at least 80s. per ton from the mine to
Burnie will have to be paid. Undoubtedly
there are possibilities in the treatment of
the pyritic deposits, provided they are
tackled on a big scale as at Bischoff. On
the other hand, Renison tin oxide is of a
very fine nature, and the w r asting, dust and
general re-treatment loss is certain to be
heavy.
Tasmanians are up in the air about the pros-
pects of establishing steelworks, one-third the
size of the B.H.P.’s. Promoter J. Wynne hopes
to interest English financiers at an early
date; he has secured the Rio Tinto iron
deposits, on the Pieman River, which geolo-
gist Reid estimates to contain 20 million
tons. The Tinto deposit is situated in one
of the most rugged spots in the Speck, and
an outlet would have to be made over the
treacherous Pieman River bar. This deposit
was investigated a few years ago by the
Hoskins Bros., who turned it down as econo-
mically unsound under then-existing Austra-
lian steel-making conditions. Old prospec-
tors aver that the Tinto gets into the pyritic
zone at less than 60 feet from the grass.
Considerable driving was done on this de-
posit many years ago in search for copper
ore ; in fact, the similarity of the iron pyrites
to the famous Spanish deposit is the origin
of the naming of the "blow/
• * * #
Geologist Reid has just made a prelimi-
nary examination of the Hampshire Hills
(Tas.) iron-deposits and given them his
blessing. He considers the tonnage is very
large, and that it will grade about 40 p.c.
iron. Open-cut methods can be applied.
These and other proved, deposits give the
Speck a prospect of a big iron and steel
industry some time in the future. Geologist
Reid is now examining the mineral belt be-
tween Lyell and Dundas, in the hope of
finding an ore deposit which may be of
value to the present generation of Tassies.
* * * *
Magnet silver-mine (Tas.) has decided to
sink its shaft 200 ft. deeper, and manager
Hales is hopeful that good ore will be cut,
However, everything points to a wedging of
the shoot, each level opened up having shown
a shrinkage. Also at depth lead is being
gradually displaced by zinc, and oil this
point the directors are unusually quiet,
Magnet is fortunate in having made selling
arrangements which permit it to ship low
grade ore with a rather heavy zinc content.
The mine has given thus far over a million
pounds’ worth of metals; but shareholdefs
haven’t had much of it.
* * * *
Bux is endeavoring to push its Borneo
proposition in a tight money market, and
when, moreover, oil is out of fashion. It
also lacks a solid following. The latest move
has been to i-educe the 100,000 gift shares
to 50,000 in the subsidiary of 500,000 10s.
shares proposed. The first big job is to
get £28,000 by calls on all issue of 100,000
contribs, in the limited liability go, The
50,000 paids which go to tlie Bux give £25
worth of scrip per share, which is not a lot
considering that many shares cost £lOO each.
R. M. Boyd, who did the prospecting and
negotiating in Borneo, takes 62,500 paids less
a 12,} p,c. allotment to Bux holders who
apply for their quota of contribs. As the
pnp co. will acquire only two concessions,
and as G. Scarborough says that there are
six concessions, each of which is large enough
for a two-co. float, Boyd will require a
hand-barrow to cart away scrip if his
flotation interest continues on the same scale.
At the beginning £20,u00 is required for a
deposit with the Dutch East Indies as a
guarantee, and £5OOO more for the survey
and examination of the territory. Later a
2s. 6d. call is to bring in £25,000 for drilling
plant and transport. Then, with the work
begun, the Dutch Government is to hand
back the deposit, leaving £40,000 of working
capital. Lyne is certain £30.000 cash will
buy plant and sink the first bore. Next to
raising the first £25,000, the most import-
ant work will be to engage the best talent
for survey. Provided the guarantee agree-
ment allows for a refund of the deposit if
the examination is not satisfactory, the only
risk is the £5OOO to be spent on geology, but
the point which is not clear is whether the
Dutch Government would be satisfied with
an adverse decision by Bux’s experts.
* * *. *
John Brandon’s Kaili Gold Options
(Papua) has fizzled out, B. V. Barton hav-
ing turned the show down. The bottom
could not be reached on four of the leases
without proper pumps, and the gold in the
upper sands is too fine to catch. Besides,
sufficient evidence was obtained to prove
that there was no enrichment at depth to
sweeten up the mass. Floods would also be
a nroblem. Excluding these blocks only
1,050,000 c. yd. are left on No. 4, and
although it goes Is. lOd. a yd. the area is
not big enough for the large co. which would
be required to open up a track to the ground
over a 7000 ft. mountain range and put in
necessary plant. So ends another Papuan
illusion.
* * * *
A Maoriland budget:—
Waihi Grand Junction failed to pick up the
Martha reef where expected, but a crosscut from off
the Empire lode has picked up a lode considered to
be the north brcnch of the Empire, or the missing
Martha. Values, however, are not good. Generally
development work at No. 10 has been disappointing,
and exploratory work at No. 11 is now in hand.
Results at this splendidly-equipped mine have not
come up to expectations, but if Geologist Morgan’s
theory of deposition and persistency at depth is
borne out the co. has prospects in the Martha and
subsidiary lodes at depth.
After having won £160,000 of gold in seven years
Muir’s gold-mines have ceased crush'ng owing to
depletion of ore reserves. Development should never
have been allowed to lag behind extraction in a
property so large. The shaft is now being sent down
to 340 ft. to open up several reefs which go underfoot
in the level above.
A Melbourne crowd has sent E. Byron Moore to
inspect areas offered on the Shotover section near
Lake Wafcatipti, The areas are In the centre
of one of the richest alluvial gold belts in the
world. Many attempts have been made to get at
this particular section, both by hydraulic, elevation
and by dredging processes, and although thousands
have been spent the results have been disastrous.
The ground is undoubtedly rich, but is so inaccessible
that it has successfully defied the old big-hearted
pioneers and all the highly-qualified alluvial-engineers
who followed them, Engineers favor lifting the
Shotover river right out of its bed to clear certain
areas known to be deep and rich, but all have
balked after counting the skill and luck required to
sidetrack a river that runs 12 miles per hour and
is liable to rise 40ft, in a few hours when the snow
suddenly thaws, One successful effort to get at the
bed was made by tunnelling through a bottle-neck
twist in the river, but values there were far short
of what the syndicate had expected.


TRIAL BY NEWSPAPER.
“The practice of commenting on crimes In fore they come to trial has reached scandalous proportions in Melbourne.”
THE HENCH: “Clarence Hopscotch, prisoner at the bar; you are a ruffian and a blackguard — our afternoon edition says so. How say you —Guilty or Not Guilty? Guilty, of course; and may the Lord have merey on your spill!"


The Original Holsten
Pilsener Lager
DIRECT FROM HAMBURG.
The first of the new shipments of this world-famous beer
have now arrived. Ask for it at leading hotels.
Obtainable from the distributors—
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street Sydney,
and their Queensland Agents:—
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
eit w
a
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ate
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
* * -X- *
“Breech-block”: They don’t boast in the
Silent Service, but Admiral Field got on to
the border-line in an appreciation of the
beauties of Sydney :
1 am perfectly.‘astounded with your city. It is
altogether the most marvellous place we have en-
countered on our < raise. As we came up. your harbor
at It 1m0t5....
It is a mystery how the reporters who were
searching with fine-tooth combs for material
to marvel at missed this.truly amazing feat.
SAFE!
NEWITT : “Yes, old Goodman’s boys are a bad lot. Two of ’em
at least ought to be sent to gaol.”
BROWN : “Some redeeming quality about the third one, eh?”
NEWITT : “Yes; he's there already.”
Without a pilot, and without anyone on the
bridge who had ever before been inside the
Heads, the biggest fighting ship in the world
swept round Bradley’s at more than the
pace of the average ferry-boat, and pulled
up at her moorings off the 11.Y.5. Club-house
as dead as a motor-car. The Hood took a
pilot on board at Port Phillip, but as an act
of courtesy merely: lie was entertained in
the ward-room while flic ship went up the
bay.
* #- -X- *
“Te Wkare”: The first cat ever seen in
Itaratonga (Friendly Islands) was taken
there by a missionary’s wife 50 years ago.
It was a Tom. He soon grew tired of the
little palm-leaf abode, and fled to the moun-
tains. At midnight he came to the house
of one Tama-iru, a heathen priest converted
to Christianity. “Miaow!” said Hooters
friend, by way of greeting. Soma, the
priest’s wife, awoke with a start to find two
balls of yellow fire gleaming in the open
doorway. Tama-iru, sweating with fear,
rubbed'his eyes, then in a quavering voice
began to repeat the alphabet in Tongan by
way of a prayer for deliverance. Thomas,
feeling that he was unwelcome, disappeared
in the jungle, while Soma and Tama-iru
fell on their knees and gave thanks to their
new god. Nearer the sea stood the chief
idol temple, and here Thomas settled down
for a snooze among the wooden gods. To. the
temple came the Raratongan high-priest and
a retinue of worshippers bearing baskets of
bananas and bread-fruit as offerings' to tlieir
gods. Thomas hearing them approach came
to the door of the shrine and gave respectful
greeting —“Miaow!” Priest and congrega-
tion turned tail and fled. The headmen
assembled, and it was determined that this
strange monster must be slain. Fifty war-
riors with spears and clubs, their bodies
blackened with charcoal, surrounded the chief
idol house. Thomas, with eyes aglare, sprang
through the doorway, and the charcoal army
scattered in all directions. It remained for
old Irua, a toothless warrior of.SO, to sur-
prise the cat sleeping under a bush and slay
it with a spear-thrust.
“Veedee II.” : How’s this for a coincidence?
At a Dargaville (M.L.) nursing-home dur-
ing one week in March three babies arrived,
the 15th, 16th and 18th in their respective
families. Of the family of 18 the mother
reports 17 alive and well.
“BH.R.” : The Czeeho-Slovak scientist who
claims to be able to-forecast the sex of an
unborn; child (B. .”/4/’24) has had predeces-
sors in the art. Twenty-odd years ago an
old Chinese vegetable John in a Sydney
suburb had a side-line: he would tell expec-
tant mothers whether the coming stranger
would be a boy or a girl. He made his
diagnosis from the finger-nails, a. simpler pro-
cess than blood-testing. And in the dozen
or so cases that came under my notice he
was right every time. He told me that he
was “all-same doctor in China,” but that
there was more money in eallots in Aus-
tralia.
“P.F.”: Stupid Convention has played
havoc with another domestic experiment in
a Sydney suburban home that shaped very
promisingly. The husband is an indifferent
clerk, who never earns more than a bread-
and-butter salary when he is working. Dur-
ing one of the frequent intervals when he
was out of a job altogether, the wife left
their three children in his charge and went
out to see wliat she could do in the labor
market. She not only got a good situation.
but in a couple of
months was i n
charge of a depart-
ment; within six
months she was
drawing nearly
twice her husband’s
’best ever.” Then it
was decided, sen-
sibly enough, that
she should carry on
while he stayed at
home, cooked the
meals, and looked
after the kids. Like
many another man
he revealed an
aptitude for this
that lie had never
shown at clerking:
and the arrange-
ment seemed an
excellent one till
the half-concealed
sne e r s of their
friends and rela-
tives caused dis-
comfort. Finally
Convention made it
so unpleasant for
him that lie tore
off the apron and
got a job; and a
housekeeper was in-
stalled to look after
domestic require-
ments, Mainly she
didn’t, or, rather a
succession of her
didn’t, and finally, in despair, and because
the children were growing wild, the wife
returned to household duties, and the whole
family to the struggle that Convention had
declined to let them escape.
“Macquarie Street”: Neville Howse, the
medical M.H.R., telling the Federal Parlia-
ment that Spahlinger had failed to produce
tangible evidence of any permanent “con-
sumption” cures, rather spoiled his report
by adding:—
Members must not think he was “crabbing”
Spahlinger because he was not a medical man.
Medical men had never “crabbed” the greatest
bacteriologist the world had known —Pasteur —
although he was not a member of the medical pro-
fession.
It was a most unfortunate reference. When
Pasteur mounted the tribune at the seance
in the Paris Academy of Medicine in 1880
there was an uproar. Annoyed by the lios-
tile atmosphere and the frequent interrup-
tions, he said : “Do you know what class of
people are most; embittered against me?”
and lie answered the query himself: “The
medical profession; because I am not a
doctor.” (“Savez-vous quels sont eeux qui
sont le plus acharnes contre moi? Ces sont
les medecins. . . .parce quo je ne suis pas
medeein!”) He would, no doubt, have said
much more to the same purpose had not the
seance terminated in a melee, one of the con-
THE OPTIMIST.
“It can't" go on —we arc burning the candle at both ends."
“Oh, but, Harold, look at the lovely light it gives!"
sequences being a challenge to a duel from
Jules Guerin, a leading surgeon. The
attitude of the medical mind has changed,
thank Heaven, since that day, and every
new remedy that offers a chance of benefit-
ing humankind is now rushed, and its dis-
coverer lauded to the skies. Spahlinger has
received more encouragement and more pro-
mises of financial backing than ever fell to
the lot of .Tenner, Lister and Pasteur, and
if his serum has been given the cold shoulder
he deserves full blame for it for not coming
forward in the true scientific spirit and
working for the common good. It is a bit of
luck that the Commonwealth avoided the
pitfall that was so artfully laid for it.
* * * *
“E.D.”: Arthur Morley, who had said he
would not work so long as he had a wife to
keep him, was at the Oollingwood Court
sentenced to one month’s imprisonment for
having insufficient means of support. Let
us make a song about it: —
The lady’s broad, and she is tall;
She labors at the tub,
And readily at duty’s call
She’ll polish, dust and scrub.
She wonders what the J.P. means
Who dubs her “insufficient means.”
And her good man, who long has fed
As ’twere out of her hand,
While “doing it upon his head”
Begins to understand.
To satisfy the legal crew,
Poor chap, he should have married two.
* * * *
“Howitzer”: Grim were the jests Fate
played with some Diggers. At Pozieres a
mate of mine collected a Blighty in the
fleshy part of his right leg. During the
trip down to the aid-post the two stretcher-
bearers carrying him were blown to pieces,
while their charge escaped with a shaking.
Picked up later and carried down to Con-
talmaison, which was packed with wounded,
he was left in the open to wait his turn.
A screeching 5.9 lobbed and killed about a
dozen; this time my cobber’s left leg was
shattered. The limb had to be amputated.
The convalescent was in London, prior to
returning to Aussie when a Zepp raid
occurred. He was sheltering at the top of
tire stairs in a tube entrance when a bomb
dropped close by, and the concussion hurled
him down the stairs and broke his sound
limb. He was patched up again, and
reached Aussie, where Fate, tired of joking,
settled him with tetanus caused by a miser-
able scrub-tick burrowing into his neck!
“Wilfrido” on a nice point of law: —
In a M.L. ease recently the defendant, sued for
the balance of purchase-money of a second-hand
motor-car, set up the defence that the sale was
illegal, as the plaintiff did not hold a license under
the Second-hand Dealers Act, which lays down toe
law with regard to the business of purchasing, selling
and exchanging second-hand articles. \S Honor traced
the existing legislation to 1902, -before which the
only M.L. statute dealing with the sale of second-
hand goods was the Old Metal and Marine Stores.
Dealers Act 1867,
which regulated the
purchase of anchors,
cables and suchlike.
What the Court had
to decide, he pointed
out, was whether a
motor-car was an
“article” within the
meaning of the Act,
and whether when the
original statute was
passed in 1902
flivvers were within
its contemplation.
Pretty clearly they
were not, although as
far back as 1898 a
private Act was passed
authorising one William
McLean to use motor-
cars, “and to enable
other persons to obtain
permits and licenses for
a like purpose.” At
that time poor old
Lizzie was defined as
a carriage, just as, with
a view to prohibiting
furious, riding on the
highway, Mellor, .1., in
the case of Taylor v.
Godwin, held that a
bicycle was a carriage.
The Court' in the pre-
sent case finally looked
around for common-
sense reasons why cars
should not come within
the meaning of the
term “articles,” and
found a strong one in
the fact that for many
years the sale of second-
hand cars (especially
in part payment) has
been going on without
interruption from the
authorities, who appa-
rently were quite satis-
lied. in the N.
Wales statute the term “wares” is used in place ol
“articles,” but that doesn’t help much. “Wares"
nowadays are merely goods. One time there was a
suggestion in the word that the goods were manufac-
tured ; but a seedsman now offers his wares, and it
he’s big enough, his headquarters are a warehouse.
“Mowbray”: I know one Digger who
blesses flic war. He gained experience in
the South African affair;, so when the mob
left the Peninsula for a spell at Lemnos, in
November, ’l5, with their pockets full of
back pay. Bill produced a crown-and-anchor
board. By December he had remitted £3ooo*
home to Brisbane. He was with the battalion
until the Armistice, and his board was in
action every pay day. At one period in 1917.
when the batt. came out for a spell with no
paymaster handy, it was the Crown-and-
Anchor King who made 500 Diggers happy
by advancing a temporary loan to the colonel
DECEASONAL GREETINGS.
THE EVER CHEERFUL: “Hullo, Johnsey! Why
this mournful attire?”
THE EVER SAD: “Ah, my friend, to-day is
the anniversary of my poor first wife's
decease.”
EVER CHEERFUL (again): “Many happy
returns of the day, old top!”
so that each mail could have 10 francs to
jingle. Bill eventually got back safe to
Brisbane. lie was a waterside worker before
he left, but the only labor ho does now is to
collect the rents for flic IS bouses that lie
owns.
{Continued on page IUA
MY SENTRY BOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Admit Mr. Iford, of The Bulletin, to Brown's
Wharf, Woolloomooloo. (Signed) J. S. Co it mac k.”
From no high-flung crag,
With soul aflame
Did I wave a flag
When The Squadron
came;
From no steamer’s deck
AVhere grandees stood
Did 1 crane my neck
For the lordly Hood.
My coign of vantage
And point of view
Was Brown’s Wharf,
Woolloomooloo.
Less close-wedged men
Might reference make
To Nelson, Ben-
bow, Grenville, Drake,
Our crush forbade
Poetic moods;
No time we had
For platitudes.
And there seemed, a feel-
ing
It wouldn’t do
At Brown’s Wharf,
Woolloomooloo.
While boat on boat
Drew aside tiie slip
There was nobody quot-
ed Rudyard Kip.
No pudgy patriot
Or orator
Waxed piping hot
O’er the crews they
bore.
But the sky at Bradley's
Was not more blue
Than at Brown’s Whaif,
Woolloomooloo.
You’ve watched them
come,
As you'll watch them
go ;
To vour ken they’ve swum
Past cape and voe.
From the level shore
And the headland high
The ships of war
You have seen pass by;
But they’ll get no greet-
ing,
I trow, more true
Than at Brown’s Wharf,
Woolloomooloo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CHOPPIN’: THE LOCAL CHAMPION WINS AGAIN.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION BIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. . 15 10
M. A. Rodriguez, Ivanhoe .. I 0 (!
Per D Quinlan. Orange:—
E. Northey. G. Baker. 3/-: W.
Lewis, H; Morris. L. Russell, A.
Gaviu. W. Gifford, A. Sloane. R.
Moad. 2/-; H. Finch. 1/- .. .. 1 1 o
D. Rielly. Chinchilla 10
H. Lindsay, Unley Park .. .. 30
B. Eyre, Goondiwindi .. .. 7 0
£3Ol 8 10
333
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1(0
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.
“Herodot”: The story of the Melbourne
Gaol governor who was “pinched” as a drunk
(B. 3/4/’24) recalls this. A well-known
Sydney barrister (now a K.C.) was once
walking along William-street to his home
late at night, or very early in the morning,
when he almost tripped over the legs of a
recumbent figure in a doorway. Examina-
tion revealed that not only w'as the sleeper
helpless, but he was a policeman. The
lawyer is a kindly soul, and meeting another
member of the force a few hundred yards
along the street he suggested that the drunk
should be moved to a place of safety before
the sergeant appeared. “What’s he like?”
asked the John Hop. The lawyer told him.
“Why,” said John, “that is the sergeant.”
* * •* *
A ladder finds us out: —
it Was a tall ladder, rearing precipitously and
inenacingly above the footpath. At its foot stood the
boss: Almost every ladder has a boss; —he who
stands below and directs the labors of him who toils
above.
People scurrying by glanced apprehensively aloft,
and detoured round the kerb.
“'Docs anyone ever go underneath it?” I asked
the boss.
“Only drunks and kids,” he growled. “The ones
don’t care; the others don’t know.”
A befurred lady , halted before the menace of the
ladder, threw a fleeting, half-ashamed look at the
boss, and hurried by—on the outside.
“Did you see that?” asked the boss. “Superstition
—makes me sick.” Hie spat expressively.
A policeman drifted up. “My missus,” ho volun-
teered, “is, .terrible superstitious. You couldn’t drag
’er under that with a donkey engine. She ’owled
for a week once when I smashed a lookin' glass, i
got nd time for it rneself.”
A small crowd had gathered —as crowds will when
the law stops to talk.
“Move on, please,” ordered the cop, reminded of
his duty. “Ain’t y’ ever seen a ladder before?”
The crowd moved on, furtively—on the outside.
“Oh well, I’ll ’ave to be gettin’ along.” The law
prepared to move.
“Aren’t vou goin’ under- it yourseli ? demanded
the boss suspiciously.
The cop hesitated’-r-and was lost. “Not on yer
life,” he said. “I got a ticket in Tatt.’s coinin'
this week.”
He moved ofi- —-on the outside.
“’Ow about you, son VP
1 blushed. “Me? Oh, I’m going the other
way,” I lied.
# * * *
“tJramao” : A dressmaker sued a widower
la Maoriland for work allegedly done for
liis wife three years before her death, hhe
told the magistrate that she had received a
message from her debtor in the spirit world
to go to the earthly husband for £8 Bs. 3d.,
the amount claimed ; but the material-mmded
widower said if his wife got the goods it
must have been in her new abode, as he
had never seen them on the terrestrial
DAWS GRAMMAAR.
"Dad!”
“Well?”
“Are politics plural?”
“No, my boy. There isn’t anything in the world more singular."
sphere. The magistrate wanted something
more tangible than a spirit, too, and dis-
missed the case. # *
“Slamat” : Re public executions at Singa-
pore (B 2S/3‘/’24). The grimmest and most
impressive occurred only nine years ago. it
was a sequel to the mutiny of .the hifth
Light Infantry (Punjaubis) during Febru-
ary 1915. and the courts-martial following
upon the disturbance. A public execution
of 22 of these misled sbldiers whs the■. fi«h-
tence approved bv the OX; the Straits
Forces. Notices were phblished broadcast,
and on the appointed day a motley crowd oi
over 10,000 whites, Eurasians and Asiatics
congregated outside the Singapore gaol wall;
A hollow square was formed, and the sloping
“BEVEN O'CLOCK."
DAD (after catching sight of the two thin, slices of bread ): “Gripes, mother, if this is
their breakfast, we ain’t staying for their dinner!"
ground made a natural grandstand for the
onlookers. The firing party (the writer was
a member thereof) consisted of the
pore Volunteer Corps, enlisted from *ifiga-
pore residents who. with the men of 11. •
Cadmus, had taken the main part m quelling
the mutiny. The Punjaubis were marched
out of the gaol and tied to posts erected in
front of the wall; and there they faced 110
men of the “firing party. The promul-
gations were road in English, Malay, liiiiciu-
stani and Chinese, by men of those nationali-
ties. The onlookers preserved a complete
silence the while: then in an atmosphere
tense with tragedy the staccato I arty.
Present! Aim! Fire!" was given and the
shots rang out. If ever a lesson was indel-
ibly impressed upon an Oriental community
it was this- one. *
"X2X": The recently-revived suggestion
that cancer is in some mysterious way_ due
to eating pork—in support of which it is
alleged that no Jew has ever been known to
suffer from the disease —is not borne out by
conditions in New Guinea. There hogsflesli
is a staple article of diet, and in the villages
away from civilisation it is almost the only
meat that the native sees. Yet cancer is
practically unknown, although in the wards
of the native hospitals are to be found most
diseases that are due to dirt or lilt.
* * * *
“Narcissus": The Orient liner Omar,
which recently lost
her propeller in the
Indian Ocean, was
at one time the
German Koenigin
Luise. I was one
of the crowd of
Diggers that she
brought back to
Australia in
A ugus t, 1919.
Packed above her
capacity, she had
several disparaging
nicknames, the
most favored being
the Chronic Dis-
ease. After leaving
Durban we put back
hurriedly within
three or four hours
—somebody having-
discovered that salt
water had been
taken on board
w hen we r e-
watered. I have
often wondered
wliat would have
been our plight had
the discovery been
delayed for a few
days.
“G.8.L.” decisively
lie the last fight of the German ace, Baron Von
Richthofen (B. 3/4/’24). On April 21, 1917, Richt-
hofen’s famous “Red Circus,” after a brush with
two Australian photographing machines of No. 3
Squadron, hauled off with one of its triplanes badly
hit to meet a formation of British scouts—Naval
Air Squadron “camels,” operating as fighting scouts
in the Amiens sector. The two formations flew
straight at each other, and there was a ding-dong
a ,V scra p. “Suddenly,” vide Cutlack ‘in “The
Australian Flying Corps,” “the watching gunnerss of
the 53rd A.F.A. Bty., near the crest of the ridge,
ettw two whirling and twisting forms emerge from
the haze where the popping of the machine-guns had
beeii heaviest. Then one' machine ’ dived for the
gtotuid with the other on its tail Suddenly the
pursued aeroplanej evidently in desperate straits,
made straight fot the crest of the ridge near the
battery; the guitnfets sitfr that it was a British
machine’ and its pursuer a red triplane. The German
'was firing vapid short bursts at the 'camel, and
the hunted British machine was making no attempt
to turn and tire. The pilot afterwards explained that
•he had his guns jambed, and had no room to
manoeuvre so near to the ridge. At this point, at
about a hundred-yards range, the artillery Lewis
gunners and a machine-gun from another Australian
camp opened fire on the German. The triplane,
obviously crippled, dived straight into the ground
about 400 yards away and was smashed to pieces.
The Australians discovered from, the watch and papcis.
on the dead pilot that he was Richthofen.” Some
medals which were found on Richthofen s body
into the possession of Major Butler; a British officei,
and he had these returned to the dead airmans
mother in Germany. .
* -* * *
“ \naf" • “Carburetter’s” Melbourne detec-
tive, who virtuously refused to accent a
gratuity from the owner of some restored
stolen property (B. 3/4/24), was an un-
usual sort of sleuth. Detectives who recover
goods—for warehouse and department-store
proprietors particularly —can rely on get-
ting substantial gratuities based upon the
value of the goods recovered. . I know a
couple of detectives who received ffiU
three months, in ‘ bonuses of foil, il t at
• £4R they bud successfully traced and re-
covered missing stuff. On another occasion
the restoration of a quantity of valuable
drugs stolen from a city warehouse earned
the detectives £5O. Even the Commonwealth
Government has been known to reward > tatc
detectives, although in such cases the gitt is
generally camouflaged as ‘expenses. Li
course, the practice is a bad one. since i-
inevitably produces a tendency to concen-
trate on cases likely to be remunerative.
“T.X.” meets another strike committee: —
Quite a new sort of strike committee has been set
up in Sydney. There is- an Industrial Blind Institu-
tion, by' which, it seems, three blind men were lately
refused employment, allegedly on the ground that
they had “authorised the publication of statements
relating to the inferior quality of material which
blind workers were often required to use.” Where-
upon the Association for the Advancement of the
Blind, through a president and secretary, issued a
circular to subscribers to the Industrial Blind Insti-
tution asking them to go on strike and refuse any
more contributions till the three men are reinstated.
If supplies are thus cut off it will come pretty
rough on the people who are employed; but, then,
if Belgium is in the way, Belgium has got to suffer
the Huns said so, and it is astonishing how many
of us are Huns at some time or other in our lives.
Yet, no doubt, the Association for the Advancement
of the Blind believes that it is the most humanitarian
little body in the world. And perhaps it is. W hich
shows that pacifism and humanitarianism don’t
always eat out of the same dish.
* * * -X-
-“Oxrnead”: In the roaring ’nineties on the
Coolgardie goldfield one lucky miner cele-
brated a rich strike by marrying a Japanese
girl. Notable persons like Sir Edward
Arnold and Lafcadio Hearn had done the
same thing without being rated by contem-
porary commentators, but the goldfields press
of the period took a uniformly hostile view
of this union, celebrated at a registry office.
It may have been the White Australia prin-
ciple, or the fact that Japanese women were
never in goldfields towns except for one pur-
pose. Yet., after all, who was to say that
there wasn't some real attachment on the
part of the successful suitor? I once knew’
a jackeroo on a Murchison (W.A.) station
—fresh from an English public school —who
fell desperately in love with a black gin. He
would have married lier, too, if his friends,
had not intervened; their methods were
much the same as those told of in one ot
Kipling’s Indian stories to cure a subaltern
of his infatuation for a Eurasian gifh except
that no “thieves’ camels” were requisitioned.
.But they were drastic methods and eftectii e..
The young man got over it.
* * * .
“Bed Tape”: The. outcry of N.S.W. Muni-
cipal Councils about the difficulty of collect-
ing rates from missing landowners led to
an Act being passed authorising the sale ot
i'locks upon which unpaid rates had accumu-
lated, Although many councils have not yet
exercised the right, in 30 months !.k»3 blocks
have been auctioned by the Public Trustee ;
and, as the amounts realised were over
£50,000, and less than £20,000 was owed
for rates, a fair balance is left for ex-
owners. Casual methods, are remarkably
frequent in dealing with land. A search for
information about one owner brought to
light a man who had forgotten all about
his bit of realty, nor did he possess any
papers except a receipt for money paid m
consideration of sale.” Lands Titles Office
records showed that no transactions allecting
the land had been recorded for 30 years.
In that period it had apparently been sold
four or five times; yet not a single purchaser
or vendor had considered any documentary
evidence necessary. In another case where
a country owner had held a number of small
farm blocks and had sold them to different
people, it was discovered that the wrong
titles had been passed over —Smith, for in-
stance, had been holding and working land
which really belonged to Jones, and vice
versa. In one case tin' property had been
twice transferred without the error being
discovered.
* *
A REMARKABLE TIMEPIECE.
"Excuse me, there (toes eight hells. It's my
watch below."
“Goodness! Fancy being able to hear your
watch from right, down stairs like that!”
SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A song went dancing through my heart
' And turned its tears to laughter;
I grasped at it triumphantly,
To write it that the world might sec
And joy in it hereafter.
But this was all it seemed to he:
“I love my love and he loves me!”
x.s.v.
F.O'R.
TWO SORTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A taxicab driver was lined Cil at the Central
Police Court. When- turning into Oxford-street be
knocked down a man and a constable." —Sydney (sun.
Had other animals been on the beat
They might have got a shaking and a scare ;
Hut sheep are seldom seen in Oxtord-strect
And even dogs arc mercifully rare.
Two only crashed before he took a pull -
A man and what the Yankees term a “bull."
On country roads where poultry take the air
And foolish pigs will stand as if transfixed
Right iii the ’middle of the thoroughfare,
Some motorists can show a bag that’s mixed.
Only two species this one cannoned on,
An heir of all the ages” and a John !
He whizzed along, provoking oaths and squeals
And warrantable anger and dismay,
Till presently beneath his taxi wheels
A oiped of the Genus Homo lay.
And ere they’d checked his hell-for-leathcr course
He’d downed, as well, a member of the force.
K.S.W.
T. THE R.


mmnnmmn
\t
U'j •tgP
m
l
E 32
r
aj £, «g nimmori
lt>oß
§ A ffi
gpr fcisSf
t>2 C flr ts
¥
3
£
mo
or
J
$
JOtf
2L
miiuwiuunuifiiuiiiiiniimirn
iiiiiiiiiiiiiu'iMMimiiimniiiiimiiiimiiiimimnvrTTimmviiiiiiiirin'fTiiiiiHlTnTnTniiniTTTi'mnHrTTrTrrmffil
A 13 IB 073
l_ O £ R
To Purchasers of Genuine
Joseph Rodgers & Sons, Ltd., Sheffield, is the
only firm entitled to describe cutlery as Rodgers
Cutlery . Those wishing to purchase the well-
known products of Joseph Rodgers & Sons, Ltd.,
are warned against substitution.
Every genuine Rodgers product bears this mark ♦
inted * 9in 1682
NOYES BROS.
Granted
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. Victoria Chambers, Eagle
Street, BRISBANE. I 7 Bolton Street, NEWCASTLE. (MELBOURNE) Pty.,
Ltd., 493-501 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. Darling Buildings, Franklin
Street, ADELAIDE. Corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets, HOBART. Also
from ]. W. PERTH, W.A.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Ex-Premiers and their families were again
prominent in the South Aus, elections. The son
of the late Tom Price had no difficulty in get-
ting in again for Port Adelaide. John Verran’s
son occupied another safe seat there, but
was somehow left out of the Labor plebis-
cite and sent to hunt in the doubtful district
of Sturt, where he failed. Meanwhile old
John himself was trying hard again to “come
back” in his former electorate, but this time as
a Liberal, and without success. Similarly,
Richard Butler, once Premier and lately
Speaker, failed at Barossa. So did his son
Col. Charley at Newcastle ; but another son
was elected.
A man who has fought the Devil in Fiji
with all sorts of weapons for 45 years is
Arthur J. Small, now retiring. In addition
to a general grip of medicine and law, which
a gospel-carrier to the heathen is expected
to have, a knowledge of printing and the
native language en-
abled him to estab-
lish a monthly
paper when he
came across a plant
which someone had
shipped to the
islands and forgot-
ten. A quarter of
a century ago
Small was made
chairman of the
Methodist Church
in Suva, and he
has been its head
there ever since.
Even now that he
is taking Ids hand
from the plough he
does not intend to
leave the islands.
Rear-Admiral
Sir HUBERT
BRAND, second
in command of
the Special
Service Squadron,
and second son of
N.S.W.’s former
Governor Hampden.
Hugo Stinnes, one of the most sinister
figures thrown up by the World War, died
last week of double pneumonia following on
an operation for gallstones. A Jew of
obscure origin, he was only 54 at his death,
yet he had a fortuue estimated at anything
from ten to a thousand millions. The foun-
dations of his wealth were laid during the
war, when he gradually took control of most
of the iron, steel and electrical works in
Germany; he consolidated and added to
these interests after the Armistice, and lat-
terly was employed in buying up banks and
newspapers. He was of no service to
the Fatherland, politically or financially,
during the fighting: indeed the Allies first
heard of him in the columns of London
Times in 1917 as one who considered that
all Europe was bound to crash in a common
ruin. Later he emerged as an advocate
of a reconstructed German mercantile
marine, and much of his money is in the
fleets that are now beginning to compete
even in British ports.
Vic.’s late Speaker Mackey was keen at
one time to shine on the Supreme Court
Bench, and he just missed an appointment
in Bent's time, when Leo Cussen was (un-
fortunately for him) available. Bent told
him that a County Court judgeship was his
for the asking, provided he qualified by re-
tiring from politics for six months; but
Mackey declined a consolation prize. In
1917 he could have been Premier of a rural
Cabinet with Bowser as galloper, but the
Speakership was more to liis liking then, and
he took the vacant Chair, from which he
ruled the House with consummate skill.
The late John Emanuel Mackey was the
12th of Vic.’s Speakers since the granting of
responsible government in 1856. He was
the fourth Chairman of Committees —the
other three were Peter Lalor, Mason and
Beazley—to reach the chair. Three ex-
Premiers—Gavan Duffy. Berry and Gillies
—donned the wig, and Bent left the august
perch to subsequently become the head of
two or three Governments. It is said by
those in Speaker Watt’s confidence that
Bent’s record won't be unique if one man cau
help it. Watt is still young and his ambition
won’t sleep on his present position in the
House of Reps.
Maoriland has lost a striking little citizen
with the passing of Dr. A. K. Newman. The
wee dynamo mixed medicine, politics, sport,
journalism and numerous etceteras with
astonishing facility. In Parliament, where
he sat on and off for 40 years, he was known
variously as “the fun doctor” and “the cock-
sparrow"—the former because of his nimble
wit, and the latter because he was
always cheekily pecking at the Government.
Although a follower of Massey, he was no
Tory, and the big Premier must have
breathed a sigh of relief when the doctor
retired from the House a couple of years
ago. Newman, though strong on Cold Tea,
was a good sport, and had raced horses in
Wellington for the last 40 years. He was
born in India just three-quarters of a cen-
tury back.
The fresh-complexioned Massy Greene,
who took E. D. Millen’s place, looks a little
vague and wan against the red trimmings
of the Senate Chamber. He has taken his
fall from quarter-deck to powder-monkey
like a gentleman, and shows no sign of envy-
ing the man whom Fortune whisked into the
Admiral’s cabin. No doubt he will rise
again. Some are inclined to minimise his
big effort in piloting the Tariff through a
House that was overwhelmingly Protection-
ist, but in awkward situations he demon-
strated a tact and resource which proved
that he had the temperament for office. He
jwill probably have a try for his old seat
in the Reps, at the next election.
George Crowley, of the City Mutual Life,
is a resilient customer. He collapsed six
weeks ago, and was given eight hours to live
by his doctor, the trouble being internal
haemorrhage. Unperturbed he sent for his
spiritual adviser, and then settled down to
await the end. Last week the same'doctor
told him that, with ordinary care, he should
live another 20 years. The last annual meet-
ing of the City Mutual was the first he had
missed in 30 years.
Dr.. A. Tregent, a blind student who has just
gained the B.A. degree at Melbourne Uni.,
dropped a junior clerk’s pen in Vic. Lands
Department to go to the war, and it was
only a few days off the Armistice when a
Fritz shell robbed him of his eyesight. While
getting a fresh grip on life at that fine insti-
tution for the blind in London, St. Dunstan’s,
lie met the V.A.D. nurse who became his wife
and subsequently in Melbourne aided and
abetted him in his ’Varsity course. He is
still only 27.
Archdeacon Boyce, who up till a few years
ago was the Samson of the N.S.W. Cold Tea
Party, celebrated his 80th birthday the other
day ; and this year sees the 40th anniversary
of his incumbency of St. Paul’s, Redfern.
The fine old citizen included in the guns he
used against the Liquor people an annua)
statement of the amount “wasted” upon the
enemy. lie spoke of wine, whisky and beer
in hundreds of thousands of gallons ; and he
felt pleased when, after one meeting, a press-
man asked him for bis figures. “You’re
going to publish them?” the old zealot asked.
But the pressman smiled. “No,” he said,
“I want to make my mouth water.”
“The Deacon” : The Franciscan Order in
Australia lost its most outstanding friar re-
cently when P. B. Kennedy went to report
to his Founder. A fighting Limerick man,
he came to Australia over 40 years ago, in
pursuance of Moran’s policy of hooding Syd-
ney archdiocese with regular clergy, and for
many years he reigned the unmitred bishop
of the Eastern Suburbs. When the increase
of secular priests forced Moran to lop off
portions of the Franciscan territory. Ken-
nedy stood up to him and appealed to
Caesar. The old Cardinal died in the inter-
val, and then Kennedy gave Archbish. Kelly
a taste of his quality in a letter yet pre-
served in the Cathedral archives. Withal a
kindly, humorous soul, the best part of nearly
70 years was spent by him in giving the
other fellow a hand over the stile.
The passion for costs is hereditary. Of
10 Judges who have adorned the Tasmanian
Bench since 1885 five—Dobson, Gibl’.n,
Clark, Mclntyre and Dobbie —left sons now
at the Bar. And Nicholls, Crisp and Ewing,
the present dispensers of justice, are rearing-
youths who are likely to be seen and heard
there.
Aitchison Grieve, who grows sheep in the
south-eastern corner of S. Aus., must be
about the youngest chairman of a district
council in the Commonwealth. He was
elected a member of the Lucindale body at
22, and became chairman last July—and
he won’t be 26 till May 29. Incidentally,
he is president of a bush racing club, and a
delegate from his council to hospital and
drainage boards which meet at Narracoorte.
John Clark Bowden, who died at Malvern
(Vic.) last week, was the grandson of the
chief surgeon in Sydney in 1803, and his dad,
who originally came from Tas., was at the
first sale of Crown lands on the Barwon
River, near Geelong, in the early ’forties.
The Bowdens built a flourmill there and
flourished exceedingly, young John later on
joining the firm of Holmes, White and Co..
who were agents for the well-known Loch
line. He must have been one of Geelong’s
most venerable. Jay Pays, and he certainly
launched the first newspaper in the district.
For a long while he was the partner of John
Arthur and William Bradley in the J. B.
Clark racing combine, whose brown-and-pink
often caught the judge’s eye.
The other day the man who is claimed to
be the long-distance tenant-farmer of Aus-
tralia retired, when T. A. Smith, of Comer-
ton Park (N.S.W.), sold up his stock and
fixings after having farmed the property for
43 years. Comerton Park is owned by the
Comer family, and a descendant of the
oi'iginal holders intends to work it.
Gone where the good commercial travellers
go, Bob Douglas Fox, one of S.A.’s best-
known road-men. He was born at Gawler
ir; ‘62, joined the firm of Bickford and Sons
as a boy, and was still spinning yarns and
doing business for that house when the end
came. One of his two daughters married F.
Cornell, managing director of Cornell’s. Ltd.
During the recent visit of M.L. Priminister
Massey to the Cold Country he was presented
with a letter written by one Frederick Dick-
inson to his uncle in England in 1839. It
contains some realistic details about a canni-
bal feast by the Maori victors over the
Ngapuhis:—
There was another brig and ship lying in the
bay, so we all agreed to go ashore, and of all the
horrible sights- I ever witnessed this was the most
horrible. They were baking 10 of their enemies for
a feast, and one of the old chiefs- going up to <
prisoner plucked out his eyes while he was alive and
ate them. As this tribe was friendly to the white
man, we ventured ashore, the captain and some of the
passengers taking presents of powder and ball and
a few muskets, which pleased the savages very much.
They gave us to understand after a short stay that
we had better be going, as they did not like us to
see them eat their victims, so we took the hint an 1
went aboard.
But “Farmer Bill” can’t claim that any such
letter sent bis family to Mao riland on the hunt
for excitement. His parents were among
the “Nonconformist settlers” who landed in
the ’sixties ; and young Bill joined them in
1870.
J. P. Osborne’s reappointment to the N. S.
Wales Meat Board as consumers’ rep. was
a surprise. His was one of Holman’s poli-
tical appointments—he had been M.L.A. for
Paddington—and it has been the habit of the
Fuller Government to guillotine such at the
first opportunity. But the Board has made
a pretty good fist of things; and doubtless
another reason was Cramsie’s attitude-—lie
practically demanded the heads of his col-
leagues. So he goes out and the colleagues
remain, presumably as an intimation that
the Government won’t stand dictation. The
other colleague is chairman King, with whom
Cramsie’s chief quarrel lay—they “don’t
speak.” King is a public servant and nearly
due for retirement, but as the Meat Board
does not come under the Public Service Board
he will probably last his full term.
The Baroness Frankfort has given Sydney
Art Gallery, in the name of her stepfather,
the late Edward Wrench, of Sydney, a marble
statue by Dannecker. Wrench was the first
manager of the Australian Joint Stock Bank:
later he was half the firm of Richardson and
Wrench. He married the widow of one
Throckmorton, a well-known shipping man ;
the lady was a sister of George Samuel Wegg
ARTHUR, RICKARD, chief of the Sydney
Millions Club, goes golfing.
Horne, solicitor. Minister for Lands in the
first O'Slianassy Government in Victoria.
The Australian lady who married the
Viscount de Montmorency Frankfort brought
him no successor; and the title died with
him seven years ago.
Twenty-one members of Vic. Assembly
and 12 of the Council have now been col-
leagues of Lawson since he began Cabinet-
making on March 21, 1918. Kendell, Camp-
bell, Hicks and Livingston are dead, Mac-
kinnon is in U.S.A., McWliae is Agent-
General (till July 31). Clarke is Uppah
House President, and Hutchinson is out of
politics. Bowser, who was squeezed out.
has been saying “I told you so" to Allan.
Old, Goiidie, Wettenhall and Crockett, who
have just been put out. Robertson and
McPherson, who left, and Barnes, Baird.
Davis, Merritt, Angus and Pennington, who
were dropped, are now full Parliamentary
privates. Oman, who was shown the door,
has been hauled back again. Arthur Robin-
son has kept step with Lawson for the whole
six years. Peacock (now in his 12th Cabi-
net), Argylc, Eggleston, Cohen, Gordon.
Groves. Beardmore, M. McGregor and
Brawn are now in, but Heaven alone knows
for how long.
A SEA SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“But in the procession there was also a large
number of marines. These wore a khaki uniform
and big sun helmets, and seemed to have a more
soldierly bearing than their companions.” —The Sun.
The Leading Seaman drank his beer in sullen solitude;
The Silent Navy’s bandy-legged epitome he stood.
With furrowed brow lie scowled upon the scene of
revelry,
And there was menace in his port and fury in his
eye ;
And ever and anon he cried: “It strikes me bandy,
yus,
T’ read th’ blinkin’ Lobsters marched more soldier-
like than Us.”
Upon his sad seclusion then 1 ventured to intrude.
Cried I: “Brave offspring of the sea and boy of
bulldog brood,
Don’t let the cramping claws of care your land-
ward joyance fetter.
If it’s a girl of Melbourne town, our Sydney girls
are better! ”
Said he: “It ain’t a blinkin’ tart, but some damn’
silly Gus
Wot says th’ bleedin’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”
“Well, what of that?” I blithely cried. “The
world lies bright before;
The beer is brimming in the pot, the damsels all
adore ;
Let rancor rip, my noble lad, for, mark you, the
Marine
Has played a gallant part with you in many a
bloody scene.”
Quoth he: “Th’ Devil doubt him, but he wants a
blanky nuss,
The bloke that wrote th’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”
Said I: “He meant it well, no doubt, but ways of
navy men
To him are not so open, p’rhaps, as ways of ink
and pen.
How could he know that saturnine, yet silent, rivalry
Lies ever ’tuixt the Matlows and the Regiment of
the Sea ?’ ’
Cried he: “If I could get ’im ’ere, I’d teach th’
silly cuss
To say th’ Weedin’ Lobsters marched more soldier-
like than Us.”
Winy-Commander GOBLE (chief of the
Common wealth Air Staff), who is going
to chart the coast of Australia for
aeroplane bases.
And when at last I left him, a sullen, sloppy tear
Rolled slowly down his bronzed beak and splashed
into his beer.
The day was sharp and crisp as fizz, and joy was in
the air,
But there, alone and all aloof, he sang in blank
despair;
“Oh strike him pink an’ green and’ blue an’ every-
thing’ that’s wuss,
Th’ bloke who says th’ Lobsters marched more
soldier-like than Us.”
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


SfiV
ray
mm
msmmm-
•SlM
mmm
m
’®sm
■•-'• --2UIMS#
mmM
¥-•
IsHfi
si*s
iHK
HK
i
■,v.vv
•AjJ
ill Mism
K'i<”
t'?*k
li®«I
,
;V .•»’*. Vy • •*•■
;? 3&&H
£f,J
*xr:
sM
SC?
$
m
MHK •'!?« :,'
'< ?s§gg. < vVU
>si§p&s*i
S&kg 3
sas
.: i ’~V' ' xy?
m
SBffi
n&1
Hlfl;!
ms
;slii
sS^A
m i
‘aws
gspl?g§
&&*&»
54,
srapfsi
afefr. • &
fcg
i?/4 #.
•'•/<#*’ ¥v
mi
.■ m
SB
m
i V \s‘?t . J
V-
■
vHv®
Up
AWlffiS
«■ was
KISS
vwa?
?r *«
.'-SPitokS
>2V*
S&vtvA
M
Kliii
?ViS
S ; - .r-7-
ll ! >' Vfe%m#4i v “.^
■HS
k n
&
'Xlfes
K 1
li|f|i|f|®l
KStaS®K»3K^‘.-.«AV,
■hhß£
»sa»
1 1
j
g
sfeSsSfeg
.
a
cmmm
'V->
tffifr.
.x'xv
81
.fessK .
' , "■■ ■ I
IfS
w
3£&S
■ :
m&i
/
s@B^s
■ ■ .
imi
»2Wtf
SS^a>;!
wx'SfmK
i i
a®
?S»Sj
3
s*»ss@
:
M 5:
■
■^fe- : aag
*S
Vr.Mv
'
K A tlr -'^■.f-~T''-^
ml
:
: m
vtt>
mmm
■
»
■
■
«s
5?aS
CK
*s£
IS-
ps
-..V'VjfcS,
1
K&
fe-
k
?*£«
a®
is*
r**
4&&
■»jr»r
A
rew.
S^s?
v ✓»-;Nj
%SSS
-.13
vsl<y£
vvs>*
F h*>»S3^vFW
aiw
*:xi*
.> : ; v
3S
*S»
SKSf
m
?mw?
i^^lSi.Pl ;
sv:
igf**isS
f -*>
1
ass*
.?«•>
j®
•% JSA&mrK:. t*i f-TTIAv -i^ik.
« He*?
s-v~.
•%.:
&f-
a-jjS
>/,:’
n»sesißviia£&
•ii’-Vv
S?'3*j3
-M
%
fesps
hi>
.*&*££*
.<c
ifa?
a&g
3525;
ft
$2
\^nr
.;:v'“
«s#s
•fcrs
XV »»
.!•
ip;
S.V
£
SJK
i ;"
:
J?&*
S 3
0k
T-?,::
W 5 4\
2$
rrVvVK
*r- ■^ ri
rw.w'j
i&T:
m
S'*
-fee*?
<ffl&
2plg§|P
CVS
&,W
ffSWI-X
fi&s
sseis
***
-A
&
•S^Vv
V3f
r
feSR
£*£*£>
fa.
smsis*-w&.
»*>
IfeS
ax*
SKI?
%
m
SWW'
!Sv>sV
fc?s
ia»
&ss
&Z
3 ' l
S2§®@
fcSteSE
«2*
Jgstl
• v SiS
GrnlxS’&sKv^SiM V
44
' ■&
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
m
«lION
Tariff— Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” CafS and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
M
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
DOES 10 MEN’S WORK.
Prices and Particulars Mailed Free.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
379 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
632 BOTJRKE STREET. MELBOURNE
AND AT
NEWCASTLE.
HUNTING KNIVES
2
MARBLES’ Knives are made from the
highest-quality steel. Well finished. Per-
fectly balanced. In patent leather holsters.
“WOODCRAFT” Knife, as illustrated.
41-inch blade. Compressed leather handle.
Handv size 12/0
“IDEAL” Knives. Beautifully finished,
with hilt. Compressed leather handles.
8-irich, 25/-. 5-inch, 15/-
“IDEAL” Knives. Horn handle, sin., 17/0
SAFETY AXES. Small and serviceable.
Pit easily in the pocket. Patent Spring
Safety Guard 9/0
POCKET FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. Absolutely safe. Wonderfully
compact 17/0
Sole Agents: THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
Cjb’ .
utce
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“To Pana”: Despite the change from semi-
heathenism to civilisation effected by the “missinaly ’
man, most Samoan youngsters are being reared as
they have been reared for the last thousand years.
Go inland any night a few miles from Vaea Moun-
tain, where R.L.S. sleeps, and the old songs still
echo in the scrub. Samoan men and women and
kids squat in rows watching the siva dance in full
swing. It is then the devout Christian natives who
were the dancers of another age step on the bamboo
pae par and perform a song and dance that woujd
shock the missionaries. These backsliding nights are
called “galas”; but they are simply prim sur-
vivals of the old siva and moke dances which were
supposed to have been forgotten in the “advance-
ment.” The youngsters at these shows are bidden
memorise the barbaric whirls and lewd posturing
against the time when they will be asked to take
the stage and secretly voice the words of old war
songs. In Tonga and Rarotonga much the same
“galas” are held by the natives while the mission-
ary sleeps.
“Jackeroo”: A grazier at Springsure (Q.)
has the skin of a sheep which grew black wool
for about five months, then white wool for
about six weeks, then black wool again. It’s a
pity that Josephus Junibuck died. A mob of his
progeny would have been handy for producing
striped socks.
* * w *.
“Thirteen” : I nominate the turkey as the
silliest thing in the animal world. The other day
I saw one trying for hours to get through a fence,
and, when sundown came, it flew to the top and
camped there for the night.
“Callopus”: It is enlightening to learn
that “Caloola” (B. 20/3/’24) has discovered a new
species of pelican cap-
able of “chasing mullet
under water.” Is lie
unaware that it is im-
possible for the peli-
can (glutton though he
is) to get down further
than his neck and bill
can reach, owing to the
fact that nature has
distributed thousands
of air capsules beneath
his skin, which make
it impossible for him
to dive? If “0.” wants
any further opportunity
of studying the wonder-
ful bird let him visit
No. 1 lock at Blanche-
town (S.A.) and see
the thousands of these
pests that loiter all day
on the downstream side
of the weir wafting
for their lunch to come
over. I have watched
them for hours, but
have never yet seen any
sign of their leaving
“trails like the pro-
peller of a ferry
steamer.”
* *
“ Jesmond”: Tell “Spadger” (B. 27/3/’24)
that cows are milked from the near-side, not the off-
side. Nearly all cockles talk cow in terms of horse,
but the near- and off-side of a cow are opposite to
those of a horse. So few dairy farmers are aware
of this fact that some of the Australian herd socieiAs
have had to impress it upon new members in order
to ensure the correct ear-marking of pedigreed stock.
* * * *
“Tilga”: “Wineonsin” (B. 27/3/’24) tells
of the trouble his party had in stopping the bleeding
from an “amputated” thumb. It is extraordinary
that so few bushmen have mastered the principle of
the pressure points and the tourniquet. If only the
first joint of the thumb had been shot off, six inches
or less of boot-lace tied round the remaining portion
would have immediately prevented further bleeding,
ii the whole thumb had gone, pressure applied at
two points about an inch above the wrist joint would
have had the desired effect. A mate’s two thumbs
could have done the trick while a couple of small
pieces of wood were being prepared and bound tightly
in correct position with a handkerchief. Or pressure
of the fingers inside the upper-arm, between the
muscle and the bone, would have stopped the flow
of blood to the arm —a handkerchief knotted round a
small pebble applied to the same spot could then
have been tied in the same position. That thumb-
stump should not have been allowed to bleed 10
seconds after the first ■ chap came to the assistance
of the wounded man.
MEATEOROLOGY.
BOSS: “How many wethers did they hare on Nuntherungie when you were there?”
CHOOM : “Well, it were mostly ot and dry a[?] the time."
“Topee”: Although for some years resi-
dent in other parts of New Guinea, I have only
visited the Hutch portion, so that the cannibalistic
practice of soaking victims - in a shallow stream to
ensure tenderness, as mentioned by “Moe” (B.
27/3/’24), is new to me. Such is, or,, at least, was,
not the New Britain practice, according to my in-
formant Alick, an ancient Luluai (chief) at Nordup,
near Rabaul, who in former days had participated in
certain raids on mission stations. His objection to
the white man as an article of diet was “he.alto-
gether plentv-fella salt too much.” This necessi-
tated keeping the prospective joint in a cage and
feeding it for some weeks on plantains and bread-
fruit in order to eliminate the excess salinity 7 occa-
sioned by a meat diet—a process troublesome _ and
liable to interruption. Hence the advent of Chinese
coolies (by wreck or otherwise) was specially 7 wel-
comed, for, being of vegetarian habit, they were
ready for the pot immediately on arrival.
“Tester” : While out mustering the other-
day I came across a swarm of bees (English) that
had made their hive on the outside of a box-tree.
They looked as if they intended to stay, as there was
a layer of honeycomb about 2in. thick by 2ft. by
about 15in. There was absolutely no shelter from
the weather except an overhanging limb. Does the
Council know of a similar case?
* * *
“Dune” : Re “Billy Brolga’s” bullock who
lost the shell of his horns (B. 3/4/’24). Incidents of
the kind are fairly common. On my own place re-
cently 7 two milkers met, and before they had finished
three rounds each had lost a shell. It certainly 7
must be painful for the beast for a while, but after
a few days the action of the air seems to harden the
exposed core and it becomes apparently quite as
nerveless as a fully-shelled horn. Incidentally, an
old cattle hand once told me that if the beast is
securely tied immediately the damage is done, the
horn smeared with Stockholm tar and the shell re-
placed, it will dry on “as good as ever." I wanted
to try 7 this with one of mine, but she had a badly-
twisted pair of horns, and whether it was this or the
newly-exposed bone was too tender to the touch, or I
went the wrong way about it, I don’t know, hut,
anyway 7, I couldn’t even get a start on. By the way,
if “Billy Brolga” is worried with foxes, he can use
the shell to good advantage. Tie it securely to a
stump, fill with melted mutton fat in which has been
mixed a small quantity of oil of aniseed, and, when
cold, run a skewer down the centre. Put strychnine
in the resulting cavity and seal with a small piece of
fat. Brer Fox will find some difficulty in licking the
shell quite clean, owing to its small diameter, and
while he is doing this the poison is taking effect.
Result- —one defunct fox right alongside the bait.
“Akran” : When I was working for a cow-
cockv near Alstonville (N.S.W.) a. few y 7 ears ago,
a middle-aged draught mare had a foal which broke
its leg when only a week old and had to be de-
stroyed. The following day I was rounding up at
milking-time when I spied a young bulk about nine
months old sucking the old mare, who was accept-
ing the performance with great content. The bull
was a prize one, and the boss let the pair run
together, and every day during the six succeeding
months 1 was on the place the fast-growing bull
drew a regular ration of milk. The cocky told me a
few years later that, he had none too easy- a job
keeping the bull away from his foster-parent even
then.
“Bouragi” on Black Brother's viewpoint:—
“l.objc's” bitter protest against the cruelty of
the Papuan savage (B. 27/3/’24) is, no doubt, sin-
cere ; but what he and others forget is that the
Papuan is not consciously cruel. He is no more
blameworthy for the blood-curdling things he does
than a baby is for hauling a kitten round by the
tail. Long and intimate acquaintance with the real
Papuan convinced me that he is utterly incapable of
considering it cruel to break a bird’s wing or a
captive’s leg to prevent escape. Here is good food
which is hard enough to get, and one must be careful
it doesn’t get away. We don’t think we are cruel
when we crate fowls to market, or truck cattle tor
Homebush. That is very much the Papuan’s view
point. Yet he has his own ideas; of cruelty. \
most affectionate husband and parent, the sight of
anyone being beaten as a punishment disgusts him
excessively. I never knew a case of a Papuan smack-
ing or maltreating a wife or a child, though I have
known one tomahawk the missus when he came home
tired and hungry from hunting and found that her
gossiping habits had kept her from preparing his
evening meal. “Lobjc” and his friends are in the
THE GREAT TRUTH ABOUT BEER.
BEERMAID: “Is the beer you get in Ingland
any bettern the beer you get out. 'ere?"
VISITOR: “The only beer that's worth a cuss
is the beer where you happen to be.”
right, but, only from their own viewpoint; the
Papuan, regarding matters from an utterly different
mental angle, is equally so. You cannot sweep
away the traditions of a thousand years of savagery
—or of a thousand years of civilisation either —at
the word of command, as the sam’-majors used to say.
“Tauwarra”: The other day I was watch-
ing a magnificent butterfly hovering about the head
of an exceedingly dirty and scalv-skinned native of
the Papuan Gulf, when the smellful nig. caught my
eye. “My word, taubada,” he grinned, “this fella
he t'ink me all same flower!”
(Continued on page 2\.\
DENMAN'S REEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Old Denman dwelt in a place forlorn on the fringe
of the Bluebush Lead,
In the hills far east of the beaten tracks where the
wheels of commerce speed ;
But twice in a long and thirsty year he limped to
the Hampton store
To load his barrow with fresh supplies io carry
him through once more—
To keep him alive till he should find the reef that
he swore must run
By the Lead where slugs were long since raised to
shine in the blazing sun.
Alone he lived and alone he toiled with dish and
dolly and pick ;
And only the crows that watched him knew when he
labored lame and sick.
Hc‘d laugh and drink at the Hampton pub, but never
his past was told
On the day and night but twice a year when he paid
his score in gold.
Ah, not with gold from the reef he sought with firm
desire and deed,
But with random weights found after rains on dumps
of the worked-out lead!
The seasons sped and the years dropped back and
the scrub crept down t lie slopes
And the saplings grow on the gravel heaps of the
old man’s buried hopes;
But still ho searched with faith undiinmed and
followed the leaders far
That petered out in the country rock or broke on
the slatestone bar.
lie picked and napped 7 where the faintest sign of a
reef or leader showed
Long mulga miles from the Hampton pub, far east
of the Viking road.
There came a year when he failed to wheel his
barrow across the flat; '
And they missed his patched-up dungarees and the
corks of his old felt hat.
Then the man who kept the pub and store remarked
in the bar one day,
“Seems strange to me that poor ole Den lias kept
so long away!”
Hut the winter came with a month of rain that
soddened the Bluebush track
And sated the dark scrub’s chronic thirst in the
ranges far out back.
NO NEED TO BE CALLED.
“You brudder Jimmy long a Sydney now, Miss Young?”
“Yes, he teas called to the Bar last we eh.”
“Baal call, miss—Jimmy go plenty longa bar himself. Wild
phella that!”
Now such a spring in the mulgaland as woke when
the rain passed by
Had not been known for a score or so of seasons hot
and dry;
And east one morn from the store there rode a
trooper with one beside—-
He had once been young Frank Denman’s mate,
when the west was strange and wide.
They rode away when the warm sweet earth was
garbed in a robe of green
And the mulga leaves were starred with dew that
flashed in a silver sheen.
And there at the old man’s haunted camp, next day
when the sun was high,
They saw that his picks were red with rust and his
tools were all laid by.
The hush birds winged on the soft west wind with
the tide of an early spring,
But never the stroke of human toil from the hills
came echoing.
The trooper lifted the. frayed tent-flap, where the
doorstep log was sunk,
Arid peered inside on a lifeless form at rest on the
canvas bunk.
The mate of the dead man’s early days, when ihe
wild west lured the brave,
Took up a pick as he sadly said, “I must dig Frank
Denman’s grave.”
Not half a chain from the ragged tent lie dug with
Iris head bent low,
While the sweat stood out on his wrinkled brow
and the hills gave blow for blow.
Then his pick struck hard, and the quartz revealed
a treasure that scared belief,
Till the trooper said; “Frank Denman’s soul has
led us to ‘Denman’s Reef!’”
They buried old Frank on the bulloak ridge and they,
fired his woeful shack
Ere the rush set in that raised red dust the length
of the Bluebush track.
Bright lights flash east of the Hampton store, and
hammers and picks and drills
Strike hard in the long drives underground while
the stampers shake the hills.
The steel shoes fall on the golden stone and deafen
the bulloaks’ grief;
And the whirring wheels of commerce speed to the
mines on Denman’s Reef.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


H&sa
■M
5
%
-ess
•< «£
mm
1
+ v> e sometniuß w hen tne
There must toe Aus traUa w haVe
motoring ustrali aTI fnr \m-
manufacturers ® oo mU ch s * p n P °the matter
to complain o poSsi bly Y- h ~ n o f motorist 8
norted tyr^ fe * tYie notice
is brought "» d ® no maiy may wit h the
generally the J“ not hing . mport ed
because there a de tyre- a “ in that it
Australian- made and }9
article has a p . aUa V' nth . STine points i»
arrives m f p oSS essi 0 n is tyre is fitted
sold with i • he fact that a s ure m-
the law. and t isaPr® * he wheel
to a motor ca wUI stick to aver age
-"o" not *“ the
Sachtne h. W th at b. least
new, and . the thing t he most i
The tyre 18 \ it is one of tn
f„*t a pa““-‘« eoar ; auty „ »>:;
The,'. 1. » ffft'Ct »>' °»,‘SSf the
tyres, and were country of ° m uch
the machines ticle would S gn t he flr st
Australian fg only .
Cetter chance. W• 18 t that the e s
set of tyres chance. ° ae ereas the
ii-an makes S e difference. d m ake,
Sen a the :ed j
new machine c & great many T h f re
the older cai is ty t ralian
Sod «ith »“t.t enotwh A« e . ,
are. however^ e rnanU factur<w to . d ay
tyres used. tyres on y grave re
the hulk of T hat is a vuS tralia, h\
are imported. s 0 f expe n-
fection. not on the > Vnyone with are
the motoria Australian they
See hno« fc in -“J.V »
St. °o * w e t ’S»T mo th-' m
0,y»« ""‘f “any •"“ilSttg'
?e°«hV . . ing to hoy »
Ko man| is e ’° i t is made u \ ings are
.*• l>tr*he‘o »" “K “h’oh'l £
country. Atralian article of the
AAres informs me
the Pi e t a Australian wer e used
makers tyre provided
that i« A w o rk 0U t ld f S a statement that
ciusiyoty*! y i - T , That is a lan motor
3° oo all a Tthey are P^^d
' fft°slhinT o eoa 0 a o nS fSeign
the wag j to huild f re ought to h®
are kind the me rs. They
in a. to aPP eal J t o patronise the
no neck s*’ 5 *’ . ut telling* tQ keep ®°
.„o-i-it. without help to makers
Sny to h app®^ g to rsfr-ss
Cm®" -CS’ iofk^-leSCp;
Australians at v . ng 0 f the *J e an article
C" ar^e VeStCAStraUa a Ae
sr «< -‘rs
srs&y-jrin
* e _ rV It’those who are P heir purchases
nee nr*y stipulate that tyres, muc
sst'Ssas :^ 1 ‘ rtsw
-‘S.tU.* u-*" 3 ' 24
IX®
PTY.
LTD.
Sole Victorian _ §
ansaldo motors*
Distributors for
LD
aN
124-6 a’Beckett
St , Melbourne
March 31st 192 4
Messrs Dunlop Rubber Co.,
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, congratulations on
please accept ° latest 3 un °P the
wearing facts mil eB
H.A.C.V. Alpme Test » deoided to send the
-wJaStoSfsSrs
sr,« rturs-f« “*f “ -
their condition was Gontes t.
the same set o 3 was justified.
That our conf-enc we oondi tion of
second
strenuous Alpine ab°ut
-with P as f" ger f S act that the cove*•* J « ritio
cwt. and . wear, after of their
slight signs kiJlg d emons tra
tourney, 18 a .
wearing quail ie • ouJ , g faithfully
Levey Cooper Motors
-r
Manager
Coofidemice Not Misplaced
It was not the mileage that counted so much on these two
runs__ as the rocky and stony nature of the mountain passes
ani heavy brake work incidental to pulling up for the many
thousands of gutters along the route. The abrasion on the
covers was far more b utal than in three times the mileage
under ordinary driving conditions. The 4 Covers when
new weighed 88 lbs.— .after their two mountain
trips they scaled 8134 lbs— .evidence of their great wear
resisting qualities. You can obtain the same service from Dunlop
Cords—.which are available in all popular sizes at Garages.
fit 2) urn op Cords and be satisfied l
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z
>/5-
m
r
_y
lit!
in'll
fi
a 1
!un?
M‘ i,.>ii 1 ■!<»0'.V. 1 .X.."11*'rt,,,,,,ii nI , i iiii:' | ii,iia li<i•*•
r'l'," l i'ifij 1 !!!l|| l|l i 1 ' lll i ,, / | '|i( 1^ 111 '' 1 ' 11 i. ,| i'i | l , | , |!i| ,| ii ||| i| 1 ' l 1 ‘Ii 1 •"• i'i Ji'! l , l 'ii'i' 11 . 1 "n', 1 ,' l, ( l |'i
m
Hill
Sf?
Ill", lf f
jji.'V
HU
!#■
ill!
'ii
&
®VW'
Mllll


There can only be ONE Best!
MALTHOID’S record entitles it to that distinction.
MALTHOID is chemically pure and will not dry out.
MALTHOID is far superior to shingle, thatch or galvanised-
iron, and has many advantages over slates or tiles.
MALTHOID is cool in sum-
mer, warm in winter, and
water- and weather-proof all
the time.
Write or call for Samples
and Free Booklet.
*yk« PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tnt
(F M PRINCE AustralarianMnnaqcr)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of CHA.UIS HOUS*
P & B MATERIAJ-J*
The Bulletin
CALCIUM
b u MO
BRAND
CYANIDE.
for Rabbit Destruction
Blown into the warren in the form of dust, makes every opening visible,
allows no rabbit to escape no matter how deep the dead-ends. wne. t
deadly fumes over twenty-four hours.
Harmless to man or stock. Non-inflammable, non-corrosive, economical.
The machine for its application is of the knapsack type, simple, »
easily portable.
Order from your regular supply house.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
Talking of springing- snakes,
though I have made the acquaintance of hundreds
of wrigglers, mostly the vicious tiger and the timid
copperhead, I have never seen one that could spring
forward worth a cuss. But I have seen tigers
spring 5ft. and over sideways and backwards. One
day, driving along a dusty road in Vic., I saw a
good-sized tiger sunning himself in the dust, I was
sitting on the side of the dray, and, picking up the
whip, I made a swipe at the reptile to wake him
up. But the snake had the joke on me, as he
instantly rose on his tail, swung backwards, and
the next thing I knew was that about 2ft. of a
very wild tiger-snake was looking over the tail-
board of the dray. Thinking the vehicle was too
small for both of us, 1, with much promptitude and
THE EXCITEMENT STARTS IMMEDIATELY.
TRUCULENT-LOOKING STRANGER: “The silly way some blanky
fools argue, I could murder ’em. Now, wot’s your opinion
of things in general, matey?”
very little grace, fell over the side. By the time I
had picked myself up his nibs was wriggling off in
the scrub. In trying to kill snakes, when' a long
stick or piece of wire is not at hand, and you have
to use something short, the safest position is right
in front of the reptile, as, while it can sway round
backwards and sideways for several feet, it does not
seem able to spring forward more than a few inches,
That, at any rate, has been my experiewc.
“D. Jay”: While talking to an abo. on
Cape York Peninsula (N.Q.) lately, I received some
startling information. Apparently wild ducks do
not nest there, though they visit it in their thou-
sands, for .Jacko said: “Them fella no make egg.
I no’ been see ’em. I think it they bin make
piccaninny all same dog.”
* * -X- *
“Murray”: Re “Centre’s” eat that swam
a 10ft. creek (B. 20/3,/’24). While fishing on the Murray
we decided to set lines cn the opposite bank, and
when we went to get the boat it was in possession of
a fair-sized kitten, which we put ashore. When we
reached the opposite bank we were surprised to see
the kitten enter the water, and it reached us wbli
apparent ease. Twice it repeated the feat; but
after that, whenever we crossed, we took it aboard
as one of the party. Allowing for current, the catlet
had to swim at least 120yds. each time. By the
way, some time later, at almost the same place, I
saw a sheep leave a flock that was grazing, take to
the water and make for the opposite bank. However,
after swimming about 60yds. it apparently got
frightened and decided to return; but once in the
current its strength was gone. After drifting about
100yds. down stream, it made for a snag that was
just above the water, and after resting its head
cn this for about lOmin. it swam to the bank from
which it started. It had to be lifted from the water,
and it was fully two hours before it could stand up
again. The onl.v apparent reason for it taking to
the water was that there was an abundant growth
of smartweed on the other side—-the only green
vegetation about.
* * * *
“Adamascus” : I agree with “Jimmy Pos-
sum” (B. 13/3/’24) that the native bear can resist
drought better than any other Australian animal.
As he say’s, they do not need to drink at all, for
they receive enough moisture from the leaves cn
which they live. In captivity they will drink,
and soon cultivate the habit, until finally they must
get water ; but if not given it from the start they
live without it. At some strawberry gardens near
Rockhampton (C.Q.) over a dozen native bears of
all ages are kept in cages. Of those which were
caught in the bush not one has tasted water since
their capture a couple of years ago, while those
born in captivity have never tasted such a thing in
their lives. •
“Lindesay”: I owe an to Alf
Parsons, tne fencing king. I was wrong when I passed
on a third party’s word (B. 31/l/’24) that he had
erected 200 posts in the day. I find the figure should
have been 400. The performance was put up on
Wallal station, in sandy spinifex country—no eight-
hour touch about it, but an ordinary summer day’.
Alfs nickname in the west was “The Iren Man.”
“Tilga”: Re “Spadger’s” reference to
near- and off-side work (B. 27/3/’24). Custom
has probably’ much to do with the milker’s position,
but no chap who has done much riding or driving
would be stumped to account for his right- or left-
handedness when deal-
ing- wit a horses. We
approach the hack from
the near-side because
we can thus use the
stronger fright) arm
to adjust the saddle,
tighten the girth and
haul ourselves aboard.
When on the ground
we drive a team from
the off-side if we are
new-chums, not other-
wise. A right-handed
man objects to doing a
right-about-face every
time lie wishes to
twirl the brake-screw,
adjust the harness or
land Nugget with the
whip, as he would have
to do if he drove from
the off-side. When up
on the box-seat we take
the off-side because
some of our passengers
are a shade particular
and object to being
given a jolt from our
right elbow every time
we swing the lash;
also, because the hood,
tilt or roof makes it
awkward to swing the
inside arm. We hold
the reins, when riding,
with the left hand be-
cause that member can
learn to manage tlie
reins much more easily
than it could learn to
swing a stockwhip,
open an awkward gate,
adjust our pincenez, or
light our pipe when go-
ing full steam ahead
into a strong breeze —
things which come easy
to the right hand.
“Hamer” : A group of European scientists
has decided that the eel known to Europe comes
from a common breeding-ground in the Atlantic,
from which the youngsters, searching for fresh water,
distribute themselves all over the world. In 12
years or more the eel reaches its full maturity and
the female returns to the spawning ground, spawns,
and dies. How does this history fit in with the life
story of eels found in Australia? A lot of very
young squirmers which look as if they had started
life at some very handy locality are to be found in
many Australian streams. Recently I visited a small
farm not 50 miles from Sydney on which the owner
had sunk half a dozen tanks; and every one was
swarming with eels in a few weeks. The idea that
they travelled from the West Indies for the purpose
of swimming in my frimi’s mudholes won’t stand on
its own legs; but if the European eel does come
from one spot, where does its Australian brother
come from?
ANOTHER O’ THEY KNAW-NOTHIN’ DOCTORS.
PENZANCE: “A doctor do be sayin' eatin' tinned meat as dangerous
—give ’ee ’tomaine poison.”
MEVAGISSEY : “He’m a wooden-head all right. Why, my goats
been eatin’ tinned stuff for years , and I ain't noticed no
’tomaine poison about they.”
“A.L.”: The term “malaria” may have
been extensively used in Europe in Hakluyt’s time, a.«
“Cartot” (B. 27/3/’24) states, although 1 do not
find it in the odd volumes I possess; but that is
quite outside the question of the native Papuan s
immunity or otherwise to the disease. the sugge*
tion that every native child between hve and ten
. . B on i™ i llf ii
years of age is suffering from enlarged spleen is lucu-
T ? . , , ~,,i Tiniin/vl
erous; I have post-mortemed many and not noticed
.: —J ... fUiirirpn
it. The “familiar protuberant stomach in enuaien
. .. , . , , . .. ~,. fpondiinnai rliet
of that age is:due to want oi any transitional met
, . i „ T ,,i tippps-
between the breast-milk and a lull issue, amt, neces
■i r i mwirw
sanlv, many do not survive the unrestricted goigmg
that ensues The same condition obtains with our
T> . , . . • i f . oc , in
Binghi piccaninnies; it is just as noticeable in
Africa “Tamornie” (B. * 2 7/3/’24) supports me in
* , , ~ _ v.-ivifv iind mildness of
rnv statement as to the ranty ana mi iciness ot
malaria cases in New Guinea plantation hospitals,
As he claims eight years and I four in these in-
stations, we are entitled to attention as speaking
~\. , , _
nom oca >n w » • # *
“Mag” • Following on “Dime’s” poultry
freaks (8.’27/3/’24) here are some facts from my
own yard. From a white leghorn hen of my own
breeding I, collected on the Tuesdays and Thursdays
of each week two eggs. On no other day did she
lay, but eventually rupture occurred, and l had to
destroy her. The four eggs generally weighed 16oz
and on no occasion did rthey fall iunder
none was double-yolked. I roni anothei hen i collected
one mighty egg, but took no measurements. This
eo-g when broken revealed three distinct yolks, each
as large as the ordinary article.
# *
“Bouragi”: The male hornbill mentioned
. , SAr * /T> nrr/o/>o<\ t xvd- chut un
by “Morob (B. 27/3/ 24) not only shuts up a d
ieeds his missus in her hoUowtieci but: rapphe.
the tucker in a very peculiar fashion. As many b s
do, he first swallows the food lumsel , but when he
passes it back to Mis H. each poition is neat y
wrapped up in a delmate membrane This gra elled
the naturalists tor yeais, until they . *ound «,
wrapping was the membianous lining oi the buds
own crop, which becomes specially renewable in the
nesting season. The only analogy in the animal
kingdom is the case of the young man who brings
his best girl chocolates, each wrapped up in silver
paper. In tms case it is the pocket lining which is
affected.
* * * *
“AdeL.” : Do emus breed ill all seasons ;
or does the climate, or may be the great abundance of
emu feed in this district (Lower Gulf of Carpentaria),
increase their fecundity? I have caught week-old
emu chicks in all the months in the year. 1 know
from years of wandering in the bush that some birds
vary their nesting according to localities. In the
far'North different kinds are nesting all the year
round, but each kind has its own months. Many ot
tlie duck family which haunt the Northern waters
in countless thousands probably vary their breeding
season more than any other birds. They begin to
lay any time from October to June, or may not lay at
all for one year unless there is great flood. But
the emu is the only bird 1 know to nest in all
seasons—and they are numerous in these parts, too.
-X if * *
“Te Wharc” : About 1832 two specimens of
the duck-billed platypus were sent to England by
the Hon. Lauderdale Maule, of the 39th Regiment.
These were duly dissected, and the fact was elicited —-
apparently for the first
time —that our most
curious animal com-
bines the attributes of
bird and mammal in
reproducing by means
of an egg and then sus-
taining its young on
milk which exudes from
it's body. The old natu-
ralists at first con-
cluded that, like duck-
lings, the young platy-
pi took to the water on
birth, but they subse-
quently revised this,
and asserted that the
young were born blind
and naked, and so were
unable to leave the nest
for a time. Yet they
still adhered firmly ;o
the egg theory, con-
cluding, however, that
the eggs were hatched
in tlie female’s boily.
just prior to their
ejection or “laying."
As a matter of fact,
the platypus had been
discovered in a pond
near the Ilawkesbur.v
River about 30 years
before Maule sent his
specimens to England,
but it was then, and
for long afterwards,
conjectured that the
animal was viviparous,
■i.c., brought forth its
young alive, although
th e aborigines—good
n a t u r e-observers —
strongly asserted that
it laid eggs in chosen
spots in the tunnels
which it excavates in
banks. As usual, the
abos. were discredited,
and it was left for
embryologists of a
recent time to establish
the egg theory beyond doubt,
„ . ~ . .
“Pedro : W ith ‘F.A. s . Poverty Point
par (8., 27/3/’24) recalling the smell of warmed-
U p yj aol q from the haka dancers in Alfred Hill's
“Tapu,” “like the odor of brine from the ocean comes
• ~ ~
the thought of other years” to the expatriated
& r, _ n n
Maorilander. In my hot youth, when Te Ore Ore
.f" • . ,
pliivcd Papawai and the players perspired aloud in
i - 1 , • - * c. , , ..
their woollen jerseys, White Brother flocked on the
•' , ’ ... , > ...
line holding an umbrella with one hand (it always
. “ .
rained on Wairarapa football days) and bis nostiu»
, • A',
with the other, and uttering stifled exhortations to
and kuku. \ears later, meeting a Japanese
* . „,, ’, .„ £ .
naval band coming out ot the old A.B.C. in Sjdnej
1 was most agreeably assailed by a strong whiff ot
& „ n _ vl _ c i-; nnp a
the same old semi-sweet fusty smell. Dalk^ nne(
seem to all have it. DarwinJ Ahath
«>lor ot the skin and the odor emitted by it are
m some manner connected. But let the paleiace
remember that that applies to him the same as to
the pigmented. The Maori notices it on him, and
has been known to comp am that the pakeha is no
good because py corry, he stink too
* 4 * ,■ • *
"Itagar * : Willie absent from the country
f or s j x months the owner of a property just outside
Bl , isbane had his house done up> a concrete garage
built> and about 50yds. of concrete drive put down,
, ~,
The house is now permanently decorated with over a
dozen cement-built swallows’ nests, the material nal-
«>S' been stolen during the putting down of the
drive. Hornets also made .good use of the Tree
building material, and th ? (fnient-filled
lock had to be removed bodily befoie the owner oi
coul(1 tin 011 his return. Two water-
tapg jn t]je gavden were also packed good and hard
the . game - wav llow Ma Hornet ever expected her
famjly fc(> of such a » nurse ry is a mystery,
hornet when ready to face, the world has
in knodd th e old home to pieces when it
of d oH-fashioiicd mud; but cement «
~
h'ntc anothei propositio .
* * *
“E.V.IL” : The old furphy that a pig cuts
) bg throat when swimming came to my mind a while
back a t (;j zo , i n the Western Solomons. I was
poking about on the foreshore, when l noticed "hat
apparently was a croc, swimming about 500yds. out.
a couple of shots from a heavy rifle produced no
effect, so, climbing into a handy dug-out, l paddle,
out to investigate. The swimmer proved to e a
diminutive white pig, evidently thoroughly enjoy-
ing himself. 1 shepherded him back to dry lam,
but as soon as he was left to himself he returnee
to deep water, and remained there for over an horn,
The local nigs, told me that their pigs often in-
dulged in a refresher when the thermometer eg
to bubble.
THE TRACTABLE BEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Air. E. Campbell, a Washington (L.S.A.j apiarist,
during the annual meeting of bee farmers, exhibited
a new species of bee, which lacks a sting. The
insect shows many qualities making it desirable
commercially’, its tractability, however, being para-
mount. A heavy demand for the bee is already in
evidence throughout the country.”—S. M. Herald
cable.
For many years appealed to me
The thought of going, wild and free,
I'pon the land to keep a bee—-
To live in some small, lovely cot,
And gather honey in a. pot,
But take my ease when days are hot.
I let my sweet dreams have their wing,
But still to city life I cling,
Since, hitherto, bees had a sting.
For, thougli I’m often stung in town,
And worked to death, and taken down,
The thought of bee-stings makes me frown.
But now I’m selling up my debts
To leave the city and its frets;
My heart upon the country sets.
A sweet young boo, without a. sting.
To me seems just the proper thing
For my Arcadian shepherding.
Through spring-blessed meadows shall we flit,
And if, while in the shade 1 sit,
It strays too far, I’ll whistle it.
Called “Maud!” ’twill hurry to the spot,
And, while it chews forget-me-not,
I’ll take its honey—all its got!
Thus will I flourish wild and free
Unmoved if people say of me,
“Sure in his bonnet there’s a heel”
For though they rightly name the thing,
To me no terrors will it bring—
That bee of mine will have no sting,
x.s.w.
HAMER.


a
I
m
■
■
■
■
'■V: : • .
■
- n
..
:
.
11
< J
. 1
M
nTF
• .-V
toe


m
IMP*®!
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
THE quality of
CHECK VIRGINIAS is backed
by the makers’ 100 years’ experience
in the manufacture of high-class
cigarettes.
CHECK VIRGINIAS will give you
quite a new appreciation of delicate
flavor and aroma—they are generous
in size and delightfully sweet-
smoking.
SOLD BY ALL TOBACCONISTS.
0
A Paddington (Sydney) family of early-
marriers, has a great-great-grandfather, who
is a vigorous 74 and still working. In that
numerous family, by the way, there have
been no divorces.
“Mephisto”: Canungra (Q.) possesses a
family whose record is remarkable. Six of
the girls are married. Their husbands may
be divided into three groups, each consist-
ing of a pair of brothers.
An up-country paper has been asked how
you pronounce “Daugherty,” the name of
the U.S. Attorney-General against whom
the sensational charges of corruption arc
made. “Dirty,” of course.
Father O’Sullivan, of Mentone (Vic.),
when not laboring in the vineyard, works on
a lavender farm. He has an acre or two
of the scented moth-bane, the yield from
which goes towards the building fund of a
day-school.
The two senior members of the Vic. Ministry
are now life-assurance directors. Premier
Lawson is on the Colonial Mutual Board,
and Attorney-General Arthur Robinson on
the Vic. Board of the A.M.P. —in succession
to George Fairbairu, the new Agent-General.
Victoria’s earliest Rhodes scholar, Dr.
J- C. V. Behan, has put his name on the
title-page of a treatise, “The Use of Land as
Affected by Covenants,” which promises to
attain the dignity of a text-book. Nowadays
Behan is warden of Trinity College, Mel-
bourne.
WM. EADES, Melbourne manager of the
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Co.,
one of the 'Leads” of the Woolbrokers ’
Association.
Greece’s plebiscite to decide whether it
shall be a republic or not recalls that it
took a vote once to pick a king. Aus-
tralia s interest in the matter lay in the fact
that its old friend, the Duke of Edinburgh,
was put up as a candidate. The deaf Ger-
man Otho, who had been ejected, got about
one vote. Garibaldi got three. Alfred of
Edinburgh got 230,000. The wily Demetrius
Phriedphish had a plan by which Alfred was
to live on his private income, Britain was
to subsidise Greece with £BO,OOO a year, and
British forces were to recover the Greek pro-
vinces held by Turkey. But Alfred said No.
In fact, he said No eight times in all.
A man with the “given” names of Sydney
Australia appeared in a Sydney Court the
other day. Which recalled to somebody
present that he knew a Newtown family in
which the six children are all second-named
after the towns where they were born—
Dubbo, Coonabarabran, Blayney, Yass, Bega
and Maryborough.
"Billy See”: Pars about the recent cen-
tenary of a practical philanthropist recall
that swinging with the tide in Fremantle
Harbor is the Samuel Plimsoll, once the
crack colonial clipper, now a coal hulk. Her
wooden figurehead rests in the Perth Museum,
and is claimed to be the only monument of
the “Sailors’ Friend” extant. Even after 50
years of seafaring the head, freshly painted,
is fascinatingly life-like.
Lady Kileonnel, a Sydney girl whose
father was H. H. Spooner, of the Evening
News, is the wife of a man who, when his
father dies, will be the Earl of Clanearty.
She has recently provided the house with an
heiress. Spooner was killed in the Boer war
when corresponding for the News. Clan-
carty himself was
in Australia in his
warm youth, when
his passion for
the variety star
Belle Bilton had
prompted his fam-
ily to send him
into exile in
charge of a tutor;
but the tutor be-
c a m e convinced
that the affair was
genuine on both
sides, and finally
assisted in the
marriage. Th a t
tutor, by the way,
Geoffrey Robinson,
was uncle to the
Lieut. Robinson
who won his V.C.
during the war by
bringing down a
German airship
that was raiding
London.
FRANK
BRENNAN,
assistant Home
Secretary of
Queensland.
In the title of Cook Park (Brighton-le-
Sands, Sydney) there is a reminder of the
swift passing of human fame. The park has
just been taken from the original Trust and
placed in charge of the Rockdale Council,
and this led to some discussion about the
genesis of the name. One set of councillors
inclined to the opinion that the park had
been set apart and dedicated as a memorial
to Captain Cook; the alternative view was
that it commemorated the activities of Joseph
Cook (now High Commissioner) when he
was a N.S.W. State Minister. Actually it
was Sam Cook, for donkeys’ years manager
of the S. M. Herald and a former resident
in the neighborhood, who secured this re-
serve for the public and had it named after
him. But a new generation has arisen
that knows not Samuel.
“The Deacon”: One of the two new Ameri-
can cardinals, George William Mendelein,
Archbishop of Chicago, had no delusions
about Germany. When America came in he
immediately offered to the authorities the
use of every organisation under his control,
and stamped all episcopal documents
America first.” As he is at the head of
1.000,000 R.C.’s. his influence was consider-
able, and he offered a curious contrast to
some Australian Archbishops.
Charles Hedley, F.L.S., first scientific
assistant at the Australian Museum, Sydney,
who gets the job of Scientific Director under
the Great Barrier Reef Committee, has an
international reputation as a concholpgist,
and gained a great deal of his experience
while oyster-farming in Moreton Bay. The
sec. of the committee will be Prof. Richards,
of the Brisbane ’Varsity, who last year spent
three months at the Great Barrier pioneer-
ing for the lately-appointed body.
Professor J. H. Michell lectured a herd of
lofty intellects on “Some Mathematical
Aspects of the Theory of Relativity” in
Melbourne the other night. A faculty for
figures evidently runs in the family, for the
professor is a brother of A. G. M. Michell
the inventor of the thrust bearing which has
revolutionised marine engineering, and enor-
mously enhanced the steaming power of the
modern battleship, as the Hood bears
witness.
Although the cable thought a “communist
baptism” of a child in England worth men-
tion as an innovation, Australia has heard
of such christenings for a couple of decades.
Actually there is in Sydney a young man
who has _ risen to managerial power in a
large business who was made a Socialist by
baptism. Ivarl Marx was his “given”
name; but he didn’t want it, and years ago
changed it for something else.
Charles George Ammon, who, as Parlia-
mentary Sec. to the Admiralty, delivered the
decision of the Macdonald Cabinet on the
Singapore-base question the other day, is
probably the first postal worker to hold such
a big billet. He started as a telegraph boy
and then took to letter-sorting, which he
carried on for 20 years while pushing his
way up in Eabor politics. Like Ramsay
Macdonald, he has read widely, and has to
bear his share of the blame for the Govern-
ment being scorned as “intellectual.”
Andy Clarke, Registrar of the Vic. County
Court, chief clerk of insolvency and several
other things, has just retired and is off to
the Cold Country for a holiday. He is one
of the last of the little State’s public ser-
vants who came under the old pension
scheme. Another is Phil Cohen, P.M., who
tords at over Melbourne’s drunks from the
City Court bench. Clarke started in the ser-
vicq. as a school-teacher, then transferred to
the Law Department, where he put in 35
years. He was in the Richmond railway
smash, and was out of action for seven
months. But they didn’t dock his pay.
Rienzi : Margaret Bondfield, whom
Ramsay Macdonald made Parliamentary Sec.
for Labor, is not the first woman in the
Empire to capture a big Ministerial post,
lhat honor is claimed by Mary Ellen Smith,
who was a member of a former Cabinet in
British Columbia. The lady was widely
known as “Our Mary Ellen.” Incidentally,
when the news of her promotion was cabled
to London, Winston Churchill ironically
congratulated liis old friend and political
enemy P. E. Smith (now Lord Birkenhead)
declaring that “the family’s genius for poli-
tics had spread across the Atlantic.”
Thirty years ago Claude James, now
Mayor of Launceston (Tas.), started in the
iown Hall as a junior clerk, and during the
24 years he remained in the service he rose
to be City Treasurer and accountant. With
nothing higher available on the staff, he
dropped out to join the W. and G. Genders
firm as secretary and director. James was
made an alderman the first time of asking,
and last December was re-elected and chosen
Mayor. Otherwise he is president of the
Launceston Chamber of Commerce, vice-
president of the Chamber of Manufacturers
and one of the few Australians who have
been elected Fellows of the Institute of
Municipal Treasurers and Accountants of
England.
“Gnarek”: Eggleston, now- Vic.’s Water
Minister, used his legal training in the Courts-
Martial branch of the Aussie headquarters
at Tedworth with only a staff-sergeant’s
chevrons during the greater part of his army
career. One episode in which he figured be-
came something of a classic in barrack mess-
rooms. Beverly, a small neighboring village,
i 1 j a . mon ? st its furnishings a half-witted
lad who derived considerable income from
unsophisticated Aussies by murmuring as
they approached, “Digger, Oi be barmy. Gi’e
Oi a shillun!” Eggleston one day gave the
um, >rt n, lu ! te youth a sixpence, remarking,
That 11 do you for a shilling.” The thanks
he got took this shape: “Oi baint that barmy,
Maister, that Oi doan t knaw zaxpence frum
a shillun !”
“Hamer” : The quaint surname of Caudle
cropped up in a Sydney police-court case the
other day. Douglas Jerrold probably borrowed
tlie name from a going-to-bed decoction popu-
lar in his day. Sydney in former years had
a 1 eckspiff and Co. who ran a suburban
drapery business; a Mrs. Gamp flour-
ished in Paddington ; and Mark Tapley kept
a pub in Surry Hills. Not long ago a friend
I met introduced me to another man whose
name he gave me as Biliks. As in many
stories I have used that patronymic for
my fictional hero, I saw the joke, and
laughed; but my amusement seemed to give
the stranger offence. And no wonder—his
name was Binks.
From the Federal Gallery
The rowdy boy of the Federal Labor party is Bill
Mahhny, M.P. for Dailey (N.S.W.). He is generally
regarded as chorus master of the Labor glee club,
and I have heard him cheerfully chanting in the
lobbies to no larger audience than himself. His
boisterous good humor is embarrassingly persistent,
but he is capable of jests that seriously threaten
nstey s reputation as the champion funny man.
The other day he brought off a good one at the
expense of poor old Bowden, Minister of Defence
Opening quietly with the statement that it was
the duty of Admirals to go down with their ships,
he asked if Bowden, as “Admiral of the Australian
fleet,” would sink with the Australia when the
decayed battle-cruiser was sent to Davy Jones. The
House visualised the Parramatta solicitor in cocked
hat and uniform, pale and seasick, standing infirmly
on the deck whence all but he had fled—and then
yelled.
“Chancery Lane”: In “Trout’s” list of
the benefactions Victoria has received from
its public men (B. 27/3/’24) the liberality
of Sam Gillott, who is only credited with a
gift of £23,000, received inadequate recogni-
tion. After the death of his widow in 1922
the whole of the residuary estate of the de-
ceased, amounting to about £235,000, was
MICHAEL O'KEEFE, Tasmanian M.L.A.
divided between eight Melbourne public in-
stitutions. The University and the Mel-
bourne Hospital scored a fifth each, and the
remaining three-fifths was divided between
the Women’s, Children’s, Austin, Alfred and
St. Vincent’s Hospitals and the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum.
Charles Cooper, S.A.’s first Chief Justice
(after whom Sturt named Cooper’s Creek),
was on the Bench from 1849 till 1861. On
retiring lie would have been satisfied with
a lump sum of about £5OOO, but the Govern-
ment, thinking he was going to die soon,
refused this, and gave him a life pension of
£lOOO a year, which he drew for 26 years,
dying at Bath (Eng.) at 92. Richard Davies
Hanson succeeded Cooper, and was G.J.
until his death in 1876. Then Samuel James
M ay held the job for nearly 40 years, and
died in harness. He was the first represen-
tative of Australasia on the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council. George
Murray, fourth and present Chief Justice,
followed Way in January, 1916. He is a
bachelor, and lives in the family mansion at
Murray Park, Magill, near Adelaide, where
he was born in 1863.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Louis Brennan, who,
after long years of patient experiment in a
top-storey room in Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, evolved the torpedo that bears his
name, seems to be on the eve of another
triumph. The helicopter or air machine
capable of rising vertically from the earth
with a pretty heavy cargo and remaining
stationary up aloft, has engaged his un-
divided attention ever since the close of the
war, and latest reports credit him with hav-
ing perfected this aerial marvel —his machine
will shortly be subjected to its first practical
tests in the open. The giant airship shed at
South Farnborough, where he has been
working for years, has been strictly guarded
to prevent secrets leaking out. Brennan and
his Melbourne financial backers —Prof.
Ivernot was one of them—were paid £lOO,OOO
by the British Government for all the rights
in Uis torpedo; and his helicopter, if it
realises expectations, will pay him better, as
he will not have to share with a syndicate.
“Topee” dips into a long log:
Captain Lewis A. Leslie, who retired in February
after 32 years with Howard Smith, will perhaps
be best remembered as a coasting skipper by the
survivors of the thousands he carried across the
Bight in the ’nineties in the old Gabo and Bunin-
yong to try their luck on the W.A. goldfields. For
some years before his retirement he had acted as
constructional captain for Howard Smiths and had
supervised the building of most of the firm’s present
fleet. He started his career as an apprentice in
the Liverpool White Star line, and in the Ararat
he took out cavalry and artillery units for the Zulu
war in 1879. Towards the end of the Boer War he
commanded the Boveric when that vessel, having
1100 horses and a crew of 125 aboard, dropped her
propeller in the Indian Ocean and was adrift for
over 60 days. That time a boat voyage of over
2000 miles in quest of help was made by the first
and second officers with a crew of four; th'ir boat
was picked up off Fremantle after a 25 days' voyage,
and on the very next day the Boveric herself arrived
in tow of the Lund liner Narrung. During the whole
of the drift only 30 horses were lost. The ancient
mariner sailed for England the other day in the
White Star Co.’s Ceramic, exactly half a century
after he had signed his indentures in that co.’s office.
KITTY—AUNT KATHERINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“1 wish that I were dead,” she said, “I wish that
I were dead ! ”
The hair had rich and sanguine tints that clustered
on her head.
The sad expression of her face befitted ill her years;
Her big eyes glistened brown and bright behind their
veil of tears.
Oh, eyes of youth
That shine with truth
And tell of joys, or fears!
A suitor’s frown, a bitter glance, a disapproving
breath
Had turned her pensive fancy thus to thoughts of
early death.
She did not really want to die, and cried the thought
aloud—
She saw herself a lacc-edged corpse, set in a silken
shroud.
Oh, artless kid
Whose sun is hid
By incidental cloud !
From hair that was abundant once the auburn glint
has fled;
Aunt Katherine might have some excuse for wishing
she were dead.
Illusions fade and shadows fall ’twixt youth and
sixty-five ;
But she prinks out her faded locks and all her hopes
survive.
Girls old and grey
May truly say
It’s good to be alive.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


I tfjGfdfckftce
L
The result of consistent
B.S.A. reliability
THE absolute confidence placed in
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles by thou-
sands of riders throughout the
world is a convincing proof of the
reliable service rendered by these
splendid machines.
APART from powerful and econo-
mical engine performance—this
confidence is largely due to the
fact that there is a forging of finest
Sheffield steel at every vital part; thus
it is that B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are
provided with remarkable strength,
and withstand, to an extraordinary
degree, the continuous strain of many
years of riding over road surfaces of
varying qualities.
Inspect the comprehensive range
of B.S.A. models before deciding on
your next mount.
Motor Bicycles
Made by a firm with a reputation
for accuracy.
Look for this
Tracfe-marle.
The Bulletin
The sign of a high-
grade product.
Illustrated. Catalogue may be obtained from B.S.A. Representative.
D. Y. RENNIE, AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE,
Or from B.S.A. Agents throughout Australia.
ff.S.W.—BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA—FINLAY BROS., 322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD., 121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—MORTLOCK BROS., Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND —Canada C. & M. Agency, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA—SIM KING, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Do You Use a B.S.A. Gun?
IsSSfsfe,
mm*. -li
. JE
x m ■
Illi
■
fSi’S
auioJJ
- mo A
uajq^ijg
YOUR Linoleum will last longer and look better
if you polish it occasionally with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. Johnson’s Wax prevents crack-
ing and blistering—brings out the pattern and color—
protects linoleum from wear and makes cleaning easy.
JOHNSON’S
Pas/e - Liquicl ~ Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
You can give every room in your home that delightful
air of immaculate cleanliness by using Johnson’s
Polishing Wax occasionally on your furniture, wood-
work, floors and linoleum. Johnson’s Wax cleans,
polishes, preserves and protects —all in one operation.
A FORM FOR EVERY USE.
Johnson’s Wax is conveniently put up in three forms
—Paste, Liquid and Powdered. Use Paste Wax for
polishing floors of all kinds—wood, tile, marble,
composition, linoleum, etc. Use Johnson’s Liquid
Wax for polishing your furniture, piano, woodwork,
linoleum, leather goods and automobile. Johnson’s
Powdered Wax makes perfect dancing floors.
uyiiiiin i ft i iTi bit
wm
m
ms
okfhirxj and Proson
S - C .JOMNSONJS<
i£SN*OMASON
INSIST ON JOHNSON’S POLISHING WAX—THERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE. FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.W.


Ertfi Sim
bse Wilton furnaces have reduced
Fuel Costs Considerably
TWELVE months 1 previously they had installed in a few of their boilers the
Wilton Patent Forced Draught Furnace Grate* The engineer had submitted
his report and from a study of the facts and figures before him the manager
had made the statement quoted above*
“ That is not all/' said the engineer* “ Not only have fuel costs been reduced,
but the efficiency of the plant has been increased. Now that you have proved the
advantage of these furnaces why not instal them in every boiler? What of the
cost of installation ? That is of little account, as cost of installation is low and there
are practically no maintenance costs* There will be little loss on account of stoppage
as these furnaces can be installed in any type of boiler in a few hours* The saving
in the cost of fuel will soon pay for cost of installation* With these forced draught
furnace grates we can burn low grade fuel such as Slack Coal, Duff Town Refuse,
Trade Refuse, Coke Breeze, Peat and Lignite—in fact anything which contains
carbon, hydrogen or sulphur*
44 There are other factors that ensure both economy and satisfaction. The
forced draught gives assurance of complete combustion with a maximum of heat and a
minimum of smoke. The atmosphere is not polluted with heavy smoke and the
flues and chimney stacks are not choked with carbon. Further, the Wilton Patent
is designed to occupy the least possible space and there is maximum combustion
area, increased heating surface and increased steaming capacity* The air pressure is
equalised throughout the entire length of the grate and highest thermal efficiency
guaranteed. This Company takes no risk whatever owing to the policy of the
Furnace and Power Plant Construction Company, who will instal on a basis of no
results —no pay*”
How much of this could have been saved?
The expenditure in factories on fuel and light is of vital importance. In 1921-22
the total amount expended in Australia under this head was £8,256,381.
When we consider how much fuel is wasted by out-of-date methods, by expen-
sive fuels and by extravagant usage we are tempted to ask “ How much of this
amount could have been saved”? If the Wilton Patent Forced Draught Furnace
Grate had been in general operation it is safe to say that at least 25 per cent of
this amount would have been saved, leaving a sum of two millions available for
the building up of industry.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS TO:
The Wilton Furnace fitted to a
Lancashire Boiler. Note the in-
creased combustion space caused
through the unique construction along
furnace to line on bottom of flue.
/qV /a\
a a -
Section of Wilton Furnace showing
how solidly it is built, also illustrating
the method of coaling the hollow fire
bars by passing the air lor combustion
through.
The Furnace and Power Plant
Construction Co. (AustJ Ltd.
Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter Street, Sydney
The FURNACE > POWER PUNT
CONSTRUCTION C° Y (Aust) IP


m
Patent Centrifugal
Grinding and
Blending Mill
The "KEK” Mill
offers practically unlimited possi-
bilities to Manufacturers and
users of:—
Aniline Dyes and Intermediate
Products.
CHEMICALS. Alum, Argol, Acid Phos-
phate of Lime, Antimony Sulphide, Borax
and Borates, Caustic Soda, Cellulose, Cop-
per Sulphate, Carbonate of Ammonia,
Carbonate of Lime, Copperas, Chloride of
Ammonia, Disinfectants, Fertilisers, Glau-
ber Salts, Phosphates, Nitrate of Ammonia,
Nitrate Cake, Nickel Salts, Naphthaline,
Soap, Sulphur, Sulphate of Ammonia,
Washing Soda and Compounds, Saltpetre,
Sizing Materials, Tanning Materials.
COLOURS, PAINTS, &c. Prussian
Blue, Ultramarine, Copper Oxide, Zinc
Oxide, Red and Black Oxides, Ochres,
Litharge, Lead Substitute, Lead Sulphate,
Vermilion, Printing Inks, Oil and Water
Paints, Pastes, Dental Creams, Face
Creams, Emulsions.
MINERALS, METALS, &c. Arsenic
(Red), Asbestos Materials, Bauxite, Chalk,
China Clay, Calcined Magnesite, Cast-Iron
Borings, Clay, Coal, Coke, Colliery Shale,
Fluor Spar, Fullers’ Earth, Gypsum, Glass
Making Materials, Infusorial Earth, Lime-
stone, Mica, Potters’ and Earthenware
Materials, Plumbago, Salt, Talc.
CEREALS AND FOOD PRODUCTS.
Barley, Beans, Biscuits, Baking Powders,
Coffee, Cocoa, Cocoa Nibs, Casein, Cus-
tard Powder, Feeding Meals, Fish Meal,
Dill Seed, Cotton Seed, Fennel Seed,
Fennugreek, Hops, Yeast, Locusts, Beans,
Linseed, Oil Cake, Liquorice, Ginger,
Mustard, Malt, Maize, Milk Powder, Mid-
dlings, Nuts, Palm Kernels, Copra, Soya
Beans, Oats, Peas, Rice, Seeds, Tapioca,
Sago, Sharps, Screenings, Sugar, Starch,
Wheat, Vanilla.
MISCELLANEOUS. Dextrine, Drugs,
Carbon, Charcoal, Cork, Bones, Graphite,
Ebonite, Glue, Gum, Pitch, Resin, Shellac,
Stearine, Wax, Gambier, Myrabolams,
Peat, Old Rope, Old Linoleum, Old
Gramophone Records, Wood Pulp, Vul-
canite, Flocks.
This list, while indicating many of the
Materials the “ KEK ” Mill is capable of
efficiently grinding, granulating, fibring,
pulverising or otherwise treating is only
general; the universality of the “KEK”
is unique .
The Furnace & Power Plant
Construction Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Metropolitan Buildings
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
MODERN industrial conditions are demanding mechanical
aids that will ensure better products at less cost. The
efficient grinding of varied and dissimilar products is a
matter of the first importance when the question of production
costs is considered.
A Grinding and Blending Mill that offers practically unlimited
possibilities to manufacturers of wet or dry materials, such as
Dyes, Chemicals, Fertilisers, Food Products, and a wide range
of miscellaneous products, is now available. See List at side .
The "KEK” Mill is electrically equipped
so that accurate measurements of power for treating any product can be made
personally by prospective customers, and from the results of the tests they may
satisfy themselves of the suitability of the machine for their particular purpose.
The universality of the “KEK” Mill is unique. It is capable of efficiently
grinding, emulsifying, colloiding, granulating, fibring, pulverising, or otherwise
treating a very wide range of materials. Its utility and adaptability enable
one\ to achieve remarkable results in the grinding and mixing of different
materials. The saving of time and labour, together with the high efficiency
of operation, ensure practical economy in the production of materials treated.
Australian manufacturers are invited to write for full particulars of the “KEK”
Mill stating the uses to which they desire to apply it, and the range of materials
they wish to treat.
Outstanding Features of "KEK” Mill*
Not only is this mill a distinct departure from the well-known vertical type of machine,
but it has several outstanding features. Being arranged horizontally, the operation of the
mill is assisted by centrifugal force. The grinding medium consists of two taper-dished
steel plates fitted with special pins, the number of the pins and the angle of the taper
being determined by the nature of the materials to be ground.
The high speed necessary for fine grinding is obtained by a special combination gear
entirely enclosed and locked up in an oil bath. The use of ball-bearings ensures ease of
working by the oil bath, friction and wear are reduced to a minimum and a constant
flow of air through the feed inlet at the top of the machine keeps cool the materials being
ground. An important feature of special interest to manufacturers of food products is
that the mill is absolutely dust-proof.
Sample tests cun be arranged, on application to the Australian Agents :
The Furnace & Power Plant Construction Co. (Aust.)
Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter Street, Sydney
Ltd.
mm
ir
i
mm


SLVCt
lc§§M©
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO.
Will not bite the tongue.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS (SI CO., Sydney.
You can
Onoto
Dress
hang an
over a
Shirt
Onoto
SELF-FILLING SAFETY
IN Pen
Whenever you see
a Pillar Box think
of an Onoto.
—or pack it in your linen and it will not leak.
The self-filling safety Onoto only gives ink when yoirwant it. You
control the ink flow, you shut it off by a twist of the finger and thumb.
The Onoto fills itself by an original method. It is the best type of
self-filling safety pen on the market. It holds more ink than other pens.
Thomas De La Rue & Co., ltd.,
110 Bunhill Row. London, E.C.l.
fceprcBQntativel: NORMAN BAKER k LONGIIURST tlD„
Sydney, Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
Onoto Ink
Best for all Pens
Samarai.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY some curious chance the printed
references to the smug little islet in
China Straits which is the head-
quarters of the Eastern division of Papua
show Samarai in a light which never shone
upon it by sea or land. It was that engag-
ing writer G. B. Lancaster who began it
all. In one of d series of Island stories in
Harper’s Magazine she touched Samarai
with an inky finger, and left a black spot on
“the hell of the Pacific.” Naturally, all her
readers “registered” horror, and in the days
before the war, when the occasional 8.-P.
steamer emptied out its little load of tourists
from Cremorne or St. Kilda, every man Jack
of them, and every maid Jill especially, was
agog for a glimpse of the iniquities known
to flourish thereabout. It didn’t matter that
there was never anything more dreadful than
a glimpse into the cool and usually empty
bar of Clunn’s or the Cosmopolitan or Billy
the Cook’s. They kept carefully in the
middle of the immaculate white coral road
along the Strand, which is Samarai’s prin-
cipal street, and never realised that the fur-
tive savage who dogged their footsteps was a
Government official —in his own eyes, though
otherwise a native prisoner—detailed to pick
up and destroy the cigarette butts and dead
matches with which the inconsiderate tourist
was apt to mar the landscape! And there
was Beatrice Grimshaw, too, who in a novel
belted revolvers about the waists of the hir-
sute miners who made life in Samarai one
long raffale of popping corks and cracking
pistols. And there have been others, among
them an Australian legislator, who com-
plained bitterly because his rest was dis-
turbed by cocoanuts falling on the galvanised-
iron roofs at night, the nuts aforesaid fall-
ing from the claws of flying-foxes carrying
them to their tender nestlings.
At the same time it must be confessed
that Samarai, like many of her frequenters,
has had a past. One would compare her,
not to Balzac’s courtesan, who, finding her-
self unable to sin any longer with enjoy-
ment, resolved thenceforth to live a righteous
life, but to one of the camp heroines whom
Bret Harte loved to draw—one who, after
a barefoot, tangle-haired but innocent youth
among the miners, fades from sight in the
last chapter as an immaculate mistress of
all the conventions.
It is over 25 years since I first saw
Samarai. The Milne Bay rush was then
going strong, while the Yodda and the Gira
were beginning to develop. The town was
full of gold-miners going and coming; North
Queenslanders mostly, with a strong infu-
sion of Westralian diggers. A few .Klon-
dykers, too, and a man who had been pros-
pecting in Madagascar, with now and then
a German or Scandinavian seaman who had
jumped his ship somewhere on the Queens-
land side.
Samarai was in her barefoot days then.
The native village, whose inhabitants had
tried to chop up Nicholas the Greek with
his own trade knives a few years earlier, had
been removed to the mainland, and part of
the little hill where now stands the R.M.’s
house and the hospital was being pared off
to fill the tiny swamp. The btores of 8.P.,
the Whittens and John Clunn were thronged
with diggers getting together an outfit.
Traders and recruiters rushed about with
tails of native carriers. It was all quite
interesting, but there was not enough whisky
or wickedness in it all to furnish a text
for Mr. Hammond. The social amenities,
too, were not neglected. The hotels each
provided a “dead house” for bachelor guests,
the married folk and “silver-tails” affecting
the “hotel” accommodation—if there was
any. The “dead house” was run on the com-
munistic system. There were the bunks, and
the first man to climb into one occupied it.
There were few drawbacks, save at Billy
the Cook’s. Billy’s numerous fowls insisted
on camping in the rafters over the bunks,
and this occasionally aroused criticism. On
the other hand Billy had a monopoly of the
egg-flip industry, and this was felt to over-
ride minor inconveniences. Indeed, so strong
was the feeling that, when Tommy the
Jockey wanted to fight Billy because one of
the hens had dropped an egg on his face
from a height of 10 feet or so, the R.M.’s
threat to bind him over was unanimously
approved.
They were a fine lot, those early R.M.’s,
take them by and large. The man of the egg
incident was a Younger Son and an ex-
subaltern of the Ross-shire Buffs, a regiment
long vanished from the Army list. Then
there was another who had been a Salvation
drummer in Fiji, and one who had been a
ship’s steward, while yet another had served
as Master of the Horse, or something like
that, to the King of Tonga in Baker’s glori-
ous days. On great and festal occasions this
last would don a uniform which would have
done credit to the president of a South
American republic. The last time I saw it
its owner was dancing in it on the dining-
table of the Never Mind What Hotel, where
all the nobility and gentry of the island had
assembled to farewell a departing judicial
officer. But they are dead, most of those
good fellows, and their bones are dust this
many a year.
And Samarai, when I saw it again in
after days, had suffered something of a
change.. The barefooted were washed and
shod, with hair in bandeaux and lips
trained in lines of prune and prism—a
model village, with its tennis courts, croquet
lawns, sixteen grades of Society and as
many afternoon-tea tables, where the past,
present and future, pedigrees and perform-
ances, of everyone are dissected and the
shreds cast upon the wings of the south-
“JUST A LITTLE SKETCH FOR THE PRESS .”
east trades. For the plantations have come
into Papuan life, which once revolved only
round gold or “‘shell” or beclie-de-mer, with,
perhaps, recruiting or native copra as side-
dishes.
Yet, fondly as memory serves, one would
not care to go baek to modern Samarai.
Ghosts would gather in the trim, white
street between the glowing crotons and
dracaena hedges as the south-east trades
died in the cocoanut fronds and the sun dived
into the Gulf of Papua; and the dusk would
be astir with long-vanished friends and
unforgotten acquaintances of the years as
dead as they. Miner, Government man,
trader, pearler, beachcomber and mission-
ary. good, bad and indifferent, big men and
little, I should see them all again.
J. B. HIGGINSON.
Baghdad, the City of the Khalifs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Archaeologists reconstruct its
physical features for us, historians
add a little to our knowledge, but
the charm and enchantment of the city’s
golden day live but in such stories as those
of “The Arabian Nights.” Dust has re-
turned to dust, and bare, unshapely mounds
mark the place of the city's burial; the
prosperity that once made Dar-es-Khalifa
the queen city of the earth has but a melan-
choly reminder in the impoverished ruin of
a city that now sits astride the sullen Tigris.
But imagination lends wings to hope, and
expectation is on tiptoe. In fancy we had
sailed the broad reaches of the river with
Sindbad; had visited the Treasure Cave with
Ali Baba, and bandied words with the Forty
Thieves; had walked the bazaars with
Haroun the Good, and had quite made up
our minds what sort of a place Baghdad
ought to be. From the river the prospect
'is entrancing enough. Here the Tigris is
broad and shimmering. A lumbering ferry
slowly ploughs its way upstream, striking
consternation into the heart of the pilot who
is dexterously whirling a goof ah down-
stream, and starting a long ripple that
washes the muddy banks, where an uncom-
plaining ass slowly turns an ancient water-
wheel. Higher upstream a sinuous bridge
of boats spans the river, rising and falling
on the swell of the flood. A gay and garish
throng passes to and fro. On either hand a
forest of dun-colored houses, with masses
of intermingling palms, their fronds dancing
in the breeze; and here and there, over the
whole expanse, blue minarets and red and
blue and yellow domes breaking the skyline.
A graceful stork wings its lazy flight above
the city and finds its nest on the very sum-
mit of a tall minaret. And, over all, the
blue of a radiant sky.
Our first glimpse of the city gives ground
for hope that cherished dreams might come
true and that Fairyland may be ours. But
scarcely have we set foot on shore when
the hope is lost. The Baghdad of to-day is
dull and drab. Its streets are paved with
mud; there are no jewel-encrusted walls;
and it stinks with a reek all its own—it is
far from God if cleanliness be the neighbor
of godliness. The dashing courtier, the fair
maid, the court of the Caliph are all gone.
There is none of the old romance: adven-
ture is confined to a voyage across the river
in a tub, and the delicate intrigue of the
Caliph’s court has given place to unseemly
squabbles between rival dhobis over the day’s
washing.
And yet Baghdad is
fascinating. The im-
aginative soul that
keeps not so near
earth to notice over-
much the mud and
smell is held captive
by this old-wofld
mother. Prowl round
the crumbling walls
and the citadel, and
reconstruct the city's
troublous days; or
hear the old muezzin
from the house-top, in
a croaking, wheezy
voice, call the faithful
in to prayer, and
know the power of
mighty religious force;
rub shoulders with the
sons of the Captivity
in the market-place,
and think of the clash
of mighty empires of
long ago. If Mohar-
ram is the festival, go
and see the fanatical
Shiahs gash their
heads and flay their
backs till red blood
flows. Go round the
ancient mosques, and,
where you can, go in
and climb the minaret
and see the Prophet
thrusting men to God
with swords. Ride on
the yellow, turgid river
that men say, on a
time, watered Para-
dise. But, best of all,
go to the bazaars —
the bazaars of Bagh-
dad ; far-famed, fas-
cinating, filthy! Long,
low tunnels: cata-
combs ! You will
always find them
thronged with every
sort of people buying
and selling at every
sort of little shop.
Arabs, Jews, Kurds,
Persians, Armenians
and strangers from
everywhere. Vei 1 e d
women, shy women,
peeping women and
women in utter des-
pair. A lavish sprink-
ling of self-conscious
and of arrogant
officials. Crowds of
half-clad dirty urchins
filling the air with
shrill cries. Overbur-
dened coolies, yelling
“Balak!” to all who
impede their way.
Shoppers and idlers;
rich and poor: good
and bad. Strange
sights and smells and
stranger foods and
sweetmeats. Cloth and
brass and copper;
silks and rags. Things
useful and things use-
less and heaps of rub-
bish. A thick, murky
air pierced by a single
ray of purest sunlight; dank and dark cor-
ners. The incessant clatter of hammers and
anvils, and a noise and confusion of tongues
to out-babel Babel. The brave glow of a
tiny brazier in the distant darkness. A rush-
ing hither and thither and a wild living and
dying—all this, and more, in the bazaars of
Baghdad.
Over an understanding heart this city
casts a subtle spell. Bricks and stones
weighted with years, an ancient calm in
ancient places, colors that run riot, wrack
and ruin on every hand, and, spread round
all, a fringe of nodding palms; then the
desert’s melancholy waste. And yonder
On that strip of herbage strown
That just divides the desert from the sown
the golden domes of Kazimain.
C. R. HALL.


i
Trade Mark
«
!*S?
/
\\
.(•at
m
i i #
' * s, yt j'
Jr « , u;
v.
... .' *'•: —’ ***
ST
_ -V
©
£
Utry,.
in — L/ _
’ J <■**
M-fc
=*s?
/>
SSs,
Royal Cord lyres Are
Now Made by Three
New Processes Which
Have Revolutionized
lyre Making
TPHE development by the United States Rubber Company of
. three remarkable new processes of rubber manufacture now
gives to Royal Cord Tyres a quality never before reached by
any tyre.
1. The New Sprayed Rubber. A method so effective that
a virgin rubber of a quality never known until now is made
available to the world.
2. The New Web Cord. Of Specific application to the art
of cord tyre making. A process of treating fabrics and cords
with latex, making it possible to manufacture tyres and other
articles with a degree of strength hitherto unattained.
3. The New Flat-Band Building Process. A method of
building cord tyres which is revolutionary. Finally and at
last assuring uniform cushioning and resistance in cord tyres.
Taken alone, either of these new discoveries would be regarded as
of the utmost significance, but together they are hailed as the most
important advance in the field of rubber manufacture since the
discovery of vulcanization nearly a century ago.
These three basic discoveries, fully protected by patents in the
U. S. A. and other countries, are the exclusive property of the
United States Rubber Company, makers of Royal Cord Tyres.
Obtainable at all Garages.


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, lave Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
Ij RUBBER
CARFETHNQ
Is practically Indeslruelible„
. . i & everlasting ,itis made in 12, Enlnrs.
plain f/ marblßO. It Has no canvas backinq
'to rat out, &rs feverv'ipte.
S&i* Qf/jfd&s*, ctfr
Fteic&S ZsrTTJO& TTokje} Than Linolbum
.At Australasia PiA li d . wm
2Jb7 Swarxstoo Sk M fo
F. W. Williams & Co., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney.
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life ot
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
The Passage to Forty-seven.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STARTED off as lay-reader in a little
Melbourne suburban church, and was
literally kidnapped from the door of
the vestry by two friends who were anxious
for the reputation of their religion. One of
them stood six-feet-three in his socks, and
he it was who took me by the neck at half-
past seven on a Friday night and pushed
me into a hansom of such cramped propor-
tions that my abductors were compelled to
deposit themselves on top of me; they re-
mained there until we reached our destina-
tion, a crafty, crouching old pub curled away
somewhere behind the Melbourne Exhibition
Building.
Having thus fallen through my surplice, I
became the pupil of a well-known city archi-
tect, in whose office I learnt to trace plans
and copy out yards of wearisome specifica-
tions. I also ran messages, and bought sand-
wiches or mixed condensed milk with hot
water while the draughtsman made tea. This
draughtsman came from the bush, a short,
bandy-legged chap with a monotonously bald
head. He was a sentimentalist, very honest,
very kind, but extraordinarily passionate. I
loved to make him laugh because he possessed
a roar which every time he let it go would
start a new crevice in the ceiling; and. when
he- tipped his head back he always laid his
hand across his mouth to keep the plaster
from dropping in. Occasionally this hap-
pened while the architect was talking to a
prospective client in the next room, with the
result that that gentleman would bolt into
our quarters and inquire sarcastically if
we were looking for engagements at the
Tivoli.
The draughtsman was never out of love. I
mean quite nice love; he was no philanderer.
I have heard him sigh many times while he
occupied himself in writing the words “bed-
room,” “bathroom,” “closet,” “nursery,” etc.,
on the little squares marked out upon the
plan before him. During a slack period he
would solace himself from lilac-colored letter-
paper, and, when lie was finished, gaze
through our high window at the chimney-
pots, and dream of chaste embraces in a
suburb far away. I never saw liis sweet-
heart, but her existence was not to be
doubted; she came vicariously to the office
in knobs of carnations, in striped handker-
chiefs for Dick to blow his nose upon, in
faint whiffs of heliotrope, in library-books,
in certain sweet scones, and in the missives
I have spoken of.
One day I remember Dick sitting down
to work' dressed in the rig-out of an able-
bodied seaman. His trousers, however wide
in the leg, were tight at the buttock, and
the low collar of the jacket exaggerated the
length of his neck. He explained his appear-
ance by saying he had been invited to a
fancy-dress ball, and had prepared for it
beforehand, so that he might catch the train
to Muddy Gully, which left exactly fifteen
minutes after our closing-hour. I mocked
him sedulously all the afternoon, and, to
heighten the ridicule, exposed him to his
hete noir, a horrible contractor with cap-
sized eyeballs, who shouted derision at the
top of his voice. Dick tore through the
swing-doors and chased the contractor, who
hit him on the nose and sank three floors
(in a lift) immediately. But Dick slid
down the banisters, and, rushing to meet
him at the basement, was plugged again,
only rising off the passage in time to see
his tormentor go up through the ceiling.
Dick never caught him, but he very soon
fastened upon me. I was rescued by
our boss, who gently removed from my head
with a paper-krylfe the kerosene-tin which
Dick had placed there in recognition ,of my
status as king-fool in that office:
The architect tried hard to be a friend to
me, and, suggesting another sphere of action,
presented me with a letter to an avaricious
artist, who consented, for the sum of ten
guineas a quarter, to initiate me into
the mysteries of correct draughtsmanship.
My poor father agreed to supply the money,
and during three months I learnt to draw
straight lines without the aid of a ruler.
In another three months I was allowed to
copy a billycan, which I did so successfully
that my master declared I was now ready
to begin oil-painting. However, Mr. Bluffer
being called away to England, I went up to
the Melbourne Art Gallery, and began to
make wonderful charcoal studies of egg-
plants. Nobody recognised my genius. I
took a room in town, and matriculated in
smoking and drinking. I hired dirty models,
had uncomfortable adventures, and mixed
with all sorts of deadbeats.
Then famine seized hold of me and I
became ill—so ill that I fled to the country.
There I worked tandem with a Chinaman,
pulling wires through posts on a vineyard.
I pruned vines, stamped “suckers” and cut
off the dead wood from sunrise until sunset.
I fought the Chinaman, by appointment, in
the woolshed, and he welted me and I welted
him. But I got the worst. I dug gar-
dens, rode about the country, fossicked for
gold, danced in kitchens, shot, fished,
muckered about, yet never came to anything
that was good. By-and-bye I returned to
the city, doing a little advertisement work,
but mostly depending upon the manufacture
of newspaper joke-blocks for a living, with
some verse and prose thrown in. I wrote
an Australian novel full of my own adven-
tures, and in 1905 sent it to Fisher Unwin
as a “trier” for a First Novel competition.
It failed, of course, but was one of the few
selected for final consideration. A year
later I received an autograph letter from the
head of that publishing house, asking me,
if ever I wrote another book, to be sure and
send it to them.
Presently I dropped into a job on a city
weekly. I had to do political and topical
pages of drawings, and I won the position
against a field of eighteen or twenty. There
was some doubt, however, as to whether my
work would stand reproduction, but I had
been forewarned, and went armed with a
reducing-glass. The editor pored meticu-
lously over the sheet I had submitted, and,
although he smiled encouragement, I still
awaited the criticism which I had been told
to expect. “This is all very nice, Mr.
McCrae,” he said. “But you will under-
stand that I have to consider how this page
will appear after it has been photographed
down to a third of its present dimension.”
When the editor had finished speaking I
drew a reducing-
glass out of my
pocket and asked
him to examine
the drawing; but
he pushed it back
to me. “What’s
the good of this?”
he exclaimed.
“The public won’t
have a reducing-
glass!” However,
the job (a tem-
porary one) was
mine without a
doubt, and I re-
member my rage
and despair on
having to give it
up to the rightful
owner when he re-
turned from his
trip to America.
I came to Syd-
ney and worked in
the office of a com-
mercial artist. I
rose at 6.30, went
into town at 8,
toiled till 1, took
three-quarters of
an hour for lunch,
and resumed
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
“ Barbara's married a rich lawyer, I’m told.”
“Oh no — he’s a rich man, hut a poor lawyer.”
work until half-past 5. During my first
week I often knocked off at 11 p.m. I
dressed windows. I dressed Brown and Bug-
gins’s windows. A little boy with, a tack-
hammer went ahead of me, hanging long
folds of tablecloth between myself and the
people passing by. And it was very dirty
work, and very hard work, and very hot
work, and very uncongenial work.
My next role was with a moving-picture
co., when I was chosen to represent Adam
Lindsay Gordon, chiefly because of a strik-
ing facial resemblance. The production of
this play was beset with difficulties, not the
least being on account of my own very in-
different horsemanship. Neither would our
producer, although he was at his wits’ end,
listen for a moment to my suggestion that
I should do all the stunts on a tricycle. In
making this picture (and I imagine it is
so in every case), the interior scenes were
cinematographed first, without any attention
being paid to the proper sequence in the
order of the play. My baptism of the
fiercest electric-light I ever faced occurred
during the filming of a tableau meant to
depict the inside of a police-hut somewhere
in the backblocks of Australia. I was
dressed like a postman of the Queen Vic-
toria period, except that I wore a “pom-
pom” at the top of my shako, which always
trembled when I registered sorrow, despair,
rage or melancholy. The present scene
demanded that I should be sentimental,
and the business consisted in drawing a
miniature of my sweetheart out of my
breast-pocket, extending it at arm’s-length,
bringing it up to my lips, extending it to
arm’s-length a second time, and then,
finally, replacing the treasure in the pocket
I had taken it from. Imagine the action ; and
imagine, through this action, the constant
whir of the machine ; again, above the whir of
the machine, the voice of the director in the
highest notes of the scale! “Slow-ly—and
—rev-er-ent-ly—Mis-ter—Mac-Crae—slow-ly
and rev-er-ently ( Whir-irr-irr-rrrr) —
bring—the—-hand—with—the—min-ia-ture—
to -—the —lips—Mis-ter —Mac-Crae —Slow-ly
—Mis-ter —Mac-Crae —slow-ly—back—a-gain
— (Whirrrr). Put —the —min-ia-ture—in —the
—bur-reasst — poc-ket .... (Whir-irr) — Pic-
ture!” At the word “Picture” there was a
cessation of the whirring noise, and I was
free to wipe from my saffron-painted face
the sweat which the great heat of the
lamps had engendered.
A few months afterwards, when I became
a spectator of these idiotic adventures, I
rocked with laughter at the enlarged repre-
sentation of myself as Lindsay Gordon kiss-
ing the miniature of his English sweetheart
—the absurd cap with the “bob” on it, the
honestly ugly face, the cunning eyes with
soot-thickened lashes, the munching mouth,
the simian action of the hand going under
the arm, and, directly afterwards, conveying
something to the lips! My mirth drew cen-
sure from my neighbors, and I was told by
“fans,” with tears streaming down their
cheeks, that f 'had better behave myself, or
I would find myself outside. I learned then
the curious construction and ridiculous car-
riage of my own body, and the tininess of my
head, with its lightning-like movement (side-
ways-up and sideways-down), reminiscent of
a praying-mantis fearful of a devourer snatch-
ing it to the sky.
In one of the scenes Adam appears,
armed, and mounted on a horse; he drives
before him a poor lunatic, strapped to a
terrible old hack, almost too fieshless even to
be alive. Adam dismounts and hobbles the
horses; he helps down the lunatic, and
builds a fire to warm him. Presently his
companion falls asleep, and Adam has won-
derful visions of England and his dear one.
The night passes, and a cold dawn sees the
travellers again in their saddles; but this
time Adam, absent-mindedly, leads the way
on the wrong horse, while the madman, fol-
lowing on Gordon’s charger, unslings the gun
and has a short shot at A.L.G. A.L.G.
drops a poem, and rides to disarm the luna-
tic. Shall I ever forget that struggle?
Somebody had told me that the way to ride
a horse was to grip him with the knees. If
I had been bidden to hold him in my thighs
it might have gone differently. Alf Harford
played the maniac, and when he fired the
gun I felt the wad from the charge whiz
close against my cheek. This made me very
excited, so that I turned in my own length,
and, grabbing the horse with my knees,
continued the hold down to the heels, which,
being finely set-off with steel rowels, drove
the beast stark, staring berserker. He got
up on his hind legs, and thusly walked
on the road I directed him. We dared not
laugh, so I set my teeth, and, when I reached
Harford, struggled like the deuce for posses-
sion of his gun. Poor Alf had a rough
time, and, after I finally succeeded in
wresting the weapon out of his hand, he
received such a clip under the jaw with the
butt that it was two days before we could
be friends again. Nevertheless, Harford
forgave me in the end, and was a witness to
my marriage, which took place at a fashion-
able chapel. I wore Adam Lindsay whis-
kers, a sombrero the size of a circus-tent,
red shirt, riding-breeches and leggings. I
remember I experienced great difficulty in
dressing myself on this occasion on account
of the producer’s bulldog sitting down beside
me and grrrowling most awfully every time
I budged a leg.
And I don’t think I shall ever forget what
the electrician said to me at the end of a
particularly hard day’s work. "Mr. McCrae,”
lie remarked, “you done that orright—in a
way. But there’s one thing you seem to
forget, and that is that Adam Lindsay Gor-
don was always a genieman !”
Some time after the filming of the Gordon
picture I was appointed Art Editor of a
humorous (?) weekly. After staggering in
its own ink for twenty-four months, this at
last fell down and died.
I moved to Coogee. From Coogee I
went to Africa. From Africa I passed on
to England.
I lasted in London three days—drank and
ate in the Cheshire Cheese, visited a music-
hall, saw “Gunboat” Smith beaten in fight,
was shocked at the incongruity of turn-
stiles at the entrance to the Tower, in-
spected the site of the Anne Boleyn murder
(noted, too, the wire-basket, nearly opposite,
with the inscription, “ Please place banana-
peels here”), walked in a crowd round the
island-window case stuffed to repletion with
unimpressive regalia, grubbed about the
British Museum, heard the choir moaning in
the black stomach of St. Paul’s, was tripped
and several times lost among the confused
tangle of stretched-out streets, then nearly
died of homesickness when, upon going
through the pockets of an old coat, I emptied
some Coogee sand on top of a London bed.
Finally, I took train at Euston station for
Liverpool; and there, joining the Lusitania,
sailed for America. The ship was foreign
country immediately —smelt of cigars and
resounded with bassoon-like noises. I began
to think of fields I had seen from an English
railway carriage but had never walked in;
of rain suddenly splashing through sun-
shine; of dark-green meadows changing to
the vivid goldenness of buttercups; roads
climbing serenely between clumps of haw-
thorn and coppice; far silvery canals with
covered barges; ricks of tobacco-colored hay ;
a silent country, comparable to a set scene
on a stage waiting for the actors to come
on. In some places the grass had the
appearance of paint put on with a thin
brush over the hills, and the sheep stuck up
like little stone ornaments.
On the Lusitania most of the passengers
were Jews, or aliens; and my three cabin-
mates proved all German with about live
words of English among the whole lot of
them. “You spik German? No? Ino spik
English. Sorrrry!” Very, very kind. But
now I was remembering two men with
scythes in a field ; and then a solitary old
fellow trailing a rod over a pool, the white
showers slanting down on him, and not a
chimney or a roof visible for miles.
I arrived in New York. I drew pictures
for Puck which were seldom accepted. I
wrote verses and stories, and none ever
reached publication standard. I starved
and played Patience. My last meal I re-
member consisted of some dry bread and
part of an onion which I had cut into slices
with an old razor formerly kept for scratch-
ing out mistakes in black and white draw-
ings. I dined by my window, using the sill
for a table, and looking into a great oblong
court at about half-past nine in the evening.
Over the tops of the houses on the further
side of the court I could see the white lights
of the Astor Hotel, like dew upon some
aerial garland drooping from the sky. Great
fire-signs were beginning to jig and wink
and flicker from every point in the horizon;
and the terrifying sounds of kettledrums
and cowbells indicated where a cabaret had
started its hell for the night. Then, with
no more money in my pocket and the last
scrap of bread gone, I stuck on my hat and
went down into the city. There eventually
I got a job in one of the theatres which
kept me going until a little legacy made it-
self into a flying-carpet and carried me via
’Frisco to Australia.
Often now I lie back in my warm sunlit
bed at home, with the pine-branches casting
long Japanesque shadows over the blankets,
and, perhaps hypnotised by the little spot
of white fire in the delicate curve of a tea-
cup, travel in my mind again those tremen-
dous miles tailing away over the sea, past
Tui-Tuila, past beautiful Honolulu, by great
snowy fastnesses and brindled desert-country
into the tall turreted city of Manhattan.
And, still under the magic of memory, I am
back in my hideous New York bedroom.
There is the yellow mantelpiece again, with-
out a fireplace, and there the despairful
calendar, one day nearly always erased in
advance; there the dead-cold radiator; on
the chest of drawers a five-cent bottle of
milk. My watch, suspended from a nail,
ticks between two drawings against the
wall over my head. Presently I hear some-
body stirring on the landing outside, and I
know that Karl (Karl the actor, my fellow-
lodger), who has never had a “jahb,” whose
figure is still “a hundred and fifty dahlers
a week” —-Karl, to whom society owes an
existence—l know that Karl is going to call
down that long funnel-like staircase to the
landlady who loves l*im, and who has borne
with him for so many years: “0-o-oh,
Mother-r! O-o-oh, Mother-r!”
By-and-bye, from the distance, thin
through having to travel so far, the reply
comes back: “Oh, Karl!” Then I wake up,
and thank God for reality... .and Australia.
HUGH McCRAE.


MeggittLimited s Linseed Oil Meal
(V
> A l
ff
II X
W-
ff I
k
/
%
wK.
< w
m ,i\A
WT/7TS
W*
(F
\
6.
X
«w
/
Wr)\
u
y
l
k
i
1
Ttl
TD
f
tta
J
y**\
m
x
LOW
THE STANDARD of QUALITY and VALUE.
The Bulletin
Endorsed by the testimony of thousands of satisfied users throughout Australia.
THE BEST BY TEST.
Full directions for use are supplied with every bag, or more detailed instructions on request.
AN ESSENTIAL IN EVERY ANIMAL RATION.
Because it comes to you with four GOOD reasons—
,ll
(1)
(2)
(3)
Richness in digestive proton —ensuring growth.
A uniform Pat (or Oil) content of 9% —giving laxative and
medicinal qualities. ... .. ~ ,
A low Fibre content and relative richness in the essential
Mineral Salts.
-nutritious —palatable—easily digested
-UNIVERSALEY RECC
Highly concentrated- — -
——laxative and medicinal —UNIVERSALEY RECOGNISED
as the BEST single ingredient in any animal ration under all
conditions.
UNSKKDOi»fH
C*
PAARAMArt*
y/ie boy on the boar
guarantees qualify.
The Bulletin
NEW SOUTH WALES:
26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
P O. Rov 2510, G.P.0., Spencer Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
SOUTr YUSTRALIA:
P.O. .<3O, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
QUEENSLAND:
Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Corser & Co., Maryborough.
Denham Bros., Rockhampton.
Cumming & Campbell, Townsville and Cairns,
m< VAe boy on the boo
gucironteos cfu&hv


Royal
Warrant
The Bulletin
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
OiariesHcidsicdc
Heims
PS
1$
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydiav.
The Wentworth Cafe
INIMITABLE!! INCOMPARABLE II
DINNER DANCES and CABARET.
Thursday & Saturday
Dinner, 13/6.
Admission 7/6, plus tax.
Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Friday:
Dinner, 7/6.
Admission 5/- plus tax.
TEA DANCES and CABARET Every Afternoon.
To took a table—just ’phone
City 9931.
Nothing: of its kind in any way equals
Iff
Consider the harmony of cuisine, beauty and
. delightful music, together with the distinction
of its guests, all contributing to the allure of
the Ambassadors.
DINING that delights, nigfitly 7.30. 21/-;
SATURDAY, 25/-; SUPPERS from 9.30,
12/6; SATURDAY 15/-.
a to 6 Hours' Perfect Enjoyment
nowhere equalled.
RALTON’S WORLD-FAMED HAVANA BAND.
Enthralling music, cheering the mentality,
and living.-an nfiflpory.
LUNCHEONS DE LUXE, eminently
superior, from 12.30, 5/-, or'a Ea Carte.
AFTERNOON TEAS at 3.30 daily, 5/-
Delicious Pastry by French Chefs.
Theatre Dinners, nightly, 6.30 to 7.45, 8/6.
Ralton’s Band in attendance.
Special Note. —For Wedding Receptions, Balls
and Parties, small and up to 700, no place
equals The Ambassadors. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LEETER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
No matter whether you’re a Communist of
England or have Irislx rebel blood in your
veins, there’s a thrill somewhere among the
coils of your vertebra} over the knowledge
that you’re one of the dominant race. So
the Sydiicy citizen, rushing out in his cohorts
to view ‘the approach of British might, un-
commonly suggested the eai-ly Roman tearing
along in his chai’iot to be on time when
(Vsar arrived in the City of the Seven Hills
dragging his triumphs behind him. For,
of course, Sydney tunxed out to a family
to watch the great war boats of England as
they dramatically entered the Heads. Dram-
atically ; for suddenly the morning mist,
which had drooped tantalisingly over the
Harbor since dawn, went curling and spiring
into the blue, as though directed by some
Olympian scene-shiftei\ Long in the limbs,
swollen in the girth, the ships came on, as
irresistible, or so it seemed, as Death. And
one wondered if he who had command of
Caesar’s galleys, and Hiram of Tyre, that
old sea-dog who was admiral of King,.Solo-
mon’s navy, peered over a ridge of mist at
this evolution of the craft with which they
had ruled the wave. Past the paws of land
that dabbled the waters of Pt. Jackson, past
the cheering multitudes that blackened the
foreshores steamed the Hood, with her con-
sort the Repulse, and their brood of light
crxxisers. Up flashed the aeroplanes, propel-
lers mirroring the sun, till the thought be-
came insistent that it was some such wonder
of a former civilisation gave us the legend of
Phoebus. Six of them in perfect formation,
humming excitedly in seeming pursuit of
the one that led as arrogantly as a queen
bee! Over the blue waters danced white-
sailed yachts ; _ speed launches, one towing
a surf-board rider, cut hysterically up and
down the ways; round about moved the
aixtheaps that were ferries. Bunting every-
where, a wild symphony of whistles, motor
horns keyed to the l'oai'ing of the swooping
planes: then the rattle of chain, and the
Hood dropped anchor off Ivirribilli.
The procession of Jack Tars in the after-
noon was frankly disappointing to the ex-
pectant crowds. There was not enough
music aixd not enough color. But there was
the bewitching smile flung by the lad in blue
to right and left and to windows high above;
and when the last of these had been regis-
tered the mounted police—surely the finest-
looking collection of men in the world —
swung into position, and formed a rear-
guard and a buffer between Jack and his too-
ardent followers.
The M.P. and the Civic Father, with their
ladies, took possession when Parliament bade
the Navy welcome. To this party came
Admirals Field and Brand, with Paymaster
Hoi-sey and political-sec. Batteihee <the Man
who Keeps His Mouth Shut) and a crowd of
lesser luminaries. The speechmaking took
place in the dining-room against a back-
ground of bunting and palms, and afterwards
the thirsty refreshed themselves in a marquee
on the lawn. Prime Minister Bruce’s lady
was one of _ the smartest frockers in the
throng. Thick black erfipe de Chine, draped
and sleeveless, was worn with a black velvet
hat of the droopy variety, over which dripped
black and white plumes. Mrs. Earle Page’s
outsize black hat was also plumed. State
Premier Fuller’s lady resembled a tall panel
pastel in grey and black, while daughter
Gwen wore a Frenehy souffle of faintest
blues and pinks.
The Government House garden-party for
the Fleet but not (bless you!) fast visitors
had been planned on the Gargantuan lines
of the bad, mad days of mother’s time. Tin 1
kick-off was timed for 3.30, but the unlucky
person who didn’t arrive till that hour found
himself part of a queue that tried to wag its
tail in the O-nter Domain. Those who
arrived ages before that found themselves
joints of a ei’ocodile that twisted and curved
from the outer garden-gate to the lower ter-
race, where the vice-regals dispensed hand-
shakes and smiles from an island of carpet in
an ocean of sward. When you had got
through your own greetings you helped
spread the human fan that had been to
Mecca and now watched the toilsome ap-
proach of the other pilgrims. When this
diversion palled you wandered about admir-
ing the jib of sailormen, or gazed at the
tennis-court, where a flannelled Deputy-
Town Clerk played a brisk game. At 4
o’clock the crocodile was still twisting along
the path towards their Exes. He was in
pearl-grey tailorings. She had stripped the
violet tapesti-y from the Devon combe that
their friend Rudyard Kipling has immortal-
ised, and had twisted it into an autumn
frock and hat for herself.
Bi-owns were the prevailing tones in both
wraps and frocking; and velvet, embossed
and plain, had a great airing. Cloths are
either thickly and finely beaded to look hke
Bulgar embroideries, or embroidered boldly
in colored wools to attain a beaded effect.
Mrs. Claude Reading was enfolded in a full-
length coat whose skins looked a rich rela-
tion to civet cat; but imagination failed to
picture any animal gambolling through the
jungle clothed in the peltry Mrs. Sep Levy
effulged in. Whatever animal’s skin it was
it was certainly its very best skin, and only
worn on State occasions. Mrs. Douglas
Levy also put the afternoon to shame by
the magnificence of brown Nutria. Mrs.
Jimmie Burns might have been a poster for
“Within the Maze,” so intricate was the
design of her all-over embroideries. She
topped this with a silvery toqxxe that sug-
gested “Turkish delight” swathed about her
head. Mrs. Lachlan Beaton mingled the rich-
ness of black panne and ospreys; with her
she brought her quiet Highlander husband
and Ruby Adams, who looked like a slim
wind-blown leaf in brown. Premier Fuller’s
handsome lady was brown from head to
heel. Earle Page’s wife wore Quaker greys
embellished with skunk furs. Chief Justice
Cullen brought his lady enveloped in a
domino-like cloak of black satin ; with them
was Ethel Turner’s young son in his best
silk hat. Papal delegate Cattaneo seemed
to be blessing a day on which he could wear
his amethystine splendor without discomfort.
While the Ranks were doing something of
a freeze at Rose Bay, the Ratings were
having the time of their lives with Miss
Australia—the real Miss Australia —in the
Town Hall. The Mayoral Gilpins had sent
out 500 invitations to the King’s Navee,
and, judging by the crowd on the floor, none
of them had gone begging. Partners had
been harvested through the welfare depart-
ments of big city houses, and every one
was a peach with the bloom still on it. But
every lass didn’t have a sailor —there weren’t
enough sailoi-s. Our own Navy boys stuck
to their dark blue and sailor collars, but the
Englishmen were nutty in white trousers
and white canvas shoes, with blue sac coats.
Bxxt for sartorial splendor the marines, as
usual, took first place, while the color-ser-
geants with the wide purple bandage on
their chests clicked wherever their roving
eyes rested. There were palms and pink
lights, trailing greenery, and a wonderful
picture of a cruiser tearing through cerulean
waters, while above all towered a gigantic
buoy from the Hood.
At about half-past 9 the vice-regals
arrived, and there was a scatter among the
girls and the boys who had been approaching
the nestling stage and its cosy comfort. As
the party, headed by the Vikiiig and Mayor-
ess Gilpin, walked the length of the room,
there was a perfect hurricane of applause.
The vice-reine trailed a glittering length of
opalescence, finished off with a side-train of
pink Brussels. And she hadn’t thought her
second-best jewels good enough for the
lower-deck but wore her diamonds in the best
quarter-deck fashion. Admiral Field handed
in a gold-plated Rosenthal lady. Admiral
Brand and Princess Pat’s husband, Captain
Ramsay, were other of the gold-braid
brethren to attract the eye; and the slim
elegance of young Coote, who aided in his
R.A.F. undress, added a debonair touch to
the heavy-weight official set.
May Moore introduced her camera to
May Sheehan the other day, and this plea-
sant picture is
the re sul t.
May is the
financial secre-
tary of St.
M a rgaret’s—
the hospital
for better
babies—-and is
mainly respon-
sible for the
success of the
social func-
tions on behalf
of the institu-
tion. With her
youth t a n d
good looks she
has brains and
a modesty
that is of the
genuine, old-
fashioned
variety the
sort that does
Parramatta, her birthplace, credit.
From the Town Hall their Exes, rushed
the Admirals on to the revels at the Casino at
Bondi. Here the Waverley Council bunched
the flowers of the Navy and of the Ex-Service
Women’s Club with the happiest results.
With true hospitality this affair started with
dinner, and proceeded to dance on a full
stomach without the slightest inconvenience.
The party was one of the week’s big suc-
cesses.
The Rose Bay Golf Club blazed into red,
white and blue electrics in honor of the 200
officahs of the Fleet who had been invited
to foot the hours away on its wide veran-
dahs and in its big reception-room. Every
ingredient that should go to the mixing of a
good time ashore was there —a heavenly
night, neither too hot nor too cold; a charm-
ing setting, massed with garden spoil ; lots
of good-looking girls, and simply wonderful
refreshment, liquid and dry. But —well,
some of the visitors had six dances out of a
programme of 16, and the barges back to the
cruisers weren’t delayed for laggards. It
was all right, of course, for those men who
had come to Sydney with letters of introduc-
tion —they went on to the dance from din-
ner parties. But the poor darlings who just
happened along without a blinding array of
stars had a thin time of it with regard to
partners. There simply weren’t enough
unattached girls to go round.
The dressing was as varied in coloring as
a flower-show, and tried to live up in its
every rustle to the ultra-English accents that
have lately beaten lantana and prickly-pear
for quick growth. Diamonds might have
been two a penny from the way they were
strewn about; there was an eruption of
exotic-hued one-plume fans; and pearls and
near-pearls added their lustre to the dress-
parade. Mrs. James Fairfax, president of
the flutter, was in blue-and-silver brocade;
and powder-blue and silver brocade adorned
Mrs. Rolin’s handsome looks. Miss Philla-
more, from Melbourne Government House,
trailed softest blue; and tall Mrs. A. E.
Hughes flew rich rose brocades. Captain
Craufurd brought his tall lady in georgettes
grey as the North Sea, and she was justified
in the results. Mrs. Vivers’s fair head
emerged more Grecian than ever above a
frock of black marocain, built on classic
lines; a Persian-blue feather fan the only
touch of color. With her were Barbara
Bowker and Nona Wilshire, of Melbourne.
Another pretty thing was Margaret Osborne,
in faintest-green georgette; Mrs. Venour
Nathan was length without breadth in black
frbcking, and Mrs. Tony Hordern’s peacock-
blue gown put out a crop of feathery blue
flounces.
The reception on the Hood on Thursday
was a washout. The Lady Carrington fer-
ried over 1000 invited (and other) guests
to the big ship, dumping the heterogeneous
mass on her decks about 4 o’clock —just in
time for a cloud-burst. In a few seconds can-
vas sagged ominously under its load of water,
and then spilled hogsheads of it into the after-
noon tea and on the dancing space. Women,
to save their best millinery, developed an
interest in the guns, and wormed their way
into the turrets or whatever the ironmongery-
cover is called. People climbed from one
height to another in a frantic search for
atmosphere. Loots and such, in white uni-
forms, handed out draughts of tea and a
wicked-liued beverage tasting like a mixture
of citric-acid and sugar, and did it with a
sleight of hand that suggested Admiral Field’s
tutoring in his favorite pastime. Parliament
had taken the day off and brought its wife
and daughter; so did Judges and Ministers
and such-like officialdom. Society was there,
but keeping rather aloof from the throng.
The naval Craufurd couple were in evidence,
and Mrs. Jimmie Burns; Mrs. Sep Levy
brought sou Pat’s wife; the knightly Rieh-
ards and Waleys, witlx their buds; Mrs.
Harry Osborne and Mrs. Yal Osborne, the
latter very stinking in black and white;
Syd Ure Smith, presumably to see the statue
of Nelson and the lions in Admiral Field’s
cabin; Official Secretary Budge, with his
bright-eyed lady; Tom Heney and his writ-
ing daughter; and pretty little Isabel Fraser,
wrapped in a sheath-like black moire coat.
The decorations for the Sailors’ Ball were
left; up for the Fleet Ball on Thursday.
This flutter was in aid of the funds for the
new hostel for the Adult Deaf and Dumb,
and was manned by a strong society com-
mittee, mainly engineered by Mrs. A. E.
Hughes and Mrs. Pickbuim. To it were
bidden over 100 officers from the Hood
and Repulse. There had been weeks of
chat about the rosy garland of girls who
were to form the guard of honor along the
passage of the vice-regals to the dais; and
then came disillusion. Two lines of girls,
in frocks of different hue, length and archi-
tecture, clutched barriers of red, white and
blue ribbon. Individually each girl might
have been a queen of beauty; but it would
have taken conformity, at least of color, to
make the route-guard a picture. There
were four Admirals in the Government
House party, remembering that his Ex. was
a sailor before he whs a Governor; and
when Field, Brand ' and yHall Thompson
hove in sight, if the bandmaster hadn’t been
the slave of convention he’d have burst into
“Rolling Down to Rio,” instead of hitting up
“God Save.”
The Premier Fullers received the guests,
she dressing her role of president in white
brocades that sparkled with crystal and
pearl encrustment. Her Ex. changed her
frock again, and this time was resplendent
in peacock-blues and gold lace, and posi-
tively scintillated with diamonds. Mayor-
ess Gilpin smiled serenely over black geor-
gettes ; and heavily sequined jet, enfolded
the fragile charm of the Lieut.-Governor s
lady. Commander Grant, who was in
attendance on the vice-regals, was watched
over by his lilac-clad girlish wife. Mrs.
Michaelis sported the most eye-dazzling dia-
mond tiara in the room, though Mrs. Mark
Foy’s display sent out searchlight flashes
from the other side of the room.
Friday night, silvered with moonlight and
sprinkled with stars, seemed to throw a chal-
lenge to the mere man-made illuminations
that poured brilliance over a harbor that
was as unwrinkled as a mirror. Thousands
of rockets flared to the challenge and died
in showers of golden or rainbow-liued stars.
Over the warboats blazing with electrics,
over ferries floating each under a quaint
cocked-hat of brilliants, over smaller boats
vibrant with light but otherwise motionless,
the gilded shower pattered, till the ring of
onlookers standing on every viewpoint gurgled
with approbation or shi’illed with enthusi-
asm. But, after all, it was not till the long
wicked-looking blades of the searchlights
stabbed the velvet of the night, that the
moon began to fear for her dominion. Cross-
ing, interlacing, thrusting, now thin as a
Spanish rapier, then glistening like an oar
from some lake of liquid silver, but always
fantastic, they touched the darkness and it
was not. Fort Denison emerged from its
slumber and rocketed gaily, more recklessly
than the rest. And when it was over th?
girl in the flat opposite said pensively to her
young man: “But the moon is more subtle!”
Vilhjalmur Stefansson, the Arctic explor-
ing man, is coming to Austra'ia. and has
sent information ahead that he will visit the
worst interior and report on the same, and
expects to find that the so-called “desert” is
nothing of the sort, but “possesses un-
imagined potential fertility.” It was the
same sanguine gentleman who, according to
report, lately
sent out the
glad news
that the Pole
is all a mis-
take, that there
are forests
thereabouts,
and that
c o u ntless
droves of cari-
bou wander
around feeding
on the verdant
iceberg, and
that the
world’s future
meat supply is
up that way.
When he isn’t
making these
discoveries he
is telling
people about
them; and In-
is alleged to do it exceedingly well. Judging
by his name he ought to. have been born
somewhere among the polar-bears; really he
came to earth in Manitoba, Canada, and be-
gan his crust-hunting as a reporter on a
Boston paper.
The Jim Fairfaxes gave the private dance
of the week at Fairwater on Friday—-Illu-
mination Night. As the ballroom faces right
down the harbor the guests had an excellent
view of the fireworks while they jazzed. Most
of the senior officers of the Squadron who
dance were there to meet Sydney’s prettiest
married women and flappers. Husbands
were mostly told that their presence was not
required, and civilian males generally were
warned that the occasion was a benefit
affair for the Navy. Mrs. Fairfax, by the
way, has strong naval predilections. Her
father was an R.N. captain, and her late
brother, Harley Hixson, was a leading light
of N.S.W.’s volunteer naval movement.
Ever since the Fleet arrived the bullock
has been roasting. The first carving was
at Government House, with Sir Dudley as
host. Then the Commonwealth Government
chartered the Ambassadors and spread a feast
for the admirals. It was the jam around
the pill, for Prime Minister Bruce talked
at them endlessly, and the minute he stopped
Charlton, of the Labor party, took up th
whip. On Friday night Admiral Field
turned the other cheek and invited all his
hosts to dine with him on the Hood. And
so the Round Robin of dining and win-
ing goes on. While this Letter is slipping
into its pink jumper the Mayor’s Ball is trail-
its splendor about the Town Hall, and the
Hordern and Ivnox parties are mingling the
Cream of the Navy with the Upper Crust of
Darling Point.
The greatest show on earth Mrs. Swin-
son says it’s going to be —an Old English
Fair in the grounds of Kouara, at Turra-
murra, in aid of the Havilah Homes. One
arranged by Mrs. Swinson last year was a
great success. This year’s event will be
visited by a many-buttoned coster with his
donkey and his donah and their barrow; and
a dear little great-grandmama girl will wear
100 pockets in her spreading petticoats, each
holding a prize for somebody. The De Chairs
are going, and the George Fuller couple; and
it’s on May 10.


8364.
A. Saunders’ 15cfc. Gold Links,
set two Diamonds, £6/10/-
Smaller Diamonds, I*4/10/-
iiunimiin
BI6S.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut
Diamond Ring, all
Platinum set,
£OO.
840.
A. Saunders’ Fine White double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, lpct. Gold, £B5.
A. SAUNDERS’
DISTINCTIVE JEWELLERY
„ . .;
8217.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Plain Half-round Armlet, 30/-; wider, £2;
narrower, 25/-
Any design or width made to order.
8133.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut
Diamond Ring',
18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£175.
8368.
A. Saunders’ !)et. (!old
Links, 30/-; flat, con-
cave or convex,
tact. Gold, £2/10/-
817.
A. Saunders’ fine white double-cut Diamond
Cluster and Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £75.
85.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Bow
.Necklet,, l'sct
8150.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Button
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, Platinum
set, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
Bin.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold,
Platinum set,
' . £l5.
8169.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Rin
I.Bct. Gold.
Platinum set
£65.
8120.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
lSct. Gold, set
Real Platinum,
£l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25, £3O.
8306.
A. Saunders’ Gent.;’s ‘ Ocf. Gold Hunting Key-
less Lever, compensation balance, £lO.
Higher grades, £l2/10/-, £l5.
Met. Gold Case, £2O.
8122.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
8114.
A. Saunders'
double-cul
Diamond Ring,
lSet. Gold,
set Platinum,
£5O.
Smaller Diamond,
£3O, £2O.
8135.
A. Saunders*'
Sapphire and
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£3O.
8181.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18c t. Gold.
Platinum set,
£lO.
8411.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold and Platinum Dress. Albert,. £7/1.5 /-. In all 9ct. Gold, £2/17/6.
812.
A. Sail ridel's’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £37/10/
B26i>.
A. Saunders’ Lady's double-cut, Diamond-set Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £2O,
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Kindly mention name and number of article
when ordering.
We send all Orders per Reg. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHMAKER—JEWELLER—OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
8295.
A. Saunders’ Gent.'s Open-face Wristlet Watch, in Solid
Silver Case, Luminous Dial, £3.
Higher grades, £3/10/-, £l/10/-
BEAUTIFUL
GRAND PIANOS & GRAND PLAYER PIANOS
AT PALING’S.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS AND FULLY GUARANTEED.
BEHNING GRAND.
?*}? r^ 01 ,\ ft 9 ua lity of these Grands is wonder-
fully full. Musicians love the Behning. Call
m and try the tone for yourself.
BECHSTEIN “A.’
An exquisite Boudoir Grand with
ably full Tone and responsive
delightful instrument indeed for
home.
a remark -
Toueh. A
a musical
BECHSTEIN “B.”
Beautifully proportioned in Sheraton Design.
Its magnificent Tone and perfect Touch to-
gether with its exceptional Durability make
its purchase a splendid investment.
GAVEAU GRAND.
Scientifically made by skilled artisans with
the proverbial exactness the French are noted
for —Pure in Tone, Touch excellent.
’ 1 _ >
BEHMXG (Electric) “ART ECHO.”
BEHNING ELECTRIC
“ART ECHO”
REPRODUCING PIANO.
The latest and most wonderful of all
reproducing Pianos. Played by electric
power or hand. Full particulars for the
asking.
AUTOTONE GRAND
PLAYER PIANO.
(Foot Pedalled.)
A delightful Player Piano. Its mellow
Tone is extremely delightful. It will
add charm and dignity to the most re-
fined home. Write for special Catalogue.
CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST Free on Request.
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba,
Lismore, Rockhampton.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AUTOTONE GRAND
PLAYER PIANO.


%
*»
Travel %ugs
that sustain hard wear, and
afford the utmost comjort.
The most obvious assets of a travel
rug made from pure Australian wool,
are its warmth and durability; and
the highest quality is also assured,
if the rug comes from Farmer’s.
Farmer’s all-wool Rug, Australian manufacture, in specially
selected designs and colcurings. Size, 72 x 60 inches.
Prices range from 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 45/-, to £6/15/-
FARMER’S
r
PLUM PUDDINGS
">--;yrr? •.'I - '
»■•--=*
Always
Appreciated;
Obtainable
|t All Grocers
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK & DIVKE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
Dame Nellie gave “Lucia” a miss the other
evening, to shower applause on Seymour
Hicks's double-barrelled show, “Sleeping
Partners” and “Scrooge,” in which Betty
Hicks gets her baptism of limelight as the girl
the old miser loved and left. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
and her husband bobbed into an opposite pen
with a party, and the Governor’s daughter,
cloaked in gold, kissed her hand to Melba
before seating herself, rather to the scan-
dalising- of the gods who, not having noticed
the diva’s entry, probably thought the lady
was saluting a young man in the opposite
box. Ellaline Terriss, in “Sleeping Part-
ners,” drives feminine theatre-goers to envy
with two frocks which are as Frenchy as the
play. One is a tone poem in blue
georgette. A little sleeveless coatee which
ivarrns the upper part is delicately braided
with silver and hemmed in with narrow bands
of chinchilla. And she carries a muff bag
of the georgette and fur which is absolutely
the latest cry from Paris, and a big silver
bow sits carelessly athwart her little toque
of dark blue. Frock No. 2 is an evening
creation of jade-green shimmered over with
silver. This enfolds the figure and is moored
by a paste buckle under an overwash of
draperies. In the audience was the Hicks
leading lady, Barbara Hoffe, and her hus-
band, Capt. Oakshott. The beautiful Lon-
don star looks fragile after her serious bout
with typhoid; she has not piled up enough
strength to get back into harness yet.
Lady Stradbroke, supported by daughter
Charlotte Rous, went to the Port Melbourne
Town Hall the other evening to take delivery
of a £625 cheque from Swalknv and Ariell’s
Queen-bee, Elsie Holmes, in the name of the
Queen Vic. Hospital. The presentation was
made part of a social event which hopped off
with a fine musical prelude by the S. and A.
Choral and Orchestral Societies, and wound
up with jazz and frivolity. The vice-regal
lady threw verbal posies to the hive of Busy
Bees, and the Mayor of Melbourne and Mrs.
Cabena. as the hospital president, heavily re-
inforced her. At the official supper-table were
directors Russell Gabb and Charles Derham,
with their wives, and director A. R. Arnold,
the Tallis. Robinson, Lyle and W. M. Robins
dames, the Mayor and Mayoress of the Port,
Dr. Connie Ellis and many more of the Best
Known.
Gertie Millar, whom the Earl of Dudley is
making his second Countess —in fulfilment of
the prophecy that he. ivould surely marry an
actress when left a widower —was at the head
of the “positively sweet” school of musical
comedians. She smiled and smiled. More-
over, she was so charming in her saccharine
way that the late Lionel Monckton, experi-
enced in stage ladies, picked her from the
bunch of girls he wrote sonsrs for. So the
future Countess is not likely to disgrace a
family famous for feminine beauty. Lord
Dudley’s mother (whose face had been
changed by art almost out of recognition
when she visited her son in Australia some
years ago) was a lovely young creature when
his weird and wealthy father chose her for
bride. Therefore when the present Earl, as
a young man. announced his engagement to
liis future first Countess, he said: “Mother,
as I am unable to marry the. most beautiful
woman in England, I am going to give you
your nearest rival for a daughter,” or words
to that effect. Doubtless he meant it at the
time. Anyway, it was a beautifully cour-
teous and filial little speech.
' Highbrow heavyweights flooded the ’Varsity
Hall in response to a call from Vice-Chan-
cellor John Monash for the unveiling of John
Longstaff’s portrait of John McFarland, who
for 40 vears has played a big part in Uni.
life as Master of Ormond, Chancellor and
Vice-Chancellor. Governor Stradbroke, who
had been beckoned in with his Countess for
the job, said nice things about the original of
the fine painting, who tried not to appear too
horribly self-conscious, though he must have
felt his ears tingle when Dr. Sugden, James
Barrett and Prof. Skeats engulfed him in a
torrent of praise. The TJni. Orchestra,
under Sutton Crow, cheered the gathering
with sweet musical sounds, and there was
an epilogue of afternoon tea.
A big section of the Very Best warmed the
pews of All Saints’, St. Kilda, for the mar-
riage of the J. A. MacLeods’ youngest daugh-
ter, Ron a, to Ford Straehan. The youthful
bride was billowed in white brocade, which
filmed a blue nndersheath, while the usual
tulle veiling trailed from a silver headaelie-
band, which had orange buds over each ear.
Cousin Joan Ritchie, in pink, and a Gipps-
land pal, in blue, with roses spilling oyer the
ledges of their little black hats, combined to
look after the principal girl, while Eric Lear--
month (Hamilton) and Colin Johnstone had
charge of the principal boy. The bottles for
the health-drinking were uncorked in mar-
quee outside the MacLeods’ Caulfield home-
stead. Both mothers were in black, while
Mrs. Jim Strachan (she was a daughter ot.
Dalgety’s late manager James Aitken, and
sister of his business successor George)
lightened the darkness with a side-introduc-
tion of Oriental colorings. Mrs. aialley
Knight, the bride’s maternal grandma, also
sported black, while the eldest daughter of
the house, Mona (one of our l aa y
champs.), provided a symphony in brown.
The marriage will not leave any real blank in
the MacLeod household, seeing that _ the
newly-weds will open _up their bliss m a
bungalow specially raised on the Malonga
acreage—a gift from the bride’s parents.
Austral Salonites best-dressed themselves
to a woman the other afternoon to cheer-oft
a brace of sister-members, Mrs. C. B. Moore
and Mrs. Thomas Stang, on their intended
circle of the globe. The Automobile Club—
the temporary shelter of the Salon since it
was burned out of its own apartments was
decked out with ferns and flowers, and after
the preliminary salutes there was a musical
outpouring from Josephine O’Brien, Gertrude
Alger and Leonora Scott; and tea and talk
filled in any empty spaces.
The C. M. Lloyd widow and her insepar-
able pal, silver-haired Millie Carter, who
returned some months ago after over 10
years on the other side of the Equator, have
changed their minds about rooting them-
selves here, and are now talking of another
flit in the coming year. Like many other
travelled Aussies, they find the social side
of things too predominant among the moneyed
in this city. A diet of pure jazz is cloying
to a seasoned palate—frivol for breakfast,
frivol for dinner and frivol for tea, as the
Duke in “Patience” might have put it.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson spread a fare-
well lunch-party in the Oriental private din-
ing-parlor on Friday in honor of Mrs. George
Britomarte James, who is off on an Eng-
lish trip. The hostess was in black velvet
whitened at the neck with lace, and flew a
black toquelet wreathed with ermine. The
gathering of 20 was drawn from the ranks
of Mrs. James’s sister-workers in her vari-
ous philanthropic and literary undertakings.
These include the ex-Serviee Women’s Club,
which she presides over as an ex-W.A.A.C.
Commander. The Richardson, George Hen-
derson and White matrons, Mayoress Brun-
ton and Dr. Ethel Osborne all heaved verbal
tributes at the principal lady, who answered
back with the fluency of a politician. When
Mrs. James lands in London with her hus-
band she will unpack a budget of songs,
chieflv from the pen of Mrs. Ewart. These
are to be released at the all-Australian con-
cert she proposes to launch in the Fog.
Margaret Alston has been demonstrating
her expertness as a bookbinder at the Arts
and Crafts exhibition in the Block _ Arcade
for the en-
lightenment of
those who
want to know r
the secrets of
the craft. The
cleverladytook
up this branch
of work pri-
nt ari 1 y be-
cause of her
love of books
—she ’ wanted
to see her
friends dressed
each as she
thought it
ought to be.
Her first in-
struction was
received from
Margaret
Chapman, one
of the Aus-
tralian pi on-
eers of the craft, and later on, when the
opportunity came along, she studied the sub-
ject in a more spacious way in England
with a London firm of experts.
The hand of sympathy goes out to the
widow of Speaker John Mackey and her six
children. She was a daughter of the late
lawyer-politician William Bates, and is a
sister of that William Bates the second
who married one of former Minister Robert
Reid’s daughters. In Fleet Week the eldest
Mackey daughter, Joyce, budded as a debu-
tante, and the whole household seemed to
bubble with the joy of youth, only to be
cast into the shadows by the tragically-
sudden coming of Death.
The beauteous young tenor Borgioli and
his wife —she was a Sydney Mort, Patricia
by name—gave a swanky supper after
“Lucia” the other night. Mrs. Borgioli
should be quite Latinised by now, seeing
that her first husband was an Italian count.
Incidentally, just before the orchestra started
to tune up that night she breathlessly in-
formed a friend who showed symptoms of
holding her up for a chat outside the stalls
entrance that she was making for the stage-
door, as her singing half could not go on
until she had laced up his Highland chief-
tain’s boots for him. . They certainly look
like a serious domestic undertaking, those
traditional boots, and when not wanted on
the stage they ought to be taken home for
baby to get inside and play with. The Bor-
gioli babe is a sweet little creature of two
or thereabouts.
Take a glance at Alfred O'Shea, who
appears with Melba in the matinee perform-
ance of “Boheme” at His Majesty’s next
Saturday. The Australian tenor has long
been crazy to sing Rodolfo with Melba, and
now he has
got the chance
that he had at
first only
dreamed about.
Another of
his favorite
roles is the
Duke in
“Rigoletto,”
which he will
also undertake
during the cur-
rent season,
along with two
or three more
that suit his
voice and tem-
per ament.
. O’Shea is one
of the latest
graduates of
the lei canto
school, his
fine voice
having been polished for three years
in Milan, Rome, and Paris. Sydney-born, he
was on the Australian stage 12 years ago,
and many will remember him as a bright
and festive spirit in the “Blue Bird” co.
The medical James Barretts stirred
Toorak’s Sabbath calm on the 6th by beating
social tom-toms in the Palmyra parlors to
greet our newly-imported Prof, of Metal-
lurgy, Dr. Greenwood, and his wife; like-
wise Dr. Davies, who comes to lecture about
organic chemistry. It was a highbrow
gathering, with a thin peppering of Philis-
tines. A stringed orchestra in the drawing-
room did its best to outplay the. brilliant
weather, but failed to stem the drift to the
open, where the homegrown zoo and a blaze
of flower-beds offered a nice pretext for sun-
basking. The hostess had black upholsfer-
ings with copper inlaying the cuirass, and
Mrs. Greenwood sported an appropriately
verdant frock with floral embroideries, worn
with a biscuit-colored hat. Admiral Hall
Thompson’s wife was in dusky draperies,
with blue feathers hunched on the off-side of
her grey lid. Knights John McFarland and
John Monash and Dr. T. P. Mclnerney rein-
forced a whole string of ’Varsity headlights
with their feminine halves, and a bevy of
lady meds. and several political notabilities
unbent to the cheeriness of the day and the
occasion. After all, a highbrow gathering
must have something to unbend it, and there
is always a solemn responsibility, on the poor
old weather. If weather doesn’t smile the
highbrows rarely smooth out their, wrinkles
with the iron which has entered into their
souls.
Artist Ambrose Patterson, nephew of the
late James and a connection of Dame Nellie,
who was divorced by his Daisy in Honolulu a
few years back, has these days a steady billet
at tiie Washington (U.S.A.) ’Varsity, and
has recently married again—this time to a
sweet little Seattle damsel, very young, and
herself an artist of promise. Ambrose is
bringing his bride to Australia on a sort of
belated honeymoon, and the materials for a
show of his recent paintings will be in his
luggage.
It looks as if there is going to
be an outbreak of culture in Mel-
bourne next month, when the vaca-
tion school is* to be held at the ’Var-
sity. So far 1200 have enrolled as more or
less serious students for the intensive course,
close on 700 of them being State teachers.
Before May 26, the opening date, there
will be a rush into the charmed circle so as
to get in the atmosphere of learning. An
epidemic of brain-fever is hardly expected,
but some of the dormant cells of grey matter
may get stirred up. One series of lectures
which Speaker Mackey was to have deli-
vered will have to be undertaken by somebody
else now that that fine earnest worker is
under the sod.
According to an official announcement in
the Gazette, an R.C. priest in an eastern
suburb, just registered as a marriage cele-
brant, has Mary for a middle name. It is
sandwiched in between Stanislaus and
Hogan. Tom Bent had a second name —
Adolphus—but buried it early in life. Pre-
mier Lawson must find the Sutherland
Wightman following Harry a bit of a
nuisance. As lawyer and legislator, he ought
to find an easy way of letting fellow-sufferers
shed superfluous names bestowed on them by
inconsiderate sponsors.
A company is taking over Menzies’, which
has been running at its present site in Wil-
liam-street for 57 years. Big alterations are
already under way. For the Menzies family
the hotel has been a gold-mine. Long arter
the death of Archibald Menzies, the founder,
his widow continued to take a hand m tne
management, till it got too big for ner.
Then son Norman came forward —he wno
married Dorothy Vane while she was making
a name for herself in “La Poupee.’ A big
block of shares is to be taken by the exist-
ing management, and the staff is being
retained. What associations the old place
has! If its walls could echo back ev’en on 1)
the witty stories told at bar dinners, it would
make a volume to treasure.
Noel Heath, brother of the redoubtable
Rod and captain of the South Yarra Tennis
Club, who lately returned from an oversea
trip, is being congratulated on his engage-
ment to attractive little Sydneysider Leslie
Reading. She has been visiting Melbourne
with her mother, and put in the last lap ot
her stay as the guest of the Willie Ropefit-
sons at their temporary Tootak horrid;
High time the sweet-eating nuisance was
stamped out in our playhouses. During one
performance of “Lucia” a yotmg woman and
her boy in the dress-circle spoiled the Man
scene for those in their vicinity by stripping
that fiendish crackly paper which seems to
bind all theatre sweet-boxes, and thereafter
crunching the contents with a noisy rapture.
These ornate boxes appear to be a big item
in the present high cost of walking out. The
other day a youth who took the wrong turn-
ing by pinching a pound or two of his em-
ployer’s cash informed the Court that lie
had “blewed it” on a reserved seat for him-
self and his girl and a live-shilling box of
chocolates. Apparently the only cure is to
get people to realise that chewing in public
is one of those things that are simply not
done. You’d never see Priminister Bruce
munching at the opera.
A Brisbane postscript: —
An appeal is to be made on behalf of the T.B.
Soldiers. Mayor Diddams took the chair at the kick-
off meeting; Tom Ryan’s widow was el ected to pre-
side over the women’s committee, and April 28 and
May 2 will be the two ends of the campaign.
Dorothy Prentice and Brenda Jameson staged a
dance in the Central Hall, Sandgate, in a color
scheme of gold and green. The guests included
Frank Houston, who presently is to take Millicent
Dinsdale (also present) into a life partnership.
The Bulimba Presbyterian fete was a squashy affair,
so to speak. The Harrison lady suddenly appeared
from the centre of a large lemon, and at the hands
of wee Joyce Imrie received a gift hidden in the same
kind of fruit. Lemons and mauve-tinted butterflies
were the decorations, and the stallholders were clad
in lemon color.
Evelyn Dempsey enjoyed a tea on the Mimosa
tennis courts before she left by the Ormonde for the
Cold Country and beyond.
Dalby. has been banqueting all available residents
born there 50 years or more ago. About 200 were
gathered in, among them being Mrs. J. Byrne, who
was the first white child born by Myall Creek, a
record which she established in 1847.
The cheery Hillcoats lent Teneriflte House for a
dance for the Wangaratta men, and most of the
lasses who love sailors gathered for the event.
Passed out, in his 40th year, nr. R. T. Kenna,
hon. surgeon to the Q.T.C. and an hon. at the
Brisbane General Hospital. He married a widow,
daughter of Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, and was a brothei
of Father McKenna, of Rosewood.
The Masons and their wives gave a colorful recep-
tion in the Botanic Gardens kiosk to the Earl of
Cassillis, and took the gartered gentleman through
the hothouses. It was a very genial and friendly
affair.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
The Unley flower show had a special word of praise
from Lady Bridges, who opened its evening session
and declared that its exhibition of dahlias was tile
best she had ever seen. Unley’s new orchestra got
a pat on the back from her Ex., too —no small thing
from so astute a judge of music.
Margaret Darnley Naylor, bound Europewards at
the end of this month with relief work as her objec-
tive, was farewelled by the League of Nations execu-
tive the other evening and handed an attache-case
and a fountain-pen. She has lifted the membership
from a few hundreds to over 2000, and done incalcu-
lable work for the League in this State. Her place
is to be taken by Charlotte Birks, of the Children s
Library.
Mrs. Fred Tennant, in charge of the work stall at
the bazaar that is to raise funds for the Sacred
Heart College, bade some of her friends to a private
view of her wares at her home at Glenelg the other
day. She and her husband are bound for a trip
overseas in mid-May.
The Conservatorium is getting into trim for its
winter work, and staged the first of its 1924 conceits
in the Elder Hall. The honors of the evening went
to violinist Eric McLaughlin for his rendering of
Beethoven’s “Romance in F” and to Harold Foalc
for a group of modern numbers. Before the concert
there was a word of welcome to Gerald Walenn’s
successor, Charles Schlisky. Like Walenn, he
was a pupil of Emile Sauret in Berlin, and he hast
already visited this village as one of the examiners
for London Trinity College.
Energetic little Mrs. Kate Helen Weston is to be
the Alliance Franpais’s organising sec. while Muriel
King is in England, with Lady Bridges as its patron,
Frank Moulden as president (he is Consul for
France), and an impressive vice-president and com-
mittee list. The library, which is in the hands of
M Wait, Miss de Mole and Mrs. Crampton, got a
cheque for over £lOO from last France’s Day ball.


NEW NOVELS BY
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
ONE SHILLING EACH.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers. Is. 2d. posted.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“By Mountain Tracks” - - - by Roy Bridges
An excellently-written and thrilling story of the bush-
ranging days. Novels by the same author in the Bookstall
Series:—
“On His Majesty’s Service.” “The Fenceless Ranges.”
“The Great Western Road,” - by H. F. Wickham
A great story of the early gold-diggings.
“The Trader of Kameko” - by S. W. Powell
Another splendid South Seas story by the author of
“The Maker of Pearls,” “Hermit Island,”
“The Great Jade Seal,” “The Pearls of Cheong Tah.”
Fagaloa’s Daughter” ~ - - by Jack McLaren
Author of “Red Mountain,” “The Skipper of the ‘Roaring
Meg,’ ” “The Feathers of Heaven,” “The Oil Seekers,”,
etc.
WRITE TO THE PUBLISHERS FOR A FREE CATALOGUE
OF 150 NOVELS BY FOREMOST AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
476 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
Bracelet Watches,
sail "v
WL*/
Lever Watch, FulJy Jewelled, Compensation Balance,
Mounted with Fine Quality Diamonds set in Platinum
on Black Moire Silk Strap with Patent Snap, £6O.
k
HE Firm’s selection of High-
grade Bracelet Watches is the
largest in the Commonwealth
and is replete with the very
newest designs in finest English and
Swiss manufacture. The very wide
range of prices and styles ensures the
perfect satisfaction of every individual
preference. Before leaving the estab-
lishment every watch, from the choicest
to the least expensive, is thoroughly
tested and regulated; this, together
with their exceptionally fine construc-
tion, enables the Firm to guarantee in
every instance the highest degree of
service and reliability.
FULLY ILLUSTRATED WATCH OR RING
CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
"WV©r utmti on b& Q
The Collins Street House for Jewellery,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IMPORTANT TO OWNERS OF EARLY MODELS OF EDISON PHONOGRAPHS.
AM
-a Hundred times cheaper
Edison’s phonograph is definitely without a rival in phonographic value.
It is made and guaranteed by the world’s greatest inventor —the man who
made the first phonograph and all the most remarkable advances in sound
reproduction. This reproducer has a diamond point; you do not have to
buy and change needles, while records can be changed much more quickly.
Scientific Facts about Blue Amberol Records
*
Its Blue Amberol Records remain free from wear and without scratch, and are practically
unbreakable. T his is the ONLY type of record which reproduces the “S’* as in stars,
the “L” in bell, the “F” as in if, and the “V” as in believe. Lister* to a song
by such artists as Sir Harry Lauder and Peter Dawson —a few bars will convince you
of the overwhelming superiority.
A magnificent and comprehensive list of these Blue Amberol Records is available —
with new issues every month. They are priced at 3/- for every class of music, just 31-
fox record* you c«n play 6,000 times or more —they are nearly a hundred times cheaper
than ordinary disc “talking-machine” records.
When you buy a phonograph get »!ie best value for you r money that you can. Write now for details of the wonderful "Amberoid” or
if you have an early type of Ediion, ten, fifteen or twenty years old it learn how you can bring it up to date at a small expense .
Slate whether your phonograph is a Standard ” Home” “Triumph” or Concert.”
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT ST., SYDNEY. Or your nearest Edison dealer.
»


V
m
x ~-
Cutting the Cost
of Cultivation.
ONE of the most vital problems facing the farmer is how to keep
down cultivation costs. Agriculture cannot be improved, the
lot of our farming communities cannot be made more pros-
perous if the cost of cultivation is excessive. Old methods
must give place to modern implements, machinery and labor saving
equipment. The power tractor is destined to play an important
part in the work of reducing the cost of cultivation. By making the
farm technically efficient the way will be open for better farming and
increased profits.
Kerosene Farm & General PurposeTracfor
The CASE Tractor is pre-eminent for its durability, efficiency and
adaptability. Because of sturdy construction and mechanical
superiority it will last 50 per cent, longer than the average farm
tractor. Within its power-range there is no farm job draw-bar or
belt for which this tractor is not well adapted. Ample power for
deep plowing and more intensive working of the land, increased
farming operations, reduction in labour costs and a great saving of
time —these are highly practical results which accrue from the intelli-
gent use of a CASE Tractor.
Every farmer who is anxious to make farming more profitable should
investigate the merits of the CASE. Maximum efficiency is assured
by reason of CASE Service. Spare parts are available at all Branches «
®b&&
how CASE owners
in Australia are tutting
cultivation co§ts.
u Carrawatha,”
Wongarbon, N.S.W.
I worked the 15/27 Case Tractor on top gear
over all sorts of surface conditions, hitched to
io-furrow Sundercut, doing the hardest of the
ground, and was never stuck for reserve power.
I also hitched the Tractor to two io-furrow
Sundercuts and ploughed for three days on low
gear. She handled this load with ease in undula-
ting country, ploughing 4 inches deep. In 23
days the Tractor ploughed 380 acres at a cost of
i/8i per acre for fuel used, including benzine,
oil and kerosene.
The Tractor displaced three eight-horse teams,
representing a saving in fuel versus chaff of £5B,
and about £2O in wages. The Tractor gave no
trouble—it was a pleasure to handle. Undoubtedly
the best thing on wheels. Wishing you every
success.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) W. J. CAMPBELL.
Pinnaroo,
26th August, 1922.
The 15/27 Case Tractor does the whole of the
work on my farm. I have disposed of my horses.
I recently ploughed 100 acres, the Case Tractor
pulling 8-furrow plough doing the work in six
days. Would have taken two men and two io~
horse teams to accomplish the work in the same
time. The fuel consumption is exceptionally
low, being six pints per acre ploughing, and
barely two pints of oil per day. The above
includes some very heavy sandhills. Allow me
to compliment the Company on your service.
Wishing you every success with the Case Tractor,
as I am well satisfied.
(Sigrud) K. IIHiJS.
Lower Light,
24th August, 1922.
The 15/27 h.p. Case Kerosene Tractor has given
me great satisfaction. Pulled 12-furrow Smith
Twin Plough on top speed, fallowed on 51 pints
per acre. Harrowed fallow land on 2 pints per
acre. Worked 12 ft. Combine Drill, and culti-
vated, 400 acres in twelve days. I have done
completely away with horses on my farm.
(Signed) J. H. MUTTER.
d
Sole Australian Agents t * w
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
QUEENSLAND: Bowen Street (off Ann Street), BRISBANE.
Box 103(1 G.1’.0. ’Phone, 7591.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street, ADELAIDE;
also Graves Street, KADINA.
Branches:
NEW SOUTH WALES: 114 Goulburn Street. SYDNEY. VICTORIA: Cor. King
Box 2664 G.P.O. ’Phone, M3764. Box 2049 G.P.O.
Sola Agents in West Australia: The Westralian Farmers, L
& Flinders Streets. MELBOURNE.
’Phone, Cent. 2124.
tel., 569 Wellington Street, PERTH.
Box 674 G.P.O.
Head .Office: Richards Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Phone, . Cent. .6870,


NORMAN SMITH’S ESSEX
cuts 1 Hour 13 minutes off
AUCKLAND.WELLINGTON RECORD
On the 14tli March Norman Smith drove
his 18-h.p. Essex between the N.Z. capi-
tals, through heavy rain, over rough, slip-
pery clay roads, against a stinging head
wind, meeting all kinds of delays and
difficulties. In spite of all these he made
the wonderful time of 13 hours 10 min-
utes. Questioned after his fine achieve-
ment, Norman Smith said—
“NO ONE COULD SAY ANYTHING
TOO GOOD ABOUT WAKEFIELD
‘CASTBOL.”’
WAKEFIELD .
9
This achievement was
done on a regular grade
—obtainable from leading
garag :s.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
VS’entern Australian Distributor*: BUKNB, **HILP ft CO., LTD., Perth and Gerai.it..:,
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sals Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPARTING
NEEDS
A week before Claro won the Epsom Han-
mc-ap, Sydney bookmakers were demanding 20 to 1
, e Hawk and Rapine for the Epsom-and-Metroo.
double. Neither horse was equal to getting a place.
1 roteetecl by the asinine embargo on the publication
of ante-post prices, the same bookmakers have been
quoting' Claro at scandalous Doncaster odds, and
punters are emphatically advised not to take them,
they will probably do better on the Tote. Claro is
brilliant customer, but he has 9st. lllb. to carry
in a race that is bound to be severe, and no one
can be certain that his legs will stand the strain. The
joint that he jarred in the Newmarket may go
back on him again and prevent his supporters from
getting a run for their money, as it did at Fleming-
top. In the circumstances, he is not to be recom-
mended. Should anything happen to the Englishman
before the race, Blaekadder will presumably be the
uynamite-odds favorite. The Welkin’s sen was never
prominent in the Flying Handicap at Moorefield, but
that is little against him; champions have failed at
Moorefield, with its difficult home turn. A greater
objection to Blaekadder is that he has never, or
hardly ever, been known to finish stoutly at Rand wick.
He has exhibited fine speed in most of his races on due
A.J.C. course, but the long straight has generally
found him out. The three this page likes, in the
order named, are All Sunshine (7st. 71b.), Otacre
(9st. 41b.) and Mont Clair (Bst.). One is a lightly-
burdened tliree-year-old in a good year for youngsters
(witness the triumphs of Quintus at Fleinington and
Ballymena in M.L.) ; the second is a fast-finishing
weight-carrier who hasn’t been out of a place in nis
last half-dozen starts ; and the third is a four-year-
old with a liking- for the Randwick straight and
a record of improvement in every race he has run
since September. All three have been doing well in
their work.
Mirthmaker was this page’s fancy for the Metropoli-
tan. He disappointed in that race, and his Victorian
trip was a failure, but there is ground for believing-
that he is a 25 per cent, better horse than he was
then. At all events, his form in the Club Handicap
at Rosehill was so impressive that his chance in the
Sydney Cup with 7st. 61b. —a luxurious weight for
a four-year-old son of Comedy King—cannot he
ignored. H-> was galloping easily at every stage
of the 12-furlongs journey, and he finished as
straight as a gunbarrel after running the last
quarter-mile lengths ahead of a big field. A point
m Mirthmaker’s favor is that he is in first-class
fettle, and the indications are that there won’t he
many trained-to-the-minute Cup candidates when the
starter lines them up. Some of the Randwick wortc-
watchers are laughing at Stand By’s handler for
giving the Adelaide colt a severe old-time preparation,
but the laugh rnay he on his side after the event.
Other things being equal, this chronicler would
rather back a horse that has shown recent public
form over a distance or lias done a solid amount of
long work than one that has been trained for a two-
mile race on six- and seven-furlong gallops. if
Mirthmaker is to be beaten it may be by Stand By
or one of the other three-year-olds—they are ail
well handicapped in this Cup.
The St. Leger is a good race not to bet on. If
one could be sure it would be run at 13sec. to
the furlong or thereabouts, Frances Tressadv might
be worth a ticket; her appearance at Rosehill was
rather striking But it_ is quite as likely that a
How pace will he set, in which case a non-stayer
hke Rahiri might do it. The w.f.a. Autumn Stakes
is another puzzle. Were David as good as when he
conquered Heir Apparent and Shillinglee he would
oe selected with confidence, but he has never shown
gbrnpse of form since Rivoli defeated him in the
Kandwiek Plate on October 6, when the gallant old
reiiow was expected to lead two vigorous young
four-year-olds over the last of four half-miles, run
in 3mm. 25see.—and this only five days after his
heroic second, with 9st. 131 b. and a bleeding limb
(he was galloped on), in the Metropolitan. Rapine
may be another doubtful quantity; he has had a
' ery strenuous season, and his preparation has been
interrupted by a tempestuous sea-trip. It wouldn t
be surprising to see Englefield or some other well-
conditioned Victorian account for the more distin-
guished pair at w.f.a. The Hawk may show in the
All-aged Stakes that, his Rosehill form was all
wrong, and horses worth considering for minor events
are Easingwold, Switch (both look very well), Otacre
(if he misses the Doncaster), Royal Dighton and
I athom.
* * * *
Blackadder failed in the Flying Handicap
at Moorefield, where the Hawkesbury R. 0. held its
annual, for the very reason which caused Scarlet’s
backers to lose their money in the County Purse.
Each public fancy missed the jump-off, and when a
horse does that at Moorefield it’s all up with nis
cnance. Trimacre (2’s) took the sprint from the
likely-looking Lakawanna and Little Flower, with
Trilisa fading out at the finish; and Greendale (4’s),
showing a strange improvement on his Rosehill
form, accounted for Hermealdo and Scarlet in the
mile. Two useful three-year-olds won nicely—Royal
Dighton (4’s) in the mile Highweight Handicap, and
Highlander (6 to 4)- in the 11-fuiiongs Hawkesbuiy
H nlicap. One of Highlander’s victims was old
David, who faltered perceptibly going up the hill
and was beaten for places by two third-raters, Esine
Dighton and King Carlos.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Whittier’s unexpected win at
Rosehill was somewhat suggestive, to my mind, of
a victory in the Doncaster, in the Spring the son of
Woorak and Polacca came ripe sooner than was
expected, and by Caulfield Cup time he was on the
wane. But even at the V.R.C. October meeting,
which falls only a fortnight earlier than the Cup,
this fitful flier was unbeatable. Then he began to
go off. Like brother Aecarak, AVhittier is a horse
whose private form is not easily gauged bv the
trainer. Which accounts for his starting at 20 to 1
in the Rosehill Stakes.
WHAT PEACE US FOE: A COUPLE OF MUOS!
THE DUFFER : “Boy, we’ve made another mistake—we’re in the bunker over the green.”
THE CADDY (resenting the pronoun ): “So we are. We’re a couple of proper blooming
duds, ain’t we?”
“Pax”: Before the war no imported horse
had won the Sydney Cup, but from 1914 to date
three winners have been English-born—Lilyveil,
Rebus and lan ’Of. When Rebus did the trick there
were other Britishers in the places, and last year
Shillinglee, from England, finished third. This vear
there are Our Prince, Balaton, Backwood and Ver-
tumnus, to represent Britain, and Our Prince
promises to start favorite. His Rosehill performance
was certainly encouraging, and his breeding suggests
fine stamina.
* * * *
“Yet” : The tax on bookmakers’ tickets in
Victoria, added to other expenses which have gone
up considerably since the war, is putting some of
the racecourse operators out of business, or driving
them into shops and streets where they pay no
betting taxes. This is no good either to the Government
or the public, Anl now we have the fieldsmen cry-
ing out against the V.R.C. rule requiring them to
lay, on demand, a fourth of the odds for a place
when they bet s.o. This particular squeal is
wearisome, but the squealers are certainly having
all the worse of the game with the shop and
street gentry, who dodge the impost on tickets
and the income-tax as well. And the goody-goody
Victorian uovemment will neither launch a campaign
agu n t these parasites and < rime-bm ders nor pro-
mote the interests of punters by establishing straight-
out and place Totes. *
“Fax” : On the question of Melbourne Cup
weather, considered as an argument against meteor-
ologist Hunt's assertion that “change of climate”
never can be, racing club identities seem solidly
of opinion that something has gone amiss with Mel-
bourne’s spring and early summer. Secretary Byron
Moore supplied The Bulletin with V.R.C. office records
of Cup Week weather for more than 20 years, from
which it appeared that very hot Cup days went out
of fashion with the nineteenth century. Then Mr. Gar-
gurevitch, of the V.A.T.C., called attention to the
fact that women’s dressing for the Caulfield Cup
meeting is no longer the harbinger of summer that
it used to be, although the date of the racing fixture
altereth not. And now assistant-secretary Dunn, cf
the V.R.C., goes outside of Flemington records for
evidence of that change of climate which the Govern-
ment Meteorologist declares impossible. Mr. Dunn
writes: ‘Personally lam of opinion that our summers
are very much cooler and more boisterous than m
days gone by. Being a keen angler I used, some
20-odd years ago, to contract for a boat every
Sunday from October to March for fishing on the
bay, and rarely missed a day’s fishing through bad
weather. Now it is unusual to get a fine, calm day
before Christmas, and no prophet could forecast
the weather a day before. Only in February and
after can we be sure of our sport."
“Sucre”: “YV.H.C.” tells of a ’chaser
falling dow’n and then winning (B. 10/'4/’24). At
Warwick (S.Q.) 38 years ago a horse called Plum
had a “walkover” in one race. He was covering
the course at a gentle canter, when, 50 yards from
the winning post, he put his foot into a hole and
crashed. Scraping himself off the ground, the
jockey found his mount had broken his near fetlock.
However, he managed to lead him on three legs
past the post, and although the horse was promptly
destroyed the owner successfully enforced his claim
to the prize money.
* * * *
A very sore Bradley and a very tired God-
frey heard the cease-fire sound at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, but a sovereign remedy awaited
them in their dressing-rooms—the glad ‘news that
there was £2067 in the "house.” They fought for
the welterweight championship, Godfrey, who weighed
9st. ll|lb., ccn: eding the Queenslander just on
half a stone, and for the first round or two it looked
as if he bad given too much away. Eager for
fight, and as strong as a young bull, Archibald almost
overwhelmed him with incessant rushes. In the
third bout, however, Sid brought a swift left into
play, and this weapon was a persistent scorer through-
out the fight. In one round he landed ten times
without a return. But the beautifully-muscled
Gympie warrior kept coming in, and little he cared
whether his punches landed on jaw, stomach, kidneys
or back o* the neck, or before or after the bell, so
long as they got home. The last round was fought
as fiercely as the first, and the referee said he
couldn t separate them. Inasmuch as the baclc-seaters
thought Bradley had won and the ringsiders gave it
to Godfrey, the decision was probably correct.
* * * ' *
“15-30”: Norman Brookes must have
shown pretty fair form in the Cannes tournament.
He and the indefatigable Lenglen captured the mixed
doubles from Mrs. Satterthwaite ana Hillyard, losing
only four games. The English pair are skilful and
experienced, and, though individually inferior to
their opponents, would probably combine better, be-
sides being more accustomed than Brookes to the
white light reflected off the Riviera courts. Getting
used to the sunlight of a new country, is a business
that bothers every tennis player who travels, and it
must be rather a burden to a man who is rising
4<. Partnered by Aslanglul, Brookes was defeated in a
semi-final of the doubles by the ultimate winners
De Morpurgo and Vanalen. De Morourgo is—or was
—ltaly’s biggest hope for the Davis Cup.
'**-*■*■
To the old story of the Scotch meenister
who, finding it impossible to give up gowff, elected
to give up the meenistry instead, C. A. M. West,
secretary of the Adelaide Stock Exchange, has sup-
plied a parallel. He was appointed manager to go
to th° 01vm*Mf» O n m°s with th° Murray Bridce crew,
but the Stock Exchange would not give him the
necessary leave, so he has thrown up his billot.
West is secretary of the S.A. Lacrosse Association,
and has resigned that office too. He will try to get
tUp ffivwnle n,*«,„r<t*pc to put the Red Indian game
on the international list,
* * * *
Caotain H. Simmonds, of Wanganui
(M.L.), had a busy week recently at Trentham range.
He won the King’s Prize with a total of 537, and
the Grand Aggregate medal; and the team he cap-
tained collected the Sendee Shield. Simmonds was
runner-up in the 1914 “King’s.” In that and subsequent
years he was engaged in a more thrilling competition
abroad, returning with the M.C.
* * * *
“Trekle”: Football supporters are a fickle
race. Because Richmond in two years fell from
the top to near the bottom of the Vic. League ladder
e y ery office-bearer, except the treasurer, ‘ has been
sent about his business. The new crowd has regis-
tered a vow that another pennant will come to the
tigers this year, and several players who quarrelled
with their clubs last season have already been enticed
to 1 unt-road. “Jumbo” Sharland, who trained with
so many clubs in 1923 that Geelong finally refused to
play him or to give him a clearance, is one of thc-ni.
The three Carltonians who left (or were left by)
<<r? x ,nk after long dissension also want to
Eat ern alive.” Bolt would be a useful man.
Morrissey is a great exponent of all-in tactics, as he
showed in a particularly willing match against the
i lgers last season, and the latter are now happy to
get him on their side. Boromeo will find it difficult
to satisfy the League that he possesses the necessary
qualification. As licensee of a hotel at Carlton he
must sleep on the premises. As a Richmond plaver
he must reside in that district. And there is ‘no
chance of buying him a pub in which he might
roost with his head in one suburb and his feet in
another, as would be possible in some parts of Svdnev.
» * * <-
“Machete”: Although Australia will be
better represented at the Paris Olympic Games thin
ever before, it is the only football-playing white
country which is not sending a Rugby Union side.
Canada, S’Afriea, California and the Argentine have
nominated, along with England, Ireland, Scotland,
Wales and France, and it is expected that sojne of
the French Colonial Unions, such as Algiers, will
miter separately. The All Blacks’ engagements in
Britain will probably prevent their competing. For
the same reason, they have had to refuse an invita-
tion from the Argentine R,U. to play in Buenos Aires.
“Lond.”: Welsh Rugby (B. 20/3/ ! 24) is
getting hit very hard by the Northern Union in
England. The international matches are controlled
absolutely by the Rugby Union, which still refuses
even to recognise professionalism in any form. Wales
has fathered over 50 of the best men now playing
m the North, and every man who becomes prominent
receives a flattering cash offer to migrate. Hence
the part played by Wales nowadays in the inter-
nationals is quite out of proportion' to the talent It
produces.
Lexite : Pearce, the veteran hooker, is
to play League Rugby for Eastern Suburbs this
season. “Sandy” will never see 40 again, but the
League wants him in his old place against the
Englishmen. He will console East to some extent for
the loss of Caples. who goes to Melbourne. Another
inexhaustible veteran, in “Tedda” Courtney, is to
help Western Suburbs, and his promising young
son hopes to fret a game with the same team.' Dad
swears he is only 38, and having had a good look
a t his massive proportions and noticed the ease
and enthusiasm with which he can grass a young
heavyweight with a flying tackle, I accept the
assertion.
“Centurion” : The Canadian Soccer team
which will tour Australia this season is mostly
drawn from Western Canada. Of the 17 players
only two come from Toronto and two from Mon-
treal. Evidently the French-Canadian of the East
is not given to Soccer, or declines to travel with
his not-too-much-beloved brother of the Central West
and West. The team includes one goalkeeper, three
backs, five half-backs, nine forwards and a trainer.
* * * *
Gordon, second to Waverley in the 1922-
23 First-Grade competition, went one better during
the season just closed, being undefeated. They
played 14 matches, won four, outright and seven
on the first innings ; the others were drawn. Kelle-
way (81.62 and 37 wickets at 15.02) was their
star, and the great all-rounder received most assist-
ance from Gerdes, a coming bat, and Dive, the
veteran slow bowler, while Macartney, Moyes, Boyce
and others shone occasionally. Manly were second
and University third, Johnnie Taylor, Uni.’s captain,
heading the individual aggregate with 961 runs, a
total which, in the process of 31 seasons, has been
beaten only by W. Bardslev (1145 in 1918-19)
Jim Mackay (1041 in 1905-06) and Victor Trumpet
(1021 in 1897-98). O. I*. Asher’s 75 wickets at
14.98 was an achievement equally noteworthy, in
the judgment of many critics this Sydney all-rounder’s
slows are superior to Mailey’s, but for some reason
or other he is persistently left out of representative
sides.
*_* * *
“Adelaide”: A remarkable XI of veterans
and others has given St. Peter’s School (S.A.) a
friendly game and an experience to remember. Clem
Hill and Ernest Jones both stepped into international
cricket close on 30 years back. As for George Giffen
he first went to England with the Australian XI of
1882. By the side of these, Joe Travers, a Test-
match player of 20 years ago, and Gordon Campbell,
of the A.I.F. team, seemed almost juvenile. Hill
batted and Travers bowled with some success; but
the surprise of the game was Jones. Naturally he
is no longer the fastest bowler living, as he' was
said to be in 1896; but wicketkeeper Campbell was
still glad to stand back to him, and he took 6
wickets for 26. Another Campbell, on the school
side, may have the pleasure 50 vears hence of recall-
ing that he took the wickets of both Hill and Giffen.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: The death of A. P.
Lucas has left Lord Harris, the captain, the onlv
survivor of the English side in the first Test match
though that name was not used for vears after
then—allowed to Australia in England, "September
1880. _ The game was got up as an afterthought, and
the visitors were considered to have done splendidly
in losing by only 5 wickets. The other plavers all
since dead, were the three Graces (G.F., the youngest
lived only a fortnight after the match), Steel’
Lucas and Lyttelton, with onlv three
Shaw, Morley and Barnes. How many of the Aus-
tralian side are left? Spofforth (temporarily dis-
abled) and Jarvis were looking on, and both are
living. The actual players were Murdoch, McDonnell.
Blaokham, Bonnor, Palmer, Alec Bannerman and
«oyle, with the less famous Moule—afterwards a
Victorian judge—Alexander, Groube and Slight.
“Machete” : “Patho” (B. 10/4/’24)* would
do well to look about him in the U.S.A. before he
decides that cricket there is a pathetic sport V
trip to Philadelphia is recommended, for there the
game has a very strong hold and one of the clubs
boasts the best-appointed cricket ground in the world
The fact is that cricket is played in most of the
States. A boxing friend occasionally lends me copies
of a Milwaukee sporting paper, and the space it
gives to cricket (and, by the same token, to Soccer
football) is an eyeopener.
THE FATAL BOOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, p . The English Rugby League left on April 11....
ine Doot or Ben Gronow played no mean part in the
last Australian tour ; it will be here again in a few
weeks.” —Sydney daily.
Now put the cricket bats and pads away
And clear the ovals for a new campaign.
Get out .your trusty jerseys for the fray,
Massage your joints and don’t forget to train,
Stalwarts of Newtown, men for Glebe who play,
Pets of the cheering crowds of tough Balmain 1
Tis once again for Austral shores en route,
Ben Gronow’s boot.
In the recesses of some cabin trunk
It lurks a seemingly innocuous thing
In sporting footwear—or beneath a bunk,
A crab” that bards might hesitate to sing
About, an ordinary looking hunk
Of leather, yet, mayhap, a direful spring
Of goals unnumbered. Football fans salute
Ben Gronow’s boot.
Tis this, so deftly soled and toed and heeled—
Or, to be more precise, the hoof within—
That’s turned the day on many a hard-fought field
Where from the breaking scrummage forwards shin
The ball, and deafening applause is pealed,
And either side sti-ains every nerve to win.
How oft it made a triumph absolute,
Ben Gronow’s boot 1
Here is the driving force, the instrument
That the cased bladder tapped, from near or far,
Straight or at angles, and unerring sent
Between the goal posts and above the bar
On the mired grounds that Yorkshire’s sons frequent,
W here hoarse Lancastrians the welkin jar
U ith clamor. O’er the seas again to shoot
It comes, this number eight of rare repute,
Ben Gronow’s boot!
X.S.W.
T. THE R.


PENCILS'
‘ Jhe largest selling
quality pencil
in the •world
m
11 degrees ltlack
3 copying
THE BEST PENCIL
vor ARTISTS,
ARCH ITEOTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
JOURNALISTS,
BUSINESS MEN.
Sold by High-class Stationers Everywhere.
BOl'l? UUDI I? Containing 0 Venus Pencils and
MU L oAMfLt ; | Venus Soft Uvaser will be
posted vou on receipt of 3d. to cover cost of postage.
Address: .J. A. P.urke, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Allow Me.
j T’S the man of ripe judgment
I who most readily appreciates
Kensitas —the soft, mellow
flavor which comes as a revelation
of what good cigarettes ought to
be.
“If you’re not satisfied with
just ordinary cigarettes, sir, allow
me to present
Kensitas the
cigarettes made
by connoisseurs .
for conn o i s-
se iirs.”
fK
CiqaA&X&A SVi "
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
Missing Friends.
J OHN ANTHONY SCHLEICH (some-
times called SHIELDS), deceased.
Persons claiming relationship to the above-
named, who died at Auckland, New Zealand,
on the 21st day of April, 1923, should com-
municate with the District Public Trustee
at Auckland, when they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
11. F. WARD,
District Public Trustee,
Auckland.
T INFORMATION is required by the undersigned con-
-1 cerning the present whereabouts of JOS HP H
PETER HOPKINS, who formerly resided at Balmain,
•md afterwards resided at Castle Hill Road, Castle
Hill and who left the latter place about 18 years
~K o ’ The said Joseph Peter Hopkins later assumed
the mine of WILSON, and was resident for some time
with a Mr. Wilson, a Farmer at Warwick, Queens-
land. It is understood that he worked as a I'arm
Hand at Warwick, Queensland. If he be dead the
date and place of his death is required.
OREENWELL, SHEPHARD & YORK,
Solicitors, 84 Pitt Street. Sydney, and 87 George
Street, Parramatta,
f>£
OIL
4-5 h.p.
C/
JV*
s
MARINE, £95.
STATIONARY, £B5.
IT /\
I |
ll
Magnetos,
Electrical Devices,
Blow Lamps.
Starting Time Less than 30 Seconds.
LARGER POWERS IN STOCK.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OBTAINABLE FROM
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, opp. Bridge Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY I'ROM STOCK.
Running Cost less than 2«1 - per hour.
Self-Filling Type
From 17/6
Standard Type
From 12/6
Swim. tfxz {(AtOmz pen
« Swan ” Pens are famous
throughout the world for then-
reliability and lasting wear and
the 14 ct. gold nibs are the
finest it is possible to produce.
The fact that “ Swan ” Pens
have held undisputed sway
over other makes for more
than thirty years is solely due
to the excellence of the pens
themselves.
SWAN'
FOUNTPENS
OF STATIONERS, JEWELLERS AND IMPORTERS.
Catalogue post free.
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
133 & 135, Oxford Street, London, W.l ;
and at Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich,
Johannesburg, Barcelona, Sydney, Well-
ington, Cape Town and Rotterdam.
Resident Representative;
J. A. Burke, 5, Primrose Buildings,
255 a, George Street, Sydney.
WAR DECLARED
on the High Cost of Production.
TkeTanks of Wai' -
become thelarvks of^Peao^
a
ri
i. >
111
Sli'lM'iS;?
/' s'-iiilfh-,' f! ' v''sx r ''re'i"i!
. ...w.r;i-v A
4!U!
«
*
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
Reduces the high cost of production,
for it enables the Farmer to cultivate
more land in quicker time than with
Horses or any wheel Tractor. The
guaranteed Carbon Steel Self-laying
Tracks, which; wore so successful on
the War Tanks, enable it to work
under any weather conditions; in short,
it means' Labor Saving, Time Saving.
Money Saving and Lower Cost ot I re-
duction for the Farmer.
Literature with pleasure from: —
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY
3SS Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 4«» Flinders , Street,
LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
Chas. Atkins & Co,, Ltd.,
Lift lit Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
Australian Machinery Co.,
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEEN SLAND.
: The present Minister for Public
Works is not the first Cohen to hold office
in a Vic. Cabinet, though it took half a cen-
tury for the name to make its second appear-
ance. Edward Cohen. M.L.A., was Minister
for Trade and Customs under Macl herson,
Francis and Kerferd, from 1872 till 1870.
“Caloola”: Wire-whiskers strolled jnto a
city, insurance office and made some mquiiies
about the cost of a policy on his crop and
stacks. “What facilities have you for ex-
tinguishing an outbreak of fire C asked the
clerk. The would-be client pondered hard.
■Well, it rains sometimes,” he finally
hazarded.
“Hecagus”: Whilst the Tazzali-Millaa
Millaa (N.Q.) railway construction was m
progress the engineer-in-charge instructed a
workman to erect a warning notice-board on
a breath-snatching curve. “I’ll leave the
wording to yourself.” said the serang. I p
went a faithfully-drawn skull and cross-
bones. There were no casualties on that
curve.
There is piquancy in the ’version to Labor
of Oswald Mosley, M.P. His father-in-law.
Lord Ourzon of Kedleston, referred a tew
days ago to the Macdonald Ministry as one
that was buttressed by “undesirable Conser-
vatives.” Mr. Mosley is heir to a. rich
baronetcy, only 27 years of age, and has
already made his mark as an insurgent, lie
was one of the first English members to side
with the Irish Free Staters. He can claim
another record : lie is the first Laborite on
the membership list of YV bite’s, the famous
old Bt. James’-street Club.
•Tlambone”: Harlan Fiske Stone, who
steps into Harry Daugherty’s shoes as Uncle
Sam's Attorney-General, is, like Ins chiet, a
product of Amherst College (.Mass.). Coo-
lidge and Stone were classmates, and each is
in his 52nd year. At Amherst, a small col-
lege, there is a yearly ballot among the
scholars to select the one most likely to suc-
ceed in life. In 1894 Coolidge received one
vote, Stone none. The man at the top of
the list was Dwight Morrow, now a member
of J. Pierpont Morgan and Co., and a lead-
ing financial authority. On Yankee stan-
dards of success, the youngsters’ verdict was
probably right.
“L.W.”: The Coochin Flats (S.Q.) have
grown some of the best crops of cotton in
Australia, but the yield this year will be
wretched. Though the boll weevil has not
appeared, two other pests have. In one case
a cluster of white eggs on the stem of the
plant hatches out info pretty little red-and-
black beetles, who immediately fill up with
the precious juiciness about them. It is
good for the beetles, but bad for the cotton.
The quickest work, however, is done by a
caterpillar who arrived from unknown re-
gions in uncountable numbers and with a
vast hunger. The farmers had hardly
noticed the newcomer before all was over.
And now- they can't find him, and don’t know
where he has gone. But they dread that he
has grown wings or made some other arrange-
ment for his return.
“0.P.H.”: The Munro Cabinet of 1890-92
in Vie, trained four Premiers —Shiels, Tur-
ner, McLean and Peacock. Succeeding
Cabinets have not been so productive.
McLean produced two —Irvine and Watt;
and Irvine schooled two —Bent and Murray,
who subsequently became rivals. Bent found
one—Bowser —but he wasn’t a stayer. Watt
broke in Lawson, who has had the longest
innings in Vic. political history—six years.
In the early days of responsible govern-
ment O’Shan assy, Nicholson, Heales and J.
A. Maepherson began their Ministerial ex-
perience in the Premier’s chair. The only
instance in recent years of a Victorian poli-
tician new to Ministerial office leaping into
the Premiership w-as that of the late George
Elmslie (Labor). He, however, had hardly
time to warm his chair, for he was there for
only 13 days. Argyle looks the likeliest
among Lawson’s procession of 29 colleagues.
“Bill o’ the Barge’s” story:—
“Yus, I been a river-boat hand,” the old whaler
said, “on the Golconda, old Brown’s fancy boat, in
the ’eighties, the trip that the barge Leviathan was
lost. Loaded with rum she was, and pianos and
drapery and stuff for Bourke. At Wentworth,
reckoning the river was dead-safe from there on, the
old man put off his insurances; he would have cut
down the oil for the headlights, too, hut for his
son, him that’s running the Nile to-day. So there
we was, with five big lamps lighting up the river
half a mile ahead, like a Cobb’s coach. And the
Leviathan barge boring along behind us, loaded to
her eyes. Further up-river old Brown got econo-
mical again. He cut out two of the lamps. And
maybe that’s how we didn’t see the snag that put
a hole in the Leviathan. About 2 o’clock in the
morning the man on the harge sang out that she’s
leaking. The engineer hauled her up, and old Brown
came aft and said things. But that didn’t stop her from
sinking. She went down close to the bank. Although
the boss had no insurances on his hulls, the stuff
was insured. The fast boat Freetrader, that had
an old Yic. loco, boiler ip, her, was engaged with
a salvage crew, and she burnt the top off the river
tearing up to the wreck from Bchuca. Everybody
was keen, for the word had gone round about the rum.
It. was chilly work getting down into the water
and plugging up the gash. The salvage boss recog-
nised this, and wanted to give the men a tot.
Old Brown wouldn’t let him, not till the barge
was watertight again anyway, and they began to bail
her out, both crews working together with buckets.
After the first tot the water flew out of the barge
like a waterspout starting from home. A centri-
fugal pump couldn’t have beat them after three
goes of the overproof stuff. The mistake was made
when they served out a fourth. One of the salvage
men bumped against a Golconda lad. They quar-
relled, and began throwing water at each other.
Then they dropped their buckets and sailed in. In
two minutes the two crews were fighting, ding dong,
and the barge kept sinking. The plugs had slipped.
Soon t lie whole mob were up to their net ks in water, and
still fighting. There was a break when the old
barge rolled over and spilt all the stuff into the
river, with the men scrambling about among bales
and cases and barrels. They got ashore, though,
and resumed the row on the bank, with old man
Brown and the salvage fellow dancing about and
curbing. Along the river for miles there was sewing-
machines and pianos and bedroom sets and women’s
hosiery and corsets drifting down-stream, and an
annoyance to navigation. The people in Bourke
had their tongues hanging out for the stuff, too.
But that didn’t count. This was a matter of honor
between the men of the flash Freetrader and the Col-
conda’s crew, and they fought it out to a finish,
mister —my oath they did.’


o
Um
m
Tt
S)/
HTf
u
X"
Science versus Brute Force
FOR thousands of years the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans
could not discover any better method of expressing oil from seed
than brute force. The principle, crude in itself, has obtained right
down the ages, until to-day the gigantic strength necessary in crushing
seed equals two tons to the square inch of the ram, or 400 tons on the
presshead. This presses out the oil and the albumenoid, or non-drying
matter, as well, and to get rid of this albumenoid it is necessary to
store the oil for six months.
G Hew Process Linseed Oil
The New Process of solvent extraction adopted in the manufacture of
New Process Linseed Oil extracts the oil in a perfectly scientific manner,
and, as the spirit used will not touch the albumenoid matter, the oil has
the same specific gravity as crushed oil which has remained six months
in the tanks.
New Process Linseed Oil is crystal clear to the last drop ; it cannot vary,
is free from all impurities, and will dry on glass in 72 hours. Test any
other brand of oil and see for yourself whether it will dry in anything
like this time.
New Process Linseed Oil is manufactured from the best Calcutta seed,
and, being so absolutely pure and free from albumenoids, you can safely
reduce the amount of driers you usually use by one third , giving you a
paint that will not only dry hard but which will last longer .
Process Linseed £Meal.
The British Government recently appointed a Commission on Food Stuffs, and a report
of their findings is embodied in Chalmer’s Book on “ Production and Treatment of
Vegetable Oils.” The conclusion which this Commission arrived at respecting Linseed
Meal is shown in the following extract: —
“ While oil is a heat former it is albumen in the material that counts,
and the extracted meal is richer in these albumenoids than the cake
procured by pressing same seed.”
Messrs. Thorpes Ltd., Sussex Street, Sydney, the well-known Stock Food Specialists,
believed the British Commission knew what they were talking about, and also believed
that heat units were not of great importance in this country. They, therefore, purchased
the whole output of Harold Meggitt’s New Process Linseed Meal. All interested in pur-
chasing high-class, dependable stock foods would be well-advised to consult Thorpes Ltd.
The New Process of solvent extraction has proved itself so highly satisfactory under
exhaustive tests that, in spite of the heavy cost of scrapping cumbersome crushing
machinery, Extraction Mills are going up all over England and America.
HAROLD MEGGITT
O I
AA I LLS.
PUNT ROAD
GLADESVILLE
SYDNEY,
NEW PROCESS
LINSEED OIL
may be purchased from any of the following
Dealers and Agents in the Commonwealth:
NEW SOUTH WALES
Sandy, Janies & Co., Ltd., George Street, Sydney
Keep, John & Sons, 104 Sussex Street, Sydney
Williamson, Croft & Co., 272 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co., George Street,
Sydney
Briscoe & Co., Ltd., 383 Kent Street, Sydney
Danks, John & Sons, Pty., Ltd., Sydney
Friend, W. S. & Co., 113 York Street, Sydney
Merchants, Ltd., Sussex Street, Sydney
Neptune Oil Co., 364 Kent Street, Sydney
Paul & Gray, Ltd., 82 Sussex Street, Sydney
Williams, F. W. & Co., Ltd., Hunter Street, Sydney
Anthony Hordern & Sons. Brickfield Hill, Sydney
Ash, Frederick, Ltd., Newcastle
VICTORIA
Alexander Ferguson & Co., Pty., Ltd., Collins
Street, Melbourne
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd., Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne
Danks, John Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Dean, W. & G., Ltd., Equitable Place, Melbourne
Macleod, Norman & Co., Niagara Lane (off Post
Office Place), Melbourne
Moore, Jas. & Sons, Ltd., City Road, Melbourne
Pettit, Robertson Pty., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria
Sharp, John & Sons, 131 City Rd., South Melbourne
QUEENSLAND
Brown, Thos. & Sons, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Barker & Co.. Eagle Street, Brisbane
Campbell, James & Sons, Ltd., Creek Street, Bris-
bane
Gough, George & Sons, Albert Street, Brisbane
Heaslop, Thos. & Co., Ltd., Roma Street, Brisbane
Hoskin & Co., Creek Street, Brisbane
Kitchen, J. & Sons, Ltd., Newstead, Brisbane
Lewis, W. G. Sons, Edward Street, Brisbane
Oxlade Bros., Ltd., Wickham Street, Valley, Bris-
bane
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Eagle Street, Brisbane
Rich, E. & Co., Ltd., Wharf Street, Brisbane
Smellie & Co., Brisbane
Sloan, J. D. & Co., Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Wilson, Tait, R. J. & Co., Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane
Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane
Brown, Thos. <sc Sons, Rockhampton
Breckels, W. & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
Kelly, Thos. & Sons, Ltd., Rockhampton
Reid, Walter & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
Burns Philp & Co., Ltd., Cairns
Turton, T., Townsville
Burns Philp & Co., Ltd., Bowen
Friend, H. & J., Ltd., Gladstone
Horsburgh, G. & Co., Maryborough
Wyper Bros., Ltd., Bundaberg
Campbell & Amos, Ltd., Bundaberg
TASMANIA
Harris & Marsh Pty., Ltd., 75-77 Liverpool Street,
Hobart
Cane, J. T. & Co.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Berger, Lewis & Sons (Aust.), Ltd., 141 North Ter-
race, Adelaide
Abbott, L. G. & Co., Ltd.
Thompson, Harvey & Co., Ltd.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Harris, Scarfe & Sandover, Fremantle, W.A.
N.B. —It should be carefully noted that.
Harold Meggitt has no connection what-
ever with any other firm of Linseed Oil
Manufacturers anywhere in Australia.


Primary Producers’ IBank of Australia |ltb.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE MEN ON THE LAND.
Subscribed Capital over
£1,550,000
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Ardlethan—with Agency at Mirrool.
Lismore.
Alston ville. Wallendbeen.
Young—with Agency at Wombat.
New South Wales Directors—MESSßS. H. M. CARTER, I. W. KERR, PROF. IRVINE, W. T. JOHNSON, JOHN FISHER.
The main object of the Bank is to render Banking Service to the Man on the Land. The keynote of the Bank’s Service lies in its sympathetic
consideration of its customers’ needs when financial stringency and droughts arise.
NO CHARGE FOR KEEPING ACCOUNTS.
Interest allowed om current accounts. AH interest payable quarterly on current accounts, on fixed deposits and on Savings Section accounts.
In the SAVINGS SECTION deposits from 1/- up are accepted, and interest at current rates is allowed on minimum Monthly balances.
.. < F . w. STRACK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Eng.), General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDN’KY SHOWS l'<>R COM INO W KICK.
Her Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains’’
Criterion • • • t
Royal “The Garden of Allah,
Grand Opera House “Tons of Money
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MKI.IfORN’K SHOWS l-’OR COMING WI.I’.K
His Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Royal “The Cabaret Girl”
King's “Woman to Woman’’
Princess’s “Little Nellie Kelly”
Palace “Sleeping Partners”
Majestic Moving Picture*
Hoyt’s Moving Picture*
Tivoli Musa rove Celebrity Vaudeville
»
Grand Opera at Melbourne Majesty’s
keeps booking-offices besieged and pay-boxes
busy. First-week productions appear to
have whetted public appetite for repetitions,
even “Butterfly,” which suffers by reminis-
cent comparison as regards the two principal
female voices, being fairly in popularity’s
swim. Bach “Bohfcme” after the opening
night was another assurance that Melba
remains a great artist, with a delightful
quality of soprano in any part she continues
to sing. Another performance of “Tosca,”
last Thursday, gave beauteous Scavizzi a
further chance to get talked about as hero-
ine of that deftly orchestrated tragedy, the
Scarpia being not Apollo Granforte, . her
original evil victim, but Alfred Maguenat, a
French baritone who had previously sup-
planted Luigi Ceresol in the Marcello part
(“Bohfeme”). Maguenat is a prepossessing
person with a baritone of some distinction,
but as Baron Scarpia he lacks the power of
Granforte, nor is his front name, Alfred, so
inspiring as Apollo. In the “Lucia” repeti-
tions Toti Dal Monte sang and acted sweetly
as before without breaking records. Also
the little songstress helped largely towards
some more enthusiastic demands for “Rigo-
letto,” the good old opera wherein tenor
Borgioli comports himself even more prettily
than he warbles, and contrives, whilst stand-
ing behind a tree in Rigoletto’s garden, to
join in a concerted piece without warning tho
old man that he is there. The hunchback
is seemingly so deaf on the off-side that Bor-
FRANCO PAOLANTONIO, first conductor
Melba-Williamson grand-opera season.
gioli might bang a drum without betraying
his presence. Reverting to the matter of
“Lucia” revivals, one must gratefully remark
an improvement in the appearance of
Edmondo Grandini. His Lord Ashton wore
his own hair, short cropped, on the first
night; but subsequently he acquired a sort
of dignity from a brown wig which gave him
a passing resemblance to Oliver Cromwell,
rather than to an ordinary unhistoric but-
cher. To balance this access of hair to the
company, tenor Piccaluga celebrated his
third appearance in “Boheme” by leaving
his beard and wig in the dressing-room. It
made a different looking tenor of him, and
the clean shave was untrue to the period of
Murger’s story. The new nroductions for
this present week are “Barber of Seville”
with Dal Monte topping the bill, on Wednes-
day : and “Carmen” on Saturday.
* * * ■*
“Otello,” written in the old age of won-
derful Verdi, has little or nothing of the
style of his earlier works. The Italian
master broadened his method when he wrote
“Aida,” and before he finished the “Otello”
score, 16 years later, the Wagner iron had
entered into Verdi’s melodious soul, and the
originality of his young Italian rivals had
impressed him. Melbourne had its first
official intimation of Verdi’s conversion to
Wagnerianism when “Otello” was produced
at Her Majesty’s 23 years ago, with vocifer-
ous Larizza as the Moor, and Daiia Bassich
as Desdemona, save when De Vere Sap'o
took the part. Melba recalled Verm’s
solidest opera from the caverns of
local memory last Saturday night. The
caverns mostly echoed with the remark that
Larizza of old was a stronger and more
dramatic Othello than the well-worn Span-
ish tenor, Antonio Marques, who had the
honor of singing a distinctly Wagnerian
duet with Melba Desdemona in the first act.
Marques subsequently maltreated the lady
in the presence of the chorus, and all his
modest restraint of manner was needed to
prevent him seeming a real bad black nigger
of the minstrel type. However, his manner
enabled him to appear an earnest, self-
respecting Othello, whose singing has but a
limited range of expression, one note sound-
ing very like another. lago, as in the tra-
gedy, is a more interesting figure than his
commander, and the performance of Gran-
forte confirmed the opinion that this ver-
satile baritone and good actor is among the
company’s assets. He was often great, not-
withstanding his lona, undecided nose. Cilia,
the light tenor, warbled his beet as Cassio,
but was rather effeminate and simpering.
Roderigo mattered so little that he might
have been omitted, while Emilia, played by
Carmen Tornari, carried less than her
proper contralto weight in this operatic
welter race. Melba’s Desdemona showed
that her rich autumnal-tinted tones have
still gleams of Indian summer glory in them,
and her share of the tumultuous concerted
piece at the end of Act 3, which puts a strain
on her fading top-notes, was bravely done>
Histrionically, the prima donna was ever
forceful, but rarely so young as in her sing-
ing of the familiar Willow song and in the
Ave Maria of the bedroom scene, where,
by the way, Othello expiated his crime by a
convincing suicide. It was as though the
Moor had married with a woman of tliree-
and-thirty, blondely camouflaged and pic-
turesquely gowned. Her first entrance was
strikingly artistic. The full chorus was
capital. The orchestra, conducted by Schia-
voni, played its long part with fine results,,
and the staging of the opera was a pleasure
to witness.
* * * #
> Gertrude Elliott’s imitation of a prima donna
in a tantrum is again available in “Enter
Madame,” at Melbourne King’s. The warmth
of the actress in her arguments with her
depressing stage husband is a change from
the cool saccharinity of Bluebeard’s Eighth
Wife, but the management considers that six
nights will be ample to satisfy public curio-
sity on the point. The extended farewell
that Forbes Robertson’s lady was originally
announced to make in Melbourne has visibly
shrunk in the advts., and her admirers can
expect only a week of “Woman to Woman”
followed by a few nights of “Smilin’
Through” after the present disturbance
closes.
Seymour Hicks and Ellaline Terriss are
still playing “Sleeping Partners” at Mel-
bourne Palace. Second impressions of the
witty trifle leave this paper sorry for the
exceeding weakness of the farcical finish. The
audience disperses in a critical mood. All
that is trivial is remembered against it, while
the figure of Scrooge in the first piece fades
out. If the double-bill were turned upside
down, Seymour Hicks would carry about
three times more weight in Melbourne's
estimation.
# sic $
“Little Nellie Kelly” carries on a Last
Weeks business at Melbourne Princess’s.
-fi * *
“The Cabaret Girl,” at Melbourne Royal
is in her comparatively first nights, and the
advt. continues to mention the name of the
titled lady who solemnly announced the stage
alias under which she intended to conceal
her identity. So it seems that a lady engaged
more or less on the strength of an aristo-
cratic name mustn’t expect a management
to let her hide. Lady Dash draws the salary
and Lady Dash-it-all figures on the bill.
Whatever other Melbourne theatres may
do on Good Friday the grand opera company
and orchestra at His Majesty’s will not per-
form an opera. They will keep the occasion
holy with a concert.
A sermon for captious parents is unrolled
in Booth Tarkington’s “Boy of Mine.” at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. The youth
who previously played the part of Penrod
is again the disturbing factor in a small
domestic storm. Shrieks rend the air when
a bit of the boiled lamb of Old England
knocks out a champion middleweight and
marries the prettiest girl on view. This
stadium romance is fully described in “The
Victor.” The Wild Cat editor is interested
in “Gold Diggers,” at the Majestic, wherein
millionaires are crushed bv chorus-girls and
the yield is something like 20cwt. to the
ton. The supporting picture, “Froggy’s
Little Brother." hus the punch of " L-rth-
sponge, but it will wring many a soft heart,
for all that. In the comic department of
the same programme Larry Semon tries to
disguise himself as an earthquake in “The
Midnight Cabaret.”
The Squadron in a picture-show:—
Charles Bryant appeals strongly to popular senti-
ment in his three paintings of the Hood and some
of her consorts now on view at Miss McLean’s studio,
Oollins-strect, but he doesn't score heavily in an
artistic sense. The two canvases depicting units of
the squadron tied up at Port Melbourne are little
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Carr Lynn, impersonator of animals and
insects.
more than sketches, and the large one, in which the
Hood and Repulse are shown entering Port Phillip
Heads, is merely a good draughtsman’s illustration
af a historical event. You know at once that the
great grey hulk with its squat smoke-stacks and pro-
truding artillery are more to the artist than the
clouds that are turning pink in the light of the
rising sun, and the little woolly waves that minuet,
as if to music, on the bit of seashore. The picture
shines by contrast with the other two, but it looks
cheap beside a delightful little landscape by W. Stur-
gess and Napier Waller’s glittering page from the
torrid history of Salome, which are standing near by.
If Miss McLean wants to concentrate attention on
Bryant’s work, she ought to hide the Sturgess and the
Waller.
* ••• *
What we all are, in the opinion of that
amiable and chirrupy noblem.'.n, Lord Gren-
ham, the house discovers as the curtain at
Sydney Criterion falls; and it is too rocked
with mirth to trouble a rap about the lurid-
ness of the expletive. The plot of “Aren’t
We All?” turns upon a young wife’s natural
resentment when she comes from abroad to
find her husband pressing a clingsome kiss
upon another lady’s lips; and he might be
unforgiven still but for the slow discovery
that the wife has herself been guilty in cir-
cumstances little more extenuating of a simi-
lar indiscretion. Dion Boucicault has never
been seen to more advantage, even in a
Pinero play, and Irene Vanbrugh seldom.
The former’s Lord Grenham is the last word
in easy, practised acting; the lady is a de-
lightfully alluring Lady Frinton. Janet
Eccles is a willowy and fascinating Margot
Tatham. and the Hon. W. Tntham. Lord
Grenham’s son, has a conscientious if rather
heavy exponent in Martin Walker. Ethel
Wellesley as Kitty Lake hasn’t much to do
except to be caught in the illicit kissing act,
but a special word of oraise is due to Lena
Ilalliday’s impersonation of the parson’s
wife, and Reginald Wykeham pleased the
house as the cleric who might have been a
bishop if he could only have humbugged
others as well as he humbugged himself. The
pDv is preceded by ,T. M. BarmVs “The
Will,” a one-act curtain-raiser wherein 30
years are supposed to elapse in 40 minutes
in a not very convincing-looking lawyer’s
office.
* * $ *
Once more “The Maid of the Mountains”
has descended upon Sydney—at Her
Majesty’s—with its brightness, its spirited
and haunting music and its tumultuous rush
of situations. On Saturday night Gladys
Moncrieff. in her old role of the adventurous
housekeeper to a murderous gang of hilltop
ruffians, got into high gear instantly, and
soon made it evident that the fickle bandit-
chief, Baldasarre, was her bird. She re-
leases a flow of sweet music and plays with
a vigor and a piquancy that grins. Claude
Flemmirg was an ideal but songle-'s Balda-
snrre. a blithesome philanderer; Bepno, the
bandit with operatic notions, was played by
Robert Chisholm and his silvery baritoue;
Arthur Stigant as the Gov. was amiably
idiotic, and his A.D.C., Leslie Holland, was
a sure laughmaker. Blake Adams does
well as Tonio, and will do better w r hen lie
knows better what to do with his face, riis
stage spouse, Clarice Ilardwicke, is a still-
improving little lady; and the rest ot a
long cast earned its oats.
At Sydney Royal “The Garden of Allah,"
a dramatised version of Robert Hichens s
story, reintroduces popular Muriel Starr to
an appreciative public in a gorgeous Afri-
can setting. The splendor of the scenery,
the dazzling variety of the costumes, tin-
levying on all the resources of art and
mechanism to bring the necessary atmo
sphere upon the stage are all on the lines
of Oscar Asche’s “producing" achievements, to
such an extent indeed that they tend to
obscure the play or to subordinate the dfa*
matic appeal to the spectacular. There is
Algiers, there is dawn creeping over the grim
Sahara, there are picturesque Arabs as de-
vout as they are rascally—walled streets
and lissome dancers, gardens and palms,
camels and asses and goats. There is sc un-
impressive acting, too. The leading lady
got a flattering reception. Her task was to
show, as Domini Enfilden, the stress that
can be put upon a feminine soul torn be
tween human love and something higher;
and she made both her charm and her drama-
tic force felt. Frank Harvey as Boris An-
drovskv, the escaped monk, who finds at
the last that he cannot escape from himself
and who goes back to a Trappist cell with
Domini’s crucifix around his neck, makes
a figure not to be soon forgotten. G. R.
Souper presents a hearty Count Auteom.
and Leslie Victor a kindly old Father
Roubler. Raymond Lawrence is a sprightly
Captain de Trevignac, John Fernside a comic
Arab of merit, and J. B. Atholwood a cap-
able “sand-diviner.” Rosamonde McMillan’s
French maid Suzanne is an attractive little
study.
Sydney Tivoli bill has slumped with the
departure of Julian Rose and Bert Coote.
Jay Laurier, an English comedian who
sings with his head, and Estelle Rose are
the pick of the newcomers, with Carr Lynn
and his animal noises the most entertaining
of the old inhabitants.
Wirths’ Circus has brought Easter to
Sydney again, and is supplying novelties
and thrills in the usual generous measure at
the Hippodrome. The juggling of the Car-
mella Duo is exceptionally good; a side-
splitting item is that by Ecocliago and his
comedy bull-fighters. And Prince Giuseppe
Bigonghi is a midget to be seen and remem
bered. Trapeze work, trick cycling, tight
wire walking and springboard acrobatics all
have skilful exponents. The brute creat.oa
contributing to the bill includes lions, er
pliants—with two ingratiatingly clever bat y
ones—seals and some dog-and-monkey odds
and ends.
* * * =:-■
Oscar Asche had all too short a season
at Adelaide Royal. The main result of it
was to increase his repute, if anything,
; though rather at the expense of his company,
“LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR." AT HIS
MAJESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
Toti Dal Monte as Lucia in the Mad scene.
Edmondo Grandini as Lord Enrico Ash-
ton. Dino Borgioli, as Sir Edgardo di
Ravenswood, wears a sporran without a
kilt and warbles a curse.
which is not brilliant. It is many years
since he had been seen in modern garments,
and his tailor-clad figure is astonishing; yet
in “Iris" he dominated the stage whenever he
was on it. The most interesting picture in
sight is at Wondergraph, which tries to show
that Hollywood is a perfectly respectable
place. At West's the screen is being rein-
forced bv Variety turns of merit; but most
patrons don’t seem to want the interruption.


■Y
• V'
.'X
L \
i2©H
S’"
vg
x '^Sl~^' W '" i ’ -v, /' —(~i^u^i/t-vtg^ag:;
'sV‘c» iQk>
&
>v*
I
*3£’sfcsr^SK
/ .■ /
Lv
yyaaei
"V
SJfp*. J^!
Us
--il
R
7}
faszg!2=z
&
w
mbss
■
£7/
SM
JPF-
&S
%
JU
&
x:
VS
xx
&
I
%
gS
X;
‘ '4
H !| lp V >■-
W J , .’" -? ~l_S
34*
I
(L
v, • 1 1 ,. ■
2. >' ilto , . x|j| .
5. *,i x* J 1
I *Jmi4\\
,\ :
Uf
K
m
m
m
! : !P
v •,
P- ", W'
c?
•7ff> f/X 1
ißinr ],|:
t%m ■;’ :
PS
fa
s±
m
&*
A OE
fe
D
P
«--;:*n
*>
r&
r x^>
:ij: -/
HAMPION RESERVE
•: PORT
m
*}
i
i BOTTLED BY THE MAKERS '
RtoMAS HARDY B. SONS LIMITED
3., .IDE MELBOURNE a. Sro N c^
-w «* m 9*
«*>#
* P anUTH AUSTRALIAN W| N e
6 FLUID 02S.
’■*M\\\\
BE
i
X
-y<t
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a
happy sun, the broad vine-
fields of Tintara smile and
gladden to a rich success. The
reputation of Hardy’s renowned
Tintara wines was, year after
year, built here. The dominating
factors of purity and excellence,
which have placed Hardy’s
Champion Reserve Wines (Gold
Label) on a plane of their own,
were created on the glowing fields
of Tintara. When you call for
Hardy’s Gold Label wines you are
asking for the best, and the price
is the same.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are proud
to specialise in high-grade wines.


Rid your
Home of Flies!
Flies and all insect
life are completely
destroyed by sprink-
ling a little Insecti-
bane round and about
the infected areas.
INSECTIBANE
Harmless to Human
Beings and Animals.
At all chemists and
stores.
ho/P
THE WHISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
mi
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
term. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only*
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co.. Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street.
Sydney. N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
TO
HORUCKS MALTED WbKC!
k Slough. Bucks.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe.
“0.K.”: Where the grand-opera venture
shows unexpected extravagance is in a super-
fluity of principals, some of whom are walk-
ing about most of the time. The “Butter-
fly” lady, Augusta Concato, has appeared
once a week only, at time of writing. Luigi
Ceresol, a pleasing baritone who sang Marcel
in “Bolieme” on two occasions, and was the
Consul in “Butterfly,” has not been over-
worked; a new French baritone, Alfred
Maguenat, took over the Marcel part in
“Boheme” for the third performance. And,
as I write, the Russian prince has never
sung at all. Furthermore, the lady for
“Carmen,” a Polish prim a donna named Aga
Lahoska, is to make her first appearance
three weeks after the opening of the season.
There are five leading sopranos and four
principal baritones, which is certainly good
measure. On the other hand, there are
only two tenors of the first importance
(happily they seem to have good durable
voices), and only one working contralto.
The contralto’s rather small voice has to
work overtime; last week she was required
to sing in two operas on the Saturday. Her
company needs at least one more contralto
to share the work with Carmen Tornari. Is
there no Australian girl available?
“Fax” : The tall and beauteous daughter of
the Seymour Hicks couple struck me at the
first night of “Scrooge” in Melbourne as
having more of father’s dash than mother’s
gentleness. It was said to be her debut or:
the public stage, yet when Hicks proudly
drew her to his side to participate in the
applause she gaily kissed her hand to the
amphitheatre. Perhaps the timid-violet pose
of girlhood is out of date. The emancipated
woman loves the light like a marigold or a
sunflower. To seem abashed is to deny the
superiority of her sex. Besides, grandfather
Terriss never knew timidity. Listen to what
Squire Bancroft said of him in the Ban-
crofts’ book of reminiscences :
On returning from the theatre to the first home we
occupied after our marriage, I had been constantly
told that “a young gentleman” had called and
seemed very persistent about seeing me. One day the
young gentleman pushed past the girl and walked
into our little drawing-room. I was at once disarmed
bv the frank manner of a handsome young fellow of
about 20, who pointed to a room in the opposite
villa and said it was the room he was born in. Of
course he was stage-struck, He had formerly been
in the Navy, but had acted a few times in a coun-
try theatre and was “resolved not to leave the
house” until I had “given him an engagement.”
His courage and cool, determined manner conquered
me and I did engage him. His name was William
Terriss After acting with us for two seasons he
suddenly asked to be released, saying he had made
an early marriage and wished to seek fortune in the
Falkland Islands. He returned, however, in a year
or two to England and the stage accompanied by a
beautiful babv named Ellaline, who has inherited
her father’s bright nature and gifts. It was at
the Lyceum that the undaunted courage of Terriss
showed itself while rehearsing the duel in The
Corsican Brothers” with his eminent manager, Henry
Irving. “Dcn't you think, governor,” he said, “that
a few rays from the moon might fall on me?
Nature, as least, is impartial.”
“Aldgate”: A new musical comedy, to be
produced at Adelaide Royal next month,_was
concocted by those old collaborators Dion
Titheradge and Kenneth Duffield, authors of
four or five London revues. Titheradge is
responsible for the book and lyrics, and
Duffield for the musical score. The piece is
called “Healo,” and will serve to introduce
Duffield’s lilting tunes to his fellow-citizens,
for he is a native of the Holy City—belongs,
in fact, to one of S. Australia’s oldest fami-
lies. With the experienced Edwin Brett
(engaged for the principal comedy part)
helping things along, “Healo” should be heard
of later in Sydney and Melbourne.
“Plasmon” : George Jean Nathan once re-
marked that, with a Russian vocabulary of
seven words, five referring to drinks, he got
on really well in Muscovy. One ,of the
Italian singers at Melbourne His Majesty s
has about as much knowledge of Austra-
lian speech, but already In l is beginning to
feel that he has dropped into a suburb ot
Heaven. His simple passport to happiness
is “Poco da vhisk,” which, being interpreted,
means “I don’t mind if I do.” The big
stage-manager of the co. has even less Eng-
lish, but he is performing wonders with his
chorus of Australian girls. With a large
dramatic gesture and the words “Lad-ees,
pleese,” he inspires them to extraordinary
efforts, and his part of the show is getting
a handsome share of the bouquets.
“Ca*sar’s Ghost”: The problem of the
stranded mummer has been mentioned by the
Actors’ Union to the Commonwealth Attor-
ney-General, but he had nothing to offer
except his sympathy. More helpful was a
Maoriland Government at a time when a
rush of shows from Australia was strewing
the M.L. towns with theatrical wrecks.
Then it was made compulsory for every co.
arriving in the country to deposit a sum suf-
ficient to pay the return fares of all its
members to the port where they had em-
barked. However, an actor-manager in the
melodramatic line discovered a way out.
THE TEST.
THEATRICAL MANAGER: “ What’s your line, anyhow ?”
MISS TOOTLES : “ Anything in the way of tragedy."
THEATRICAL MANAGER: “ Righto! Let’s see what you can do—
make me soh like a child."
The members of his troupe travelled to
Auckland as private persons, and the co.
was “formed” there. The American White
Rats managed better for a time by forbidding
their members to accept engagements with
any co. which didn’t put up the wherewithal
to return them to their home towns in the
event of disaster. But “snide” shows
evaded the ukase, and when bad times obliged
the hungry pro. to take any job he could
get, regardless of risks, it had to be with-
drawn. Still something might be done by
State Governments to prevent country towrns
having deserted heroines left on their door-
steps, so to speak.
“0.K.”: If Henry Russell achieves any
further notoriety he will have Carlyle
Srnythe offering him an engagement as lec-
turer. Carlyle probably has a sentimental
leaning towards the denouncer of musical-
comedy. Wheu young R. S. S. Smythe,
father of Carlyle, was starting management,
the very first celebrity he tried to tempt to
Australia was Russell, author of “Cheer,
Boys, Cheer,” and father of the Russell who
aroused the recent transitory rumpus.
“E.T.”: These reprehensibly well-made
plays, how they last! Pinero’s expert crafts-
manship, according to some critics, who
vociferously declare that the English drama-
tist has “nothing to say,” should have killed
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray” long ago. In
point of fact, the 31-year-old drama has
been the most successful of all the Irene
Vanbrugh-Dion Boucicault productions in
both Melbourne and Sydney. And Sardou
is once more exercising his spell over London
playgoers with his “machine-made” “Dora,”
otherwise known as “Diplomacy.” The
present revival is at the Adelphi, with
Gladys Cooper and Owen Nares as heroine
and hero. Irene Browne is the Countess
Zicka —a part she first played in Australia.
“Santander”: One of the difficulties inci-
dent to rehearsing an Australian chorus for
Italian opera is the conductor’s and stage-
manager’s ignorance of English. Interpre-
ters are employed, and the advice from the
heads is turned into polite Australian by a
man who has probably received the command
in less polite Tuscan. This leads to weari-
ness and delay. For instance, in getting the
female chorus ready for “Miadame Butterfly”
there was much instruction regarding the
way to wave a fan. Each request had to
be turned into English and taken down the
line of girls by an anxious creature who
appeared as if he were relating some awful
secret. The interpreters are manifestly
afraid of the splendid beings directing opera-
tions, who all belong to the nobility, I pre-
sume.
“Second Murderer”: I stayed at the same
pub in Western Queensland as a Sleeping
Beauty who was probably “Xamilc’s” Charle-
ville show-lady (B. 21/2/’24). She told
me her tribulations over a gin-and-ginger-
beer on the balcony after a trying day. It
seems her husband
was making a
welter of it. The
couple had two
tents back-to-back
on the showground,
with a private
means of communi-
cation, and the
lady had to play a
strenuous double.
As“Ma d a m e
Kismet” in one
tent she told florid
pasts, presents and
futures at half a
dollar a time (such
capers are licensed
in Queensland),
and v,»hen the
spruiker at the
other tent an-
nounced “H ouse
full!” Madame had
to shed her kimono
and duck behind
the curtains of her
cage there, where
she was “Miranda,
the S 1 e e pin.g
Beauty, who has
been Asleep for up-
wards of Three
Years.” When the
crowd had gazed
its bob’s worth,
the curtains would
be lowered and
Miranda would be
Madame aga i n
next door. “I’ve
’ad a 'ard day,”
she complained.
“Joe's on th’ pon-
gel o, an’ our
spruiker’s got an
illustrated sore
throat, an’ there
was me workin’
with on’y an ’am
sandwitch an’ a
bottler oh-my all
th’ damn day.”
She yawned like
the Jenolan Caves.
“I'm all in,” she said. “Th’ sleepin’ beauty
won’t 'ave no insornnear ter-night, t pro-
mise yer. Goo’ night!”
“Y.V.”: When W. S. Lyster brought his
“Royal Italian and English Opera Co.” to
Sydney Royal in November, 1880, the re-
pertoire consisted of “Carmen,” “Rigoletto,”
“Faust,” “Lucia di Lammermoor,” “Mari-
tana,” “Satanella,” “Martha,” “Crown Dia-
monds” (first time in Sydney), “The Lily
of Killarney,” “The Bohemian Girl,” “Fra
Diavolo,” “Der Freiscliutz,” “La Fille de
Madame Angot,” “Girofle-Girofla,” “The
Grand Duchess” and “Les Cloches de Corne-
ville” (also first time in Sydney). The lead-
ing sopranos tvere Rose Hersel and Elsa
May; the contraltos, Emily Lambert, Mrs.
Fox and Bessie Royal; the tenors, Armes
Beaumont and Howard Vernon; tlie bassos,
Edward Farley and C. H. Templeton; and
the conductors. Charles Van Ghele and Har-
court Lee. Subscribers for the season of
24 nights had to pay five guineas—
less than ss. a performance —and the
prices of admission were: Dress circle,
7s. 6d.; stalls, 35.; upper circle, 2s. ; pit.
Is. What a difference between then and
now! And those people could sing, too —
every one of them.
“Buz Fuz”: I wonder if Repertory audi-
ences are really more intelligent than ordi-
nary theatregoers. At Melbourne Playhouse
recently an audience composed of the high
lights of Art, Science and Society listened
almost unmoved to Galsworthy’s ironical
“Loyalties,” an overdrawn police-inspector
and a grocer coated thickly with Cockney
vulgarity alone moving them to polite merri-
ment. Some of the best lines were patently
intended to tickle the funny-bones of superiah
people, but so far as I could see —and I
took the trouble to watch my neighbors’ faces
for some evidence of mirth —most of the
dialogue went for naught. Apparently ihost
of the attendant highbrows felt that Gals-
worthy was on the side of the soldiers who
were holding that an attack on the fair
fame of a young captain was something akin
to lese-majeste.
“Bellerive” behind the footlights:—
I made my first appearance on the boards in
George Rignold’s production of “Henry the Fifth.”
The salary was but a trifle compared with the
present pay for supering, but a man could live for
a quarter of what it costs him now. Keeping in
touch with the leaders of the profession, I obtained
work at the principal theatres in those renowned
dramas, “Crimes of Paris,” “The World Against
Her,” “The Shadow of a Great City,” and “The
Term of His Natural Life”—my work was helping
to roll up and let down the scenery. Tiring of the
drama, 1 hawked brooms on sale or return, until
Bland Holt’s large and popular company showed at
Melbourne Royal in that celebrated military master-
piece entitled “One of the Best.” 1 was booked to
appear with the regular supers, but the super-master,
who had his special favorites, left me and a few
others out, although I showed him how to beat a
gamester with the trump card in his hand. I offered
my services to the property master, to handle props,
in lightning changes. He placed me, and I worked
with success in a number of thrilling productions,
the heaviest being “Within Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Placing and removing props, in lightning changes
taxes a man’s wits and activity, and once I e.v
perienced a hairbreadth escape, which shook my
limbs severely. From the Royal I went to the
old Princess’s, to follow the same occupation; anl
during a brief revival of Anderson's pantomime,
“Sinbad the Sailor,” I impersonated a monkey. My
last appearance on the stage was in “Sweet Nell of
Old Drury.”
“Thersites”: I beard a pair of lugubrious
comics do a Tivoli turn which was intended
to be humorous. They began with a poor
parody of “The Lost Chord” which jarred
horribly. Edward Solomon, who wrote about
20 more or less successful operas, produced
a hornpipe to a counter-melody of the same
composition. It brought this from Sir Arthur
Sullivan:—
“Dear Teddy,-—I wrote ‘The Lost Chord’ in sorrow
at my brother Fred’s death—don’t burlesque it.”
To sing a parody of the words is an even
greater offence to sentiment and propriety.
“Orb”: Cabled from England that an actor
at Manchester, in order to prove that the
public is unobservant, announced that he
had hidden a hundred-pound note in a cer-
tain street, and that it would be a case of
finding’s keepings. The note, the message
says, was found by a one-eyed man. I
think it likely. I can’t imagine anybody with
two eyes picking up the only sort of hun-
dred-pound note any actor would have to
spare.
“Nimshi” : “Fax's” remark (B. 27/3/’24>
that Muriel Starr once “cloyed the public
appetite for the type of heroine she special-
ised in” recalls that there was a similar
feeling about Olga Nethersole in America
some years ago. One Critic expressed it
in verse:—
I love little Olga,
Her plays are so warm;
And if I don’t see them
They’ll do me no harm.
There was certainly no lack of ardor about
Olga’s representation of a voluptuous type
of female, but she was equally enthusiastic
in depicting the more innocent emotions that
agitate the feminine breast —maternal love,
for instance. The almost vulpine howl which
she emitted at the climax of a scene in "The
Wife of Scarli,” in which her maternal feel-
ings were subjected to a severe strain, I
shall never forget.
“Norbell”: That pernicious custom of
starring (B. 3/4/’24) has always been the
bugbear of grand-opera entrepreneurs. Many
yarns have been spun of the temperamenta.
outpourings and jealousies of George Mus-
grove’s German singers. He told me that
one of his frauleins refused to sing one
night because her photo appeared in the
theatre programme on the second page, while
that of a despised rival adorned page 1.
Muzzy reversed them, and then the other
gretclien downed her top-notes. So the dis-
traught manager arranged to let them have
the front page on alternate nights, where-
upon they consented to carry on.
NOT A POPULAR SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Melbourne gaol is very unpopular with the in-
mates.” —Argus.
That there are gaols and gaols is true.
1 fancy one of Gothic style
Where Asche’s dramas are on view,
And Melba’s strains the hours oft wile.
Where there is neither grouch nor guile,
And billiard-rooms and bar-rooms are,
A prison need not be so vile —
But Melbourne gaol’s unpopular.
Its cells are neither clean nor new,
The crush-room carpet is not pile,
No gardens spread to please the few;
The inmate if beset with bile
Is not allowed to walk a mile,
But sits cooped up behind a bar.
No wonder these afflictions rile
And Melbourne gaol’s unpopular.
At ten we breakfast, lunch at two,
Then take a stroll in single file
Where gumtrees spread, and glimmering through
A river flows, where roofing tile
Burns crimson in the sun the while —-
Here is a gaol one may go far
To settle in; I’d love each aisle.
But Melbourne gaol’s unpopular.
Not till they build a finer pile,
Where no associations jar,
And serving barmaids smirk and smile,
Will Melbourne gaol be popular.
VICTORIA.
E. D.


A
A
C
r i
l
l>
-JF
t'f
'<f\
Yi
yYi
&
*V
to
I
✓4
23S
/
Cl
&
w
m,
J.
4.
•:
SfS
'A
w\
11“
(TA
•iiuu.
ir
lilTi
A
MU
III
1
DO
O
a>
I
V
iff
I**!
lift 1
i>i
? • *»n»
— .4
*
u
mK'
j«i| |j[.”
II
4
t
-n
m
rF
%
"7JT
yfc^
a
yiijw
$
mi
Ya
ii
tint
mi
m
....i
sg
mrnmmmmmxtmm.
w "!
HP I!
MR
.
I HH
■
1 mm
Bk‘
* ..
'
Hi
:
M&Sft
. H
Hgm
It >1
8B
■
11
v
■
v ■
5832 Amperes per one hour.
Sydney
THIS TUDOR BATTERY, comprising 314
cells and capable of delivering 5532
amperes for one hour, was supplied to
the Sydney Municipal Council in 1915 for
their Phillip Street sub-station. The Council
has now placed a further order with the Tudor
Accumulator Co., Ltd., for the supply of a
still larger battery, comprising 300 cells and
capable of delivering 6696 amperes for one
hour, to be installed in the Castlereagh Street
sub-station.
This is another of the many cases all
over the world where Tudor Accumulators
have been chosen on account of their proved
reliability.
Tudor House-Lighting Batteries, As supplied with Delco-Light plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney;
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne;
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide;
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Launceston;
are built on precisely the same principles as the largest and most important batteries as described above.
FOR RELIABILITY SPECIFY
TUDOR
AC CUMULATORS
The Tudor Accumulator Co. Ltd. (London), Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh St., Sydney


They Dominat
the Sporting Meld
/
IPORTf
LEATHER TO THE FOOT
RUBBER’TO THE GROUND
\
i
m
/£>-
Tennis
Cricket
Bowlf
Coif
Croquet
Hoi ida qi
NEXT time you buy Sports Shoes ask to be
shown Carubos. As soon as you take this
shoe in your hand you will realise that
here is the only REAL Sports Shoe.
It is properly lasted to fit like a leather Shoe, and
has a double sole of leather and rubber. It fits
the foot and grips the ground. And it can be
resoled like new when the time comes.
Carubo Shoes give to both men and women a firm footing
for the game—plus absolute comfort. Plain or Crepe
Rubber Soles. Get a pair!
All Good Shoe Stores Sell Them.
(Authorised by the Attorney-General of New South Wales.)
Spend a Shilling and Win
a Five Years’ Income
LAST DAYS
Closing April 25, 1924.
OF THE LIMBLESS AND MAIMED SOLDIERS
Great Austral Art Union
210 PRIZES valued in all at £4016
The BIG ART UNION with the BIG CAUSE.
Ist Prize, Studebaker
Car, specially fitted,
value £1250
2nd Prize, Australian
Six Car £6OO
3rd Prize, Dodge Bros.
Car £409
4th Prize, Foster Player
Piano, value £252
210 Prizes in all, valued at
£4016.
The Great Austral, organised by the Limbless Soldiers for the Limbless
Soldiers, is positively the biggest Art Union ever held. The amount in
prize's, viz., £4016, is a small fortune in itself. It is to be won; you
therefore have as good a chance as any other person to win prizes valued
from £1250 to £5. INVEST YOUR SHILLING NOW.
Tickets obtainable from all branches of N.S.W. Bookstalls, Newsagents,
Tobacconists, etc., or direct from the Secretary, 0. A. Drysdale, 9 Bligli
Street. Closes on April 25. Enclose a stamped and addressed envelope
for result slip. Result slips sent whenever required.
Winning numbers published in The Bulletin, May 15, 1924.
The Bulletin
§
0
CAPITAL
The Brand of Quality
in MILLING CUTTERS.
The steel from which these tools are manufactured is made
in our own works from “Capital” Brand High-Speed Steel
—the finest Sheffield make.
In the cutter section of our works care has been taken to
select machines of the latest design, so that we are able
to supply Milling Cutters and Reamers, etc., of the best
possible finish and finest degree of accuracy.
With “CAPITAL” Products we can assure the maximum
of capacity and durability, and thus offer our finished
tools with every confidence.
m
1
m
3K
“CAPITAL” High-
Speed Steel Milling
Cutters, Plain.
Plain Cutters witli
spiral teeth for Milling
Plat Surfaces.
Sizes in stock: —
Sin. diameter x Sin. width x
1 |in. hole.
Sin. diameter x 6in. width x
tin. hole.
2iin. diameter x 1-Jin. width
x lin. hole.
2in. diameter x lin. width x
4 Jin. hole.
“CAPITAL” High-Speed
Involute Cutters.
Capital High-Speed Involute Cutters
for Milling Gears. 8 sizes to each
pitch.
Pitches in Stock :—■
6,8, 9, 10, 12, 1C aad 20.
Pressure angle 14t °.
“CAPITAL” High-Speed Steel
Side and Face Milling Cutters.
Capital High-Speed Steel Side and
“CAPITAL” High-Speed Steel
End Mills.
Capital High-Speed Steel End .Mills,
with taper shanks and spiral teeth for
end and side cutting.
Sizes in Stock —B. & S. Shank.
fin, diameter
sin.
tin.
fin.
lin. „
If in. ~
No. a
No. 7
No. 9
shank
Morse T Shank,
lin. diameter No. 1 shank
;>/16in. ~ ~ ~
sin. ~
tin. „ ~
|in. ~ No. 2 ~
tin. ~ _ „ „
tin. ~ No. 3 „
l:iim ~ ~ ~
Send your inquiries and place your specifica-
tions immediately. Ask for Balfour s
Hints on Steel” —post free.
The £agle Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
NEWCASTLE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
HOBART
ALSO AT
319-381 Kent Street
.... ....... 342-318 Swanston St reet
Paul & (way. Ltd., Scott Street
7 John Reid & Nephews. 34-3(5 Charlotte Street
. Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
R. L. Milligan. 32a Arg.vle Street
FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.


SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and liillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
The Super
CIGARETTE
Fine Old
iSP
nia,
-in
2# for 2/-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N, Z. lr. & 51. A. CO., IiTD., Melbourne.
R&J.HILLL T ? LONDOfI.
The Bulletin
zMade by Experts.
<S!5> Pipes are shaped by skilled
artisans in London, from the
finest Briar root obtainable.
Thoroughly seasoned and matur-
ed, every pipe is faultless —sure
of appreciation by the most
critical smoker.
Note the very fine quality of
grain and excellent finish of these
" pipes with a pedigree." They
emphasise satisfaction to smokers
everywhere.
MOti
BP
n
Shape
No. 4159
Choose your shape now
Sold everywhere
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 7(35, G.P.O., Sydney.
An excellent practice Rifle
The Bulletin
The Target may
be fixed up any-
where in he
house or garden.
AS a means of obtaining reliable, accur-
ate, and yet inexpensive shooting prac-
tice there is nothing to beat the US A.
Air Rifle. It is sturdily constructed, and
shoots a small pellet with absolute accuracy.
It is a fine weapon for teaching a boy to
shoot and is guaranteed to give years of
thoroughly satisfactory service. Being
smokeless and practically noiseless it can be
used in the house with perfect safety. It
easily kills rabbits, etc.
Three models are supplied : No. 1, .177 in. bore
tlight pattern), Club Model, .177 in. bore {Heavy
pattern), and No. 2, .22 in. bore.
AIR RIFLE
Send P.C. for full particulars post free. Do it note.
D. Y. RENNIE,
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Limited, Erpland.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (near Ring Street),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
‘ Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
heights, 1 /
? iUC L KS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
1 Ol A uz ?l es > !/"• l’’ un » Magic and Mystery,
Coin« |/ glc Made Easy > 1/-. Tricks with
COACHING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professmnak Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
WTGS. RE ARDS, MASKS. Ac.
CATALOGUES FREE. l
» ♦
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents—Auril
Fools; Who Is Who;
lei on Parle Francis;
Who's to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
lOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM. 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5,
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide,.to the Stage ±/Q
Amusements.
§ VII N K y’S cal IS E tiiisaT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
CRITERION: AREN’T WE ALL?
ROYAL: THE GARDEN OF ALLAH.
G ItAND OPERA HOlTsis” SntNJSV.
7T Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.15.
HUGH J. WARD’S New Musical Farce Comedy
by DOROTHY BRUNTON and CHARLES
HESLOP, in
TONS OF MONEY.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
piCKABDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.!
■ » Lessees—-Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd. j
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
WSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
W*i\ T n bbos i, td. circus,
ww ZOO & HUGE ELEPHANT HERD.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
EVERY' EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES, WED., SAT. AND HOLIDAYS.
THIS Y r EAR SOMETHING EXTRA SPECIAL.
WORLD-FAMOUS ARTISTS.
Prices:—7/-, 6/-, 5/-, 8/'-, plus tax. Children, half-
price to all parts except Saturday Nights and Holiday
Nights.
QONSERVATORIUM HAUL. SYDNEY.
LEO, JAN AND MISCHEL
CHERNIAVSKY.
VIOLINIST, ’CELLIST & PIANIST—MAY 6, S & 30.
I C. WILLIAMSON LTI). MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS,
HIS MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CABARET GIRL.
I KINC ESS'S Til EAT HE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY OF RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen’s.
DAI, A C E TIIEAT It E, MELBOURNE.
Direc tion Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WA RD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
SLEEPING PARTNERS, preceded by
SCROOGE.
Plans at Glen’s.
ICING’S Til EAT It E, MELBOURNE.
MISS GERTRUDE ELLIOTT in
WOMAN TO WOMAN.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 ■ Also Si BAEV.
BEN ALEXANDER in
BOY OF MINE.
HERBERT RAWT.INSON in
THE VICTOR.
Prices as usual.
(y| AJES'I IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
WHERE THE NORTH BEGINS.
A WONDER PICTURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
' SCHUTE,
BELL&C Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
liegral Notices.
TO ETHEL MARGARET McCARTIN
late of Adelaide in the State of South
Australia.
AND TO
i DOUGLAS WHITE late of North Terrace
Adelaide in the said State.
i 1 TAKE NOTICE that a citation dated the
; 6th day of September 1923 has been issued
|in the Supreme Court of South Australia
! citing each of you to appear and answer the
Petition of PHILIP JAMES McCARTIN
of Curzon Street Camden in the State of
South Australia laborer praying for a dis-
solution of marriage.
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
and each of you are within twenty-one days
after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitors at the
Master’s Office Supreme Court House Vic-
toria Square Adelaide in the said State and
then to attend on appearance.
L.s.
(Sgd.) F. B. McBRYDE.
Deputy Master.
ARTHUR S. BLACKBURN,
Trustee Building,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
13 E Estate of EMMIE HEIDENREICH,
AAj Deceased.—WlLLlAM PIES LEY. a
brother of the above-named deceased, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee, Sydney,
New South Wales.
__ :
TN THE MATTER of the Will and Estate of JOHN
A CLEE late of Spray House Bellarine in the State
of Victoria Gentleman deceased.
The persons claiming to be next of kin according
to the Statutes for the distribution of intestate
estates of JOHN CLEE late of Spray House Bellarine
in the State of Victoria Gentleman who died on or
about the twenty-sixth day of January One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-three living at the time of
his death or to be the legal personal representatives
of such of the said next of kin as are now dead are to
send notice of their claims to the UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED of 333 Collins
Street Melbourne the administrator With the Will
annexed of the estate of the said deceased or in
default thereof they may be excluded from participa-
tion in the distribution of the said estate.
Dated this 4th day of April One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-four.
AITKEN, WALKER & STRACHAN,
115 William Street,
Melbourne,
Solicitors for the said Administrator.
Missing: Friends.
T 5 LlNCKHO. —lnformation is requested from ail
persons having knowledge of the whereabouts of
GEORGE PATRICK BLINCKHO son of George
Blinekho formerlv of Bacchus Marsh Victoria Farmer
deceased. Said George Patrick Blinekho left his
home at Bacchus Marsh about 1887 and has not been
heard of by his family since. He is now if living
oyer 50 years of age. If lie or anyone claiming on
his behalf communicates with the undersigned they
will hear something to their advantage.
DUGDALE, CREBER & SIMMONS,
Solicitors, 84 William Street, Melbourne.
IfIRNEST JENKINS, late of Griffith, New
J South Wales, is requested to communi-
cate with Mr. Balcliin, of 418 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne. Address required.
A DDRESS required of F. F. T. HAMIL-
TON, last heard from by letter re-
ceived in Assam, India, by his father,
Claude Hamilton, Lilliesleaf, Macedon, Vic-
toria.
PATRICK EGAN and CATHERINE EGAN also
-*• WILLIAM WILSON nephews and niece of the
late CATHERINE (or KATE) EGAN (late of 38
Raglan Street East St. Kilda) vvill hear of something
to their advantage bv communicating with the
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY of 113 Queen
Street Melbourne.
A School Song Wanted.
The Old Scotch Collegians’ Association
(Melbourne) offers
Prizes of £l5/15/- and £26/5/-
for a suitable School Song for the
Scotch College.
Full particulars obtainable from the
Hon. Secretary, Old Scotch Collegians’
Association, 59 William Street, Mel-
bourne.
ALL AL'STKALIANS visiting Louden
should read the Burns 11 Austualasian,
Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper coutaiuiug
mail aud cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Bitnisit Aurtiiai.asian Heading-room at the
Olliees, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
THE MARK OF .
A GOOD RAZOR
THE
PLUI
Aik any m&n you know who uses a PLUM—>
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather I"
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT !N
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6
Post Free.
CRAIG & A1TKEN, j
654 George Street, Sydney.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL
Tariff from 16/- per day.


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
1, HI
V /
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
317 Union Mouse, George Street, SYDNEY.
JPRITISH EVERY STITCH'I<
r
/
British
Every
Stitch.
Perfection of Sup-
port— with supreme
Flexibility.
CHOOSE your corset with
care and discrimination.
Style is all-important, but
comfort must not be forgotten.
C.B. CORSETS are made to fit
with that incomparable nicety
of detail and unequalled beauty
of line unattainable in many
cheaper imitations.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch.
are moderately priced. Obtain-
able of all the best drapery
establishments and stores at
prices from 6/11 to 63/- a pair.
Should you experience any
difficulty in obtaining the cor-
rect C.B. Model write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO., LTD.,
Macdonnell House, Pitt Si., Sydney,
17 9 -181 Flinders, Lane, Melbourne,
for name of nearest agent.
t&RITISH EVERY STITCH"^
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day s use. li is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hole! a tupture
firmly and comlortabiy under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
9 7 Qoeen Street,
■ ■
■j}. '•
%
OUR LATEST
THE
“WINDORAH”
PARK SADDLE
This is one of our latest styles in saddles, designed
to add to the comfort and pleasure of riding. In it
the usual skirt is dispensed with, and a combined
flap and skirt is used, sewn direct on to the seat.
This gives a narrower, non-chafing, comfortable
grip. The knee pads are the popular Queensland
shape, and the panel has leather sides and extended
facing a/ back. The saddle is high-grade throughout
in workmanship and material, and is fitted with
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
•C 1 4./C/ Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
oL X“t/ Station on N.S.W. Railways.
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS.
Kangaroo Leather Right Through—Full of Life.
THONGS 7ft. Bft. 9ft. HANDLES TO MATCH.
12 plait 19/6 22/6 24/6 16-plait, 16/6; 24-plait, 18/6.
16-plait 22/- 25/- 28/- If for 9ft. thongs prices
are 1/6 more.
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
Write for Catalogue and Canvas Rug Price lust.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
II II II II- ~TE
4
] QlUilMa—
UNDf
•CO-
sio
HiSlrfiiiil
V?',.
When the
laundry
%£sn€dUf
Have Every Garment
or Article marked with
lCASHScaE>NAMES
Thus preventing possible Loss or Exchange.
Truly Indispensable to every Home and Indi-
vidual CASH’S NAMES have more scope
than marking Ink--:Any Name is woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.J
A Few
Stiches
and
They’re On
DS Evans
Sold by
all Best
Drapers
Actual Size, Name Style No. 2.
Price : 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3[6
Write for Style Book to
HSVD T >8 T
PTY.
LTD.
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond, Melb.
Only the best of the big ripe grains are used
for making—
Australia’s finest porridge. A breakfast for four .people
costs only 3d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
Clifford Love & Co.. Ltd.
Sydney
Millions of Feet of Timber
IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD, AND
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF POUNDS
ARE SAVED EVERY YEAR BY
The Bulletin
WOOD PRESERVATIVE AND STAIN.
Soligmim is Death to White-ants and Borers.
Manufactured by
MAJOR & CO., W'B.,
London and Hull.
Stocked
All
Store
Aust. Rep.:
W. PLANT & CO.. LTD.,
220 Pitt Street. Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Oliver T.: But is it fair to build your
whole case on somebody’s guess that 10 times more
crimes are committed than come into the Children's
Courts?... .W.S.M.: That paddock has been grazed
too bare.... Coleman P.: To assume that the rabbit
pest is “as bad as ever” in spite of millions spent
on netting seems . very absurd... .Tadworth: You
go too far round to get there....J. Hearty: Can’t
rind the space.... Comet V.: But you forget that
the U.S.A. didn’t come into the war because Ger-
many over-ran France and threatened to over-run
England, it came in because its own toes were
very stupidly trodden 0n... .C.M.C.: Comb your
brains. You have ideas, but you get them hope-
lessly tangled.... Dibadib: Get down off those stilts.
What would your mate say if you talked to him
in that language ?.... Birre G.: There are men in
the office who think that that was the best black-
block yarn The B. ever printed... .W.J.M.: Thanks
for the information that the S.A. Country party is
composed of solicitors, publicans and hairdressers.
That accounts for its polling about 16,000 votes. .. .
Jacques: The umpire was wrong in giving the
batsman out. .. . P.R.A.: There is no marrow in
your bones... .Gertie C.: It flutters feebly....
S.A.H.: A miracle of bad rhymes and worse gram-
mar .... The Cynic: Heavy as a rain-soaked damper.
.. .. D.S.A.: It’s a cheerless sort of yarn that rambles
on to get to nothing. .. .L.L.S.: Not the goods
for ibis market.... Frank N.: Even four lines can
be too 10ng... .R.A. (Abbotsford): Doesn’t strike
us... .A.N.A.; Not nearly... .E.E. (New Farm) :
The verse has a lot of useless feet and only crude
ideas... .Arthur O.: Horrible verse in a horrible
fist.... J.0.F.; It gets lost on the way.... Percy
L. : Not up R.R.A.: That yarn was old and
bearded when Abraham was in the kindergarten....
Presto: A wooden slab.... James N.; There have
been worse first attempts... .B.C. (Balgowlah) :
Nicely done. You ought to find a market for it
elsewhere... .Mia: Not enough in them.... A Mad
Poet: There’s more madness tnan poetry, but not
enough of either to make a noise about... .L.8.F.:
Slight and as mechanical as a wheelbarrow. .. .F.J.F.:
Too sudden and incredible... .J.B. (Dalby) : The
verse is far too lumpy.... Dandelion: Doesn’t get
near... .Caesar: lit tu, Caesar !...,. A.W.T.: Pretty
rugged; and that kind of tiling was done to death a
while ag0.... Hope P.: Try to find something fresh
and real to say.... Admirer: Weak and ragged....
Frank M.: You say nothing about him....E.8.:
It would suit others better... .P.F.F.: Too much
melodrama for the small amount of c010r... .Eardu:
Misses... .H.F. (Cremorne) : Won’t d 0.... J.A.P.K,:
Ungrammatical remarks in bad verse. .. .Momba:;:
These domestic differences will happen:—
The fed-up husband threw his half-done chop
Into his wife’s lap, where it alighted flop.
She cried, “Richard, how could you be so rude?
A married man should not have manners so crude.”
He cried, “0 Mary, perhaps I am a dreadful boor,
But I would like to wipe the floor with my mother-
in-law.”
“O Dick," she cried, “how could you speak so of
mother,
For feelings of that kind it is your duty to smother.”
He frothed at the mouth, and stamped in a passion:
“I’ll not have you talk to me in that fashion.
There is no reason why she should poke her sticky
beak
Into my affairs, and rows and quarrels seek.
My God: I see no reason wny
I could not leave you, and from all my troubles fly.”
“O Richard Henry, how could you be so low
To give your wedded-wife such an awful blow—
To throw her on the world without a cent !
Surely you utter words that could not be meant.”
In awful rage he now took the carving-knife
And cut his throat, and ended his miserable life.
....Little B. B.; Very weak and as thin as the
shadow of yesterday’s I'epentance... . J.H.R.: Don’t
try the difficult sonnet until you have mastered
simpler' forms... .T.A.8.: It says all the old things
in the whiskered way.... Mary M.: Poor common-
place... .D.M.A.: Wobbles and bumps. .. .J.M.M.:
The worse for 24 hours. .. .1.F.M.: No yarn in if....
D.S. (Roseville): It starts well. See if you can’t
work it out better... .K.S.S.: Bad... . D.D.R.: Not
well enough tailored.... Lucy R.: We don’t reprint:
and, anyhow, that is only commonplace... .A.A.A.:
Get something to write about.... Daisy A.: If you
want to know what we want, read the paper;
and then send us something better.... Oliver B.:
Your quiet realism makes us envious :
Ah! hear them coming from far and wide,
One looks, and wender ;
Horses and traps, motors side by side,
Come rolling along like thunder.
It’s “Hullo, hullo, Sam, Hullo, hullo.”
As entering the Hall
Everybody seems to be let go
As to the sound of bugle call.
Then the signal given. “Silence!”
The chairman yelled out.
“Now we are to commence,
Charge your glasses with beer and stout.”
Clink, clink, the toast: “The King.”
To see these old battlers, the Pioneers!
They stood, made that hall ring,
Which will be remembered for years.
...Louis S.: Doesn’t strike u5....8.W. (Kensing-
ton): Both fail for the old reasons... .J.A.R.: The
job isn’t well enough done. .. .H.E.E.: Not enough
interest.... Chicot: No mirth in it....F.M. (Mt.
Gambier) ; Nothing in the yarn.... Eunice T.: Does
not get near enough even to coo-ee.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.: Your 4729th attempt is as bad as the res*.
. ...8.H.: Feeble gag appropriately illustrated.. .
M. : What amazing hands grow over your way!....
A.T.W.: Sketches ought to be drawn, much larger to
allow for reduction.... J.R.; Misses'. .. .M.K.: That
was the first kerosene joke incubated... .S.D.: The
worst of the week... .Ned: Nowhere near it... .R.K.:
Where did you get that hat?... .C.F.: Very poor
beginning.... Andrews: Black masses too often cover
a multitude of artistic sins... .D.T.: Some promise, but
style too stiff... .T.H.: Still far from home... .G.C.:
Very amateurish... .L.P.: The same faults repeated;
and have you only one profile in stock ?.... R.H.:
Even Britannia couldn’t rule waves like that.
“Pip Tok”: Regarding those weird army
orders. This one was promulgated during
the dying days of 1923: “All spurs on issue
to Citizen Force personnel must have the
rowel points blunted before being worn
mounted. This is to be carried out regi-
mentally, and with no cost to the Depart-
ment.” Peace hath her victories no less
renowned than war.


I cant strop a razor
I
AN INVITATION
WET US DEMONSTRATE
TO YOU HOW THE
VALET
AUTO STROP RAZOR
SHARPENS ITS OWN
BLADES
- r ~9\
• i_i rzrurrr'ircr 1 4
1 wonder
AN INVITATION
LET US DE
TO YOU,
VA
AUTO ST
SHARPE
BL/
STRATE
THE
V^\
zuu
if-
TION
STRATE
THE
ZOR
--WN
XT'
n>
jhere ——’
The Vale-
t itself!
50 shaves Ibladel!
Sounds too good to
<9
I wonder
V'
n
I know— ?
ECAUSE it strops itself it saves expense for new blades,
its blades are always super-sharp they give always a
shave. And because it is both stropped and cleaned
Because
velvety
without
removing the blade or unscrewing a
single part, it represents the simplest
and quickest method of shaving ever
invented. Quite different from
every other kind of safety razor.
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON d■ COMPANY, LTD., -
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
The Standard Set
(No. 1)
consists of heavily silver-plated, self-
stropping “Valet” Auto-Strop Razor,
12 finest “Valet” Blades and genuine
“Valet” Strop, complete in durable
case, lined velvet and satin.
British Made Throughout,
25/-
Model “C” Set,
in Case, with three Blades and Strop
complete. Price,
7/6
Of all high-class dealers.
Ask for a demonstration.
;i
m
$
\S
til
LOOK for the famous “Listen-
ing Dog 1 rade-mark on
the Instrument and every
Record you buy. It i s your
guarantee of peerless quality—*
the symbol of supremacy.
His Master’s Voice
There’s no place like home
when home is enriched by the music of
“His
Master’s
Voice”
THE music of this supreme Instrument is
always a source of perfect enter-
tainment.
It can be compared only to having all the
world s greatest stars perpetually in your
home, without trouble, without taking up
space.
For on His Master’s Voice’’ you hear the
most celebrated opera stars, the most charm-
ing vocalists, the most brilliant instrumental-
ists and orchestras in all the beauty of their
original renditions.
His Master s Voice” Instruments range in
price from 1 1 guineas to £94.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and
name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.


I
Weight
and
Quality
That is certainly a factor in the
sale of all classes of stock.. But
good work in selling at the
yards, like good feed and good
blood, is also a decided influence.
For top values —
Consign Cattle, Sheep and Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Eiioggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. A J. DICK, LTD.
The “BARRY” Patent Steel Split Pulley
is the lightest and strongest metal
pulley made. Its tubular construction
preserves the exact shape of the pulley
and ensures perfect running under
heavy loads. Being electrically welded
there are no screws or rivets to work
loose or shear under strain.
We carry large stocks of “BARBS'” Steel
Split Pulleys in all sizes, and tgn quote for
your requirements at the most favorable
prices for prompt delivery.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART i>< Collins Street
Makes old razors
shave like new
£
A sharp razor is. its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself,
1 yet how to keep it
sharp, with tough
beards, has always been
the great obstacle, for
the average man does
not know how to set or
sharpen a razor. The simple
yet expedient PERFORATUM
HONE solves the question per-
manently ; it provides a life-
time of easy shaving for a
•small outlav—only 5/-, or post
free 5/6. TRY THE PER-
FORATED HONE: if it does
not make your razor shave to your
satisfaction return it to us within 30
days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5,0, front
THE PERFORATED HONE C 0. f
Dept. 11—1 Bridge Street, Sydney.
3]
The Bulletin
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS »nd CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
pieknieking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Sectnd St., Cineiansti, 0., U S.A.
Icv-Hot Food Jar
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
£
w.
wmn
I
mir
sfSr
ARGA
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
IISISTIRM
fRADE lUH
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
11
II i «5S2s? «saa*»&
is.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
B
BB
OWN
MAKE
BEST BRITISH BRIARS
The Bulletin
1
Made from the Finest Old Root Bruyere, Hand Cut.
Mouthpieces of Extra Fine Vulcanite.
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS TOBACCO STORES.
Inquiries invited to Box 171 G.P.0., Sydney.
lA\/ A
JAVA.,
THE LAND OF
ETERNAL SUMMER.
Copies of this useful publication, also full information, are obtainable
on application at :
Sydney Head Office, 44 Pitt Street, |
Melbourne .. . John Sanderson & Co., Agents, .
Brisbane; .... "Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Agents, j
Royal Packet
Navigation
Company.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
W eeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
v :
mm
W-
sßm
Return tare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Splendid 0000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” ' aiid
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comto
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Messrs. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mag” : A letter was recently posted at
Port Lincoln (S.A.), bearing the following
address in an Oriental hand: ‘ Hasan All
Sahib, S.S. Kathlamba, Back Line Co.,
Bridgebone. A discerning official wrote
“Try Brisbane” across the envelope, and
struck the target first shot. The "Backline
Oo.” was the Bucknall Co.
* * * *
“Fitz”: There have been much higher
maize yields on the Manning in competi-
tion trials than “S. Byder’s” 80 bushels ti-
the acre (B. 13/3/’24). In 1020-21, in the
competition organised by the Manning
River Agricultural Society, the winning re-
cord —subsequently verified by the Agricul-
tural Department’s resident officer—was that
of It. Dyball, jun., on the Taree estate. His
crop for the season was 179 bushels to the
acre (dry), and 190 bushels when picked.
Last year’s competition showed a crop of
161 bushels produced on the Manning.
* -* * *
"Gouger” goes paspalum-picking:—
Now is the hurry-up season (tour or five weeks)
tor picking paspalum seed. There’s money in the
game while it lasts, given favorable conditions. Aou
may pick for the cocky either on the halves, or for
so much per pound. If the former, you either sell
your take to the dealers straight out or hold it for
a rise. The price of picking per lb. is generally 3d. ;
a good man going to work on a good crop will pick
1001 b. a day; “ringers” have been knnvn to do
130. A few days later, a second picking is ready,
but this time 801 b. will be good work, and for the
third and last picking 401 b. The holding of the seed
for a rise is the attractive part of the business. At
present seed is 6d. per lb. In November, when the
new ground is cleared and ready for planting, it
may he from Is. 6d. to 2s. 3d. Often there is a
catch in it for the buyer. In many parts paspalum
grass is reaped for conversion into fodder when
the seed is only half ripe. Some cookies mix three
hags of this reaped seed with one bag of the hand-
picked stuff, the result being that only about a
quarter of the seed comes up. The purchaser may-
pay anything from 6d. to Is. per lb. for finding this
out.
Some of the figures in the Federal "Quar-
terly Summary of Australian Statistics” have
dust on them these days. For instance,
the lately-issued number marked "December,
1923,” only carries the N.S.W. sheep, cattle,
horse, pig, butter, cbe'ese and bacon figures
to 1921, and no State revenue figures have
got past June, 1922. But the gold returns
are interesting even if dusty. In 1903 Aus-
tralia led the world in gold production. It
doesn’t now. The latest all-round _ figures
are those of 1921, though Australia’s have
become much worse since :
1903. 1921.
Australia . . . . £16,302,900 £4,018,000
United States . . . . 15,122,000 12,519,000
Transvaal . . . . 12,628,000 43,096,000
Canada.. .. .. 3,877,000 4,911,000
Mexico .. .. .. 2,197,00 0 3,626,000
The belated figures for 1922 show Australia
down to £3,545,000, and those for 1923 are
expected to reveal a further decline. One
possible reason is that no new territory has
been made available since 1903. The great
mineral fields in Middle and North-West
Australia are still dependent on camel tran-
sit, because the struggle to divert the North-
South railway into poor, low-lying country
further east seems to be endless.
“T.0.1.’5” genealogical note :
In a recent Bulletin mention was made of
“Howey’s Coiner,” Collins and Swanston streets,
Melbourne. The original Howey was Henry, who
came to Australia in Governor Darling’s time and
settled at Goulburn, marrying a daughter of Captain
William -Miuchin, of the N, S, Wales Regiment, and
taking up his residence at, Minchinbury, of vineyard
celebrity nowadays. After Batman had... qpehed
up Port Phillip and the town of Melbourne had
been surveyed, Henry Howey took up land at the
Gisborne of to-day, attended the first land sale in
June, 1839, and purchased four half-acre lots, .includ-
ing what became Howey’s Comer, for £l4O. He then
returned to Sydney, and presently started with his
family for Port Phillip in the Sarah. She went
down with all hands. John Werge Howey suc-
ceeded to the Coll ins-street property, and settled in
Melbourne; in the early ’sixties, however, he went
to England and bought a property, at Coleshill, in
Herefordshire, where he died iiv 1870, childless, in
course of time the son of his youngest brother,
Major John Edward Werge Howey, succeeded to the
estate. The Major and his son, J. E. P. Howey,
visited Melbourne in 1912. A portion (£40,000
worth) of the Collins-street frontage had been sold
to pay death dues in 1870. The remainder the
visitors were anxious to dispose of, because of the
heavy absentee tax; but were induced not to sell
on the open market, giving, instead, each of the
tenants the option of purchase.
DONE THEIR DASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The cable trains have outlived tlieir capacity.’
Chairman of Melbourne Tramways Hoard.
When 1 was young mil up-to-date
These trams were lair and gay,
The boast of city and of State
On lips long passed away.
I’ve helped with measured shove and slow
To push the wheels along;
But that was forty years ago
. When 1 was young and strong.
The memories of early springs
Still haunt me in the cars;
They are to me as changeless things,
Like sun and moon and stars;
And still with homage in my breast
I pass along the lines
And feel the seats on which 1 rest
Are sweet and hallowed shrines.
Ah, on those seats my soul lias dreamed
Deep iu the quiet night
In those far days when nothing seemed
Too heavy or too light!
And when the first brave cable broke
I went per boot afar,
And cheered my spirit with a joke
Told in a wayside bar.
Long since the horse-drawn 'buses went,
The horse-drawn cabs decay;
All things endeared by sentiment
Must slowly pass away.
Time flies! And in the fret and jar
I soothe my heart with rhyme—
The poor old crawling cable-car
Could not keep pace with Time.
VICTORIA.
E. F.


Kelvinator
COLDER THAN ICE
PAYS
FOR
ITSELF.
■ m
■■ mm i
mam
r—l
in ■ >.tmm
en 3
rrrrrrrrn
‘''777*77777.
t
BWUM
CHEAPER
THAN
ICE
FITS YOUR PRESENT ICE CHEST.
Eight Sizes—6 to 80 cub. ft.
Automatically Produces Colder Conditions than
Possible with Ice at a Lower Cost.
Improves Living Conditions —Saves Money
CITY HOMES.—By its hygienic conditions,
safeguarding health, prevention of
food waste, greater convenience.
COUNTRY HOMES.—Safeguards health,
preserves meat, milk, vegetables, fruit,
etc., indefinitely, provides cold comfort
in hot weather.
CONFECTIONERS, SODA FOUNTAINS,
etc. —Preserves chocolate and other con-
fectionery in dry, cold conditions, thus
bringing more business. Provides cold
for Soda Fountains, prevents ice cream
waste by keeping in frozen condition.
HOTELS, CAFES, CLUBS, etc. — Provides
cold for aerated waters and other
drinks. Prevents food waste, allows
larger and more economical purchases
of foodstuffs. Provides ice for table use.
HOSPITALS.—Provides constant supply of
ice for fever patients. Keeps food under
hygienic conditions; cools water, pre-
serves serums, blood-tests, etc., indefi-
nitely.
YAC H T S AND BOAT S.—Provides a
Refrigerating service in a small space
unobtainable by any other means.
ESTABLISHED 1914.
MANY THOUSANDS IN DAILY USE
,V • \
Write us for particulars of this Cold-producing service.
AGENTS:
N.S.W. . . . . HOSKINS & HOSKINS, 168-170 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA DUE & LE QUESNE, 527 Qollins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. . PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA... GILBERTS, LTD., 47 King Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, LTD., 529 Queen St., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND ALLIED ENGINEERING (N.Z.) LTD., 31 Shortland Street, Auckland.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., 163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


WcOHTf*lTs’*a ounces. 1
COUGH
Coughs.ColQS
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUCH
hoarseness.
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
AND QThIB AMKIiONS O' Ini
THROAT and LUNGS
f
SvSure,
Wonderful
FOR
Dry Batteries
' they last longer
Best for bells, buzzers, gas
engine ignition, radio and all
general purposes. More power,
better service for a long, long
time.
Obtainable everywh ere
at little cost.
"•NrriON A>*S D
ALL
tfittaAlPUßfO** 5
m
m
BATJERY
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42 d Street
New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
DOM.
&
*!&*■
Yes
Sir!
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. ; 1V . H. liar , ’
A. ('. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. • BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 84 Branches in Queensland , also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
BRITISH EMPIRE, EXHIBITION, 1924-
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept,),
Ui VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address— “Smadaburo,” London), who will arrange:—
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses,
Furnished Flats, etc.,
Trips to Battlefields,
LONDON WILL BE FULL.
Continental and Provincial Tours,
Motor-car Hire —Sightseeing—Passports,
WRITE OR CABLE NOW.
UNFAILING in the treat-
ment of All Chest Com-
plaints.
Unsurpassed as a general
restorative after serious Ill-
ness.
A food, tonic, and healer in one.
Recommended by Doctors
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Made by
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne.
The Bulletin
THEY COME AS A BOON 8 A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
IF WE HAD BIG SHOP-RENT TO PAY
we could not possibly sell Watches at these prices. The fact that we
import DIRECT, haVe no shop-rent to pay and no heavy overhead
expenses to pass on enables us to sell at these extremely low rates,
and thus save you at least 4/- in the pound oft' Shop Prices.
A written guarantee is given with each watch, also an undertaking
in writing that we will, refund your money in full if you are not
satisfied or can buy cheaper elsewhere.
D.S.J.
Lever
£2
/
S'
r
The Bulletin
SILVER,
£2.
9ct. GOLD,
£4.
Gent.’s Oct. Gold Luminous Wristlet
Lever Watch, jewelled in 15 holes, com-
plete with strap, and guaranteed for
3 years, £4, In Sterling Silver, £2.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
IT IS
POST FREE.
This Extra Special Quality Watch
in solid nickel or gunmetal. The
movement is something- special :
it is jewelled in 15 holes, has
genuine split compensation screw,
poised balance wheel, spiral bre-
quet hair-spring, all wheels and
pinions highly polished and cut,
damascened plates, and stem set;
undoubtedly the highest-grade
watch on the market; will keep
time within three seconds per
month. We guarantee these
watches for three years, but they
will last a lifetime. We are sell-
ing them at the low price, of £2.
for a Oct. Gold
Signet Ring.
In 15ct. Gold,
16/-
Engraving free.
£5/10/-
This 9ct. Gold 15-jewelled luminous
Lever, with wide strap, £5/10/-
Guaranteed for 5 years. In Ster-
ling Silver, £2/10/-
THE
Direct Supply Jewellery Co.
Take Wft ‘ftnd*'Floor''lrM.NGToT’CUMßEßS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“Jackeroo”; Bananaland's Government
has wisely decided that there will be no open
season this year for ’possums and • bears; in
11)22 over a million ’possum skins were sold
in Brisbane; in 1928 the number rose to
1,200,000. In addition thousands of babies
must have been killed, albeit their coats are
valueless.
“Chris”: Tom Rogers, of Palmerston
North (M.L.), was the first European child
born at Port Nicholson (Wellington). 1 hat
was 84 years ago, yet he only recently had
his 21st birthday, the date being 1 eb. -J.
Incidentally the paternal relation to him
seems to have been fraught with tragedy
his father was drowned in Wellington har-
bor, and his stepfather was murdered by the
Maoris in the mid ’forties.
“Yarrum”: The fact of apprentices not
having been taken on for years is not the
sole reason of the dearth of tradesmen. Last
month two bricklayers in our street joined
the police; one of them lias, since told me
that the force is full of artisans,_ and that
they are joining up every week. “You see, ’,
he explained, “the Johns are paid trades*-
men’s wages, and in addition they can look
forward to pensions and get annual leave
on full pay. Gimme the police every time.’
1 can count up six policemen among my
acquaintances. No less than five of them
are tradesmen.
“Gallo Face” (Colombo) : Of late years so
many Australian girls have taken the round
trip to this island during our cool-weather
season that it has become quite a fashion-
able Australian resort; and so many of the
girls return home engaged that there is quite
a large Australian colony here now. The
lady argonauts are naturally not universally
popular;! for instance, they are derisively
referred to as “the Australian fishing fleet”
by the local spinsters. They certainly have
been highly successful in gaffing rich planters
and merchants; and a few public-service
heads have also been landed.
“Wilfrido” : The old 700-ton Discovery has
been bought by the Colonial Office on behalf
of the Government of the Falkland Islands.
For some years she has been run as a whaler
by an American trading firm which pur-
chased her after Scott landed back from the
Antarctic in 1904. The ship is to be em-
ployed in investigating the whaling industry
of South Georgia and the South Shetland
Islands; sbe is to carry experts to obtain
the fullest data possible about the migratory
and reproductive habits of the whale, on
which much remains to be written. Captain
Stenhouse, who piloted the Aurora for
Shackleton, is to take command.
“Wessel” : In a letter written in 1824 re-
ferring to the proposal for a settlement in
Northern Australia, John Barrow, sec. to
the British Admiralty, anticipated by just
a century some of the Singapore-base contro-
versy and the recent suggestions about Port
Darwin. After urging that they should not
hesitate a moment in founding a settlement
in the north of Australia, he wrote: —
I do hope, however, that whatever establishments
may be founded in New Holland, they will not be
considered as superseding, in the most distant manner,
the port of Singapore, which in the few years it
has been established has risen like enchantment and
become the most important station wfe possess in
the Eastern Archipelago, and which, in the hands
of the Dutch, would not only cripple any new settle-
ment on New Holland, by intercepting the China
trade with the Malays, but would enable the Dutch
to prohibit our navigation of the Straits of Malacca.
“Sol. M.” knows worse jobs:—
Though two of Uncle Sam’s Presidents have killed
themselves lately, the job is really an easy one if
a fat and contented incumbent likes to make it
so. He doesn’t maintain a court. He never goes
to war; in fact, it isn’t known that one was ever
under fire. He never has a Cabinet crisis or a
dissolution, for the Constitution doesn’t provide for
such things. If he comes to dislike Minister Smith,
who is his own appointee, he tells him to go. li
Smith lingers and argues, Smith can be carried out.
Then the Chief Magistrate isn’t harassed by conflict-
ing claims for promotion to the peerage. He hasn’t
to struggle for the preservation of the dynasty, and
find scalawag royalties to marry his sons and daugh-
ters. And, though speech-making is an incurable
habit with some Presidents, it is optional. Some wise
old stagers like Lincoln, Grant and McKinley stayed
at home during Presidential campaigns, delivered
speeches to friendly meagre audiences, and merely
saw that every paper in the country got copies.
They all won, while their opponents, who had per-
spired over the whole land, lost badly, and two cf
them promptly died.
Squadron-leader Maclaren, the flying-man
who has essayed to wing it round the world,
is known to many Diggers. He was with
the Tommy flying units in Palestine in 1916,
where he was responsible for perhaps the
most successful offensive ever launched
against enemy air organisations in that zone.
Information had been received that the enemy
was preparing for a big bombing performance
near El Arisli, and Maclaren and his birds
were ordered to nip the thing in the bud. He
gathered his squadron and set sail, he a little
in advance of his mates. In front of the
enemy hangars stood several machines, evi-
dently ready to take off at a moment’s notice.
Maclaren made for the biggest and, diving
to within almost speaking distance of it,
released an egg. The subsequent explosion
not only blew the Hun machine out of recog-
nition, but so shook up the assailant’s ’plane
that he was forced to return to H.Q. for
repairs. The enemy raid was postponed
indefinitely.
The trade-union as employer:—
Gilbert Sinclair, secretary of the Sydney Boiler-
makers’ Union, whose assertions about the rotten
state of ships travelling on the Australian coast
made the hair of the Commonwealth Navigation
Committee stand on end, once lost his job over a
matter of sixpence. The union rule provided
that only paid-up members were entitled to vote or
strnd for office. Sinclair was sixpence short of his
fees, which, although secretary, he still had to pay.
It was a pure inadvertence, but a hostile clique
claimed that his nomination was informal, as, techni-
cally, it was. So Sinclair had to stand down until
another opportunity for an election occurred. How-
ever, he was more fortunate than some other men
who helped Labor forward ; he got his job back. Of
recent years many unions have abolished the ol 1
unfair system of compelling their secretaries to stand
for election each year, when a meeting packed for
the occasion by office-hungry plotters might rob a
poor devil of his job. The secretary is now elected
by full ballot of members. But it is still possible
for a handful of out-and-outers to commit a union
to Communism, although the in:‘rt majority that
stay away from the organisation’s meetings believe
as much in the Bolshevist gospel as they do in the
religion of Tut.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
via
SAMOA - - HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
QUICKEST
OF
ANY
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons— —17 Knots—Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
on, 2282 63 Pitt St, ' ect ' Sydney.
T H ?. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via J3YRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, *7 p.m
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. •
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m'.
through Fare, Including:—
ar ! d First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Mloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
°FFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
“SEBB S 5: “• c - ™S
Banking, Public Companies. *c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Author ised Capital , # u £9 non non
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1570’-^65
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. . £14’148'754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman;’ Frank
N. Yarwood, h .C.P.A.; Georub F. Todjian •
J >o Slt S IJ*D° N: IL U ‘ Lvsaoht ‘ o b -E. ; George
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
u/«e/ Inspector for A.S. IT • W r; iinu
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY GeoVand King
n . , Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
r ,. . . BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
tine/ Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet
ADELAIDE (35 Rundie Street)
1 Manager: R. T. Moo mi:.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn
a thro ,’’” ho " t , Australia, Tasmania and New
and at all the Chief Cities of the World
_ i y description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares ..
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,500,000
3,000,000
2,246,957
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
other places.
receives deposits
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
*«*»» Office: St. George’s Terrace
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
105 Pitt Street.
£2,000,000
875,000
•• £875,000
720,000
Sydney Office
Authorised Capital .
Subscribed Capital .
laid up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,595,000
875,000
£2^470,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Tnx" r? Branches and Agencies in that State ’
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET E C
thf^ld 311 AuStrali;l11 States and throughout
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad coUected
remitted ‘ AU usual inking business
Established
J849.
„ Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
Mutiwff a " d , Most Successful
Di^l 1 L,te Uttlce m thc Empire,
•'istubutes a Cash Bonus Every Year
VieP iVno- ,J 1 '1 » >“to' 1 for single year 1923 £2 103 ->->o
SL!r:r Ack,itions 10
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income .
£3,500,000
£ 53.000,000
£7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager
Shipping,
Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
VI A Kll > A P S A . r i NTER EXCURSIONS to HONOLULU by
MAKURA, sth JUNE; NIAGARA, 3rd JULY; MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA. (18,000 tons disp.) MAY 8
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) JUNE 5
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ran be seen on the jo ( urney across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,600 tons disp.) APRIL 24
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) MAY 22
I* or illustrated pamphlets regarding tLc above services apply—
r-vT STEAM SHIP (JC.. UNION HOUSE 247 GEORGE STREET
LMON SI'EAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
ISLAND TOURS
nm
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of li to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BUKXS, I’HILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices
O-TOymST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES')
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN)
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JA\ A (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
as
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
EstabliMhed 1817,
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
_ l lfiiSi viffe&Sff
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£15,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
tranc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Chailes Bin me, Esq.
. .. i James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General
Head Office—-George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread F?. E s‘
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand Fiii ptnnl® St H ee f* ®- c -
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. a ’ tin, Papua and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World’
Foreign Bills
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
- £3,427,662 10 0
- 2,580,000 0 0
- 3,500,000 0 0
TOTAL- . . £9,507,662 10 6
jq ? /'cc i orB *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E.KATER AT T, r m ■
THOMAS HUGHES. M.L.O. • ’
HoTs* THOM A S HtJGHES, M:ITU. ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager •H H MASSTE
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector- T T> nPYurnw
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C 3 LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland
Agencies throughout Australia Zealand, and all other parts of
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
for Melbourne:, Adelaide and fremantle
(.transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
ictorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
a,lti North-West Ports).
Brisbane, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parkei Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMICIIS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand pjarts and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 24 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 409 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.’’
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
' Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., .Ltd.,
and I'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
lilaclilieath Collieries, ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOlt
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S.N. Co
'Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line," San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Mari times Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


The Bulletin
Companion to
WAHL PEN
DO NOT BE
MISLED BY
CLUMSY
AND CHEAP
IMITATIONS
LOOK FOR
THE NAME
ON THE
PENCIL
EVERSHARP is highly ornamental, to be sure,
but your greatest pleasure in possessing one
is that it is always sharp and ready to use. Made
in several sizes, styles and metals—each with a
renewable eraser under its cap—Eversharp offers
a wide range of selection.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO ARE & CHARTRES, Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool Street, Sydney
IR
m
i
*3
FOODS
PURE
a
/T7
m
N5
MOTHERS
may find it difficult
to get food that is both nourishing and easy for the
young digestive organs to assimilate readily.
REX HAM PATE
Just try it
in the
lunches
of all the
family, and
get their
opinions
as a sandwich spread meets all such require- j
ments. Active children like it, and eat their |
lunches with avidity when other sandwich '
spreads fail to tempt them.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made of Rex Ham cook-
ed in a manner to retain the savoury
flavours. It is prepared in an easy to spread
consistency— the appetizing flavour being
the secret of the Country famed Rex
Chefs.
You could not possibly get a sandwich
spread which enables you to more satis-
factorily solve the problem of "ringing the
changes” in sandwiches.
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
FJ2S
RELIABLE GUNS
BY FAMOUS MAKERS.
Mick Simmons’ carry in stock the Finest Range of
Firearms in Australia-, and can supply suitable
weapons for all classes of shooting.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free on request.
Owing to market fluctuations, prices here quoted
are subject to change without notice.
esq*
THE CERT CO.’S D.8.8.L.. GUNS.
Bl4—A reliable 12-gauge gun, fitted with 30-inch steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding
lbcks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip and walnut stock ; weight
about 71b. Price, delivered
B 16 —The “Cert” Gun, as above, but of superior quality and finish.
Price, delivered
£5112/6
£6/10/-
The Bulletin
REMINGTON BROWNING AUTOMATIC
REPEATING SHOT GUN.
B4_A strong and well-built 12-gauge gun, fitted with slide grip, take-down system and
steel barrel. The magazine holds six cartridges ; weight about <m.
Price, delivered
132—Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun, 12-gauge, six shot,
weight about 8|lb. Price, delivered
£l2/12/-
£l5/15/-
The Bulletin
STEVEN’S S.B.B.L. GUN.
A handv and thoroughly reliable gun, reasonably priced, 12- or 16-gauge, automatic ejector,
top lever action, solid case-hardened frame, 30- civ 32-inch steel band, p » • -
stock; weight about 6 Jib. Can be taken apart same as an ordinary double -
barrel gun. Price, delivered • •
55/-
REPAIRS A SPECIALTY
POWDER.
AUSTRAL
DIAMOND GRAIN
DUPONT’S SMOKELESS FOR RIFLES
AMBERITE SMOKELESS
lb. 4/6
lb. 5/6
lb. 8/6
lb. 10/6
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 201 b,
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
SUNDRIES.
Reloading and Cleaning Sets
12-, 16- oi 20-gauge. Price..... 10/ o
(Postage, l/~ N.S.W.j .1/8 Interstate.)
12-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
strongly reinforced. Price o/ m
(Postage paid.)
1 2-gauge Leather Cartridge
Belts,
with Steel Spring Clips. Price.. 10/-
(Postage paid.)
16in. Canvas Game
with net, very strong. Price...- 12/p
(Postage, lid. N.S.W.; Bd. Interstate.)
Union Duck Call,
made of cocobolo wood, metal end and
band; natural and lifelike tone; lenfftn
41 in. ; weight lloz. Price. /•'
(Postage paid.)
Perfect Pocket Oiler,
nickel-plated; very compact. Price l/o
(Postage paid.)
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
now purchase Sporting Guns and Rifles without
first obtaining a license.
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., Newcastle; 202-12 Edward St, Brisbane.


Famous Stars
Endorse Rexona.
%5r
t &£i ■
Every day the fame of Rexona
grows, until it is now world-wide.
Most of all our noted theatrical
artistes are Rexona girls, for they
know how much personal attractive-
ness adds to charm, and have
learned by experience that the use
of Rexona and Rexona Soap is the
shortest road to health and beauty.
Note what these famous stars say of
Rexona and Rexona Soap, and if
you are not already a user of the
Rexona Products, start their use
to-day. Rexona will keep your
skin in perfect condition, and free
from all blemishes. Rexona Soap
gives natural beauty to the skin and
hair.
‘‘My motto is Rexona.'’
MISS DOROTHY BRIXTON.
agagsagi
4
k
•'-
; . -
■k
IB
■
“Kexona and Rexona Soap are
worth their weight in gold. - ’
MISS MAIXJE ELXIOTT.
“I think Rexona Soap truly de-
lightful.”
MISS CECrL BRADLEY,
IK
jy
£0
JViaJxed tb xfou mxtxLe
the day tA&y aJie AeUeA&efc-
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia
per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
JfAe
jfoartvuAitc
(Sa&teA
t&n&sf iUiUA
162-166 PITT Street
6 Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
A Joy Mine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE told this talc -while picking at a
rock
With a worn corkscrew near the
river's brim.
So sad a tale it was, I could not mock
His errant fancy, though I pitied him.
He had a pleasant, vacant sort of eye,
Sagged at the knees and wore his collar high.
"I do not delve the earth for common gold.
The girl is here. I heard her with these
ears.
These, barren stones a precious treasure hold,
Yet yield not to my prayers or oaths or
tears.
I dig for music, dimpled music fine
With bright gold hair and lips that taste
like wine.
"I heard the song come up from underground,
A merry song with easy lilt and flow,
And somehow reminiscent of the sound
One fancies happy folk made long ago
When Pan was with them, tramping the
green wood
M ith full-puffed cheeks to keep the music
good.
"I stood just here upon a sandstone ledge,
O'crlookiug this broad river bright with
sun,
This merry river at whose rippling edge
Love's yarn of starbeams had been lately
spun,
Where I had loitered mildly once or twice
A ith a fair damsel whose pink lips were
nice.
"Quite nice. And so. to pass to other rhymes,
I listened to the music in the ground.
Heard the same tune repeated forty times.
And, wondering whence it came, I looked
around
To find some opening, mine, shaft, cave, or
drive
Through which at its fine source T might
arrive.
"The rock was solid as a balance-sheet
When duly audited by men of skill.
It rang quite hard beneath my brown‘shod
feet,
Built in to form a portion of the hill..
And yet I did not dream. My eyes ’were
wide.
The rock was there with that sweet sound
inside.
"1 hate all mystery and therefore sbfcui
A long description of the things I said.
T felt like one who walks without a ■gun
And sees a flight of ducks go overibiiead,
Knowing that each, in happv gravy* brown,
Would make a dinner if he brought'fit down.
"For catching music hidden under rocks
Guns are no use. though cannoit might be
right.
The stone might yield to large successive
shocks
Produced by hundredweights o»f dynamite.
I searched my pockets hastily to find
My high explosives were all left ‘behind.
"Wliat could I do? The music ebbed and
sighed,
Then rose again from where it seemed to
fail.
Helpless I stood as one who sees his bride
Caught up and strangled in her snowy veil,
" hile he looks on from some high mountain
slope,
Loving and fearing through a tefcscope.
"The nearest house was half a mile away,
i] The sun was hot, the water seemed to
blaze.
Like some loose whisker of the god of day
The distance melted into hapi|v haze:
And up and down that riftless rock I strode
And, to relieve my feelings, said ‘l’m
blowed !’
That airy word had been no sooner said
Than forth she came, a dazzling girl in
green,
With wisps of saucy gold upon her head
And all the bearing of a woodland queen.
Hips! Those she carried were as bright
As beetroot sliced in full electric light!
"This was the music, then, that pulsed and
sighed,
This, was. the melody of stream and wood,
this girl with lashes curled whose eyes were
wide
With sunny laughter where she lightly
stood.
I said ‘Good day. I think it will be line.’
And then she slipped her little hand in mine.
“It seemed pathetic that fine trust in me.
The hand was dimpled and without a ring
Mie was not shy; yet anyone could see
.Something quite modest in her walk and
swing.
1 wondered in a happy sort of haste
How beauty such as hers ran thus to waste.
"I did not waste it, yon may feel quite sure.
' Her first kiss was a wonder in its wav—
-1 lie sort of kiss to make a perfect cure
Tor any heart with many loves grown
< grey.
Fven a bald heart might have felt it nice
And owned its free and full Arcadian price.
'W sat beneath three-quarters of a tree
Jltat gave us thirty inches of cool shade:
And there, by placing her upon my knee,
ine best of that sparse shadow-veil I
made.
1 lent, her what support my arm could snare,
My raptured nose half lost among her hair
And so. to tell the simple tale in brief,
fie ready had a very pleasant time.
tJie girl was merry beyond all belief.
\mi aj T a! !i a be that rings at dinner-time:
I 'maid )USh yomig ’ be<si ' lo Hie dimpled
Was brigbt sunbeams caught in lemonade.
A TiL tb n the mrs ' started underground,
I started ‘ * 1 bad before. ’
.1 heard the sound,
Although I felt it had become, a bore;
And. as I started, I observed my knee
And said 'The girl! Now where the deuce is
she?’
“Ask of the winds. Ask of the hollow sky.
No dimple was there left of all my pearl;
For that confounded music was a lie,
In fact, to tell the truth, it was my girl.
And there it piped my sweetest hopes to
mock
Somewhere inside a rugged sandstone rock!”
He ceased. He lifted up a wrathful hand
And smote the wall of stone with all his
might.
I told him I could quite well understand
How one might labor after lost delight.
“Love mines,” T said, “are worth their
weight in gold,
if opened up before the joy grows cold.”
T left him picking at the solid rock
With a worn corkscrew by the river’s
brim.
No heart had I his frenzied toil to mock:
In fact, 1 think, I rather envied him.
"Love,” he declared, “from this hill shall be
won
That goes ten thousand kisses to the ton !"
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.
Australian Born.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE clock hanging on the shelf, among
the tins of jam and treacle, struck
six, and Li War Ming nodded to his
daughter to close up.
Hetta lifted down the row of hand-brooms
and stacked them on the counter. She car-
ried in the basket of onions, and dragged
away the half-sack of potatoes that leaned
against the door. And the old man watched
her approvingly, for she was very strong
and nimble.
Hetta had gone early to a big public
school and had stayed there until she was
nearly 15. Like most of her race she had
been quick to learn. But now her father's
age and growing feebleness compelled her to
mind the little shop.
Li War Ming was Chinese through and
through despite his long years of residence
in Sydney. His household joss, a fat figure
printed on rice paper, was enthroned on the
mantelshelf to survey all his movements.
But the Church of England Mission had
caught Hetta early, and set her upon the
Christian path. She walked, as it were,
alone, on one side hedged in by her father's
people and their sordid indifference to com-
fort and order; on the other by her white
ideals and white culture. Li War Ming was
not troubled about her. If he died, his
younger brother, who kept a food-kitchen a
few doors higher up the street, would look
after her. Or she might marry. Wing
Hang had a good furniture business in the
next, street, and no wife. Li War Ming-
nodded knowingly at the thought; for Hang
came often in the evening and stayed late.
On these occasions Hetta brought them tea.
but she never gave the bowl into the hands
of Wing Hang, nor would she sit and talk
with him amongst the sacks and packing-
cases.
To-night Wing Hang came early. Hetta
brought two bowls of soup, in which floated
pieces of lean rich pork, to the little store-
room behind the shop. Wing Hang smacked
his lips gratefully at the sight, and Hetta
shivered. She had no taste for such messes.
She loathed the oily rice cakes that Hang
consumed voraciously, and preferred fresh
fruit to salted plums and candied melon.
Through a haze of tobacco smoke Wing
Hang watched her go upstairs. Presently
she came down, and pausing a moment iii
the shop to take some chocolate from a case,
passed out.
“Where is she going?” asked Wing Hang,
although he knew quite well.
“To see the children,” said the old man
indifferently.
Hetta walked along the row of dingy shops
—a fruit store, a herbalist's? an importer’s,
a restaurant—turned up a dingier lane, and
stopped where a faint light burned over a
low doorway. This was a soup-kitchen kept
by her father's brother. In a little room at
the back could be seen the proprietor, fat
and placid, hovering over a steaming copper
whose contents he stirred with a huge ladle.
Over his head hung dried strips of bacon and
plucked ducks, with their bones crushed flat.
Hetta mounted to the floor above, and as
she opened a door two small, doll-like chil-
dren rushed to meet her. The room was low
and overcrowded with cheap furniture, and
the air insuffarably hot. The mother of the
children, who was the daughter of the man
downstairs, welcomed her with a smile. She
was very fat and plain, and sprawled lazily
across the big tumbled bed with its tawdry
pink draping. Hetta refused a rice cake anil
sat on the other side of the bed still clasp-
ing the children.
“Sam Hop leaves on the 15th. Hetta."
said Arlee, the older woman, “and my father
will give him the letter to carry to Pekin.”
Arlee was the wife of Ling Chow, who
had recently returned to Pekin to see his
aged father. He had arrived to sec his father
die and take over a small business. And
now he wanted advice. Should he remain
in China and send for his wife and children
to join him. or sell the Pekin business and
return ? Alice's father did not know, and
Arlee herself did not care: but Hetta had
strong ideas on the subject, and had per-
suaded her uncle to think her way. On the
15th of the month a relative was returning
to China and woald carry the letter bearing
the decision. Arlee sank her ill-kept teeth
in a rice cake and nodded. “The letter will
be written on ►Saturday, saying that we are
in stay.”
‘ That will be besfe.. Arlee,” said Hetta
earnestly. “There is .more for you all here
than over there. The children will go to
school and learn everything. Thev would
never come to anything over there, 'and you
wouhUnever be rich enough to raise their posi-
tion. especially as they are girls. Send them
off to school early. Arlee, and let them go
to the Mission. This joss business is all non-
sense—silk and paper rubbish. China, is all
(Continued on next page. 1


Why Kidney Disease is so Serious!
“Every Picture
The reason kidney disease is so serious is that it
comes on unnoticed, and often gains a firm hold of
the sufferer before he knows what is wrong with him.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills should be used
immediately there is any sign of Backache, Dizzy Spells,
Aching Pains in the Loins, Water Troubles, Gravel,
Rheumatic Pains, Sleeplessness, Irritability, Watery
Swellings in the Ankles or beneath the Eyes, Stiffness
of the Joints and Lumbago.
Doan’s Pills thoroughly cleanse the kidneys and
bladder, and assist them in their great work of filtering
the blood. But be careful to get the genuine Doan’s Pills.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. F. Anderson, 22 Campbell Street, Balmain, Sydney,
saysl suffered with my kidneys for a good while, the result
being that I was tortured with backache, and the pain at
times was so acute that I had to lie up. It centred just above
the kidneys, and never seemed to leave me day or night. My
ankles and legs swelled somewhat, and were sore to the touch,
&nd i always felt tired and languid, having no energy for any-
“”?■ . 1 was really in a very poor state of health ; but, although
1 tried different medicines from time to time, ] got no relief
from my suffering. About two years ago 1 was advised to take
a course of Doan s Backache Kidney Tills, and they were spoken
ot so highly that I made up my mind to try them. After using
a couple of bottles I felt much better, and as I continued
tlie pill f lra Provement was maintained, five bottles
effecting & perfect cure, and X have been well ever since.**
Four years later Mrs. Anderson confirms the previous
statement — Doan s Pills made a perfect cure in my case,
for I have had no trouble with my kidneys since this remedy
cured me over six years ago.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. W. H. Trott, Keith, Gannon Street, Tempe. Sydney,
says:—“Off and on for years I Suffered a good deal from
backache and kidney trouble. Sometimes my back used to
ache terribly, the pain being particularly severe when I stooped.
At my work I have to bend my back a lot, so it was very hard
on me, and handicapped me greatly. I took several medicines,
but none of them seemed to suit my case. Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills were at last recommended to me, and they proved
to be the remedy I wanted. After taking a few doses I felt
much better, so T continued with the treatment for a few weeks,
and 1 am glad to say they drove the pain out of my back and
made me feel splendid. Two years have claused since then,
and I am still free of backache, but I keep Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills by me and take a dose or so Avlienever I feel
a little off color, and they always do me good.”
Ten years later Mr. Trott says:—“Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache twelve years ago, and I
still have great faith in this grand remedy.’’
The Bulletin
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
very well for our aged relatives, but Sydney
gives opportunity for ambition and indepen-
dence.”
It was in this strain that Hetta had also
spoken to her uncle in -whose hands rested
the decision, and he had nodded his head in
placid agreement, mentally deciding that
Ling Chow’s legacy might turn the little
soup-kitchen into a shop on the main street
with two glass windows and a waiter.
Arlee’s small soul had never emerged from
her stifling surroundings, but she admired
Hetta deeply, and it pleased her to think that
the children might read and write beautifully
and dress smartly—three things she herself
had never been able to do.
“They must have every chance, Arlee,”
said Hetta, giving the little ones the choco-
lates. “There is everything for them here
in Australia, and over there there are only
—Chinamen.”
Arlee laughed good-naturedly, although she
never understood in the least the intense
thoughts in Hetta’s mind.
“They are Australian-born and have a
fight to all their country’s privileges,” went
on Hetta slowly and carefully, so that it
would all sink deeply into Arlee’s mind;
and Arlee nodded and nibbled rice cakes.
It was nearly half-past 10 when Hetta
went out through the kitchen, now full at
every table and reeking of onions and the
rancid bacon. She hurried across the road
and turned into another street, where shone
the electric lights of a picture-show. The
patrons were pouring out, and she waited in
a shadow until the crowd had dispersed.
As a young man came out carrying a vio-
lin case she stepped out into the light and
advanced towards him, the pink in her cheeks
deepening.
“Hello, Hetta,” he cried cheerily. He
played in the orchestra of the show, and was
tall and strong and brown with surfing. He
and Hetta had gone to the same school, and
as children they had often walked to her
corner with their bags. Then he had caught
the tram away to Ryde, where she knew he
had a mother and sisters, and she had walked
on to the little shop off George-street. After
he had left school she had lost sight of him
till one night they had met by chance near
the theatre. He was still the same Cecil
Whyte, and Hetta, who had stifled in her
rank and narrow little world, felt as though
a sweet sea breeze had crept through her
soul. It became usual for her to see him two
or three times a week, and they would chat
for a few minutes or have an ice at the shop
opposite. Then he would race away to over-
take the Ryde tram before it reached the
next ston, while Hetta returned to the dingy
shop, her eyes bright with star dust.
“Whew, it’s hot,” he said. “Come and
have an ice.”
Two flappers who were sitting at another
table stared curiously. One of them, with
pink cheeks and yellow curls, winked impishly
at Cecil, and giggled. Hetta glanced at
him swiftly and saw that a quick flush had
mounted under the tan. He shifted his chair
uneasily and frowned.
“I’m leaving that show, Hetta,” he said
when they had finished their ices.
“Going to another?” she asked, toying with
a spoon.
“I think not,” he said carelessly. “I’m
going over to Melbourne for a bit to do
something bigger for myself.”
“When?”
“Next week—but I'll see you again before
that. Jove! It’s five to eleven! We must
be off.”
. They Avalked quickly to the corner and he
bis tram. With a cheery “Good
! 118 , be raced away. When Hetta got
pa . *-° the shop she found that five other
Chinese had dropped in to smoke and chat,
. stood for a moment and looked into
“le store. How she hated it all! And never
to-night! The babel of voices
0 tortured ears.
.^b 6 passed through Wing Hang asked
ber .if her uncle had prepared the letter for
I ekin. “He will prepare it at the end of
R ie weeb ’ , Hetta replied, and he Avill adA'ise
,- s Koll ' :i , n ". a "’ to return. It will be best for
um ’ and b ??t for the children. They will
hai?” her ® a " d b<? mUCh
w in ' Han _ smi -i P a «iiohH v “Ye« ”
grea t thing to be contented Hetta.”
“l s it?” Hetta said lightly, and she went
U p to her room. Wing Hang watched her,
still smiling.
Hph-o h* ,
on thc ,ow Si t I l do 'T n
onnosite wa 1 mfu , • 1 T
i P m . o hiem<s a solllt ™ n to
lon- fimp noiOnmi-It 1 b away. lor a
„„ g i., ’ pa^ iaph ever, maybe, as far
flLnliYTp Had she been too
eDd like tfip Jiv T erh . aps ! f she had gig-
£iea tike the girl in the shop he might have
liked her better. Should she have told him
that she had counted the minutes when she
waited for him, and that none of their recent
meetings had been accidental? Once long
asfo he had asked her to to Af«nlr
hfm on Sunday night She fl
thenT’f fi e TouM onD ask aaain U She vvent
H TmoJfiir musTbe prouTof him
.Sd X Sd'Xe.f'S
taot b-Paste. ;A thrill ran over her and she
restlessly th^^-fr 0011 !
lesnessiy. t>ne could hear the drift of
ST O “ j he ° f
f”» r her” A “Slid!. ahe’
T r f he J father oat l,i s visitors f.d bar
room 1 rattled YThe Girl d ™ ia tlie .f l ext
011 Wlth a
. G>he listened to mts scuffling and
squealing in the shop, and to the creaking of
the old couch in the kitchen as Me Tio, the
ancient domestic help, turned in her sleep.
Hetta’s room was bare save for a bed and
a rickettA 7 table She loved Hie heaniifni
furniture in the big shops. Hoav well she
could use such things if they were hers ! Her
father was satisfied with primitive surround-
without comfort or convenience, but
Hetta lived m a world of dreams. In her
school days she had often gone to tea and
dinner in “white” houses. As a little girl
she was a novelty, with her round yellow
face and shy ways, and the other girls liked
her. It was a long time since she had
seen any of these childish friends, but her
memories of them, were very fresh. The
chimes of city clocks and the rumble of late
trams came to her ears, and she turned off
the gas and opened the window. Outside
the bright moonlight streamed over the small
yards below and silvered the tin roofs. She
was very young when they had told her at
the mission that the one great God dwelt
above the stars with Ilis band of angels,
Ihey had given her a small picture of Jesus.
She still had it; it was pinned on the Avail
over her dressing-table. But now came
doubt. Did the great God really feel and
know and see, no matter lioav small and
insignificant one was. She was suddenly
convinced that since Cecil had entered her
wo, 'hl th*' horror of her surroundings
had been utterly And then, being
by reason of her race a philosopher as well
as a doubter, she turned to her bed full of
hopes and being young and very girlish
S I “AT I *. IC f. T rSe -n° S Yf P ‘ rj ... ~
My father will write to-morrow, Hetta,
Arlee told her two nights later, and he
"/I way you say things. So
letta hugged the children close in her arms
and told them, annd gales of laughter, that
they Avould go to the big school and be
clever and have many books and a picture
wonSul T tJiiLT o m^g' o Ta U pVn. eVCr And
ix; m i6Sed a t t ?^ce r r cakes “ d **
rr ,, , _ ... _.
There was not a trace of pink in Hetta s
smooth cheek when she made her way to
the next street at half-past 10. Perhaps
if she let Cecil see she was going to miss
iiim, tlicit she would be lonely, it might
make a difference and shorten his absence.
Such thoughts came and AAent through her
mind as she hurried along.
Ihe show emptied and he came out, but
one of the other musicians was with him.
They waited a moment, and Cecil glanced
quickly around.
tt- , . . , , , , iiT . . .
friend chuckled. Looking for the
Glunk girl. he asked.
Cecil laughed aAvkwardly. Oh, that s
nothing. I ve knoivn her for years—met
her at school Avhen I was a kid. They
I, y.y d . awa y a few steps, but the girl could
stul hear fragments. Nice little thing--
can f uY ary /tt l ier and , nksolutely
straight. (How glad she was that she had
not taken that trip to Manly!) Good little
soul. .. .of course a fellow stops dead. .. .or
goes the whole way.... she s a Chink....
ye110w.... told her Im going to Melbourne
. . . .the best way. t
Hetta still stood in the shadows long after
they had gone, and the lights of the picture-
show were out. Then she walked slowly back
to the soup kitchen. Her uncle was plucking
ducks on a big butcher’s block, and looked
surprised to see her again.
“Uncle,” she said quietly, “I think when
you write to Ling Chow to-morrow you had
better tell him that it would be best for
him to stay, and Arlee and the children will
go to him. The children would have a bet-
ter chance if they are entirely among their
own people from the start, and before they
learn anything different from the way they
must afterwards live. Besides, Arlee is sure
to send for you later, and you would be happy,
and need not work any more. It might be
different, if the children were boys, but they
might want the very things they could never
have, although they had been taught to care
for them most.”
.The old man gave her a quick look. “You
will miss the children,” he said.
She toyed with a feather, and did not
raise her eyes.
“Yes. But I will be glad, even if they lose
so much. If they know nothing, they will
be content with everything. If they stay
here— well,. perhaps they will reach for the
moon. They will have to work over there
perhaps, but that is all they will expect:
work and —and Chinamen.”
The old man nodded briskly and mentally
decided that Hetta was right. Arlee would
send for him, and he would end his days in
the land of his fathers —yes, he would write
the letter that way.
Hetta returned to the shop and stood for
a few moments in the storeroom where Wing
Hang and her father still sat and smoked.
“The letter will be written to-morrow and
Arlee will go to Pekin,” she said, addressing
the two men. “And the children go with
her.”
Li War Ming nodded, and Wing Hang
smiled as he replied: “They will be much
happier. Hetta.”
“Yes,” said Hetta, going upstairs, “and
they will be more content.”
Up in her bare little room Hetta sat on
her bed. “Australian born!” she whispered.
“I think and live just like them. I think as
they think. I want what they have. They
have made me like themselves!”
In the cheap looking-glass she stared back
at her saffron face, narrow eyes and straight
black hair. She buried her face in the
bedclothes.
“Yellow,” he had said —“a Chink.” Aus-
tralian born—God, the mockery of it! God!
What has He to do with it? She rose up
and stared at the pictured Christ —the God
the Christians had given her. Her father’s
joss was the god of the Chinese; this was
the God of all people and all races. She
had understood in a vague way that He
could do all things. He knew all things,
and was powerful in love, mercy and wisdom.
She pulled the picture from the tack and
dropped it down behind the table. What
did He know or care any more than the silk-
and-paper joss? If it were so —all they said
of Him-'-why did He not make everyone
yellow—or white?
Late as it was she came downstairs again.
Her father turned his head.
“I will make tea for you,” she said.
The old man nodded, and Wing Hang sat
back and crossed his legs comfortably. A
little later she brought the tea and, setting
down the tray, handed Wing Hang a small
bowl.
A chuckle came from the old hag in the
kitchen, and Li War Ming patted his daugh-
ter’s fingers as she put the bowl before him,
and nodded his head approvingly.
EFFIE MARIE FORD.


.--am—
in'
m
s
MH
,
• I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—HOl,M liS & CHUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, AVellington.
A'ictorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST, N. S. WALES.
BITUMASTIC
ENAMELS
Unequalled as a protection against Rust.
Extraordinary properties of Elasticity and
Tenacity when applied to Metal.
Pitting absolutely prevented.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
By far the best and greatest test of all for any plug
Is its use by every class of motorist, in every type of
engine, on every sort ol road, everyday.
The plug which most completely passes this
thorough going test is
THE
LODGE
PLUG
which, by reason of its unvarying efficiency,
has considerably the largest sale in the world
of all British made plugs.
Lodge plugs are made to suit
all makes of engines, and are
obtainable from accessory
dealers, garages and stores
throughout the world.
We are exhibiting at The
British Empire Exhibition
(Motor and Cycle Section).
LODGE PLUGS Ltd.
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
Every part of every model
of the Lodge Plug is en-
tirely British made.
Illustration shows model
C 3 (standard metric), for
practically all engines
screwed metric. Packed
in sealed metal box.
lilllllli
m
Price 5/6.
mmm
Wet-proof Shotgun Cartridges
Factory Loaded.
VICTORIAN PIGEON CHAMPIONSHIP.
u.-i* S. e Melbourne Gun Club’s Grounds, Brighton, Vic., on the 7th
sle ll usin « REMINGTON UMC “ARROW” grade shotgun
Safe’?! t ,! le above championship, killing 20 out of 21 birds from
r r^TTTiw n /'. k ’ c - B - Meadway, using REMINGTON UMC “NITRO
birds tr ° m the same mark i tie d for second place, killing 19 out of 21
Pxcln^K r p tri n™ S have ] ?. ng . been made of so-called “waterproof” paper, but our
thorouahl V P “ t ls f d ] st ”‘ctly different. All REMINGTON UMC cases are
on the marke7«te ?fe i d wad : crim P and body; and are the only loaded shells
a certain 1 J Gly ? ealod aga Y lst wet ’ Smokela ss powder necessarily contains
moisture Zs L° f laoistarß - REMINGTON UMC “wetproofing” seals in this
, thus preventing the powder from drying out or deteriorating.
for Fielrfm- difficalt y> procuring these high-grade factory-loaded shells, either
xor riem or lrap shooting, please refer to the Australian Representative.
D. D. BRYANT,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Digestion good,
be has no ills,
he’s always
taken
r
/
BeechamsPilis
THE MAKE
WITH
MERIT
WOLFFS
0
“ROYAL SOVEREIGN * HB
C \''ft&fvct/ t*t flCe r 7fror&f
BRITISH
MADE
mm
£
/
mmmm,
NflUL.
Tf
d Constant
stream 0 /water
When a statement like this is made
it needs some backing. It is the
enthusiastic phrase of one of the
satisfied users of a “Comet” Mill.
Read his letter.
Dear Sirs,
WELLINGTON, N.S.W.
July, 1923.
I have much pleasure in stating that
the 10ft. “Comet” Mill which I purchased
from you some time ago has given every
satisfaction. The Mill works in a very
light breeze and PRACTICALLY PUMPS
A CONSTANT STREAM OF WATER. I
intend erecting another "Comet” Mill
shortly, as the one I already have has
done everything asked of it without any
trouble or cost of upkeep.
(Sgd.) A. J. BAYLY.
CPMET
It is evident from the above that the
“Comet” will make every possible use
of all available breezes—light or strong. Think how much more water this
means. Gallon for gallon the “Comet” is by far the most economical proposi-
tion—and it gives longer service, too.
“Use the Wind”—a breezy little booklet—is yours for the asking.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Works and Office—DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY. City Office—255a GEORGE STREET.
S.W. 20 Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, and Townsville


»»»
A
✓"
k
\
\
*
i
r*
A
sna
i
ft
W
*
r*
%
» US
yj
Ji>M
/
:'-r
c
V
a?
The spirit of our mariners in olden times laid the
foundation of the greatest Empire the world has
ever known. And no less fine a spirit animates
them to-day—
DEWAR’S
