

m/
v\\
A
J
r<
j
A
% !
v
r 'f ■'' 's’*
tS r A,..
V."
a
\'
iiiirmmrmrnmwTA
A
4
HURLEY
supEPibP
T O
V’ o\
UM
/!
i
&
.
X "\
£2
Sho
r-
4
i
1111
WASH DAY DRUDGERY
ELIMINATED /
ft
That is just what the Electric
Clothes Washer will do for you.
The Hurley Superior washes without harm the
things you would not dare rub on a washboard-
dainty laces, lingeries—anything.
It is so simple to operate.
The clothes are washed sweet and clean —every-
thing from a handkerchief to the heaviest bedspread
—with no wear whatever.
Wash without work.
Upon the payment of a small sum down and easy
monthly instalments, either machine illustrated is
yours to perform all your arduous washday labors.
Illustrated Thor Booklet A mailed free.
Australian General 0 Jjbd.
Sydney Office,, cr. Wentworth Avenue and Goulbnrn Street.
Melbourne Office, cr. Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Agents
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Clms. Atkin’S & Co., Ltd., 88 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Oliver & Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd., cr. Edward and
Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.
HURLEY
SUPERIOR-
WASHING MACHINE
The Bulletin
VoL 4S.—No. 2320.
Thursday, July 31, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
SOS
KESwr
raws
RS
RraSRS
iiawa
KHHSS
5
THE SUCCESS IN SERVICE OF
MANGROYITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
proves the integrity of its manufacture. Careful selection of
hides over 40 years’ experience and our special tanning
process all combine in making- it the greatest economiser
in the factory. _
Consult our engineers on all belting problems. It leaves no
obligation and invariably results in more satisfactory service.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Orenfell
Street Adelaide.
VICTORIA- W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd..Launceston & Hobart.
ĵ
Whenever yon
think of
see a- Pillar
Onoto the Pen.
Box
-there is an Ohoto
fiib to suit your writing—a pen witTTjusf that breadth of point and
flexibility which suits the natural pressure of your hand.
The Nib is solid gold hardened to the right degree of fineness.
The point of Osmi-iridium —more costly than gold—ensures a life-
time’s wear. Choose a nib to suit your hand from your stationec.
Onotoi!i§Pen
SELF-FILLING SAFETY MODEL
'THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.. LTD.. 110. BUNHILL ROW. LONDON. E.C.L
Representatives: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURSI LID.,
Sydney Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m.
Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney,
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries. Limited^
"Your extremity is
opportunity
as
Wi
m
imams
mm
mm
Y UNEQUALLED
taut jfciSrY n*
lit
'
3SiS£Sgrrs'tfiS!5L5£3
tot OlaceKid BatCAir
Uathe
rt«
HUDSON’S Eumenthol J
CAUTION—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name or
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to geo
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation or
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudsons
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
ra
a
A. The Larynx ®»
Organ ol Voice.
B The Trachea o'
Windpipe.
c. The Bronchial
Tubes of a d lB '
sected lung-
D. A L4fbe of one
Tilings.
The Red Page
To a Poet
Songs live when pens are dry; and his has
lain
Too long beneath the dust of other times
To race the fleeting moments with its
rhymes,
Or charm the ear with lilting tunes again.
He heard the ringing hoofs beat on the plain
And gave their echoes to a hundred songs;
He caught the whisperings of billabongs
And wove their magic in the quick retrain.
The grey gums were his friends, the busfl
his home, . . .
The sky his tent, the mountain horse his
For Mm the stars illumed their splendid
dome
And jewels glistened on the fallow clod.
And now, when other lesser minstrels smg,
All these wait silently, remembering.
VICTORIA.
CECIL MANN.
Australia’s Olympia
There was pride in the message cabled to
the manager of the Olympic team by the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association of N. S. Wales,
offering its congratulations to the victors who
represented the Commonwealth, by whose
prowess in the field of athletics “the name
of Australia has been further blazoned before
the nations of the world.” It was the
pride of men who rejoiced that they, by
their sacrifices and their devotion, had made
the Olympian games a festival of triumph on
the soil of France. But for these men, and
their dead and living comrades, the
present Olympiad would, in all proba-
bility, have been celebrated in this year
of grace at Berlin, under the Kaisers
rules, and the personal direction ot
swashbucklers. In a dead or dying age
of craven pusillanimity and criminal unpre-
paredness, the message of the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Association is especially timely and
heartening, reminding us that the Spartan
spirit is not broken, even in the broken
bodies of Australia’s heroes. Granted that
times of emotional excitement and heroic
action are unfavorable to creative produc-
tion, and that the fine fruit of the imagina-
tive faculty comes to full maturity m a
period of succeeding tranquillity, Australia
has waited too long for the celebrant song
alike of her dead and her living heroes. Even
the soldier poets of England, hot from the
furnace of Moloch, and blinded with its
flames, failed as imaginative interpreters of
the spirit and meaning of the Great W ar.
They wasted their inspiration in denouncing
the horrors of warfare, missing the stupen-
dous splendor of the sacrifice. The sons of
Australia had no Tyrtaeus to chant battle-
songs to inspire them with courage—they
marched to death or to victory with the
music-hall ditty of “Tipperary” ringing m
their ears; they lacked a Simonides to grave
immortal lines upon the scattered graves that
alone remain of their futile Thermopylae of
Fleurbaix —and they tramped through the
winter’s mud of Northern France and of
Flanders with the grim silence of predestined
victims. But fat and prosperous Austral-
asia has had enough of heroism, and wants
no chattering about ideals to disturb the real
business of man’s existence here below, which
consists mainly in the creation of dividends.
Nevertheless, the heroes of the Somme and
other famous battlefields did make possible
the holding of Olympian sports in such one-
time apparently doomed cities as Antwerp
and Paris.
The statistics of the Olympian games, re-
vived by Greece under the auspices ot
France in 1896, tell a story the world should
hearken to with an awed attention. The
opening celebration was at Athens; quadren-
nial events followed at Paris, St. Louis
(U.S. —in connection with the International
Exhibition), London and Stockholm. For
the year 1916 they were scheduled for Ber-
lin; but, in the language of an enthusiastic
sporting friend, “during the latter part of
1914 the games were, on the casting-vote of
the Kaiser, undefeated Limelight Champion of
Muddled Europe, transferred to the Somme.
The decision,” my friend adds, “proved a
costly one to German prestige, as that coun-
try’s representatives were successful in only
two events, namely (1) perfect enunciation
of the word ‘Kamerad,’ and (2) the Mara-
thon.” In 3920 Antwerp was the scene of
the festival, and that at present in progress
is being celebrated at Paris —both cities at
which the full panoplied force of Teutondom
was hurled with intent utterly to destroy
them from off the face of the civilised earth!
Recently someone rushed audaciously into
print, questioning the right of Athens tradi-
tionally to inaugurate the Olympian games,
and claiming the prescriptive authority of
Pisa for a modern revival thereof; for it
was in the neighborhood of ■ Pisa that the
original collection of temples and other pub-
lic buildings, on the small plain called Olym-
pia, was situated. But Athens had two
Olympian festivals of her own, as had also
other Grecian towns and cities, both in
Europe and in Asia. In the classic age
the celebration, being held in honor of Zeus,
or Jupiter, was invested with all the sanc-
tions of divine observance; and the. most
powerful States considered an Olympic vic-
tory, gained by one of her citizens, to confer
honor upon that community of which he was
a member. A conqueror in the games had,
moreover, immunities and privileges usually
granted to him by the gratitude and gener-
osity of his fellow-citizens. His statue
was allowed to be placed in the grove sacred
to Zeus; and this grove was adorned with
numerous such statues, erected by the con-
querors themselves, or by their families, or
at the expense of the States of which the
conquerors in the games were citizens. Upon
his return to his native place, the victor en-
tered the city in a triumphal procession, and
his praises were frequently celebrated in the
loftiest-efforts of the poet—no fewer than 14
of Pindar’s hymns were devoted to this type
of composition ; and writers were in the habit
of reciting, artists of exhibiting, their works
to the multitudes who assembled to witness
the games. Thus were the masterpieces of
Herodotus, Anaximenes and Dion Chrysos-
tom first given to an audience gathered to-
gether on the plain of Olympia. The effect
of the celebrations, in the creation of a
I federal spirit among the scattered Hellenic
cities, communities and settlements, was or
vital significance when an occasion arose,
such as the invasion of the Persians under
Xerxes, to make solidarity of national sen-
timent an essential of salvation ; and it sel-
dom failed under the threat of Asiatic
titt&ck.
The celebration of the Olympian festival
was interrupted by the Dorian incursion, as
the revived modern institution was inter-
rupted by a similar outbreak of Teutondom;
but its antiquity is lost in the |hist and
mystery of the mythic ages. Gods and demi-
gods and heroes are credited with being its
founders; but a soberer chronology begins to
reckon time from the winning of the toot-
race at Olympia by Coroebus, which hap-
pened in 776 B.c. Indeed, many of the
ancient writers did not consider history to
begin until the Olympiad of Coroebus, and
regard as fabulous the events said to have
occurred in preceding times. The French
have been termed the Greeks of modernity;
and it is therefore fitting that they should
have taken a prominent part in the re-
institution of these famous games, the ellect
of which, in bringing together the manhood
of the civilised earth, must be all to the good,
and tend to the making and the maintenance
of the peace of the world between the best
and most vigorous of its inhabitants.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
The Missionary at Home
Conversion from one faith to another may
have its interest in conflicting religious circles,
but to the worldly Philistine conversion from
ill deeds done to good deeds attempted, and
often realised, makes the deeper imprint on
the social body, for that body’s good. Ao
magistrate,” said the late A. C. Plowden, for
many years on the London Metropolitan
Bench, “can refer to his work without grate-
fully recalling how much his responsibility
is lightened by the assistance he receives in
many an anxious case from that latest pro-
duct of Christianity, the police-court mis-
sionary. There is hardly a week, or even
a day, when the magistrate is not glad to
have recourse to a missionary. In foreign
fields of labor missionaries have been known
to impair their usefulness by occasionally
blazing with too much zeal. _ They are apt
at times to be a little unmindful of other
people’s prejudices, and even to show a want
of ordinary tact and discretion. No such
charge could ever be laid at the door of a
police-court missionary. There is no un-
necessary fire about him, no fanaticism. He
works in any vineyard where lie may be
wanted, and is welcomed for his aid by every
denomination.”
If any reader requires evidence in con-
firmation of these words let him turn to
Them That Fall (Blackwood), and he will
get it in abundance. This book, by Kobert
Holmes, for a quarter of a century a police-
court missionary in London, is as full of
human interest as an egg is full of meat.
It covers a multitude of sins: sins of youth,
maturity, old age; sins that are venial, sms
that are grievous. Over it all rests the
spirit of charity. Huxley once said: 1
sometimes wonder whether people who talk so
freely about extirpating the unfit ever dis-
passionately consider their own history.
Surely one must be very ‘fit’ indeed not to
know of an occasion, or perhaps two, in one s
life, when it would have been only too, easy
to qualify for a place among the ‘unfit.
Reading this very human document one
feels that the police-court missionary is first
of all the brother of mankind, though inci-
dentally he may be teacher and preacher. His
business, primarily, is to snatch branas from
the burning in this world. _ “The bulk of
adults charged with petty crime,” the author
says, “are below the average, physically,
mentally and morally. More often than not
they are the offspring of degenerate parente,
and more worthy of pity than blame. 'July
it is very difficult to help them.” Iso ob-
server of the times but must have noted the
marked change that has come about since the
days of our fathers in the attitude of the
courts, of every degree, that deal with crime.
We no longer ‘read of sentences that are im-
potent by reason of their very seventy—long
periods of imprisonment or penal servitude
that broke down everything in manhood from
which a changed life might be rebuilt. If
the prisoner’s life were spared, his soul was
executed. He came at length blinking back
into the world, a helpless, hopeless bit of
human wreckage. For years past there has
been a persistent weakening of the doctrine of
exemplary punishment—that is, punishment
calculated to deter through its severity.
The trend has been the other way. In deal-
ing with youthful offenders, and adults of
not distinctly criminal type, the tendency
of judges and magistrates has been to, if
possible, avoid imprisonment, with its in-
evitable stigma. , ~ ,
“Does mercy pay?” asks the author, and
lie answers: “My own opinion is that mercy
does pay.” He gives this broadly and with
qualification. There are cases where drastic
measures are necessary, but commonsense
will distinguish these. The broad policy is
to stop the downward drift, to set the sinner
on his feet, and steady him up before he is
caught into the current that sets for Avernus.
Nowadays a number of expedients are
adopted to save the offender in his early
stages—to keep him out of the ranks of the
habituals. There are the first-offender pro-
visions of the Crimes Act, releasing the
offender on probation, binding him over to
come up for sentence, remitting imprisonment
on restitution being made and so on. Faith
in the reformative effect of imprisonment is
rapidly dymg. One can note scepticism m
every court that deals with crime. _ In this
train of judicial thought the court missionary
finds a wide field for his energies. He has the
ear of the court and may plead for that
“chance” which, if mercifully given, on his
inquiries, may save the incipient criminal
from being finally ranked among “them that
fall ” Of the irredeemably fallen the author
speaks thus: “A quarter of a century’s work
(Continued on page S.)


Crtjjoiu/jiotdefasjtye
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
The Savings Event of the Season
Save on a High-grade
Sac Suit.
THE “HORDERNIA.”
The COAT has a two-button
front, outside breast pocket, centre
seam, no vent, single- or double-
breasted lapels. TROUSERS have
side, hip or cross pockets and cuff
bottoms.
All-Wool Parramatta Tweed.
Usual Price, 59/6. C7/C
Reduced to ° ' u
All-Wool Fancy Tweed, Grey
and Brown effects. Usual
Price, 84/- 7£/
Reduced to i m
Fancy Worsted, Plain Striped and
Check Designs. Usual Price,
105/- QQ/{C
Reduced to S/O/ **
Grey Worsted, Plain Striped and
Check Designs. Usual Price,
no/- 1 02/fi
Reduced to 1 °
Brown and Grey, Plain Effect.
Usual Price, 119/6. 11 A/
Reduced to 1 I -
Grey and Grey, Neat Designs.
Reduced to 1 1 Q/<£2
Usual Price, 126/- v '
Grey and Brown Scotch Tweed.
Usual Price, 142/6. IQ9/&
Reduced to * O
The Horctemia Junior
Sac Suit
Made similar to the above Suits.
Dark Grey and Brown Fancy
Tweed. Usual Prices, 56/-,
57/6. M/fi
Reduced to U* «J>o/
Dark Grey and Brown Fancy
Tweed, Usual Price, 65/-
Reduced to
59/6
Who could deny the irresistible appeal of
a Sale that offers such super-savings as are
listed here, and which are only typical of
countless similar opportunities in every
department? Each Bargain is enhanced
by the assurance of quality synonymous
with the name of The House of Economy.
Shop NOW—both for present and future
needs, and benefit by
GENUINE REDUCTIONS FROM
GENUINE PRICES.
Unprecedented Furniture Savings.
BEDROOM SUITES,
“The Mayclen,” Figured Maple (waxed), comprising sft.
wardrobe, bevelled-shaped mirror door, two-thirds
hanging space, and one-third movable shelves, 3ft.
9in. knee-hole dressing-tables, with reflex mirrors,
also pedestal boot cupboard. Usual Price,
£49/10/- f^Q/10/-
Reduced to S-OS?/ ~
“The Kimpton,” Figured Maple (waxed), comprising
sft. 6in. wardrobe, tw T o-thirds hanging space, and
one-third movable shelves, centre door, bevelled mir-
ror, figured Maple panels either side, 3ft. Gin. dress-
ing-table, large bevelled mirror, three long drawers,
top drawer divided, 2ft. pedestal boot cupboard.
Usual Price, £39/10/- ■P'37/1 A/
Reduced to “
sft. Waxed Maple Sideboard, with shaped mirror, large
cupboard on right-hand side, two small and one
large drawer, and small cupboard on left-hand side.
Usual Price, £lB/10/- 4?1£2/Iffc/
5-piece Suite, Maple, Mahogany finish, settee and 4
chairs, upholstered in Tapestry. Usual Price
£22/10/- pon
Reduced to
Men’s Footwear Reduced.
Men’s Best English-made Carpet or Velvet Tapes-
try Slippers, with leather soles and heels. All
sizes. Usual Price, 8/11 pair. 7/11 rfiaiY*
Reduced to ' . F
Men’s Warm Canielhair Buckle Boots, felt and
leather soles. 7/fi rtSlil*
Reduced to * ° P air
Boys’ Strong Box Hide Balmorals, with strong
sprigged leather soles.
Sizes 10 to 13. 1 to 5
price, 8/11 9/9 pair
Men’s Black Box Yearling Balmorals, with genuine
welted soles, and leather lining. Can be sup-
plied in four different shaps. Usual Price, 19/11
Reduced to 18/- pair
Bargains in Furnishing Drapery.
Cretonnes, 34in. wide, suitable for Curtains, Cushions
or Coverings, in large and varied assortment of de-
signs and colorings. Usually 1/4, 2/11 to 3/3
yard. 1/9 2/3 vard
Reduced to
Upholstering Reps, in shades of Rose or Green. Usual
Price, 8/6 yard. 4/11 Vaifcl
Reduced to 4 X 1
Ecru Madras Muslin, check design, lace edged, 40i".
wide. Usual Price, 1/- yard. QJ xravA
Ivory Vitrage Net, scalloped and bordered each side.
Usual Price, 1/11 yard. 1 /Ct. . r9I .J
Reduced to A/u y dru
Casement Cloth, in Cream and Putty. Usual Price,
Reduced to 1/5 yard
Casement Cloth, in Drab, Brown or Blue. Usual
Price, 1/11 yard. 1 /Q varf l
Reduced to 1/0 y ara
BURLAP TABLE COVERS.
Natural Color, with Border.
Usual Price, 22/6.
Reduced to
Size 2yds. x 24yds.
17/6
Natural Color, with Border. Size 2yds. x 3yds.
Price, 27/6.
Reduced to
Usual
20/=
Sewing Machines Reduced.
SM2o—Rotary Shuttle only. The smoothest-running manufacturing
machine, justly termed “Dressmaker’s Friend,” has high,, long and
roomy arm, adjustable rear and end extension tables, and is the only
Manufacturing Machine that is fitted with a Ball-bearing. stand,
which ensures a maximum of speed with a minimum of exertion.
With knee lift. Usual Price, £l3/7/6. £ll
Reduced to <....
Without knee lift. Usual Price, £l2/17/6.
Reduced to
Cover, 35/- extra.
SM7lW—“Sit Strate,” so named because tho operator sits in. a com-
fortable, healthy position, the treadle plate being in a direct line with
the needle. Attractive wooderi stands in best American Oak, with
four drawers, fully enclosed.
Vibrator Shuttle. Usual Price, £l5/8/6. -C 1
Reduced to
Rotary Shuttle. Usual Price, £l5/15/-. £l^d./1^»/«
Reduced to
£lO/10/-
Bargains in Travelling Rugs.
All-Wool Coverlets, whipped edges, good dark colors. Size.
54 x 74. Usual Price, 15/6. 1 Q/Q
Reduced to 1 «J/ S/
British Bush Rug’s, heavy weight, striped and check effect,
bound all round, size 54 x 74. Usual Price, 15/6. 1 Q/Q
Reduced to L*j/ Zf
Extra Large Size Bush Rugs, heavy weight. Size 70 x 90.
Usual Price, 27/6. OC/
Reduced to -
Waterproof Ground Sheets, black oilskin on one side and
blue cloth on the other; ideal for campers, etc. Size 84 x
48. Usual Price, 33/- OCk/tZ
Reduced to
“The Ascot” Fringed-end Rugs, smart designs and service-
able colors. Size 58 x 68. Usual Price, 14/6. 1 O/fi
Reduced to ”
“The Epsom” Fringed-end Rugs; good dark colors. Size
58 x 68. Usual Price, 16/6. 1/1/11
“The Perth” Warm Woollen Rugs, fringed ends, pleasing
designs and colors. Size 58 x 68. Usual Price, 17/6.1 £*/£•
Reduced to 1 O/ ©
Worth-while Savings on
Blankets and Quilts.
White Blankets.
Size 72in. x 54in., for Single Beds.
Usually 28/6 30/- 32/6 pair.
Reduced to.. 26/- 27/- 29/6 pair.
Size 81in. x 63in., for Three-quarter Beds.
Usually 37/6 45/-pair.
Reduced to 34/- 41 /- pair.
Size 90in. x 72in.. for Double Beds.
Usually .. 46/6 52/6 57/6 59/6 pair.
Reduced to 42/- 47/6 52/6 53/6 pair.
Grey Blankets.
Silver or Dark Grey, size 72in. x 54in., for
Single Beds. Usually 26/6 pair.
Reduced to 24/- pair.
Size Slin. x 63in.. for Three-quarter Beds.
Usual Price, 35/- pair.
RetViced to 32/- pair.
Size OOin. x 72in.. for Double Beds. Usual
Price, 45/- pair.
Reduced to 41 /- pair.
Satin-finish Toilet Quilts.
Size 10 x 4, for Single Beds.
Usually .. 19/6 22/6 27/6 30/-each.
Reduced to 17/6 20/- 24/6 27/6 each.
Size 11 x 4, for Three-quarter Beds.
Usually .. 24/6 27/6 32/6 37/6 each.
Reduced to 22/- 25/- 29/6 33/6 each.
Size 12 x 4, for Double Beds.
Usually .. 29/6 32/6 35/- 38/6 each.
Reduced to 26/6 29/6 31/6 34/6 each.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s Wear and
Footwear in N.S.W., and to the nearest
port on Interstate Orders.
Mercery Bargains.
Good Quality Striped Cambric
Golf Shirts, V-cased front,
double cuffs, neat stripes of
blue, black and lielio. Usual
Price, 6/6. ' K/(C
Reduced to J w
Superior Quality English Cam-
Uric and Repp Golf Shirts,
V-cased front, double cuffs, in
a variety of neat stripes on
white ground. Usual Price,
7/6. a/a
Reduced to u u
Natural Fuji Silk Shirts, with
collar and pocket attached, or
with double cuffs and detached
soft collar. Usual Price.
21/- 19/6
Reduced to 1 Zf'
Natural Fuji Silk Shirts, with
sports collar. Usual Price.
21 /- 19/6
Reduced to
High-grade Crepe de Chine Silk
Shirts, V-cased front, soft
double cuffs, detached collar,
smart designs. Usual Price.
49/6. *39/6
Reduced to U
All-Wool Knitted Sports Coats,
fine cashmere knit, four mili-
tary pockets; lapel collar,
lined sleeves, in lovat and
heather shades. Usual Price.
79/6. KQ/R
Reduced to iJU' \J
Cotton Paisley Gowns, in
assorted colors, self grade.
Usual Price, 37/6. 07/(1
Reduced to / \j
Self-Colored Poplin Gowns, in
Tussore and Helio, with con-
trast collar and cuffs. Usual
Price, 42/- 09/
Reduced to "
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


cd
0)
C/5
0)
£
o
3C
>
W
o
u.
The “CHLORIDE” Battery is a quality product
designed and built to operate with your Lighting Plant.
Made in the Largest Battery Works in the British
Empire, with over thirty years of battery manufactur-
ing experience behind it.
Thousands of “CHLORIDE” Batteries are in daily
use, year in, year out, giving long life and dependable
service.
Easy to operate and economical to maintain.
Write or Call for Full Particulars.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
N. S. WALES: Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Australia,
Ltd., Edward and Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.
W. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, “Radio
House,” 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2
Maffra Street), Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 98-100
Rosina Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND: H. J. Angell, 36 Lonsdale Street,
New Brighton, Christchurch.
j
ĵ


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN'S SHOPS
£55
fcS
Made by David Jones'
NEW SPORTS SUITS
in Scotch Tweeds
Two-piece Sports Suit made by David Jones’from
fine Scotch Tweeds of fancy mixed design. The
coat is yoked and banded at back. Price ••• 110/-
An English style but made by David Jones Sports
coat and “Plus Fours” cut from Scotch Tweeds in
fawn shade. Yoked and banded coat - £6/15/-
WE PAY CARRIAQE.
DAVID JONES’
FOR SERVICE—OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
as a police-court missionary convinces me
that no great proportion of ‘them that fall
had ever much chance of doing anything
else.” A sad indictment of our civilisation .
The fact is, that behind the seeming slack-
ness of the criminal courts to-day—which
many well-meaning folk lament —lies a deep
and ever-deepening impression that crime can-
not. be cured by the noose, the lash or the
prison. We no longer drive devils, from
madmen with whips, no longer exorcise an
evil spirit from the witch by burning, and the
day may come when we shall no longer seek
to eliminate crime by imprisonment. “That
most ancient of criminals, Cain,” says
Robert Holmes, “did mankind an ill turn in
inventing murder, but one worse in standing
before his Maker to further blacken black
crime by coining a cynical phrase in pre-
tended indifference to his brother’s fate. Many
a person who would shudder at the thought
of working ill to anybody will tell you, as
though quoting an inspired nrophet and not
the world’s first murderer: ‘You know, I’m
not my brother’s keeper.’ If we could all
get back to the notion that we are, how dif-
ferent a place this world would be!”
T. B. C.
Frank Swinnerton
It is evidently Frank Swinnerton’s ambi-
tion to make the novel safe for democracy.
Of the dozen stories to date more than half
deal with the lower middle-class, and hold
the mirror so closely up to their thoughts
and secrecies that reading about them
amounts to eavesdropping. Swinnerton is
nothing if not realistic. If he fails to syn-
copate a passion in the Robert Keable man-
ner, he never flinches from the depiction of
a youthful indiscretion to which a well-con-
trived prelude has given a pretence of inevit-
ability. The poor and humble must love,
he urges, despite Stephen McKenna’s con-
clusion that a gift for amour is the proud
heritage of the aristocracy. The point is
worth noting here, because Swinnerton’s
reputation is mostly founded on his ability
to paint the emotions of nonage—to present,
in short, the emergence of juveniles from
the shadows of reticence into the fierce light
of romantic experience. But we may readily
claim for him that he never sentimentalises,
grieves or condones. Sally Minto in
“Coquette” is never a figure for a moral text,
and Jenny in “Nocturne” has no regrets.
Yet there is something straightforward and
challenging in their sharp defiance. A com-
mon fear of a frustrate spinsterhood has
driven them into ardors too deep for shame.
“Nocturne” is said to be Swinnerton’s
greatest book, and in the claques ol approval
from both sides of the Atlantic only the
raspy baritone of H. L. Mencken has regis-
tered a note of censure. Maybe it is not
perfect. It is too cleverly planned. It is not
permitted to realists to impale themselves on
improbabilities, and one may well ask if
chance alone brought the chauffeur who
whizzed Jenny away to a secluded frolic ou
the very night she had given up her Alf to
her sister, Emmy, and had the job of mind-
ing the paralysed “Pa.” The necessity for
some such coincidence was demanded, of
course, for the veritable gala of contrast
that had taken the author’s fancy. Admit-
ting all the cadences and subtleties of the
conversation between Keith and Jenny on
the yacht, allowing also for the temptation
to arrange a situation wherein filial duty
would leave the sentry-box at the call of
an adventure, one still feels that Jenny’s
defection is forced on one by the writer’s
desire to nocturnise two kinds of personali-
ties and two kinds of love. Furthermore,
we have the suspicion, suggested by the acci-
dent to Pa, that Swinnerton has not been
able to stifle a taste for the sort of stagey
climax which wrecks the finale of “Coquette.”
However, there can be nothing but applause
for the love scene between Emmy and Alf.
The craft of fiction has swaddled the love-
making of honest souls in unbearable im-
becilities, but Emmy and Alf show what is
possible in the way of a tete-a-tete beset by
none of the falsities, vain longings and happy
tears of a million puppet couples of less par-
ticular origin. There is no attempt by Alf
and Emmy to beguile you into a fanfare
with a low London imitation of a Fine
Moment. Their slow movement to an under-
standing is set in B fiat, and the lyric of
their affection is no more than the hint of
a shuffling wistful ness that dies away in the
crude groping for material bliss. Alf and
Emmy are the Alpha and Omega of calculat-
ing Cockney sentiment. Their courtship is
tinged with meanness and brutality.
One is not so much touched by “Coquette.”
Sally is a little too much of a “smarty,”
and she always has the air of a drama going
somewhere to be produced. The fashion in
which her father slips out of the story is
another instance of the author’s capacity for
occasionally conquering his parsimony in big,
sweeping events. Drink brings dad to a
crashing end in the first chapter, and the
floor is then cleared for Sally to demonstrate
her forthrightness and resource against the
background of her mother’s futility. Here,
as in some other novels, Swinnerton is the
missionary of Youth’s antagonism to the con-
servatism and caution of Age. Never has
he drawn an old woman or old man of com-
manding significance. Pa in “Nocturne” is
merely a lumbering phantom at his highest
peak of intelligence over a tankard of beer.
Sally’s mother is an irresponsible charlady
doomed almost to obliteration by the handi-
cap of years. In “Young Felix” the gladness
of juvenility is poured in with a steam-
pump to freshen the atmosphere” of musty
maturity. Swinnerton is unsparing in faith
and hope to Godfrey and Felix, but has a
Poor Law Guardian’s charity for pa and
grandpa. These are the cognoscenti of shift-
lessness and despair, and even the industri-
ous mother, trailed from slum to slum by a
wake of pawntickets, and nobly attempting
to make one bone do what two did before,
settles down with the conviction of being an
amiable negative. Much of this novel has
Arnold Bennett’s facile diagnosis of triviali-
ties. In fact, the difference between this
garrulous narrative and the compact
and tiny “Nocturne” is all the difference be-
tween the superfluous and the superlative
Nevertheless, with all its shortcomings--
especially its artificialities, such as the notion
of young Felix treasuring Ibsen’s “Wild
Duck at 15 as if it were “The Swiss Family
Robinson”—the greater part of the tale is
good reading.
In point of literary worth “September” is
superior to “Young Felix,” but one rather
wearies of the motif of the irreproachable
married woman flirting with danger and
then playing the fairy godmother in a mar-
moreal crust of added virtue for the purpose
of providing a happy ending. Marian is
very graceful and beautiful, and her hus-
band and Cherry are two crosses that furnish
her with an emotional Golgotha, but she
tends to lose her outlines in the haze of com-
promise and dissimulation. “The Chaste
Wife” is Swinnerton feeling his way more
gingerly to a respectable climax, and though
we notice that, in endeavoring to make his
characters keep their heads he is on the
verge of losing his own, we must remember
that the yarn is nearly ten years old. Better
things have been written since, among them
two critical volumes on B. L. Stevenson and
George Gissing. The indiscriminate admirer
of Stevenson will writhe to see some of his
hero’s classics go down under the drum-fire
of aptly-measured conclusions. There are
not enough casualties to make a slaughter,
but looking at the gun-play through the pink
glow of my personal prejudices, I am bound
to say that Swinnerton’s aim is deadly. In
his essay on Gissing he is simply belaboring
a corpse with a faded chaplet of flowers.
Admittedly an early disciple of the Grub-
street pessimist, he is polite in sticking to
the role of doubting Thomas. A harder atti-
tude might be expected from one with such
critical perceptions; but. anyhow, the book
serves to reduce the stature of a man who.
has been built in the likeness of a maestro
by sundry Professors of Literature.
C. R. BRADISH.
Genius and Cruelty
While it is true that the pioneers of pro-
gress and prophets of beauty have been per-
sons discontented with life as they saw it.
Lester Way’s contention (R.P. 26/6/’24) that
we should introduce more cruelty into the
education of children, so that they should
grow up embittered by their environment,
needs careful consideration. Assuming that
the genius is invariably unhappy (a dubious
proposition, to say the least, for the gleam
of red-hot joy which creation brings is surely
some compensation for the agony involved in
parturition), Lester Way argues that cruel
conditions of existence are the most fertile
ground for the germination of genius. It
would follow logically from this that the
nation most notable for the harshness of
its living conditions would be also most not-
able for the production of genius; yet the
reverse seems to be true. Of European
nations, England, France and Germany have
been of late years the most prolific in the
production of great minds. At the same
time these three nations have been easily
the most notable in Europe for the earnest-
ness of their solicitude concerning the wel-
fare of their people. Further than this, it
might be remembered that the artistic and
literary achievements of Greece and Rome
were greatest at the time when the material
prosperity of individual citizens was best
safeguarded. On the other hand, nations
such as Russia, Spain, Norway and Portu-
gal, noted for the severity of their laws or
their climatic conditions, have shown them-
selves as somewhat scanty in creative capa-
city.
It might be objected here that this mode
of argument is fallacious, to the extent that
great men are themselves a cause of good
social conditions. But, then, as in most
things, cause and effect must be held as re-
active, unless we are to believe in the abomin-
able alternative (which emanates logically
from Mr. Way’s creed) that genius is in the
final issue destructive of itself. Mr. Way
argues that the cruelty of external condi-
tions makes man turn within —presumably
in order to discover more kindly life than
is evident in external existence. But if this
more kindly life when found and integrated
in the social system produces, in turn, per-
sons who are only concerned with external
existence, we are involved immediately in an
intolerably vicious circle. While it is appa-
rently true that genius has appeared most in
nations where the best social conditions have
prevailed, it has not appeared only amongst
the most affluent members of such nations.
Neither has it appeared to any disproportion-
ate extent amongst the most impoverished.
Providing national conditions are favorable,
genius will flourish alike in the humble cot-
tage and in the mighty mansion. The reason
that it appears more frequently in the former
is that there are many more cottages than
mansions. What is indicated here is that
the genius may rise easily above individual
environmental difficulties when the latter are
not universal throughout his nation.
As a guiding principle in education it
might be laid down that whatever particular
kind of information interests the individual
most is likely to be the best kind for him
to receive. Obviously this could be overdone;
but, speaking from personal experience, I
am quite convinced that I profited only by
that which it pleased me to learn. The philo-
sophical significance of the feeling of plea-
sure is that it indicates what to pursue, that
of pain is that it shows us what to avoid.
The trouble is that there are physical and
mental pleasures, sensual as well as spiritual
kinds of stimulation, exterior life of action
and incident as well as interior life of
thought. All these various sets of impulses
clamor for attention, and to the distracted
individual comes the task of adjudicating be-
tween the lot. To take any particular set
of impulses and hurl them into the outer
darkness because they contain within them
possibilities of danger is surely a sorry solu-
tion of the problem. There are possibilities
of danger in the highest impulses; but the
hope of the world lies in the cultivation of
the highest impulses notwithstanding.
T. JASPER.
A Satchel of Books
Love Us All! by A. Neil Lyons (Thornton Butter-
worth). A collection of sketches of character—Eng-
lish character. Trifling things, but most of them
have a liberal infusion of light humor.
Ancient Egypt from the Records, by M. E. Monck-
ton Jones (Methuen). A necessarily breathless
account of the history of Egypt from about 42 cen-
turies b.c., when the inhabitants of the southern Nile
valley had achieved a high degree of civilisation, to
the incorporation of Cleopatra’s Empire. The text
is helped out with a dozen good photographs.
Fombombo, by T. S. Stribling (Nisbet). General
Fombombo is the dictator of a South American
State, and Thomas Strawbridge is a Yankee drummer
who wants to make a deal in rifles with him. The
book is at onee a satire on the anarchy that passes
for Government in some of these Latin-Peon repub-
lics, an essay in sentiment, and a piece of comedy
of the highest order. An admirable novel, chockful
of humanity and humor.
Twisted Tales, by Ashley Sterne (Nisbet). “It
was Pancake Day at The Weevils, the lavishly-
upholstered country mansion where dwelt Sir
Michaelmas and Lady Day and their only daughter
Quarta” —thus part of the opening sentence of “If
Winterbottom Gomes”—and there are a dozen more
burlesques in the book that open like it. It will
divert those who are not too sophisticated to enjoy
literary clowning.
Glimpses of Old New Zealand, compiled and edited
by John Haw-on Elder, Prof, of History at the
University of Otago (Blackie and Son). Extracts
from various authoritative writings which give a
series of impressions and facts about Maoriland and
its people from the traditional migrations till the
Treaty of Waitangi. The little volume imparts a
good deal of knowledge in an interesting if some-
what syncopated form.
The Artist’s London (John Castle). A collection
of 80 contemporary pictures, reproduced from paint-
ings, etchings and drawings, and a quartette of
graceful essays by John Drinkwater, Wilfred Whit-
ten (“John o’ London”), James Laver and W. P.
Robins. A sumptuous volume of huge delight to
the exile from Cockaigne; and, although Laver says
London has been “diluted by hygiene and American
architecture,” there is delight for the stranger, too.
The Conquest of the River Plate, by R. 15.
Cunninghame- Graham (Heinemann). Fascinating
history set down in a fascinating way. Cunning-
hame-Graham knows his South America and is peculi-
arly fitted to tell the great story of heroisms, failures
and successes which began when the caravels of the
unfortunate Juan Diaz cle Solis (some say the Indians
made a meal of him) nosed their way into the
River Plate and faintly blazed a trail which the
conquistadores followed to tragedy and romance.
Dust to Dust, by Isabel Ostrander (Hurst and
Blackett). A rich American beauty marries a. man
of doubtful character. Just after the ceremony he
is called away, suddenly returns on the following day
to his bride, who, after" quarrelling with him, watches
him kill himself by falling through the rotten floor
of an attic. The rest of the tale is a long drawn-out
description of the lady’s examination and subsequent
trial for murder. Isabel Ostrander, who used to
produce very passable detective fiction, is here found
guilty of writing in a Holly wooden style.
The Traveller in the Fur Cloak, by Stanley Wey-
man (Hutchinson). The old author of “Under the
Red Robe” and “A Gentleman of France” herein
struggles with a story that often threatens to get out
of his grip. The period is the turmoil in Central
Europe immediately following Jena and Austerlitz,
and Weyman’s job is to pilot home two English
Envoys Extraordinary to the Court of Vienna and
invent enough disturbances to make their journey
extremely hazardous. Some of the incidents are un-
deniably dramatic and well drawn ; others are silly.
The Perilous Lovers, by John Oxenham (Fisher
Unwin). Claire of Belfontaine (“a fair, white lily,
but also a woman hungry for love and reverence”)
is left on the island of Sark stark-naked by her
unworthy husband Rigaud, Lord of Moidrey. Just
as she has contrived a costume of bracken, Gui de
Montmeri appears, sparsely yet decently clothed in
seaweed. Rigaud, seething with jealousy and hatred
of this admirable young man, has put him there,
too, and in the expectation that he and Claire will
be “betrayed into sin.” Not so, however. They
defeat the temptations of the Devil by innate
virtue and prayer, and all ends morally and well.
Paris Restaurants and London Restaurants (Geoffrey
Bles). Two small volumes designed to meet the
want of visitors to Europe who seek food —and
most of them do. Both begin at the top, the London
expert giving pride of place to Claridge’s. Eighty
years ago. when the dispute between Church and
State in Italy was acute, a rumor arose that the Pope
might take refuge in England. The Claridge of
the period was perturbed, as he had so many kings
staying in the hotel that he doubted if the Pontiff
could be suitably accommodated. Claridge’s has
preserved that atmosphere ever since, though as a
restaurant it has been surpassed at different times oy
the Savoy (under Joseph), Willis’s Rooms (Edouard),
the Cafe Royal and even Oddenino’s. Patrons ot
certain Australian restaurants, where the cooking de-
clines while the prices remain static, will be edified
to know that the best of dinners can be ordered at
Claridge’s to-day at 15s. 6d. a head. At the Cavour,
Which comes last on the list, the table d’hote dinner
is 6s. Montagne, in the Rue de l’Echelle, is chosen by
the French authority as the best eating-place in all
Paris —better even than Paillard’s, which the Prince
of Wales frequents as Edward VII. did before him,
and the historical Ea Tour d’Argent. The prices at
these resorts look so frightful in francs, apparently,
that the author forbears to mention them; but at
Maxim’s and other restaurants of the second class
dinners can be got for about 40 francs a head by
Parisians.
History and Its Place in Education, by Prof.
Findlay (University of London Press). “The latest
time-chart published for popular use |in British
schools] is entitled ‘The World-Story of 3,000,000,000
Years’; out of a total of 45 columns it allots five
to a world devoid of life, 15 more to periods before
man appeared and another 20 to epochs before the
dawn of civilisation.” But an even greater menace
to exact knowledge than pedantic history is colored
history. No passions or prejudices are aroused by
mathematics, geography, the classics or even litera-
ture. When history is in question, however, most
teachers are biased, with the result that their pupils
only learn the truth arduously later in hie, or
(much oftener) never learn it at all. At any British
school for the children of the well-to-do, certain
things are accepted as axiomatic —that all persons ot
the reigning dynasty have been great and good
since (say) the Regency; that every socialistic
development from English Owenism to Russian Bol-
shevism has been a work of the Devil; that all
British soldiers and sailors are stainless heroes, and
so on. Professor Findlay is reluctant to admit
that this is so. Nevertheless, he recognises the
difficulty, not to say impossibility, of keeping social
and pplitical prejudices out of the history class ( it
is no wonder that many teachers prefer to stop their
syllabus at the battle of Waterloo”), and the sectarian
teacher must exist as long as there are denominational
schools. Further, even if all school-teachers were un-
biased, who shall say that a war will not come and
make every newspaper a text-book designed to pi o\ e
that the nation’s enemies have been robbers and
assassins for centuries?
+
“M.D.”: The threats of the Fascisti (R.P.
3/7/’24) to “clean up” frankly pornographic publi-
cations, such as the novels of Guido Verona, appeal
to have been nothing more than stage thunder, for
the author in question has published two novels
since the “warning” and has another in preparation.
Per contra, the action of the Fascisti appeals to ha\e
stimulated interest in this author in England, and a
translation of one of his most horrible tales is already
in demand at the libraries.
“Wing”: As a teacher, I emphatically disagree
with “Country Ped” (B. 10/7/’24) in his condemna-
tion of the phonic system. I have tried both the
old and the new ways, and I find that children of
tender years progress far more rapidly in reading
and spelling under the phonic system. When the system
has been taught thoroughly it is hard to conceive any
pupil writing “witch” for “which,” and “vvhith for
“with,” for the sound of “w” is taught as “oo,” and
the following “h” with an exaggerated aspirate.
Though the alphabet is no longer taught in the
old parrot fashion, as a' reading lesson, there should
be no eighth-grade children finding difficulty in hand-
ling the dictionary. I teach the order of the letters
as a marching song:—
ABCDEFG
Little Robin Redbreast sitting on a tree—
and so on.


1599 1924
Only Packard
can build a
Packard
Packard Six
Pictured above is the
New Packard Single-Six
Touring Car. Packard
Six furnished in several
popular body types, open
and enclosed.
Packard Eight
Packard Eight furnished
in several distinctive
body types, open and
enclosed.
Some Packard Facts Which are Known
Wherever Fine Cars are Appreciated
Brilliant Beauty.
Distinctive Smartness.
Luxurious Comfort.
Pride of Ownership.
These outstanding features of Packard will serve to draw only
exclamations of praise and admiration from your friends.
Extraordinary Performance.
Packard has given a new and momentous meaning to "Ease of
Control” and "Flexibility.” The flexibility and accessibility of
Packard’s power is akin to electricity.
Economy of Operation.
From 12 to 14 miles per gallon of petrol in the Eight Cylinder
and 16 to 20 miles in the Six. From 500 to 800 miles per gallon
of oil. From 8,000 to 10,000 miles on rear tyres.
Low Upkeep Cost.
Material and workmanship which go into the manufacturing
of Packard is the best that money and experience can procure.
Years and Years of Service.
Sound Investment.
High Re-sale Value.
Packard Cars are not built to a price but to a standard, Packard
reputation is your insurance policy on a quality product.
IRA L. 8c A. C. BERK (PACKARD) LTD.
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ring M 3548 for demonstration. Illustrated Catalogue sent on request.
Kellow , -Faikiner Pty. Ltd., “The Universal Motors Pty., The Packard Agency , H. C. Heathorn & Co. Ltd.,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne Petrie's Bight, Brisbane 141 Flinders St., Adelaide Hobart, Tasmania
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE


x \\\\ w % . Vv-, '&s \ v"t
Wv
«
H
NX
"X
&
X
vS.
"'■■■Hi
X,
SS
X;
wm
M
v
iS=:
m
SHELL
pays £300,000 yearly to its Australian
employees. Shell cases and tins are made
in Australia, and the case wood and tin
plate are products of the Empire. :: :: ::
Shell is the only Company in Australia
which markets products distilled from
crudes produced within the British Empire.
Shell is the only Motor Spirit sold in Aus-
tralia which has a world-wide reputation.
j
HHH
j
ĵ


The Engine’s the Thing
NDER the bonnet of each and every
Willys-Knight Motor-car is an engine
that equals in every respect the
world’s finest—regardless of cost.
There s a reason: Ten years ago John N.
Willys acquired the patents of the costly
Knight Sleeve-Valve Engine used by the
European Builders of Daimler, Panhard,
Minerva, Mercedes and other cars which
have always been the choice of Europe’s
discriminating Royalty.
There are to-day more Willys-Knight
motored cars in existence than all other
Knight types combined. The rush to the
Knight-type motor by builders of highest-
priced cars indicates that its inherent value
is conceded.
The Willys-Knight is the only Knight-
engined Car over 1 5-h.p. that sells in Aus-
tralia for less than £ 1000. Its motor equals
in every mechanical point the best and cost-
liest European-built motor.
Moreover, you’ll find in a Willys-Knight all
the beauty of body-design and finish, and
all the essential elements and accessories
that make a car comfortable and convenient.
But the engine’s the thing after all. And
in the Willys-Knight Sleeve-Valve Engine
you’ll find gigantic power—easily con-
trolled, flexible, dependable—power that
you can use to its uttermost and continuously
—without injury to the mechanism that
produces it and without impairment of its
efficiency.
If you do not believe it, telephone, write or
call on any Willys-Knight Agent for a
demonstration—the kind of demonstration
YOU want.
**
'•> Z :
;>, V?"i
s2v/gvv
iBP
...
« (
THE, DAY OF THE KNIGHT IS HERE.
> )
YOUR NEAREST AGENT WILL BE PLEASED TO ARRANGE A DEMONSTRATION.
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q’land.
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.
Neals Motors Pty., Limited,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Overland Sydney, Limited,
147-49 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,,
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.


S'
0
Q
Cuticura Keeps The
Complexion Fresh
Use Cuticura Soap daily for the toilet
and have a clear, fresh completion, free
from pimples or blackheads. Assist
;when necessary by Cuticura Ointment.
Do not fail to include the exquisitely
scented Cuticura Talcum in your toilet
preparations.
S° a P la.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dressy R.Townc& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
‘ Try oui- new Shaving Stick.
j
Best for bells, buzzers, gas
engine ignition, radio and all
general purposes. More power,
better service for a long, long
time.
Obtainable everywhere
at little cost .
Ey] AH3iiVff pX]
taxons ioh
Tnr
cjnv. Noting
o£Xmi
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 Bast 42d Street
New York, N. Y.
U. S. A.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II you are troubled with the complaint, write u> and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling ol ease and comfort from the
first day s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comlortabiy under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
Jf it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street. Melbourne
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
9
1
ii
*3
That “Well-
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Allen’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r a d i-
oate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less 1 All Chemists.
♦
' L /A
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Superiority Proved in the
ĵ
j
DENYER ELASTIC
T russ
Superior in safety, comfort, quality, and
gives superior results, because it is
scientifically made, perfectly reliable —in
fact, "the best” for rupture sufferers.
Prices: 27/6 single; 37/6 double.
Postage extra.
Send to-day for Truss Pamphlet, which
is sent free in sealed envelope.
ACT TO-DAY—DELAY MAY PROVE DANGEROUS.
DENYERS,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts
and Artificial Lambs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IKCISTCH»
TRADE HAM
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
KSff?
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney,
Missing Friends.
-INFORMATION wanted of PIERCE LAWLESS, who,
34 years ago, left Townsland of Tool', Parish of
Kilcash, co. Tipperary, Ireland. Himself and oil"
MICHAEL MADDEN, aged between 50 and 60, last
heard of 14 years ago: he then resided about Perth
and Fremantle, Western Australia. Anyone knowing
his present whereabouts will kindly communicate
with his brother, WILLIAM LAWLESS, 350 South
Oak, Casper, Wyoming, U.S.A.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(jd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at _ home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
j
THE
FX S R” ENTREE DISH
ĵ
NOW
68/-
nett.
Many marked superiorities recommend these dishes.
They bear a particularly heavy coating of silver, and will wear
like solid silver for 40 years at least.
They are hard soldered throughout; heating in the oven cannot
harm them.
The hard, white nickel-silver used as a base is of specially good
quality—it will not dent easily.
The workmanship and finish are of the best. At their new
price they represent exceptional value.
Skilled refractionists in our optical department are prepared to
give the fullest attention to your eyesight.
I'laiu figures. Cush only.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fairfm&Roberts U. d
Zb &Zb Hunter Street Sydney
I&PLUM
Hint;
MHtlSTiHinilLO Sim fr"l
THE
plum
n
The morning shave is never a trial it you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean an'd sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Post-paid Prices
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Ileal Ivory Handle .. . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo. 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each , razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razovs are supplied in two widths: fin. and Jin.
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
GEORGE ST SYDNEY
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vulnerable.
Oil, pitiless, malignant Fates! Although
My pride must cry defiance to your power,
I know you weave and smile and wait your
hour
To strike. I let Love’s armor grow
Still thicker, stronger round my heart till no
Unhappiness can pierce it; arid I cower,
Knowing that love itself and all its dower
Turn in your hands to instruments of woe.
Hurt me with poverty, with fear, with pain,
With sickness or with jealousy; and still,
Wrapped in Love’s armor, all these things
must be
As nothing and my heart alive again.
But, ah, I know that some dark day you will
Stretch forth your hands and take my Love
from me!
N.S.W.
P. O R.
Autumn Song.
Airs are grey lavender,
Low skies are green ;
By the white hand of her
The way is seen.
Dimly she beckons me
As the path dips—
Rosemary, Rosemary,
Where are your lips?
Airs are grey lavender,
Autumn is chill ;
She will be waiting where
Hill kisses hill.
Down at the valley’s turn,
Rosemary, stay
Waist-deep in laughing fern
Winds have blown grey.
Airs are pure lavender,
Green are the skies —
Rosemary, tell me where
Dusk holds your eyes.
Surely she beckoned me.
Slenderly white
Fingers called tenderly
Through the pale light.
Airs are deep amethyst,
Dark are the skies —
Rosemary, maid of mist,
Where are your eyes?
Low at the valley’s knee
Night gathers blue. . ..
I must go back to the
Lamplight and rue.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
To Lucasta, Going to the Wanes.
Better the end of a thing
Than the beginning thereof;
Farewell, you and caresses,
Lavendered manners of love!
I’m for the burdens and stresses:
Farewell, languid delays,
Pressed mouths pasturing.
Poems of wondrous praise!
There’s no mystery brooding
Now on your excellent ways;
Sunlight has gone from your hair,
Stars have recalled your gaze.
You. though eternally fair.
Lie at my heart like a stone,
All your ardor and mooding
Ranged, exploited and known.
Better the end of a thing
Than the beginning, my friend.
Better be patient than proud.
Patience ! Accept the end ;
Scorn what your passion avowed.
That was mere clamor and wail:
Pain is our stanchioning.
Only irresolutes fail.
Not by a God-given light.
Flaring on fates concealed—
Trial’s the magic whereby
Heights of our fate are revealed.
Stifle your heart should it cry,
Hold your resentment at bay;
What is the word for to-night?
Hate, hate and away.
Turn to lost things and forget
When this spectre of wrong
Storms through a shattered defence,
Lashes your flesh with a thong.
Moan your lost innocence—
Love with ambition contending,
Love in its dying set,
Stars at the highway’s ending.
All that is sacred is named,
Unknown regions are best,
Useless things I adore
Trouble me, being possessed,
Taunt me with peace no more.
Weary of home-fires tended.
These have left me ashamed,
Yearning for ways unwended.
You have become too real.
Love I so heavily rue.
All that has blossomed must die;
Only illusion is true.
Uttered thought is a lie,
Love, acknowledged, a snare;
In this dusk I will steal
Out to I know not where.
Better the placid sea-love •
Than the cities of haste.
Better revolt than retract.
Better be blasted than waste;
Better the dream than the fact,
Illusions can seldom change.
Dreamers in strangeness move
Knowing nothing is strange.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.


Owifutal
Shandy
deh&HcU oh. ffie uhh&
which, it ii dUtUCed. 'Oka
tUn-fobi jwodiut hxu the
advcvnfcuje of iti 4ifttk
ou/iaau+idUuw St is
ciidtiticcl Am the
ininutahU Sj^dotcUwoim
in. itb tHcUtna fituocx avid
jvne (wiuyuat.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei
Vol. 45. —No. 2320.
THURSDAY, JULY 31, 1924.
PfilCK 6d.
LOST HIS TICKET.
“The French Government has declined to recognise the right of Australia to be represented at the Conference which is to modify the Treaty of Versailles, of which it
was one of the signatories.”
THE FRENCH COCK: “Here, you, run away to the hens! This is a meeting to settle the rules of the fowlyard. In a matter like that you don’t count
any longer—you’ve got no spurs.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia. for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, £1 65,; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
■without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
Ij. St. C. Grondona, Australia House. Strand.
WLC ; 2 i _jCopies < _of
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Uotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.i: Fj. T. Hole, Ilolertli Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasiansl
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury: Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
Neivs Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street , New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co,, 7 01/ Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —-IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fi.ti. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.-
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — lj. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
U.S.A. — j. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/ to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional 1/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
ffie'fy'ulleZzai.
THURSDAY, JUDY 31, 1924.
THE DOMINIONS AS POWERS.
Shortly before the World War a British
Secretary of State laid it down that “the
Governor of a self-governing dominion has
no power to impose his wishes on a Min-
istry. He must accept his Ministers’ advice.”
Australia, South Africa, Canada and the rest
already had full power to impose tariffs,
exclude immigrants, arm and generally act
the part of independent nations. The new
ordinance put the coping-stone on their long
struggle for freedom. Never again would a
people who believed that they possessed self-
government awake to the humiliating know-
ledge that they were being ruled from Down-
ing-street by “a person named Rogers.” But
one hurdle still remained to be taken. The
Dominions were in the dilemma of the man
on the high wall who tried to satisfy his
nervous friend on the ground that barking
dogs never bite. They knew they had the
status of independent nations, and so did
Downing-street. But did the dog—repre-
sented by the rest of the world —know it?
The rest of the world did not know it, and
that continued so until the Landing at Gal-
lipoli, or thereabouts. From the middle of
1915 to the Armistice the national stock of
the Dominions steadily and swiftly rose, and
nowhere w r as the movement more pronounced
than in Australia itself. W. M. Hughes’s
battle for the right to sign on behalf of the
Commonwealth at Versailles was won before
it began. Australia had 400,000 men under
arms, and an efficient navy. It was not only
autonomous: it was a Power.
* * * *
_ A Sydney daily paper uttered a lamenta-
tion last week which was characteristic of
the sloppy thinking on Dominion status that
has prevailed eyer since the question came
before the public. It was inspired by the
refusal of direct representation to the
Dominions at the Allied Conference which
proposes modifications of the Versailles
Treaty to 'which they were signatories:—
Where now is that commonwealth of nations which,
we were fissured, was the outcome of the magnificent
Dominion help in the war ? Where is the new status
so freely granted to the Dominions by British
statesmen and publicists and constitutional lawyers?
This assumes one of the most ridiculous of
political fallacies—that a country’s status
is a fixture. An ancient ecclesiastical maxim
insists that the soul which is not going for-
ward in virtue is going back, and it is much
the same with nations. Egypt and Greece
were recognised as Powers—while they were
powerful. So were Rome, Carthage, Spain,
Venice and many more that have since fallen
by the way. Germany and Austria were
Powers six years ago : they are so no longer,
having been disarmed. Russia dropped out
of the list while Bolshevik pacifism was in
flower, but with the abandonment of inter-
nationalist principles, and the establishment
of an army of over a million men, the Mos-
cow Government is winning back the status
that was formerly enjoyed by Petrograd.
Britain is not the sovereign State it was;
it has been forced to halve its old two-power
standard at sea. Japan, on the other hand,
has greatly advanced in the only sort of
world-esteem that matters outside Pleasant
Sunday-afternoon and Communist gather-
ings : the Japanese have doubled their
strength at sea, and have moved up to the
third, if not second, place amongst the naval
Powers. The Sydney paper quoted has a
specific complaint to make as regards one
nation:—
In this coming conference Belgium, whose tally in
killed and wounded was far less than Australia’s,
is represented, but Australia and Canada and South
Africa and New Zealand, which saved Belgium, are
told that they will be informed of what will be done.
Belgium is not much of a Power relatively
to France, or even Italy, but it can no more
be ignored to-day than Australia could yester-
day. The Belgian field army is 130,000
strong. It is no paper or schoolboy affair,
but a highly trained and organised force
comprising, in addition to the infantry divi-
sions, heavy, field and horse artillery, three
cavalry brigades, cyclist battalions, machine-
gun sections and 23 squadrons of aeroplanes.
This army is additionally formidable because
it is armed and munitioned largely at home,
and it is in that fortunate position because
Belgium is a highly industrialised country.
And here w T e come to another test of power.
The American Army has shrunk to a de-
risory size, and there are doubts about the
efficiency of the Navy, but no one
the capacity of the nation to rise to a great
fighting occasion if required. The Americans
manufacture their own ships, aeroplanes,
guns, ammunition and every other class of
war material. In a war with Japan they
might lose their colonies and even their
Pacific fleet, but their vast country could
never be effectively invaded or besieged, for
it is militarily self-supporting. Australia, at
June, 1923, had a permanent army of 2073
scattered in forts and barracks from Perth
to Thursday Island; a reserve of 12,009, few
of whom are physically fit for active service;
and 35,649 citizen soldiers wffio would require
to be intensively trained for six months be-
fore they could be sent into action. We
have no modern aeroplanes, artillery or shells,
and no means of making them; no modern
war vessels and no dock capable of accom-
modating one of Britain’s capital ships. That
is why France, which was among the first
to recognise the Commonwealth as a Power
in 1918, is logically able to laugh at the idea
of such a thing to-day; and that is why
Britain is impelled to acquiesce. Downing-
street would like to oblige the Dominions
in this matter. “Anything for inter-imperial
peace” is clearly the watchword of Ministers
who, after 10 defeats on the floor of the Com-
mons, are as devotedly attached to office as
ever. But they realise that they might as
well argue for the making of bricks with-
out straw as for the acceptance as Powers
of nations whose outstanding features are
naval, military and industrial weakness.
» » « «
Instead of whining that we have been
wronged, and pointing to the achievements
of the A.I.F. to prove it (a procedure about
as reasonable as if a bankrupt were to
point to his vanished fortune as a reason
why he should be given credit), we ought to
make a manful effort to get back to the posi-
tion we held as an unchallenged right when
the war ended. A nation can no more expect
to be allowed to> live indefinitely on its past
than any other institution. Every country
must eventually get the status it deserves.
In the pursuit of an honorable position in the
world, and all that it means in spiritual and
material profit, we can plump for either
independent action or co-operation with
Britain. (The blend that Federal Labor
favors —the trick of openly denying that there
is any necessity for us to arm, while secretly
rejoicing that the U.K. is taking the costly
duty off our shoulders —can only lead in the
long run to even more disconcerting experi-
ences than the one which is now being so
artlessly bewailed.) As to which of the two
is the wiser there can hardly be an honest
doubt. The universal tendency to-day is in
the direction of co-operation, and particularly
in the international sphere. Wherever small
nations insist on standing alone they cause
trouble or achieve it. _ There might have
been no European war if the Balkan coun-
tries had come together a dozen years ago, as
the Scandinavian States have done of late;
there would certainly have been many wars
but for the Monroe Doctrine, which quaran-
tined the South American States against non-
American intervention a century ago. Teuton,
Latin and Slav groups are foreshadowed in
Europe, and an Asiatic group, with Japan
as its head, is a possibility in the North
Pacific. Australia’s obvious and only place
is in a British group. From that vantage
point it could aim at any national destiny
it felt capable of attaining. The rise or fall
of its national status would be in its own
hands; and neither movement would be
affected bv our association on land or sea
with Britain or any other part of the
Empire. The Commonwealth and the rest
of the self-governing Dominions have re-
cently been treated as negligible by the U.S.,
France and other parties to the Allied Con-
ference, not because they are parts of the
British Empire, but because in all that cofints
internationally they are negligible.
THE COUNTRY PARTY AND ITS
PROGRAMME.
The Federal Country party has issued a pro-
gramme which may produce no immediate
results, but will probably prove the death-
blow to the present composite Government
in the long run. Yet it isn’t all
foolishness. It contains many platitudes,
much drivel and some delusion, but
there is a gleam-and-a-half of sense. The
gleam consists in the proposal that the Com-
monwealth should acquire, by amendment of
the Constitution, and should exercise, the
right to subdivide unwieldy States. The
half-light is found in the suggestion that
the narrow-gauge railway from Port Augusta
to Oodnadatta should be converted to the
standard gauge, and extended as far as the
Macdonnell Ranges. That would at least be
doing something, but it would still leave the
work only a part-way transcontinental —a
greater part of the way than at present, but
still only a stump and a dead end. Why the
Nationalists didn’t annex these ideas long
ago, and leave to any possible dissentients
only the drivel and the platitudes and the
delusions out of which to construct a rival
programme, can only be ascribed to the con-
stitutional inertia of solemn institutions.
* * * *
No small part of the Country party’s new
profession of faith consists of polysyllables
which might have been transferred bodily
and badly from any Labor manifesto. It is
proposed that the Commonwealth Savings
Bank funds, which are already fully invested
in one tiling and another, should be invested
over again in “establishing a system of co-
operative and rural credits.” The “estab-
lishing” or “opening” of “credits” is a nos-
trum dear to the soul of every Sunday tub-
thumper, but the present real necessity is for
the production of cash for the credit to stand
on. Some purposes to which the credits are
to be applied are:—
To organise the co-operative wholesale marketing of
primary products. Which is vague but may be com-
forting.
To make advances on “broad acres”—they being
presumably better security than long acres—and to
“assist in land settlement and development,” in which
hackneyed cause so much loan money- has been spent
to so little purpose that the country begins to be
justly alarmed about the future.
“Scientific and economic marketing”—this in addi-
tion to the above-mentioned “organised co-operative
wholesale marketing.” Also “legislative machinery
for producers’ co-operative organisation,” and “co-
operative sugar control”; though, judging by what
the butter and- egg people have done, there is plenty
of provision for co-operation already. But it is
well to talk of these things vaguely as though they
were some “blessed word Mesopotamia.”
“Majority representation of producers on every
board or commission dealing solely with the interests
of producers.” But, of course, no such board or com-
mission is possible: unless the consumers and the
taxpayers who guarantee the proposed credits and
things have no interests.
“The mobilisation of resources, the elimination of
waste in primary and secondary production, and the
encouragement of industrial standardisation” —tre-
mendous platitudes which should be illustrated by
diagrams.
“Federal control of quarantine,” which exists
already; local government of hospitals, which the
Federal Government can’t well grant, the matter
being a State affair; “reciprocal imperial preference,”
though Britain absolutely refuses to recip.; and
“regular direct shipping at competitive rates to
potential markets,” which presumably means that
the Commonwealth ships are to cut their rates lower
and lose more money.
The other costly demands are like sands on
the shore for multitude. But economy in
defence is strongly urged. Australia is to
have the best defence system that can be
secured for the least money, or for no money
at all. If one can be devised which will pay
a cash dividend, so much the better.
* * * *
Still, the spokesmen of the Country party,
however foggy and irrelevant they may be
about many things, are clear enough on the
point that they want lower duties, or no
duties at all, on such things as the farmer
has a more particular use for. The list
once consisted of reapers and binders, mowers,
horse-rakes, harvesters, ploughs, harrows,
cultivators, fencing-wire and wire-netting.
But separators have been added, and sta-
tionary engines, and wool-presses, and odd
bits of machinery, and spare parts, and lubri-
cating oils, and shovels, and motor-cars and
many other things. Now it begins to be
realised that the man on the land even uses
clothes and hats and boots, and that an
occasional drink is as necessary for him as
for the next man. As regards some of these
latter items the matter is not being much
pressed as yet, but the movement is develop-
ing. At this stage, a point which the man on
the land might consider is that, though he is
told that Freetrade would make his appara-
tus cheap, he buys nearly all of his im-
ported appliances from Protectionist coun-
tries, because Freetrade ones are too dear.
In 1920-21, the record importing year. N. S.
Wales bought abroad £68,175 worth of “chall-
cutters, etc,” and over £64,000 worth was
made under Protection; £120,845 worth of
cream separators, and Britain, the one dis-
tinctively Freetrade supplier on the list, fur-
nished £5224 worth; it spent £90,566 on
reapers and binders, and J. Bull’s share
was £lO5. That ought to about knock the
bottom out of the importers’ yarn that Free-
trade means cheap goods. Further, the agri-
culturist hasn’t apparently realised the size
and importance of the local market for
foodstuffs, etc., created by the manufacturer,
or the enormous possibilities of its expan-
sion. Taking N. S. Wales as an example
because its figures are most up to date, manu-
factures, in the latest year, produced nearly
seven times as much value in gross output
as all agricultural produce put together
(132 J million pounds against 214 millions).
They produced far more gross value than all
rural industries put together, including wool.
They employed more people, the figures for
1922 being 148,900 in factories against
137,700 on the land in every capacity; and
in 1923 the factory employees had increased
to over 152,000 —the best customers the man
on the land has; in many cases, in fact, his
only customer, and, as events are proving,
his only possible customer.
THE TRAGEDY OF WESTERN
N. S. WALES.
A group of men who know every phase of
the tragedy communicate this as their con-
sidered appeal to the Parliament and people:
In 1891 the Western Division of N. S. Wales
flourished under 15,379,178 sheep, the number in-
creasing in 1893 to 16,028,022. At this time no
sheep were carried on most of the adjoining country
of South Aus. and South-West Queensland, and there
were no dog-proof fences on the State boundaries.
How, then, were the early N. S. Wales settlers able
to cope with the wild dogs ? The answer is that
when the rabbits got into the unoccupied country
in South Aus. and the cattle country of Queens-
land, they provided ample food for the dogs there
to breed up on, the plentiful supply of food increas-
ing their fecundity enormously. While the good
seasons lasted they had no reason to leave their
breeding-ground; but when a dry time came and
the rabbits were nearly wiped out, they had to in-
vade the adjoining sheep country in N. '"S'. Wales.
How thickly they came in was shown by the fact
that on one station which adjoins the South Aus.
border there were 14,000 sheep and 6000 lambs in
June, when the lambs were marked, and only 9000
sheep and no lambs when they were mustered for
shearing in the following September. There have
been no sheep on this station since. Many large
holdings were forced to give up sheep, and the
dog menace to the industry became so bad that the
Governments of South Aus. and N. S. Wales erected
a dog-proof fence on the northern portion of their
boundary. But this still left the Queensland border
open; and eventually a number of leaseholders
formed the Queensland Border Fence Trust, and
by levying upon themselves raised sufficient funds
to convert the Queensland-N. S. Wales border rabbit-
proof fence into a dog-proof fence and maintain it.
The strain upon the resources of the volunteer
trust becoming too great, the fence got out of re-
pair, and settlers further in began to feel the menace,
dogs even crossing the Darling. Representative meet-
ings of pastoralists were then held at Wilcannia, and
the following resolution indicates how the position
was developing:—
That the conference urges as an absolutely neces-
sary means of combating the pest:—-
(1) The immediate repair and maintenance of the
dog-proof fence on the Queensland-N. S. Wales border
extending from the S. Australian corner to Cawarra
boundary, a distance of about 220 miles.
(2) The erection of about 300 miles of new sub-
divisional dog-proof fence.
(3) Provision for proper supervision and main-
tenance of same.
One large holding had marked 17,000 lambs
that year, but that day none were alive, the
loss being attributed to dogs and drought, dogs
being the predominating cause, the owners having
to shepherd the sheep and so keep them continually
driven about, which, in such a season, lowers the
resisting power of the animal. One owner interested
in properties in Wilcannia, Bourke and Wanaaring
districts stated that, although they were experiencing
one of the worst droughts he had known, his stations
were losing more sheep from dogs than drought.
Another owner in the Wilcannia district had delivered
to the Board the scalps of 150 dogs in eight months,
and in that short time, although he had plenty of
feed and water, he had lost 7000 out of 11,000
sheep.
The following comparison of sheep numbers on
properties in the West Darling before and after the in-
vasion will indicate the effects of the dingo:—
Reduced
Sheep Numbers
Numbers Before Owing to
Station. Dingoes Came, the Dingo.
Momba .. .. .. 490,000 No sheep.
Langawirra and Sturt’s
Meadows .. . . 80-100,000 „
Yancannia .. .. 160-170,000 34,000
Grassmere and Cuthowarra 23,000 No sheep.
Morden 60,000 4,630
Tarella .. .. .. 40,000 No sheep.
Wonnominta, Nundora and
Packsaddle . . .. 80,000 „
Tongo .. . . .. 15-20,000 „
Yantara .. .. .. 60,000 „
Salisbury Downs.. .. 80,000 „
Bootra .. . . .. 30,000 2,918
Yandama Group . . .. 53,000 No sheep.
Quinyambi .. .. 20,000 „
Similar figures could be given as to other proper-
ties, but the instances are ample to show the great
loss to the State.
After hearing the case the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment decided to lend £IO,OOO for the purpose of
making the northern fence dog-proof; but, though
the fence was to bar the dingo from menacing the
whole State, it wanted to throw the cost on
a small number of lessees whom in its ignorance
it thought would be the only growers to benefit!
Owing to the impossibility of getting the guarantee
the negotiations failed. In December, 1919, a further
deputation from West Darling lessees waited on the
then Minister, Mr. Ashford, and asked that suffi-
cient money be provided to erect the necessary fences.
This Government agreed to make £50,000 available.
The Government, however, went out of office, and,
the incoming Ministry refusing to honor the under-
taking, the position became more acute. In 1911
the sheep in Wilcannia, Milparinka and Wanaaring
had totalled 1,250,178. By this time the number
had fallen to 271,630 ; and, while it is not intended
to attribute all the loss to dogs, it is definitely
affirmed that if the dog menace did not exist the
districts could be fully stocked again, but that there
is no possibility of it without adequate protection.
Still further representations were made to the in-
coming Government, and the Minister for Lands,
Mr. Loughlin, visited Wilcannia and conferred with
lessees as to the best means of coping with the
problem. A bill was prepared by the Minister and
submitted to lessees for suggestions at a meeting held
at Wilcannia in 1921, Mr. Fleming representing
the Minister and Mr. Langwell the Western Land
Board. The meeting was attended by 140-150
representative pastoralists. The chief item
brought under the notice of the Government
representatives was the omission of provision for
check fences, and it was unanimously resolved that
such provision should be included. Mr. Fleming,
however, advised the meeting that it was no use
talking about fences, as the Minister had made up
his mind not to have them. The bill eventually
introduced did not contain the provision asked for,
neither were the provisions of the South Aus. Act
given effect to, in spite of the fact that they had
solved the problem in the same class of country
in that State. As the fences were the keynote of
the measure and were the substance of all the repre-
sentations made to the various Governments, there
was the keenest disappointment among pastoralists
who had been grappling with the problem for years.
They knew it to be quite beyond the Act as passed.
By this time the sheep numbers had fallen from
16,028,022 to 3,770,345 ; the great Momba station,
which at one time carried 490,000 sheep and re-
turned 7000 bales of wool from one clip, had gone


right out of sheep and was given over to cattle ;
scores of lessees, admirable pioneers, who had fought
the dogs for years and understood the country and
knew its needs, gave up in despair; thousands of
square miles of some of Australia’s finest sheep
country saw the last merino go; stations which had
employed 80 or 90 men all the year round supported
less than half a dozen, more than half of them
black; Wileannia, a thriving township with a
population of over 3000, drifted almost beyond
recognition; stagnation superseded prosperity, and
the country was fast losing the very type of
men for whom the Outback calls. Where 1000 persons
are required in this country under cattle, 15,000
would be supported under sheep. A station carrying
80,000 sheep may be regarded as an employer of
£12,000 worth of labor every year. The average
number of sheep carried in the Western Division
from 1891 to 1893 inclusive was 15,186,117, as
against the average of 5,619,047 for the years 1904
to 1920 inclusive. On the basis of £12,000 per
year for 80,000 sheep, this represents an annual
loss of £1,434,000 in wages. Assuming 50 p.e.
could be marked off for drought losses and over-
stocking, there is still left an annual loss under
this heading of £717,000, making a total of
£11,472,000 for the 16 years from 1904 to 1920.
So much for labor. The loss to the State in
wool-production alone, taking the price at Is. per
lb. (the appraised price under the Imperial Wool
Purchase Scheme was laid.) and the average weight
of fleece at 51b., works out at £47,835,340 for
the same period, not to mention the enormous depre-
ciation in the value of improvements and the decay
of townships, etc. Mark 50 p.c. off this also for
drought losses and overstocking, and there still
remains a loss in production of nearly 24 millions.
In summing up the position, Mr. Loughlin con-
cluded that, as the number of dogs killed in the
Milparinka, Wanaaring and Wileannia districts had
decreased as a result of the border fences, it was
only a matter of putting these fences in repair,
maintaining them and enforcing the killing of dogs.
This, however, was closing the door after the horse
had gone. Dogs had already come in in such num-
bers, and so much country had been forced out of
sheep, that the very condition which the Minister
thought he was fencing against actually existed
inside the fences. South Australia had found out
all about this 20 years before. That State, faced
with exactly the same position, successfully coped
with it by passing an Act u'hich provides that lessees
may form themselves into groups of not less than
three, and petition the Government to declare the
land comprised in the group a vermin area. The
Government then provides the money to enclose the
group with a dog-proof fence and maintain it, and
the lessees within the group are constituted a Vermin
Board for their own area, and it is their duty to
strike a rate on themselves sufficient to repay the
loan with interest in 21 yearly instalments, the loan
to be made a charge on the land. The only work
for the Government is toi collect the rate thus levied
each year, and to appoint a representative on each
Board. The following instances will clearly illus-
trate the effectiveness of this Act: —
Increased
Numbers
after
Legis-
Sheep Reduced lation
Numbers before Numbers Owing Intro-
Station. Dingoes Came. to Dingoes, dueed.
, 70,090
and
Paralana .. 120,000 32 « 000 ' further
in-
vcreases.
Nulyurgerie , f wards "of
Lake Charles No record. Abandoned
Yardea Station 80,000 to 90,000 Abandoned 50,000
Carri-werloo and
two other
stations . . 100,000 Abandoned 100,090
Moorarie and f d Up-
six other I or slightly wards of
stations. 17500 | stocked 300,000
square miles) No record. ( with cattle.
It is the part relating 10 fencing which West Dar-
ling lessees have been urging the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment to enact in the Western Division for over
four years. Under its provisions fencing is entirely
voluntary on the part of lessees, and as the lessee
would pay for the fence it is not likely that any
would be erected which were not warranted.
Deputations comprising some of the most experienced
men in the Western Division have journeyed to
Sydney and asked for the enactment of these pro-
visions. The record of the present Government is
that representations have been made to it since as
far back as 1920 without any result whatever. The
Graziers’ Federal Council of Australia, which is the
governing body of all the. Pastoralists’ Associations
of the Commonwealth, waited on the Minister for Lands,
Mr. W. E. Wearne, in March, 1923, with a further
request that the provisions of the South Aus. Act
be applied. Amongst those present was Mr. I. J.
W arnes, president of the Stockowners’ Association
of South' Aus., and a prominent pastoralist of that
State. After the position of the Western Division
had once again been stated, Mr. Warnes told the
Minister that the South Australian Act had realised
their most sanguine hopes, that after 20 years’
experience the lessees found no occasion to ask for
any amendment, and there had not been a single
failure amongst the groups of lessees who had elected
to fence. The Minister assured the deputation that
he realised the importance of the sheep industry to
Australia, and would introduce the Act the follow-
ing session. But Parliament drifted into recess with-
out the bill even being brought forward.
Meantime lessees had been encouraged to re-stock
their lands on the strength of the Minister’s assur-
ance that the Bill would be brought in. Over a
year has elapsed and lessees are still making repre-
sentations. The effectiveness of the provisions asked
for have been proved by long experience in South
Aus. ; yet, after four years of negotiations for the
application of the same remedy to the same con-
ditipns, nothing has been done, and the appalling
waste goes on.
The operation of the existing Wild Dog Destruc-
tion Act without the provision for group fencing
is the ghastly failure which practical men forecasted,
and after three years the position is no more im-
proved than if it had never been thought of.
The obligation to kill dogs imposed by the
Act is so easily evaded, in spite of the fact that an
inspector may be somewhere within the 80 million-
edd acres; and as the menace does not concern the
cattle-owner to the same extent as the sheepowner,
h is only natural that the destruction of the pest
will not be so vigorously prosecuted by the former.
Hence we have lessees going to the trouble and ex-
pense of killing dogs only to get others from adjoin-
ing i property. On the other hand, lessees within a
group would know that once they eradicated the pest
from their area they would be free from it for
all time. Confined in smaller areas the dingo is easily
handled, but give him the scope of the Western Divi-
sion and he will defy all the Wild Dog Acts ever
invented.
The Minister for Lands has again promised that the
amendment will be introduced “this session” ; and it
now remains to be seen whether the Government will
redeem its past neglect. Australia is vitally in-
terested in the result.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nationalisation of Futilities.
The rise of the motor-’bus is adding to the
worries of the oppressed class that pays rates
and taxes, especially in States where the
metropolitan tramways have been “national-
ised.” In 1913 the British investors in the
Perth Electric Tramway Cos. were bought out
with money lent by another lot of. British
investors (and still owing), the idea being
that “nationalisation” on this plan would
eventually make Westralia a heaven on
earth. Forthwith there was a cry that the
Government had paid a fancy price for a
collection of scrap-iron and mouldy timber.
To this the Labor Premier replied by tri-
umphantly waving a ’ letter in which the
company’s chairman of directors congratu-
lated the Government on the bargain it had
made, and the country on the Government
it had got. The incident is said to have
reduced several stout London financiers to
the verge of apoplexy, so violent was their
mirth. Improved services, reduced fares
and prodigious profits were promised by
the “nationalising” gentry. All failed to
materialise, particularly the profits. Be-
tween July 1, 1918, and June 30, 1923, the
excess of earnings over working expenses
averaged 4.79 per cent, of the capital, a lot
of which has been borrowed at per cent,
and more. In 1921 there was actu-
ally a loss of £9334. And that was
before the motor-’bus had cut into the Gov-
ernment’s monopoly. Motor-’bus competi-
tion threatens to make tramways unprofit-
able all the world over. Though only be-
ginning in Perth, it has had results so dire
that even a Labor Government has been
seared into suspending tramway construc-
tion for “at least 12 months.” This was the
news with which it greeted a deputation of
politicians, Labor and otherwise, who called
to remind it that specific extensions had been
promised by the Mitchell Administration,
and that the material was known to have
arrived. “The Government,” said Will-
cock, the Minister of Railways, “is not
prepared to build tramways while the posi-
tion with regard to motor-’bus competition is
so obscure.” He proceeded in this doleful
strain :
The suburbs are reaching out, and further travel-
ling facilities are required, but the introduction of
the new means of transport has made the position
very uncertain. It costs from £12,000 or £15,000
to establish a mile of tramway, exclusive of rolling-
stock, but you can put a motor-’bus on the road tor
£750, or £IOOO at the outside. The Government
is losing about £6O a week as a result of motor-’bus
competition, although the business is only in, its in-
fancy. Admittedly the Tramway Department is
unable to cope with the morning and evening “rush”
traffic.
McCallum Smith, M.L.A.: If you can’t do it, let
the ’buses do it.
The Minister: If you had a million pounds in-
vested in railways would you allow anything to be
done to depreciate their value to half a million?
It is a thrilling development of the craze
for “the nationalisation of public utilities,”
but the comments of left-behind passengers,
dwellers in outer suburbs and taxpayers at
Wyndham, 2177 miles from Perth, are apt to
be explosive. And here it may be recalled
that the Queensland Labor Government, which
has had numerous opportunities of seeing
what the motor-’bus has done to the tram-
car in other parts of the world, has recently
arranged to give £1,400,000 for an elderly
tramway system in a city not much bigger
than Perth. Surely a case for a brain
specialist!
♦
“American Methods” for Central
Australia.
A certain aspect of sanity attaches to the
Bruce-Page Government’s idea of sending
Stefansson, of the unspellable front name,
to explore along the well-beaten track to
Central Australia, inasmuch as papers of the
orthodox type hasten to hire the cheerful
wanderer as a special correspondent, and
that may tend to advertise the possibilities
of the Port Augusta-Darwin railway route,
and of the N. Territory in general. His
first report was that the expedition had
arrived at Oodnadatta, 668 miles north of
Adelaide, the point where the South Austra-
lian railway ended when the business was
handed over to the Commonwealth, and where
the Commonwealth hasn’t taken up the
broken thread of the parable from that day
to this. Thence the argonauts were leaving
by track for Alice Springs, 400 miles still
further north. It was mentioned that the road,
never a Roman road at its best, is rather
below its own average this season by reason
of unprecedently heavy traffic, and it was
hinted that explorers find traffic a bore. So
far as the procession had gone, the party
described the worst of the land it had seen
as resembling the far-inland State of Wyom-
ing (U.S.A.) ; and Wyoming, which has
trebled its population in 30 years and pos-
sesses 195,000 inhabitants, would be no bad
place to drop in Central Australia. Stef-
ansson recommended “American advertising
methods” to boost the climate as the right
thing; but probably some other “American
methods” would be more to the point. Wyom-
ing and adjacent places got their first trans-
continental line—a road from sea to sea-
-50 or more years ago. It was a land-grant
work, like Australia’s South-to-North rail-
way ; but whereas the private grantees actu-
ally supplied a great work, our Federal gran-
tee has so far supplied nothing save fraud
and disappointment.
♦
The Prostitution of Patriotism.
“Throughout the demonstration for Coolidge, the
Wisconsin delegates remained silent, ignoring the
cat-calls, hisses, jeers and shouts directed toward
them from the marching throng and the galleries.
The Coolidge marchers were determined to get the
Wisconsins on their feet, and finally succeeded by
encircling them afid singing “The Star Spangled
Banner.” The La Follette delegates stood at atten-
tion during the sing’ng, and then stolidly resumed
their seats.”— U.S. Presidential election item.
Most fair-minded Australians will agree
that this manoeuvre of the Coolidge parti-
sans was an unworthy trick more like black-
mail than patriotism. The National Anthem
was only saved from insult because, in a
tense moment and under great provocation,
the respect felt for it by the La Follette
delegates proved stronger than their political
principles. But why should the issue have
been forced on them? Why should support-
ers of the Coolidge Administration, which
is under suspicion of being implicated in a
ramp that has robbed the U.S. Navy of mil-
lions of dollars’ worth of oil, have been
allowed to associate “The Star Spangled
Banner” with their befouled standard? The
only answer that can be given is that this
kind of swindle is worked in most countries,
and nowhere with more effrontery than in
Australia. At every election candidates offer
themselves as protectors of the Empire and
defenders of the Union Jack. The idea is
to convict of “disloyalty” those who dis-
approve of them on personal or political
grounds. Yet these vote-hunters who asso-
ciate the Flag and the Throne with their
electioneering propaganda often have the
sorriest of Imperial records. If young and
lusty it will nearly always be found that
they never seriously attempted to fight for
the Empire ,in battle, and where they are
old they are usually war-profiteers. This is
what might be expected, since the dullest can
see that nothing is more detrimental to the
prestige of King and Empire than for them
to be hauled through the mud of Party. At
present a Union Jack is being exploited on
similar lines every Sunday on a Protestant
platform in Sydney Domain, and in view of
the language employed by the evangelists it
is likely before long to become involved in
a brawl. Prestige apart, there is the graver
consideration that an effect of attributing
disloyalty to sections is to make them dis-
loyal. When a standing right to guard the
honor of the King is claimed by persons with-
out any particular claim to honor in them-
selves, and when the National Anthem is
applied to Eaborites in much the same spirit
as the Test Act used to be applied to Non-
conformists, then a spirit of derision, even
of hatred, is liable to be created in persons
who otherwise would regard the Crown and
its symbols with the detached affection and
respect that most citizens of all classes and
creeds accord to battleships, great public
buildings and national athletes.
*
Killing the Wine Trade.
Dear Bulletin,— A controversy has been
dragging its vinous length through the Syd-
ney press for the past month under the
heading, “Liquor Trade Profits.” The par-
ties are the Rev. R. B. S. Hammond and P.
H. Coates (for the Trade), and, so far, the
cleric is the winner. His task —that of prov-
ing some publicans to be outrageous profi-
teers —was not a difficult one. Pie began by
quoting the secretary of Caldwell’s, Ltd.,
who told the Licenses Reduction Board that
“the gross profit on the sale of wine (by the
glass) was- 233 per cent, on a brand of
tawny port retailed at 6d. a glass, and that,
as a matter of fact, the gross profit on all
wines ranged from 90 to 566 per cent.” It
is this kind of highway robbery that drives
Australians to imported spirits, which,
though inferior in quality and higher in price
than before the war, do not differ much as
regards either feature from one end of the
Commonwealth to the other. It is common
to find a difference of from 25 to 150 per cent,
in price and an incalculable amount in
quality between allegedly the same brand of
Australian wine on offer at hotels that are
only divided by a city block or two. I have
particularly in mind a wine of a champagne
type which was originally put on the market
by the hotels at ss. 6d. The public rushed
it at this figure, which must have returned
the retailer a fair profit, since a leading
George-street house sold it for some time at
4s. 6d. Yet one Darlinghurst pub asked me
7s. 6d. and another Bs. 6d. a quart for it,
the bottle-department Hebes insisting in both
cases that they had ready sales at those
prices. An English friend tried and approved
of our so-called port. “It’s excellent wine,”
he observed, after sampling a glass at one of
the honest hotels, “though not in the least
like port.” A few days later he consumed
part of a beaker of the same wine
(nominally) at the same price, and
was nearly poisoned. These discrepan-
cies are fairly ' common in respect of
all the sweet wines, and to a less degree
in the case of the clarets and hocks, and
every happening of the sort is a deadly blow
to the winegrower. The only consoling fea-
ture of the situation from the Australian
aspect is that similar swindles are being
worked with imported wines. For a bottle
of Moet 1914 one hotel of my acquaintance
is asking 305., while another, not a quarter of
a mile away, demands only 13s. 9d. Inciden-
tally, for the same wine of the same year an
unlicensed restaurant recently charged me
355. It will be said that citizens incapable
of protecting themselves against such ramps
deserve to be taken down, and that the laws
of supply and demand must operate eventu-
ally to bring trade to those who do not over-
charge. Unfortunately, for a variety of rea-
sons, things do not work out in that equitable
way in the liquor business. Hundreds of
publicans are here to-day and gone to-morrow.
They aim at big profits and quick returns,
and often make a success of the policy be-
fore the public, which is not a keen buyer
where stimulants are concerned, and which
mostly judges wine by the state of its head
the next morning, finds them out. And all
the time they are discrediting the wine indus-
try which, with fair treatment, should be
as valuable to this country as it is to France,
even if they are not actually menacing it with
extinction. —Yours, etc., Whitehall.
*
Black Brother and the Missions.
“White Brother” from Farthest North:—
May I come in with a word or two concerning
Black Brother (B. 12/6/’24) ? Having something
to do with missions myself, perhaps I may be biased;
but, anyway, I want to admit that a good deal
(though not all) of what both this writer and “Plat-
man” say is pretty sound. Circumstances make it
such that the law frequently means to the abo. a fear-
some despot, given to oppression, even though free
blankets and tobacco make things sweeter at times.
But who really is behind the “carrying into captivity”
that is spoken of? Take a case. At Lloyd’s Bay
(or very close to it) there is a big aboriginal reserve;
it has been marked off for years. Recently, how-
ever, there were rumors of mineral discoveries of
value in this vicinity, and the cry is now raised —
“Let the nigger shift somewhere else.” And even
when the native is given a decent reserve, there is
the mean type of white man Who won’t let him
alone; so there has to be some sort of restriction
so far as boundaries are concerned, which is the
reason why in some cases islands have been chosen
as the place of segregation. That the result is not
always happy for the abo. has to be admitted. Still
neither of the writers suggests anything better. Seg-
regation seems to be the only thing possible, in
the interests of the native himself, unless one accepts
the policy of extermination, which is still advocated.
A couple of weeks back i heard a man of commercial
standing declare that the abos. had far too much
country set aside as reserves; “Why doesn’t the
Government get in and make the beggars work or
else shove them out altogether?”
I know that the mission stations may not be
doing their job to everyone’s satisfaction; mistakes
have been made and plans have to be tested by
experience. Methods adopted in one mission with
good result may not be at all practicable in another;
I have heard people talk of “pampered niggers” on
one station where persistent effort has resulted in
a settled community of regular habits, and I have
heard the same place described as “only a money-
making concern where the missionaries make the
poor devils of niggers slave all day long.” But
that the abo. regards every mission station with fear
aftd aversion is not true. I am not prepared to say
the same of some of the purely Government stations.
With regard to the condition of things
Lloyd’s Bay way, I know a little about that part,
have been in touch with natives from thereabouts
for some years, and am quite ready to back “Plat-
man” up. But he is inaccurate in saying that
nothing has been done towards making a change.
As a matter of fact, representations were made by
the present writer also. Communication with the
Queensland Government resulted in visits of inspec-
tion, and this year the Bishop of Carpentaria was
asked if he would take- another mission under nis
wing in addition to those already going in his 700,000
square-miles diocese. Matters have just been finalised,
and a staff for the Lockhart River (the new reserve)
has left Thursday Island to begin operations, sub-
sidised partly by the Queensland Government and
partly by the Australian Board of Missions, the
body which finds the cash for most work of this kind.
One of the first jobs that the new superintendent
is booked up for is to run in V.D. and such cases
to T.l. for treatment. He has also to give an eye
to the recruiting of “boys” for the fishing luggers—
including a slant in the direction of Jap visitors.
But there is not to be any “spoonfeeding,” and so
far as possible natives are to carry on under natural
conditions, with retention of local customs where
there’s nothing much wrong with these. Again, on
the opposite side of the Peninsula, down the Gulf,
a new development is taking place on the Edward
River, where the Bishop has just sent an experienced
man who is able to bring knowledge of ethnology
to bear. Which reminds me that the old-time idea
of the white-socked, silk-hatted, long-whiskered mis
sionary is very unlike the real thing nowadays.
Study of ethnology and anthropology is an important,
part of missionary equipment to-day, and there isn’t
any idea of making the abo. into a “white black-
man.” “Platman” may not approve of either of
the two new ventures mentioned, since they are
“mission shows,” but until there’s some better way
of getting the job done, in so far as taking away
Australia’s reproach is concerned, I’m afraid it will
have to go at that. And may I say that the abo.
does learn to till the ground, as a visit to such a
mission as Mitchell River will prove; and, further,
that he is capable of a great deal more than nine-
tenths of Australia’s white brothers give him
credit for.
*
“Wool Blind.”
“Saaedi” : An outstanding feature of the re-
cent ram sales in Sydney was the strong buy-
ing on behalf of S’African sheepmen. Where-
upon many Australian breeders of stud sheep
waxed jubilant, and spoke strongly in favo/
of a continuance of free trade in merinos
Chief amongst the reasons given for a con-
tinuance of present conditions are:—
(1) That any outside addition to the demand la
the stud sheep bred in Australia brings money into
the country and provides encouragement for the estab-
lishment of more studs.
(2) That South Africa will never be a serious
rival in the production of merino wool, and we can
therefore appreciate her support given to the stud
market without dreading her competition.
(3) That we should help and not hinder a sister
dominion in her economic development.
The first argument requires little comment.
Undoubtedly the illest of winds from the
national viewpoint will blow benefits to some
individuals; but this fact doesn’t constitute,
a case for ill winds. As to the arrogant
assumption that S’Africa will never be a seri-
ous rival, the large and growing numbers of
stud sheep purchased and the record prices
paid by S’Africa indicate that the industry
is advancing by leaps and bounds in that
country. Moreover, it needs to be remem-
bered that S’Africa is considerably closer to
profitable markets than Australia is, and that
only the possession of an absolute monopoly
of merino wool has so far made this country
the Mecca of woolbuyers. To-day we are
sacrificing this magnificent monopoly that
a few already affluent stud-breeders may be
further enriched. The misguided individuals
who throw charges of meanness and cowardice
at the heads of those who seek to protect the
pastoral industry from the consequences of.
competition need to reflect on the fact that
every primary industry in Australia not
possessing a monopoly—that is, every primary
industry save wool —is almost chronically
crippled. A monopoly is essential if we
would overcome the handicap imposed through
our remoteness from markets. Regarding the
proposition that we should help and not
hinder a sister dominion, this is undoubtedly
a proper sentiment. But charity begins at
home, and those .persons or nations that insist
on showing benevolences abroad often become
objects for charity themselves in the end. It
seems probable that the world demands more
merino wool than Australia is at present pro-
viding; but we need to remember that there
are vast tracts of pastoral land in the North,
now given over to the native flora and fauna,
that might be utilised to satisfy this demand,
without raising up rivals in other countries.
We are permitting a magnificent opportunity
to expand the wool-growing industry, under
the most promising circumstances of high
prices and world shortage, to slip through our
fingers. Millions have been wasted by closer-
settlement cranks in the encouragement of
profitless production, whereas the establish-
ment of communication betwen the pastoral
country in the North and some flourishing
southern seaside port would certainlv have
placed more people on the land, and given
them profitable occupation, than all the closer-
settlement schemes inaugurated during the
past 10 years. But the very greatness of
our wool production in the past has blinded
our eyes to possibilities in the future, and
dangers ahead go even unguessed.
Repatriation.
T. Martyn writes from Paraguay:—
It took two years to remove 700 of us old-time
communists from Old to New Australia, and the work of
repatriation is still going on. That is to say, it has


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
FUNDS EXCEED - £875,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT and PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, J.F., Governing Director.
Representatives wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
taken 30 years to partly undo the mischief wrought in
two. Undo the whole of it time never can. When dis-
illusion first came the repatriations were many. The
younger, more energetic and unencumbered of the
Utopians got out by hook or by crook. Some, like
the wise virgins, had reserved a little oil, so to
speak. Others had friends that wouldn’t see them
stranded and did the amiable. A few got as far as
Buenos Aires, and were stuck. A whip round amongst
the Britishers and a benevolent skipper got them out
of their trouble. Then the Australian Government
took a hand and repatriated about 60 who had drifted
out into No Man’s Land. Since then, by twos and
threes, the repatriation has been going on, usually
with assistance from the land we left behind us. I
know of only two eases wnere men were able to do
it off their own bats.
It took Billy , his wife and four children 15
years to do it, and the children were grown by the
time he got to N. S. Wales. The wife was the mag-
nificent sticker, and Billy had to keep going. That
was one case. The other was that of Fred ,
single and in his late ’teens. It was rather queer
how he got homesick, for he was one of a large
familv —10 of them, and all in the colony. They
are all off it now but four—three of them under the
turf, and cna in a job in Argentina. One day Fred
told dad that he was going to an unde in Queens-
land. When the old fellow recovered he told his
son to get to it, but he would have to walk, as they
had just sold the only cow that was sellable to cover
the family nakedness. Next morning Fred said so-
long, took his bluey, and walked 30 miles barefoot
to get a job at the railway works. He didn’t keep
it long, as he struck a bullying foreman who started
to maul him and got plugged in the process. He
was given the choice of a pass back to the colony or
up to Asuncion. As Asuncion was on the way to
Queensland Fred took that, and landed in the <api-
tal city of Paraguay with 20 dollars (= 3s. 6d. in
those days) and a bad reputation. He skirmished
round for a bit, and almost wore his new boots out
looking for a job. After trying to jump a passage
on a river boat, and getting booted off by a fellow
with a revolvei' in his hand and another in his
I>ocket, he started to walk out of Paraguay through
Argentina to Buenos Aires. He invested five of his
precious dollars in a map, slung his boots over His
shoulder and set out. When his cash was exhausted
he struck a job harvesting. His life was one in-
fernal round of work and walk, but at last he put
his boots on again and walked into Buenos Aires.
On the second day, as he was loafing round the docks
on the offchance of something turning up, he struck
luck. A fellow-countryman was trying to coax a
thoroughbred up the gangway of a Cape-bound
tramp. Fred volunteered to lead him aboard, and
got the job. A few words in Spanish and a little
judicious stroking did the trick, and the horse was
safely installed in the box. As there did not seem
much chance of getting a boat direct to uncle he
decided to go via Cape Town, and signed on for a
bob a day and his passage. He landed with a couple
of pounds and spent one of them on a stoker, who in
return Was to stow him away in the bunkers of an
Australian tramp bound for Sydney. , On the third
day out, when he came on deck to face the music,
there happened to be a vacancy in the stokehole; so
the Old Man told him not to do it again and
started him shovelling coal. We heard from him
several times. Then we got a photo postcard of
a waggon, with Fred and a wife and two kids sit-
ting on the bales. That postcard was one of dad’s
treasures. I ,wouldn’t like to say how many times
we were all shown it.
Three of our second generation repatriated them-
selves during the war, via England, and some went
from Cosme. One of them stayed in Belgium—a
fine lad. But none came back to New Australia.
And-that is just as significant as Fred’s struggle to
get back to Old Australia —the wonderful land we
left to chase the Communistic chimera.
■ —♦
A Traveller’s Tale.
A disposition to rush for advice to fluent
strangers is one of the characteristics of pro-
vincials, and the counsel they get for their
pains is usually about as valuable as that
offered to the Sydney newspapers of last
Monday by Mr. N. Pemberton Billing. (It
may be mentioned that he is an aviator, and
that lie founded and for several years edited
an aeroplane paper.)
Air, air, air—that should be the watchword of
Australia. A battleship costs about £2,000,000, but
for a like sum many commercial ’planes, with expert
pilots, could be acquired, which would not only
develop existing air services but constitute a safe-
guard to the Commonwealth.
Australia must realise that her defence and safety
rests solely upon the institution and upkeep of an
efficient air force.
Britain is far more easily defensible from
the air—in other words, on the cheap-
than Australia, with its huge coastline and
countless unfortified harbors. With its vast
debt to America, and with about a million
citizens on the dole, it may be assumed that
if cheap ’planes could be substituted with
safety for costly battleships, the Macdonald
Government would make the change. Yet
at the moment Mr. Billing was speaking
a fleet concentration was taking place at
Spithead in which 39 battleships, a battle-
cruiser and nine cruisers figured. The dis-
play was a recognition of a truth which is
as old as the importing habit. After Julius
(Fesar’s death Sextus Pompey commanded
the Mediterranean from Sicily. Philippi
was won. Octavian was within sight of
his goal—the dictatorship of the world. But
lie could not even control Rome so long as
Pompey held sea power and was able to
come between the citizens and their food
supplies. Germany was beaten because the
British were able to close the sea roads to
her, and all the aeroplanes in the world will
not save the U.K. if another Pompey ap-
pears. Nations with sea borders are no
longer attacked only at their front doors, so
to speak. The decisive battles may be waged
7000 miles from the coasts of either belli-
gerent, as the Falklands engagement was;
while defeat is admitted, not by the throw-
ing open of the ports of the vanquished to
their enemies, but by the surrender of the
defeated fleet, as at Seapa Flow. The notion
that Australia will ever be bombarded, much
less invaded, while the British Empire com-
mands the sea is as absurd as the idea that
with sea power gone it could be defended by
aeroplanes. With the sea routes closed the
position of the Commonwealth would be even
worse than that of Rome 194 centuries ago
or Germany in 1918. There are two essen-
tials in modern warfare, credit and arma-
ments, and we depend entirely for both at
present on naval defence. Lacking it we
would not even have the melancholy satisfac-
tion of going down fighting. That we can-
not afford a fleet on the grand scale is, of
course, true. But it is also irrelevant. Co-
operation according to our means is what
Britain expects of us, the sort of co-opera-
tion at sea which the A.I.F. provided on
land. A detachment of Boy Scouts would
not have been acceptable as a defence ges-
ture ten years ago, on the ground that boys
were cheaper than men, and neither is an
offer to “defehd” our coasts with aeroplanes
likely to be taken seriously by the people
who at present are protecting our trade, and
through it, our national life, with battle-
ships.
“Rio”: Touching this adverse criticism of
Australian military discipline by English
officers, has any ever come from a man ■who
has actually commanded Anzacs? In 1918,
TAKING NO RISKS.
“Vic.’s new Labor Premier says that, being in a minority, his Government will not attempt to
carry legislation liable to jeopardise Labor’s tenure of the Treasury benches.”
PBENDERGAST: “ Steady, blokes! Not too high for a start! Remember we don’t know
if he can jump, or — ahem —whether I can ride.”
vvlien British officers had to be returned to
their original units to make room for Aus-
tralians, not one went willingly. The fault-
finders are always those whose acquaintance
with the Aussies is of the slightest. The
latest is Sir George Younghusband, one of
the well-known family of soldiers and ex-
plorers. In his book, “Forty Years a Sol-
dier,” one finds the customary fling at Aus-
tralian discipline ; the N. S. Wales Soudan
contingent of 3885 was the offending body
in this case. Sir George apparently believes
he clinches the matter by his fiat that “We
are all British fighting the same enemy, and
all should serve under the same regulations.”
But should they? Consider the difference in
the conditions of service of the two forces.
The British Army serves continuously in
peace or war. It lives in barracks, with regi-
mental messes, institutes, funds, traditions,
etc. The service is the profession and liveli-
hood of nearly all its members. Officers and
men come from quite different social castes,
so much so that off duty the two have little
in common and seldom meet. The Common-
wealth troops, on the other hand, except for
a few staff-officers and n.c.o.’s, are citizens
whose livelihood is gained in some civil call-
ing. To barrack life they are strangers. They
have no regimental traditions or property.
Socially, both officers and men come from all
grades, and off-duty in their own country
will have the same habits and amusements
withouc any restrictions. All are used to
good pay and living conditions. With two
forces so different in composition, it is in-
evitable that laws and regulations framed to
suit one must be utterly unsuitable and the
cause of trouble in the other. For the aver-
age Tommy to be forbidden to visit first-
class hotels when off duty is no hardship, but
to most Diggers such treatment is a real
grievance. Why should he be debarred from
obtaining such a meal and drink when off-
duty as he would look for in civil life? But
let us see what sort of troops Sir George
does admire:—
Originally a rough-and-ready fighting lot. there
was no spit-and-polish about them; quite the con-
trary. Little drill did they know or practise or
care for, but one thing was certain: they were ready
at any moment day or night to take the field, and
when there were desperate fighters. So the epicures
forgave them and, indeed, when any tight job was
on hand the most fastidious always asked for them.
This refers to Younghusband’s own regi-
ment, the famous Guides of the North-West
Indian frontier. Is there one word that does
not apply to the A.I.F. ? A hard-riding,
polo-playing, frontier-fighting sportsman and
soldier like Younghusband would have
sworn by any Australian Light Horse regi-
ment —had he only commanded one.
»
Every private concern that employs machin-
ery knows it must put by out of earnings
as much as will amount to the cost of the
plant by the time the works are worn-out
or obsolete. For over 30 years The Bulle-
tin has been begging Australian Govern-
ments to do the same thing ; but it was no
good—all Government undertakings were
“permanent.” As a matter of fact, nothing
is “permanent” : it may, indeed, easily hap-
pen that plant is obsolete in two or three
years. Then, if eai-nings have not been put
by to “write off” plant, the owners have to
go on using the obsolete, and their rivals
get ahead of them. Just that is happening
now all over Australia in connection with
street-trams: the more mobile motor-’buses
ought to displace them in scores of streets,
but Governments and municipal trusts dare
not even think of the change, because there
are no sinking- funds to repay the loans with
which the trams were bought. It will pro-
bably be the same presently with railways,
telegraphs and telephones ; and still no public
authority regards a sinking fund seriously.
In fact, Governments could only produce
sinking funds now by hard economy; and
there isn’t one of them with the pluck to
even seriously consider any sort of economy.
—4
State High School education in Tasmania
cost £9 335. Bd. per pupil in 1934. In 3923
the figure had increased to £23 355. sd. The
fact that a considerable number of children
who find their way into the secondary schools
by way of the qualifying exam, fail to stay
the full course (two years minimum) is
used by opponents of free High School in-
struction as an argument in support of their
contention that the State High Schools are
not giving the taxpayers value for their
money, and that secondary instruction would
be better left to private enterprise. The
Tories in the Leg. Council are naturally in
the forefront of the attack on the State sys-
tem —the higher education is “a luxury for
which people who want it should be prepared
to pay.” The trouble is that not all who
want it can afford to pay. For example.
Professor Copland, the active and able occu-
pant of the Chair of Economies at Tas. Uni-
versity, would still be toiling on his parents'
little Maoriland farm but for free secondary
education. Naturally he is among those who
are trying to stem the reactionary backwash.
The other day he pointed out that those who
claimed that the State High Schools stood
condemned because of the large number of
non-stayers they attracted were evidently
unaware of the fact that at least 50 per cent,
of the pupils in the primary schools failed to
reach the qualifying standard. Were they
prepared to condemn State primary educa-
tion because of the number of non-stayers?
If not, why not?
-4— _
“Lex’’ : Many years ago I met one of the
Scotland Yard officials who had the invidious
job of handling the Oscar Wilde case. The
authorities were making strenuous efforts to
persuade Wilde to retire to the Continent.
“If he is prosecuted.” explained the detec-
tive, “the press publicity will create thou-
sands of imitators,” It is the same with
every other form of sex-perversion. A south-
ern paper has been giving prominence to
offenders against little girls, their methods
being described and deplored. The cer-
tain result of drawing attention to
such things in print will be to pro-
duce a crop of new practitioners,
while there is not the slightest hope of
the preventive measure suggested being effi-
cacious. I am all for the freedom of the
press, but this is a direction in which the
good old prerogative should be curbed. It
would be all to the good if an embargo were
put on the reporting of certain specific sex
offences (a list might be drawn up by a com-
mittee of alienists) and on the public dis-
cussion of them outside Parliament. This
might confer a partial immunity from ex-
posure on the offenders. But the diminution
of sex crimes resulting from imitation would
outweigh every other consideration.
4 —
“Flicker”: I suggest that “Centurion” (B.
17/7/’24) is unfair to the Spaniard in more
ways than one. As for “extirpation” and
“ruin” of the native races in Spanish pos-
sessions, is the Don any worse than our-
selves in this respect? In any case, what-
ever great mischief he did was wrought long
before the world reached its present standard
in liumanitarianism; and it should be also
remembered that Spain had to contend with
warlike and highly-organised peoples, very
unlike our poor Binghis. As for the “sloth"
of the Spaniard, he was energetic enough
to hold the hegemony of Europe and the
control of the New World in his time. In
his leisure he built some fine cities, and
wrestled successfully with an irrigation pro-
blem in his more arid provinces. Finally.
1 doubt if the insinuation that Spain shel-
tered Hun submarines during the war can
be substantiated. Merry Del Val, the
Spanish Ambassador to England, long ago
denied such allegations in toto, and added
the assertion that if his country had not
kept strictly neutral the course and dura-
tion of the war would have been very dif-
ferent.
—: 4-
“Machete” : At Delhi the other day Moham-
medan and Hindu had the same old clash
over the same old festival. Sometimes the
Mohammedan hops in because he doesn't like
Hindu theology. Sometimes the Hindu hops
in because he loathes and detests the other
and everything connected with him. On this
occasion the Moslems celebrated the finish of
one of their great festivals by the usual
sacrifice of a cow, a beast as sacred to Hindus
as to N.S.W. dairy-farmers. All the troops
in Delhi had to be turned out, horse, foot and
guns, before the fuss was stopped, and even
then the infantry had to use ball cartridge,
while arson, looting and other expressions
of religious feeling were indulged by the
rioters. It isn’t too much to say that the
only thing all the races of India have in
common is hatred between the Moslems and
the follows of the myriad Brahministic
creeds. Either side is ready and willing to
wipe out the other the day after the Raj
turns its back. To these people that would
mean, not self-determination, but self-
extermination.
♦
From a Digger who went cotton-growing:—
The cotton industry in Queensland promised well,
but the profiteers of Lancashire hoodwinked our
politicians, and the poor thing is now on what
threatens to be its deathbed. All sorts of ridiculous
laws and rumors of laws rapidly put the cotton cocky
in Queer-street, and made his industry such a
precarious one that from the safest thing in the
Si rte it has degenerated into the most dangerous.
So successful has been the anti-ratoon legislation in
“fostering” the industry that of all the cotton gins
lately opened with such outpourings of platitudinous
piffle, but two are in operation. Dalby, Gayndaii
and IVowan, among others, are now idle just because
a band of carpet-baggers, who admitted that th'.v
had never seen a cotton-bush growing, threw dust in
the eyes of local politicians, and bulldozed them into
believing it possible to successfully grow a crop
of tender annuals in an erratic climate.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased person's, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
witn State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-'
i stratum to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
.Barristers, {solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
THE LATEST.
;Y V-
Hidden Valley, via Pine Creek, N.T.
v Y June 6, 1924.
The “Curvilinear” Tables are giving entire satisfaction.
S. R. WEST, Mgr.
The above were bought by the Commonwealth Government after full investigation.
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees:
Guthridge Limited, Camperdown, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary. Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
When the Cocky and Nationalist, organisa-
tions had finished discussing the Brace-Page
pact there wasn’t fnuch left of the original
arrangement. The Farmers announced that
they had no power to negotiate regarding
Darwin, Franklin or Wilmot, rural seats in
the Speck; the Nationalists, for their part,
were anxious to contest Richmond (N.S.W.).
lliverina and Gippsland, and were willing
that Farmer candidates should nominate for
Bendigo and Corio. With these exceptions
it was agreed in principle that the party in
possession should be supported for Minis-
terial seats, and that an exchange of pre-
ferences should be recommended where a
Farmer and a Nationalist opposed a Labor
member; but in every case the district
organisation is to have the last word. The
alterations are supposed to be acceptable to
Page, but Bruce announces that he hasn’t
had time to consider them, the Budget being
more important. That is true; and it will
profit him to remember that constituencies
have rights which are more important than
any Prime Minister.
It has taken the Commonwealth Legisla-
ture 23 years to consider the consolidation
of bankruptcy laws, and the question of
uniform divorce legislation, which would be
a convenience to thousands, hasn’t even been
approached. But when Parliament is in the
mood for legalising some new fad, involving
tne, multiplication of offences against its
dignity, it can be as hasty as a bolting horse
and about as reasonable. The Compulsory
Voting Bill was sprung on the public by an
obscure Tas. Senator on July 16. Next day
the second-reading debate, the committee
stage and the third-reading were disposed of
in 95 minutes. Sent to the House of Reps,
on July 23, the bill was piloted through by
a voluble Westralian Foreign-trader in 50
minutes. Not two hours and a half to “dis-
cuss” a measure of which no forewarning
was given, and by virtue of which hundreds
of thousands of people may be fined £2 at
the caprice of some jack-in-office! There
will really have to be a movement for the
reconquest of popular liberties from the
politicians.
Profiting by the dissension among its oppo-
nents, Labor in Vie. has not only secured the
reins of government, but, with a total mem-
bership in both Houses of 33, has made a
stopgap Senator of Joe Hannan, assistant-
sec. of Melbourne Trades . Hall Council.
Allowing for one vacant seat (Glenelg) and
three, absentees in England (McPherson,
Pennington and Barnes), there were9s avail-
able votes, but only 89 members attended.
Allison and Payne were sick, and Robinson,
Bell, Brawn and White were absent. Ex-
Senator Bolton, ex-Minister H. McKenzie and
ex-Assemblyman White (two Gnasliers and
a Hayseed) were wiped out first, and in the
final tussle Hannan licked ex-Senator Bill
Plain, head of the National Federation, by
46 to 43, getting 13 of the 17 Cocky votes.
So was Labor rewarded for putting Bowser
in the Assembly chair last April. It was
w r ith a fierce joy that it overcame Plain,
formerly one of its own white-haired boys—
the man who was its Lands, Water and Agri-
cultural Minister in the Elmslie Ministry
of December, 1923.
Westralia attained its 13th consecutive
deficit the other day, the amount being
£229,157, and it still states proudly that it
is the least taxed place, save one, in the
Commonwealth. The new W.A. Govern-
ment celebrated the pernicious occasion by
announcing that the State steamship service
was still losing money fast; that the State
had £96,000 invested in the Carnarvon meat-
works, built in 1920 and never started; that
its investments in the Westral Freezing and
Canning and the Westralian Fish' concerns
were two total losses; that the State was
paying 64 per cent, interest on a guarantee
given on behalf of some other show; that the
land-settlement scheme! was not panning out
up to expectations; and that it saw its way
to a 14th deficit next June. In finishing the
Treasurer made a brief but touching reference
to the unparalleled natural resources of the
country.
Said acting-Labor-leader Anstey on the
needlessness of defence ;
At a time when Australia had 400,000 of her
fighting men thousands of miles away, when every
scrap of warlike material had been taken overseas,
when Britain had her back to the wall, and when
Australia could have had no hone of succor, Japan
honored her agreement in word and spirit. Vet
the House was told that it was this particular
nation which threatened Australia’s future.
It all depends from what bank of the Pacific
pond you are looking at the matter. If Mr.
Anstey had been born a Chinaman he might
have quite a different idea of Japan’s loyalty.
The Labor defence policy, as expounded
by Sydney Worker:— .
Labor is opposed to the building of warships and
the construction ofi'a Singapore base. When it rules
again, there’ll be no swaggering uniforms, no rattling
BRUCE'S DANGEROUS INHERITANCE.
THE HEIR: “The foundations have been
rotten for years, and now the prop is
breaking. I think I’ll let it go and
build a brand-new place.”
swords, no jingling spurs. Should the occasion ever
arise, this country can make itself too hot for a
would-be invader to touch without anything bearing
the remotest resemblance, to a navy.
Seemingly, the idea is to poison the enemy
with phosphorus baits; 1 • ’ . " -
The chief objection to the Bill providing
for compulsory voting at Federal elections
lies in one of the arguments used; in its favor
by the mover (Mann, of W.A.) on Thursday :
“In the last Senate election 1,254,178 voters
did not exercise their franchise.” No Act of
Parliament is going to make a rational citi-
zen believe there is anything morally wrong
in refusing to help return one of several un-
acceptable candidates. So the measure has
little chance of making citizens vote, and if
it doesn’t the Government will be faced w 7 ith
the duty of prosecuting otherwise law-abiding
persons by the hundred thousand. As there
are not enough police or courts to cope with
such a situation, the law will have to be
allowed to fall into abeyance so far as the
majority are concerned, thus giving cause
for complaint to the minority. Vote-enforce-
ment, like prohibition enforcement, might do
a little good, and not much harm, in a small
community: applied to a country half the
size of Europe it is a mischievous joke.
An “Australian Rodeo” is projected for
Melbourne in September, at which “valuable
prizes are to be offered for bare-back buck-
jumping, wild steer riding (saddle and bare),
wild steer roping and tailing.” The parti-
cipators in the Wembley affair were saved
by a Bench majority of one from the punish-
ment they had justly earned because it would
.have been impolitic to convict them. The
nation was to blame for the barbarities of
the visitors to the extent that it had encour-
aged them to come and help make a success
of the exhibition. There is no such excuse
for the introduction of steer-maiming and
cow-torturing to Australia, nor is the argu-
ment that other cruelties go on here in the
name of sport a valid reason for the in-
troduction of fresh abominations. If the Vic-
torian authorities permit a “rodeo” on the
lines foreshadowed they will not be logically
entitled to object to the staging of bullfights,
which are even greater draws amongst those
with a lust for blood and agony than exhibi-
tions of cow-puncliing and bullock-tailing.
The other day N.S.W. ex-Premier Dooley
told the Assembly that he knew 7 landlords
who owned “low down, filthy places” on
which they were making as much as 100,
200 and even 300 per cent. Now, if Mr.
Doleful Dooley really knows a landlord who
has a hovel worth, say, £2OO, from which he
extracts £6OO per annum rent, it is his duty
to be more explicit. But this paper is almost
prepared to bet 2d. that he doesn’t —and
never did. This country badly wants a Law 7
of' Accuracy or Statute of Corroboration,
under which Dooley could be hauled before
a competent Court, and made to produce his
landlord, or else be bound over in two sureties
of £lOO each not to be the same kind of ass
again.
Amazing is the ease with which excuses
can be found for doing nothing. The pro-
posal that Australia should build two paltry
light cruisers, seeing that the four existing
trilies are ageing fast, brought Laborite
Anstey to his feet with a proposal—
As efforts are being made by the President of the
United States and the Prime Minister of Britain to
convene another conference to deal with the question
of further disarmament, and in view of the early
sitting of the League of Nations, expenditure on
naval construction should be deferred
“until it is too late, of course,” though the
speaker didn’t put it exactly like that.
“Further disarmament” is a fine phrase,
though. The latest “Statesman’s Year Book”
mentions that Japan is building seven
cruisers, and has six more planned, four of
them j.0,000-tonners. Likewise 24 destroyers
and 28 submarines are planned for the
future, and another 11 submarines and four
gunboats are building in the present, and 40
existing submarines are. still in working con-
dition, and there are aircraft and sundries.
All these doings are perfectly lawful in a
world which fools, traitors and Frank Anstoy
profess to think is disarmed or disarming.
Theodore, of Queensland, has issued one of
his periodical threats to resign. He has struck
trouble in large quantities since his return
from London, and the butter churned out by
his newspaper friends is of no avail. Ilis
London loan settlement has been acidly con-
demned where praise was expected. The
Government has had its ninth railway deficit
(£1,300,000 this time), and in the matter
of ratoon cotton, the ban on which it vowed
it would never lift, it has been beaten by
one resolute old man—-Dan Jones. Then tin*
politicals and industrialists of the movement
are in open quarrel over the basic wage and
the 44-hour week. Worst of all, the retreat
to Federal politics is blocked by the sinister
figure of Myles Aloysius Derricks, who is
making alarming progress in the Herbert. It
is a bleak outlook.
S.A. Premier Gunn has given a straiglitout
No to a deputation which asked for a referen-
dum on Prohibition. The anti-liquor party,
which worked furiously against Harwell at.
the late election, is disappointed and savage.
"For many years Labor has told us, officially
and unofficially, ‘Put us in power, and we’ll
give you a referendum.’ Now that they are
in power, they have shown that they are not
trustworthy.” Thus Schafer, the leading S.A.
Dry, denouncing the authors of “this politi-
cal Judas act.” What the angry gentleman
will say when the Licensing of Bookmakers
Bill is introduced by a Labor publican is
left to the imagination.
The stock of unemployed in N.S.W. is said
to be pretty large, which is ascribed in part
to an influx from Queensland. (During the
last quarter for which figures are available
the Ma State gained 3736 people on the
exchange with xfieodore’s country.) Where-
fore the Fuller Government is assured that
these men want “work, not doles,” and it is
hunting up the work. As a matter of fact,
doles are preferable for these reasons:—
Relief work is generally paid for out of loans,
while even in Australia alms are mostly charged up
to revenue.
The recipient of a small living allowance has time
to look for self-supporting employment and may find
it; but the man on relief work is practically always
there when the work is finished, and has to be pro-
vided for again.
If the relief work was a pyramid or a stone image
it wouldn’t be so bad ; but it is generally something
which promptly starts to lose thousands per annum
in working expenses, and goes on doing it indefinitely.
Wherefore let us dole. |
The swallow that doesn’t make a summer
reached Sydney the other day. He was the
one and only settler with £5OO of his own
bagged under Fuller’s £6,000,000 settlement
scheme, and likewise he was the advance-
guard of the one million farmers who are
to go on Joey Carrutliers’s one million farms.
In fact, he was the one—tire, six noughts are
expected by a later boat.
Following on the two ha’penny rises in the
price of bread, ,T. T. Sutcliffe, supervisor of
labor statistics in the office of the Common-
wealth Statistician, has been chosen by Vic.
Premier Prendergast as a commissioner to go
into the price of bread. It is to be hoped
Sutcliffe will do the job properly, showing,
among other things, how precious little the
farmer gets, and how the continual rises fn
railwaymen’s and other wages have piled up
the costs. The important thing at the moment
is to protect the farmer. Pile a little more
on his shoulders, and down more of him must
go, as thousands have gone already.
Local industry in Melbourne got another
bang in the ribs from the City Council when
the electric supply committee recommended
the acceptance of a Japanese tender for
porcelain insulators, because it was £260
lower than the figure asked by two local
manufacturers. The local manufacturers
would have paid rates, and the men whom
they employed would have paid rates, and
the people from whom the employees bought
their stores would have paid rates, and so
the snowball of rates would have gone on
growing. Acceptance of the foreign tender
simply means that the money goes, and is lost
for ever. But these Melbourne Councils are
incorrigible.
Serious trouble threatens in Tonga—much
like that which followed Shirley Waldemar
Baker’s establishment of a Free Church
many years ago. The rift in that case fol-
lowed on a row over the matter of allocating
the proceeds from the plate. The latest
flurry is the outcome of an amalgamation
of the Methodist and Free Churches. In
theory this was an excellent proposition, but
a row’ started when it came to dealing with
the property. Church buildings in Tonga
are wonderful affairs with ornate decorations,
stained-glass windows and sweet-toned bells,
supplied for the most part by the old German
traders who urged the natives into expendi-
ture of this kind. The one thing lacking in
the present ferment is the old publicity. In
Baker’s time Julian Thomas (“The Vaga-
bond”) was retained by one faction to fe°d
the newspapers with news; and Whitcombe
kept the press supplied with communiques
from the other party.
ABSENT COMPANY EXCEPTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When Labor rules, Australia won’t resemble a
place in which it is taken for granted that the neigh-
bors are a pack of bloody-minded villains, who
would cut -your throat if they got the chance, and
ransack your property.”— Sydney Worker.
“The whole strategy of those opposed to the
A.W.U. in this matter [of its dispute with the
A.L.P.] has been that of the most treacherous and
cowardly blacks—to throw poisoned spears from the
shadows and run away. Something must be done,
ttrst in self-defence and then in self-assertion. It is
unthinkable that the great Movement will tamely
submit to indignities heaped upon it by a gang
who have obtained possession of the A.L.P. and. .. .
base purposes... .private enmity... .sectional aggran-
disement.”—Sydney Worker (same date).
Who says that there is evil in the world?
That malefactors lurk
Ready, when Night her mantle has unfurled,
For any dirty work?
The Labor movement scornfully resists
The theory that naughtiness exists—
Outside the crowd on its expulsion lists.
Why should the hungry Asiatic yearn
To take our land away ?
Why should his honest eyes in envy turn
To where we work and play?
All men are altruistic and sincere,
Careless of gain and morally austere—
Except our sliding-panel artists here.
Put from your minds those pre-selection rows
Founded on sordid greed,
When Labor men were damned as “cheating cows”
(As many were indeed),
And bellow this ; “However black a name
Australians earn, whatever their ill-fame,
Persons who live abroad are not the same.”
x.s.w.
D. J.


STRATEGY.
“The Federal and ate Governments having: set up a Loan Council, and agreed that in future all borrowing should be done by the Federal Govern-
ment, the latter is about to approach the Australian market for £10,000,000 or £15,000,000, for subsequent distribution among the States.”


ĵ
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20
f V‘
'6
MADE IN LONDON BYARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Tarago”: We were trooping past the
orderly-room when the Sarn’major barked,
THE PERSISTENT POST-MORTEMIST.
“ You’re a very rude man—pardon me for saying so, but I always
call a spade a spade.”
“Yes, but if you’d called it no trumps in the last hand we might
have won the rubber.”
“Fall in !” and walked down the front rank
with his notebook. “ You needn’t have fell
in, lad,” he said to the man on my left—
“l only want a guard.” I looked to' see
the reason for the remark; an empty right
sleeve supplied it. “But how about you?”
continued the s.-m., turning to me. I
presented the M.O.’s chit exempting me from
all duties. “Bight,” he said, “fall out.”
The “wingy” on my left looked surprised.
“Gripes!” he exclaimed as we walked away.
“I thought you was gone a million. Wot
was that yer showed ’im?” I handed over
the chit. “ ’S’andy,” he commented when
he read it; “wish I ’ad one of ’em.” “But
you don’t need one,” I said, looking at his
sleeve. “Dunno,” he replied; “that cow
might catch me some day without me over-
coat.”
* # * *
“8.D.A.”: Mac had made a pile in a
North-West (N.S.W.) store. He had a
great nose for a bargain; he scoured Syd-
ney’s warehouses, and bought up oddments
and samples of weird pattern and obsolete
style. Garments too archaic to palm off
even on the most unsophisticated he w r ore
himself. The profits were so big that the
family was sent to Sydney to be educated : and
the girls acquired ideas. They even ordered
Mum to command Dad to wear decent clothes
instead of disgracing them by dressing worse
than the poorest prickly-pear grubber. But
thrift was ingrained in Mac, and the more
fashionable his family grew the more per-
sistently he wore slops, fit or no fit. The
family acquired a modern home with all
appurtenances, and everything was lovely for
the visit of smart school friends —everything
except Dad. The girls vainly coaxed and
bullied, and then Mum appealed to Dad’s bar-
gaining instincts. She spoke of a Sydney
tailoring firm’s traveller who would supply
him with a hand-sewn suit —he could pick
his own material —for £3 3s. Dad scoffed,
but Mum produced the man. Dad beat him
down to £3, swore secrecy, and allowed his
measurements to be taken as he picked the
best dark grey “fresco.” The suit arrived
accompanied by the bill —else Dad would not
have believed the marvel. In his elation he
shaved, picked out a second-best quality shirt
and tie from stock and arrayed himself. He
stood in the doorway of his store a picture
of resplendent triumph. A squatter in from
one of his runs was tongue-tied before the
vision. “Good God, Mac!” he gasped at last.
“What’s 4happened?” “Three pounds!”
beamed Mac, swelling his chest and spreading
himself for inspection, “That be damned
for a yarn! Why”—the grazier ran an
appraising eye over Mac’s figure—“you’re
about my size, and I’ll give you six quid for
it and chance the fit.” “It’s yours,” bellowed
Mac, darting into. the store. Again attired
in the most offensive slops, he drove home and
asked Mum to write to the fool-shop in Syd-
ney for another suit. , What Mum did send
furtively to Sydney was a cheque for £l2
155., the balance owing on the colossal failure
of the conspiracy to make Mac fashionable.
“Hasen”: As the
train neared the end
of its 70-mile journey
the nervous damsel
discovered that she
had lost her ticket,
whereupon the gallant
commercial insisted
that she should take
his. He assured her
that he could manage
without it. At the
barrier he tried to
surge through with
the crowd, but was un-
successful. When
hauled back he indig-
nantly claimed that
the collector had taken
his ticket with the
others. That youth
was quite unimpressed
and a hot argument
started, but it was not
until the station-
master arrived that the
traveller unmasked his
whole battery. “See
here, 5.M.,” he said,
“this man has already
taken my ticket, but
demands it again. I
don’t want to be hard
on him, but he needs
a lesson. Curiously
enough, I had the
same unpleasant ex-
perience once before.
Since then I’ve always
made a point of jot-
ting down the number
of my ticket as soon
as I got it. Look at
this.” He showed a
pencilled number on a
white cuff. “Now see
if a ticket with that
number isn’t amongst
those collected by this
clever ch a p.” O f
course it was there,
and the vindicated traveller went on his
way.
* * * *
“Darnley”: Sergeant Blank, in charge of
the police-station in a South Aus. township,
had caught redhanded a couple of residents
shooting ducks out of season. The birds —
he secured one pair only—were confiscated,
and the sergeant hung them up for safe-
keeping on his back verandah while he went
along to the clerk of courts to lay an infor-
mation and dig out the storekeeper-justices.
The case was fixed for 2 o’clock, and Blank,
arriving home for lunch, walked out to see
that the evidence was all right. A string
of embellished comments brought out Mrs.
Sergeant Blank. “Those ducks?” she in-
quired. “Oh, they’re on cooking—why, I
RATHER FED UP.
THE GIRL: “Don’t you think she has a wonderfully sweet voice?”
THE BOY: “She ought to have — it’s cost me about sixty pounds of chocs, in the last
six months.”
thought you’d had them given you!” As
Blank couldn’t very well explain in court
that the evidence had been eaten, he had to
skip round hurriedly and withdraw the in-
formation ; but in future “Exhibit A” is
going to be clearly branded and located in
a safe place.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : When I was about to marry
down south my mother and my sisters every
day—and sometimes a dozen times a' day-
remembered some new thing I must posi-
tively buy. Up here in Torres Strait life
is simpler. A youth I know very well (he
had put in his full time at his island’s “Gov-
ernment” school) prepared a complete list
of his pre-marriage requirements recently,
and very proudly showed it before dispatch-
ing it to a Thursday Island store. For the
guidance of young men who propose shortly
to give John Ferguson or St. James’s a job,
here it is :
One harmrala (umbrella) ; 6 trade (thread) ; small
akis (axe) ; 1 woman shimmy; 1 pound Tavaca
(tobacco) ; white ealaek for make weden close; 6
spoon; 2 tin cake; tin karsin; 1 white trouger
(trousers) ; flour for hair belong woman; 6 flate
(plates) ; glass belong harcan lamp; 1 packet mases
(matches) ; 3 padam (fathoms) red twill. ’Spose
you find road, you send him along diver boat; ’spose
he no get road, you send him along some nother
boat when you got channis by an bye. That all,
my word. Good bye.
* * * #
“T.C.W.”: Touching “J.II.M.A.’s” query
(B. 26./6/’24), I don’t know when the
stocks disappeared from York-street, Syd-
ney. But I do know that 40 years ago,
when I was a lad, I was sentenced at the
old Central Police Station in York-street
to a penalty of five shillings fine or two
hours in the stocks, under a statute dating
back to Charles 11. The crime of which I
had been convicted was selling a newspaper-
on Sunday; I was prosecuted at the insti-
gation of a church elder. I remember, when
I asked about the alternative, being told
that the police had no stocks on hand, but
I cannot say how many years the shortage
had existed. The paper I had been selling
was the Liberal, a progressive weekly
edited by Charles Bright, journalist and
lecturer. The prosecution caused some stir
at the time, The Bulletin devoting a full-
page cartoon to it.
* * * #
“Kyver”: The Christmas of 1916 saw our
company, broke and with no payday in sight,
billeted behind Fleurbaix. Feeling desperate
we sent a deputation to the C.O. with the
request that we be paid five francs apiece, in
order to celebrate the season; all it got was
a polite expression of regret that such a
course was impossible. Later, however,
sympathetic company officers sent word that
they had purchased an 18-gallon keg of beer
for us. We held a meeting and decided to stand
on our dignity—if we didn’t get paid we
wouldn’t drink their blanlty beer. When
a fatigue rolled the 18-gallon into the lines
we gathered around, cheering ironically and
passing sarcastic remarks. The barrel re-
mained unbroached the long afternoon and
evening. We went to bed dry-tliroated, but
consoling ourselves with the reflection that
we had been true to our principles. A few
hours later I awoke, consumed by the parch
of a lifetime, silently dressed and crawled
out of the hut. Outside I heard uproarious
laughter, and a sudden fear that I might
be too late gripped me. I was. I arrived
at the barrel just in time to see Bluey, the
strike leader, gulping down the last pint.
“Harold II.”: Hurstville (N.8.W.) has a
paterfamilias who must have established
something like a record in its own way. He
did not marry until he was 57; now, at 79,
lie has a family of 10 children, the last a
few months old. Dad still does a hard day s
work to feed the hungry mouths.
* * * *
“Reporter” : New legal principles are in-
cessantly being established. In the English
King’s Bench Division last year it was laid
down for the first time that an action will
lie by a married woman against another
woman who has enticed away her husband.
Of course, it was established long ago that
the husband had an action for damages if
deprived of the society of his wife. This
action “ per quod consortium amisit” was
maintainable whether the wife was lured
away by another man or temporarily in-
jured, say, by an accident for which a third
party w-as responsible. It was quite dis-
tinct from the old action for crim. con., now
replaced by the claim for damages against
the co-re. in a divorce suit. But a wife s
rights in a husband have always hitherto
THE SOFT ANSWER THAT MAKETH
A MAN MAD.
HE (after a horrible silence ) : “Well, men
are damned fools to marry! That’s all!”
SHE : “Of course they are, dear. But what
are women to do? There’s nothing ELSE
they can marry!”
been rather misty. In this case counsel
argued that a wife is her husband’s pro-
perty at law, but that a husband is not the
property of his wife. Justice Darling, how-
ever, after quoting the marriage service, cer-
tain American decisions and Tennyson, over-
ruled the contention. The fact that the
jury returned a verdict for the defendant in
the case at issue doesn’t affect the principle.
(Continued on page 16.)
LEARNING TO DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mum fox-trots smartly with the plates,
Or one-steps with a movement strange,
Or pirouettes and slides and skates
Between the table and the range.
They get together after tea—
Bad’s hug is bear-like and secure,
Ma sings a nigger melody •
They shimmy-shake with childlike glee
Around the kitchen furniture.
Dad swore that he would never learn—
He hated any thought of it.
’Twas hard to teach him when to turn,
He could not sway or glide a bit.
But he is bitten very deep:
He fox-trots now behind the plough,
And dances following the sheep,
He even waltzes in his sleep,
With two-steps homeward brings the cow.
They’re learning from a maiden slim,
Who has a class at Good and Fine.
Dad says that she will “do for him’’—
Embracing Mamie’s form divine
He sports a quite seraphic air,
He steps in time by happy chance;
You’ll often hear him now declare
Man something has to live for where
There’s opportunity to dance.
Dad two-steps blithely o’er the grass,
His mission is to feed the pigs ;
We see him to the cowpen pass,
He waltzes, jazzes or he jigs;
His face a rapt. expression wears,
He’s tasting of a new romance—
The two old people down at Dare’s,
At two pounds quarterly for pairs, ■
Are being taught the way to dance.
VICTOKfA.
DIDO.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged ..
W. J., Hanley Beach
..£317 13 fi
10 0
£3lB 3 6
Contributions should be addressed to lin.
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
Peapes’ “ Warrego ” Shirt
Ideal for Outdoor Workers.
j
Strongly made, with extra strong thread and
adequate reinforcement, of specially imported
Snirtings.
Does not soil readily, but washes easily
and well.
Two capacious pockets with button-down flaps,
attached collar that buttons down at peaks,
cuffs that fasten with a single button.
The “Warrego,” in grey or fawn pin-
head shirting 10/6
The Khaki “Warrego,” of heavy khaki
shirting 11/6
The Tropo “Warrego,” of light, strong
khaki shirting 10/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
The original Pflsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops.
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported.
Guaranteed free from all chemicals.
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass or
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors: —
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney,
Or their Queensland Agents:—
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
“Singemoine’s"’ diplomatic triumph
The reputation that the A.I.F. enjoyed for ferocity
amongst the office-men of London was a blessing lo
some of them. Towards the end of 1917 a couple of
convalescent Anzacs exceeded the beer-limit, returned
to Wandsworth in a riotous condition, smashed some
of the hospital appointments, and (worst of all!)
defied the Commandant. A court-martial gave them
two years apiece. Their previous records had been
good, and the man-shortage was serious. Also, tne
father of one of them had a political pull; wherefore
an official cable arrived from Melbourne pointing out
that the sentences, if enforced, “would have a
disastrous effect cn recruiting in Australia.” A
mild Colonial Office clerk was chosen for the delicate
job of saving England’s face and at the same time
freeing the culprits. Later he told me the rest of
the story. “I decided to send for them,” lie said.
“Yes; to risk a meeting in person. They arrived
HE’LL BE A POLITICIAN SOME DAY.
“It was very greedy of you to eat your
little sister’s share of cake.”
“But you said, ma, that I was always to
take her part.”
at my office, gigantic creatures, and furious. Quite
pale with anger. However, I had my duty to do: 1
faced them boldly. ‘Sit down,’ I said. On my
desk was a beautiful cake. A present from friends
in the country. Full of everything rationed. ‘Have
a piece of cake,’ I suggested. They did so. ‘Have
another?’ They complied. To make a long story
short, they were not long in finishing the entire
cake. I was then ready to strike. What I wanted
from them was a signed apology. ‘Shake! ’ I cried,
extending my hand in a hearty Colonial manner.
Still glowering dangerously, they shook. ‘Now what'
■ —said I genially—‘what about a quiet lunch at the
Savoy—you two men, the Commandant, the matron
and myself? At ray expense. What about it?’ There
was a moment’s hesitation. They looked at each
other as though stupefied by my audacity. Then.
‘W~ Unn’t mind if we do,’ they replied in unison.
The battle was won. A moment later, and they were
signing the letters that I had had typed in expecta-
tion of victory, and in another five minutes we were
all in one of the departmental cars en route for
the Savoy.” Incidentally, the desperadoes were re-
spectively a draper’s assistant aad a bank clerk in
private life—quite well-behaved suburban lads who
RATHER DIFFICULT SO FAR.
MRS. HYBKEED : “I see you have a new car. Who drives it?”
MRS. SUGGSEED : “No one. John coaxes it.”
would have faced a barrage rather than a night
in gaol.
“Prickly P.” : Hugh Munro, of Iveera, lias
a surprise in store for the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners if ever he buys another pig
in Sydney. When the North-West squatter
was in town for the Show he bought a pig
to improve the flavor of the household’s break-
fast bacon. It cost £5 10s. to truck the
animal to Warialda. Its owner reckoned
when he got the bill that the Commissioners
were teaching him a lesson in kindness to
animals. Next time he sends _ a pig home
lie’s going to buy a first-class ticket and en-
gage a sleeping-berth. So he will make the
beast comfortable and save on it, as first-class
fare and a sleeper only come to £4 11s 3d.
“M.”: Point
Cooke, the head-
quarters of our
flying-men, is fre-
quently mentioned
in print nowadays;
but why is the final
“e” invariably
dropped ? It was
named in 1837 by
Captain Hobson, of
11.M.5. Rattle-
snake, after one of
the ship’s officers,
whose name ap-
pears on the Ad-
miralty Records as
Cooke, and is spelt
similarly on the
chart of the bay
which was the re-
sult of the survey.
Other names (be-
sides that of Hob-
son’s Bay itself)
commemorating the
Rattlesnake’s offi-
cers are Symonds
Channel and Short-
land’s Bluff (now
Queenscliff). Cap-
tain Hobson was a
few years later ap-
pointed Governor
of Maorilan d.
Lieut. Symonds
died in 1894 Sir
Thomas Matthew
Symonds, Admiral
of the Fleet. Lieut.
Shortland also
reached flag rank.
He was a nephew
o f Lieut. John
Shortland, dis-
coverer of the
Hunter River.
“Artist” : The supposed or suspected Corot
just added to the Melbourne National Gallery
was purchased for £lOO from a Melbourne
girl, who evidently was quite ignorant of its
value or possible value. Whether the trustees
disclosed what they knew or thought they
knew hasn’t been disclosed. The little canvas
is reality itself —like the other Corots, it is
“a hole in the wall.” To the right a coun-
try road emerges from a clump of tliickly-
foliaged trees —full of the variety of nature
in tone, color and form. A French peasant
in blue smock jogs along the road. Near by
a couple of goats graze on the rich grass. At
the back a line of bushes broken here and
there denotes the bank of a sheet of water,
which stretches right across the canvas. On
the extreme left in absolute contrast to the
other trees rises a slender, bare trunk,
round and solid. Space and light are ren-
dered perfectly; every object has volume and
its characteristic texture, and takes its place
as in nature. The gilt frame (not bought
with the picture) is damnable.
“T. 0.1.” : A century-old mansion in Lang-
street, Sydney, is under sentence of
demolition to make way for additions to the
Wentworth Hotel. In Governor Brisbane s
time three handsome buildings were erected
on Church Hill, designed for Government
offices, but they proved, insufficiently central,
and were sold by auction to Joseph Under-
wood, of Ashfield Park, for about £2200.
Underwood died in 1833, and the property
passed into several hands. The southern-
most tenement is believed to have been
occupied by W. C. Wentworth as a
town house; later it became a hotel.
After being partly burned down it
was reopened at the Wentworth. The
centre house, the one about to be demolished,
was the Royal Bank, established by Ben
Boyd ; in 1852 it was the Colonial Treasury,
and there the first gold escort from Bathurst
brought its precious load. Of late years the
Freeman’s Journal had its office there.
* * * *
“Pills”: Some people set a high value on
an apology. A Melbourne citizen was run
down by a motor-car the other day while
perambulating homewards on a push-bike.
The car was on its wrong side, and the bike
was broken across; its rider had a brace of
ribs fractured and a damaged occiput, com-
bined with cuts to the face and many abra-
sions. The tout for a firm of shypoo solici-
tors called upon the injured man and tried
to persuade him to take action against the
car-owner for substantial damages. “Oh, I
cannot do that,” said the hurt citizen. “But
you can,” persisted the tout, “and you would
be absolutely sure to recover.” “No, I can-
not,” pursued the victim. “You do not know
the whole circumstances. The driver has
apologised.”
“Bildad”: “Burglar’s Laborer” gives a
hackneyed explanation (B. 24/7/’24) as to
why Roman Catholics constitute such a
large proportion of the N.S.W. gaol popula-
tion when they constitute such a small section
of the community. These people in gaol, he
says, are not Romans, but call themselves
such to get the advantage of the ministrations
of visiting priests and nuns. Quite apart
from the fact that some people would rather
avoid being troubled with ghostly advisers,
this yarn falls through on the point that tin;
R.C’s. make an even worse showing among
prisoners in for drunkenness than for other
branches of crime, and the drunk isn’t in
long enough on the average to qualify for
spiritual consolation. My idea is that the
R.C. Church, which is prepared to absolve
from sin, is the natural one for a criminal to
belong to. Thus in the days when brigand-
age was conducted on a heroic scale (mostly
in R.C. countries), every well-furnished band
had its chaplain. He granted absolution to
his movable flock after each crime, especially
each very bad crime, so that the gang was
always ready to appear before its Maker if
things went wrong. No Methodist sky pilot
would be of the slightest use to a force of
brigands.
* # * *
“H.K.”: Apropos the Victoria, recently
mentioned as Australia’s first warship,
acquired by the Vic. Government in 1855, a
Darlingliurst (Sydney) matron has a
mahogany dining-table made from the vessel’s
planking. The Victoria, a craft of 580 tons
and 150 liorse-power, equipped with three
68-pounders, weighing scwt. each, was use-
fully employed as a ports and harbor steamer
in the later part of her career. In 1893 she
was broken up and sold. Her copper pro-
peller brought £5OO, and her mahogany plank-
ing, splendidly seasoned, was snapped by
knowledgeable furniture-makers.
* * * *
“Borom” : The hand of an executed crimi-
nal was valued as something more than an
emblem of good luck in the England of two or
three hundred years ago (B. 24/7/’24).
Hands stolen at night from gibbets and gal-
lows were consistently \ised for making what
was known as a “torch of glory.” The hand
had to be taken from the dangling corpse
exactly at midnight on the first full moon
after the execution. Incantations were
droned over it, it was preserved in spices, and
finally it was soaked in tallow, in such a man -
ner that when wicks inserted under the
finger-nails were lighted they burned like
candles. With the aid of this torch it was
thought possible to see hidden things and
discover buried treasure. Incidentally, over
a hundred years ago, in Sydney, the right
hand of a man hanged for murder was mys-
teriously cut off the corpse and taken away
within a few hours of the execution.
SO OF COURSE HE DIDN’T.
TOM: “ Fred says you kissed him the other
night.”
PEGGY: “Oh, I did not. Besides, he pro-
mised he wouldn’t tell.”
“Flaneur”: The reported capture and
detention of two white women, sup-
posed survivors of the Douglas Maw-
son, by Arnhem Land (N.T.) natives,
recalls ' a Victorian happening of the
’forties. Shortly after the settlement ot
Victoria a rumor gained currency that a
white girl was held prisoner by a tribe ot
Gippsland blacks. The story was widely
repeated; and at last, in 1846, a black
trooper declared he had actually seen the
girl, and an expedition was despatched to
the rescue. No trace of a white woman was
ever found, however. The mystery was not
cleared up until years afterwards, when the
district had become more settled. Then it
transpired that one of the tribes had
been in the habit of carrying round a figure-
head taken from a vessel wrecked on the
Ninety Mile Beach.
THE LANGUAGE OF CLIPPINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gentlewoman, Plot., small means, des. corr. lion,
gent., 45-55, rfmt. ess., v. Mat.“ —S. M. Herald.
Tell me, are you an honorable gent.
Or just an honest one? Little or nought
Is there to indicate which word is meant,
Or which variety of helpmate’s sought.
Even an honorary one might fill,
Conceivably, the matrimonial bill.
’Cause, if you are—and fifty (more or less)
Summers with grey your thinning thatch have
shot —
There waits your prompt response, your shy caress,
Your plighted troth, a “Gentlewoman, Plot.”
Protuberant? Protective? Stow your cant!
In “v. Mat.” ads. it stands for Protestant.
Small are her means (observe that here are no
Contractions that might be misunderstood).
Whether she’s plump or svelte there’s nought to show,
Brunette or blonde. But if she’s half as good
At mincing meat as words, I take it that
Who snavels her will draw a prize in “Mat.”
Shingled or bobbed? That you may know anon.
Indeed that’s mainly what the ad. is for.
With you or anybody else who’s on
The eligible list she “des.” to “corr.”
She’ll jib, I’m game to bet, at questions none
That look like leading to the crucial one.
But stay! One other thing this bit o’ skirt
Demands in swains—or from them, it may be.
“R.f.m.t’s” “ess”-ential. That’s a cert.
But what the dickens is r.f.m.t ?
“Refinement” or “refreshment.” Doubtful, eh?
Best “corr.” and ask. ’Tis she alone can say.
N.S.W.
IFORD.
THE SONG OF HIGHER-SLEUTHA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Superintendent of Police (Sydney) desires
that the public be warned against a young man who
is imposing on citizens, by stating that he is a
Cambridge man. He has obtain'd various sums of
money by this means.”—S. M. Herald.
Should you meet a youthful stranger
, Who, by way of introduction,
Says “Good day! lam from Cambridge—
Cambridge famed for mathematics,”
And if, after some such prelude,
He should try to borrow money
On the strength of rich relations
On the tropic shores of Fiji,
Or attempt to sell you watches,
Bricks of gold or public fountains,
Then avoid him. By such methods
He has swindled many others.
No description can we proffer,
Nothing further say to help you
In unmasking this impostor.
Is he short or tall of stature,
Fat or thin, or plain or handsome,
Dark or fair? We cannot tell you.
Nothing has the Force discovered
Save that he lays claims to Cambridge
As his former Alma Mater.
Should a brain-wave, therefore, strike him,
And shrewd thoughts of a disguise come
On his mind like night-thieves stealing ;
Should he. shortly, say that Oxford,
Durham, Dublin, Yale or Melbourne
Yielded him his store of culture,
Then our hands are tied and helpless.
, As a Cambridge man we know him
For a trickster and a take-down:
Wearing any other label
He is, ipso facto, honest.
K.B.W.
10-2-4.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Head Office: Southern Cross Buildings, 315-317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches : Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel Foundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production or
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St.
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand: —
Dividends.
“A.” “B.” and Ord. Writ-
-10 p.c. 15 p.c. ten
March, Profits." ~ OIL Reserves.
1915. . £369,486 £229,460 £50,000 £2,057,170
Premiums on new sliares, £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 335,801 236,507 50,000 2.118,6.15
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246,59 5
1918.. 386,607 237,500 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
“A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 174 p.c.
i )
1920.. 469,046 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
divs. 134 p.c.
1921.. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922.. 682,043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,519
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £148,112 2,395,069
Inner reserves disclosed . . 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on new shares 3,454 2,582,988
1924.. 735,832 137,436 349,871 2,831,513
Profits were larger in only one other year —
the period in which the final flutter of the
war-boom gave the Australasian banks ex-
ceptional profit-earning opportunities. When
the reaction set in, B.N.Z. profits declined
considerably, though not sufficiently to affect
the div. distributions. The following table
shows how the profits were arrived at after
debiting interest on guaranteed stock
(£21,109) :
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1915 .. £755,240 £284,525 £74,548
1916 .. 801,337 307,148 137,096
1917 .. 964,911 330,228 198,052
1918 .. 1,106,442 352,250 346,385
1919 1,217,153 371,659 386,273
1920 .. 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 .. 1.844,017 510,467 485,095
1922 . . 1,809,256 528,174 577,840
1923 . . 1,546,041 525,532 445,671
1924 .. 1,709,289 562,596 389,661
*Less provision for contingencies.
For the latter half of last year the manage-
ment had the use of nearly £1,125,000 of new
capital, but its employment did not expand
earnings to the size of those of two and three
years ago. Compared with 1922 gross earn-
ings were almost £lOO,OOO smaller, and
£34,422 more was taken by expenses; but
the bank was called upon for £188,179 less
for taxes, and the net profit was consequently
considerably larger. However, earnings of
other years have proved to be better than the
accounts showed: considerable sums had been
laid aside to protect the advances depart-
ment against losses which seemed likely when
the boom eased. One batch of doubtful
accounts which have again become sound, or
have been liquidated, have released £184,465
of internal reserves, and that amount is now
added to visible reserve funds. For some
years the B.N.Z. had also written down the
book value of Government securities, and on
selling big parcels during the past 12 months
—the money went into new public stocks
which will mature on dates more suitable
fqr the bank —they realised £148,112 more
than their written-down book values. These
two amounts and the year’s surplus profit
added £581,102 to reserves, taking them to
well above 2f millions.
Practically all of the £1,125,000 of_ new
capital was subscribed at par. The 958 £1
shares not applied for by shareholders, to-
gether with 1247 fractional shares, were dis-
posed of by tender at a premium of £3454.
The Maoriland Government is a one-third
partner, and by taking up its! full allotment
of £375,000 of new shares its holdings have
been increased to li million. Ordinary
shareholders put in £750,000, taking the total
of their scrip to three millions. The Gov-
ernment’s shares are made up of a half-
million of 10 p.c. prefs. and a million of
“B” prefs,, which carry rights giving the
Government participation with ordinaries.
The division of profits is now somewhat in-
volved, the capitalisation of reserves of four
years ago having disturbed the old basis of dis-
tribution. The existing arrangement provides
that if the amount proposed to be distributed
exceeds £356,250 —the aggregate under the
div. rates of 1920 —any excess is to be
shared as to one-third as a div. on
the Government’s “B” shares and as
to two-thirds as a div. on ordi-
naries. For the past year the latter
have had 20 p.c. on their capital prior to the
reconstruction, and a div. at the rate of 131
p.c. on the new capital put in during the
past 12 months. Meanwhile the Govern-
ment is getting a high return on its money,
and, unlike the Commonwealth and its bank,
the Maoriland Treasury takes a big div. in
the form of taxes: £389,661 (including
rates) last year.
The disclosure of inner reserves in the
latest accounts is an intimation that the
B.N.Z. management is thoroughly satisfied
that Maoriland has recovered from most of
the troubles which hit the Dominion hard
when war-time produce prices collapsed and
shook the foundations of many securities.
Some industries are still in a bad way, par-
ticularly that section of the freezing industry
which was under-capitalised and depended
overmuch on borrowed funds. Many of
these cos. collapsed altogether, depositors
lost their money, and guarantors were called
upon to re-pay hank advances. Several
of the freezing works which are still being
nursed by the banks are staggering under
heavy debts, and their future is very doubt-
ful. The woollen manufacturing industry
has lately not been so prosperous, owing to
keener competition from overseas. Mean-
while many primary producers are struggling
to make a success of properties bought at
inflated prices. High land values are
probably the greatest bar to restoring
Maoriland to a thoroughly sound basis.
Nevertheless, the outlook generally is much
improved. Though taxation rates have been
reduced, the Treasury was able to show a
surplus of £1,812,000 on a revenue of
£27,960,000 for the 12 months ended March,
and the year’s exports of £51,652,606 were
7i millions in excess of imports. Generally
money is not nearly so tight or so dear as it
is in the Commonwealth; the Dominion has
an elastic currency and the banks have not
failed to take advantage of their note-issuing
powers and to increase currency to public
requirements, at the same time, of course,
closely watching safety limits. As a result
the Dominion has not suffered so severely in
the exchange hold-up. Advances are cheaper
than in the Commonwealth ; and in the South
Island the ruling rate for first-class mort-
gages is 6 p.c., and a half point more in the
North Island.
How this big bank’s liabilities have moved
in 10 years is shown in the next table: —
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1914.. £989,882 £1,403,457 £18,070,613
1915.. 1,676,051 1,670,103 18,741,657
' 1916.. 1,862,823 1,767,410 23,556,677
1917.. 2,560,325 2,007,968 29,052,791
1918.. 3,312,995 2,329,559 30,437,937
1919.. 3,728,249 2,860,391 31,716,353
1920.. 5,765,337 3,708,305 37,661,611
1921.. 4,741,492 4,116,574 34,475,655
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,676,603
1923.. 4,564,695 3,739,310 30,003,927
1924.. 4,072,101 3,368,426 30,501,720
Meanwhile the asset groups have behaved in
this way:—■
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1914.. £12,590,187 £11,360,486 £449,577
1915.. 14,227,407 11,849,166 451,867
1916.. 19,431,080 11,844,767 441,867
1917.. 22,082,870 15,746,485 450,813
1918.. 22,626,103 17.786,755 425,824
1919.. 23,948,301 18,865,538 399,867
1920.. 33,120,009 19,481,848 361,108
1921.. 18,922.513 30.506,629 337,469
1922.. 18,250,158 24,783,560 296,473
1923.. 25,423,237 19.341,762 308.379
1924.. 26,011,290 20,128,292 352,474
Securities have in many instances been heav-
ily written down to make the bank’s posi-
tion stronger than its published figures
show. Capital and visible reserves now total
£7,331,513, and there is also £529,988 of
4 p.c. stock which matures in 1934. Alto-
gether the B.N.Z. has funds of £7,861,501,
and its total liabilities to the public at
March 31 were £37,942,247. It thus held
only £4 16s. 6d. of the public’s money for
every £1 of its own, compared ■ with £6 ss.
12 months ago. And though the manage-
ment, having new capital available for in-
vestment, had been encouraging new advances
business, at the balancing date no less than
68.1 p.c. of all outside liabilities was in
liquid assets. The £11,931,000 of deposits
and other liabilities not within handy reach
or backed by paper guaranteed by the Gov-
ernment was protected by advances written
down to £20,128,292. besides premises with
a book value of £352.474, which is so much
less than their actual value that the direc-
tors have, for the present, decided not to
strike off any more.
* * * *
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914.. £13,957 10p.e.= £12,000 £1,957 £21,896
1915.. 15.615 10 „ „ 12,000 3,615 25,511
1916.. 15,571 10 „ ~12,000 3.571 29,082
1917.. 15,350 10 „ ~12,000 3,350 32,432
1918.. 16,633 10 „ ~ 12,000 4,633 37,065
1919.. 16,017 10 „ ~ 12,000 4,017 41,082
Co. wound up and ss. per share ( £30,000) dis-
tributed in cash.
New co. formed, assets written up and 30,000
fully-paid £1 bonus shares issued.
June,
1921 *. 14,424 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,924 2,866
1922.. 17,852 10 „ ~ 15,000 2,852 5,718
1923.. 18,556 10 „ „ 15.000 3,556 9.274
1924.. 18,392 10 „ ~15,000 3,392 12,666
*lO months.
The Hotel Metropole adds to its very solid
record another 10 p.c. div. easily earned.
That rate gives a high return on the capital
put into this co. to relieve the Melbourne
crowd of the huge building they had put up
in the boom days. The present co. began
in 1905, and within a few years good profits
were being harvested ; subsequently the earn-
ings grew large, and by transfers of reserves,
cash bonuses and a reconstruction, between
1910-21 £71,877 over and above divs. went
into shareholders’ pockets, and £75,000 of
bonus scrip doubled the paid capital. Besides
the profits shown in the introductory table,
regular additions are made to machinery and
furniture renewal accounts (£llBO for the
past 12 months), and because in the past all
renewals were apparently provided for inde-
pendently of these reserves—they dis-
appeared in the reconstruction that added
considerably to the book value of the
hotel and its equipment—the £4lBO
now lying in them is probably also
genuine profit, and the annual additions can
reasonably be regarded as extra net pi'ofit.
Apart fi'om the renewals additions, last
year’s profits returned 12.2 p.c. on paid capi-
tal ; including them the return was 13 p.c.
These earnings are very good considering how
much more difficult it has become to run a
big residential hotel since the Courts have
increased wages and reduced working hours,
and since taxes have pressed harder: during
the past 12 months State and Fedci'al income-
taxes, rates, licensing fees and license-
reduction contributions took £5Bll, equal to
3.8 p.c. on £150,000 of capital.
The Metropole is making provision for fur-
ther expansion. Four adjoining dwelling pro-
perties with a frontage of 83ft. have been
purchased for £18,350, but the directors do
not propose an early building programme.
The deal has been easily financed; notwith-
standing the £30,000 cash-bonus distributed
only four years ago, at June 30 there wei’e
War Loans for £12,633 and £31,394 of de-
posits and cash—altogether £44,027 —to set
against £9183 of sundry creditors and £18.250
balance payable on the new property. Cash
assets exceeded all outside liabilities and the
final div. by £9094. Balance-sheet figures
have moved in this way since the. balance-
sheet prior to the reconstruction :
Dec., ’l9. June, ’23. June, ’24.
Paid capital .. £120,000 £150,000 £150,000
Reserves. . . . 30,082 17,274 20,686
Specific reserves. . 17,000 3,000 4,180
Liabilities . . 5,836 13,655 27,433
Fixed assets . . 119,000 141,924 160,300
Stock . . . . 4,279 2,609 2,202
Cash, investments 49,639 39,396 44,276
The co. has had an astonishing career: it
paid approximately £115,000 for the pi*oper-
ties in 1905 and began with a paid capital
of £92,507. By 1912 mortgages had been
redeemed and pref. capital was returned.
The ordinary capital of £75,000 to begin
with has been doubled by bonus issues,
and £67,500 has been paid as a cash-
bonus. The book value of the big freehold
pile and all equipment is now £160,300, and
much below present replacement cost. Put
another way, if the Metropole Co. was only
now going into business, the. capital outlay
would be very much lai'ger than the amount
at present represented by scrip, and div. pos-
sibilities would be very different. The co.
appears to be well placed to continue to earn
good divs. for its 150,000 £1 shares pi-ovided
the management is as efficient as in the
past; in that respect shareholders have been
fortunate: the one team —headed by W. P.
Small and sharebroker Wm. Tilley—has been
in conti'ol practically since the co. was
formed.
* * * *
Marchant’s Ltd., soft-drink manufac-
turers (Sydney)
Mav, Net Profits. Dividends. Toßeserves. Reserves.
1915.. £7237 10 p.c. = £3851 £3,386 £21,485
Transferred to capital, £21,393 . . 92
1916.. 5869 7 p.c. = 4193 1,676 1,768
1917.. 5979 7 ~ „ 4193 1,786 3,554
1918.. 4254 7 „ „ 4193 61 3,615
1919.. 5999 7 „ „ 4193 1,806 5,421
1920.. 5220 7 „ „ 4193 1,027 6,448
1921.. 4378 7 „ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8096 7 „ ~ 5066 3,030 9,663
1923.. 9198 10 „ ~ 7253 1,945 11,608
Profit on property sale . . 734 12,342
1924.. 8593 10 p.c.~= 7253 1,340 13,682
The £8593 was arrived at after deducting
£1250 “provision for taxes” from the net
pi'ofit of £9843 shown by the published
accounts. Mai’clxants are not a talkative
crowd, and details of trading are kept well
corked. One line alone records the net pro-
fit, after making unspecified provisions for de-
preciation and contingencies. However, the
profits shown in the table meant Ilf p.c. on
capital, compared with 124 p.c. in the pre-
vious year. Assets were written up 10 years
back and £21,393 of gift scrip was handed
out; so 10 p.c. divs. are worth almost 16
p.c. to old hands. The next table compares
balance-sheet figures over 10 years :
1914. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital .. £38,507 £72,534 £72,634 £72,534
Liabilities . . 791 2,125 8,813 4,322
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 18,276 48,680 53,130 42,825.
Plant, etc. . 11,122 19,369 23,021 23,027
Stocks .. . . 10,811 7,184 14,800 13,330
Book debts and cash 9,596 15,658 11,492 21,359
The sale of portion of the Chippendale pro-
perty at a “satisfactory figure”—the co. was
unable to extend in this locality, and the
factoi-y was transferred to Bedfern —has
accounted for a reduction of £10,305 in the
freehold property item. A small surplus on
a property sale in the previous year was
added to reserves, but as there has been no
addition this time the co. either realised just
the book value or any surplus has been used
for writing-down purposes. The co.’s liquid
position is very comfortable: cash on deposit
and in hand at May 28 covered all outside lia-
bilities and left a few hundreds over. Stocks,
book debts and cash were £30,367 larger than
debts. That surplus represented almost
Bs. 6d. per share, and there was 18s. 2d. per
share more in the book values of properties,
plant, and other fixed assets. Goodwill
(£5300) was written out of reserves in the
1923 financial year.
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Added Assur-
to anee
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
1912. . £5,536 Nil £4407 £1,009 £1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 .. 1,188
1913.. 9,598 £598 5518 3,482 4,670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4,708 9,378
1915.. 11,702 988 5572 5,142 14,520
1916.. 12,039 1821 5379 4,839 19,359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6,234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6,195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
1921.. 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,473 2299 8382 ( q 709 7(l r. 0.,
Transferred to reserve fund. £lOOO \ 1 ’ ’* ' "
1923.. 26,045 5002 9173 11,870 82,462
3 924.. 31,704 3730 8070 19,898 102,360
* Including divs. ; 1912-18, 4 p.c. ; 1919, 5 p.c. :
1920, 6 p.c.; 1921-24, 7 p.c. A 7 P-c. div. takes
£l3OO p.a.
Recently two life offices established a couple of
years after the Assurance and Thrift —the Co-
operative and the Life Insurance Co. of Aus-
tralia —have gone out of business, selling their
assurances to another co. The Assurance and
Thrift is hanging on with no illusions of the
golden immortality which the numerous pro-
moters of recent years have claimed is the
reward of almost any co. that commences to
write policies. After 14 years the A. and T.
is tiny: premium income last year was only
£17,568. Since all the new cos. started the
management has had great difficulty in at-
tracting new policies at reasonable cost, and
it has been more difficult to hold what
has been written. For 1928 renewal pre-
miums amounted to £14,386 and first pre-
miums £2333 —a total premium income of
£16,719. For the 12 months to March 31
last only £15,275 of renewals flowed in, and
mortalities and maturities were light. The
year’s new business^ —340 policies assuring
£68,675 —contributed £2292. Surrenders
have been responsible for the biggest outgo:
deaths and maturities have taken £5129 in
three years; policies thrown in have called
for £5756. These figures are not in the least
impressive, yet the A. and T. is very much
stronger and generally more satisfactory than
most of the newer offices, which have been
forcing business regardless of costs, and whoso
managements have so far not learned the ele-
mentary principles of life underwriting. The
A. and T. from the beginning has been con-
trolled by an experienced actuary, Wm. It.
Dovey, and he refused to seek business which
had only a slender chance of becoming self-
supporting within a reasonable time. Precisely
what are the costs in this office is not
ascertainable. The accounts show 21 p.c. of all
income absorbed by expenses; bxit on the cal-
culation that new business costs ten times
more than old, 17 p.c. of renewal premiums
was taken by exes, last year, and the _new-
business cost was 170 p.c. of first premiums.
However, that does not take other activities
into consideration. The co. originally set out
to do house-purchase business, and though
abnormal conditions have not been favorable
for developing that side-line, the management
has dabbled in land, and made good profits
on some deals; for instance, of the past
year’s £19,898 surplus of income over all
outgo, £7266 was “profit on investments,
mainly property transactions.” In the pre
vious year £2005 was derived in the same
way. These transactions have been mainly
financed by shareholders’ funds. One out-
standing feature of this little assurance office
has been that at no time has the management
run up the familiar “establishment and organ-
isation account,” and since early in its career
premium reserves have been sufficient to meet
policy liabilities. Capital has, therefore,
always been free for investment.
From the beginning shareholders have had
interest each year on their small capital :
the footnote to the introductory table tells
how much. On this occasion, owing to the
unusually large surpluses from the sale of
land, an extra 1 p.c. is to be paid as a bonus,
making 8 p.c. altogether. It is doubtful
whether the assurance business has contri-
buted anything to the dividends ; instead, pro-
bably portions of investment winnings have
been taken to strengthen the underwriting
account. The directors says that “in view of
the valuation and distribution of profits to
policy-holders due to take place as at March
31 last, an effort was made to dispose of land
1 ought for that purpose at different times,
with the satisfactory result named” —the
£7266 profit on investments. For a life office
to go land spec.-ing in search of profits is a
novelty, and, under ordinary circumstances,
(Continued on page 19.1


CRABBING THE ACT.
“The bitterest opponent of the Bruce-Page pact, now trembling in the balance, is Federal Minister for Works Stewart.”
BRUCE: “If that friend of yours in front doesn’t know how to behave himself, Page, I’m walking off!”


READY ON FRIDAY.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JULY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Allen Taylor
Argus Building Society
Assurance & Thrift
Australian Federal and
General Life
Australian Forests
Australian Glass Manu-
facturers
Automobile Insurance of
Australia
Bank of New Zealand
Blue Check Omnibuses
Colonial Mutual Life
Coogee Ocean Bier
Co-operative Insurance of
Australia
Cotton Dpv< lopment and
Machinery
Edwards Dunlop
Electric Light & Power
Supply Corp.
Garratts, Ltd.
Gibson & Howes
Goldsbrough Mort
Illawar.ra Blue Metal
Hotel Metropole
Loch Catherine Collier;/
Manufacturers’ , Mutual
Insurance
Marchants, Ltd.
Marcus Clark (Victoria)
Mark Foy’s
Max Wurcker
May Bros. & J. H. Jones
Melbourne Motor Services
Melb.-Suburban ’Buses
Mt. Morgan
Nepean Sand & Gravel •
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Patience & Nicholson
People’s Prudential Assu-
rance
Prospec tnses
Robert Harper
Singapore Hume Pipe
Swallow & Ariell
Walter Reid
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand: at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bum.etin Ollice. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy;-or 22/0 per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces rre
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—AdVt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * *■ *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wra. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes,
fdams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
Economy is a big factor in recommending Pioneer
Wood Pipe, but economy is only an item in its list
of advantages. Cleanliness, simplicity, long life anl
lightness are other superiorities. Pioneer Wood Pipe
only weighs one-third as much as metal pipe, it does
not rust nor corrode, its flow remains constant, it
requires no cleaning and is unaffected by frost or
electrolysis. Write for our free 63-page booklet —
it is an interesting manual on conduits. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents;— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & ITassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * •
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writs
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Roristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered b.v Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., IMelbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to.— Advt.
* # * •
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Permanent Trustee Company
of N. S.W Ltd.
Capital: Subscribed, £1,000,000. Paid up,
£llO,OOO. Uncalled, £890,000.
The whole attention and resources of this Company
are devoted to the administration of Trust affairs.
It offers its clients the fullest security, efficient
management and judicious investment of funds.
Unlike the individual Trustee, it cannot travel,
disappear or die.
Estates under control exceed £8,000,000.
Write for Booklet or arrange an interview.
E. V. T. Whittle, Assistant Manager. J. W. Barnes, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENCE
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
\Vater Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building:).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co.. Ltd,,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Catheart House,
11c Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: 84507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
not at all desirable. However, in this in-
stance the directors can claim that only
shareholders’ funds have been risked.
Mr. Dovey has just completed his valuation.
Assuming future interest earnings at p.c.
p.a.—against 4 p.c. anticipated by other
young offices —he estimates a liability of
£84,991 as at March 31 this year under 2230
policies assuring £409,015. Funds amounted
to £102,360. So, after allowing £1503 divs.
for shareholders and £lO3B for deferred
bonuses, there was a surplus of £14,228, in-
cluding £l2Ol carry-forward from the pre-
vious valuation. Assets now tot up £138,803,
with £10,873 of current liabilities on the
other side. The big item is £52,104 of loans
on mortgage, and £29,471 has also been
loaned on properties. Freeholds stand at
£31,117, and include a city property..
The future is obscure. Though it is one
of the exceptional small offices which are mak-
ing profits—with the assistance of land deal-
ing, of course —a very much larger assurance
business is required to make the co. worth
while for shareholders. So far divs. have
averaged less than could have been won from
investments whose risks are negligible.
* # # ♦
The Australian Federal Fife and Gen-
eral Assurance Co., Ltd. —This young, un-
tried life co. has purchased a controlling in-
terest in the little 28-year-old People’s Pru-
dential, and is following the bad example of
some of its slightly older competitors and
making the Prudential deal an excuse for
issuing shares at a stiff premium. The man-
agement has put out a prospectus inviting
the public to subscribe 50,000 ordinaries of
10s., of which it is proposed to call up 55.,
the subscriber to pay a ss. premium—a
premium of 100 p.c. on the paid-up value.
The prospectus fails to produce any evidence
warranting a premium; instead of getting
down to hard facts and figures respecting
its own experience to date, the management
talks in those superlatives and generalities
that featured the prospectus for the
original Federal Life float. Not a word
is said as to the amount of business
written and the cost of winning it,
or as to the present financial position
of the co. A balance-sheet is in-
cluded —that of the People’s Prudential! The
price paid for the shares of that concern has
not been disclosed. It is a Board-room
secret. There is a whisper that £45,000 was
paid for 8000 shares, but at £5 12s. 6d. each
the Prudential shares would seem ridiculously
high. The P.P., the prospectus states, paid a
10 p.c. div. and 10 p.c. bonus on its £lO,OOO.
of capital during the 12 months ended August,
1923. The management apparently is not
aware that the 10 p.c. bonus was in respect
of three years covered by the P.P.’s last
actuarial investigation. The P.P., by care-
fully nursing its small business and keeping
costs down, paid 10 p.c. regularly for some
years, an average of 13J p.c. p.a. for the
three years ended 1923, and. 10 p.c. for the
first year of the current triennium.
The prospectus having failed to justify the
issue of shares at a premium, The Bulletin
invited the management to supplv the infor-
mation necessary to decide the merits, if
any, of the issue. The governing-
director thereupon undertook to submit
a preliminary statement of accounts for the
past year by Monday morning, but the
figures were still missing on Tuesday after-
noon. The 100 p.c. premium on the new
shares is, therefore, still being charged with-
out any justification known to Tttfe Bul-
letin.
-•••••
The sale of the People’s Prudential, with-
out in any way consulting the policy-holders,
and its purchase by a new co. whose finan-
cial position is undetermined, is further evi-
dence of the rottenness of the N. S. Wales
insurance law. The Australian Federal may
be a reputable life-underwriter, and it may
develop into a sound office, but it is highly
improper that the accumulated savings under
about 13,000 policies assuring approximately
£BOO,OOO should be permitted to be trans-
ferred to new control without first consult-
ing policy-holders or securing approval of
the Supreme Court, and solely because share-
holders on a £lO,OOO register, have been
offered a good price for their scrip.
* * # *
The Coogee Beach (Sydney) ocean-pier
scheme has reached the prospectus stage.
Rights have been granted by the municipal
authority and approved by Parliament, a co.
in a quarter-million £1 shares has been regis-
tered, and 179,000 are being offered to the
public to provide funds for construction. The
pier is to run 900 ft. into the ocean, and is
to be equipped with a theatre, dancing-hall,
restaurant, shops, etc., and other features
which have proved popular (and payable) on
the numerous pavilion-piers on the English
coast; though it has to be remembered that
English beaches are not the attractive things
that Australian beaches are. Last year’s
tramway traffic to Coogee was officially esti-
mated at 0:] million adults and 465,000 chil-
dren, and in these figures the promoters con-
sider there are good div. possibilities for their
novelty.
* * • *
Of all the cos. that have rushed to West-
ralia’s latest gold-find, 160 miles north-east
of Leonora, the Mutooroo is the only one
financed to undertake comprehensive develop-
ment. The others put together could barely
scrape up enough to sink a trial shaft. Most
of the cos.—one has 40,000 shares paid
to 3d. —'are on the field for a sci’ip
gamble. That is the worst feature of
Westralian discoveries nowadays, and is
chiefly responsible for the genuine mining
investor’s tardiness in putting up cash to
give promising shows a thorough testing. A
Bulletin man arrived on the new field dur-
ing the pegging activity: miles of country
had already been taken up, and the pegs were
being put around scores of blocks regardless
of position and without any prospecting hav-
ing been done. Holders were asking thou-
sands for some 24-acre blocks which had
not seen a pick, cash deposits ranging from
a few hundreds to £lOOO. Though early
finds were promising, nothing has been dis-
closed to warrant excitement. Development
of likely-looking blocks has not proceeded
far enough to give a clue to prospects. Best-
wick’s report on the field has since endorsed
this opinion, and option-holders’ prices have
slumped accordingly.
* # • *
Gt. Boulder (W.A.) made a profit of
£58,295 for the 12 months to December last
and paid 4d. in divs. on each of its If mil-
lion 2s. shares. Taxes hit the co. hard:
£28,298 was paid into English and Austra-
lian Treasuries. The co. put 107,390 tons
ore through its mills for £290,639 gold, an
average of 545. per ton. Mining costs were
41s. lOd. per ton. Since 1895 the Gt. Boul-
der has crushed 3,586,701 tons for
8,707,3400 z. worth £13,175,297. It has won
about 7-3? millions of profit and distributed
six millions among shareholders.
* * # *
Gt. Boulder was Westralia's biggest gold
producer for the first half of this year:
£142,679 apart from gold premium. Golden
Horseshoe was runner-up with £124,742,
and then followed Boulder Perseverance,
£94.297 ; Lake View and Star, £84,426 ; South
Ivalgurli, £81,300; and Associated £38,721.
Associated Showed a working loss of £6931,
but all others made profits. Gt. Boulder’s
working surplus was £21,991.
* * * *
Kanowna Red Hill (W.A.) has struck
another good patch. The last one put the
co. several thousand pounds in credit. When
everything was looking well, and a div.
seemed likely, values suddenly dwindled.
Gold is again showing in the face of the
Melba reef, and more ounce returns are anti-
cipated. The shoots in this show are not
dependable; values are liable to disappear
any day.
* * * *
London is shortly to be asked for funds
to help the development of the Northampton
leadfield (W.A.). Several shows are men-
tioned as the inducement, and one, the Sur-
prise, is described as a “little wonder.” This
mine was the Fremantle Smelting Co.’s big-
gest customer, but an Antwerp firm outbid
it by paying £3 per ton more for concen-
trates. As a result the smelting co. in which
London had sunk a good deal of cash was
compelled to cease production.
* * * *
Mt. Shenton (W.A.) has given up and
appointed a liquidator. A mournful meeting
of shareholders held in Perth resolved on
this course after unfavorable reports from
the Board and the Inspector of Mines had
been read. One irate loser asked why the
persons who had furnished the co. with glow-
ing reports of the show were not present,
but no one seemed able to answer this ques-
tion. The co.’s holdings were described by
the chairman as absolute duds, and he mads
a solemn vow never to put another penny
into a mining venture without first seeing it.
* * * #
Brilliant (W.A.) shareholders are wonder-
ing what is going to happen next. When
the co. took an option on Gnow’s Nest mine
in May, they were told that directly the
show was unwatered a Mines Department in-
spection would be made, and, if favorable, a
pound-for-pound subsidy up to £4OOO would
be granted. A report has been made, but
so far no grant has been sighted. A doubt
whether the co. is financially strong enough
to successfully handle hard ground and heavy
water in Gnow’s Nest is believed to explain
the Department’s hesitancy. •
* * * *
Old Hannan’s Reward, north of Kalgoorlie,
has been raised from the dead. Recently
some miners started working near the sur-
face, and to date they have won £4OOO-odd
worth of gold from less than 100 tons stone.
Several adjacent blocks are getting atten-
tion.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, in addition to taking
over the Ivanlioe mine and plant, is also
stated to have acquired the Ivanlioe option at
Wiluna. Boring has been proceeding there
since February. A recent official report
states that values have been “highly satis-
factory,” and that the “highest expectations
have been more than realised.”
* # * *
Perth Copper Separation, Ltd., which re-
cently raised further capital in Adelaide, has
been granted an advance of £4OOO by the
State Government to complete the erection of
its Ravensthorpe plant. So far laboratory
and small bulk tests of the co/s process have
been satisfactory, but successful treatment on
a large scale has yet to be proved, and, of
course, that is the only test worth anything.
* * # *
Prospects of the Vegetable Creek Co.
(N.S.W.) have brightened. Counting in the
cost of the change-over from Emmaville to
Ardlethan, the co. lost £1937 for the period
ended April 30, after winning £8046 from tin
concentrates and £384 of rent and interest.
The Wild Cherry vendors agreed to accept
less cash for their mine, and it is to be paid
in instalments from production. Develop-
ment has been so successful that for the
10 weeks to July 7 30 tons of 65 p.c. concen-
trates were produced, and the pipe now
being worked is expected to last another four
months. The co. has over £3OOO in hand, and
on the reduced share register £7OO will pay
a 3d. div. Scrip has moved from a nominal
quote to 2s. 9d.
* * * *
New Red, White and Blue (Bendigo),
having slashed all the good stone out of the
eastern spurs at 1600 ft., is trying to locate
a rich spot in the low-grade western runs
of stone with which to sweeten returns. The
co. is finding it difficult to keep pace with
costs, but the claim is big and full of sparry
possibilities. To the north the main 1500 ft.
level is being hustled into new country, Long
ago the Board intended to give the south
end of the mine a more systematic trial, but
calls were difficult to get in, and prospects
elsewhere commanded attention. Operations
off the 1672 ft. winze now look promising,
and good yields from Lansell’s Prop, next
door in crosscutting off the Freehold shaft
to the south may mean a run of payable
spurs for the New Blue.
* * * *
W. H. Cundy has run the tape over the
Golden Lily, Aberfeldy (Vic.). It blossomed
in IS<‘6 and would have been only a memory
if Henry Hartrick had not traced it by
means of old miners’ mounds. Cundy had
to plot out where the eastern, western and
middle reefs should exist. Owing to crushed
ground and big slides, Cundy’s job was like
hunting for another Tutankhamen tomb, but
he reckons that he has tracked the reefs to
their lairs. He was helped by the data avail-
able from recent work on the main slide run
of stone. In it he sees possibilities of a
pay-slioot that may extend overhead 355 ft.
to the old No. 2 tunnel. He has picked out
a battery site; but why talk of plant before
developing ore reserves? No one seems to
know how much ore is blocked out in the
Golden Lily or what is the grade of the 250
tons at the surface.
* * * *
No wild scramble took place for Taranaki
Oil; nevertheless applications came in solidly.
It could hardly have been otherwise with
underwriters like the Baillieus, Monty
Cohen, J. H. Riley, “Kodak” Baker, share-
brokers Titmus and Quinan, and Hamer, of
Adelaide, in the swim.
* * * *
The Billy Hughes Co.’s Resurgam mine,
Normanby goldfield (N.Q.), has been sunk
on to 71ft. The sulphide zone is expected
at about 80ft. The shaft has been in ore
from the surface, and about a foot of heavily-
mineralised formation in the sink is expected
to go 21oz. A trial crushing of 25 tons from
drives at 30ft. and 50ft. returned 25dwt. free
gold, a ton of concentrates assaying 70z., and
sands going lldwt., making the total value
35dwt. It is proposed to put through
another parcel of 25 tons, sink the shaft to
the sulphides, and put in a winding plant.
On the Arthur Clarke reef, near the Re-
surgam, a shaft has been sunk to 18ft., show-
ing formation a foot wide, giving 21oz.
assays. A winding plant for the Marquis
mine has arrived on the field, and sinking on
high-grade ore—some of it at 80ft. runs to
13oz.—is to continue. The Marquis syndi-
cate is erecting plant with the aid of a
£5OO grant from the Mines Department.
* * * *
Malaya Tin Corp., the sponsor of the
Takuapa and Bundi tin ventures, has adopted
Asquith’s policy of watchful waiting. After
having tested more than 30 areas in 34 years
and found only one winner, it is at present
out of funds, and is depending on the
Takuapa and Bundi to put it on the pros-
pecting and promoting track again: the Tak.
dredge is nearing completion, and Bundi
ishould blow the starting-whistle any day
now. Malaya Tin has a £55 500 holding in
the former, and £10,230 in Bundi. and the
directors like all this scrip too well to send
it to market. Meanwhile Ratrut, in which
a £12,837 share-interest is held, is under a
cloud owing to its bad luck in purchasing
an _ area which failed to give the values
claimed by vendors, and the co. is scouting
around for another dredging block, and also
considering whether it would be good policy
to modernise and increase the capacity of
its No. 1 dredge. Of the Severnick (Siberia)
gold concessions “nothing has transpired to
enhance or_detract from their value.” There's
nothing doing in a mining way in that Bol-
shie outpost, but Chas. Kerry, Geo. Blake-
more and Tom Martyn still dream of it ay
the coming Eldorado. For the 12 month!
to December 31 last not a penny went t<
Malaya Tin’s banking account, but £3681
flowed out in exes. That left the co. with
an overdraft of £4629 and £13,166 owing to
sundry creditors. The £65,730 of Bundi and
Takuapa scrip is the backbone of the co.
at present.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of tlie Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisint,.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Ushers
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHUR,
Managing Director.
'QUALITY TELLS.’
For Service & Comfort
Maen aught Shoes give that satis-
faction in wear and service that
only GOOD shoes can give. The
model illustrated is a popular last
in BOX CALF (selected N.Z.
Skins 1, 37/6; TAN WILLOW
CALF, 39/6. D.E.F. Fittings .and
i sizes.
Sterling Value.
Derby Boots built on the
same comfort last, with
heavv soles, leather-lined.
Box' Calf, Tan Willow,
39/6 and 43/6. Order
by post.’
- J -H
WE PAY
POSTAGE;
N.S.W.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
189 PITT STREET—I3S KING STREET, SYDNEY
S* v
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
"-x
ry/LeM m
//
f: yi
i f \r
Sfy
862.
mas.
vrvzxsnr
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Licut.-col. R. ECCLES SNOWDEN, the
Speck’s rapidly-rising ex-M.H.A., now
off to England as Agent-General.
Some August birthsdays :
Dr. “Joe” Verco (Adel.), 73, on Ist; zinc-expert
J. C. Mould<?«, 51, on 2nd; Dr. Humphrey Marten
(Adel.), 64, and Canon Charlton (Syd.), 64, on: 3rd;
J. F. Bailey (Director Adel. Botanic Gardens), 58,
on sth; E. A. Southee (Hawkesbury Coll.), 34, and
Justice Isaacs (High Court), 69, on 6th; poet E. J,
Brady, 55, on 7th; ex-Federal Minister Alec Poyn-
ton, 71, on Bth; journalist Frank Fox, 50, on 11th;
Dr. Grafton Elliot Smith, 53, and Major-Gen. Legge,
C. 8., 61, on 15th; R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 68, on
20th; poet Mill Ogilvie, 55, and D. J. O’Keefe,
M.H.R., 60', on 21st; Judge Curlewis (N.S.W.), 55,
on 22nd; Dr. J. A. Cockburn (S. Aus. ex-Agent-
Gen.), 74, on 23rd; Major-Gen. Hobbs, 60, and
Walter Rosenliain, F.R.S. (formerly of Melb.). 49,
on 24th: ex-Federal Minister Paddy Glynn, 69, on
25th; Methodist parson ,Geo. Rowe (Q.), 66, on
26th; Prof. Angus (Syd. Uni.), 43, on 27th; ex-
High . Commissioner. Andy Fisher, 62, and Brig-Gen.
Cannan, G. 8., 42, on 29th; Principal Ronald Maein-
t.yre, 61, on 30th; Vic. educationist Chas. R. Long,
M. 64, and J. W. McGregor, 63, on 31st.
David Storey, whom pneumonia killed at
Randwick (Sydney) last Sunday, at 67, got
into the N.S.W. Assembly 30 years ago by
defeating Edmund Barton. Barton was a
Protectionist, a Federalist, a scholar and
a statesman; Storey was a salesman .an
unbeatable commercial traveller (though he
had been for many years in business for
himself he was at the time president of
the C.T.A.), a Freetrader in what was then
a Freetrade stronghold, and the most genial
soul who ever preached “New South Wales
first!” For 25 years his geniality and warm-
heartedness held for him the seat he then
won; but he did not reach Cabinet rank till
Holman made him Minister for Health in
his “Nationalist” Government; and when
lie retired his leader sent him to the Leg.
Council. He was no statesman, hut he was
a great hand at making friends and keeping
them.
“Politicus”: The wealthiest men in the
new Vic. Labor Ministry are J. P. Jones
(tailor) and W. J. Beckett (furniture ware-
houseman) ; Prendergast (70) is the oldest,
and Slater the youngest: Hogan (6ft. 4in.)
the tallest, and Webber the shortest; Tunne-
. cliffe the best speaker, and Bailey the best-
looker. All are AuStralian-born ; but .Tones
and Beckett are much travelled, and Slater
and Webber have seen the world on war
service. Tunnecliffe, Jones and Gain were
Reds, but sobered tip in Parliament, Lemmon
is the specialist in educational problems,
Hogan in agriculture, Jones in health ques-
tions and Tunnecliffe in civil service reform;
and each has been allotted the appropriate
portfolio. Beckett is a turf authority, and
if the Government introduces a Totalisator
Bill he will be the man to take charge.of it.
Died suddenly, in Sydney, A. W. Britton,
sec. of the N.S.W. Navigation Department
since 1018. He was a son of an old-time
editor of the ARGUS ; and . before he
reached the head of a department he was
The Bulletin's “Green Tape,” the contri-
butor who kept this paper informed about
N. public-service matters, He leaves
a widow—the brilliant Miss Bowmaker of
the last generation of Sydney graduates.
Died on July 24. George Dyson, father
of Edward, Will and nine other Dysons, in-
cluding Ambrose, a black-and-white artist of
considerable popularity, who died about 11
years ago. George Dyson came to Vic. in
1854, saw- the building of the Geelong to
Ballarat line, and was present at the Eureka
Stockade, although merely as a spectator.
With him passed a wealth of early-day remi-
niscences, many of which went to the making
of son Edward’s mining stories, and others
are embodied in his second novel, “The
Roaring ’Fifties.” The veteran, who was 86,
leaves a widow of 84. .
There are four Diggers in the Tasmanian
Parliament, and all have something to show
that they were in the thick of the scrimmage. •
Capt. Marriott lost the sight of both eyes ;
Lieut. Jimmy Hurst, the Labor Whip, has a
right hand badly shattered; Alan Wardlaw,
M.L.C., left a leg in France; and the newest
member, Lieut.-Col. Payne, who takes. Agent-
General Snowdfen’s. place ,in the Assembly,
collected a D.S.O. for work done at Passclien-
daele, and was four times mentioned in
despatches. Payne, who is a son of Senator
Payne, went away as second in command of
the 40th (Tas.) Battalion, but was later pro-
moted to the command of the 38th (Vic.)
Battalion. He is Tasmanian president of
the R.S.L.
On July 30 Samuel Benjamin, the G.O.M.
of Tasmanian Jewry, will be 85. He has
been: for countless years the president of
what remains of the once considerable
Hobart Hebrew congregation, and while he
lives it will hang together some way, though
it is a small body now.
Some Victorian politicians have easy .times.
Solly, of Carlton, and Webber, of Abbotsford,
have been returned unopposed at live succes-.
sive elections; their last contests were so
long ago that they have forgotten all about
them. Bowser (Wangaratta) and Cotter
(Richmond) have had a walk-over for the
fourth time in succession; Lemmon (Wil-
liamstown) has.had to fight for his seat only,
once in the last 10 years’, and that was seven
years ago:. Of the 20 lucky men unopposed
in June, 12 were unopposed at the previous
■election also, arid three of them at the elec-
tion before that as well. The unlucky ones
who got in at by-elections have had two
elections within a year.
E. J. Brady’s boat-trip down the Murray
was lately rivalled by that of a family party
which voyaged down from the Upper Darling.
His caravan trip to Brisbane is now to be
rivalled by a Broken Hill family-—G. J. Job,
wife, son and daughter—who have just left
Adelaide in a car fitted up with cooking and
sleeping accommodation ; also a wireless re-
ceiving set, “to keep in touch with civilisa-
tion.” The pilgrimage is to take an indefinite
time. It will certainly include Sydney; and
Darwin, perhaps, if the earlier stages go well.
“Lou”: Mick Kirwan, who, as a result of
a reshuffle of portfolios in Queensland, be-
comes Assistant Home Secretary, has the
reputation of being an orator—some think
him the best of the bunch. But he owes a
lot to his ex-railway porter’s loud voice and
clear delivery. Actually, he is often guilty
of tedious repetition,, and his vocabulary is
poor. Collins, who represents Bowen, is as
good, and Forgan-Smith, who looks after
State Enterprises, is better. F.-Smith has
T. R. BAVIN, Attorney-General of
N. S. Wales.
a good voice, which he seldom raises, and a
direct way of delivering well arranged facts
in striking phrases. As head of a depart-
ment that comes in for a lot of criticism, he
certainly gets a lot of practice.
C. H. B. Mackay,. one of Bananaland's
oldest .solicitors, lias died, at 78. The son of
an Irish lawyer, he wmsadmitted as a solici-
tor in Dublin in 1868, and won the gold
medal of the Incorporated Law Society.
Queensland first saw him in 1873, when he
reached Rockhampton. Subsequently he
practised in Toowoomba for 20 years, and
then retired to Wynnum.
Lancelot Stirling keeps up his record as
president of S.A. Leg. Council by going in
for another term of six years, to be added
to the 211 he has sat in the chair. His in-
terests are mainly pastoral, but an early
legal training (though he never practised)
has stood to .him in his presidential job.
Pascoe arid Kirkpatrick are the only re-
riiaining members of the Leg. Council which
first appointed him in 1901. Mclnnes, a
newcomer to the chair, is Speaker in the
Assembly. Since 1857 there have been only
nine in that billet.
Slater, Vic.'s new Attorney-General, is as
smooth-faced and smooth-tongued a lad (he
is in his early thirties) as ever took a fee.
He romped home a winner for Dundas a
couple of elections ago without spending a
penny or making a speech—he was away
at the w r ar. When Vic. gets its redistribu-
tion and the Swan Hill tail no longer wags
the Mildura dog, Slater will have no diffi-
culty in attaching Mildura to Labor. He
has a block on the Murray, and is popular
in the district. Moreover, there are more
Diggers to the square mile in Sunraysia than
ahywhore else in Victoria—except perhaps
occasionally on Young and Jackson's corner.
Prendergast has given Chief See. Tunne-
cliffe precedence next to himself in the Vic.
Labor Ministry, while Attorney-General
Slater is only sixth on the list. In the roll
of outgoing Ministers Cohen, who was Attor-
ney-General, appeared after Premier Pea-
cock. As Tunnecliffe was left out of the
previous Labor Ministry (December. 1918)
because his comrades did not think he took
enough interest in politics, he must have
grinned when he saw himself placed above
ex-Ministers Lemmon and Jones.
Padre F. Campion, who was one time
principal of the Dubbo (N.S.W.) Brother-
hood of the Good Shepherd and did great
work out back; has floated Australiawards
again, after enjoying the delights of an Eng-
lish rectory, and has been running round the
islands of Torres Strait studying Black
Brother. Mrs. Campion accompanies him.
Down south he will put in some time with
his brother, the new Cocked-hat of Westralia.
The padre is used to the ways of Government
House, though—a former Governor of the Ma
State was an uncle, and he had the job of
private sec. before he went Bush Brothering.
Mathew Sawyer, just dead at 92, was one
of the pioneers of the Riverifra, and was re-
sponsible for much of the development of
the country near Coolamon. It is over 60
years ago since he took up land at Ironbong,
the earlier name for Eulomo, where his eldest
son now breeds sheep arid the horses which
have carried his colors to victory all over
the eastern States.
“T.P.”: The older generation of Vie
teachers, mourned when William Mel ean
died recently at 81, for as Education account-
ant he quickly solved the vexed problem of
how to pay the thousands of teacher-
promptly instead of letting the cash be hun-
up till as late as the 20th of the month"
When a head-office clerk drifted into the new
boss on the last day of the month with tin
cheques for himself and his mates, McLean
tossed them back, saying, “I shall always
sign these after the teachers’ cheques The
old man chuckled in after years at the result.
_ Nobody in Vic. was better pleased than
Governor Stradbroke that Prendergast. his
new Labor Premier, was able to secure an
adjournment for five weeks. This enabled
his Ex. to get away for his month’s tour to
Centralia and Darwin —his lady had already
gone on. Cussen, Acting-C.J., who now gets
a chance to use the rubber-stamp, is styled
“Deputy-Governor,” although some authori-
ties think he should have assumed the role of
Administrator and issued his proclamation.
According to one reading of the law, a deputy-
Governor is a deputy-Governor only when
the regular man in the job goes away for
less than: a month.
“Wink”: Gordon Webber, M.L.A. for
Abbotsford and Hon. Minister in the new
Vic. Labor Government, preached pacifism
always and everywhere at the start of the
■war ; but later, when recruits were less plenti-
ful, he became aware of the necessity for vic-
tory and enlisted in the A.M.C. Joining
the 3rd L.H.F. Ambulance in Palestine,
such things as the go-slow policy and a 44-
hour week never entered his head, and lie
worked hard and conscientiously while there
was work to be done. He could easily have
attained rank, but remained a capable,
trooper till the end.
Next to Premier Lyons the best speaker
in the Speck’s House of Assembly is National-
ist Captain F. Marriott, the blinded soldier
member for Darwin. Marriott’s enunciation
would suggest that he is university-trained.
He isn’t. He came ashore at Hobart from
an immigrant ship when on his way from
England to Maori land, and while he was
strolling around the city the vessel went on
■without him. He took a job driving a pro-
duce-merchant’s delivery-cart, after which
he turned his hand to various things, and
eventually went on the land. Although
blinded at the war,. Marriott still manages
his farm on the North-West Coast.
“0.P.H.” : As Premier of Vic. Prendergast
will be entitled to draw £1(100 a year and
his seven salaried colleagues £l2OO each. Out
of a Cabinet fund they will provide a salary
for the Whip, and for allowances to a couple
of honorary Ministers. One Trades Hall
gent, declared that the £lO.OOO a year appro
printed should be Whacked up among the 12
Ministers, but he was a bit flabbergasted
when he was asked whether Cain, Webber.
Beckett and Disney would put their Parlia-
mentary salaries (paid Ministers don’t draw
screw as members) into the pool. The fact
is that two of the honoraries (Cain and
Webber) wall get about £2OO each to supple-
ment their Parliamentary salaries of £5OO
each.
Walter Buchanan, the M.L. knight who
died recently at 86, threw his money about
and, unlike his forebears, never looked to
J. F. HAXNA N.
who fills the
vacancy caused by
the death of
Senator Barker.
catch it again.
Scores of charities
were enriched at
his expense, and
just before his
passing he had en-
dowed a Uhi. Agri-
cultural Scholar-
ship with some of
the thousands lie
had made out of
Wairarapa lan d.
Although a bache-
lor his home nt
Tupurupuru was a
gran’ place to
spend a holiday,
and the doors were
always open to his
friends.
The general secretaryship of the Tas.
Labor organisation is now held by the
State's Chief Sec. —James Allan Guy. The
job has been a family affair for 18 years, as
the present holder’s father, the late Senator
Guy, took it over in 1900 as successor to
W. A. Woods, and held it without opposi-
tion for the rest of his life.
Died at Newcastle, at the age of 57, the
wife of Charles Borg, of Kurri Kurri. Her
husband (he works for the Water Board) is
an uncle of Arne, the Olympic Games
swimmer.
WAR PENSIONERS.
[FOR THE BU LLETIN.]
"Then will the ihaloes round the maimed grow
dim to us, tlie consoling, grateful glow in hearts
die down, and a cold wind blow round these half-
wrecked lives. After that first flush of honor and
attention, it is hard to see what pennyworth of
real compensation Fate has in store for the maimed.
Pensions? -'Yes, pensions I Into that paradise of
beer and skittles the legless or armless no. doubt
enter; and a low-geared imagination will try to
tell them that they are blessed, or to assure them
that they are spoiled.” —John Galsworthy in “The
Queen’s Gift Book” (1916).
The smoke of the fitful tempests that raged in the
years of doubt,
When the flutes were hushed in the ballroom, and
the lights were all turned out,
Has died away from the debris, and the rains of
seasons new
Have healed the wounds of the grassland where the
shrapnel maimed and slew ;
But the wrecks of the storm-tide eddy forlorn in the
world of men,
Where light, and life and laughter hold sway in the
streets again.
They took the maimed and the sightless, and they
patched them up with care,
In peaceful homes where the cupboard was filled with
the choicest fare.
The land was true to its heroes, and the sight of
a uniform
Was good in the eyes of the town-folk, secure from
the raging - storm.
And ever the voice found favor that shouted che
common creed:
“The mafrned are ( safe in our keeping; we shall
serve their utmost need!’-*
A trumpet blares on the highway and echoes along
the lane,
Smiting * the nerves of the townfolk, winning the
crowd's disdain;
“Go, live content with your pensions, for the bright
sun flaunts your plight!
The pride of your day is squandered—go, get you
out of, our sight!”
Aye, as it was through the ages, sp in these days
most refined
They have nursed and patched and hailed you as the
saviours of mankind,
But, Lord, from the highways keep you—the crazed,
and maimed and blind!
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


111
/»,
mML
4
ss
j£
m
535
I
f§®N
n
H
£?in
*
or vs
Ui
hV
g
fc 5 ”
fcffi
'RS^s
'iStf'S
m
a
ft i** I fe?V^t::
B
V
sr*
=sS
■«
z\W
n
Wt-,
m
as
fit j^'iA
luff
IT
vr*l I llXor^A^
1
y*^«Ly!Sa H >-/-
Cc.**“ ?rvS%s.T 1
><i -i ij «L>- Mni
1? > \fTVrT~ri
ffrKfr'fSr'
ffi al Li ttr
w
A
/S*
I
. * ”V *i
k
L
*
M .^i
■ jf
fNlf
8 5T is?
X
- v£*
** <* \*Ar •*■§»
A\k& v '£< \'
\ .*• jc
; 'nj
4
if. rs.
*“«•(
? m ;
»v
Vi.
r
w*
8M
a-v^?
8
m
SBSs»lp .. | i
,i 1 Lili
£}i
i,T.nc
i
"mi'-oam
di
*> ft
f#
2
r.-w
,H
ES
■—
?.
j|
(ft
tIJ
1 4J?
*•-?
:
r #»
g? £ r f;:ar
pipit SI
;?¥ ?.'-
■ *: -.
.......
» im
i is I
M ' |Wk < . <
' ■ ...
.
S--av..- . ...-■■*-
W'x«
>v»“
L
■s
Melbourne
THIS TUDOR BATTERY, consisting of
284 cells, and having a capacity of 4000
amperes for one hour, was installed by
the Melbourne City Council in their
Heffernan Lane Sub-Station in 1912.
All the original plates, both positive and
negative, are still in service.
This is another of the many cases all over the world where Tudor Batteries have proved their RELIABILITY
AND LONG LIFE.
TUDOR BATTERIES for COUNTRY HOUSE LIGHTING are built and designed on exactly the same
principles as the largest and most important batteries as illustrated above.
They are supplied with Delco-Light plants by:—
Messrs. WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., Sydney. Messrs. PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Adelaide.
„ WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., Melbourne. „ W. F. &E. A. STEWART, Launceston.
FOR RELIABILITY SPECIFY
TUDOR
AC CUM.ULA.TORS
The Tudor Accumulator Co. Ltd. (London), Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh St., Sydney


1
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if i': were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Latnson s s ”|,Co., l02D fe»“”-
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 Hi«h St.. Christchurch
W.A.—H. Little &• Co.. 851 Hav St., Perth
CALCIUM
CYANIDE
u
TUMO
BRAND-.
m
CALCIUM
CYANIDE
CERTAIN DESTRUCTION TO RABBITS.
Use Calcium Cyanide NOW and make certain that when Spring comes your
summer feed will not go to the rabbits instead of your stock.
Calcium Cyanide makes every opening of the warren visible —the rabbits
cannot escape. No matter what way they turn, they are met by death-dealing
fumes which kill INSTANTLY.
Calcium Cyanide is economical, non-inflammable, harmless to man or stock
with ordinary care. All details from the
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VICTORIA. —Leighton, Simpson # Co.. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOL’TH AUSTRALIA. —S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND —Buzaootts IQ'land), Ltd.. Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA. —Harris. Scarf? & Handovers. Ltd.. Berth.
ĵ
HE KNEW A
COW FROM A
HORSE!
Of course he did! So
will you see the difference
between the
Genuine
WIENEKE
and all other makes of
riding Saddles —it is just
as great.
Write to-day for my latest
Saddle Book (mailed free),
and view for yourself the
models illustrated, and
priced at long-service with
great-comfort prices.
Jack Wieneke
C/o -JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., SYDNEY
or
:34 Queen St., Brisbane.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Panchaz” : The platypus of Australia- is
m ailed by the weird little Papuan ant-hear. It is
the most primitive animal known, and was dis-
covered about 35 years,ago. It grows to a height
about 12in., and in different ways resembles both a
bird and an animal. Its hind feet are powerful. a,hd,!
like those of a mole; it has a quaint bill like a
bird and a pouch like the marsupial’s; its back is
covered with a mixture of pig-like hair and bristles,
and it burrows a hole in the ground in which it
lays its eggs. When the young are hatched they arc-
taken into the pouch, but there is no nipple to
which they can attach themselves, as in the case of
kangaroos and wallabies. The viscera is . more nearly
akin to human viscera than that of any other animal,
excepting perhaps the platypus. In one other respect !
it stands alone among animals. It can raise or
lower its temperature almost in an instant about 15
degrees. Its food comprises ants, worms and insects
generally. It is nocturnal, and, being practically
black, is very hard to locate.
“Wee Bobbie”: No matter how meat-
hungry a Kanaka is, he is never keen on fowl. The
only time he eats them is when there is nothing
better to be had. He will have a duck in preference
to a fowl any day, because it “gotta grease.” 1
have seen fowls die of old age in native villages,
running their life’s cycle with only the risk of the
native dogs. With this knowledge I was surprised
when the old chief of a neighboring village earner
to buy a game rooster we had. I was more sur-
prised still when he offered me a young sucking-
pig for it. “Why you want buy-em cockarako?” 1
asked. “You-fella no savvy kai-kai [Sat] fowl.”
“Oh, me-fella want him all-same clock. This cocKa-
rako belong you he number one for first fowl he
sing out.”
“Kaiebi” (N.Q.) : “C. Coral” was well
within his depth when he spoke some time ago of
the Jap as a 40-fathom diver. This the little
brown man certainly is. He will tell you that he
has lifted shell from as far down as 48, and 1
have every reason to believe it, astounding as it
sounds. Twelve fathoms is my own limit in the
dress. But deep diving is gradually passing out
even with the Jap—he can now obtain catches
almost as great within the 20-fathom limit, as the
shell beds have considerably increased during the
last 10 years. There exists an embargo upon diving
in deep water; taut it is recognised by the little
brown man only when it suits his ends. The Jap
is a fatalist when gain is to be had ; though he ,s
as keen as most other men in getting off the mark
when a mad bull or ferocious dog is in the offing.
Taking him all round he is our king-pin diver and
is a systematic expert at the game. Still there are
perhaps hundreds of whites quite able to hold their
own with him. Place before them sufficient temp-
tation to warrant them risking their lives, and they
Will come forward. I know a returned man who
made his first acquaintance with the bottom in
13 fathoms and followed this up the same day with
19—a most unusual performance for a beginner.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Caloola” wouldn’t be always
on a winner, as he thinks, in backing the fox againct
the dingo (B. 3/7/*24). In a light spar ho doubt
Reynard would show superior science, but in a fight
to the finish my money would go on the all-Aus-
tralian animal. I know of <only one such scrap
between a pure-bred warrigal and a full-grown fox,
and the former won conclusively—-killed his adver-
sary, in fact. Incidentally, it has been estimated
that this same dingo destroyed in 12 months sheep
to the value of £5OO, which ought to be nearly
a record in destructiveness.
» * » *
“Te Babarantiko”: Re “Te Pana” on giant
■canoes in the Gilberts (B. 10/7/.’24).
The time of the great ocean-going
canoe is long since past. Certainly
none of the size of the dug-out “Te
Pana” mentions are being built. In
fact, dug-outs never were in vogue in
the Gilberts, for the good reason that
there exist no trees sufficiently large
for the purpose. The only one I ever
saw in the group was a clumsy boat
on Onoatoa atoll, scooped from a drift-
log. Gilbert Islands canoes are still
built from shaped pieces if board sewn
together with fine coir-twine, and with
coir-lashings; but quite a number are
constructed from dressed 12-inch
boards about 20 feet long, and fastened
with galvanised nails. (In this case
they have flat bottoms.) Payment is
still owing me for redwood boards
which I imported from ’Frisco for
canoe-building. Anyway, the Pro-
tectorate Government does not permit
the islanders to cross the open ocean
from atoll to atoll in either canoes or
sailing-boats, even though their pre-
sent comparatively small canoes are
quite suitable for the purpose.
“Troopliorse”: “Verde Gris,” in his inter-
esting par. (B. 10/7/’24) on deer in the N. Territory,
reminds me of their arrival. The old Sambur buck
was landed by Dudley le Souef with only three does
—the remaining animals consisted of fallow-deer.
Twenty were given to the Government from the
park of a Vic. lady; the Melbourne Zoo added 20
more, and they were landed near Black Rock, Coburg
Peninsula. Jimmy Carpenter, who shot at and wounded
the Sambur buck, has been dead for some time, but
the old buck is still alive and doing well. His
latest stunt was to swim across the Macquarie
Straits that separate Ross Point from South Goul-
bourn Island, and camp the night with the goats in
their yard at the Mission Station. The gins who
went to milk the nannies in the morning reported
to the officer in charge that a big debil-debil had
got among the animals. He was hunted off the
island and swam back to the mainland. (The tide
rips through this passage at about six knots during
the spring tides, but deer are remarkable swimmers.)
I can remember the landing of the animals in 1913
very well, as we presented Le Souef with a pair of young
dingo pups that my father had brought over from
Melville Island. These- got away from the back of
oui' house and had the time of their lives with the
fowls at the Victoria Hotel before they were recap-
tured, During a, visit to Port Essington last Christ-
mas 1 saw numerous deer —the old buck among them
—and they all appeared to be quite happy.
A THOROUGHLY BAD CHARACTER.
P.M.: “Why did you strike the woman?”
CHINK: “She no Clistian lady.”
P.M.: “What do you mean by that?”
CHINK : “Other Clistian lady dlinkum plenty beer, fightem police, makem plenty sing-
song. Her sclub floor, cleanum window; sametime too muchee ely, allee same
wowser!”
“Kiewa”: If “Manxman” wants to know
the best varieties of euealypts to plant for durable
timber in the King Country (B. 17/7/’24) he could
not do better than inquire of the officers in charge
of the State plantations at Whakararewa. They
have had a lot of experience of growing euealypts
under M.L. conditions and have some very fine forests
coming along. Down in Canterbury they go very
strong on the Tasmanian blue gum (Ewe. globulus ),
but that is drier and colder country. Since the
big demand for poles due to the Lake Coleridge
hydro-electric scheme and other things, some of che
plantations near Christchurch have proved little gold-
mines.
* * * *
“Bouragi”; “Wee Bobbie” asks if animals
get malarial fever (B. 10/7/’24). Certainly they do;
cats and dogs are peculiarly susceptible. The wife
of a one-time Papuan R.M. brought a pedigree
Persian cat with her to the Mambare years ago,
and it soon developed malaria, with all the usual
symptoms. Inquiring after the lady and the cat
when both had returned to Australia, I was told
both had suffered from the usual recurrent attacks;
but while the mistress eventually shook off the
disease, the cat went under to it. Whitten Bros.’
solitary horse at Tamata in the old days used to
get his periodical attacks, during which he invariably
sought human companionship at the stores or in the
Government compound. Birds, especially parrots,
are also liable to malaria, or an excellent imitation
of it, and the disease has been blamed for the
finish of many a good dog.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: I’m afraid “Brud’s” old
hand on the Lower Macquarie (N.S.W.), who be-
lieves in giving fat bullocks an occasional stir-up
by racing them round the paddock for half an hour
or so to keep them fit (B. 29/5/’24), would get a
stirring-up himself if he tried that game on some
of the Bananaland cattle-stations I know. Nothing
riles a beef-raiser quicker than running his fats
about. To prevent fattening bullocks being disturbed,
I’ve known numbers, of breeders prohibit shooting
in the paddocks, and to pass through the enclosures
with dogs is a crime. One stock man I knew,
who was also a butcher, told me running fat cattle
about “shook the fat Off ’em.”
* * « *
“Billy Brolga”: Scrub-itch, spotted-gum-
itch and ironbark-itch are bad enough, but they are
nothing compared with the rottenwood-itch, a tor-
ture I have contracted but two or three times in a
long bush experience. This differs from the other
itches in that it is deep-seated, and friction does not
relieve it. The onset is sudden, itchy spots de-
veloping here and there and rising into hard white
lumps after the manner of hives. In a few minutes
these lumps appear all over the body, and there is a
maddening desire to tear off all vour clothes. The
torture, a painful, sickening itch, is almost unbearable
for an hour or so; then it gradually lessens in ill-
tensity and disappears in about 24 hours. Each
time it was contracted by me I was splitting a green
ironbark with a hollow around which the wood was
badly decayed. I fancy the trouble is caused through
inhaling dust from the decayed wood,
* * * *
“Nitric” : Re “Moe’s” par on alliances be-
tween representatives of totally different species
(B. 10/7/’24). The most interesting example I have
seen was at Boulia (C.Q.) 30-odd years ago. 1
was on the road with cattle (not much road those
days) and came across a large area covered with
peculiar looking nests, built of finely interwoven
twigs on low gidya bushes. I put a match to one
and out scuttled a rat, followed by a brown snake
I tried eight or nine other nests with the same
result. This was evidently a colony of bush-rat'
each of which harbored a serpentine companion.
Where the mutual benefit comes in I can’t quite see,
A somewhat sinfilar example is the American rattle-
JUST A. MISUNDERSTANDING.
BILL THE BRUISER: “Wot d’yer mean callin'
my kid a woodenliead?”
SMTTIIERS THE SCHOOLMASTER: “I assure
you I didn’t —I merely said he was a
chip of the old block!”
snake and rabbit combination. The biological term
applied to this form of association for mutual benefit
is commensalism. Examples are numerous —for in-
stance, sea anemones are often found fixed to shells
inhabited by hermit-crabs; some small fish shelter
themselves beneath the umbrella of large jellyfish,
others in the gullets of large anemones. It is in
a sense a mutual interchange of parasitism.
(Continued on page 24-)
SHEEP-STATION CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old sheep station now is but a name.
No fence or yard nor rotting poles proclaim
A settler’s homestead here has ever been.
No human relics mark this primal scene
Of cliff and heath-starred plain, grey rock and tree,
Between the mountain bush and wide blue sea
Drowsy with summer sunlight, but old stones
Piled in a heap, spears, axeheads, crumbling bones,
An Old blackfellows’ midden, long forgot
And left neglected on this lonely spot,
The one memorial from all the vast.
Glamorous legend of the dusky past.
No skeleton of roof or wall remains,
Chimney nor hearthstone. Hills and flowering plains
Lost in the hazy distance, seem to be
To man as hostile as the unploughed sea.
No sign is here that ever man laid hand
As conqueror upon this No Man’s Land;
Labor and resolution proved in vain,
The bush he once subdued is free again.
No sheep-tracks run beside these sluggish streams,
No cattle range the hills. No camp-fire gleams.
No more some shepherd who has wandered far
By sun or moon or bushman’s guiding star,
Or passing trapper, weary of the hush
And long unbroken silence of the bush,
Will come at last on friendly lights, and hear
Familiar voices. Now from year to year
Man’s voice is never heard. The station keeps
A silence deep as death’s, as soft as sleep’s.
The golden curtain of oblivion’s haze
Has fallen cn the drama of its days.
But in the bush through which the sunbeams dart,
A life of earth wherein man has no part
Makes other music, other tales. Wild bees
Buzz in the hollows of the white, charred trees.
Grey kangaroos break from their secret lair,
Trample down ferns, and crush the maiden-hair.
Bloodwoods drop tears of blood, intense as man’s,
While light leaves dance and flutter colored fans,
Bright insects hum among the scented grass
Old choral songs, and flocks of parrots pass
Like 6carlet flames above the sombre trees.
Sun, forest, sleep, space, silence, smokeless seas—
A DISCRIMINATING DROUGHT.
SUNDOWNER: “Boss, me throat’s parched — l’d give me
left lung for a drink of something.”
COCKY : “Go up to the house and cut a bit of wood and
the missus will give you. a drink of milk.”
SUNDOWNER : “Boss, I may be thirsty, but I ain’t a
blanky calf.”
This ancient world of kindling dew and fire,
Indifferent as fate to man’s desire,
Invokes its own dim gods, non-human forms
Of elemental forces, winds and storms,
Ihe ghosts of beasts, trees, waters, stars and flowers,
Shadowy presences, mysterious powers
Mingling with time and change and death and birth,
That came with the beginning of the earth,
And will endure, though man should be no more.
While the long rollers curl upon the shore.
And ever-passing phantom-life goes by,
And sunlight glitters in the heedless sky.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


BLACK
WHITE
"He ■
*> SM 1 ;J;
■
m
smis
.
.
- ■ i
IS
miMirii
ill
:,r
I
■
a
- m
1
m
MB
■
i
■■
i Hi I
■
I if
Mlllll
:
mma
8
mm
i:
Miiiiiiiiiiii ■ i '■■■ mm
ggM||
“AGE AND QUALITY.”
SCOTCH WHISKY
' • ' ' N$ : -
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., Distillers of “Black and White” Whisky, and their
Associated Companies are in the predominant and unrivalled position of holding upwards
of 29,000,000 GALLONS of Scotch Whisky in bond in Scotland.
Stocks ot this magnitude assure a continuance of Old, Matured Whisky,


mmmm
■Hi
m
E
i
&
m
y
p
.
m
P
m
m
§
imh
i
H
MS
:■
i.Jw
a;
'"HEL*
-
II
m
411
raa
‘ V •; I •
m
c :
18
mmm
castlere* gH
STREET’
SYDNEY.
This Hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable. Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: B6141 —10 lines.
“W.C.M.”: I’ve been out of the sheep
game for so long that perhaps my method of getting
a milking ewe to suckle a motherless lamb is out of
date. We didn’t go to the trouble of skinning a
dead lamb and putting his skin on a live one, as
suggested by “Two Seas” (B. 19/6/’24). Some
kerosene smeared on the lamb and cn the ewe’s
nose was equally effective. So long as the smell of
the lamb is the same as the ewe has in her nose,
the trick is done. High-class ewes might require
eau-de-Cologne, but our commonos did all right on
kerosene.
“Hayband” : “Two Seas” says that ewes recognise
their offspring by scent, not sight. At Rooty Hill
(N.S.W’.) the other day I saw an amusing proof
of this. In a small flock a ewe mislaid her young
one —the only black one. Though it must have
been seen by her, she nevertheless dashed frantically
about smelling the normal-colored ones. Once the
little darkie passed right before her eyes. No
matter —it wasn’t till she smelled it that she claimed
it. But for the “Two Seas” par. I’d have put it
down to plain sheep foolishness.
“Tantalus”: “Two Seas’ ” par recalls the native
milkmen in Madras (India). There the delivery of
milk is by the direct method, for the cow is brought
to the customer’s house, accompanied almost invari-
ably by a calf, and milked on the doorstep. Should
the calf die its skin is stuffed, and the dummy
carted round by the boss. When milk is required
Milko props it against Blossom, who is thereby deceived
and duly delivers the goods into the milk-jug.
» * * *
“Larrapinta”: Here’s a far better way of
removing an obstruction, such as a bullet or pull-
through, from a rifle-barrel, than the damnfool
method used by “Jimmy Possum’s” mate (B.
3/7/’24). Remove the bullet and two-thirds of the
powder from a cartridge, and press a wad of soao
tightly down on the remainder. Then hold the rifle
with the muzzle towards the ground, pour water into
the barrel until full, insert the prepared cartridge—•
and fire. The water transmits the force of the charge
direct to the obstruction, whereas a cushion of air
would greatly reduce it. The reason why powder
alone won’t clear the barrel is that the cartridge
doesn’t make a gas-tight joint unless a bullet is
there to give a “head” to the explosion, which swells
the cartridge out against the barrel, and thus pre-
vents the gas from coming out backwards.
* * * *
“Royal”: “Axeholme” (B. 26/6/’24)
needn’t go far to have his grape-picking record —103
petrol cases in eight hours —smashed to smithereens.
Here on the Murray River that would be considered
very small potatoes. On Holder estate, Waikerie
(S.A.), last season, Tommy Holmes picked 327
petrol tins of doradillo grapes in seven hours, and
BEEN THERE BEFORE.
“If you're up against it financially why not sell your
car?”
“ Impossible! I need it to elude my creditors.”
followed that up by averaging 341 tins per 84-hour
day for three days. (Presumably one case equals two
tins.) He was handicapped by the lightness of the
crop and also by having to pick single-handed—with-
out the usual mate on the other side of the row.
The figures are in Holder Limited’s tally books: but
it is not suggested that they constitute a record for
the river.
* * * *
“M.W.” : The case of the bushman whose
fingers and thumb have become permanently bent
in the position in which he was accustomed to hold
an axe had a parallel in that of the timber-getter
in the Taree (N.S.W.) district who, while by himself
in the scrub, severed the brachial artery of his left
arm He knew' enough of first-aid to stop the
ha}morrh b com “ ins t lie artery with his
fingertips and then with his right hand in this
KM‘ ’ he get out to walk 1( f mik , s for help,
when he reached the doctor four hours later, it was
11 *
THE FLOOD.
with the greatest difficulty that his hand was removed
from his arm, it having become “set” in the position
in which he had been holding it. Even with constant
massage it was more than three months before hand
and arm became normal again, and much longer
than that ere his fingers had regained their functions,
# * * *
“Te Pana”: Reverence for the bones of
ancestors is strong in the Maoris. Burying caves
are common to the north of Auckland, and at
intervals are opened up to permit of additions. The
old Maoris buried their dead in the ground. After
12 months of mourning the bones were dug up,
scraped and transferred to the tribal vault. Quite
recently a Northern hapu asked for the return of
four skulls of warriors massacred in 1810, now m
possession of an island curator, so that they could
be buried in accordance with native custom.
“Mapee”: Re “Gouger” on ani-
mals jumping from a height (8.3/7/’24).
I nominate the tree-climbing kangaroo of
N.Q. for the cake in this regard. Some
years ago a mate and I were engaged to
catch a dozen live specimens for Sydney
and Melbourne. We had about 14 abos.
with their gins and dogs. The nigs would
surround the tree in a wide ring, while
the gins held the dogs; then one buck
would shin up with the aid of a short
length of lawyer-cane, driving the kangaroo
to the topmost branch. When the ani-
mal could get no further it would jump
out into space, coming to earth with a
terrific bump, often from a height of
well over 100 ft. Once on the ground it
was easily caught by the tail, as it is
very clumsy except when in a tree. As
proof that the ’roos suffered no injury,
many of them lived for years afterwards,
and they were full grown when caught.
Incidentally, a dog in tracking a tree-
climber on the ground would have to oe
particularly alert to avoid the powerful
claws and teeth. On one occasion a tyke
escaped from a gin’s grasp and went open-
mouthed at a ’roo as it landed. The
’roo made a lightning swing with its
right paw and drove his claws into the
dog’s tongue near the root. With a howl,
the tyke backed off, and his tongue was
ripped from end to end, about an inch of the tip
being torn off.
“Herodot”: In the Braidwood district
(N.S.W.) there is a tradition of an attack on -a
local Chinaman by dingoes. The Celestial had
noticed a number of warrigals around his hut for
some days and had put their boldness down to
hunger. While he was on his way to a creek,
according to the story, three of them sprang at
him and • one attempted to seize him by the throat.
He succeeded in beating them off with his bucket,
and managed to regain his hut. Here he barricaded
himself in and was found the next day by some
travellers. The wounds he bore confirmed ins story
and his rescuers noticed the tracks of a number of
dingoes in the soft earth about the hut. I heard
r nee of a native dog attacking a child of six or
seven, but this is the only instance I have come
across of a full-grown man being assailed.
“Two Seas” : “V eedee’s” par. about a man
going to sleep on horseback reminds me. Some
years ago the boss of a droving outfit went on' ahead
of his sheep to order stores for the cook. He had
given his order at a little place on the Mudgee-Cassilis
(N.S.W.) road that had the reputation of being a
sly-grog shanty. When he was paying for his
purchases, the woman behind the counter asked
him if he would like a glass of wine. He had no
sooner swallowed it than he felt a strong inclination
to sleep stealing over him. Realising the sinister
possibilities of the situation, he stumbled outside
and climbed on to his horse. As he dug the spurs
in he heard the woman calling to a man who had
kept out of sight. The next thing he remembered
was his cook shaking him to inquire where he was
to pitch the camp. He was lying by the roadside
six miles from the store.
* * # *
“Hotspur” : I would like to back up “Nix”
(B. 19/6/’24) re the claims of the late Jack Skip-
worth as a crack kangaroo-shot. I happen to be
living alongside his brother-in-law, who put in
some months shooting ’roos in W.A. with him.
He tells me that Skipworth kept a diary (it is still
in the family) in which he entered every day’s
results, and the figures quoted by “Nix” are
correct. One of the most remarkable things about
this fine shot was that he lost his right eye, and,
try as he would, he could not manage to shoot
off the left shoulder. He therefore trained himself to
shoot from the usual side while using the left optic.
Try it! As to Mrs. Skipworth, an eyewitness
states that he has seen her place ferrets in a
burrow and pick the bunnies off with a Winchester
as they scuttled for cover.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: “Panama” (B. 3/7/’24)
rightly checks “Bouragi” when he says that dugong
“exist in vast numbers from Brisbane northwards,”
but I would not go so far as “Parama” does in
stating that one may sail those waters for months
without catching a glimpse of a dugong. I have
seen a few off the C.Q. coast, and occasional ones are
washed up. About last Christmas a monster was
caught in some fish traps at Emu Park, 30 miles
from Rockhampton, together with a newly-born calf.
This dugong was Bft. long, and tipped the scales
at 16cwt. She could easily have broken the wire-
netting of the traps, but elected to stay with her
youngster. The calf, which was placed on exhibition,
whimpered like a child, and eagerly drank milk
offered to it. A couple of years ago a dugong
stranded at Yeppoon (C.Q.) was so large that it
could not be moved. It remained until washed out
by a strong tide, after its ripe odor had penetrated
to every corner of the township.
“The Jumper”: In liis par (B. 19/6/’24)
“Nix” reduces Skip worth’s bag of 179 ’roos in one
day to whiptails, or, what seems even more likely,
coast wallabies. This puts quite a different com-
plexion on matters, and the reference to Skipworth’s
missus and the half-caste girl, who helped with the
pegging out, confirms what some of us all along sus-
pected—that Skipworth, if he really made the record
tallies credited to him, had a string of niggers and
half-castes tailing him up to lift the hides and do
the pegging out. But “Nix” is sadly mistaken if
he thinks any ’roo shooter becomes so expert with
a rifle that stationary or flying targets make no
difference to him. Skipworth may' have been a
bobby-dazzler of a shot, but I’ll bet my last pair
of socks he always preferred the sitting shot, and,
with the rifle, banged at a flying target only under
compulsion.
* * * *
“Uramoa” : The sacred genealogical secrets
of certain Maori tribes that have hitherto been held
inviolate are to be divulged. At Hokianga recently
a great korero of chiefs of half a dozen tribes set
up a recording committee to compile the secret
traditions of the high priests of Maoridom ere they
drop into the abyss of eternal night. It is going to
be a big task for the committee. The first to kick
off was a grizzled old chief named Re Te Tai, who
repeated the dirge of the Ngapuhis, which is
unknown to any other tribe. The old warrior expressed
disgust at the clerks (all college bred) for being
unable to take it down in shorthand, necessitating
him putting oh the brake. It thus took him three
hours to get it off his chest.
* * * *
“Jesmond” : A while back somebody wrote
about the medicinal value of mud, which was supposed
to have cured a black gin who had been bitten by
a snake. That particular mud might be of great
value and similar to some deposits in the Belgian
Congo. The New York Herald-Tribune recently
described a tribe, living near Elizabethville, which
enjoys almost perpetual youth and is wholly free
from the epidemics rampant in Africa ; and the Dutch
explorer Schoep records that a badly-mauled and
fractured limb was completely cured within three
days. These results are achieved solely with mud,
which is applied to all wounds, a small portion being
also swallowed daily by every native. The mud is
pitchblende, particularly rich in radium, and
a post-war estimate of the value of the ground
surrounded by the village stockade is 20,000,000
dollars. As these deposits are in a copper-bearing
district, it is possible that Australia may have some
also.
* * * *
“The Jumper”: This talk about some dogs
not being able to swim is all bosh. I’m not a
betting man, but I’m prepared to lay odds that
no one can produce a healthy, sound-limbed tyke
that can’t save himself on being tipped head-first
into a waterhole. Still, the strongest swimming dog
can almost be drowned at times by being thrown m
awkwardly (tail first or on his back). I’ve tossed
in tykes that I knew to be strong swimmers and
more than once I’ve been on the point of going to
their rescue, when they righted themselves and
swam strongly to shore. If he strikes the water in
certain positions, a dog seems to lose his balance
and threshes the water wildly with his forepaws,
his head going further and further back, till he
almost disappears.
* * * •
“Cli afford”: Binghi certainly has some
uncanny medical knowledge. An old abo. woman in
the Coast Hospital (N.S.W.) some years ago was
suffering from an internal haemorrhage, and her case
was regarded as hopeless. She insisted that some
La Perouse water would cure her. A draught
from the Bay was offered and rejected, and finally,
to humor the dying woman, the La Perouse water was
obtained. To the surprise of everyone, after a few
doses the patient improved and was finally discharged.
It was afterwards discovered that the water, at the
spot named by the sufferer, is rich in lime salts.
The clotting of blood by these salts has not been
long known to medical science, yet the abos. appear
to have been quite familiar with the effect, what-
ever they know about the cause
IDENTIFIED.
BOSS (to applicant for job): “Gan you
shear?”
“No.”
“Kill?”
“No.”
“Milk?”
“No.”
“Know anything about horses?”
“Not much.”
BOSS ( bitterly ): “Then you must be the
new union delegate the men are expect-
ing.”
THE CLEVER WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I admit, wind, you’re clever, although you’re a
scamp.
Though your bellows you blow and extinguish my
lamp,
Yet my fire that was smouldering, feeble and slow,
You rouse to red anger. You’re strong, too, 1 know,
Since you wrestle and ruin the sturdiest trees,
And the bravest of vessels you break on the seas,
While a part of a city that stood in your patli
You recently wrecked in a frenzy ol wrath.
Still, in spite of your strength, and dexterity, too,
There is one little deed you’re unable Mo do —
Friend, you cannot blow out, though you blow till
you die,
E’en a grain of the dust you blew into my eye.
N.S.W.
J. ROLAND PAGE.


The Speedster
©
0
i
m
lIIIHHm
I
j
A Finer Hudson
and a Greater Value
The confidence with which everyone regards the Hudson Super-Six
is the natural result of its wide and well-satisfied ownership.
It has outsold all fine cars for nearly nine years. More than 200,000
are in service—a preference altogether due to the superior
value it affords.
In every way that proof can be given, Hudson has shown that no
car excels it in performance, reliability and lasting endurance.
Its official records are famous. Many have withstood attempts to
lower them for years.
The new Hudson, with finer chassis and more beautiful lines, is
the greatest value Hudson ever offered.
It gives greater economy in fuel and oil. Replacement parts prices
are astonishingly low. And rare repair needs mean a minimum of
trouble and expense in maintenance.
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the sixth largest builder of
automobiles in the world. For 14 years it has been one of the
leaders of the industry both in the manufacture of cars and in
financial stability. Its policy of satisfaction to the owner
is something of genuine value in the use and enjoyment of your car.
m
n
n
if
U
The
Coach
(H-FC-1006)
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
•8-60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
86 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A
MOTORCARS, LIMITED.
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, ETD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DAEGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


The Hall-mark of Quality.
RADIO
Get Your Equipment at
HARRINGTONS
Now that the Commonwealth Government has announced that the
open types of RECEIVING SETS may be used, you should inspect
HARRINGTONS
display of Open Sets of the very best type, from a
CRYSTAL TO A FIVE-VALVE SET.
We stock RADIO PARTS by all makers, including the well-known
GILFILLAN PARTS, and a wide range of LOUD SPEAKERS by
world-renowned manufacturers.
Country Clients are invited to write us in connection with their
requirements. A prompt reply? is assured to all inquiries.
To assist those interested, we have arranged for
Free Practical Demonstrations
Every afternoon from 3.15 to 5, and Friday Evenings from 7.45 to 9,
in Listening-in and Construction and Erection of
RADIO-RECEIVING SETS at the EXHIBITION HALL in our
Photographic Warehouse
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY
Branches at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Katoomba, Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland (N.Z.). Representatives Everywhere.
UNDERWOOD
Portable Typewriter
UNDP RWO on
W.
ANYONE with writing of any consequence to do
needs an Underwood Portable. It eliminates
all fatigue, gives thought quicker, clearer
expression, and insures uniform neatness and legibility.
Cased in handsome leatherette, and nickel finished, one
has only to glance at the Underwood to appreciate the
attention that has been paid to detail in its design and
construction. Every device insuring maximum ease
and convenience of writing has been embodied in this
most practical of Portable Typewriters.
4
Clip the Coupon now and hare us supply further
information. You may purchase on Terms.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
70 Pitt Street Sydney
Stott & Underwood, Ltd., 70 Pitt Street, Sydney
Please send full details of the NAME
Underwood Portable, including ADDRESS
price for cash and terms. No
obligation, of course. BUSINESS
(Bulletin, 81/7./'24.) DATE
HARDY BROS^tm
JEWELLERS
Table Appointments
in Finest English Silver-plate
A 552.1 — Silver-plated Vegetable Dish, with
two compartments and handle, length
10 inches £7 : 0 : 0
: y
A 5522—Silver-plated Oval Entree Dish, with
removable handle, making cover suitable for
separate Entree Dish, length 10% inches,
£5:5:0
A 5520 — Silver-plated Oval Entree Dish, with
End Handles, length 10 inches. .£3 : 12 : 0
OWHERE
Australia are
offered more
attractive values in
Silver-plate than at
Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
whose Showrooms
present a wonderful
assortment of Table
Appointments of fin-
est British manufac-
ture. Each piece is.
stamped with the
Company’s name as
a guarantee of that
superlative quality
for which Hardy’s
are known right
throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Five per cent. Viscount
allowed on all Cash purchases.
Selections forwarded on appro-
val anywhere in Australia.
An attractive illustrated Cata-
logue posted free anywhere.
HARDY BROS LTD
“The of Exclusive Jeweller^''
J 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St., 116-118 Queen St.,
MELBOURNE. LONDON. BRISBANE.
on!)
i
*
m
■I m
■
■E: .£
s§*
XJ
tAi
->* '*»•
H
T
■■■
I
m
Wkj
•LQ
PE f?
,v p • • •• -rrcr >x - : V^£77l&M
|#i,y '"• ' ,*' f -, 0?
||||Sj ;;: •::• T. - V, • -
liSfe- '■•■ -
RICH, BEAUTIFUL CEILINGS—
AND YET NOT EXPENSIVE.
What a glow of pride it gives you when a guest
praises your taste ' And you'll find everybody admires
the rooms which have Ceilings of Wunderlich Art
Metal. For these Ceilings possess a richness and
beauty unequalled in other materials.
You will be surprised how inexpensive these Ceilings
are in first cost, and how cheaply they can be trans-
ported and erected. Any handy man can fix our
Ceilings.
Write for our handsome illustrated Catalogue — M.2.—-
or send us plans of your rooms, and we will submit
designs and estimates.
WUNDERLICH, LIMITED,
Sydney. Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, Newcastle, Hobart,
Launceston.
HEAD OFFICE:
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney.


CIMRLES
HfIDSIEOfi
Vintage 1914
CMlMffi
ME PLUS DLTRfI
f rr.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMtTED. Sydney.
j
FASHIONABLE WRISTLET WATCHES.
William Farmer & Co., Ltd., have a comprehensive selection op High-
grade Wristlet Watches in the newest ideas, including designs in
Platinum, AVhite Gold, Enamel and Silver, etc., at reasonable rates.
ĵ
Goods
Forwarded
on
Approval
15ct. Gold Watch Wristlet, with Black MoirS Silk—Fully
Jewelled and Guaranteed, £9 :10: 0. Also in 9ct. Gold,
£6 :10: 0. With Silver Case, £8 :18: 6.
THROUGHOUT
THE
Commonwealth.
WILLIAM FARMER &C° L TD
Jewelers. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Nothing in Any Way Equals
ill
UP
m
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 12; Sat., till 1.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., 15/6.
Suppers from 9.30, 10/6.
Thur., Dinner de I,uxe. till 12, 21/-
Sat., Dinner Revellion, till 1 a.ni., 25/-
Supper, Thur., 9.30, 12/6; Sat-, 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA,
7 TIED 9.
R ALT ON’S FAMED HAVANA BAND,
9 TILL 12.
Saturdays, 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF REAL
DISTINCTION.
Luncheons, 5/-, or aia carte. Equals
London’s best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra 1 till 2.80.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours’
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain vour friends at The Ambassadors,
which provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see Miss
Barker, in Palm Court; or ’phone M 3666, The
Ambassadors, Sydney.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
It is not every day there’s an installation
of a new Grand Master of the United Grand
Lodge of N. S. Wales. In fact, it hadn’t
happened for 10 years until last week, when
the dignity and pomp that had for a decade
enfolded Bro. W. H. Thompson were passed
on with great ceremonial to Bro. John Goul-
ston. Such a thing couldn’t be done, of
course, without the assistance of brother
Masons from neighboring States and Maori-
land. So there was a widespread downing of
tools, and host upon host of the Craft
assembled until the atmosphere became elec-
tric with mysterious vibrations. Not all
who foregathered managed to squeeze into the
Town Hall to the installatioil itself. But
there was much else —civic receptions, motor
drives, banquets-—crowned by the Pictorial
ball for the Freemasons’ Benevolent Institu-
tion.
The Lodges combine every year for
this flutter: and the Field of the Cloth of
Gold would never have got a mention in his-
tory if run in competition with the spec-
tacular muster. There were 800 dancers on
Monday night, the men mostly members of
the ancient union, from the 4th to the 32nd
degree inclusive, and displaying it in their
aprons, chains and tassels. The womenfolk
lived up to their males; and the decorations
outshone both—a scheme of autumn yellows
and rosy blooms turned the Town Hall into
a dallying place for romance that not even
the clash of swords could disturb.
The G.-G.’s lady was to have received the
debs.; but there was a misunderstanding
somewhere, and just as they had received
the blessing of the Lieut.-Gov.’s lady, Lady
Forster arrived in Nile green frocking and
diamond-circled head. The wife of the new
Grand Master combined silver lace and del-
phinium-blue moire with outstanding re-
sults ; and Mrs. Gilpin, who accompanied
her mayoral lord, glittered with jet trap-
pings.
Sir Dudley De Chair and his lady are off
for a three weeks’ tour of the Half-Back
Blocks. They will motor down the Murray, then
strike north to Bourke, breaking the journey
with short visits to various homesteads. Later
there will be a sojourn in the Wagga district
at the Claude Macdonalds’ Wantabadgery
station—that’s in September.
Pianist Munz is all he had been claimed
to be. The lights of the Town Hall on
Saturday night were discreetly lowered, and
in a romantic half light the young man with
the sad eyes poured out streams of delicate
music. Melba, wrapped in black-and-gold
brocades with sable collar, sat in the front
row in a group that included Lady Helena
Rous. Lahoska, Melba’s daughter-in-law,
Fritz Hart and John Lemmone. This group
was responsible for the laurel w T reath that
crowned the young man’s final outpouring;
and afterwards it took him off for a bite at
the Ambassadors. The E. J. Taits and the
Polish Consular Earps were others in the
audience.
Her Majestv’s is beginning to resemble a
club on first nights. Everybody is getting
to know his neighbor, and there is a friend-
liness that helps the evening’s enjoyment,
-niis effect is enhanced by Dame Nellie and
such important people as Mrs. Pitt Rivers
and Walter Kirby making pilgrimages from
one shrine of friendship to another between
acts. All the stars who aren’t on the stage
scintillate along the hang-over at the back
of the circle. “Aida” was the big night last
week, and the dazzling stage colorings
dimmed the radiance of the frocking in the
house. The vice-regal pew was crowded,
the G.-G. Forsters being aided by son-in-law
Pitt Rivers and Captain Mulholland and
accompanied by Lady Helena Rous and Miss
Carieton. Melba was all fussed up in rosy
georgettes and diamonds • and another con-
sistent first nighter who wore beautiful
frocKing was Mrs. Wunderlich, squired oy
a nice-looking young son.
Phyllis Archibald was Lady de Chair’s
guest at Government House for the week-end
Society had its Violet matinee for the
Royal Hospital for Women last week, and
it is expected that the thousand-pound mark
will again be reached. Mrs. Frank Osborne
and the Din Garvan and Ken Richards
matrons marshalled a strong force of sweet-
and programme-sellers, among them the two
clever actress-chicks, Josie Melville and
Mary McGregor. “The Dover Road” and
“Punch and Go” were again the main fare,
with a song sourbet by grand-opera artists
Aga Lahoska (in scintillating black dra-
peries and a hat adorned with paradise
plumes), Alfred O’Shea and baritone
Maguenat. The Governor-General and his
lady brought the two Pitt Rivers grandsons
to see mother acting. Melba was penned
with Lady Helena Rous, Mrs. Seymour
Hicks, Mrs. George Armstrong and Beverley
Nicholls, Melba’s secretary.
That Beverley Nicholls, incidentally, is a
remarkable young man. He is said to have
two novels to his credit, is a good pianist,
and is writing an opera. When he has
learned to use his feet with the necessary
dexterity he will, no doubt, sculp with the
one and paint with the other.
Melba has deserted “52.” Her heart
yearned for a garden, and the gilded Macleay-
street caravanserai doesn’t boast much in
that direction. Besides, there was a rumor
that the house-painters were about to make
their annual visitation. Now Mrs. Tony
Hordern is giving the song-bird a perch and
canary seed at Retford Hall.
The Charles Hackett concert for the
Catholic Women’s College filled the Town
Hall midway through last week —most of the
engineering had been done by a small com-
mittee headed by Mrs. Toohey and Mrs.
Spruson. Souvenir programmes were
peddled by sweet girl-graduates at a shilling
apiece, and that must: have helped to strain
the cashbox, for there was a brimming house.
R.C. clergy and laity turned up in battalions;
find the Apostolic Delegate sat up in the
front distributing his favors evenly between
Lady Forster and Mrs. Toohey. Snuggled
on the other side of the vice-rein e was the
tenor’s magnolia-skinned Italian wife,
wrapped from throat to heel in ermine.
Mark Sheldon added impressive iron-greyness
to the group, of which daughter Muriel and
bright-eyed Mrs. Blackstock formed units.
Miss Egan sat away from the shadow of the
throne, wrapt in contemplation and China-
blue frocking. Phyllis Delilah Archibald took
a night off from grand opera to applaud her
old Covent Garden associates Hackett and
Raybould. The Firm’s newest pianist,
Munz, rather forlorn and young-looking, sat
among the critics. Enthusiasm boiled over
entirely when, at the end of the evening, the
Governor-General’s lady handed over a cigar-
box made of Australian woods, lined glit-
teringly with gold, set with Australian gems;
and she passed silver matchboxes to the
wholesome-looking Bratza, who had played
like an archangel, and to that other willing
accessory, pianist Raybould.
The Uni. oarsmen held revels on Saturday
night in the Union Hall in honor of the win-
ning of the Inter-Faculty race by Science
and the Challenge Eights by St. Andrew’s.
The monastic atmosphere of the new refec-
tory, with its white walls and dark wains-
coting, was shattered by the blare of the
saxophone and the exotic frocking of the
modern girl; but who cares for such things
as long as he can shake foot? The refectory
is modelled on a mediaeval survival glimpsed
lay Professor Wilkinson in his travels, and
the old time effect is intensified by the closed
garden, beyond which, in a more austere
time, might have been the herb garden, but
which the under-grads, have named the Pleas-
ance. This was much used for sitting-out,
resting-places for two being scattered about
in the subdued light of rosy lanterns half-
hidden amid the greenery. Producer Gregan
McMahon’s son, another Gregan, was among
the committee lads who made the evening
a success.
It was a woman’s quick brain that solved
the problem of topping the maximum amount
to be extracted
from the seat-
ms accommo-
(l a t i o n of
Her Majesty’s
for Maggie
Moore’s Jubi-
-1 e e Benefit.
When E. J.
Tait suggested
that seats be
sold at a
sruinea, and
Scott Fell
thought that
some might be
reserved a t
t w ice that
amount, Nella
Campbell-—the
lady in the
Judith Flet-
cher picture—
scratched a
hasty note on
her ivory tablet and pushed it along to imr
husband. It said: “Suggest auction house,
same as Nell Stewart did for Radium
matinee.” So Norman voiced his better
half’s suggestion, and the other day Jack
Cannot auctioned the house from a large
plan on Her Majesty’s stage, with the result
that £lOOO is already in hand. Mrs. Camp-
bell is an active member of the committee,
and was to have appeared in her old part
of the Duchess of Portsmouth in an act
from “Sweet Nell.” But Nellie Stewart’s
illness has made that impossible.
Sydney girl Glenn McGarrity is trimming
her sails for Europe. Besides being a clever
pianist, she has the impulse to create, and
has determined to continue her study of
composition in Europe. Mayoress Gilpin
and Mrs. Layton Gaubert called an after-
noon party at the Cavalier last Thursday to
give musical Sydney a chance to bid the girl
good-bye, and the guest received a mountain
of best wishes and bouquets, frocked in brown
taffetas and close-fitting rose du barry
millinery. At the last minute Mrs. Gilpin
was unable to be present, but the Mayor
was there, and songs by the young composer
were sung by Mrs. Gaubert, Nellie Cane
and Miss Cosh.
The school kiddies of N. S. Wales have
raised £lOOO towards Henry Lawson’s
memorial. Probably Lawson in all his life
never saw so much money at once, nor
dreamed of having such an amount spent on
him.
This clever head tops Frank Lynch, the
young sculptor
whose work,
“The Satyr.”
caused a stir
at the Younger
Artists’ Exhi-
bition at the
Hordern Gal-
lery the other
week. Melba
has made three
Pilgrim-
ages to “The
Satyr,” an d
says she’d love
to buy it, only
she’ll be soon
on the move,
and it would
be cumber-
some to take
along. But
there are such
things as Art
Galleries.
David Jones’s was in distress last week.
The popular head, Charlie Lloyd Jones, was
struck down with pneumonia, and for two
days his doctor scarcely left the bedside.
When word came through on Friday that the
invalid had eaten a fish, dimensions unspeci-
fied, everybody in the big establishment, from
the youngest apprentice up, went about with
a face like a hosanna.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, now on his way back
to Sydney via Panama, is the victim of his
passion for splendor. Like the hero of Eugene
Sue’s masterpiece, he is condemned to travel
the globe for ever. If he rests for any length
of time in England he will lose his member-
ship of the N. S. Wales Council, and sink
into the ranks of the untitled. At present
for visiting-card and luggage-label purposes
he is on a level with the younger sons of peers
below the rank of marquis, and that is not
a status to be sacrificed lightly.
Prince Serge Obolensky, who married the
fantastically wealthy daughter of the late
John Jacob Astor last week, had a job in
Sydney some years ago, and was much in
evidence at the Union and Australian Clubs.
Having been educated at Eton and Oxford,
he was indistinguishable from an English-
man. He fought with a Russian cavalry
regiment from the beginning of the World
War till the stage when the moujiks began
murdering their officers; and he took a quiet
pride in the fact that one of his relations
helped to kill Rasputin. Obolensky and his
first wife, both members of the Prince of
Wales’s cheerful set, were divorced a few
months ago.
Marguerite Melba wasn’t the only one who
discovered an unexpected casket of jewels
last Thursday evening. The gentleman who
broke into the Waleys’ home at Darling
Point had. the same good luck; and the irony
of the thing is that he probably got away
with the £5OO worth of their sparklers even
as the Waley chicks, who were at the opera,
were applauding Melba in the Jewel Song.
There’s a rumor that Phyllis Archibald will
appear as Carmen on the 7th. It is said to
be the. English girl’s best role; she made a
stir with it at Monte Carlo, and has played
it over half of Europe. But there are “poli-
tics” even in a comparatively happy Grand
Opera co., and —well, there are some things
that the other lady doesn’t get much chance
to sing.
To-morrow (Friday), at 1 o’clock pre-
cisely, the Grand Opera orchestra at Her
Majesty’s will get the nod from Paolantonio,
and the Maggie Moore matinee will be in
full swing—on a programme that includes
every professional of note in Sydney. Seats
can still be booked at Paling’s at £1 Is. and
10s. 6d.
One of Sydney’s best-known connoisseurs
is Miss Boswell. She collects week in and
week out —not antiques; clothing, especially
boots, for the unemployed who ask for help
frbm St. James’s Social Service Agency. To-
morrow (Friday) she will hold a reception in
the crypt to welcome left-off clothing, male
or female, of any description.
The demonstration of eurhythmies by the
pupils of Mary Wliidborne and Rachel Lewers
at the Conservatorium will be held on Friday
evening instead of Saturday, to allow Melba
to be present.
The Bush Book Club is at home to-day
(Thursday), and members are invited to
come and bring a book and a friend to
replenish the shelves. (Only the book need
be left on the shelves: of friends, alas, too
many are there already.) Lady Forster has
promised to call.
The Women’s Club is flinging wide its
portals to Melba on August 8. The sacred
spot is already breathless with anticipation.
The Dickens Fellowship will hold the
second of its character dances on August 20.
The Women Painters’ rooms in Queen Vic-
toria Buildings will be the rallying point.
The small daughter of the house was
stumbling through her practice. “And what’s
that you’d be playing now?” asked her
father, looking up from his evening paper.
“It’s a piece from ‘Ada,’ father, replied the
child, making another stab at it. Father
threw down the paper and crossed the floor
heavily. “AIDA,” he spelled out, looking
over Carreno’s shoulder. “No,” he said
slowly, “it’s not ‘Ada.’ You’d more likely
be saying ‘ldea’ —and then you’d be wrong!”
Gus Neville, the Marathon mummer of
Allan Wilkie’s Shakspearean co., is prouder
of daughter Dorothy’s progress than of his
own non-stop record. Dorothy is one of the
scrumptious Sunshine Girls in “Good Morn-
ing, Dearie.”
Adding to our own troubles, Mayor Gilpin
asks the women of Sydney to garner £BOO
to endow an Australian bed in the new
obstetric section of University College Hos-
pital, London. Each State is asked to throw
a few hundreds so that a total of £3OOO
may be sent abroad. In mitigation of the
Gaud Mayor’s offence, let it be added that
he has been sooled on by the Dowager
Marchioness of Linlithgow.
A Brisbane postcript:—
The launch T.W. explored the upper Brisbane the
other day under the command of T. and W. B.
Darker and carrying the Governor of N. S. Wales and
Lady de Chair, Sir Matthew Nathan, Captains Coote
and Saunders, Judge and Mrs. Lukin, the Com-
missioner for Railways and his spouse, the Whitting-
ham, Leonard Turner, George Sampson and Espie
Dods matrons, and the Darker and Sampson girls.
The McKeen car took the party as far as River
where the launch waited at the ferry. A marques
sat on Johnson’s Rock to shelter the luncheon.
That gay young man of between 80 and 90, Edward
Taylor, who still plays bowls and cricket, and jazzes,
celebrated his diamond wedding on July 21. There
were lots of presents and good wishes from the
guests, who included the Harry Brookeses, Eric Hud-
sons, Milnes and Heaslops.
Mrs. Finnegan, of the Bellevue, who is retiring into
private life, had a silver salver, silver tea-service,
crown Derby tea-set with silver spoons,. and an
address and photograph of the Bellevue in a blue
Morocco leather cover, handed to her on her departure.
Flowers, human and vegetable, decorated the lawns
at Ascot for the July meeting. Mrs. Arthur Clark
was in navy; Mrs. Ned Cullen in powder blue;
Mrs. Levien (Sydney) in black; Mrs. William Bui-
cock in moire satin with a fur jacquette; and
Marjorie Green in sand color.
In the Albert Hall Frank McDermott’s Black-
and-White Pierrots staged a musical play written
and composed by him —a very creditable perform
ance in which Madge Golightly and Walter Thurlow
starred, and a gentleman with the reminiscent name
of Lauri provided some capital fooling. A catchy
song, “Down by the Dreamy Condamine,” had a din-
kum Aussie flavor, and the scene was laid on the
Darling Downs. In the audience were the Lalla
Goodwins, McDermotts, Forrests, Taylors and Brandts.
Mayoress Barry had a tea at Lennon’s for Mrs.
Ted Theodore, the Bruches, MeCawleys, Muttons and
many members’ wives being among the tea drinkers
in the lounge.
Iceland poppies and the gay gum-tip decorated
Albert House for the Florin tea given by the members
of the Women’s Club for the Women’s College Fund.
Miss Highfield greeted his Ex. and Mrs. Turner;
Mrs. Scott Fletcher gave an account of her trio
through the State with Dora Lockington in the
interests of the college; Sir Matt, made a speech.
Robert Chisholm, of the Royal Comics, sang; and
Mrs. A. J. Thynne said words of thanks.
Light blue and dark blue held sway in the Technical
College Hall in South Brisbane when the Grammars
had their Football Club hop. There was a good
roll-up, and the chilly night made dancing a pleas-
ing pastime, though we are complaining that we
haven't had “a real winter” this year.
Sir Matthew gave a dinner party at Government
House to Judge and Mrs. McCawley, the A. D.
Walshes, Muttons, E. K. Tullys, Mrs. Bruche and
Elizabeth Dods.
St. Andrew’s Hall did itself proud in red, white
and blue and balloons, gerberas and sweet-pea for the
Women’s College Fund Ball. The Carpenter ami
Nixon-Smith matrons waved the magic wand, and
the results were good.
There was a re-union of old Rockhamptonites at
Selby, when Mrs. Norbury Rogers passed the cheering
cup among wattle and palms. In the company were
Mrs. Thynne, Mrs. Arclidall and Mrs. Scott Fletcher,
who spoke of her tour through Queensland.


A. Saunders’ 4-cup Egg Stand and
Spoons, with round base, gilt-lined
cups and spoons, pure silver-plated,
A 1 quality, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY” SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Sugar
pure silver-plated,
design, 30/-
Scuttle,
engraved
~o
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish and
Knife, pure silver plated, satin
glass lining, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Sugar and Cream Stand, pure silver-
plated, highly-burnished frame, assorted fancy floral
china, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver-plated, hand
burnished, 30/-
Round shape, smaller, 15/6,
AA
AA
m
m.
U'.
Vtti.
Lb
£l£
me
Si
SO
as
rtl
3d*
(OH
iii--
A. Saunders’ Tantalus Frame, pure silver-plated, Al quality
mounts, hand-out English, crystal glass bottles, in fumed
oak frame, £lO/10/-
With two bottles, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Sweet Stand, pure silver-plated,
pierced design, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 70/-
SENT POST FREE .
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 George Street (opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, blne-
or henna-shaded china, with floral shoulders,
trare silver-plated mounts, 30/-
A, Saunders’ Fumed Oak Salver, nickel-silver rail, handles and
fittings.
19-inch, 25/-; 21-inch, 30/-
■
*
mmm M
wmmmmmmmmimm
m
■Kfiifll
■ i
" - ■O/ ■ ’’ '■' :■•
V>.s r ■: i 1 4 ‘ -
■(Mi BHHN fill
\\ WAi
Hh|
« | f j r . jggl
** -rf*** •*mmor ~mm
i
ilil
HI 1111
' :
avotigy .* liii
mtyounfiji fcwwfi-*2?ioy!i*W)3i
/V2.& ?. imur*.
isd
rx
L/' r*^
t
1 Wl
s \ * •{ \*f
—rr
*
»; :■ M
1 1
■
filll
aMßili
*MM vm •-
PHHHi
_.. 1


“}J[hH-Joncfy
the oAncient Eastern game
which has achieved wonderful success in Western countries .
This interesting game, the present Society craze, may now be
procured at prices distinctly moderate. In well-made Of\l
cabinets, complete with wooden tiles, counters, and dice D\)/ ~
In handsome cabinet, of a better quality ... 45/*
Blackwood Cabinet, with bone and bamboo tiles ... £5
Brown wood Cabinet—a superior quality set ... £6/IQ/-
Cs4ll sets aie complete 'with books of rules and instructions.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
SEEDEt RAIS| NS
m
pACfV*
&
7Q9Z_
Stemmed- Cleaned
and Seeded-Ready
for Use
Obtainable
All Crocers
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Leo Cherniavsky has persuaded the russet-
haired Malcolm Roberts widow to take a
fresh matrimonial plunge under his guidance.
She is the only child of the Daniells widow,
who was a Beechworth Morphy and sister to
the Countess Darnley. Mrs. Roberts will
bring a sweet singing voice and a grown-up
daughter into the Cherniavsky circle, though
she looks ridiculously youthful in the role of
mother to daughter Merle, an attractive
young thing who started out last year on
a stage career with the Emelie Polini co.
Merle’s willowy elegance and red head—
which carries a ruddier glow than her
mother s —were an inheritance from her late
father, who died when she was still a tiny tot
He earned his crust in the P. and O. office. .Tati
and Michel Cherniavsky have basked happily
by the domestic hearth for some years. They
married sisters—American dollar princesses.
Mrs Michel, who accompanied her husband
on the Australian trip, is a charming little
matron.
'Many tears are being shed for handsome
ii X ]i j /m B /’ killed in a recent Port
Uedland (W.A.) ’plane crash. He was the
late Sam Mackay’s only son by his first
wife, and went to the West after leaving
Melbourne Grammar in 1918. Less than two
years ago he came in for half his father’s
big estate, which included a vast squattago
in Westraba. After a flutter on the English
stage, the one Mackay daughter, Elsie, settled
under the St&rs and Stripes as the wife of
actor Lionel Attwell, the ex-army officer
seen here years ago as the gentlemanly
villain m “The Whip.” Small Peter, Sam
Mackay s only child by his second wife, Fan
Dango (the attractive little J.C.W. soubrette
and sister of the late Lettie Lind), is now
in England with his mother.
Women Automobilists were in massed for-
niation the other afternoon to meet the
( ellim-Zacharewitsch-Cimara combination,
whom the committee had invited to step into
uio club s parlors. The musical trio endeared
themselves by their cheerful appreciation of
the musical and other items supplied by
Dorothy Murdoch, Ruth Phillips, Natalie
Harold Rodgers, Victor Baxter and
Alba Zacntti. Mrs. Robertson, as club presi-
dent, dressed the occasion in black silk and
raven headgear and was warmed with a
musquash coat. Mrs. James Angus was like-
wise furred to the chin. Kathleen Malone
was there, of course, with her imported lions;
and the ’Varsity Corn’s singing maestro,
Sobell, came to meet the trio.
This was not the first introduction of
either Zacharewitsch or Cimara to the Auto
( lub rooms, for the Austral Salon members
who shelter there since they weia burnt out
ot their old home had served up music and
hospitality for the visiting artists the pre-
vious day. On that occasion Cellini had a
(late with someone else, and so was absent.
’’ j - T^ oln s Poke the welcoming words,
and Dorothy Murdoch, Maisie Hattam, Mrs.
Maurice Dudley and Natalie Dawson supplied
the programme. Pauline Bindley and Mrs.
Mary Conly helped to swell the audience,
the Salon parties have picked up just the
right atmosphere of friendly informality in
the cosy club parlors. Their previous gather-
ings in the spacious frigidity of their former
rooms, furnished with rows Of hard-seated
chairs, smacked more of concerts than of
conversaziones.
Melbourne friends of Dale Collins have
been cheered to learn that that bright young
man s latest book, “Ordeal,” besides being
a season’s best-seller in London, has had
such a demand in Australia that the
Cornstalk Publishing Co., of Sydney,
has brought out an edition. Dale Col-
hns has moved along with amazing
rapidity. ITe was born at Balmain, Syd-
uey, only 27 years ago -his father was a
doctor there—and his first job was with the
Richmond Guardian, the Melbourne subur-
ban paper which the good Asher has run
tor nearly 40 years. Collins was his boy-
reporter; and when the lad got himself ap-
pointed Richmond correspondent of the
Herald he soon caught the eye of people
who had larger jobs to offer. After that
came an irruption of striking verse and short
stones m The Bulletin, the sudden offer
to fnm to join the Speejacks, and his flight
to Europe at about two hours’ notice—all
before he was 25.
Newman College took St. Ivilda Town Hall
tor its annual dance; and judging by the full
house the whole 500 invitations must have
been accepted. A big group of ’Varsity and
college headlights flashed approval on the
thing, from the improvised parlor below the
end balcony. The hon. secs., H. Hanlon and
J. P. Maloney, brought in the college matron,
with Nancy Egan and Marie do Bavay, to
help in the hosting, and they soon weeded out
a feeble growth of wallflowers. Two damsels
budded at the ball—Mary Stokes, from
Echuca, who suggested a dewy-white rose
in snowy flounces of net and silk, with a
girdle of pearls; and Mary Hanlon, from
Tatura, who side-tracked debutante white in
favor of blue silk draperies and a floral-
patterned sash. The star guests were the
acting-Chief Justice Cussen and his dame, she
in black marocain with an ermine wrap.
Daughter Alice was a rosy blush of pink.
Nancy Egan flew silver embellishments on a
blue background, while Marie de Bavay was
sheeted picturesquely in cloth of gold
weighted with golden foliage on a
green ground. Mrs. Behan, there with her
Warden of Trinity, was in brown, gold and
green, and Mrs. Hugh Devine suggested a
mauve orchid in velvet-petalled hangings
peppered with diamente.
Melbourne caught a fleeting glimpse of John
Pearce Luke, knight, and sometime Mayor
of Windy Wellington. The little Cornish-
man with the big heart and “spade”-clipped
beard is with a party of Australian and M.L.
politicians who have gone to Africa to shake
hands with new Prime Minister Hertzog.
John is a staunch proheebitionist; but dur-
ing his term as Mayor, when the ’flu epidemic
raged, for two weeks the pubs were shut and
he dispensed “medical comforts” like an ex-
perienced barman. The Godblessyersirs that
came from the Town Hall at the time sounded
like anthems. With the party is J. Horne,
member for Wakatipu, M.L.’s Southern
scenic area. A verra canny, slow-thinking
Scot, he is a great battler for the small
cocky. Ted Howard, another of the tourists,
is a Labor man and offsider to Harry Hol-
land.
Tom Garlyon, the younger, is preparing
for matrimony with little Addie Scott, who
smiles so winsomely in “The Whirl to Hap-
piness,” at Her Majesty’s. Addie was taken
from Scotland to Maoriland when she was
seven, and had her first bath of limelight in
“Hello Everybody” and “The Peep Show.”
From revue she danced into musical comedy,
and is now quite pleased at the prospect of
playing a domestic role. Since passing out
of Geelong Grammar School young Tom has
been helping his dad run “Carlyon’s” at St.
Kilda. The confetti has been ordered for
October.
This Rembrandt picture introduces you to
Mrs. Frank Clarke, whose husband—a half-
brother of
baronet
Rupert—w a s
lately called on
to step into
the shoes of
Walter Mani-
fold as Presi-
d e n t of the
State Uppah
Chambah. She
and her hus-
b a n d are
cousins, her
mother being
a Cotton. Mrs.
Clarke is an
active philan-
thropic worker
and widely
popular. At
present she
must have her
hands pretty
full, with a
jmst-out daughter to look after, another
thl mb fl in - S i°? brmk Pf grown-updom, and
the official duties of the wife of the Legisla-
tive Councils President to perform.
A budding Westralian journalist who
lapses into poetic dreams was assigned to
interview a distinguished Chinese who,
™ , Jll « secretary, was staying at the city’s
pest hotel. A reporter from the Moon to
interview Dr. Sun Yat,” or something
such, was spoken through the tele-
phone to the visitor’s room; and down
came the secretary to take the jour-
nalists card. The young man drew
a square of pasteboard from his pocket, and
handed it to the sec., who bowed from his
knees northward, and departed. Presently
down came both gentlemen, and they were
boiling and demanding that the reporter be
thrown out. And somehow he either got
out or was put out. But he came back and
picked from the floor the card the disgruntled
Chinaman had thrown at him. It was from
Wun Lung s Laundry, and set forth the ex-
cellence of that Celestial’s washing and iron-
.. -M le } inb PPPy.dreamer had somehow
got it mixed with his own.
Fitzroy citizens ripped up the jazz con-
vention at their return Mayoral Ball, when
they gaily pirouetted in the bafn-dance and
other pre-war measures. Their flying feet
seemed to fling a challenge to several couples
who were protestingly syncopating in the
doleful trots. The thrill of the evening was
the presentation of a gold watch to Mayor
Boell and a pair of dangly diamond ear-
rings to his wife. The ball chairman, G. H.
Green, handed the baubles over in a verbal
wrapping on behalf of the Fitzroy citizens.
Robert Harper’s widow closed a long
career of philanthropic and charitable use-
fulness on July 21. Her health had failed
rapidly after the loss of her eldest son, Henry,
and his wife,
who passed
out within a
few days of
each other.
Mrs. Harper,
who was the
youngest
daughter of
the noted
Scots cleric,
Dr. Adam
Cairns, was
mainly instru-
mental in
launching the
M i n i stering
C h i 1 dren's
League, and
she presided
over it for a
quarter of a
century. The
Cottage - by-
the-Sea will
also stand as a memorial of her generosity
to Melbourne’s poor and neglected little ones.
She was for five years president of the
Y.W.C.A., and the Free Kindergarten move-
ment owes much of its early success to her
gift for organisation and her financial help-
fulness. For over 30 years she presided
over the Spinners, a group of workers who
spun for the Children’s Hospital, and
the Presbyterian Women’s Missionary Union
was another of the many movements in which
she was interested. One daughter, Mrs. Alf
Taylor, and three sons live to mourn their
loss. An elder daughter died years ago in
her early ’teens, when visiting Scotland with
her parents. Vandyke made this picture of
the big-hearted woman.
“The Garden of Allah” faded out after a
special souvenir night, when every woman
in the audience carried away photos-de-luxe
of Frank Harvey and Muriel Starr. It was
followed by “Madame X,” who got a great
welcome back to Melbourne on Saturday
night, the full house being liberally spattered
with the Right People. Muriel Starr gets
only one frocky chance as the unhappy
heroine, but she makes the most of it with
mole georgette colorfully hooped with em-
broideries on the northern elevation. A fur-
ther color patch peeps round the front fender
of the mole hat which encloses her shingle.
The wide hanging sleeves of the dress are
picturesque, but when Madame makes a de-
jected exit, with her hands tucked away in
the sleeves, she suggests a Chinaman toddling
off-stage. In the audience were Barbara
Hofte, under convoy of that untiring squire of
dames, Tom Cochran, her husband (Tom
Oakshott) and Eily Malyon, the last of these
wrapped in a striking embroidered shawl.
Barbara, who had said her farewells when
Ihe Wheel ceased revolving at the Palace
Iheatre on Wednesday, and had intimated
her intention of coming back to Australia,
smiled ravishingly in rosy draperies and a fur
coat.
. General Fred Hughes’s wife is in mourn-
ing for her sister, Lily Snodgrass, one of tlm
best-liked society girls of the ’eighties. She
uied in England. Until her nephews and
nieces grew up the spinster sheltered with
her favorite sister, the first Baronet Clarke’s
lady, at Rupertswood and Cliveden; follow-
ing that she had lived in London for many
years. Only, recently she had been rejoicing
m her reunion with her youngest brother,
the Rev. Evelyn Snodgrass, who. with his
wife (she was one of the Lewis Kiddle sis-
ters) , crossed to England a few months ago
to spend a couple of years there.
The whirligig of time brings its revenges
all right. It will now be the duty of George
Fairbairn, formerly the grand panjandrum of
the employers (and a decent one, be it said)
to take orders, as Agent-General, from a
Labor Premier. Chief Justice Irvine is on
leave till February 1, and may be spared
any irritating directions respecting adminis-
matters at the law courts. He is
over 60. but there is no specific retiring age
for our Supreme Court Judges. Still, Slater,
the Attorney-General, may be counted on
not to do any scurvy thing to anybody.
I rendergast has no tenrors for liim, however
the new Premier may try to browbeat others.
Besides, all Ministers are the choice of the
Party and not the Premier’s picking.
Australian comedian Percy drops a line
from London. He’s again under Stoll man-
agement, and playing at the Alhambra anr
Coliseum. In between he has been broad
casting two of the first plays radioed in Eng
land—his first part was Box in the evergreei.
Box and Cox.” Another something different
that he did was a playlet specially written
for him: “The Man Who Would Sing in His
Bath.”
The Fred McEvoy widow is hurrying back
to Melbourne once more after a long stay
on the other side of the Equator. Soon after
landing she will take out a fresh matri-
monial policy with Arthur Burnett, an
American who is looking after the Aussie
end of a Yankee business. The young
bloods of 20 years back remember Mrs. Fred
as one of the beautiful Muret sisters—
Evelyn.
There is one man in Australia at least
who cursed when a story was published in
Melbourne that Billy Hughes had died in
America. This was Max Meldrum, the
Franco-Scotch Australian who has been
carrying in his pocket for years past a
commission to paint the elusive Willy for the
Commonwealth Parliament’s collection of
Priministers. Meldrum has tried every device
to induce him to sit, but he lias always
made some excuse. Meldrum was so relieved
when he heard the little man wasn’t dead
that he was actually seen smiling for a day
or two.
In spite of the gibe that Fashion changes
her mind every week or two, when it comes
to hats the artists put their painted ladies
under the headgear that Romney, Gains-
borough and others of that ’way-back time
chose for beauty’s crown. For instance, take
the heroine of Lambert’s “White Glove,”
with her Old-Masterish black velvet wide-
brimmed hat, a fluff of white ostrich feather
round the brim. Nothing is more becoming
to the average woman. Longstaff often uses
the small, tight-fitting toque to top a pretty
face. Fashion turns many somersaults in
a month. But only once or twice in a cen-
tury when a big portrait-painter gets busy.
The Playhouse was packed for Beatrice
Ternan’s Dramatic Recital, the programme
was well chosen, and the show was helped by
Joseph Foster’s fine baritone and Herbert
Slattery’s pleasing tenor. The fair Beatrice’s
Juliet was a beauteous young thing burdened
with a passion beyond her years. Her artistry
was further revealed in Browning’s “Andrea
del Sarto,” several brackets of poems and
some humorous sketches. Three little things
by Vance Palmer, Marie Pitt and R. A.
Broinowski tripped charmingly from the
reciter’s lips. The ravishing Juliet frock
of ivory satin, sewn with pearls, which was
worn by Beatrice wasf lent for the event by
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, who once featured its
costly loveliness at a fancy ball. The Cleo-
; patra drapings of white satin, wrapped round
with beaten silver, and topped with a glitter-
ing crown, were designed by the elocutionist
herself. So was her blue and silver evening
frock. The Robert Gamins sat in the front
chairs, and Mrs. Albert Miller had a party
a few rows back. Arthur Robinson was also
among the applauders, and Claude Hall, who
has been training the Ternan talent, was not
the least interested person in the crowded
Playhouse. The taxi that took Beatrice’s
floral tributes back to her flat after the show
was a crowded vehicle.
Charles Hackett declares that Alexander
Wright’s baritone is the finest he has heard
•in Australia, and on his advice the young
singer will study grand-opera rQles, the voice,
according to Hackett, having been built for
that job. Sobell, who is solely responsible for
Alexander’s training, is purring over the
visitor’s verdict.
Some Adelaide gossip:—
The Y.W.C.A. was the special hobby of just-dead
Mrs. A. S. Neill, and she was twice its president;
but there were few movements concerning the welfare
of women and girls that did not claim her active
sympathy. After her husband’s death she made
her home in Sydney, and she was on a visit to her
sons in this State when the end came.
Mayoress Glover poured tea for the hard-working
committee that helped her to run so successfully the
musical afternoon in aid of the Children’s Hospital.
There was a guessing competition as a background to
the chatter, and crystal bowls of massed sweet-peas
and Iceland poppies as a background to the tea.,
Mrs. Glover’s enthusiasm for the hospital has spread
to the suburbs, and most of the mayoresses have
organised local efforts. Unley tops the list of re-
sults.
' Reka Grasby, who went to the London College of
Music, has moved on to Vienna, where she is study-
ing under Gustav Geiringer, who pronounces her
voice, “glorious,” and says that in another year she
will be ready for the stage.
The town; is peppered with red and blue ribbons,
the outbreak being due to the annual re-unions of
St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred old boys, which are
timed so that the intercollegiatei football match can
be the climax. During the week there have been
many dinners and more speeches, and the Red-anl-
Whites sponsored a ball at the Palais.
The executive committee of our branch of the
League of Nations invited Australian delegates Groom
and Charlton to 11 o’clock tea at the Bohemian rooms
when the Ormuz was in port. Prior engagements
kept the Labor leader away, but the other, turned up
to swap views with the committee and to promise
to speak at a.League meeting here on his way back
from Geneva. .Women bulk largely on the Union’s
executive, and among those at the affair on Thurs-
day \VeVe two of its keenest workers—Mrs. Darnley
Naylor and Mrs. Carlile Mac Donnell.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney..
mm
m
■
m
Wh
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Will not bite the Tongue.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS (St CO.* Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPOATING
NEEDS
Haoma clears the Moonee Valley (Vic.)
fences as if he loved doing it, and I3st. slb. failed to
stop him on Saturday. Oooliel, who was in receipt
of 481 b., tried to pace it with the great little South
Australian over the last mile, but was outjumped
at every obstacle and outpaced between fences. It
was a marvellous performance for a ’chaser that is
little more than a pony, but the price was murder-
ous —evens in a field of seven, with five horses backed.
As usual, Sing rode Flannagan’s champion, and the
same jockey was on Myownbay (4’s) in the Gellibrand
Hurdle, which the gelded son of lownit—Encounter
Bay won in dashing style and exceptionally fast
time, the two miles being left behind in 3min.
38fsec. Had Groganite got home in the Jumpers’
Flat, the S.A. horsemen would have completed a
treble. The outsider of the party, S. A. Rawdon’s
hurdler finished well ahead of Mnemar, Pericles.
Redoubtable and other fancied candidates, but couldn’t
manage to get his neck in front of the well-backed
Batouch (7’s). This page can't pick anything to
beat Groganite in the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield
next Saturday.
* * * #-
While Lemina was winning the £2OOO Tat-
tersall’s Cup at Morphettville (S.A.) on Saturday,
Bitalli, victorious in 1923, was dying of pneumonia.
At the instance of his Adelaide owners, Scobie sent
him over from Victoria to collect another Cup, Dut
pneumonia claimed him instead. Lemina is a six-
year-old chestnut mare by the English-bred St. Spasa,
who won a Metropolitan for W. Kelso, out of Guine-
vere, and is owned by C. L. Gardiner. She ran the
two miles in 3min. 29|sec., and her finishing sprint
was rather striking, but The Storm and Andrada,
who filled the places, are not much good. The
mare, who wasn’t nominated for the Melbourne Cup,
paid £9 12s. on the £1 machine. It was a day of
big dividends, old Pistolier returning £26 16s. in
the Hurdle, Tophole £ll 15s. in the Balmoral
Handicap, Parvista £7 10s.. and Rametta (second)
£8 4s. in a welter, Mentellini £7 10s., and Duke
Silent (second) £4 6s. in a handicap for two-year-
olds. There would be a poor chance of getting
prices like those from the roaring gent, behind the
bag, 'whom S.A. Labor members are keen on licensing.
Although only a moderate in Maoriland,
and apparently a bit above himself, Tactful (Lucul-
lus—Tact) made a representative field of Sydney
sprinters look cheap in the Flying Handicap at Rose-
hill on Saturday. Sunburst (backed at s’s and 4’s)
raced alongside the invader for a few furlongs, but
once the straight was reached there was only one in it,
Tactful having a six-lengths’ advantage at the judge’s
box from the Newmarket Handicap winner, who was
half a length in front of the favorite, Bernesk.
Tactful opened at 3’s, receded to 10’s and firmed to
B’s when it was seen that Bernesk had dislodged
her rider and galloped several furlongs before the
start. But for this prank the nice young Bernard
—Eskdalmuir mare would undoubtably have been
closer at the finish, but she could hardly have defeated
Tactful, whose fine burst of speed suggested that
Maoriland horses are going to be as dangerous as
ever in Sydney this season. Buokra, a sto 4 favorite,
cut up badly in the 10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap,
and Nygee (7 to 2) won handily from Prince Cavalry,
a recruit from the “ponies” and the big M.L. chest-
nut Sunny Loch, who is not ready. Like others of Bright
Steel’s progeny, Nygee has amply justified the experi-
ment of trying her over a bit of distance. With
only 3lb. . more than her Rosehill weight sbe looks
like playing a part in the Warwick Handicap at
Randwick next Saturday, even though the company
is rather better and there will be another furlong to
travel. Another improved horse is Collaroi, the
handsome black colt by Kenilworth —Regent Bird,
in Price’s stable. In tbe early part of last season
Collaroi had a vexatious habit of fading out in the
Randwick straight, but his finishing run in the
Carlingford Mile at Rosehill was vigorous enough for
Anything. and it may be that he is destined to
Jistinguish himself as a stayer, like his relative
And stable-companion, Stony. The son of Kenilworth
went out at 5 to 2, and was the second favorite
to get home. However, the bookmakers had two
skinners in Plain Alwyne and Bright Net, and on
the other three races they must have shown a profit.
* * * *
“FY7” : One often hears of a horse going
out in a race “with a string on him,” but one James
Berry, disqualified for life at Townsville (N.Q.), has
put a new interpretation on the gag. He started a
mare called Etal, whose running so displeased the
stewards that they examined her and found a piece
of tape tied tightly round her tongue. The case had
an unusual aftermath, for, after the Townsville
stewards’ decision had been squelched by the club
committee, the N.Q.R.A., governors of northern rac-
ing, reimposed the sentence. Then an application to
the N.Q. Supreme Court saw the new poultice taken
off by Blair, J. Finally, on the • appeal of the
N.Q.R.A., the Full Court capsized the northern
Judge’s ruling and the disqualification stands good.
In any case, tlie sporting gmtleman got a fair run
for his money, which is more than the backers of
the tongue-tied Etal seem to have done.
* * * *
“Lond.”: A London Sportsman letter-
writer, a breeder of blood stock for 40 years, raises
the question of foster-mothers affecting the young.
He claims that early feeding has a big influence,
and cites examples in his own experience. For
instance, a fashionably-bred foal was fed on cow’s
milk ; result, a big useless animal. Another, given to
a cart mare to rear, “grew up oversized and unwieldy,
no use for racing.” One of two pups given to a cat to
rear became “strong, sharp, and full of energy and
vitality.” The writer argues that a white child can
be ruined by a black foster-mother, and even that
a crossbred hen can damage the qualities of eggs
of a fighting strain if she sits on them. An interest-
ing argument has followed; the general opinion
seems to be that the complaint is exaggerated, but
it is conceded that the young one might easily' learn
to. imitate the slow movements of its apparent
parent. The famous racer Breadalbane is cited as
an example of a great and successful horse admittedly
reared by a cart mare. : '?V j
* * * *
“Rio” : It is getting on for 20 years sinee
our military forces relinquished the “long” M.L.E.
rifle for the “short.” The latter weapon was designed
to meet modern conditions as disclosed in the S.
African campaign, and in the Great War it proved
itself the best service weapon in the business. But
in spite of this, and although trainees were making
excellent scores with the improved rifle after very
little instruction, Australian rifle clubs would
never use it until the 1924 team went to Bisley, where
the long rifle is not allowed. Shooting with the
despised weapon, our marksmen won the Empire
Match with the record score of 2248 —32 better than
the next best, that of the Afrikanders. J. D. Shearim,
a “permanent” musketry instructor and the son of a
permanent soldier, only missed the bull’s-eye eight
times in 60 shots (ten at each of six ranges). Now
the rifle clubs are asking for short rifles, and inviting
trainees who already are good shots to join them;
but there hasn’t been one word of apology for
all the abuse heaped on the short weapon and the
permanent instructor.
“Max M ” ; Bob Hall, the Adelaide rifleman, who
has been shooting well at Bisley, is a living refuta-
tion of the argument that electric light ruins the
eyesight. He is a linotype operator, and has worked
under the artificial light all his life.
Before George Tosh, of Gilgandra
(N.S.W.), met Harry Young, of Rozelle, in the final
of the Sydney Stadium’s welterweight tournament,
he said “If this bloke beats me I’ll go back to the
farm.” The bloke did beat him, after a hair-raising
fight which went three rounds, and perhaps Tosh
would be wise to stick to the agricultural life.
A few cracks on the chin like the finishing punch
(a left swing) might spoil him for any calling.
However, the aspiring youth, who was leading on
points till Young stepped back and let fly with the
left, is to box his conqueror again.
* * * *
In New York last week Georges Carpen-
tier was knocked out in 14 rounds by Gene Tunnev,
with whom Billy Shade, now in Australia, has
swapped punches. A body punch was the deciding
factor, and the usual cries of “Foul!” in the Lens
patois came from the Gallic corner, but the referee
took no notice. Carpentier has had poor luck against
American pugs. The Dixie Kid, Klaus, Papke, Jean-
ette, Dempsey, Gibbons and Tunney have all licked
him, and Gunboat Smith had him down for a long
count when an English referee decided that Gunboat
had broken the rules. Only 30 on January 12, Georges
ought to have a fight or two left in him, but he
ought to pick his marks (or pluck his lemons) on his
own side of the pond.
* * * #
“Bung”: If fluke rifle performances have
fizzled out, let me in with a fluke billiard shot. Billy
Linow, playing in a tournament at Bungendore
CLAUDE
FALKINER, the
English billiardist.
Walter Lindrum
beat him by 597
points in the first
of their series
of matches,
16,000 up.
(N.S.W.), attempted a
long losing hazard into
the top right-hand cor-
ner pocket. He mis-
cued so vehemently that
the ball bounced clean
over the gaspipe that
lit up the table. In
falling it struck the
white, cannoned thence
on to the red, which
it potted, and followed
into the pocket—left
corner. An eight shot
after the steeplechase.
Record?
“Herodot”: Tell “Feng-Shui” (B.
24/7/’24) that cock-fighting is still carried on in the
neighborhood of Cook’s River, and in other parts of
Sydney as well. Most of the matches take place on
Sunday mornings, and those present are nearly all
old heads, the younger generation knowing nothing
about the proper methods of “handling” birds or
adjusting spurs. But attendances are small and irre-
gular, and there is little prospect of the brutal pas-
time ever experiencing a revival of the interest it
attracted in Sydney 30 years and more ago. The
chances are that when the few who now follow it
have gone it will disappear for ever.
Australia meets China in the first round
of the Davis Cup competition at Brooklyn to-day,
and our fellows should comfortably account for
Lock Wei, Paul Kong and C. It. Hung. In a recent
interview Patterson said that he and his team were
not yet up to concert pitch, but Gerald showed capital
form last week at Brooklyn, where he defeated Snod-
grass, the Californian, in straight sets and assisted
O’Hara Wood to conquer the formidable Kinsey
brothers. If the Chinese go under, the Australians
will encounter their old opponents the Japanese,
provided the latter, as anticipated, dispose of the
Canadians, who have eliminated the Cubans. But the
Japanese are not as formidable as they were.
Shimidzu is an unlikely starter, and Patterson is
plainly not impressed by Okamoto, Fukuda or Har-
ada, thougli Fukuda has had some Cup experience
and Okamoto didn’t disgrace himself at Wimbledon.
If the Australians oust Nippon they will be matched
with the French, and, assuming that Lacoste, Coehet
and Borotra cross the Atlantic, the result may be
very close, though our men should have an immense
advantage in being acclimatised and in having had
more practice with the American ball. All going
well, this battle will be staged at the Longwood
Cricket Club’s courts on September 4, 5 and 6.
The challenge match occurs a week later at Phila-
delphia.
* * * *
Golf is no poor man’s game. The Rivers-
dale (Vic.) club, whose lease of its links at East
Camberwell expires in six years, has just paid
£17,000 for a 160-acre block at Burwood. This is
known as St. John’s Wood, and was once owned by Judge
Redmond Barry. In later yearn the property belonged
to S. J. Perry, fruit exporter, who planted a bit of
an orchard which will presumably be grubbed out.
A sloppy little creek meanders through the block,
and this will afford fine accommodation for “bunkers.”
* * * *
The first 10 picked for the M.C.C. cricket
team to visit Australia next season are A. E. R.
Gilligan (Sussex), Chapman (Berkshire), Sutcliffe
(Yorkshire), Sandham (Surrey), Woolley (Kent),
Hendren (Middlesex), Tate (Sussex), R. Tyldesley
(Lancashire), Strudwick (Surrey) and Bryan (Kent)
Woolley, Hendren and Strudwick are old friends.
Chapman has done little in representative matches,
but he batted and fielded so brilliantly with Mac-
laren’s amateurs that we shall be glad to see him
again. Gilligan (fast) and Tate (medium-pace) have
been the mainstay of England’s attack against the
Afrikanders; they are f.a.q. batsmen besides. Tyl-
desley bowls slow stuff; Sutcliffe goes in first for
Yorkshire and Sandham for Surrey, and Bryan has
done great things with the bat for' Kent. Strudwick
(44) is the oldest of the bunch; then come Woolley
(37), Hendren (35), Sandham (34), Sutcliffe, Gil-
ligan and Tate (29), Bryan (28), Tyldesley (26) and
Chapman (24 next month). Others mentioned as
having been invited are Douglas (42 next month)
and Howell, the fast bowler (S 3). Australia will
be disappointed if Hobbs doesn’t come, and another
man it would like to see again is Parkin. But
Hobbs is rising 42, and has a sporting-goods business
that he doesn’t want to leave (or perhaps it is that
the money isn’t good enough), and Parkin ruined his
prospects of selection by criticising his captain after
the first match against the S’Africans.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Australia v. the Rest, one of
the big fixtures of the coming cricket season, is to
b«3 a benefit for Bill Howell, who can do with the
money. Howell was a cricketing accident. Selected
for his powerful hitting, he said to his captain at
a time when Stoddart was knocking the N.S.W.
bowling all over the Sydney Cricket Ground, “I think
I could bowl that chap.” Bowl the chap he did;
and ever afterwards he was picked for his bowling,
although he occasionally did some big hitting. After
his first trip to England, Howell was asked by a
reporter what he thought of the Cold Country. “My
word,” he said, “you should see all the ehimbleysl”
* * * *
“Nitric”: I protest against “Centurion’s”
recent assertion that the Zingari club formed at
Warwick (O.) in the early ’sixties is extinct. The
Darling Downs Zingari are still on deck. Their
patron is an old English public-school boy—W. B.
Slade, owner of vjuengallan station. A representative
cricketer aforetime, he still loves to exhibit the flat
willows they used in the good old days.
* * * *
“Baditauna”: The fastest canoes in the
north-western Pacific are the single outriggers that
the sporting Austral-Papuans of Moresby use for
their Saturday-afternoon races. I recently saw a
race among 16 of these fliers; without being extended,
the winner passed a motor-launch that was logging
nearly 11 knots an hour. The canoe is a single dug-
out, rigged with two masts and two enormous square
sails. The outrigger is kept to windward all the
time; the canoe’s rudders (as a rule, four oars are
used for this purpose) are carried from bow to stern
when the vessel goes about, the log sailing equally
well stem or stern first. Pleasant it is to watch
a fleet in a strong breeze. Most of the craft slide
along with the outrigger clear of the water, while
the crews balance like crows. The canoes are easily
handled —by Brown Brother. The average white man
can soon learn to sail them, but he mostly sits on
the outrigger and encourages his steersmen. There
is a glorious thrill in balancing along at 10 or 12
knots in a craft with less than four inches
freeboard, and members of Moresby’s Aquatic Club
reckon they get much more “kick” with these weird
craft than they ever had with civilised boats on
Sydney Harbor.
* * * *
The Essendon-Richmond collision in Mel-
bourne on Saturday drew a 40,000 crowd. Up to a
bit after half-time it was a fine game, but Essendon
then took the lead, and at the finish they had 85
points to Richmond’s 56. Out at Carlton, the Col-
lingwood Magpies, showing some return to their
system, got the better of the Blues in a hard, fast
game, with 84 points to Carlton’s 72, and so passed
them into outer darkness for the season. South
Melbourne, playing irresistibly in the last quarter,
beat Melbourne by 85 to 38; and on their own
ground Geelong spiflicated St. Kilda —123 to 48. As
things are, ’Don, South and ’Roy, with but 2 points
between them, are scuffling for first place, while
’Wood, Richmond and Geelong are level for the
fourth. The others are out of it.
“Tren”; Victoria’s team to play against the other
States in Tassie was selected by delegates from Stoush
Melbourne, Fitzroy and Carlton. Twenty-three players
w'ere chosen, and 12 hoof the ball for Carlton, Fitz-
roy and Stoush Melbourne. And that’s that.
“F.C.”: The struggles between two particular Vic.
League football teams always intrigue me because
of a feud between a few members on each side. It
arose a few seasons back when a Beetlecrusher wot
the ball in a melee and a Snakeeharmer, trying a
bluff, called out “Pass it here, Ginger.” ’ The red-
haired forward spotted the try-on, sang out “Rio-hto
Snowy” and punched it over the latter’s head to a
waiting mate, it wasn’t much of a joke, but Snowy
exhibits a distinct trace of the tarbrush, and the
sarcasm rankled so much that every time the two
have met since a few solid jabs and uppercuts are
quietly handed out. On the last occasion Ginger
collected a black eye and “Snowy” accumulated
a kidney punch that put him on the injured list for
a week or two.
* * * *
“O. McKay M.” : In the final match of the
Melb. Uni. intercollegiate competition, Queen’s de-
feated Newman, winners in 1922 and 1923, by VO
points to 62. The Newman team includes Brew
and Kennedy, who have both been chosen to represent
the Vic. League against S.A., and Queen’s numbered
amongst their cracks the Aberncthy brothers, ot
Melbourne League. Each of the four colleges has now
an event to its credit in the intercollegiate contests.
Trinity having won the rowing, Newman the cricket.]
Ormond the athletics and Queen’s the football. Only
the tennis remains to be decided, and Trinity, who
have been successful each year since 1918, will oe
without the support of Hallowes, their mainstay, who
is down with pneumonia.
* * * *
The S.A. team which goes to Hobart is on
the big side; Mills, for example, is 14i stone and
a good deal over six
feet. It includes Owens,
the Glenelg forward,
who heads the list of
goal-kickers in all Adel-
aide, although his club
has never won a match
(a combination of facts
from which several
morals might be
drawn), and will be
captained by Frank
Brown, skipper of West
Torrens, which has just
deposed Sturt from the
lead in the local club
premiership. Vic Rich-
ardson, the S.A. cricket
captain, would doubt-
less be captain also of
the football team, but
is too busy to leave for
so long.
PAT O’GRADY,
the West Torrens
(S.A.) rover.
About the only
front-rank Aus-
tralian footballer
who plays in specs.
In the last of the six Soccer games between
Canada and Australia the Kangaroos kicked the only
goal. Early in the piece the umpire lost control of
the players, and Noseworthy, the Canadian ’keeper,
was so badly knocked about that he had to be taken
to the hospital. Two other Canadians were disabled
and another was ordered off, so the team had to
battle against adversity with eight men. It was the
worst kind of advertisement for the British Associa-
tion game.
* * * *
“Centurion” : Professional Soccer has come
into being in Australia, a Players’ Union having been
formed at Newcastle (N.S.W.). The lead is being
followed by the Sydney and South Coast organisa-
tions, and will, of course, spread to the other States.
There is no ban laid on the Soccer pro. by other foot-
ball bodies, and, as far as footer is concerned, the
precious amateur status will not be affected by playing
as an amateur with professionals. All the same, there
are difficult roads ahead. In Britain, where profes-
sional Soccer is organised to the highest pitch, the
control is in the hands of amateurs of unchallenged
position and probity. Even then, with all the re-
sources of legal safeguards and drastic discipline, the
British Association has its work cut out to keep
things clean. Amateur Soccer, in N.S.W.. at least,
has not been remarkable for good discipline among
the rank and file, or other ranks either. The coming
of the professional will more than ever call for the
strong hand in the hobnailed boot, so to speak.
* * * *
By trouncing their opponents in the final
round of the Rugby League premiership, South Syd-
ney and Balmain made, a play-off necessary. Balmain
had an easy time with ’Varsity—ls to 3 but St.
George kept South busy' until the last 20 minutes or
so, when the superior pace of Horder and Wearing
enabled their side to gain a 15 to 7 victory. 'J'he
fleet-footed pair were greatly helped by South’s young
forward, A. Carr. Considering the importance of
the matches the attendances were poor. The State s
indifferent showing against Queensland and the Eng-
lishmen has chilled a lot of the old enthusiasm tor
the League game.
* * * *
“Ibis”: There is an all-black team in the
Gundagai (N.S.W.) district. Bucks from the Brung.e
mission camp, they have won all their matches, with
one exception, in a second-grade competition. When
a goal is kicked or a try scored their joy finds ex-
pression in hand-springs and flip-flaps.
* * * *
“A.A.”: In a match between Forth ami
Sprent, on the n,-w. coast of the Speck, Claude
Rooke plaved a masterly game for Forth. I ha ve
followed football on the coast for many years,
but I can’t recollect seeing such a meritorious per-
formance before. Yet it was in 1922 that Claude
unwittingly made horsefeed of one hand and most oi
the forearm while feeding his father’s chaffcutter.
* * * *
Whatever chance Ramsden, the. Victorian,
may have had of winning the Olympic road race
in France was settled by punctures. He finished
twentieth or thereabouts. Coppins and Dempsey were
more prominent in the 1000-metres track event, but
after winning their heats they were outed in the
semi-finals. Still it was no disgrace to be beaten
by men like Michard, the ultimate winner, ana
Cugnot, who are quite up to the standard of profes-
sionals like Bob Spears and Willie Spencer.
ASHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Alderman McEllicnc, President of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association, said that unless some new
bowlers were found the Englishmen might recover
the ‘ashes.’ ”
Hard-worked for forty years and more
Whenever cricket’s mentioned,
Tattered and frayed and tortured sore,
I move the hackneyed metaphor,
The parrot phrase, be pensioned.
Time that to winds of Heaven were strawed
That dreadful dust funereal.
The bone a thousand dogs have pawed,
And clawed and jawed and gnawed and chawed,
Is surely due for burial.
When Murdoch’s men in equal fight
And vigorous aggression
Downed England first, the figure might
Have been a really apposite
And highly apt expression.
But still, as every year comes round,
On shuddering ears it crashes.
Can never synonym be found
With just a trifle fresher sound?
The Devil take the “ashes” !
N'.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Wasted Boiler Capacity, Heat Loss and Heat Insulation
Saved by CAREY COVERINGS
“r asted , fuel-wasted power—wasted boiler capacity
boilers means often from i l le ._ ° st from bare or improperly insulated steam pipes and
thesemorS T nt ' of tlle entire boiler capacity. To reduce
V 8 - mus £ . b f applied to these hot surfaces. Carey Coverings
steam pressure rermvrino- fire n f! J ears ’ during which time the hundred and one conditions —higher
coverings of hi<di tensile & siren<rii, ° materials—-hot water and cold lines —vibrating lines, calling for
have been studlouslv iuvesH^ifi -17 a®i ex P° sed - to moisture and requiring waterproof coverings—
consistent wi?h string™ St “ C ° VeringS gMng the highest insulating values
Illustrating Broken Joint Method of Applying Pipe Covering.
CAREY IMPERVO,
For Sweating Cold-water Pipes.
is composed of alternate layers of fine wool felt and waterproof paraffin
paper and has an inner lining of paraffin paper. It is more satisfactory
than the plain wool felt covering’. It is recommended for use on cold
lines passing through warm, humid rooms, to prevent the constant annoving
sweating of such pipes. It is also used to perfection for insulating cold-
water and ice-water pipes, in factories, etc., where it is desired to keep the
water at as low a temperature as possible.
STEAM PIPES
AND BOILER
COVERINGS
WILL PAY FOR
THEIR INSTAL-
LATION IN SIX
MONTHS.
Illustrating Method of Insulating Fittings, Flanges, etc.
Carey Coverings have been
specially designed for Super-
heated Steam Pipes, High Pres-
sures, Saturated Steam Pipes,
Exhaust Steam Pipes, Medium-
pressure Steam Pipes, Heating-
system Pipes, Feed-water Pipes,
Underground Pipes, Out door
Exposed Pipes, Vibratory
Pipes, Ice-water Pipes, to pre-
vent sweating, to prevent freez-
ing, boilers, smoke beeching,
fittings and for warm-air ducts.
For all inquiries as to cost, use,
etc., apply to Sole Agents for
Australia:—
CAREY 85% MAGNESIA,
For High-pressure Steam Pipes.
These coverings are composed of 85% Carbonate of Magnesia and
15% Fibrous Asbestos. It is very light in weight, fireproof,
extremely durable, not subject to deterioration, will not .injure
piping, and has a very high heat insulation value. Magnesia
coverings have been the standard of the Navy Department for over
30 years. More of it has been used in stationary power plants, in
marine work, and on locomotives in the form of lagging than all
other high-pressure coverings combined.
ALLIED ENGINEERING LIMITED,
59 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
20 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ATKINS & CO., LTD., 88 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
British Speed Record
achieved oa
WAKEFIELD
Read
0
MOTOR OIL
“LONDON, 16th JULY.
“MOTOR SPEED RECORD ACHIEVED BY ELDRIDGE
FIAT CAR, 146 MILES PER HOUR, USING ‘CASTROL.* *
These are the words of our cable concerning the achievement of the Fiat
straight eight on Brooklands on the 16th July—just one more triumph added to
Castrol’s” long list of 1924 honors.
FURTHER RECENT INTERNATIONAL
TRIUMPHS FOR “CASTROL.”
TOURIST TROPHY RACES.
Isle of Man, June 23-27.
Senior T.T. and Dominions Cup. Junior T.T., Side-car Event.
Lightweight Event, Ultra-lightweight Event.
SWISS GRAND PRIX.
Geneva, June 14.
Out of 5 Events—s Firsts, 2 Seconds.
HUNGARIAN T.T. RACE.
May 4.
Ist (Sunbeam) and Team Race.
SPANISH GRAND PRIX.
May 18.
350 C.C. Class: Ist. 500 C.C. Class, Ist.
These Successes Were Achieved on Regular Grades of “Castrol”
Obtainable from Leading Garages.
125^10*
34‘*
S s *
109' 85
x
48“
m
Leading Engineers Specify
Pioneer Leather Belting
Engineers in large industrial plants realise the importance of efficiency in
power transmission in increasing the productive capacity of their plants.
Manufacturers realise what this means in increased profits and less idle
time through breakdowns and repairs.
That is why
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been specified on important belt drives in many of the largest mining
and industrial plants in the Commonwealth.
The illustration shows one 48-inch and three 34-inch Pioneer Double-
Cemented Leather Belts supplied for the largest and most difficult belt drive
in Australia—that in the Rod Mill of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Manufacturers and engineers are invited to confer with us on their
belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.


Don’t
Lose Power
Power loss can be summed up
In most instances as friction —-
the enemy of both efficient and
economical running of any plant
<//
%
A
WCCO
6556
4
BALL BEARINGS
eliminate friction to such a marked degree
that they effect a net saving of up to 35
per cent, of total power supplied.
Enquire To-day.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street. PERTH—Unbohaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street. 377-391 Murray Street.
ADELAIDE—Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 157 Way- HOBART—Charles Djfvis, Ltd.
mouth Street. BB - */**•
DOD6EBROTHERS
TOURING CAR
(That many parts of the world can only be
reached over roads that offer severe handicaps
to the average motorist is a matter of small
concern to those who drive the Dodge Brothers
Touring Car.
They have long since learned that rutty by-
roads and stubborn grades simply emphasise
the splendid sturdiness of the Touring Car, and
its ample resources of rugged power.
Donee orothbrs,Detroit
m
- S
Waymouth Motor Co.,
Austral Motors, Ltd.,
Canada Cycle
Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth,
, Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney,
& Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Sl/7/’2
THE INKY WAY.
“Billo C;”: I always thought a bugbear was .1
sort of hobgoblin cross between the insect and the
animal mentioned till I read this in the Pastoral
Review: “The fact that the remission of tax will
be retrospective will remove a bugbear which has
been hanging like the sword of Damocles over lessees'
heads.”
Theyre H. Weigall. who, after some months on the
literary staff of the Melbourne Herald, was last
year attached to that journal’s London staff, has been
appointed managing editor of the Conservative
Review, which will be launched in the Cold Countin'
in January. He is a son of Weigall, J., aid
deserted law for the Inky Way.
“J.H.W.”; From Hobart Mercury’s telegraphed
summary of Federal Parliamentary proceedings
“The Speaker: I will vacate the chair if members
do not continue the debate in silence.”
Sounds as if Watt had been infringing Senator Paddy
Lynch’s prerogatives of diction.
A collected edition of Louis Becke’s work is being
published by Fisher Unwin—a fact which will be
welcomed by admirers of this always-readable pioneer
of South Sea stories. The first volume is “By Reef
and Palm, and the Ebbing of the Tide,” containing
about 35 tales (most of which were first published
in The Bulletin) with Lord Pembroke’s introduc-
tion. This has been followed by “Pacific Tales,”
“Edward. Barry, South Sea Pearler,” “Rodman, the
Boatsteerer” and “Helen Adair” ; and others are in
the press.
“Vanikoro”: It is almost time somebody kicked
against the stories about Australia that are fed to
the trusting Yanks. A month or two ago a story in
Adventure mentioned that the punishment for a
thief on the Westralian gold diggings was to cut off
his ears and turn him loose in the “desert” with a
pint of water. In the June number is another alleged
Australian story called “Jackaroo,” all about a gold-
field in the “Karkaroo” desert —somewhere in the
Victorian mallee; to reach it you get out of the
train at Horsham and go down the Wimmera River.
“Cosmo”: Heartily I applaud Hector Dinning’*
denunciation of “Catch Phrases” (B. 10/7/’24).
In that number of The Bulletin I was surprised
to find “each and every.” But I particularly want
someone to enter on a campaign against the redundant
preposition. “I will see you later on.” Why ‘on
“I’ll settle up now.” Why “up”? “I’ve been
listening in.” Why “in”? Not so long ago tt
was the practice of children to urge a companion
whom they wished to overtake to “wait on.’ home
winters whose works ought to be models are as care-
less as these juveniles.
“Scrape”: The editor of John o’ London’s Weekly
(24/5/’24) writes over his initials, W.W., a
notice of the London Royal Academy’s picture.
Here is a sample: “Mr. G. W. Lambert, A.R.A.,
sends a self-portrait which is almost impudent in
its breeziness and self-satisfaction.” That ls a “> D ®
it is quite enough. “WAV.” is Wilfred \\hitten,
who writes also as “John o’ London and un
half a dozen other names, and with the aid of Siane.
Dark has made the paper a great success as a
twopenny weekly. For many years he was s
editor of the defunct Academy, where he learnt raa
an editor may be inaccurate and be forgiven o
must never be dull.
“Spot”: Staff men on the dailies are holding u
the idea that self-preservation is the first nature '
law, and are raising objection to the competn
for casual space to which they are subjected by •
siders. It is contended that if the editor wa■
space filled in the magazine section it is his uu
to get staff men to fill it for him; the employment
of free lances for the purpose is resented,
course this leaves the staff men free to carry o>
customary competition with freelances on ou
weeklies that take stuff from Thomas, Richard aR
Henry. As daily editors lend a sympathetic e
the staff’s complaint, it means another step M r
the extermination of the freelance. In fact, mam's
of zoos would be well advised-to secure I the ir P
mens while there is yet a professional free!
two roaming at large.
“Wingella”: “H.E.R.” is probably right in
ing that an unpublished hook may have a h
on it. Here’s my experience. I wrote a .
some seven years ago about miners and m
fields. First publisher rejected the book andl o'
he had returned the MS. Eight months la er
found it on his shelves. Second publisher rej
and really lost it. I re-wrote the hook from memeu
300 pages of foolscap, and sent it to a third pn ,
He went bankrupt, and the book was returns
Sent it to a fourth publisher, who said he ha n
received it. He found it, 12 months later,
private residence. Publisher No. 5 W{* , rf
reached him, and the book came back. no.
jected and returned it; but it got lost in t j
Found in the Dead Letter Office, still
correctly addressed, six months later, lne j(
publisher rejected it. When I mildly sug|
should be returned, as stamps had been encl eu,
vowed he had never heard of the book, a 4 |
his own letter of rejection. Dead silence. A. ' <**■
letter from me brought the book. The eight
lisher approached hv me rejected it, arm n g,
lost again. I rewrote the book and sent it to*a
He may have lost it again, for it has never come
“Adelaide”: Libels on a whole cou " tr v, oi-
-10/7/’24) ? The most ingenious liar since De'
mont seems to be William Singleton, a hco cn
who visited Australia and then went home an s
an interview to the Kirlcaldy Times.
a lot of thrills, but the chief was on the . v
going to Renmark, “about 20 miles from Ad *
His boat got on to a mudbank and then caugM ](
The river was a mile wide! The boat was (”®\,
“in charge of a huge negro named Sambo,
jumped overboard: “I was about to w‘ . 0 „
example when an old-timer laid a restraining
mv shoulder and said ‘Watch them logs! * .
arid there in mid-stream was a bundle of logs *
down with the stream. Suddenly they came
and revealed themselves as wicked-looking a “ *
The river was swarming with the horrible rep
and Sambo—well, I hear his dying shriek
dreams yet. We were now faced with the nor
alternative of being burned to death or ,
bv ‘crocs.’ ” So the five survivors pitched
hoard with their bare hands all the machinery ,
had taken six laborers and two derricks to »
Adelaide, drifted off the mud, and made wr ;
shore, which they reached just as tne j
exploded with a roar heard for miles arouna.
is "a great yarn. , _ 3|
THE BALLADE OF THE ENVIOUS BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the pang I feel
When I hear of a repartee,
Or some other bard’s lines reveal
Pure wit to the nth degree
In epigram, drollery,
Swift sally or answer pat:
“It should have belonged to me!
Why didn’t I think of that?”
Ev’ry trump in the deal
Is the hand I like to see;
I own (for I can’t conceal)
That crude avidity—
Greed, with a capital G—■
Lays my finer instincts flat,
And screams in a raucous key:
“Why didn’t I think of that?”
Though I’d never descend to steal,
I would follow the roving bee
Who gathers her golden meal
Wherever she finds it free;
Shalcspearean ways has she,
Transmuting the borrowed sprat
To a mermaid.... That’s the plea!
Why didn’t I think of that?
Envoy.
Apollo, there wails to thee
A literary gnat,
At the eagle’s jeu d’esprit,
“Why didn’t I think of that?”
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


/
}5
&
1
F
This test will tell
Send the form for a io-Day Tube.
Note how clean the teeth feel after
using. Mark the absence of the viscous
film. See how teeth become whiter
as the film-coats disappear. The re-
sults will amaze and delight you. • Cut
out the form so you don’t forget.
The Era of Whiter Teeth
It has come to careful people the world over
Millions of some 50 nations now fight film
Have you noted in your circles
how glistening teeth have multi-
plied in late years ?
It is so in nearly every circle, in
nearly every country. And it
means a new dental era.
A new method of teeth cleaning
has come into vogue, largely by
dental advice. Not merely to
beautify the teeth,but to keep them
cleaner, safer. You should learn
now, if you don't know, what it
means to you and yours.
Clean teeth mean this
More than brushing, more than
washing is required to clean your
teeth.
You feel on your teeth a viscous
film. It is ever-present, ever-
forming. It clings to teeth, enters
crevices and stays. Unless re-
moved it soon discolours, then
forms dingy coats. That is why
teeth lose lustre.
Film also holds food substance
which ferments and forms acid.
It holds the acid in contact with
the teeth to cause decay. Germs
breed by millions in it. They
cause many serious troubles, local
and internal.
Most tooth troubles are now
traced to film*
It must be combated
Dental authorities long ago rea-
lized that this film must be com-
bated* Not occasionally in the
dental chair, but daily in the home*
After much research two
methods were discovered* One
disintegrates the film at all stages
of formation* One removes it
without harmful scouring*
Careful tests have proved these
methods effective* A new-type
tooth paste has been created to
apply them daily* The name is
Pepsodent* Dentists everywhere
see the results and advise it* Now
the use has spread to nearly every
corner of the earth. The teeth in
your own circle show how widely
it is used*
Other facts discovered
Research also proved that certain
peoples are notably immune to
tooth troubles* They are peoples
who eat much acid fruit* Pepso-
PROTECT THE ENAMEL
Pcpsodcnt disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a film
combatant which contains harsh grit.
dent also embodies this principle
of mild acidity*
Pepsodent multiplies the alka-
linity of the saliva* That is there
to neutralise mouth acids* It mul-
tiplies the starch digestant in the
saliva* That is there to digest
starch deposits on teeth*
Thus every use of Pepsodent
gives multiplied power to these
great tooth-protecting agents in
the mouth*
The benefits are now enjoyed
by millions* Many of your friends
are among them* And they will tell
you, we believe, that never again
will they go without them*
Start the young folks
To the coming generation, Pep-
sodent means new protection
against troubles which you suf-
fered* It means the best protection
in a tooth paste yet discovered.
Dentists advise that children use it
from the time the first tooth ap-
pears*
When you see the Pepsodent
results, remember what they mean
to children* Their teeth are easily
attacked* Teach them to use this
new-day method to combat attacks*
Made in Australia
The New-Day Dentifrice
MARK
TRADE
PEPSIN-CONIAINING ItJOTW PASTE
PflPSQclcKl
TXt PEPSODENT ( 0 - ) LTD
A scientific tooth paste based on modern research,
now advised by leading dentists the world over.
Sold everywhere in two sizes
Prices: 2/-and 1/3
TZ1424
10-Day Tube Free
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
De~ - 2 ft, 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodcnt to
Only one tube to a family


<;v~
m,
ft
zfx
i
Will
The Giraffe & the Jfazor
There is a story told of a hoy's first visit to the Zoo. They took him to see
the Giraffe. He stared at it for some time in bewilderment, looking up and
down its absurd long neck .
“ Well,” they asked him, “what do you think of it ? ”
“ I don t believe it ! ” the boy exclaimed.
So it was with the man who was first shown a “VALET” Razor.
He watched it as it slipped its strop through its head and ran up and
down, turning its blade over and over, and sharpening each edge in
turn ; he saw how, for a touch on its back, the blade was in position
again, ready for action ; he saw, too, for a touch on its back, it was
open again, ready to be cleaned ; and, remembering h : s struggles with
other safety razors the fiddling about with screws and things, to say
nothing of blade bluntness and blade wastage — he exclaimed “ I don't
believe it! ”
But it is true. As true as the neck of the giraffe.
Ten seconds a day will strop a “VALET” Razor.
Ten seconds a day will clean and dry it.
And every morning its blade comes up with a brand new cc’gc, as
sharp for the fortieth shave as it was for the first.
To see the “VALET” is to wonder and you may not believe it till
you put it to the test.
Ask any dealer to demonstrate to you its simple working plan.
British Made
Of all dealers
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO.. LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD. LONDON, ENG.
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 1.81 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
TO
9
The Rosebery
Trade-mark is the
Certificate of
Quality.
Figure 322.
A
Complete
Power Unit
Consisting of Farm
Pump Engine and
Pump bui 11 on
channel steel base.
Capacity, 3|galls.
per min. Pressure
up to 2401 b.
Rosebery Power Spray
and Jetting Pumps
In a class by themselves for efficiency.
Fig. 322.
Its .convenience and utility are a big advantage. Easily transported to any
part of the farm or bolted down in any desirable position. The Engine,
when not in use for spraying, or jetting, is
easily removable by unscrewing six units,
and,'by attaching foot support, can then be
connected to the windmill in a few minutes
and set to work pumping.
Fig. 508.
Rosebery Power Spray
Pump.
Can be easily connected to any engine, being
back-geared and supplied with a standard
engine pinion, 20-tooth, 6-pitch, ljin. bore.
Capacity: At 55 r.p.m., 4.8 gallons per min.
at 2401 b. pressure. Bearings all bushed with
gunmetal.
Special features of this Pump are accessi-
bility of the Valves, built-in Pressure Regula-
tor and porcelain-lined Cylinder.
Prices are uniform in all Australian capitals.
I
Fig. 508.
ROSEBERY ENGINE WORKS, LTD.,
Rosebery, Waterloo, N.S.W., Australia.
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal and Power
Pumps, Cylinders, Hand and Power Sprayers, Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and we will put you in touch with the nearest distributor.
Ladies’ and Men’s
RIDING APPAREL
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
At Square Deal Prices
19/6 Riding Breeches for
Well made in thoroughly serviceable
fawn and olive Suede Drill, with self-
strappings. Sizes 3 to 7 and 4J to 7|.
16/11
30/- Riding Breeches for
In all-wool Khaki Cord, finished with
self-straps and laced at knees, ready to
wear. No extra charge for i-size fittings.
24/9
We have an Expert Cutter for Riding Breeches
to order. Patterns on request.
27/6 Riding Boots for
Comfortable and serviceable Riding
Boots, in Black or Tan Yearling, with
sewn soles and no seams at sides.
24/9
18/6 Brown Leggings for
Well-made Men’s Leggings, with spring
front or in puttee style.
16/6
Ladies’ Tailored Riding Coats and Breeches.
LADIES’ RIDING BREECHES, smartly cut in olive or
fawn Suede Plain Drill For O
LADIES’ RIDING COATS, fashioned in similar . ,
material Eor 4*5/ *
LADIES’ RIDING BREECHES, in all-wool Covert Coat- ,
ing or Garbacord For hS/*
LADIES’ RIDING COATS, made in similar material. . For 95/-
Our Expert Cutter specialises in Ridinp Breeches to Order.
Prices Reasonable. Patterns on request.
Order by Post—’Phone 9840 (3 lines) —We Pay Carriage.
T MR
ATItAN
PTV. UTE>.
Cr. SWANSTON and
BOURKE STREETS,
MELBOURNE.


An Alston Windmill Plant.
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Filfed with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubr
cation and Storm-proof Regulators.- All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
"Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON g SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
■
«
\ ;-l. •4 5
Ask for
ABBOTS
LAGER
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Kempy”
£°yal ; “Good Morning, Dearie' 1
Jaew Palace “The Dover Road’’
Grand Opera House “Old Bill, M.P.”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
J; ivo ei Mu-;; rove Celebrity Vaudeville
h uller’s Theatre .... The World’s Best Vaudeville
MEUUHUINF SHOWS F°li COMING AVEEK
His Majesty's “Whirled into Happiness”
Royal Vaudeville
Princess's “Mr. Battling Butler ’
King's “Madame X”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
livoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
The highly spectacular “Aida,” steeped in
the glory that was Egypt, with rich and
heady orchestration and luscious moments
for both voice and instruments, was the
draught quaffed by Friday night’s opera audi-
ence at Sydney Majesty’s. Verdi seems to
have brought renewed youth to this great
composition written around the eternal tri-
angle. Nino Piccaluga made a true-to-period
Egyptian military knut, beloved by both
Amneris, the daughter of Pharaoh, and Aida,
disguised as a slave, but really a girl of high
degree, being a daughter of the enemy king
and probably doing a bit of secret-service
work in the Egyptian Court. Piccaluga
voiced his first big aria, “Celeste Aida,”
with great vigor and sustained sweetness.
Having started well, he kept up his record
both in the love scene with the lady of his
choice on the banks of the Nile and later
on with Amneris, who offers to save his life
if he will love her instead of her rival with
the tumultuous top-notes. Augusta Con-
cato’s Aida was a temperamental study car-
ried out dramatically in a strong soprano
that retained its powers even when she and
her lover were bidding life a long farewell in
the basement of the temple, while on its
first floor damsels of Egypt danced rhyth-
mically, the. priests chanted with dignity,
and poor little Amneris (Aga Lalioska)
wished she hadn’t interfered with the scheme
of things. Lalioska, as the daughter of old
Nile, was a charming creature who sang
quite well in a voice that isn’t a world-
beater. Grandini, as Aida’s Ethiopian papa,
was impetuous and impressive by turns.
Huberdeau did his High Priesting in fine
sonorous tones; Oreste Carozzi was a kingly
Pharaoh, and Luigi Parodi a good scout.
Pictorially Sydney stage has never held any-
“CAVALLERTA RUSTTGANA,” AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Lina Scarizzi ( Santussa) tells her love
troubles to Alfio (Edmondo Grandini).
thing finer —within this Showman’s memory,
at any rate. Scene after scene of ancient
splendor dazzled the eye; the chorus work
waS . magnificent; the color massing was
brilliant; and in passages, such as the street
scene where Radames makes his triumphal
entry, the volume of sound from instru-
ments and voices was stupendous. The bal-
lets deserve honorable mention, and Paolan-
tonio conducted like a wizard.
* * * #
The general public doesn’t knoAV “Don Pas-
quale,” but it does know its Dal Monte, and
it was sufficient that “Totty” of the glitter-
some top-notes and the miraculous trills was
billed for the widow lady on Monday night
to make Her Majesty’s do another of its cele-
brated imitations of a sardine-tin. Wrap-
ped in melody and dazzling coloratura effects,
the absurd episode of doddering old age mar-
ried to youth wound its laughable way
through three acts. The combination was
one of the finest of the season—Dal Monte
as the guileful Norina, Granforte as the cyni-
cal family friend, Borgioli as the lover
Ernesto, and the inimitable Azzolini as the
amorous, bewildered and then enraged Don.
With such a group the quartettes of the
second act could not fail to be brilliant. Of
course, the drama is Azzolini’s. _ As the poor
simpleton of the name-part, his short legs
twinkled, corkscrewed or staggered through
the emotions expressed by his mobile fea-
tures —a striking characterisation; an out-
standing expression of humor. It was more
than comic. With one’s laughter rose sym-
pathy for the unfortunate butt of youth.
Granforte, as Dr. Malatesta, looked after
his part in a convincing manner, his bari-
tone being heard to particular advantage,
and his leering smile depicting devilment in
the nth degree. Dino Borgioli’s tenor shone
in artistry, though his young man looked
a serious-minded chap who certainly would
have repudiated such goings on. Toti Dal
Monte’s Norina was a pleasure to the eye
and an intoxicant to the ear. Her notes
were flung to dizzying heights, whence they
cascaded in rainbow drops of sparkling clar-
ity. There are no words worthy of the
plump little darling’s guileful acting and
dewy innocence of expression.
Young Munz, the Polish pianist with the
weird-looking front name, made his first Aus-
tralian appearance at Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night. He is going to be a
favorite. There is an intimacy about his
playing which makes its appeal at once; he
creates an atmosphere in Avhich each indi-
vidual member of the audience feels that the
recital is given for him or her alone. Quite
devoid of mannerisms, the pallid, somewhat
serious artist (albeit a jolly, smiling chap off
the platform) exhibits no keyboard fireworks,
gives no sledge-hammer blows, and keeps per-
pendicular throughout the performance, how-
ever enormous the difficulties of interpreta-
tion. A wonderfully developed technique
and a beautiful singing tone are other fea-
tures of his art. He seeks the song in the
composer’s work and gracefully sings it to us.
* * * *
The star made very good on Saturday
night in spite of about three-fourths of the
big audience being afflicted with ’flu in vari-
ous stages, and periodically providing a
coughing obligato ; the Steinway was not in
the best of tune either. A delightful Menuet
of Bach in merry mood, a first performance
here, gracefully introduced the Busoni pupil
to us. (And the great master was
dying as the pupil was playing.) Buso-
ni’s arrangement of the famous Bach
Organ Toccato, Adagio and Fugue in C
major increased our interest in him,
especially the latter section; and the Sgam-
beti Gavotte, which concluded the group,
formed a delightful contrast. On his next
appearance, the whole of the 24 Chopin Pre-
ludes made a fine offering of contrast in inter-
pretation. Dame Nellie was vehement in
applause, which eventually led to the player
making six returns to the platform before
the enthusiasm died down. The “Musical
Box” (E. Sauer), fascinatingly rendered, and
the Delibes-Dohnanyi “Naila,” of ballet
nature, completed a brilliantly rendered pro-
gramme. Much persuasion on the part of
the audience brought forth only two encores
—the Chopin Waltz in D flat and the Paga-
nini-Liszt Caprice. There will be other con-
certs to-night and Saturday.
* * * *
Charles Hackett made his farewell to
Sydney on Thursday to a densely populated
Town Hall. In spite of having just come off
a journey, the tenor was in even better'voice
than during his Sydney season. He opened
with Rudolfo’s aria, “Che Gelida Manina,”
and, having made a triumph of it, went on to
show the youth and grace of his voice in
varied numbers. Bratza added the charm of
his violin to the programme: the youngster,
who plays with great beauty of tone, pre-
sented Legende, a delicate composition of
Clarence Raybould’s. Raybould accompanied
the two artists inimitably. The combination
opens in Maoriland next week.
* * ❖ *
“The Dover Road” runs for another eight
nights through Sydney Palace. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers and Gregan McMahon materially aid
the dramatist in making the comedy a
success.
❖ * * *
At Sydney Cri. Dad and Ma Bence and
their petticoated progeny continue to build
up the situations that enable Gus Bluett to
present a highly creditable “Kempy.” The
dialogue is full of shrewd touches and racy
comments.
❖ ❖ ❖ >!;
At Sydney Opera House, “Old Bill, M.P.,”
will carry liis old-fashioned moustache and
his homely philosophy from the trenches to
St. Stephen’s for seven nights more.
* * * *
Whatever’s chic and cheery will take a
while to weary. At Sydney Royal it holds
them fast, the gay and glad and glittering
cast with dainty Josie Melville’s last success,
“Good Morning, Dearie!”
$ .j! $
Marie Kendall, Sydney Tivoli’s latest, has
a lot to say about women and other great
mysteries. Her character sketches are well
done, and she offers some useful advice to
those setting out on their second matri-
monial cruise—though they are just the sort
of people who won’t appreciate it, having
failed to profit by practical experience.
Hetty King’s impersonations are still in keen
demand, and Tex McLeod mixes clever chat-
ter with his rope-spinning.
“Dope,” written by Sydney pressman Con
Drew, is having an innings at the Lyric.
The story is little better than a sensational
front-page scoop in a yellow newspaper,
“MR. BATTLING BUTLER ,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Marigold Mary Gannon ( lately promoted
from the chorus) sings of “ Dearest” to
Alec Regan.
and there is a lot wanting on the technical
side. Good material for a debate on the
bachelor tax is buried beneath the humor,
spread very thin, in “Daddies,” at the
Lyceum. “The Leavenworth Case” keeps
the answer to the riddle up its sleeve until
it is time for the lights to go up. Despite
the ad.-men “The Loves of Pharaoh,” at
the Globe, are as proper as a Baptist concert.
When Connie Talmadge gets tired of a man
at Hoyt’s she presents him with a bowl
of goldfish—no sense in it, of course; but
Connie is in a silly mood in this film. “The
Vagabond Trail” across the same screen
shows the search for a brother. But far
more entertaining than this expenditure of
boot-leather is the singing of Kitty Reidy.
Stella Power makes a similar tuneful sand-
wich of the Lyceum programme, and Amy
Rochelle of the Haymarket’s.
Of all those Whirled into Happiness at
Melbourne Majesty’s, Alfred Frith remains
the most elevated. On half a carafe of port
he sees Dukes in drones and fun in every-
thing.
❖ * * *
Born nearly ten weeks ago, at Melbourne
Princess’s, “Battling Butler” is still going
strong.
❖ * *
The Slav-Italian concert combination which
has been making distinguished noises at Mel-
bourne Town Hall finishes its season to-
night with a fine popular programme. Munz
comes next. ,/
The present entertainers at Melbourne
Royal are departing en masse, and to-morrow
the red head of Irene Franklin will be con-
spicuous in a new invasion.
Muriel Starr is swallowing ether in another
revival of “Madame X” at Melbourne King's.
She shows no decrease of power in the absinthe-
sodden passages, but her first entrance
is still reminiscent of a sedate young steno-
grapher looking for work. G. Kay Souper,
as the outraged husband, is a bit colorless,
and his pal Noel is interpreted by Frank
Bradley in a prim, avuncular manner. Their
little scene in the first act could be given
with more force. Laroque, rather a moody
scoundrel in the hands of E. W. Morrison,
is presented with a brighter personality by
Frank Harvey. His accomplices in black-
mail are taken in a low-comedy style by
John Fernside and John Cosgrove. Jessie
Page is the sprightly young chambermaid,
while Leslie Victor is the dbnventional stage
physician who looks almost undressed with-
out his little black bag. Raymond, the son
who defends his wayward mother in the last
act, is crisply spoken by Reginald Long;
ana Atholwood, as always, is an impressive
President of the Court.
* * *
“Carter the Great” unpacked his bags of
magic on Saturday at the Melbourne Palace
Theatre, and sent delicious thrills coursing
down the spinal marrow by demonstrating
the possibilities of the impossible. Carter’s
patter at the opening is a gabble of Yankee
colloquialisms, but it works up subtly to suit
the higher-grade “experiments.” Evelyn
Maxwell helps in the mystification with her
genuine puzzling “psychic readings.”
Melbourne Tivoli programme has gained
in refinement by the reappearance of Grace
Cristie, the poetically-gifted nymph who
cruelly hides her sparkling features behind
a collection of Benda masks. Two or three
others are in their last nights, including Ada
Reeve, Avho finishes on Saturday.
“The Meanest Man in the World” is at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, but no MacTavish need
waste a saxpence to see him. In the other
Hoyt feature, “Double Dealing,” “Hoot”
Gibson has to subdue his.native restlessness
as a small-town druggist who is papering
the place with his lOU’s. The Majestic
has a striking British film of “Rob Roy,”
but the star attraction is Pauline Frederick
as “The Slave of Vanity” in a transparent
translation of Pinero’s “Iris.” The Bri-
tannia is screening the Milestony story of
“Maytime” ; and Arthur Tauchert, as “The
Digger Earl,” is a welcome arrival at the
Melba.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, failing other attrac-
tions for the moment, manager Myers has
brought in a strong variety co. Count Filip-
pini is hard at work dragooning a local grand
opera co., which is to re-open the Prince of
Wales’s almost at once with (for a start)
“Trovatore.” The Majestic has another
variety bill, in which Don Merle is promi-
nent, while Hurl and Evans (especially
Hurl) cheerfully undertake to fill half the
programme. Norma Talma dge, at the York,
is showing Muriel Starr and others how to
play the on-tlie-brink heroine of “Within the
Law”; but Thomas Meiglian, at Wonder-
graph, acts his supporting lady right off the
screen, so to speak. At West’s the sexes
divide honors, if any; “The Marriage Circle”
shows American society in its least admir-
able moods.
“Frinigga” : “The Miracle,” the Reinhardt
spectacle seen in England just before the
war, has reached New York. The New Cen-
tury Theatre is made to look as much like
a church as possible, even the seats being
converted into pews. The Madonna who
comes down from her pedestal to take the
place of the erring nun is played on alternate
evenings by Princess Marchiabelli and Lady
Diana Cooper (the Duke of Rutland’s daugh-
ter), a compromise forced on the manage-
ment by both ladies claiming to have been
engaged exclusively. The Englishwoman
plays the nun when not taking the other part.
“Hamfat”: In a generation of actors that
had not forgotten Shakspeare there used to
be a story about a property-man’s error which
disrupted a performance of “King Lear” —
and “Lear” has been so rarely performed
that it should be easy to place the star. The
stage-manager wrote an abominable fist, and
“Props,” conscientiously trying to follow it.
struck difficulty when he came across “Map,”
that being the document requisitioned by
Lear when about to announce the carving-
up of his kingdom. “Meantime, we stall
"I PAGLIACCI,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Tonio ( Apollo Granforte) advises Canio
(Antonio Marques) to postpone his
carving until the dinner scene.
express our darker purpose,” said the mon-
arch majestically. “Fetch me the map
there!” The house rocked Avith laughter
when an emaciated noble solemnly presented
his Majesty with a mop; and its joy rose
to shrieks as the infuriated Lear hurled the
offending article at his astonished retainer.
For once the division of Britain was con-
summated without reference to a marked
plan.


CU±-C\-n n jjjA.flAAAflAfl ftfl RAA AAflAflAflfl AAAA
R. A. LI
’’q m B fLaa. a.,aj* a AAflAftAAftfl fl pj^svj^
LTP DURSLEY ENGLAND.
bM,
b/ B'VbWVWV V>y^yyrE^'g^rsr^/VVVrV^V , 'to-farV-^
gvwtfwuw y'wvvr&’&'crv yy/v
krtro
mm
II : ■
Wmmm
1 '
Standard complete belt-driven
plant with 2i-h.p. Lister
Junior Engine.
You get more than you pay for
5-b.h.p Standard Lister Petrol Engine, direct
coupled to dynamo .
in a Lister-Lite. It is not just that you are getting
better material, workmanship and design when you
pay for a Lister-Lite. It’s the reliability of the Lister
Engine so often demonstrated that it is now pro-
verbial, the freedom from wear that leaves its length
of life still undiscovered —these are the intangible
but invaluable and satisfying features, built into the
Lister-Lite, that give a value far above the money
you pay.
You don’t need to be an electrician to operate the
Lister-Lite; you don’t need to be a mechanic to
appreciate the unique features of its design and the
excellence of its construction. The arrangement of
each type of Lister-Lite Plant is designed to reduce
the attention it requires to a minimum while avoiding
complicated or delicate pieces of mechanism which
are apt to prove unreliable except in expert hands.
If you do not know the Lister-Lite already, ask
for a Catalog—read the description—get an engineer
to criticise the specifications, or get the opinion of
any user—and you will be convinced that your
lighting problem will be finally solved by
12-b.h.p. Twin-cylinder Lister Kerosene
Engine a direct coupled to G-k.w. dynamo.
the
ice
iscer
WRITE OR CALL ON
For N.S.W DANGAR, GEDYE & CO % , LTD., Sydney.
For Q’land WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
For Vic. A. P. SUTHERLAND, South Melbourne.
For S.A NORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD., Adelaide.
For W.A. ..... MALLOCH BROS Perth.
For N.Z LEVIN & CO Wellington.
oPAag,
~ W « n r a n j3^°La n a.aß-&
FLfus.sLJx. a aAA/i-aAaaflfl.aaAAajaAfi n-n n-a^a-Qj
A. LISTER
rvwv-a-gvv w w g « g~g
C° LT? DURSLEV ENGLAND.
, T» r -En^V^^T/^r&^^^7--g» a gnyv y tTfeTH ■


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
JREENER
IS
m
m
7%
m
WM
Wm
W. W, GRE^fon-
CUNMAKERS, BIRMHiCHAIfr
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only) •
W. P. THOMPSON « CO. PTY
LTD., ,[
405*7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
mm
mm
J&c.a/JuiU#
KING GEORGE IV[
Vbu are ajjured iix every bottle
cf that/elfjrairve standard of
excellence which ha/* made
FAM OUf THE WORLD O’ER
and conceded byconnoifjeurj' to be
JcOTLAND/rJbUNOEfmiMULANT
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
TOOK
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBOURNE
"Lud”: Diana Wilson lost no time in get-
ting back to the footlights on her return to
England. In the first week of June she was
in the east of a new piece by H. F. Maltby,
author of those bright comedies, “The
Laughter of Fools” and “The Rotters.” The
thing is called “The Cheerful Liar,” and is
having a preliminary canter in the provinces
under the direction of Robert Courtneidge;
the handsome Diana is once again a fasci-
nating widow—Mrs. Drew Cavendish this
time. The prevaricator of the title —a part
evidently written for the late Charles Haw-
trey—was in the care of Courtneidge’s son
Charles. His daughter Rosaline also had
a part, and Sylvia Shaw was amongst those
present. They have all appeared in Aus-
I ralia.
“Hamfat”: "Thersites” (B. 24/7/’24) con-
f uses the issue when, to combat my argument
about the overloading of the theatrical busi-
ness with unnecessary expense for the
etceteras, he rushes to the defence of small-
parC actors. No one kno\\s better than I
the importance and difficulty of some small
parts. On my first appearance in Sydney
1 was allotted five in one play. The smail
part that takes a full-fledged actor to handle
properly deserves an actor’s recompense. But
there are scores of other small parts; and
under the new rule most of them are absurdly
overpaid. I repeat that so long as this
system is encouraged the public will not get
decent theatrical fare at reasonable prices.
“Second Murderer”: Emily Soldene wrote
Frisco) just before Maggie Moore and
•I ■ O. Williamson came to Australia:—
I always thought Mrs. Williamson was Irish, but
she tells me she is Irish-American, born in ’Frisco,
and stage-bitten from when, as a tiny tot, she used
• , i !l ter ” Jimmy’s pants and “go wid Jimmy”
into the “eullud pusson’s paradise”—the top gallery
nt the theatre. And when she first played parts
she wore Jimmy’s pants till they fitted, “too snug,”
and she had to have a pair of her own. “And who’s
Jammy ?” says I. “My ! Don’t you know Jimmy ?”
says she. “Why, me brother, to be sure. I thought
everybody knew Jimmy Moore.”
jimmy Moore was well known in Australia
tor many years as a treasurer for the Firm.
“Norbell”: “T.O.I.” (B. 24/7/’24) men-
tions H. R. Harwood as the manager who
first “played” Maggie Moore and J. C. Wil-
iiamson on terms in “Struck Oil,” at Mel-'
bourne Royal. Nellie Stewart tells in her
book that the management was Harwood,
Stewart, Hennings and Coppin. She says
that Williamson badly wanted to open in
’The Fairy Circle,” but was over-ruled by
the management’s better judgment. “The
Fairy Circle” was the next production, and
thudded.
“Mancam”: Concerning “Ellae’s” remarks,
on stage crowds (B. 24/7/’24), Rignold had
an army of a couple of hundred when he did
"Henry.” Supers, drew only 15s. a week in
those days. To hear George Rignold rehears-
ing his army—William Morris Hughes tells
how he was a private in it—was an unfor-
gettable experience. The army dressed in
fifteenth-century costume, and George in a
sac suit urged it on with a walking-stick.
G.R. could manage a stage crowd better
than any other man I’ve seen. Gaston Mer-
vale is the next best.
“Real Australian”: The new Australian
Ambassador at the Court of Washington is
taking with him two" 2000ft. films prepared
by the Immigration Publicity Department
portraying the sheep and cattle industry in
Australia. What about showing them here
at home first? I would like to see them, and
so would the kiddies. And there are thou-
sands of city-bred Australians who have
never seen either a sheep-station or a cattle-
run. Why this silly darned urge to do some-
thing to please outsiders rather than our own
people?
“Topee”: Yes, Charles Reade’s dra-
matic pieces (B. 17/7/’24) are all
good, and he was a good producer,
too. A thing. G f ]ii, s called “The Wan-
dering Heir” (it was originally published as
a summer supplement to the Illustrated
London News ) was staged, under the
author’s supervision, in 1876, at a Liverpool
theatre I used to haunt. The cast included
11. J. Byron, Mrs. John Wood, Edmund
Leathes, Charles Cowdery and a beautiful
girl named Bessie Edwards. Cowdery and
Bessie married, and, coming here from India,
were lost off the W.A. coast in the wreck of
the Melbourne-owned barque James Service
in 1878. At the dress rehearsal Reade, an
enormous person, wearing a glorified Cap'll
Cuttle costume, objected to the pronuncia-
tion of a utility man who was playing the
.judge’s associate in the court scene. “My
dear man,” said Charles, “you, as a member
of the legal profession, must have learned
in chambers that the coin you mention is
called a shilling, not a shillun.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: One night when McKee
Rankin was Macbething at Sydney Criterion,
the mummer who played one of the murderers
clashed offstage with a scene-shifter, and the
fight was only interrupted by the actor being
summoned to resume his murderous char-
acter on the boards. Ruffled by the encoun-
ter, and flurried by the knowledge that he
was seconds late, he stumbled on, to hear
Macbeth say to him, “There’s blood
upon thy face !” Involuntarily his - hand
went to his countenance, and he felt his
nose very gingerly. The only notice taken
in the front of the house was a round of
applause from the gallery, which evidently
THE RIVALS.
“The ‘Artists Week’ show in Adelaide having rejected three of Norman Lindsay’s pictures (on
tne usual grounds), that daring draughtsman decided to open a show of his own at the same hour, starring
the three barred pictures.”
was glad to believe that Banquo had got in
a good one before being done to death.
“Hamfat.”: Still a popular favorite
amongst thespians who tour the smalls is
“The Irish Detective,” a piece which used
to give Grattan Riggs opportunities for the
lightning changes in which he delighted.
The malefactor of the drama is a mad doctor
with a penchant for murdering patients and
sending the bodies down a chute into the
corporation sewer, and the pursuit of villainy
by the disguised hero, who eventually tears
off his face-fringes and declares that he is
“Facey, the Irish Detective.” is fast and
furious. A show now travelling Mulgaville
and neighboring towns includes in its reper-
toire “The Irish Detective,” “The Mystery
of a Hansom Cab,” “The Kelly Gang,”'“Full
on the Bristol,” “Seven Nights in a Bar-
room,” “East Lynne” and “Camille”—a
mixed lot of old-timers and sure winners.
The man who runs the affair came to the
city recently to put some of the profits in
suburban property.
“The Deacon” : Touching Dampier’s weak-
ness for introducing horses on the stage (B.
10/7/’24), Murmur, winner of the Caulfield
Cup in 1904, evaded the equine poorhouse
by earning his oats in drammer. Wren, his
owner, gave him to Allen Doone, who starred
the old boss in “Mamie Astliore,” “Beit-
zimmer Aboo” and other deathless Irish pro-
ductions of the Milwaukee school. Murmur
took kindly enough to the business, or, at
least, to the lumps of sugar provided by the
ladies of the company.
“E.T.”: Eugene O’Neill, the much-boomed
Yankee playwright, has just had his newest
piece staged in New York. It bears the
arresting title, “All God’s, Chillun Got
Wmgs,” an d has for its theme the marriage
of an American negro with a white woman.
A daring notion, a big notion. But it would
take an artist to grapple with it, and O’Neill
approaches the subject with all the artistry
of a Bowery tough. The play never rises
above the level of sordid melodrama, and in
the end the woman, after attempting her
nigger’s life, goes mad. Even his country-
men are beginning to tire of O’Neill’s lack
of restraint, and—what is worse—lack of
humor. One of the kindest critics of “All
God’s Chillun” complains that “the abund-
ance of oaths with which the dramatist has
sprinkled the first act is an offence to the
sensitive ear, and is out of all proportion to
the intended effect.” I personally think that
applies to everything.,O’Neill has written.
From Fleet-street:—
Marie Tempest, to whom the Fates have not been
propitious since her return from Australia, is about
to try her luck in London again. She is to play
the principal role in “Midsummer Madness,” i>v
Clifford Bax, at the Hammersmith Lyric. “Mid-
summer Madness” is described as “to all intents
and purposes opera,” having been supplied with
more or less melodious numbers by Armstrong
Gibbs. Marie’s chief supporter will be Fred Rana-
low, the singer who was more than any other respon-
sible for the long run of “The Beggar’s Opera” at
the same suburban house.
The revised version of “Come In” failed to attract,
and Lee White was compelled to put up the shutters
after a few nights of discouraging business. In
wishing the company better luck next time, the
Telegraph mentions that the lady with the husky
voice is still liable for the rent of the Queen’s
Theatre, and will be charmed to meet prospective
tenants. Another paper suggests that if she had
invited a committee of outsiders to the final rehear-
sals of “Come In” they would have detected its
weak spots and saved the show from shipwreck.
They might, and they might not. Henry Irving
cnse remarked that no man could or ever would be
able to tell in advance how a piece was likely to
fare at the hands of a first-night audience.
Harry Lauder is said to be likely to stand for a
Scottish seat in the House of Commons. “Ah’m
flunkin' aboot it,” he told a reporter, “but Ah’m
not cer-r-tain whether Ah’m Tory, Liberal or Labor.”
William Archer’s “Green Goddess” has scored its
300th performance at the St. James’s, and looks like
•running till Christmas. Handsome Isobel Elson has
been replaced as leading lady by May Merrall, but
George Arliss is still the ineffable Rajah—he bids
fair to put up a record of a thousand consecutive
performances on both sides of the Atlantic.
Abbot P. : I am beginning to feel angry
with these visiting tenors. Are there no
encore numbers other than “La Donna e
Mobile” and “Questa o Quella” ? We have had
these hurled at us so often that I am driven
in self-defence to suggest that the gents, who
inflict them on us should look up the score of
Verdi’s “Un Ballo in Maschera,” where they
will find airs that Rosnati thrilled us with
in other years. And when they have ex-
hausted “Ln Ballo” they might try “Zaza."
"Thersites”: Robert Courtneidge (B.
24/7/’24) did the Professor in “On Change"
under George Musgroye’s management in
1903, announcing it as his original charac-
ter. Those supporting him in the Austra-
lian production included Athol Forde, Nor-
man Partridge, Croker King, Cynthia
Brooke, Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis. Margaret
Cellier and Nora Kerin.
“H.J.”: How many people have noticed
the increasing number of entertainments,
side-shows, etc., to which the price of admis-
sion is By making this charge in-
stead of Is. the proprietors dodge the enter-
tainment-tax—and there are lots of patrons
who don’t, bother about their LI. change.
“Yarra Ben”: Surely the long-distance
champion at speechifying is the hero of “The
Garden of Allah,” Boris Androvsky. It is
hard to imagine such a born soap box orato,
taking the vow of eternal silence and becom-
ing a Trappist monk. True he does not say
much in the early part of the play; but he
makes up for it towards the end. Talk!
His “confession” in the desert must take
a good 10 minutes, and, what is as remark-
able, his wife listens to it all the time with-
out interjecting a word. Certainly the actor
does it very well, but you can’t make me
believe it’s real. P'.S. —Actions speak louder
than wordse spe ci all yon the stage. P.P.S,
-—That isn’t mine. Charles Frohman claimed
it; but I don’t believe it was his, either.
“Dido : One night the late Irving Sayles,
popular corner-man in vaudeville, guyed a
couple in one of the boxes, and won them a
little temporary notoriety. Presently a note
was thrown from the box. Irving opened and
read it, and gave the people it came from
no more of his regard. After the show Sayles
declared that the note, was a message of
fondness from the lady, ’and blew a kiss
from two lips like twin black puddings. Late
that night, while Irving was taking refresh-
ment in a bar, his partner in crime picked
his pocket of the note, and read it aloud to
the assembled drinkers. It ran : “You pea-
nut-headed Zulu, if you throw off at me again
I will come down and batter you? monkey
face.” No wonder Sayles took the hint. The
offended gentleman was the then heavyweight
champion of Australia. '■
Thersites”: Years ago we were up north
with Charles Holloway’s. bellow co. At
townsville the weather was too much for one
of our hot-headed young actors, and, the night
before we opened, a solicitous hop removed
him to the cooler. In the morning they let
the reveller go, and lie sneaked' home to his
pub, imagining that no one knew of his esca-
pade. He had to open the piece that night,
being discovered lying in bed in a hut in
Queensland (of all places). After the show
Holloway asked the erring one whether that
bunk m the Queensland scene was quite com-
fortable. “Yes., thanks, guvnor,” said the
mummer, surprised. "I thought it best to
have absolute realism, laddie,” said Hollo-
way, “so I got the property-man to borrow
the grey blankets you slept in last night.”
I. hat s all the youngster ever heard of it.
Nella ’; The old-time mummers are
‘Bung off, but Clarence Topper is still a trier.
He took a raw crowd out into the wilds
lately, and when the crash came. 10 days
later, he said to his jeunc premier, an ambi-
tious youth named Higgle, “Ah, laddie. I’m
very pleased with you. Keep in touch with
me, laddie; I may do something for you in a
metropolitan show.” Young Higgle told me
, . • And did you get in touch with
him i I asked. Oh, yes,” he said, “I’m walk-
ing on at the Opera House, and on my first
treasury day old Topper wa s at the stage-
door, waiting for me. He got in touch with
me for two bob.”
Dido”: An old actor, long with
the I‘irm, broke down badly, and
often in public places prayed fervently
rot,. the salvation of the soul of ,T. C.
v\ lihamson. Williamson came to hear of
it, and took' the actor aside. He did not
want to -be prayed for; and he hated the
men ot being the object of supplication in
public. Anyhow,” he continued, “you are
the only one of four thousand acquaintances
who does not think me past pr.'jying for.”
Ah, sir,” replied the old actor, “but you
must remember I am mad.”
Paree”; The new Nibelungen film just
starting on its travels from Berl.ui is the
Wagner legend Germanised, the ;tromoters
having declared that the opera, composer
(who was his own librettist) went' astray
alter a Norse version of the story. The
dragon, which has always been a rather comic
pantomime “property” on the operatic stage,
is a fearsome thing, on the screen, worlted by
30 men and breathing realistic fire when it
advances upon Siegfried.
MAGGIE MOORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On Aug-. 1, 1874, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson
(Maggie Moore) arrived in Melbourne and achieved
Phenomenal success with a play entitled ‘Struck
Oil.' ’’ —Old chronicle.
In ’seventy-four a smiling dame
from ’Frisco, poor, unknown to fame,
Sincerity her only art,
Took captive our Australia’s heart,
And built an ever-honored name.
For fifty years she’s played the game,
W hose Lizzie set the soul aflame
And made unwonted teardrops start
In ’seventy-four.
Though white her hair and bent her frame,
To us she’ll always be the same—-
This actress who has lived her part,
\'or ever stooped to mob or mart -
As when a girlish bride she came
In 'seventy-four.
ws.w.
S. GUMM.


Amusements.
«j£ IIiNK V a. call;; F THISAT H IS 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: KEMPY.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE: THE DOVER ROAD.
DICKAKUS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* “ Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
MUSGROVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
_ The World’s Best.
pi'LLEBS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED.. & SAT.
SEYMOUR HICKS in OLD BILL, M.P.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
IRENE FRANKLIN.
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
ING'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR in
MADAME X.
OIEW PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction. . . .Hugh J. "’-rd Theatres Pty., Ltd
EVERY EVENING at 8. AND LAST NIGHTS Of
(,’AIviER iim GivEAT,
The Master Mind of Magic and Mystery,
and Miss EVELYN MAXWELL,
The Psvehic Marvel. She sees all, knows all and
tells all.
The biggest show of its kind that has ever left
America.
Prices as usual. Box Plans at Glenn s.
Oeneral Manager: Scott Colville.
Situation Vacant.
PED COMPETENT OVERSEER,
;ed to Western Queensland con-
Apply by letter to Manager,
Plains, Cunnamulla, Queensland.
FOR SALE.
PLANT & MACHINERY
OF THE BORDER PRESERVING
WORKS, MOUNT GAMBIER,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Consisting of the following:—
Babcock & Wilcox Boilers.
5- and 10-ton Refrigerators.
Air Compressor and Receiver.
No. 3 & No. 4 Sturtevant Exhaust Fans.
Worthington, Blake & Marsh Pumps.
Heine Inclinable Power Presses.
Heine and Goetz Guillotines.
Heine Automatic Body-forming Machine.
Punching and Riveting Machines.
Heine Automatic Crimping Machines.
Lacquering Machine.
Heine Processing Retorts.
Extract Reducing Pan. Digesters.
Arsenic Skin Spraying Machine.
Large number of smaller machines and
sundries.
Inquiries invited by the Sole Selling Agents:
Deland, Wyllie & Davies,
LIMITED,
174-76 Currie Street,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Cent. 3186
w
ditions.
Charlotte
♦>
£
vm
I The SUPER
CIGARETTE
Made from Pure
• GOLDEN VIRGINIA
The Coolness and Sweetness
in Smokinq are enhanced
by the OVAL Shape & CORK TIP
ssr
i'l,
20 for 2/-
Amusements.
D KINCESS’S Til 10ATKE, .MICUtOUKM!*
■ Proprietors: Pullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
I.essees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED, WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen’s.
H
OYT’S
THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
BERT LYTELL and BLANCHE SWEET in
THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD.
HOOT GIBSON in
DOUBLE DEALING.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
CARMEL MYERS in
POISONED PARADISE.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Auction Sale.
Important Notice.
>ta he Public Curator of Queensland, under instruc-
-1 tions from the Corporation of the City ot
Brisbane, in furtherance of its scheme for improv-
ing the City, has been instructed to seii
BY PUBLIC AUCTION
DURING
CENTENARY & EXHIBITION WEEK
The Valuable Freehold Property in
ADELAIDE STREET,
right in the heart of the City of BRISBANE, contain-
ing 66 feet frontage and 134 feet 7 inches depth.
This is an excellent opportunity of acquiring
land in the best business centre in the fast grow-
ing city, Queensland’s magnificent capital.
Further particulars as to terms etc., may be
obtained on application to THE PUBLIC CURATOR,
BRISBANE.
Date of Sale: THURSDAY, 14th AUGUST, 1924, at
11 a.m. on the grounds.
Legal Notice.
tn the supreme court of western
-L AUSTRALIA.
No. 57 of 1924.
DIVORCE AND MATRIMONIAL CAUSES.
IN THE MATTER of the Petition of GEOROE
MONTGOMERY RENNIE WYLIE for a Dissolu-
tion of Marriage.
BETWEEN GEORGE MONTGOMERY RENNIE
AVYLIE, Petitioner, and VERONICA ANTOIN-
ETTE MARIE WYLIE, Respondent.
To VERONICA ANTOINETTE MARIE WYLIE
formerly of Perth in the State of Western Aus-
tralia whose present whereabouts is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued in
this Honorable Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of GEORGE MONTGOMERY
RENNIE WYLIE formerly of Geraldton in the State
of Western Australia but now of Perth in the said
State formerly Licensed Victualler but now a Grazier
praying for a dissolution of Marriage. In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce sentence in re-
spect thereto. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within forty-
five days after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Central Office
of our said Court and there enter an appearance in
a book provided for that purpose.
* T. F. DAVIES, Registrar.
ANDREWS & ROBINSON, of Surrey Chambers, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and of Narrogin, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner.
[To be inserted twice in the West Australian
Newspaper and the Sydney Bulletin.]
■t-j
**©
'O
o
a:
Co
o
<*3
BOSTOCKS
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS.
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Cream—put up in collapsible tubes—
is the cleanest and most convenient polish to use when
travelling. Excellent for all Leathers. In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube. Obtainable Everywhere.
<©3l4
bIIIUEHIEIBb
BBBEEBBB12BB!
The Indispensable System to
Greater Production
The word “ Oxygen ” is coined from
a Greek word meaning “I produce
Now, modern industrial development goes still further and applies
Oxy-Acetylene Welding and Cutting to reclamation as well as
production methods. COMOX low pressure system (as illustrated
in the circle above) provides a complete plant for every class of
Oxy-Acetylene Welding, Cutting and Brazing.
COMOX NOT ONLY SAVES TIME, IT CUTS COSTS
Let Comox Service Engineers tell you just where Comox can
improve your production and reclamation methods. If you value
economy you will be glad to have the economy that Comox brings.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories, Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE s Queensland Oxygen
Ltd., Newstead Terrace, New-
stead.
LAUNCESTON : Harrison Bros. &
Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
PERTH : Geo Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Murray Street.
il
m
Agents:
MELBOURNE : Fyvie & Stewart,
362 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : The Western Oxygen
Co., Ltd., Bellingham Street,
Torrensville.
SUVA, FIJI : Brown & Joske.


OS*
\
0,.
.
V#"
»s=-* \
?s£.
V,
/
N
A
SMW
mill:
stream°/TVsater
When a statement like this is made
it needs some backing. It is the
enthusiastic phrase of one of the
satisfied users of a “Comet” Mill.
Read his letter.
WELLINGTON, N.S.W.
July, 1923.
Dear Sirs,
I have much pleasure in stating that
the 10ft. “Comet” Mill which I purchased
from you some time ago has given every
satisfaction. The Mill works in a very
light breeze and PRACTICALLY PUMPS
A CONSTANT STREAM OF WATER. I
intend erecting another “Comet” Mill
shortly, as the one I already have has
done everything asked of it without any
trouble or cost of upkeep.
(Sgd.) A. J. BAYLY.
windmills!
It is evident from the above that the
“Comet” will make every possible use
of all available breezes—light or strong. Think how much more water this
means. Gallon for gallon the “Comet” is by far the most economical proposi-
tion—and it gives longer service, too.
“Use the Wind”-—a breezy little booklet —is yours for the asking.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Works and Office—DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY. City Office—2ssa GEORGE STREET.
S.W. 20 Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane, and' Townsville
Hillier's
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to
you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia,
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
\
am
'■
M
'X
q
ms
m
>
W
162-160 Pitt Street, and
Corner Goorjje and Kin"
Streets, Sydney.
“How
Lovely !
The Bank of Victoria, Limited.
FIFTY-EIGHTH REPORT,
TO 30th JUNE, 1924,
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the General Meeting to be held at noon on
TUESDAY, 5th AUGUST, 1924.
The Board of Directors submit their Fifty-eighth Report to the Shareholders of the Bank, together
with the Balance Sheet for the year ending 39th June, 1924, duly certified by the Auditors, showing:—
Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1923 .. .. .. .. 1127,439 3 11
Net Profits for the past year .. .. .. .. .. .. 193,73S 19 3
Interim Dividend at 9 per cent, for half-year July to December, 1923: —
Preference Shares .. .. .. .. HIS,754 4 0
Ordinary Shares .. .. „ .. .. 47,756 5 0
£221,178 3 2
To Officers’ Provident Fund
£66,510 9
3,000 0
69,510 9 0
Balance .. .. .. .. .. •• •• £151,667 14 2
The Directors recommend that the remaining Profits for the year be apportioned as follows:
To Dividend on Preference Shares, at 9 per cent, per annum, for
half-year ending 30th June, 1924 .. .. .. •• £18,754 4 0
To Dividend on Ordinary Shares, at 9 per cent, per annum, for
half-year ending 30th June, 1924 .. .. .. .• 47,756 5 0
To Reserve Fund (making it £750,000)
To Balance to be carried forward
£66,510 9 0
50,000 0 0
35,157 5 2
£151,667 14 2
The retiring Directors are Sir Edward Miller and Mr. W. J. T. Clarke, who are eligible for re-
election, and offer themselves accordingly.
Two Auditors will require to be appointed.
A branch of the Bank has been opened at Glenferrie Road, Malvern, and the branches at ICiewa and
Woomelang have been converted into agencies of the Wodonga and Ouyen branches respectively.
The Dividend will be payable in Melbourne on and after the 6th August, and at the branches and in
London on receipt of advices.
The transfer books of the Company will be closed from 23rd July to 5th August, both days
inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited, PHILIP CH. db CRKSPiGNY, General Manager.
Melbourne, 17th July, 1924.
IiAEANCE SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED,
At 30th June, 1924.
Dr. (Including London Branch at 19th May, 1924.) Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Paid up, viz :
41,676 Preference
Shares of £lO
each, fully paid
up in Cash ..£416,760 0 0
212,250 Ordinary
Shares of £lO
each, paid up
to £5 .. 1,061,250 0 0
£1,478,010 0 0
„ Reserve Fund.. 700,000 0 0
„ Profit and Loss 151,667 14 2
__ £2,329,677 14 2
„ Notes in circulation .. .. 6,383 10 0
Bills in circulation .. ... 545,830 7 7
„ Government deposits—
Not bearing interest .. ... 103,872 1 4
Bearing interest .. .. 356,038 12 4
„ Other Deposits and Interest Accrued—
(lncluding rebate on Bills dis-:
counted) not bearing Interest 4,306,597 7 6
(Including Officers’ Guarantee
and Provident Funds) bearing'.
Interest .. ~ •• 6,479,252 9 6
~ Balances due to other banks . . 193.934 8 8
Contingent liabilities as per contra 520,156 17 2
. (
£14,841,743 8
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian
Notes, and
Cash at
Bankers’ . . £2,195,149 0 7
„ Money at short
call and Trea-
sury Bills in
London . . 857,496 3 6
~ Commonwealth
o f Australia
War Loan Stock
and Debentures,
Victoria Gov-
ernment Stock
and Debentures,
and Municipal
Debentures . . 1,115,764 7 4
„ Bills and Re-
mittances i n
transitu and
Bills Receiv-
able in London
~ Notes and
Bills of other
Banks
~ Balances due
from other
Banks J
„ AVheat Advance
under Govern-
ment scheme
„ Stamps
—- £5,127,236 9 7
~ Real Estate, consisting of Bank
premises .. . . .. .. 417,341 16 5
~ Other Real Estate .. .. 5,797 9 2
~ Bills Discounted and other
Advances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts .. 8,771,210 15 11
~ Liabilities of Customers and
others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities, as per contra .. .. 520,156 17 2
610,313 6 0
204,263 4 7
59,386 3 3
78,465 9 2
6.398 15 2
£14,841,743 8 3
PROFIT AND FOSS.
Co Current Expenses—Head Office and
103 Branches and 16 Sub-Branches £210,671 7 3
„ Balance .. .. .. 1d1,667 1.4 2
£362,339 1 5
Bv Balance brought forward from
30th June, 1923 .. .. £143,949 12 11
„ Gross Profit for the year ending'
30th June, 1924, after deduct-
ing all Interest paid or due to
Customers, and rebating Bills
Current, and providing for Bad
and Doubtful Debts and Taxes, . 404,410
6 6
l,ess Dividend paid
for half-year end-
ing 30th June,
1923
Less Interim Divi-
dend for half-
year July to De-
cember, 1923 . .
Less Amount trans-
, ferred to Officers’
Provident Fund
Less Amount trans-
ferred to Reserve
Fund
£548,359 19
£66,510 9 0
66,510 9 0
3,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
—■ 186,0:20 18 0
£362,339 1 5
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance carried forward
.. £700,000 0 0
£700,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward from
30th June, 1923 £650,000 0 0
„ Transferred from Profit and Loss 50,000 0 0
£700,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and General Manager to comply
•with the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report.
==Renimgton===
Wetproof Shotgun Cartridges
“Never mind the weather”
UNIFORMLY GOOD during the rainy
season or when it’s hot and humid.
Climatic changes do not affect Reming-
ton Cartridges.
No swollen cases to spoil sport by “jam-
ming” at a critical moment.
Remington’s patented exclusive wet-
proof process seals and protects the car-
tridges; they are air and water tight.
Examine the head for REM-UMC
It means factory loaded .
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
'P,
%
#)C
E 3


THE EXPRESSION OF PLEASURE.
“ ‘The face is the mirror of the mind,’
I read somewhere, sir, and it is quite
true.
“When you get a Kensitas for the first
time you look at it suspiciously, as it
were, sir.
“Then you light up—after the first
whiff youy face changes to what I
might call, sir, the ‘Kensitas’ expres-
sion.
“Then I can see
from your face that
you are pleased and
satisfied—that Iven-
sitas are ‘as good
as good cigarettes
can be.’ ”
yr
Kensitas
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
CufaA&ttib} SVi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wl2 & Sons, Ltd., London,
qpo--
l
1. .HI
6A
C
You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
340 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
.jiff
.a
e > > 40k
AOE
BRITISH
Perfection
ritsr rubber
SKANDIA
Kerosene and Crude Oil. Stationary.
4-5 HORSE-POWER.
Constructed especially for Pump-
ing Plants, Sawmills, Electric
Lighting Outfits, Chaffcutters,
Shearing Machines and all Farm
Work.
£B5
Complete as illustrated,
with Accessories and
Spare Parts.
STARTS IN Vz MINUTE.
RUNS FOR 2d. PER HOUR.
Larger Powers in
Stock.
Also
MARINE
ENGINES
from £95.
Further Particulars
obtainable from
the Australasian Agents,
■ n
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Pacific House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
ft
I.ejjai Notice.
Re JAMES MALLOY, late of Chesterfield,
in Westland, New Zealand, Settler,
deceased.
WT ILL JAMES BEVILL, formerly of
▼ T Sydney, a nephew of the abovenamed
deceased, kindly communicate with the under-
signed, when he will hear of something to
his advantage.
PARK & MURDOCH, Solicitors, Hokitika.
Wanted.
WANTED. —True stories of adventure, personal or
otherwise, 2000-5000 words, and articles deal-
ing with curious manners and customs, queer com-
munities, odd phases of life, and out-of-the-ordinary
journeys and explorations, illustrated with good sets
of photographs. Literary style not essential. Liberal
payment for accepted material, prompt decisions, and
sympathetic consideration. Address —Editor, WIDE
WORLD MAGAZINE, 8 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.G.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nic olson’s Ltd. - • Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
S s/wfa/f&wr stoz <2&c&
j
1907-1924
OKS upremt
Announcing a Further Shipment, of the FAMOUS
BALLOON-TYRE MODEL.
numerous advantages gained by balloon-tyre equipments represent
ortant advancement made in the motor industry during the past te
The numerous advantages gained by balloon-tyre equipment* the most
important advancement made in the motor industry during the past ten 3 *
Only your request is necessary for a demonstration that will reveal to y
entirely new and better kind of motoring. tiwmrn
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY EASY TERMS T INANCE ARRANGED.
Communicate ivilli your Local Agent NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Way mouth
St., Adelaide
New South Wales:
Lcckett's Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Bros.
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
Queensland:
Johns'on’s Motors Ltd.
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
334 Beaufort Street
Perth
A
\
$
ML
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Merry W.: Honestly it isn’t very well
done. And to have a chance it must be very well
done, havin >' been done so often... .W.H.Q.: It’s
over 20 years old, and the authoress has been long
dead... .E.J.H.: “Meticulous” may have originally
implied timidity; its modern meaning is “careful
about trivial matters.” Isn’t that the antithesis if
“slovenly”?... .W.F.S.; Informed that the time isn’t
favorable... .L.E.H.F.: But where is the barber who
can talk informatively on 17 different subjects ?....
M.H.H.: True enough; but superficial... .E.K.:
Afraid that wouldn’t convince anybody... .Paratus:
Your point isn’t made sharp enough.... Billposter:
You ramble too much.... Surely Not : He has been
pretty well roasted already. •• .Francis T.: Sent to
other papers, apparently, and therefore no use here.
D Le R.: Rather off our beat; and dull stuff,
too. .. . Aramis: Acceptable. .. .D.P.J.: You can do
much better than “Poetic License” Hyssop: Get
down off those stilts. No man in his senses ever
talked like that; or if he did nobody ever listened
to him A.E.C.: Tqp artificial J.M.0.: It’s
beautifully tangled ; and as you don’t supply a single
stop, it seems to half say a lot of things... .H.H.lt.:
Neither the verse nor the grammar carries it
J.M.8.; Too crude Ray A.: The idea is good.
See if you can’t improve the treatment N.E.
(Sandgate): No use E.C.H.: The usual string of
commonplace questions in unattractive verse....
Bellerive: “The Little Mouse” gnaweth its way in:—
You’re shifty and you’re cunning, little Mouse;
Slyly from your burrow you will peep,
When hunger pangs you feel
You venture out to steal;
You’re slippery as a eel, little Mouse,
As an acrobat you’re clever, little Mouse;
You glideth and pranceth at your ease,
But as roguish as the rat,
Though not as fierce and fat,
Your enemy’s the cat, little Mouse.
I often hear you squeaketh, little Mouse.
At night when I’m jotting down a verse
I spy your little snout
From a crevice sticking out.
You know' what you’re about, little Mouse.
.... G.C. (Bondi) : The story with a moral purpose
is generally a dreary wilderness Harry P.: Told
too often. .. . Iv.W.C.: “Island” is melodrama spouted
through a megaphone.... Landa: Not up; and not
improved by dragging in an old god or two
J.B. (Dalby) : Misses; but not hopeless E.J.F.:
Poor idea poorly handled... .E.M.C.: None up.
“Brown Earth” is the best. Give that more work,
Louis C.: He wanted to be at sea when he was
ashore and wanted to be ashore when he was at sea.
It really doesn’t make a yarn.... Sydney M.: Very
ladylike rubbish... .R.H.W.: Doesn’t get to any
point. .. .Primrosalind: “Drip-p! Drip! Pip! Pip!
it says” is the most remarkable line... .C.U. (North
Sydney); It doesn’t touch reality W.M.8.L.: You
ought to be prosecuted for cruelly overworking old
Phrases.... Sam W.: The serious treatment of the
“Butcher Girl” leaves us cold G.V.K.: Verse
built in imitation of the dsn wing-room ballad has no
chance. . . .Mercia H.: The long one is commonplace
end nearly shook our ears off; the shorter piece is
close up. Read good verse and learn its shape....
E. : Too many weak spots... .A.M.8.: Thin and
mechanical W.F.S.: Out of step V.M.T.: The
telling is better than the yarn Nikko: The verse
goes heavily and the idea is very slight... .8.J.A.:
None of them w r ell d0ne....G.8. (S. Yarra): Not
quite enough in them....H.S. (Nedlands): Far too
rough E.H.C.H.: No use to us. Might sell some-
where else.. . .Antwerp; Mere dull commonplace
A.W.C.: Too crude and lumpy... . Gordon W.: Says
the old things in poor rhyme. Your ear is bad
L.A.R.: That sing-song metre is very monotonous.
Pensif: Even for first attempts they are pretty
bad... .Mollie B.: “To do as I wilt” —fie, fie!
F. : Commonplaces in unattractive verse
H..T.0.: Makes dull reading E.R.D.: Doesn’t sing,
and without singing a string of repetitions like that
is tiresome... .Henry P.: The road is too muddy....
Ripponlea: A remarkable bit of celestial realism: -
Saint Peter was yarning with Aaron
And tuning his middle-G string.
Said he: “Old age it takes bearin’;
Eternity’s losin’ its sting.
My bunions they’re giving me nothing;
"Sciatica’s in me left wing,
I’ll rub me ole feather’s with kero., I think;
They say it’s a pretty good thing.
By the way, there’s a message from Melbourne;
A codger whose name’s Ripponlea
Has just slit his throat with a penknife.
A struggling; starving author was he.
Just give him a nobbier of nectar,
And play him at snooker or cards;
But don’t, for the love of Hector,
Let him handle them valuable harps.
For he’d raise such a hell of a discord,
That he’ll give the ’ole place a crook name,
Help me up; we’ll git back to the clubroom.
Ah, me, how me poor frame is bent!
Come on, young man, git a move on,
The five o-clock whistle has went.”
Lidcombe: Doesn’t make us want to embrace yon.
And do choose a more cheerful subject Kathleen
J.: Some distance off Ted R.: Yes, we’ve seen
the sun rise over “streams where ducklings dive” ;
but it’s hardly worth breaking into song to merely
ask us the question.... Ben S.: Misses. ..-Peter G.:
The “In Memoriam” verses are far below the stan-
dard Phyllis C.: Gathers up the old commonplaces.
.... Admirer: Doesn’t get near the pay-office
Rupert M. : Not enough in it Scrivano: The verse
works hard, but doesn’t get much result 0.M.G.:
Too slight.. . .Dragon Fly: Not brilliant. Read some
good verse A.Z. (Bondi) : Not what we want
Jack E. • Well enough written, but doesn’t amount to
anvthing... .Gina T.: Chopped prose masquerading
as "verse G.E.0.: Not enough general interest
D.J.K.: Treads old ground... .K.S.A.: You had an
idea- but the yarn makes dull reading J.H.L :
Too lumpy C.R. (Alberton): Sentimental love
ditty made for yowling to the suburban piano....
S W G ■ Too mechanical. . . .Sulcus: The yarn doesn t
convince Iv. J.S.: Sorry we can’t lodge the gentle-
man who slept in lingerie. ...Tom M.: Verse far too
crude A.T.A.: No good. .. .H.C.8.: Not up....
T P.H. • Glad to consider anything submitted....
G. : The Bulletin pays for all it prints.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B. M. Love: A case of Love’s labor 105 t....
H. : Both jokes have grandchildren... .L.R.M.:
Looks like Einstein’s theory on a jag. ... A.M.: A
sadly misused pair of ladies... .Tt. f.: Pigs is pigs
—all except yours.... V.L.: Nowhere near the mane.
AE- About the same.. - .P.D.O’F.: Drawing
weak and linework too scratchy... .M.P : But why
send us “a feeble attempt” ?... .T.A.L.: Your humor
needs disinfecting. .. . S.R.: Below par....E.\ .1 :
Lifeless linework... .L.M.: Lady with six hngers and
a double nose forwarded to the Museum.... R. 8.:
Have another shot... .H.G.T.: Misses.


Here’s the latest
SHOCK ABSORBERS
The Motoring Public will be more than pleased to learn of the
new STEWART Shock Absorber—a genuine, reasonably-priced
device for eliminating the jolts and bumps that are so discomforting
to motorists and expensive to Car-owners.
After more than two years of the most thorough investigation and manufacturing tests, the
Stewart Factory has been able to design and produce a Shock Absorber that is worthy of
the famous Trade-mark which it bears. The Stewart Shock Absorber has several distinct
and important advantages over any others. There is no friction on the strap, and no
strap wear or breakage. It absorbs all of the shocks—no matter how quickly one follows
the other, the Stewart is ready to do its work each time.
PRICES:
Set of Four, £10110!- Pair, £5 5/-
Stewwib
Product of Stewart-Warner Speedometer Corporation.
There are but two moving parts:
The spring drum, to which the
webbed strap is connected, and
the coiled steel rebound spring.
No valves, no oil, no joints, no
packing. Nothing to rattle,
squeak, or groan.
j
By means of the
special wrench
■which is pro-
vided, the car-
owner can
readily adjust the Stewart
Shock Absorber to suit his
own judgment. Only a par-
tial turn of the adjusting nut
is needed.
Bennett
Stewart products are stocked by all Accessories dealers, including the following Interstate Service Stations:
& Wood, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, Vic.; Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd.; Brisbane, Q.;
Cornell, Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.; Arthur Christian, Perth, W.A.
Only the
NEW EDISON
gives you
Ja HlO
H
i-
PERFECT
REALISM.
It is the one phonograph that
recreates singing or playing so
perfectly that the Re-Creation
cannot be distinguished from
the original performance.
This fact has been demon-
strated by over 6000 public
platform tests of direct com-
parison in Sydney, Melbourne,
New York, Chicago and other
great cities.
CHOICE OF
PERIOD MODELS.
The New Edison mechanism is
encased in sixteen different
cabinets, each one a pure
period model.
In these cabinets is reborn the
design and craftsmanship of the
Golden Age of Furniture. It
would hardly be an exaggera-
tion to say that many of them
will become family heirlooms.
THE WORLD OF MUSIC
Needle-records can be played
by the New Edison better than
by any talking machine. The
New Edison also gives you Re-
Created music from its own per-
fect Re-Creations.
The Re-Creations are thick
enough to give true tone with-
out local vibrations, are so hard
as to be free from wear and
breakage, and are so finely en-
graved as to contain nearly
twice as much music per inch.
MECHANICAL
PERFECTION.
His diamond reproducer has no
needles to change— or to cut
the records—or to be worn out
before a selection is half-
finished.
The world’s greatest inventor
stands behind this instrument,
together with £600,000 spent
in research; truly it is the pro-
duct of a master mind.
Catalogues and Demonstrations at
lie Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagli Street.
'^ruer'’*mfi o\ H. a^n S & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE S.A. Phonograph Co., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place,
nSn U nF E_The Edison Shop. 238 Collins Street.
PERTH—Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street
LAUNCESTON—WiIIs & Co. Pty., 7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
B*i t» iroft i
liy building your new home witii
Exterior and Interior Walls and Ceilings
of “FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Koof of “FIBROIjITE”
Slates, you can reduce your costs and
secure greater durability.
“FIBROLITE” costs no more than weather-
boards and lining boards and is superior to
either in every respect. “FIBROLITE” is
fire retardant, white-ant proof and improves
with age. Not only are “upkeep” costs elimi-
nated but big‘concessions are secured in in-
surance rates. Before building, send for full
information.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide—Hobart.
ĵ
LARGE
STOCK
SUPPLIES
may, at times, diminish general competition
for Cattle and Sheep at the Yards. But
there’s one factor which will give decided
help in increasing the demand for your
particular consignments.
Rail Your Fats to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The firm’s work constantly produces top
market values for clients.
j
EureKa
Driving Lamp
(DIETZ)
A reliable weatherproof kerosene-
wick Lamp, with ruby rear lens
and (bracket. Price 13/6 each.
List of Benzine Lamps, Lanterns
and Irons on application.
LUX LIGHT 00. OF VICTORIA,
4.95'' Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in Tiih
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Shave in Comfort.
ĵ
If you could sha 'e
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s,
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving within reach of every
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE. and automatically
produce a perfect., keen shaving' edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor-'shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/v or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
21
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Spittrt;
Super Quality
''CIGARETTES
Fine Old Virginia
Cork Tipped Ovals
l V'T
Stores
Tobacconists
Of all
an
c l
e
,
e
fU
0
W
Nothing is Richer in Vitamins than Cod Liver Oil • Vj
IS COD LIVER OIL—MADE PALATABLE.
This Rich, Creamy Emulsion Banishes
Chest Ailments, Strengthens the System,
Increases Weight.
HypOl is a Genuine Restorative for
* Building Up Sick People —a
Food, Tonic and Healer in one.
To Feel Better, Look Better, Work F
Take HYPOL
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTOH, CRIMWADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Daddy”: Yes, Governments are incor-
rigible. A temporary marquee does duty for a
refreshment-room at South Grafton railway
station (N.S.W.), and the frame is of im-
ported oregon-pine, although millions of beau-
tiful spotted-gum saplings stand along the
line a short distance away. It almost makes
you think there must be “perks” somewhere.
“Nollig” : An entry for the world’s bulki-
est timber. Near the Wilmot River, at Castra,
Ulverstone (Tas.), there is a sound stringy-
bark which sft. from the ground tapes 78ft.
Sin. and rises 100 ft. before showing a branch.
If a saw were manufactured to deal with
this tree it could supply almost unlimited
wooden hams; otherwise it isn’t a commer-
cial proposition.
* * * -X-
-“Machete”: Let William-street (Sydney)
in for the clieap-meal stakes (B. 10/7/’24).
Several establishments on that tilted-up
thoroughfare supply an astonishing variety
of dishes for a three-course shilling meal,
and at least one does it for 9d. The shilling
places issue a book of tickets for a full
week's meals (21) for 18s.; and, as far as
outward appearance goes, the clientele seems
quaite top-hole.
“Harold Ilardupp" : The Woollakra (Syd-
ney) Municipal Council is seeking power to
prohibit the building of flats. In Darling-
hurst and Cremorne, since the coming of the
flats, the value of land has increased enor-
mously ; but that was not the first effect.
Start, building flats on Bellevue Hill, for
instance, and you will so disturb its exclu-
siveness as to immediately weaken land
values. Hence the Woollahra Council’s
action.
“W.H.P.”: “U.K.’s” (B. 10/7/’24) inter-
esting par regarding ancient land values at
Bondi as contrasted with present ones might
have been made more interesting still. Let
me supplement it. The animal for which
the original grantee sold the Bondi Junction
estate was not an old horse, but “a female
ass which proved barren.” And retribution
speedily overtook the new owner, for the
cask of wine which Daniel Levy subsequently
paid him for the land “turned out to be
sour.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: If a judicial decision given
at Darwin the other day is allowed to stand,
the man who artistically “splits” banknotes
and passes them will run only half a risk.
In the case under notice the Law decided
that the front part of the note was legal
tender, and there was no offence disclosed
in passing it. As a result, the whole case
crashed. Had he been charged with mutilat-
ing Commonwealth money he would hardly
have fared so well.
A N.S.W. Court has at last dragged itself
to the conclusion that taking someone else’s
motor-car without permission is stealing,
even if the joy-rider leaves the vehicle in a
paddock, because he has no • other place to
put it, and would rather steal a fresh one
next time than carry the incriminating evi-
dence about witli him. Stealing a horse
lias always been just stealing, whether the
police found the animal in a paddock or
not; but hitherto the motor-car has been in
a category by itself.
* * * *
“Kowsara”: More than half of this sea-
son’s estimated 50,000 tons of surplus
sugar will come from the cane-growing dis-
tricts behind Cairns and Townsville. As
this sugar will have to be sold by the Sugar
Board—the agreement with the C.S.R. Com-
pany does not include the treating of surplus
sugar-—it will be exported overseas. From
the end of July steamers loading frozen beef
at Townsville and Cairns will be required
to also load raw sugar for Britain.
TWO WAYS OF PUTTING IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The instability of the currency in Germany en-
courages expenditure in restaurants and on personal
adornment, the impulse being to transmute unsub-
stantial paper into something- tangible, however
transitory the enjoyment obtained.” —S. M. Herald.
“Get it on to you or into you.” —David Harum.
When the money you possess
May buy less and less and less
The longer it remains in your possession,
To procure lor it in haste
Something' you can wear or taste
Can hardly be condemned as indiscretion.
And it seems to me for one
’Twere unjust to blame the Hun
And improper to impute it for a sin to him
That, ere his paper store
Depreciateth more,
He should seek to get it on to him or into him.
When the boodle in your kick
Has an almost daily trick
Of being by outside influences whittled,
There’s an urge to blew the same
in providing that your frame
Should be neatly clad and adequately victualled,
liven in Australia “jing”
Has a way of taking wing,
And the Teuton’s splosh is quicker eome-and-
gone to him,
So by now he’s well aware
That he has no time to spare
If he means to get it into him or on to him.
When the mark has gone to smash
Foot-high packages of cash
Are nothing over which to gloat or slobber,
’Tis unsubstantial stuff
’Side of sauerkraut and duff,
And nothing like as tangible as clobber.
Though the Gaul, consumed with hates,
Reparations still awaits—
Immaterial the condition of Berlin to him—
Never think that Fritz will plank
His money in the bank
With a chance to get it on to him or into him.
Though ’tis Deutschland’s darkest hour
Tons of sausage they devour,
Tendering sev en-figure notes and more in payment;
Indigence the country grips,
Yet innumerable snips
Are fashioning diversity of raiment.
Double tides the breweries run—
He’s a thirst robust, the Hun.
However starved they picture him and wan to you.
If you doubt what bunce will buy
When to-morrow’s sun is high
’Tis best to get it into you or on to you.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


PUBLIC NOTICE
RE
Victorian Motor Investments
LIMITED.
Registered Office:
361 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Late
General Motor Investments, Limited.
In deference to the expressed wish of'an American Company registered as
a Foreign Company in Victoria and known as “General Motors Export
Company,’’ the motor financing company known as the “General Motor Invest-
ments Limited” has agreed to forego that title, and will in future be known as
“VICTORIAN MOTOR INVESTMENTS LIMITED, ” and this title has been
lodged with the Registrar-General in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 1915.
DIRECTORS:
™^®'X S £HW i EG e R, Secretary Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria.
BRUNEI, KAY. Vice-President Royal Automobile Club of Victoria Ltd
Dr. JOHN ANDERSON GILRTJTH. 34 Queen Street. Melbourne
Ma. lo r STANLEY B. HOLDER. 0.8. E.. A 1.C.A., Flinders Lane Melbourne
JAMES W. FLOOD, Motor Body Builder, St. Kilda Road, Melbourne.
CAPITAL, £250,000 in 250,000 shares of £1 each. Present issue 75 non
Cumulative Participating Preference shares, carrying a fixed dividend of 9’ per
cent., participating with the Ordinary shares up to 12 U per cent and 50 000
Ordinary shares. This issue of shares is obtainable at 2/6 per share on application
2/6 per share on allotment, and not more than 2/- per share at intervals of not
less than one month, as required. Preference shares are preference as to both
hindred'slmres.' Minimum subsc ription before allotment, seven thousand
. . NOTE.—Thus is not a prospectus within the meaning of Section SS of the Companies
Act 1915, and contains nothing inconsistent with the full prospectus. companies
Application forms attached to the full prospectus are obtainable at the registered
suf: %. or stock and sh *«
The Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE, 10th July, 1924.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
by th T e h Auditors° rS t 0 SUbmit the Report, with the Balance-sheet, duly certified
ThC rw,. P ? fi T for th £ T ear ended 30th June last, after allowing for Rebate on Bills
T P r .°^ ls ? on f °r bad and doubtful Debts, and including Recoveries, amount’s 0 to’ k
hlfih 1S to be added amount brought forward from year ended 30th June, '1923 !!
Making a total of ..
Out of which Interim Dividends at the' 'rate Af in A A.. „„„V „ “ '• •• .
1924^ainounting* to ™
And a transfer made to Reserve Fund of
Leaving for distribution
Mhieh it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Balance to be carried forward ..
V ,
By Order of the Board.
M. G. HAYMEN,
General Manager.
£1,668,072
65,000
557,417
£13,120,665 2
The Queensland National Bank, Limited,
Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1924.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund .. .. ’’ ’’ '' • • £1,150,048 0 0
Rrofit and Loss . * ' ] '" ** *• •• 587,512 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock !! !! 3 ollltl *4 °
Rills Payable and other Liabilities ~ £4,903,277 3
-Deposits .. .. •• .. 487,655 16
7,729,732 3
BSih B S U ry" Mi?” **• «* « **■*"• ••
Srzs'SoSiiA 0 *” <at ” ” ni '
Queensland Government ..
Victorian Government (short dated) . .
p, , N ew Zealand Government (short dated) .!
Balances .. .. .. _ _
Rills Remitted and in transitu
-Money in London at call and on short notice
Advances on Current Account, Bills Discounted and oth7r Debts d7e
Queensland Treasurer’s Sugar Account
-°ank Premises, Furniture and Stationery
(Ot the Bank Premises figures £200,000 is revenue producing.)
100,000
350,000
400,000
0
0
0
61,471 17 1
716,097 0 10
185,000 0 0
£4,103,058 1 1
8,440,966 17 1
11,000 0 i
565,640 3 i
FOR
-o Interim Dividends paid 15th November, 1923
14th February, 1924
15th May, 1924
Profit and Loss Account.
' O,: YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1924.
£13,120,665 2 10
DR.
° Transfer to Reserve Fund
° Balance at 30th June, 1924
£25,303 9
27,543 15
27,670 10
R CR
jJF Balance from 30th June, 1923
A* Net Profit for Year ended 30th June, 1924
° Balance
Reserve Fund.
DR.
CR.
£ A Balance
Premiums on Shares, 1923 Issue
Amount transferred from Profit for Year ended 30tli June, 1924!!
£80,517 14
40,000 0
74,047 18
£194,565 13 3
£18,177 5 4
176,388 7 11
£194,565 13 3
..£587,512 0 0
£587,512 0 0
..£400,000 0 0
.. 147,512 0 0
40,000 0 0
£587,512 0 0
JAS. MILNE, Chairman.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
certify that j n ° ur ° p ; nion the above Balance Sheet is a full and fair one, exhibiting a true state-
**t of the affairs of the Bank, as shown by the Books on 30th June 1904 s cate
IV. BULCOOK, F.1.C.A., ERIC G. MANSON, F.LC.A., Audit’ors 10th Julv, 1924
Jiiv al n 0R K DIN A n Y GT F E , RAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking House
Rr•£«» .Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 14th August, 1924 at noon. * «ouse,
NINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1924. To elect a
Shareholders’ Director in the place of Mr. Michael Joseph Ryan, who retires in accordance with Clause
90 of the Articles of Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly
(0 elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
In high favour with Ladies
Lustrous finish and wide range
of color and design, give to
Fox Costume-Cloths their FIRST
irresistible appeal.
Remember that Fox materials
always wear better, and that they
retain indefinitely their beauty
of texture and their shape when
made up, simply because they
are perfect— loo per cent. good.
ALL Fox’s Cloths are guaran-
teed to be all pure wool, and will
not shrink or fade by land, sea or
air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset,
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cioths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
(Vest ofSnahnd Uiqhest Quality
MATERIALS
FANCY WORSTEDS • FLANNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS • TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
£
5
fi
—
TRADE MARK
Nv
FOX
asp
&
m
SEE
11
o
The Food for Restful Nights.
Rest is Nature’s law of recuperation; at some time or
other the need for digestive rest comes to everyone. It may
be during the strain of student, professional, business or
social life; during illness or convalescence, or when simply
“ out of sorts.” At such times, Beng-r’s Food—distinguished
from all other foods by its ease of digestion- is almost an
essential to complete recovery.
Benger’s Food is always made with fresh cows’
milk, which it modifies with scientific exactness to
individual digestive powers.
Benger’s Food is highly nutritious, and supplies abun-
dantly the food elements needed for rebuilding and restoring
the bodily functions. It differs from all others in giving the
digestive organs partial rest and tranquillity , a most potent
factor in winning back vigorous health.
*
Food
6**
for Infants, Invalids and the Aged
is sold in Tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers— Benger’s Food, Ltd., Manchester, England.
The Proprietors of Benerer’s Food issue a
Booklet containing much valuable information
on the feeding of Invalids and the Aged, and
the rearing of Infants. A copy will be sent
post free on application.


Good
coHTctff'i”* outlets.
IIP 1
COUGH
v^v.>!.x.y!Ry^'X-X-m
Cougtis.Colds
CROUP.
WHOOPING COUGH.
hoarseness.
bronchitis
SORE THROAT.
INFLUENZA
ANO OTHCO AfflCTlONS or tM
THROAT and LUNGS.
Prevents
Sore
JThroat
MAN NEWS
"MEXICAN” Riding Boot
Is patented under No. 4322, because it
has the new two-fold strapped tops,
which can buckle and fit closely around
any instep. Made of light, tho’ strong
Wallaby Skin— cut on riding pattern,
with S.S. Soles and low Heels. All sizes.
Mail to Desk " 5.8.” State size.
Pike Brpthers
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
Monarch
A ROYAL
I SMOKE
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
j
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under, the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Direct ors— • J ames Milne, Esq., Chairman ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.,
uiRLCTOKs Ryan, Esq.
A. C. Luja, q > Gbneral Manager _ M . G. HAYMEN.
wifi'ATl OFFICE •• •• •• •• ••• •• BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
iotinn through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
fte’'World, 'thisßankoffersThe fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business. I
ĵ
j
‘SWAN’
LAST-DROP'
INK BOTTLE
For Self-filling and
Steel Pens.
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Specially intended for self-
filling pens, but just as useful
for general purposes. The
bottle is so designed that, no
matter how little ink is left,
the pen can take it up.
Dries Black for Ever.
Retail Price
filled with
Swan Ink,
2/- per bottle.
Swan fioz. Ink.
1/8 per bottle.
.am n
MANUFACTTTRED BY MABIE, TODD & CO., LONDON.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
bg
SWAH'Ii
In the Esteem of Overseas Motorists
the 20/60-h.p. six-cylinder Sunbeam holds a
very high place. Recognised as a superb pro-
duction of British engineering, it has proved
itself a car of outstanding value by its con-
sistently high performance and economical
running costs. .
The 20/60-h.p. and the 14/40-h.p. models incorporate
the most advanced chassis design, including the four-
wheel braking system. Its coachwork provides luxurious
comfort. Its durability is that of supreme quality.
— L THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
Export Dept.: 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
Cable Address: “ Sunbeamoco, London.” ng an
Authorised Dealers: —
WILLIAMS BROS., 255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
“CAPITAL
High-speed Twist Drills
A. drill with a branded name such as
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” and “CAPITAL” has
a high reputation to maintain.
In service on all classes of work these drills
give undisputed satisfaction.
“Capital” Drills are supplied under contract
to Government and Railway Departments.
A trial order makes a regular user.
State working conditions, speed and feed
and material drilled.
MAR
capital
ĵ
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
svmVT'Y 379-381 Kent Street
UFTROIIRNF 342-348 Swanston Street
' Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE /..V John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte [street
HOBAKT r,E .:: &*• s.~e«
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
“Flicker”: “Norbell’s” “Goitre Cottage
(Sydney) (B. 10/7/’24) has a competitor m
an Adelaide suburb —a neat little residence
yclept “St. Vitus.”
Free passes for life have been conferred
upon nine of the new Labor Ministers m V ic.
The other three (Prendergast, Lemmon ana
Jones) have had them for 11 years.
“J.W.”: For a piquantly-named firm I
nominate Bearup and Churcher, engagement-
ring specialists, of Launceston (las.), tso
fake about the names either —their dads had
the business before them.
“Machete”: Queerly-named houses (B.
10/7/’24) ? In the ’Loo, within a hundred
yards of William-street, stands a narrow
horsefaced dwelling-place of bilious complex-
ion. Two-foot letters on a side-wall pro-
claim it “The Cottage of Content.”
Sydney’s first City Coroner, J. W. Bewm>
couldn’t make both ends meet on lus oihcia
screw. To augment his slender pay ot ill
per annum he gave lessons in water-colors
and crayons—ss. per lesson; entrance, -Os.
“N.B. —The evening academy for drawing
continued as usual.”
“Nicanor”: Not generally known that an
Australian knight, Thomas Mitchell, was
the inventor of the ship’s propeller, lie got
the idea from watching the flight ot tne
boomerang, and the first article lie turned
out was practically a replica of the Bmglii
weapon. The Pioneers’ Club, Sydney, has
the earliest models, which it naturally values
highly.
“The Deacon”: The death of Mother Mary
Agnes Paasch. in the Ursuline Convent at
Armidale (N.S.W.), calls to mind the exodus
of German nuns from their homeland at the
time of the Kulturkampf 42 years ago. Twelve
were brought to Armidale by the late Bishop
Torregiani, the youngest of them being the
lady who has just gone over the lull at the
allotted age.
Bobby Burns’s nephew, the Rev. Thomas
Burns, D.D., was pastor to the emigrants
despatched by the N.Z. Co. to found the
settlement at Otago. Two shiploads left
the Thames on November 27, 1847. Through
the ensuing seven years Mr. Burns played
a lone hand in ministration over a wide
sweep of country, and Dunedin now has
monuments to both uncle and nephew.
“Mells”: Re names, cryptic, grotesque and
otherwise, on suburban villas (L. IU/b/-4).
The most puzzzling I ever met was “Nort
Happens.” It looked for all the world like
the anguished cry of some illiterate Cockney
over the awful tedium ,of existence m this
particular suburb. But a philologist to whom
I subsequently submitted the words was ot
opinion that they were either Gaelic or
Welsh. Will somebody furnish a transla-
tion? <
“ Jerphlin” : A station cook who has been
making “brownie” and “stoo” in the w arren
district for many a year, recently caught the
rattler for Sydney, with the winning ticket m
a £5OOO sweep in his pocket. The artist was
barracked into taking his first ticket in latt. s
one day after a very narrow escape from a
violent end. He "was crossing the
line at Trangie when he tripped and fell, but
a passing train only got his fingers His
sweep luck was a long time coming, but it
arrived in the end.
“Zanthus”: Which cemetery in Sydney
holds the grave of William Davenport, one
of the pioneers of modern spiritualism.'
Conan Doyle says in his “American Adven-
ture” that William is buried m Sydney,
meaning, presumably, Sydney, Australia.
William and his brother Ira were natives ot
Buffalo, N.Y., and their strong suit was
levitation. Floating around in the air
seems to have been one of their favorite
indoor sports; it is on record that Ira was
once raised with such force that his head
brought down the plaster from the ceiling.
“Kowsara”: What’s wrong with this for a
bout with death? After waiting for one tram
to go bv, Roy Johnston, a Brisbane motorist,
in negotiating a crossing was struck by a
train coming from the opposite direction.
Dragged several yards over cattle-grids, the
motor-car was smashed before being nuiig
aside. When all the fuss was over, John-
ston, with a slight cut on the forehead .and
a bruised ankle, disentangled himself from
the wreckage of the car and complacently
surveyed the disabled railway engine, the
connecting rod of which was broken.
“Hamer”: Probably there is an associa-
tion with a multitude of tragedies m the
old second-hand shops and the little old
grocery store at the corner ot Castlcreagli
and Bathurst streets, Sydney, which are 1 dis-
appearing in the march of civic progress; but
the association with the murderer Butler is
definite. Twenty-eight years ago he bought
provisions for his prospecting trip with Lee
Weller, whom he murdered at Glenbrook, at
the corner grocery: some weeks afterwards
he sold the belongings of his victim in the
neighboring second-hand shops. The identi-
fication of Lee Weller’s possessions and ot
Butler as the man who sold them helped
greatly to fasten the rope about his neck.
“P M.” • Now that we’ve got the oil about
V.C. statistics (B. 3/7/’24), I would like to
know how many bars to the Meritorious Ser-
vice Medal have been awarded? A sergeant
in the Australian Flying Corps was awarded
the M S.M. in 1917 for rushing into the burn-
ing wreck of an aeroplane and carrying out
the pflotf who died shortly afterwards. A
month after the Armistice, the same n.c.o.
we.it in?o a hangar-tent and attempted
tinguish a fire m an aeroplane, it took him
alibis time to get out again. For this he
was awarded a bar to his M.S.M. and tne
Roval Air Force officer who put the awaid
through told us that it was the only bar on
record. Anyone know of another.
W. H. Bale, formerly of Sydney Customs,
is to have a buckshee trip to England, the
Continent and probably America with the
league of Nations party. As private sec.
successively to Tudor, Ryan and Charlton
Bale his seen nearly every part of Australia
worth seeing, at the public’s expense. With
'i capacity for keeping himself, completely
* Jfrom the welter of party politics
surrounds the Federal Labor leader,
Pa e is popular on both sides of the House,
B a it is likelv that in good time his ambi-
Son Ib W official .head of the Prime
Minister's deportment will be realised. M. L.
K„,i t he first to hold this cushy job,
Sh a P pe£w Deane, who succeeded him were
S?l. seeretaries ’to Prime Ministers before
getting the departmental job.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA-—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
■yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL, TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m. ; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursdav, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. <&c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,090
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,1.48,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. :
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New Sou til AVales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Domis Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. . . 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
Ullfllil I O Uliftr I d landj [,-jji Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS S
transacts all other usual Banking business.
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Booking Office for
JENOLAN CAVES.
RAIL AND MOTOR TOURS:
3 days £4/77-
Extra days. .18/- per day
MOTOR ALL THE WAY:—
3 days £5/12/-
An ideal holiday
at minimum cost.
Full information at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping.
• fte.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.).» Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSION TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS
(13,000 tons disp.) JULY 31
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) AUG. 28
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe,
the Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America: also
tne Urand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
uW w. t v,.; ‘ ' • ( 13 ’ 000 tons disp.) AUG. 14
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) SEPT. 11
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET
, , MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
I S LAN D TOU RS
j
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of ii to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book vour Passage Overseas under Our Auspices
nf Ur n T °Fu IST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
or the following routes to England-
Via SUEZ CANAL.
» AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES)
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN)
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to —•
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE
magnificent steamers “MARELUA” or “MONTORO.’”
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return,
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O.
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
by the
Sailing
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
m
yltlMiSr
*
m~£
m
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500 I ANCHISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES .. 14,500 ASCANIUS .. 10,000
/ENEAS .. 10,000 I
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P.&O. via THE GAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
T,ons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOR DA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Pares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY. .j
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
18,500 tons
12,500 tons
'*EDIC 12,000 tons
. , PK J? SIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Ilighest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EUKIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
"SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
"DIOGENES 12,500 tons
"New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Fuli Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
, , etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817,
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Heserve Liability
j
ĵ
- £6,000,000
- 4,050,000
- 6,000,000
£16,050,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President. |
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, Mh C
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Lnidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. ui
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. PanirT
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. n '
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreio-n
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
T , „„ Man ager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office—2o threadneedle Street, E.C.
Bills
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailing's.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —-Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every fortnight. Between Melbourne
amt Jjuunceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
theTn.y.k. line
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars applv.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Fi'tirdy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. &O.S. N Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. 'Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 ' £2.103 220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds £53,000 000
Annual Income £7.865.000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
the;
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks VV «ol, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
The
of various classes.
‘United’’ it* an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.


GRIP
DOUBLE
PARIS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
You’ll like these double-grip
PARIS if you’re on your feet a
lot —at work or play.
Lovers of sport and men of
action prefer them for their
double security and extreme
ease.
Whichever of the styles illus-
trated you prefer, be certain to
get the genuine PARIS. They
will hold your hose put, set your
mind at rest and give your legs
real evidence of ease efficiency.
" 3,000 Hours of Solid Comfort”
Obtainable Men's Stores Everywhere
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
MAKERS
50 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
126 FUNDERS LANE. MELBOURNE
GRIP
SINGLE
GHT
HOLEPROOF
SILK SOCKS
Sold by Leading Mercers Everywhere.
TENNIS
EVERYTHING FOR THE GAME.
m
/
k
We carry a large and comprehensive range of all Sports
Requisites and can equip you for any indoor or outdoor Sport.
TENNIS RACKETS.
j
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon
AYRES’.
Sundown
Handicap
A 1
Champion
Matador
Central Strung
S.N.D. Model A
S.N.D. Model li.
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon ...
90/-
28/«
36/-
38/-
47/6
52/6
57/-
82/6
85/-
90/-
BANCROFT’S.
Tlie Winner 85/-
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke 85/-
SLAZENGER’S.
La Belle
Player
Kenshaw
Demon
Whitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Rambert Chambers
Patterson
,J. O. Anderson
H. C. LEE’S.
25/-
27/6
45/-
50/-
58/6
67/6
75/-
68/-
79/6
79/6
87/6
90/-
92/6
95/-
Spartan
'O/.
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD’S BEST. Price 85/- each.
WE SPECIALISE IN RACKET REPAIRS.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each.
Barnet Glass Hard Court 2/4
Barnet Glass Flite. the new
seamless ball, equal to
any imported 2/5
Ayres’ Court 1/10
Ayres’ Champion 2/5
Doz.
27/-
28/0
21/-
28/0
Eacli. Doz.
Slazensger’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin) 28/G
Dunlop's Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 15/*
Dnnlojp’s Champion 2/5 28/0
I)unloq>’s Play Ball 1/- 10/*
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
GOLF
CLUBS
BY WORLD’S LEADING MAKERS.
GOLF CLUB REPAIR WORIC A SPECIALTY.
When sending Articles for Repair, kindly
attach your name and address to same.
Mick SitmimnsT-S
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Branches; Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 1 Idward St., BRISBANE.


i
Rexona
Soap
for Health
and
Beauty.
“Exquisite i s
the most fitting
expression I can
apply to your
Kexona Soap.
“While filming
my last picture,
‘Should a Doctor
Tell?’ I found it
most refreshing
in the hath after
a long, hot day
on location. Everyone
should use Rexona Soap.”
Miss THELMA NEWLING,
Ramster Photo Plays, Ltd.,
158 King Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Have You a Good Complexion?
Rexona Soap makes you proud of
.vour complexion. There can be no
luxury to a woman equal to the con-
sciousness ; that her complexion is
clear, fresh and delicately radiant.
To keep it so no amount of cos-
metics can equal the regular use of
such a soap as Rexona Soap, which
thoroughly cleanses and at the same
time has just the right, soothing,
healing action to maintain the natural
health and beauty of the skin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the pores, re-
moves excess oils and cools and clari-
fies an angry skin.
Rexona Soap
m
11
* t:
f/tniTt
%
1/-
m
\i
- SB
J
Smoke the hest
and be satisfied. Prince Charming Cigarettes
are made from 16 growths of the finest Virginia leaf.
10fcr9 d 20 Sri'S
also in 50 *in vacuum tins ancL
tuloo*in boxes. On sale everywhere
CIGARETTES
c %Cahufactured by Ltd., 165 ‘Piccadilly, W.!. London, England.
Sea Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Li KK a blanched month against the swift
sea's surging
The low beach haunts the air with
endless crying,
ere the green deeps are striding in and
merging
Into white torment round a grim land
dying.
The billow's tumult melting and re-shaping,
The chanting winds o’erleap the silence,
bringing
To those wan lips beside the tideway gaping
A grace of mystic words and sonorous
singing.
Here, on the verge of all things ever chang-
ing,
The sea’s pale lingers at the racked land
wrenching,
Spent wave and echoing winds far outward
ranging,
h rom the torn dmies and from the salt
spray’s drenching
\v ake the broad phrase, the word, the stal-
T wart teaching:
No thing shall weary or find peace or rest-
ing ;
The outer seas are ever landward reaching,
1 he voyaging headland ever seaward quest-
ing.
Dearest, the richest love of your bestowing—
louch of your hand, cool fingers interlac-
ing,
All our known joys—may never more find
knowing
And the lost kiss shall never know replac-
ing.
There is no death to find but in the living;
J ne fairest promise fades in the unfolding;
there is no loss but in the greatest giving,
Since nothing bides for us and our fast
holding.
The new-made effort marks the task’s com-
pleting ;
Seed-burst and springing hail the gnarled
roots ageing;
The trivial minute speeds the years far fleet-
ing;
Travail of living finds the pain’s assuag-
ing ;
The bitter fruit but seals the mouth of
yearning;
Our voice is but a tone from silence call-
ing ;
While myriad days from dawn to star-gleam
burning
Glow like a dust of gold through darkness
falling.
So does our life walk laggard of our think-
ing,
Shunning with timid heart the soul’s in-
creasing,
In the dim maze of hours forever shrinking.
Till in the name of death we find death's
ceasing—
Hefusing shape, time, breath—the mind’s
decaying
Out-leaping thought, to find the quiet
blending
W ith the wide present, past all dire dismay-
ing,
’W here no beginning shows or frighted end-
ing.
To be not. named —unseen and all unseeing—
A passing, a receding, an. outflowing
Over the grey earth drenched.’ with endless
Being!
On Life a wave of added life bestowing,
As a hushed wave beside the grim land dying
I urns to the deeps again with mystic
wreathing.
bile from the blanched mouth in the dark-
ness crying
The tides draw out or in, like a great
breathing!
N.S.W”.
BOYCK BOWDEN.
Twin-bed Dialogues.
BABETTE WAKES UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
trouble about wives is that they
are apt to wake up.
You may marry the most innocuous,
the tamest and most domesticated of wives.
I did. She may adore yon and regard you
as the fount of all wisdom and authority,
except, of course, on the subject of the need
and the cost of dress. Babette did. You may
furnish her with two babies to keep her
quiet. I did. You may be a devoted
husband —a double-bed husband. I w T as.
She may learn not to talk at breakfast;
she may never forget to kiss you on your re-
turn from office; she may even contemplate
you in your pyjamas and not think you
funny. She may smile mechanically at the
right spot in the joke you have brought
home from the club; she may audibly won-
der why you still find her attractive after all
these years of marriage; she may have settled
down into the belief that you are a woman’s
whole existence. Babette, the incomparable
Babette, acquired all these desirable and
necessary wifely qualities, with a few others
not necessary to include in the specifications •
and yet, like many another devoted wife.
Babette woke up. ’
The honeymoon kept her busy, of course.
L>abette became, indeed, a confirmed honev-
rnooner. lor the first year ,of our married
life she was tremendously popular with all
her unmarried girl-friends. She had so
much to tell them, though shn did not teU
them all. It may have been a coincidence
but an epidemic of engagemen ts and quick
marriages broke out among her personalgikb
friends, and within twelve iitionths they
were all married. I feel somewhat dif-
fident m referring to the V-
agreeqbleness that occurred between Babette
and her newly-married friends). AILI need sov
on this delicate topic is that these new matrons
accused Babette of gross em»o'm,a+a ? s
.Mights of marriage” were riSf 1 fe
pictures that Babette had 'drnwn° nfti th
Babette let her girl-friend. ”£ wn §L Si
she knew : everybody couldn’t marry a James
Then came Babcttekins, and ?
after, Penelope. They ke^L^J^
several years. It is true that the nurse
accused ray wife of flirting with the doctor
halt an hour after the baby was born, but
Babette always puts that down to the chloro-
lorm.
During those years Babette remained hap-
pily and comfortably asleep. I could not
drag her to the pictures, because baby might
wake up while she was out. And anew
dress for Babettekins was more important
lor her mother than anew hat for herself.
Yet there were signs of the marriage-
patient regaining consciousness. It was
true that, like other husbands, I did not pay
any attention to them. All the time that
the two children were growing out of the
baby stage, her personality, drowned beneath
honeymoons—-for we had several —marriage,
and motherhood, was creeping back to nor-
mal. Men, rude men, looked at her as she
passed down the street, and Babette knew
it, and, I suspect, actually liked it.
She lost her taste for bezique and double-
dummy bridge, and went to sleep playing-
chess. Those nice cosy evenings at home
seemed to make her restless. Darning my
socks and replacing buttons on my trousers
seemed to lose their pristine charm. , ,
A significant and ominous sign was her
lack of married modesty. Once, by mistake—
she did not hear my knock on the bedroom
door—l found her changing her dress ; and
instead of betraying symptoms of shame she
invited me to admire the hang of certain gar-
ments. I coldly admitted that, though
there wasn’t much of them to hang, what
there was hung all right. That seemed her
only anxiety, and she welcomed my unex-
pected entrance as an expert on under-attire*
It was only when I kissed her that she woke
to the enormity of her shamelessness, though
I fancy it was I, and not her sense of
decorum, that awoke her furious blush.
That, unfortunately, was only the begin-
ning. Babette never minded me. She
seemed to take a mere husband as a matter
of course, when I found her in her armor, like
a slim, boyish knight of the olden time. For
the information of husbands, and others, I
may mention that this costume is the founda-
tion of her dress: there is only her outer
covering to slip on, and she is completely
dressed. Hor corselet is her corset, a stiff
armor of stays, sheathing her body almost to
her knees, but allowing her to breathe above
it. Where much of Babette goes to in the
tightening process I do not pretend to know.
It is true that she is quite unprotected about
the knees: the only armor she wears on her
legs are fittings designed to keep her stock-
ings up. A modest woman like Babette
takes every precaution against her stockings
coming down.
And once I happened to find her in the
bath. I maintain _ that even a wife should
show some confusion, though of course I
would not expect her to blush all over, when
her husband unwittingly finds her in the
bath behind the shower curtain. My startled
glimpse shocked me. Not, I may mention,
because Babette is unbeautiful in her bath-
ing-suit of pinky skin and a smile, which in
summer is all she wears when in the bath;
but because the brief vision of Babette in her
bath is too disturbing for even a ten-year-
married man. But when she met my unwar-
rantable intrusion with a gurgle of delight
and made no effort to shield herself from my
gaze, I felt that the end had come. Babette
had waked up.
Of course I did not give her a second look:
but I had the uneasy feeling that Babette
would have liked me to have a second look.
One night Babette remarked that we. had
not been to a dance since the first year of
our marriage. I pointed out to her that
since then jazzing had come in, and that avc
had not acquired that art.
“But I’ll teach you,” she murmured. As
the era of twin-beds had not then arrived,
it was not necessary to do more than mur-
mur. She murmured at the back of mv
head.
“You don't know anything about the new
dances,” I reminded her. turning o\?er.
Babette laughed. “That time you were
away in the country for a week t met an
old friend —no, you don’t know him; he used
to kiss me long before you dawned upon my
horizon. And he took me to two dances in
that week. No; I didn’t tell you. You
were so worried over office troubles that I
wouldn’t have dreamed of hurting you, dar-
ling. But, really, it is quite easy. You
just let the man grab you tight, and you soon
pick up the stops. Come on. I’ll show von
now!”"
"Babette!” I indignantly cried, “it’s the
middle of the night, and quite time all good
couples were in bed; and I insist on your
going straight to sleep, and, what is more
important, letting me go to sleep.”
Babette slipped out of bed, switched the
light on. and asked me to watch her. I
could not help watching her. She showed
me the steps—and much besides. - It cer-
tainly did look easy.
“Now. silly!” she said, and pulled the
clothes off me. “Try it with me!”
After that half-hour of jazzing I under-
stood its fascination. Most of the fascina-
tion lay in Babette. When I protested
against her costume she pointed out that it
really covered more square inches of her —
though none of Babette’s inches could rightly
be called square—than a modern jazz dress.
I protested that there was nothing solid that
I could hold on to, but by getting a good cinch
of her waist I managed to keep in touch with
her. “The tighter the better,” my instruc-
tress insisted. I followed instructions.
“There!” she said. “Isn’t it delightful?
Though jazzing with a husband is like carry-
ing coals to Newcastle. My partners used
to tell me that they Avere always making new
discoveries about the figure in a fox-trot; but
your exploring days are done, old dear!”
We went to sleep at last in a correct one-
step attitude.
Curiously, the next day Babette received an
invitation to join a jazzing party. I was
naturally nervous about my ability to learn
the new dances; but Babette’s night-dress
course of tuition materially helped.
“Anyhow,” I said, as we started off for the
ball, “you’ll be able to help me through.”
Babette laughed. “What? Dance with a
husband in a public hall? My dear, the thing
isn’t done. Why, dancing with a husband
is as tame as dancing with another girl.
There’s something almost indecent, isn’t
there, in two Avell-married people dancing
together? It’s so unnecessary. It would
(Continued on next page.)


For that
SKIN DISEASE
You Need a REAL
SKIN MEDICINE
ON’T disregard the earliest
LJ signs of skin trouble -un-
pleasant irritation or itching,
or any little rough patch or
tiny sore ! Fiery eczema, blood-
poison and even flesh-eating ulcers,
may be the eventual result of neglect
or wrong treatment.
Anoint any troublesome place at
once with Zam-Buk. This rich herbal
balm is so refined that it soaks into
the tiny pores (or breathing holes) of
the skin and thus attacks and defeats
disease at its very roots.
Daily dressings of Zam - Buk will
purify and heal the whole tissue, draw
out all poisonous and offensive matter
and grow new healthy skin.
The regular use of Zam-Buk and
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is the surest
way to eradicate skin trouble, both in
children and adults. Try this combined
treatment to-day. Don’t experiment
with worthless dressings.
r amßuk
&
SD
Wa
V
BE SURE THAT YOU
GET ZAM-BUK!
No ointment containing rancid
fats and cheap drugs can possibly
do the same good as Zam-Buk,
which is a super-balm containing
extracts of exceptionable curative
power.
Thousands of cases of Eczema,
Itch, Ringworm, Ulcers, Absces-
ses, Boils, Bad Legs, Poisoned
Wounds, Piles, Scalp Disease,
etc., have been successfully
treated by Zam-Buk, whilst its
swift antiseptic healing of Cuts,
Burns & Scalds averts Festering
and Blood Poison.
Zam-Buk is obtainable of chemists
and stores everywhere or direct from
C. E. Fulford (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney.
1/6 and 3/6 per box.
SUCCESSFUL FOR A GENERATION.
Wonderful
»
111
■III
till
•l*
Of all Chemists and Stores—ll 6 and 31 - per box.
be no more thrilling than breakfasting to-
At the dance I found that Babette was
right. I certainly got some thrills, and I
felt sure that Babette Avas not missing one
of hers.
As Ave entered the hall my Avife remarked,
“Let’s enjoy ourselves! You can flirt as
much as you like, and so will I. And when
Ave go home we’ll each tell the other all about
it!”
She Avas claimed by a huge, hefty male
brute before I could reply; and when she and
her partner, closely entangled, drifted past
where I was standing, she did not even look
my Avay. But as I had just found a partner
Avho might have been a younger edition of
Babette, I did not mind so much.
Conscientiously I did my best to flirt Avith
all my partners. It seemed the right
thing to do ; but after one sweet and innocent
young thing had remarked, “But you’re an
old married man!” I restrained my efforts.
To flirt Avith any of the new crop of girls
seemed insipid after Babette. She helped
so.
As in a dream of delight she floated past
in the arms of several successive hefty male
he-men, rapt in the delight of the dance,
oblivious to all mundane things like husbands,
I confess I was miserably jealous. To see
my wife —the accent is upon the “my”—so
absorbed in her partner; to watch her gay,
excited, attentive face uplifted to his; to see
the intimate murmur upon her lips; to im-
agine the coo of delight with which she re-
ceived his no-doubt shocking confidences; to
see her not as a woman but as a half of one
moving patch of ecstasy, linked by invisible
bonds like twin sun to its twin; to know
that amid that great throng those tAvo AA’ere
as if isolated in distant space—to see all that
and to imagine an immense lot more, caused
me to wonder whether Babette could ever be
mine, solely mine, again.
And when it was all over, and we were
safely in the dear old double-bed, I asked
Babette, merely to break the long, jealous
silence I had maintained all the Avay home,
how she had enjoyed herself, her answer was
a convulsive hug and a moan that had tears
in it.
I was feeling too jealous of her gay time to
console her. I left her Avith her sorrows.
“You seemed to be having a lovely time
Avith that large-chested flapper with the thick
ankles,” she murmured with a sob. “I
don’t knoAV Avliat you Avere saying to her,
but she certainly seemed to like it. The
way she looked up into your face was scan-
dalous. Anyone Avould think that she
thought you the only man in the world.
Silly face, she had; hadn’t she? And, really,
nice people don’t clutch their partners the
Avay she did you. A married man, too!”
I Avas staggered. I did remember that
flapper, for her grip Avas one that I hadn’t
learnt; but what I said to her or she said
to me, if Ave had said anything at all, I
had no recollection.
I knew it Avould be useless trying to con-
vince Babette that I was not flirting with
that thick-ankled flapper. Babette was in
no mood to be convinced. But I keenly re-
membered my grievance.
“Well, you managed all right,” I said
angrily.
Babette started. “Me!” she exclaimed.
“I had a rotten time all through. I was
bored to tears. Never danced with such un-
responsive men in my life. Oh, they could
jazz all right; but I hadn’t the least interest
in one of them.”
“But the way you looked up at them, and
the things you must have said to them, and
the things that any man would have said to
you when you looked at him with those ador-
ing eyes! Everybody could see how much
they adored you, and how much you loved
being adored.”
Babette tried to get in her indignant pro-
test, but I Avould not let her.
“It was outrageous the way you flirted with
your partners,” I said. “The Avay you
played up to them, the gaiety of you, the
intimate confidences you exchanged with all
of them in turn! I never thought my wife”
—I stressed the Avords “my Avife” —“could
behave so outrageously in a ballroom!”
“Listen,” said Babette with a desperate
restraint. “You thought I was flirting, did
you? I thought I Avas flirting, too. But it
Avas no use. Do you know Avhat my part-
ners were talking about?”
“It looked exactly like what the strong,
silent hero of the films mutters to the movie
vamp, my dear!” I indignantly replied.
“Every one of those partners of mine knew
me when I was the sweet little innocent
thing that you married. They were all much
married. Every single one of them had been
dragged to the jazz-hall by their wives. They
Avould have been much happier playing bridge
with a men’s four, or playing billiards. Let
me see,” she went bitterly on. “The first
partner was painfully married. Such a
change from when I first knew him! The
times we used to have together! He was a
terrible flirt. Of course I didn’t let him kiss
me in those days, but he did. The dances
we sat out together—on his knees! And
when I told him that I could never, never
marry him—l used to tell him that every
time he kissed me —he used to get so despond-
ent that I had to hug him just to bring that
pathetic, brave smile back to his handsome
face!”
“That chap with the walrus moustache!” I
remarked.
“He never wore one in the days when
I knew him so well,” said Babette.
“Well, when I recalled those dear old times,
he glanced anxiously at his Avife —she used
to be such a slim girl!—and started talking
about his children. Had three or five, I
forget how many. Told me all their ages,
too, and started telling me all the quaint, old-
fashioned things they said. And then he
wanted to know how many I had had. Most
indelicate. I thought. Here was I in his
arms ready to flirt all I knew; and the poor
man never thought of starting. He never
guessed that a married woman knows how to
flirt a thousand times better than Avlien she
was just a girl. Talking children when
the jazz band is melting you all to a shivery
jelly, and the music is trickling up and down
your spine! It’s the limit!
“There Avere tAvo others who specialised on
progeny. If I’d met another father of a
family I’d have screamed with rage. But
the next was nearly as bad. Ilis idea of a
jazz-conversation was to praise his Avife. He
told me seven times what a wonderful woman
she was, and such an economic housekeeper.
Practically cost him nothing for dresses—she
was so clever at making her own frocks. I hey
looked it.
“The next wasn’t quite so tamed. I had
hopes of him. But he knew you. That
spoiled it all. He was quite willing to sit
out with me. There was a dark passage off
the stairs, and two chairs. When I sug-
gested that that was one chair too many, the
idea penetrated his mind, but nothing came
of it. I could see he was tempted; but just
at the moment when I was gazing up into
his face—you know that look, old dear, don t
you? I do it rather well, don’t you
think? And then you spoiled it all.”
“Me?” I cried. “I wasn’t there at all,
Babette!”
“Yes, you were. My partner suddenly
thought of you. He told me how much he
admired and respected you. He said what
an ideal husband you were! In fact, we
were known as an ideal couple. Of course,
I know you’re a dear, except when you get
jealous over nothing. Though, of course, I
wouldn’t like it if you didn’t. But there
we were, all alone in the darkness —he had
turned off the light because I told him it hurt
my eyes—and he was beginning to pat my
hand when he introduced you. Scared, I sup-
pose. I could have cried. He told me how
lucky I was to have such a nice husband as
you. There could be no greater insult to a
woman, could there? No wife ever considers
herself lucky in getting a nice husband. She
always thinks privately of the sort of man
she might have picked up if she had looked
around a little longer, instead of rushing the
first presentable male thing that told her he
wanted her. I do admire you, old dear, but
I don’t prefer to do it when I’m sitting out
with a nice man.
“But the last was the limit,” Babette
sighed. “He looked quite exciting, too.
There was a gleam in his eyes that thrilled
me. He jazzed divinely. And he seemed to
like my figure. He sampled a lot of it in
that one-step. I put on that dreamy expres-
sion that may lead to anything. _ We drifted
round in silence; we were alone in the world.
I happily wondered what he would say when
we both woke up. Something low and thril-
ling.
“His words just reached my ear. He was
asking me whether we grew tomatoes. He
was a gardening fiend, doped with cauli-
flowers and cucumbers. He told me in that
intense, thrilling voice of his of the successes
he had had with French beans, and he en-
thusiastically described the ingredients of the
artificial fertiliser he used with such suc-
cess on his potatoes. The only part of it
he left out was the smell. The dreadful man,
talking of parsnips when he had me at his
mercy!
“It’s no use,” sighed Babette. “That’s why
I asked you to dance the last waltz with
me.”
“I wondered why,” I mused.
“The whole night wasted!” grieved
Babette.
“Not all,” I reminded her.
JAMES JAMES.
The Impenitent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP the hill to Calvary
The road was dusty wdiite;
And he who made the cross for me
Had made it fair and light
Of white wood and bright wood
That grew by haunted streams.
Where love would sit a year and brood
Of sad, sweet dreams.
Upon the hill of Calvary
The soldiers’ helmets shone;
And there was laughter there for me
When all the tears were gone;
For I loved best the soldier’s jest
That none but I could know—
They laughed in an old tone of the west
I learned long ago.
But it grew dark on Calvary—
Dark with a great pain—
And all the air it seemed to me
Was one red stain.
As it would hide the Crucified,
There fell the dreadful night
Of a world that on a sudden died
For lack of clean light.
And high, high on Calvary
I of the left hand
Looked afar from my cross to see
God’s dim land ;
And I heard the cry of the souls that die
Of holy mirth unshriven,
That none of love may crucify,
For all the nails driven.
Then in the lull of Calvary
A voice like sheen of ice
Said, “Brother, thou shalt be with me
This day in Paradise.”
But I turned my head from the strange
thing said;
For my heart would not go
Bv any path of the dreaming dead
Through the red gate of woe.
And suddenly on Calvary
Was winnowing of wings;
And one was left alone of three
To his imaginings.
But the red shroud of the death-cloud
Was broken by the sun;
And the voices of the world were loud
About the lonely one.
Upon the hill of Calvary
The soldiers’ helmets shone;
And there was glory there for me
With two souls gone.
The sky’s grace was on my face,
Who panged, of all bereft;
The earth’s pity stayed a space
With him that God had left.
Alone, alone on Calvary
I hung impenitent;
The nails of shame biting me,
My heart in strange content.
There, crucified, I laughed and died;
And men might call me thief,
For I had stolen a fool’s pride
Out of the hood of grief!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Yi
■
V
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHQUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S.
n ;
\ypjr
Stco
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchan
120 Johnston Street, FitZroy, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages,
Keep hopping and hoping if you
to succeed— — .think of
is
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Persona! Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
6 hearhj-
rcc jroiti ills—
s *WMMM ~ ,\' A "lit A
.
WM
mm
m
m
m
YfA
m
I|M^
mm.
m
to
wiS
mm
(7*
Worth a Guinea a Box
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed -
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
ĵ
These series of
Pensneither scratch
nor spurt
| They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
Soft lead pencil.
Works i Birmingham, England)
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
j
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables:
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
We Specialise in the Design and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
■■
?*
* „^-v
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
under guaranteed efficiencies for
W aterworKs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
AGENTS.
BRISBANE: ADELAIDE:
Engineering Supply Co. Newton, McLaren Ltd.
of Aust. Ltd.
PERTH:
rown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Australia House, Strand, London.


I
I
&
7
hr
1
st
as-' "»•)
'a
/ 4T-
\ V
YESTERDAY
In *5l, when Hargraves discovered gold, Australia attracted
to its shores hardy adventurers and stalwart men from all
parts of the old world. Many, disappointed in their quest
for gold, turned to the soil, and these farmers laid the
foundation of the fortunes which their sons and sons' sons
are to-day enjoying.
Lean, sinewy, drought-proof bullocks, harnessed with yoke
and rein, tugged with crude hand-made ploughs through
the virgin soil —the ploughmen following wearily in their
wake. Day in, day out, year by year, this monotonous toil
sent men to the comforts of the homestead too tired
physically to trouble about further exercise, too exhausted
mentally to read or even to seek amelioration of the hard-
ness of their lot.
Gradually the conditions relaxed to some extent by the
introduction of improved mechanical devices on the farm
—the horse-drawn plough taking the place of cumbersome
oxen. But
TODAY
with the advent of the CASE Tractor, a radical change
has come over the scene, and farming operations no longer
spell laborious monotony.
The plough-horse is a fast diminishing quantity, and it is
realised on every hand that better results, bigger crops,
and larger profits can be secured with far less labour by
substituting the CASE Tractor for horse-team work. By
means of this power tractor one man can do the work of
many, and a much larger area can be placed under cul-
tivation—often double as much —in the same time that
the horse-team occupies. Simplicity itself to operate, and
low in up-keep charges, the CASE never tires of its task,
but will work at any hour of the day or night, in extreme
cold or tropical heat, and on any condition of land, with
the highest degree of efficiency.
Kerosene Farm & General Purpose Tractor
CMSE SERVICE,
Case Service is a tremendous advantage to
owners. Spare parts are always available at
all branches, and, being interchangeable, can be
put together on the farm with ease.
Write for Catalogue,
\ — v £
n~n
\X
X '
x!
\
3> J
(l
X:
y
afflg
»u
u,
wr
f h 1 1/
« • df l ';! .
Sole Australian Agents;
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
Branches :
QUEENSLAND : Bowen Street (off Ann St.), BRISBANE.
Box 1036, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 7591.
NEW SOUTH WALES : 114 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Box 2664, G.P.0., Phoae, M 3764.
VICTORIA: Corner King & Flinders Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 2049, G.P.O. Phone, Cent. 2124.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street', ADELAIDE?
also Graves Street, KADINA.
Box 674, G.P.O.
, -n-'
Sole Agents in West Australia: WESTRALIAN FARMERS LTD., 569 Wellington Street, PERTH.
Head Office: Richards Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Phone, Cent.
