

vm
W:8
'S'Miiv!'
:'nV''.ry
V» jvi'4;V
VuCi
&&V<
.
<s§sa
■
mn
¥h'l
W
A'n,
m
-
S&
■V
s&s
*
:>- '
Vi
■Hi
5«I
Sfefi
7^
Mi
Y
■*=>
i4
ill
w
in#.
/
wli
m
%
4]
r 6{j, N Oi
uSCf^li
B&a&sSsies;
7
>J
M
1
%
11!
<=.
o
L<ea^m^a^iasa
Slip
llllll
$55
T\v.4:
fill
WRi
K.B. and T.B.
Lager. Light Ale.
Halve
the 19th
Hole.
K.B. LAGER and T.B. LIGHT ALB
are obtainable wherever
the game is played.
Brewed and Bottled by
Tooth & Co. Ltd.
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
K.B. Lager
Is a “true-to-type” lager, light in
character, of delightful flavor and
wonderfully refreshing. The ideal
beverage for the man who makes
a point of always “Keeping Fit.”
T.B. Light Ale
Brewed from the choicest malt and
hops, finest cane sugar and crystal
pure water, it is a 4 ‘real food-
beverage.” Make it your choice for
lunch or dinner and between times.
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2303.
Thursday, April 3, 1924.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for our Library Catalogue
lists on all subjects, which will n*
nvSnrK? 5 ee 1,1 be
D1MO J3Fr B00 F AKCADB, LTD,
428 George Street, Sydney. ’
7
and Fi «est of all
Cottin-Desgouttes, ’ ’
THE 20/40-H.P. 6-CYLINDER
i? • . (23.9 B.A.C. Ratines
, b t .
vibrationless engine can transnmV ® „ of Fiance.” The smooth
on all four wheels, and Overhead Valves a* mdes P er hour. Brakes
Four-cylinder model being similarly equipped. dlstlnctlve features—the 15/20-H.P.
T » J Jlterature f« d Demonstration with pleasure.
Lawrence Morton (St, Co. Pty. Ltd
Sole Concessionnairms for “Cottin-Desgouttes” in AuTtwLia
8T9NFY APFivt. \i7 35 i+ Lane, Melbourne. ’ ,
Smyth ’ York Chamb ers, Market Street.
lysaght
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
wwssssss
•■tfiTUa
■ JSRKK
mSi
Satisfaction Assured.
The reliability, integrity and high tensile strength of
mangrovite leather belting
S# protecting your profits, allow of increased output.
BuiL Jot service, it will withstand the most exactinz
conditions. Try it on your main drive*
mangrovite BELTING ltd
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor, '
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY,
WFST^ A AnSTTl/u n i S A ne n r - S KK nd « C - 1 l iery Su PP lies Co-, Ltd.’
: Gibbs, Bright & Co.. Perth
: Pllili P Franlcel & Co., Ltd Brisbane
SO LTH E A rsTR A fT f" 212 Madras Street, Christchurch.
Street Adelakie T ' KaI,mna Chambers, Grenfell
VICTORIA ; W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE STANDARD
EXCELLENCE
B
BB
BRIAR
PIPES
MouthnfeS? ? Selected Briar fitted with Hardened Vulcanite
pieces cut from the sheet, and mounted with substantial
* ~ . Hall-marked Silver Bands.
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS TOBACCO STORES.
Trade inquiries invited to Box 171 G.P.O., SYDNEY.
F.
or the most effective ignition fit
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
in
your engine.
Univ ers ally a-eknowlcdgcd the finest plugs ever
made. Will greatly assist with: Easy starting-
regular firing running dead slow—great power at
high speed—no overheating.
Illustrated is the Lodge standard
metric plug, model C3, the best plug
for British and European engines
taking metric thread.
Price - - 5/- each.
Ask your dealer or stores for prices
and particulars of Lodge Plugs for
all engines.
Oarages, accessory dealers,
and stores stocking Lodge plugs
can give the best plug setvice to
the greatest number of motorists.
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.
RUGBY,
ENGLAND.
Up
J
1
s:
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
IQ'S*
ON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet'
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
The Truth About Bligh
iA '‘Red Page” writer recently undertook
the defence of Captain William Bligli, R.N.,
Governor of N. S. Wales from August 13,
1806, to January 26, 1808, when he was de-
posed by the officers of the Colonial Rum
Corps. I had supposed that such a defence
was unnecessary; but this was evidently an
optimistic assumption, for a second contri-
butor immediately spurned the defence, on
™ strength chiefly of an arraignment by
Alfred McFarland, a one-time District Court
Judge of N. S. Wales; and McFarland’s
view seems to be widely accepted. I believe
it was quite wrong.
A rigid and inflexible discipline was the
keynote of efficiency in the British Navy
in Bligh’s day. It has been maintained, in-
deed, to the present day, and the most hein-
ous crime listed in the “Articles of War”
has always been any act that could be con-
strued as mutiny, covert or overt. In esti-
mating Bligh’s attitude towards the authors
and abettors of the Mutiny of the Bounty
fve must remember, too, that he had no rea-
son to be moved to a compunctive iota of
mercy or forgiveness. The little vessel was
me only King’s ship in the waters of that
iart of the Pacific—probably the only
Jntisli ship of any kind on that vast expanse
>f ocean. Hence, when Bligh was cut adrift
m that enormous waste, he was practically
unsigned to death. But it was no unani-
llo|ls i mutiny—18 others accoinpanied him,
nd they were the most responsible members
t the ship’s company. Bligh’s list assigns
o each of his companions with him in the
lunch a ‘station,” and they included the
>ounty s master, John Fryer; tie acting-
irgeon, Thomas Ledward; the-botanist,
’avid Nelson; the gunner, William Peck-
rer; the boatswain, William Cole; the car-
enter, William Purcell; the master’s mate,
1 , ’a™ Elphinston; Thomas Hayward and
ihn Hallet, midshipmen; John Norton and
eter Lmkletter, quarter-masters; the sail-
aker, Lawrence Lebogue; John Smith and
nomas Hall, cooks; the quarter-master’s
ate George Simpson; a boy named Robert
inkier; the butcher, Robert Lamb; and the
erk, Mr. Samuel, to whom Bligh was
eatly indebted for the preservation of his
urnais and commission, with some material
ip s papers. With Fletcher Christian
tsted as master’s mate) remained three
dshipmen, Peter Haywood (Hey wood),
[ward Young and George Stewart; Charles
urchill, _ master-at-arms; John Mills
nner’s mate; James Morrison, boatswain’s
te Wjpiam Brown, “the gardener”;
seph Coleman, the armorer; Charles Nor-
n, the carpenter’s mate, and his assistant,
omas McIntosh; and 14 of the crew, who
'Ugh named, were described simply as
>le seamen”—19 King’s men against 25
tineers, thus showing the true inward-
s of the insurrection, which was not so
ch against Bligh as against leaving the
utiful isle of Tahiti, the “Isle of Love ”
the fair women with whom the Bounty’s
rmers had made tender ties, though less
kin, yet something more than kind.
ir Ihomas Staines, commandin 0- the
ate T H.M.S. Briton (which G sited I>!t-
be ' 1 ' i in \ i 8^ 4 V 111 a communication
he Bntmli AdmiraRy, after an interview
* f° hn Ad:| ms (Alexander .Smith), then
sole survivor of the mutineering crew
ed that Christian appeared to have
- the leader and sole cause of the mutiny
hat ship. Whatever the basis of the
■rel between the two, it was little
t of premeditated murder to turn Bligh
ft in an open boat, laden until the gun
1 w ? s only afoot above water, witli 18
mmons who must have been innocent
Fence all doomed to certain death bv
sure and privation, as far as the minds
le mutineers could foresee; and we can
2 Bnf Ch Rr H ) ter ° f the mutineers by that
But Bligh rose to the occasion. He
e in the Isarrative”:—
soon as I had time to reflect, I felt an inwird
tction, which prevented any depression of mv
to“E‘™ f iS. tS
ior the good of the service in whinh t
I found my mind wonderfully supported
began to conceive hopes, notwithstanding so
a calamity, that I should one day fie able to
■t to my King and country for' the misfor-
began the marvellous voyage of 3600
es in an open boat, which stands unique
eh the . ges i„ the „ of
ture. Throughout the voyage the cast-
3r, encountered incessant rains which
them the greatest discomfort’ though
onstant downpour probably preserved
lives by saving them from perishing of
-for they had only 28 gallons of wlter
id them by the mutineers. Their sup-
mouldy and weevily bread (ship’s bis-
amounted to 3501b. Their stock of
was limited to 321b. of salt iiork
t skirting the island, of Tofoa they
ut t0 f !£ CUre s ° me 20 cocoanuts, and
1 i ?!, the se, with six quarts of rum
x bottles of wine, constituted their sole
iment and medical-supply chest.
T was no worse, and nrohahlv
better, than the average naval rnm
r of the period. Indeed, hS wasan
sly finer and more resourceful officer
aiany of the captains in the British
drawn from life in the pages of Si
id Marryat. For a wfmfe pfdfd of
voyage lie had been intimately Ssoci
with Captain Cook; he was the
ted friend of Sir Joseph Bank? and
5 peculiarly honored by Nelson He
nfortunate, inasmuch as he was the
..of two mutinies; but, it must be
1 y remembered, they were mutinies of
interested cabals, who stood fof an
age of a very material kind <£
and discomfiture of their chief The
’bellmn, if successfully carried to )
conclusion, promised a life of liberty
i and untrammelled libertinafe to the
srs; the second, the withdrawal of an
ms censorship over a degrading and
>ut profitable traffic. Bligh suffered
times, as other captains have suffered
tpwrecks. But he lived to triumph
s enemies, and to die hononhlv -
mral of the Blue. Moreover hi
ished the wonderful voyage in’ the
8 launch to Timor with the loss of
e man, John Norton, quarter-master,
who was stoned to death by the natives of
Tofoa whilst pushing the launch offshore,
rn < ? st at vei ! y olltset of the voyage.
Ihe age in which he lived, and the service
i w , hich * ie was an ornament, both amply
plead his cause. When lyingly accused of
cowardice by the officers of the N.S.W. Rum
Corps at the court-martial where they stood
upon their trial, Bligh with a manly dignity
said:—•
Court will forgive me if I intrude a moment
on their time to mention the services in which I
have been employed. For twenty-one years I have
been a post-captain, and have been engaged in ser-
vices of danger not falling within the ordinary duties
, m ' r . profession. For four years, with Captain
Cook m the Resolution, and four years more as a
Commander myself, I traversed unknown seas, brav-
ing difficulties more terrible because less frequently
encountered. In subordinate situations I fought,
under Admiral Parker at the Dogger Bank, and Lord
Howe at Gibraltar. In the battle of Camperdown,
the Director, under my command, first silenced and
then boarded the of Admiral de Wynter, and
after the battle of Copenhagen, where I commanded
the Glatton, I was sent for by Lord Nelson to
receive his thanks publicly on the quarter-deck.
FRED J. BROMFIELD.
Mad Philosophers
A few weeks ago the Red Page had one
ot its periodical discussions on Nietzsche, and,
a ® , us _ ua h readers were confidently assured
that, beyond all doubt, Nietzsche was mad.
11ns frequently repeated assertion, to-
gether with the excellent proof that is pro-
duced, gives rise to a rather startling
thought; for it is apparent that the intellect
or the world is much more interested in the
philosophy of Nietzsche than in that of any
other man. In other words, it is apparent
that the world’s thinkers find a more power-
tul appeal in the thoughts of a mad man
than m the thoughts of those whose sanity
The world holds millions
ot thoroughly sane people, and they are for-
ever expressing their opinions. Newspapers
are full of such expressions; book publishers
are kept busy binding those expressions into
respectable novels and essay-collections; lec-
turers are forever spouting them, and the
great public is forever repeating them. They
are sane; so sane that they are common-
place; so commonplace that they are dull,
and the average person finds them quite satis-
factory. The great reading and voting pub-
-ICnVlo^sllo C ,ked or stalled by them—it is
lulled. But the intellect of the world finds
no interest in these opinions. It is con-
temptuous towards them. It centres its
interest upon the thoughts of men who are
not altogether sane—upon the abnormal self-
renunciation of Tolstoy; upon the New
ilde; upon the sex obsession
JL , edd ! Ami upon the philosophy of the
utterly mad Nietzsche.
, is tbat ever y approach to intel-
lectuality is a departure from sanity. Our
- v criterion of sanity is the average men-
tal state, and to arrive at that average the
millions of minds that are quite empty
•^ lte ldle - altogether weak and entirely'
impotent must be pooled with the few minds
Tlfo iihk and constructive,
he gibbeiing idiot is the extreme in one
r tho°,!ti towering mind is the extreme
in the other. Each is far removed from the
average, and therefore from the sane. When
one departs from the average on the down-
ward grade, one is pitied. The weak mind is
patronised and petted and excused, and this
is most natural, for it is only by patronising
frehlnT tempting the most feeble that thf
KlTal f ai s feel any s elf-complacency.
I feo the dull, colorless man of average sanity
but lS feels e nnl m khld i Solicitude tor the idiot
geni.S 1 T-T ly a vulgar antagonism towards
genius. He can never excuse any departure
fiom sanity on the upward plane, for the
nlace nml the bonds of th e common-
place and soars to unusual heights fills the
average man with misgivings, and cows his
poor weak ego. Therefore he heaps pity
upon the unsane idiot, and mud upon the in-
sane philosopher. y
I am not trying to prove that the insanity
mv S nui l £f • m Nl . etz sche) is sane. We
basis of a r n gkt i n reck !? milg sanity upon the
oasis ot an average, for there is no other
basis on which to reckon it. But all this
means that, if I find any accepted public
opinion incorrect, and persist in considering
';m 1 1 ” CO r'rT t ’i, t ' < ‘ n 1 cease to be thoroughly
>ane. If 1 choose to hold an opinion directlv
ipposite to the opinion held by the great
nass of people, then I am insane and mv
nsanity will last just as long as’both the
■, . - ’ iffy yeais ago people were Quite
lght in saying that socialists were mad
hey were mad then, but they are sanf?£
lay, not because they have modified thpir
N Cl n/f-t I ’a bU p because tlle Public has altered
sche mS v W ;‘ rd i social ism. Was Niet
lho? tZSCh n wa ? madder than any
that ever breathed, madder than
The philosophy of Nietzsche (and other nar
ally or totally insane philosophers ITm
>o n are mad tte Th°ev f tbinkers because they
»,rS'
ould never have become thinker! TW
‘oughts may be sound or unsound’ nure nr
lpure, vicious or constructive Tint Hnoc.
>t influence the question of their sa nHv
M feSgfl
mty can interest only the insane.
LESTER WAY.
The Oxford Book'of Rags and Tags
litS?y m ha k b!t? Md a is h a l( ifttf P fl become «
C S,T r "!..” r ;Sf *£
(Continued on page 3.)


i_
'ace
i i
All that is Newest and Smartest in Easter Apparel
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Easter Millinery.
Adaptable Soft Felt Hats, for Tennis
and all Sports wear, banded 1 mile
Ribbon. Colors, Jade, Tan, Lemon,
Fuchsia, Light Saxe,
Dark Saxe. Q/l 1
PRICE ,
Small Cloche, in Soft Tagel, with con-
trast bands of Satin arranged helmet
faslfion; long end of satin
in assorted smart colorings. 91/.
PRICE .
Very Becoming Small Droop, ot Silk
Velvet, with coronet of narrow
looped Faille Riboon.
Black only. 32/6
PRICE
Smart English Fur Velour Hats,
with medium adaptable brims, banded
good Faille Ribbon. A CA-
PRICES, Black
Beaver, 55/- each.
“Lady Betty’" Hats, of Cire Satin, with
folded swathe, looped rosette and
ends of self ribbon. 29/6
PRICE °
“Lady Betty” Hats, of Black Georgette,
with contrast color under folded
swathe and long end
of Black Satin. '29/1 1
PRICE 11
(Millinery—Third Floor.)
Attractive Apparel for
Easter, priced to appeal to
shoppers who put
Economy equally on a
pedestal with Durability,
is featured in wide variety
at Anthony Horderns’.
You will find the choice
easy to make —and easy on
your shopping allowance,
too.
You are invited to visit The
House of Economy while in
Sydney for the Show.
Serviceable and
F ashionable Gloves.
Women’s Twelve-button English Buede Finish
Gloves, in shades of Grej, aioil, 0/11
Brown and Black. £»' X JL
PRICE (pair) . .... ••• • • Heavy Suede
Women’s Twelve-button Length neaij
gSff 3 /11
Pastel, Beaver, Brown, Nigger, Black,
Grey and Navy. 0/0
Women's ' Length Fownes’ White
French Kid Gloves, with gusset m
fingers. 'ml 11
PMOE First Floor.)
News Ideas in Raincoats.
1X4446 —Well-made English Gabardine Rain-
coat, with Raglan sleeves, convertible collar,
natch pockets, and loosely belted at waist
In Fawn, Beaver, Mole, Navy, 57/6
Black. PRICE
Similar design, with wide inset sleeves, and
belt finished with neat bone 69/6
buckle. PRICE w
1X4613 —Smartly-cut Imported Woollen
Gabardine Raincoat, double-breasted, com-
fortable, wide inset sleeves, and belt at waist,
finished bone buckle. Colors,
Pawn, Grey, Mole, Navy.
PRICE
Similar design, with single fronts,
half-lined Union Silk. I RICE • •
Also, better qualities, with wrap
collars. PRICE
(Raincoats —Third Floor.)
72/6
95 -
75/-
Such Lovely Serge Frocks.
In the Third Floor Fashion Salon you wlll v^ nd %
most attractive styles in Serge Frocks \on will
vote the prices attractive, also, and the qualitj all J
desire.
1)358 —Becoming Frock, of fine
simply designed, showing roll collar and vestette.
Uncommonly braided from neck ba^ I ' e f !
front; also shows on sleeves. Buckle gives
smart finish to waistline. In Nigger, Mole,
Grey, Fawn, Navy and Black.
Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. 75/-
D 348 —Simple but Smart Frock in Coating
Serge, designed on newest lines, effectively braided
round neck, inset sleeves, narrow sell belt, finished
with large braided buckle in Oriental tomngs. In
Navy and Black, Nigger and Fawn.
Sizes, S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE
1)309 —Attractive Frock of fine All-wool Serge,
fashioned on becoming lines, Smart \ estette in
contrasting shades on bodice; braid is
used as a trimming on sleeves and skirt, belt, ana
sash ends. In Navy and Black, Nig-
ger and Fawn. Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. 79/6
75/-
PRICE
(Fashion Salon —Third Floor.)
You Can Acquire
Your Choice in
SPORTS COATS
for the Very Low
Cost of 29/11.
1X2997 —All-wool Iv ni 11 etl
Sports Coat, Ribbed Effect.
The cuffs and hem of coat are
smartly relieved contrast stripes.
In shades of Navy, Mole, luttj,
also in Self, Black or
Black and Grey. 29/11
1X226 —Heavy Wool Sports
Coat, suitable for matron, with
long Tuxedo fronts, belt and
pocket. In Navy, Mole, Black.
Sizes, S.W., W., O.S. 37/fi
PRICE
Size X.d.S.,' ' PRICIi 39/11
1X2758 —Knitted Sports Coat,
in White Ribbed Design; a
corded effect is showing on col-
lar, cuffs and basque, sash at
waist. Colors, Mole, Grey, Nig-
ger, Fawn, Putty, Saxe,
Navy, Cream, Black. 37/6
(Fashion Salon —Third Iloor.)
Men’s Outing
Attire.
TENNIS TROUSERS.
Designed with side and hip
pockets, cuff bottoms, loops for
White Drill. PRICE 13/6
Cream Gabardine —
Prices, 17/6, 19/6, 35/-, 39/6
Cream Serge—
PRICES
Cream Flannel —
PRICES
Youths’ Tennis
25/-, 37/6
25/-, 39/6
Trousers,
made as above, from Cream
Gabardine.
PRICES. 15/6. 16/6. 33/6 pr.
MEN’S BLAZER COATS.
Navy Blazer Coat, assprted
cord edges.
PRICES 18/6, 25/-
Braided edges. PRICE 27/6
Navy Flannel, assorted cord
edges. PRICE 29/6
Braided edges. PRICE 35/-
YOUTHS’ BLAZER COATS.
Navy Blazer Cloth, cord edges,
in White, Red, Gold, Sky,
Green.
PRICES 13/6, 14/6. 19/6
(Men’s Clothing, Ground Floor)
Men’s
94-
Distinctive
Headwear.
Men’s Fur Felt Hats, with
2|-inch brims, bound on edges,
sweat-proof bead leather. In
Slate, Steel and 14/6
Grey. PRICE ...
Fur Felt Hats, with
or bound edge
brims, grease-proof head
leathers. The colors are
Slate. Steel, Grey
and Fawn. IQ/11
PRICE w
Men’s Fur Felt Hats, with
oi. or 2f-inch bound edge
brims, grease-proof head
leathers. The shades are
Slate, Steel Grey and 25/-
Fawn. PRICE .• •
Men’s Fine Fur Felt Hats,
94- or 2i-inch brims, cut or
Klair-mjra'
Brown. ?RIOB ° d . 28/6
(Men’s Hats —Ground Floor.)
Cosy Coat
Sweaters
Men’s All-wool Knitted Coat
Sweaters, with V-front. In
shades of Grey, Navy and
Heather.
Size 34in. 36in. 40m. 42m.
Prices 14/9 • 15/3 16/3 17/3
Men’s All-wool Knitted Coat
Sweaters, in drop-stitch
effect, in Heather, Grey and
Fawn shades.
Size 34in. 36in. 40m. 42in.
Prices 17/6 17/6 18/6 19/6
Men’s All-wool Knitted Coat
Sweaters, in heavy weight.
Size 34in. 36in. 40in. 42in.
V-neck 24/- 24/6 26/6 29/6
With Austral collar-
Prices 25/6 26/- 27/- 31/-
Cashmere Coat Sweaters, fine
[ English make. In shades of
Fawn, Grey and Putty.
Size 34in. 36in. 40in. 44m.
| Prices 25/6 25/6 25/6 25/6
.(Coat Sweaters—Ground
Floor.)
Reliable
Travel Goods
Strong; Vulcanised Fibre Suit-
cases, with two mckelled
locks, steel frame and valance.
Serviceable, dark color.
90in 22in. 2-tin. 26m. 28m.
18/- 19/6 21/6 23/- 24/6
“Globite” Cases of extra-
strong Vulcanised I ibre.
Patent construction. An
exceptionally strong case.
•>oin 22in. 24in. 26m. 28in.
29/6 32/6 35/6 38/6 42/
Solid Leather Suitcases,
made from genuine cowhide.
Has two sliding locks, inter-
nal straps, steel frame. Lined
with canvas, eight capped
corners. .
20in 22in. 24in. 26in. 28m.
40/: 44/- 48/- 52/- 56/6
Superior-quality Case, lined
with leather.
oOin 22in. 24in. 26m. 28m.
63/- 70/- 75/- 80/- 85/-
Superior-quality Leather,
with leather lining through-
out. ,
Prices 50/- 55/- 60/- 60/-
Travel Goods, Ground Floor.)
We pay the carriage on
Fashion Goods and Men’s Wear in N.S.W., and to the
nearest port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
rimiiiiTim


xmxmm
swwsiiiswii
I
11
■
I &
m
ii
I
0k
"■ *■' ■~^$ I «ssa4? j \ l ?air.:
mi
« •-
■
114-11!
': :-,d:.!,
bJ
!!
r
mmm
ii
I ■
t : $
■i
■
r
&
\
bi
»
1
■
■BH
i. j
1 1, 1
& 1 ;
■
■ .
i(HH|
.
‘ ,e
WI
Hi
h
L
ou nave
lond
enou
YOU surely cannot tolerate that dirty, dim, depressing
lighting for another winter.
Your town friends and many of your neighbors
have the comfort electricity provides, and you, too, may
have them if you say the word.
Make your decision to-day, and give your wife and
family their due—the comforts Delco-Light provides.
Give them electric light in every room in the house,
bright and cheerful, safe and clean—and what is equally
important, instantly available.
Cut down the housework with labor-saving devices, made
possible by Delco-Light—electric vacuum cleaners,
irons, washers, etc. Give them the up-to-date comforts
of the City.
The plant is simplicity itself to operate, occupies little
space, is strongly built for years of faithful service, and
costs so little to run that it soon pays for itself.
Write for particulars showing how easily you can obtain
this boon for your home.
Visit Stand No. 2
R.A.S. Sydney Show
Distributors:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELB., LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.
DELCO'IIGHT


Send It Now
watch the white
teeth it brings
If you want better teeth, let us
show you how millions now get them.
Cleaner, safer teeth as well. You
will be surprised and delighted when
you make this test. We send it free,
That cloud is film
The dingy, coat on teeth is film.
That film at first is viscous. It clings
and stays. Soon it becomes dis-
colored, then forms those cloudy
coats. The teeth's beauty is hidden
until you remove it.
Film also holds food substance
which ferments and forms acid. It
holds the acid in contact with the
teeth to cause decay. Germs breed
by millions in it. They, with tartar,
are the chief cause of pyorrhea.
A new day comes
No ordinary tooth paste effectively
combats film, so all tooth troubles
constantly increased. Then dental
science found and proved out two
effective methods. One of them
disintegrates the film, the other re-
moves it without harmful scouring.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a
fi.m combatant which contains
harsh grit.
Made in Australia
MARK •
trade
The New-Day Dentifrice
A scientific tooth paste based on modern
research, now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Two sizes.
Price: 2/- and 1/3
.
m
A new-type tooth paste was created
to apply these methods daily. The
name is F-.psodent. Now careful
people of some 50 nations use it,
largely by dental advice.
Pepsodent also multiplies the alka-
linity of the saliva. It multiplies the
starch digestants in the saliva. Those
are nature's agents for fighting starch
deposits and the acids which they may
form. In these ways Pepsodent is
bringing a new dental era to people
of every clime.
Watch its effects
Send the coupon for this 10-Day
test. Note how clean the teeth feel
after using. Mark the absence of
the viscous film. See how teeth
become whiter as the film-coats
disappear.
The test will be a revelation. You
will have a new conception of what
clean teeth mean. Cut out coupon
so you won't forget.
A 8677.
A 10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20, 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
Only one tube to a family.
formed with the help and advice of Tenny-
son, remains in a place apart; “The Oxford
Book of Verse,” selected by Quiller Couch,
is a book greatly loved; the first issue ot
“Poems of To-day” set out in pleasant
Sequence much of the most charming lyrical
Work of a period. But the greater number
of the anthologies ai'e freakish, unequal in
their choice, rather Uninteresting in the mass,
and apt to be misleading. Books of this
sort have, in fact, the exact value of the
Selector’s taste and knowledge, and can have
ho more. They are one-man efforts; and it
is a very rare man who is fitted by know-
ledge and feeling to compile such a work.
Of those produced in Australasia incom-
parably the best is the little book, edited by
Currie and Alexander, entitled “New Zea-
land Verse,” and published in the Walter
Scott series of the “Canterbury Poets.” Two
Anthologies selected by Douglas Bladen, “Aus-
tralian Ballads” and “A Century of Austra-
lian Song,” are choked with rubbish and the
barren crudities of our earlier years. Ber-
tram Stevens’s first anthology was a charm-
ing little book, though hardly representative ;
bis larger “Golden Treasury” showed at
every point a weakening of taste and less
discriminative selection. “The Oxford Book
of Australasian Verse,” issued a few years
ago Under the editorship of Professor Walter
Murdoch, Was extremely poor and entirely
Unrepresentative. The quality of all the
Australian selectors’ work is most clearly
shown by contrast with the one little volume
from Maoriland; for while the work done
in the Commonwealth is so much stronger
and better on the average than that done in
the Dominion, no reader comparing “New
Zealand Verse” with any of the other
volumes mentioned could possibly come to
that conclusion. The very cream of the
Writing of a band of mediocre singers, when
fairly presented, looks vastly superior to the
jumble of Second-rate work by writers of
first rank which the Australian selectors have
offered.
Much allowance was made in 1018 —when
the first edition appeared—for the poverty
of “The Oxford Book of Australasian Verse.”
It was understood that questions of copy-
right prevented Professor Murdoch from in-
cluding the verses he would naturally have
chosen. But now all such restrictions have
been removed, and it is plain from the new
edition that the editor not only lacks the
feeling for what is best in our verse litera-
ture, but has been at very little pains to
find out what people in Australia have really
been doing. The edition is little, if any,
improvement on the first; work that would
only find acceptance in second-rate journals
is freely included; and the general sugges-
tion to English readers is that Australian
verse is hardly worthy of their consideration.
In few cases are the selections the best avail-
able; in still fewer is any sort of balance
preserved between the best and the worst.
Writers are included whose best efforts could
not compare with the worst work published
by others. There are 10 poems by Pro-
fessor Archibald Strong and three by Victor
Daley! There are four by Elliott Napier
and three by Henry Lawson!
The fact that Professor Murdoch has pro-
duced such a poor and unrepresentative
volume is of much greater importance than
might at first appear. Our anthologists
have, on the whole, done so poorly by us
that the opportunity of adding a real volume
to the “Oxford” series was that of a life-
time. A man with real feeling for our verse
might have placed before the British public
a book which would have far transcended
in interest any single writer’s work which
lias been published for many years. Here
was a chance to dispel the doubts of the
English critic and to. strengthen the weak
faith of Australian readers. Professor Mur-
doch has failed lamentably to rise to the
occasion. Not one Australian writer will
find his reputation in the smallest degree
enhanced by this publication; and the gen-
eral repute of Australian letters must
severely suffer by it. When the real Aus-
tralian anthology arrives—as no doubt it
will arrive—it must live down this volume
before it can get a hearing.
DAVID McKEE WBIGHT.
When the World Was Clean
“C.McL.” (R.P. 6/3/’24) will never make
me believe that the ancients were personally
dirty.
Physical cleanliness is a matter partly of
custom, partly of morals, and partly of cli-
mate. Shakspeare’s “dark lady,” the girl
who inspired some of the most haunting
and passionate lines in the language, was,
if she followed the Court fashion of her day,
chronically verminous. If not she was pro-
bably Mary Fitton, as some Shakspearean
commentators believe, a wanton maid of
honor, whose infidelities caused the poet
anguish. Mary Fitton might have been clean
in the bodily sense, even in Elizabethan
England, for the habitually immoral woman
nearly always is clean. C’est son metier.
But the bulk of the nation was filthy, and
continued so down to quite recent times.
The great Lord Melbourne’s mother (a
famous charmer of the late eighteenth cen-
tury) had one warm bath a year, and, like
the rest of her circle, regarded a large store
of unseen underclothes as “ridiculously
superfluous.”
What was the explanation of this almost
universal insanitariness ? Chiefly a primitive
water-supply system due mainly to a low
national luxury-standard on the physical
side. Water was only to be got then in most
quarters of London and the other great
cities from a standpipe during half an hour
once a week. It was hard to be clean in
such circumstances, and the climate of Eng-
land is not favorable to cleanliness. There
were no baths in Oxford’s oldest college till
about 15 years ago.
Turn now to the people whom “C.McL.”
envisages as “scratching themselves as con-
stantly as so many monkeys,” and “living
in a world of fleas and lice.” At least one
of the Greek aqueducts built 20-odd centuries
ago is still in use: they enabled the public
fountains to play day and night and pro-
vided city-dwellers with unlimited water.
Ihe water supply of Rome in the reign of
Claudius provided 300 gallons per head per
day, or about nine times the present Roman
water supply. So constantly did the Athe-
nians wash in the time of Socrates that he
condemned the practice as effeminate. Never-
theless, it continued and after the 1 eiopon-
nesian Wat the Greek who did not bathe
twice a day, either at home or m the public
baths, was a rarity. The early Romans ot
all classes wei*e far cleaner than the most
luxury-loving Britons of a century ago : they
bathed once a week. By Pliny s day wash-
ing had become a mania with the rich, ana
even the poorest were forbidden to be dirty.
Water was laid on to every home ot any
importance, whether in Rome or in summer
resorts like Pompeii, while Turkish baths
could be had by slaves. And these ancients
were as fastidious about their clothes as
they were about their persons. Sumptuary
laws had to be passed by the Athenians to
limit the number of garments a woman
miglA own, and it seems that in both Greece
and Rome during the pre-Christian era men
changed into clean apparel after the bath
which was taken before the chief meal ot
the day. , , , ~ ,
It is distressing to have to record that
uncleanliness came in, as a habit, with Chris-
tianity. The Early Fathers believed in the
mortification of the body. Hermits went
into deserts or climbed to the tops of towers
and there remained, under vows not to wash
or shave, for half a life-time. The British,
Germanic and Celtic races were dirty m
proportion as they were spiritual-minded,
puritanical or chaste. It is appropriate that
the tepidarium of Diocletian on the Quirinal
Hill should have been turned into a church.
From Constantine’s reign till the end of the
Age of Faith the civilised world transferred
its energies from the building of baths to
the raising of cathedrals. The present posi-
tion is that cleanliness among the white
races is the monopoly of a few classes and
regions. The wealthy Englishman, French-
man or German, with his elaborate bath
opening off his bedroom, his large supply of
underclothes, and his Turkish bath round
the corner, is probably as clean as a Roman
of the Empire when the wealthy bathed
seven or eight times a day. Australians who
live near a surf beach or swimming bath
are in most cases rather cleaner than the
considerable proportion of town and country
folk who can afford bathrooms; and both
wash oftener than English people of the
same financial standing. The climate in-
sists. But there was a time, 2000 years
ago, when climate, a low moral standard (as
we understand morality), a fanatical wor-
ship of the body, and an economic system
which enabled thousands to live in contem-
plative idleness, combined to make the
world’s leading nation take at least as much
interest in bathing as we do in (say) drink-
ing. That was the Age of Cleanliness, and
the combination of circumstances which pro-
duced it has never arisen since.
J. B. D.
Black Brother, Poet
The Red Page prints this as a literary
curiosity. It is what it purports to be, and
the writer is in dead earnest about his “chal-
lenge.” No alteration has been made in
spelling, punctuation or anything else: —
A CHALLENGE FROM AN ABORIGINES
TO THE APOSTLE PAUL OF QUEENSLAND
THE ARCHBISHOP OF BRISBANE
(THE MOST REV. GERALD SHARPE).
I challenge you, White Alien, answer straight and
right,
Answer like a Christian, or anything else you like,
Who gave you this Mandate, to make Australia
“White”?
You have stolen the country God gave to us,
You have ravished our poor women too,
There are thousands of half-castes in your midst,
Just proving what I’m saying is true.
In exchange you have given us the Bible,
With some tobacco and whiskey as well,
And that dreadful disease you call “Syphilis,”
In the exchange you have done fairly well.
Now you imported Hughes, Cook and Scaddan,
And a score or two more if you like.
Just place their deeds before the world
Then tell me if you dare call them “White.”
Deeming, Butler, Pudclifoot, hundreds more I could
cite,
You would import this scum to our country
To keep our stolen lands for the “White.”
I’d give a ton of good toilet soap
And the Sea of Galilee if you like,
Wash and anoint them until Christ comes again
You could never wash these Rotters “White.”
To-day you’ll find Archbishops of culture
Who are preaching and sponging on Christ,
Standing up for a true “White Australia”
As disciples of Christ —this is nice.
Let him call for a strong deputation
To God who rules up in the sky,
To send him a “truly White” Saviour,
You cannot pray to that Alien on high.
When your useless, selfish life it has ended,
You’ll see that Alien Prince in the sky,
Ruling over his Father’s Great Dominions,
You believe this I’m sure—so do I.
St. Peter of course he will meet you
Without a sweet smile or a frown,
Telling you and your flock you’re not wanted,
There’s a much warmer place lower down.
You betrayed poor Christ just like Judas,
You preach just alone for “All White”
Accept this challenge I throw down to you,
Episcopalian Archbishop—“ Good night.”
Old Books for New Boys
At this season of the year young Pilgarlic,
your boy, having started for some exam, at a
High School, turns colporteur and drags
home piles of books, his handicap. The
authorities believe that, like O. Henry's
gentlest grafter, the boy should have infor-
mation as well as education, and these
“works,” extra to maths, history and the rest
of the set curriculum, represent their ideas
and misapprehensions as to what will inform
him. Merely as a matter of transporta-
tion the books are such a burden as to
poignantly recall Longfellow’s weariness of
mind over his children’s road and load,
Their assimilation foretells another load,
The double task would be possible only to
youth’s resiliency of mind and body,
For the first or “intermediate” grind,
under the N. S. Wales system, “Marmion,”
some of the best of Kipling’s tales and
poems, and “Hercward the Wake,” that ex-
cellent but blood-clotted literary sample,
seem to be regularly on the list. For the
“leaving,” official taste runs strongly to
essays, and yards and furlongs of these have
been dug out of ancient tomes for youth’s
moral persecution. The Department evi-
dently agrees with that wiseacre who said
that the essay is the product of a lost art.
Its specimens are of the archaic sort which
went out with the paraffin lamp of which
they so often smell aloud, and which sur-
vive rather because of their amenable-
ness to perpetuation in print than on
account of any literary or philosophical
merit of their own, considerable as these
occasionally are. This type had its vogue
when few people read and very few more
could read. It was written by ruminants
for ruminants. It is not read now for the
same reason that the novels of Scott and
George Eliot are not read, and even Dickens
and Thackeray arc only skimmed. Vari-
ously, it is too discursive, too meticulous,
“unduly preoccupied with analyses of ineffec-
tual emotions,” as was once said of William
Dean Howells. This age has unravelled
many mysteries that were sealed to its pre-
decessors, and discovered new forces whose
application to everyday purposes has revolu-
tionised humanity's bases of thought and
action. The people of our day have stood
cause directly against effect, and are too
practical and too hurried to be bothered
with speculation and moralisation and dis-
cursion. Hence the empty benches for
1 jamb’s performances, with their oft-praised
“slippered ease,” their pretty prosiness and
prolixity. Hence, too, the passing of the
prattling Skimpole Leigh Hunt (I am tak-
ing some of the authors prescribed for the
current “leaving” course). What they lack
is just that “knowledge what to leave unsaid
as well as what to say” which one of the
essayist’s eulogists cites as a most important
(nullification. Take as a terrible example
ITazlitt’s divarications on the Indian Jug-
glers. Hazlitt had literary grace and
knowledge, and was nothing if not critical.
Also he could be windy and aphoristic, and
generally tended to fulfil his own deprecation
of the Dutch painters’ painstaking mechani-
cal excellence. Cogitate over this piece about
the juggler keeping four balls in the air-
There is, then, in this sort of manual dexterity,
first a gradual aptitude acquired to a good exertion
of muscular power, from constant repetition, and in
the next place an exact knowledge how much is
still wanting and necessary to be applied....
Remember that there are pages of the same,
and ask yourself what it shall profit your
boy to get the kernel, if there be one, out
of' it. Consider, too, Hazlitt’s ground-out
definitions of talent, greatness, cleverness,
and other gifts and acquisitions, all of which
can be got out of a dictionary in two-line
essays; not to speak of the egotistical cocki-
ness with which Hazlitt dismisses Nelson
with the remark that he was a great naval
commander, “but for myself I have not much
opinion of a seafaring life.” And his mis-
calculation of Sir Humphrey Davy as a great
chemist, “but I am not sure that _ he is a
great man.” Not from such bumptious cat-
egorists shall Pilgarlic get a right estimate
of “those who in their day were men.”
Doubtless the student of literature alone
must take in the old essayists, as the ethno-
logist must the man-eaters and the tribes
with their heads under their shoulders.
There is pale grace and languid edification
in them, admittedly. But who seeks to
make his living in material occupations, “pro-
fessional” or mechanical should not be)
encouraged, much less compelled, to waste
his priceless young years dallying in the
shade with these dilettanti. He needs
meatier food for the mind ; redder meat at
that. Consider the book of Henry Ford’s
life as what Stevenson would call a true
romance of destiny. It will give the reader
more spiritual and industrial stimulation,
make him think deeper and quicker, and
better help him to get garnishment for his
bread and butter than all the essays ever
spun out in old London coffee-houses. In
such books as this the man in the making
will be helped to think and do in terms of
the world of the phonograph and wireless
and steam —into which he has been born
and in which he will have to mount upward
or fall.
H. J. T.
A Satchel of Books
April’s Sowing, by Rosemary Rees (Herbert Jen-
kins). A well-written love story with a thrill at
the end. Most of the action takes place in Maoriland.
A New Tale of Two Cities, by James Milne (John
Lane). War essays written while the fighting was
on. Their white-hot enthusiasm for the boys “over
there” reads oddly now that so many of the boys
are on the dole or worse.
By Thor, No!, by C. R. Boyd Freeman (Simpkin,
Marshall and Co.). A propaganda novel directed
against Christianity and Judaism. Humorlessness is
the author’s strong suit. The hero’s love-making
takes the form of a series of addresses on atheism, and
all ends happily with the fair object of his attentions
a blushing convert to the cause.
Annihilation, by Isabel Ostrander (Hurst and
Blackett). A Sadist criminal who delights in murder
by poison gas is the latest appalling figure from the
Ostrander fiction factory. As usual, ex-police rounds-
man Timothy McCarty stumbles upon the work of
the miscreant. But the dullest will pick the Borgia
of the story in one try. His air of bland integrity
condemns him from the first, since almost everybody
else is creating about himself an aroma of suspicion
that is like a bone-mill on a hot day.
♦
“F.J.M.”: “Hassan” (R.P. 6/3/’24) is right when
he says that “Beethoven was probably far more pre-
occupied with the sheer mechanics of the Thiul
Symphony than with its spiritual significance” ; but
I would rather he had used “certainly.” The com-
posing of music is just as much a constructive art
as, say, architecture; and it was because of Beet-
hoven’s mastery of the mathematics of music, because
of his superior knowledge of harmonic and con-
trapuntal resource, musical form, rhythm, etc. (a
knowledge only gained by years of painstaking study),
that he produced music which continues to live.
His inspiration was in the original manner in which
he utilised the multifarious resources of his art.
Music cannot paint a definite picture without exter-
nal aid. This aid may be simply a title (usually
added after the music has been written; the self-
acknowledged method of Schumann), such as “Path-
etic” Sonata. The listener, seizing on the suggestion
thus given, sees a mental picture in keeping with
the title. Had he heard the same music without
a title, it might have made an entirely different im-
pression. If Mr. Jack Lindsay hears in Beethoven’s
music “the laughing dance of naked girls,” let us
not blame Beethoven —it merely shows J.L.’s state
of mind. 1 wonder what he hears in the music of
Bach or Mozart. I would not be surprised if Bach’s
great Chromatic Fantasy suggested to him a wild
Bacchanalian orgy, and Bach’s First Prelude, which
suggested to Gounod his beautiful “Ave Maria,” may
to J.L. suggest the sensuous movements of a “naked
dancer.” As I said, “it’s all in the state of mind.”


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
Yellow Cabs of
Limited
(Incorported under the Companies’ Act, 1915, of the State of Victoria.
NOMINAL CAPITAL.
£500,000 divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each.
150,910 shares are now offered for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance in calls as required
not to exceed 5/- per share per month,
40,090 shares fully paid up to £1 each will be offered to Koval Blue Motor Service Proprietary, Limited, for the purchase of the whole of the last*
mentioned Company’s business assets and liabilities.
300,000 shares to be held in reserve to provide for future requirements.
(70,000 shares have been subscribed for or underwritten prior to the issue of this Prospectus.)
Australia
500,000
DIRECTORS
PEARSON WILLIAM TEWKSBURY, Oriental Hotel, Melbourne, Company
Director.
ROBERT CRAIG DIXSON, The Strand, Sydney, Merchant, of Dixson Trust,
Limited.
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
ARTHUR PHILLIPS, PEARCE AND JUST, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
GILLOTT. MOIR AND AHERN, National Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
MAT. RICE SHMITH, 104 Russell Street. Melbourne, Sales Manager.
ILLIAM HOWARD LEM IS, 104 Russell Street, Melbourne, Merchant,
Managing Director of Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd.
BROKER:
RUPERT WERTHEIM, Collins House, Melbourne.
GENERAL MANAGER AND SECRETARY:
H. S. EYTON, 222-230 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE.
222-230 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Of the 159,910 shares offered for subscription, 30,000 are being subscribed by shareholders in
Yellow Cab Manufacturing Company of Chicago, U.S.A., as hereinafter set out. In respect of
the remaining 129,910 shares, brokerage of 4d. per share will be payable to members of
recognised Stock Exchanges, and underwriters of not less than 10,000 shares before the issue
of this Prospectus will be paid a commission of Is. 2d. per share, and underwriters of not less
than 10,000 shares after the issue of this Prospectus will be paid a commission of 9d. per share.
The consideration to Mr. P. W. Tewksbury, as Promoter, will be (a) the allotment of 5000 fully-
paid up shares when the Company has paid a dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum,
and (b) the right at any time within five years from date to subscribe at par for 40,000 shai’es
or any part thereof.
It will be noted that he is showing his confidence by making his remuneration contingent
on the success of the Company.
Application will be made for registration and quotation by the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide.
OB.IECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To give a passenger transport service on the most modern lines, with a cost to the passenger
far below any obtainable at present for similar facilities.
This service is to be modelled upon lines which, in large cities, such as New York and
Chicago, where it has been especially developed, and in London, Paris and elsewhere, has resulted
in public support being immediately and profitably obtained.
The proposal is to establish such a service, first in Melbourne, and later, as opportunity offers,
to extend operations to other cities.
The issue of shares now being offered is sufficient to pay for 200 cabs and all preliminaries.
WHAT HAS BEEN HONE.
The profit-earning possibilities of a modern, reliable and reasonably-priced taxi-cab service
of the type proposed has been conclusively demonstrated elsewhere. It is that fact which
attracted the attention of Mr. P. W. Tewksbury, who is responsible for the present promotion.
He has just returned from America and Europe. His trip was made for the express purpose of
studying the cab business throughout the world and of deciding upon the car and system best
suited for Australian conditions. The present proposal is the result of his investigations. He,
in association with Mr. Lewis, was principally responsible for the promotion and formation of
the leading car hire companies of Melbourne and Sydney, viz.. The City Motor, The Royal Blue
and the De Luxe, which have all been successful dividend-paying concerns.
He is therefore qualified by actual business experience to gauge the value of the services he
inspected whilst abroad.
He found, when in America, that at Chicago the Yellow Cab Company of that city, formed
in 1915, after starting with 31 cabs, had in the intervening years so prospered and expanded
that it now runs over 3000 cabs—nearly half of the whole number in that progressive city.
So successful have been its operations that, in accordance with the attached report of
his representative now in Australia, an original Yellow Cab share, costing 30 dollars (say, £6)
in 1915, with the bonus .shares which have been issued in this and its subsidiary companies is
now worth on the market 900 dollars (say, £180).
Such success is not restricted to Chicago. Elsewhere the use of the specially-designed cabs
built by the Company has brought substantial profits to the investor.
The reason is that a public want is met at a low cost by an organisation, developed and
thoroughly tested in every detail, which enables handsome returns to flow to the Company.
WHAT IS PROPOSED.
The hire car companies of Melbourne at present charge mileage and detention from the
moment the ear leaves the garage until it returns. Under the new system to be adopted the
customer will be charged only the amount shown by the meter from the time he enters the car
until he dismisses it. This method is rendered possible by having numerous stands and depots
scattered throughout the city and suburbs, all connected by telephone with the central office.
A cab, when engaged, instead of coming from a city garage, is despatched from the stand
or depot nearest to where the customer is to be picked up. W T hen dismissed, the cab goes to the
depot nearest to the point of dismissal, and there waits for its next job. By this means most
of the return mileage now paid for by the customer is eliminated. In addition to working
from given points, cabs are also to be on the streets, and may be hired there on the spot. °
The service will be run on a cash basis, thus abolishing the heavy expense, loss and work
involved in a credit system, the cost of which necessarily falls on the customers, including those
who pay cash. In fact, at present, the cash customer has most unfairly to pay part of the cost
of giving credit to other people. J 1 ' e cat
LOW TARIFF.
The proposed scale of charges is to apply within a distance of eight miles of the corporate
is picked eS up o“ after'he hasten''dropped. fOT lUnning ’ either before a
ttyjjres svp as
<md by eliminating as much of it as possible the new Company, by the proposed tariff will
are ° nly t 0 be Charged ,or the ,liStance and time ** which
tho S e T propo o sed Vl above e f- IPIeS illuStrate the difference between the present charge and
Town Hall to Oriental Hotel (1 mile)
Town Hall to Spencer Street (f mile)
Town Hall to Brighton (81- miles)
PRESENT FARE,
Including Return.
.. £0 3 0
. . 0 3 0
..113
PROPOSED
FARE,
No Return.
£0 1 3
0 19
0 13 9
journey evident that the above savings are made possible by not charging for the return
It is anticipated that the bulk of the Company’s business will come from people who do
not now use cars, thus tapping an entirely new source of revenue. The low rate of fare will
bring a volume of work from that great section of the public which is not prepared to or cannot,
pay the present charges.
It is intended to issue books containing coupons of varying value to be used on the same
principle as tram tickets. These will be sold at a. discount for cash and are expected to prove a
great convenience to customers for their own use, for families, for firms whose employees use
cars, for presents, and for many other purposes.
It is not expected that the present hire car companies will be vitally affected They are
generally good class, fair-dealing concerns, which have furnished a great public convenience,
they will always appeal to those people who are willing to pay for luxury and for the
convenience of getting credit; in fact, the bulk of their business is done on "a credit basis.
ai S °’i. V.- 1S a prov , ed fac t.. both m Melbourne and abroad, that an increase in the number of
decent hire cars always brings an increased number of customers, and that concerns apparently
running in opposition create new business for each other.
THE YELLOW CAR —A BUILDER OF PROFIT.
d t in oSti ?u rtan i fact «V in reducing costs will be the fact that the car to be used is
absolutely and beyond question the best in the world for this particular class of work. It has
been slowly evolved as the result of years of valuable experience bv the largest hire car
* n the , world - Vl f - The Yellow Cab Company of Chicago, it embodies every lesson
which that experience has taught. It is not of the super luxurious private limousine type, which
is nearly always a converted pleasure car, not built to stand the gruelling strain of cab service,
and in which repair costs eat up revenue; but it does give every reasonable comfort, is far more
reliable, and can be operated at a much lower cost than any car not built especially for this
particular work. A sample car can be seen at the Royal Blue Motor Service garage.
ROYAL BLUE COMPANY.
It is desired to emphasise the fact that the 40,090 shares to be offered to the above company
tor the transfer of its business do not represent any loading, as £40,072 actual cash was subscribed
by the shareholders in that company.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is Five Shares
on each of which the sum of Five Shilling shall have been paid to or received on behalf of the
Company. The amount payable on application is 2s. 6d. per share and on allotment 2s. 6d.
per share.
Each of the Directors will subscribe for not less than his qualification of 300 shares.
Of the shares offered for subscription, 40,000 have been underwritten by P. W. Tewkesbury,
W. H. Lewis, Maurice Shmith and Rupert Wertheim.
Reduce your taxi bills.
Become a shareholder and participate in the dividends
you help to earn.
Small investors are invited to subscribe. The possibilities
of expansion are enormous. Small parcels of shares may
develop into large investments.
Read what the Yellow Cab Company of Chicago did.
This abridged prospectus does not fully comply with the
requirements of the Companies Act 1915.
Copies of the full prospectus, with Forms of Application
attached, may be obtained at the office of the Company,
222-230 Exhibition Street, Melbourne (Telephone, Central
5722); also from the Company’s Broker; from Allan’s Music
Warehouse, Collins Street; and from all Branches of the National
Bank of Australasia, Ltd.
Applications for shares will proceed only on the Forms
of Application referred to above.


CADILLAC—
the standard of the world
m
CADILLAC
'-^RDoTTHt^'
Vj
m
Cadillac is the choice of important personages the world over. This shows
King George of Greece starting for a ride in his Cadillac.
■HERE ARE more Cadillacs run-
X ning—all over the world —than
any other motor car of equal or
greater price. Owners who can
afford any car have selected Cadillac
to serve them in private and official
capacities.
John D. Rockefeller and Thomas
A. Edison both own Cadillacs. Queen
Wilhelmina of Holland, the Shah of
Persia, the Japanese Imperial House-
hold, the President of Brazil, General
Jan Smuts, Premier of South Africa;
Trophy, awarded by the British Royal
Automobile Club to the motor car
making the greatest advance. First,
in 1909, when Cadillac demonstrated
the principle of perfect inter-change-
ability of parts. Again, in 1912,
when Cadillac was the first car to
have a complete electrical system of
starting, lighting and ignition.
* * *
The fact that Cadillac is built by a
division of General Motors constitutes
a further assurance that its leader-
ship will be maintained by constant
Baron Shidehara, former
Japanese Ambassador to the
United States —and many
others high in public life have
found Cadillac worthy of their
discriminating choice.
By a long succession of
triumphs Cadillac has gained
its leadership. Twice, for
instance, it has won the Dewar
The famous Dewar
Trophy which Cad-
illac has won twice.
betterment. For General
Motors is a great family of
companies making complete
motor vehicles and parts,
accessories, and equipment. It
has built a new and finer fac-
tory for Cadillac and given it
the resources of the largest
automotive organization in the
world.
Further information regarding General Mot eyes may he had by writing to
General Motors Export Company, South British Insurance Building, Sydney,
or to General Motors Export Company, Bourke House, Melbourne .
GENERAL MOTORS
MAKERS OF MOTOR CARS, TRUCKS, ACCESSORIES AND EQUIPMENT
Buick • Cadillac • Chevrolet • Oakland • Oldsmobile • GMC Trucks
New York . London . Paris . Copenhagen . Soerabaia . Bombay . Calcutta . Shanghai. Yokohama. Honolulu
Sydney . Melbourne . Wellington . Constantinople . Johannesburg . Mexico City . Rio de Janeiro . Buenos Aires


s
'Tfm
■ : I
1
Hi
m
m
m
*
' ■*-.
mm
m
mmm
"' - --■* - ...
~.; 7 ,1®;.'
HHE
iL i
; . a
&
HHHH
I.:
, ' , „ - — —
BE
m
sM§mm
: A*■?..’'V. ..
■
- ' •.-. ■ ■ ' .. -■'' '
fek'%^2
BHE»jk •
I
Sag hh
1
I ■ ■ f *"? t T't rr > i
FLEMING TON ROAD, MELBOURNE
Constructed for the Melbourne City Council,,
Engineer: H . E. Morton, Esq., M. Inst . C.E,
Contractor: Thos. Fisher.
Reinforced with B.R.C . Fabric .
&K
Road Reinforcement's
«
B.R.C. Fabric is the ideal rein-
forcement for Roads.
It provides continuity, and the
welded joint minimises cracking
due to shrinkage.
It is easily handled on the job, and
can be laid by unskilled labor in the
correct position in the concrete.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers, Phone Cent. 8861,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . .J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA .... Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Australia), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND .... A. C. Gillies & Laird, Johnston Street, Wellington.


Cuticura Talcum
Soothes And Cools
After a warm bath with Cuticura
Soap there is nothing more refresh-
ing for baby’s tender skin than
Cuticura Talcum. If his skin is red,
rough or irritated, anoint with Cuti-
cura Ointment to soothe and heal.
They are ideal for all toilet uses.
SoaplB.,Talcum Is. 3d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
gjgp- Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & C ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
/>u\
Don’t Go to England This Year
Without previously making arrangements for your
accommodation. The majority of London’s hotels
are already booked to capacity for the next
six months. If you are contemplating a visit,
write immediately to us, stating your require-
ments, and mention your steamer and date of
arrival in London. Accommodation will be
reserved for you and particulars sent to you
during the voyage over. On arrival we will
act as your personal agents, and relieve you
of all petty worries of strangers to London.
We can add comfort to your visit in many
ways, and can arrange for your tours and
sight-seeing both in Great Britain and on the
Continent.
IN ADDITION, WE HAVE FACILITIES
WHEREBY WE CAN EFFECT A SAVING OF
AT LEAST 20% ON ALL PURCHASES MADE
THROUGH US.
These facilities are exclusive to Australasian
visitors, and you are invited to take full
advantage of them.
THE ANGLO-AUSTRALASIAN TRAVEL
BUREAU,
STAFFORD HOUSE (opposite Australia House),
Strand, LONDON, W.C.
Cables: AUSTRAVELA, London.
Under the personal supervision of E. C. SMITH,
late Embarkation Staff Officer, A.I.F.
Correspondence may be addressed to us free
of charge.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL*
If you «re troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditioni
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street. Melbourne
9
w>
No More
Grey Hairs
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
- —renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
- —p e r m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Grej
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
n
&
C>
MEXICAN
VIRGINIA
Cigarettes
vs
20
are smoked everywhere by
all who appreciate cigarettes
of the highest possible class.
CHECK CIGARETTES are
in everybody’s mouth, their
praises are on everyone’s
lips. The reason ? They are
made by the famous London
firm of Marcovitch, whose
experience in the making of
high-grade cigarettes is un-
equalled.
Ask Your Tobacconist.
Sole Agents for Australia:
SCOTT HENDERSON &
COMPANY.
0-13 Young Street, Sydney.
Sub-Agents:
Vie. —Alexanders’ Pty., Ltd., Melb.
S.A. —Lawrence & Levy, Adelaide.
Cofciilw 8/eu^Jiit
a
A
m.
a
Barrcre
NETTWte?^
692
KTOE
MukProdi
cA. safety 0 whick guards
the housewife
milk impurities, a safety o
which ensures a nutritious
Cream}/ 0 Milk Supply.
The fad. fha* (hey are
Lifeguard produefts is
your Guarantee of
'Protection OfO
y
(fifi
a
W 307
o o STOCK'S Liquid Suede
Dressing keeps Suede and
Buckskin shoes chic and fresh,
restoring the original shade with-
out laying the nap. In Black,
which dyes the suede a fast and perfect
color; also in Brown, Nigger Brown,
Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91 Haymarket, SYDNEY.
ROSTOCK e
U LIQUID SUEDE DRESSING
In Black, Brown, Nigger Brown, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels
tobacconists.
and
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ ■ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 28/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars
l/» Post Free.
S5S
I
m
s\
a
a
i
i
i
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song for Molly.
Gipsy-girl, gipsy-girl, come from Spanish
Roaming with a Romany,
Fancy-wild and free,
There’s a fairer girl I know
Where the yellow wattles blow!
Gipsy-girl, gipsy-girl, she has brighter eyes.
Pagan-girl, pagan-girl, with the wine-red
mouth,
Dancing down a dell with Pan
Laughing lure of man —
Sweeter is another girl
Running where the cool waves curl,
Pagan-girl, pagan-girl, in the laughing south !
Fairy-girl, fairy-girl, heart of the heart’s
core,
Playing in the mellow light
Of "the morning white —
Girl of my Australian gold.
Dear as young love, apple-old,
Fairy-girl, fairy-girl! She has just turned
four.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Desiring.
There were nine singing sisters who sat at
the feet of God,
Each with a crown of eglantine and a white
willow rod,
Each with a dish of berries plucked red from
a burning tree;
And they stirred the yellow morning to
dreams of melody.
With free feet swinging white
Over the cliff' of the light,
They ate the burning berries and tossed a
leaf to me.
The leaf came singing downward by zig-zag
ways of air. . . .
Oh, sisters with the eglantine upon your
braided hair,
The leaf has set my heart athirst for that
red fruit of flame,
The berries of the burning tree from whence
the music came
Singing down and down to me
Under the almond-tree!
I lift my arms, a league too short, to boughs
that have no name.
The nine singing sisters, who laugh for joy
of God,
Each with a crown of eglantine and a white
willow rod,
Have set their feet upon the cloud that comes
in silver haste
With the morning on its bosom and the
wind’s arm at its waist,
Sailing down the yellow sky,
Making the cypress sigh—
Oh, the red desire of Adam lifting lips that
dare to taste!
N.S.W.
DAVOD McKEE WRIGHT.
The Peacock.
A peacock on a wall beside a tree;
A dwarf thing in a pot of cloudy blue
That came from watery Holland; blazing
sun /
Drawing from some hot corner marjoram
And slow rich pungencies of oranges
Across the choke of sage—that humble herb
Assertive of a sunken garden near,
Planted by some spare gourmet long ago,
Who se.t a root of parsley next the rose
And served his God and Mammon with a
book
On Christmas cookeries and altar wines.
The peacock’s tail a hundred colors wears—
The velvet purples of a pansy bed,
.Tade of deep seas, sapphires of farthest Ind,
The trembling emeralds of a rajah’s robe,
The violets of eyes, the copper greens
Of a Corinthian bronze, the opalines
Of little shallow lakes at eventide.
I look upon a grey and rainy street
Through soot-smeared window panes; and
by the glass
Dangles a dull grey spider, and a fly
Crawls with wet wings upon a leaden w T all.
Yet I can see through some half-open door
Of fancy or ancestral memory
A royal peacock sitting in the sun,
Watching, perhaps, the lady with bright
hair
Who leans above a bed of marjoram.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Song o’ Surrey.
There are fairies clown in Surrey,
Mottled green, and dappled rose;
And 1 know them by the twinkling
Of their dainty fairy toes!
Back and forth between the beeches—
Misty green and grey—
Tripping light with fairy paintpots,
They go singing all the day:
“There are fairies down in Surrey,
Mottled green and rose and brown.
Come and see our woodlands painted.
Sleepy people up in town !
Come and hear our woodlands waking.
There are cuckoos on the wing
DoWn in Surrey ! Surrey ! Surrey !
Down in Surrey in the Spring!
“We have made of children's laughter
And of mother’s love-lit tears
And the other halves of rainbows
And the sighings of the years
Each a palette full of color
And a paintpot full of grace;
And we've decked old lady Surrey
Up in yards of silver lace!”
There are fairies down in Surrey.
Surrey wears a soft green gown,
Hyacinths are in her girdle,
Buttercups enwreath her crown;
She has lovers for the wooing....
Go you ! Kiss some fairy thing,
Down in Surrey! Surrey! Surrey!
Down in Surrey in the Spring!
ENGLAND.
L. LUCAS.


9
■
i
■
L
mm
wmmsm
i
m
wmm
W M
m
W:
m
H
mm
■
■■
;V ■ /
*
:
Hill
■
■
■
HB W
m
x
<Jr wfoe xuirtite
/


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, HAW, Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2303.
THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
A SPUR TO PHILANTHROPY.
"The Queensland Government is only at the beginning of its career of advanced legislation.” —Premier Theodore in London.
OPPRESSOR OF THE WORKING CLASSES: “Yes but the last time I gave you money you hit me with that stick."
POOR BUT HONEST TOILER: “I know. I want more money now to buy a bigger stick."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tile White Man.”
Pr i?™« d P, ub^ ed b - v William Macleod, of
Musg-iave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Lo„ 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
AD /. ,RESS IN Australasia, weekly;
“ months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
mJr,°//,t NY r- ADI fI SS s)verseas;5 )verseas ; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
months, los. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
nil n U - eS ' d ™SSs etc., which should be crossed, and
MamffTr neSS Communicationa tn be addressed to the
Special Notice.
refused i<>iently stamped letters are liable to be
of - t ! lis paper are copyright by the
Publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
imwcL contents of this number is hereby
•expressiy reserved by the publishers.
ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
al, ' acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
till contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
„„,, Ce , >cs 1 those dealing with Australian subjects
ana not exceeding two columns in length, or, sag
W(> rds, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
0T Ne f s f a ’Pcr Clippings. Ait, communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
° j.,. Wl 11 be returned or preserved unless these
w»h Lt T\ aie ° hserved - When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
1™J OP>/ /'• t - be destl 'oyed if not acceptable. Per-
aTJ,tZ VhCa Z lOn A for Z etur \ of MS ■ cannot receive
S! Further, The Bulletin desires those
sendm o MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humor mis or other topical drawings in line or wash,
mn/onf' n t nt , me r. Lt arid interest- and adapted for
irect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
ZtTJfiTr Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only The conditions under which such
avMgZ MS UhOm WUI be reC6iVed are those
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1“ St ~ c Grondona, Australia House, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can be ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Australia House. Also from Messrs, "flnrrlnn
and Ootch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
8.C.-’i; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; •■The British-Australasian,” 51
High 110 lb or n, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forjyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J.’ Rowland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City:
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Pa pl. r A. -Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fwi. —-I- 'Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives,
London. — L, St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C 4.
U.S.A. J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1, to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 1924.
THE MESSAGE OF THE S.S.S.
Austbalia is showing an owl-like disposi-
tion to treat the Special Service Squadron
as a pageant, provided by the ever lavish
Imperial authorities for the entertainment of
the coastal cities. Actually, of course, it is
intended to be not a perambulating jazz
party but a tremendous political object
lesson. The expense of the expedition is
enormous. The personnel of the squadron
is gaining nothing in efficiency, and in many
respects the training of both ranks and rat-
ings is likely to suffer. But the game will
be more than worth the costly candle, in the
opinion of the Admiralty, if it helps to
teach this part of the world the capital im-
portance of capital ships. The idea is tha<
when Australians look at the colossal
mass of steel and machinery which
is the Hood they will realise that,
while it stands for perhaps the highest
expression of naval power on all the seas
it cannot be employed to defend Australia
anywhere this side of Port Said. When the
inhabitants of the Commonwealth view the
great ship’s 15in. guns it is hoped they will
appreciate that for practical defence pur-
poses these weapons might as well have been
left behind at Malta; and when they read
or hear that the Hood is able to do 31.
knots they are expected to understand that
such a speed, which in battle may mean the
difference between defeat and victory, could
not be maintained in the Pacific or any
other ocean that lacked docking facilities.
When the U.S. first came into conflict with
Japan over the Californian immigration
question in 1917 it was deemed advisable for
the nation to be made fleet-conscious. So
President Roosevelt sent a squadron round
the world, and America woke up. That
expedition was the forerunner not only of
the Gentlemen's Agreement (which, however
unsatisfactory, has at least had the effect
of limiting the influx of Japanese coolies to
the U.S.), but of the battleships and bases
in the Pacific which America has to-day. If
the Special Service Squadron does not pro-
duce similar reactions here its mission will
have failed.
* * * *
It is no insult to the Japanese to take it
for granted that inside the next half-century,
and probably much earlier, they will make
an effort to spill over into some temperate
zone at present held by whites. Their
population-increase is phenomenal and their
standard of living is such that they cannot
compete industrially with the natives of
Korea or the Chinese mainland. They would
not be the virile and ambitious people they
are if they sat down under their disabilities.
Innumerable devices, from the hiring of
foreign mercenaries to the forming of leagues
and the drawing-up of treaties, have been
experimented with in the past by rich
nations eager to enjoy their possessions
without the discomfort and expense of arm-
ing to defend them. They have failed, with-
out a single exception. Humanity in count-
less proverbs and by universal practice con-
cedes a sort of right to the successful
wielder of the strong arm. It is regret-
table, of course, but only lunatics will blind
themselves to its existence. The first and
likeliest peril that threatens Australia as the
outcome of this rule is war between Japan
and the U.S. All the necessary ingredients
are there except proximity; and in recent
times America lias fought Spain and Japan
Russia. An American expeditionary force
left Siberia for the U.S. in 1920 after two
years spent side by side with Japanese
troops and Japanese administrators. Their
stories of Japanese arrogance and worse
were widely circulated. In the words of a
writer in the last issue of Foreign Affairs :
The rank and file came back with their minds
impregnated with rancor at the truculence of the
Japanese troops and revulsion at the callousness
of their dealing with helpless Siberian peasants,
and with a profound distrust of the Japanese political
ambitions which they had seen at work.
America was not reassured by the news
that the J apanese had “treated the local
population with a high-handedness and even
with a brutality explainable only by the
assumption that they smarted with resent-
ment at the attitude of superiority w r hich the
Russians had formerly assumed towards
them. The Americans had themselves
assumed an attitude of the kind for
generations. They felt, logically enough,
that if . they .did not now reverse
their traditional policy in respect of Asiatics
it would have to be carried a step further,
and the Japanese Exclusion Law was
drafted. The sentiments of Japan concern-
ing this measure were expressed in a cable
message of last month :
In the House of Peers, Baron SaKATani, ex-Mini-
ster for Education, declared that the seeds of a
mture world-war will be sown if the United States
ot America enacts the Japanese exclusion law. “Japan-
ese, he said, “cannot submit to the humiliation of
pemg treated like negroes. It requires no prophet
to predict a crisis in American and Japanese relations
it the measure passes.”
■The plain truth is the seeds of war in the
I acific were sown when the last great war
started, and the most trifling and outwardly
irrelevant of occurrences may cause them to
germinate. If trouble comes and Japan
seizes the Philippines and Hawaii (she
already possesses stepping-stones to these
place in Bonin and the Caroline, Marshall
and Marianne Islands), Australia’s invidious
position will at the best be that of a neutral
in a warring world. At the worst we shall
find ourselves belligerents, owing to Britain
having been forced into the fray on one side
or the other, and in the absurd and humili-
ating position of being incapable of defend-
ing ourselves or of being defended by any-
one else.
* * * *
Another possibility is that the Japanese
may forego the notion of overflowing on to
the Pacific slope—a glowing scheme which
bristles with difficulties owing to the U.S.A.’s
populous and defended state—and may de-
cide instead to overflow here. It cannot be
stressed too often that if we cannot hold
this country the world will not blame them
for taking it. The whole story of civilisa-
tion is a matter of hungry peoples leaving
their barren or overcrowded homelands in
of food. The early pioneers of N.
S. Wales would not have crossed the Blue
Mountains and dispossessed the natives of
the fertile Bathurst plains had the Sydney
settlement been self-supporting. The Norse-
men and Normans invaded England for food.
Tamerlane and Ghenghis Khan burst
upon the _ rich and defenceless plains of
Europe with the same compelling objective,
and food was the spur that drove the war-
like desert tribes into the valleys of the
A lie, the Tigris and the Euphrates 5000
jeais ago. It has always been so, and until
n League of Nations or other body appears
with an invention enabling man to live
indefinitely on an empty stomach there is
"o Prospect of a change for the better. The
Hood is Britain’s highly-effective counter
to the tendency. A nation which is pro-
tected by such a vessel is no more likely to
be lightly raided than the occupied kennel
of a healthy bloodhound. When international
arguments are in progress the presence of a
Hood helps the diplomatists of the power
that owns it to bring round to their way of
thinking the. representatives of the most
famished nations; and if the worst comes
to the worst the side on which a Hood is
has an odds-on chance of escaping defeat,
and the ruin which defeat in war means
nowadays. It is this message that the
bpecial bervice Squadron brings to us. We
may have the use of a Hood, and all that
the privilege implies in the opportunity to
make this the noblest white man’s country
the world has ever known; but we must pay
the price. If we hesitate, imagining that
the good, easy English taxpayer who has
stood to us so staunchly for over a century
m still complaisant, then Heaven, or the luck
which is supposed to emanate from the other
place, may save us, but what is quite cer-
tain is that the R.N. will not. The pick of
its ships, officers and men are here to
demonstrate that, with all the goodwill in
the world, the R.N. will not be able to.
THE TIME FOR REVOLT.
It is time to revolt against many things.
It is time to revolt against the habitual
Cabinet of lawyers, land-owners, agents, job-
bers and occasional traders; also against the
rival habitual Cabinet of union secretaries,
with hardly ever a manufacturer in the
crowd. The manufacturer is the individual
who counts for most in the industrial life of
Australia, with the pastoralist second, and
if members of his class can be got they
ought to constitute half the average Minis-
try. They stand for progress. N. S.
Wales is supposed to be specially fitted for
agriculture, because it possesses 25 per cent,
more land with a 30in. rainfall than Victoria,
South Aus. and Tasmania combined, yet
this was its employment record from 1911 to
1922, where the complete figures at present
end:—
De-
,, , 1911. 1922. crease.
Persons employed in forests,
fisheries and mines . . 39,100 33,200 5,900
Employed in all rural
industries . ... . .. 139,100 137,700 1,400
Increase.
Employed in manufactures 99,700 148,900 49,200
The manufacturer pays better wages for
shorter hours than the ■ agriculturist and
dairy man (the wool man is in another cate-
gory) ; also he pays far higher railway
charges, and he doesn’t want a guaranteed
price for his crop, or cheap Government
land, or seed wheat, or bonuses on output,
or advances from the Rural Bank. The
gross value of his output was nearly twice
as much in 1922 as the gross value of all
the other N. S. Wales outputs combined,
llis progress is due in part to the fact that
he works for a local market, while the
wheat and cow men toil largely (or mainly)
for precarious and remote buyers. There
is still plenty of room in the local market.
It is the misfortune of the manufacturer
that he is much too exclusively a resident
of the One Big City which is the curse of
the mainland States, but the freak legisla-
tion of Ministries in which his class was
little represented has made him that.
* * * -x-
It is time to revolt against the idea that
a rich country landlord like Austin Chap-
man, who need neither toil nor spin, is the
best man to hold the Customs portfolio and
look after manufactures. The great politi-
cal aim of the agricultural section of every
party is that it should get foreign agricul-
tural machinery in free of duty, no matter
what damage is done to the Australian im-
plement industry, and its members claim
that they would thereby save a scrap of
money, and perhaps be able to sell wheat a
trifle cheaper. If they got free importa-
tion of everything they use, and to balance
things were deprived of the charitable aid
they get by having their wheat carried on
the railways at half cost, the growth of
wheat, except for the local market, would
drop like a plumber from a high roof ; but
the kind of Minister who is reared
in the agricultural atmosphere is hardly
the right one to expound that view.
Nor is the ideal man a fretful
lawyer like Hughes, or other kinds of law-
yer like Best and Groom. And while the
revolt is on it should include among its
objects the abolition of any sort of Tariff
Board which has power to reduce duties
without direct Parliamentary sanction. This
leads to the larger question of an uprising
against the monstrous importing disease. The
‘adverse balance of trade” has become an
alarming thing, thanks to the floating of
foreign loans, which come here in the shape
of goods; the sale of the gold output
abroad, the product of which also turns into
foreign goods; the competition of lower-wage
races with depreciated currencies; the sag-
ging in exportation of “primary products,”
and possibly other causes. The point is
that in 1922-23 the Commonwealth bought
from abroad about £34,000,000 worth more
goods than it could honestly pay for, and
in the first seven months of i 923-24 it
bought about £30,000,000 more than it could
honestly pay for. This increased the debt,
j i ls ar heavy already, and dimin-
lshed local employment, which threatens to
be afflicted _ with a severe scarcity. The old
tariff is quite unequal to the new conditions,
and the exportation of the gold yield looks
like plain disaster.
®
A revolt is also due against any continu-
ance, after the first month of the Federal
session, of the tariff preference to British
goods. It should go—to be renewed when
the Cold Country acquires a sane Protec-
tionist Ministry, which is allowed by its
principles to give something in return. The
present preference involves, on recent
hgures, a loss of tariff revenue to Australia
of £8,750,000 per annum. A microscopic
concession _which Britain gives in exchange
is worth £75,000. The specially low duties
on British goods applies to goods partly
made in the United Kingdom—even to goods
on which three-fourths of the work was done
m Germany or Russia, so long as a plaus-
ible pretence is made that 25 per cent,
of the article is British. The British policy
admits and even welcomes these unfinished
foreign products, for in the prevailing
wretchedness a quarter of a job is better
than nothing. As a result this mistaken
community is losing much revenue, getting
far more imported goods than it can afford,
using by a sort of fraud the products of
people whose products it doesn’t want, and
paying an unknown amount of good money
to people whom it doesn’t like. The Ram-
pant Macdonald Government has intimated
that it intends to be worse rather than
better, and that it will not let the Temple
of Shoddy “be nibbled away at the founda-
tions by the development and application of
Imperial preference.” The anxiety of the
Old Brigade to rub in the lesson has been
strikingly shown in the matter of the so-
called Empire Exhibition, to which Aus-
tralia contributed considerably under the
impression that it was to be used to adver-
tise the Empire's products. Foreign timber
has been used in the buildings. Foreign
foods and wines are to be served in the
restaurants, and it is said that £5O per line
was demanded for a mention of Australian
liquors on the menu. One member of the
Rams hackle Ministry, whose Freetrade
seems almost to amount to hatred of Empire
products, even demands that foreign exhibits
be admitted, so that there shall be no real
Empire Exhibition at all. In the circum-
stances, it looks like a sin and almost like
an insult for this country to “nibble at the
foundations of Freetrade by maintaining
Imperial preference, even if it is only one-
sided preference. If it was abolished there
would be a better chance to identify Hun
and Bolshevik wares when they were offered
at our doors.
And a revolt is overdue against the “settle-
ment idea which has it that if any land is
used for the only variety of “primary pro-
duction which has proved consistently pro-
ductive it is "unused land,” and calls for
special taxation to chase the consistent pro-
ducer over the horizon. As witness this
sample from a recent paper:—
The secretary of the A.W.U., Mr. Bucklana,
alleged that the bulk of the unused fertile land in
■N.S.W, was held by big institutions and land-owners
many of whom resided in other parts of the world.
He said that the Chief Commissioner of Railways
had stated in evidence before a royal commission
that within the wheat belt alone, and within 15
miles of the existing railways, there were 34,000,000
awes of fertile land, and only J/,000,000 were beino
utilised.
Only a lunatic would imagine that “big in-
stitutions. and landowners,” whether they
“resided in other parts of the world” or not,
sacrificed the interest on their money, and
paid State and Federal taxes out of their
private earnings, merely to keep 80.000,0<X)
acres of land not “utilised.” They grow
sheep on it, but a quaint superstition exists
that any and every area which can raise
wheat should raise wheat and nothing else.
The world wants more wool of the splendid
variety which Australia produces, and it
doesn’t want more wheat—at least, this is
inferred from the fact that the price of the
former is rising while the price of the latter
isn t. A time has arrived when I j lb. of
wool is worth as much as a bushel of wheat,
with the animal's carcase as a side-line.
Wool pays good wages, whereas wheat is a
non-union piecework job in which the worker
takes what he can get. The N. S. Wales
Statistician reckons that the man who
struggles with a 250-acre wheat-farm made
m all £577 in seven out of the eight years
up to 1922-23. That is, he averfged £B3
per annum. It will be possible to make wool
support more people to the sq. mile than
wheat when Australia manufactures more
of its own sheep-covering. Some sheep-farms
are larger than necessary, but it is time for
a revolt against the fools and frauds and
advertising shams who would chase our one
assured “primary” asset off and sow bank-
ruptcy on the vacant area.
THE CRIME OF BEING CAUGHT
SNORING.
•The other day the Federal Labor leader re-
sumed the parable that the one strong de-
fence of a country is to have no defence, for
“every country that prepares for war
assuredly gets it." In this matter he
merely followed the lead of British Labor:
but in his demand for disarmament he
verged on the ridiculous, for when there is
a whole continent to be held by 6,000,000
people, and these spend just one-twentieth
of their revenue on the holding of it, the
disarmament looks pretty complete already,
ilien I began to think of some people who
followed the Labor man’s advice, and kept
defence at a crude and ill-trained minimum,
and of other people, all the way from
Joshua to William llohenzollern, who
fell on them in consequence, and made them
feel sorry for themselves. And it struck ine
that William’s immortal ancestor Fred-
erick was a shining example of how paltry
and impecunious a creature can desolate the
earth when cheap and short-sighted Charl-
tons have made the way easy. A few
pounds’ worth of intelligent preparation
would have blocked Frederick, and the
A.I.F. as it was in its third year, with John
Monash to lead it, should have ended his
Seven Years’ war in seven days.
Frederick inherited a fine army from an
organising father who was no fighter. The
new king succeeded at 28, when gallant and
generous youth is still at its best. He com-
posed bad verses in bad French, and he
tootled none too well on the flute. lie wrote
windy, wordy, weary books. In the course
of 46 years he doubled his kingdom, for he
prospered as all good liars do. it was his
aim to have a. separate secret treaty with
every ally against every other ally, and. if
possible, with his enemies against his allies
and against each other. He was capable of
making treaties against himself. He always
began war without declaring war, and even
after the unprovoked attack had been going
on for three months he was prepared to
swear that it was a case of mistaken iden-
tity. No one ever accused him of doing a
kind action, or of missing the chance of
doing an unkind one, and in his unsavory
and verminous old age he enjoyed kicking
the shins of those who came near enough.
. But Frederick had intense persistence
m an age of incompetence; and Britain,
with its knack of backing the wrong horse,
carried the dead weight of his one really
great war because of the idea that he was
the “Protestant hero.” (It also lost its
American colonies through trying to make
them help with the bill.) When he opened
his first campaign, without notice, he gave
the key to many subsequent campaigns. The
Austrian Government had been long think-
ing of adopting the iron ramrod to push the
half-pint of powder and the half-pound of
lead down the long hole in the half-witted
musket. They were still thinking. The
wooden ramrod was such a delicate creature
and had to be handled so tactfully that the
Austrian soldier could fire only one shot for
the Prussian’s three. When the wooden
affair broke he couldn’t fire at all till he
found a spare rod. or betook himself to the
nearest forest and cut a new one. With
double the number of infantrymen the Prus-
sians counted six shots to one, and all save
Frederick were jubilant. He posted two
letters about his certain death, and then
fled for his life with his retinue. Arriving
at a small fortified town he screamed for the
gate to be opened. Either it was the wrong
town or it had changed hands, for the gate
did open, and Austrian soldiers poured out.
Then the king made a strange noise like a
cat, and leaving his followers to hold off the
enemy he started back to his army for
safety. In the morning he was -weeping bit-
terly in a windmill, and a chance wayfarer
came in to investigate, such sounds being


uncommon in mills. When the visitor sought
to make polite conversation w ith the stranger,
and remarked, among other things, that the
king had won a great victory, Frederick
hastened back, and pretended he had never
been away, but had been in the thick of the
fight all the time, though so covered with
blood and dust as to be unrecognisable. It
was a little later that he began to call him-
self “the Great.” Except for one or two
intervals he seems to have been gun-shy all
his life, like most of his perverted race. But
his luck was good and liis ingenuity never
failed.
Saxony, to snatch which the Great King
began his third war without notice, was
not gained, but it was made a desert and
an orphanage, a dismal evidence of what
happens to the country which is found un-
armed. The peaceful local monarch lied with
his 20,000 men to an impregnable position
to wait for help; but having omitted to
victual the impregnable position, it gave up
the ghost. The 20,000 men were thereupon
enlisted in the Prussian forces; but despite
strenuous flogging the new 7 troops were not
wholly satisfactory. After that Saxon
wounded and prisoners w r ere killed at sight.
Frederick came on the scene just too late
to be obliterated in one act by Prince
Eugene, and just too early to be chased off
the map at his first appearance by Napoleon.
He found himself up against small men.
Apraksin, the fitst Russian commander, was
a man who loathed the untidy spectacle of
war, and he dodged the enemy for 2| months.
Then the enemy attacked him on the luckless
field of Grossjagersdorf, and he hid; but his
subordinates wiped the floor with the pride
of Prussia, whereupon the victor gave up
all liis conquests and fled home. He ex-
plained that he had heard that his beloved
Imperial Mistress' was ill, and he had hast-
ened with his entire force to inquire about
her health. His successors were made of
sterner stuff, but they spent the Spring on
the long march into Prussia, and the autumn
on the long march back, and had about six
weeks of the year for business. The idea
of collecting enough food and staying the
winter in Prussia apparently occurred to no-
one. And Daun, the Austrian, objected to
battles, even if they were won, because they
cost men and made a hash of pipeclay and
discipline. Only unskilled generals, he said,
required to fight battles. Especially he
objected to more than one conflict per annum.
He represented to perfection the old school
of warfare, founded by Marshal Methuse-
lah, and developed during his brief Egyptian
campaign (Exodus, second chapter) by Mar-
shal Moses. He had no special objection to
being killed, and the fact that he retired
after each victory only arose from his hatred
of disorder. He was kept on because the
previous man had been worse. But it must
be said in extenuation that both the Russian
and Austrian commanders, especially the
former, received a good many orders from
headquarters, and headquarters were a long
way off. Often a belated courier would bring
positive instructions that the general-in-chief
was to charge uphill at any cost when he
had done it w r eeks before and found the top
of the hill quite useless, or he would be
bidden to hang on to liis high and strong
position wlieu he w r as down at the bottom
of a hole.
The career of Frederick the Great, with
his five surprise wars, his profits, his pride,
his Pecksniffism and his great glory proves
one thing above all others. When nations
are ill-prepared, and armies are raw and ill-
equipped, and generals are ill-trained, and
the command is divided, and the ramrod is
made of w 7 ood, an enterprising third-rate
ruffian may w 7 reclt half a continent in a
quite surprising fashion, and all the high
principles yet invented wall not prevail
against him. The greatest crime that a
State can perpetrate against itself is to be
unprepared—as Austria, Saxony and Poland
were when this llohenzollern was in the
offing.
J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Groperland Verdict.
Although the Westralian Mitchell Gov-
ernment is hanging on until it knows the
results in two northern constituencies, which
elect their members on April s—an5 —an immedi-
ate resignation would have ruined the chances
of the Ministerial candidates for both seats
—its position has been liopeldss since mid-
night on March 22. With Pilbarra and
Kimberley undecided, its following has been
reduced from 2!) to 17 (10 Nationalists and
seven pi-o-Mitchell Cockies), whereas there
are 25 Labor members and half a dozen anti-
Mitchell Cockies. Maley, Minister of
Agriculture and leader of the Country party
till the split, has lost Greenougli to a Labor
man. Scaddan, who sat for Albany, must
have known what he was about when lie
resigned from the Ministry and from Parlia-
ment, for Albany has reverted to Labor.
George, the Works Minister, was supposed
to be deep in the affections of Murray-Wel-
lington, which has a large group-settlement
vote and has never known a Labor member;
yet the A.L.P. nominee was beaten by only
50 votes in a poll of 2482. And the Premier’s
own majority in Northam, where the Perth
morning paper arrives at breakfast-time,
always with the assurance that there never
was a statesman like Mitchell, fell to 147.
According to the Nationalist press, all these
distressing events are attributable to the cus-
sedness of the anti-MiTCHELL Cockies in
“refusing to unite against the common
enemy.” In point of fact, three of Labor’s
gains were made in metropolitan con-
stituencies, two in outports and one in a
goldfield electorate where no true-blue
Cockies stood. Even in Greenougli, the one
place where a Labor man won against a
sitting Ministerialist and a Farmer, the C.P.
dispute had little or nothing to do with
Maley’s defeat. There, as elsewhere, the two
influences that told most heavily against the
Government were the growing aversion to
“Nationalism,” evident throughout the Com-
monwealth, and the mistrust excited by the
disclosures about Mitchell’s group settle-
ments. On that subject a candidate genially
remarked that there wasn’t a State politician
who wouldn’t admit in conversation, though
he wouldn't say it on the platform, that 5(3
p.c. of The'Government’s expenditure (it is
committed to six millions) would liave to be
written off. A farmer visited some of the
groups and recorded his impressions before
polling-day. Among his impressions were
that a lot of the groupers “don’t know an axe
from a spade,” that “the land is sandy, thin
and light,” more than half of it being hope-
less, and that 95 p.e. of the settlers will
live to regret their old jobs on weekly wages.
It was announced about the same time that
£82,000 bad been spent to date in draining
a 1100-acre lake, whereas the depart-
mental estimate was £20,000. The idea is
that 113 returned soldiers should grow
vegetables on the reclaimed land for the
Perth market, which has no pressing demand
for more garden truck, the place being well
supplied already, and it is confidently ex-
pected that when the area is ready for occu-
pation it will have cost £lOO per acre in
drainage alone. Musing on these and other
aspects of Mitchellism. thousands of electors
decided that they couldn’t be as badly off
under a Collier Government, which might
at least be sane, as they were likely to be if
the Nationalists were allowed to continue
their crazy career; and they voted accord-
ingly. There was no great increase in the
Labor vote, as. such (the party gained at
least four seats more than it would have
done had the Redistribution of Seats Bill
been passed), but there is a strong and per-
ceptible feeling that the rulers of Westralia
will have to emerge from their fools’ para-
dise (which is also a foreign-loan paradise)
and recognise that their State will have to
pay its way and get the worth of every
pound spent. It is a feeling that the Col-
lier Government will need to bear in mind.
4,
The “S. M. Herald” on the Decay of
Ma State.
This truth leaked out of the S. M. Herald
the other day :
“I have a piece of land at Newcastle which the
Government valuer values at £l5O, but which l
would cheerfully sell for £5. In fact, 1 would give
it away, 1 have to pay £3 per annum rates. How
can I get rid of this? Can 1 disclaim ownership?”
So writes a correspondent, and discloses a grievance
which is shared by thousands of landowners through-
out the State. Most country towns have gone bach
•instead of forward.
It isn’t often that the orthodox paper gets
away from its tale of “progress” and “un-
limited natural resources” to give the old
lady -who lives at the bottom of the well an
innings, and it will probably not do it again
this year. N. 8. Wales, outside Sydney, is
to a great extent a perishing proposition.
Yet N. S. Wales is favored above its neigh-
bors. It has more land with a rainfall of
30 inches and over per annum than West-
ralia, Victoria, S. Australia or Tasmania ;
more, in fact, than the last three combined,
It owns the biggest share of the continent’s
biggest river system. It has three excellent
harbors, practically unused, which could be
joined on to their natural hinterland at
moderate cost, and turned into city sites.
It has some useful small ports awaiting
a chance to develop. And last year, thanks
largely to its unrivalled coal supply, it dug
out nearly twice as much mineral riches as
all the remaining States and territories put
together. In addition to all else, it has
spent more loan money, especially on rail-
ways to “promote settlement,” than any
other State—in fac-t, its railway-build-
ing to “promote settlement” has cost
nearly twice as much as that of any
other State. Yet, as the Herald remarked
in a candid moment, “most country towns
have gone back instead of forward.” Last
census showed 50 country municipalities to
be fading off the map, and most of the rest
were stagnant. It also showed 54 shires to
be losing population. The whole Western
Division (125,294 sq. miles) had lost popu-
lation between censuses; likewise the North-
ern Tableland (13,950 sq. miles) ; ditto the
North-Western Slope (15,333 sq. miles) ;
also the Central Plain (15,673 sq. miles).
On the other hand, the congestion of the Big
City grows more intense with the increase of
“land settlement.” In the two years 1921-
22, where the completed figures end, almost
exactly two-thirds of the new population was
city population, and the balance was mainly
in the rest of the County of Cumberland.
The country is losing industries also. There
were 215 fewer factories in N. S. Wales out-
side Sydney in 1921 than in 1911, and subse-
quent figures, when they arrive, are not
likely to make the situation better. The
Rev. John Dunmore Lang, who left a big
footprint hereabouts, once wrote, with a
curious fore-knowledge of the trouble to
come:—
In the course of a visit to the United States in
1840 I learnt that much of the social comfort and
happiness of the people depended on their having the
Government, in all the more important concerns of
life, brought to their own doors through the division
of their country into a number of separate States,
also that they had found that from 40:,000 to 50,000
square miles was a proper extent of territory for a
separate State.
It would be worth while to try having three
or four capitals to form centres of popula-
tion in N. S. Wales instead of one; but
George Fuller’s Royal Commission to deal
with the subject shows that he, anyhow, is
no trier. Unless Australia changes its ways
it will go down in history as the Stupid Giant
of the ages. Its record thus far is that it
can’t make a new State or capital or city,
and that it can hardly make a new town of
any permanence—at least, the amount that
has been done in these directions since Brit-
ish authority left us to ourselves is mar-
vellously little. And when we got a new
province through the definite cession of the
Northern Territory, the most notable achieve-
ments that followed were scandals, rows, in-
quiries, expenses and depopulation.
♦
The State and the Orphans.
The conclusions of one who has long worked
among them in N. S. Wales: —
Someone has been writing to the daily papers ex-
tolling the N. S. Wales Child Welfare Department,
and laying stress on the humanitarian work accom-
plished. It sounds very nice, and no doubt the
“heads” feel a glow of virtuous pride (as Mr.
Bumble sometimes did) when they read the eulogies;
but I would like to give the other side in this case.
The Child Welfare Department, until a few months
ago known as the State Children’s Relief Depart-
ment, was founded in 1881 with the object of assist-
ing the State child. What have they done, or are
they doing for him? Here is a picture of the life
of one from the time he is adopted by the State
till he is sent out into the world (at the age of
18 years) to battle for himself.
On the death of his parents, and having no rela-
tives or friends who are willing to provide for him,
he is adopted by the State, and thenceforth he is
called a State ward. On being taken possession of
by the State he is landed at the Metropolitan Boys’
Shelter, which, strange to say, is situated in one of
the slum areas of the city. There he is housed
with a fine collection of youths; for the shelter is
used (in addition to accommodating State boys) as
a place of detention for all juvenile offenders up to
the age of 18 years, and they are there for all
manner of crimes, from burglary down to vagrancy
and drunkenness! Truly a fine beginning for an
innocent and perhaps refined lad. He is kept there
amongst this motley crowd till such time as the
department can arrange for his “boarding-out.” It
may be weeks or months that he is detained there,
according to circumstances. From there he is
“boarded-out” to people who are prepared to take
him for a consideration —10s. per week is the
amount allowed. When he reaches the age of 14 the
payments cease, and very often, on the principle of
“ n o money, no boy,” he is returned to the shelter,
there to again meet with the youthful Bill Sikes.
By this time he is, as a rule, not averse to such
friendships, for it’s pretty lonely not having a mate.
After being there for any length of time, from a week
or two to a month or two, he is “apprenticed out,”
which is the final scene of all in his strange, event-
ful history. From the term “apprenticed” one
would think that he would be put to a trade, but
this is not so. He is, with very few exceptions,
sent on to a farm, there to work (at the age of
14 years) for a few shillings a week. At the age
of 18 he is turned out to face the world as what !
As a standing monument to the crass stupidity
and callousness of the State and its BuMBLE-like
officials.
The State boy, as the finished product of the
svstem now in vogue, is a pathetic figure, and a
disgrace to the State which took the responsibility
of caring for him during his infancy. Thanks to
the system, he is illiterate (and illiteracy and crime
generally go hand-in-hand). He has no trade and at
the best lie can look forward only to the life of
an unskilled laborer. hast, but not least, the
environment and the evil companions he was
herded with at the shelter—if all these things ha
left their mark on the boy, who must shoulder the
blame? It is no use shuffling. It is no use trying
to pass the responsibility on to the “heads.” 'they
are our otfk ers, and ours therefore is the crime.
«
The a.N.A.’s Punch.
Recent assaults on the White Australia
policy and the complementary policy of
national defence have baited the A.N.A..nuo
demonstrating that its old spirit isn t so
dead as some critics are fond ot suggesting.
In words very different from the
of machine-made motions, the 850 delegates
who attended the Warrnambool (Vic.) con-
ference recorded their "abiding devotion to
the established policy of White Australia
and their determination “to resist any attacks
upon this great principle,” and they author-
ised their State Boards of Directors ’ to take
any action necessary to maintain oui Com-
monwealth as a land for the white races.
Other Warrnambool resolutions were that
the “early completion” of the Nortli-Soutli
railway and the retention of compulsory
training were essential as measures ot de-
fence. Many of the delegates were Labor
sympathisers; some were State Labor poli-
ticians. This is significant, inasmuch as dur-
ing the same week the Federal Labor party,
at the instance of its forcible-feeble leader
Charlton, “congratulated the British (gov-
ernment on its decision not to build a naval
base at Singapore,” and hoped that the
other nations” would follow this splendid
lead towards disarmament.” Also. Charl-
ton and his followers sat silent m the House
of Reps, while a Cocky Minister taunted
them with having less regard for the defence
of their country than for their fancied in-
terests as a party. Because the public has
grown weary of dull old bigots, land-boomers
and loan-squanderers who call themselves
Nationalists, and is voting in increasing
numbers for the only Opposition likely to
be in a position to carry oil the government,
Charlton and co. evidently imagine that it
is ready to swallow any pacifist rubbish they
like to thrust down its throat. No idea
could be sillier or more perilous to the poli-
ticians indulging in it. Though a good word
has been degraded by impostors who have
capitalised it (in more senses than one) amt
traded on it, the flame of nationalism burns
brighter than ever. Australians wont
suffer any party to wliite-ant the national
policies of race-purity and effective defence.
♦—
A Cry from Scotland.
This is the first time a Mac from the Scot-
tish Highlands has been Prime Minister ot
Britain, and there were hopes that he might
have some plan in his mind for the uplift ol
his native land. It needs something of the
sort badly enough. Dismal tales more dis-
mal than usual—are afoot concerning the dis-
tress in the Highlands, and especially in the
western archipelago thereof. The fishing
industry has been blighted by the intrusion
of foreign competitors, by tinned fish, by
the chances of the weather, and by other cir-
cumstances; and agriculture is a beggar s
game nowadays. By reason of the abun-
dance of water-power there should be large
manufacturing possibilities in the Top of
Britain, but most of the trifling manufac-
tures there were have died out. Scotland is
divided into 38 comities, and the census of
1921 showed that 18 of them were losing
population. This was no passing conse-
quence of war. for the census of 1911 re-
vealed 15 counties as on the way hack to the
primitive condition. But the backward
movement accelerated between then and 1921,
and it must have had a great impetus
since, for in 1921 the really big rush of
poverty—the poverty with which Baldwin,
alone among British leaders, endeavored to
cope—was not much more than begun. The
18 counties on the death list at last enumera-
tion day were Orkney, Shetland, Caithness,
Sutherland, Ross and Cromarty (they arc
officially reckoned as one), Inverness,
Nairn, Elgin (Macdonald’s native county),
Banff, Aberdeen and Forfar, all in or
towards the North; Renfrew and Mid-
lothian (which contains the ancient capi-
tal, Edinburgh) in the centre; and the
Border counties of Berwick, Selkirk, Rox-
burgh. Kirkcudbright and Wigtown. Some
of the decreases were unusual even in a
land -which has-grown accustomed to poor
luck. Forfar (which contains the port
and manufacturing city of Dundee) lost
10,467 inhabitants. Aberdeen county
(which includes Aberdeen, the fourth city
of the kingdom) lost 11,107. Renfrew’
found itself short by 15,0tb>. And, as
already mentioned, these might almost be
called ordinary proceedings, being achieved
three years ago, before the worst trouble
set in. The whole matter might be summed
up thus: —
In 10 years (1911-21) the two counties of
Lanark and Ayr. where the flood of Irish
migration pours in, gained . . • • 123,110
The rest of Scotland lost . . . . • • l,son
Net gain .. .. •• •• 121,311
It is not a cheering picture for a patriotic
Scot to contemplate, even if he does vote the
Foreign-trade ticket. And a comparison with
Wales makes the view no better. Wales is
one-fourth the size of Scotland, and like it
consists to a fair extent of scenery. But
only two out of its 12 counties were losing
population in 1921, and the losses were 11 •>
and 1829 respectively. The net results tor
the Kingdom and the Principality during 20
years were these: —
Increase op Population.
Wales. Scotland.
1901-1911 .. 310,402 288,801
1911-1921 . . 181,510 121,384
The question is what the Highland Prime
Minister proposes to do for his native laud.
So far he hasn’t mentioned that he proposes
to do anything: in fact, after helping to
throw out a Prime Minister who had a
scheme, one of Macdonald's colleagues ex-
plained that they hadn’t one themselves. So
the outlook is gloomy, and is likely to con-
tinue gloomy until the country faces the
facts and ceases to be governed by ancient
political superstitions. And meantime there
is nothing for it but to send around the hat.
♦
Upper Houses anti Money Bills.
The behavior of the Speck’s Upper House
during the recent session has again set
Laborites discussing ways and means of sub-
jugating that erratic Chamber. The plan
alleged to be favored by Ministerialists, but
not so far publicly endorsed by the Lyons
Cabinet, is to supplicate the Ramsay
Macdonald Government for a reformed Con-
stitution embodying the Initiative and Refer-
endum. and providing that Referendum de-
cisions shall automatically become law,
whether the Leg. Council likes or lumps it.
But it is doubtful whether the British Gov-
ernment could be persuaded to comply. The
chances are that it would remind the Speck
Premier that Crown Colony methods could
hardly be applied satisfactorily to one of a
number of Britain’s oversea possessions which
had enjoyed self-governing rights for the
biggest ' part of a century. Another pro-
posal (ex-Speaker Woods brought it forth)
is that when the Upper House interferes
with money bills the Assembly should simply
ignore it, and present its budgets for the
Governor’s signature. That functionary is
bound to accept his Ministers’ advice or
find other advisers. Given a fairly unani-
mous Assembly, he would be unable to find
contrary advisers, and so would have to sign
or resign. Woods’s suggestion might not
solve the whole problem, but it would at
least bring about a crisis in which, for the
first time in its existence, the Council would
he forced to defend its alleged right to
monkey with money hills.
♦-
Woman’s Enemy—Woman.
At meetings of the Mothers’ Union and of
the Women’s Christian Temperance Union
held within the past few weeks it has been
advocated variously:—
That attempts to diminish venereal disease by the
regulation—in other words, the legal recognition—
of prostitutes were to be deplored, and that reliance
should be placed on moral teachings.
That women should oppose divorce and uphold mar-
riage as a lifelong and indissoluble union of one
man and one woman to the exclusion of all others on
either side.
That the war spirit should he protested against
and pacifism supported.
That prohibition should be advocated, and more
particularly by prison workers, since when prohibi-
tion is enacted prisons will be no longer needed.
Instead of beingfor the instant good of woman,
every one of these proposals strikes at her.
Moral and religious suasion has been em-
ployed for many centuries on the side ot
right living, yet it is probable that at the
present time the white races are more dis-
eased venereally than at any time in history.
And this is essentially a woman’s tragedy,
since it is venereal disease —spread to a
great extent by prostitutes-—that is respon-
sible for nearly all the so-called “women’s
complaints,” and for a vast proportion of
childless marriages and congenitally diseased
and malformed children. As for divorce, it
is sheer humbug to pretend that “a lifelong
and indissoluble union of one man and one
woman” is practicable in all cases. Where
a mistake has been made, and it is decided
out of deference to church or convention to
hang on as though all were well, it is almost
invariably the woman who suffers. The hus-
band —who usually controls the purse—is
free, while she remains bound. The modern
divorce laws offer her a chance of escaping
from a matrimonial mockery, shared perhaps
with a loose-living inebriate, and, without
financial danger to herself or her children,
of seeking a congenial mate. It is the same
with prohibition and pacifism : they menace
women in a special degree. Whatever pros-
pects of future success prohibition may have
—and the horizon is still dark in the TJ.S.A.
after over four years of desperate effort —
one thing is certain : its tendency is to shift
drink from the saloon into the homo. Girls
and boys who would never have dreamt of
entering a public bar arc acquiring the
alcohol habit, at the most dangerous age, be-
cause under prohibition every home
which contains an adult who is not a tee-
totaller is liable to be an extempore saloon.
Pacifism, like teetotalism, is an admirable
ideal; but —also like teetotalism —wherever
the attempt to impose it fails, the section
that stands to lose most is Woman. In Aus-
tralia, for example, the natural enemy is an
Oriental, as in France 10 years ago the
natural enemy was a Teuton. We know
what the French and Belgian women suf-
fered : we can imagine what they would
suffer at the hands of Asiatics. And the
W.C.T.U. imagines that pacifism and dis-
armament are policies to be advocated “in
the interests of women” in a predatory world
which has not laid down the sword and shows
not the slightest disposition to do so.


Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. ofAusfralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums . . . . . . _ £8849
Seventh year’s premiums. . . . . . . . ' " ’ * ■* * £8 ,_ ,_ OB
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
A
• •
Managing Director.
Exploiting the Tariff,
Dear Bulletin, —-Your ceaseless advocacy
of a vigorous tariff policy merits the admira-
tion of all true Australians, a true Austra-
lian being one who does not take his fiscal
opinions from the Big City dailies, and who.
economically speaking, has the capacity of
seeing farther than liis nose. But is * not
the tariff being exploited as a taxing
machine V The typewriter on which these
words are being pounded out cost I',) guineas.
The same machine is sold in U.S.A. at about
£ll 10s. The greater part of the difference
represents duty. Allowing liberally for
freight and insurance, I am taxed about £7
for what is, after all, my tool of trade.
And what chance is there of this tool of
trade being manufactured in Australia? The
same applies to many other articles of
everyday use, from fountain-pens to cash-
registers. Even lenses and optical and
scientific instruments, the manufacture of
which is a highly-specialised European mon-
opoly, come under the tariff. Turn to motor-
cars. In no country, perhaps, are cars so
necessary and so dear, relatively, as in Aus-
tralia._ Here are the prices of a few repre-
sentative Yankee makes, 1924 models. The
figures given are in English sterling, and
show cost in each case f.o.b. factory, calcu-
lated approximately at 4 dol. 2o cents to the
£:—Ford, £80; Essex (".New Six”), £195;
Studebaker (“Light Six”), £228; Buick
(Six-cylinder), £298 ; Hudson (Six-cylinder),
£298. Compare these figures with current
Australian prices. Not .1 per cent, of Aus-
tralian-owned cars are made in the Com-
monwealth. Notwithstanding a stiff dutv,
the Australian chassis finds little favor. The
only effect, therefore, of the duty on the
imported car is to increase the purchase price
from 100 to 150 per cent. As the body-
making side of the industry seems able to
keep its legs, that obviously is the side to
protect. In the case of commercial vehicles
the same discrepancy is noticed. Ford one-
ton trucks cost f.o.b. Detroit about £9O.
The Australian price is nearer £2OO. A*
tariff that taxes commerce and industry in
such fashion is not only indiscriminate in
its application, but inequitable in its inci-
dence. Let us by all means impose a stiff
duty on goods we are capable of manufac-
turing. The monstrously inadequate tax on
lankee films is a concrete instance where a
struggling Australian industry, capable of
giving employment to thousands, could be
built up. But no import dutv should
operate on articles which we do not manu-
facture. Let such a duty be fixed by Par-
liament in the ordinary way, but suspended
year by year, with the obligation cast upon
the Minister of Customs to make such dutv
operative immediately steps are taken to
establish the relative industry within the Com-
monwealth,—Yours, etc., 11. B. O’Hagan
♦-
The Colored Line.
The cry of an old Territory contributor:—•
It is a pity that members of the Federal Govern-
ment, who are never tired of professing their fervent
belief in a \\ hite Australia, couldn’t spare the time
foi a trip along the railway that runs from Darwin
to Emungalen. There are fettlers’ cottages every five
oi six miles along the two hundred, and there is one
white woman in all that distance. (I am not counting
the white women living at Brock’s Creek, Adelaide
River, etc., whose husbands are not employed on the
line.) Little, if any, attempt has ever been made by
these fettlers to improve their dwellings or surround-
ings ; most of the humpies would disgrace a Chinese
settlement. Hordes of blacks and half-castes and
quarter-breeds hang about; starved-looking goats
hunt for anything edible, and mangy dogs rush out to
yelp at the passing train. The majority of the men
have “gone nigger” so completely that it might
puzzle a Solomon himself to place the nationality
of some of the misbegotten youngsters that crowd
aiound the fettlers’ camps. The line is a menace
to Australia, a forcing ground for disease and de-
generation. The children are growing up savages,
unable to read or write, knowing nothilig of civilisa-
tion, ignored by priest and parson. For the girls
the only life ahead will be one of prostitution ; the
boys look like drifting back to the black altogether.
Meanwhile, there are white men (genuinely white,
with white families) asking for jobs, eager to make
a living for themselves and their dependants, and
tiie Government grudgingly offers them work for a
few days a week on the roads. The Government
could best attest its belief in the White Australia
doctrine by refusing to keep in its employment
(whatever their qualifications) men who persistently
cohabit with blacks and half-breeds, filling their
places with men who have white wives and are
producing white families to help garrison this Empty
North.
»
On a reported revival:—
The S.A. Labor party expects to beat the Barwellians
on Saturday, and with 18 Farmers in the field
and no preferential voting, its prospects are certainly
encouraging. Since Mitchell was defeated in West-
ralia its optimism has increased. But hopes based
on the Westralian results are apt to deceive. It suits
Gunn, Charlton and other Labor leaders to repre-
sent the Westralian business as “a great Labor victory,”
but if the stupid Mitchell Government had staked
its existence on the Redistribution of Seats Bill it
would have been “another Labor defeat.” By drop-
ping redistribution the Government enabled three
Labor members representing 2650 Murchison electors
(the quota was 3392) to be returned unopposed,
and allowed 254 voters to elect a Laborite in Men-
zies, 408 in Leonora and 409 in Yilgarn. On the
other hand 3768 votes were required to get the Minis-
terialist home in Subiaco, 3356 in Claremont, 2265
in North Perth and 2182 in West Perth; and
Nationalist candidates who polled 2815 votes in
Guildford, 2793 in Leederville and 2080 in East
Perth were beaten. Except on the eastern gold-
fields, where public opinion was influenced by a
reduction of miners’ wages from 15s. 6d. to 13s.
6d. a day (making them 19s. a week less than the
pay of a Perth barber), Labor didn’t poll much
better than in 1921, and some of its majorities
were microscopic. In Bunbury, for instance, the
voting three years ago was 1143 for Money (Nat.)
and 1108 for Withers (Lab.) ; this time it was
1346 for Withers and 1325 for Money. The A.L.P.
gained Greenough by 25 Votes (an appeal 1 is
threatened) and Albany by 79. Conversely, the
Nationalist majority in Subiaco —a Labor seat from
1901 till 1905, and from 1911 till 1919—increased
from 1046 to 1594. Perhaps the reaction against
the crowd in office has gone farther in South A us.
than in Jarrahland. But in spite of all the talk
about “the wonderful Labor revival in Westralia”
nothing more has occurred there than the normal
drift of votes from an uninspiring Ministry which
has been five years in power.
♦
“675”: Cripps Clark’s remarks (B.
21/2/’24) stir my memory. I was in
London in 1910, and became acquainted
with a man who had recently returned to
England from South America with a consid-
erable capital and the idea of going in for
VERY LIKE AN OSTRICH.
SHORT-SIGHTED VISTOR: "Dear' me! Is that a bird?”
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: "No. That's a Labor politician looking for votes.”
dairying in Australia, preferably Westralia.
He asked me to enlighten him as to land
values and tenures, transport, climate, etc.;
and my reply was that, since I Was an
Eastern Stater,. I was hardly in a position to
give him anything like accurate information.
I suggested, however, that, since Westralia
employed an Agent-General for the very pur-
pose of . dispensing such information, we
should visit the olfices and get our helping.
We presented ourselves, and a very superior
person made an appointment for us with the
then Agent-General for 10 o’clock the follow-
ing morning, the A.-G. being the only one,
apparently, capable of supplying first-hand
information about the State. Upon keeping
this appointment we found that some half-
dozen others had appointments for the same
hour, and we had plenty of opportunity to
study them, for it was an hour and a quarter
before the great man turned up. After an
unconscionable time spent in the inner office
(we were accommodated with a couple of
wooden forms in a passage), lie reappeared
and proceeded to question us individually as
to our business. Two young women. 1 re-
member, aspired to domestic work, one man
was a ploughman, and another an orehardist.
We were then treated to a picture of West-
ralia. With his eye on the ploughman the
lecturer described how the hours of labor
were the shortest ever heard of, wages the
highest, food and tobacco the cheapest, work
the most plentiful, beer all but given away.
Then the orehardist had his turn. Land
lor nothing, clearing negligible, fencing un-
necessary, cheap freights, crops most miracu-
lous. Then the domestics in the same vein.
Finally my friend —dairy products brought
fancy prices, banks lent 100 per cent, on
anything without security, diseases unknown.
The whole thing was so obviously ridicu-
lous that, we cleared out at question-time
without more ado, and my friend went to
British East Africa. No man of any intel-
ligence would have emigrated to Westralia on
the strength of the harangue we heard, and
the gullible yokels caught by that kind of
claptrap would soon become disillusioned
and form the very worst advertisement for
Australia. (Note the “Australia.”) Cripps
Clark's idea is undoubtedly right. Practi-
cal men who have made a success of their
vocations will influence more to emigrate
than tons of literature and armies of pla-
cated politicians, and cost a lot less.
♦
“Cockyohaff” : I’ve been reading the 1922-23
report of the Commandant at Duntroon, and
notice the following, under the heading of
“Farming Operations”:—
Despite adverse conditions, the farm had a very
successful year. Two hundred and ninety acres of
oats, 24 acres of wheat, and 35 acres of lucerne were
under cultivation, the average yields being 2-?, tons
Ot hay, 31 bushels of oats and 40 bushels of'wheat
per acre. The oat average was considerably reduced
by the loss of approximately 900 bushels, occasioned
by a wind storm. Working on low’ rates for forage,
the excess of receipts over expenditure (i.e. net
profit) w’as £2236, and the actual cash receipts
from departments and others for forage supplied more
than cover the total cost of production. Thus while
other departments have been able to obtain prime
forage at low’ rates, the college is in a position to
provide its own horses with forage free of cost. A
detailed report and balance-sheet has been furnished
to the Minister separately.
Allowing prices which would split the aver-
age cocky’s whiskers with glee, this is how
I make the gross return:—
Hay .. 35 acres at 2J tons p.a.=
87J tens at (say) £5 p. t. £437 10 0
Oats .. 290 acres at 31 bushels p.a.=
„ , 8990 bushels at 4s. p. b. £1,798 0 0
wheat .. 24 acres at 40 bushels p. a.=
960 bushels at ss. p. b. 240 0 0
Total value of produce.. £2,475 10 0
The uet profit is shown at £2236, indicating
that the cost of production was £239 10s.
But it is stated that four farm laborers were
employed and that nine horses were used
exclusively for farm work. Those laborers must
have absorbed only £59 17s. (id. p.a. apiece
and the horses must have had dyspepsia.
Apparently the land cost nothing, notwith-
standing that the yield indicates it is worth
quite a lot. the crops were self-sown, some
philanthropist supplied bags, oil, etc., gratis
and a machinery firm stepped in with the
loan of machinery at the same rate. There
would normally be other heavy incidentals
such as cartage, freight, etc., to market, but
perhaps they didn't count. I wish Bowden
would publish that balance-sheet.
* _
A pa t HETrc story was told in Sydney Crimi-
nal Court by a widow who threw in the
towel and owned up to setting fire to her
little suburban confectionery to get the in-
surance. She said she came from the coun-
try with a few hundreds, and paid £165 for
the favorable opening. She was told that
the rent was £2 10s. a week and the profit
£6, and the story was at least half-true, for
the rent really was £2 10s. When her
money was done she tried “direct action.”
An expert chemist might be able to leave a
mixture on the premises warranted to flame
up in 24 hours, and then go into the next
State by way of an alibi, but a widow from
the country could only think of something
crude with newspapers and kerosene. She
? 0t I 2 months. There might or might not
be truth in her tale of deception, but if
there was she hadn't much chance, for she
probably knew no more about how to recover
her money from a shark agent than about
now to make a plausible conflagration. In
some States and in many countries the Law
would be making earnest and even truculent
inquiry with a view to getting the agent’s
license cancelled on next renewal day but
iri haphazard X. S. Y\ ales, where even the
statute about the notification of V.I). isn’t
enforced, he requires no license, and has to
supply no evidence of character before he
starts. That is why anybody may draw a
random circle on the map of Greater Sydney
and enclose in it a dozen agents of sorts, in-
cluding a gentleman who was short in his
cash one or two property-mongers who wore
legally unfrocked in other places, a damaged
solicitor and an uncertificated insolvent trad-
ing m a relative’s name.
* __
( Kobe ) sees Japan walk abroad:
Ihe plan of organising a large emigration con-
eern for sending emigrants to South America and
establishing Japanese colonies there, Jnotably in
mazil, as a measure to relieve the congestion of
a fast swelling population, and thereby to save the
growing scarcity of food supply, i s making much
headway. Thus comments the Tokyo Xicm Nichi
upon a scheme for the formation of an enormous
emigration co. with a capital of 10,000,000 yen. Mark
the phrase “and establishing Japanese colonies there. ’
•so typical of Japanese national aspirations and of
the point from which they regard the subject of n
surplus population as typical as the posters which
have recently been displayed with a view to en-
couraging emigration to South America! Across
u continent, towards a goal represented bv an
enormous splash of red, strides a Japanese. In one
hand he carries his household goods and chattels
d r f ,. a ""bile in the other he proudly holds
aloft a child waving the national flag of Japan. A
useful emigrant, no doubt, so far as grit and hard
work are concerned. But the poster naturally does
not show the sequel—that miscellaneous army of
camp-foUowers which will not be slow to arrive once
the tide of emigration begins to flow. (Veil in the
tore will come the barbers and prostitutes. Follow-
ing them the energetic Shinto priests who, after
woi ung haul with their hands during the day, don
lm priestly robes and sermonise of a night on
i lika do worship and other useful themes. Then
the prosperous-looking Buddhist priests in robes of
purple and gold. Next the school teachers, with
their history books of myths and fanciful forgeries;
for Japan prefers to establish her own schools abroad,
and thereby keep her nationals attached to the home-
land by a far greater bond than the law—that of
the mother tongue. And even the law can still
claim them for military service. Finally the capable,
well-informed consul, assisting all and ruling all.
ibus eventually imperium in republic. '■Neverthe-
less, some people will marvel at Australia’s reluctance
to share in the benefits offered by a 10,000,000 yen
emigiation company. But she may get some comfort
out oi the fact that Japan is looking towards an-
other continent, though whether in the long run it
will not make the Pacific more of a Japanese lake
than ever, is another part of the problem.
♦
Country Peu” : The Vic. Education De-
partmeut is impressing on teachers, especi-
ally those in country districts, their obliga-
te?* 1 to notify parents of the benefits the In-
stitute for the Blind and the Deaf and
DumJb Institute hold for afflicted children.
It should have been done long ago. But
nothing is said about the mentally defective
children m the country. The special schools
ror such in the big city are full, so the coun-
try keeps its defectives—and things like the
Jmgellie tragedy occur. When will the Gov-
ernment employ sufficient medical officers to
permit of a medical examination every two
years, and enough schools and homes to
segregate all certified mental defectives? It
is not necessary that every school for the
teeble-minded should be in the capital, as
seems to be the prevailing idea. They should
be scattered through the country.


“For Ever Best/’
STAS
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
ff
r
e 1
SB,i
ft*
93
ggg
"=e.
r
Peapes Offer a Pure Australian
Wool Rug, Beautifully Finished,
at 35/-
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Rugs, presented many years
ago under the warrant of Peapes’ own registered
trade-mark, have since their first presentation been
accorded a high place in the gallery of better-class
Australian productions.
The new season’s stocks include many original
designs, in reversible check patterns of light and
dark fawn, grey, red and brown mixtures. Size
80in. x 90in.
These are rugs that will be equally useful for
travelling or as extra bedspreads in the home.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
"1
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Bruee-Page Government was taken by sur-
prise at the resumption of hostilities in the Reps,
last week. Bruce opened the proceedings with a
lengthy survey of the work at the Imperial and
Economic Conferences, and it was clearly his hope
that the Charlton crowd would be aroused to tre-
mendous oratory by his remarks. To Bruce’s astonish-
ment Charlton merely said that he had nothing to
say about conferences which had obviously failed.
Thereupon he moved an amendment approving of
the foreign policy of the new Labor Government in
Britain, and sat down. The Government looked hard
for the artillery to be hauled up in support of Charl-
ton, but not even the rattle of a limber was heard, so
Mann, Manning, Johnson and others were put up
to pay out chin-music about the Empire. It looked
like a tactical reverse for the Government. All the
same, many people will be apt to conclude from
Charlton's silence that his party takes no interest
in certain important subjects discussed at the
London palavers—(l) the sea-defence of Australia and
(2) concessions in the British tariff as regards raisins,
currants, stone fruits (dried and canned), apples,
jam, wine, brandy, honey and other products. And
without those concessions many Australians will he
up against it.
In the House of Commons last week Com-
mander Kenwortliy said that “Singapore
would be useless as a base from which to
harass the communications of an army
brought from Japan to Australia. ' An an
example of irrelevancy this takes a lot of
beating. What Australia wants Singapore for
is to prevent an army being brought from
Japan (or anywhere else) to Australia.
In the contest now drawing to a close in
South Aus., Barwell has been quoted against
the Barwellians with telling effect. The
letter in which he informed the London
Times that “there will have to be some
modification of the White Australia policy”
has been republished throughout the State,
as also has the foreword to Hasting-Young’s
book on our colored brudders. “dedicated by
permission to the Hon. H. N. Barwell. the
acknowledged principal advocate of colored
settlement in tropical Australia.” They have
done his party more damage than all the
philippics of the other side.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Bavin has re-
deemed himself by a fierce crusade against
the duplicate arbitration courts, Federal and
State, which fix separate and conflicting
wages and conditions, and against retrospec-
tive awards and other annoyances. The
vicious retrospective-award habit has got to
such a point that men who thought they
were out of business have been hauled up
to pay large sums to people whom they em-
ployed two years previously, and the result-
ing unsettlement has sent some to ruin. Of
course, wage reductions are never retrospec-
tive. It is a ease of “one way traffic only.
And, unfortunately, the trick has been
applied of late to more than wages. Theo-
dore dated his rent-increases back for years;
and if McTiernan’s Profiteering Bill had
passed in its original form anybody in busi-
ness might have been fined more than he
ever possessed at one time, for an alleged
offence committed in 1918 against a law
that didn’t exist till 1920.
Unless the cable has mixed up the story,
Rambling Macdonald’s Government is wad-
ing in deep waters. It is said that he wants
the Hun admitted to the League of Nations,
and (presumably as an inducement to other
nations to agree to the darling’s admission)
it is suggested :
Britain shall then bind herself unequivocally to
defend the Covenant of the League by land, sea and
air against any State which shall begin an armed
conflict without previous recourse to, the League’s
peace machinery.
And if the U.S., which keeps out of the
League, gets annoyed with Panama or
Colombia, which are in it, over some Canal
matter, and refuses the arbitration of a
body which it doesn’t recognise, is it the
Macdonald dream that Britain shall go
cheerfully to war with Uncle, and haul the
empire with it?
“Ayr” writes from N. Queensland: —
Our late visitor Leverhulme left just too soon to
hear an autumn gale of laughter sweep over this
tropical region. Leverhulme knew white men could
PUTTING ON CONDITION.
“The Nationalists strongly resent the Country Party’s propaganda, and complain that their partners
in the Government are seeking to thus undermine and destroy them.”
BRUCE: “I would not eat so many of those lollies if I were you, darling—they are. so
fattening.”
PAGE: “Yes, hut your popsy-wopsy wants to grow fat.”
never do any good in these parts; yet these parts
have just been flooded with an appeal from the
Highland Association praying for financial help to
relieve “the great distress prevailing in the high-
lands and islands of Scotland consequent upon the
blighting season.” The worst state of all appears
to exist in one island where “at least £25,000 will
be required to tide the community over the period
of distress.” That specially smitten community is
Lewis, Leverhulme’s own stronghold in the Western
Isles!
Forty wineshops were marked for closure
the other day in the two electorates of Syd-
ney and Balmain. It was done without
impassioned addresses by any “evangelists,
or anv dreadful revelations about how both
Houses of Parliament and Admiral de Chair
had been found bootlegging to the limit. The
scene wasn’t in the least like that at Pitts-
burg, a U.S. city much smaller than Sydney,
where State troops raged through the streets,
and closed 600 illegal drinkeries which had
been openly pursuing their calling, and which
probably pursued it again when the troops
had gone. The Australian way of doing
things is lacking in the spectacular. But,
on the whole, it seems to possess certain
advantages.
The “Federation of British Industries”
has written to British Colonial Sec. Thomas
to protest against Australia making 14 loco-
motives for itself at a cost of £136,000 when
a J. Bull firm offered to do them for £54,000.
To which this country’s simple reply is:—
That it is sometimes cheaper for a man to pay
himself £136 than to pay another fellow £B4.
That £136,000 which stays here, and contributes
Federal, State and municipal taxes to us, may be
worth more than £84,000 which goes away, and con-
tributes similar taxes to somebody else.
That we don’t particularly want goods that are
liable to be three-quarters Hun with an English
finish.
That it is no business of any darned “Federation
of British Industries,” anyhow —assuming that Free-
trade has left any industries.
Several curious arguments were advanced
why the Queensland pastoral holders should
say no more about their grievance against
the Theodore Government. This was one: —
In view of the fact that four years have elapsed
since the legislation on the matter was passed,
Queensland considers it undesirable either that old
issues should be reopened or that extremists should
insist on compensation.
In other words, four years having elapsed
since complainant was put in gaol without
trial, and he being still there, he shouldn’t he
an extremist and want to raise a musty old
matter like that. If he had been put in
yesterday it would be different.
It was a boisterous night in Paddington
(Q.) when Johnny came marching home
from the London Agency, where he has been
vegetating for two years. The chairman con-
fided that Ramsay Macdonald had offered
to make ex-Treasurer .lack Fihelly Under-
secretary for the Colonies, with a seat in
the Commons, of course. Another speaker
suggested that the gift had been rejected be-
cause the retiring Agent-General had already
arranged to become M.H.R. for Brisbane and
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth. To-
wards midnight it was gathered that
Fihelly would have stayed in England were
the King chosen by Labor selection-ballot, or
in America if the Yanks didn't insist that
the L‘resident must be native-born. But
these suppositions were neither confirmed
nor repudiated by John himself.
A rumor gained ground in Melbourne last
week that Charlton, Gardiner and Anstey
had sent Macdonald a cable congratulating
him on his policy of economic disarmament.
"Scrap your unions!” the message is said
to have run; “abolish your police; trust the
people.” It was, however, afterwards dis-
covered that it is only foreign people that
the party is prepared to trust; wherefore
the message ran ;-
The Australian Labor Party congratulates the
British Government on its decision not to build a
naval base at Singapore, and hopes that other nations
will follow that splendid lead towards disarmament
given by Great Britain.
Lawson's all-Liberal Ministry has fixed
April 29 as the day for the re-assembling
of the Vic. Parliament. When an adjourn-
ment was agreed to in the middle of Decem-
ber it was understood that business would
be resumed on March 18; but instead of
meeting the Assembly on that date the com-
posite Administration blew up. The new
crowd (which comprises seven-twelfths of
the old one) now requires several weeks to
brace itself for further possible explosions.
Formerly the N. S. Wales Education De»
partment provided vans for children who
had long distances to travel to a central
school. Minister Bruntnell lias substituted
a system of individual subsidies, leaving the
children, or, rather, their parents, to find
their own conveyances. One result is the
queer anomaly of the well-to-do being subsi-
dised, while the poorest get nothing. To keep
a horse is beyond the means of many parents ;
a bicycle often provides a less expensive
means of transit. Yet. while there is a sub-
sidy for horse-feed, there is none for the
wear and tear of a “grid.” And the luck-
less kid who has to foot-slog it three miles
or more because his parents are too poor
to provide any kind of conveyance gets no-
thing for boot leather.
Tas. Premier Lyons adopted new methods
of dealing with the inevitable disputes be-
tween the two Houses. He helped himself
over the first deadlock by a talk with the
hostile chiefs of the Council, and when, later,
£12,000 was tomahawked off the income-tax,
the Premier asked the Old Gents, to recon-
sider their decision. And utterly regardless
of precedent the Old Gents, back-pedalled,
merely stipulating that the tax involved (dis-
allowance of deduction from State tax re-
turns of the amount paid in Federal tax)
should not be enacted for longer than one
year! The question of whether the Council
was impressed more by Lyons's novel
methods of conducting negotiations than by
the patent fact that there is a general desire
to let him get into recess so that his ser-
vices as a negotiator with the Federal
Treasurer may be retained, need not be here
discussed.
The secretary of the Labor party in S.A.
lias proceeded against the secretary of the
Liberal Federation for publishing in the
Advertiser a political manifesto —“Electors’
Awful Alternative: Liberalism and Safety, or
Labor and Social Republic”—without the
name and address of the person authorising
it. A. .T. McLachlan, for the defence, argued
that it was criticism, not advertisement, but
the Bench couldn’t see it, and said it was
worth a £5 fine. There is to be an appeal.
Incidentally, Villeneuve Smith. K.C., for the
prosecution, was in great form. When
McLachlan urged that the manifesto was
argument, and not fact, the K.C. replied
acidly that it contained alleged facts, any-
way, and “my friend cannot shelter behind
the mendacity of his own clients.”
A member of the U.S. Congress—Tink-
ham, to wit—lately put it on record that
Washington, where lie helps to legislate, had
38 murders in 1922 for a population of
438,000, while London, with 7,500,000 people,
raised only 28. He further alleged that
Washington produced three times as many
drunks as Paris, with its 2,906,000 human
contents. Dr. Grace Boelke, of Sydney, has
written to the Sydney press from the same
city a tale of supreme nastiness, about a
land where the amateur distillery has come
into the home to stay, and boys and girls
help to make and drink the amateur liquor,
which, like kerosene and methylated alcohol,
is a soul-rotting substance. An idea is be-
coming current that preaching evangelist
Biederwolf and singing evangelist Rodeheaver
have come here for a breath of fresh air.
Combined, of course, with business.
“T.R.H.” : Hughes, in an outburst at St.
Louis (U.S.A.), asserts that “not one of
us who signed the Peace instrument at Ver-
sailles had read the whole treaty.” It is
doubtless true of Hughes, but other delegates
may have had a higher sense of responsi-
bility, especially as copies of the treaty were
distributed three days before it was signed—
Gordon Hewart, then legal adviser to the
British delegation and now Lord Chief Jus-
tice of England, saw to that. Perhaps it was
those three days that Billy occupied in
running round among the delegates with an
autograph book.
WELL STAGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the declaration of the Republic in the Greek
Parliament, six doves were loosed from the gallery.
They flew straight to the. Prime Minister, M.
Papanastasiou, which was regarded as a good omen.
A laurel wreath was thrown to the President.”
The doves of peace 1 The doves of peace!
Down from the gallery they flew,
Discerning swift on their release
What was the proper thing to do,
And gently' circled round the brow
of M, Papanastasiou.
“Fill high the bowl with Samian wine!”
Drink to a land that’s purged anl free!
They’ve booted out the Glueksburg line
And kicked the crown into the sea.
A bit o’ greenstuff decks, instead,
C'ondouriotis’ patriot head.
They' might have danced the Pyrrhic dance,
Emancipated Hellene reps.,
In national exuberance—
Or was it they’d forgot the steps?
Since By’ron’s day ’tis like it has
Been superseded by the jazz.
And still eternal summers gild
The shores by strife and faction rent,
Where crafty Tino backed and filled,
Where Vemzelos came and went,
And Ministers, one luckless lot,
Were stacked against a wall and shot.
To ploughshares beat the native swords
Belonging to the native ranks !
“Leave battles to the Turkish hordes”
And eagles to the martial Franks!
A chastened, metamorphosed Greece
For emblem takes the birds of peace.
They loosed the pigeons from aloft,
The newest Constitution read,
And, cooing marvellously soft,
They hovered o’er the Premier’s nead....
I cherish uopes to see it yet
In Flicker’s “Topical Gazette.”
X.S.W.
IFORD.


df
The
Mark
\
of
Efficiency,
“Metrovick”
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged in construction
and are obtainable in all sizes, A.C. or
D.C.
Buy direct from the Manufacturers.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Sa fee/ Fumm
Detonators
Cartridges
11l
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
II
In Powder and Liquid Form
Obtainable at all Stores
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturer* of ‘ VALLO' Brand Chemicals, Dips & Spray*
And at
Sydney & Brisbane
Head Office:
497-603 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Correspondence
Invited
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Insurance
(’o., Ltd.:—
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 5 p.c. = £5OO £733 £473
1914.. 215 Ail 215 688
1915.. 20,512 6p.e.= 3,600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6„ „ 3,600 23,363 40,963
1917. .183,332 7„„ 4,200 179.132 220,095
1918. .377,787 10 „ ~10,000 367,787 587,882
1919. .142,781 15 „ ~15,000 127,781 715,663
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000 695,663
1920.. 56,101 10p.e. =lO,OOO 46,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58,406 A T il 639,721
Taxation ..£143,894 495,827
Written off .. .. 11,559 484,268
1922.. 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off . . . . 33,341 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Ad] 296,219
Written off :. .. 58,543 237,676
*Apart from Life Department.
The auditors gave their certificate eight
months after the books closed. The manage-
ment spent most of that time pondering on
the co.’s prospects of collecting from some
of the re-insurance offices which are in the
hands of liquidators, and also measuring tlie
balance of taxes it is liable for in respect of
its big war-time gamble. The £42,778 loss
shown in the table does not cpiite fairly ex-
hibit the results of underwriting for the 12
months; £96,543 of marine losses and
exes, incurred in respect of other years,
and which the management has written
off accumulated funds, has been in-
cluded in the Calculations. Actually, the
marine business for the year produced
£03,831 of income, while claims took £19,837
and exes. £16,(582, giving a surplus of
£5(5.812. However, marine insurance is in-
variably a business of long-winded settle-
ments. and as it is impossible to go back
on the tracks of the published accounts every
year, the only satisfactory way of viewing
results is to register losses as they are paid.
So in the introductory table, and in the one
which follows, all losses not settled prior to
the 1922 balance are charged against 1923:
Excess
Income. Claims. Expenses. Outgoings.
Eire .. £97,893 £55,896 £44,092 £2,095
Accident . . 37,920 23,585 17,169 2,834
Marine . . 84,671 101,599 22,804 39,732
Total .. £44,661
Sundry income .. ... .. 1,883
Loss as per table .. .. , £42,778
Besides that loss of £42.778. £58,543 more
was charged against Profit and Loss:
£25,395 was lost on sales of securities and
by writing down others to market values;
£24(58 was taken to allow for exchange fluc-
tuations; and £27,680 was written off book
debts. The latter is. partly a provision
against probable losses incurred by re-insur-
ances with war-time underwriters who have
gone to the wall; and there is some
hope of recoveries from the liquidators of
these derelicts. It is possible also that not
all the £186,098 which has been reserved
for taxation will be called for. However,
the position as the dii*ectors saw it in Febru-
ary was such that the whole of the under-
writing surplus for the year and £101.821
more was required to put the books in order.
Altogether £504.088 has slipped out of the
reserves of £741.7(54 shown only three years
ago. Even so the astonishing plunge into
the riskiest of underwriting may still bring
the co. out a good winner, if for no other
reason than that its world-wide operations
have given it opportunities to build up a
large permanent business. Though latest
adjustments have placed Profit and Loss
£35.912 in debit, on the other side there is
still £50,000 in a general reserve fund, and
departmental reserves in proportion to last
vear's premium income were as follows:
Fire, 50 p.c.; accident, 40 p.c.; marine, 182
p.c. The marine reserves are very large, but
there may be a further drain before all the
business which produced them is done
with. The most disturbing feature of the
latest accounts is that both the fire and acci-
dent business for the year ended .Tune last
showed small deficits, not only because losses
were above normal, but partly because exes
though proportionately a good deal less than
in the previous 12 months, were still too
heavy. The . future of the W.A. Insurance
appears to depend a lot on whether the man-
agement can get costs down.
T h,e next comparisons give another view
of the results of the Perth midget which
suddenly developed into a leviathan plunger:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.e.
1919.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 64.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727,868 522,217 27,095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
1918.. 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1919.. 629,044 445,011 68,689 70.7 „ 10.9 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 ~
1921.. 480,434 451,634 116,972 94.0 „ 24.4 „
1922.. 229,537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 ~
1923.. 212,701 181,079 84,065 85.1 „ 39.5 „
And here is a dissection of net premiums for
the past four years:—
File. Marine. Accident.
1920 .. £156,657 £381,448 £30,241
1921 . . 149,654 292,834 37,945
1922 . . 61,928 134,434 33,175
1923 . . 96,439 79,404 36,858
Paid capital is £lOO.OOO and reserves (apart
from life) amount to £273,587. Total funds
are 159 p.c. of last year's net premium
income—a satisfactory proportion provided
the risks are a normal breed.
How funds are held is shown in the next
table, which also discloses the astonishing
growth of the office in the six years to 1920
and the shrinkage since: —
1914. 1920. 1922. 1923.
Public securities Nil £144,211 £202,899 £159,132
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. £ 38,255 350,600 368,299 271,975
Properties .. - 96,47 5
Book debts, etc. 1,014 230,564 200,814 52,772
Cash, etc. .. 1,172 295,808 20,821 74,182
Odds and ends 204 5,753 6,267 5,822
Total assets.. £40,645 £1,026,936 £799,100 £660,318
Liabilities* . . 199 141,715 277,110 245,209
£40,446 £885,221 £521,990 £415,139
'lncluding provision for taxation (1922, £135,118;
1923, £130,098).
Heavy losses and the purchase of premises
have made alterations in the investments
and more will follow if the directors are
called upon to weigh out big taxation instal-
ments. One vague entry in the accounts is
the £131,233 of “shares in other cos.,” which
may mean anything.
The eo. is not pushing its life branch.
Renewal premiums last year totalled £3607
and only £564 of first premiums were col-
lected (on new policies assuring £16,900).
Funds, which have been subsidised by
£20,000 from other branches, amount to
£33,515:
Beatii, Sciiiess and FelsteAd. Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen. Melbourne (the co.
started with a deficit of £56,187, represented
by goodwill, etc.) :
, Dividends.
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
Jan., Profits. 64 p.c. naries. Reserves. Deficit.
1913. . £16,654 £3250 6 p.c. £2,100 £11,304 £44,883
1914.. 12,444 6500 5 „ „ 3,500 2,444 42,439
1915.. 12,814 6500 5 ~ ~ 3,500 2,814 39,625
1916.. 14,938 6500 6 „ ~ 4,200 4,238 35,387
1917.. 19,327 6500 74,, „ 5,250 7,577 27,810
1918.. 26,569 6500 8 „ „ 5,600 14,469 13,341
Reserves.
1919.. 48,003 6500 10 ~ ~12,000 29,503 16,162
1920.. 60,072 6500 124,, ~25,250 28,322 44,484
1921.. 80,860 6500 124,, ~ 36,875 37,485 81,969
Taxation reserve taken in . . 39,000 120,969
Loss.
1922. . 111,628 6500 Nil 2,841
Deficit.
1923.. 45,620 0500 Nil 49,279
1924. . 108,096 3250* Nil 160,625
*Div. for six months.
For some years after this business had been
transferred to a public co.. results were dis-
appointing: profits were not much more than
half of what had been expected. Then rising
prices and easy selling conditions of the war-
period suddenly lifted earnings, and for 1920
and 1921 divs. went to 124 p.c., which was
more than double the average for the first
five years. The apparent profits of the boom
period were so big that in January, 1921,
the directors thought they had accumulated
£177,000 of surplus profits since the co.
began. During the 12 months following,
however, the world-wide slump in softgoods
values was in full swing, and the next
accounts showed £111,628 loss after the blue-
pencil had been used on the stock-sheets.
The following year’s accounts indicated that
even then full provision had not been made
for the fall in values, and a further leeway of
£45,620 was recorded before the directors
concluded that “practically no further losses
on stocks need be anticipated, and conse-
quently a return to divs. on both classes may
be confidently predicted.” Evidently the
directors knew considerably less about the
affairs of the co. than they thought they did,
because the rot whicli set in when values
first declined continued right through to the
latest balance-sheet, made up to January 31
last. Shortly after the 1923 shareholders’
meeting a couple of the directors realised
that things were far from what they should
be, and they decided to call in Herbert
YVickenden. the co.’s chief buyer in London,
to overhaul all departments. His investiga-
tion was an eye-opener, and the result of
trading for the 12 months and the adoption
of Mr. Wickenden’s recommendation to deal
drastically with the book-value of stocks lias
resulted in the latest accounts showing a
further loss of £108,096, increased to
£111,346 by the payment on an interim div.
on the prefs.
In place of apparent reserves of £170,969
in 1921, there is now a deficit of £110,623,
both lots of figures taking no count of good-
will (£50,000). The directors are adopting
the only satisfactory method of dealing with
the deficiency: they propose to write the
slate clean by cancelling three-eightlis of ordi-
nary capital, which means writing down the
£l-paids to 12s. 6d. Even then, with no
visible reserves showing, goodwill will repre-
sent £50,000 of the £184,375 of ordinary
capital, equal to 3s. 3d. per 12s. 6d. share.
The collapse of Felstead’s has been one of
the worst modern tragedies in the Common-
wealth’s softgoods trade, particularly for
those shareholders who bought ordinaries at
295. or so. New people have joined the
Board; managing-director Walter William-
son and director and warehouse-manager T.
O. Felstead both dropped out, and Clive Bail-
lieu resigned “owing to the exigencies of his
private affairs.’’ The Baillieus, by the way,
had figured as underwriters in the flotation
in 1912. The Board is now made up of
Jas. H. Riley, ,T. M. Gillespie, W. F. Green-
wood and Sam Howell, with Arthur Long-
land as g.-m. With stocks written down to
a level which they consider will permit a
profitable clearing, this was the balance-
sheet position which faced them at January
31 last:—
_ 1915. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Debentures .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 33,000 33,000 20,000 20,000
Other liabilities 101,586 203,459 264,100 283,070
Freeholds, etc. 45,849 43,862 58,689 43,868
Plant, etc. .. 12,410 11,811. 16,392 16,228
Stock .. 214,266 493,086 513,710 417,240
Book debts .. 134,297 150,083 149,120 163,774
Cash, etc. . . 18,138 47,370 4,960 5,294
Floating debt was made up of £52,545 bank
overdraft, £117,466 of bills payable, £93,408
of sundry creditors and £19,652 of deposits.
Against the formidable total were stocks,
book debts and cash with a total of £586,308.
The position is apparently quite sound from the
point of view of creditors, but a disturbing
doubt, now that it has lost so much of its
own funds, is whether the co. can continue
operations on as large a scale as in recent
years without new capital.
* * * *
Empire Life and General Assurance
Co., Ltd.—This is one of the newer life
offices: the first accounts cover the period
from incorporation in June, 1922, to Decem-
ber 31 last, though there was only a little
more than 13 months of actual policy-writ-
ing. For a start the promoter, 11. E.
Thomas, was allotted 20,000 fully-paid 10s.
prefs. and £lOOO cash; consequently before
commencing business the co. had £ll,OOO
of its capital represented by goodwill. Next
came all the costs of establishment, of
opening branches in Queensland, Vic., 8. Aus.
and Tas. and of share-selling and all the
early incidentals, which, according to the
published accounts, totted up £lO,lBO. in-
creasing the deficit to £21,180.
Ordinary life business for the period was
made up of 776 policies assuring £209,655
after deducting re-insurances. Income, in-
cluding £385 of interest and £506 of renewals,
was JE9IBB, and the cost of winning it
£19,870, an excess of expenditure over income
of £10,682. Fire and accident premiums
amounted to £1096; outgo was £2268, and
after providing for the customary reserve for
unexpired risks (40 p.c. of net premiums)
there was a deficiency of £1609. So to get
thus far £33,471 of deficits have piled up,
which is only £17,966 less than the total
paid capital as at December 31, It is not
surprising therefore, that the management
has threatened to take legal action against
shareholders who have failed to pay their
allotment moneys. On the figures at Decem-
ber 31 the Empire had less than £17,000 of
all its paid capital and premiums intact, and
that won’t go far in covering the
heavy cost of all the further business which
the management must write. The Vic. and
8. Aus. branches had been operating for
only the last six months of the period
covered by the accounts, and the Queensland
branch only for one month. This inter-State
expansion appears to have been undertaken
by the directors quite regardless of the funds
definitely at their command. Their claim
that “all the branches now operating are
practically self-supporting” is liable to mis-
lead. To be self-supporting, from a strict
accounting point of view, means that the
income of each branch must cover all outgo.
But how can that be in new branches whose
activities are confined almost entirely t<.
winning new business? The Empire’s audi-
tors say that the £33,471 deficit “does not
compare unfavorably with the experience
of other cos. formed within recent years.”
If fresh capital or calls are not quickly forth-
coming for developing new business suffi-
cient to give a turnover which will carry
overhead exes, and permit policy reserves to
be accumulated, the auditors can begin- to
reflect on whether Murphy’s corpse was as
beautiful as Ryan’s.
•••••.
Subscribed capital is £107,275. but
£13,550 is still owing on allotments, a clear
indication that some shareholders have lost
their enthusiasm. The accounts also show
£42,287 of capital uncalled, and unless new
shares are placed efforts will have to be
made soon to get in some of that. One seri-
ous omission in the accounts is the failure
to divide the capital account: at least
£20,000 of £51,437 paid np is preferential to
the extent of 8 p.c. p.a. cumulative, which
means that the prefs.’ bill is mounting at the
rate of £l-000 p.a. It is problematical
whether the co. will ever reach the div.
stage: the management has still to prove
whether it can build up a business which
not only will be really “self-supporting,”
but will also recover the capital already
spent and the further inevitable outlay.
To say the least, the outlook for share-
holders is cheerless for many years to come,
despite the allurement of 8 p.c. p.a.
cumulative divs.
London Stores, Ltd., men’s outfitters,
etc. (Melbourne), which began with £20,368
of capital represented by goodwill, eta.; —
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1912. . £7,293 S p.c.= £4,200 £3,093 £23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items . . 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5,600 £1596 2.506 22,435
1914.'. 11,003 8 ~„ 5,600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 „„ 0,300 645 8,187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 „ „ 7,000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7.000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 ~ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22,1J1 15 „ „ 10,500 487 11,124 31,430
1920.. 28,829 15 ~ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 171 „,, 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 171,, „ 17,500 494 13.828 76,464
Alterations account disappears.. 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 271 „ ~ 27,50.0 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves .. .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 31,351
1924.. 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
This very successful business was taken over
13 years ago by a public co. with £70,00(»
paid up capital, more than one-tnird of
which was represented by goodwill, altera-
tions to leasehold premises, preliminary exes,
and other intangibles. Within five yeais the
div. rate had reached 10 p.c., and almost
sufficient reserves had accumulated to make
paid capital fully represented by tangibles.
The rapid growth of trading is shown by this
comparison of gross profits :
1913 .. £45,289 | 1919 .. £75,983
1914 . . 47,532 | 1920 . . 95,160
1915 . . 54,127 | 1921 . . 101,332
191 6 .. 56,396 | 1922 .. 115,892
1917 . . 61,809 | 1923 . . 139,695
1918 . . 67,740 j 1924 . . 139,436
Gradually the div. rate climbed until for
1923 271 p.c. was paid on original capital
and also on £30,000 more got in a couple
of years previously: and after making the
handsome distributions £98.679 of reserves
over and above goodwill had accumulated.
Last year the directors decided to ladle out
gift scrip, and in one move paid capital was
doubled. And as profits for the past 12
months were better than ever a couple of
thousands more has gone out in divs., the
interim and final distributions for the year
giving a total return of 30 p.c. on capital
prior to giving the £ for £ bonus. How
balance-sheet figures have moved is shown
next:—
1912. 1920. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities .. £7,310 £36,100 £90,724 £137,664
Stock . . 31,237 98,819 118.769 102,837
Property, etc. 40,199 138,984 217,744
Book debts.. 3,257 5,054 3,956 55,207
Plant, etc... 5,624 4,714 4,010 3,658
Cash, etc... 14,728 20,465 50,192 28,150
Until recent years the co. had not invested
in property, but by 1923 nearly £139,006
had been laid out in premises. Durirg the
past j 2 months a portion of the property
was sold (at £27,355 more than the figure at
Avliich it had stood in the books) and addi-
tional extensive purchases wore made. At
February 29 £52,000 was owing to the oo
on the property sold—that item is included
with book debts in the comparisons of
balance-sheet figures—so the eo. has bad to
go heavily into debt to acquire new pre-
mises. Mortgages amounted to £129.000. But
■‘dl_ other debts totalled only £5664. and as
£25,058 cash lay in the bank the co.’s posi-
tion was still very snug.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd., hardware
merchants, of Fitzroy (Vic.), who do a big
mail-order business. The present co. paid
£10,937 for goodwill, and spent £1146 on
preliminaries:—
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Defied.
£12,083
1923.. £9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. £6,133 £3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
This co. was formed to buy an interest iu
a family business which had been growing
steadily since 1876. The old proprietors took
£lO,OOO cash, £20,000 of cum. prefs. and
£70,000 of ordinaries for the assets and good-
will of their co., and £15,700 more was paid
for freehold factories owned by one of the
partners. The public was offered, and sub-
scribed, 25,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1 and
10,000 £1 ordinaries, giving approximately
£BOOO more working capital when the
costs of establishing the new co. had
been paid. In the first year hard-
ware values were erratic, and profits
were less than the average of the old
proprietary co.; nevertheless, 8 p.c. was paid
all round, and a substantial contribution was


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR MARCH.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Australian Gas Light
Australian Gypsum
Australian Stock Breeders
Australian (Yellow Rock)
Portland Cement
Brisbane Timbers, Ltd.
British Tobacco Co.
City Mutual Assurance
Society
Castlemaine Brewery
(Fremantle)
Commonwealth Life
Assurance Society
Domara River Planta-
tions
F. T. Wimble & Co.
Home Recreations
(Eddys) Ltd.
Huddart Parker
Industrial Building
Society
J. C. Ludowici & Son.
Lindley Woollen Mills
Lofts Safety Electric
Irons
London Stores
Mangrovite Belting
Manly Hotels
North Shore Gas
Patakalana Cotton Estates.
Prospectuses
Queensland Meat Export,
Registrations, New
Sargents, Ltd.,
Siegwart Beams & Cin 1-
crete Bricks
Southland Frozen Meat
Standard Mutual Build-
ing
Standard Portland
Cement
Sydney Exchange Co.
Sydney & Suburban
Hydraulic
Victoria Coffee Palace
Wellington Trust, Loan
& Investment
Wyper Bros.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Tiie Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/6 per annum,,
post free.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The increasing adoption of Pioneer Wood Pipe for
all manner of projects, results from its proved effi-
ciency and amazing economy. It saves money on
purchase, transport, and installation, and in service
its economy is even more marked. Pioneer Wood
Pipe suffers from none of the handicaps of metal
pipe, it neither rusts nor corrodes, shows no diminu-
tion of flow, even after long years of service, requires
no cleaning and is not effected by electrolysis, “bad
soil” or frost. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
A. E. Broue, Cathcart House, 11 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. ’Phone 83045. Petroleum Development,
Petroleum Boring and allied industries. Report and
Analysis. Scientific and Commercial Agencies through-
out the World. — -Advt.
* * * *
Robert Davidson, metals and ores, 28 years’
service Dalgety and Co., Ltd., now operating same
agencies at 8 Spring Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W. for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horsepower. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gas works. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Ptv., Ltd., of Sydnev,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOV.
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract*
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates tie
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis hignty profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or 1 ederal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GABVAN,
Managing Director.
rOOR® SON
ioHDOIi. ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
r
&
*4
DT
Lswift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney^!"
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglar*. Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at ju.,\vest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
made to reserves. Last year’s return was
the best tile business has given* and after
paying tile prefs.’ 8 p.C, and 10 p.c. on ordl-
naries half the amount represented by good-
will and preliminary exes, at the beginning
had been covered by two years’ lay-by*
immediate prospects are .bright* too, because
turnover has grown, partly Owing tb building
activity abound Melbourne and to the favor-
able season, and hardware prices have also
hardened a little.
Paid capital is £125,000, and that comfort-
ably finances the business :
1923. 1924.
Liabilities .. .. .. . . £12,363 £15,741
Freeholds .. ■ • .. • * 25,966 25,933
Plant, etc. .. .. • • • • 12,616 13,313
Stocks 66,743 73,623
Book debts . . . . . . • • 19,046 24,302
War Loan, cash, and odds and ends 12,004 8,324
All except £7417 of liabilities were covered
by cash assets at January 31, and 18s. 6d.
in the £ of all stocks and book debts was,
therefore, carried by the co.’s own funds.
* * * *
The market in Electrolytic Zincs is in a
turmoil over David Lumsden’s plot to free
Mt. Lyell of the 213,905 E.Z. deferreds which
his office pouched for the Mt. Read and Rose-
bery group of mines when the Risdon enter-
prise Was floated, Lyeli also received
100,000 E.Z. participating prefs., but, pre-
cash, put them on the market long
agb: The unloading looks the proper thing
for Lyell. it is a copper shdw, find deliber-
ately turned aside from lead and zinc wlieri
it passed the Mt. Read-Rosebery mines oyer
to Electrolytic Zinc, whose special mission
is in those metals. Nevertheless, the trans-
fer would probably not have been agreed to
so quietly if Lindsay Tullock had been alive.
The deferreds are offered to Lyell holders at
16s. each, in the proportion of 16 for every
100 Lyells, and as the scrip has been
fetching 255. lately there is no doubt that
the Lyell holder will bite, though the market
is not likely to be so bright when Lyell’s
wad of shares are circulating with
the 136,000 already at the command
of buyers. Lyell would probably have un-
loaded the scrip sooner or later in any case,
and the E.Z. deferreds may now be expected
to reach market stability. Swinburne is on
both the Zinc and Lyell Boards, and E.Z.
holders are pondering on what he thinks of
the two ends of the problem; if lie, as a
Zinc holder, considers it good business to
stand firm, why, as a Lyell director, let the
parcel go? Recent buyers of deferreds are,
naturally, incensed at the prospective intru-
sion of individual Lyellists with their job
lots. Meanwhile, David Lumsden's Scotch
blobd thrills fit tfifl thought of Lyell roping
in £160.000 of casli fof his eft. Without pay-
ing a penny commission.
Mt. Lyell is winning about 9000 tons per
month from the North Lyell, and the effi-
ciency of the new system of treatment is
demonstrated by the increasing monthly pro-
duction. In the first quarter of this year
24,406 tons ore were mined and 12,867 tons
went to the. smelters. The pre-treatment of
the crudes (with the exception of the pyritic
flux from Mt. Lyell and a small tonnage of
high-grade stuff from North Lyell) thus eli-
minates roughly 50 p.c. of the crude tonnage
prior to smelting. It would be interesting
to know what the loss per ton is in the reject
tails from the pre-treatment plant, and
exactly what saving is effected from a smelt-
ing point of view. Metal yields for the quar-
ter were: Copper, 1657 tons; silver,
35,0070 z.; gold, 5660 z.; and the recoveries
per ton of ore :
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Per ton mined . . 6.8 p.c. 1.40 z. o.47dwt.
Per ton smelted . . 12.1 ~ 2.72 ~ 0.88 ,
On existing metal prices values work out
this way : —•
Copper. Silver. Gold. Total.
Per ton mined , . 85.65. 4.35. 2.15. 92.05.
Per ton smelted . . 152.45. B.ls. 3.95. 164.45.
The mainstay of Lyell to-day, as during the
last few years, is undoubtedly the super-
phosphate department whose turnover lias
grown big. The financing of credit
sales may be one reason why the co.
is selling its Electrolytic Zinc holding.
Shortage of labor at Queenstown is restrict-
ing mine output, but the co. still hopes to
raise the North Lyell’s quota to 12,000 tons
per month,
* * * * *
“No intent to deceive or fraud, but care-
lessness and inefficient sampling’’ was the
finding of Commissioner Geary in the
Empire inquiry. In this charge of careless-
ness he includes managing-director - Dorrie
Doolette, apparently on the ground of respon-
sibility for the work of his staff. Geary’s
investigations showed that (1) Doolette had
about 140 practically worthless shares left,
which he could have sold in a boom market
had be believed the crushing was going to be
a dud; (2) Doolette threw the mine open to
all-comers and opposed the further issue of
shares when the market was soaring, because
he considered everything was satisfactory,
and that sufficient gold would be obtained
from the crushing to go on with; and (3)
instead of making arrangements to crush
2000 tons, which he thought was payable,
Doolette, had he wanted to work a swindle,
could have picked out a small crushing of
the richest ore which would have given a
high return. Geary recommends that the
Mining Act should make compulsory an
“authentic” report prior to flotation. But
what is an “authentic ’ report? Even \\ eb
ster doesn’t help you out of the difficulty.
He Says it means, ajnong other things, true
and “not of doubtful origin”; and applied
td mining jlrospeds a report not of doubtful
origin” maf turn Out t«
Thus S. R. Wilson condemned Bib. Bowlder,
and Daly thought well of the White Hope;
Even in the case of the Empire, the
Westralian Mines Department published a
favorable report by Inspector Deeble, who
had examined the show at Doolette s reques .
Six months ago Giblin told the Adelaide
crowd controlling Golden Hope (W.A.) th
they had a chance, but that the mill was
ahead of the mine. He reported again the
other dav, and did not find much improve-
ment in the ore position. The mine should have
been opened up far more before a mill was
thought of. With luck shareholders may
still get something, but on present appear-
ances the prospects of the mine recovering
all the outlay on it are bright.
Frcney Gil (W.A.) has compiled large-
sized plans, issued voluminous bulletins, fre-
quently reported “traces” in its bore, and
spent much of its capital. Now it claims
to have got “globules” of oil. .something
more than traces ami globules, however, are
required to revive interest in Westralian oil
ventures j ft flow, or at least, favorable re-
ports by Wade; or. Clapp, are required to
resuscitate the market;
* -X- # *
The “Wild Cat” comment (R. 13/3/’24)
that the old Mararoa co. “had lost some Of
its faith in the Emu option (W.A.) arid Was
testing a show at Wiluna” was interpreted
by some shareholders to mean that the wily
bird on the Murchison field had been defi-
nitely abandoned. Manager J. V. Mathers
is still proceeding with development, and
though latest work in the Emu itself lias
been disappointing, in the North Emu 60s.
values have been exposed in a 40in. lode in
the north drive at 100 ft. down the main-
shaft, and 80s. values over 33in. in the south
drive. Meanwhile another shaft has been
sunk to 101 ft., where 60s. values show in an
east crosscut, but low values to the west.
The workings from this shaft are being linked
up with those from the mainshaft to provide
better ventilation for further exploratory
Work. The Wiluna proposition, the manager
reports, is “favorably situated as regards the
continuation of the main ore-cliannel.”
* * * *
Mt. Isa silver-lead field is the Queensland
mining Mecca at present. W. H. Corbould,
Dr, 1\ L. Stillwell, Alex. Campbell, B.
Dunstan, Waiter Colley and others have been
on the field within recent weeks. Stillwell
had a proposition to report on for a Vic-
torian group. The flooded state of the
country between Townsville and the field
delayed operations up to the third week in
March, but equipment and plant have now
been landed, and geologist St. Smith, mana-
ger of Mt. Isa Mines. Ltd., has a couple of
shafts down 20ft. E. J. Rodda. manager
for the Proprietary, is particularly pleased
with the prospects of the Out-on-Her-Own and
the Ibus, and he considers that the lode in
the Rio Grande (one of the best-looking
leases on the field) should continue into the
Even Break.
The impetus given to prospecting by the
Mt. Isa discoveries has brought in a crop
of lease applications from other Queensland
areas. At Longamundi, eight miles west of
Narraku, promising surface indications have
been sighted, and 24 leases have been pegged.
* * * *
Brookfield, near Brisbane, has so far not
come to light with the erushings expected of
it. A couple of months back the Eclipse
put up a mill and amalgamating plant, but
the ore is evidently not proving amenable.
This was anticipated by the Mines Depart-
ment officials who examined the ore at the
trial run. The best values are in dense
pyrites, which will have to be smelted to win
maximum recoveries. Values may be ob-
tained from the new Bft. lode by the present
plant, because in that formation the gold is
not likely to be locked up in sulphides.
* « * *
Efforts to bring in an oil-well at Lander's
Orallo (Q.) bore have been delayed, owing
to the failure of the cementing of the bore-
hole. The cement used proved unsuitable
for the job and broke away when the hole
was unsealed. S O S signals went out for
the right material, and supplies having
reached the field the work of re-cementing is
now in hand. It will be several weeks be-
fore Duncan Milsom and the Californian
drilling team will have an opportunity to
make a further test of the 115 ft. of oil-sands
which they believe they have tapped.
From Dr. H. I. Jensen :
The statement (B. 20/3/’24) that the consensus oi
geological opinion is against the oil chances in the
Beaudesert district is not strictly correct. Recent
official reports by geologists Morton and Reid were
certainly unfavorable, these officers basing their con-
clusion on the fact that the Beaudesert district is
considerably intruded by volcanic rocks and also
faulted. Mr. Geologist Saint Smith and I, however,
after prolonged investigation, came to the con-
clusion that the oil in Dunn’s bore is a true natural
mineral oil, seeping into that bore in small amount.
Many of your correspondents consider that seepages
should guide oil prospecting operations, so why ignore
this one? In Bulletin No. 4 of the Geological Survey
of South Australia, Dr. Wade says: “There are cases
in the oil fields of the world where the effects of
basalt on the carbonaceous strata have been to cause
a certain amount of petroleum to be formed by the
actual process of destructive distillation.” He goes
Ob to say “The best known examples of this kind are:
(ij Iff the oil-shale fields of Scotland; (2) in the
oil fields Of Mexico* where basaltic plugs pierce
4000 ft. to SMOft.- of shale,” The Beaudesert occur-
rence is in country tiot dissinlilar to the Mexican
occurrences.
Many Australian oil prospecting operations are
condemned by official geologists because of the non-
existence of seepages. Where seepages afe known
to occur our official geologists ignore them and like-
wise condemn. The Australian Oil Corporation will
not be satisfied with such condemnation without test-
ing the area, and is making arrangements to bore
in the Beaudesert district to find the source of the
oil in Dunn’s bore, and in this matter is acting on
my geological advice. So that, although the co. is
also interesting itself in an area on the Maranoa
River, it is not by any means abandoning its original
intention to test the Beaudesert district.
* * * *
Carlisle helped Bendigo Amalgamated to
tune of £70,000 from the big belt of spurs
at about 1200 ft., and then dropped out tem-
porarily. Lately a fresh run of spurs has
been cut 15ft. over the level; they are narrow,
but the stone is of the plum-pudding type
and counts up in the battery. Result, the
wiping out of debts and £l5OO m the till.
As the make of spurs is regular, better times
should be in store for the old mine. Lntor-
tunately, it was leaned upon so much under
the B.A.G. regime that it has to start open-
ing up fresh ground to build reserves. How-
ever', the formations can be reached easily
from existing levels until development gets
well ahead.-
* * * *
Adelaide Oil Exploration has spent £14,394
on unsuccessful boring in the Mersey Valley
(Tas.) , and the directors claim to have pros-
pected over large areas in three States with
“encouraging indications/’ but as the rnost
likely spots were on Crown lands they
decided not to touch them. Instead, they
have gone further afield and paid a deposit
of £lOOO on 300,000 acres of freehold m
Bolivia, South Anerica, “directly m the
line of the great oil belt of the Andean
ranges.” Bolivia covers 570,000 sq. miles,
but not much oil has so far been found there.
The report, written in a high slate of exalta-
tion, goes on to say that “the co., as it were,
in one mighty stride, passes from a position
of comparative smallness and isolation into
the front ranks of the giant oil cos. of the
world. The co. was now in a country where-
in oil had unquestionably been found in tre-
mendous quantities.” Excellent reading and
most encouraging if it were true that oil
flowed so freely in Bolivia. The Saturday
Evening Post, which has published a series
of excellent articles on the world's oil posi-
tion from the U.S.A. point of view, says:
“To round out the South American oil
operations by Americans is to indicate that
in Bolivia and Ecuador the Standard Oil Go.
of New Jersey is alone in the field. No
production, however, has been secured,
although, in the opinion of experts, there
are rich possibilities in these two countries.
The co. has £29,041 on deposit and a call-
ing power of £25,258; £51,900 of shares are
unissued.
• • * *
The chemists who have analysed the brine
and mud brought by two expeditions
from Lake Mac Donnell (S.A.), not far from
the head of the Australian Bight, are unani-
mous there is oil in the Lake. As to us
quality or quantity, or whether it indicates
that oil exists below, the chemists are divided.
One side found appreciable quantities of
petroleum and ozokerite in the muddy waters
taken from the lake, and the other side could
only report oil traces. To settle the
matter Joe Maughan, Alick Peacocks lieu-
tenant, is forming a drilling co.. Australian
Oil, N.L., with a capital of £4OOO in 800
shares of £5 each. It is certainly a freak
co., because there are neither vendors’ nor
promoters’ shares, and all the cash, less
brokerage, will go into prospecting. The syn-
dicate holding the lake areas is handing over
its land to the projected co. A drilling rig
capable of going to 1500 ft. has been secured.
Why Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.I failed to
respond while tin was booming is told by
Ambrose Pratt. The “disappointing returns
from the dredging operations to date are
owing to circumstances not under your direc-
tors’ control. The co. was compelled to
abandon two acres of good ground, and owing
to the inclusion of two or three ot
exceptional value on ground which proved to
be slightly too elevated to work economically,
the average value of the area already dredged
appeared to be higher than it really was.
So* it seems that the show was so tender-
footed that a high-grade bore or two and the
loss of a couple of acres almost knocked it
out. In addition the old river-channel flats
are full of timber and are low in tin. So„
what with good ground tdo high to reach and
sunken loirs too big to skip over, it has taken
tin at £290 to screw out a div. But Kuala
is expected to behave better when the difficult
old river-bed is left behind.
* * * *
The Rand’s gold output for January at
796,7680 z. was the best for that month since
1915. The 1923 yield was 9,100.0000 z.
Several important producers are speeding up
production, and a couple of new mines,
which promise to give large yields, are about
to start crushing. The Rand is hoping that
1924 will be its record year.


OVER THE TOP.
"H. L. Cohen, Vic. Minister of Public Works, has invited the public to submit schemes for relieving the traffic con[?]s at ‘the busiest corner in the world.'"
(This picture of the artist catching the 5.15 is The Bulletin’s contribution towards solving the problem.)


The Original Holsten
Pilsener Lager
DIRECT FROM HAMBURG.
The first of the new shipments of this world-famous beer
have now arrived. Ask for it at leading hotels.
Obtainable from the distributors
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street Sydney,
and their Queensland Agents: —
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
//
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable! all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
A QUESTION OF TERMS.
THE BRIGHT BOY: "I'm going to England
next month."
THE FLIRTATIONS GIRL: "Oh, I should love
to go, too! Couldn't yon put me in your
trunk?"
THE OLD GENTLEMAN ( getting rather tired
of it): "Yes, yes—branded ‘Baggage'
and ‘Not wanted on the voyage.'"
“0.P.H.”: The crowd that had been on
the Repulse at Port Melbourne had thinned
appreciably. A fine-looking snotty stood be-
side a fascinating flapper with dimples and
dancing eyes. Pointing to the crowded
Hood on the opposite side of the pier she
asked, “What’s that funny thing up there
like a flattened-out periscope sideways.
“The range-finder,” replied the mid., and
lie moved nearer to her, as if to go into de-
tails. “Is that the only way to find the
range?” she inquired demurely; but there
was a mischievous light in her eye, and he
noted it. “No, that’s not the only way, he
said; “sometimes you can find it this way,
and liis arm encircled her. As his lips
reached for the dimple she slipped away,
saying, “Only the range, not the target.
...***
“MS.”: No wonder some women believe
in fortune-telling. I met in Wfijralia duir-
ing the war an elderly lady who had been
twice married. Her second husband, a cap
tain at the front, was a man of 28, seven
years younger than the eldest son ot liei
first union. She firmly believes that her
second marriage was the ordination of l a ,
and gave me the reasons tor her profound
conviction. During the lifetime of her first
husband she visited a fortune-teller, who
prophesied she would meet within an hour
someone who was destined to become lie
second husband. She discredited this be-
cause, as she explained to me, she was on nei
way to visit a friend in an outlying suburb
of Perth who had recently become a mother.
-L went.” she told me. “I held the baby
in my arms within the hour, and 2d
years later I married him.”
* * * * *
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: “Pellegrini’s” used to
be a sort of watchword amongst Sydney
Bohemians. Housed in a cellar in iving
street, near the Elizabeth-street corner, the
wineshop, with its casks, its mouldy cave-
like appearance and its sawdusted floor, pos-
sessed an atmosphere that appealed to the
casual soul; also it was of some importance
that the proprietor was a man who liked
long hair and seedy clothes, and. was pre-
pared to “turn it on” when times were hard.
Victor Daley wrote gallons of verse there.
Harold Gray—the now almost-forgotten ln-
grim”—made it a haunt, and it was a regu-
lar port of call for all the artistic spirits ot
a generation ago. When a new building
went up on the corner, this modern edition
of the Mermaids’ Tavern continued in the
basement, reconstructed and well lighten,
but still “Pellegrini’s” in the fond memories
of some old hands, even though 1 ellegnni
was gone and Joe Truda reigned in Ins
stead. But the old roots are to be pulled
up at last: the Licenses Reduction Board
has wiped out; “Pellegrini’s” with 89 other
Sydney wineshops. #
“Whitehall” : Sydney is spending a lot of
money on pictures, costly new furniture and
doubtful antiques. But the general level ot
culture is tragically reflected in the absence
of libraries worthy of the“name.- l-he posi-
tion was better half a century ago, when men
of the type of James Martin, Alfred Stephen
and Badham were as much concerned about
the quality of their books as they were about
the vintages of their wines. As to the clubs.
London “pot-houses,” such as the R.A.C. and
the Junior Athenaeum, are immeasurably
ahead of Australia’s best in this respect.
The Australian Club, which has on its mem-
bership list most of the leading professional
men of N. S. Whiles and nearly all the
Judges, contains a so-called library which
would shame a back-blocks School ot Arts;
and the Union Club’s is little better. Hugh
D. Mclntosh’s weird collection of books,
which were disposed of when the. Belhaven
furniture was sold, typified the indiscrimi-
nate style in which our private citizens with
money to burn amass their intellectual food-
stuffs. But Mclntosh, anyhow, did accumu-
late a few notable works in his fugitive
dashes through the bookshops, and there was
evidence that lie had read some of them.
The wealthy clubs from Perth to Brisbane
possess no books that are seriously expected
to be used, and if there are any cultured
members who object the committees seem
never to hear from them.
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” on professional ethics:
The Privy Council has dismissed the appeal of Dr.
George Stanley Thompson, of Coogee and Macquarie-
street; and the whole business is going to cost some-
body, it is said, over £lO,OOO. It all started with
the Farr lunacy case. Dr. Thompson championed
the lady, and got. into conflict with the 8.M.A.,
which expelled him, after, in the words of the Privy-
Council, he had made “grossly calumnious charges
against brother professional, men.” Dr. Thompson
thought he had been wronged. So did the jury in
the action he brought against the B.M.A. But after
that preliminary win lie met nothing but reverses.
The case had unusual attention in England, partly
IN STRICT CONFIDENCE.
“Go on, there’s a dear old thing—tell me!"
“No, I won't; you’ll only go and tell all your girl-friends."
“But if Ido it doesn’t matter, darling—they can keep a secret
just as well as I can."
perhaps because Dr. Thompson is an F.R.C.S. of
England—a very different thing from the F.R.C.S. of
Edinburgh, which most aspiring Australian graduates
take. In the course of his address for the appellant
Geoffrey Lawrence suggested that members of the
B.M.A. should have voted unanimously against the
rule which ostracised professional! y an expelled
member. I am quite well aware that a large section
of the public disapproves of this soeallecl "boycott.
But nobody gains by the profession’s stiff attitude
so much as the public. Some of the rules, 1 admit,
are old-fashioned and even harsh ; but the underlying
motive for the stringency is to raise and maintain
the status of the profession and make practitioners
worthy of public confidence. So far from being a
heartless body, falling like a million of bricks upon
the small man for trivial professional offences, the
Council is very tolerant, on the whole, and a mild
letter of reproof is usually the only penalty for an
infraction of the rules.
# *
“H.H.” : A discovery by a medical scien-
tist of C/.echo-Slovakia may make it possible
for future parents to decide bright and early
whether the coming infant is to be called
Gladys Veronica or Cuthbert Montmorency.
The doctor is alleged to have proved to the
satisfaction of the Pans Academy of Medi-
cine that, using the Bordet-M asserman. test
on the blood of the mother, he can tell the
sex of a child four months prior to its birth.
It is, of course, a feat which many people
who arc not doctors profess to be able to
perform, using methods which tlie medical
faculty treat with derision. bj dnej s
Eastern Suburbs possesses a Sairey Gamp
who nevertheless claims to have forcasted
the sex of over a thousand little Australians
without a single mistake.
“Te I’ana”: Tan Wiremu Ratana, the
Maori Healer, who is on his way to the
Empire Exhibition, is the last of the native
-prophets in the Shaky Isles. Since old Te
Kooti and his henchman Toliu brewed a
mixture of ancient Maori superstition am.
Christianity, there have been several natives
in far-apart villages who have assumed
Divine prerogatives. The prophet Kua had
the best spin : lie had a large following n
the Urewera country and much uiu came his
way. Sly-grog selling as a side-line was his
downfall. He was heavily lined and it
shook the popular belief m his divinity.
When the police went to take linn from Ins
pah he put uii a fight in which Ins only son
was killed. During the war period opposi-
tion to conscription found a spokesman, and
a prophet arose who was going to sweep
the pakclia into the sea. He ended in a
country lock-up. IJp to last year Ratana
and his miracles were widely believed m.
Then he made the mistake of trying to found
a political party. That did it. In the pahs
it is now whispered that halt his alleged
cures are back in hospital and the other ha
sadly miss the spectacles and crutches waic i
they left with Ratana during the height or
the crusade.
“Carburetter’’:
A sojourner from
overseas, whose
ear was fancied by
an impulsive col-
lector of autos
while it stood out-
si d e a Collins-
street (Melb.),
surgery, could
hardly believe his
good fortune when
it was handed
back to him by the
(VLB. within 24
hours. The wire-
less patrol lizzie
took up the hunt
three minutes after
the complaint was
lodged, and never
left the trail till
the quarry was
run down. The
foreigner felt it
was up to him to
show his apprecia-
tion in some tan-
gible way, and,
according to the
gossip of the
muster - room at
Russell-street, he
offered the sleuth
who restored the
car a big wad.
The latter virtu-
ously waved the
gratuity aside, be-
cause he “was
paid by the Gov-
ernment for doing
his duty.” Per-
haps he was als;o
shrewd. If it is
possible for a story
about the refusal
of a gift to leak
out, it is equally
possible for one
about acceptance to
ooze through. There
is a storv about a railway porter who was
handed a sov. for a tip, and handed back a
bob with an indignant rebuke and a wink,
because the s.m. was near. Mis readiness
may be held to have earned him the 19s.
“Fax” • There was a quick touch of
marital feeling in a Melbourne matrons
storv of how she came home and surprised
a burglar. “1 flung back the wire door
and opened the other one. I turned into
the girl’s bedroom, thinking as the light was
burning that my husband was there. 1
called out: ‘What are you doing in Betty s
NEVE R SATISFIED.
"I say, I don't approve of that dress."
“Oh, there's no pleasing you. You used to
complain about having to hook me up
the back."
room"' 1 ’ To my amazement the man was not
ray husband.” The burglarious stranger
seems to have got out of it more easily than
the husband might have done. An ordinary
married man. called upon by his legal cus-
todian to explain what lie’s doing iu Betty s
bedroom, finds explanations useless and
flight impossible.
(Continued on page 19.)
THIS TRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-
five,”
Drones the train ;
And again ; .
“Nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-
Oh, it’s not the sort of song to make us glad that
we’re alive,
As we rumble in the smoker down the slow suburban
track,
With our pipes and bags and papers and our suits ot
grey or black,
Blue or brown,
Into town.
When we’ve finished with our news-sheets and our
usable supply
Of banal conversation has at last (thank God.)
run dry,
Then we’re left to think of what the day’s experience
will be,
And it isn’t very pleasant facing dull monotony.
No, the world seems pretty hopeless, and 1 must
confess that I’ve
Heard a lot more cheerful music than that pulsing
“Nine-till-five” ;
And the train
Drones again:
“Nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-five, nine-till-
five.”
“Never mind, never-mind, never mind, never-mind,”
Drones the train—
Good old train!
“Never-mind, never-mind, never-mind, never-mind !
Oh, it doesn’t take us long to leave the office-work
behind,
With the friendly wheels a-rlattering that bear us
up the line,
Back towards that little home of yours, those garden
beds of mine
(And I'll bet with all that sun to-day those asters
must look fine !)
Going home!
Going home!
When we’ve read the news and talked awhile it’s good
to puff away
At our old black pipes, while thinking of what s
happened through the day.
And it isn’t such a bad old job; there must be
plenty worse.
And the boss? He’s really passable; he only needs
a nurse.
For the hours from now till morning let’s forget our
daily grinl;
And there’s nothing soothes the nerves like being
told to “Never mind”
By the train —
Good old train!
N.S.W.
COLIN WILLS.


jA. R-oc.«.'Ssio«
Fellow Workers *
Q.U.C413 \~la,\~
&^r«jz.*k.Ule
G<2?t\\ing Sweet
■wiftt ikez. ■
jrA.otti<z.*-s.
A dc& pxjiasi"ion, drives
AvisAvalia. a*.n.d l<2.»s»r<z,S .
33<ziwcic£.r2 Ou.r\s«zlv<z,s "
E lectio** .
WHEN CROWNS GO TO THE BALLOT.
"The DAILY EXPRESS publishes a message from its Athens correspondent, who states that consternation has been Caused in the Cabinet by the point-blank
refusal of King Geoge of Greece to abdieate until a plebiscite indieates that it is popu;ar wish. The Rogallats are convinced that an untrammelled vote
will give a large mafority in favor of the continuance of the monarch."


THIS HKXKV LAW SOX MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£287 7 7
Per J. Mcllveen, Mayor of Inverell:—
J. Mcllveen. E. Mcllveen, W. Seale,
,T. Warner. A. FarrOn, D. Mclntyre,
I). Cloonan, H. Cbessbrough, Dean
O’Neill. Bert Mudge, G. Codington,
C. Moore, J. O’Brien, 11. Mc-Leen,
J. Tomlinson, S. Bliss, C. Vinden, •
£294 10 10
Contributions should be addressed to Tiik
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
ď
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
The Famous Red Packet,
20 for 1/0
ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.
“Ex-Dig*": The identification of a body
at the Sydney morgue as the remains of
three different people recalls the case of
Donald Miller, ex-A.LF. Miller, who had
married just before going to the war, came
back a broken man. and domestic troubles
aggravated his condition. He disappeared
finally: and very soon afterwards a blood-
stained razor marked was found on
the Watson’s Bay boat and a corpse greatly
mutilated by sharks was dragged out of the
harbor. His widow, as she deemed herself,
identified both, and I >onald Miller was duly
buried. But about 18 months later Donald
Miller came to light again. Chiefly, it
seems, because he had claimed to be a mail
who was dead he had been treated as a mad-
man ;• but his story was so consistent that
a doctor interested himself and helped to
establish his identity. His case is one that
ought to interest anybody in authority who
is genuinely concerned about what may
happen under our Lunacy Laws; and for-
tunately there are at least half-a-dozen repu-
table people who were in close touch With
him immediately before his forcible removal
to Broughton Hall under military guard.
“The Oldest” : An ancient and picturesque
landmark on the Western-road (N.S.W.) is
to be demolished —the Emu Ferry Inn, built
nearly a century ago by Jacob Josephson,
a goldsmith and jeweller of George-street in
the Macquarie era. The Quaker missionaries
Backhouse and Walker left this record of it
and its owner in 1835: —
AVe returned to the Inn to lodge. Jacob Joseph-
son, a Jew professing Christianity, the father-in-law
of the landlord and to whom the house belongs, called
upon us and signified his wish that we would consider
ourselves free guests at his cost while in his son’s
iiouse. AVe stated the manner in which our current
expenses were defrayed, and that his liberality was not
absolutely needed ; but his remark was that lie was
a Christian and his heart was interested in the spread
of the gospel; it afforded him pleasure to be able
to contribute to our necessities. AA r e accordingly be-
came his guests, and much attention we received both
from himself and other members of his family.
The house was later renamed the Governor
Bourke, with C. A. Wilson, Josephson’s son-
in-law, as licensee; descendants of Wilson
are still to be found on the Blue Mountains.
Jacob Josephson was a very rich man; after
THE ADVENTURES OF CONSTABLE GREEN.
GREEN: “Is it insured?”
IKEY (who seems to be trying to put the fire out ): “Vat a question
to ask! Run a[?]ay and learn some sense.”
leaving Emu Ferry he purchased Enmore
House (built by Rolf Boldrewood’s father)
and died there, leaving his property to his
sons, one of whom became a District Court
Judge. A sketch by Rodins of Jacob Josepli-
son is in the Mitchell Library.
* * * *
“Tom Willie” : I have heard of self-inflicted
wounds (B. 6/3/’24) a long way out of the
war zone. A jackeroo was detailed to mind
starving sheep on the back boundary of a
station near Burrinjuck in the days before
WHAT SHE HAID.
"That young won stahs to an uncarthly hour crcry night. mhat docs your mother say
about it?"
“Well, dad , mother says men haven't altered a bit .”
the dam was thought of. He'd been three
months living alone, lopping box and oak for
the sheep, eating mutton before it was quite
dead (to got in before the flies), and stuffing
himself• with damper and black tea. Then one
day. from the top of a tree, he saw the tucker-
cart, with the boss aboard, coming over the
skyline with the next quarter’s rations of
flour, baking-powder, salt, tea and black
sugar. The horrible prospect of having to
convert that stuff into food along with a
sheep that was only good for one meal was
too much. IJe slithered down the tree, mid
his left hand on a rock and chopped three of
the fingers into the bone. He told the boss
that the axe had slipped when he was lop-
ping “one of the cast-iron oaks,” and the boss
promptly sacked him “for being such a Hod-
forgotten clumsy brute.” The sentence was
the equivalent of a Blighty, and_ the_ victim
was soon forgetting his troubles in Bmalong
beer. #
“Wink” : The queerest casualty I met in
the war was suffered in the last determined
stand put up by the enemy in Palestine, at
the mud village of Semakh, on the shore ot
Lake Galilee. Here, at night, the lltli
L. 1.1., by a dashing charge and a determined
assault under hot
fire. cleaned up
double their own
number, mostly
Germ a n s. But
their own casual-
ties were heavy,
On c old hand,
Trooper Muir, was
hit twice in the
head by m.-g. fire,
He never regained
consciousness, but
his brain-injuries
made him live over
that last charge
hundreds of times.
As if still mounted
and spurred, he
would use his legs
furiously, clicking
his tongue the
while to urge his
horse on. “(fo on,
boy,” he repeated.
Then, as again in
imagination he was
hit, he woul d
scream horribly.
For fi v e days,
without food and
with only a little
drink, this lasted ;
and then he died
from sheer exhaus-
tio n. To the
other wounded and
nerve-racked who
were in that little
hospital, those few
days were filled
with horrors never
exceeded on the battlefield.
“8.V.E.”: There are many ways of a
man with a maid: and this is the tale of
one way told by Nell’s father. In the early
days of Bulumwaal (Vic.), Jim Wait, an
alluvial miner, courted Nell, the daughter of
another. For eight years, punctually at
7.30 p.m., Jim would land at the bark hut
where his affinity dwelt, and dad would
efface himself in the lean-to at the back.
Jim’s entering salutation invariably was,
"Goo’-ni' Nell." and Nell s was *‘ R yer all
right, Jimmy?” Then Jimmy would pull
his seat up to the fire, and while Nell darned
or sewed he’d smoke industriously and spit
generously into the flames. At 10 Jim. would
get up and say, “Well, Nell, 1 suppose I
better be goin’.” which would elicit an "Oh,
all right, Jim.” They’d both saunter to the
gate, and after a few minutes’ leaning on it,
"Ah. well, goo’-ni' Nell,” would terminate
the evening’s entertainment. This went on
for eight years; then one night, previous
to the final “Goo’-ni’,” .Jim ventured on
“How erbout gettin" married, Nell?” Nell s
“D’ye mean it. .Jim?” seemed to stir him to
a sudden burst of eloquence. “What,” he
demanded, “ain’t yer suspected nothin’? It’s
righto. I’ve fixed with the parson fer
Saterd’y week. Goo’-ni’ Nell.” Ile’d gut
about 10 yards down the road when she
called him back. “Ain’t yer goin’ t’ ker-ker-
kiss me, Jim?” “Struth,” said the accepted
suitor; “oh, I serpose so”—-and he dragged
his pipe from his lips and sealed the con-
tract.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: The cablegram about the
London Hebrew who “schnorred” at his son’s
wedding, resplendent in an immaculate top
hat and frock coat, and then changed into
rags and begged from the guests as they left,
reminds me that even in Australia a few
schnorrers are tolerated by the wealthy of
Israel. A yarn told of two of them recently
is that they met outside the office of a par-
ticularly affluent Jew, one coming out, the
other going in. “Better not see him to-
day,” counselled the former —“he is in a
bad mood, and won’t give you more than five
shillings.” “Yell.” said schnorrer No. 2.
"vat has he done dot I shouldt ledt him off
fife bop?”
“ J.A.”: A young man who, by means of
a scholarship, was enabled to take the B.Sc.
degree at the Adelaide University, found
himself amongst the unemployed. As there
appeared to be no prospect of turning his
diploma to account, he sought work in an-
other sphere. Some months later an advisory
board, knowing his qualifications, sent for
him and offered him a job at £250 per
annum. The offer was turned down, the
graduate pointing out with a snigger that
he was earning double that amount as a
bricklayer.
* * * *
“Griffith Moses”: I have read the report
of Sydney Town Clerk Layton on his return
from the land of Dope and Dollars, and am
glad to learn that no city there is ever
allowed to be short of water, and that the
garden sprinklers flow even in drought. It
is always pleasing to know how they do
things in the Home of the Star-Spangled
Cocktail. But lest silly people should
assume that it is only lack of Prohibition
and wandering evangelists and other U.S.
institutions which prevents Australia_ doing
likewise, there are matters to be considered.
For instance, North America is the highest
of the continents (average height, 2300 ft.).
Australia is the lowest (average height,
800 ft.). It is also on record that if anyone
carelessly leaves a dam with Oft. of water in
it lying out in the open in Western N. S.
Wales, evaporation alone will drink it dry
in six months. The capacity of the Yankee
person is doubtless immense, and so, in all
the densely peopled parts of the Republic, is
the natural rainfall and snowfall. Yet
Uncle never in his brightest moments dis-
covered how to grow and water a city ap-
broaching the size of Sydney as close to the
tropics as Sydney is, or within six degrees
of being as close. The T .S. has one State
(Nevada) which compares fairly well with
S. Australia for dryness, though Nevada has
more mountains and rivers, and contains
509 sq. miles of lakes. It has halt 5.A. s
density of population, and is losing wliat
it has. # *
“P.M.”: What's this about the "unique
honor'’ with which “the French buried the
German airman, Baron von Riclitoten (t>.
°l/2/’24) V Ilichtofen was shot down close
to the line, near an Australian machine-gun
detachment, which later had an argument
(never settled) with a British 1 lying squad-
ron as to which shot him. The ord Austia-
lian Squadron sent out a party ot men to
recover the body; a mechanic, an ex-saiior,
crawled out to the edge of the bank, threw a
rope and secured the body under fire. Lt was
taken to the A.F.C. camp and buried next
day in Bertangles Cemetery. Ihe whole
of (he ceremonies were carried out by
A assies, who also erected an aeroplane pro-
peller, with an inscription on it, over the
grave. The Aussie pilots accorded to the
German airman exactly the same honors as
they did to their own comrades, about a
dozen of whom were buried in the same
district. . #
“Buttinski”: Another self-advertising
freak, after the usual pull send-oft by
the Melbourne evening papers, set his
face and his toecaps towards the JN.i.
Like “Nimshi’s” three (B. 20/3/24) lie
found his prestige diminishing with every
mile he covered, and when he finally plodded
into Darwin and mentioned that he had
iioofed it from Melbourne, he was casually
introduced to Overland Bill, who had been
walking in and around the N.T. for the last
20 years. A further rebuff was adminis-
tered by the Federal Government, which
absolutely refused to give the pedestrian a
free ticket back to Melbourne. As there was
no chance of getting a living by the licel-
and-toe business in a land where practi-
cally everybody walks, he went to the other
extreme and shipped on a boat to the South
Seas. What became of him afterwards is
a little obscure, but he or some other ped.
wearing his name turned up in Melbourne
and the Hekald excitedly published a photo
of his hoots!
SHE HAD PROOF OF IT.
SALESWOMAN: “Madam, this is a most ex-
clusive design.-I’ve sold dozens of
them this season.”
WINTER-WHISTLE !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
March thinks it is autumn still.
Maybe, but I heard the hill
Echoing a winter cry
To the cold, blue stooping sky.
March thinks it is autumn. Well,
From a little ferny dell
Just all hour ago 1 heal'd
Notes of a sweet winter bird.
March thinks it is autumn st ill.
But the Jaeky AVintei's shrill!
“Tell us, tell us what is sweeter
Than our ‘Peter, Peter, Peter’,”
x.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


Face this fact squarely-
for your wife’s sake!
someUrintr 6 far &r nlt CODSlder sickness, and death only as
Naturallv S *hL ff — ne an immediate possibility,
dependents *atain«?' er £ other about Protecting their
account- fnv A J sucb an event - This, no doubt,
protected f maiHou th r llSands ot , widows - who, having led
husband’s d Q i!7 es ‘ are left unprotected at their
oddsTo earn a living. &re n ° W struggling a^ainst unfair
the length t of S m^ uare ] y! . No man knows
e ms llfe! The act of assuring will not
lengthen or shorten life by a day, but it WILL protect
dependents against future hardships. See about it
without, delay at the Producers’ and Citizens’ Co-opera-
tive Assurance Company, Ltd.
]ih provisions allowed by the P. & C. are unusually
i° r vT+u com Pany is a co-operative body,
Wlth th e most influential co-operative bodies
omn l onwe ?' 1 i tl1 ’ I? soundly founded and has a
hnancial policy that ensures stability and
The Producers' & Citizens'
Company of Australia, Ltd.,
a
o
Co-operative Assurance
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Also at MELBOURNE, PERTH, ADELAIDE, HOBART and
(?. L. WEAVER, Managing Eirector.
BRISBANE.
H. FELL, General Secretary.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
HARNES
LINSEED
OIL
borne April birthdays:—
Bishop Armstrong (Wangaratta), 67, on 2nd; Arch-
deacon Boyce (Syd.), 80, on 6th; artist Arthur
Streeton, 57, on Bth; ex-Prime Minister J. C. Wat-
son, 5(, and Thos. 'Trumble (Secretary for Defence)
52, on 9th; Prof. Priestley (Q. Uni.), 41, on 10th ;’
poet Bernard O’Dowd, 58, on nth; Dr. “Billy”
Maloney (Melb.), 70, on 12th; Geo. Brooknun
(S.A.), 74, Alfred W. Meeks (Syd.), 75, and A
Allen Simpson (S.A.), 49, on 15th; Major-Gen,
('hauvel, 59, on 16th; ex-Gaud Mayor Tom Hughes.
61, and J. H. MacFarland (Melb. Uni.), 73, on
19th; L. A. Adamson (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 64, on
20th; G. H. Halligan (Syd.), 68, and Chas.’ ;I.
Angas (S.A. pastoralist), 63, on axst; J. .T. Virgo
(Y.M.C.A., London), 59, on 22nd; Arthur Robinson
(Vic. Cabinet Minister), 52, and Justinian Oxenham
(Postal Dept.), 64, on 23rd; Dr. Maudsley (Melb.)
65, botanist J. H. Maiden, 65, Prof. 'Phillips'on
(.;\del.), 47, and Jas. Davies (.U.T.A.), 59, on 25t’i ;
Will J. Sowden (formerly of Adel. Register), 6fi’
J. MacCallum Smith (V.A.), 56, ex-r ederal Senator
J. G. Drake (Q.), 74, and R. W. M. Waddv (ex-
Deputy P.M.G. of S.A.), 76, on 26th; Westralian
Premier Mitchell, 58, Vic. Railways Commissioner
Shannon, 56, and Henry Braddon r«yd.), 61, on
27th; and Prof. Shann (W.A.j, 40. on 30th.
Recently cele-
brated his 100th
birthday at Brook-
side, Christchurch
(M.L.), E. R.
Drew, who worked
in a flour mill
in Wellington 90
years a go. He
went pioneering to
Australia in 1840,
but returned and
set up a mill in
Christchurch half
a century back.
F. C. URQUHART,
Administrator of
the Northern
Territory, now on
an official visit
south.
General Nivelle, who died a few days ago,
had four months as nominal commander of
all the armies at the Western Front; but a
double-Napoleon could hardly have won
under the circumstances. At the end of 1916
the Allies partly realised that they were
losing their chances by a divided command.
Thanks to Lloyd George, Nivelle got a sort
of trial as generalissimo; but unfortunately
it wasn’t stipulated that he would be free of
his own War Department, and a fussy Min-
ister at Paris tried to direct the whole cam-
paign per telephone, Nivelle being summoned
to the city more than once in the midst of
big operations to explains things to excited
and sometimes leaky politicians. So the uni-
fied command, such as it was, fell apart
again. When it was made a reality a year
later the astute Foch stipulated that he must
not be expected to take orders from man or
beast, or to explain his plans to any politi-
cian. And after that the speed with which
the war came to an end was almost indecent.
W. F. Hurley, M.L.C., who died last
week, was made by a mine. One of three
big brothers wdio had all done a bit of dig-
*»e happened to be appointed manager
of a little show on the western slopes of the
blue Mountains (N.S.W.) called Sunny
Corner. When he took charge six men
were working on it; he saw the staff reach
a thousand. Till then Australia knew hardly
anything about silver-mining, and Hurley
turned to the U.S.A. for technical assistance.
Soon the prospector was talking about silver-
lead as before he had talked about gold ; and
the result of that was the discovery first of
Thackariiiga and then of the neighboring
Pro ken Hill—though the man who stumbled
on Broken Hill thought at first that it was
tin. In politics the best known of the three
Hurley brothers was John, for years member
tor Hartley, the district which includes
Sunny Corner.
“Retro”: The
citizen referred to
by “Adelaide” (B.
20/3/’24), who
met his death
while crossing
Hindley-street to
go to the Exchange
Hotel, had pro-
bably established a
record as a
long distance
luncheon customer.
He had daily occu-
pied the same seat
in the Exchange
dining-room for 42
years; and then,
when electric fans
were installed in
the room, he 're-
moved to a re-
mote corner, where
he fed for a further
four years.
Dr. BASEDOW,
the geologist, a
candidate for
Barossa in the
S.A, Assembly.
It was 1 17 years on March 22 since
the Australian Federation Convention
assembled at Adelaide. Of the 50 delegates
from the live colonies represented there are
now only 13 survivors, and five of these are
Victorians. During an interval the mem-
bers went on to. the lawn behind Parliament
House and were photographed. Of the men
in the first row of that group not one
remains above ground.
H. C. Talbot did not long survive his
superannuation from the Survey Department
of S.A. It was he who laid out the now
nourishing Port Pirie half a century back,
and he was generally relied on by the S.A.
Criminal Court whenever a plan was needed
in a murder trial with X marking the spot
where the body was found. He did a lot
of historical research and writing in his
spare time, and during the war, when the
many town-names of German origin were
wiped off the map, the re-christening was en-
trusted to Talbot, with Surveyor-General
E. M. Smith and journalist Rodney Cock-
burn.
George Wise is still a force in the Vic.
A.N.A., and was the big gun of the Warr-
nambool conference. During the first five
hours lie made several attempts to put some
life into the assemblage, but failed. Trying
again in the evening, he kindled the embers
and produced a glow that lasted for the next
two days. Curious that Wise, who has
swayed so successfully many Natives’ con-
tentions in the last 34 years, was content to
be a second- or third-rater in the Common-
wealth Parliament. Perhaps he will be more
ambitions when lie wins the Gippsland seat
back from Patterson, the Cocky nominee, at
next general election—as now seems likely.
i ". Richardson, Vic. Superinten-
d!?nt m Agriculture, has been made a D.Sc.
of Melbourne ’Varsity. The theses he wrote
on wheat-breeding and on water require-
ments of farm crops were submitted to Sir
Hamel Hall, scientific adviser to the Brit-
ish Board of Agriculture, and Professor
Ewart. Since coming to Vic. from S. Aus.
Richardson has by his knowledge and per-
sonality compelled the agriculturists to take
notice of him. Apart from his work lie is
a force in a cultured group between the ultra-
exclusives and the not-so-exclusives of
sassiety, and manages to get a good deal
out of life while keeping in the front rank
of his profession.
“J.H.M.A.” buries a commodore:—
When Captain Robert Heron, commodore of the
Newcastle and Hunter River boats, went west last
Friday, after a long illness, the Australian merchant
sendee lost one of its best officers and the company’s
employees a good friend. He was a native of North
Sydney, and took to the sea in the early ’eighties
as an apprentice on F. H. Dangar’s famous clipper
Neotsfield. On obtaining his ticket as second officer
he joined the E. and A. Co., and subsequently served
with Huddart Parker. Twenty years ago he began
to sail with the Hunter River line, and gained rapid
promotion in the co. At the date of his death lie
had been its senior commander for some years. He
was a sterling good fellow, a fine seaman, the type
which is able to command both the affection and
respect of his fellows. He was only 51 when the call
came, following a bad attack of pneumonia.
Lancelot Stirling, President of the S. Aus.
Legislative Council for the last 23 years, has
been re-elected unopposed for the Southern
District, which he has represented continu-
ously for 33 years.
Dean Lane, of Lower Hutt (M.L.), who
reached out rather unexpectedly for hm halo
the other day, was the Father O’Flynn of
the Dominion. His flock in the Hutt Valley
was his special care for the past decade or
two, but the fame of his wit and his wisdom,
his goodness and his joviality, travelled far
and wide; and a mile and a half of varie-
gated creeds did him honor on the day of
his funeral.
The new administrator of St. Pat’s Cathe-
dral and eliancellor of the Melbourne Arch-
diocese is Father Lonergan, Diocesan In-
spector of Religious Instruction in Schools.
He succeeds Dr. Barry, who is about to don
the gaiters in Goulburn (N.S.W.). Loner-
gan is an Australian, was educated at St.
I atricks College, : East Melbourne, studied
for the priesthood at Manly (N.S.W.), and
was ordained in 1911. For 12 years he has
been attached to the staff of St. Pat.’s.
“T. 0.1.”: William Ashman Stokes, who
died at Cowra (N.S.W.) on March 22, aged
IT- as ! % last surviving son of Frederick
Michael Stokes, who in 1831, with W.
Stephens and W. McGarvie, founded the
oydney Herald as a weekly paper. It be-
came bi-weekly two years later, tri-weekly in
183 1 and daily in 1840; and in ’42 it took
unto itself the title of Sydney Morning
Herald. After selling liis interests in the
paper I. M. Stokes established himself as a
soap and candle manufacturer in Dickson-
street, Darling Harbor, and in the ’fifties
was printer and publisher of the Mercan-
tile Journal. W. A. Stokes was originally
a country bank-manager, and later a stock
and station agent at Cowra.
“Pedro’ discovers an energetic person:—
A syndic being a person who does other people’s
business, the Syndic of Sydney is Janies A. Mur-
doch, who does the business that ought to be done
by the Mayor and aldermen. While these latter were
audibly gnashing their teeth over the city’s con-
tribution to the cost of the harbor bridge, James
Murdoch took some of his Citizens’ Reform Associa-
tion stalwarts to the Premier, made a speech, and
got a promise of “sympathetic consideration.” When
William McMillan appeared like a political wraith
the. other day and rattled his chains in protest
against the Federal land-tax, the best man he could
think of to head an agitation for repeal was Mur-
doch. And when the Fuller Government was sus-
pected of wobbling on the proposed abolition of the
city lodger vote, it was Murdoch who was sent forward
at the head of a corps of ironsided reformers. James
Murdoch started in Park-street years ago, announc-
ing that the good hats were there; he had very
little capital, but he had confidence and a Presby-
terian temperament. Now he is one of the merchant
princes, a big manufacturer, and an employer who
lets his employees into the business. Except that
he has a chair in the Leg. Council and is chairman
of the Citizens’ Reform Assoc., he has been given
no offices, but seems to have taken, by general con-
sent, that of Chief Civic Doer in Sydney. Now he is
off on a tour of the U.S.A. and Europe; and it is
safe to say that Sydney will get some of the fruits
of his foreign harvesting.
Fussell, who has just retired from the job
of chief inspector of Vic. State schools, began
as an assistant teacher at Camperdown 47
.years ago, and while Frank Tate was in
England recently took over the job of
director. A keen sense of humor helped to
temper Fussell’s tendency to be too stern a
disciplinarian, and no one is grudging him
the pension of £570 he will draw.
Mark Lemon, who died in Adelaide Hos-
pital on March 21, aged 84. was oldest son
"J e Mark Lemon who did good service
to English literature by treading heavily
on the ambition of young V . M. Thackeray
to be a cartoonist for London Punch.
Young Mark in .middle life was lawyer’s
clerk to the literary Paris Nesbit. K.C.,
then tried the Canadian Government service'
but returned to Adelaide in 3899. He and
Alfred Tennyson Dickens were fast friends
as their fathers had been.
Annie Ridley, probate of whose will was
lately taken out in S.A., was in 1840 brought
as an infant by her father, John Ridlev, to
Adelaide, where lie set up a mill and in-
vented the Ridley reaper. The daughter, in
A Backward Glance,” wrote a bulky life
ot dad and frankly admitted that he got the
idea of the machine that has since harvested
wheat all over the world from a picture in
“Loudon's Cyclopaedia” of a contrivance used
in 400 a.d. in the south of France. In the
stripper of old Gaul the animal pushed from
behind, and the driver walloped the wheat
heads into the comb with a stick; so Ridley
put his power at the rear to harvest S.A.’s
first wheat crops. The later improvements
were all Australian and made long before the
Yankee started to send ns the complete
harvester.
“Jobber’’: Mention of the old Oakes family
(B. 13/3/’24) prompts me to remark that
a son of the late George Oakes, of Parra-
matta, is now in Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
where he, to-
gether with his
wife-r-my sister
—daily admire
two grand-
daughters. The
nippers are the
6th generation
of Australian-
born on the
Oakes side, and
the sth on the
Weston side.
Is there a
be 11 er record
with no taint
of the lag in
either family ?
Senator JAMES
OGDEN, of
Tasmania, who
shocked some
of his brother
Laborites last
week by speak-
ing in favor
of the Singa-
pore base.
“H I 0,” now written after minutes on
Vic. Public Works departmental papers, con-
tain no reflection upon anybody, unless the
document says so specifically. The three
letters are merely the intials of new Minister
Henry Isaac Cohen.
“Arvi” : How many Australians know that
the existence of the Hood has, according to
the repeated statement of Admiral Dixoa,
Engineer-in-Chief of the British Navy, only
been made possible by the inventions of A. G.
M. Miehell, of Melbourne? Yet, as in the
case of Hargrave and the aeroplane, Michell’s
invention was received at first with indiffer-
ence amounting almost to contempt, and was
only adopted by the British Admiralty under
the stress and strain of the war. To-day
Miehell thrust bearings on propeller shafts
are in use in steam turbines of over
10,000,000-h.p. in the British Navy alone.
In the old thrust bearings the loss by fric-
tion w-as 3 p.c.; the Melbourne man’s inven-
tion cuts all that out, and more where gear-
driven turbines are used.
"Hip”: A 1 Jennings, “formerly a train-
robber but now an evangelist and oil com-
pany promoter,” who has been giving evi-
dence _ before the Senate Oil Committee at
Washington, IJ.S.A., supplied the material
for. 9' Hem 'y’s yarn “Robbing a Train” (in
‘Sixes and Sevens”). The, locality was
Colorado, the time 1890. About 1900 Joi-
nings felt, apparently, that lie must talk
about his exploits, and with Henry’s assist-
ance lie sold the story to Everybody’s.
At the Cleveland-street (Sydney) Boys’
School the other day Judge Rolin attended
as an old boy. and took a book with him—
the only school prize he ever won, he said; it
was in iB6O. But the most exciting incident
of Rolin s student career happened when
the ’\ arsity lads let themselves go to such
purpose that the authorities found it neces-
sary to forbid similar commem. proceedings
in future. On the historic occasion which
led to that action one of the rowdiest inci-
dents occurred at the Palace Theatre. The
house was pretty nearly full of the ebullient
lads, who enjoyed the boisterous behavior of
one undergrad, disguised as a red-wigged
female in the stalls. The “tart” was the pre-
sent Judge.
“Surcingle”: H. I. Cohen, K.C., Lawson’s
new Minister for Public Works, was brought
up in the Jewish faith, but offended Yiddish
susceptibilities by marrying a Christian —-
a sister of Mrs. Jack Hogan, wdiose hus-
band also wears wig and gown in the Vic.
law courts. Jean Daley, who stood as Labor
candidate for Kooyong, was a servant in
the Cohen household: and every facility was
given her to further her campaign. Once,
after Cohen had been elected member for
Melbourne Province, maid and mistress
attended a women’s meeting, whereat Jean
delivered a telling address on Labor’s ideals.
THE RIVER WINDS THROUGH THE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The river winds through the night softly tremulous.
Li> on the blossomy height lanterns are swaying;
there comes the muffled sound of a distant playing
Borne on the breath of the summer breeze,
Broken gusts of gay melodies.
In the hostel lounge, where the great lamps stare,
figures are moving white-capped women... .a
man in a long wheeled chair.
The river winds through the night.
Someone is singing ;
Light and clear as a bell her voice is ringing.
Gills are there with their glistening high-coiled
tresses,
There is shimmer and glow of the silken evening
dresses.
there .are quips and jokes. The painted jester is
Plying
The men in the white cots lying.
The river winds through the night.
Out in the world, in the rush of getting and giving.
The lust of gain and the fierce joy of living,
Gife is a fleeting thing, a quick forgetting,
A glitter, a whirl, a stir and a scant regretting.
The nations plot and plan, their counters playing,
Mocking the reckoning hour—the second slaying. ’
The river winds through the night.
Lanterns gutter and glow with fading laughter ;
Chill night hours hours of wind and stars—come
after.
A nurse moves softly, shading a lamp that is
streaming;
A man curses wearily, drowsily in his dreaming.
Spoil of the war, a lad lies still, still as when shran-
nel maimed him; ;
And here he shall lie each year till the grave has
claimed him.
The river winds through the night.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


%
a
■
mmmmm
&
BI
1
HHh|
HHHHi
■
£ 7
n
BHHi
• ;i
1
; a
i
h
m
mm
\
11
MB
- *
m
mm
m
MMMM
SSft
IfwY
Hr
nmmm,
%
m
■
H-
SPECIAL
TOBACCO
In Packefs
& Hermetically
Sealed Tins.


I
.
MS
m
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
DOES 10 MEN’S WORK.
Prices and Particulars Mailed Free.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
632 BOLRKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
AND AT
NEWCASTLE.
Overcome the rabbit pest
with
CALCIUM CYANIDE
A dust-like powder, which, when blown into the warren, gives off
deadly fumes for 24 hours, making it impossible for the rabbits to
escape, however deep the dead-ends.
CALCIUM CYANIDE is economical, non-explosive, harmless to man
or stock.
It makes every opening visible.
Manufacturers’ Representatives for Australia:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD.,
7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Hayseed : Notwithstanding “Hopaloug”
(B. 6/3/’2t), “Golub” was correct in stating (B.
i/2/’24) that goannas are immune to snakebite,
So also are snakes themselves, the reason being that
1 hey and goannas are cold-blooded. Snakebite poison
is deadly only to anything that has warm blood,
lor instance, if a snake bit an cel, the poison would
not have any effect. Many years ago Bulletin
HIS UNLUCKY NUMBER.
“Why are you, here, my misguided friend?”
“Urn the victim of the unlucky number 13.”
“Indeed! How's that?”
“Twelve jurors and one judge.”
scribes exposed the humbug of fellows who pre-
tended that they' had discovered antidotes for snake-
bite by watching a go. scooting off to eat his grass
cure after he had been bitten. The same soft of fable
was told in other countries—in regard to the
mongoose, for instance, who was alleged to go off,
cat some herb, and then return and resume his
fight with the snake. When snakes and goannas do
fight (which is not often) it is all over in ‘a few
minutes, and the go. instead of eating an antidote
after being bitten, eats the snake, or the greater
part of it, generally swallowing the head first. Years
ago I made a venomous snake bite itself at least a
dozen times, but it would not die until I used a
waddy. I know that when the two are fighting
they hurt each other with their teeth, which some-
times raise small lumps on their skins ; but no snake
can kill a go. with its poison fangs.
* * » *
“Sucre”: “Yell,” said Corncob, “I ’ad a
real stroke ur luck this season. Bought 40 acres
scrub land in North Queensland, an’ wet yer think?
The day after a cyclone come along an' levelled tli’
whole damn lot to ther A week, later lightnin’
set fire to ther timber an’ it wus burnt to ashes.
Now I’m jest waitin’ fer an earthquake to come
along an’ shake ther splida outer th’ ground. When
gets me cheque fer th’ spuds I'm goin’ to ’ave
a real good spell from ’Ufld work.”
“Borom”: A sclietne for bagging foxes
that is new to me was iixplaiwed the other day by
a man who said that by it he had got hundreds of
them. A mass of meat ;tnd fish (if the latter is
procurable) is placed in a clean kerosene-tin, a
cupful or tw’o of water add td, and the whole lot set
on one side for about a care being taken that
at no time is the tin or tint* meat touched with the
bare hands. At the end of the week the semi-
liquid mass is tipped .into a circular tin
like those in which paint or rabbit-poison is put
up, and in the bottom of wl Inch half a dozen small
holes have been punched. The tin is then dragged
for a mile or so at the end <>f a rope, the dragging
being best done from horseb tick. The result is a
trail which a fox will quickly pick up, even
from a distance, and folhiw; for* miles, and the hunter
needs only to secrete himself : fomewhere close handy
with a gun. In a demonstraticln of the method given
me, the trail was laid at 2 jo'dock in the after-
noon, and before dark three foixes had appeared and
been duly bagged. The scheme; should certainly be
of some value in dingo country,* as Warrigal’s liking
for decomposing meat is even greater than the fox’s.
* . * j* *
“Les R." : While we werte walking through
the Mega long Valley rain set in, and we
were already fairly wmt wfeen we oame across a hut.
It w 7 as built of slabs' and roofed with stringy-bark,
but white ants had made' flimsy: skeletons of the
slabs, and the stringy-bitrk (several layers of it) was
held together, seemingly, by cobwebs. Investigation
showed tlie rustic palace ff> be oocijpied by a weather-
scarred old battler, “Gome boys,” he said,
obviously pleased to have: someone to yarn to. “The
ropf ain’t too good, but if you /keep close to this
’ere'sjde of the wall, a loflof tfle drips’ll miss you.”
' the) rain came dofvn heavier than ever, and
we decid'Vl, itt spite of the (trips, to put in the night
with him. “Oripes! ” : said tfe old' chap, as we rolled
ourselves in our damp blankets. “Just think of the
poor blokes that; has to sleep! out cm a night like
this!” Afterya distinctly moist interval of slumber
we were awakened by our hefct at daybreak. “If
1 was yous blokes,” he said wflth hoarse solicitude,
“I’d make an! early start. It’s istopped raining out-
side, but it’ll rain inside ’ere about a week.”
•X- X t X-
“Borom”: A few days a resident of
Strathfield (Sydney) dug up in his
.gaiAtlerp, a qu ber-looking horror
which no one wiho has seen it can
classify, It loc\ked rather like a
crayfish, 4 jin. long and 2-Ain.
across at its widifcst point, and was
greyish-white. If, appeared to be
perfectly non-vascttlar, as well as
soft and slimy to the touch, while
what looked like teets of rudimen-
tary legs on both sides of its
body were closely folded in, and
did not seem to be of any use, the
manner in which: the creature
moVted—if it did ino\fe —being an
utter mystery. Underneath its
front part was a loose, sagging
m«)ith,\with a fold of dkin beneath
ft, and the only movement exhi-
bited iii it was a peculiar and
spasmodic contraction of the sur-
rounding* tissues. It ufas found at
the depth) of about 18in. in a layer
of thick, black loamy soil, and it
lived for nearly. 48 hours, after
being dug up.
* * -x-
-“WesseF’: That stony of
‘Chloe's” (B. 13/3/’24) about the
introduction of the buffalot into
Northern Australia being dtue to
that no doubt worthy mttriner,
Oapt. Beverly, of Balmain, is
always bobbing up, with Varia-
tions. The barque. Florence Street
may have brought back a trial
shipment of buffaloes about 3.856,
but if so they wfere a long \ way
from the first to ‘land. Buffaloes
were introduced to the old settle-
ment at Port Etssington, wSiich
was abandoned in 1849, and to
the still earlier settlement at
Baffles Bay. Some of these ran
wild, and were no doubt the an-
cestors of most of the present-day animals.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum” : “Toko’s” Darky !(B.
28/2/’24) who wiped the grit off the carrot before
eating it, reminds me of a cute old moke I once had.
Whenever I rode him into a.waterhole with a scummy
surface, old Sam. no matter how thirsty, would;care-
fully blow the “cream” back, and, before it tcould
cover in again, plunge his nose almost up to his
eyes in the cleared area, and drink. You’d have
sworn he’d seen in the papers cnee that the scum
on water was harmful to health, and wasn’t taking
any chances.
“X2X”: Tell “J.H.S.” (B. 13/3/’24) that
you cannot achieve immunity to bee-stings by being
repeatedly stung. The secretion which the bee
injects differs from the venom of snakes and other
poisonous creatures, to which a true immunity may
be obtained, because it is merely a simple acid
solution in water. The human metabolism is capable
of producing antibodies only to Substances which
are of the same structure as the true animal and
microbiological toxins, and acids will no more
cause it to elaborate these protective elements than
will water. What is described by “J.H.S.” as a
“certain amount of immunity after the first dose
or two,” is not immunity at all, but simply a kind
of temporary paralysis of the parts, which renders
the nerves in them incapable of responding to pain-
stimuli, and so partly deadens the effects of the
stings. The alleged efficacy of bee-stings as a cure
THE ACCIDENT.
"Who was it that I heard laughing?”
"I, sir; hut I didn't mean to do it .”
“You didn’t mean to do it?”
“No, sir; I laughed in my sleeve, and didn’t know there teas a
hole in my elbow.”
for rheumatism is purely imaginary. The acid
which the bee injects has been known for years and
if it had any therapeutic value—which it hasn’t—
** e°«W' be injected mechanically and directly into
the affected parts, instead of messing about with bees.
* * „
*
“Larry Longun”: I don’t know what’s the
highest maize stick grown in Australia (B. 28/2/’24),
but I’ve seen sugarcane sticks 24ft. long. Of course,’
these didn’t stand upright, but lay prone on the
ground, stretched across several rows. They were
of the rappoe variety, which usually throws itself
on reaching a height of 10ft. or 12ft., and then
generally grows as crooked as a warped scythe
handle. I have seen upright-growing varieties of
the sweet stick with a clean length of at least
18ft. of cane, and another 2ft. or 3ft. of top.
“Billy Brolga’’: Recent pars about bul-
locks getting tangled together by their horns recall
that one morning I was watching a pair of three-
year-olds scrapping, when suddenly one of them
commenced to bellow with pain. They appeared to
be fast by the horns and the one that had been
giving ground was struggling hard to get away. After
a few minutes they separated, and the “victor”’
started waltzing round, his head held in the air
and tilted to one side. Seeing that his face was
covered with blood, I went up to investigate and
lound that the shell of one of his horns had been
completely slipped from the bone. Does the council
know of a similar occurrence?
**’ * *
“H.R.T.” stirs up some old dust:—
I think I can throw some light on that mysterious
dray-tyre encnding the gum-tree on the bank of
the Leichhardt River above Coolullah station (O )
mentioned by “Hori” (B. 7/2/’24). In 1866 a
party of tour men was fitted out by the
business people of Burketown with dray and equip-
ment to locate the gold on the Leichhardt which
McKinlay the explorer was reported to have found
there. The dray was abandoned on the river owing
to the tyres becoming loose, and after “packing” the
horses the party went up to the head of the stream.
They found gold, but nothing payable. In prospecting
around they got on to the middle branch of the
Oloneurry River, now known as the Malbon, and ran
it down to what was named the Top Camp. There
they discovered payable gold, but not knowing where
there were or on what river, and their stock of
rations getting low, they decided that two of the
party should remain at the camp to protect it against
a possible nigger raid while the other two went down
the river to try to strike a cattle-station. These
fatter pushed on until they reached Fort Constantine,
50 miles from Top Camp, where they got some meat
and a small supply of rations. A fortnight later,
two of the party came down to the Fort again for
a fresh lot of meat, and the boss (Roger Slieatfe, of
bcone, A.S.W.) and his stockman, Luke Russell, known
“T some as the Wild Colonial Boy, tried to pump
them as to what they were doing in the ranges.
They admitted having abandoned a dray on the
Leichhardt, but were very reticent as to what thev
were after. When they had gone a while, Sheaife
and Luxe, suspecting the party was getting gold up
the river, followed the tracks of the pair and came
upon the camp the next day. Thereupon the men
owned up that they were on payable gold. The news
of course, soon spread, and a rush set in, principally
from the Etheridge field. Several leads were found
and worked —Sharkey’s, Chinaman’s, Red Jack’s
Cameron's and others. A few -fossiekers are still'
there. Some of us old hands believe that there is
plenty of gold in the Cloncurry district yet; but one
must not mention gold now —the talk is all of silver,
lead and copper. Anyhow, until I read that Abo.
par. the other day I had never heard of the remains
of the old dray having been found; and 1 have no
doubt whatever but that “Hori” is writing of the
vehicle abandoned by the prospecting party in 1860.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Some months ago a Parra-
matta (X.iS.W.) man got a leg broken. On the way
home from hospital a
month- or so later a
motor-car ambushed
him. Another smash —
the same leg. Once
more homeward bound,
his lack of agility
failed to remove him
from the path of a
bolting horse, and the
same leg again filed its
schedule. Previously
he had lived in that
district for 20 years
without being assaulted
by so much as a corn
or a pimple. Once 1 a
Werribee (Vic.) chaff-
cutter-hand collected
in rapid succession a
broken leg (coincident
with a kick from a
horse), a b~ok< n collar-
bone (chopping wood
under a clothes-line)
and a sliced hand
(sharpening up, he for-
got. about the knife
behind). Each of these
events necessitated a
20-mile railway trip to
Geelong Hospital, and
we were thinking it
would be cheaper for
such a regular traveller
to buy a season ticket
when the war started.
From three years on
the Western front Bill
returned without a
scratch. '’‘Never even
got me blanky hat
blown olf,” he said.
That day week he had
his leg smashed while
breaking in a horse.
“h’.A. : On the subject of barley-grass
(B. 6/3/’24), there are few runs in the Western
Riverina that have not got over 75 per cent, of their
surface covered with it. Its food value is not in
it with that of a lot of other grasses, but it is
quicker off the mark than anything else when the
first after-drought shower hits the ground. The
big stations in the Hay and Deniliquin districts
muster their young sheep every year and clip the
eye wool away as a preventive measure against
seeds. The losses through the latter are trifling when
the wonderful recuperative power of barley grass
is considered. On Gunbar station, after the 1902
drought, the vegetable grew over half an inch a
day for more than a week. A lot of the windswept
country out there has been reclaimed by laying
breaks across it in the seeding season, so that the
seeds will lodge in them and germinate. “Saaedi”
is wrong when he says the grass is confined to black
soil. As a matter of fact it shows better growth
on the red dirt, and is used for reclamation almost
exclusively on that class of country.
SAFE DEPOSIT.
MUM (stuck for cash ): “I can’t for the life
of me think where my ole man keeps
’is money—I wisht I did!”
ABDUL : “I know, lady—I ’eard ’eem say ’c
put five queed into the new cow!”
“Cobba Cobba”: What’s wrong with this
for a day’s shearing? In nine hours at W. G.
Moore’s shed at Maxwellton (W.Q.), AV. Higgins
shore 403 sheep, mostly ewes. This is equal to 45
sheep an hour and Higgins claims it as a world's
record.
“Spot”: Hori and I came upon a horse
standing apparently asleep, with a long tuft of dry
grass hanging out of his mouth. Hori looked at him
solemnly for a while and then remarked: “By
korry, I think he listenin’ for the taste of that
grass.”
(Continued on page 24-)
A DROVER’S QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M hen 1 rode north from Burrangong
Along the highway wide and white
Tlie dawn was blithe with matin song,
The gumleaves trembled with delight.
Transparent mists of chimney smoke
Rose languidly from slope and crest,
M hen fired with hope I moved along
The rolling road from Burrangong
l pon a droving quest.
The north sky gave no hint of rain
I To flush the paddocks green with pride ;
On fallowed rise and leafy lane
Bay the brown calm of autumntide.
The sun leapt high, while redly rose
From leagues of loam the dust of teams ;
And pine-trees stretched their shadows long
Across the slopes of Burrangong
No longer hushed in drej&ns.
The world was wide awake dfeain,
The discs and tynes astir
To plant before old Wintdjfs reign
And catch the mournful tjjfars of her;
And wide afield on either hand
And far behind and far before
The drilling teams strode fast and strong,
As I rode north from Burrangong
With sheep for Tullamore.
N.S.W.
CERARDY.


d
■
1
m
d
ď
iiiS:
t ‘ ;
l;> a m
Set? f#
••hL
•
*. 1;;s
; ' .
1 ,!Iff
I f i
I < !l .1
iiliii&ii
C" ’ ’-•
‘.f>
R |H
r>*
'-"v- '
%
B
gplj
1. Summit of Mt. '
Kosciusko (N.S.W.) 7328 ft. VK#',
2. Woolly-Butt forest, Mt. Wills (Vic.) \f\&kbjp'
4800 ft. x w '
3. Start of 12 miles descent of Brown
Mountain (N.S.W.) 3800 ft.
4. Mt. Hotham (Vic.) 6100 ft, the highest through
road in Australia.
5. A novel experience for the Contestants _ Snow in
midsummer on “ Rosy ”
6. Near Batlow (N.S.W.)
7. A. Tierdich in the Talbingo Hill Climb _
"snapped ” a second before his capsize
owing to a side skid.
8. Up the Tumut Valley (N.S.W.) on the
way to Mt. Talbingo.
9. A scene near Nowa Nowa (Vic.)
10. Winding road near Omeo (Vic.) on
way to Mt. Wills.
11. Climbing Mt. Talbingo
(N.S.W.) 4100 ft
mf'
fIiMh&RH
i|j|f|ttjr
s@§l
\ ■ k.
' : ...
m
aitsr
!■
k /;
PTOTPpPfili!?.
mmsi
ssaiflil
1 • -
r ff V C ■■ &%■!'
/\ n examination of the “Dunlop” shod cars that took part in this strenuous Alpine Test revealed the fact that these tyres came through in
remarkable condition _ showing, in most instances, practically no sign of the gruelling test that they successfully withstood. It was another
demonstration of the ability of Dunlop Cords to withstand the severest of driving conditions. It’s the quality and workmanship embodie
in^es^tyres that ensures such results. Every motorist can rely on satisfactory service with economy_when ‘ D u,,lops.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd. ,
An pxamimtinn of the “Dunlon” shod cars that took part in this strenuous Alpine Test revealed the fact that these tyres came through in a
showingf in instances, practically no sign of the gruelling test that they successfully withstood. It was another
demonstration of the ability of Dunlop Cords to withstand the severest of driving conditions. Its the quality and workmanship embodied
f„ Zse that ensures such results. Every motorist can rely on satisfactory service with economy _wheri hejts “Duutops.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd. _____
triumph for Dunlop Cord Tyres, the Ist, 2nd, 4th, sth, and 6th cars being shod with these dependable tyres.—Fit them and be satisfied.
This strenuous test was a


There can only be ONE Best!
MALTHOID’S record entitles it to that distinction.
MALTHOID is chemically pure and will not dry out.
MALTHOID is far superior to shingle, thatch or galvanised-
iron, and has many advantages over slates or tiles.
MALTHOID is cool in sum-
mer, warm in winter, and
water- and weather-proof all
the time.
Write or call for Samples
and Free Booklet.
*yke PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tne
(F M PRINCE Australasian Mnnaqer)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of CHALMS HOUSE
P & B MATERIAL
d
ď
EHGB£H3SiME3i
©■aiaSMSHaSiSGfOGHaSQjiSBSQQSGSIg
1
Acknowledged to be
»
by the
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERIT
3Q»SffiK 3!
KVa
đ
d
“Thompson’s Mate”: “Dingle’s” friend
Skip worth who, while kangarooing, shot, scalped and
pegged out 179 in one day (B. 13/3/’24) was able
to skip all right. It takes a minute to skin a doe,
another to peg the skin out; five minutes to skin
a fair-sized buck, and two minutes to peg out
the skin —and even then you want to be in a blankv
hurry, No ’roo shooter kills does when he can shoot
bucks ; therefore, divide the 179 into 89 of each, and
you get 178 minutes to deal with the does and
623 minutes for the bucks—l 3 hours for just skinning
and pegging out. We’ll say nothing about the
time taken to carry about 10681 b. of boo skin
home, but will pass on to Skip worth’s remark that
lie shoots his kangaroos from somewhere between 10
and 80 yards off. In plain country, with, say, a
mob of six, it takes anything from a quarter to half
an hour to get within 80yds. ; and if it’s a large
mob I will back the 40yds. every time. Figure it out,
and you will find that the day Skip, shot his 179
he did a good deal of the shooting in his sleep.
“Northern Woman”: Though I’ve had a
life-long acquaintance with stock, it took this advt.,
from the S. *M. Herald (S/3/’24), to show m 1
how far behind the times I am in modern dairying
methods:—
Wanted Cow, quiet, good milker, just calved.
From £lB/10/-. Rubber-tyred, £22/10/-.. All styles.
Ashfield. Tel. Cl 124.
“Helegraf”: Tell “Y4R” (B. 13./3/’24)
that he can’t do any harm in firing shot out of his
.22 cal. rifle, except under two conditions—(l) if
he fires more than a thousand times without cleaning,
slight leading of the rifling will result, or (2) if lie
does what Mulligan did. Mulligan wanted more
power than the standard shot cartridge. He got it
—once. Presuming that his weapon was one of the
Did Reliable breed, he inserted a de-bulleted shell,
STRATEGY.
“Do ’ee want to buy some ’bacca, mate?”
“Naw, thank ’ee; I got plenty.”
"Well, give us a pipeful. I ain’t got a taste.”
poured in ballistite to fill up an inch, pushed a
piece of Bulletin down, and rammed it well and
hard for a wad, following this with about an inch of
No. 8 chilled and more of the Red ’Un. on too.
He displayed some intelligence in tying down the
miniature Bertha and taking cover before pulling the
lanyard. Result: Much noise, but only a barrel and
a piece of wood were salvaged. Mulligan uses an
8-bore now. Anyway, by firing shot from a rifle,
the pattern and penetration will both be disappointing.
“Gill Guy”: The story of a queerly-
aequired collection of scars was revealed to me a
while back by an Ade-
long (X.S.W.) man
after i had asked how
he tame by a split eye-
lid. That happened
when, in turning
quickly on the veran-
dah, he fouled the wire
hook used for suspend-
ing the water-bag, and
he had to be lifted off
it. Then he rolled up
the leg of his pants
and showed a streak
from ankle to knee col-
lected when galloping
to town to fetch a
doctor to a sick neigh-
bor. Rounding a corner
a motor-car was upon
him without warning- -
the horse jumped clean
across the bonnet and
my friend’s leg got
ripped by the corner of
the wind screen. An-
other day when riding-
homeward he picked up
a rabbit-trap, and fool-
ing about setting, the
thing on the ~ pommel
of the saddle sit snapped
suddenly. The horse
objected and promptly
Isljjng him and broke
his wrist—-as evidence
he displayed the ill-set
joint. The last acci-
dent happened at the
end of the 1914 drought.
His best milker had to
be lifted on to her legs
eacli morning, but as
she strengthened after
the rain came just, a
bit of a hoiA by The
tail did the trick. r;At
last the overworked
appendage cracked
under the strain, and
the good Samaritan
landed in a heap with
the tail in his hands
and a broken ankle.
“Fanuela”: ‘‘Thompson’s Mate's” par re
marksmanship (B. 6/3/’24) recalls a German farmer
I. met. at Rosewood (Q.). With a rifle he shot
flying-foxes on the wing by noonlight, and 1 never
knew him to miss.
* * * *
“E.Y.R.” : “Thompson's Mate” errs when
he questions (H.
6/3/’24) the feasibility
of hitting a moving
wallaby in the head
in waist-high bracken
at 60yds. or so. The
black wallaby, like
electricity, forked
lightning, the Sydney
flapper and lots of
other things, chooses
the line of least re-
sistance, so that in-
stead of attempting
the impossible task of
breasting a passage
through a tangled wall
of fern, he spends con-
siderably more time
above the bracken tops
than below them. The
hops are long and high,
and seem to liang fire
in the middle. In
short bracken, or over
open ground, of course,
the shooter has a poor
chance. Let “Thomp-
son’s Mate” cast a dis-
carded jam-tin into the
air, and endeavor to
pot it during the
momentary pause be-
fore it begins to fall—•
a by no means difficult
task. When he can hit
it more often than not,
he will be qualified to
shoot wallaby in high
bracken. The principle
is identical in either
case, with the advant-
age to the wallaby-
hunter that his target
keeps re-appearing.
“Billy Muggins” passes on a tip or two: —
I might be able to help “M.vpharry” (B. 13/3/’24)
in his tobacco Venture. In the first place, if he
really has a nice little patch of green tobacco, the
British-Australasian Tobacco 00. will advance the
price of a proper flue-curing barn, complete with
a blue-print working plan and an expert’s curing-
formula. If he intends following up tobacco he will
have to go in for this sooner or later. The job will
take a couple of bush carpenters about three weeks,
so perhaps it is a little late for this season. So far
as his description of his air drying goes, he seems
to have acted correctly. The green leaves were un-
ripe. Tobacco ripens from the bottom leaves up-
“'TWERE BETTER DEATH.”
BILLO: “’Twasn’t stummick trouble wot killed Enry. 'E died of
a broken ’eart.”
BENNO : “How’s that?”
BILLO : “ ’Ee got so bad ’e couldn ’ t keep his beer down.”
wards, and if he waits for the topmost to ripen
(unless he has topped his plants to about 12 or 15
leaves) the bottom ones will be over-ripe and will
cure a dirty grey color even in a kiln. Incidentally,
in most parts, last year was unfavorable for air
drying. “Mypharry” must not take too literally the
information that his tobacco will come out the
color of “manufactured” leaf. It is rarely quite that.
Some of the leaf for which the B.A.T.C. paid top price
and which it specially commended last season was,
to the casual eye, more of an olive green than the
bright yellow that they were asking for. But the
best piece of advice I can give “M.” is to write to
the B.A.T.C. (they live in A’Beckett-street, Mel-
bourne) and ask if one of their experts can pay him
a visit. Local conditions (which probably cause
all the trouble) can then be gone into as well.
* -X- * *
“F.A.” : I would strongly advise the inex-
perienced horsebreaker to disregard the tip of
“Spreader” (B. 18/3/’24) when he counsels the use
of any apparatus for the purpose of keeping a bucker’s
head up. Of two outlaws I prefer the buckjumper
to the rearer, and there is no surer way of teaching
a horse to become a star-reacher than to restrain his
head movements. If a horse is so bad that he can-
not be prevented from bucking at short notice, 1
would advise selling him to a circus or taking out
a gun license on his account.
* * * *
“E.W.M.” Re “Fordson's” 151 ft. maize
stick (B. 28/2/’24). The tallest I have seen was
grown by Steve Fuller at Plainby, Crow’s Nest
(S.Q.). Cut at the ground level it measured 16ft.
2in. to the tip of the tassel. This stalk, with several
others almost as high, was exhibited at the office
of the local news-sheet in 1922.
* * * *
“Wax” : Someone must have been ringing
a tale into “Pick” (B. 6/3/’24) re the toughness
of the platypus. In my unregenerate days 1 shot
dozens of them, and a charge of No. 2 from the old
muzzle-loader seldom failed to put the duck-rabbit
out of action. Again, as to never finding Platty
except in deep water—rot! The platypus has his
home-burrow oyer deep water, but seeks his food
mainly in shallow ripples, and is to be found there
late in the evening and early in the morning.
* * -X- -*
“Machete”: “Oxmead” (B. 13/3/ r 24)
scoffs at a yarn about a herd of wild camels in
the desert south of the East-West railway, and
doubts if animals “domesticated since the dawn of
history” would take kindly to the Australian bush.
Well, the horse, with a history of domestication as
old, at least, as the oont’s, doesn’t take long to
shuffle off civilisation. The camel, too, is still a
pukka wild animal in Central Asia. Further, there
has been a herd of wild camels in Andalusia, in
Spain, for very ndmy years. They frequent unin-
habited and rough country up the Guadalquivir,
inland from Seville. Their range is intersected by
marshes*, which help their isolation, but t.hcv have
often been seen and described. Whether thev are
descendants of the Moorish occupation or of import.i-
tions Of a later date, no one has been able to discover.
* * * *
“Cab”: Re “Ignat’s” query (B. 7/2/’24)
in connection with green snakes. I agree with
“Nitric” (B. 6/3/’24) ; but if his descriptions are
correct, then there are three green snakes. The
third some years ago was plentiful in the Black
Mountain (Wellington, N.S.W.) district. Only about
3ft. long, this specimen was green in its entirety,
and was decidedly venomous. I have been charged
by them often, the snake coming for me from a dis-
tance of 20yds. Once my dog was the victim. He
lived almost five minutes afterwards. The wriggler
was not in any way particular as to its habitation,
being found in all classes of country.
“Lobjc”: Shearers are a casual lot. At
our last barbering one of them appears to have
shuffled off this mortal coil with indecent haste, and
after the others had stopped his machine and cap-
tured the half-shorn jumbuck they had a look at
him, as he sprawled, poor devil, where he’d fallen.
No one knew his family or if the name he worked
under was his own. The local bobby had a look at
him, and then he was buried. The boss and 1 were
away when all this happened, and when we returned
and made inquiries we learnt that no doctor had seen
him before his burial —and no one knew whether
he was really dead.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Speaking of drought-resisting
animals (B. i3/3/’24), what about the merino sheep?
I have known them to sustain their strength in a
paddock where rabbits, ’roos and emus were dying
in scores. Crossbreds, though more intelligent than
merinos and quicker fatteners, rarely possess the
latter’s stamina when it comes to a real starve. Thus
the crossbred will be fat when the merino is only
in store condition, but the all-Australian jumbuck
will be still in store condition long after the crissie
has turned up his toes.
“Monaro” : Don’t know about maize-trees
(“Fordson,” B. 28/2/’24). But at Werribee (Vic.)
1 saw an oat-stalk holding oats Bft. 4in. from the
ground. There wasn’t a trunk in the 20 acres less
than 7ft. high, and the patch yielded 100 tons oi
the best oaten hay I’ve seen.
“H.V.E.” : The soldier crab is useless as
bait, and no aquatic bird seems to prey on it to
any extent. But the comical crustacean is meat
ior the todo or toadtish (Tetradon hamiltoni), which
may often be seen chasing its dinner in the shallows
of tidal lakes and estuaries, sometimes temporarily
stranding in the endeavor to grab the crab before it
can burrow into the sand. The todo tears it up
piecemeal, beginning with the long legs. Nearly
100 years ago Peter Cunningham, the old surgeon
who put in two years in N. S. Wales, noticed this
habit of the toadtish, and often amused himself on
the Port Jackson mud- and sand-flats hunting soldier
crabs into its waiting jaws. Peter, however, erred
when he labelled the soldier-crab as edible and
marketable.
THE PRESCRIPTION.
“The doctor told me to go to a warmer
climate.”
“What was the nature of your complaint?”
“I went to collect a hill.”
“8.A.H.”: A while buck somebody was
proudly quoting a bag-sewing tally of 75 an hour for
a four-hour run : but Mcßow, a bag-sewer at the
Pioneer Sugar-mill, Ayr (Q.), put up a tally of 1227
bags for a 12-hour run in 1913, and his best was
290 bags in two hours. Mcßow visited France with
the A.1.F., got back safely, and last year at the Inker-
man mill his best tally for 8 hours-ws 845 bag s -
LAUGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I make my world without a tear,
Without a trace of sorrow;
1 see no outlook cold and drear
That I must face to-morrow.
I sing and whistle all the day
Untroubled by hereafter;
I find all good things come my way
If I but shout with laughter.
I make my world a place of joy
And every day bring gladness;
It seems to me a bad alloy
If it is mixed with sadness.
In summer’s sun or winter’s cold
The sky’s my only rafter ;
And to the bush my prayers are told—
My Litany is laughter.
This world is yours to make it gay—-
There’s time for work and playing—
But don’t go seeking shadows grey
Or after troubles straying ;
But help me pull some waggon loads
And be a happy shatter—
There’ll be no sorrow on the roads
While we deliver laughter!
N.B.W.
STEVE HART.


STONEWALL SHOES
Strength Commands Respect. Like a
battleship, Quality is built into these
Shoes, which we can and do guaran-
tee, because we are the architects in
every detail of their construction;
No. 20. —As illustrated, made from selected
Black or Tan Box Hide, unlined, with Plain
Toe or Toecap, Wax stitched and reinforced with
a military back. Three-decker. Screw-clumped
with our famous “STONEHIDE” leather.
Made on a Broad or Medium last. For work-
a-day wear. Price 23/6
No. A2O. —Similar Boot, made from Quality-
Black or Tan Yearling Calf, leather lined,
double sewn. They have two-decker stitched
and screwed soles, clumped with genuine
“STONEHIDE” leather. Plain or toecapped.
For better wear. Price 26/-
No. 820. —Similar Boot, in Black or Tan
Calf, without Clump Sole. They have a full
through “STONEHIDE” sole. Plain Toe or
Toecap. Suitable for best wear. Price 27/6
No. D2O. —Similar Boot, better crude. Black
or Tan Calf. Three-decker welted Wattle-
tanned leather through soles. (No clump.)
Toecapped. For best wear. Price 27/6
With Single Welt Soles. Black 21/-. Tan
22/6. Postage 1/3; Interstate, 2/2.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for a
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTD., SYDNEY.
JtachbonA
“STONEWALL’ STORES
PITT ST. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
SITUATED IN BLOCK 14.
ask for new free
CATALOGUE.
JhQ
M
m
o
o
m
m
m
, ■
mm
&
Mi
CLUMP SOLE
rD
od
§
Pd
Qj
0
£2
LO
O
Pd
o
Q
§ P
*
I
Mm
MM
.• ' \ 1
KM
MM-*
TS
SHI
lit
isis?
§
* .
PALING'S
VIOLINS
ARE SELECT, ARTISTIC AND SATISFACTORY
You are certain of the best quality when you purchase from Paling’s.
The greastest care is exercised by experts in the selection of all instru-
ments, particularly Violins —everyone of which is the best your mone.
can buy at the price. ; T T
For Tone, Appearance, Workmanship and Value PALING S VIOLIN©
defy comparison. Paling’s have hundreds of Violins to choose from,
including the Famous Collin-Mezin Violins.
NOTE THESE SPECIAL VALUES: —
BEGINNERS’ VIOLINS
Post free, £3/3/6 and £3/19/-
Complete with Bow, Case, Resin and extra
set of strings.
STUDENTS’ VIOLINS
Post free, £4/10/6 and £5/7/-
Complete with Bow, Case, Resin and extra
set of strings.
AMATEURS’ VIOLINS
Post free, £5/18/6 and £6/17/-
Complete with Bow, Case, Resin and extra
set of strings.
ORCHESTRAL VIOLINS
Post free, £7/17/6 and £9 up to £3O.
Complete with Bow, Case, Resin and
extra set of strings. •
Strings, Bridges,
Tailpieces, Bows, and all other accessories, in great variety,
always obtainable at Paling’s,
genuine old high-grade
grade instruments ‘in every respect, possessing exceptional tone quality ai
ASK FOR SPECIAL LIST.
VIOLINS.
Paling’s at prices ranging
in Europe ; they are higli-
nd are highly recommended.
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
ď
đ
d
d
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE
and ROCKHAMPTON.
“Quality our Keynote
since ISSS.”


'Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAG N E
champagne,
Reims
[i T i) lulC >o*
\i
ITIP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. SyOiiy.
SYDNEY’S ONLY BALLROOM
FOR TEA DANCES EACH AFTERNOON.
DINNER DANCES EVERY EVENING.
The Wentworth Cafe
CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
Keep your
blood free
from
impurities
and you’ll enjoy
better health!
To remove
all impurities
take
GOLCYRST
I
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
The Town Hall will glitter on the 9th and
14th in honor of the visiting Squadron.
Society gets in its Charity flutter on the
10th, when the Adult Deaf and Dumb Build-
ing Fund will benefit. The State Exes,
and (it is hoped) many sailor-men will be
present, and a guard of honor formed of
Society flappers carrying red, white and blue
posies will be formed for the heroes. The
Rose Bay Golf Club is offering something
out of the way in jazz nights, and the Gov-
ernor and his Lady will have a garden party
in their beautiful grounds on the 11th.
The Water Colorists, having hung the
Hordern Galleries with panels of limpid
beauty, had their official christening midway
through last week. B. E. Minns was im-
pressive as the president, and escorted Lady
de Chair around the acres of paint, while
Sir Dudley was piloted by the diminutive
Mrs. Minns, in maize-colored frocking. The
Governor’s lady was in brown from head
to heel, 'and she and her Viking said delight-
ful things about the show. Of the G.P. there
was a strong gathering, and the artistic ele-
ment held little courts, and didn’t mind look-
ing pleased when the “sold” sign flared on
still another frame. Mrs. Sherwood, who
is showing some of her characteristically
strong work, was there with miniaturist
Gladys Laycock. Julian Ashton was the
centre of a covey of young things; Rah
Fizellc, who .has built up the Red Injun
first-name out of a bunch of initials, shows
a good deal of the Chinese influence in his
treatment of sky; and Olive Birkenhead
signs her name to a fairy-like lagoon. The
show’ won’t shut till the middle of April.
The matter of Herbert Maitland’s me-
morial, which had been allowed to go cold be-
cause of the more pressing claims of the
people of Japan and Bellbird, was heated up
again at the Town Hall by the Mayoress,
who had gathered around her a roomful of
supporters. Mayor Gilpin left the weighty
question as to whether putting the caber or
throwing the discus would prove the more
entrancing to our Fleet visitors, and wove
a convincing argument in favor of his lady’s
appeal. Just-returned Deputy-Town Clerk
Layton added the gold-top to the speechy
brew, and nearly everybody present enrolled
herself on a committee to arrange a gala
matinee, the booty from which will go to-
wards building a new wing at the Sydney
Hospital, to which institution the brilliant
surgeon gave so many of his best years.
Layers of music were sandwiched between
the work of the gathering. Andrew Iliggin-
son lifted his voice in the songburst. and the
“Tons of Money” people added a shower of
golden notes. William McMillan’s lady,
Dame Alice Chisholm. Mrs. Fred Aronson.
Mrs. Monty Severn and the roseleaf-skinned
Mrs. Wilkinson are enrolled among the active
workers.
Decentralisation is the motto of the Coun-
try Women’s Association, and—women being
the practical sex-—their conferences are to
be held in different country towns of the
State. To these discussions each branch
sends three representatives, and overgrown
Sydney will have no more weight in the busi-
ness than Tibooburra. The next confer-
ence will be held at Moree in May. Mean-
time, the seaside home, Iviera House, is pro-
viding a holiday roof tree to lots of ozone-
hungry wayback mothers and kiddies. The
Pface seems to run on oiled wheels under its
kindly matron; and now Mrs. England, of
the Manly branch, is raking up a library for
it Its ice-chest, by the way, is a gift from
Victoria: visiting Melbourne girl Peggy
Hyland sent it out to the cottage with her
love one day.
Around Scarba, the Welfare home for con-
valescent kiddies at Bondi, the carnival spirit
had an afternoon-out during the week-end.
The nice old garden about the cheery-looking
house was gay with peddlers and their
wares Small fortunes were lost at the
chocolate-wheel presided over by a regular
Rudolph Valentino; Junior Red Crossers
were busy over a hundred things, and white-
clad V.A.’s ministered behind giant teapots,
while Matron Chapman explained the run-
ning of the establishment to groups of visi-
tors, the dining-room with its Tom Thumb
tables and chairs drawing a chorus from the
grown-ups.
The Wentworth has captured the De
Chairs for Monday next, when a paper and
poster ball to help the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital is expected to overflow
the ballroom and palm court. And incident-
ally two debs, are to be introduced to their
Excellencies—Joan Ludowici and Alison
Fraser. The hospital’s secretary, Mona
Daley, will cast an eye on it all, and then
so home and try to get some sleep before
sailing oft' to Europe on the Tuesday.
Hyde Park itself was no gayer than its
time-worn neighbor, Sydney Grammar, on
Saturday. Black-and-gold streamers and
youth were all over the big school’s steps.
Here stretched gaudy awnings, and in the
grounds booths did a roaring trade in the
usual merchandise of “j&tesP Old age and
middle age came, and Impudence and Dig-
nity jostled each other quite cheerfully in
the interests of the school. Fifty cadets
formed a guard of honor for the Governor,,
who dropped in to declare the event open,
being supported therein by Commander
Grant and introduced by Justice Street.
Lady de Chair, being too tired after the
country trip, didn’t arrive to collect the
yellow and crimson floral glories that small
John Dettman had clutched in readiness.
But John hadn’t rehearsed his presentation
bow for nothing; though the vice-reine was
absent, he handed the bouquet to her
lord with a Raleigh-like obeisance. Then,
smiling complacently, he asked to be directed
to the Punch and Judy show. Headmaster
Dettman and Mrs. Dettman, she in white
frocking and an outsize black hat, did the
honors.
A matrimonial rhapsody in ivory and
gold transformed St. Stephen’s on Saturday
evening, when Betty Chalmers became
Mrs. Oliver Arthur Jones, the knot
being tied by Padres John Ferguson and R.
11. Waugh. Masses of creamy-gold dahlias
decorated pews and chancel, and the same
blooms spilled from gold baskets alternating
with gilded palms and feathery fern. The
dark-haired bride was swathed in rippling
vellum satin girdled with water-lilies in
lvory-and-gold velvet; the whole culminated
in a froth-like wash of Limerick lace veiling
moored to the lady’s head by orange-
blossom and gold leaves. Sister Margaret
maided in ivory-and-gold lace that cascaded
in a miniature Niagara of gold streamers
the centre-front of the waistline.
\\ iln am Gentry .stood by the ’groom and
helped him to preserve a dignified if aus-
terely-garbed presence amid the surging
billows of finery. After the gorgeous pro-
cession swept out of the church it made for
the Australia, where the bride's mother
entertained over .100 guests in the pretty
ballroom. Betty’s father. James Chalmers,
was for years manager of Farmer’s, and an
enthusiastic member of many musical soci-
eties. Betty is something of a musician
herself. The ’groom’s home address is Lon-
don. but his job on the Mongolia takes him
to the high seas.
Kathleen Yero Read was last week’s addi-
tion to the list of charming brides whom All
Saints, at Woollahra, has sent off with its
blessing. Kathleen’s pretty smile shone
through a mist of tulle veiling, and otherwise
the wedding finery was chenille-embroidered
ivory crepe. Mrs. J. M. Simpson was
matron of honor in swishy'gold brocades, and
Jeannic Henderson was bridesmaid in maize
georgettes. Dr. Leslie Utz and John Simp-
sou supported the ’groom, who is Stewart
Hamilton Henderson, of Drummovne. Bride’s
Paints received, later on, at the Sydney Golf
Falk depicts Mrs. Charlie Oakes's pleasant
face. The wife of the Premier’s deputy and
Minister for
Public Ilealtli
i.s an amiable,
motherly soul,
whom every-
body like s.
About 30 years
ago, when her
husband kept
a working
jeweller’s shop
in Oxford-
street, she was
th e business
head of the
concern; and
every young-
ster in the dis-
trict knew her
bright smile.
The smile is
still there, and
she is still a
good Padding-
tonian ; but her
garden and her house are now the main
interests. She does not like speech-making,
and nearly always deputes daughter Muriel
to do the social honors for her.
Graceful Jill Rich, whose Elizabethan real
name is Lydia, is about to splice the ends of
the true-love’s knot in which she and Ashby
Hooper, of Melbourne, have been entangled
for some time. Jill’s parents, the Justice
Rich couple, have marked off April 14 for
a reception in honor of the event at the
Sydney Golf Club. Jill crowns her attrac-
tions by being a first-class cook.
Jolly Sylvia Lance, the girl tennis cham-
pion, who performs almost as well on a
jazz floor as at the nets, was the pride of
Strathfield until lately; now she adds to
the fame of Vaucluse. Just at present, she’s
cutting something of a dash in inter-State
tennis, and seeing a good deal during her
Melbourne visit of “Blue” Harper. Sylvia
and he are entered to play doubles in the
game of life very shortly, and after that
Sylvia will battle for Victoria instead of her
own State. “Blue” is a son of Dr. Harper,
and left his own medical studies for a sol-
dier’s life. Since the war he gave up selling
health to take a regular job in Melbourne.
The Hordern galleries housed one vib-
rantly interested young man at the opening
of the water-color show. He was Cranleigh
Barton, of Maoriland, whose picture accom-
panies these
few words.
Cranleigh has
himself been
e x h i b i ting
water - colors
in Christ-
chureh and
Wellington for
the past six
year s’. He
was a fully-
fledged law-
yer, too, when
the Call be-
came irresis-
t i ble : but
w i t hdrawing
himself from
the rich six-
and - eight-
penny area he
devoted him-
se 1 f exclus-
, , ively to his
brush. Now he goes to Europe by the Ben-
digo with a load of colorful and well-drawn
South Sea Island and Maoriland sketches.
Ilis native Feilding, where his father man-
aged the Bank of Australasia for 20-odd
years, expects to hear great things of him;
and so does Victoria College.
Another engagement is that of Susette
Lambton to Edward Justelius, of Eastwood.
Susette is the good-looking chick of the
Commander Lambton couple.
When Mother Mary Columba Dwyer laid
down Lite s burden at Waratah Convent
lately, the Maitland It. Cl. diocese lost one of
its outstanding personalities. An Australian
educated by the Dominican Order of nuns’
she joined up with her Alma Mater -10 years
ago, and at her profession, three years iater
she became attached to the R.C. institution
tor deaf mutes of Waratah, where she had
remained ever since, for many years in sole
control. A sister of the two Dwyer brothers,
who bish. at Maitland and Wagga, she was
CM at the end.
By the Ceramic sailed the indomitable
Agues Murphy, surely the greatest publicity
woman of her time; born a man, with a
man s physique, she of the dove-like glance
and frail appearance would have been tin'
Colossus of theatrical management. The
New York Sun humorously remarked of her
m 1909: “The author of a group of anecdotes
\vlnch ought to have gained her an honorary
fellowship in the Friars is Agnes Murphy,
business representative of Madame Melba,
an Irishwoman with a serious manner and
a brogue which helps her apparent inno-
cence. She is wasted in London.”
Lipkovska of the many petticoats left last
week by the Cephee for Constantinople bv
way of Port Said. She did over 40 concerts
in Maoriland ; and even the dour Southland
had a cordial eye for the exotic creature.
E .T. Gravestock has a winner in his brace
oi showmen opening in the Town Hall in
April. Both are young and interesting-look-
n?£\ . Hackett, the tenor, and Bratza, the
violinist, will draw the flapper, even as the
flapper draws the cub’s teeth. Bratza is
another of those under-twenty geniuses that
Central Europe seems to specialise in.
According to his photo, he combines a sultry
eye and a baby mouth —quite the lad !
Paramount camera-men have had a varied
week with one thing and another. In the
early days they cranked their engines in the
grounds of the Royal Hospital for Women
and made a picture of the work and the
beautiful setting of the old institution.
Nurses proudly displaying the product of the
establishment will prove a cheer-raising bit
of the him. On Friday last the Wentworth
ballroom was the scene of the Movie ball
Ihe big room was bright with decorations,
and Paramounters with their best girls supped
and danced as though they were working for
their living in a cabaret scene ’way back in
Hollywood. Caught in the whirl were Muffle
Layton and fiance Edgar Rouse, who were
eating the meats of congratulation spread
by bep. Howe. The Hordern girleens and
the Eyres couple—until the other day she
was Dorothy Hinton—were among the party.
Successes (like sorrows) never come singly.
Ihree have come, one on top of another, to
the Sydney-born-and-bred Edith Fry, who
i 3 a and ha rd struggle up the Via
Artistica. One of her pictures in the
Panton Gallery (London) was favorably
noticed in the Times ; then one of her por-
traits was hung on the line at another exhi-
bition ; and finally an oil-painting shown at
the Salon des Independants at Paris elicited
the praise of French critics, and brought a
letter from a Paris editor demanding “den
documentations exactes’’ upon her life and
artistic career.
Apia had a field-day with bishops and
other crowns and mitres the other day.
Cattaneo, _ the Apostolic Delegate, and Dr.
Collins, of Melbourne, were among the robed
host that was hostessed by Mrs. Richardson,
the Administrator's wife, at Government
House. The day was one of the hottest of
the summer, and the poor things nearly swel-
tered in their robes while the movie man
caught them on the film of Island life to be
sent to the Empire Exhibition. Govern-
ment House at Apia is Robert Louis Steven-
son s old home.
The Playbox Reading Club listened to the
unspeakable Muscovite’s “Sabine Women” at
the society’s rallying-post in Rowe-street on
Sunday evening. It’s pure comedy, in spite
ot the serious message it was supposed to
carry when its author wrote it in
the days when Russia believed Revolution
spelt Millennium. Duncan MacDougall was
the reader; and on April 6 he will present
Eugene O’Neill's “Anna Christie” to his
circle.
The Players’ Club, which is an offshoot
ot the Shakspcarean Society, let the public
see it for the first time on Monday in St.
James’s. The guests were restricted to
members of the club and their friends, and
the committee had provided a programme
consisting of Shaw’s “Man of Destiny,”
Once a Hero” by Harold Brighouse, and
a scene from “Henry IV.” For each item
there was a different producer; and this is
good, for even producers may grow mono-
tonous.
C. R. Allen, son of Maoriland’s High
Commissioner, has become a playwright.
T"''* of his fantasies were produced in the
f ellowship Rooms, under St. Martin-in-the-
Fields. They were “The Four Foundlings”
and ' V ill and the Witch” —produced
in the interests ot St. Dunstan’s, where so
many blinded Diggers have been trained to
be still masters of themselves.
Henry Noel Maitland, who has just pub-
lished “New South Wales. 1920-1923,” did
not collect the facts for his big and beauti-
fully-produced volume by looking up year-
books at a silky-oak roll-top. His car regis-
tered 25,000 miles of the State’s roads while
its driver was gathering notes and photo-
graphs. Mr. Maitland has devoted himself
as unsparingly to this book as he did to
“.Australia Unlimited,” which in the days
when they were younger he and poet E. J.
Brady compiled together.
Hie gentle boardinghouse-keeper amid the
tall trees and the green grass seems to have
been bitten badly by the profiteering germ.
Here s the tariff quoted by a wayside inn to
a young father and mother who want to
take their offspring into the country for an
airing: Adults. 41 guineas each: child of
three. £3 3s. ; child of under two, £2 25.; baby
in arms, £1 Is. Evidently babies need not
apply- There was no room for them in the
inns of Bethlehem, either.
The girl in the fiat opposite is quite sure
the Prince of Wales will marry, and that,
in spite of Bolsheviks. Revolutions and
everything else, his son will be heir to the
thrown.
A Brisbane postscript:—
With Sir Matthew and Mayor Dicldams both
away, Alderman Hetherington took command at the
meeting in the Town Hall to make Anzac Day arrange-
ments, and he had Capt. Pike at his right hand.
Badge proceeds will go to the National Memorial
this year.
Card parties and dinners are still being hurled at
bride-elect Marjorie Byram. The. E. T. Whites
gave a card-and-dance affair, Mrs. Stewart a tea-
and-tennis party and the Cecil Palmers a shivoo at
Palmarosa, all in her honor.
“Cheerio! One of the best” was the motto hung
in a red-and-gold hoop for Dr. F. Page at a farewell
dinner given by the hon. meds. of the Mater Public
Hospital at the Bellevue.
The Hoggs and the Crawfords joined up and gave
a party for > their respective golden and silver wed-
dings at Chelmer; and all went merry as a double
peal of marriage bells.
New Farm bowlers opened their new pavilion
amid a flurry of waving flags and bunting. Roses
and gerberas also took an active part, and the
president’s wife unfurled the flag of the new building.
Sara Wilson, who looks after the Young Women
Christians, was farewelled the other day. Over a
hundred pounds in a discreet wallet and about a
hundredweight of floral bouquets were handed the
popular social worker. The Cowley and IV. H.
Barnes ladies were amongst those who saw it done.
The Bellevue was the site of the yearly dinner of
Riverview ex-students, who fed under a canopy of
royal blue and white, with bobbing blue balloons,
while Michaelmas daisies decked the board.
The Corinda Shire Hall housed the first of the
season’s dances, to aid the Sherwood troop of Boy
Scouts. There was a big crowd of whirlers, whose
energy suggested that the return of the dancing days
is welcomed with enthusiasm.


EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
A. Saunders’ Lady’s double-cut, Diamond-set
Expanding AVristlet Watch, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds, £l3/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Savj
phi re and double
cut Diamond Ring
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£25.
A. Saunders*
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£3O.
A. !'..„..ders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18et. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
A. maunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £5, £7/10/-, £lO.
Sfflii
ARMLET
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Armlet, plain, half round, £2.
Narrower, 30/-, 25/-
' :
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cu
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£BO.
8»
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Bloodstone
Signet Ring,
35/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Lever Watch,
tO-year guaranteed case, £4/10/-, £5.
2 5-year case, £5/10/-
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Albert, £5/10/-; heavier, £6.
Lighter, £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5.
loot. Gold. £6/10/- to £l2/10/-
Saunders’ Oct. solid Gold Albert, “Lome Pillar design,
£3/10/-; heavier, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
7 15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, Isct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin
Lever, 10-year guaranteed case, £•&/-*./-
20-year case, £6.
25-vear case, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
9ct. Gold Case, £lO, £l3/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Go±u
Links, 307-
Flat, concave or con-
vex, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
WATCHMAKER - - JEWELLER - - OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
a
m
A. Saunders’ Lady's 9ct. Cold Patent Expanding
Watch Wristlet, jewelled lever movement, £B/10/-
others, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/-,
£O/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
King, 18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-Cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
Platinum set,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. b„\...,>iers
Gent’s Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
/A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold, Pearl-set Initial
Wristlet, Silk Band, Gold Mounts and Buckle,
£2/5/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
Plain Gold Initial, 25/-
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
50 % Easier Pedalling
with 50 % More Sensi-
tiveness and Positive
Control over the
Stroke of the Piano
Hammer is the Reason
of the Sustained
Enthusiasm Shown by
Owners of the
GULBRANSEN
Registering Piano.
If you care for the musical advancement of
your child you cannot afford to be without
this Remarkable Instrument.
Cash or Easy Terms : : Open Friday Evenings.
0
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE AGENCY: 10 HUNTER STREET.
m
mm
■iSlSiisilssill
! Leather to
A the Foot
Rubber to
the Ground
'
mm |
mm
. IS.
d
Leather to the foot Rubber bo the Ground
r "p HEY’RE real lasted shoes —for men and
women—properly built like leather
*■ shoes, with comfort in them, and long
service.
You may choose plain, rubber soles or plan-
tation crepe rubber. When they become worn
they can be re-soled like new.
Carubo Shoes mean joyful feet.
Get a pair! They fit the foot and
grip the ground.
AT ALL GOOD SHOE STORES.


Carriage paid.
Coat Sweaters
new in style—highest quality
37/6
An essential winter garment for men is
the warm woollen coat sweater. Farmer’s
present coat sweaters of the best Scotch
wool, in fawn, grey, lovat, brown, blue,
heather or saxe. 34 44 ins. Price, 37 /Q
Farmer’s
THE STORE FOR MEN” BOX 497, G.P.O.
PLUM PUDDINGS
m
m
r
IW ;?'*• IL'J
('//'Jr'k
«®|.W'r
illg«
>^-
m
Always
Appreciated
Obtainable
All Crocers
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONK [?] DIVKE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
_ Gala night at the opera wasn’t a gala
night according to the old formula. The
entire company had to appear on the stage
prior to the opening of the performance and
•sing “God Save.” There was not a note
•of it. The nearest approach to Gala hap-
pened after the performance, when Melba
and three or four of her “Boheme” colleagues
lined up. Then Dame Nellie did most of
the singing—the others, conspicuously a
basso, whose front name is Umberto, either
abstained from all pretence of opening their
mouths, or merely tried to be friendly. They
were Italiano and knew not the anthem.
But a packed house willingly overlooked it;
and the occasion terminated in a blaze of
satisfaction. In the awful crush on the
pavement outside the house, when it had
emptied, there were women who nearly
fainted, and several who wept—ractually
wept—on account of the damage they suf-
fered. Apparently the newly-rich made a
great night of it, fighting desperately to reach
their motor-cars after enduring the opera
with much patience. A mixed audience in-
cluded a sprinkling of smart society, and
more than a fair proportion of men in their
best evening wear. A large slice down the
centre of the d.c. had been carefully reserved
for officialdom. Two vice-regal parties filled
many seats (as well as one of the boxes),
and Premiers, Speakers, Mayors and Cabinet
Ministers supported them. Judging from
remarks dropped incautiously when they were
leaving, certain of the political lights had
been beaming on grand opera for the first
time in their young lives.
Naval officers arc not so keen about jazz
as was anticipated. The surprising fact
was loudly evidenced at the Fleet Week
whirls launched for their benefit: at some
there was a mere smattering of blue and
gold lace. Furthermore, the blue uniforms
thinned almost to invisibility at the conclud-
ing revels. Unlike their officers, the blue-
jackets are tremendously keen on dancing,
and they plunged headlong into this inno-
cent recreation at various dance-lialls when-
ever they got ashore.
Mrs. Rumor has it that two naughty naval
officers handed over their Australian Club ball
entree cards to two members of an ancient
profession never alluded to in the best mixed
circles. Or, at anyrate. the cards got into
these ladies’ hands. The ladies, who were
most expensively chiffoned, had embarked on
what promised to be the time of their lives
when the horror-stricken eye of some sophis-
ticated male suddenly froze on the pair, and
an order for their immediate ejectment was
served.
The Lawn Tennis Association did its bit
for the Fleet season with a dance in the
Kooyong club-house—a joyous whirl which
drew a big crowd of tennis enthusiasts. The
expected naval contingent did not turn up,
but no one grumbled, as there were plenty
of male partners to go round. Among the
jazzers were Edmund Jowett, an enthusiastic
fox-trotter; Gwennie Marks, from Sydney;
Lucy de Courcey Talbot; and Mrs. Gerald
Patterson. Secretary Koch saw to it that
the supper in general and the claret-cup in
particular were up to club standard.
May one growl 10 days after the event?
At the farewell shivoo given by the flag offi-
cers. captains and lesser officers of the
visiting squadron aboard the Hood, not one
sailor host was lined up to greet the guests.
The brass-bound officers confined their atten-
tions in true suburban style to those they
knew, and those who had not a bowing
acquaintance with a captain or a loot endured
a pretty thin time with no one to hand them
a teacup or point the way to the wonder
sights on the sea monster. As hosts, the
Britishers contrasted unfavorably with our
recent -Tap. visitors, who, fi-orn admiral to
middy, looked after all the guests as one.
Barrister Gerald Piggott handed his elder
daughter Helen over to Dr. Douglas
McArthur at the Collins-street kirk the
other day. Big Dr. Marshall adjusted the
knot, as he had done for the bride’s parents
before her. The bridal satin flowed between
side waves of yellowing lace which origi-
nally gladdened the bridal gown of the
wearer’s grandmother, the late Mrs. Alex.
Morrison. The snowy mist of tulle hung
from a crown of orange blossoms, and trailed
its back meshes over a narrow train of ivory
and gold velvet. White lilies were cradled
in her arm. Sister Alison Pigott, the medical
McArthurs’ daughter Joan, and a cousin,
Mary Armitt (the Ted Mitchells’ grand-
child), ’maided in mauve frocks and veils,
with sashes and head wreaths deepening to
purple and crimson, and matched by the
sweet peas poised in their left hands. Dr.
Bill .Newton and Alan McKay looked after
the ’groom. The subsequent cheerio took
place in the Pigotts’ Toorak home, where
the reception of a crowd of relations and
friends prefaced a cake-cutting in the usual
pink-draped and flowered marquee.
By special request of Priminister Bruce,
Allan Leeper is stalling his Foreign Office
pen for a few months, and is coming home
to launch a system by which other Austra-
lians may follow his steps into the Foreign
Office. Allan is the eldest son of the
veteran Dr. Leeper, ex-Trinity College
Warden, by his first wife, who was a daugh-
ter of the late Wigram Allen, of Sydney.
The second Leeper son has likewise forged
ahead in diplomatic circles, and is now
attached to the British Legation at
Bucharest. Both brothers were Melbourne
Grammar boys.
A youthful officer on H.M.S. Danae, in the
wake of the Hood, is Midshipman Viscount
Borodale, the 19-year-old son of Earl Beatty.
He has been a “snotty” for over four years
and doesn’t expect to ever be as big a man
as father. The Beattys have never yearned
for the rolling main—they like to feel solid
earth beneath their feet, and Several of them
have performed well in the Army-. The
present head of the clan has beOn mentioned
as a prospective G.-G., In succession to Lord
lorster; but his diplomatic offspring refused
to be drawn when he was questioned on the
subject the other day. His ma is a daughter
ot Marshall Field, the man who made mil-
lions in Chicago’s vast department store.
Melba having defaulted at the last
minute, Baldwin Spencer was hurriedly
roped in to say the opening piece at Arthur
Streeton’s show in the Fine Arts Galleries.
(Is there any need for formal openings of
picture shows at dealers’ galleries or else-
where, anyhow?) A group of Society lights
who had come along to support the Dame
drifted out rather disgruntedly after the
Spencer oration, in which, by the way, the
knight tipped the Australian painter for a
place among the Royal Academicians. Un-
fortunately the initial crush rather blotted
out the colorful blaze of the Streeton land-
scapes, but the obstruction soon thinned.
The artist’s first Paris Salon exhibit,
Golden Summer,” painted in 1888, which
he brought back here after , it had spent 29
years in an English collection, has now
found new owners in Engineer-Commander
Mackenzie and his wife. (She was a Brigh-
ton Weatherley.) Rumor declares thev paid
out over a thousand for it. The Stradbrokes
came in after the opening with their artist
daughter Helena. Another interested spec-
tator was Mrs. Gayer Phipps, wife of the
now naval medical chief. She is a noted
English miniaturist and portrait-painter.
The pleasing profile here pictured by
Buskin belongs to Aileen Dent, a young Vic-
torian _ artist of considerable promise as a
portrait-painter. In a recent show at the
A then seum
Hall her pic-
ture of Peter
K i r k e, in
which the like-
ness was ad-
mira b 1 y
caught, was
talked of in
fl a t t e ring
terms, and
following that
exhibition her
brush is being
overworked /on
e o m m i s-
sions. Aileen
was a pupil
at the Na-
tional Gal-
lery, where
she trained
under McCub-
bin and Ber-
nard Hall.
Memory clings to that last night at Her
Majesty’s before the name was changed, and
the send-off to Admiral Field. A great night of
its kind, although the late arrival of leading
guests and the inclusion of extras dragged it
out too far for such as haven't time to burn.
At tile end, after a hearty National Anthem,
the amphitheatre couldn't let the . Admiral
go without a great burst of applause, suffi-
cient to bring the smiling mariner to the
of the box. Then they sang “He’s a
Jolly Good Fellow” and demanded a speech,
whereat Admiral Field, in large, rich tones,
said, Ladies and gentleman, God bless you.”
Seemingly the gallant tar had acquitted all
present of complicity in the larrikinism and
petty larcenies which so ill-rewarded his
policy of throwing the flagship open to every
lorn, Dick and Dons who could push aboard
it at the pier. Adelaide had done a little
shaking,’ but a trifle hardly worth men-
tioning by comparison with Melbourne’s
offence.
Mrs. Monty Grover took over an end of
the Wattle tea-room the other afternoon and
beckoned in a group of friends to foregather
with Col. Parnell’s wife, who with her hus-
band is settling down in Hawthorn after
some years at Duntroon College, followed by
a term in Norfolk Island. Among those
who greeted the lady over the teacups w r ere
Railway Commissioner Clapp’s vivacious
wife (she is a Queensland daughter of the
late Judge Noel), Mrs. Percy Deane, Mrs.
Owen Jones, little Mrs. Teddy Dyson (who
says her husband has not found an absent
appendix as beneficial as he expected), Mrs.
Deschamps and her musical daughter Yvonne,
and a lot of other well-knowns.
This is W. E. McKinlay, the Maoriland
tenor, who now finds himself in this city,
after singing
through the
various
States. He
started bv win-
ning a Harold
B r owning
s c h o 1 arship,
and was get-
ting. well ac-
quainted with
tiiti eon cert
and oratorio
platform s,
when the
war put him
into khaki
for four years.
Towards the
end he was
with a service
concert party
which later on
got a hearing
in panto in
Paris and in revue in London. After
a busy time in charge of the Army
of Occupation shows round about Cologne,
he set off to have his voice polished
at the Guildhall School of Music, and after-
wards by Plunkett Greene. When he
eventually landed back in Maoriland the
young tenor found himself anchored in a
military hospital for 18 months, as a result
of his trench work. The McKinlay warble
attracted Ellen Terry’s admiring attention
when she visited the Dominion, and on her
advice he went to Germany to study. He
subsequently renewed his friendship with
the Shakspearean star in London, and one
of his treasures is her photo., inscribed
‘Thank you for your charming singing.”
The Robert Bests’ 17-year-old Phyllis lias
gone back to the theatre. This time with
Oscar Asche, who informed the Arbitration
Court that he Selected the golden-haired
flapper on the grounds of her excellent elocu-
tionary efforts, and her nice rendering of
the King's English;
Ronnie Irving, who is our longest General’s
son and A.D.C. to General Harry Chauvel,
got a trip to Hobart aboard the flagship
Hood. Another lucky youth who crossed
to the Speck on one of the British warships
was the W. .1. T. Clarkes’ hope Trevor, who
lately landed back in Toorak after two years
at Cambridge.
When the squadron tied up at Port Mel-
bourne the Empire’s defenders found many
of the Adelaide girls to whom they thought
they had bidden adieu waiting to meet them
and to claim preference over their Melbourne
sisters. Quite 50 of S. Australia’s fairest
came to Melbourne in order to see that Jack
remained true. One belated arrival tear-
fully watched the boats steam out into Port
Phillip, and declared that she had followed
her beloved mariner from Albany, but had
just missed him by a few minutes. She
brightened when somebody suggested that she
cut out the Apple Island and make for Syd-
ney to pick out a good possie there.
The Melbourne Musical Club spread a
combined welcome-home to vice-president
Thomas Brentnall and Mary Campbell at the
Lyceum Club the other night. Fritz Hart
voiced the members’ glee at their safe return
to the musical fold; after which Jessie
McMiehael sang and Gertrude Healey and
Doris Hadden, with violin and piano, gave
some numbers invented by Fritz Hart.
Proceedings ended up, as usual, with cake
and coffee.
Lady Stradbroke, in a black and gold
brocade -wrapper over cerise silk, shed vice-
regal approval on the 34th annual gathering
of Austral Salon members in the Indepen-
dent Hall. Hester Phillimore, in attend-
ance on the lady, shawled a black frock with
what looked like a captured rainbow. The
president, Mrs. Baker, handed her Ex. the
usual nosegay, after which the annual report
and balance were unveiled and approved of.
Then came a flow of music and elocution
from Walter Kirby, Victor Baxter. Neville
Towne, Gregory Ivanoff, Carrie Haase and
Natalie Dawson. In the crowd were Mrs.
Horatio Webb, just back from three years’
foreign travel, and the Louis Nelkin pair,
who are packing their grips for Sydney and
the Races, after which they will dash back
to Melbourne to meet Mrs. Nelkin’s mother,
the Madden lady, when she lands back from
her two years in England.
Dorothy, the bright daughter of Francis
Syme, of Mornington, and a near relative of
the Age clan, has promised her heart and
future to Claude Plumer, the adopted son
of the W. C. Wards, of Sudley Lodge, Bognor.
Sussex. The young man, who is to meet
his intended by appointment in a London
church this month, has a job in the Royal
Navy and a couple of gold stripes on his
sleeve.
The English-speaking Union, which is after
a stronger brand of brotherhood between the
British lion and the American eagle, turned
on combined welcomes to Surgeon Mayo and
his fellow-travellers, the new Amurrican
Consul, Maxwell Blake, and his feminine
half, and Mrs. Stanley Bruce. The Primin-
ister himself sent word that he was too full
of political business to come and collect his
slice of the greetings. The Yankee and
Aussie flags swung cheerily side by side on
the end wall of the Town PI all reception-
room ; but a table spread over with the Union
Jack, under a scattering of roses, offered the
dismal suggestion of a soldier’s pall. The
Arthur Robinson pair (he is the union’s vice-
president), the wife of president Willie Watt
—he was also politically detained—and Mrs.
de Castro, a United Stater now jireaching tlib
gospel of English-speaking unionism through-
out this continent, were banded together as a
reception committee, and each of the princi-
pal lady guests was awarded a nosegay. Mrs.
Bruce wore black dashed with blue, and Mrs.
Mayo’s navy marocain was lapelled with a
paler shade of blue under a black hat
thatched with barnyard plumage. There
was a heavy medical contingent, a number of
political notabilities, some stage lights, and
several social leaders; but the most notice-
able thing about it, as with all gatherings of
this sort, was the absence of the younger
generation, married or otherwise.
The Harry Chauvehs have taken their elder
boy from Geelong Grammar and sent him to
luntroon. There he will have his feet
guided to follow in his father’s soldierly
prints. The second boy, who still wears a pale-
blue cap, is a brainy youth, and recently
carried off one of Geelong’s most coveted
scholarships. Daughter Helene has left
her kindergarten for Toorak St. Catherine’s;
but there is still a baby inhabiting the
family nursery to keep the Chauvel house-
hold merry and bright.
A little gossip from Adelaide:—
We are now getting our breath after Polo week.
The two star entertainments were the Polo Club ball
and the polo dinner-dance—the former at the Fred
Porters’ home at Gilberton and the latter at the
Osborne Hall. Mrs. Gordon Law Smith, whose hus-
band is captain of the Adelaide Club, did the honors
at the ball in be-furred marocain ; Lady Bridges was
in jewelled gold tissue, and Mrs. Porter in a black
taffeta that broke its sombreness with jade green and
yellow. lor the dinner dance covers were set ior
-00 or so. The Gordon Law Smiths were in charge
of the top table, with the Winter Irvings, Claude
I aimers, Manifolds, A. S. Horderns, Urquharts and a
Murray or two to keep them company.
There was a dance at the Michael Hawkers’, too,
with visiting poloists as the guests of honor, and a
polp dinner at Government House, with a smallish
dance to round it off. His Ex. got home just in time
for the last-mentioned show after a spell on Kangaroo
Island.
Meanwhile there have been more serious things
afoot—-among them an appeal from the Tubercular
Soldiers Aid Society for funds. Badges were sold in
the city and suburbs, with a special community song-
hour in the luncheon interval. Country committees
are also getting in money, and it looks as if the
society will easily reach the modest £5OO it is ask-
ing foi. The T.S.A.S.’s secretary, Edith Cleggett, has
been a tireless worker.
Far inland Innamincka is to have its Nursing Home,
thanks chiefly to a cheque for £l5OO from Josiab
Symon. Ihe Hospital is to be the Eleanor Symon
Nursing Home (the K.O.’s wife and second daughter
are both Eleanor), and the committee is asking the
public to come along with donations to help with
the furniture and upkeep.
Mrs. L. E. Clarke, who is to represent this State
at the Girl Guides’ Conference in England, hostessed
a lunch whose double purpose it was to welcome
home from Europe Dr. Christina Krakowsky, the
Divisional Commissioner, and to say her own good-
byes. Lady Bridges, who has given Mrs. Clarke
a letter to the Baden-Powells, was among the guests.
Delegates to the Australian Federation of Women’s
Societies’ Conference were bidden to tea at the Lady
Colton Hall by Mrs. Carlisle McDonnell, president of
the Non-Party Assoc., and a keen, worker in the
interests of women and children. A brief speech or
two punctuated the tea and chatter and the upshot
of it all is that a letter is to be sent to Pfiminister
Bruce asking him, among other things, to do some-
thing about the law that automatically makes a
woman of the same nationality as her husband, and
to see if he can’t get some provision made for the
inclusion of women (or their views) at Imperial
Conferences.
The governing Council of our ’Varsity is elected
by the Senate—which in S.A. means the whole body
of graduates. A. J. Perkins, agricultural expert,
having resigned, and Frederic Chappie, schoolmaster,
being dead, two vacancies have been filled by the
election of Judge Poole and W. J. Young, of Elder
Smith and Co., the latter, though not a graduate,
having been invited in to strengthen the Finance
Committee. The third candidate was Miss M. K.
Patched, 8.A., B.Sc. ; but the voting left Dr. Helen
Mayo still the only woman member of the Council.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Fiction
The Commonwealth’s Greatest Fiction Library.
Novels by Australia’s best authors for every
class of reader—lso volumes in print.
5,000,000 Copies Already Sold —
New Volumes Added Every Month.
1/- each and Booksellers Posted 1/2.
Feathers of Heaven,
by Jack McLaren
Tap-Tap Island,
by J. M. Walsh
Princess Naidi’s Fetish,
by C. P. Wynn
The Squatter’s
Daughter,
by Hilda Bridges
The Pearls of Cheong
Tah,
by S. W. Powell
Fettered by Fate,
by Arthur Wright
The Fenceless Ranges,
by Roy Bridges
White Savage Simon,
by Beatrice Grimshaw
AMBROSE PRATT’S Thrilling Bushranging Novels;
Dan Kelly, Outlaw.
Three Years with Thunderbolt.
The Outlaws of Weddin Range.
Write for Complete Descriptive Catalogue (Free).
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
Diamond and
Sapphire Hi ng, set
in Platinum,
Si
Lever Watch, fully jewelled, compensa-
tion balance, mounted with Fine Quality
Diamonds, set in Platinum on Black
Moire Silk Strap, £75.
Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, set
in Platinum,
£75.
Diamond Cluster
Ring, set in
Platinum, £75.
Diamond Brooch, (Finest
Quality Brilliants, set in
Platinum, £lO5.
13-Diamond Open
Cluster Ring, £2O,
Diamond Cluster
..Ring, set in
Platinum, £3O.
Exclusive Design,
22 Diamonds,
£4O.
Diamond Brooch, new design:, Finest Quality
Briliants, set in Platinum, £350.
Fancy Diamond
Cluster Ring,
Platinum set,
£175.
Diamond and
Platinum Circle
Ring, £lB.
Jewellery set with Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
Gems of the highest quality, fashioned in beautiful
designs, and offering a better value than is obtainable
elsewhere, will be found displayed at Drummond’s Show-
room, 346 Collins Street. Inspection cordially invited,
or fully-illustrated catalogue will be sent post free to
any address.
WJm. Brummonb & Co
The Collins Street House for Jewellery,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Erase All Trace
of Wear
Ideal Polish
for Furniture.
Johnson’s Liquid Wax
is the perfect furniture
polish. It imparts a
hard, dry, oil-less pol-
ish which will not lin-
ger print or collect dust
and lint. It takes all
drudgery from dusting.
\
m
i i
i
Hal
HSU
-
-*?
A Preserver of Linoleum.
Johnson’s Polishing Wax prevents
cracking and blistering—brings out tne
pattern and color —protects linoleum
from wear and makes cleaning easy.
Rejuvenates
Floors and Trim.
You can easily keep
your floors and wood-
work in perfect condi-
tion by polishing occa-
sionally with Johnson’s
Wax. The Wax cleans
and forms a thin pro-
tecting finish coat-
JOHNSON’S
? • ,
f>as/e 'Li Quid - Powdered
POLISHING
You can give every room in your home that delightful
air of immaculate cleanliness by using Johnson s
Polishing Wax occasionally on your furniture, wood-
work, floors and linoleum. Johnson’s Wax cleans,
polishes, preserves and protects —all in one operation.
A FORM FOR EVERY USE.
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is conveniently put up in three forms —Paste,
Liquid and Powdered. Use the Paste Wax for polishing floors of all
kinds—wood, tile, marble, composition, linoleum, etc. Use Johnson’s
Liquid Wax for polishing your furniture, woodwork, linoleum, leather,
shoes and automobile. Johnson’s Powdered Wax makes perfect
dancing floors.
mil!
£
mm
w
[[III
Surface*
5 -c.johnson*«
Insist on Johnson’s Polishing Wax.
There is No Substitute.
For Sale at All Good Stores.
Manufactured by
S. C JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, Sydney.


British
made
A
\\
4ny dealer will be pleased
to demonstrate to you the
“VALET”
Safety Razor
The World’s best
Easter Gift for a man.
TILL you have actually seen
a demonstration you can-
not understand the won-
derful simplicity of the world’s
supreme Safety Razor. Only when
you see the strop put through the
razor can you realise that a super-
sharp edge is given the blade
automatically in ten seconds
and that it can be cleaned in
twelve seconds without removing
the blade. Each tested " Valet ”
Blade will last for weeks and
weeks. Saves its initial cost many
times in the first year and will
last a lifetime.
Original Model " B ” set with heavily
silvered razor, twelve blades O£! /
and strop, now reduced to
New popular Model "C” set with less
expensive finish, complete *“] is
with three blades and strop // 0
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & CO., LTD.,
1 81 Clarence St., Sydney.
Every Engine Fully Warranted.
The Rosebery
Kerosene Engine
Made in Australia.
This Engine has our new and improved
Throttling Governor, and the heavy fly-wheels
ensure constant steady power.
Run on Kerosene, it is specially well adapted
for use on the Farm, or in Shops, Elevators,
Mills, Electric Light Plants, Creameries, etc.
Prices are uniform in all Australian Capitals.
Cost of running is very sn ail; the engine is
easy to start and, like all Rosebery products,
vital parts are easily accessible.
Made in sizes 3, 5 and 7 h.p.
Rosebery Engine Works Ltd.
Rosebery, Mascot, N.S.W. Australia,
Manufacturers of Oil Engines, Pumping Engines,
Centrifugal and Power Pumps, Cylinders, Hand and
Power Sprayers, Jetting Outfits, etc.
All Rosebery Products are standardised.
Write and we will put you in touch with the nearest
Distributor.
Mastertouch Music Rolls
Always Leading in New Titles.
FOX TROTS AND ONE STEPS.
Weeping Widows.
Oh! Please, Louise.
Lest You Forget.
I’ll Be Here When You
Come Back.
Cat’s Whiskers.
Mocking the Classics.
Dearest.
Linger Awhile.
WALTZES.
Dreamy Melody.
Sleep.
Roses of Picardy.
BALLADS.
Non E Ver.
Sextette.
Kashmiri Song.
Shipmates o’ Mine.
Till I Wake.
C. SERIES.
Irish Jigs.
Humoresque.
THESE ROLLS ARE OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
If your local agent does not handle them, write us direct so
we may get in touch with him.
AVASTERTOUCH
Mand
P fayed
A\
Rolls
us
IC
rh
are
AT
ELST
EST
B
i
G. H. Horton & Co. Ltd
Wholesale Distributors,
66 City Road, Sydney.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
m
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. ft CO.» LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
HUNTING KNIVES
MARBLES’ Knives are made from the
highest-quality steel. Well finished. Per-
fectly balanced. In patent leather holsters.
“WOODCRAFT” Knife, as illustrated.
4J-inch blade. Compressed leather handle.
Handv size 12/6
“IDEAL” Knives. Beautifully finished,
with hilt. Compressed leather handles.
8-inch, 25/-. 5-inch, 15/-
“IDEAL” Knives. Horn handle, sin., J7/6
SAFETY AXES. Small and serviceable.
Fit easily in the pocket. Patent Spring
Safety Guard 9/6
POCKET FOLDING HUNTING
KNIFE. Absolutely safe. Wonderfully
compact 17/6
Sole Agents: THR TRADE SUPPLIED.
-le^tce
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Three of the nine . races at Rosehill
(N.S.W.) on Saturday were won by sons of the un-
commonly successful Valais (imp.). Valliard, a half-
brother to Poitrel, ran a bit green in the first division
of the Nursery Handicap, 4f furlongs, but got there
in 58fsee., Valamita clearing out with the third
division in the same time exactly. Valliard is a
good-looking bay and seems likely to return a lot
more than the 850 guineas paid for him as a yearling,
but the probabilities are against his being another
Poitrel. Poitrels are rare. Valiant’s success in the
second division of the Highweight Handicap was more
immediately interesting than those of the two-year-
olds, inasmuch as he has been talked of for the
Doncaster, in which he has 7st. 71b. Though obvi-
ously carrying too much beef, he romped home in
fair time, and there were some pretty good platers
behind him. He is trained at Rosehill by Booth, who
also handles Scarlet,
winner of the Rydal-
mere Mile. Badly
placed in the early
part, this four-year-
old daughter of Bright
Steel-Red Ink came
through nicely and was
running away at the
finish from the big
field. She has 7st.
81b. in the Doncaster
and 7st. 6lb. in the
Sydney Cup, and there
is a disposition to
believe that she will
be reserved for the long
race; indeed, the
double Valiant and
Scarlet has been backed
during the week.
WILLIAM
KELSO, promi-
went Randwick
trainer.
Booth’s pair, the Valais youngsters, and Aristime,
winner of the Trial Stakes, were all favorites. But
Speargilla, who just beat Girt o7l Girl in the first
division of the Highweight, was a good horse for Mc-
Shortodds, and there was hardly a shilling for old
Carmray, who defeated Mirthmaker, Maggie Trieze,
David, Lady Valais, Kingslot and 16 others in the
10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap. Carmray won because
he was in perfect condition, whereas most of the
others were unfit to run even a moderately fast
mile and a quarter. There was a lot of money for
David, but he looked very burly and showed no
dash whatever. Lady Valais (favorite at 4’s) shaped
better, for she was running on at the end after
experiencing a bad passage, and Pennybont’s fourth
was rather more impressive, as regards the Cup, than
Mirthmaker’s second, for the latter travelled weakly
over the last bit, while Pennybont finished in real
Piastre style. The Doncaster and Cup may be less
difficult to pick after the second day at Rosehill.
Saturday’s racing indicated that three-year-olds are
going to be dangerous in both races, but the puzzle
at present is to pick the best of All Sunshine,
Rahiri, Valdoona, Trilisa and Valiant in the mile,
and of Stand By, Frances Tressady, Lady Valais,
Drongo and Sandringham in the two miles.
The persevering Hoppicker, regarded as
a non-stayer in his early days, won the Mentone
(Melb.) Handicap last Saturday, finishing the last
of the 10 furlongs in good style. During the past
three seasons Sanders has got a lot of work out of
Hoppicker and his shifty mate Wildun, in Melbourne
and Sydney. And the tall chestnut : gelding seems to
have improved with racing and travelling. The strenu-
ous life suits him. Uncas, a five-year-old, who won the
Brush Steeple, may be worth bearing in mind for
the Nationals. The large field included nothing of
c onsequence, and Cue as carried only 71b. more than
the minimum, but the son of Blackstone won like
a stayer, and was backed as though he may do good
things when more seasoned.
“Adelaide” : “Tink’s” analysis of the bet-
ting on a recent outsiders’ day at Flemington (B.
20/3/’24) shows that a pound on every horse that
started would have meant a good profit. But this
couldn’t have been foreseen. In old days at Oak-
bank (S.A.) it could. At the glorified picnic meet-
ing on each Easter Monday, with an undue pro-
portion of the events over jumps, it . was generally
found that a couple of big surprises somewhere in
the programme made the totalisator dividends add
up to more than the total number of starters. How-
ever, very few people were willing to take on the
contract. Just once I arranged to do it, in partner-
ship with a friend. The amount agreed upon was
£7s—it would be a good deal more to-day—and
I took my half along; but he turned up with cold
feet, and no cash, so there was nothing doing. Subse-
quent calculations showed that the partnership would
have lost about £8 on the day; but we had each
lost more than that in trying to pick them instead
of going it blind.
* * * *
“D.” : There will be few tears in Australia
if the English R.S.P.C.A. authorities succeed in get-
ting buck-jumping barred from the Wembley Exhibi-
tion. If allowed, it is going to give the world a
poor opinion of the Commonwealth’s horsemastership :
in all the more civilised European countries gentle-
ness is now employed when breaking in as a matter
of business. Granted that it is impossible to use
identical methods on a way-back Queensland run,
where the breaker sees a prospective hack for the
first time, maybe, as a wild four-year old, and in
Ireland (say) where horses are friends of the family
from birth. Nevertheless, the Wembley crowds will
not discriminate. And there is the humanitarian
side of the question which will bulk large amongst
animal-loving people like the English. No horse,
bullock or other animal bucks persistently unless
driven to it: even the notorious “Bobs” required a
flank-rope, and lesser outlaws need much mope drastic
forms of torture, particularly when, as a result of
their efforts, they go off in condition. In other
words they have to be baited. Bear-baiting has been
a crime in the U.K. for over a century. Why, then,
permit horse-baiting ?
* * * *
“15-30”: The U.S. L.T.A. is evidently
determined to make an ass of itself by forbidding
players to write for the press, so when the absurd
rule comes into force next year Tilden. Vincent
Richards, and probably one or two more of the Yankee
first-flighters, will retire sooner than lose a lucrative
source of income. The result will he that America
will then have to fit out yearly expeditions in a hunt
for the Davis Cup, and the loss of gate-money will
make the new decision expensive. Some similar ukase
was proposed by the Australian L.T.A. with regard
to players in the team which leaves for America next
month, but the idea has been modified to the extent
of allowing them to write articles if they wish,
though, for some reason, they are not permitted to
cable. O’Hara Wood will benefit by this arrangement,
as he is the only one in the team who makes a little
bit extra by regular tennis comment in a Melbourne
paper.
* * * *
Fine form was shown in the City of Syd-
ney tournament at the Cricket Ground by J. O. Ander-
son, Jim Willard (who took a set from the champion)
Miss A. Gray and Mrs. Utz, who fought out the
final in the ladies’ singles, the Goulburn girl winning
the most strenuous tussle of the season in the skirt
department—s—7, 9- —7, 9 —7. Willard and Bay ley are
to be included in the Olympic team if the N. S. Wales
L.T.A. can raise the money. Seeing that only
£7OO is required and that the Davis Cup profits
run into thousands, that should be easy.
“Tammas”; On the evening of the day
fixed for the Olympic test boat-race a Perth paper
published a wire from Adelaide giving the following
as the result. “Murray Bridge 1. W.A. 2. Victoria 3.
Tasmania 4. W.A. lodges protest.” Sixteen hours
later the race was contested (it had been postponed
from Saturday till Sunday) and the boats finished
in the order "given. Although W.A. didn’t actually
protest, Rogers, its stroke, was of opinion that the
Swan River crew had finished first. I am anxious
to meet that Adelaide reporter. With his imagina-
tion and my cash we might make things interesting
for T. Rook.
* * * *
“Nicander”: There is keen competition
nowadays for a seat in the Queensland ’Varsity boat.
But it wasn’t so in 1921, when A. A. Watson, the
coach, included a man whose rowing experience
could be reckoned by weeks; nor in 1922, when
two of the oarsmen had just reached the “tub”
stage. The eight won the inter-State race that year,
and again in 1923, when there were 10 aspirants.
This year there are 12, six of them being men with
good * rowing records, and the others promising
youngsters. There is a possibility of Tasmania tak-
ing part in this year’s contest, which will be held
on the Yarra in June.
* * * *
Eddie Butcher, the Westralian lightweight,
got £235 12s. for taking a hiding from Sid God-
frey at the Sydney Stadium. Godfrey’s share —he
won’t fight unless he gets 30 p.c. of the gate—was
£333 Bs. The Westralian’s unorthodox style puzzled
the grim Leichhardt publican for a round or two,
but the champion soon got used to it and landed
■with the right at will. Near the end of the sixth
he chipped the Boulder youth’s unguarded chin and
dropped him for nine seconds. In the eleventh, But-
cher was twice down for long counts, and coming out
for the 12th he fell in trying to get away from a
punch. Th.en Wallis stopped it.
* * * *
Walter Miller, a clever American wrestler
in the middleweight class, has turned up in Mel-
bourne with a view to downing Clarence Weber, if
he can. He thinks he can. When Weber invited
him on to the platform at Melbourne Town Hall,
what time the pupils of the champion and partner
Rice were giving their annual demonstration, Milier
AT THE NINETEENTH HOLE.
“Do you ploy, Mrs. Bogey ?”
“No; my husband does. I merely listen in."
looked small for the championship job, but he s
younger than Clarence and presumably faster. lie
hopes to evade a fall until he gets the much older
man tired. It remains to be seen whether Weber
doesn’t know enough to stop his tactics early and
make him look small indeed.
Features of the final day of the A.A.A.
championships at Sydney were, A. W. Winter’s hop,
step and jump (48ft. 11 in.) ; Tom McNamara’s 220
yards’ sprint (23sec.) ; Ernie Austen’s mile walk
(6min. 51 3-ssec.) and James Hatton’s three miles’
run (15min. 15sec.). Winter’s hop, step and jump
was 61in. better than the winning effort at Antwerp
four years ago and Ift. 7in. outside his own Australian
record.
*** ‘ *
F. C. Toone, who managed the last M.C.C.
cricket team which came this way, will fill the same
billet for the combination which is due here next
September. In his day, Toone has been a fine all-
round athlete, playing cricket and Rugby for Leicester
County and Leicester club. He has been secretary
of Yorkshire County for the past 10 years.
There is already a good deal of quiet
speculation as to who will be appointed manager
of the Australian. XI to visit Britain in 1925. Since
the last two managers came from Queensland and
N.S.W., it is contended that the next should be
supplied by Victoria, and this has led to the name
of Ernie Bean being mentioned more than that
modest veteran likes. Bean, who has been the
unpaid sec. of the V.C.A. for years, has no apparent
ambition to pilot a party of cricketers round Eng-
land. In fact, he declares that the Board of
Control will have to look elsewhere, though he has
some reason to doubt whether it would turn its eyes
in his direction.
* * * *
“Bail”: Frank O’Keeffe, who has hit his
last hundred, made two lots of selectors look foolish.
At 18 he had qualified for the Waverley (N.S.W.) first
XI, when the war broke out and called him away
to the Front. After four years in khaki he took up
the bat with some diffidence and just failed to get a
place in the A.I.F. team. Back in Sydney, he was
relegated to Waverley’s seconds. Disgusted at his
treatment he moved over to Paddington, for which
he played so well that he got a game or two with
the Ma State XI, only to be coldly dropped. By this
time he was fed up with the pundits of Sydney
cricket, and he crossed the border to Carlton (Vic.),
for which club he batted so finely that he v'as
included in the Vic. XI as socn as he had acquired
the residential qualification. He repaid Sydney’s in-
difference to his quality by getting 87 and 97 against
N.S.W. and 177 and 144 for the Rest of Australia
against the crowd that had won nine Test matches
in succession. He wound up a splendid season by
scoring 180 against S.A. A few months later he
went to England, having secured an engagement
with the Church League club, and on the strength
of his great work for Church he won an invitation
to play for Lancashire County. Then came peritonitis,
and a tragically sad finish. O’Keeffe was a clever,
confident, wristy batsman whose effortless cover shots
were beautiful to watch, and he was also capable of
getting out the best with some of his wily googly
balls.
“Fax” : Walter Humphreys, the Sussex
cricketer, who came to Australia with a Stoddart
team just 30 years ago, is dead. Humphreys was a
slow under-arm bowler, and was included in the
team as an attractive curio—an antique stylist—
rather than for Test-match purposes. He was useful
in up-country and minor matches. Against an 18 or
20 the well matured Walter was more deadly than
the team’x crack bowlers, and he served to give them
rest. Jessy Hide, too, is among old Sussex men
who have gone to play on some peerless pitch in the
Elysian fields. Jesse must have been older than
Humphreys, for he was employed as cricket coach in
Adelaide 48 years ago. A real tough Hide.
“J.F.11.” (Lond.) : Edgar Mayne and
Charlie Kelleway should rush to the libraries for
“The Tert-iford Mystery,” Mrs. Belloc Lowndes’s latest
—it begins with a description of a Test match at
Lords. The Australians are depicted as throwing
away a victory by opening their shoulders too soon
and getting caught from “terrific skiers” w'hich is
precisely the fault to which Charlie and Edgar are
addicted. Wanting only two runs to win, one of
the last pair of batsmen hits another “terrific skier.”
“Opening Iris brawny chest, all rippling with knotty
muscles, and taking the ball fair in the middle of
the bat, the Australian lifted it in
a huge and lofty curve which seemed
certain to come to earth beyond the
boundary of the pitch. As the ball
was approaching the pavilion ~ seats
Harry Garlett, .with a mighty back-
ward leap, caught it in his safe
hands.” After which achievement,
which won the match for England,
the reader will conclude —justly—that
Harry didn’t really poison his in-
valid wife.
“Adelaide”: Exactly half a
century ago, S.A. cricket first made
itself heard of by inviting (and pay-
ing) W. G. Grace’s English XI to
come over from Melbourne. The joke
of the moment was that the Cricket
Association, then in its infancy, failed
to make any arrangements beyond
the invitation and the; cheque, and the
visitors were booked by the copper
towns of Kadina and Wallaroo, after
which Adelaide had to pay Kadina
£2OO to let the Englishmen play
in the city. The only survivor of the
Adelaide 22 is A. R. Lungley, the
captain; but still going strong is
John Hill (father of Clem and other
good cricketers, and a sound one him
self), who drove the Englishmen from
the city to Kadina. They had been
much knocked about in coming round
from Melbourne, and refused to make
the short Gulf trip to Wallaroo.
Cricket of those days has a farcical
appearance in the records, mainly
owing to the bad pitches prepared.
England made only 102 ; Grace 54,
Gilbert 23, sundries 15, five men 0.
But the local 22, though strengthened
by several city men, went out for
13. Lillywhite bowled 13 for 7 and
Mclntyre 7 for 1. The highest score
was 2, and there were 16 blobs.
“Past Grammar”: The English Football
League, whose team opens with a match against a
Victorian 13 in Melbourne at the end of May, has
finally declined to fall in with the Australian custom
of “replacing” players injured during a game. The
Englishmen maintain that replacement is against the
rules ; if so the sooner the rules are altered the better.
The custom of “stopping” a dangerous opponent is
known to every code of footer, but the knowledge
that the casualty may be succeeded by a capable
locum tenons makes the pleasant practice less worth
while. If a substitute for the injured man is not
forthcoming, the inducement to do him in is aug-
mented. It is significant that touring teams in Eng-
land, where replacement is not allowed, suffer far
more severely in the way of “accidents” than in
the Australian States, where it is permitted.
“Stallite” : Fraunfelder, the Ipswich (Q.)
footballer, who will probably be the Australian full-
back against the English Rugby Leaguers, is the
most versatile athlete I know. He represented
Ipswich and Queensland in the League game in
1921, 1922 and 1923, first on thawing and then in
the full-back position. He also plays cricket for
Ipswich and was included in Country v. Metropolis
in 1921-22. He is a good boxer, having won a
9st. 71b. amateur tournament at Brisbane, a fair
hand at tennis, and an adept at the Australian-
rules game, which he played before entering the
Rugby League fold.
* * * *
T. Lawton, the Q. Rhodes scholar whom
the English Rugger heads tried to transform into a
pro. as a penalty for games played with Leaguers in
Australia, has just been declared tire most popular
undergrad at Oxford. The “Isis,” which is edited
and written by resident Oxonians had a competition
to decide this question and the Australian won hands
down. He is about the best all-round athlete at
either ’Varsity at the moment, being almost as good
at swimming, rowing and lacrosse as he is at
running and football, but his popularity is not neces-
sarily due to that. C. B. Fry, the best all-rounder
Oxford ever knew, was disliked by the general body
of undergrads.
* * * *
“Wink”: As a rule, when it Melbourne
League club has a vacancy for a coach it ignores its
own deserving veterans and gets a waning (or
waned) star from a rival team. Cojlingwood is an
exception. ’Wood sticks to Jock Mcllale, who had
15 years’ service at Victoria Park, and learned the
game under Dick Condon, the greatest Magpie of them
all. The Condon system is unrivalled. Dan Minogue
is teaching it at Richmond and Charlie Pannan, the
younger, at South Melbourne, and “Snowy” Wilson is
confident of leading St. Kilda to its first premiership
by following Collingwood tactics. South’s fine old
follower, Vic. Belcher, is coaching Fitzroy, who, in
turn, have lost two ex-captains—Gordon Rattray is
mentor at Melbourne, and Percy Parratt, most brainy
of latter-day players, is trying to impart some system
to the Carlton bullockers. , Essendon, last year’s
premiers, are still under the care of Syd Barker, once
of North Melbourne; and Geelong, unable to secure
Bert Taylor, of Fitzroy, lias temporarily put itself
under a local forward, Lloyd Hagger. If district
football is the vogue why should coaches be exempt
from its rules?
“Lond.” : The Portland club’s revised laws
of bridge have only two changes of any importance.
The revoke penalty has been reduced from 150
points to 100, the declarer still having the option
of taking-over three tricks instead. The American
idea of four clubs over-calling three spades is not
adopted, and the penalties for under-calling are
made severe. The other side can either let the call
stand, require it to be increased to the requisite
number, or (a quite new idea) declare the bidding
closed, and have the hand played on the previous bid
of their own.
SOMETHING FOR THE S.P.C.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The trouble with the turf is not in the racing,
for the horses enjoy it; it is in the kind of company
the horses have to keep.” —Evanyelist ISiederwolf.
’Tis line to streak o’er turf and tan
An equine champion ;
And even being an also ran
Is not devoid of fun.
But in my box 1 wring my hocks
O’ night, and ofttimes weep
Big tears (like Ruksh, old Rustum’s gee)
Over the human company
We flyers have to keep.
Our scheming trainers to despise
We’ve all of us agreed;
The shifty cunning in their eyes,
Unerringly we read.
Man’s noblest friend they’ve never kenned,
And what the notion means
To us would leave them cold as ice;
To them we’re simply' loaded dice
Or highly machines.
The jocks, a wizened, stunted crew
Whose only god is Sport,
1 pass before me in review
And eloquently snort.
The stable lads who learn our fads
And currycomb our coats
Are imps sufficiently debased
To put a prad of breed and taste
Entirely off his oats.
And on the. course —the foxy “stipes,”
The mugs, the leery coots,
The punters with their reeking pipes
And villainous cheroots,
The Ikey Mos in screaming clothes,
The mobs around the tote
That swarm and swirl and swear and sweat —
Such humans are enough to get
’Most any horse’s goat!
Ah! Gray or chestnut, bay or biown,
We’ve all one wish devout—
To have a choir-boy rub us down,
A curate ride us out.
And oft o’ night my crib I bite
And deem a cow or sheep
A happier beast in its degree
Than any Cup-annexing gee,
Remembering the company
AVe Carbines have to keep.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


«?r
“The Only Inducement.”
“HT HERE’S only one inducement
1 offered to Kensitas smokers,
sir, that’s the cigarettes
themselves.
“Just the finest blend of old
matured Virginia Tobacco made
into uniformly good, big cigar-
ettes. No pictures, no competi-
tions, no premium—no fancy
dress.
. ‘‘ Yes ’ sir, my idea was that real
judges would prefer to have full
value for their
money in cigar-
ettes instead of
partly trimmings.
And it seems,
sir, that I wasn’t
so far wrong,
either.”
yr
Kensitas
CcycUz&eJ SVt
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London
ď
Mark your
Linen with
s
N
ES
They are a Safeguard
against Loss. They indi-
vidualise your property—
Beat Marking Ink. Any
Name Woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast
Color. “ A Few Stitches
and the«f/’re on.”
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz.
51-, 3 doz. 3/6.
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. Cash PTY
85 Cubitt Street.
Richmond. Melb-
Ltd.
Legal Notice.
TO RITA VIOLET MAY WATSON and
CHARLES ALBERT WATSON,
formerly of Gisborne, New Zealand, children
of William Henry Gilbert Watson, deceased,
and to all persons claiming by, through or
under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the sth
day of February, 1924, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of August,
1924, your claim to the estate of ANNIE
WATSON, deceased, who died on or after
the 3rd day of January, 1923, failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this sth day of
February, 1924.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Great Austral Art Union
THE BIGGEST ART UNION EVER HELD.
IN AID OF THE LIMBLESS AND MAIMED SOLDIERS.
Every Ticket has a chance to win 210 Prizes and 210 chances to win prizes from £1250 to £5.
Ist Prize, Studebaker Car, Big Six Sedan, especially fitted £1250
2nd Prize, Australian Six Motor . , £6OO
3rd Prize, Dodge Car... . £4OO. 4th, Foster Player Piano... . £252
210 Prizes in all, valued at £4016.
Results published Sydney Dailies May 10. Please enclose stamped and addressed envelope for
result slip. Result slips sent wherever required.
DON’T FORGET! BUY YOUR TICKET NOW. Only One Shilling, from all branches
New South Wales Bookstalls, Tobacconists, Newsagents, etc., in New South Wales; or
direct from the Secretary, C. Drysdale. 10 Bligli Steeet, Sydney.
AGENTS WANTED.
<Sfhe
Limbless
Soldiers
đ
d
Whenever you see CZ~ Pillar Box
think of Qnoto the Pen.
-there is an Onotd
nib to suit your writing—-a pen withjust that breadth of point and
flexibility which, suits the natural pressure of your hand.
The Nib is solid gold hardened to the right degree of fineness.
The point of Osmi-iridium —more costly than gold—ensures a life-
time’s wear. Choose a nib to suit your hand from your stationer.
OnofoihePen
SELF-FILLING SAFETY MODEL
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.. LTD.. 110. BUNUILL ROW. LONDON. E.CA
Representatives: NORMAN BAKER it LONGHURST LTD.,
Sydney Melbourne & Wellington (N.Z.).
A
RV\'
m
ct
fesrs
¥de,r» 60
orth British
ardei? Hose
L/Tvs* yrrzriv/ccLL&cfzzi qru&lrfc/i
f?c7s qr£zr\
£3c price, fs no /none £h&/2 ofcfier
“ObloireabLe All Hardware Stor»cs
-H 1 1
a
Worth British B u hber fq
1 Australasia " P L yL tcl r
23T. Sw&nffon S> I2?o/boarne
F. W. Williams & Co., 41 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Are You a Power Farmer?
With the
Cletrac
TANK-TYPE TRACTOR
Means Profitable Power Farming.
The “Cletrac” Tank Type Tractor is
designed for every class of work on
the Farm and Station, and always
ready for the. job :
Ploughing, Cultivation, Seeding, Har-
vesting. Hauling, Grubbing, Cutting,
Irrigation Channels and all stationary
jobs.
Runs Economically
on Kerosene.
Replaces Eight
Horses.
3
.. i
mmm
The “Cletrac” will pull all classes of implements
through mud, loose soil and up heavy, rough grades.
From all parts of the country we have received letters of the “Cletrac”
adaptability and economy.
Further particulars from
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD..
383 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO., KTD.,
Eight Square West,
Adelaide, S. Australia.
469 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.,
371-13 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
THE INKY WAY.
“Jack Smath”: Sydney Telegraph scribes, rattled
by recent frequent reshuffles, wondered if a reaction
was coming witli the new editor. Apparently it has
come. Tom Heney, more placid than ever, started
off by announcing that there would be a change
every time somebody died, and lie hoped that
wouldn’t be often.
“Uramao”: J. T. Paul, who succeeds Chas. Fraser
as editor of the Otago (M.L.) Witness, graduated
in politics in the ranks of Labor., but never saw
Red. Called to the Upper House, the atmosphere there
toned him down considerably. Eventually he re-
signed to contest a seat for the House of Reps., but
was beaten. He has been for some time on the
literary staff of the Otago Daily Times.
“Harold H.”: When an elderly man passed an
ad. across the counter of a Sydney daily the other
afternoon the counter clerk, seeing it was a “view
mat.” affair, looked up and gave him a smile. The
reply he got was unexpected. “1 always find a wife
by advertising,” said the customer simply. He had
been happily married twice before, he explained,
both unions being “the result of an appeal through
the press.”
“0.P.H.”: Passing through Kilmore to Tooborac,
Alec. Peacock, Vic. Minister of Education, called
on Tom Hunt, who had been Assembly member for
the district in 10 Parliaments. The veteran of 84
was found “setting up” his paper, as he was for
the moment without a comp ; but Peacock persuaded
him to go to Melbourne and join the Parliamentary
party which went down the bay to meet the
British squadron. Hunt lost his seat at the end (if
1908, after Bent had made him Lands Minister.
“Old Commoner” (Lond.) : Ramsay Macdonald had
as his earliest caller after accepting the seals of
office from the King an enterprising Yankee literary
agent who lost no time in declaring his business:
“I am commissioned by an American syndicate to
offer you £lO,OOO for a 30,000-word life-story.”
“Not at any price,” was Mac.’s prompt reply, and
the door of No. 10 Downing-street closed behind the
visitor. If the offer should be repeated a few months
hence, when Mac. is likely to have more leisure,
business may, result.
“Two Seas”: Many grievances are cherished
and have been noted by freelances against
the editorial departments of newspapers; my
main one is that some chaps keep a MS.
several months without saying yea or nay,
and then suddenly decide to use it when pn.e has
submitted a duplicate of it elsewhere. We; want a.
time-limit —having sent stuff to one paper which
has not printed it, we want to know when we may
send it to another without the risk of being accused
of duplicating our matter.
“T. 0.1.”: In the days before a newspaper rounds-
man could do his work over the ’phone, a Melbourne
pressman called at the City Watchhouse to see if
there was “anything on.” The sergeant admitted
a happening of some interest. “But you can’t use
it,” he added. On a promise that the. information
would be withheld from print, the absorbing news
item was disclosed. A new-chum constable had
picked up a drunk asleep in a doorway in Swanston-
street, and duly “pinched” him. The transgressor
proved to be the then Governor of Melbourne Gaol.
“Staff Man”: The Border Watch (Mount Gambier,
S.A.) has more long-time records than'“F.C.C.” cites
(B. 6/3/’24). A couple of years before John Watson,
who has been editor for over 60 years, joined the
firm of Laurie and Laurie, A. F. Laurie (who passed
out three years ago) had started his service of over
60 years. Present-day foreman (W. Chesterfield)
joined the firm 40 years ago, and two sons of A. F.
Laurie have been on . the printing staff for over 30
years. Incidentally, John Watson passed many of
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s poems that were written
for publication originally in the Border Watch.
“Dal”: Jack Dexter (“Pilot” of the Referee and
Arrow) was dragged out of his retirement by his
colleagues the other day, and given a travelling-case
and other tokens. H. D. Mclntosh had decided that
“Pilot” ought to see the world, so he is sending him
off by the Maloja for six months’ investigation of the
older half of the sphere. Dexter began on the Sunday
Times as a printer’s devil and served his time on the
machines until he graduated to the sporting staff.
He has forgotten more about champion neddies and
form than most punters ever knew, yet (or probably
wherefore) he is almost a total abstainer from
betting.
“Uramao”: Two veteran Maoriland journalists went
out recently. One, Charles Fraser, editor of the
Otago Witness (Dunedin), was the oldest employee
of the Daily Times and Witness Co., having started
in the mechanical department 55 years ago. The
other, T. J. N. Sanson, was Auckland’s oldest scribe.
He arrived in Maoriland in 1842 as a youngster of
nine, started one of the earliest city papers, the
Examiner, later became associated with the New
Zealander and the Southern Cross, and on the
establishment of the Herald joined it. Having a
good knowledge of Maori, he launched a paper in that
language; but its voyage was brief.
“G.R.”: Journalism is well represented in the
Ramsay Mac. Cabinet. The Premier helped to
found the Socialist ; Philip Snowden is a well-
known writer on industrial and economic questions;
F. O. Roberts, Minister of Pensions, was editor of
the Printer; Patrick Hastings, Solicitor-General,
was a pressfnan before he took to the law ; C. C.
Ammon, Parliamentary Sec. to the Admiralty, edited
the Post for eight years ; Arthur Ponsonby, Under-Sec.
for Foreign Affairs and a blue-blooded aristocrat,
once occupied a position on Reynolds’s ; and Leach,
Under-Secretary for Air, who has been in hot
water for his indiscretions, is an ex-editor of
Forward.
D. H. Lawrence, author of the book about us #
called “Kangaroo,” has perpetrated a bit of
free verse on the same subject, which should be
of some interest to zoologists as well as literary
critics. Here are a few lines:—
“Her little brown hands, and drooping Victorian
shoulders,
And then her great weight below the waist, her vast
pale belly,
With a thin, young, yellow little paw hanging out,
and straggle of a long thin ear, like ribbon,
Like a funny trimming to the middle of her belly,
thin little dangle of an immature paw, and one
thin ear.
Her belly, her big haunches, .
And, in addition, the great muscular python-stretch
of her tail.”
“Sturt”: Adelaide Uni. examiners have a lot to
say in their annual report about the bad English
of present-day scholars. “A knowledge of the laws
of construction is as essential now as it ever was;
that it is sadly lacking is proved by the fact that
such atrocities as ‘1 would of went,’ and ‘They never
seen,’ are far from rare.... There are many who
offend by being too florid and ornate, but the habit
of writing sentences without either subject or verb
has never before been so prevalent. It is a trick
of the fifth-rate novel writer, and the worst model
for a young student.” -Young. South Aus. seems also ,
to have got the idea that “woman” is an offensive
term, and carefully talked of the Pied Piper being
followed bv “a throng of men and ladies.” Even
a French Revolution mob was described as “murder-
ous ladies.”
“Pilgrim”: Sydney’s oldest inky wayfarer is P.
Jeff Wallace, now nearing his 86th milepost. He was
born at Crow’s Nest, North Sydney in 1838, and
began his journalistic career in 1857 as a “devil”
in the office of Henry, Parkes's Empire. Later ho
obtained a job on the S. it. Herald, in the days
when B. L. Far jeon, Charles St. Julian, Charles lie
Boos, and E. R. Sylvester were figures on the staff.
Studying Pitman, he qualified as a reporter, and was
employed on various metropolitan dailies. In 1877 he
took the first printing plant to North Shore and
launched the St. Leonards Recorder, Sydney’s first
little suburban ram After disposing of that, lie,
with his brother Robert, founded the Murrumbuvrah
Signal ; and a later enterprise was the South Coast
Herald, which he conducted for about 12 years. He
still indulges in occasional sprints on the inky track,
and devotes some time to song compositions (words
and music). One of his daughters (Rena) plies her
fountain-pen upon a Melbourne weekly.


A Hat
Bargain /
Genuine
32/6
Hats for
At Murdoch’s!
Murdoch’s former announcement of this supreme Hat Bargain
met. with a wonderful response; so much that, another
was immediately secured and is now to hand. Evety Hat is
a genuine hand-blocked “G. B. Borsalino ’ Soft. belt. All clean,
fresh stock in latest shapes and smart color tones ot ljignt,
Mid and Dark Grey. Green, Brown, Fawn, apd
Beaver. Medium width briin with cut, stitched or
bound edges. Sizes 6f to 7|.
WHILE THE STOCK LASTS
1916
Postage Paid to Your Door.
When ordering please state size and color
desired and address your letter to Desk R.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.
Standard Portland Cement Company Limited
To be registered under the Companies Act (N.S.W.), 1899.
CAPITAL:
£500,000, divided into 500,000 Shares of £1 each.
350,000 Shares of £l each are now offered for public subscription,
payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment; the balance
as and when required in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share,
at intervals of not less than three months.
75,000 Shares of £ 1 each fully paid are to be issued to Cement
Products, Limited, in part payment for freeholds mining leases,
etc., as set out herein. £5OOO cash is also to be paid to this
Company. Vendors Shares shall be deferred as to participa-
tion in profits and will not be entitled to any dividend return
until a sum or sums amounting in all to 15 per cent. shal
been paid on all shares applied for by the public and allotted
within one year from the registration of the Company.
75;000 Shares are to be held in reserve.
500,000
Directors:
I R HIGGINS, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Phillip Street, Sydney.
X A Sq ''ML S BDOCH': rr Is a q., ' Merchant, Sydney
\ h< T «WAN Fs'n Public Accountant, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney
f-NAMBR THOMSON, A S, Engineering Cent,actor and Manufacturer, Cremornc.
W. W KILLEN, Esq., M.H.R., Grazier, Barellan and Manly, N.S.M.
(L7\ *
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
* W. B. SMALL & CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Brokers:
Applications may be sent direct or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Solicitors:
MINTER. SIMFSON & CO., Hunter Street, Sydney.
Superintending Consulting Engineer.
FRANK OAIvDEN, C.E., M.I.E. (Aust.).
Secretary (pro tem) :
W. S. BAIN, South British Building, 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS
mately two iducts °Limited, 1 all the right, title, and interest of that Company
fn Rases 1 ' freeholds/ contracts) etc., and to carry on any other industry or
which may seem to the Company capable of being conveniently carried on
in connection with the above.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT CONTRACT.
Subject to ratification by Parliament, the Minister for Public 'SSf
with the vendor company for manufacture and deliveiy of 1 - >O.UOO tons ot cernen .
Delivery to commence within two years of ratification by Parliament. Such rati ca "
is dlemed necessary, in order to make the contract binding on the Crown 1 lie
Government contract is an undoubted addition to the attractiveness ot the proposition.
It™ proposed to establish a works of 80.000 to .100,'000 tons per annum capacity.
This Company is now being formed. Application forms and Prospectus may be
obtained from the Secretary.
Criticism of Prospectus appeared in the issue of The Bulletin, March
W H H a
Collar
can
o so
much to make
or mar your
appearance,
you cannot ji
afford to |
ignore the
distinctive in-
of
11111111111 l 1
ill
"illiillim ! ®Bi
SHY
VTI
m
P
w
%
m
m
\x\\
as
r
R
\
, 1.-^.lllllll
11110 11111
Woo*^
lllllllll® lllll
<£l
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii®!®
I l!llllllli ,,,,n


primary producers’ ®ank of JUib.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY THE MEN ON THE LAND.
Subscribed Capital over
£1,550,000
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY (Opp. G.P.0.).
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Ardlethan—with Agency at Mirrool.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
_ Alstonville. Wallendbeen. ,
Lismore. Young—with Agency at Wombat.
New South Wales Directors—MESSßS. H. M. CARTER, I. W. KERR, PROF. IRVINE, W. T. JOHNSON, JOHN FISHER.
The main object of the Bank is to render Banking Service to the Man on the Land. The keynote of the Bank’s Service lies in its sympathetic
consideration of its customers’ needs when financial stringency and droughts arise. sympameuc
NO CHARGE FOR KEEPING AC COUNTS.
Interest allowed on current accounts. All interest payable quarterly on current accounts, on fixed deposits and on Savings Section accounts.
In the SAVINGS SECTION deposits from 1/- up are accepted, and interest at current rates is allowed on minimum Monthly balances.
F. W. STRACK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Eng.), General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sybil’'
Criterion “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray”
Royal “French Leave”
Grand Opera House “Tons of Money”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
MKI.HOURNK SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
Royal “The Cabaret Girl”
Ring’s “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife’
Princess’s “Little Nellie Kelly’ 1
Palace “Sleeping Partners”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Picture*
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
♦
The tender tones of “La Boheme,”
Attuned to Love’s mentality,
Should rightly bring a blush of shame
To Orthodox Morality.
Its people drink, and sing, and play—
A frivolous modernity—
And very little time give they
To thoughts about Eternity.
Sick Mimi and her poet “boy”
Musetta (she’s a merry minx),
And all the others seek for joy
In claret, port and sherry drinks;
Bohemians, they play their parts
Midst music sweet, delectable;
There’s human kindness in their hearts,
And none are quite respectable.
The grand-opera season at Melbourne
Majesty’s had not travelled far last Satur-
day when the excellence of the orchestra, as
far, at anyrate, as “Boheme” is concerned,
took the fancy of everybody familiar with
performances of Puccini’s work. The con-
ducting was masterly, and some of the string
instruments made themselves felt. Later
on it was remarked that the staging of the
opera was perhaps more artistic than pre-
vious productions dn the same boards. By
that time Melba had dispelled any misgiv-
ings as to her powers i in the character she
has been so long associated with, and the
company had assisted her to give the season
an auspicious opening. The tenor, Picca-
luga, has a robust organ of good quality and
sufficient sweetness. A slim fellow, Lke
the baritone, Luigi Ceresol, he holds his
own as an actor among colleagues who re-
present about the best, or best managed,
cast “Boheme” has known in this country.
Ceresoly with a smooth, melodious baritone
and pleasing appearance, is a most success-
“THE CABARET GIRL" AT MEL-
BOURNE THEATRE ROYAL.
Cyril Ritchard as Mr. Gripps, Field Fisher
as Feloosi; Harry Wotton as Quibb, a
piano-tuner, sings a song of his own
composition.
ful Rudolpho. Aurora Rettore is in all
respects a satisfactory Musetta, without
being a record-breaker in that grateful
part; and, of the garret occupants, Lath,
as the musician, made a better impression
on Saturday than Di Lelio, the basso. Di
Lelio’s song of good-bye to his overcoat,
when he sends it off to the pawnshop, left
much to be desired, but he may have been
suffering from weather on the chest. To
say that Melba is still her original self
would be to libel her splendid reputation as
Queen of Song; but to deny that her warble
was, as ever, distinctively beautiful in tone
where its strength is not taxed would be
just as foolish. In the first and second
acts the great artist was Melba on the wane,
in a not becoming costume. In the third
act and thereafter, from the moment of
her first “addio,” she seemed to gather force
and charm as she went along. Voice and
acting were equally impressive. She was
convincing.
* * * *
Monday’s bill was Donizetti's “Lucia,” an
opera dating back to 1835, when Italian
composers concentrated on melody in solo
or concerted numbers, without regard to suit-
ing music to the words, or thought of “atmo-
sphere.” In “Lucia” the stilted libretto is
a weird joke, and old Italian-opera tradi-
tions of how a Scotch romance should be
mangled have excited stern Wagnerites to
scorn. Nevertheless, the How of tunefulness,
the stirring sestet and finale of the second
act, and the warble of Lucia to flute accom-
paniment after the conflicts of sound hhvfe
turned her brain, will keep Donizetti’s Upera
going until Protest dies of fatigue* In this
case Toti Dal Monte has come to sing
coloratura roles wherein the Voice of
Melba disclosed its incomparable sweet-
ness and purity to the world. She
proved to be all that she was said to be,
or nearly all. She is a sweetly shrill
soprano, a trifle hard in some of her notes,
and not a Melba in truth of intonation ;
nevertheless a fine, birdlike vocalist, as well
as a convincing actress. First impressions
of her plump appearance in stodgy red velvet
with deeply blacked eyes were dispelled by
her magnetic performance in subsequent
scenes. After her Mad scene the house
enthused, and Melba, coming from a box,
improved the occasion by embracing the
gratified visitor and making the aptest little
speech. The tenor, Dino Borgioli, also cap-
tured the audience with the general effect of
his debut. In traditional black velvet and
tall boots he made a fine shapely figure of
a young man. His acting was earnest and
interesting, and his manly tenor, never de-
lightful but always pleasing, was charged
with sincerity. In his death scene Umberto
Lelio, who had seemed a colorless basso in
“Bohfeme,” asserted his value by an excel-
lent rendering of old Raymond the peace-
maker. On the other hand, Grandilii was
but partly satisfactory as Lucia’s brother.
In the triumphant sestet his strong baritone
did its work well, but his voice lacks light
and shade, afid the singer has the stoUtish,
stocky figure and cramped gait of a pork
butcher. Among others, the second tenor,
Luigi Cilia, was a capital Arthur, whilst
the impersonator of Norman looked strangely
like a woman who had forgotten to shave.
In “Lucia” the chorus got something of the
chance denied it in “Bohfeme.” The orches-
tra, wherein flute and harp shone, was well
managed by Paolantonio, and scenery and
dressing were easily the most generous the
old opera has known in this country. Even
the Italian stage management made feeble
attempts to break away from traditions of
the Donizetti period.
“Little Nellie Kelly,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is hanging out the “Last Weeks”
warning. As far back as last year the
daughter of Officer Kelly started to turn
down a millionaire in favor of a poor but
honest Bloke, and when a musical comedy
has been going all that time there is a quite
large public ready to answer to the Last
Weeks summons and discover what all the
talk has been about. Mel. Ward, who offi-
ciates as the dancing detective on the track
of the stolen necklace, danced himself to a
standstill recently, and was out of the bill
last week. But June Roberts, Hazel Harris
and many companions in agility remained
busy as usual.
At Melbourne King’s a “professional
matinde” on Friday will serve also as an
invitation to the local Anglican Archbishop
to come and see for himself how he has erred
in making dark imputations against the
divorce and bedroom episodes in “Bluebeard's
Eighth Wife.” Meanwhile his Grace’s innu-
endoes are helping to attract that large sec-
tion of femininity which always hopes for
the worst.
Members of "The Cabaret Girl" company,
now at Melbourne Royal, hurried in with
their protest against an after-luncheon reflec-
tion (that never was cast) on the morals of
chorus girls. Allegations that the tinkles of
musical comedy are not ‘uplifting, and that
bare legs in a ballet are not Art for Art’s
sake, seemed to be particularly abhorrent to
the principals of a show -wherein the dear
things wear tights and ndt bare legs. Adver-
tisement, bold and fearless, is certainly
uplifting to theatrical business. Also, it is
artful, and although never barelegged is
often barefaced. One way and another “The
Cabaret Girl” will get for some weeks all the
support it deserves, or even more.
Melbourne Palace changes the Seymour
Hicks bill on Saturday to “Sleeping Part-
ners,” preceded by “Scrooge.” It sounds
attractive.
v v i
Melbourne’s Repertory Theatre will try
another three nights at the Playhouse this
week—Thursday to Saturday. The play is
John Galsworthy's “Loyalties.”
The curse of inherited money is the text
of “The Clean up” with which Hoyt’s are
trying to uplift Melbourne this week. The
film is a fantasy of misplaced cash, in which
the sons of rich fathers will see a sermon—
for someone else. “Within the Law” glides
on to the same screen, with Norma Talmadge
“THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY,"
AT SYDNEY ORITERION.
Irene Vanbrugh as Paula Tanqueray, C. M.
Hallard as Aubrey and Dion Boucicault
as a layer-on of hands.
as Mary Turner, whilst our burly friend
Lincoln Plumer glowers in a position made
conspicuous by bis physique. In the last
train-load of fiction which has. arrived at
the Majestic “The- Mistress of Shen.stone”
takes the top line, because Pauline Frederick
is in it. The now somewhat matured Pauline,
however, looks a trifle superior in such a
poor vehicle as the Florence Barclay yarn.
“The Hero,” at the same address, will go
to the head of the average flapper, Gaston
Glass makes him such an arresting young
man. Wesley Harry is playing the “Printer's
Devil,” at the Britannia, and another
juvenile, Bunny Grauer, is loose in “The
Town that Forgot,” at the Melba,
* :;t $
Arthur Streeton’s Melbourne show:—
The place of honor in Arthur Streeton’s collection
at the Pine Art Society’s Gallery is occupied by the
lately repatriated “Golden Summer.” It appears
youthful and diffident beside the later swift, confident
achievements; but its pure light and harmonious
balance will always have a charm. There'is a ten-
dency, however, to overrate its qualities; and one
doubts whether its reputation will be as enduring as
that of some of his modern canvases. Anyhow, his
Sydney panels, his “Sheep Country” and “Evening”
in the present Show, not forgetting his admirable
still lifes, deserve to be remembered longer. The still
life, “Love in A Mist,” is exquisite and is worth a
place in any gallery. The rich, persuasive color of
the marigolds against the huge peacock blue vase
in No. 27 holds one like the veracity of the mutton
chop in “Nourishment” (No. 24). “Evening” must
be specially commended because it presents a re-
strained and gracious Streeton caught in a simple
twilight mood. The artist’s two portraits are not
so good. The study of the brunette, who is stated to
be a violinist, is wanting in force and conviction.
And the self-portrait is a solemn, academic-looking
thing.
** * *
“Sybil,” glittering and melodious, is in
ber last lap at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. To-
morrow week the grand dukes and opera
singers will recede into the days that are no
more.
** * *
“Tons of Money,” at Sydney Opera House,
is still rattling along, with Dorothy Brunton
and Charles Heslop leading the glad revelry.
$ , $ V
“The Lie” will be exposed in all its
detestableness for the last time at Sydney
Royal to-morrow night. Then comes “French
Leave,” preceded by “A Night at an Inn,”
for Emelie Polini's closing week, with
souvenirs to mitigate the sadness of fare-
well.
** * *
At Sydney Cri. “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray” will impress herself for another
week as one of the most alluring and stress-
ful of Pinero creations. Lonsdale’s “Aren’t
We All?” with Barrie's “The Will” for an
aperitif, will be next offered by the Vanbrugh-
Boucicault caterers.
* # * 4:
At Sydney Tivoli Carr Lynn has set up
an opposition Shop to Taronga; he mimics
the Zoo’s inhabitants with good effect, and
has a bunch of clever stories as well. The
cat concert,” his brightest bit, is a good
imitation of the popular suburban diver-
sion. Lovett and Hughes are quite ( open
about their domestic affairs; Donald Stuart
has something new in conjuring;: Bert
Coote is paying heavily for his business ex-
perience; and Julian Rose is saying good-
bye in a new rdle.
Jji ifc jj;
Wesley Barky aii'd his ffeckies ate paying
Sydney Lyceum ii visit this week and treat-
ing, it tb a spread of bucolic fun, over-salted
With the pathos that the young man doesn’t
know what to do with. “The Broken Wing”
takes up the other half of the bill —a tale
of a skyman on a cross-Continental spin
who crashes into a ranch in Mexico, mislays
his memory, forgets his wife and jiggers a
love affair between a “greaser” and the
daughter of the ranch. Douglas Fairbanks’s
offspring is making a bit of a name for him-
self in “Stephen Steps Out,” at the Globe.
He has inherited pa’s valuable grin. Viola
Dana is kicking up “A Noise in Newboro’,”
at the Strand. After a short rest the fire-
rescue thrill is with us again. At the Em-
press it lands a chorus-girl into matrimony
with a fireman, the lady’s wood-alcohol
sozzling hubby being left to roast. At Hoyfs
the delightful old firm of “Potash and Perl-
mutter” are bagging the coin from Gentile
and Hebrew; and at the t Crystal Palace
“Nero” remains the champion bad man of
the movies.
* i!= * *
Nellie Bramley’s season at Adelaide. ROyal
has ended* and Oscar is cOming ili.
The lady has ingfeaShd lick own refute and
that Of Severn. men iii support. The St.
LfSons abb still the best turn at the Majestic,
Where also Adrian’s performing animals are
popular; and the Town Topics are in their
final open-air week in the Exhibition Gar-
dens. In pictures, “If Winter Comes,” at
the is the most striking thing in sight;
but it is not as good as the stage play, which
did at least give Mrs. Sabre a chance to ex-
plain what a difficult person Mark was to
live with.
From an Adelaide critic: —
Marie Tuck; has another of her striking exhibitions
at the Society of Arts] “Striking” is the only
word. Years ago, when her work was hung in the
Paris Salon—as three paintings are. here to testify—
her power was used with restraint. To-day she is
content to present her studies with- more vigor and
less finish. She has unbounded pluck, revelling in
the figure-composition which most other Australians
are frankly afraid to tackle. Nearly every subject
is a group of figures, whether in ah Australian Wool-
shed or a French fishing village ; but'often the model-
ling is careless. With sounder draughtsmanship she
might be one of Australia’s leading painters.
t! R.Gt.N.O.”: I’ve struck another sequel to
“The Merchant of Venice” (B. 20/3/’23) in
a Yiddish paper from the U.S.A. The idea
is that Shylock, condemned by the Duke to
be a Christian and execrated by liis race as
a, n apostate, is secretly practising the Jewish
rites. Comes to him on the night of a great
Hebrew feast Jessica, whose marriage with
Lorenzo has proved a failure. The re-
June Roberts, the dancer, who kicks the
back of her head “as easy as kiss me
’and.” Robert Jackson and Ireland
Cutter swap hats.
“LITTLE NELLIE KELLY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
united father and daughter decide to “make
the feast” together. In the closing scene
Shylock hangs the festal lamp outside his
door —that lamp which proclaims his rever-
sion to the faith of his fathers and his readi-
ness to submit to the torture which the Duke
had prescribed for defiance of his decree.


sc3f s:
(jmm
UM,
H
IfS
i'
'Vy*
m
a
m
L:W
S ■ >
M
'U
M.i
j--—-
faWt
m
h 4 F'C.WENTWORTti
Cl
:; -s.:
aaa
*&
3el
-
vnZ\
oaiic Pz
071 QC VS
( / nstocoL
HARDY'S WINES OF TIN!
[
r
MCI
ffolejoroof ffasi&ryr
Beauty’s Accessory!
Holeproof is silken magic to make plain ankles pretty and
to emphasise the charm of those already charming. But
in addition to lustrous beauty, Holeproof offers long wear'
ing quality that makes it the most economical hose to buy.
In Pure Silk, Silk Faced, Fiber Silk, and Lusterised Lisle, in the
season’s popular colours, at the leading shops everywhere.
Wholesale and Indents through WALTER CATHRO Pty.Ltd.,
50 YORK ST.. SYDNEY. 326 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Cathro, Bushbrook Co., 16-18 Victoria Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
A
'
/* J ii 'nriTfi-, ffITTT, f"
. ; '-=',,-
p«i
: - v ' ; l '■& ;
? E.J.MOYLE A SONS
«t
''x,'' j|p ft,
J
m
*‘. • i
m.: ' _
• U/Wt#,
v? ;- i
.. ■■'■ 1
a? i
*
ir*
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
Spares
always
available.
“Buy the Best —
the Best are
British.”
AGENT S-
Packer Bros. cG Begrie,
Mary and Albert Streets,
BRISBANE.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Franklin Street.
ADELAIDE.
Flower, Davies & Johnson,
hOJ Murray Street,
PERTH.
Q
u
y
<«>
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES
b
for the Transport of Goods and Passengers.
New 88/4 50-h.p. Engines are now fitted to “Q”"and “W” type chassis
as Standard.
Short wheel-base chassis for six-wheeled attachments for freight and
passenger service.
Write for Catalogues, Prices, etc., to
THORNYCROFT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
18-20 Martin Place, SYDNEY.
And at 80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephones: 8G313 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Thommotor, Sydney.”


LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
t
Queensland's Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
mmmm
pirOG 1 ’SLICE
EDGEWORTH
Extra
High-grade
Smoking Tobacco
Will not bite the tongue.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS (Si CO., Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER.PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
i’ax” : As part of a storm of protest from
people engaged in the musical-show business
the shining lights of “The Cabaret Girl”
wrote to Melbourne’s evening press regarding
Mr. Russell’s mast insulting attack on the
comic opera and musical comedy of Austra-
lia, in which he describes the work of our
girls as ‘thinly veiled prostitution.’ ” The
poor man, whose business in Australia is
confined to grand opera, had, of course, said
nothing that didn’t represent the views of
every pretentiously musical person in the
country. What he said was this
One could not expect either the opera or concerts
or orchestras or theatres to thrive in a country where
they were compelled to be subservient entirely to
the commercial! aspect. The moment you attempted to
make money out of art you prostituted it, because
the two things-would not go together It did not
amuse him to see 20 girls with short skirts and bare
legs running about the stage. That was not art—it
was a form of prostitution.
He evidently meant that it was a prostitu-
tion of art, and he has since explained that
lie intended no reflection on the Australian
chorus girl—never, in fact, had her in his
mind. What Melba’s “artistic director”
attacked was any representation of so-called
comedy, of the leg-show class, as a work of
art. It remained for people whom the shoe
pinched to shriek that Russell had been
attacking the morality of decent chorus girls.
In short, musical comedy rushed in to seize
a chance of further commending itself to
inartistic sympathy. That’s all.
“Santander” : The most absorbing feature
ot the uproar engendered by Henry Russell's
remarks about bare legs being a prostitution
ot art was the desire of numerous people to
get the utmost advertisement out of it. A
few hours after the offending words had
appeared in print, the principals of the Wil-
liamson “Cabaret” eo. felt bound to defend
the honor of their humble colleagues by
appending their signatures to a letter of
indignation. At the same time Hugh Ward
was brokenly expressing his horror in the
fairs of several hungry reporters, and his
henchman Kirby was bellowing his wounded
feelings in the Arbitration Court. Maud
Beatty was meantime ringing up the tire bri-
gade, or something of the sort, and was talk-
ing of invoking the Noxious Weeds Act to
have Russell hanged, drawn and quartered.
Mamie Watson shuddered visibly and Arch-
gaiters Lees weighed in with a warm letter of
approval for the indiscreet Russell. Next, Lady
h orbes-Robertson had a word to say, and
she (or probably the press agent) invited the
churchman to visit “Bluebeard’s Eighth
\\ ife.” which he will most certainly decline
to do. It was all terribly uncalled for, as
was subsequently proved, and the most
humorous aspect of it was that the young
ladies immediately concerned never uttered
a protest, well knowing that, if they had
opened their mouths, they wouldn’t have been
heard in the clamor.
Operas, German and Italian:—
These requests for “some Wagnerian examples
during the opera season” (“A.P.,” B. 20/3/’24) are
rather tiresome. It is unreasonable to expect a
mainly Italian co. to mix melodious Verdi and
Puccini with Wagner’s “Ring” series, plus “Lohen-
grin” and “Tannhauser.” But “A.P.” evidently wants
it dene. The genius of Italian composers is not
the genius of the German, who wrote regardless of
singers’ throats. It is true that Wagner operas
can be satisfactorily rendered in English. Australia
has heard it done. But we have heard it much
more effectively done in German by the contentious
crowd of Deutschers whom George Musgrove im-
ported, what time German influence dominated' the
local musical world. A mingling of Wagnerian works
with those the Melba co. will give us is not to
be desired. We had one experiment the first time
Melba ran a season at Melbourne Majesty’s, and one
was enough. “Lohengrin” was produced, with
Marshall Hall in the conductor’s place. The per-
formance all-round was pretty rotten compared with
the best that Musgrove had provided. Also, it was
“unmelodious” in the “Faust” sense, albeit “Lohen-
grin” is the easiest of the operas the great German
wrote after he had finally broken from his earlier or
“Flying Dutchman” manner. Italian and French
operas, contrasted with Wagnerian, are as oil to
vinegar, or whipped cream to apple dumpling.
Wagner was an innovator, who did much for opera.
But he gave the world no sweet sounds such as
Verdi and his predecessors composed.
“Bella Donna”: Tallis has announced that
“the pernicious custom of starring” will be
avoided during the season of grand opera at
Melbourne Majesty’s. In other words, the
Firm will refrain from booming particular
artists for fear of causing explosions among
the others. The question is whether the
publicity department can live up to the man-
agerial undertaking. It is asking a lot from
gents, trained for years in the art of ful-
some adulation to cut themselves off from
their favorite adjectives, at a moment’s
notice, as it were, in the interests of truth
and good order.
“Santander”: John McCormack would
have been a welcome member of the Melba-
J.C.W. Opera Co. Few will forget his
Cavaradossi with the Polish Madame, Ivoro-
lewicz-Wayda, as Tosca in the performance
of that opera a few years back. John’s
lyric tenor, which Caruso went out of his
way to applaud, will probably not be equalled
THE SAFETY CATCH.
“Oh, I think I’m getting on—last night he
asked me to call him by his first name!”
“Pooh, that’s nothing. I wouldn’t trust any
man till he called me by his second
name."
by any of the strangers which the Firm has
brought from Italy. But it is unlikely that
the sensitive Irishman will come this way
again. He doesn’t need to, of course, for
he is trilling for various concert and gramo-
phone agencies, and has had to buy another
Ford truck to cart his income-tax to the
F.S. Treasury. Soon, however, he will set
forth in an unusual direction. He is cross-
ing the Pacific to Tokio to give a vocal bless-
ing to the rebuilt Opera House that was
shattered in the earthquake.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: There was an air of
expectancy about the audience at Sydney
Itoyal the night I saw “The Lie.” From
the cackle-of thrilled women I learned that
1 rank Harvey and “Bobbie” McMillan, both
members of the co., were about to be married.
A wedding is almost as good an advertise-
ment for a show as a denunciation from the
pulpit. Two members of Dan Barry’s co.
once decided upon a sudden entry into matri-
mony, and Dan made the most of it. Dur-
HER SAVING GRACE.
MISS PRIM : “Of course, one couldn't talk
to every model that sits for the nude;
hut this girl is Quite nice—she assures
me she spends all the money she earns
on clothes.”
mg a break in the performance Dan thrust
flowers upon the ingenuous female, and read
congratulatory wires alleged to have come
from the Premiers of three colonies—they
were colonies-then. The thing proved such
a draw that the eminent actor-manager
included it in his show at the next town
visited, and it became a regular feature. In
fact, it was nearly 18 months before the
couple ceased to be a blushing bride and
bridegroom for Dan’s sake. Then approach-
ing domestic responsibilities made the pre-
tence that the lady had only been married
a few days seem scandalous, and the scheme
was dropped.
Prom London:—
More and more it grows evident that Florence
Austral is destined to step into Melba’s satin
slippers. Florence has been adding to her already
great English reputation by her work this season at
Covent Garden, in.-Wagnerian roles. The Telegraph
critic goes into ecstasies over her “lovely voice
which is always a joy to hear,” and her ‘“beauti-
fully sympathetic singing.” Yet it is now' known
that Florence was on the point of returning to Aus*
tralia a disappointed young woman—she had already
bpoked her passage, in fact—when the sudden illness
of another soprano enabled her to get a temporary
appointment and ah opportunity which she turned
to glorious account.
Weary of American revues and European musical
farces the public is returning to Gilbert and Sullivan
opera witfc zest. Before the D’Oyly Carte •o.
embarked on its latest Eondon venture, every seat in
the reserved portion of the Prince’s had been booked
for four months. For the opening performance,
lolanthe,” the queues outside the pit and gallery
doors began to gather at 6 a.m.—a wait of nearly
14 hours on a bleak midwinter day. And they W'ere
nearly all women when I passed there about noon.
, Maude Fane and Vera Pearce are to have parts m
Leap 1 ear,” which is to succeed “Brighter London”
as the Hippodrome revue. Maude is billed as an
Australian, although she never saw Australia till
she was a married Woman.
A leport issued by the Actors’ Association indi-
cates that an old privilege of the profession (“bv
Gad, sir 1”) is being maintained. The profession
owes the Assoc. £24,301 in unpaid subscriptions.
111-health is the cause of Arthur Collins’s retire-
ment from Drury Lane. He suffers agonies from gout,
and has to hobble about on crutches. A brother of
Arthur’s spent some time on the Australian stage.
Basil Dean, Collins’s successor, has done remarkable
work as a producer at the Ambassadors’ and St.
Martin’s, which are next-door neighbors.
“E.F.”: There was a note of feeling in
Oscar Asche’s husky voice when he told the
crowd at Melbourne King’s that there was
’such a thing as doing work for its own sake,
and damn the expense.” George Musgrove
talked in the same strain years ago, as Nellie
Stewart mentions in her book. He was
standing at the back of the d.e. at Melbourne
Princess’s when an unrivalled production of
“As You Like It” was not paying its way.
The question of cutting the loss was under
discussion, and G.M. said ‘'No, I’ll keep this
on -. It’s a damned line show, and I’m proud
of it.” He had no hand in the actual pro-
duction. but lie was proud of having taken
the risk of bringing the outfit to Australia.
Asche has reason to be proud, not only of
his work as producer and actor, but of the
risk he took in going nap on his first Aus-
tralian venture with “Taming of the Shrew.”
He backed it with all the money at his com-
mand, and won brilliantly.
“Royce Rolls": “It Pays to Advertise,”
which was staged in Australia a few years
back, has just made its London debut, at the
Aldwych, and, according to all accounts, is
in for a fair run. Our old friend Tom
Walls is the elderly soap-king whose heir is
not apparent until he reforms his dad’s ideas
of advertising. Doris Kendall, lately with
Lawrence Grossmith in Australia, exploits
her demure sweetness in the part of the
typiste, Mary, and J. T. Grein asserts in
the Sketch that the bogus French Comtosse
de Beaurien is “played to perfection” by
Cecilia Gold. Melbourne remembers the fair
Cecilia as a soubrette with the Butterfly
Costume Co. brought here by manager
McCrea. Jack Waller was then the leading
spirit of the show, which also included a
pianist who subsequently married the beaute-
ous daughter of a shirt-manufacturer.
McCrae is now the sleepless partner of
Frank Talbot in the plan for transforming
the old Athenaeum Hall into a modern comedy
theatre. He also had more than one finger
in the plot to land fiddler Kreisler in Aus-
tralia, and, all being well, the Austrian will
travel under his management in 1925.
“F.L.H.”: The Ballarat people are im-
porting J. Ord Hume to judge the brass-band
section of their next South-street competi-
tions. Hume, who has composed a lot of
band music and is getting up in years, has
been here before. On that occasion his
criticisms were exceedingly frank, and the
victims found them offensive. For example,
a player whose tone was rather light was
told that it “sounded as if he was practising
in a room with a blanket thrown over him
and the instrument to keep the cold out.”
A judgment equally candid so infuriated a
M.L. band that it boycotted a reception
arranged in the expert’s .honor —not that the
rough-tonguod cynic minded a bit.
“Thersites”: As an actor, William F.
Ilawtrey may have been “much inferior” to
his brother Charles (B. 27/3/’24), but lie
was a brilliant character man, all the same.
His Colonel Sapt, in “Prisoner of Zenda”;
Glabrio, in “Sign of the Cross” ; Talleyrand,
in “A Royal Divorce”; The Tramp, in “A
Message from Mars” ; General Stanhope in
“Tom, Dick and Harry”; Tammy Tamson
MacDonnel in “A Highland Legacy”; the
Frenchman in “A Lady of Ostend,” and many
other strong parts stamped him as a versatile
and finished artist.
"0.K.”: “T.R.H.” (B. 13/3/’24) remarks
that Ellaline Terris, gentle and restrained in
manner, has nothing of the flamboyant
theatricalism of her late father. Terris was
the heroic young beauty-actor of my youth.
As a schoolboy I saw him play Robin Hood,
at Drury Lane, in an adaptation of “Ivan-
hoe,” titled “Rebecca,” and a gallant out-
law he looked. He was related to literary
folk, and w r as then one of the few mummers
who had been a college and university man.
I admired his appearance and breezy grace-
fulness, and his cultured elocution. He
joined Henry Irving’s co. at the Lyceum, and
was the leading juvenile, in Shakspearean
and other drama, of its palmiest days. He
was Squire Thornhill to Ellen Terry’s
Olivia and Irving’s beautiful Vicar of AVake-
field, and it was he who thus expressed the
difficulty in holding a good position in the
co. at that time: “If you spoon Ellen Terry
you get the sack, and if you don’t spoon
Ellen Terry you get the sack.” But that
was 40 years ago.
“Mancam” : Little Phil Smith is hustling
through the “smalls” with “The O’Brien
Girl.” He was in Kyneton (Vic.) a week
or so ago, and the Comedian who’d attempt
to play anything there and expect payable
business lias the heart of a hero.
“Norbell”; “E.F.” asserts that “this
country has shown little fondness for Barrie
plays” (B. 27/3/’24). But surely “What
Every Woman Knows,” with Harcourt
Beatty 'and Nellie Stewart in, the lead,
wasn’t a failure. And Charles Arnold made
money with “The Professor’s Love Story.”
AVhy, Boucicaulf is using one of Barrie’s
playlets as a curtain-raiser, and the \ran-
brugh-Boucicault season has known only
packed houses.
“Bello” : A reference to Nina Boucicault’s
appearing in the same show with Madge
Titheradge (B. 27/3/’24) recalls that Nina
made her bow in Australia as Moya in “The
Shaughraun” to the Captain Molineaux of
George Titheradge, Madge’s father. That
was in 1885. Nina’s father, Dion the elder,
was Conn, and Dion junior, now in Sydney,
was Harvey Duff.
THE WHISTLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Sydney City Council is likely to make a 50
per cent, reduction in the amount owing for the hire
of the Town Hall during the Empire Week Festival.
It was pointed out that General Ryrie, who had guar-
anteed the expenses of the festival, had to meet a
loss of £2175.” —0ne Paper.
“General Ryrie entertained the company with a
whistling solo; and afterwards imitated many bush-
birds.” — Another.
First Citizen :
Say, did you hear a whistling, a poignant kind of
whistling,
Like angry winds that beat upon a full-rigged
ship at sea,
Like winter gales that bend the pines
And swish the washing off the lines,
A wild, tempestuous threnody in ultra-mourn-
ful key ;
A noise that makes your heart to ache
Like keening at an Irish wake,
And sets you speculating what the devil it can
be?
Second Citizen :
Too right, 1 heard a whistling, a shrill, distressful
whistling,
Unlike the pipe of jocund birds that flit o’er
lawn or lea,
Or the sharp summons coppers sound
When larrikins are snarling round
Or the imperious ukase of the football referee.
’Tis General Ryrie, too, I know—
List to that vibrant tremolo !—-
No siffleur on the Sydney side can “shake” and
trill like he.
First Citizen- :
But this is ’wildered whistling, ’tis sad, remorse-
ful whistling,-
Suggesting thimblerigger's dupes who fail to find
the pea,
While jovial Granville’s labial toot
Was like the mellow ousel’s flute,
When heard at concerts or shivoos, it always
seemed to me.
It indicated deep content
And health and wealth and merriment.
With now and then a strain or two denoting
martial glee. •
Second Citizen :
And this is dismal whistling, ’tis maledictory
whistling,
The sort of wail that you’d expect from someone
up a tree,
Some juggins who had done his dough
Upon an unproductive show,
Or backed a horse whose stiffening he didn’t
quite foresee.
Quite so. But recollect, my lad,
The sort of jar the whistler’s had.
It doesn’t make for lively tunes, that sort of
t/uarantee.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


(V
w
M
JILi/
css
£
s*l
k
srar
42M
x i ©£
The long.life battery.
The EXIDE Battery has enormous power, sufficient
to start the stiffest engine on the coldest day, is
lighter and of less bulk than any of equal capacity.
EXIDE Batteries are assembled, sealed and charged
in Australia.
There is an EXIDE Battery for every Motor Car,
Motor Cycle, Motor Boat and Wireless Set; obtain-
able from all Dealers, Garages and EXIDE Battery
Service Stations.
use Chloride
Batteries for
House Lighting.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
QUEENSLAND Exitle Battery Service Station, 472-474 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co,. Ltd., Hunt Street, off Went-
worth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge
(2 Maffra Street), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street,
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA. . “Radio House,” 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
NEW ZEALAND Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, P.O. Box
587, Wellington; also at Auckland and
Christchurch,
“exfoe"
Batteries
Service Station.


M
ksSskssk
T
m
m
i
.
i
I
8
i
mm
£5
■
,J
■
■
m
■
The Famous Wolseley Suspension
is Guaranteed.
There is no record of a broken spring on a 10~, 14- or !5-h.p.
car. This is because the springs are so arranged
that when a severe road shock is thrown on to the spring, it does
not commence at its strongest and stiffest point and travel to its
weakest, where a fracture is occasioned, but, by inverting this process,
t e shock is eliminated long before a vital part can be reached.
So perfect is the WOLSELEY suspension that
The Springs of every 10,14,15 h.p. Car are Guaranteed
against Breakage in Service for Twelve Months.
Take the safest course: choose this perfectly reliable British Car,
New Reduced Prices:
10-h.p. Single-seater de 10-h.p. 4-seater de Luxe. £4SS
Luxe £430 14-h.p. 4/5-seater £625
15-h.p. 5-seater £745
Arrange for a trial and demonstration.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd),
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip Street, Sydney.
W. D. Bauld, Eastern Market Garage,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
F. W. Cato, 1273 Hay Street, West Perth.
Simpson Motor Co., Ltd., Petrie's Bight,
Brisbane.
H. C. Richards, Richard's Building, Currie
Street, Adelaide.


I The SUPER
CIGARETTE
Made -from Pure
GOLDEN VIRGINIA
The Coolness and Sweetness
in Smokinq are enhanced
by the OVAL Shape & CORK TIP
/A
JHEsUPER
CIGARETTE
I‘-4 C s'• in'O
for
20
ALL ALi STIC ALIA 2s 6 visiting Loudon
should read the British Austbalasian,
tju. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Heading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Amusements.
s Y “
xk vs cai k i iakat it e s -
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SYBIL.
CRITERION:
THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.
ROYAL: THE LIE.
SATURDAY, APRIL S— FRENCH LEAVE.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Proprietor: George Marlow.
Sole Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty.. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.15.
HUGH J. WARD’S New Musical Farce Comedy.
Co., headed by DOROTHY BRUNTON and CHARLES
HESLOP, in
TONS OF MONEY.
Pre-War Prices. Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
Rickard s’ xivo li the at res.
Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction —-Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
MUSGIiOVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CABARET GIRL.
aiUNCESS’S THEATRE. AIELBOCRM
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
A MUSICAL COMEDY OF RARE CHARM.
Plans at Glen’s.
TUESDAY, APRIL 15, AT 2 O’CLOCK,
BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
AT SCHOOL OP ARTS, BOONAH (QUEENSLAND),
THE SECOND SUBDIVISION^
5000 ACRES OF THE FAMOUS
Coochin Coochin Estate
SUBDIVIDED INTO 15 AGRICULTURAL
AND DAIRY FARMS
RANGING PROM 106 TO 870 ACRES.
COOCHIN COOCHIN' IS ONE OF THE SHOW STATIONS OF
SOUTHERN QUEENSLAND, SITUATED ABOUT 00 MILES FROM
BRISBANE. 10 MILES FROM BORDER OF NEW SOUTH WALES, AND
HANDY TO THE PROSPEROUS TOWN OF BOONAII.
WELL KNOWN FOR ITS SPLENDID RAINFALL, AND THE
INEXHAUSTIBLE WATER OF TEVIOT BROOIv RENDERS THE ESTATE
DROUGHT-PROOF. .
IT IS ALSO WELL KNOWN FOR ITS LUCERNE-GROWING AND
FATTENING QUALITIES. _
EXCEPTIONAL TERMS OVER 20 YEARS. ONE-TENTH DEIOSII,
NO PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL FOR 3 YEARS, INTEREST 6 PER CENT.,
PAYABLE HALF-YEARLY.
PLANS ON APPLICATION.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., LIMITED,
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
BETTS & BARTHOLOMEW,
BOONAH, LOCAL AGENTS.
C. B. DARVALL, Esq., Boonah,
Solicitor for Estate. 19117.
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
PLUM
yi'a
Amusements.
PA LAC IS TIIISA T It IS, MELBOURNE
Direction Hugh J. Ward Tlieatres Pt3'. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 5.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
SEYMOUR HICKS in
SLEEPING PARTNERS, preceded by
SCROOGE.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Almi SVIIMSV.
NORMA TALMADGE in
WITHIN THE LAW.
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
THE CLEAN UP.
Prices as usual.
IyjA.IISSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
PAY DAY.
Matin6es daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MISS GERTRUDE ELLIOTT in
BLUEBEARD’S EIGHTH WIFE.
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —All kinds special hand-made
Maltese Lace at a moderate price.
Write or call, 40 Palmer Street, East
Sydney. Post Free.
Missing: Friends.
lUE laTe Ei)S\iN SERCOMBE’S, of ~41
Brook St., Grosvenor Square, London,
youngest daughter would like to communi-
cate with the late Mr. Park or Parker’s des-
cendants, also late of London. He was
supposed to go to Australia about 1870.
Address: Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.
NVERARITY, RONALD.—If the above,
whose last known address was, in 1913,
Snowy Creek, Victoria, or his representa-
tives, apply to George Reader & Co.,
Solicitors, 35 Coleman Street, London, Eng-
land, he or they may hear of something to
their advantage.
Public Notice.
N.S.W. FIRE BRIGADES HOSPITAL CARNIVAL
AND ART UNION, 1924.
OFFICIAL DRAWING, TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
27th MARCH, 1924.
•1.—927791
2. 355781
3.
4. 556815
5 —498780
506027
7.
8. 591053
9. 504402
10. 533556
11. 268814
12. 334018
13.
14. 728695
15. 802402
16. 716082
17. 998331
18. 545530
19. —360393
20. —568693
21. 725433
23.—395981
23. 256153
24. 504789
25.
26. 141113
27.
28. 369516
29. 139193
30. 189.325
31. 227312
32.
33. 717970
34.
35. 729105
36. 593617
37. 376517
38.
39 —167470
40.-177930
41. 502442
42.
43. —112980
44. 670633
45. —468390
46.
47.
48. —644086
49. 631765
50. 297669
51. —302633
52.
53.
54. 145580
55. 47510
56. 731116
57. 370386
58. —390286
59.
60. 806255
61. 575971
62. 522615
63. 715948
64. 156977
65.
66. 740197
67.
68.
69. 792706
70. 151773
71. 630976
72. 46124
73. 741988
74. 73450 S
75. 90594
76.
77. 225306
•78.-648853
79.—202936
80. 402668
81. 24501
82. 153371
83. 41102
84. 480994
85. —77306
86.
87. 712872
88. 685340
89. 144047
90. 82701
91. 216053
92. 751451
93. 142071
94. 301873
95.
96. 791111
97.
98.
99. —151562
100 —705576
101. —10494
102. 648848
103. 489776
104. 676125
105. —998109
106. 26522
107. 202359
108. 292701
109. 52328
110. 897618
111. —981326
112. 979692
113. —369803
114. 143068
115. 446875
116. —367362
117. 639597
118. 74067
J. J. NEVILLE,
Hon. Secretary.
A School Song Wanted.
The Old Scotch Collegians’ Association
(M elbourne) offers
Prizes of £l5/15/- and £26/5/-
• for a suitable School Song for the
Scotch College.
Full particulars obtainable from the
Hon. Secretary. Old Scotch Collegians
Association, 59 William Street, Mel-
bourne. __________
We Don't Sell CHEAP Jewellery-But
We DO Sell "GOOD” Jewellery Cheap
The principal factor which enables ns to sell at front 20 to 50 per cent. kelow usual
prices is this: WE MANUFACTURE ALL OUR DIAMOND RINGS ON r
■ME IMPORT THE DIAMONDS AND WATCHES DIRECT, and- SELL DIRECT to the
public. Furthermore, we have NO HE AY Y SHOP RENT and overhead expenses to
contend with, we have upstairs workshops and an upstairs Showroom, consequently we
have no need to add Middleman or Warehouseman’s Profit and heavy Shop Expenses to the
cost of the articles supplied. Besides, we give a Written Guarantee with each article
and an undertaking in writing to refund your money in full if you are not satisfied 01
can buy cheaper elsewhere. Compare our prices, and we will leave the rest to you.
£ll
9ct. Solid
GOLD
WALTHAMS
S 3
§ss
WALTHAM WATCHES.
Famous all over the World.
ELGIN WATCHES.
10-year Gold Filled £3
Silver £3/15/-
Everything sent Post Free.
£lO
For a 3-Diamond
Ring, usually sold
at £l4. Others,
£7/10/- to £5O.
£l5
For a 7-Diamond
Fancy Ring, usually
sold at £22.
£l5
For a Three
Diamond and
Fancy Ring,
usually sold at
£22.
£l5 ,
For a Single-
Diamond Ring,
usually sold at
£22.
For a £22
4-Diamond Ring.
£2O
For a 5-Diamoncl
Ring, usually sold
at £3O.
£l2 ,
For an 11-
Diamond Ring,
usually sold at'
£lB.
£l5
For a 4 ; Dia-
mond Milled
Ring, usually
sold at £22.
£l3/10/-
For a 5-Diamond
Ring. Others,
£5 to £6O.
S: - -
£ll
For a 9-Diamond
Ring, usually sold
at £l5.
IgsjS
£2O .
For a 9-Dia-
mond Cluster
Cluster Ring,
usually sold at
£27.
£lo^
For a 2-Dia-
Diamond Ring,
usuallv sold at
£l4.
Others to
£5O.
SEND FOR POST
~~ THE
Direct Supply Jewellery Co.
a{ Cohen, Mgr.—Late with Drummonds & Dunklings
Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ovpr Blue Bird Cafe —Two_doorB_froiii_Swaimton_SL
zjhefhi
Laundrena
favourite Starch
Laundrena, made from unadulterated
maize, adds a satiny, smooth finish and
fresh daintiness to every washable
fabric. It never impairs the finest tex-
ture nor the most delicate colourings.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by CLIFFORD LOVE & CO., LTD., Sydney
Leeai Notice.
TO ETHEL MARGARET McCARTIN
late of Adelaide in the State of South
A,Thalia. AND TO
DOUGLAS WHITE late of North Terrace
Adelaide in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation dated the
6th day of September 1923 has been issued
in the Supreme Court of South Australia
eitiuo- each of you to appear and answer the
Petition of PHILIP JAMES McCARTIN
of Curzon Street Camden m the State ot
South Australia laborer praying for-a dis-
solution of marriage.
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
and each of you are within twenty-one days
after the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitors at the
Master’s Office Supreme Court House Vic-
toria Square Adelaide in the said State and
then to attend on appearance.
L ' S ' (Sgd.) F. B. McBRYDE.
1 ° ' Deputy Master.
ARTHUR S. BLACKBURN,
Trustee Building,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Petitioner.


far
epO--
i. Ml
? /
*E Ji I
"THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
There is an enormous demand from News-
papers, Magazines, Advertisers, etc., for
strong, forceful illustrations, and they pay
high prices for work that suits them.
Why Not Learn Drawing?
You can! Easily, rapidly and thoroughly,
by the
WESTON METHOD
Jt takes you step by step from the rudiments
ot - sketching. to the very highest branches of
mis fascinating and lucrative profession. The
lessons are so simple that you cannot fail to
make rapid progress, and, remember, we
reach to draw, not to ropy.
Enclose 3 stamps, with your name and
address, and we will post you a copy of our
booklet, “There’s Money in the Ten.’’ It
explains all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
315 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOOROCK
HOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BRITISH EVERY STITCH'
ď
C.B.
British
Every
Stitch.
The Secret of
looking your Best
A LITHE, graceful figure
demands proper support.
Your C.B. CORSET will mould
and coax away figure-imper-
. fections —rounding off here,
smoothing away there, with
just that perfect understanding
of the requirements for comfort
and stylish appearance.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch.
are the outcome of over fifty years’
progressive improvement in the art
of corsetry. Although moderately
priced, they maintain an unequalled
reputation for quality, perfection
of line and finish.
Obtainable at all the best Drapery
Emporiums and Stores at prices from
6/11 to 63/- per pair. Should you ex-
perience any difficulty in obtaining
the correct C B. Model write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO., LTD ,
Macdonnell House, Pitt St Sydney,
179-181,Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
for name of nearest agent.
f BRITISH EVERY STITCH”
"I liiWlMii
faffl
mm
1
OUR LATEST
THE
“WINDORAH”
PARK SADDLE
This is one of out* latest styieS in saddles, designed
to add to the comfort and pleasure Of hiding. In it
the usual skirt, is dispensed With, hnd a combined
dalj and skirt is Used, sewn direct on to the seat.
This gives a narrower, non-cliafing, comfortable
grip. The knee pads are the popular Queensland
shape, and the panel lias leather sides and extended
facing at back. The saddle is high-grade throughout
in workmanship and material, and is fitted with
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
■£ 14/Fs/- Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
Station on N.S.W. Railways.
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS.
Kangaroo Leather Right Through—Full of Life.
THONGS 7ft. Sft. Oft. HANDLES TO MATCH.
12-plait 19/6 22/0 24/6 16-plait, 16/6; 24-plait, 18/6.
16-plait 22/- 25/- 28/- If for Oft. thongs prices
are 1/6 more.
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
Write for Catalogue and Canvas Rug Price List.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924.
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept,),
141 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address—“Smadaburo,”
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses, |
Furnished Flats, etc.,
Trips to Battlefields.
LONDON WILL BE FULL.
London), who will arrange:—
Continental and Provincial Tours,
Motor-car Hire—Sightseeing—Passports,
WRITE OR CABLE NOW,
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL.
Tariff from 16/- per day*
Yours faithfully*
. DE SILVA. Proprietor.
đ
Major Massy writes froin India:—
“In 1908 I used Solignum on woodwork for
regimental buildings } and the wood has not been
touched by white ants even to datej 1022.'’
The Wood Preservative and White Ant Destroyer
Has stood the test of time.
Makers:
Major & Company, Ltd.,
Hull, England.
Stocked by
Leading Stores.
Australian Kep.:
W. Plant & Co., Ltd..
220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WOLFF’S cgl
i
ai
HI
fTM
} HO
mmm
i< v. w
V
m
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World -
rt.
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT
'pee^u^eno
anvil ioviu
•anaisidir
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Bn ter & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY & on)l
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/.. Magic Made Easy, l/«. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
WTOS. HEARDS, MASKS, kc.
CATALOGUES FREE.
fd
[ J
w.
*<u*
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents —April
Fools; Who Is M ho;
lei on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him ?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
10W TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/m
Write for list of our
Ventriloqtiial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
the Stage 1/6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
N° notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Nc
Liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
J.E.C.: Payments for contributions are
made by The Bulletin usually within three days
of the claim being lodged, but oftener on the day
it is lodged. If somebody wasn’t paid for 17 weeks
it merely means that somebody took 17 weeks to
send in .his claim; and that's not The Bulletin’s
fault. Verse, short stories, black and white drawings
and the longer articles are, as a rule, paid for
before they are published.... Walker’s Please: An-
other got in first.... Edmond F. H.: (1) Don’t think
there’s any co. in Australia (or elsewhere) that
would look at the picture proposition for less than
£200; and then it would probably be cut to
pieces by the film censor; (2) the case has been
left too long to be of any newspaper interest....
D.F.L.: “Balance” would suit some American maga-
zine better... .L.H.J.: Not enough yarn in it ; but
it is well d0ne....T.C.T.: As good as a sleeping
draught... .N.Iv.M.: Afraid you’ve left it too late... .
Bellerive: There’s nothing more interesting than
these little domestic touches :
A little back room is my literary den,
Where sketches and poems I endeavor to pen;
With a box for a desk and plain kitchen-chair,
On the wall a few photos hung here and there.
Duly enters my dog, who will pranceth about—
He don’t worry me, and I don’t turn him out.
.. .. D. Jay; Thanks; but you've got to go deeper
than that... . Ellae: We’ve printed lots worse; all
that’s the matter is that the Red Page isn-t elastic.
....Cassini: Too wor/Jy. .. .Fullagar: As far as the
discussion has gone, those Queenslanders who claim
the right to grow ratoon cotton have won hands
down. ... J. Bax: It doesn’t make an article ; but
there’s material for three or four good brief pars
there... .C.A.J.: You haven’t the paragraphist’s knack
yet... .Bagman: Can’t do anything with such closely
typed stuff.... Ento: Of course it is and does. But
why make it so deadly dull ?. .. . Tauwarra: Don’t
blame “Bouragi’s” Motuan ; blame his shocking fist.
.... Chip; Doesn’t seem to really matter: the murder
was done by a native, anyhow.... Koola: Most of it
is kindergarten stuff. Try putting your bright new
ideas into one or two brief pars for a start... .Rip-
ponlea: The “Gasometer” goes right up:—
A massive monument to Man’s Ingenuity,
As it ehangingly recedes, rises, recedes again,
Although invisible to human perceptibility
As a Poet’s hopes to do are fain.
One could never its capacity decide
Did he not know its technique and such ;
And if the wrong handle be touched
The explosion would shatter the countryside.
The Gasometer rests in Halcyon repose.
tJntil th’ Cloak of Evening goes, #
It lights our streets,
And heats our meats
Many a necessity of Life it meets.
How like Man thou art. alas :
Man-made Vesuvius, so full of Power, and yet so
full of Gas!
... .W.E.8.: “Three Orphans” don’t appeal to us. ...
F.W.H.: Mere melodrama.... Rufus: The verse isn’t
well enough done to carry so small an idea....
E. : Only suitable for singing in a suburban
drawing-r00m... .E. 8.5.: Too slight and too weak.
R.8.R.; We don’t like it F.F. (8.H.) : The re-
marks about Ibsen are thin, and the verse dies of
starvation.... .M.H. (North Fitzroy) : No score....
F. : Not bright enough... .W.M.8.L.: The verse
has no marrow in its bones M.S. (Albany) : Could
be a lot worse.. . .W.M.F.: The yarn is mostly melo
drama and eve don’t believe in those ab 05..... Louis
C.: No use —you can’t make a yarn out of nothing.
. ...E.B. (Roseville): The sonnet is too wooden....
Barrenjack: It isn’t so much a matter of time spent,
as of having something to say. The present attempt
is quite empty.... Northerner: The tragedy is almost
mirthful... .Greenhide B.: Not well enough done... .
H.P. (Nyngan): “Wanderlust” is a word that carries
its own curse. The verse is p00r... .C.A.J.: The
verse doesn’t get near... .H.E.M.: Misses, but not a
bad shot. .. .Robert M.: Not enough there.... Still
Waters: We note that it was dawn this morning and
that now it is night. You might have added a
stanza to say it will be noon later on W.E.L.:
Hopeless. ... Bertram I.: Matter and manner both
weak... .R. 5.8.: It hasn’t the feeling... . Monoker:
The yarn is no use Mombak: This has the vivid
strength:—
In the burglar’s hand an iron pipe
Stunned the drunkard with terrible swipe;
Down he swayed
And low he laid
On the mat.
Opening the door the burglar creeping
Was met in the hall, by a dog leaping
At his throat, gripping it tight.
The burglar after a terrible fight
Lay down flat.
Mary N.: Too loose and too long A.H.lt.:
Not past the tuppenny section— and this is a six-
penny line J.R. (Parramatta): Very poor
L.S.A.: Misses the target ... .J.M.0.: Goes rambling
on to get nowhere Phil M.: A thin tale spoiled in
the telling... .A.R.N.: Wobble and bump verse....
P.L.M.; It doesn’t strike us The Snack: Heavy
fooling in indifferent verse J.F.L.: An ancient
story poorly told M.L.D.; Not for us C.R.
(Roseville) : It doesn’t get near enough to pass the
time o’ day Alice R.: Fluttered feebly to the
wicker-work... .D.It.A.: Its beauties are rather hid-
den, but even the worst verse can be made grammati-
cal.... Frank D.: As far as we can read it it is no
good.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORIiES PON DENTS.
1.A.M.: “Seen drawings like this in The Bulletin,”
have you? Then what our enemies say about us is
true.... G.D.P.; Feeble as a day-old wombat....
L.F.; Tou must know something about anatomy to
draw even a S. Aus. girl in a bathing suit
E. J.; Both gags 01d....A.E.: Is that a sea or a
rubbis*h tip?... .J.P.C.: All six starters unplaced '
G.M.; Nothing like ’em... .G.L.W.: Something is
cramping your style H.L.J.: Both miss R.R :
You’re a long way off the cash counter 8.W.H.:
All headed homeward... .D.K.: Curiously uneven
drawing W.A.P.: That joke was worked off on
poor old Tutankhamen... .C.F.: Well below par
W.A.H. : Wishy-washy 8.M.: Put outside with the
milk-jug and the cat.
The China Journal of Science and
Arts, of Shanghai, lately had occasion to
write to a Bulletin man; and this is how
it addressed the letter:—
James James, Esq.,
The Bulletin, Sydeney,
London, N.S.W., Australia,
England.
But the Post Office knows the ways of the
Chinese; so the letter came straight to
George-street North.


n f .iJ rrrn
\ *
0151
TVHiSXV ■
tTER
Dawson
Scotch Whisky
r
4 TZ"
TF you are not certain, why not taste “P.D.,” which is a
genuinely old whisky.
Whisky which is matured by time, and mellowed in the only
true way, in wood, is none too plentiful to-day. Whether
or not you get any of it depends on yourself.
When you have tasted a really old whisky you do not need
to be an exceptionally good judge to tell which is which.
“ A Deeply Satisfying Blend ”
“His Master’s Voice"
The perfect companion
for leisure hours
With most of the duties of the day
accomplished, it is a rare joy to sit at
perfect peace, with no other companion
than His Master’s Voice.”
As its entrancing music swells out and
fills the air with golden melody, you
wonder anew at the power this Instru-
ment has to reproduce every type of
music, every individual voice, so per-
fectly, so naturally, so clearly, that the
artists themselves might easily be pre-
sent in the room.
'His Masttri Vbict
The Symbol of Supremacy.
When you choose an 'His Master s Voice Instrument, you
have the endorsement of the world s greatest artists. They
make records for "His Masters Voice exclusively, because
they know that thus only will you hear them as they wish to
be heard—in all the consummate artistry of their oiiginal
rendition.
Instruments from 1 1 guineas to £94.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest
dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"His Master’s Voice”
Head. Trade-marls.
“Gnimophone”
Hegd. Trade-mark.


All Wool
AND A YARD WIDE.
Quality and quantity to the utmost.
.Seasons may influence the clip grown, but if
you want top market values for it,
SEND YOUR WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Selling Brokers, Sydney or Brisbane
Expert .Salesmen in every particular.
DICK’S
trade
ďf
MARK
Genuine Balata
Belting.
Whether required for heavy service on
huge main drives, or for light service
on individual motor drives, involving
small pulley diameters and severe
fluctuation of loads—DlCK’S GENUINE
DAE AT A BELTING will transmit all
the power at lowest cost.
Also secure our prices for “BARRY”
Steel Split Pulleys; Cotton Wastes;
Leather Belting; Steel Shafting;
Lubricating Oils; etc.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 97 Collin s Street
Shave in Comfort.
df
If you could shave
yourself in three min-
utes as well as the
barber does, wouldn’t
you rather always do
so than waste valuable
time at a barber’s
shop ?
Then try a PERFOR-
ATED HONE. It puts easy
shaving within reach of everv
man. Requires no skill or
experience to use. Give six
strokes or a hundred—you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations prevent WIRE-
EDGE, and automatically
produce a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
®/-> or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—1 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdf
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS a„d CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY- H O T Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY- H O T
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Second St., Cincinnati, 0., 0 S.A.
df
Icy-Hoi Food Jtr
W&VV26.
■B
I-oiidon Office:
“Gresham House/'
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
electrolytic zinc
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers* Association ££
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
rOLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
B
£
Va
WATT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington (N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
Shoot to kill with
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
loaded with
SMOKELESS O DIAMOND
“ E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
2 77 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL'
SCOTTISH HOUSE
9° WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
THE
k
r.
- *£
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins OFFlCE—Collins
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up .. £3,143,000
Reserve Fund Account 1,876,300
Keserve Liability of
Shareholders .. 1,313,500
£5,000,000
Directors : —Sill JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN DARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
Total
£6,331,700 BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Total Assets, 31st March, 1923—£35,285,348.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. UADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 138 branches.
V. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 26 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
j.oeal Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, lit., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. A. J. Thyrme, M.L.C.
State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 46 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
m . . __ and 31 branches.
lASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand.
Agents throughout the World.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“E.W.M.”: For tho 1923-24 crushing sea-
son 370.000 tons of cane passed through tho
rollers at South Johnstone sugar-mill in the
Innisfail (Q.) district. This is believed to
be an Australian record. The three mills in
tlie neighborhood produced 54,000 tons of
raw sugar, which, at the fixed price of £27
a ton, represents £1,458.000, the best in the
history ot the “Million Pound Town.”
* * * *
Yarrum”: A friend of mine, a retired
N.S.W. country politician, took over a
billiard-room up Darlinghurst way a while
ago, “just to have something to do.” The
k? he . los , t 44 snooker balls; the second
somebody pinched tw9 sets of billiard balls.
11 Io l ?n S^ y bis Pipe, tobacco, knife and
ew £2 10s. hat did the disappearing trick.
Next week he sold out at a loss; but he
leckons the experience worth the money.
l : “The Clieer-up Hut,” in Ade-
laide, reviving its activities for the Fleet
started a discussion about records
.1 catering. Meals were found there by
the thousand for men in khaki during vari-
ous city parades in wartime. But a local
?h^nhLi Pr i° eSSlon nl Caterel,s says it claims
the absolute record for Australia—over 4000
guests served with supper in less than two
hours, at a mayoral ball given by Lewis
Cohen the Exhibition Building.
‘‘Fax”: A new variety of the old seaman-
and-smuggled-goods trick is being played in
at least one Australian city just now A
Wlt ii < L ail , or s • clotll calls at offices, pro-
testing that he is able to offer French
materml at bargain prices owing to tlie
fall of the franc. At one bank the trader
TIT , f, rance disposed of 14 suit lengths"
mid C 1 In l lV e rea y tlie product of a local
mil, bought from a warehouse, and sold at
manVpricf 6 advance 011 the other middle-
Bie Cl vm” : S p ., tiU a few da ys ago most of
Railways correspondence was
signed lours obediently,” or “Your obedi-
wil 1 e m ant ' 1,1 some case s this formula
was ffidicrous, as when the letter was sent
to a 14-year-old schoolboy, asking him to
show reason why he should not be prose-
cuted for travelling in a “smoker” on a con-
cession ticket. Clapp, dropping to this, has
low. issued instructions that letters are to
be signed Yours faithfully.”
* ‘ Japan is becoming a steady con-
Of 1 (»0‘? f i W - lte sugar. During the first half
of 3923 he imported 119,251 tons at a cost
o himself of £2,751,038. The chief sources
the S pin m^° re th c , I)ut cli East Indies and
the Philippines. When Australia learns to
grow more sugar than she requires for her
own wants there s a good market handy to
, r °' day 7 0w . York's wholesale price of
48d ' : A " str “ ,ia «
“G.T.0.”: “R.F.K.F.” (B. 28/2/ , ‘>4)
bniltthefi °T the credit of having
built the first velocipede 111 Australia, in 1868
cV wi t? th frr a 7 an named Lipscombe’
of Sandy Bay (Tas.), made a machine in
lftob. I remember seeing him ride it fre-
quently past my father’s house. The bike
was of the old “penny-farthing” design •
the wheels were made of wood with iron
In r Ts97 ft T r th . e fashion of a baggy wheel,
in 189 1 I levisited Lipscombe’s strawberrv
gardens, Sandy Bay, and there in a loft I
discovered the old bike, still in an excellent
state of preservation. excellent
<< * * * *
Jarrah’’: “Nugget’s” bee-farmer, with his
tip-dray (B. 2S/2/’24), is a back number
compared with a Westralian apiarist on the
n / er - P e has s Pecially-made double-
decker frames fastened on the top of lorries
capable of holding 40 hives. He has five
1 1 °™ e ‘ s ’ and shifts his 200 hives
about the landscape with a motor-truck. The
most favored sites are near lucerne-fields
orchards, or patches of blossoming red-gums’
A fortnight is the average time for stayhig
111 one place; operations are conducted around
a point with a radius of about 20 miles The
profits last year sufficed to build a new house
* * *■
remarkably ingenious and
highly-finished sample of local industry was
the rope ladder that recently enabled a
Bi-fsffial to rpf Cape Roggo-road Gao?
Brisbane. The contrivance was 30ft. long
each side being made of 22 strands of waxed
threads twisted into a rope. The rungs
two feet apart were made from kerosene
cases; they had been neatly rounded off and
cut into uniform lengths. A double hook
was attached: this had been made from the
handle of a cell bucket, and as a weight for
throwing the ladder over the walls, a cob-
bler s hammer was tied to the hook The
escape was made in broad daylight and two
of the obstacles navigated were a 10ft iron
gate and a 16ft. wall. The prisoner had
been working i„ the cobbler’s section Sf the
on° the °spot.° 1JS ’ and procured his material
SINCE THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once “dirty linen” was the vogue
In terse expressive phrase
Applied to the unwary rogue
Who aired in former days
His misdeeds in a public court,
While gossips in the street
Found time to eat a full report,
And chewed the juicy meat.
Man’s shirts and collars then were made
Of linen (Belfast brand)
That left, in spotless white arrayed,
The laundry-lady’s hand;
Or else behind a linen front
He made his ballroom bow ;
He still attempts the full-dress stunt—
But where is linen now ?
The mercers sell us none to wash
When crumpled and unclean;
The “linen” term is mostly tosh,
For linen’s rarely seen ;
A fabric of a baser sort
Has jumped its claim, somehow;
The “linen” suitors wash in court
Is dirty cotton now.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


COPv Right
Obtainable Men’s
Stores Everywhere
PARIS
GARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on your pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
EEEEEEB
Australian.made Weighers.
1 ,,
:
S'
\
J
The Storekeeper—
The Cotton Grower—•
The Fruit Grower—
The Manufacturer—
The Warehouseman—
all need this " Asco ” Utility Platform Weigher. Its rugged
construction gives it the capacity to withstand heavy knocking about,
while the Hardened Steel of the Bearings and Knife-Edges preserves its
weighing-accuracy for years. Wholly manufactured at our wprks
in Sydney on the principle of the famous Biitish "Avery”
Weighers. A standardised production and moderate in price.
Capacity 3 cwt. Range 28 lbs. by 4-oz. divisions.
Call or 'write to any of our branch Showrooms.
AUSTRALASIAN SCALE CO. LTD.
217-219 THOMAS STREET HAYMARKET. SYDNEY
BRANCHES
Asco Ad. 132
37 BOLTON STREET
NEWCASTLE
122-4 CURRIE STREET
A O E L AI O E
59 CUBA STREET
WELLINGTON. NZ.
255-7 WILLIAM STREET
MEL.B OURNE
389 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
26 DURHAM STREET
AUCKLAN D. N 2.
BRASS ARTESIAIM
CYLINDER.
wiIhGUNMETAL
Caps
0
DANKS '
ALL BR.ASS
WINDMILL
PUMP
Ranks
P «EN
“Billabong” Troughmg.
Easily erected.?*’Made in 6ft. lengths
which lock together and will not pull
apart. The supports are of T and angle
steel. A rigid trough which stands wear
and jostling, and can be swept clean with
a brodm. A size for cattle, sheep and
Pigs. jWrite for leaflet 82.
BILLABONC
PUMPS £. MILLS
The “billabong” service has assisted man
and nature in many a hard-won fight against
drought, and other water shortages. Quality
at the right price wins. Whatever your needs send
your inquiries for information and prices.
THE SILENT, MASSIVE “BILLABONG.”
The gearing is accurately fitted to run smoothly and almost
silently; works without waking you. The gearing cuts out all
“jerk,” and gives a steady regular pump stroke. The whole of
the fine mechanism is regulated by the Combined Speed-
Regulator and Governor. This device regulates the stroke of the
pump to the speed of the wind, and automatically stops the mil]
when a gale blows. Made in sizes from Gft. to 20ft. wheel.
Write for “B” Booklet.
MV.
S
NEW
IRRIGATION
SYSTEM
CHEAPER IRRIGATION.
For Fodder, Fruit and Vegetable Crops.
Popes new irrigation system consists of light pipes with spreaders
attached. They are joined together or released by a patent quick action
clamp. The best part of a mile can be laid in a day. The pipes can also
be used as conduits for running water. The lowest priced irrigation system
we know of. Write for leaflet 83.
AT THE SEASIDE.
AT HOME.
THE TOY “BILLABONG”
An interesting toy which appeals to the
city or country boy, and gives him hours
of delight. Price posted to any address 3/-
•11l I
'
l* l lilltlflll lll lit
. The Busy B is a direct acting mill at a
low price for light work, such as filling
the home tanks, etc. It is strongly built
and will give excellent service within its
capacity and rating. You don’t use a
draughthorse when a pony will do the
work as well. Write for leaflet giving
prices and particulars. Write for leaflet 81.
BRASS LINED
BOR.E
CYLINDER.
BORE CYLINDER
FLUSH JOINTED
SCREWED CAP
A N O
DOUBLE LEATHER
R I IT KFT
JOHN DANKS &SON P’TIT?
324-330 PITT ST. SYDNEY 391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE


A WHOLE
LIFE
May be changed by
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, all dis-
appear before their
marvellous influence.
A course of these wonder-
ful Tablets will make
you healthy and happy.
Every Tablet a Live one—Prim
Full of Health and Happiness.
Easy to take. Pleasant in effect.
d
fd
f
Every night
you need an
“American”
FLASHLIGHT
The safest and most con-
venient portable hand
light ever made.
Durable
Portable
Economical
National Carbon Co., Inc*
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
D.O.M
<r
Yes
Sir!
i
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.- W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. BRISBANE
With offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney, and SI Branches in Queensland , also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
The clean, fresh taste of
this rich, creamy Emulsion
makes it as pleasant as it is
healthful. In the treat-
ment of Serious Chest
Complaints, Debility,
Wasting-Diseases,
“HYPOL” has achieved
remarkable results.
Very pleasant to take. Try it !
Substitutes are not as good or nearly as good.
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Felton Grim wade & Co. Pty Ltd.
Melbourne
CAUSTIC SODA
Eledrolytic Liquid— 32 per cent. Na2o.
Electrolytic Solid— 76 per cent. Na2Q.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33^.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PET RE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA-
THEY - COME AS A BOON 8 A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
W eeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
. . ." '
!
&
Return Fare
j-
from Sydney,
£9O
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “HOUTMAN,”
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Messrs. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
E. J. Stanley, who was briefed for the
recent Whitford murder ease in Queensland,
is an old Ipswich Grammar boy, took
seconds in History at Brisbane ’Varsity,
and is still on the joyous side of 30. His
uncle, Jimmie Blair, now a judge, has
always had an eye on this nephew.
Australia is losing what was probably a
record. Up till now the principal river of
the continent, the Murray, was unbridged
all the way from where the Adelaidc-
Melbourne railway crosses it right up to
Swan Hill (Vic.). Now there is to be
another bridge at Renmark to give that old
irrigation settlement on the north side better
use of the railway which sweeps up to the
south side from Tailem Bend.
Died at Balwyn, an outer suburb of Mel-
bourne, the widow of softgoods-mercliant
Robert Reid, whom she survived for about
18 years. Her husband was a Minister in
the Patterson and Irvine Governments, and
made office under the Iceberg a springboard
for the Senate, getting there with the help
of the Freetraders of both State Houses at
a by-election. After that he was a back-
bencher.
“N.C.” : Australian schoolteachers are not
the only ones with grievances. Verbatim
copy of a resignation sent in to the Under-
secretary of the Education Board here, at
Manila, in the Philippines :
“Dear Siivee, —I have desire to tender my resign-
liient of your kind service, for my works are many
and my salaries few. Above also, my superior
teacher makes many lovijttgs to me, to which 1
only reply: ‘Oh, not! Oh, not!’
I have the honour to be no longer Your faithful
servant, Lalua Kmiliano.”
“Ajax": In my occasional calls on the
genial but autocratic head of a Government
department in one of our capital cities I
have noticed an old fellow of at least 80
years of age who, I gathered, was on the
staff of the department. I asked the head
the other day how he managed to keep the
man on, when it was apparent that he was
long past the retiring age. “That’s easy,’’
he replied; “he’s down in the accounts as
kerosene.”
“Saaecli” : “Crispin's” testimony to .Scotch
hospitality (B. 13/3/'24) confirms the experi-
ence of every Digger who ever visited N.B.
Incidentally, what mix the extraordinary tie
between the Scottie and the AussieV Whether
in France or Palestine they were more in-
variably kindred spirits than any other two
nations that mingled in the war areas. And
it was all the more notable because both are
exceedingly clannish and suspicious of
strangers.
Winston Churchill, standing as an anti-
socialist with strong newspaper support and
the blessing of Balfour, was beaten for the
Abbey division of Westminster by the offi-
cial Conservative. But his defeat (the
third within 10 months) was less significant
than the wretched showing made by the
Freetrade Liberals, whose nominee got 290
of the 22,754 votes polled. Labor has a
future in Britain, and the so-called “Con-
servative” Protectionists have a future. But
the only thing ahead of the great Freetrade
“Liberal” party is a funeral.
Considering the number of women who
steadfastly faced the dangers inseparable
from Red Cross activities during the war,
the toll paid in lives was astonishingly light.
Asked by the Central Committee of Red
Cross Societies to notify the names of those
who died “on service,” the Australian body
is submitting three: Adele Brennan and
Lydia Grant, who went away with the
1916 voluntary-aid detachment, and L. B.
Riggall, who worked for the society in
Rouen. A Hun airman nearly added half a
dozen to the projected Red Cross Roll of
Honor when he bombed a dump at Boulogne;
the work of stacking and sorting had ceased
only two minutes before the bomb dropped.
“II.Iv.”; The disused Sydney church is
put to quaint uses. Two former shrines at
Manly are now respectively a glazier’s depot
and a row of shops, while a one-time taber-
nacle in Balmain has been converted into a
second-hand furniture store. One erstwhile
church on the Rocks has become a small fac-
tory ; another, a stone’s-tlirow away, is a
soup-kitchen. Incidentally, one South Syd-
ney tabernacle adjoins a pub. which recalls
that in 1833 church services were held in
•L T. Hughes’s Albion Brewery, in Upper
Elizabeth-street. The worshippers—whose
successors nowadays occupy the fashionable
Anglican parish of Christ Church St. Law-
rence—were glad to put up their orisons in
a brewery, failing anything better.
“T. 0.1.”: In a Blue Mountain bush fire
of last year the house known as Clouds,
owned by the Vickery family, was destroyed,
along with a valuable library and some rare
pictures. In the grounds is the pile of
stqnes named by Governor Macquarie
“Caley’s Repulse."' though there is a good
deal of doubt whether Caley ever reached
the spot —some students think Quarter-
master Hacking, of the Sirius, built the pile ;
others ascribe it to Wilson, who did a good
deal of exploration work in the hills, and
even George Bass has been credited with it.
The 30-acre block was originally a grant to
Major Baynes, who came here as a sergeant
in the 11th Regiment. The Vickery trus-
tees have decided to cut up and sell the
area, but have reserved a space around the
“Renulse,” which will be dedicated to the
public.
“A. Jane”: The Cato-street Conspiracy of
1820 gave Australia some useful citizens.
The desperate enterprise was hatched in the
adventurous spirit which leads small boys to
take to the bush with a pea-rifle and a hunk
of cake. The idea was to murder all the
Ministers of the Crown together, and special
bags were provided in which to bear away
the heads of Sidmouth and Castlereagh. The
plot was betrayed, and on May 1 five of the
leaders were hanged. Five others were
transported for life; and in 1830 three of
them, Strange, Wilson and Harris, were at
Bathurst. The same spirit which had made
Strange a member of Thistlewood’s party
had been shown in his police work. He was
a terror to bushrangers, and was rewarded
by the Government for capturing several of
them. He built a home on the Fish River,
and his children and grandchildren were the
best type of Australian. Wilson was for a
time a constable under Strange, and later on
became a tailor. His sign, “Wilson, Tailor,
from London,” is still remembered by a few
old hands.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon,. Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular,■ giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
via
SAMOA - - HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
~ QUICKEST
OF ANY
LINE.
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
City 2282
T H S North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OItAUA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3,5/6
For ,further particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. O. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570.265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923.. £14,148,754
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Georue F, Todman ;
Doncan Carson; H. R. Lysaout. 0.8. E.; George
J. Sly, LL.D. .
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland,: J. N. It. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (85 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moobie.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNY.YRD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares . . . . . . 1,500,0.00
Ordinary Shares 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking: business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace
Melbourne Office:
Sydney Office
Authorised Capital .
Subscribed Capital .
Paid up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
267 Collins Street.
105 Pitt Street.
£2,000,000
875,000
.. £875,000
720,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,595,000
875,000
£2,470,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual *“;8i’ h ‘ d
Head Office: n • j . c » .
87 Pitt st, Sydney rrovidentSociety
Largest and Most Successful
■ lutual Life Office in the British Empire,
istributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Y^l°Hi 1 !i DiS n ributed for sin S le y ear 19 * 2 £1.826,924
BkJrT' •• «•«»»■»»»
:: :: :: ‘.fjSS®
The transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLT, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping. Ac,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN COMINLM.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :—-
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) APRIL 10
N1AGARA.......... (18,000 tons disp.) MAY 8
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip;
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Jails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (13,600 tons disp.) APRIL 24
MAUNGANTUI (11,350 tons disp.) MAY 22
For illustrated pamphlets regarding tLc above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CC., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOU RS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
. f
'
mm
m I
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
BOOK your passage to LONDON for the
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924, with our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
We offer the following attractive tours: —
(1) TO JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent Steamers “MARELLA” and “MONTORO,’’
sailing from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane every month.
7-weeks trip for £9O lst-elass return.
(2) SYDNEY TO COLOMBO (Ceylon), £65 lst-elass return.
(3) SYDNEY TO HONOLULU, via N.Z. _and Fiji.
£B5 lst-elass return.
Special round Eastern Tours, calling JAVA, SINGAPORE,
CHINA, JAPAN, MANILA. BORNEO and QUEENSLAND PORTS.
From £129 lst-elass return throughout.
Call or write for particulars.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
M
jam
ass
&
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability
SB
151
Directors:
- £6,000,000
- 3,900,000
- 6,000,000
£13,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Heart Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireartneertle Street. E.C.
397 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP - - - - - - £3,427,662 10 0
RESERVE FUND 2,580,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 3,500,000 0 0
£9,507,662 10 0
TOTAL - -
Directors •
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. H E.*KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.; O E FRIEND
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager: H. H. MASSIE.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector; J. R. DRYIIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geratdton
and North-West Ports),
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCK HAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 24 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdoiiald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.k. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA. HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars apply.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd: Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Svdnev, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


1
&
%
**hl
PfOcJ
Give both!
AN IDEAL PRESENT.
matched by
WABLPm
VTrUx-hand companions with, features that cant he copied
Obtainable at All Leading Stores Everj where.
c _ Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO RE & CHAR I RES Ltd.
Remington House. Liverpool Street, Sydney,
mitt*
%
1
v\
UINC/y
%
m
TOCCYTT
?0?V
K
«a
S
For
that
one
o’clock
feeling
—Sultry day, Musty Office, Tired Brain t
Jaded Body f Oh, what's the use!
Get the wife to put in the lunch bag a few sandwiches
spread with
REX
Luncheon Cheese
If you live in “lodgings” get a tin for yourself. It will
be a decided change from the usual “slao-un” lunchpc
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE makes a new man of
one. It is a real business bracer, providing the needed
elements for clear brains and sound bodies.
It contains all the good digestible properties of perfectly
matured full Cream Cheese, and comes in an easy-to-
spread, economical form.
Sold by Grocers everywhere, in solderless, hygienic tins.
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon W2J
Dl
i
v.
Hi
iwwoli
Everything
FOR
the Game.
Whatever your requirements in the field
of sport, be it Tennis, Golf or any other
outdoor or indoor game—it will be to
your advantage to inspect, before buying,
our large and comprehensive range, which
has been carefully selected from the
world’s leading makers.
TENNIS RACKETS.
M.S.
Special School Match .
Special or Premier ....
Conqueror
8/6
21/-
25/-
C. 8.8.
Practice
Special ’
Special Practice, concave throat!!
Quadruple Centre, cork handle..
Double Strung
10/6
13/6
18/6
25/-
27/6
HAYMARKET.
Ordinary
Special .'.!!!!.'.'!
Selected
Extra Special
OXFORD CO.’S.
Al
Britannic, concave throat .. .
Oceanic, concave throat
Titanic, concave throat
Cyclonic, concave throat
BUSSEY’S.
Sandown or Standard
Conqueror
Handicap
Al
Invincible !!
30/-
40/-
45/-
70/-
40/-
45/-
55/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
30/-
32/6
35/-
50/-
SPALDING’S.
Greenwood 24/-
’Vantage 45/.
Tournament 4.Q /«
Continental tjsj/.
Gold Medal .. 67/6; Model E. . 85/1
Hackett Alexander gej / m
BAILY’S.
Black and White
70/.
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon
AYRES’.
Sandown
Handicap ’'
ai ;;
Champion
Matador ’
Central Strung
S.N.D. Model A ‘
S.N.D. Model B
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon
BANCROFT’S.
The Winner
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke
SLAZENGER’S.
La Belle
Player
Kenshaw
Demon
AVhitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Eambert Chambers
I.
Patterson
J. O. Anderson
H. C. LEE’S.
Seneca
Spartan
The Bat
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD’S BEST. p r i ce 85/- each.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Barnet Glass Hard Court.. 2/4 27/-
Barnet Glass Flite, the new
seamless ball, equal to
any invported 2/5 28/6
Ayres’ Court 2/2 25/-
Ayres’ Champion 2/5 28/6
Each. Doz.
Slazenger’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin) 28/6
Dunlop’s Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/5 28/6
Dunlop’s Play Ball 1/- 10/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
AVt
. rir l
VL
GOLF CLUBS.
We carry an unrivalled selection of high-grade Golf Clubs and
Golfing Requisites. Illustrated Price List Post Free on request.
A PARTIAL LIST.
CANN & TAYLOR’S Reliable High-grade Clubs.—
Brassies 19/6. Drivers 18/6. Irons 17/6
A. G. SPALDING’S, well made and well balanced.—
Brassies 23/6. Drivers 21/-. Irons 18/6
A. PATRICK’S, effective and well made, moderately priced.—
Brassies 22/6. Drivers 21/-.. Irons 16/6
J. & A. SIMPSON’S extremely effective Clubs.—
Brassies 25/-. Drivers 25/-. Irons 22/6
TWic/c ShumonsM
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Mothers! Protect Your Home
■
mmmmM
with Rexona-
The Rapid
Healer.
LITTLE MISS
LINDA TAYLOR.
“My little girl Linda had her foot
burnt, and I could not get it to heal. I
was told to try Rexona, and did, and in
a week her foot was better.’’
MRS. TXORRIE TAYLOR,
138 Burrell Street, Waverley, N.S.W.
Rexona-A Medicine
Chest in Itself.
Mother is the home doctor; every day she is confronted with
some kind of little hospital work—either a cut finger, a rash,
bruise or burn. She must be prepared by having something
handy that she knows she can rely on, and for that reason she
should always have Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Rexona is a
complete first-aid cabinet in itself. It cleanses and heals and
quickly gives relief from aches and pains. See to it that you
get the genuine Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, in the Tri-
angular Pot.
Rexona—
The Rapid
Healer.
1/6
■'a
- Cooling
fooolhing,-
i Healing
jimnseplic Oinimem
%toorf ,ei 5 rfbiolulely
6 Heals J Reliable
A Remedy for all mipnom and irrilations of llu '
Cnnm.<Pvnples. Sores. chilMruhs Chopped Hands
' n'l lilting or Akrdmg Piles. Cuts. Burns. Bruises sc*jlds
Bud Legs, flings of Insects and all kinds of InnammaW*
J REXONA DEPT L
JysSH,ELDON DRUG CO LtP *
" " '
Some of the
Masterpieces
from the famous
Red Boxes.
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
Passion-fruit Chocolate Creams
Reception Chocolate Creams
Creme de Menthe Chocolates
Coffee Cream Chocolates
•Walnut Maple Chocolates
Bitter- sweet Chocolates
Centennial Chocolates
Chocolate Nougat
Chocolate Raisins
Every piece a Masterpiece
of the Confectioner’s Art.
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired,
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
{Mob
162-166 Pitt Street ,
and Cr. Geo. & King Streets, Sydney.
The Two Bells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
bells I bear calling
And, rising and falling,
Their pealing comes stealing,
Like sportive birds wheeling
That sing as they fly;
Soft welling, loud knelling,
Importunate swelling,
Then dying and dwelling
A ghost in the ear;
Their cadence I hear,
Bewildered and hollow,
A sound-shadow, follow
Dim paths in the airy,
Wild world of the fairy.
Till again the bells cry
Their moods to the sky:
One rapid and high
Trilling “Yes, yes ! Oh, yes, yes !”
While solemn and low,
Diviner of woe,
The other, for ever,
Keeps answering “N 0.... !”
“No ! No !”
Determined and slow,
Still to the “Yes, yes!”
It counters with “N 0....!”
And the echoes, inconstant,
As sycophants show,
Chiming “l r es, yes! Oh, yes, yes!”
And then chiming “No. ... I”
Alive with their voices
The thronged air rejoices,
And myriad tongues
In sweet iteration
Prolong the relation ;
Repeating, far fleeting,
Then circling and meeting
Till all the chant merges
In murmurous surges
Along the white verges
Of cloudlands afar
Where lost melodies are.
What is’t they aver?
Life’s affirmation?
Cold Death’s negation?
None seem to know,
But still to the “Yes, yes!”
Comes stubbornly “No. .. . !”
And the gay winds and giddy
That laugh as they blow,
They care just as little
For “Yes” as for “No.”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The Knot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CROSSING from Maoriland the other
day I met Burden and his wife again.
They hailed me as a friend and
brother, for had I not acted as Burden’s
best man on the occasion of their marriage
in Borneo? Shortly after that event Burden
had resigned from the cable service to go
on the vaudeville stage. Ilis wife and he
were doing very well, he informed me. They
had .iust completed a series of engagements
in the principal cities of the Dominion.
And then he went on solemnly to speak of
their career. Could any phrase in relation
to that couple seem more grotesque? Yet,
remembering the tragic knot which Fate had
once tied Burden into, and how it had been
untied, I did not feel in the least disposed to
laugh.
The old cable station at La Perouse is
closed now, but in its 40-odd years of active
life it trained and sent “east” a constant
stream of young Australians. In all that
diversified procession none seemed to step
out with brighter hopes and better chances
than did Burden. He was tall, slim and
athletic, and when he first came to Borneo,
where I had preceded him by a couple of
years, he went in for everything. He played
tennis, rode a tiny native pony, on which
his long figure looked like an animated sheer-
leg, and in the season humped a gun round
the country in quest of the not very frequent
pnnai. Into whatever he did he put the
maximum of exertion, and it was generally
agreed that his devotion to the cause of
physical fitness amounted to indecent fanati-
cism. He was told on every possible occa-
sion that he was a fool, and dire conse-
quences were prognosticated for him if he
persisted in his violent and unorthodox mode
of life.
He had been with us a bare six months
when he abruptly subsided into a taciturn
immobility which was as unlike our lethar-
gic indolence as a corpse is unlike a sleep-
ing man. He would lie every evening sunk
m a long chair on the quarters verandah,
slack, inert, as if somebody had flung him
there, one hand shading his eyes as if to
ward off a blow, the other hanging listlessly
over the chair-arm. Moreover he was grow-
ing obviously fatter.
The wet season was a long one. and when
it was over he showed no disposition to re-
a healthy mode of life, but lived during
the day in his room, mooning about it pon-
derously; at night returning to his still,
enigmatic pose upon the verandah. Ilis
presence intensified the sweating silence
which weighed on all things, and which we
tried to scatter with the bawling of the
gramophone. God! How we hated each
individual record, with a special invidious
hatred almost greater than our hatred of
the silence. Burden contributed nothing to
he conversation whose sole purpose was to
the silence-haunted pauses between the
PvS h - e selections. By the end of an
his still presence would become un-
oan?b ly i Vl °?- U ch ? cked laughter, added
o the general sense of oppression; and as
proportionately: tMS effect S6emed t 0 increase
of l tw! P L S o °T a T ? oU ple of neither
S l S Tf ?r Burden. He developed
in his B m,hlin rtaUl actlvlt -y- At rare intervals
lfi p J’ ea r a i n - Ces 0,1 the communal
wnnld i the dxit / of his gaze would alter • lie
face to thT h^ S ri ha f IC Ji ' suddenly and turn his
iace to the head of the steps. He was ohvi-
fore y we St could ’ „ exp^ ctil ]S something, but be-
-1,0 a e cou d.see by his eyes whether lie
wotlcTgo SfflS ° r dis aPPointed, his hand
X, look ! toX' We “ f"”nd
so sincere ’ hlB expect ation had seemed
I took station leave up-country about this
time, and my absence for a couple of months
among that poor, ill-nourished lot gave me
a full measure of comparison when I saw
Burden again. He had grown immense.
His bulk was overwhelming, and his features
in the midst of it looked out with an expres-
sion of pathetic hopelessness as if they knew
themselves to be lost. It was the morbid
fatness of disease.
There was no European community out-
side the quarters, and so we had no escape
from one another or from Burden. The
tennis court below was a blazing shield by
day, soaking up the heat against nightfall.
In the breathless air between the two mon-
soons you could hear a cricket a mile away
chirping like a lost chicken. There was
another near by that rang like a bridle.
A brain-fever bird had taken up his resi-
dence for the year in a tapang-tree by the
kitchen, and sang three bars of a waltz
tune and broke down on the fourth, hour
after hour.
The gramophone was worked to death to
keep these noises and the silence down. It
screamed without intermission; until some-
one would get grimly up, stop it and fling
the record over the verandah. Nobody com-
mented. Everybody was glad. We had
nursed an unexpressed hatred towards many
of those records for months.
And Burden all the time grew fatter. In
fancy one could positively hear him grow-
ing fat, secretly, as if he were ashamed of
it. His hand was up to his eyes always
now as though to blind himself to what was
going on. lie seldom spoke. His voice
seemed overgrown.
I found myself one night, to my dismay,
alone with him on the quarters verandah.
Most of the others had gone down to meet
the Singapore boat, and the rest had been
driven off one by one to bed by the cumula-
tive horrors of the evening. Burden had
remained like an enormous full-stop to a
chapter of noises. I got up, with the in-
tention of following the others to bed, when
I saw that Burden was about to speak.
I wondered whether he would be able to
articulate at all, whether the fat would
not choke his utterance at birth.
He swallowed several times drily as if the
dust of long repression had collected in his
throat.
“She says she’s coming,” he whispered.
The house stood stock-still on its three-
score spindly legs and stared across at the
jungle like an astonished millipede.
“Says who's coming?”
He rocked impatiently. “Says she’s com-
ing herself,” he said, in queer, whistling
tones.
I felt in my terror that I was to be the
recipient of confidences.
“I’m in an awful knot, old man,” he whis-
pered in that astonishing voice of his. “I
don’t know what to do. There’s no way out
of it, no possible way. You can’t help me
and there’s no sense whatever in telling you,
but I can’t keep it in any longer. I’m not
made of stone!”
I was trying grotesquely to picture him
tied in a knot, a literal fisherman’s bend, and
I nearly laughed ; but just then I caught the
light of his fat-ringed eyes looking past me
at the stairs with such a glare of horrified
expectancy that I twisted round and stared
too. There was nothing there, and his hand
was up across his eyes before I had turned
back again.
That amazing whisper continued. “I’m
not made of stone. I can’t help growing fat.
I’m no glutton. I’ve starved and sweated
and worried and it’s done me no good. My
father was fat and his mother before him.
It’s in the family. It’s in our blood, like
phthisis. The old man saw it clear enough.
While I was at home he kept me trained like
an athlete. I came up here without an
ounce of spare flesh on me. And now look
at me! I knew it before you did —long be-
fore. When you thought I was sulking my
mind was busy with the horror of it. I used
to weigh myself in a cold sweat of fear every
time I went into old Eng Wat’s store. I
fought it for a bit as if it had been a wild
beast. I tried to starve it and I tried to
run away from it. I tried to rub it off me.
I gave up hope at last.”
He drew a shrill whistling breath and
whispered: “My fiancee!” and stopped. I
was too shocked to speak. I had often
noticed the numerous photos he had in liis
room of a slim, pretty girl, and in tha silence
that followed the uncompleted sentence I
contemplated dizzily a picture of dreadful
incongruities, of appalling contrasts. A
lizard on the ceiling saw them too, laughed
hysterically, and then shut up suddenly,
overwhelmed.
“My girl and I got properly engaged just
before I left Sydney to come up here. She
knew the family, of course, so she must
have guessed the risk she ran. I had an
aunt who wore her chins like a triple tiara
and was rather imposing with it, but a
youngster of my age couldn’t carry that off.
I knew my girl knew all about it. I used *
to catch her sometimes scanning me timidly
for the signs of a tendency, but I was only
big-boned and rather big-headed then. She
was glad when I told her I was being trans-
ferred to the tropics. I suppose she had a
vague. idea that the heat , would help to
stave the danger off.”
The whispering ceased and the outside
noises re-asserted themselves. Burden was
staring at the stairhead again.
“I’ve not told them at home a word about
it. I’ve read between the lines of her letters
anxious inquiries which she hasn’t dared to
put. She asked for a photo once and I sent
an old one.”
The attempt to make his smothered voice
express the intensity of his emotions only
produced a ridiculous and untimely whist-
ling. He breathed shrilly for a while and
struggled in his chair.
“But that’s only the first twist of the knot.
It’s double-hitched. A few weeks ago she wrote
to say she was coming up to see me. I
hadn’t any adequate excuse to stop her. I said
it would be grand. Besides, God knows! I
wanted to see her.
“I hear feet on the stairs every night
now. I hear them coming up, light, eager
footsteps, and count the number of steps it
would take from the bottom to bring a.height
of five feet five to a level with the floor;
and I’ve looked for the face as you’d look
for the muzzle of a rifle poked at you through a
window. It would take eight steps—from
"th’e' ‘bbttom —just eighY’WPv” he whispered.
(Continued on next page.}


YOU May Have
Kidney Trouble!
m Every Picture
Tells a Story" *
I
JJL
K
6a
V'
m
fa
i
There is good cause to suspect your kidneys if
you have any stubborn pain in the small of the
back; for that is just where the kidneys are.
Heavy, throbbing backache
and sharp twinges when you
stoop or give your back a sud-
den twist, tell you of inflamed
kidneys; kidneys sore, over-
worked and tired.
The kidneys have enough to
do when you are in good health
to filter the blood free of uric
poisons. Colds, fevers, over-
work or excesses of any sort
congest and overwork the kid-
neys. Unless promptly relieved,
what was at first a simple inflam-
mation will turn, in time, to
gravel, urinary trouble, dropsy,
lumbago, sciatica, rheumatism,
or some chronic form of kidney
disease.
If your kidneys are weak, take
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
the remedy that has been used
for over fifty years, and is so
well recommended by people
from all parts of Australia.
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S.
SYDNEY RESIDENT
CURED.
Mrs. F. Anderson, 22 Campbell
Street, Balmain, Sydney, says “I suf-
fered with my kidneys for a good while,
the result being that I was tortured
with backache, and the pain at times
was so acute that I had to lie up. It
centred just above the kidneys, and
never seemed to leave me day or night.
My ankles and legs swelled somewhat,
and were sore to the touch, and I
always felt tired and languid, having
no energy for anything. I was really
in a very poor state of health, but
although I tried different medicines
from time to time I got no relief from
my suffering. About two years ago I
was advised to take a course of Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills, and they were
spoken of so highly that I made up my
mind to try them. After using a couple
of bottles I felt much better, and as I
continued taking the pills, the improve-
ment was maintained, rive bottles effect-
ing a perfect cure, and I have been well
ever since.”
Four years later Mrs. Anderson con-
firms her previous statement“Doan’s
Pills have made a perfect cure in my
case, for I have had no trouble with my
kidneys since this remedy cured me over
six years ago.”
Sold by all Chemists, and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney' Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured.
Mrs. Horwitz, 75 Pitt Street, Red-
fern, Sydney, says:—“l sent for a pot
of Doan’s Ointment, and used it for
Eczema on my little girl’s forehead.
The rash covered the brow, and it was
around the eye as well. The itching
was frightful, and it made her very
fretful and kept her from sleeping. I
had used several preparations previous
to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none
of them gave more than passing relief.
I am pleased to tell you that this
remedy cured her completely. We have
since used it on another little girl with
equally good results. Doan’s Ointment
is splendid, and I advise its use in all
itching skin diseases.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Horwitz
states:—“My daughter has not suffered
with Eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured her eighteen years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Roseville, Mitchell
Street, Marrickville, Sydney, says:—
“For about twelve months I was tor-
tured with Itching Piles, and the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad. I
consulted a doctor and used Pile
remedies, but could not get permanent
relief. I heard that Doan’s Ointment
was good and decided to try it. After a
few applications I felt better, and by the
time the third pot was finished I was
perfectly cured. I recommend all those
who suffer with Piles to use Doan’s
Ointment, as I am sure they will benefit
by it.”
Eleven years later Mr. Martin says:
“Eleven years ago I told you Doan’s
Ointment had cured me of Piles. I can
now add that my cure lias lasted, for I
am still free of this torturing ailment. I
always keep Doan's Ointment in the
house and use it occasionally, just as a
preventive against any return.”
KEEP
At all chemists and stores at 2/9 per tin.
A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
“She’s on the boat that came in to-night,”
Burden went on. “That's why I wouldn’t
go down to meet it. I’ve thought of a thou-
sand ways of getting the thing untwisted. I
fancied once that I might have the courage
to do for myself or go bush, but I haven't.”
He let out a thin stream of breath in a shrill
whistle. “Now do you see the knot I’m in?”
1 saw it—quite clearly. It was one of
those simple bends that hold until the ten-
sion on them is removed, and I saw no hope
of that tension being relaxed until something
broke.
I stole a look at Burden. His hand was
over his eyes again. He seemed to be listen-
ing with a spiritual ear to the bloating of
liis body. The whole night seemed to be lis-
tening. There wasn't the mumur of a cricket
in the grass. The ghost-birds had ceased
driving in nails and the brain-fever bird
paused unexpectedly on the second bar of his
waltz-tune. 1 caught myself listening too.
The gate of the compound slammed, and
the feet of several people could be heard
moving over the lawn. Two or three voices
spoke at the foot of the stairs and presently
the owners began to ascend in a string. I
looked again at Burden. He had transferred
his eyes to the stairhead and his lips were
moving. He was counting the steps. Sud-
denly, as a pretty feminine hat rose above
the level of the floor, he lost his immobility.
He raised himself out of his chair with the
ungainly action of a bundle being lifted by
a crane. He swung unsteadily on his feet
like a package that the crane-rope has not
properly set down, and then backed against
the balustrade. The thought that he meant
to throw himself over flashed through my
mind and I jumped up to save him. But
the complicated expression of fear, shame
and horror on his face changed to such a
look of ludicrous amazement that I twisted
round to see the cause. Standing on the
top step, with the grinning faces of a couple
of my messmates leering over her shoulders,
was an enormously fat girl, a squat cube of
billowing flesh arrayed in figured muslin !
From this distance of time, looking back
on that moment, I cannot say whether I
shrieked or laughed or flung my arms in the
air. All I know now is that the instant my
eyes rested on that comic bulk and recog-
nised in the pathetic face the half-submerged
features of Burden’s once slim and pretty
sweetheart, I realised that his problem had
solved itself, that his knot had come untied.
M. G. SKIPPER.
The Shadchan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“OHALON!” cried old Kobulscranski,
and Berthelson stopped at the
greeting. He knew enough of Kobul-
scranski to understand that when he asked
an acquaintance to have a drink there was
an object behind the invitation.
It took Kobulscranski a long time to-come
to the point. That was his way. He
grumbled first about the,money lie was losing
and the general badness of business before
hinting that in such parlous times Berthel-
son might be glad of the chance to earn a
few pounds. Berthelson agreed, and made
as though to depart. Whereupon the other
paid wretchedly for another drink, and got
to business.
“Vait von moment,” he said; “I vos dink-
ing. B’raps you vould know uf some voman
who vould vant to marry a husband—yes?
Eef you didt, und a man dere vos you know
vanted a vife —veil, maype den she vould
bay you a few kervid for vinding him—is
id nod?”
“You’re wanting to get married?”
“Veil, eef dere vos a voman who vanted
a husband, und she vos nod doo oldt, I
vould like do see her. I do nod mindt if
she vos a vidow: b’raps it vos all dor bedder
eef she vos a vidow, ccf her liusbandt levt
her his money.”
“Why do you want to marry?” Berthelson
asked.
Kobulscranski grew excited. “Ah. id is
nghdt for a man do be marrit! Dere is
the vood which is trefali—dere are de
glothes! I ask de landtladty to mendt mine
glothes, und she gomplain und vant to charge
me more. Oh. de provideer! Und I bay
her seffen schillings a veek vor der room—
seft'en schillings a veek!”
His large hands fluttered, outspread, at
either ear, expressive of the greed of land-
ladies.
“Den I know vere I gan gedt a blace fer
vourteen bob a veek. Und dere are de
niealsh I vould haf at home—mine goodtness,
id is dreadtful vot you bay vor mealsh. Tre-
fah, doo —and me a goodt Shew. Ach. id
vouldt bay do be marrit, if id vos a goodt
vife, und she could hellup me in my pizzi-
ness ven she liadt nothing to do.”
“Look here,” said Berthelson, “I do happen
to know a widow. She’s about 35; good
looking, and has some money. Not too much,
but some. A nice, gentle creature • thor-
oughly Jewish; as good as any. What
will you pay me to introduce you?”
Kobulscranski, who had been checking with
appreciative nods the lady’s various good
qualities, pulled himself up abruptly.
“Budt she vill bay, is id nod?”
“You know that in a case like this you
pay just as well as she does. She’s got
money, man—besides, she’s worth paying to
know, even if she hadn’t. Suppose we say
fifty pounds: twenty-five down on the en-
gagement”-
miae goodtness, mine goodtness!
Vivty bounds, Mr. Berthelson! Vith me
only a boor man an’ pizziness”
“You’ve plenty of money,” retorted Ber-
thelson, and it s worth it to you. We’ll
sign an agreement.”
“Haf anodder trink, Mr. Berthelson,”
said Kobulscranski, eagerly. “Now s’bose
ve say den bounds? Half anodder trink
Mr. Berthelson.” ’
“I won,t ha y, e a «y more,” said Berthelson
Fifty pounds”
“Dvendty bounds. M'r. Berthelson.”
When they parted Berthelson was already
spending in his mind the forty pounds down
to which the other had beaten him.
That night he called at the small but com-
fortable house of Mrs. Robistein. At his
ring she came to the door—a comely, liappy-
looking little woman, whose face lit up when
she saw him.
“Ah, Mr. Berthelson! Why do you make
a stranger of yourself? Come in right away,
at once. There is only Mr. and Mrs.
Gruber here, and Miss Abrahams."
The conversation concerned a subject
which is popular in Jewish households —
tnixed marriages. A male relation of the
late Robistein had married a Christian, and
was being roundly condemned.
“It's not fair to our Jewish girls, who
wouldn’t think of marrying out of their
religion," said Gruber.
"If their conscience lets them do it," said
Miss Abrahams warmly, "let them. We don't
want the sort of young men who do things
like that.”
“I can see that the only way out of it is
for me to set up as a Shadchan," laughed
Berthelson. “I’m thinking of doing it. I
hope you ladies will let me act for you."
Mrs. Robistein and Miss Abrahams showed
interest.
"Did you ever hear of the Shadchan in
Poland who arranged a marriage, and, when
the contracts were all fixed, the bridegroom
saw the bride, and found she was old, and
nearly blind, deaf and dumb. ‘Why, you’ve
given me a blind woman!’ he raved. ‘All
the better, she won’t be able to see your
faults,’ said the Shadchan. ‘But she’s deaf.’
said the bridegroom; ‘you won't need
to tell her lies.’ ‘She can hardly talk!’ ‘In
that case she won’t be able to nag at you,’
said the Shadchan. ‘But, look here, she’s
old!’ protested the victim. ‘Well, you’ll be
all the sooner rid of her,’ retorted the Shad-
chan. That’s the way some Shadchans treat
their clients: but I promise I’ll behave
decently. I'll make a good Shadchan all
right.”
"You wouldn’t do much amongst us Eng-
lish Jews,” said Miss Abrahams. Berthel-
son smiled. Old Aaron Abrahams had owned
the name of Abramsplatski when he and his
wife had left Poland to seek fortune in a
new land. Now, in the fashionable desire
to be “English Jews,” that fact was as for-
gotten as the pedlar’s pack with which the
foundation of his prosperous business had
been laid. But, as Berthelson smiled, he
noticed the light in her eyes. The habits
of a Shadchan were already growing upon
him., He mentally noted Miss Abrahams
for further reference.
“There is only one way,” said Gruber
ponderously. “That is to bring the young
Jewish people more together. I have this
scheme which I hope”
His fumbling production of some papers,
and rambling explanation of his plans to
secure greater social unity amongst his co-
religionists, gave Berthelson his oppor-
portunity.
“You’re always very comfortable here.
Mrs. Robistein,” he whispered. “But, all
the same, a young woman like you, I won-
der you don’t marry again.”
“Oh, go on—you!" she retorted, tapping
him playfully. “Who is there going to
marry an old woman like me?”
“It is only a young woman like you dare
joke about being old,” he said. “Why be
selfish, when you can make some poor man
happy? Let me be your Shadchan—though
I’d sooner act for myself when it’s you.”
“You mean it?” she murmured.
“Yes. Really, don’t you think of marry-
ing again?” he asked.
“Well, I"——- she looked round the room
and her eyes fell on the photograph of a
cheerful, prosperous-looking man which had
the place; of honor. Then she spoke, with
an attractive candor. “Yes, I do some-
times. I’m sure Issie would like me to
be married again. He was a good man, and
I loved him, and I love him still; but he
knew it is not right for people to be alone.”
“Well,” said Berthelson hurriedly, “I can't
speak to you here—not with these people.
But if a man w 7 ho is a good Jew ; who even
if he has not much now has the ability to
make money”——
“Oh, money!” she exclaimed, waving it
away.
“Well, will you meet me on Thursday?”
he asked. “At my office. We can fix it all
then. It will cost money, of course; if you
could let me have twenty pounds”—-—
"I can give it to you now, before you go.
I have it in the house,” she said.
In the street was Cohenson—sleek, dapper,
sliifty-eyed—and Berthelson invited him to
drink. “What do you think, Cohenson?” he
cried. “I'm a Shadchan. my boy! Fixing
up a wedding this week, and it means eighty
quid to me! I’m not going to say who it is;
but they’ve both got a bit of money.”
“Some old harridan, I suppose?”
“You’re wrong! You’d like this woman
yourself; She’s pretty and got money.”
Look here,” said Cohenson, “I could just
do with a wife like that. That damned
Lydia cleared off with all the cash I put in
her name. It’s safer to have a wife. You
find me a wife who’s got some money and
I'll pay whatever you ask.”
“Sign an agreement,” said Berthelson
promptly.
In the basement room which served Ber-
thelson as an office there were assembled
Berthelson, nonchalant still, though some-
what ruffled under abuse, and the tailor-
made Cohenson, silently, scornfully regard-
ing the frenzied antics of Kobulscranski.
“It’s a tamn shwindtle!” raged Kobul-
scranski. “I vos der virst. Id is me”
“It’s fair to you both,” protested Berthel-
son. “You were both introduced to the
lady, and it remains for her to make her
choice. I only collect from the one
she chooses—where’s the swindle there?”
“Ain’d id dat I baid vor two vhiskies’
Ain’d id dat”
A knock sounded on the door. Berthelson
half opened it, and then went outside, closing
it behind him. The uproar continued with-
in, but the caller, who was Mrs. Robistein,
had ears for Berthelson alone. As he ex-
plained matters she flushed and then spoke
bravely:
“I thought you had asked me to marry
you ; and when you spoke of money I thought
you nedeed it. So I gave it to you.”
“But me, Rachel? I didn’t think that you
would think of me! I have no money”
“Money! Aren’t you a good Jew? Aren’t
you capable of making money—if you have
a start?”
His voice took on a sudden note of con-
fidence.
“Fancy me thinking of you marrying one
of those—those!”
For several blissful minutes they re-
mained clasped in each other’s arms. And
then : "Come upstairs and wait while I send
the liftman for my hat,” said Berthelson.
SCHNORRER.


df
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black
J. Wildridge U Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Why you should
specify
"ULTRA-CAPITAL”
High-speed
TOOL HOLDER STEEL
Because tliey are hardened in short lengths—ready to grind.
Just think what a saving this means in your workshop.
“Ultra-Capital” has gained an enviable reputation for hard-wearing
service. The same service may be yours if you specify
“Ultra-Capital.”
There is no substitute for “Ultra-
Capital” for Tools. Exacting
engineers have proved
this fact.
Let us supply you
with a trial order
—ask specially for
“Balfour’s Hints on
Steel.” It is post
free.
1
sdf
s== Remington. =
NITRO CLUB Wetproof
Shotgun Cartridges
TJARD HITTING—UNIFORM —is the
judgment of the army of sportsmen
using Nitro Club either for game or at
the traps.
No hand loaded cartridge can be expect-
ed to compete with Remington’s
way of loading —precisely and uni-
formly—by the most modern auto-
matic machinery
■ The proof of a cartridge
is the shooting!
i
s.
m
5?
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
E 9
df
Don’t blame the Bacon!
A
rr
IF the night has robbed your appetite
of its edge, don’t blame the bacon!
Does the fault lie with your digestive
organs? Are they slacking?
To cope with the invasion of life’s little ills you
require a medicine that will gently but surely
rouse your organs into healthy activity and, at
the same time, cleanse and re-invigorate the
system. Beecham’s Pills are a proved remedy.
They restore the appetite naturally by their health-
giving properties and build up the constitution*
TAKE
Bmhatns pills
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d, and 2s-9d (original English prices).
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and liillarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS -TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
£□
Beautiful, Brilliant Finish
—instead of Rust and Decay
TO make an article bright and attractive, to give it a
smooth and washable silver finish, use SAPOLIN
ALUMINUM ENAMEL. Easy to apply on any surface
—for fittings of all kinds, for rails, lawn furniture, iron
fences, mail boxes, hydrants, metres, lamp posts, hitch-
ing posts, etc., etc. For indoor and outdoor use, wash-
able, untarnishable and lasting.
For surfaces exposed to heat, such as boilers, stove
trimmings, gas and oil stoves, use SAPOLIN HOT
PIPE ALUMINUM.
For easily gilding and decorating the many articles about
a home that want a touch of brightness, for imitating
Genuine Gold, at small cost, use SAPOLIN IMITA-
TION GOLD GLAZE. It gives a smooth, brilliant finish.
Sold wherever paint is sold. Look for the SAPOLIN label.
SAPOLIN
ALUMINUM ENAMEL
SAPOLIN SAPOLIN
Hot Pipe Aluminum Imitation Gold Glaze
also
SAPOLIN Floor ft Furniture Stains
SAPOLIN Carriage Gloss Colours
SAPOLIN Decorative Enamels
SAPOLIN Bathtub Enamel
SAPOLIN Aluminum Glaze
SAPOLIN Varnish Stains
etc.
am
Made by Gerstendorfer Bros., New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of “OUR FAVORITE” Imitation Gold
Enamel, washable. Best imitation of genuine gold leaf. Eco-
nomical and easily applied.


'Born 1820 Still going Strong t
m
ifcA
V
V.
' A
m
%
42*
if]
iT, v
: -
<3^
A
o«*fe
h
m
4*l
\
::
Wi
%
m
NIITORICAL. SPIRIT r IRIES NO. 25.
DRURY LANE THEATRE , where Nell Gwyntte
first attracted notice as an orange-seller, and
made her first stage appearance in 1665. The
famous theatre was first opened in 1663 and the
present edifice, the fourth, in 1812.
Johnnie Walker:
Shade of
Nell Gwynne:
“ Sweet Nell of Old Drury ! A charm-
ing name for a King’s Favourite.”
“ Johnnie Walker! The charm of your
name is a favourite to all men
including Kings.”
JOHN WALKER & LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland,
