

BATTERIES
V!
yM
s
LJ
u
*%Y#Y
• • .V.
s««8
0* <
PRICE or COST?
The sensible question to ask when you want to buy a battery is not “What s
the price?” but “What WILL it cost me?”
Three points affect the total cost: I—The Price; 2—How long it will last;
3—What you have to pay for repairs to keep it working.
When EXIDE prices were higher than others, the EXIDE battery was
recognised by experienced men as the most economical because ot its long
life and freedom from repairs.
Now, with the price as low as others, and the quality as high as ever, an;
EXIDE battery is an economy no car-owner can ignore.
There is an EXIDE Battery for every Motor Car, Motor Cycle, Motor Boat and
Wireless Set obtainable from Dealers, Garages and EXIDE Battery Service Stations.
THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS {operating Service Stations) :
QUEENSLAND Exide Batfery Service (Q.), Ltd., 472-474 Queen Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . . Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 98-100 f Adela £? e ' . p
WEST AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, “Rad.o Home, 3 83-387 Murray Street, P th.
NEW ZEALAND, Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, P.O. Box 587, Weilingto ,
Auckland and Christchurch^
The Bulletin
Vol. 45—No. 2314.
Thursday, June 19, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
■II 1 :
IRfilliiS!
i»SL
.......
mm
\ HaA
iKi!^
iyi
affirm
The most carefully manufactured belt is useless if not suited
to the drive on which it is used. Ensure satisfaction by
making use of
Mangrovite Belting Service
before installing a new drive. A consultation with our
experts leaves no obligation and invariably results in greater
satisfaction.
MANGROVITE- BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA : W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
OECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd .George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills &. Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
*&2.£kMAate7Hii&jC
PLAY BOOKS & CONJURING TRIX
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD
TRICKS that anyone can do
with ordinary cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-
Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks
with Coins, 1/-. How to learn
Ventriloquism, 1/-
CONJURING APPARATUS for
amateurs and professionals.
Ventriloquial Heads from 12/6
to £6.
MAKE UPS OF ALL KINDS—
GREASE PAINTS, WIGS,
BEARDS, MASKS, ETC.
*• *
FOUR MORE FARCES, in one
book, 2/6. Contents- —My Turn
Next; Our First Performance;
Area Belle; Mock Trial for
Breach of Promise.
LEVINSKY AT THE WEDDING,
and 70 other Popular Recita-
tions, 2/6.
PLAY CATALOGUE FREE.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to
the Stage, 1/6.
CATALOGUES FREE.
173 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
W.C.ANDRAD
201 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
*
:
in
n
m
“I am sorry, Madam,
to hear you say the
shoes did not give you
satisfaction, but really
it’s not the fault of the
leather, so many people
blame the boots when
it’s simply due to im-
proper treatment.
“ Use a good polish like
‘ Nugget,’ and they’ll
give you good service
in return. I always
use ‘Nugget ’ myself,
as do all my assistants,
and if you do the same
I’ll guarantee any foot-
wear you purchase
from me will give
satisfaction.”
Made in
Black, Tan, Light
Tan, Dark Tan,
Nigger Brown, Red
Stain, Patent, and
White.
.NUGGET
BOOT POLISH
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
m
**
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Illiterate Reading
The man who invented the hieroglyphic
which afterwards became the letter B lived
in a two-storeyed house. That fact is still
preserved for us in the form of the capital
letter, which originally consisted of two
squares, one above the other, and bore the
name for “house” in Phoenician and Hebrew.
The matter is rather interesting than import-
ant, but it strikes a keynote in the consider-
ation of written language, Writing is the
art of letters; and every letter has its
value and significance. Any-. education sys-
tem that attempts to do away with a letter
basis for language is misleading and even
false; for by the letters the pedigree of
words is traced. Once lose that pedigree and
a groat deal of the finer significance of writ-
ing must also soon be lost. Half the difference
between good writing and bad turns upon the
feeling for the descent and relationship of
the words used. The man who told us the
other day of “the splendid virility of Aus-
tralian women” gave the reader a sudden
sense of having stubbed his brain against an
absurdity. Only by a knowledge, partly
acquired and partly s instinctive, of the inner
life of a word can the finer thought be ex-
pressed ; and the thing that is true of the
word is true of the phonetic values expressed
in letters that go to make it up. It is true
that much of our spelling is wrong. For
a couple of centuries spelling was ruled by
printers rather than by scholars; and the
results were often rather barbarous. But
while it may be a fair thing to correct the
phonetics with a reasonable regard to the
origin and descent of the words, as some
of our saner spelling reformers propose to
do, it is not a fair thing to wipe out the
values of the letters themselves and leave
the bad spelling as it is.
The New South Wales educational system
teaches children to misread by a plan which
has been borrowed from some of the darker
places of the United States. Instead of be-
ginning with the alphabet and learning that
words are expressed by named characters,
the children are taught to make strange
breathy and guttural noises with much con-
tortion of the features. The written con-
sonant has thus no true phonetic name; it
is merely a grimace accompanied by a thin-
nest possible sound. The difficulty which
is supposed to be overcome by this astonish-
ing device is the necessity for pronouncing a
vowel with each consonant named; but in
reality it is not overcome. There is merely
the substitution of a badly pronounced
vowel for a well pronounced one; for it is
perfectly clear that without some hint of a
vowel the sound could not carry to the
teacher at all. The old names of the charac-
ters presented no real difficulty to the child.
It was far easier to say “Gee” than to
attempt to say “O’ ”; and the child was
given from the beginning a correct idea of
the relation of written signs to the words.
The purpose of the new system appears to
be to get children to read in an illiterate
way; and there is every reason to suppose
that it is serving that end. But it seems a
pity that the Department does not go the
whole hog. If it is unnecessary to name the
letters it is surely also unnecessary to pro-
nounce the words. In actual practice so
little attempt is made to pronounce them
correctly that the difference might hardly be
noticed; but with a little further develop-
ment the system might give remarkable re-
sults. The dwarf race of Bosjesmen of
South Africa had a primitive language of
clicks of the tongue, hissings and grunts
which might possibly be reproduced; and
after a few years’ practice in this the chil-
dren might be gradually weaned from lan-
guage altogether and taught the chatter of
apes.
The contempt for the English language,
which is the outstanding feature of the N.
S. Wales educational system, seems to give
a solid guarantee for a troubled future of
ignorance and narrow outlook. The English
language is the door to all the fairer things
of life for those attending the primary schools.
Other subjects may help in the future busi-
ness of making a living, but only by read-
ing will the growing child get the world in
its bearings and begin to understand his
place in the scheme of things. Yet the
Department does not make English a com-
pulsory subject with those who are study-
ing to be teachers! As the majority of the
teachers are drawn from homes where there
are few books and little tradition of culture,
and as they may practise their profession
without any training in the one subject
which should matter most, it is plain that
the children will get little impetus towards
books and the broader culture from the class-
room. But when, on the top of this, the
destructive American method of illiterate
reading has taken away the natural charm
of words from earliest infancy, the outlook
is _ not very promising. Of course, a few
bright boys and girls will get through in
spite of all things; but it seems strange that
the. children should be called to salute the
British flag while they are , denied their
natural share in the best heritage that flag
stands for.
C. O. M.
The Troubadour of God
Time was I drank beer nervously and diffi-
dently with Chesterton in a Fleet-street pub,
and listened in awe to the interminable
tumult of his talk —in awe because I was
not yet of the Fourth Estate, but a mere
engineer and an outsider; to-day, perhaps, I
should even answer him sometimes. The
spirit of his blinding arguments was gener-
ally a curiously childlike and humble super-
stition, it seemed —not a foolish superstition,
but a sort of core of simplicity at the heart
of all the paradox and fireworks which, when
you thought about the fireworks afterwards,
made it possible to forgive them. He sug-
gested an enormously fat man fighting like
Time to prove that you could be diabolically
clever and believe in God and the fairies as
well. He spent most of his early literary life
trying to prove this apparently difficult
thing; and I think he finished up by irritat-
ing everybody all round (except Hilaire
Belloc), and by giving his self-evident case
an air of meretricity which prevented its fore-,
gonfe proof from being anything but tedious.
One got sick of being convinced at such an
infernal lick.
Now comes St. Francis of Assisi (Hodder
and-Stoughton), and if the awe of 20 years
ago has not come back, certainly the subse-
quent tedium has vanished. Of course, the
subject is right into Chesterton’s hands;
Hodder and Stoughton knew what they were
doing when they gave him the job of writ-
ing up the Jongleur de Dieu. (The title of
this paper is a mistranslation ; but I thought
“The Tumbler of God” was over the odds.)
Chesterton is a sort of swashbuckling St.
Francis himself —up to the neck in the tre-
mendousness of trifles, the innocence of
Father Brown, the evils of eugenics and
divorce, and the like simplicities. So Hodder
and Stoughton got a good job, a job excel-
lently done and full of the spirit of its sub-
ject ; and Chesterton obviously enjoyed him-
self very much in the doing of it.
One passes the ugly repetitive sentences,
the bad sentences, the maddening insistence
upon points which for their fullest expres-
sion should be only lightly touched once, the
old habit of setting the stage for the “perora-
tion” of a chapter. These are Chestertonian;
and Chesterton never had any style—only a
rippling crackle of fireworks with a burst of
musical eloquence to round it off when he
had proved something. But the heart of St.
Francis he knows ; in the fastness of humility
behind the paradoxes he and St. Francis are
dear friends. Their eyes of children gaze in
wonder at this gorgeous gift of life in the
splendid world. To them a blade of grass is
a miracle, though one be 700 and the other
rising 51. Brother Fire and Sister Water
are their acolytes; Brother Bread comes as
he comes, or as their sisters the birds may
bring him; and a brown cassock and a girdle
of rope are enough between them and Brother
Earth by night or Brother Sun by day. Ches-
terton tells me that St. Francis brought the
Dark Ages into light, that he set the mind
of the world in action after the, clogged death
of paganism, that lie was the greatest man
that ever lived. It may be so; I can accept
it without quarrelling, despite the button-
holing over-confidence with which the infor-
mation is imparted.
But between the lines, and just in front
of Chesterton’s clear, happy eyes, I can see
the Troubadour of God, the one great saint
whose life I could understand during the
years when saints meant anything to me. His
life was a song of courteous, delicate praise
of God. He was a troubadour, a poet whose
love so overwhelmed him that he stripped
himself down to nothing in his abasement,
and enlisted all the elements and animals, all
the common things of life, to be his brothers
and sisters in praise. A mad sweetness
possessed him, a radiant fear that some small
moment should go by with God unpraised.
He rushed off to Rome to get the Pope’s
approval of the mendicant Franciscan friars,
that he should have an army of brothers in
this joyous business of praise; rushed back
and found 5000 waiting to join up. Penetrat-
ing into the by-ways and the lonely places,
they were little notes of happiness asking
for bread at the doors, and going, singing
their troubadour songs, on their ways again
—scattered mendicant notes of mind at the
end of the Dark Ages of matter. Between
them they shouldered the Renascence into
existence, as Chesterton tells me so infuri-
atingly and so luminously. Hungry and happy
they laid the foundations of to-day, pausing
only once to salute “sweet Sister Death”
when she came for their founder, and not
pausing long for that.
HILARY LOFTING.
Heinrich Heine
The reputation which Heinricli Heine was
consolidating just a century ago was to suffer
many vicissitudes during his lifetime and
after. In his native land, that is; in England
he has long been an institution. A volume
is allotted to him, alone among.foreign poets,
in the “Golden Treasury Series” ; and what
is the voice of English criticism? “The
greatest of German poets, one of the great
poets of the world, the poet who, with
Tennyson and Hugo, completes the repre-
sentative trinity of European poets of the
nineteenth century proper”—so Saintsbury,
in his “Matthew Arnold” (1899).
Now I come not to bury Heine, but there
is no need either for me to praise him.
His achievement, is indubitable and allowed.
But when all is said his achievement is
within one kind, and that a kind that lacks
scope. Bulk of work, certainly, will not
make a poet; but we require of the poet
whom it is proposed to advance to equal
degree with the greatest, variety, volume,
grasp of mass, proportion, design—in short,
architectonic. Now, not to go beyond Tenny-
son and Hugo, where is Heine their match
in variety of kinds ? Say that Hugo’s dramas
are rant, that Tennyson’s are laboriously
unreal, did Heine’s two wretched attempts
at tragedy ever exist at all? Narrative
poetry he never attempted (ballads are an-
other kind), probably for lack of models:
well, in all the politico-satirical verse that
bulks so largely in his work, is there a line
to he compared with the crash and blaze of
Hugo, or even with such grotesque annihilat-
ing power as Hugo shows in the single line
which lie let fall, like a large flat stone, on
the unfortunate General Trochu —“P'ast par-
ticiple of the verb tropchoir” (to fail
utterly)? No; Heine lives only as a lyric
poet, and there again we must make restric-
tion. He is incapable of composing on any
scale above that of the short song. His place
is among the many poets who have practised
the Lied, a kind which he neither created
nor perfected. It cannot be said that, even
at his best, he .stands pre-eminent among
them for depth and poignancy of expres-
sion, or for invention of theme and imagery;
on the contrary, one can see how in his “New
Spring”—an attempt to repeat the charm of
the best sections of the “Book of Songs”—
he simply does the old stock-properties to
(Continued on page 3.)


a
Furnish for a Lifetime’s Comfort and Satisfaction
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
It would be difficult for the seeker
of value in Furniture to know
what a lifetime of service in the
home would do to the particular
piece he or she admires in the
shop, were it not for the fact that
Anthony Horderns’ sell Furniture
with nearly a century’s reputation
behind it. When one buys Furni-
ture there, one is assured of
satisfactory and enduring service
—at the lowest possible price.
I*s
wm
1
///If
/M
U'?/
THE “BEATRICE.”
THE “BEATRICE”
BEDROOM SUITE,
made by Anthony Horderns’ in their
own Cabinet Works—that guarantees
its excellence.
In every detail of material, in every
detail of workmanship, is embodied the
quality that means a lifetime’s service.
price... £42/10/-
THE “BEATRICE” BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked
figured Queensland Maple, fumed a rich brown and lined with
Pacific Maple, includes a 5 ft. 6in. 2 1 inches deep,
which enables coat-hangers to hang easily when door is shut —
two-thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves, four sliding
trays for hats and shoes, with 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22 inches
deep with wide mirror; two small drawers and two long
drawers; 2ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard.
PRICE
£42/10/-
THE “BERNIE” BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked figured
Queensland Maple, fumed a dark brown, and lined with Pacific
Maple, comprising: sft. 6in. Wardrobe, 21 inches deep, which
enables coat-hangers to hang easily when door is sihut—two-
thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves and 6our sliding
trays for hats and shoes; sft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22 inches
deep, with wide mirror, two small drawers and three long
drawers; 2ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard.
PRICE
dfd
THE “BERNIE”
BEDROOM SUITE,
There is value in every Suite you
purchase at The House of Economy.
Materials are carefully selected, and
still more carefully made up in Anthony
Horderns’ own Cabinet Works.
PRICE..nr.
£45
#
W uilll
M
F
&
1
THE “BERNIE.*
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712
Telephone: ‘City 9*440,


Daily Figures
mean
Daily Control
How would you like to have,
every day, accurate figure records
reflecting, to the last penny, the
condition of your business in its
various departments?
Accounts receivable, accounts
payable, cash on hand, mer-
chandise in stock —these are, for
instance, some of the things you
should know all about, every day.
%
s?
J
A
4
7y
These daily figures will give you daily
control of your business. They will help
you to make a thorough study of your daily
transactions. Consequently, you will be in
a position to know exactly how to stop your
losses and increase your profits.
Obtaining this figure information is an
easy task with a Burroughs Automatic
Book-keeping Machine. The machine does
a large portion of the work automatically.
It automatically adds debits and subtracts
credits; it automatically prints dates and
descriptions wherever you want them; it
automatically extends the balance with
every posting, so that a
glance at a ledger sheet
i
shows exactly what a
customer owes you.
By using a Burroughs
Automatic Book-keeping
Machine you will avoid
Better Figures
make
Bigger Profits
any possible difficulty in obtaining your trial
balance, while delay in preparing and send-
ing out your customers’ statements will be a
thing of the past. Since each account is bal-
anced daily by the machine, the trial balance
requires no more work than listing and adding
debit and credit balances on the Burroughs.
The machine is easy to operate —anyone
who can read can post your ledgers with a
Burroughs. Users will tell you that posting
ledgers with a Burroughs represents a con-
siderable saving in time and money.
Let us demonstrate how a Burroughs Auto-
matic Book-keeping Machine will handle
your ledger posting. A
practical demonstration
will not putyou under any
obligation. Write or call
our nearest office for the
information that may be
of value to the accounting
end of your business.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD., Challis House, Sydney.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
BRISBANE - AUCKLAND - DUNEDIN -
HOBART
CHRISTCHURCH
ROCKHAMPTON
WELLINGTON
df
ADDING - - BOOKKEEPING - - CALCULATING
MACHINES
4084
THE HONEYMOON ART UNION.
Send for a ticket to-day. You have 100 chances, because
there are 100 prizes to be won. Closes on Monday next.
This system is patented. Your
ticket is GUARANTEED a place
in the Barrel.
‘IT’S ALL FOR THE BABIES."
Send postal note, with stamped and
addressed envelope, for results, to
ST. MARGARET’S HOSPITAL,,
21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.


THE ACCESSIBLE MEN’S SHOPS
Ready-to-wear styles in
“PLUS FOURS” & GOLF SUITS
at David Jones’*
Correct attire on the links be-
gets a pleasurable atmosphere ot
satisfaction. Details of style need
be but matters of personality, pro-
vided care is exercised to provide
comfort. The combination of
comfortable freedom and distinc-
tive style is strikingly evident in
the new golfing Ready-to-wears.
“Plus Four” Knickers. Price, 35/-
Sports Suits, Coat & Trousers, 105 '•
With “Plus Fours” to match. 140/-
Sports Coat. Prices from 60/- to 80/-
DAVID JONES’
FOR SERVICE. OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY
death. And, further—l say it deliberately
in the face of Matthew Arnold s Praise of
the incomparable magic of Heine s *°
how are we to assign supreme honorsi to• «
poet who can handle only a few v ery 1 , j
verse forms, and who, even with in them,
even at liis best, offends us with the fr q.
hiatus that is so contrary to the genius ot
the language he employs, and wearies us with
repetition of poverty-stricken rhyme,
may be, as some of his friends say, that the
kinds of carelessness were deliberate: tnt
offence and the tedium are not, for that,
removed.
The comparison with other great poets was
first made by Heine himself: with Ariosto
at the end of his “Atta Troll,” with Aristo-
phanes and Dante at the end of Ins Ger-
many: A Winter’s Tale. In this latter
place he tells us—what we certainly should
not otherwise have known that die has ju
been giving us a parallel to the finale ot
“The Birds”—“the best of the father s com-
edies” ! And on his dying bed he loved to
be called, and to call himself, the Herman
Aristophanes.” And what is there to justify
the claim? Surely not the two poems 311 st
mentioned, which, though in bulk seeming y
contradicting the statement that he could
not compose on any scale above that of tne
short songs, are just loose fantasias, it no
these, then certainly not any number ot
squibs and lampoons.
But Heine has his idea; and if we follow
this up we may, as he tells us to do, compare
him with Aristophanes and Dante, and see
how he comes out of the test. Heine knows
what was the essential thing in Aristophanes ;
viz., the madness of the vanity of human
wishes —which, if you please, is the super-
tragedy of the finale of “The Birds. It
is. of course, utterly foreign to Aristophanes,
and, so far from being original, it is the mis-
construction of a misinterpretation, the mis-
application of “romantic irony teethe A.tic
comedian. But let it be true. Well, then,
I search the poetry of Hemes last yeais,
when, as already notbd, he was to him-
self the German Aristophanes: the moving
note of pain and hopelessness is there to the
full, and must win our sympathy and respect,
even to the point of making us refuse to cri-
ticise the expression. But what else? Habal
habalim. Vanitas vanitatum. JSfitchevo:
“Quite horribly sick is the earth” —I despair
of rendering the quite horrible pa-osaic quality
of the original and its contrast with tne
Shropshire Lad’s “high Heaven and earth ail
from the prime foundation. M hat else ?
Twice over “ ’Twere better ne er to have
been born,” and that is old Greek lore, crys-
tallised for us by Sophocles. Then an
“Epilogue” built on the well-known words
addressed by Achilles to Odysseus m the
Eleventh Odyssey. If only Heme had left it
at that; but he was minded to revise. His
personal and literary animosities stayed with
him to the last, and he must needs remember
his feud with the Suabian school of poetry,
even if he has to repeat his own jest—not
that he seems to have ever thought that hts
jests could be either spoiled or staled by
repetition :
The smallest Philistine alive
At Stukkert-on-Neckar far better does thrive
Than I, the hero of long ago,
The prince of shades in the world below.
There you have it —intellect, imagination and
wit unsubdued and dauntless m the face of
death! What a parallel to Dante, remem-
bering' his wrongs and his hate in the very
antechamber of the Divine Presence
I that was come from human to divine
And out of time to that which is eterne,
From Florence to a people just and sane
—had he packed his “Inferno” with none
but Florentine names, there had been, even
so, no damnation so utter as that one line
let ft I who have gone out of my way
to find some unnecessary touchstone, by which
to show the “black grain” m Heme s poetry;
it was Heine himself and his friends. 1 have
but done my bare duty in testing their over-
praise by the comparisons they boldly set up.
Heine’s verse is roughly a quarter of his
wor k if I were making a selection of that
verse by which to present him m Ins true
poetic value as he now appears nearly fO
years after, I might let one-third ot that
bulk stand, and that seems no ungenerous
measure. Of the voluminous prose-work the
proportion to survive is much smaller. Owing
to the “bizarre patience” of Hans Breitmann,
the English reader can test for himself the
abiding value of what Heine has to tell us,
and ought to perceive that all the political
correspondence and controversy is as dead
as last year’s jazz-songs, as dead as the jour-
nalism of 80 years ago, to which it belongs
Heine himself called his prose divine ; and
the incomparable magic of his form m this
region is as much a fable convenue as that
of his verse: It needs to be said that Ins
prose is motley, mannered, affected and tedi-
ously self-conscious; that, further, its quali-
ties and defects are not original; that for the
spirit of Heine’s prose aai English reader
need not go far to seek. The worshippers
sav “Look at the ‘Pictures of Travel ! All
through, from the pert and wayward pretti-
ness of “The Harz Journey” to the vindic-
tively inexhaustible variation of the most
unsavory double theme in ‘The Baths of
I ucca ” we trace the influence of a sentimen-
tal traveller, that Laurence Sterne whom the
Germans, to their own literary discomfiture,
have set among the demigods, whom Heine
actually calls “born peer of Shakspeare.
When he came to Paris in 1831 Heme had
such an opportunity as never before had
offered itself and never again could occur.
He might have spoken with authority to the
French on German thought and literature:
he might have been what he pretended to be
and what the French thought him to be, a
spiritual ambassador in Paris. The oppor-
tunity he certainly utilised, in that he turned
it to the adroit furthering of his own fame
and to the disparagement of all possible
rivals.
CHRIS. BRENNAN.
A Defence of Sappho
“C. 8.” (R.P. 22/5/’24) appears to think
there is no possible category to which to
assign Sappho except that of (1) a brothel-
keeper or (2) a school-mistress with a dis-
tinct likeness to Mrs. Browning. This is, of
course, the result of viewing her through the
astigmatic spectacles of Christian morality.
One certainly does not conceive of Sappho
as a singer of windy platitudes about Passion,
as Swinburne draws her, or as the queen ot
a cult of miserable, disgust-stricken devotees,
as Baudelaire. The balance of sex under
which the Greek lived—a balance which was
for him a harmonic adjustment of the inher-
ent bisexuality of us all —bears no resem-
blance to the furtive and hidden jungles ot
inverted or suppressed sex which Christianity
festered in the soul of man, and which are
now for the first time beginning to be health-
fully exterminated in the sun of psycho-
analysis. The bisexuality of a degraded
character like Verlaine can have no likeness
to that of Plato. One is muddied with the
hates, resentments, miseries and terrors ot an
incomplete humanity: the expression a
disharmonic and base nature. In the Greek,
in Plato as in Sappho, it is cleanly with
laughter and the breath of flowers —the ex-
pression of a disciplined and happy harmony
of soul and body. That, as “C. 8.” says, the
Lesbian practice is mentioned with abhor-
rence by ancient writers is a statement that
needs at the very least very careful sub-
stantiation. In none of the writers who are
significant of the basic emotions that are
Greek or Roman is there any such attitude.
That Sappho’s poetry would deal with the
charm of her girls, with the adornment of
them with imagery of hyacinth and moon
and dawn, is what we would expect.. Only
someone who imagines that there is more
sex in falsetto shrieks such as Swinburnes
Anactoria than in a single light, lyric by
Herrick which limns a girl delicately on a
background of the Spring, could think that
Sappho, most lucid of all lucid Greeks, would
rant about Passion, instead of defining the
beauty that aroused it. That passion was
there is proved conclusively by the fact that
she was able to adorn her girls with imagery
of earth and air, even if we did not have
the Overwhelming evidence of the two famous
odes with their significant positions in her
books—for naturally the opening poem would
be expected to strike the key of emotion.
In exposing that he cannot distinguish the
beast’s ravin—the Christian conception ot
passion in humanity, and therefore what the
Christian creates there —from the disciplined
lyric exaltation of the Greek, *‘C.B. ” shows
that he has no capacity to approach the clear
and halcyonic soul of the Greek.
Sappho’s significance for poetry is that
she made the body of woman beautiful and
desirable. That she could do so from the
disinterested position of a mathematician
solving a problem in calculus could _ only
be believed by one who has a very simple
understanding of the complex ties of body
and mind, the intricate laws by which body
vitalises mind and mind vitalises body, one
who does not realise that the construction
of a soul is the construction of that soul’s
imagery. The harmonic basis of Sappho’s
sex is shown by the fact that she herself,
apparently, bore a daughter, that her girls
married. The fire and conflict of the Shaks-
pearean drama of sex, the gay realism of
action in Aristophanes, were not her func-
tion, though both of these are born from the
imagei’y she liberated. Hers it was to define
the loveliness of woman, the emotion without
which the other two could not exist. To
attach ridiculous modern medical subdivisions
of inversions, such as tribadism, to this very
subtle desire is to show that the very con-
dition of her sexuality is misunderstood.
“C.B.’s” article is only another of the end-
less academic efforts to remove all art from
its root and its response in life.
JACK LINDSAY.
Rhymes for Children
I have seven little Australians, all born in
the Northern Territory, all brought up and
still living there, and the sexes are fairly
evenly mixed. All are normally healthy chil-
dren, and all are fond of poetry. But it is
sound, rather than sense, that they respond
to. Mother Goose’s Nursery Rhymes appeal
to them, even as they did to their mother and
grandmother. They are simple, easy to re-
member, and deal mainly with things familiar.
Children have a keen sense of humor. Two
old rhymes that always bring a chuckle
are—
Mother, may I go out to swim?
Yes, you may, my daughter.
Hang your clothes on a mulberry-limb,
And don’t go near the water.
and
There was a man, and he had naught,
So robbers came to rob him.
He climbed up the chimney-pot,
And then they thought they had him.
He got down the other side,
And then they couldn’t find him —
He ran fourteen miles in fifteen days,
And never looked behind him.
All the children can see the absurdity in the
last two lines. Other verses for which there is
demand are “Song of the Cattle-hunters
(Kendall), “The Last of His Tribe” (Ken-
dall), “Little Boy Blue” (J. W. Riley),
“Canadian Boat Song” (Moore), Tennyson s
“Revenge” and “Charge of the Light Bri-
gade,” “Little Brown Brother,” “The Chil-
dren’s Home,” “Mr. Horner of Grumble
Corner,” “Three Green Bonnets,” “The
British Navy,” “Men of Anzac,” “Hats Oft
to the Tenth,” “Lucy Grey,” “Horatius and
“Barbara Frietchie.” Many of these appeal
to the children because of the rhythm of the
verses; “Horatius” and the “Revenge,” for
instance. They do not wmnt poems “written
down to the child’s intelligence”; they want
poems that attract and interest and arouse.
So that is why the child will dislike "It Is
Very Nice to Think,” by Stevenson, and yet
read with delight “The Bells of Ys Ring
Softly,” by John Oxenham. Dennis s book
of nonsense rhymes is still unknown to us, but
some children’s rhymes that once appeared
in The Bulletin are great favorites.
Goosey, goosey, gander,
Why do you wander?
Your place is in the poultry-yard,
And not on our verandah.
They always chuckle over that one. One
small son of mine, aged (then) four and a
half years, curled up in a corner with the
cat in his arms, and began to chant “I am
happy all the night-time, because I can dream
of the daytime.” “That’s no good, pussy,”
he said, after one or two repetitions; “it
won’t sing itself.” After about half an hour’s
murmuring he evolved the following:
I’m happy, I’m happy, all through the dark night,
My gay heart is singing, it dreams of sunlight.
And he sat there happily half the day,
crooning “the song that could sing itself.”
That is what children want—“the song that
can sing itself.”
A. L.
A Satchel of Books
The Secret Adversary, by Agatha Christie (John
Lane). Here is adventure! Intrigue coils within
intrigue, and it is impossible to guess the identity of
the secret foe till the resourceful author tears the
mask from before his face. Written with dash,
with flashes of humor, it is a story to keep you
guessing.
The Trail to Apacaz, by Eugene Cunningham
(Fisher Unwin). Here the Wild West has
slipped down to some Central American republic,
and Heaven and Eugene only know how any man
manages to live past, say, 25 in its atmosphere per-
petually surcharged with bullets, bowie-knives, mach-
etes and other interesting hardware. Utterly ridicu-
lous, of course; but exciting in its crude way.
Injun Babies, by Maynard Dixon (Putnams). A
somewhat different book of stories for small Ameri-
can children that will be enjoyed by others as well.
The adventures of O-so-sti-ki, No-pah-no-mah and
Away-she-go, for instance, have an appeal that over-
leap national borders; and there are fascinating full-
page colored illustrations and decorations by the
author.
In the Mayor’s Parlor, by J. S. Fletcher (John
Lane). The atmosphere of the conservative old Eng-
lish town is so skilfully conveyed, and the charac-
terisation of the local notabilities so well done, that
one regrets Mr. Fletcher should waste his talents on
the mechanical side of fiction. However, the mysti-
fication is accomplished in a masterly fashion, as in
all the writer’s works. A love-story runs like a pale
thread through the red fabric of crime.
The Tenderfoot in Neio Mexico, by R. B. Towns-
hend (John Lane). The book promised by the author
in his interesting “A Tenderfoot in Colorado” ; but
it had to be finished off from his notes by his wife,
for Townshend died before the MS. was complete.
It is quite as readable as the first volume, and con-
veys in unaffected language a vivid picture of life
in New Mexico in the days of the pioneers, hardy
diggers, bad men and Indians on the warpath.
Another Alice Book, Please, by A. L. Gibson
(John Castle). Written originally on the demand
of the author’s three youngsters and describing the
visit of one of them, Pauline, to Guinland with her
pet guinea-pig, Alexander 1., who had been deposed
from the throne thereof. It falls a good deal short
of Lewis Carroll’s classic, and some of its language
and many of its allusions will befog the child mind;
still, there is much entertaining nonsense in prose
and verse in it. And H. R. Millar’s illustrations are
a delight.
Wandering Stars together with The Lover, by
Clemence Dane (Heinemann). Two stories of about
20,000 words each. In the first a man learns that
he is loved too late; in the words of his informant,
“Ask and have. She’ll give you her body if you ask
her. Anything she possesses she’ll give. She re-
tains the mechanism of graciousness. But she hasn’t
got a soul to give. You killed it.” “The Lover ’
tells of a neglected wife who literally imagines her
husband back to her arms. Miss Dane’s prose style
is exasperatingly diffuse, but she gets the mystical
effects she is after, and there are memorable phrases
and penetrating pieces of observation.
The Tusitala Edition of the Works of R. L.
Stevenson (Heinemann, in association with Chatto and
Windus, Cassell and Co. and Longmans, Green and
Co.) is a well-got-up series that will run to 35
small volumes containing everything of Stevenson’s
published either before or after his death, including
letters, essays, notes and unfinished sketches. Lloyd
Osbourne has had the general editorship and has
written 13 new introductions dealing with R.L.S. at
various periods of his life ; and in addition there are
several biographical introductions by Mrs. Stevenson.
An edition which will be welcomed and prized by
lovers of Tusitala (“The Teller of Tales”), as the
Samoans called him.
Thomas Hardy’s Universe, by Ernest Brennecke
(Fisher Unwin). A monograph which seeks to show
that the English novelist-poet is a conscious philoso-
pher who derives from Schopenhauer. Only on the
assumption that a passion for truth is pessimism
can the author of “Tess” be brought within the and
and dismal circle of the woman-hating German
writer. It is true that Hardy loves animals and
rases against those who misuse them, as Schopen-
hauer did. But, then, many another great man in
less enlightened times has done likewise (Voltaire is
a notable example) ; and thousands who are 1
sense great practise this amiable philosophy particu-
larly in England, the home of humanitarianism.
Hardy, to most readers, is as English as Shakspeaie,
Johnson or Dickens; he has his very r °ots m the
soil of his native land. Still the speculations ot
Mr. Brennecke are stimulating, and they will aiouse
interest even where they fail to convince.
The Drama of the Law, by Judge Parry (
Unwin). Primarily a series ot resumes of famous
trials and of the careers of notorious criminals, ine
Tichborne, Maybrick and Thaw cases are dealt with
at length, and the merits and demerits ot the cnie
participators summed up with much wit and discrim-
ination ; and the classic malefactors such as Whit-
aker Wright, king of company swindlers, and Charles
Peace perhaps the greatest all-round criminal haig-
land has produced, are handled with judicial im-
partiality. But the real charm of the book lies m
its asides. For example: “Caps have always had
important legal significance. There were the red
cap of liberty which was placed on the head of the
Roman slave on liberation morning, the cap and
bells of the jester rendering him immune from the
penalties for slander, and the statute cap which the
English peasants wore on holidays. These were a
‘property’ caps, or caps that were instilled with cer-
tain leeal properties. The cap is still a tiag
symbol use in the law when the Judge assumes
the black cap after the verdict of the jury and sends
the prisoner to his doom. The use of the black.cap
on sentence of death may have a .Jewish origin
when covering the head would be a sign ot -
ing.” After which he passes on to maces swords
and staves,” and their ceremonial origins and mean
intrs A book full of charm and humor, and, ineiden
tally a very useful work of reference tor those con-
cerned with the great crimes of the past half-
century.
The Life of Olive Schreiner, by S. C. Cronwright-
Sclireiner (Fisher Unwin). A conscientiously-wntten
biography of a woman of rare gifts and unique per-
sonality by her husband, who, whatever hteiary and
critical qualifications he may have lacked for the
work, claims to be “the only. person who ever had
adequate opportunity of knowing her fully. Jhve
was Q one of the 12 children of Gottlob Schreiner a
native of Wurtemberg, who inamed Rebeeca Ly.i-
dall a London schoolteacher, and enteied the service
of the London Missionary Society which sent him to
South Africa in 1837. ?ne other member of the
family was destined to raise himself to the hi Bhe-
distinction, William Philip, Olive’s junior by two
years, who won a scholarship at Cambridgeswept
the board of prizes and honors, and returned to Cape
Town to begin a brilliantly successful career at the
Bar. Entering politics, he became Cecil Rhodes s
Attorney-General, was subsequently Premier of Cape
Colony, and died in 1919, when he was South Afiicas
High Commissioner in London. But Olive s fame,
albeit its monetary rewards were so small that hei
estate, when she died m 1921, was flria oeiallynegL-
o-ible ” was world-wide. Born in 1855 she laid
the secure foundations of it when she was a strug-
gling, wretchedly-paid governess teaching children
in Dutch families and writing her memorable Storj
of an African Farm,” published in London in 189..
Her first achievement was her greatest. The bio 0
raphy goes far to explain why, although her influence
as a social reformer steadily increased, her early
literary promise was never quite fulfilled. Her whole
life was a long physical struggle against disease-
asthma. She could never live long in one place,
and never without frequent suffering anywhere. Her
husband never met her till 1892, when she was 38-
lie was six years younger. They were married in
February, 1894 ; their one child, a girl, born in
Kimberley 14 months later, lived only a few hours.
There is a good deal about Cecil Rhodes m the book
—Olive Schreiner began by passionately admiring
him, but soon came vehemently to detest him—-and
not a little about the Boer War, during which the
downright views of both wife and husband against
the measures taken against the Boer republics made
them the victims of intense and sometimes cruel pre-
judice Later, however, Mr. Cronwright-Schreiner
was elected to a seat in the Cape Colony Assembly,
in the years before the Union. The biography is
dedicated to Havelock Ellis, one of Mrs. Schreiner s
oldest and best-loved friends.


df
Whenever a colored
dial appears, the
hinged chart should
be pulled down, and
the needed lubrica-
tion attended to.
* • ■
' . • . M ■ <V.' 'i4*V'
■'. > w * > '>* ' ♦ Mm-'' - '
.
■ ' v ■ ; . -v ”■■■'■
1 If . ” >,s?<<':
: .-• '• ■' '~ir-
•‘ , -J ’ , ‘ 's' ' '*'**■
HBOOL3 DOB
' •■ . . 'f-vi.v
■ ■ ■ - ■ '• •
iii s-V il§
> t * , •• S'
-*»*£? *'
3$ *OO OIL TO totifntt- H««i> fcntti be-
tween crank peteeeks. Use light high
grade oil.
© OIL-Fiff oil cups. Give special attention
to commutator. ;
CREASE—FiII all grease ©up* including
cup on speedometer Swivel joint. Note—
To lubricate now style fan bearing, un*
screw plug and use heavy fluid oil. < ; V
# OlL—Apply oil to ad bearing surface*
not supplied with oil cups.
CREASE-'Fit! all grease cups. Crease
wheel bearings liberally,
Hi Oil* Drain oil from crank case,following
directions in Ford manual/
GREASE—-Add groase to differential not
more than omMhird full. ■• *
GREASE*— Reduction gears in steering
wheel* • . ; • V'.'-'
85
Tells just When and Where to Oil
and Grease your Ford Car.
In addition to recording Speed and Mileage, this New Stewart Oiling System
Speedometer faithfully tells when and where the Ford should be oiled and greased.
The Figure Dials of the Total Mileage Register
have different colored numerals, which auto-
matically turn up at regular intervals. When
a colored figure shows, a glance at the neat
metal chart, which is hinged below the
Speedometer, will serve to indicate the part,
or parts, requiring lubrication. For instance,
a red numeral turns up every one thousand
miles. By referring to the metal chart you
will note that opposite the red dot are instruc-
tions to “draw oil from crank case,” and
“add grease to differential.”
With every one of these Stewart Oiling System
Speedometers is included a little book contain-
ing full lubrication directions and pages speci-
ally ruled for recording lubrication expenses.
There is no guess work; nothing to remember;
nothing to write down; it is absolutely
automatic.
Avoid premature wearing of Parts and expensive Repairs; save worry and trouble, and lengthen
your Car’s life, by using a STEWART PATENTED OILING SYSTEM SPEEDOMETER.
OILING SYSTEM SPEEDOMETER,
Product of Stewart-Warner Speedometer Corporation.
STOCKED BY ALL ACCESSORIES DEALERS,
Including the following Interstate Service Stations:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, Vic; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Brisbane, Q.;
Cornell, Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.; A. H. Christian, Perth, W.A.


//
%
1.
m
H
vs
f
fy
X
m
F
o
Vi
U
L /g*v^
4^3
a sense of luxury, a certain security,
a comforting confidence in its endurance.
These are the sentiments experienced in full measure y ? g^LEY^erves^to 11 engender
Every detail of the design, workmanship and finish of the WOLbhLLY serves to
pride of ownership in the possessor.
Vickers steel, utilised by the British Naval Department, is the basis of the WOLSELEY. n
this is built a Car which, from its engine to its tyres, is thoroughly British.
The wonderful suspension system of the WOLSELEY is in itself sufficient recommendat.on to
your attention. It ensures both comfort to the passengers and tmmumty from mjunes to
Car dtself.
The springs of every 10/22, 14/32 and 15/40 WOLSELEY CAR
are guaranteed for twelve months against breakage in service.
NEW REDUCED PRICES:
10/22 Single-seater de Luxe
10/22 4-seater de Luxe ! * ‘'
14/32 4/5-seater
15/40 5 -seater ...... .
Arrange for a trial and demonstration.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip Street, Sydney.
W D. Bauld, Eastern Market Garage, Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
H C. Richards, Richards’ Building, Currie
Street,' Adelaide.
F. W. Cato, 1273 Hay Street, West Perth.
Simpson Motor Co., Ltd., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.


HI
e
!| i!
«ii, ii
\\m \
iw:
wm
11111111111!
i!! i!
!•!
i!i!
-I
lltTjrrr*: .i {f . .
A
II
1111 U 1 H
m
\ W-
m
WiM
m
m
mm
mi 1
:::!■)
LL*!::::;!!!
itiw.vw
afe
If
:
m
hi!!
B
ii
&
! Ii!!!!
mm
11
! mem
se
id
hhkh
ass
HIM
aal iM
* if
Bill*
Uv J.
iiiiiilill!
I! I
23$
mill
ii
11111II11M M i»lrr
imimi
IllJllfli
r m
Hi
'ado in Vudbif
iiiihihJiii
Lighting the Home, the Factory or |
the Shop—Comfortably.
The brilliance and pure quality of the light given
by B.T.H. Mazda lamps are important factors in
home comfort. They are equally important in the
factory, as they are conducive to greater output and
to a reduction of accidents.
B.T.H. Mazda lighting makes seeing easy, and
eliminates eye strain.
Every B.T.H. Mazda lamp you instal is a definite saving in current
or a definite increase in light, or both.
The use of British Thomson Houston Mazda lamps is the beginning
of lighting wisdom and the basis of all good lighting.
B.T.H. Mazda lamps mean better light, and therefore better sight
and greater comfort.
In addition, B.T.H. Mazda lamps are supremely strong and
economical.
D
A
9
British manufacture —made
sizes. B.T.H. lamps are made ii
by the owners of the Master
governing the manufacture of all
incandescent electric lamps.
in all
Rugby
patents
modern
Australian GeneralHeetric (d ltd.
Sydney Office, cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street.
Melbourne Office., cr. Queen and Little Collins
Streets.
Agents:—
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hnv
Street, Perth. •
Chas. Atkins & C 0.., Ltd., 88 Currie Street
Adelaide. '
Oliver & Oliver Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
Engineering Supply of Aust., Ltd., cr. Edward
and Charlotte Streets, Brisbane.


Lovely Healthy Skin
Kept So By Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap keeps the
skin fresh and clear, while touches
of the Ointment now and then pre-
vent little skin troubles becoming
serious. Do not fail to include the
exquisitely scented Cuticura Talcum
in your toilet preparations.
Soapl«.,Talcum Is. 3d.,Ointmentls.and2B.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Shave with Cuticura Shaving Stick.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
.actual Size
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
64. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars. 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
d
tfie&uptieaXox
lOOGptisinlOminu&s
Write for
particulars.-
WORKS LIKE A £lO MACHINE. Price 27/0.
Postage 2/-; other States, 3/6.
H. DIBBS & CO. (Dept. B),
Manufacturers,
Box 2065 G.P.0., Sydney.
ďf
ďf
That “Well-
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hair!
Use Dr.
Mien’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r ad i-
cate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less ! All Chemists.
d
MEXICAN |
WALNUT STAINS
Have You Horses?
Denyer’s Special Mouth Gag possesses 100 per cent, efficiency.
It is of the best quality and utmost durability, and constitutes
the easiest and safest method of examination and operation on
the mouths and throats of animals. W hen you require a
thoroughly reliable mouth gag order Denyer’s Special.
The Denyer Special Mouth Gag, Price 507-
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Write jor our Veterinary Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
iUiTil
9t :
Fills Itself does not leak
Onoto-Pen
Streamline model, in polished antique vulcanite,
The Onoto Self-Filling Safety Pen fills itself from any ink supply—
instantly without mess or bother. It has the most effective
self-filling device known.
And the Onoto cannot leak. It is absolutely safe in your pocket or in
your suit case. It is the only self-filling safety pen that the makers
send out through the post full of ink.
Thomas De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I
' ° Representatives: NORMAN BAKER It LONOHURST LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne k Wellington (N.Z.).
fd
Streamline model. with 2 narrow 18 ct. gold bands and topi
Onoto Ink Best for all Fens
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
sKSBf ?*««*
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
ď
*
*H§
5*5
lW<o ot<.n* G '
* ’ . .i»«*!t*: ,«,
"oscos-tx 0 '
Kll GJ°\ Stovakio-
1 * ,__ C*« cho * 3
3 M^ cP ° r ; ° dory
fd
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crashing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors
Portable and
Stationary.
Crashing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIER.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Walpurgis
(Eve of May Day).
The stage is set. Its floor the tranquil sea
Swept by the wings of silence, strewn with
pearls;
Whilst for a back-cloth negro night unfurls
The curtain of the stars; for melody
The thronging pines attune the symphony
Of faint JEolian harps in sibilant swirls
To deep orchestral tides. Mephisto whirls
A festive baton for the revelry.
Silence as prelude like an amorous swoon :
Then to the throb of harps the wanton moon
Leaps, a bacchante, from her eastern cage.
Loosing upon the waves her cloth of gold,
Naked and laughing, full upon the stage,
A ballerina sensuous and bold.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
“Benedictus Qui Venit.”
“Blessed is he that cometh
In the name of the Lord!”
Sweet is the voice of the singer;
And as sweet is the chord
Out of the heart of the organ,
As it swells through the loft
Chased by the following echo.
Tender and soft
And sweet is the voice of the singer.
But the listener hears
Only the echo that follows,
Bringing him tears.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.
Morte d’Automne.
All the fires of flaming splendor
Gleam in autumn’s ’broidered gown,
Looped in scarlet, gold and brown,
Which the faeries always lend her.
Anemos has softly blown
Kisses meant for her alone.
Like a lily does he bend her,
Sighing “All too soon have flown
Jewelled hours that we have known.”
With a gesture of surrender,
On the grass she lays her crown,
Light as airy thistledown.
So to rustling music tender,
While the tears her sweet eyes drown,
Silken raiment flutters down.
Slowly, faintly—Love, forfend her! —
Her own cerement she has sewn
Of dead leaves the Wind has strown.
To the sylvan sprites commend her!
QUEENSLAND.
E. COUNGKAU.
Finis.
Oh, take my hand in yours the little way
We go together, till my short to-day
Is ended. God! The world is all so fair.
And yet I may not stay and suffer there!
Clasp me close in your arms—the sunset's
glow
But lights the lonely path down which I go—
Whisper once more the joys I might have
known
Had I not left you and passed on alone!
Love, hold me in your heart a little while
That looking back I see your tender smile
Illumine those dear eyes! Itemembermg me,
You give me Heaven for eternity.
ITALY.
EDITH ELKINGTON.
Friends.
So I slipped my hand in the hand of the
Breeze
(We were going the same sweet way),
And we sauntered under the banksia-trees
That grow 7 by the violet hay.
Freeing my tresses and setting them flowing,
Breeze whispered saucily: “Where are you
going?’’
“Wherever you lead me to-day.
“Then to-day I shall lead you a dance,” she
said,
And she loosened her hand from mine;
With a rippling spring through the boughs
she spe'd
Far up where the turned leaves shine.
“Here I am calling, come after, come after!”
Light as dream music her faint, mocking
laughter
Fell, but I would not repine.
I walked on alone with a waiting smile,
By the violet bay's great glow:
And soon, as I guessed, in a heart-beat while,
Felt penitent kisses blow 7
In little cool sighs full of tenderest healing,
As delicate arms round my neck came
stealing:
“Why do you love me so?”
“Why do I love you. coquette Breeze,
Playing love in the banksia bower?
You are merry with mischief, you vex and
tease,
And your lips are soft as a flower;
And. ah, you are like my remembered Mona!
You bring me the presence of quick-tongned
Mona,
And that is the truth of your power.”
“Could she charm and torment and cajole
as I do?”
“She was even as elfin, I wis!”
“And when she had teased you and hurt
poor you,
Would she soothe you like this, and like this,
Coaxing to pride and applause your
chiding?”
Oh. lost love Mona, where are you hiding?
That was surely a living kiss!
“And was she then faithless, even as I?”
“She was clear as a flame.” I said ;
“And she showed how bravely a flame can
die” —
But the madcap Breeze had fled.
By the violet water’s passionate sleeping
I walked in the noon hush choked with
weeping.
For Mona.. . .Mona is dead.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


0
0
I
*
'\w
▼ vi i r r]
P
The Spirit of Joviality
Joviality speaks of the kind heart, the
broad view and above all, the generous
understanding of others. It is essentially
part and parcel of happiness. Just as a
magnet attracts steel, so joviality attracts
friends. That is why
DEWAR’S
has so many!


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45 No. 2314.
THURSDAY, JUNE, 19, 1924.
Price 6d.
A DOCTOR IN DISTRESS.
“Judge Cohen, chairman of the New States Commission, said it would be silly if they reported that the new State was a good thing because some people said it was a
good thing. What was the value of evidence if it did not tell them how the new State was to be financed?”
JUDGE COHEN: “I would order this one the same treatment as those other two hoys got; but if he grew up big and strong he would need more food and
clothes, and how do I know that he could buy them?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svdnev, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office: Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly :
™ Months, £1 65.; 6 months s 13s. (id.; 3 months s 7s.
any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months 3 los; 6d.; 3 months , Bs.
Clieques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Hus mess Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co.umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
on. .1 n °t exc oeding two columns in length, or, say,
30('0 words,' are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A t communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
UIj EETin will return all unsuitable MS. when
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these,
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction- i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London Is
IL : _JH ; _C : Australia House, Strand.
W.C.3. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.4: E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.B.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 4%nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City:
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets, San
Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo: R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Qrondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.CJ/.
U.S.A.— J. Rowland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOos., Id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., l\d.; each
additional 40z., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
THURSDAY. JUNE 19, 1924.
AN ANTI-IMMIGRATION AGENT.
Professor Griffith Taylor, of Sydney
University, bobs up from time to time with
a home-made map, by means of which he
seeks to show that about half Australia is
for practical purposes uninhabitable. He
deduces this chiefly from the fact that Cen-
tralia “is inhabited after a century of settle-
ment by about one half of one per cent, of
the population.” His conclusions arouse the
derision of those who have lived in the areas
about which he speculates. Thus A.
Middleton, late W.A. Government Surveyor,
wrote in a recent S. JVI. Herald:—
After 30 years’ experience I have no hesitation in
flatly contradicting Professor Taylor’s classification
of Westralia. Within the area (about 40 miles east
of Geraldton) that he describes as “sparse pastoral”
I have surveyed land that has since produced 30
bushels of wheat to the acre—the agricultural belt
that runs south-easterly from that land has been
tapped by a Government railway line, constructed
for that purpose. The area that Professor Taylor
marks as agricultural in Westralia —a small corner
in the south-west —is more suitable for intense cul-
ture—fruit, dairy-farming, etc.
Of his “Central Australian Desert” of “almost use-
less” country, I have travelled over and classified a
large area north of the Great Australian Bight. I
have known sheep pasturing on this apparently worth-
less vegetation to become almost too fat to eat in a
few’ months. The Nullarbor Plain is not treeless.
Some of the grass patches, acres in extent, will cut a
ton to the acre. There is a very extensive open
myall forest, the southern tongue of which barely
touches the railway line, which extends east and west,
and as far north as I went, 65 miles north of the
railway line.
Francis Birtles was equally emphatic re-
garding another section of the continent:—
The Professor classifies the huge tract of the Frew
River districts as desert, a region of the highest pas-
toral and agricultural values. Billions of gallons of
water can easily be conserved over a wide area. In
these lands I have seen the Alberga, the Finke, the
Todd running bankers to the south-east; numerous
smaller creeks flowing strong to the west. The soak-
age must remain underground. It could be conserved
on the surface. Let him see the fat horses of ex-
ploring overlanders and prospectors; the wild, sleek
brumbies of the ranges.
* * * w
If Professor Taylor’s sneers (e.g., “T feel
certain that there were cheery optimists who
assured Pharaoh that the Sahara was one
of the richest portions of his territory”) are
designed to do anything besides discourage
immigration, they must be meant to show
that man cannot profitably inhabit deserts.
There is no evidence that the Pharaohs
owned or claimed to own the Sahara, but
they did own the Nubian and Libyan deserts.
Here modern civilisation was born. In
Egypt’s Restoration period, when the expedi-
tionary armies of the Pharaohs raided not
only the Soudan- but also what is now Cau-
casia, Hungary and probably even Germany,
the allegedly uninhabitable parts of the world
were not the hot, sandy and more or less rain-
less regions, but the cold, wet countries.
The present sites of London and Paris were
forbidding swamps. Germany was a land
of barbarians. Thousands of years later the
world's most renowned cities were still in
deserts. Civilisation was creeping north and
west with slow reluctance. Rome owned
Britain for four centuries without settling
anything but an army of occupation there.
History from then onwards has been a
matter of the rise in power and wealth of
countries in mostly-temperate zones (Britain,
Germany, France, the U.S.A. and, finally,
Australasia) and the decline first of the
desert and next of the Southern European
Powers. The simple explanation is that the
human race found it could do better for itself
in the wet parts. Farming—Europe's chief
industry till quite recent times —turned out
to be a pleasanter and more profitable busi-
ness in England and France than it had
ever been in the valleys of the Euphrates and
the Nile. Followed the steam-engine, coal-
mining, the Industrial Revolution and a fresh
change in the habits of civilised man.
* * !» @
But just as Professor Taylor assumes
erroneously that Australia’s hot, dryish re-
gions are uninhabitable, so many of his critics
assume, equally fallaciously, that people of
a high cultural level are eager to inhabit
these regions merely because they are
habitable. The truth is the pioneering spirit
—the spirit which gave the world in succes-
sion the pastures of Europe, America and
Australia —is practically dead. Men and
women are almost as reluctant to go to the
country to work to-day as they were to toil
in sandy deserts a couple of thousand years
ago when deserts of this description were be-
ginning to be unfashionable. New York,
which in 1850 had a population of 515,394,
has now over six millions, and is increasing
at the rate of half a million every five years.
It owns a colony of over 100,000 negroes—
citizens who, till recently, were almost ex-
clusively associated with menial field work.
There are two main reasons, of which the
chief, of course, is that, as a rule, it is
easier to make money in cities. Cities con-
tain the nation’s great industries, and indus-
tries offer in the first place steady wages
and in the second the best opportunities to
rise high out of the wage-earning ruck. Some
other advantages are good doctors and hospi-
tals, cheap and varied food, amusements of
all descriptions, educational facilities—a list
of amenities, in short, which might be ex-
tended for pages. More and more as indus-
trialism becomes intensified by the ingenui-
ties of science, man must tend to flock to
cities. He will not concern himself much
apparently whether they are in cold coun-
tries or hot: science is successfully at
work making the one class of city as healthy
as the other. Naturally there will always
be the exceptions who will go into the wilder-
ness to grow sheep or wheat for preference;
and by means of wireless, improved com-
munications (rail, motor and air) and a
raised standard of domestic comfort, it may
be possible to add considerably to their num-
bers. But the next great step forward in our
own nation’s prosperity must be through its
manufactures. The way to make these re-
turn the Commonwealth the greatest pos-
sible dividend in wealth, wages and
social contentment is to decentralise
them: to encourage the workers to
crowd not to one or two great cities, but to
hundreds of small ones. It can be done by
creating a number of small States, and in
no other way. Meanwhile the only effect of
Professor Griffith Taylor’s irrelevant re-
marks about the desert condition of 50 per
cent, of Australia is to deter from coming
here potential artisans who. after reading
one of his lugubrious screeds, may be for-
given for picturing the shores of Port Phillip
as strewn with the skulls of dead camels.
And this at a time when Australia needs no-
thing so much as white workers!
CLASS EDUCATION.
The plea for “class education,” which is
being advanced by those who profess to see
in the so-called working-class struggle a cure
for human ills, breaks down under its own
argument. According to J. C. Eldridge,
who has just produced a little book with the
high-sounding title “Education and Science in
Working-class Ideology,” the only cure for a
partial system of education is another partial
system which covers even less ground.
“Working-class education,” he says, “teaches
you to look at facts in a working-class way.
Any other way is some other class way.”
Such a statement fails to touch the real
question. Education is not a training to look
at facts in any particular way; it is a train-
ing to enable men and women to extract from
life the best and sweetest that it holds.
Thought processes are as free as air or sun-
shine. No faults of the social system can
interfere with them nor warp them from their
aim; but until they are definitely trained and
developed they are apt to be crooked and
twisted things incapable of working to any
definite conclusion. That our present sys-
tems of education fail largely in their pur-
pose is unfortunately true, but Mr. Eldridge
does not show where they fail. He rails
against what he calls “conventional educa-
tion,.'’ but does not give any definition of the
thing he is abusing. He talks broadly of
working-class education, but he does not
show how any such education could be other
than conventional. In all his tirade the
single point which definitely touches educa-
tion is his complaint that social science is
not seriously taught in the upper schools and
universities. But social science so taught
might rouse him to far greater indignation
than its absence from the curriculum. Social
science—if it can be called a science at all —
is still in a state of flux. There is not unani-
mity among communists as to the
organisation of society any more than there
is among anti-communists. If anything could
be taught it would be merely the views of
the social order expressed by writers whose
works have become semi-classics for reasons
which are quite apart from any political
value they may possess. What can be taught
and is taught is the history of nations and
of world movements on which all attempts
at genuine social science must be built.
* * * *
The question of what is taught and what
is not taught is not vital to education. Euclid
will teach a man to think just as surely
as Plato ; and for accuracy of definition and
logical sequence the advantage is all with
the student of Euclid. John Ruskin was
not far wrong when he declared that a sailor
might visit many ports and pick up a smat-
tering of many languages, yet remain wholly
uneducated, but that the man who had
studied word by word and letter by letter a
single page of a good book was in some real
sense educated. The real fault of our present
systems of public instruction is that they
have almost ceased to aim at education. Our
schools have become in large measure trade
schools, aiming at preparing their pupils
for some specific job. Doctors, lawyers and
parsons are taught their trades in a set
course of study, and may emerge from the
best universities loaded with degrees and
without anything that can be called real
education. If this is what is meant by “con-
ventional” education, by all means let us
throw at it the largest and most jagged rock
we can lift; but if by the term is meant the
study of English and the classics, the pursuit
of philosophy and pure logic, the superb
mental training of the higher mathematics
and the wide reading of history, then the
charge against it is absurd. It is not neces-
sary that a man should be a scholar, in the
restricted use of the word, to have a good
realisation of his place in life and his rela-
tion to the world; but it is necessary that he
should be in touch with scholarship. A man
need not be an artist or a pock to be in tune
with the delights of life; but he must be
sufficiently in touch with art and poetry to
realise something of their meaning and pur-
pose before he can have the feeling for beauty
which is the most precious of human assets.
The full education which gives him these
things is worth while; the partial education
which denies them is itself a social evil.
* * * *
True working-class education differs in no
respect from any other kind of education;
but there is an enormous difference between
education and the shouting of political propa-
ganda. Th.ere is no reason at all wby politi-
cal propaganda should not be shouted, if it
is sincere. The theory of such shouting is
that one man has the knowledge and must
try to convey it to others in the quickest
way possible. The quickest way is generally
to invent a few catch-words and repeat them
until others start repeating them also. But
all _ that has nothing to do with education,
which, in its turn, has, in a strict sense,
nothing to do with any political or social
system. Education is a training of the mind
to disciplined and orderly thought. It is
not even dependent on a collection of acquired
information. The man who forgets the facts
and has to look them up afresh constantly
may be just as well educated as the man who
keeps them continually at his fingers’ ends.
That he knows how and where to look them
up and how to correlate them when he has
them is the main thing. The mental discip-
line which is true education sets the mind
upon a fine balance and gives the compre-
hensive view which lifts a man to the high-
est plane. It does not make knowing things
and knowing how to do things its ideals,
but affects the principles arid habits of life
in such a way that the educated man may be
said to be the only fully moral man. His
outlook upon the world becomes kindly, toler-
ant, purposeful—the true human outlook.
Clearly, in such a view, the demand for a
working-class education as apart from true
education must be the demand not merely of
uneducated men but off men who have not
yet grasped the meaning of education. With
shorter hours and a lift in the general aver-
age of comfort, some step towards an educa-
tional ideal is possible to every worker in
Australia. But the mere reading of the end-
less rigmarole of propagandist literature and
the repetition, without trained thought, of
its shibboleths will not get him far on the
way.
THE VAMP OF THE NORTH.
The chief cause of the present wave of de-
pression over the White Australia policy
is not really Prof. Griffith Tatlor; it is
Darwin. Nobody need deny the Professor
his sandy deserts. I was passing over one
of them not long ago, and like the Walrus
and the Carpenter, and for the same reason,
was dropping tears on it. A tall, gaunt
Westralian, with a chin like the heel of a
boot, reproved me. He had been making a
comfortable living, he said, for the past 10
years out of land still marked “Desert” on
the map, and they could go on marking it
’Desert ’ for all he cared. A day or two
later another man of the “desert” country
sent a message to a mutual friend. When
our mutual friend first knew him he was
struggling with his first “desert” proposi-
tion. “Tell him,” he said, “that I made
enough out of it in 25 years to buy two runs
in South Aus.” He didn’t call it “desert,”
hoAvever. He called it “dry country.” No-
body supposes that the Professor’s desert or
my friend’s “dry country” is a fit subject
for close settlement. The part of our un-
redeemed continent of which bright hopes
were <-mtpr*m’nf>d in. that direction is that
area of which Darwin is the official centre;
and everybody is unhappy because Darwin
has apparently failed us. The whole history
of the misbegotten capital of a potentially
fertile land is indeed enough to make us
wish that it could be rubbed out and done
over again.
The first Dutchmen who poked their bluff
bows into the Territory's gulfs and rivers
had nothing good to say of it. “Cruel, treach-
erous and murderous savages” were all that
Abel Tasman found in 1644. Flindebs in
1802 examined the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
found Malay fishermen collecting that loath-
some-looking delicacy of Chinese epicures,
the b£clie-de-mer. That was tropical Aus-
tralia’s first industry. Red-coated, white-
chokered English soldiers occupied Melville
Island in 1825, and died like English soldiers
—in their white chokers. Spears were too
much for firearms in those days, and the
climate was unsuitable for white chokers.
A depot was formed, at the suggestion of
Stamford Raffles, at Raffles Bay. Malays
came to trade at it—the beginnings of an
Eastern commerce which may grow to great
proportions some day. The settlement was
the only failure to be recorded against the
great founder of Singapore. Darwin was too
much for him.
Full of high hopes—the enigmatic crea-
ture always did inspire high hopes—South
Australia took over the Northern Territory
in 1863, and an expedition started out to
occupy the new province. It fixed on Escape
Cliffs as the capital. A year later the colony
had become so disorganised that some of tin
administration, to save their own lives, set
out for Adelaide in an open boat. A year
later McKinley, by way of being the first
Royal Commission to report on the Terri-
tory, wrote of the capital that “a greater
scene , of desolation and waste could not be
pictured. The whole improvements will be
much over-estimated at £200.” In the mean-
time the South Australian Government, in a
spirit of comical optimism, had sold 243,840
acres of the unsurveyed and unknown soil
for £82,553, the survey to be completed within
five years. In 1873 the same Government,
having confessed that it had lost all trace
of its representatives and did not know
where their settlement was, was compelled
to return nearly half the purchase-money
with interest. By 1875 the exacting Jezebel
had cost S.A. £333,546 without having found
a solitary person so much in love with her
as to want to live with her permanently.
Even her gold was accursed. The discovery
of 1871 made nobody’s fortune, and ruined
many companies. The Trans-Australian
Railway Act was passed in 1862. Its
framers could almost hear the humming of the
wheels. The railway was begun, but it has
not yet been completed. Some fate, chelaka
or doom affected even the framers of the Act
of transfer to the Commonwealth, and they
omitted to stipulate a time wherein the rail-
way should be finished.
As for agricultural development, how could
there be any? The enterprise of the few
pioneers has been doomed by lack of com-
munications and political causes before they
started. Yet Holtze reported that a planta-
tion of Liberian coffee-plants at Beatrice
Hills, although it had been neglected for
three years and was smothered in weeds,
had trees up to 10 feet high, covered from
top to bottom with fruits. And many years
later Brackenbury reported of the same
plantation that “a few still survived after
being annually burnt by the bush fires.”
To get the problem of tropical Australia
in true perspective it is necessary to turn
from the spectacle of Darwin’s feminine re-
calcitrancy to the picture of tropical colo-
nisation in Queensland. The findings of the
Australasian Medical Congress held at Bris-
bane in 1920 are worth repeating because
they were the first observations of a scien-
tific body on the subject. The Congress dis-
cussed exhaustively the possibility of settling
the Australian tropics with white people,
and in the course of the discussion several
interesting facts came to light. One was
that tropical Queensland is already inhabited,
not by monkeys or men who wear their heads
beneath their shoulders, but by white Aus-
tralians quite undistinguishable from white
Australians living in other parts. The hearts,
the spleens, the capacity for work and beer,
the ability to raise healthy families, were, in
fact, the same as in the South. Those of
us who have sailed up and down that mar-
vellous waterway which flows for 1200 miles
between the mountains of Northern Queens-
land and the Barrier Reef, and have called
in at the thriving ports and seen their ener-
getic populations, have long suspected this,
and now we have the endorsement of the
scientists. The evidence showed that the
physique of tropical Queenslanders com-
pared favorably with the physique of
temperate Victorians. It also showed
that women who led sedentary lives
in unsuitable houses without proper sanita-
tion were apt to suffer from neurasthenia
and debility ; but that is a commonplace of
country life in all parts of the world, and
is believed in America to be due to the fact
that the woman living mainly indoors eat-
ing the same food as her husband poisons
herself with the proteins which she does
not require, but which are essential to the
man’s more vigorous activities. Neverthe-
less the women of Northern Queensland are
a healthier breed than their southern sisters.
Between 1920 and 1922 the female death-rate in
Queensland’s tropics was 7.9 per 1000 against
all Australia’s 8.66. The general conclusion
of the Congress was that if the warmer end
of Queensland is not being effectively occu-
pied by a virile population it is not the fault
of the climate.
It appears, however, that tropical Aus-
tralia, or part of it, is being steadily occu-
pied. The rate of occupation, in fact, is
higher than in any other part of the conti-
nent. The Commonwealth Statistician makes
this his little contribution to the case for a
White Australia. Between 1911 and 1921
the population of tropical Queensland in-
creased from 157,112 to 181,123. This is a
growth of 15.28 p.c., whereas the increase
for the rural areas of the Commonwealth
as a whole was 9.11 p.c. The Queensland
tropical baby helps towards the favorable
result. Between 1920 and 1922 the birth-
rate per 1000 females in the four northern
divisions of Queensland, which are as tro-
pical as they can be without actually burst-
ing into flames, was 141 against all Aus-
tralia’s 107; and the infantile mortality for
the same period was 55 against all Aus-
tralia’s 63. It seems, therefore, that what-
ever blight it is that affects Darwin’s for-
tunes, Banan aland has not got it.
The White Australia policy suffers as
much from its friends as from its enemies


Perhaps it is too often pushed to the front.
When men think of going to the Northern
Territory they are told they will be solving
a vast problem: and then they mostly don t
«-o. Probably if we had taken hold ot the
people who had been settling North Queens-
land, and talked to them about great ex-
periments and the solution of race problems,
there would have been the same failure. Ihe
way to settle the Territory is to follow the
simple lines which have been followed m
settling any other territory. The possession
of a capital T really makes no difference.
And we had better forget Darwin.
M. G. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Voice of the Frozen Siren.
Senator AVilson, whom Prime Minister
Bruce left behind him on his return from
Europe, is back, and is understood to be
loaded up with leg-pulling propositions for
reciprocity with Canada. It can’t be too
strongly impressed on this rather gullible
country that no reciprocity arrangement that
Canada regards as worth making is likely to
be other than a loss to us. The big and bear-
haunted Dominion doesn’t want Australia s
cheese, eggs, cattle, bacon, hams, butter,
wheat, flour, fresh beef, hides, leather or tim-
ber to any appreciable extent, for it has a
surplus for export in all these lines. The
granting of a nominal preference on Aus-
tralian exports to Canada would do no good
if there is no room there for our exports. It
is on record that in 1922-23 the Kanuck
took from this Commonwealth butter to the
value of £9 —being apparently one lonesome,
motherless and accidental keg which wan-
dered ashore and lost itself —no flour, no
wheat, no frozen beef, no tinned beef, but
£3944 worth of sheep-meat, and _ nearly
£185,000 worth of wool. AVool in its raw
state is, like raw cotton, on the free lffit
already, because it suits Canada to have it
there, and no preferential treatment is likely
to make it any freer. And even if preference
multiplied the other trade threefold it
wouldn’t be worth while, especially in such
matters as flour, wheat and beef, three times
nothing being only nil. There might be some-
thing doing in fruit, but then the Common-
wealth’s biggest item of fruit _ export con-
sists of apples, and the Kanuck isn’t short of
apples, and for tropical fruits the competi-
tion of the AVest Indies is a serious matter.
These islands have cheap nigger labor, fertile
soil, are nearer by far to the big centres of
Canadian population, and nearly all of them
have preference treaties with Canada already.
The inference is that the only kind of reci-
procity this country is likely to get with its
bleak friend across the water is one by which
it would sell three kegs of butter where it
now disposes of one keg, and buy 30,000
motor chassis for every 10,000 that it buys at
present. The number of its factory employees
in proportion to population is considerably
larger than ours, though exactly how much
larger it is impossible to say until more re-
cent figures are available; and the Dominion
is an exporter of manufactured goods to an
extent that suggests a grown-up industrial
State rather than a young primary producer.
Either through longer hours, harder work, or
better work the Kanuck is ahead; and there-
fore we can’t afford to treat with him on any
terms at all if Australia hopes to become a
land of big “secondary industries.” And our
“primary industries,” barring wool, are such
a doubtful lot when they have to depend on
foreign markets that Australia must manu-
facture or sink into poverty.
-♦
The Shortage of Currency.
Problems of lack of currency run in curious
shapes. For a year or two the wily Hun
printed Government notes by the billion for
the joy of selling them at a discount to san-
guine foreigners, who hoped they would re-
cover their value or part' of it. When the
joke had been worked to the utmost the old
currency was repudiated, and a great profit
was made out of the sanguine foreigner. But
the people who run the show are apparently
so much scared lest the new currency should
depreciate that they issue hardly any.
AVherefore it is difficult to get change of a
moderate-sized bit of paper. All manner of
shows are closing because people lack the
small cash with which to pay at the door,
and the management finds it difficult to accept
sheep and horses. Still, the Hun, with his
remarkable hoarding capacity, will probably
get on to a gold basis, and get out of the
tangle of non-convertible paper, sooner than
the Australian. It was after 1918-19, appa-
rently, that other countries decided to liang-
on to what gold they could lay hands on, and
await the course of events; Australia re-
solved to be the harmless handy mug, and
export as usual. AVherefore these rather
curious results: —
Imports Exports
of Specie. of Specie.
1918- .. .. £7,071,039 £9,190,203
1919- .. .. 46,086 6,634,216
1920- . . . . 20,144 5,448,740
1921- . . . . 43,304 4,328,700
1922- . . . . 30,580 3,392,130
The Commonwealth’s gold output promises
to be under £3,000.000 this year, the small-
est since 1851. AVith this shrinkage in view
The Bulletin says once more that it might
be a good idea to sit down hard on the tail-
end of our gold and watch developments. It
seems like madness, when we are really hard
up for currency, to export the only substance
against which currency can be safely issued.
«
A Federal Divorce Law.
It looks as though the Federal divorce law,
which has been promised ever since Federa-
tion, might be passed by the Bruce-P'age
Administration. It will be a pity, though,
if reform stops at the anomalies and injus-
tices surrounding domicile, as Melbourne
lobbyists anticipate. The domicile question
is certainly an outstanding one in the Com-
monwealth, with its six divorce laws and its
British legal convention that the wife’s domi-
cile must follow that of the husband. For
that matter it is an Empire scandal which
grows iD magnitude with each addition to
the Dominions colony in England, and with
each rise in the cost of overseas travel. Many
British or British-domiciPd wu’os of Aus-
tralian husbands are denied relmf because
they cannot afford to travel 12,000 miles to
assert their rights, just as many N. S. AVales
wives are prevented from divorcing their
errant spouses because the latter ha\e
slipped across the border to Victoria, and, it
pursued there, are in a position to pass on
to S. Australia. Yet other changes just
as vital remain to be made. Two offences
that only Parliament can define are * e gai
cruelty and legal desertion. One Judge holds
that harsh or insulting words persistently
used amount to cruelty, another that there
must be physical violence or threats of it;
one Judge accepts a petitioner’s word and
the production of formal letters as proot ot
desertion, another requires outside corrobora-
tion as to the withdrawal of respondent from
cohabitation, and in addition delves into the
matter of sincerity on the part ot the
allegedly-abandoned one. The attitude of
the R.O. and Anglican Churches adds to that
atmosphere of uncertainty, not to say chaos,
which has brooded over divorce ever since it
emerged from ecclesiastical control, lhese
churches refuse to recognise what they call
“man-made divorces,” and refuse re-marriage
—always in the case of the R.,C. Church
and usually in that of the C. of 13.-— even
to innocent parties. But to thousands ot
conventional-minded folks the only respect-
able form of marriage is the church mar-
riage, the reason being that few prominent
people are married outside churches in Brit-
ish communities. The Federal Parliament
would remove a source of unhappiness and
ill-feeling, and, incidentally, add to the
national revenue, if it provided that the first
marriage, and the only one recognised by the
State, must be before a State official, lhe
more logical people of the European conti-
nent brought in this change, in most cases,
at the same time as they took divorce from
the Church and made it a purely State
matter. And, finally, there is the burning
question of the marriage of the unfit. Clerics
who would jib at the idea of uniting two
healthy young people whose only sin, per-
haps, is that, having made mistaken mar-
riages, they pulled out of them, would not
hesitate to marry an innocent girl and a
man Suffering, say, from tabes. Caveat
emptor! If the bridegroom doesn’t care and
the bride doesn’t know, who are they to for-
bid the contract? This may be good reli-
gion, but it is thoroughly bad statesmanship;
and no country that depends for its existence,
as Australia does, on healthy children can
afford to perpetuate it.
♦
University Extension,
FROM' a fourth-year student: —
There has been another pasage of arms in the
campaign that is being waged in the interests of
Sydney University Extension. Fkaser Thompson, of the
Bathurst enthusiasts, was rebuffed by the Senate of
the University. He threatened the Senate with an
appeal to the Government. The Chancellor replied
by publishing the names of the Sydneysiders who form
the Senate, and by stating two reasons why the
facilities offered by the University should not be
extended. He objects to country residents reading,
hearing lectures and sitting for examination in their
own town because such external students would miss
the University life.
Now, this community life about which the older
University leaders are apt to grow dithyrambic is
unknown to a. large proportion of the students. The
Senate, in its attempt to bind the amorphous limbs
of the University together, makes three tilings com-
pulsory—attendance at lectures, membership of the
Union, and the paying of fees. But membership of
the Sports Union, attendance at debates and open
lectures, membership of dramatic, scientific and
faculty societies is not insisted upon. As a result, a
student can quite easily sit out his lectures reading
a newspaper, and still satisfy the examiners, without
having spoken to a professor or another student or,
in the case of a member of the Law School, without
entering the University buildings except once a
year. The evening student hurries up to a few
lectures after his work is over, and has very few
opportunities of living the student life. When the
country teacher or clerk who aspires to a degree in
Arts or Economics sees the ease with which the city
man satisfies the authorities it is little wonder that
he cries “Me too!”
I once kriew a scholar of the University—he is now
holding a travelling scholarship abroad—who con-
fessed that he did not know where the Union was
situated. It would have made very little .difference
to that man’s training if he had been reading in
Goulburn or Armidale. Membership of the Sports
Union, always a clear indication of the extent of the
community life of the University, stands between
four and five hundred, while there , are, even in these
later post-war years, three thousand men who are
eligible. Four years at the University have con-
vinced me that compulsory attendance at lectures is,
as a means of attaining the end the Chancellor points
to, just as effective as the compulsory eating of so
many meals in the Fisher Refectory.
Compulsory attendance at lectures is the only
method by which “’Varsity life” is forced down the
necks of the students of Sydney. It is significant
that in Brisbane and Melbourne lectures in the
Faculty of Arts are not compulsory, nor are any
lectures obligatory at Oxford and Cambridge, in
Queensland external students are sent copies of their
lectures and they carry out their work as a corres-
pondence course. In Melbourne an external student
may live in Eehuca (or in N. S. Wales, for that
matter) and enter for his examination without having
listened to or having read a lecture. It is also
worthy of note that some years ago an attempt to
institute compulsory lectures failed completely. The
opposers were not men who had obtained their
degrees as external students, but “pukka” University
men.
Without belittling the good gifts that a few years
at the University offer to every student, the man
who knows his Alma Mater must maintain that a
student at Sydney is not necessarily and by mere
obedience to the letter of the regulations a more
broadly-trained man than the one who does his
reading at home in a country town. For this reason
it is hard to see why the rural New South Welshman
should not be able to sit for examination in Sydney
instead of being forced to become an external student
of the University of Melbourne.
- *
Union Bosses and Dumb, Driven
Members.
Students of political unionism cannot
afford to ignore the rough island story of
Arthur W. Buckley, Sydney Labor politi-
cian and secretary of the N. S. Wales branch
of the Australian Eailwaymen’s Union.
Here it,is, brought up to date:—
Buckley wins a Labor nomination and sits for one
of the five Sydney seats in the Leg. Assembly. This
he holds from 1920 till 1922 (he had sat in a pre-
vious Parliament). It is alleged by one Thomas
Janitaiuus Smith, sometime M.L.A. for King and now
a Labor M.L.C., that Buckley was a party
to bright schemes for faking the 1920 selection-
ballot by means of boxes with sliding panels, and
“ ‘crook’ A.W.U. votes.”
■When pre-selection time comes round in 1922,
Buckley is in the ascendant again, but not for long.
The ballot in which he is successful is upset on the
ground of impersonation and similar pranks, and he
doesn’t succeed at the second attempt. “I was dis-
gracefully and shamefully defeated in a rotten selec-
tion-ballot,” he protests.
Facts leap to light about the ballot-boxes with
sliding panels—l 2, it is said, were made, but only
eight have been discovered. The N. S. Wales l.abor
executive blames Buckley, among others, and expels
him for life.
The union conducts a sort-of-a-kind of inquiry
into the ballot-box business, and declares Buckley
not guilty. He therefore continues to hold bis
secretarial job. But there are members who object
to their affairs being run by a disqualified Labor
politician. Their dissatisfaction increases when a
levy of 265. per head is struck by the union’s State
Council, which is strongly pro-BucKLEY, and they
are not greatly mollified by the secretary’s assurance
that he will dust the Trades Hall with his traducers
at the next N. S. Wales Labor Conference.
The matter of the levy is raised at a union convention.
Country delegates contend that, since the N. S. Wales
branch has many thousands of members (the exact
number is known only to Buckley and his friends),
10s. per head should be sufficient; they argue, further,
that the thing should go to a properly-conducted bal-
lot for ratification or rejection, the Council having
acted without reference to the members from whom
£20,000 or £30,000 is to be dragged. Buckley
silences the objectors by pointing out that “Lenin
and Trotsky didn’t refer the question of the Revo-
lution to the people.” He insists that “money is
required to fight this Nationalist Government,”
secures the adoption of a .resolution in favor of the
A.R.U. joining the Labor party—dominates the con-
vention, in. short. In his hour of triumph he renews
his undertaking to dispose of the ballot-box charges
at the Labor Conference, and make his accusers wish
they had never been born.
The promise is not kept. On the contrary, Buckley
withdraws from the Labor Conference without
entering upon his defence. When delegates confirm
the life sentence, and the A.L.P. president, in dis-
missing the subject, asserts that readied-up ballot-
boxes were paid for by Buckley's own cheque (the
money having first been obtained from Labor funds),
the gentleman who was going to vindicate himself is
far, far away.
Matters begin to iook black for Buckley, the
union secretary. His opponents remind him of his
broken pledge, and demand his resignation. Two
sub-branches of permanent-wav men, one with 1600
members, come out strong against him. When the
situation is most critical a ballot for the election of
a new State Council is held. The retuming-officer
is honest old George Waite, fearless opponent of
Communists and Tammany bosses; and for assist-
ants he has Hogan and Peyton, two union organisers.
While the count is in progress Hogan discovers a
parcel of voting papers which were evidently rung in
after the poll closed; and the returning-officer, in
declaring the result (anti-BucKLEY men are promi-
nent among those elected), announces that these
voting-papers, 237 in number, have been rejected and
destroyed. A committee of inquiry is thereupon ap-
pointed ; the majority section, which is pro-BucKLEY,
suggests that the returning-officer was mistaken, and
asserts that perfectly good ballot-papers (“ten” are
mentioned) were among those destroyed; the
minority replies that the official was perfectly cor-
rect, and mentions a batch of 70 which ought to
have been posted to a country sub-branch but un-
accountably disappeared. In the result Buckley
and his friends succeed in having the ballot declared
null and void.
Events now move rapidly. Hogan and Peyton are
dismissed from their posts. More sub-branches de-
mand Buckley’s resignation. That gentleman in-
forms the Labor Daily that the fresh ballot will
not be held “until the union rules have been reviewed
by the Industrial Registrar.” In the same paper he
announces that a special union conference, composed
of “all the delegates to the last annual conference”
(i.e., the one at which he cited the example of Lenin
and Trotsky) has been summoned “to consider union
affairs”; also that “the disruptive element will be
finally dealt with,” since “the executive is confident
that there will be a majority of 20 in its (and
his) favor.” The arrangements for the special con-
ference are made so hurriedly that an anti-BucKLEY
delegate is not invited to attend; another, on pre-
senting his credentials, is told to make himself
scarce; and the anti-BucKLEY permanent-way divi-
sion, with its 1600 members, has one representative,
whereas a tiny sub-branch, boasting 16 members
(that,- at least, •is Hogan’s estimate), is thoughtfully
allowed two. Thus constituted, the special confer-
ence decides to avoid the unpleasantness of another
ballot by nominating a pro-Buck.LEY State Council
“to function until the general election in 1925.”
Discovering that it had been assembled “to rectify
omissions and amend certain rules,” it safeguards
the secretary by resolving that “in between confer-
ences” he may not be removed from office “without a
plebiscite of conference delegates being taken and
three-fifths of such delegates being in favor of such
action.” And before it melts into the nigjht it
“amends Rule .7, so as to provide for a fine of up to
£lO being imposed on any member who causes dis-
sension in the union, or distributes disruptive litera-
ture, or attends a meeting calculated to cause dis-
ruption.” The last is Buckley's idea (no doubt that
w T orthy is to be the judge of w 7 hat is. dissension
and disruption), and it has been so far elective that
the Labor Daily, hitherto the main sour pe of infor-
mation, has banished the subject from i*ts columns
on the ground that “it is desirable in a 111 interests
that newspaper discussion of these unfortunate and
destructive differences should now cease.”
At this point the narrative must be broken
off. Buckley is in the saddle, arad has a
good chanee of remaining there. Arrogant
as his pretensions are, there is no indication
that the dumb majority of the union
will resist them, whatever the minority may
do. At present it seems probable that the
general body of members will accept the
nominee councillors thrust upon them, sub-
mit to being run by an expelled Labor poli-
tician, yield even to the claim, monstrous
as it is, that they have no right to comment
on the affairs of their union in firint or
assemble in public meeting to discuss them.
The oddest feature of the remarkable busi-
ness is that these very railwaymen, so docile
when their liberties are assailed by the union
boss, are exceedingly touchy in their relations
with the Government, tlieir employer. At
the crisis of the war they went on strike
because the Taylor “card” system had been
introduced at the Randwiek workshops. How
the union conducts its affairs is perhaps not
a matter of supreme importance to the public.
But the public is very deeply interested in
what may happen if the same Red Labor
faction is permitted to get control of the
Legislature. Once there it will obviously
take nothing less than a revolution to shift
it; and intellect and honesty are not always
very successful at revolutions.
A Word for the Crossbred.
“CorrlEDAle” : “A man deep in the business”
(B. 29/5/’24) deplores the decrease in
merino sheep and consequent shrinkage of
production of this class of wool. If it were
true that the merino is the only sheep that
grows a high-class wool, there might be some
cause for misgiving. But it isn't. Many ol:
the so-called mongrels—nearly every merino
breeder calls a crossbred a mongrel, and any-
thing and everything not a merino is to him
a crossbred —probably grow quite as profat-
able a lleece as the average merino, and un-
doubtedly a better carcase. Fleeces of faultless
crossbreds, longer, higher in yield, and more
lustrous than 80 per cent, of merino wool
of the same quality, have been taken off sheep
in this district —Central-Western Queensland
—which are not pure merinos; the weight ot
fleece is as good as that from neighboring
pure flocks and the weight and quality of meat
better. The truth is that the majority ot
merino breeders don’t know, and don’t want
to know, anything about any other breed.
Their apathy is due to the wonderful cli-
matic conditions for woolgrowing of most ot
pastoral Australia; nevertheless such apathy,
if persisted in, is going to lose this country
millions of pounds. Large tracts of coastal
country in this State (Queensland) alone,
now carrying cattle at a loss, would give a
good profit under sheep, if the right kind
were put there; but the right kind are not
merinos. Every cross-breeder, unless he is
aiming at meat alone, knows and freely
acknowledges that without a dash of merino
he cannot hope to produce a high-class wool ;
but the merino has its limitations, and it is
a mistake to think that what is so often
termed merino country will not show as good
a return, and very often a better one, with
crossbreds of the right stamp. This has been
proved beyond dispute in M.L., where, owing
to better meat prices and rising land values,
sheep farmers, faced with the necessity of
taking more off their holdings, have found
that what was once thought to be purely
merino country gives a better return under
crossbreds. The same is quite as true ot
many parts of Australia. The hot, dry in-
land areas, with their low rainfalls, are pecu-
liarly suited to merinos; but it is to the
crossbred we must look to save the country
with heavy rainfall, where cattle too often
prove profitless. And now one fanal question :
Why don’t the merino breeders get rid of the
horns, originally intended by nature as a
means of defence? They are now not only
the cause of endless discomfort and torture,
but very often of a lingering and cruel
death. The Hereford cattle-breeders have
done it; why are the merino men lagging be-
hind?
♦
Eskimoses and the New Canaan.
“Clifford Snook” goes exploring, too: —
I continued my pursuit of knowledge at the heels
of Dr. Vilh.talmur Stefansson (son of Johann
Stefansson by his marriage with Ingibjorg Johan-
nesdottir) all through his stay in Sydney. I sin-
cerely trust I got none of the items mixed. So fai
as I assimilated the hang of the situation, the North
Polar lands are the proper and destined home of the
white man, who has shown a tendency to migrate from
the warmer south ever since everybody had forgotten
to remember. At the same time the lecturer set down
16 or 17 blonde Eskimos he met as the last descend-
ants of a great colony founded by King Eric the Red
in Greenland over 900 years ago—“the largest band
of pilgrims which had ever reached the shores of
America.” These settlers were hardy and warlike
Scandinavians, but they vanished from human ken—
it has always been supposed because the place where
they found themselves was no white-man’s land. Th ■
real Eskimos are of Asiatic type, and this, I under-
stand, proves that they came from the Mediterranean
and “the extreme north of Norway.” 1 have been
quite unable to decide whether the learned doctor was
ever at the actual Pole or not, but he guarantees
that there are green fields there, and countless
herds of caribou and musk-oxen (1 think the other
name for the latter is “ovibos” or “omnibosh” or the
like). These and kindred species are mentioned as
likely to settle the “meat problem,” which, in our
case, consists in beef being a drug in the market.
At the same time the doctor’s own Arctic diet is
said to have been 80 per cent, seal and 20 per cent,
bear. Perhaps he didn’t find caribou, but only
heard of it. Perhaps he didn’t like it. How the
caribou is to be got from the Pole to London I can’t
quite understand. Early in the proceedings I had
the impression that the explorer and his party owed
their health and success to the fact that they lived
in snow- or ice-houses, the same as the Eskimo folk,
thus wisely adapting themselves to native conditions.
Later I came on the news that the snow-house is “a
common superstition.” Up in those misunderstood
parts superstitions would seem to run in packs. “The
Eskimos were a hospitable and a lovable people,” said
the S. M. Herald' report, “but the majority of them
did not live in snow-houses.” A stingy and dis-
agreeable crowed would naturally live in such domi-
ciles. “In fact, more than half of them had never
seen a snow-house, and would not believe such a thing
possible if you told them about it. There were very
few Eskimo's who lived in snow-houses, and then only
for about five months of the year.” This leaves
me wondering what they do live in. Stefansson’s
reported statement that snow may be consumed with
impunity if heated by contact with the human bod}
till it rises to a temperature of about 52 degrees, or
the body falls to correspond, interested me: I won-
dered what would be happening to the human body
while it was raising the temperature of the ice 30 or
40 degrees. Another statement which interested me
was said to have been made when he was dealing
with marrow as an article of diet. “A peculiar fact,
which was not generally known even to scientists, was
that the marrow was only found in the long bones of
the limbs of the animals.” The surgeon probably
found out something about bones when cutting up the
deceased criminal, and the butcher when sawing the
ox, and there is an article on “Bone” in my ency-
clopedia, said article including some remarks about
marrow. But Dr. Stefansson specialises in finding out
things which all preceding explorers, hunters, navi-
gators and scientists missed. In fact, they seem to
have missed everything till a long-waited-for Eski-
moses went to the North and unearthed the Promised
Land of New Canaan. I wonder, by the w'ay, if
marrow was put into the leg to save it from injury
when it is pulled.
The Russian Wheel Turns Round.
The blowing-up of millions of rounds of
ammunition at Bucharest and three train-
loads of equipment is the most 'Severely logi-
cal method of starting a war that lias yet
been invented. The Roumanians attribute
the disaster to Russian Bolshevists, as is
natural seeing that Trotsky some time ago
announced his intention of taking Bessara-
bia, that a Russian army has been concen-


“AFTER ALL, THERE’S ONLY ONE ‘AUSTRALIA .»"
The Australia.
Sheep Show & Ram Fair —First Week in July.
Polo Carnival —Commencing June 28.
The interest in these two events will draw many thousands of visitors to Sydney. The
Hotel is thereby filling rapidly and immediate reservations are necessary to ensure that
completely satisfactory accommodation that its name has come to imply.
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
“THE AUSTRALIA,” The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
trating on this frontier for weeks past, and
that Rtissia’s troops now vastly outnumber
those of any other Power. Apparently the
only thing that, is going to discourage Mos-
cow is absolute unity in the “Little Entente”
and the certainty that Turkey (which fears
the seizure of Constantinople by the Russian
brethren) will also tight. For the rest the
situation is interesting as a. manifestation
of order in Nature. Trotsky arrived in
Russia as a pacifist, one who was to give
the distracted moujik release from the
tyranny of conscription: and lie is still
nominally a Communist. The.essence of Bol-
shevism, as recently as four years ago, when
Bertrand Russell visited Moscow, was
world-brotherhood and a lofty scorn of those
who intrigued, much less fought, for worldly
riches. The whole offence of Roumania to-
day is that Bessarabia is rich. Russia does
not need this additional wealth: she has
better lands lying idle for lack of modern
machinery and stable government. She wants
Bessarabia for the same reason the heart-
less profiteer, who is so mercilessly flagel-
lated by the Communist press, wants an
extra palace. In short, the Russian dream
has definitely ended. Communism has become
capitalistic; the self-determinationists have
taken, to imperialism, and the “Workers of
the World” are nationalists again. It only
remains for the Russian dictators to restore
Christianity, and the analogy with the
French revolutionary phase which ended in
Napoleonism will be complete. And now
the sooner Socialists in Australia cease prat-
tling about Russia as an exponent of a new
form of social and political morality the
better for their reputation for sense. The
wheel has swung very nearly full circle, and
the Russia of to-day only differs from the
Russia of 10 years ago to the extent that it
lacks old Russia’s capacity to make and
borrow money.
♦
The Victorian Election.
There is every indication that the Victorian
general election, to be held next week, will
be as indecisive, from the party viewpoint,
as were those of 1920 and 1921. Three
parties are again in the field, and three will
come back, since each has had members re-
turned unopposed; but neither the Nation-
alists nor the Laborites seriously expect to
secure a majority over the other crowds
combined, and the feat is impossible to the
Cockies, who have only 25 candidates out for
65 seats. And the new Assembly will be
unrepresentative, like its predecessors, only
more so. How can it he representative
when, as Premier Peacock acknowledged in
his policy speech, “there are seats with fewer
than 6000 electors —my own is one—others
with over 30,000; Boroondara has over
60,000 electors, and Grenville but 4250”?
The immediate cause of the election was the
defeat of a bill designed, in the words of its
authors, to “rectify these glaring anomalies
to some extent .” Until the “glaring anoma-
lies” are wiped out the Victorian Assembly
will be a mere caricature of representative
institutions. But the Cockies are not keen
on redistribution; the Nationalists want
an arrangement that will make one country
vote worth about 2 h urban votes; and the
Labor Opposition, while favoring the utilisa-
tion of Commonwealth boundaries, proposes
multiple electorates with proportional repre-
sentation, both of which expedients have
worked badly in N. S. Wales, where P.R. in
particular has been associated with gross pre-
selection rascality, the success of sectarian
candidates, and the re-entry of nominee mem-
bers, whom Australia thought it had got rid
of half a century ago. The only subject on
which all three parties are really enthusi-
astic is public expenditure, to which
princely additions are suggested. The
Labor party promises its supporters free
school books, Fair Rents Board, State abat-
toirs, implement factories, marketing of and
advances against produce, feeder roads and
reduced freights. On the Cockies’ list of
benefits sought is the immediate reduction
of counti-y freights by 10 p.c. If the National-
ists can manage it “the recent increases in the
pay of public servants will be continued”:
moreover, “the Government is preparing a
scheme of superannuation for public and rail-
way servants on the lines of the Common-
wealth scheme” —which was hurried into
being just before the 1922 election, Hughes
being in need of support. In the rush to
offer these concessions, and a forest of others,
no one has thought it necessai'y te mention
where the money is to come from, or to lay
stress on the fact that post-war Victorian
Governments have borrowed so magnificently
that their State now owes 1184 millions, of
which 144 millions fall due next year. What
Victoria needs desperately is a Ministry re-
presentative of the best elements in both
Houses —an elective Ministry, in short.
*
Peacock as the Perverter of Justice.
The Age has risen against Peacock with
great violence, and has vowed that
Since lie miscalled the Morning Star
Nor man nor fiend has fallen so far.
And he has been further accused of “goring
the gentle bosom of the Commonweal.’’
Shortly after this tragedy was reported the
nominations came to pass, and these points
were noticeable:—
The metropolitan district has 21 members and ‘he
rest of Victoria has 44. If strict justice was don?;
and bloodthirsty ruffians of the Peacock brand left
off goring the gentle bosom of the Commonweal,
the metropolitan region would have about 35 members
and the rest of Victoria 30.
The Labor party gained 10 uneontested seats in
the metropolitan area and two outside; but it ought,
on the principle of “one vote one value,” to have
gained 16 or 17 in the city region. Presumably it
will do that sort of thing when the Age has its way,
for the making of, say, Port Melbourne into two
electorates wouldn’t make it any less hopeless a
proposition for a Nationalist.
The Nationalists and Country Party crowd gained
seven uncontested seats in the country and one m
a Melbourne suburb. Strict equity should reduce this
gain next time to four, and they a mixed lot.
In the circumstances, what could Peacock
do? If he opposes “one vote one value” he
must be ridiculed and contemned; and
if he doesn’t he must sign the death-
warrant of his own party. The one
way out, apparently—apart from any
one of numerous possible compromises—
is to undertake to give “one vote one
VOTE-CATCHING.
THE BOY : “That cloud’s rising fast. Hadn’t we better make for safety?”
CHARLTON : “Wait a while. I’ve just had another bite.”
value,” but to make it contingent upon the
dismemberment of the State. Complete jus-
tice without any complications could be
secured if Melbourne and a few hundred sq.
miles attached were set up as a separate
State. t Then it could distribute its repre-
sentation on the best democratic principles,
and the cow and wheat areas could do the
same. The other day a witness before the
N. S. Wales New States Commission opined
that secession was unnecessary provided only
the Country party got into power. He appa-
rently failed to notice that it merely requires
a few more years at the present rate of pro-
gress and the Country party will never be
in power. In fact, in N. S. Wales there will
be very little party of any sort except the
County of Cumberland party.
• ♦
‘‘Solomon Malaprop” is not quite done with
Stefanssqn :
Seems to me that Dr. F. Antill Pockley, in his
anger because I didn’t worship his particular god,
becomes rash as well as incoherent. He says he
attended three Stefansson lectures, and apparently
on none of these occasions did the wanderer say the
things I alluded to. Well, the S. M. Herald said
he told the very remarkable things; and without
going again into any of tlie others I ask what does
Dr. Pockley think of this utterance ascribed to Dr.
Stefansson by the S. M. Herald, and, so far as I
know, uncontradicted?—
A further superstition was that it was deadly to
eat snow. All the explorers whom he had consulted,
and all the Canadian hunters he had met in his trips
to the North, had warned him against the effects of
the terrible Arctic thirst, and the dangers of attempt-
ing to quench it by eating snow, as this was sup-
posed to cause excruciating cramps, followed by
death in awful agony.... The belief was due to folk-
lore, and the explorers did not use their common-
sense, as their minds were prejudiced by what they
had been taught in the schools and universities.
There was no more danger than in eating ice-cream
when one went the right way about it, and he and
his men had eaten tons of snow, and never felt the
slightest ill-effects. The danger lay in eating snow
when it was, say, 50 degrees below freezing-point,
and the body 20 degrees above freezing-point. Then
it was like drinking liquid air—danger, and even
death,' might follow. But if the snow was held in
the hand vntil it was heated to something near the
temperature of the body there was absolutely no
danger. Snow thus eaten was both palatable and
appetising.
Did the serious Herald invent it all ? It doesn't
disprove any of the statements of “Canadian hunters’’
and of explorers (a most wooden-headed crowd seem-
ingly) who failed to “use their commonsense” about
the dangers of eating snow. (“Schools and
universities” seem to be also merely vehicles
of misinformation.) In fact, it doesn’t sound
like an essay on eating snow at all, but on drinking,
out of a frostbitten hand, a teaspoonful of water ur
slush. Ever since I read it I have had bad dreams
of a tall, symbolical female figure resembling the
Statue of Liberty, pursuing this dreary job all day,
not getting a satisfying drink out of the whole busi-
ness, and dying of gangrene at nightfall. I hare
tried melted snow in Switzerland and elsewhere, but
it was dissolved in a pot over a fire, and drunk as
soon as it became liquid. It had a very pleasant
taste while quite fresh —in fact, I could imagine my-
self getting a craving for it—-but the thirst soon
came back. As for any theory that danger might
follow the drinking of liquid air, I am inclined to
agree. All the liquid-air drinkers I ever knew fell
dead on the instant and were stiff and crumbly
before they reached the floor. Owing to the fact
that theologians never use their commonsense it
wasn’t known, till 1 made the discovery, that
Ananias died of swallowing liquid air. I inspected
his grave when on a visit to Palestine in 1911, and
found the temperature still 40 degrees below that of
the adjacent paddock.
In this matter I think that, like the late Mr.
Jonah, I do well to be angry. I object to any way-
farer, no matter how difficult his name be to spell,
taking Australia for a fitting place on which to un-
load a very mixed cargo of literary wares.
J. T. Beckett on Stefansson and the
“Dead Heart”:—
“Solomon Malapropos” attack on Stefansson (B.
5/6/'24) was quite undeserved. I have met and
talked with him, and he has certainly not come here
to teach us anything about our own country. He is
hopeful of discovering for himself that what he has
been told about the “arid useless desert” in the interior
of Australia is as untrue as what we have been told
about the desolation of the north of his country. I
have myself just returned from the centre of the con-
tinent, where I made discoveries that upset ideas
formed when, travelling in the centre on previous
occasions. I found, for instance, lands that I had
previously classified as “bad” producing splendid
stock on a four-inch annual rainfall, and 1 learned a
good deal more which I hope may be of great benefit
to the Northern Territory later on. It is easy to
miss big things in such a continent as this. Why
“sling off” at Stefansson because he wants to help
us find them? All he can take out of Australia is
knowledge, and he will share it with us first. A
learned professor once wrote an interesting geological
work entitled “The Dead Heart of Australia.” I have
just brought oranges from it better than the best I
have seen in any other part of Australia, and the
Minister for Home and Territories has eaten them. I
saw fat cattle and sheep and most certainly the fat-
test rabbits battening on Australia’s “dead heart”
where there had been no rain for over a year. I saw
a rabbit’s caul far too big to go into a ‘2oz. tobacco-
tin in country where it was hard to find what fat-
tened them. Why should “Sol. Malaprop” object
to Stefansson seeing these things to tell the people
of other countries about them?
—♦
The Full Court of N. S. Wales delivered a
judgment last week that will stimulate advo-
cates of less ruinous litigation. There is a
type of litigant who believes in legal fright-
fulness as a means of discouraging the others.
A formidable weapon in such a campaign is
the jury of 12, which under one section of
the N. S. Wales Jury Act may be assigned
to try a civil case. Where suits are spun
out the jurors’ fees run to fantastic sums.
One of the parties to last week’s application
wanted juries of 12 in two pending suits:
the plaintiffs in the suits wanted juries of
four. The Chief Justice pointed out that
Section 30 of the Jury Act says: “Civil
issues of fact.... shall be tried by a jury
consisting of four persons duly qualified as
special jurors,” and he intimated pretty
clearly that it would take very strong argu-
ments indeed to induce the Courts to deviate
from that rule in future. If the Full Court
could now put its gradual hand on some
statute limiting civil trials to three days, or
at worst enjoining that they must not
exceed three weeks, there might yet be hope
of justice for the man of moderate means.
*
“X.N.0.” ON the American naval man :
The Bulletin (22/5/’24) anticipates a row about
naval-gun elevations; but it doesn’t really matter a
row of beans if the Americans alter their gun
mountings so that they can elevate them to point at
a tropical sun at mid-day. A British 15-inch gun,
whose maximum elevation is 15 degrees—Uncle
Sam wants to make his 20 degrees—will easily carry
26,000 yards, equal to over 14 land miles. At that
range no shot is ever likely to be fired in a sea
action, because the target is so far away as to be
generally hardly visible; and, to make matters worse,
the fall of shot could not be distinguished. What
it boils down to is that the range at which
a gun can with advantage be used has a
limit. The real issue is the ability of the
man behind the gun. About that 1 can
give first-hand information. Both before and
during the war the aim of British Naval gunnery
was to “calibrate” the guns and train the personnel
so that if a ship fired four or five guns simultane-
ously at the same target and with the same range
on the sights, the projectiles would fall within a
200-yard zone. The 200yds. was called the
“spread.” If the range was correct at the time of
firing, the target would be in the middle of the
spread—“straddled” •by the salvo —and would be
missed by the nearest and farthest shell and possibly
hit by two or three of the remainder. Calibration
is a process carried out very methodically every few
years, and involves testing the guns against each
other at a known range so that errors may be
detected and allowed for on the sights. The writer
was with the Grand Fleet when the American battle-
ships arrived, and his duties brought him into per-
sonal contact with Yankee shooting results. Appa-
rently they did not calibrate their guns at all, and
their shooting was so hopeless that the “spread”
achieved averaged over 3000yds! We took them in
hand —and, be it said to their credit, they showed no
resentment, many openly admitting to the writer
that they didn’t know the first thing about the
game. After a very considerable time they man-
aged to get their “spread” down to 700yds.; but
even that was a hopeless result. A ship thinking of
going into action when she cannot guarantee that
even at target practice her shot will fall in a
700-yard space might just as well stay in harbor and
sell hey ammunition to a fireworks factory. Of course
the Yankees may have improved matters since then,
but it is not very likely. Across Broadway in
November, 1919, was a huge banner stretched from
one upper storey to another inviting men to join
the American Navy and “come for a yachting cruise
for one year only.”


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New Zealand.
WUFACTURED BY
SMOKE
Edgeworth
TOBACCO
FINEST BURLEY LEAF.
Australian Agents:-
R. TOWNS & CO.,
SYDNEY.
(t
Usher’s Hotel ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Two or three features of the Commonwealth
Bank Bill want very careful consideration;
and of these the constitution of the Board
calls for the hardest thought. The proposal
is to have a Board of eight directors and an
apparently unlimited number of local
Boards. The directors are to include the
“Governor” and the Secretary to the
Treasury; and that is probably quite wrong.
Those two ought to be the expert advisers of
the Board. But the most doubtful feature is
the multiplication of directors, representing
sectional interests, at small salaries. The
Board ought to consist of perhaps three (or
five) front-rank financial men, very well
paid—so well paid that they could afford to
give something more than the fag-end of their
brains to the bank. There is great danger
if a large number of men are wanted at
small salaries that the jobs will be grabbed
for by political hangers-on and men who
are interested only or mainly in getting con-
cessions for their own particular sections.
Specialists —apart from finance specialists —
are not wanted on a bank board, anyhow;
their place is in the bank’s service.
It has always been a bit of a mystery
why H. E. Pratten was passed over when
Bruce and Page went Cabinet-making last
year. The omission was repaired at the
week-end, the M.H.R. for Martin (N.S.W.)
having been appointed to the Ministry ot
Trade and Customs. There he will have
opoortunities of assisting others to practise
the doctrine he has so often preached—that
Australia should import a lot less and manu-
facture a lot more. He may, of course, copy
the ignominious policy of his predecessor,
who took shelter behind the Tariff Board
whenever a storm threatened; but the new
man’s speeches in the House of Reps., where
no one is listened to more attentively, have
excited hopes. . .
The Board of the Commonwealth Bank is
to consist of the “Governor” and seven
directors, who will control, as they should,
not only the general business, but the note
issue as well. But, though the directors
will decide every other matter by majority,
on questions relating to the note issue the
majority, in order to be effective, must in-
clude two of the following: The “Governor,”
the Secretary of the Treasury (these two
are to be on the Board) rnd two directors
appointed for their special knowledge of
currency. But who is going to say whether
they have any special knowledge of cur-
rency? Two men on the present Note
Board are supposed to dominate the situa-
tion ; and if jrnu took a vote among
banking heads as to these two, it would
probably be found that a majority would
declare them to merely have mischievous
theories on the question of currency. If
the experts or alleged experts on the Board
can’t convince their colleagues that they are
right, then their word shouldn’t carry. The
creation of an Upper House on the Board is
a disruptive danger.
“Old Parliamentary Hand’s” survey:—
Twenty of the retiring Vic. Assemblymen—l 2
Laborites, five Liberals and three Cockies —have been
re-elected unopposed. No plainer sign .of the don ; -
care-a-dash attitude of the electors could be given.
When the dissolution was secured, parties talked
of a fight with the gloves off, but 18 days after-
wards 31 p.c. of the House is left unchallenged in
the ring. No wonder the sec. of the Labor-Opposition,
with a touch of irony, described himself as “cutter
and statesman.” And the worst of it is that die
74 new candidates who have come out for the other
45 seats are, with few exceptions, an uninspiring lot.
There have been four sudden dissolutions of the
Assembly since the House was reformed in 1903. The
first was fairly effective; the second and third were
failures; the fourth will probably be inconclusive.
Premier Peacock, two colleagues (Eggleston and
Gordcn), ex-whip Pennington (who is doing the
grand tour) and the silent West are the Nationalists
who have got through without contests. Labor’s
dozen unassailed include Preridergast (leader), J.
W. Billson, Lemmon, Hogan, Warde, Bailey and
Tunnecliffe; and the trio of fortunate Hayseeders
are Bowser (Speaker), Lind and Bourchier. After
polling day (June 26) no party will be able to carry
on alone. Some sort of an arrangement between two
of them will be necessary if matters are not to drift
from bad to worse.
“Country Ped’s” testimonial: —
Put this to Peacock’s credit—he is the only
Minister I know who has consistently barracked in
ALL SIXES AND SEVENS.
“The Brace-Pages have a heart-to-heart talk to discover what is really the matter with the Coalition.”
his department for Australian manufactures. \s
Minister for Public Instruction, he has striven in divers
wa3 r s to get the youngsters interested in them. This
year, for example, he allowed the people behind the
“Made in Australia” movement to issue a four-page
monthly supplement to the School Paper. So fer
the past five months pupils and teachers have been
enjoying illustrated articles on how things are manu-
factured in the Commonwealth. We have studied
the wool-growing industry; we have seen how hats
are made; now we are learning how the wool is
turned into blankets and rugs. These articles arc
revelations to country children, who know a good
deal about the raw material of these industries, but
have hitherto been ignorant of the wonderful pro-
cesses of manufacture; they have, indeed, opened up
a new world to many a country boy, and I daresay
to city children too. And every supplement con-
cludes with an exhortation to use Australian-made
goods.
A committee has reported on Sydney’s
traffic difficulties. Among other things it
proposes that the trams should be abolished
in the city proper and replaced, London
fashion, by motor-’buses, as being swifter and
more dodgy. London has tried all the reme-
dies which are foreshadowed in Sydney, and
though the position would doubtless be worse
if there were rail-trams in the Strand and
Oxford-street, the average speed of the
vehicle traffic has dropped within ten years
from nine miles per hour to four miles.
Legend has it that the London traffic will
presently stand still in a dense mass all
day, and only move at night when nobody is
about. As the population of England (not
England and Wales) outside London is about
600 to the sq. mile, it isn’t easy to see what
can be done with the troubles of Bullopolis.
But the population of N.S.W. outside its
metropolis is about four per sq. mile, which
seems to point to an easy solution.
Having fallen out with the Parramatta
Council, Morrow, one of the Nationalist
members for the district, has been challenged
to resign his Assembly seat and contest it at
a by-election against the Mayor. He might
have replied that the proceeding was impos-
sible, but evidently it didn’t occur to li m.
There is no provision for by-elections
under the N. S. Wales variety of
Proportional Representation. If Morrow re-
signed his place would be filled by the sole
remaining Nationalist candidate at the 1922
election (there were only three, and two
were returned) ; and if that person was not
available then Premier Fuller would have
the right to appoint anyone he pleased out-
side of the lunatic asylums and gaols. It
shouldn’t be necessary to mention these
elementary facts, but even N.S.W. politicians
don’t seem to understand the freak law they
have foisted on the community.
In Queensland last year it was held that
strike levies were recoverable from members
of a federated trade union, even if the strike
was in another State. That was when
£12.000 was dragged from the Queensland
coalminers in support of an imbecile N. S.
Wales work stoppage, about which they had
never been consulted, and which 99 per cent,
would have voted down had it gone to a bal-
lot. In Sydney an employee of the State
Government has been sued for a contribution
to the expenses of a Commonwealth arbitra-
tion case, and a penalty “for disloyalty in
neglecting to pay the levy”—£l 6s. in the one
instance and £5 in the other. This levy
was struck without reference to tlie members
of the organisation, some of whom object to
it on that account; others, because they. are
not keen on Commonwealth arbitration;
others, again, because they consider the
amount sought far in excess of what will be
required; and the magistrate’s decision (it
won’t be announced until after The Bul-
letin goes to press) will need to be care-
fully considered by the State and Common-
wealth Governments.
It is proposed that the executive head of
the Commonwealth Bank shall still be ‘‘the
Governor.” The name is not only confus-
ing, but with a Board of Directors it will
be misleading as well, and it ought to be
dropped in favor of general manager or
superintendent.
The State Bank of S.Aus. has called for
tenders for another 1000 houses on the Adel-
aide plains. The first 400 will be on the
old Mitcham military-camp site, now to be
called Colonel Light Gardens. Denny, who
is Minister for Housing as well as Attorney-
General, says there is a shortage of 6000
homes in the metropolitan area, and that the
State Bank is still deluged with applications.
He thinks £BO.OOO can be saved by letting
the contract in large groups—a tenderer may
undertake any number from 10 to 1000. And
there certainly ought to be a big saving. But
Denny’s real job is not to save on these build-
ings, but to make any more of them unneces-
sary. Already the population of Adelaide
(1992 figures) is 52.67 p.e. of the entire
population of the State, as against London s
11.88 p.c. of England, Brussels 10.36 p.e.
of Belgium, Edinburgh 8.63 of Scotland and
Paris 7.41 p.e. of France.
A Bendigo co. is putting on the market a
domestic sewing-machine wholly niaae 111
Australia, as attractive and guaranteed as
serviceable as the imported article, and at a
much lower figure than is asked for the lattei.
The manager of one of the big importing hrms
told the Melbourne press recently (.1) that
the Australian trade is not big' enough t
justify a local factory; and (2) that an Aus-
tralian sewing-machine could not be so
much under £3O (the price of the imported
drop-head machine is about ±10).
manager of the Bendigo firm replies (1) tnat
about 20,000 sewing-machines are imported
into Australia every year, and that, it lie sells
one-sixth of this number, leaving the rest
for the foreigner, his works will be on a pay-
able basis: and (2) that he will sell the
importer aforesaid three guaranteed machines
for every £3O he likes to put up, with a
minimum of 300 machines.
From a Brisbane correspondent
Until recently union rules and Arbitration- Cou:t
awards prevented anything like a decent proportion
of our lads learning trades. For a long \vnile tne
lad who had passed the qualifying examination arm
who had an employer anxious to secure him as an
apprentice, was not allowed to take the trade ot no-
choice. He might desire to be a printer, but the
Apprenticeship Committee —an autocracy establishe.
by a Socialist Government—-would say, * ISO, you
must be a plumber.” That has to an extent been
modified, but still an apprentice cannot call his soul
Which probably helps to explain why Queens-
land had so much smaller a proportion ol
its people engaged upon “secondary indus-
try” last year than in 1913 —540 out of
each 10,000 as against a previous 049. It
any party desires to advertise itself by doing
something strenuous for the rising generation
it might try its hand at the compulsory
teaching of some Skilled occupation to every
boy and girl, the latter being encouraged to
specialise in cooking, domestic economy and
needlework. An Apprenticeship Board might
select a trade for the youth who had no
definite preference of his own, and steer him
into one of the less crowded ways and one
for which he seemed most fit. But the idea
of a Board to keep young people but of
skilled occupations, which is practically ap-
prenticing them to loafing, crime or odd-
jobbery, is the last word in craziness.
Had Vie. Premier Peacock muzzled his
Leg. Council colleagues before the election
campaign started he would have less to re-
gret. Robinson, in particular, is getting
the teeth of the Coekies—possible supporters
under a new Composite Ministry—oil edge;
Assemblymen never did take kindly to Uppali
House “intruders.” Robinson, by the way,
will have to go through an election ordeal
himself in 11 months, and he will have his
own troubles then.
Hagelthorn, ex-Minister for Agriculture
(Vic.), who is trying to snatch the Morning-
ton seat from Downward, has had the hardi-
hood to suggest that a poll should be held on
general-election day to decide whether the
number of Assembly members should be oU.
65 or 70, and whether the proportion ot
city electors to country voters should be 109
to 40, 50 or 60. He has not Buckley’s chance
of securing such a reference to. the people by
either executive or legislative act. One
reason is that the verdict of the.majority would
be so drastic that many politicians would have
to turn to and dig their own political graves.
The late N.S.W. Dooley Government got
hold of a remarkable recruit when it nomi-
nated J. B. Suttor to the Leg. Council. Not
long after his appointment this representa
live of the enslaved masses was asked to
explain his association with a contract for a
five years’ supply of coal to the Government
Trawling Department, the contract having
been made with persons unknown in the
trade without the formality of consulting the
Minister, the Crown Solicitor or the Stores
Supplies Committee, and the price being
several shillings per ton more than coal of
similar quality was fetching. Recently the
gentleman has been alleging that firms
supplying electrical apparatus to the Sydney
Council had an arrangement by which exces-
sive prices were quoted, the firm securing
the order dividing the excess among the other
tenderers. This, he asserts, went on while
he was managing one of the concerns accused :
but apparently his conscience didn’t goad
him into mentioning it until years after he
had left the job and become a Labor M.L.C.
And a Vfery nice Labor M.L.C., too.
If the ex-Australian Legion of Melbourne
has its way there will be a little cave of
“Progressive Liberals” in the next Vic-
torian Parliament. The Legion, which now
dubs itself the Progressive Liberal League,
is supporting Snowball, Farthing, Everard,
Angus and Billson, who helped to reject the
Redistribution of Seats Bill, and is running
three of its own candidates, Mason, Harris
and Mahoney, for Hawthorn, Dandenong and
Stawell and Ararat. Also, it is trying to
whip up votes for P. A. Jacobs, who is oppos-
ing Cold-Tea Greenwood for Boroondara, and
has given its blessing to Woodfull, who hopes
to wrest P’ran from Dr. Fetherston. Appa-
rently the League cannot make up its mind
regarding Albert Park, where it is dividing
its affections between Cr. Craine and S. D.
Neale; but it is firm in its determination to
ignore Dr. Lee Atkinson, who, after being
one of the wet-nurses of the old Legion, broke
away from it some time later.
ON THE CROSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thomas Thick endorsed the opinion of previous
witnesses that most Labor selection ballots were
•crook.’ Not 50 per cent, of the votes recorded were
legitimate Ernest O’Dca testified that he had
never known a selection ballot conducted fan y m
N.S.W.” —Evidence before the, Federal A.t-J . aaaoi-
box Inquiry.
There’s a chance, when three cards have been juggled
in air, .
That the one you’re invited to point to is there.
You may get a fair deal, though it’s rare, I agree,
When you’re picking the thimble that covers the pea,
But when Labor is choosing its champs, for the fray
Such a hope is fallacious (thinks Ernie O’Dea).
Only chumps will o’erlook
(Or Tom Thick is mistook)
That the word to apply to the process is “crook.
You may punt on the ponies or cheerfully hie
To the haunts of two-uppers and head ’em— or try ;
Play poker with strangers and And it a fact
That the hands out against you won’t always be
stacked.
To pool-rooms suburban a chap may repair—
At least there’s a show of a game on the square
In the shadiest nook.
But by sense you’re forsook
If you question that Labor selections are “crook.
In manifold places and sundry retreats
You may fall among welshers and scalers arid cheats.
You may learn to your cost there are ev’rywhere.
scamps
Who revel in frame-ups and riot in ramps.
But, my son, they’ll be thickest, you’ll find them in
mobs,
Where unionists hustle for lucrative jobs.
When the plum-tree is shook,
And the prizes they hook,
You can wager your socks that the ballot is “crook. ’
N.6.W.
T. THE R.


{bNEjfo
e?
*
Pioneer Leather Belting
is the standard high-grade belting that has been
specified for a large proportion of the most
important drives in Australian industrial and
manufacturing plants for the past 64 years.
WHERE TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES AND
QUOTATIONS—
J. C. LUDOWICI «a SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: »J. & R. E. Madder Pty.,
Utd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OUEENSEAND: Hoey, T ry, Etd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Btd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons, Tinipson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout tho Emplro.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qolatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuio
Detonators
Cartridges
The Fladfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are pow pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank:—
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.), ten Oft'. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £145,099 £78,789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(91 p.c.)
1921.. 836,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1,376,625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares.. 163,164 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350.168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares.. 14,789 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129,678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares.. 191,828 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
*Six months.
A dozen years back the National was a com-
paratively small bank which did not com-
mand much attention outside Victoria and S.
Australia. Even six years ago its paid capi-
tal was slightly under 11 million, reserves
were below £BOO,OOO, and it had the care of
but a little more than 13| millions of de-
posits. For many years it had paid only
7 p.c. p.a. to shareholders. But it had de-
veloped ambitions, and towards the end of
1918 the old Colonial Bank was welded to it.
Then it looked longingly north, and a couple
of years later the Bank of Queensland, which
several years before had amalgamated the
Bank of North Queensland and the Royal of
Queensland, w T as bought outright. Since the
Colonial was taken over expansion has been
remarkably rapid. Here are some figures :
Paid Dross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1920.. £2,000,000 £1,250,015 £725,127 £425,345
1921.. 2,000,000 1,1376,625 862,102 525,491
1922.. 2,661,125 1,661,907 953,758 603,590
1923.. 2,725,000 1,806,324 1,114,392 672,214
1924.. 3,225,000 2,148,342 1,199,282 701,113
The business of the amalgamated banks has
so increased that £775,000 more capital is
being got in, together with £155,000 of share
premiums, taking paid capital to four mil-
lions, which is double the figures of less than
four years back, and increasing reserves
to £2,300,000-odd. In a few years the
National sprung into second place with
the Bank of Australasia in size of
capital—the Bank of N. S. Wales leads
with six millions paid up—and it ranks
third in respect of deposits. The next com-
parisons show the expansion of the balance-
sheet figures; the 1918 entries are the com-
bined figures of the old National and Colonial
banks at the last balances prior to the
fusion:—
Liabilities.
1918. 1923. 1924.
Notes .. .. £50,667 £48,874 £48,311
Bills, etc. .. 1,689,320 1,409,355 1,412,333
Free deposits .. 8,333,880 12,878,415 13,878,804
Fixed deposits.. 10,253,320 16,281,130 17,335,185
Liquid assets .. 9,276,189 ’ 11,140,404 11,495,536
Advances . . 13,503,709 23,292,462 25,759,647
Premises, etc. . . 586,367 852,482 954,044
In only six years the joint liabilities of the
two old banks, assisted by less than 3j mil-
lions brought in by the Bank of Queensland,
have grown from under 20$ millions to
£32,674,833. Meanwhile the book value of
advances has soared from 13 1 to 25$ mil-
lions.
No other Australian bank has developed
so quickly in such a short period: even in
the past four years the National climbed
from fifth to third place. The March returns
this year ranked the first 12 banks in this
order for Australasian business: —
Deposits. Advances.
Bank of N. S. Wales . . £53,313,090 £46,022,562
Commercial of Sydney . . 32,237,347 27,279,780
National 30,842,050 25,647,171
Commonwealth Bank . . 29,940,516 13,935,591
Union 28,167.859 23,294,065
Bank of New Zealand . . 27,571,435 26,348,602
Bank of ’Asia .. .. 27,170,494 24,855,745
12.. S. and A. . . . . 24,694.402 23,690,280
Commercial of Aus. . . 18,026.666 13,854,788
Victoria 11,806,737 9,727,134
A.B.C. 11,431,710 9,888,811
Queensland National . . 9,621,401 10,168,391
The rapid expansion has accounted for the
directors’ persistent appeal for new capital.
Six years ago the two old banks were
together holding £6 17s. Id. of the public's
money for every £1 of their own funds; but
though three millions more have been put
into the business by new share issues, pre-
miums thereon and visible surplus profits, at
March 31 last outside liabilities ran into
£6 Is. Bd. per £1 of funds. That was well
within the recognised limits of safe trading,
and the new capital and premiums, which
will reduce the proportion of debt to £5
3s. 9d. on the basis of figures in March, will
justify the management in seeking further
development of business. One feature of
recent operations which has no doubt, in these
times of money shortage, helped the National’s
progress, has been its increased lending capa-
city. As the result of the management’s policy
of putting every available penny at work, at
March 31 slightly less than 35.2 p.c. of all
outside debt was held in the liquid groups
shown in the balance-sheet. That was
nearly five points below the level which the
banker usually likes to hold in cash, readily-
convertible and gold-tinted securities. Last
year the growth of advances outpaced the
increase of deposits; “this increase,” the
directors say, “has taken place despite the
fact that there has, throughout the yeax-,
been followed such a special policy of gen-
eral restriction as we felt to be compatible
with the difficulties of the times and a rea-
sonable treatment of the many demands made
upon us by our customers of all classes for
funds needed for carrying on the producing,
manufacturing, export and other industries
of the country.” This pressure from bor-
rowers has been embarrassing to bank man-
agements generally, but though new loans
have necessitated extra careful scrutiny,
security officers are experiencing less
trouble than they had a couple of
years back. Values generally are much
more stable, and the risks of a sudden slump
have diminished. Meanwhile many manu-
facturing industries which developed in the
war period are flourishing, and some of the
newer enterprises which were threatened
with extinction by competition of cheaper-
labor imports are showing signs of per-
manency and prospects of profitable expan-
sion. The agricultural and pastoral indus-
tries have had a good run, and prospects for
the coming seasons are good as to production
and markets. Generally the dark clouds
which loomed heavily on the bankers’ hori-
zon in recent years have thinned to a mist.
The worst troubles in sight are the problems
of the national debt and disorganised cur-
rency—and to a great extent these are the
same problem. Bankers’ figures are at
present considerably influenced by these two
factors, and so long as Commonwealth,
State and local governments continue to bor-
row heavily, particularly in overseas mar-
kets, and squander the money, difficulties
will continue.
Bankers’ advances nowadays differ from
those of a few years ago, when traders were
being carried through a period of high prices
and excessive stocks. Against their incli-
nation and judgment of the position, the
banks were for a time the unwilling backers
on a big scale of thousands of customers,
large and small, many of whom would have
gone to the wall had they been refused addi-
tional accommodation. Compared with a
few years back, the nature of advances has
changed materially. At one time a very
large part of the banks’ loans was on land.
In fact, the old-time advances were to a
large extent made against a form of good-
will. For a long period in the development
of the States, the banks had comparatively
little employment for their funds outside
that field. But industrial development has
brought big changes; many millions of the
banks’ funds available for loans are now
financing industries and are protected by
stocks and customers’ accounts, and, not
least important, the loans are in the care of
managements whose continuance in control
depends on their success. Consequently,
overdrawn accounts are much moi*e liquid
than they used to be, and the securities are
much more dependable. Most of the bad
accounts of recent years in industrial and
trading fields have been accounted for by
bank managements’ faulty judgment of the
personal factor; but in very few instances
has much been lost in unloading the fore-
closed securities, even if, as in one notable
instance, it was necessai’y to employ dubious
company-promoting methods to shake free.
Though the National’s 35.2 p.c. of liquid
assets is smaller than formerly, owing to the
more liquid type of advances, the position
may actually be much stronger. At March
31 there were £21,179,007 of liabilities not
covered by cash, notes, public securities, etc.,
but they 'had the backing of 25f millions of
advances and premises written-down to
£954,000. Before a penny of the public’s
money can be endangered, the National
must, therefore, lose more than s?} millions of
the written-down - book values of its assets.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.,
wholesale book- and news-agents, paper and
printing-machinery merchants, advertising
contractors, etc.: —
, Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£, £> £ £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar., ’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sei)t..’23. .26.982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49.462
Mar.,.’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ ~ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
The half-year’s net profit in the table is larger
by £517 than the amount disclosed by the
directors, that much having dropped into “pro-
perty and other reserves.” Per contra, £3856
has been written off reserves to cover the cost
of raising £77.130 of new capital, underwrit-
ing and brokerage having taken Is. in
the £. Meanwhile £l5OO more had
been paid for goodwill, no doubt - in
purchasing the subscription business of
liigby, Ltd., of Adelaide. The intangible
goodwill asset now amounts to £118,074,
though after distributing latest divs. and
paying new-share exes, there were reserves
of £52,646 to set against it. The whole of
the authorised capital having been got in,
G. and G. now shows a half-million paid up,
and £65,428 of it (= 2s. 7d. per pref. and
ordinary share —the former preferential as to
8 p.e. cumulative divs. only) was represented
by intangible assets. The new funds were
not at work long enough to make much im-
pression on the half-year’s earnings; instead,
owing chiefly to a spell of dull trading in
N. S. Wales and Queensland, profits were
£3027 less than for the previous six months.
Nevertheless, a substantial surplus remained
after paying 8 p.e. on both classes of shares,
and the profits were not far short of 10 p.e.
on enlarged ordinary capital after allowing
for pref. requirements. Even should profits
show a substantial improvement, it would be
unwise to lift the div. rate above 8 p.e. until
larger reserves have been accumulated
against intangible assets and the co.’s posi-
tion generally has been strengthened.
The outstanding feature of the March half-
year was the big reduction of debts. Alto-
gether the new shares (less brokerage, etc.)
and the term’s surplus profit assisted with
slightly more than £80,000; but the reduc-
tion of stocks and the liquidation of book
debts brought outside debt down by £150,000,
and meanwhile £8855 net went into proper-
ties and equipment. Here are details
Liabilities.
Sept.,’22. Sept.,’23. Mar.,’24.
Paid capital .. .. £398,600 £422,870 £500,000
Mortgages .. .. 30,500 31,500 30,500
Sundry creditors . . 116,074 143,718 117,417
Bank overdraft .. . . 195,779 317,873 194,954
Total outside liabilities £342,353 £493,091 £342,871
Assets.
Freeholds .. .. £70,455 £114,598 £117,391
Leaseholds .. . . 20,787 24,381 24,975
Plant, fixtures, etc. .. 23,302 39,735 45,203
Stock 281,405 375,472 307,029
Book debts . . . . 254,658 316,075 303,976
Other liquid assets, etc. 20,291 11,154 12,891
Tangible assets .. £670,898 £881,415 £811,465
On the basis of the September, 1923, figures,
the co. would have been employing 19s. 2d.
of outside money for every £1 of its own
funds represented by tangible assets even
when all the new capital had been got in.
The March accounts show an improvement
to slightly under 16s. The soundness of the
improvement from a trading point of view
depends on whether, with stocks down from
£375,472 to £307,029, the business is fully
equipped for profit-making. Even now the
management seems to be depending too much
on its bankers and other creditors, though
there are stocks, book debts and liquid odds-
and-ends valued at £623,896 to set against
£312,371 of floating debt.. In the present
condition of the money market and the pro-
bable further tightening of credits, G. and G.
finances would be easier if more of the
borrowed funds were tied to the business. At
present there are only £30,500 of mortgages
—on £187,569 of fixed assets—and the over-
drafts are 6-| times greater than the mort-
gages.
Metiers, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, aluminium- and
enamel-ware, etc., at Sydney, Adelaide, New-
castle and Perth:—
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits.* Dividends.* ten Off. serves, serves.
1915. . £17,606 5 p.e. = £8,206 £5087 £4,313 £1.606
1916. . 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9.636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,376
1918.. 23,434 6 „ „ 9,848 5667 7,919 26,295
1919.. 23,907 8 „ „ 13,131 5825 4,951 31,246
Premiums on new shares . . 25 31,271
Transferred to capital .. £32,794 )
1920.. 39,610 8 p.e. = 14,453 6687 18,470 < '
Premiums on new shares .. 114 17,061
1921.. 54,767 10 p.e. = 20,069 8697 26,001 43,062
Premiums on new shares . . 258 43,320
Profit from sale of assets. . 3,020 46,340
1922.. 48,809 10 p.e. = 20,497 12,672 15,640 61,980
Profit from sale of assets . . 2,083 64,063.
Premiums on new shares .. 699 64,762
1923. . 51,571 10 p.e. = 21,790 13,793 15,988 80,750
Transferred to capital. . £66,122 24,628
Premiums on new shares . . 550 25,178
1924.. 67,964 10 p.e. = 28,336 14,561 24,767 49,945
*Not including prefs.’ 7 p.e. ( £3500).
At the balancing date nominal capital was
£400,000 and £834,125 was paid up, but
the business had made such rapid strides
that while providing for expansion the direc-
tors decided to bid high, and in one move
nominal capital was increased to a million.
Of the £600,000 increase, £400,000 is re-
served for issue as ordinaries and £200,000
for prefs.; and as the latter are to be
limited to 7 p.e. cumulative, the market has
been guessing as to the directors’ intentions.
So far, though the increase of capital was
approved by shareholders two months ago,
no scheme for enlarging working funds has
been submitted. It may. however, be taken
for granted that no very large issue of shares
will be made at any time in the near future.
The prospective cramping of the principal
works in Sydney has for some time caused
the management anxiety, and a fine new area
of 50 acres was lately acquired. This pur-
chase did not involve heavy expenditure, but
the co. is also making new plant additions,
and these and the natural expansion of
the business justify a moderate issue.
Further, profits for the last financial year
were so handsome that, after paying 10 p.e,
on ordinaries—the prefs. and ordinaries took
£31,836 —-making liberal allowance for de-
preciation of plant, and voting £2OOO
to a staff fund, no less than £24,767
(nearly 8f p.c. on ordinary capital) went
into reserves. The latter now tot up £79,601
—general reserves, £57,856; assets realisa-
tion account, £10,099; div. equalisation re-
serve, £10,000; reserve of share premiums,
£1646. When the present co. began 16 years
ago, £29,656 was paid for goodwill, and it
still figures for that in the balance-sheet. Con-
sequently the tangible assets in excess of the
backing required for paid capital (which,
incidentally, was swollen by two bonus issues
that together tapped reserves for £88,916) is
the £49,945 shown in the introductory table.
But Metters’s gift scrip differed from the
usual run of bonus shares. Much of it was
the reward for shareholders’ patience in the
pioneering and development years, when, not-
withstanding good profits made, they re-
ceived only bread-and-cheese returns and left
the balance for consolidating and expanding
the business. For eight years to 1920 the
average annual div. rate was only a trifle
more than 6 p.c., and meanwhile £63,546,
or considerably more than one-tliird of paid
capital, was visibly stored. The manufac-
ture of old and new lines which were de-
veloped in the war period—stamped enamel
hollow-ware and aluminium goods are now
important side-lines —has been so successful
that while other industries have suffered
through depression and competition from
foreign cheap-labor factories, for the past
four years Metters, Ltd., has paid 10 p.c.
each year on its greatly enlarged ordinary
capital and £82,396 has been laid aside after
providing for perishable assets on a liberal
scale.
The following comparisons of balance-sheet
figures detail the expansion :
Liabilities.
1914. 1919. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital. . £164,133 £1G4,133 £274,336 £334,125
Overdrafts . . 34,981 32,976 24,326 65,294
Other liabili-
ties . . 31,148 39,420 45,076 47,254
Assets.
Land and build-
ings . . 66,129 84,399 119,259 144,773
Plant . . 33,190 37,920 108,638 132,778
Stock . . 84.761 107,326 137,818 150,091
Book debts . . 34,729 40,180 84,499 98,756
Shares . . 8,560 8,529 —-
Cash, etc. . . 45 2,962 111 4,116
Amalgamating some of the figures the pro-
gress over the two five-year periods can be
summarised in this way:—
1914. 1919. 1924.
Liquid assets .. £128,095 £158,997 £249,963
Liabilities .. 66,129 72,396 112,548
Liquid surplus . . £61,966 £86,601 £137,415
Fixed assets . . 99,319 122,319 277,551
The growth of the liquid surplus by £75,449
in 10 years and the increase of the book
value of properties and plant by £178,232
has been accomplished with only £82,722
called up from shareholders in new scrip
issues and premiums thereon. Incidentally,
besides the visible reserves there are large
internal accumulations; all properties stand
in the books at original cost, and plant and
stocks have both been heavily written down.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :—•
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1913.. £10,262 10 p.c.= £6585 £3OOO £677 £9,462
1914.. 7,677 7} „ „ 4939 3000 9,200
1915.. 2,956 S§ „ 2469 1500 8,187
1916.. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 326 8,513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ „ 6585 1976 8,513
1918.. 8,924 10 ~ „ 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 12 \ „ „ 8231 4000 1114 9,966
1920.. 11,014 10 „ „ 6585 2650 1779 11,745
Transferred to capital, £9150 . . 2,595
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 1,656 3J p.c.= 2813 1,874
Profit. Reserves.
1922.. 2,092 Nil 2092 218
1923.. 6,670 8$ p.c.= 6562 108 326
1924.. 2,201 2i „ „ 1875 326 652
The directors do not explain the latest col-
lapse of profits. Twelve months back they
reported “a continued improvement in trade
conditions,” and stocks then on hand were
considered adequate for the past year’s trad-
ing. Judging by the reduced profit the book
value of those stocks, which presumably was
the production cost plus incidental charges,
was not low enough to show much
margin. The published accounts fail
to enlighten the shareholder on these
matters; they merely show a credit of only
£6990 from the salt account after disposing
of stocks and taking in last summer’s har-
vest, against £11,769 similarly earned for
the previous financial year. Latest stocks
were won under “abnormally unfavorable
conditions,” the directors say, but “as a re-
sult of strenuous effort the gatherings may be
sufficient to carry on business throughout the
year.” This probably means that the sum-
mer wasn’t a real summer—in S. Australia
it has been exceptionally wet and cloudy and
cool, so that the harvesters were not able
to get on to the swamp lands which yield the


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOII MAY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Advertising Mechanisms.
Australian Metropolitan
Life.
Bankers & Traders’ In-
surance.
Bank of Adelaide.
Bon Marche.
Builders’ Steel Form
Supply.
Burns, Philp.
Burns, Philp (South Sea).
Caldwell’s Wines.
Colonial Sugar Refining.
Elder's Trustee.
General Motor Invest-
ments.
Illawarra & South Coast
S.N.
Kempthorne Prosser.
Lcndon Loan & Discount.
Loch Katherine Colliery.
McDowells, Ltd.
Murray Shipping.
Mid-North Electricity.
Monarch Brick and Tile-
Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance.
Olympia Motor Speedway.
Perkins & Co.
Petroleum Export Corp.
Permewan, Wright.
Plaster Boards (Vic. and
S.A.).
Prospectuses.
Reservoir Timber.
Registrations.
Rothwell’s, Ltd.
Sydney Road Freeholds.
Tasmanian Perm. Execu-
tors.
Vianini Concrete Pipes,
(Vic.).
Wests, Ltd.
Wickham & Bullock
Island Coal.
Wilsons, Ltd.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
Younghusband, Ltd.
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bui.i.etin Office. Orders may bo
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/G per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite’—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, Who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
r * * *
The low initial cost of Pioneer Wood Pipe fre-
quently allows considerable extension of the original
plans for irrigation or water-main construction work.
For this modern wood conduit is not only cheaper 10
buy, but its lightness (it weighs only one-third as
much as metal pipe) cuts down transport, handling
and installation charges. Pioneer Wood Pipe further
demonstrates its economy in service, for it never
rusts, corrodes nor fouls, and is unaffected by elec-
trolyS-3, frost, “bad soil,” acids or alkalies. It re-
quires no cleaning, and incurs practically no upkeep.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
**. * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W., for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horse-power. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gasworks. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements. — Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Koristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered bv Messrs. Felton, Grinnvade & Co.
Ptv., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
» * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hvdraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building).
Telephones: Central 7691-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Cat lirart House,
lie Castlereagh Street.
Telephone: IS 1507.
Cables: “Hydrocivil.”
What is the Economic Life of a
Motor Lorry?
The “Commercial Motor,” London, reporting on the 18th
London Parade of Commercial Motor Vehicles, says:—
“Thomas Tilling, Ltd., showed no fewer than 12 vehicles,
all of Tilling-Stevens manufacture, several being box vans
employed by the General Post Office.
“These vehicles were remarkable for their length of
service; one, which had covered no fewer than 286,500 miles,
looked in the pink of condition. ’
Sole Concessionaires for Tilling-Stevens Motors, Ltd.
GIJTHRIDGE LIMITED, Parramatta Road, Camperdown (City).
salt. The only cheerful item is that the
quality of salt stocks is better, and what
may be lost by a reduced turnover maybe
partially recovered in improved prices. i\ot
unlikely, though, the speeding-up of harvest-
ing increased the tonnage cost of stocks, and
results for the current year depend chiefly
on how the book values fare in. the market.
The co. has been very disappointing since
1920, when, after an exceptionally good run
in an active market, the directors capitalised
most of the accumulated profits to give share-
holders a ont-in-seven scrip-bonus. On the
inflated capital an average of only 3f p.c.
has been paid for four years, and reserves
have been reduced to a miserable £652. And
they are only nominal reserves because an un-
specified amount of goodwill is still mixed
up in the balance-sheet with fixed assets. The
co.’s financial position is comfortable, how-
ever. Here are balance-sheet figures for four
years.— 192 i. 1922. 1923. 1921.
Stocks .. .. £45,201 £34,816 £31,695 £26,654
Book debts . . 4,845 3,335 4,230 2,741
Cash, etc. .. 399 339 232 3,357
Liquid assets .. £50,445 £38,490 £36,157 £32,752
Liabilities ~ 30,990 16,927 8,011 4,403
Liquid surplus.. £19,455 £21,563 £28,146 £28,259
Liabilities in May this year were much be-
low the average, and the liquid surplus after
providing for divs., amounted to £26,384,
which was over £lOOO better than when
last year’s divs. had been extracted. How-
ever, this liquid surplus represents only 7s.
per £1 share, and the other 13s. is all in
freeholds, leaseholds, plant, goodwill, live-
and rolling-stock and trade-marks. The direc-
tors say that, “generally speaking, the affairs
of the co. are in a very sound condition”;
but thov would have been much had
the £9150 of reserves not been capitalised.
Erratic profit-earning performances, the in-
flation of capital and the meagreness of re-
serves have discounted the scrip in the
market. The best price offered lately for
the £l-paids has been 11s. 9d.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold returns this year are a
little better than those for the same period
of 1923, but the depressing feature is that
more than three-fourths of the^ output is fnm
the few remaining mines at Kabmorlm. T'e
search for new mines to take the place of
those being worked out has thus far ailed.
Apart from Kalgoorlie, Meekatharra, Gwalia
and one or two Yilgarn centres, the combined
monthly output does not exceed a couple of
thousand ounces.
Edna May Central paid £5OO cash deposit
on its Meekatharra option the other day, and
at the same time it was announced that the
vendors had dollied 130 oz. from about a
hundredweight of stone. The show has for
some time been in the limelight with a few
similar rich returns, but what there is to
back them has to be learned by extensive
development.
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) is endeavoring to
revive interest in its Kalgoorlie option by
securing an extension of time end a reduction
in the purchase price to £10,009. Even that
figure does not anpear to be warranted by the
mine position. Moderately good ore has been
exposed in places, but the average through-
out cannot be worth much to a co. under pre-
sent working conditions. However, only the
bright side of the picture is being presented
in order to rake in calls.
A Westralian Mines Department official
considers that the Lalla Rookh, on the dis-
tant Pilbarra goldfield, should pull through
if capably handled. He adds that it should
do better if the tailings can be treated suc-
cessfully. At present about one-third of the
gold is lost owing to refractory ore and crude
methods of extraction, but even if it was
all saved it is doubtful if the makes of stone
in the mine are sufficiently big and perma-
nent to enable a co. to carry on profitably.
So far Lalla Rookh has distributed nothing,
but call notices, though at flotation early
divs. were expected from high-grade ore
claimed to be then in sight.
* * * *
When two years ago the arsenic market
collapsed to about £22 per ton the owners of
Westralia’s only large-sized arsenic deposit,
the Transvaal, at Southern Cross, abandoned
their holding and sold up plant. Since
then a demand at £5O per ton has induced
them to return, and thev are now preparing
to mine and treat the substantial ore reserves
in sight. Gold averages 30s. ner ton, and
arsenic content is high. The ore will be
crushed and concentrated on the spot, and
the product railed to Melbourne for final
treatment.
* * * #
Golden Butterfly is again looking for a
mine. The show on which it recently ah'ghted
at Siberia (W.A.) was not attractive. A
few other Adelaide cos. and a London one
continue to potter about in this locality, but
hard country and dwindling values at depth
will beat them in the end.
* * * *
Brilliant Co. has taken over Glow’s Nest
(W.A.), and is reported to be del'ghted with
its bargain. However, its capital is small,
prospects of raising more are slender, and
very heavy outlay will be necessary to prove
what G now’s Nest can offer at depth. In
present workings all the payable ore nas been
picked out.
* * * *
Queensland gold yield for May was 71350 z.
(fine), and 2340 z. better tuan for May. 1923.
Mt. Morgan contributed 59750 z., so other gold-
fields are dead or moribund. Mt. Coolon is
the only other centre with any produ.tion
worth mentioning—tss7oz. Mt. Coolon could
be made a touch bigger producer, but a go as-
you-pfease policy of working prevents any
development worth while. Gympie and
Charters Towners are lifeless; the former
has no crushing facilities for the small syn-
dicates rooting about in the old leases, and
the Mines Department is considering the
question of putting up a public battery. North
Phoenix will have another crushing this
month.
* # * *
Mt. Isa, Ltd., is pushing ahead with in-
vestigation work in great style. Four shafts
are down 85ft. or more, five over 60ft., three
more than 40ft. and seven between 20ft. and
80ft. All of the 19 shafts are to go to
100 ft., and crosscuts and drives will be run
out to determine the behavior of the numer-
ous formations and provide the necessary
data as to dip and strike for deciding posi-
tions for about six mainshafts. Some of
the prospecting shafts may be sent
deeper to seek a secondary e.ric'ied
zone. Later on the present shafts, when
connected with workings from the main-
shafts, are expected to be useful as mullock
and air passes. Government Geologist St.
Smith is watching developments, and a
second report on the geology of the field
should be available in August.
Manager E. J. Itodda is also busy on the
six leases held under option tw Mt- Tc “ l P’"'* l .
Shafts on three of them are down 12ft., 22ft.
and 34ft. in ore. The Prop, is bagging some
of the high-grade stuff, no doubt with the
object of easing finances for the purchase of
the properties: it raised £20.000 in contribs.,
paid £2500 cash and 60,000 shares to ven-
dors, and to acquire the leases it must find
£26 250 cash, besides allotting £15,000 of
shares.
Recent market talk of the two cos. amal-
gamating was silenced by the directors of
both disclaiming any such intentions. One
Prop, director declared that nothing less
than 5000 £2O Mt. Isa shares would induce
him to agree to an amalgamation. As his
co.’s shares then had a market value of
£34,000 against £200.000 for 500 Mt. Isas,
his terms could hardly be called attractive.
* * * *
“Argent”: Mt. Isa is no Broken Hill. The
Hill had a very large exposure of oxidised
ore with a high silver content, running to
thousands of ounces to the ton. This enabled
some of the blocks to show a profit from
the grass-roots, and their owners were thus
able to carrv out extensive development wo’-k
and provide adequate equipment. Ten
years later came a period when the
sulphide problem had to be overcome,
and the large reserve funds won from
the rich values were a big factor in
the renewed life of the field. Subsequently
the greatness of Broken Hill was the enor-
mous size of its low-grade ore-bodies, for ton-
nage is an all-important factor in mine equip-
ment and treatment costs. On the other
hand, the little Yerranderie silver-field did
not have a zone of oxidised ore which had
undergone secondary enrichment, and the
available tonnage of ore in sight was never
very big; but if had the silver values which
have persisted to depth. The value of the
“firsts” ranged from £2O to £3O per ton, or
about 1250 z. silver and 35 p.c. lead, with
from 2dwt. to 3dwt. gold. On the evidence
so far available the Mt. Isa lodes contain,
in places, from lOoz. to 30oz. silver and 20
p.c. lead per ton. This appears to represent
values in the oxidised zone, where secondary
enrichment is to be expected. What will
happen below this zone is in the lap of the
gods; but, judging from the general experi-
ence of the world’s silver-lead fields, lower
values are likely. Besides, Mt. Isa has yet
to disclose whether there will be large ore-
bodies at deptli.
The old Woolgar goldfield (Q.) recently
gave its last kick. Low and Schoop Bros.’
crushing gave Boz. 6dwt. from 26 tons out of
the Big Australian. The Mines Department
did not assist the plucky crowd of battlers
who tried to give the old field another trial.
* * * *
From Dr. H. I. Jensen:—
Some fragmentary fossils from about 500 ft. in the
Tewantin Coastal Oil Concessions’ north bore appear
to be Thinnfeldia odontopteroides, a triassic species,
but reference to “Geology of Queensland” will show
the same fossil recorded for the Burrum Beds by
Jack and F+heridge. The Burrum Beds are con-
sidered by Ounstan to be cretaceous. In view of
this conflict of opinion about the stratigraphical
structure of the Maryborough district we must fall
back on the carbon ratios of coals and oil indica-
tions in the bore itself.
Mr. Ball collected a sample of supposed Triassic
coal near J-iike Weyba, and a small fragment of
shale contaming coal out of the bore itself; and
both of these coals analysed gave a carbon ratio
between 45 and 50 per cent., and therefore highly
favorable for oil. On the other hand, finely com-
minuted carbonaceous matter floating in some of
the oil-bearing scum from the bore when separated
off and analysed gave a carbon ratio of over 70 p.c.,
but there is no evidence whether this filter was a
true coal or finely divided oarbonaceous matter in
oil shales. The carbon ratio evidence is therefore
inconclusive, but there is no doubt whatever that
small amounts of oil up to 2 p.c. have been present
in the scum on the balings constantly from about
300 ft. to the bottom in this bore. It is quite possible
that the evidence gained at Tewantin may show the
Ipswich formation favorable for oil both at Tewantin
and in other parts of the State, and it is also
possible that a fossil not unlike Thinnfeldia exists
in the cretaceous or lower tertiary in this district.
It is too early to be dogmatic, but in any case
the oil iniications are there.
* * * »
South Lucknow (N.S.W.) has issued a
hazy report about the trial parcels sent to
Kembla. The picked stuff assayed 1.950 z.
gold per ton and 12.4 p.c. arsenic, and the
“seconds” 0.5750 z. gold and 3.9 p.c. arsenic.
These values are hardly worth recording
unless accompanied by the size of the par-
cels which gave them. Work still goes on
steadily in the spurs on the contact, and the
size of the gold-bearing material has put
heart into manager Duncan and his team.
Further equipment is being put in to aid
operations. South Lucknow prospects have
improved in recent months, but the show
badly needs a decent run of gold to cheer
weary callpayers. All that can be said of
prospecting so far is that everything is
f-b~»m to muke old-time lymana"*—except the
gold. A fair tonnage of payable ore is in
sigut. but not c ough to carry the show
definitely beyond the prospecting stage.
* * * *
Sutherland's Lode, Kiandra (N.S.W.), has
been registered as a development co. in
75.000 2s. shares: 30,000 paids go to the
vendor, .T. S. Sutherland, and 30.000 con-
tribs. have been subscribed and called to Is. At
present the leases are under exemption, and
operations will not be undertaken _ till
October. The mainshaft, down 70ft., is to
be sunk to 100 ft., where the lode will be
driven north and south to ascertain w dth
and values and prospects underfoot. So far
the reef has averaged 2ft. wide and is going
down almost vertically. The ore is highly
complex. Seven tons treated at Port Kembla
averaged 3oz.
* * * *
Under Aubrey Bartlett, of Yerranderie,
Boro (N S.W.) silver lead mines are being
unwatered to the 280 ft. level. A crosscut
will then go in to test the sulphide body
located at tint depth for John Sards by
manager J. T. Poole. Bartlett enthuses
over Boro prospects. The mine has cer-
tainly given good values, and there are pros-
pects of fair tonnages outside old workings;
but it is much too early to talk about profits.
Not only the size but the tractability of the
ore has yet to be proved.
Vegetable Creek Co., formerly of Emma-
ville (N.S.W.), has lately been giving the
Cherry, at Ardlethan, a go. A clean-up
from 180 tons cave 11 J C tons of concentrates,
but values have not been announced. The
east and west pipes are reported to show
better-grade ore.
# * * *
According to forecasts made 12 months
ago the New Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.),
should now be a producer, but at the recent
meeting the manager said “there was cry
little difference in the position from that of
12 months back.” It has been decided to
drive a lower tunnel 1400 ft. to 1590 ft. long
at a snail’s pace of from Bft. to 16ft. per
week.
“J.L.S.” : Visiting oil geologists have some
queer ideas about Australian conditions. The
latest, E. M. di Villa, certainly puts forward
an ingenious opinion to explain Coorongite
(B. 5/fi/’24), but he is hopelessly at sea in
his published statements that the oil seep-
ages existing in the southern part of the
continent are distillation products of coal
through the agency of vulcanism in tertiary
times. All coal oils contain anything from
8 to 30 p.c. of oxygenated bodies grouped col-
lectively as phenols and acids, no matter
whether distilled at low or high temperatures.
Repeated analyses of these southern oils show
the entire absence of such bodies, thereby
putting the coal distillation theory completely
out of court. Di Villa is also wrong in
stating that the main structural features of
the Australian continent are comparable with
those obtaining in Northern America. There
are eight great centres of upl : ft across the
United States, and along the flanks of these
uplifts occur the minor folded regions carry-
ing oil. No parallel for such conditions can
be found in Australia. Moreover, the nature
and metamorphoses of the strata of the vari-
ous geological eras for the two continents
cannot be compared. Our Ordovician,
silnrian, mesozoics and tertiaries are ouite
different in nature and structure, and it is
by no means certain yet that we can justifi-
ably compare our north-western permo-
carboniferous with that of eastern U.S.A. In
any case, it is had practice to make compari-
sons at all, as each country and oilfield lias
its own peculiar features. Before definite
pronouncements can be made one way or the
other as to likelihood of a payable oilfield in
the Commonwealth, much more boring must
be undertaken in districts where indications
warrant it.


SHAKING THINGS UP.
“The apathy of the electors is again a feature of the election campaign now in full swing in Victoria. The politicians are making despairing efforts to
shake things up.”


A Perfect Riding Boot
for General Station Wear.
Although this boot is designed primarily for
riding, it is so comfortable, strong and
thoroughly finished that it is equally suitab
for everyday wear on farm or station
It is of Tan Willow Calf, with circular vamp
and Derby-laced front, no cap, light sole,
close welt, light leather lining, laces 39/ §
up full length, no hooks • •
Or in Black Box Calf 37/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size, and wide, medium or narrow fitting.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
m
The original Pilsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops,
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported.
Guaranteed free from all chemicals.
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass or
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors: —
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney,
Or their Queensland Agents: —
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Jacaranda”: Governor Nathan, of
Bananaland, who has recently returned from
a trip to the Back of Beyond, lias a few
bouquets for bush hospitality and moie toi
pioneering grit, especially among the women-
folk of the Open Spaces. He leaves others
to tell of his own genial adaptability in sit-
ting on an empty kerosene-case to partake ot
morning tea in the bough-shed while Mum
went on with the washing, but he has some-
thing to say of other things that he noticed.
At one place where he blew in for the uigfit
his fellow-guests included a woman and her
THE SOFT WORD THAT MAKETH A
MAN MADDER.
“And, mind this —no woman ever made a
fool of me!"
“Who did then, dear?"
three children. His Ex. watched her start
off next morning on a 56-mile journey on
camel-back to rejoin her husband at his post
on the frontier rabbit-fence. She had been
into Boulia, which is over a hundred miles
from the last railway dead-end, and about
two hundred from the border-fence, to enrich
the Commonwealth with another best o
immigrants. Carrying her three-weeks-old
baby, and with the other two sitting in front
of her, she was starting on her last stage
home, when she met the Governor. The most
vivid impression which she seems to have left
on Sir Matt’s mind is that she was a plea-
sant sensible woman, not inclined to make
much of the rather hard life that she led.
And vet some southern critics declare that
white" women can’t live, let alone rear child-
ren in Northern Queensland. Some can, and
do ' and Queensland’s scheme for maternity
wards in all country hospitals is proving a
great boon to them. * #
“Bert the Carpenter” : A chap strikes some
queer things in my trade. I once found four
quid, all in pennies and halfpennies, under
the floor of an old church I was smartening
up. Kids’ Sunday-school collection money, 1
s'pose, dropped through cracks. And in an
old house I came on 15 sovereigns between
the architrave and
the wall above a
bedroom door. But
the funniest find I
ever struck was
when an old chap
died and his family
couldn’t find his
will. They sent
for me to help,
and when I got
there I found the
relatives crowded
around a big, old-
fashioned writing-
desk. The widow
said there was a
secret drawer in it,
and they wanted it
found and opened,
in case it contained
the missing docu-
ment. It was a
long job, but at
last I struck the
drawer, hauled it
out, and emptied it
on the floor. What
was there? Well,
there was no will,
just a collection of
the sort of photos
they sell at Port
Said, is. and ladies’
garters, and things
like that. While
the relatives were
turning over the
heap and holding
up their hands in
horror at what the
lawyers call “ex-
hibits,” I pinched a
newspaper cutting
that was stuck in
a corner of the
drawer, collected
my tools, and
sneaked. On my
way home I read
the cutting. It was
an account of a
police raid on a gay . , ,
joint, with the fines inflicted on those caught,
and across the bottom was written, 1 reckon
by the late lamented, “Thank God for a
downpipe.”
* * *
“Aitape” discovers a new Moses:
Despite the Mandated Territory’s official objec-
tions to that useful absurdity known as ‘ pidgin, it
is not above utilising it. Now for the second time—
the first was when the Occupation Orders were issued—-
this lingo has been employed in a popular edition of
certain Government ordinances, which the Govern-
ment Printer at Rabaul has just issued, and with
which every native is expected to be conversant.
Compiled by a white man whose long experience has
made him a master of this subtle tongue, and re-
viewed by an intelligent native who has no other
medium of conversation with the whites, its object
is to prevent faulty interpretation of the laws by
natives. It has often been a difficult and embarrass-
ing task to convey certain meanings to the native
mind, particularly in those sections of the Native
Labor Ordinance which refer to malpractices, such as
abortion. But how simple it is made for the D.O.
now! He merely reads (Section 101): “Boy he no
can givim medicine long mary long rousim piccaninny
he stop long bel blong mary.” And has your boy a
tendency to parade shamelessly in the altogether ?
Why, then, read Section 115 to him: “Altogether
Kanaka spose he come Up long place blong white man
allsame Rabaul, Kavieng, Madang, Kieta, he must
putim laplap [lion-cloth].” Mere babes, however,
are exempted and may toddle about unhampered by
any covering, for (Sec. 115 again): “Liklik picca-
ninny dassall can walk about nothing.” As a deter-
rent to the ultra-amorous youth there is Sec. 88:
“Boy he no can stealim mary blong nother fella boy;
spose one fella boy he married finish he no can go
long nother fella mary.” What naivete!—one
doubts if in the pure English the subject could be so
delicately handled. For the fickle female, too, as
for the amorous male, there is official discourage-
ment • “Spose one fella mary he married finish he no
can go long nother fella man.” Finally, for a breach
of any or all of these orders, there exists, the threaten-
ing: “Iviap he can calaboose ’im!” (i.e., the D.O.
can put him or her in gaol). But, bless you, they 11
still go on chancing it.
* * * *
“Norman H.” : Tragic coincidences? A few
months ago a vouth, riding a motor-bicycle
home along a Brisbane suburban street, col-
lided with a heavy vehicle right opposite his
own gate, and was thrown off and killed. A
few days ago his younger brother, mounted on
the same bike, was in almost exactly the
same spot, when his front wheel hit the side
of a dray. He was thrown on to the road,
sustaining concussion, and died within a
few hours. In bctn cases the bike was prac-
tically undamaged.
“Stellsby”: Following on the usual “Fall
out, all Roman Catholics,” there was always
a good muster when Methodists were ordered
to take “two paces forward” at church parade
in the naval barracks at Fort Angelo, Malta.
To reach their chapel the Methodies had to
make the journey across the harbor to
Valetta, which meant that, after landing, the
more adventurous could slip out of the ranks
and wet their whistles at the drinkeries en
THERE ARE FRIENDS AND FRIENDS.
"I understood she was a great friend of yours!"
“Oh no, friend of my wife’s. Tells her how sorry she is for her."
route, whereas C. of E. ratings had no choice
but to “form fours” in Fort Angelo, and
stoically march through the dockyard straight
to the naval church. The Scotclibyterians,
having no meenister of their own, were given
the privilege of joining forces with either the
Wesleyans or the Anglicans. I don’t know
why, but they almost invariably cast in their
lot with the Methodies.
* * * *
“Dido”: The day before the boiler at Bell
blew up, Maconochie, who was commissioned
to deliver a load of hay for the pit ponies,
came along in the
absence of Tyson,
the manager, and
dumped his goods
alongside the
boiler - house,
where there were
sparks enough to
ignite a brickfield.
When Tyson re-
turned and saw
what the farmer
had done he ex-
ploded in Macono-
chie’s ear, insulting
that bucolic gentle-
man with a series
of epithets each
more abusive than
the other. On the
following afternoon
No. 2 boiler blew
up, taking with it
a lot of valuable
fixtures, including
Captain Tyson. He
went out through
the roof with the
rest of the debris,
and a hunt failed
to bring him to
light until Jackson
the stoker found
him dazed, bruised,
scalded and abraded
in Maconochie's
hay. He had
already come to
and promised
to survive the shock. “By — —, he said,
“I’ll do nothing till I’ve apologised to Mac-
onochie.”
* * * *
“Hambone”: One of the gibes that old
hands employed to put the wind up a re-
instoushment was a grave announcement that
Fritz was making a shell with the _ new-
comer’s number on it. I never heard if the
coincidence ever occurred, but this was near
to it. A battery cobber —son of a Melbourne
magistrate—was one of a poker school hold-
ing its session just outside a dug-out. 1 ntz
put up an anti-aircraft barrage round a
couple of our ’planes which were sticky-
beaking over the enemy lines. Suddenly
came a swish, a dull thud and the rattle
of metal on metal. The cobber in question
flopped forward. When we came up for air
we found him dazed and his tin hat with an
inch-deep dent. Someone picked up a still-
warm nose-cap that had strayed down from
the heavens, landed on the dug-out roof and
ricocheted on to his tin liat. His dazed
expression deepened when he discovered that
the number on the nose-cap tallied with his
own regimental number.
“Lawyer”: “Lex” may be right when In;
suggests (B. 5/6/’24) that before the case
of Jacobs v. Davis in 1918 no neglected lover
sued his erstwhile fiancee for the return of
the engagement-ring; though some girls may
have made collections of such tributes,
Shearman, J„ rightly said that good sense
usually secured their return. But the same
waiter’s predictions of interesting actions by
disappointed swains for all kinds of things
from jewellery to theatre-tickets are not
likely to be realised ; the law on that point
was settled long before Jacobs v. Davis by
the quaintly-reported decision in Robinson v.
Cummings (1742). Cummings considered he
had a grievance because the lady lie hoped
to make Mrs. Cummings, “she being a very
great fortune and he having only ilOu per
ann. at most,” preferred to become Lady
Robinson, and he tried unsuccessfully to re-
cover certain presents he had given her. Lord
Hardwicke said: “If a person has made his
addresses to a lady for some time upon a
view of marriage, and with a reasonable
expectation of success makes presents to a
considerable value, and she thinks proper to
deceive him afterwards, it is very right that
the presents should be returned or the value
of them allowed to him; but where presents
are made only to introduce a person to a
woman’s acquaintance, and by means thereof
to gain her favor, I look upon such person
only in the light of an adventurer, especially
where there is a disproportion between the
lady’s fortune and his; and therefore, like
all other adventurers, if lie will run risks
and loses by the attempt he must take it tor
his pains.” So an attractive lass, if she be
cautious, may do well to consider before
eating whether the supplier of the chocolates
has “a reasonable expectation of success
or is merely “introducing himself.”
“Sixenate” : A curiously human feature of
the police-courts is the almost possessory
attitude of some of the persons who make
regular appearances there. They lob m
as if they knew they were important factors
in the upkeep of the court system, and were
proud of their easy familiarity with its ways.
At the Central (Sydney) the other day the
magistrate remarked quite pleasantly to an
old offender on his protracted absence, and
the accused looked equally pleased to find
he had been missed. “Make the bail light,
he adjured the S.M., as one who feels himself
entitled to preferential treatment — Ive
TO BE PRECISE.
THE BOY : "Why, you seem to look on a proposal of marriage as
an every-day affair.”
THE GIBE: "Well, no —hardly that. An every -other-day affair. I
never give my answer the same day.
already got to find about £200” ; this in re-
ference, apparently, to charges brought
against him elsewhere. And the magistrate
did make it light, showing a kindly considera-
tion for a regular customer.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE SUBURBAN STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When twilight comes and shadows tali
I’pon the long suburban street
Wherein 1 live, it seems to me—
The while I wander loiteringly,
And home from work the toilers come,
Some slow of foot, and eager some
There is no hour so kind to all
As that when day and darkness meet.
Then lamps are lit and tables set
And love shines out and kindness flowers,
And men and women take their share
Of better things than dark and care
Share homely thought and wholesome food,
And feel that, somehow, life is good
In spite of all the toil and fret
That harried them through many hours.
At twilight-time along that street
Wherein 1. walk, in ranks and rings
The happy children sing and play,
While folk, world-frayed and old and grey,
From door and window watching, smile,
Forgetting tears and years awhile,
Remembering twilights, dead and sweet,
When youth made merry with all things.
Along that street ere twilight dies
I love to wander loiteringly
By house and garden on and on,
Till all the toilers home have gone,
And lamps are lit and tables set,
And at the street’s end I am met
By singing surges, greying skies,
And sight of fading sails at sea.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


GRAND OPERA.
"When Borgioli took his final no less than three laurel wreaths were handed up to him, and a mysterious package. The flowers for the other
wagers were reinforced by boxes of chocolates and a basket of champagne.”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. ..
John J. Dwyer, Perth, ».A. ..
..£313 11 0
1 1 rt
£314 lA 0
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
f
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20 for F 6
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
“ J.A.” • At a well-known back-country sta-
tion in’South Australia they are telling of a
visit paid to them by a remarkable young
couple. The pair arrived in a motor cara-
van of their own designing, and containing
comfortable sleeping and cooking quarters.
They had tlieir tools of trade with them, lhe
man could repair anything, from a motor or a
windmill to a watch, as well as tune a piano.
The woman was an expert in scientific dress-
making, confectionery-making and fancy cook-
ing, but her specialty was producing artistic
house decorations from the simplest or
material. Both were “refined and musical.
They put in a busy week, and left carrying a
cheque for £l4, for value received, as well as
letters of introduction to neighboring squat-
ters. Neither looked more than 25, and they
described themselves as products of Too-
woomba (Q.). x
“Sinexate”: On the day of the publication
of “Lex’s” par about the right of the dis-
appointed lover to claim the ring back _ (11.
5/6/’24), a jilted swain sued a girl in a
Sydney court for the return of his presents,
or their value, and got a verdict for £34 —
less than half his claim. Both parties are
Scotch. By the way, Repat., when it pro-
vided passages for intended brides of ex-
members of the A.1.F., was in the habit of
exacting a deposit of £lO from the prospective
’groom as an evidence of good faith, the
money being returned after the wedding. A
difficulty sometimes occurred when a girl
developed a new attachment on the way out,
but it was finally decided that in a case of
this sort the discarded fiance’s tenner should
be refunded. In one case a Digger demanded
and obtained a refund of the money from
the man who had pirated his bride, and then
recovered the tenner from the Department
also.
“Sierra”: The romance of steam, whereof
Kipling sings, was voiced the other day by
a young Swedish brass-bounder who stood on
a wharf at Woolloomooloo and gazed at a
A BRAIN-WAVE OF ECONOMY.
"Didn't your husband object to your buying a car?"
"Goodness, no! I told him I could clean his old suits
with the petrol."
grimy steam tramp moored to the opposite
berth. He was a cadet in a spick-and-span
motor-ship lying near by, and he made it
clear that two years on her had failed to
stifle his yearnings to sail in the more old-
fashioned’craft. “It vas more like the real
ting to go to sea in a steamboat, he said,
and again his rapt gaze fastened on the
winch-rattling smoky steamer. Even so the
steamboat sailor of decades ago cast wistful
looks at the disappearing clipper; and pro-
bably the caravel seaman of centuries past,
contemplating the hulks of ancient triremes,
dreamed of the days when sailors were sailors
and a sea life was haloed in romance.^
“Machete”: J. Cotter, of Maryborough
(Q.)j can’t growl about his luck. He had
been snapper-fishing, and while coming over
Maroochy River bar in the dark his boat
capsized.' As the tide was ebbing the river
PA GOT IN FIRST.
YOUNG MAN ( approaching pa for
Ms consent): “Sir, I cannot
sleep at. night thinking of
your daughter.”
MONEYBAGS: “You can't sleep at night? Splendid! You shall hare a position in my
warehouse as watchman.”
ran out like a mill-race, and the place is in-
fested with sharks. Someone who saw the
accident telephoned to the hotel, a couple of
miles up the river, and a launch went to the
rescue. After cruising in the darkness out-
side for a time, those aboard the vessel gave
it best, and turned round to go home. Just
then they heard a sneeze, and, tracking it
through the darkness, picked up the cast-
away, clinging to his upturned boat, two
miles from shore. When he was hauled
aboard the first thing he asked was whether
his bag of fish had also been rescued.
* * * *
“Wellow”: “Ex-D.” is satisfied that the
elusive Richard Buckley is either out of Aus-
tralia or dead (B. 29/5/’24) because blood-
money and press publicity haven’t revealed
him. Dangerous reasoning. For a good many
months past the most-wanted man in the
U K. has been Major Bailey,
whose corpse was dragged
out of the Thames the other
day. Bailey, who seems to
have been a victim of shell-
shock, murdered his young
wife at Brighton, and then
disappeared. A big reward
was offered for his capture;
descriptions of him were in
every newspaper; columns
about his possible where-
abouts were published; police
and detectives dashed hither
and thither on all sorts of
false trails; perfectly inno-
cent persons who were
thought to resemble Bailey
were requested to come to
watch-houses and clear them-
selves. Finally, Bailey re-
maining unfindable, it was
confidently assumed that he
had got out of the country.
The U.S. police searched
many a boat on arrival be-
cause somebody like Bailey
had been seen or heard of
going aboard of it, and in
France and Germany arrests
of suspect Baileys were actu-
ally made. And when it was
beginning to look as if Eng-
land was about the last
spot worth prospecting for
Bailey, his body turned up in the Thames,
and it hadn’t been there for more than a week
or two. He had hidden himself effectively for
months, somehow, in the very place where
the odds against his eluding identification
were heaviest.
“Coot”: I suppose the first “bell” rung to
call worshippers to a Sunday service in
Australia consisted of an empty rum cask,
which a convict beat vigorously with a stick.
It was on March 16, 1788, when King con-
ducted divine worship in his tent on Norfolk
Island. In his journal.,he records that the
sound of his church “bfell” saved the lives of
two convicts, who, wandering away from the
camp, became lost in the thick timber and
scrub, which effectually shut off any view
of the sun. After wandering about for hours
they heard the welcome sound of the “call to
prayer,” and pushing through the bush
appeared before the astonished congregation
stark naked. # *
“Morehead”: Bodger, a somewhat parsi-
monious youth, had fallen victim to the
attractions of the girl in charge of the till
in a suburban “cash-and-carry” grocery, and
was just steeling himself to pop the question
when a friend, experienced in such matters,
advised him that to have an engagement-ring
on hand would mean half the battle. The love-
struck swain thereupon took to glueing his tace
against the windows of jewellery establish-
ments ; but the high prices at even the cheap-
est places daunting him, he turned to the
“For Sale and Exchange” columns of a
morning daily. Jambed between two advts.
offering a perambulator and a gramophone
at bargain rates he came upon an invitation
to purchase a diamond ring for an absurdly
small sum. Bodger nearly fell over himself
in his haste to interview the advertiser, who
turned out to be a presentable young damsel
jilted some months previously by a heart-
less lover. The villain had cleared out of the
country, and as the girl was telling Bodger
the story of her desertion she burst into
hysterical weeping and finished a gloomy
tirade against the world in general by hint-
ing at her intention of “ending it all.
Whether Bodger was genuinely moved by the
tale of her wrongs and was possessed, ot <i
desire to frustrate her suicidal tendencies, or
whether he jumped at the chance of getting
a wife without the expense of an engagement-
ring, has not been ascertained. All I know
is that he has married her, and the ‘cash-
and-carry” girl is looking for a new “steady.
“Parkside”: Adelaide for culture: and it
either starts early or has some rare material
to work on. A child not yet seven years of
age appeared in the Children’s Court recently
with a long list of offences charged against
him. The constable who arrested the infant had
recovered from him a bicycle, a perambulator
and the sum of £lo—all stolen property.
Later thefts included (1) a watch and chain
from the vest of a tramway workman, (2)
£5 from a chaff merchant’s office, and (o) a
telegraph linesman’s outfit, which the tiny
malefactor afterwards tried to sell. But
seeing that the Law regards one of such an
age as being too young to know right from
wrong, the offender could not be charged
with theft. All that a worried S.M. could
do was to sentence him to three months in a
reformatory as an uncontrollable child.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” on a Japanese idiosyncrasy:
There is a good deal of the Malay in the Jap, as
ethnologists have observed, and one of his typically
Malayan attributes is his tendency to amok. The
Malay, whose national sense is weak, amoks over a
girl or a fighting-cock; the Jap amoks because a
Socialist has insulted his Emperor or a foreign
country has passed an exclusion Act against his
fellow-countrymen. Sometimes, like the Malay, he
turns his anger on himself and sometimes on other
people; but frequently there is a certain amount of
shrewdness and self-interest mixed with his self-
forgetting frenzy. Take, for instance, a case that
has recently been exciting interest in Japan, that ot
Ezure, a college graduate, who three years ago threw
up his job of bank clerk and, gathering a band of
youthful adventurers around him, succeeded in in-
ducing a Yokohama merchant to back him financially
in a buccaneering expedition to Russian waters. His
ostensible object was to poach gold-dust from
Siberian rivers. A 2000-ton ship, the Taikoo Maiu,
was chartered and sailed frpm Tokio in Septembei,
1921, at a time when the Russian massacre of Japan-
ese at Nikolaievsk was freshly burning in the Japanese
mind. The 37 ronins whom Ezure had collected
were pledged by solemn oaths to obey him in all
things. One of their first exploits was to lay along-
side a Russian fishing smack, the Anna, pour a
broadside into her in the approved piratical manner,
board her and put the entire complement to the
sword. The next victim was the Wesker, a 100-ton
vessel manned by 24 Russians and Chinese, who weie
massacred to a man. The Taikoo Maru continued
her buccaneering exploits for some months, and
eventually returned to Japan loaded with loot, which
was disposed of with profit to all concerned, includ-
ing the enterprising Yokohama merchant. Ezuie
was arrested at a fashionable watering-place where
lie was spending Russian roubles on that yeai »
Yoshiwara favorite. At the trial he gloried in liis
actions, excusing them by stating that, the memoiy
of the Nikolaievsk massacres had rankled in liis soul
until he had become furious to avenge them. There
is always a good deal of sympathy in Japan for tle
periodical displays of this national characteristic,
and the looting and murdering of Socialists and
Koreans during the earthquake was condoned be-
cause these people were considered to be public
enemies.
“Kyver”: Yes, war-time injuries were re-
ceived in queer ways. In England the ldlb
winter was exceptionally cold, as we Aussies
at Wareham Convalescent Camp found. tJc-
cause of our hurts many were unable to keep
warm by exercise, and had to depend on the
hut stove. But the coal rationed us would
last but a few hours each day. In' our
we burnt all the rifle-racks, the small trestles
and the boards upon which we made our beds,
but we w’ere soon fuelless again, the r ‘*V'
way line was close handy, and somebody hit
on the idea of rushing thither, whenever a
train was heard approaching, and begging
the drivers to throw us some coal. A tew
complied, but more ignored our pleas, for
they had been instructed to economise, .then
Bluey had a brain-wave. Thereafter when-
ever a train drew near we would station our-
selves along the route and pelt metal from the
line at the engine. Usually the enraged
driver and fireman retaliated by returning
our fire with coal. We had been enjoying
the fun and collecting the. spoils tor a week
when Bluey thudded. A driver threw a large
piece with excellent aim and broke our cob-
ber’s jaw. If you search the records you ll
find that poor Bluey got hurt through slip-
ping on frozen snow.
* * * *
“Chhota Peg”: It is difficult to drop mis-
siles'from a ’plane on a particular spot (e.
29/5/’24), but not impossible. Throughout
the war ammunition dumps, railheads and
artillery positions were bombed with consider-
able effect time after time. A skilful pilot
can loose his bomb so that, taking into
UNPARALLELED HONESTY.
“Are yon sure he isn’t marrying you only for
your money?”
“Oh, quite, uncle. He says I’m so beautiful
that he’d marry me even if I had twice
the money I’ve got.”
account the line it follows, it will come to
rest within at least a few yards ot the spot
he aimed at. There is in daily use at the
Australian Flying School, at Point Cook, a
mechanical device for teaching the young
idea this very art.
PARTICULAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Gent t4Ol robust, reputable, musical, holding
good desires. to assocxate «
vated people; would appreciate meeting Spinster, 01
Widow with some means, view Matrimony,
address ignored. Strictest confidence.
My virtues you see, and may wonder
That I need advertise for a bride ;
But you’re making a terrible blunder
If you think 1 have faults that I hide.
The reason is plain; I’m a stickler
For ideals I place very high ;
It’s really because I’m particular
That 1 seek what an ad. may supply.
The lady I take to the minster,
When mat. and her means I’ve in view,
Must be either a widow or spinster—
No woman that’s neither will do!
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
X.B.W.


SJ
I
m
mn
m
m
I
m
fl I
■
■*■■;
Iff
1 JK '^onBISeKS
»P*
S
Hm
«&£
$*
>• •/
%
i ■
:
I
tm
m
*»
I
&
8
€fj
: i
•»«#
castlerea gH
STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Hotel has been renovated throughout
and now ranks with the finest in Australia’
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special "Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Management J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR.” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141—10 lines.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Forty-five farmers and graziers have nomi-
nated for the Vic. elections, and 11 lawyers,
seven secretaries, five doctors and five jour-
nalists are bidding for support. Four de-
scribe themselves as bootmakers, three as
merchants and two as landowners, and there
are two clerks, two estate agents and two
bakers. There is a “book finisher” also,
and Labor-man Lemmon, of Williamstown,
puts himself down as a “cutter and states-
man.” None of the candidates possess the
candor of Frank Anstey, who labels himself
“professional politician.”
“Bouragi” : The Governor-General intends
to visit mandated New Guinea and presum-
ably Papua—which is a case of angels rush-
ing in where Billy Hughes declined to tread.
He will be the first G.-G. to adventure into
those parts. Hopetoun, when Governor of
Victoria, once set out to see a brother-in-law
who was an
A.R.M. in Papua
for a brief period.
He got no further
than Cairns. In
later days, Gaming-
ton, of Queens-
land, visited
Papua; but he had
hardly reached
Moresby when the
wine-steward began
to get anxious
about replenish-
ment of supplies.
Of course, Lord
Forster is not
likely to see any-
thing but eyewash;
but, as he has a
keen sense of
humor, he in a y
have a quiet grin
or two before he
comes back.
Dr. DICK,
N.S.W.’s new
Director-General
of Public Health.
Gaston Doumergue, the new French Presi-
dent, has worked his way up from the posi-
tion of small-town attorney in Nimes, where
he was born and educated. Emile, the octo-
genarian head of the family, who is his
uncle, is France’s most eminent Protestant
publicist. Gaston’s strong suit is modera-
tion and solidity. For this reason he is
disliked about equally by Communists and
Royalists. The latter only voted for him
last week as a choice of two evils, his rival,
Painleve, being suspected of pro-Germanism.
The Germans will get little sympathy from
Doumergue. He is the virtual author of the
French policy of training colored colonial
troops on a large scale, and he has argued
in numerous newspaper articles against social
discrimination between the inhabitants of
France and Algerians, Moroccans, etc.
“Hamer”: Cornelius Delohery was the
S.M. at the Paddington Police Court when
in my hot youth I answered a charge
of assault. He listened sympathetically to
my plea of justification, and after a con-
ventional homily imposed a very small fine.
But, on a heated declaration that I would
be damned if I would pay it, I was led away
to reflection in a cell. The reflection was
only for half an hour—at the end of that
time release came with an intimation that
the fine had been paid. Of course I set to
work to find out who my friend was; and
although Delohery declined to admit that he
had paid the fine and costs when I tried to
square the debt, I knew he was responsible.
It was probably only one incident of many
which showed the human sympathy of the
magistrate. Subsequently lie was a mem-
ber of the Public Service Board for 10 years,
and was 85 when he died the other day.
“Xox”: The Laborites couldn’t have chosen
a better man than W. H. Webber to oppose
ex-Premier Law r son for Castlemaine in the
Vic. elections. Stoutish, pink-faced and
genial, and a savant on factory and wages
board legislation, he is bound to appeal
strongly to the. toilers in Thompson’s foundry
and other industries in the electorate. He
has the additional asset of being a Castle-
maine native, and has been an intimate of
Lawson’s from boyhood up. For this reason it
won’t be a bare-knuckle encounter, but a h'ttle
gentle sparring with 30oz. gloves in which
there will be apologies if either combatant
should be hit. Webber has been sec. of the
Shop Assistants’ Union for some years, and,
if he is clever enough to get the verdict, the
first to congratulate him will be Lawson.
Likewise he won’t be backward in handing up
a bouquet if his old friend is returned once
more.
With sincere regret Vic. politicians heard
of the passing last week, at 72, of breezy
Bill Adamson, who was Minister for Works
in the second Peacock Government (1915-
17). He was the head of a stock-and-station
agency firm, and had a fairly long innings
in the Uppah Chambah till he resigned five
years ago because of his health. While act-
ing for a while as boss of the Vic. Wheat
Commission he stood up to Billy Hughes,
then Autocrat of Australia, and insisted
upon a better price for a big lump of the
crop than the 4s 3d. a bushel f.o.b. offered
by J. Bull. The rate ultimately obtained
was 4s. 9d.
lf earthly intelligence reaches beyond the
Veil the soul that was John Calvin must
have felt thrilled last week, when, within a
few hours, the Calvinist Gaston Doumergue
was elected President of France and Calvin
Coolidge was nominated by the U.S. Re-
publicans for a second Presidential term.
Doumergue is the first Protestant to sit in
a chair which the founders of the Third
Republic expected to be transformed into a
throne —they shaped the Constitution to that
end. On the other hand, there have been
no R.O.’s among the 30 U.S. Presidents.
The North Shore (Svdneyl Bridge has had
its first victim—J. R. Bainton, of the English
Electric Co. of Australia, the pluckiest of
the local tenderers, died a few days ago: he
had worn himself out in the tremendous job
of preparing the specifications, etc., and had
been a sick man for three months past. Bain-
ton left Australia greatly in his debt. He
was a pioneer in mechanical appliances,
especially the electrical—he was one of the
founders and managing-directors of the co.
which was the Standard-Waygood-Hercules
before it became the English Electric.
“Adelaide”: The cabled news that a
Nairobi syndicate won about £30,000 in the
Calcutta Sweep on the Epsom Derby had a
special interest for V. M. Newland (son of
the famous old author of “Paving the Way”),
who lately came back from Africa to enter
the Stock Exchange in Adelaide. Newland,
staying on in Africa after serving in the
Boer War, built up a big business with
Tarlton, also from Adelaide, as Central
African merchants, and especially as “big-
game expedition outfitters” (Theodore Roose-
velt was one of the hunters they fitted out).
The head of the lucky Nairobi syndicate is
a young Englishman, Captain Burman, whom
Newland left to assist Tarlton in the busi-
ness.
George Melrose, of the S. Aus. squatting
family, left £150.000. Besides other bequests
he allotted £2OOO for his executors to dis-
tribute at discretion among any relatives by
blood or marriage whom he may have over-
looked, and £lOOO more for them to divide in
the same way among persons who have ever
been in his employ, or their relations.
Colonel E. T. Leane, who leaves a Mel-
bourne insurance office to become “king" of
Norfolk Island, is a brother of General Leane,
South ' Australia’s Police Commissioner-
four of the new Administrator’s brothers,
four of his sons and four nephews
fought in the late war. Colonel Leane
was twice mentioned in despatches in
the South African War, and he was one of
the first away and last to return in the World
War, seeing active service on Gallipoli and in
Prance and Egypt. When he was away the
Australian Government showed its apprecia-
tion by making him a brevet-major, despite
the fact that he had already become a pukka
colonel in the field. Still, no doubt, it was
kindly meant.
Edmund Colvin, who was in Sydney from
1880 till 1910, and during that time was,
first, assistant-chaplain of the old Sydney
Cemetery (where now the Central Railway
Station stands) and later of Rookwood, was the
recipient of one of the strangest gifts ever
received. A grateful mourner, who had been
given kindly consolation, appeared at his
house one evening, very sozzled and inco-
herent, but spilling thanks. When he had
gone, the rather flustered parson inspected the
envelope the drunk had insisted on leaving,
and discovered that he had been made the
owner of five grave-lots. They were given
away subsequently to poor families of the par-
son’s parish, who had use for them. Colvin
himself has been buried in England, where
he died the other day.
Answered Gabriel’s call at Toowoomba
(Q.), John Roessler (85), the pioneer of
fruit-growing in Queensland. "Roessler’s
Gardens” were a well-known landmark in
Toowoomba 45 years ago. With a brother,
Henry, he came to Bananaland in 1865, and
among their many ventures was a glassworks
at Bowen-terrace, Brisbane. “The Skele-
ton,” which represents the remains of the
enterprise, is an object of conjecture to many
Brisbane residents to-day.
George Rylatt (“Monkey” to two genera-
tions of Brisbane Grammar boys), who died,
aged 81, the other day, had for 50 years been
janitor and general factotum at the big
Brisbane school, and men in everv walk of
life, scattered all over the earth,"will hear
With sorrow of the old man’s finish. He had
an amazing memory for Old Boys, and, no
matter how long since he had met them, was
always ready with his greeting, invariably
ALLEN GUY,
M.H.A., Tas-
mania’s Chief
Secretary.
using the long-forgotten nickname of the re-
turned prodigal. For a Judge to be ad-
dressed as “Frogface,” or a general as “Fat-
head, ’ was sometimes disconcerting, but the
ordeal had to be gone through.
Probably the oldest ironmaster in Austra-
lia, William Burns, recently celebrated his
82nd birthday at Rockhampton. Born in
Scotland, he came to Bananaland in 1884
and spent 10 years as a carpenter and loco-
engineer before he accumulated enough money
to start on his own. Then, half a century
ago, he and E. F. Twigg (another veteran
still living) started the foundry firm of Burns
‘O)4 Twigg—the first in Central Queensland.
Ihe young 82-year-old still goes along every
day and actively supervises the work in the
foundry, which has put through important
jobs in all parts of the Commonwealth.
“Schnorrer” weaves a wreath:—
Sydney has lost a remarkable character in the
passing of “Professor” Mark Simmons, who was sup-
posed to be the oldest Jew in Australia—-he was 92.
Born in Holland, he held a commission in the Dutch
Army until he killed a brother officer in a duel and
had to get out. With Dr. Fiaschi he introduced
fencing to Australia; but his interest was in all kinds
of fighting, and he was a personal friend of practically
every boxer, amateur and pro., who came to Sydney,
besides which he used to boast that there was not a
wrestler in Australia who could put him down. At
65 he outed a boosted Yankee boxer in an impromptu
spar at the old Gaiety; and 10 years later, w'hen a
man called him “a dirty Jew,” it took five people to
hold the old fire-eater back after he had knocked the
offender down. One of his historic encounters was
With “Snowy” Baker’s father, a huge six-footer who
was an-inspector in the Pish Markets, where Sim-
mons was an auctioneer; but subsequently the Bakers,
father and sons, were pals of his. When the war
started Old Mark was put down for a foils event in
an assault-at-arms at the Stadium in aid of war
funds, but his doctor interfered. That was when
he was 83. He attended the Stadium regularly until
he was over 90, but latterly has found a Coogee
Sports Club more convenient; and within a couple
of days of his death he made a fuss because he was
not allowed to get out of bed for a game of solo.
Two links with the early political history
ot Vic. were snapped last week when Nick
Casey of Melbourne and Mrs. H. M. Murp ;y
of Hobart, both octogenarians, went over the
range. The former was a brother of the
late J. J. (“King”) Casey, who livened
things in the Assembly and in the depart-
ments as a mem-
ber of the McCul-
loch, Francis and
Kerford Govern-
ments between ’6B
and ’75, and who
wound up as a
County Court
Judge. Mrs.
Murphy was the
widow of Henry
Morgan Murphy,
who was in the
House of Land-
lords from ’64 till
’73. The best-
known of their
children is H.M.
the Second, Sec.
for Labor in Vic-
toria.
J. SCULLIN,
M.H.R. for
Yarra, who moved
the censure motion
on the Govern-
ment for its
transactions
with Bawra.
Gathered to the elbows of Confucius, Jack
Booshang, one of the most picturesque
Chinese that Australia has known. He was
well known on the Kiandra (N.S.W.) rush
of 1861, and, the field proving kind, and the
climate attractive, he settled on the Monaro,
and did his best to become a good Australian.
One notable step towards that end was taken
when he bought a team of racehorses, with
one of which, Captain, he cleaned out the
Adaminaby end of the State. Booshang was
94 when the fumes of the last joss-stick
floated skyward.
Unless the Vic. Government can outbid
the Peter Waite Trust (S.A.) it may lost;
Dr. A. E. V. Richardson, Superintendent of
Agriculture and Director of the School of
Agriculture at Melbourne University. From
the State Richardson now draws £BOO a
year and from the Uni. £4OO. Still, it. isn't
a question of pay alone: the Adelaide job
offers opportunity for scientific research which
appeals to Richardson strongly.
A lot of strictly-proper teeth-pullers must
have read with melancholy interest the item
that £133,000 was left by J. J. Forster,
the American advertising dentist, who car-
ried on over a Swanston-street shop, near
Young and Jackson’s pub, in Melbourne. He
allotted the bulk of it to eight women and
girls, presumably distant relatives.
There is piquancy in the fall of Millerand,
and the Paris wits are bound to call his fight
for office a fake. He and P'oincare are
bitter professional rivals, who are said to
have a private arrangement always to be
in office, or out of it, together. They were
born within a few months of each other,
shone at similar Lycees, published their first
books and gained Ministerial rank at about
the same time, and rose to eminence simul-
taneously as great commercial lawyers. The
Comite des Forges employs both impar-
tially, and there is a mighty revenue to be
made by any lawyer out of this great firm.
How soldiering gets into the blood was
shown in the case of John O’Reilly, ex-ser-
geant of the A.1.F., who died at the Caul-
field Military Hospital (Vic.) the other day
at 50. He served through the Boer War,
then did 10 years in the S. African Mounted
Police before ill-health sent him back to
Victoria. The Great War revived him, and
he enlisted, but two years of trench work
knocked him out, and he was ordered home.
Even then he couldn’t keep out of it, but
wriggled into the Army Medical Corps, with
which he did fine duty. The Armistice sent
him to Australia a broken man, and after
18 monUis in a hospital cot he died blessing
the military authorities, nursing sisters and
everybody who had looked after him.
"The Acolyte” : Two R.C. episcopal conse-
crations are listed for June—at Port Augusta
(of a successor to Dr. Norton, the Australian-
born prelate who died recently) and at Goul-
burn. Both of the new bishops (Dr. Kil-
lian and Dr. Barry) are Irish born and
trained. And Rome’s watchdog, Dr. Oatr
taneo, is looking on, wondering probably
why the Vatican’s often-expressed desire that
the Church of each country shall provide its
own native hierarchy and clergy as soon as
it passes the missionary stage is not being
given effect to.
“WHAT A PITY!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, why is it that Providence continually sends,
To plague us with false sympathy, these “What a
pity!” friends?
We display some new possession ; they admire it very
much—•
With a rider, “What a pity that it isn’t such-and-
such !”
Or we show the work we’re doing. “Oh, it’s wonder-
ful !” they say ;
Adding after, “What a pity that you didn’t try -this
way!”
There’s always, o’er their sunny smile, a vaguely
dimming haze,
A subtly stinging postcript, to the letter of their
praise ;
A little sly disparagement to hit our pride to leg,
A delicate reminder just to take us down a peg ;
A gentle, chilly sprinkle to reduce our happy glow—
"Aes, it’s sweet, but what a pity that it isn’t so-
and-so !”
But don’t in haste condemn them; they are really
good at heart;
’Tis medicine, not poison, they so cunningly impart.
Pride’s too rich for common mortals, brings on
spiritual boils,
So these friends when we, elated, show our prowess
and our spoils,
Administer a tonic sneer to purge us of our ill,
And the dulcet “What a pity!” is the sugar round
the pill.
VICTORIA.
SYD O.


'w'te’i
SrdmiitiMc
TfCk&b
moo
a Cft&ienfe oak
fwLUrn 11,200 yallpnb
(dive tktmwid ?ix farndmUavu)
Oktiii one cf tkematity
oaken -mamenotki
intfaifobU'ji&teiiei
OAe CkcouHte oak
comeificintA^
in Ontonce
DAe lona fuwydof
'U&ci/lA j\U&4&+ wWte
%qk ciaM eoniiuneto
vHxdenkdlu *f


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
■
FOR OVER 200 YEARS
□
a household word in
sickness and in health
u Martell’s for Age and Quality **
□
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
3
s
T
A
R
5
S
T
A
R
Polo Players.
This is the
CORRECT STYLE
POLO RIDING BOOT
as worn by all the leading-
players in Australia and
New Zealand.
“OUR SPECIAL”
BEST MAKE,
Price £5 (posted),
can be supplied in Tan
and Black, as desired.
Write for Season 1924
Booklet of Buies and
Latest Prices.
JOHN BRUSH
371 Ceorgre Street,
Sydney, and
434 Queen
Street.
Brisbane.
ďf
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
"Wee Bobbie”: I had the pleasure of
watching the little plovers which visit; the N. Queens-
land plains in the wet season get ready and set
off on their migration. They started to congregate
at an early hour in the morning, beside an acre
or two oi' irrigation, where the bore-drain over-
flowed. There was great excitement among them;
they were running about, wheeping, whistling and
squeaking, and now and again taking flights of a
eoqpje of yards. All the time fresh visitors were
arriving. They didn’t come in flocks, but in strings,
and as the numbers increased the excitement grew
till, about 3 in the afternoon, it was a regular
Babel. They rose together two or three times to
the height of about 30ft. and settled again. The
noise of their wings sounded like far-away thunder.
At last they rose in a body and settled about half
a mile off. These birds are hard to see when they
come down in grass, but so thick were they that
the ground they covered was clearly defined. I ex-
pected to see them all rise in a body, circle over-
head until they got their bearings, then depart for
the north lands; but I was disappointed. They rose
like smoke from a chimney and corkscrewed up into
the blue. When the leaders started on their north-
ward course they were so high as to be almost out
of eye-range. Two hours later others were still rising
from the ground. I watched the last one go, and
wished the brave little migrants bon voyage.
* * * *
“Mary Scott”: To “Monte’s” remark (B.
15/5/’24) that it would be an extraordinary feat for
a man to separate a cow from her tail by pulling
I can only reply that I have seen a boy do it —not
a very large boy either. I was spending Sunday at
a farm along with some other small girls, and Wally,
the cookie’s son, was showing off for our benefit. He
had successfully manipulated the stockwhip, and stood
on his hands on the fat pony’s back; but it was
when he attempted to ride a heifer that disaster
befel. At his approach the heifer made off full tilt
around the barn, but Wally overtook her just at
the corner and grabbed her tail. The animal rounded
the angle right enough, but Walter was left sitting
on the ground with her tail in his hand. Fearsome
noises assailed the welkin when Wally’s dad arrived
on the scene a few minutes later ; and they weren’t
made by the heifer. The apparent ease with which
the original catastrophe was accomplished has always
made me look with wonder and a nervous dread on
the Australian stockman’s method of throwing a beast
by the tail.
* * * *
“Amapu”: When does a four-tooth ewe
become a six-tooth? Such a question a Maoriland
magistrate was recently called upon to decide. A
firm of auctioneers sought to recover the balance
of payment due on a line of four-tooth ewes. De-
fendant maintained that a number of the ewes were
not four-tooth, but six-tooth, as the fifth and Sixth
teeth had already appeared through the gums. The
auctioneers admitted the teeth, but produced wit-
nesses —all men of wide experience—who declared
that a four-tooth ewe means a ewe between two and
three years old. The magistrate would not accept
their view, and. gave it as his judgment that a ewe
is a four-tooth until the fifth and sixth teeth reach
maturity; after that and until the ewes become
three-years-old they are six-tooth.
“Artesium”: “FY7” (B. 29/5/’24) is
somewhat dogmatic in dealing with “Saaedi’s” refer-
ence to the decrease in the artesian flow, particularly
when he states that “as long as water falls from the
clouds it will go on being pushed up through the
bores.” This implies implicit belief in Pittman’s
theory, advanced when he was Government Geologist
in N. S. Wales, that all the water in our artesian
basin is of meteoric origin (i.e., the result of rain-
fall). On the other hand, Gregory, a former Pro-
fessor of Geology at the Melbourne and Glasgow
Universities, made out a good case for a plutonic or
deep-seated origin. His book “The Dead Heart
of Australia” is most interesting reading, and deals
exhaustively with the question. I have been over a
large area of Pittman’s “intake beds,” and was im-
pressed with two important factors: (1) The intake
beds do not form a continuous sponge round the
eastern side of the artesian basin, but occur as a
series of isolated exposures, many of which do not
dip into the basin, so that absorbed water would not
be conducted into it. (2) The area of the intake
beds does not appear sufficiently large to absorb
enough water to supply half the bores, and only a
small proportion of the rainfall is absorbed. As
to “FY7’s” remark that “the amount of liquid ab-
sorbed varies with the annual rainfall the more
bores the less the supply and the pressure,” it would
probably take anything from five to ten years for
rain absorbed on the catchment area 'to reach the
artesian bores, and capillary attraction would account
for considerable leakage.
* * * *
“Sierra”: Why don’t our Councillors tell
us some good tiger yarns? The San Francisco
Chronicle of April 6 publishes five travel-photos in
one of which a tiger is depicted devouring a kan-
garoo. Of course the incident may not have hap-
pened in Australia at all —the kangaroo might have
lobbed in India after one of those hefty jumps some-
times mentioned by Abo.-liars.
“Magnet”: I agree with “Capita” (B.
l/5/’24) about the perfect Australian gentleman. I
met him in March over 20 years ago, in a crevice
of an old myrtle stump in a valley of the Tas. high-
lands, and as he made no objection to my stroking
his three-penn’orth of well-groomed silver-grey pelt
I carried him home. He dined daintily on a smear
of condensed milk and a crumb or so of cake served
in a saucer; then, after making a careful inspection
of things generally, took up his residence in a loop
of the window-curtain. Time passed, but he didn’t
seem to worry about anything except sleeping the
clock round and round. About a month from the
day I found him I was sitting alone reading one
night when I felt light touches on my shoulder. It
was my little visitor. I sat still and felt him walk-
ing over me for a minute or two; then I missed
him, and, being interested in my book, finished a
passage before getting up to see what he wanted,
lie was gone; and though 1 got a light and looked
all through the place I never saw him again. But,
gentleman to the last, he had bidden me farewell,
and I had slighted his pretty courtesy. A scientific
friend to whom 1 described him afterwards called
him the opossum mouse—probably the smallest mar-
supial known. He was a ridiculously tiny edition of
a ringtail ’possum, habits and all.
EVEN SMALL NUISANCES MAY HAVE THEIR USES.
THE CHOCOLATE-PROVIDER : “Tommy, go away at once.”
THE CHOCOLATE-CONSUMER : "Oh, Bobbie dear! Don’t send him away. I gave him a
shilling to watch for father.”
“Herodot”: “Keystring’s” bees’-nest par.
(B. 22/5/’24) recalls an incident of some years back
in a N.S.W. country town, when a swarm decided
to settle on a drunk sleeping in the shade of a
tree. He awoke half-way through the settling pro-
cess, and on realising what had happened ran yell-
ing to a waterhole some distance away, with most
of the bees still attached to him. Reaching the
water he flung himself in at a spot where it was
well over his head, and as he could not swim he
nearly drowned before somebody rescued him. When
he emerged only a few bees here and there were
still clinging to him, but for hours afterwards the
swarm continued to hover about the spot where he
had jumped in. Curiously enough he did not receive
a single sting, although for a minute or so his
head and shoulders were literally covered with bees.
*■ * » *
“Ngatik” : “Pedro” (B. 8/5/’24) is wrong.
Although the Maori never had an / in his alphabet,
yet every Maori does pronounce “taniwha” as
“tunnifa.” Wh in Maori is equivalent to our /,
though not so pronounced in some cases.
*-**•*
“Te W.” : The native sarsaparilla (Smilax
glycyphilla) , a creeping plant with purple-blue
aowers, usually found in rocky situa-
tions, is still held to have some medi-
cinal value, although the much-
advertised concoctions labelled “Sar-
saparilla” are not the “simples” they
pretend to be, as they contain iodide
of potassium and other powerful
drugs. It is recorded that the con-
victs in early days, when China tea
was 245. a pound, used to gather a
herb in the bush about Farm Cove,
which they called “sweet tea.” On
being boiled it yielded a beverage
“not unlike liquorice in taste, which
was recommended by some of the
medical gentlemen of the settlement
as a powerful tonic.” This descrip-
tion fits the native sarsaparilla which
was then common about Port Jack-
son. The liquor obtained by boiling
it has a sweetish-astringent taste,
resembling that of liquorice. Inci-
dentally, candia, or false sarsaparilla,
a climbing vine also with blue
flowers, is often mistaken for the real
article, but so far as is known it
lias no blood-purifying or other medi-
cinal virtues.
* * *
“St. Kitts”: Our dogs killed
a doe bandicoot, which upon examina-
tion was found to have five young ones
in the pouch, all as microscopic and
as helpless as a newly-bom kangaroo. I wouldn’t for
worlds start an argument as to how they got there;
but I would like to know how they all find accom-
modation in the pouch as they grow up, and if the
mother always carries them with her.
* * * *
More about mound-builders :
“R.T.”: Re scrub-turkeys and their nests (“Num-
bugga,” B. 15/5/’24). I have shot these birds in
many parts of Queensland, beginning with the year
1863, and I have never known their nests to exceed
6ft. in height. To state the number of eggs laid
in a nest would be guesswork, unless it were a cer-
tainty that the laying had stopped. There are many
proofs that the eggs are deposited by more hens
than one, because many cock-birds are on the watch
during the hatching, probably to protect the eggs
from goannas, which have a particular fancy for
this article of diet. Again, when I was batch-
ing in Springsure, an abo. brought me two
eggs from the same mound. The first con-
tained a well-grown chick; the other, in the words
of a salesman, was “extra special’’ and delicious.
Incidentally, scrub-turkeys are the most stupid birds
in Australia. If there is no dog in sight they will
run from a biped with the celerity of a greyhound;
but should a tyke appear they will fly on to the
nearest tree and stay there till all are shot. I
have brought down seven in this way; but it was
slaughter, not sport.
“Dean”: I agree with “Numbugga” that the brush-
turkey chooses the densest scrub when building. But
70 eggs in one nest is not a record. A few years
back lf>o were found in a nest on Bullamon . (Q.)
I have seen a nest on Thomby 7ft. high.
“Bill R.”: “Numbugga,” in seeking to cor-
rect “J.F.’s” statements re brush-turkeys and
their mounds, slips badly in asserting that these
birds are common on the south coast of N. S. Wales.
Brush-turkeys are found in only a thin belt of
Northern N. S. Wales, and in the scrubs that fringe
the western plains, though they inhabit most of
Queensland. Lyre-birds are the only mound-buildefs
on the South Coast; and they do not use their
mounds as hatcheries.
* * * *
“S.E.M.”: Until the other day I didn't
know that the large eagle killed- goannas. While
SOMETHING DEEP IN THEOLOGY.
THE SKY PILOT: “Certainly, my dear boy—ask me any
question you like."
YOUNG BILLJIM : “My mate here won’t believe that blokes
that wears collars like yours have their back studs
in the front. Don’t you, mister?”
out riding I came across two of them tugging at
the rear-end of a go., whose body was under a
.log. They flew off as I approached, and I left
the goanna where he was. On my return, about
three hours later, two eagles flew up about 10yds.
away from the log, and I went over to see if the
go. was still there. The big birds had got him, an l
all that was left were the backbones, legs and tail.
(Continued on page 2).)
THE LITTLE WOODEN HUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 am living here in comfort in a villa by the sea,
But not as well content as people tell me 1 should be.
The floors have heavy carpets, and the walls have
pictures, but
My heart goes aching backward to a little wooden
hut.
It was built of palings only and the cracks were
stopped with clay,
The windows of mere calico let in the light of day;
It had no Brussels on the floor, no paintings rare
and fine,
But it was home when I was young—and when
my babes were mine.
Its door was made of hessian neatly stretched upon
a frame,
And through its roof in golden darts the summer
sunshine came.
The finest carpet that we had was just a sack un-
sewn,
But the wooden hut can tall me still when I am
here alone.
I sleep in sheets of linen, and the blankets on my
bed
Are the softest. Downy pillows offer comfort to
my head.
But I would sleep upon a bunk with patchwork
counterpane,
Still happy in the wooden hut, to live that life
again.
I’d cook in Dave’s Dutch oven, as I’ve very often
done;
I’d wash, a mia-mia shelter keeping off the mid-
day sun ;
I’d sit and darn the whole night long, content to
stitch and sew,
Had I my dears to fend for in the hut of long ago.
I'd leave the damask curtains and the folk who
call for tea,
The oaken furniture might go, for all it means to
me,
If I could have the mates we had-—Sam Gregor and
his wife—
The freedom and the sweetness of the old colonial
life.
HIS OWN FAULT.
"I believe that chap Simpson has been put
in the clink for stealing a motor-car."
"Serves him right. Why didn’t he buy one
and not pay for it, like any other gentle-
man?”
A waterbutt we had those days—it stood beside the
door—
And simple candles gave us light; we wished for
nothing more.
But David—now no longer Dave —struck gold at
Yarrawee,
And we’ve electric switches in the villa by the sea!
1 mind the hens that gathered clucking, delving in
the dirt
And I mind a shy bush baby tugging always at
m,v skirt;
And spite of costly bric-a-brac and goblets finely
cut,
My soul harks back to shining delf in that old
wooden hut.
I had my children at my knees, their little hands
in mine;
I had their kisses on my lips and saw their small
eyes shine.
But now my boys have gone away, my girls are
wed from me,
And I am lonely living in the villa by the sea.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON:


dfď
fd
do your friends the highest honour
by including in the hospitality
66
TOP NOTCH
»»
66
The Scotch Whisky
that always leaves
a pleasant memory
i wtm
fe'S&feir’
f SMfayip
VjvTSv>vt;.;»^>V\C
O? NO^lgg
**• *
s
*&
w
S*£
111
*Mouy GmfianyJU
m
vduibuyiv.
c, **». tt
T»*? f
N
PS
J -° r ?vn£z*?tM&e-
-%
&* ffl/u*bea MUuredw
produce op Scotland.
*"!■


Ask for
Abbots
lager
A Distinct Advance in
RABBIT DESTRUCTION.
Rabbit Destruction is a Certainty with
CALCIUM CYANIDE
brand
P/§m3
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VlCTORlA.—Leighton, Simpson & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND. —Uuzaeotts fQ’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scarfe & Sandnvers, Ltd., Perth.
however deep the dead-ends of the warren, for it throws off deadly fumes
over twenty-four hours, and makes all openings visible.
It is blown into the warren, hollow log, or among rocks, just like dust.
CALCIUM CYANIDE is extremely cheap, very easy to apply, and, as
the Minister for Agriculture has said, “can be transported, handled
and applied with almost complete safety.”
Get full details of this best of all rabbit destructors to-day 1
"Two Seas": “Meran’s” ewe which, though
die had a lamb of her own, picked up three orphans
in the paddock and mothered them (B. 5/6/’24),
was a very unusual dame. Even when a ewe has
lost her own infant and her udder is uncomfortably
distended, it is a very difficult job to get her to
adopt another. I have often seen one run out from
the mob and answer a strayed lamb’s bleat; but
when the orphan reached her and tried to suck, the
ewe would sniff at its hide and then butt it awav.
Ewes recognise their lambs by scent and not by
sight. Old shepherds in England in my boyhood
days used to strip the skin off a dead lamb and
tie it on to the lamb they wished the bereaved ewe
to adopt in its stead, and, absurd as it appears, the
ewe would then accept the substituted infant. I
have since practised this method myself, and now
that lambs are worth 255. instead of 25d. the job
is worth the trouble.
Some plants in a hurry;—
“Nitric”: “Chant Pagan’s” time records of the
growth of various plants (B. 22/5/’24) are poor.
H. Quotes cane as doing' 6in. in 24 hours while
maize registered lOin. in that time. I have seen
a cane-stalk put on 12in. between dawn and dusk.
Here are some authentic records of growth: the
leaf-sheaf of a banana plant has been registered at
I. m.m. per minute (= about lin. in 20 mins.), a
bamboo sheaf at 1.5 m.m. and the stamens of
grasses and fungal hyplial of the Thallomyoetes
(stink-horn fungi) up to 5 m.m. per minute. Com-
pare the last (= about lin. in smin.) with “Chant
Pagan’s” times, and it seems his cane and maize
have been running “dead.”
“Nicanor”; The bamboo holds the world’s record,
as far as I know' —18in. in one night.
PROOF.
“I saw Hickson yesterday. He's invented
a new drink.”
“Did he tell you about it?”
“No, it’s such a success he couldn’t.”
“AdeL” (N.T.) : I can assure “Oxmead”
(B. 13/3/.’24) that large herds of camels, branded
and unbranded, roam the desolate sand wastes in
the Northern Territory’s south-east corner, and many
wander over the border-fence into Queensland. In
dry years they congregate in the vicinity of the
head of the Mulligan River, where the water is
permanent in some holes, and at Lake Amaroo.
Stray camels, many ownerless, are numerous in the
Birdsville locality, but these cannot be called wild,
although they are a great nuisance to the souatters
there. In 1917, when collecting on the Field River
(N.T.) —the Gnallan-a-Gea of the blacks—l received
a letter from a Mr. Kader, Afghan contractor, of
Maree (S.A.), offering me £lO a head for about
30 camels of his which had gone with the clean-skins
of that locality. It was a tempting offer, but on
trial the long-legged hunchbacks proved too fast
for m - v leg-weary horses. Out there, with their
clean-skin offspring they roam at liberty, waiting
for “Oxmead” or others to rope them in and bring
them back to the domesticated ways of their younger
days. But would they take again to the drudgery
° f old > and so easily forget the years of wandering at
liberty? The Afghan says no.
*.* * *
Mophisto ’ : The Torres Strait natives cap-
ture the dugong in a way all their own. Three
men and a boat are necessary. One man stands
out on the end of the
bowsprit with a long
hardwood pole, about
I2ft. in length, called
a “wab,” into the end
of which is loosely
pushed a 6in. wooden
barb. A long rope is
attached to the barb,
and one man stands in
the boat ready to pay
it out. When the
dugong is speared the
wab comes loose from
the barb, and the
third man jumps into
the water and rescues
it before it sinks.
Meanwhile the dugong
dives, taking with it
the barb and a great
deal of rope. It would
be useless attempting
to haul in the fish by
means of the rope, as
the barb would come
out too easily; so the
wab-thrower dives in,
and, when the dugong
rises to breathe, goes
hand over hand along
the rope, turning on
his back to keep him-
self from being dragged
under and drowned.
The next time the fish
rises the man is quite
close, and after some
trouble he slips a half-hitch over the dugong’s tail.
Having accomplished this he raises hi's arm as a
signal, and the others haul in the catch.
* * * *
“Chatford”: “Herodot’s” analogy between
crystallisation and foreign bodies in hens’ eggs (B.
29/5/’24) is inapt. Crystallisation in a saturated
solution is a purely physical phenomenon, and the
presence of a foreign object merely supplies a basis
on which the crystals may form. On the other
hand, the egg is the result of the multiplication of a
single cell 1))’ a vital process, which would most
probably be arrested by the presence of a foreign
body. Possibly the articles inside the eggs spoken
of by “Herodot” and “Sarah” found their way into
the genital passages of the hens, and there became
adherent to the yet shell-less egg; and afterwards
the shell, which comes from a source different from
that of the egg proper, was laid down, enclosing both
the egg and the foreign body.
* » \ * *
“FY7” : In the late 1870’s, on the Bareoo,
in Central Queensland, I not only saw many cases
of malaria, loosely known as “fever and ague,” but
was attacked by it myself, as were my brothers and
sisters. In later years the disease gradually disap-
peared from the western parts of the State, and the
theory was that the heavy stocking of the country
with sheep caused the disappearance of much of the
shallow and stagnant water in which the mosquito
bred. In the earlier days malaria was certainly a
curse to Westerners, whose work exposed them to
infection, and to the recurrent attacks, aggravated
by the exposure to wet a ( nd cold which ,is often the
lot of drovers and station-hands. The aborigines
were also subject to attacks, but in much slighter
degree than the whites, as is the ease with most
races indigenous to malarial countries. These
always practised that slight gashing of forehead
and temple to relieve the headaches which has
been so often noted among Pacific Islanders. The
homestead on the Bareoo above referred to stood
near a big billabong of the river, with swampy mar-
gins, where most varieties of mosquito were in evi-
dence, including, one supposes, the then unconsidered
anopheles. The homestead “servants” were Kanakas
from the Solomons, and it is possible that they
introduced the infection. Still, the fever was just
as prevalent on other stations.
* * * ' *
“Tough Mike”: Tell “Gill Guy” (B.
29/5/’24) that it is not necessary to apply arsenic
at all in the treatment of warts and such growths
on horses. A better method of getting rid of these —
that is, if they attain any size to speak of’—is to tie
a piece of waxed thread round the excrescence close to
the skin of the beast. In a fortnight or three weeks
the growth will come out as easy as false teeth.
Furthermore, in most cases the skin of the animal
will already have healed. Incidentally, for the
treatment of inflamed or sore eyes in horses one of
the best remedies is simply to pour cold water over
the brow.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Talking about fencing
records. Pat O’Brien and a mate* on wages, put
up nine miles of barb-wire, Single-line, in a day
and a half at Isisford (Q.). It took 36 reels of
the wire, which was transported in a dray pulled
by five horses. Below the tailboard a running-
frame was rigged, and each reel had to be threaded
on to the iron bar and the ends spliced. The posts
were newly erected, and there was a clear roadway
running along the fence, enabling the pair to staple
the wire here and there along the track. On the
return journey they stopped only once to have a
snack, and fn shed the stapling as the team proceeded
at a steady walk. Neither man received a scratch,
but, of course, they had hides like rhinoceroses. It
was a quick and lively job, yet there was no skite
about.
* * * *
“Nix” (W.A.) : If I’m not too late, I’d
like to remark that “Thompson’s Mate” (B.
3/4/’24) in contradicting “Dingle” is writing
through his hat. The late Jack Skipworth did' shoot
AND ALL WITHOUT A GRAIN OF SALT.
STATION OWNER (explaining kangaroo to overseas visitors ): “And
they’re hungry fellows, tool Why, this pet here, for
instance, will eat as much as three sheep.”
REOINALD : “Oh, I say, what! The little cannibal! And — er —
does he devour all three at one meal?”
the 179 kangaroos in one day. This happened on
the Fitzroy River, West Kimberley (W.A.), some
years ago. The kangaroos that grow in those parts
are not the ordinary variety, but a species of wal-
laby, and after the wet season are in thousands
alcng the Fitzroy. A shot like Skipworth could
stand in the one place and shoot a dozen or more;
and it did not take him five minutes to skin a buck
—he could skin them nearly as quickly as an ordi-
nary man can uncover a rabbit. He had the help
of his wife and a half-caste girl to peg them out
(and, incidentally, Mrs. S. was nearly as good a
shot as her husband), I know these facts, as I
was there at the time. Whether the ’roo was run-
ning or sitting it was all the same to Jack Skip-
worth, who, though he had lost an eye, was one
of the best shots Australia has produced. And his
brothers Dan and Fred were nearly as good.
* * *
“Fana”: Before the war some of the plant-
ers in German New Guinea began to experiment with
the cocaine-tree, Ei'ythryloxon coca, which they
planted between their eocoanut-trees. The shrub,
which hails from South
America, seemed to thrive
in its new surroundings,
and as there is a very big
demand in Europe for the
leaves, from which medi-
cinal cocaine is obtained,
planters were looking to
it to solve the problem of
the seven or eight years’
wait between the planting
of the cocoanut-trees and
their maturing. The war
settled all that, however,
and the new industry came
to an abrupt end. But
in the ensuing years the
E. coca trees seem to have
become scattered about
both New Guinea and New
Britain, with the result
that they are growing wild
and flourishing in many
localities; and as the de-
mand for the leaves is now
greater than ever they
provide an unsuspected
source of cash. The plant
is a doubtful asset to the
Territory, however, for
should the natives learn
of the stimulating and in-
vigorating properties of
its leaves, they will pro-
bably abandon betel-nut in
its favqr, with disastrous
results. . Cocaine leaves
were largely responsible
for the wiping out of the
Peruvian Indians, and there is little doubt that they
would have the same effect on the New Guinea
natives.
* # * #
“Herodot” : Considerable faith is placed in
the abdominal fat of the goanna as a kind of panacea
for all ills, especially rheumatism, for which it is
believed to be better than anything else. But a
while back a series of careful and detailed tests
carried out in cne of the laboratories of an Austra-
lian university revealed that the fat has no special
medicinal virtues, and that as a therapeutic agent
its value does not exceed that of any other fat or
oil. The samples examined had been taken at almost
every time of the year, in deference to a belief in
some quarters that it is only during a certain season
that the stuff is properly efficacious. Despite this,
it is undoubted that some valuable results have been
obtained from the use of goanna fat in certain com-
plaints—a fact due probably to a firm beforehand
belief on the part of the patients that it would cure
them.
“Wee Bobbie”: “Te W.” says: “All the
whale flesh 1 ever saw was dark, rank, oily and evil-
smelling” (B. 29/6/’24). Well, during the war, when
meat was dear and hard to get, especially where I
was in the British Solomons, the co. got a supply of
whale-meat in lib. tins from a Japanese firm. The
meat was cut in half-inch cubes and canned with a
liberal supply of gravy. It certainly was dark, but
not evil-smelling. I sampled it out of the tin and
also made up as a pie, and i don’t mind telling
“Te W.” that if at all meat-hungry I’d rather eat
it than go without. It would, no doubt, be different
tinning a whale at, say, Vladivostock when the
icicles were jingling on the beards of the canners
than at Port Jackson. A mountain of w’hale flesh
certainly doesn’t take long to become dark, rank and
evil-smelling in Australian weather.
* * * *
What makes a wild bird wild:—
“Tarago”: Tell “Skyrider” (B. 22/5/’24) that
the wild magpie does not attack his tame brother
because he has an aversion to the domesticated one,
but because he looks upon him as an intruder.
Around each nesting-tree there Is an area which is
claimed by the wild birds as their special feeding-
ground all the year round, and any bird —particu-
larly their own species—which appears in that terri-
tory gets Rafferty’s rules. The bird that chummed
up with “Skyrider’s” pet had no stake in that par-
ticular part of the country, and therefore they could
afford to be amicable to the lone stranger; but if
they had happened to have a nesting-tree anywhere
within half a mile they would have belted the stuff-
ing out of him. I have a nice illustration of how
Mag. preserves his territorial rights here in a 25-
ehain paddock. Two pairs of wild birds have built
in trees at either end, and in ploughing season the
parties meet dead centre. Occasionally they have a
light spar over the boundary, always being careful
to land on the right side, of the line, and invite the
opposition over and take what’s coming to them.
Even while thus engaged they will join forces if
a stranger appears, and put bill and claw into him
till he leaves for his proper address; then each pair
in turn *will chase the other back to its proper
territory.
“New”: I had a tame hen maggie which used to
roam about the yard. One day I found her strut-
ting along with a wild male bird, a handsome,
sharp-eyed fellow. It was evidently a case of love
at first sight, for he began to call cn her every day
If anything happened to scare him he’d merely fly
to the top of a nearby gum-tree and warble a melo-
dious serenade. Seeing how things were I let
Maggie’s wing grow, and later on she left with her
cavalier without even bidding us , good-bye. The
little romance made a quaint commentary upon the
theory of a wild bird’s aversion to tame ones of
their kind.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Talking of our edible berries.
A very fair jelly, pale amber in color, and almost
equal to the costly and scarce red-currant, can be
made from the fruit of the native currant, an up-
WHEN FATHER SIGNED THE PLEDGE.
THE SHEPHERD : “And has your father been drinking again?"
THE CHILD: “Oh no, sir; father’s been a teetotaller for a fort-
night with a poisoned lip.”
right shrub with small feathery leaves. This berry
has a sweetish but sub-acid flavor. Some of the
old-time Sydney surgeons held it to be a powerful
anti-scorbutic, and when scurvy threatened, owing
to the absence of fresh meat and vegetables, Governor
Hunter often sent parties of convicts into the bush
to collect native currants. The astringent liquor
obtained from the gum of several species of eucalypti
and of the grass-tree was also used by Phillip’s sur-
geons for dysentery (as red-gum kino still is), and
found efficacious.
THE STARLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tag-rag gypsy loon is he,
Camped with his tribe beneath the eaves,
And leaving, an ironic fee,
Vermin in lieu of what he thieves.
An alien outlaw whose delight,
Unteased by any moral thorn,
Is still to pillage, poach and fight,
And dispossess the native-born.
Scolding, he bickers on the roof,
Or, squabbling, swoops upon the fruit •
Or perches for a while aloof
To preen his sleek and skimpy suit.
Sometimes he sits, in lazy mood,
Sunning himself when skies are blue
By pleasant comfort half subdued,
And softly cries, “Whe-ee ! Yvhee-eu !”
Alack, his voice is but a croak;
Old Nature in her moments bland
Loves to conceive a little joke;
See how she laughs behind her hand
When, palpitant, with throbbing throat
And trembling, half-expanded wings,
Fit fire to urge some piercing note,
He clucks, jars, squeaks— and thinks he sinys
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


HUDSON S HOMES
if!
Bungalow
No. 35
All Materials (except
Bricks, Lime, Cement and
Paint),
£298/0/0
Free on Rail Sydney.
All Framework Cut and
Marked, ready for erec-
tion; Flooring and Lining
End Matched; Doors and
Windows Fitted to
Frames; Barge Board,
etc., cut to shape.
Waste Entirely
Eliminated
Va/PGrJ PAH 'J
/2 /O
/z«/z
8 ‘-s®
/€> »/2'
S 2 ' tZ
L- J
Vf a /7/V D» H a rviO*
=□
a
GEORGE HUDSON, LTD.,
TIMBER MERCHANTS AND FLOORING SPECIALISTS,
GLEBE - - - SYDNEY.
City Office—7 Castlereagh Street, near Hunter Street.
ART METAL CEILINGS
BBS
' . £
LISTS'
Distinctive Ceilings.
Vour choice of Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings will be
doubly appreciated as years go by; for such Ceilings
retain their freshness and charm for generations, being
proof against lire, dry rot, white ants and borers.
These Ceilings are available in hundreds of distinctive
designs, and prices are extremely moderate, ranging
from 2s. 6d. per square yard. Any man handy with
tools can fix our Ceilings.
We will gladly provide designs and quotations on
receipt of plans or measurements of rooms.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Manufacturers
Sydney , Newcastle , Melbourne, Adelaide
Perth , Brisbane , Isaunceston , Hobart
ďf
d
Steel Castings
For All Industries.
From a few ounces up to
10 tons.
WHY BUY EXPENSIVE FORGINGS
when we can make exactly what
IS you want in Highest-grade Cast
Steel at Reasonable Prices ? Send, us your
inquiries, no matter how small, and we
will advise and quote you.
Large Cast-steel Spur Wheel for State Coalmine, Victoria.
All Casting's to British Standard Specifications.
(On Lloyd’s List, London).
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161. TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


CHARLES
NEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1914
(Mm
NE PLUS DLTRfI
ďf
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
d
fd
UNIQUE WEDDING GIFTS.
ANlf in Tt ITES inspection op an incomparable stock op useful
SPECIAIIYJ SOVEL ' rIE ® AT REASONABLE RATES, INCLUDING ARTICLES
> I SUITABLE POR WEDDING OIPTS AND PRESENTATION PURPOSES.
SILVER AND
ELECTRO-
PLATED
WARE,
FINE
CUT-GLASS
WARE,
ETC.
dfd
GOLD AND
IVORY GOODS,
FINE
CHINA,
TORTOISESHELL,
LEATHER GOODS,
ETC.
Sterling Silver Butter Dish and Knife,
vine Quality, Frosted Glass Lining.
In Leather Case, £3 :7: 6.
Full particulars and Booklet foe warded on application.
WILLIAM FARMER &C? U?
, Gem Merchants .Silversmiths.
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Nothing of its kind equals
in
H
-beauty and delightful music, together
whh the djstmction of its guests, all contribute
to the allure ot The Ambassadors.
DINNER DE LtXE, Nightly, 7.30 21/. •
Saturday. 25/-
SUPPERS, from 9.30, 12/6; Saturday, 15/6.
4£ to 6 hours’ perfect enjoyment nowhere
equalled.
RALTON’S WORLD-FAMED HAVANA BAND.
Liiithi alling 1 music, satin-smooth spring’ floors
adding to dancing its crowning charm.
LUNCHEONS DE LUXE, eminently
superior, from 12.30, 5/-; or a La Carte
Equal to London’s best half-guinea lunch!
AFTERNOON TEAS, at S.SO dally */-
Delicious Pastry by French Chefs/
Ralton s Rand in attendance.
Sp f i ?> l 3 0te '~ F °n Weddin S Receptions, Balls
and Parties smah and up to 700, no place
equals The Ambassadors. Ring M 3666. ■
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Tlie State . Governor and his lady have
started the fashion of engaging musicians
to provide melody during afternoon parties,
this has apparently, up to the present, been
looke ; d upon as an uncalled-for extravagance,
Bertie Kelly’s orchestra being the outstand-
ing exception. Their at-home was one of the
least formal and happiest gatherings of the
month. Reception and ball rooms were
thrown wide open, and after the greetings
and tea had been got through the company
draped itself about the premises, sitting even
upon the gorgeous splendor of the old-gold
settees that usually buttress the walls of
the ballroom. From black velvets the vice-
reine emerged as lustrous as her own pearls.
The G.-G.’s lady was a graceful exponent
of moss-green velvets topped by small-size
black millinery. Premier Fuller’s tall wife
was a handsome wearer of black, and Coim-
mander Grant’s wife turned on a dazzling
complexion above navy frocking. Irene Van-
brugh was another wearer of the green; but
hers was a hardy-perennial sort of green
that looked capable and determined, and flew
fur boundaries. Janet Eccles, in grey and
an appealing expression, was another'orna-
ment in a crowded horizon ; and pianist Iris
Rego, singers Essie Ackland and Francis
flails, and violinist Lionel Lawson poured
out the color and warmth of their music
through the rooms until the grey, wet day
turned into night.
Periodically the Victoria League entertains
the vice-regal- ladies, and last week Lady
Forster was the guest of honor at a tea-
party in the assembly-room of the Women’s
Club. Her Ex., who was expected at 3.30,
turned up smiling somewhere about 4, and
spoke her cheerio through a larynx still heavy
with cold. The Wade dame extended the
white glove of greeting, and a somewhat
breathless piano and violin gaspingly im-
plored the Deity to watch over the King.
The room was crowded with Leaguers from
far and wide —even from as wide a farness
as the Varrawonga that Ella Sliiels used to
grow melodic about. In a corner was the
club’s newest treasure —the beautifully illu-
minated address presented to Lady Beau-
mont, the League’s first president, on her
departure from Australia. When the address
came back as a gift to the club, Mrs. Dow-
ling had it mounted as a table, and there
it stands, a colorful bit in the greyness of
these winter days. And if you must know
what, the vice-reine wore, her sapphire-blue
i rocking was covered by a mole-upholstered
coat, and a coque-plumed hat topped the
whole.
Little Josie Melville savored the sweets
of greatness on Monday afternoon. In an-
swer to her invitation as much of female
Sydney as could pack itself into the Ambas-
sadors rallied around St. Margaret’s and
its babies. At 3 o’clock Pitt-street for nearly
a block was packed like a sardine-tin. People
who were going to the party and people who
were going nowhere had decided to watch for
Josie’s. arrival. Inside the doorway things
were little better; you were simply carried
along the vestibule, and only when the
woman in front of you dipped could you
guess where the steps began. By 3.30 every
table in the room and the lounge was com-
mandeered, and people who came later, had
they booked never so early, had to mooch
about till attendants conjured up more tables
and chairs in several languages, while the
head waiter advanced, retired and waved
explanations as though he were living in a
Russian ballet. The Hospital’s secretary,
George Fitzpatrick, smoothed the ruffles out
of the crowded afternoon like an electric-
iron • and a small daughter with dad’s brand
of Titian hair handed up a pink bouquet to
Sydney’s newest best girl when she arrived,
her graceful little body extinguished by a
regular aristocrat of a fur coat. At her
table sat the managerial Tait couple, Albert
Gould and various other celebrateds, to whom
Sally dispensed tea with great unction, rather
en joying, it all, judging by the dimple that
winked in and out of her cheek. Mrs.
Langton, whose doctor husband is chief
gentleman-in-waiting on the babies of St.
Margaret’s, brought a big party, and the
finance secretary, May Sheehan, topped a
large smile with a small hat.
Lewisham is a magic word on a ball-
ticket. The big hospital counts its friends
by the thousand; so every box around the
dancing-floor of the Palais on Monday night
held a big party. It was chilly, and the
radiators don’t operate until next week, so
the proportion of non-dancers was the small-
est on record —everybody who knew any
steps at all took to the floor. The indefati-
gable Dr. Bill McKay was one of president
Mrs. Tommy Marks’s party; so were Mrs.
Sep Levy and a nice-looking Mylius girl, both
warming their box with brilliant-hued frock-
in g. _ Mrs. Marks herself received her presi-
dential bouquet and the four little debs, iu
impressive black chiffon velvets encrusted
with points of starlight.
The Wentworth Falls Golf Club held its
first ball last week, and the whole golf-
house was flung wide to the jazzing crowd.
The local devotees were strongly reinforced
by Sydney pilgrims of the links. Flowers
from the Pitt gardens glowed in the ball-
room and in the billiard-room, where every-
body foregathered for supper; fires roared
up every chimney; and the wide balconies
were canvased in from the night. Barbara
Iteid, who chatelaines at the golf-house, kept
her capable eye on everything.
The Cavalier Club went back to its origi-
nal stand last Thursday, the faithful com-
pletely filling a long table at the King-street
restaurant from which the institution takes
its name. The gathering was more “arty”
than it used to be when services were held at
the Ambassadors ; Thea Proctor, B. E. Minns.
Syd Ure Smith and some writers being
present.
Those nice boys and girls in the city insur-
ance offices are still running a very healthy
amusement fund for children in hospital.
During the last year Punch and Judy shows
and the movies have, at this fund’s expense,
travelled around every Sydney hospital where
there are sick children ; and gramophones and
records and cases filled with books have gone
to cheer the small lie-a-beds.
The Red Crossers gathered at Man-o’-War
Steps the other afternoon for the purpose of
being launched across to Admiralty House,
which in some ears is a much better-sounding
destination than Heaven. Lady Forster,
very graceful in gobelin-blue velours, mur-
mured glad greetings to the shining array of
0.8.E.’5, and passed them on to the State
Governor’s lady, very serene in cigar-brown
frocking and millinery.
With two vice-regal parties hobnobbing
with the Bush Book Clubbers at the Am-
bassadors on the 25th, you needn’t expect
Dame Nellie to keep away. She’ll be there
after the musical fireworks, in time to cheer
the winners of the Balloon Dance—the prize
is two seats for the opera.
A pretty Moree girl, Helen Watt, who has
lately been living with her mother at Eliza-
beth Bay, was a matrimonial client of padre
.John Ferguson last week. St. Stephen’s
kirk staged the ceremony, and Warren Reilly,
of Melbourne, was the bridegroom.
Bob Anderson, one of the knights who
came to flower when W. M. Hughes was
Dictator, has a chick, Marjorie, who
goes to I* 61,1 ! 1 next week to marry
Noel Cuthbert. She was the heroine
of a monster farewell party at the Australia
on Saturday afternoon. The gathering was
in the ballroom, and there was a tremendous
raliy of the Amos clan, with nearly 300
family friends. Marjorie sustained the good
wishes and congratulations in a peach of a
frock from Liberty’s, an apricot groundwork
painted o’er with peacocks’ feathers. Mother
trailed handsome black, and big sister Jean
and the beautiful baby of the family shone in
sand-toned georgettes. The romance started
during the war, and the marriage will round
off an engagement that was plighted when
the two were scarcely more than schoolkids.
When you go to see “Battling Butler”
and begin to swell with pride over Austra-
lia s clever dancing-girls, remember the lady
i n the pic-
ture along-
s i d e. She’s
Minnie Hooper
(Mrs. Rose),
and she has
been training
ballets for
many years,
first for the
Firm and now
for the Hugh
Ward theatres.
Minnie is a
native of'Mel-
bourne, and in
her own begin-
ning day* was
a pup id of
Mrs Teddy
hoyce and
Mrs. Alberti.
Madge Elliott,
Ma i e Baird
Meldrum are three of her pupils d Haz e 1
Harold Wright married his best
birl, Patricia Cartwright-Ashe, at St
John s, in Darlinghurst, one night last week
The bride wore a shining frock of S'w
brocade that was built with the old-fashioned
veil ” Hffi, *s* listed over with” iffi
at +V r. J : dlth Coglilan maided, and David
Nott best-manned. The cake’ was cut
the Rose Bay Golf Club House, and was dis-
tributed and blessed by bride’s sister and
clerical brother-in-law, the Naval Chaplain
Hardie couple. Pati’icia is one of the Mac-
piuilamy cum, and Harold’s father is a cap-
tain in the British Navy.
Tuesday, the 24th, threatens to be a full
day at the Wentworth. It is earmarked by
the committee for a cabaret in aid of the
Hospice for the Dying. Mrs. W. Macleod
is president of the flutter.
Every second year a Science Congress is
held under th« eye of the Australian Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science in
one or other of the capitals of this conti-
nent or Maoriland. The last centre visited
was Wellington, and this year’s council will
stimulate Adelaide in August. The open-
ing address will be by the incoming presi-
dent, General Monash; and there will be a
welter of receptions, parties and excursions,
with the Culture of Adelaide thick upon
them.
Falk has made this picture of Miss Byles
after she had gone through her law course
at Sydney Uni. and been admitted to prac-
tise in the
N. S. Wales
courts. She
had a woman
friend who
was entitled
to write LL.B.
after her name
on the same
day. But now
their ways
part. Miss
Byl e s will
take the lower
road, and
pursue Costs
behind a soli-
citor’s brass-
plate the
first of her
sex to do it in
N. S. Wales.
And she has
the serious
feeling that
something more than her own personal suc-
cess depends upon her efforts.
George Harris, who died at Randwick Hos-
pital last week, was an English painter who
arrived in Sydney with his family four years
He formed what he called a Portrait
Club, the idea being that members should
have their counterfeit presentments done in
oils at a moderate figure with the stipulation
that the artist should be allowed to take his
own time. On this basis he painted George
Fuller, W. M. Hughes, Owen Cox, the late
Herbert Maitland and a number of other
prominent men. Pixie Harris, who won
some fame as a book-illustrator while still
a schoolgirl, is a daughter.
Much sympathy will be felt for popular
Josephine Marks, whose mother died last
week. The lady—she had the pretty names
of Wanisford Almonde Butler —was in her
day a renowned contralto, and sang as Jose-
phine Butler, after years of study in Milan
and Florence. She was a noted horsewoman,
and had one memorable 40 miles’ ride from
Eugowra to Bathurst in bushranging days.
Josephine shares her loss with one brother
—George. He is the author of several works
written around Napoleon, and is also the
author of “Watch the Pacific!”
Eadith Walker, who leaves for England
at the end of the month, will be the guest of
the Red Cross at Rose Hall on Saturday
afternoon. Miss Walker has been the fairy
godmother of disabled soldiers since the first
days of the war; and the party will be a
great deal made up of soldier friends.
The Women’s Club expects to move to its
new abode in Elizabeth-street about the end
of the year. The new building, which is
the club’s own property, will be named Beau-
mont House. The name was decided by
ballot—and there were no sliding panels in
the boxes.
From the Playbox will emerge Elmer L.
Rice’s “Adding Machine” on June 20, at
St. James’s. This modern play is in seven
acts, and ran for two years on Broadway.
Duncan Macdougall, who directs the Play-
box, will present it to Sydney for two nights.
Erik Langker has designed and painted the
scenery.
Youth and beauty are trimming sails for
the Garden of Allah Ball at the Palais
Royal on the 27th. Moira Brady and Bar-
bara Laidley are the secretaries of the dance,
which will benefit the C. of E. homes and
hostels for children. Barbara Bowker and
Cecile Huntley are treasurers, and the com-
mittee is made up of girleens not long past
school themselves. The atmosphere will be
as much as possible that of an Oriental
garden, and the frocking is plain or fancy, as
your mood dictates. Most of the committee
are forming quaint sets, and the modestly-
priced tickets are on sale at Paling’s and
the Australia.
Sydney is to have its Artists’ Ball, in
spite of City Fathers and everything. To
deprive the youth of this annual fixture
would be as wanton as to separate a baby
and his bottle. Lister Lister, Sid Smith,
Gladys Owen and D. H. Souter are among
the chief conspirators. The takings are
to go to what is vaguely named “the
Combined Arts.” The Palais Royal is being
surveyed with an eye to its suitability for
the revelry, dolce far niente, questa 0
quella and the other things in the Bohemian
vocabulary.
Beaufort Burdekin gave a farewell dinner-
dance to his sisters, Mrs. Alec Hay and Miss
Burdekin, at the Wentworth on Monday
night. They leave by the Osterley on another
English trip neyt Saturday. About 40 friends
of the family occupied two round tables at
the top of the room, amongst them being Mrs.
William Collins, Mrs. George Vivers, Bar-
bara and Janet Knox, the Laidley Dowlings,
the William Owens, James Fairfax and T
H. Kelly.
London now has a Dominion Artists’ Club.
The idea emanated from Gibson Young'
Natalie Rosenwax and a few others; and
Rosina Buckman, Daisy Kennedy, Peter
Dawson, J. Kaye and 11. Braithwaite are
giving- strong support. The club’s member-
ship will be made up of the followers of all
the Arts—students or experts—and one of its
chi of aims will be to make available through-
out the Dominions reliable information on
the condition of art in England and the
Continent.
The Osterley will be boarded by crowds of
kiddies this (Thursday) afternoon in the in-
terests of the fund for the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Hostel. The party was to have been
held on the Orvieto, but had to be cut out
owing to that liner’s liaison with a sandbank
at Brisbane. However, Captain Cameron,
of the Osterley, and his merry men have
arranged wonderful deck games to keep small
sister and brother amused.
The Feminists are transforming them-
selves into Red Devils and Lobsters and what
not on the night of July 15, when they will
hold Red Revelry at the Palais Royal. With
charming frankness they are staging the fun
for their own benefit—the club’s paying-
out teller has been working overtime lately.
And if we all might do the same when funds
begin to flee, -what a very, happy world this
happy world would be!
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matthew has had a busy week. He dined a
party which included tne F. S. M. McDonalds, Glynn
Connollys, A. Hertzbergs and Mrs. Leonard Turner,
and then took them along to see Allan Wilkie play
Bottom the Weaver, with Mrs. Wilkie as Titania.
He also went to the Brisbane Dental Hospital’s annual
meeting, and referred feelingly to “an old gentleman
of a hundred thousand years ago” who had good
teeth. Another evening his Ex. dined with the Bluff
Downs Whites at the Bellevue amid a field of Iceland
poppies. Others there were A.-D.-C. Turner, the
Graham Mylnes, Mrs. Leonard Turner, Elfrida Walsh,
Leith Graham and Private Sec; Saunders. Afterwards
the party went off to His Majesty’s for a front view
of “Much Ado About Nothing.” In the crowded
house were Professor and Mrs. Stable, a Macgregor
contingent, the Arthur Feez dame and Marjorie Green,
Dr. Morgan Lane, Barbara Sisley and Capt. Harboard!
Through a real deluge his Ex. arrived at die
Trocadero for the Mater public hospital ball. Maurice
Barry and his lady met the vice-regal party, helped
by Mrs. Tom Kyan and Mrs. J. Windsor. With
Sir Matthew were the Bluff Downs Whites and Caot.
Turner and his mamma. Eight debs, made their
bow to Sir Matthew. Mayoress Barry was in jetted
net with diamante trimmings; and Mrs. Ryan wore
black chiffon velvet with a gold rose at the waist.
Most of the matrons wore black. Eugenie Boland
chose a pretty gown of white satin and georgette.
The Press Institute met at the Hotel Daniell to
give the glad hand to Sir Johu Willison, a visiting
Canadian, and to welcome M. L. Reading, who takes
the editorial chair at the Brisbane Telegraph.
P. J. Leahy presided, and among those in the picture
were the Edwardses, Percy Reays, Bryants, Maynards
and Josephs, Alice Gore-Jones, M. Forrest, and the
Arundel, Young and Carew-Smyth matrons, Spencer
Browne, C. E. Sligo, A. E. Lavis and Norman White.
The Authors and Artists’ evening was held in the
M attle Cafe, arid quite a number of papers were read.
Dr. E. S. Jackson reminisced amusingly; Steele Rudd
gave a capital sketch of a bush woeer and Jack
Matthews one of a bush wedding; “Tarboy” Brown
enlivened matters with a few words about “Out-
back Cooks and Shearers’ Reps”; Bell Booth, Mrs.
Cook, M. Forrest and others gave original stories
and verse, and the Gillies girls brightened the gaps
with music. Cumbrae Stewart and Prof. Stabie
divided the honors of the chair.
On the same evening “The Ancient Mariner” was
done by the Musical Union at the Exhibition. Soprano
Myrtle Power soloed in orange, and contralto Blanche
Burns in orchid mauve.
Red roses decked the high altar in St. Stephen’s
for May Beirne’s wedding to Ellis Murphy, son of
the Miles Murphys of Sydney. Archbishop Duhig
had the help of Fathers Kelly and Maloney. T. 0.
Beirne gave away his daughter, who was in cloth
of silver with a lace veil and carried an armful of
arum lilies. Eva Murphy, Doreen and Joan Hooper
and Sybil Douglas brideemaided, while Felix Lehane
(of Melbourne) best-manned. Glengariff, decked out
in damask roses, saw the wedding feast, whereat the
bride’s mother wore gold tissue.
The same night at All Saints’, Wickham-terracc,
Norma Crollick, of Noralvera station, was married to
f rank Paltridgc, only son of the Minimi station Palt-
ridges. Ihe Gresham was trimmed with roses for
the wedding dinner. The honeymoon rises over
Cairns and the Barron Falls, and the future home
of the newly-weds is Tippendale station, St. George.


&
£832
A*t
Unpin
rj'feMl
mt*mm
sifij
FREE
FURNITURE
CONTEMPLATE a Beautiful Bed-
room Suite costing £lOO.
PICTURE a Perfect Piano worth
£lOO.
THINK of a treasur'd Trousseau
valued at £5O.
VISUALISE a Wonderful Set of
Aluminium Kitchen Utensils priced at
£25.
Any of these tasteful and useful
presents would he welcomed in YOUR
home.
There are 100 other gracious gifts,
specially selected for the modern
home.
Any or all of these may be yours for 1/-. They are prizes in the
Honeymoon Art Union
arranged for the benefit of the babies in ST. MARGARET S HOSPITAL,
where over 10,000 little Australians have been born, and where 1/- a day
keeps a baby a day.
Please buy whole hooks of 7 tickets, by sending Postal Note for 7/-, with
stamped, addressed envelope for result slip, to
the art union secretary,
Department “D,”
St. Margaret’s Hospital,
Box 2755 G.P.0., Sydney.
THE SYSTEM OF DRAWING IS COPYRIGHTED.
YOUR TICKET IS GUARANTEED A PLACE IN THE BARREL.
Last Weeks. CLOSING JUNE 23. Write to-day, please.
The many good friends of the Babies who have received tickets through
the post are earnestly requested to return butts and cash before Monday,
June, 23, 1924.
This space is donated by
HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
LONDON,
to take the place of their regular announcement.
m
i
021 VALUES
Values in cloth are partly appar-
ent but largely hidden. Cloth,
like the manufactured pearl, can
look rather good without being
good.
The discriminating buyer of
cloth should insist on seeing the
Fox Trade Mark. This will be
his safeguard that it is solid,
honest - right - through highest
grade cloth.
The Fox is the hall mark of
quality and value. It ensures to
the buyer a cloth of rare beauty
and one which resists wear.
AII FOX'S Cloths are all pure
wool, and will not shrink or fade
by land, sea or air.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84m. on
the reverse of the cloth.
y esl a/, Quality
CLOTHS
PANCY WORSTEDS • FUNNELS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS • TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES 9
Harringtons Ltd.
Announce regarding
WIRELESS
That they have for some time been preparing to give
the General Public the benefit of their EXPERT
HELP in this latest and most fascinating
Home Entertainment
On MONDAYS and WEDNESDAYS. 3 p.m. to 5
p.m., they are now conducting a series of Free
Practical Demonstrations in Listening-in, the
Construction of and the Erection of RADIO
RECEIVING SETS at the Exhibition Hall in
HARRINGTONS
Photographic Warehouse
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Between King Street and G.P.0.).
A CORDIAL INVITATION
IS EXTENDED TO ALL.
NOTE. Those who cannot conveniently attend the
above are assured of courteous attention anc *
at any time they favor us with a visit to our RADIO
DEPT., which is open Mondays to Thursdays, 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays,
9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
fd
ffolcproof fjosiorg’
THE extra service Holeproof Hosiery
offers will make it well worth your
while to seek it out the next time you
purchase hosiery. Style and beauty are
combined with its famous durability.
In Pure Silk, Silk Faced, Fiber Silk, and
Lusteriz,ed Lisle, in the season s popular
colours, at the leading shops everywhere.
Wholesale and Indents through WALTER CATHRO Pty.Ltd.,
50 YORK ST., SYDNEY. 326 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Cathro,
Kushbrook Co., 16-18 Victoria Street,
Wellington, -N.Z.


. DMK.
4 '
m
mm
t
■m
FARMER’S
BOX 497, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
cA special section, devoted to the
traveller's needs, is a feature at
Farmer’s, on the ground floor.
Travel Rugs of Merino Wool
Farmer’s selected Australian Merino Wool Rug; closely woven,
in smart, serviceable designs and colourings. 72 x 60ins. Price, 55/-
The Mosgiel Rug, of merino wool, close weave and superior
finish; in many smart checks, and range of plain reversible designs.
Size, 76x 88 inches. Piices ... ... ... 84/., 112/., 120/-
vWC&eunt
SEEDED RAISINS
Stemmed, Cleaned and
Seeded - Ready for Use
Obtainable
All Grocers
'
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melboume.
P[?] [?]
MISS[?] MONK & DOVLE
P[?] Central 1532, 1533.
Mayoress Brunton flowered her parlors
with native-born pink-and-white heather for
her Thursday afternoon tea-drinking with
those suburban mayoral sisters who had
helped her make a do of the great Fleet
Week market-fair which put £lO,OOO into
the Queen Vic. Hospital Fund. The cheery
flow of chatter was intersected by song items
supplied by Dorothy Humphries and Ivy Wil-
mot (the girl with the rich contralto who
calls singer Ada Crossley aunt), with piano
backings by Billy Burrell. Mrs. Brunton
was bronzed like a new halfpenny in bro-
caded silk. Her three-decker skirt was side-
tasselled with what looked like ■ an old-time
bell pull, and her ever-so-smart velvet toque
carried a golden swathe. The pekoe and
sandwiches came on at a special interval,
which also served to accommodate the
Mayoress’s spoken thanks and a return fire of
complimentary references from the Appeal
Fund’s hon sec., Mrs. Fossett. The Gaud
Mayor, who was hosting a welcome to Ste-
fansson in the adjoining room, broke up
his stag party in time to let the Arctic lion
roar gently for the ladies. Time being short,
the civic head, having made the explorer
known to his wife, tactfully presented the
gathering to him en bloc as ‘‘our guests.”
After one fearful glance at the sea of petti-
coats, Stefansson plunged bravely in with out-
stretched hand and the all-encompassing
smile which covers a multitude of silence.
One has to see Toti dal Monte in rehear-
sal to realise the infectious gaiety of the
little artist. These winter days she awaits
her cues chattering and smiling in the wings,
while her countrymen pound round gloomily
in mufflers for fear of getting chilblains on
the larynx. Even when warbling blissfully
in the throes of girlish affection for the tenor
her sense of humor is very near the surface.
While running through “Don Pasquale” the
other day the antics of Azzolini, the fat
buffo, who was playing the amorous Don in
his next-to-Sunday-best, broke her up in a
giggle, and every watcher, catching her com-
plaint, joined in a chuckling chorus. On
recovering her poise she returned to business
with a pretty “Scusa mi,” at which the scat-
tered audience had to titter some more.
In contrast to her, the tenor, Dino Borgioli,
conducted himself with the mien of one
who didn’t know where next week’s rent was
to come from. Flappers who have yearned
for one glance from his thrilling eyes when
strutting in the silks and laces of Hoffmann,
will be distressed to learn that he is partly
bald and looks every minute of 40.
Mabel Saltau looked as if she had got
tangled up in a pink spotlight the other
night when she kept her matrimonial date
with Dr. Arthur Home at Melbourne Gram-
mar chapel. Her rosy draperies glinted to
a silver lining on the rear width, while a
pink tulle veil blushed from an anchorage
of orange blossoms. The medical Ward
Farmers’ daughter Nancy and a Warrnam-
bool damsel, Mollie Salter, ’maided in dia-
phanous blue and silver brocade shrouded
on the upper deck with blue tulle veils, which
fluttered from silver headache wreaths.
Arthur Uglow best-manned with the help
of Noel Morris. Menzies’ sheltered the dinner
and jazz, spread by the bride’s parents—the
Marcus Saltaus, one-time of Warrnambool
but now of Camberwell. The bride’s mother
trailed black, but held a posy of red roses,
while the ’groom’s mamma, who was there
with her husband, Major Home, lightened
her black velvet with mauve flowers. Among
the health-drinkers were the bride’s grandma
and her aunt, Mrs. Auton, who had a daugh-
ter under her wing, the Rod Travis pair,
Hope Syme and a large medical contingent
which included Roderick and Eric Aitche-
son and their other halves, Dr. and Mrs.
Powell, Margaret McLorinan and the Green,
Saltau and Frank Miller medicoes. After
the ’moon the pair will settle in Albany.
Old Xavier Boys will be interested to
hear of F. W. Walton’s promotion to the
management of the Sydney branch of the
South British Insurance Co. Walton left
Ivcw in 1900, and became Ballarat rep. for
the New Zealand Accident Co. until 1906,
when he was selected to establish and organ-
ise the South British Co.’s Accident busi-
ness in Sydney. While in Ballarat he was
hon. sec. of the local centre of the Vie.
Amateur Athletic Association, and he also
pulled off the South-street debate on White
Australia, outpointing Matthew Baird, after-
wards Minister for Education, and Tommy
ya ?’ M.L.A. in S. Aus., and after-
wards of Essendon. During his IS years
in Sydney Walton has been twice chairman
°* tl* c Accident Underwriters’ Association
and also president of the Insurance Institute.
His hobby is the lion, secretaryship of the
Pioneers’ Club, where chips of the eariy
Australian family blocks swap tales of the
bad old days.
Although Donizetti’s tuneful “Don Pas-
-2t U • was a s t ran ger to Melbourne he drew
the biggest crowd of the season. Toti dal
Monte is simply enchanting as the naughty
little widdy, more especially in her first
dress —Tull skirtings of blue silk festooned
with pink roses under a little pointed bodice
which has more pink roses on the front and
lace ruffles at the elbows. Her next frock
and accompanying poke bonnet and veil arc
as grey as a mouse, but later she switches
into magenta silk shot with silver, a
pointed bodice and lace ruffles of the period.
A velvet cloak of magenta also figures in her
sartorial display. The vice-regal Stradbrokes
put up a record by their absence —they were
listening to Stefansson talk about the Arctic.
Daughters Charlotte and Helena were at
the opera, however, with a party which in-
cluded Geoff Heath, the elder Everard
Browne daughter and her fiance, Dermot
Casey; but they didn’t file into their seats
until after the first act.
Betty, the elder daughter of the late Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Nichol, of Clunes, has announced
her engagement to the Norton Grimwades’
second son, Lionel, who about two years
ago forswore a Royal Naval career to come
back and settle in his native land. The bride-
to-be is a good-looking, sportingly inclined
damsel, with a host of girl friends in Mel-
bourne and her home town. By the way,
the Norton Grimwade pair are making pre-
parations for another course of foreign travel.
The Collingwood Free Kindergarten and
Crfeche will have its finances strengthened by
nearly £4O as the result of a bridge flutter
in Mrs. Monty Grover’s Brighton parlors the
other afternoon. Pink heath and massed
autumn vegetation made a gay setting for the
eruption of green boards, an’d hedged in the
room in which Mrs. Ted Dyson tapped a musi-
cal menu well out of earshot of the card-
players. Dorothy Murdoch’s warm contralto
was at the top of its form in several classic
warbles, Mrs. Teddy trilled some old English
ballads as sweetly as a bird, and Mrs.
Broinowski fiddled soulfully, all to Yvonne
Deschamps’s delightful piano accompaniment.
A Gaby doll, whose abundant locks sug-
gested a female Samson, a Shirlow etching
and a basket of chocs, were raffled for
the cause, and two nice-looking Grover
daughters and pretty Jean Taylor put up a
record of activity as tea girls.
This Rembrandt picture introduces you
to Mrs. Alice Solomon, a lady J.P. from
Adelaide. She left the churchy city some
years ago, aftex-
tile death of
her political
husband he
was The Btte-
eetin’s o 1 d
j o u r n a listic
friend “Sud-
den” Solomon,
who arrived
u n e xpectedly
at the Pre-
miership and
held it for a
fortnight—and
settled at St.
Ivilda. Much
charitable
work stood to
her credit in
Adelaide, and
she carried on
similar activi-
ties in Mel-
, , bourne until
cl lll ™ recently, when a breakdown in health
called a halt. Mrs. Solomon was one of the
first committee which ran Lady Tennyson’s
pet charity, the Adelaide Queen’s Home, and
over here she was one of the livest wires con-
nected with the Collingwood Cr&che and
Kindergarten*. Incidentally, she is a life-
governor of both the Adelaide and Melbourne
Children s Hospitals. As a member of the
Toorak branch committee of the Women’s
National League, she acted as president dur-
ing the late Mrs. George Fairbairn’s absence,
and went as a delegate to the Ballarat Con-
ference.
Norman Stafford, only hope of the Thomas
Staffords, of Eastwood, Sydney, claimed the
Ernest Pearces’ second daughter, Alvilda, at
St. Paul’s Cathedral one night last week.
The bride was in filmy white brocade, wlrch
trailed its snowy length from a side mooring
of brilliants. Her mother’s bridal tulle had
been resurrected from its lavender-scented
wrappings to veil her blushes, and pink
flowers splashed the whiteness of the bridal
bouquet. Marion Hope and the youngest
Pearce daughter, Elaine, bridesmaided in
fanciful frockings of the Mamie Watson
type—straight jackets and full skirts of
pink velvet shimmered over with silver lace
which giddily bobbed from swaying hip wires.
Their pink-lined poke bonnets of black velvet
had pink feathers trickling over the left
ledges. It. Russell and Brian Lucy came
over from Sydney to help the ’groom through
his trying moments. The celebrant fizz
popped off at Menzies’, where the bride’s
mother hostessed, in greeny-blue velvet,
clamped at one side with silver glitter, and
a mole velvet hat flying a blue plume. Mrs.
Pearce, sen., was there in all black. Ill-
health kept the Tom Staffords from coming
across to see son Norman make his matri-
monial vows, but his two sisters, Mrs. Hart
and Mrs. Holmes, made the journey.
J. M. Walsh is probably the most prolific
fictionist in the Commonwealth. He has
written 30 serials for Australian papers, and
is still pouring them forth with tremendous
industry. Some
of his yarns
have been put
between bright
covers by the
N.S.W. Book-
stall Co.;
some more are
bidding for
publishers in
London, and he
hopes by this
means to en-
large an over-
se a s reputa-
ti o n which
has been
founded by
short- story
work in Eng-
lish magazines.
Walsh hqs no
c o m p 1 a i nts
about the
alleged neglect
of Australian authors by local journals—he
is kept with his nose to the typewriter for
six or seven hours a day, and he admits that
he is making a, decent, living at it. The
young author, who is here photoed by Dickin-
son-Monteath, won the second prize in the
De Garis novel competition with a mystery
story that kept the reader scrambling ex-
citedly over the boulders of the Grampians
in Western Victoria.
A Melbourne artist who had not suc-
ceeded hitherto in captivating the fancy of
the investing public was recently waited
upon in his studio by a genteel burglar, who
left; with two canvases, among other things.
The pictures were cut from their frames,
and great discrimination was shown in
selecting the two most highly-priced paintings
in the shop. Madder was subsequently
recompensed to the tune of £75 under a
burglary-insurance policy he held. Now
Madder’s artistic friends, consumed with
jealousy, insist that the burglar must have
got, a rake-off.
Vera Moore, the youthful Maoriland pian-
ist, dropped into Melbourne the other day
to stage a recital at the Assembly Hall on
her way back to Europe after a short visit
to her parents in the Dominion. Miss Gil-
man Jones, the Girls’ Grammar head, was
inspired to ask of her a special performance
for the scholars; and a number of grown-
ups were allowed to partake of the musical
treat, including the Herbert Brookes pair
(the lady, who is a daughter of the late
Alfred Deakin, is herself a talented violin-
ist), Dr. and Mrs. Felix Meyer and Jessie
Bage.
Talk of British and American ignorance
of Australia suggests that not even the most
authoritative of us can afford to cast stones.
The Argus, for example, explained the cabled
news that Prime Minister Macdonald’s son
had been “gated” at Oxford for electioneer-
ing :
A student who is “gated” is punished by con-
finement to the grounds of the University.
Oxford has no “grounds” as Melbourne has:
it is composed of 20-odd colleges scattered
about the city. Young Macdonald won’t even
be confined to the grounds of his college dur-
ing the daytime. All that this, the lightest
of Oxford penalties, means is that he will
have to be indoors after “hall,” wdiich occurs
about 7 p.m.
The dressing of the new musical show',
Whirled into Happiness” is sumptuous.
As the romantic Florrie, Kitty Reidy cavorts
in her fairy dance in silver tissue skirted
with filmy white which carries a crystal
Sl’tter—this after starting off with a frock
of blue georgette to match her eyes, hemmed
m with banded crystal. She takes her last
curtain in snowy accord eon pleatings side-
tasselled with green, and has green ribbons
fluttering from her flower-wreathed hat.
Madge Elliott makes a dashing entrance as
the giddy Delpliine in a black Directoire
cloak and swept-off-the-face hat over a tan-
gerine velvet one-piece frock inlet with floral
patternings. Later she flashes radiantly in
Tuttish draperies, of gold enmeshed with
brilliants, a gold-jewelled rising sun on her
little head. She finishes up in an all-red
skirt, and a white kid straightjacket bodice
splashed with more reds. On the opening
night the Fordyce Wheelers were boxed above
George Tallis and his wife. The latter radi-
ated rosily in pink. The Madden lady was
stalled with daughter Leslie and her husband.
Louis Nelkin.
Bob Knox and his wife the other night
bundled the furnishings out of their parlors
to make way for a fox-trotting party. It
was quite an informal little affair, don’t y'
know, and the jazzing Countess and Dame
Nellie Were among the guests; The best-
intentioned hostess is scared at the Very
thought of broadcasting invitations for a
really truly ball these days, owing to the
ever-increasing scarcity and yoiithfuliless of
the Dancing Man.
The Albert Miller widow, who has llelpsd
to boost the C. of E. Diocesan Mission
almost from its beginnings, engineered a
meeting at her Malvern home on satiirday
afternoon to give the. Deaconesses a ell an oh
to let the Kooyong parishoners learn some-
thing about the inner workings of the mis-
sion. The Rev. W. Prentice, as chairman,
opened the proceedings, and two of the black-
robed sisters galloped their hearers over the
tracks covered by their various activities,
which are headed by the Streets and Lanes
Mission and the Brighton Children’s Homes.
A daughter of a former Miutmaster, Robert
Barton, is shouldering the tough job of lion,
sec. to the mission. Mrs. Miller capped the
meeting agreeably with afternoon tea.
Mrs. R. Hallenstein was called into the
Trained Nurses’ Club the other evening to
open the new wing now sprouting on the
building, the ceremonial being
linked up with the 11th annual meeting. The
wing, which is a two-decker, holds 19 bed-
rooms, Several bathrooms and a cosy little
parlor, the whole being topped with a roof
garden.
Edward Cahill and George Brooke seem
to be prominent in the musical whirl of
London. Cahill took liis piano to accom-
pany Brooke’s sweet tenor before royalty
lately, and following that the modest young
Australians were booked for week-end parties
with some of the most cerulean blood in Eng-
land. An “All-Star” concert in aid of the
Edith Cavell rest homes for nurses also in-
vited their co-operation, and they found them-
selves listed second to Lilian Braitkwaite.
with Owen Nares, Ben Webster, Violet Van-
brugh and Iris Hoey following behind. Drop-
ping in for a special music-hall turn at New-
castle the other day they were delighted to
find their old friends Clay Smith and Lee
White on the programme.
Some Adelaide gossip :
Among the engagements talked about are those of
Mollie, youngest daughter of the Eagland Longbot-
toms, to Douglas Robertson, Assistant District Com-
missioner for Uganda and a D. 5.0.; pretty Mary
Ross to one of the Minch ins, of the Zoo; and Greta,
daughter of the Wyville Thomsons, of the Bum, to
Frank, youngest son of Mrs, H. A. Short.
Lady Bridges and the Mayoral Glovers were among
the musical enthusiasts who turned up to wish
Charlotte Grivell luck at her final concert before
sailing to begin work as an Elder Scholar in Lon-
don. Harold Wylde and Harold Parsons lent a hand
with an excellent programme, and Charlotte herself
got a reception that would have warmed the heart
of the most seasoned prima donna.
Hunting enthusiasts betook themselves to Two
Wells for last week’s run, hunted over the Bueldahd
Park property (putting up a fox, who promptly
took to earth), were entertained by the E. A.
Brookses, and then went on to Virginia Park and
more entertainment from the Legoes. The roads
were mostly mud and water, but even so there was
a big contingent of motorists from town; and that
in spite, too, of races at Victoria Park.
So far as dressing went the race day was mostly-
muffling furs and blanket coats; but after All Tricks
had put up a sensational dividend you could have
worn anything, or nothing, for all the notice the crowd
took of you, unless you were trying to collect the
£234 divvy. One lucky gambler, credited with a
£5 ticket on the surprising beast, was so well and
truly mobbed that he had to get police intervention
to give him enough air to breathe.
Lady Patricia Blackwood is dividing her time here
between the Bridges at Government House and the
Gordon McFarlanes at their Ruthven Mansions flat
She arrived without luggage, a casual railway having
mislaid hers with most of the Forbes-Robertson Co.’s
boxes somewhere along the line.
Fifteen of the younger set were hostesses at a
dance at the beautifully decorated Osborne Hall the
other night. They included Alison and Gwen Verco,
Phyllis Bray, Katie Teesdale Smith, Heather Mac-
Donald, Molly Barr Smith and Madge Rymill. Each
carried an Early Victorian posy to match her frock,
and they set their guests to supper at tables gay
with delicate mauve irises and the gold of Iceland
poppies.
Next night the hall changed its trappings to black
and gold, the colors of the Jazz Frolics, who hosted
another frivol for the younger set and interspersed
the programme with some rattling numbers by them-
selves. The Jazz Frolics, you know, give concerts
throughout the suburbs for various charities, and
they supplied a good deal of the talent for “Healo.”
The Adelaide lawyer who was lately arrested in
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) on a charge of
fraudulently converting about £6OOO of trust moneys
was at once discharged on standing his trial, no
evidence being tendered. However, there is now
another similar warrant, out against him, over a
matter of £4700. The beneficiaries under the trust
were women in each case..


A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure Silver-plated,
daintily engraved.
2-pint size
J-pint size
A 1 quality,
25/-
20/-
SILVER-PLATED TABLE APPOINTMENTS
AT A SPECIAL REDUCTION.
3
A. Saunders’ Cake or Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, pierced
design, highly burnished, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Jug, A 1 quality,
pure Silver-plated, engraved bands. In
three sizes, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-
A Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure Sil eer-plated
hand-painted floral China Dish, 35/
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
w m
m
!
If jilt;
«Stl
pfflhiii.iiiblJk
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box; pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely decorated,
ornamental feet, £3.
WE
PAY
POSTAGE.
Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
enamel lining, £fs.
Plain design, £2/10/-, £4/4/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, hand
burnished, plain design, 32/6.
A 1 L ORDERS BY MAIL RECEIVE OUR SPECIAL
ATTENTION AND PROMPT DESPATCH.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER - - JEWELLER - - OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
Silver-plated, Crystal Bowl, 25/-
The Only Australian-made Reaper & Binder
Hundreds Sold in N.S.W. Last Year.
The Sunshine
Reaper 8 Binder
“He who gains time gains everything .”
■— Disraeli,
The farmer who uses the Sunshine
Binder gains time, because he
has no stoppages in the field.
SUREST TYING DEVICE.
Australian made and specially
constructed for Australian conditions.
This means celerity and
certainty in obtaining parts.
NOTE. When assembled all machines are put
through a running test, as a result of which every
machine, when it leaves the factory, is in perfect
running order To straightaway enter the crop.
Experts, specially trained in the factory, are sent
out to start all machines.
-.: 188 ■ Isi H| 1 -
■ ' ' ' ' . , ' -
• * ‘V
. ■
•>v
■ ' . ’I
A&k. *t,y. -•i . ....siSSSS
-.
mm
.
ml: I
i
,V,.. fc
Manufactured by
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS.
Branches and Agencies:
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. York & St. John Streets, Launceston.


The
Touring Model
•He
0)1
7AeNewESSEX
A SIX
Built by Hudson under Hudson Patents
The new Essex —a Six —now shares the features that
have made the Hudson Super-Six famous for years.
With a smoothness of operation that delights even
drivers of much more costly cars, the new Essex
combines a surprising factor of economy. Its greater
mileage for tires, oil, and fuel, together with the low
cost of replacement parts is a constant source of satis-
faction to Essex owners.
The new Essex has the same type clutch, transmis-
sion and axle as Hudson’s. It calls for but little atten-
tion. Its low center of gravity and improved spring
arrangement make driving easy and safe on all roads
at all speeds.
The prominent place occupied by the Hudson Motor
Car Co., as the sixth largest builder of motor cars in
the world assures you of the high character of service
which stands behind the new Essex.
The HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
WESTRALIAN MOTORS, LTD.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY. LTD.,
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS’ MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
36 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
The
Coach
A
111
■minimi
lIIIU
(R-FCJO-0


Miles, not Gallons!
Count the cost of your oil, not the price per gallon, but by
the mileage given and by the cost of upkeep all round.
WAKEFIELD
i
{•hOlfi
gives maximum miles per gallon, cuts upkeep down to the
minimum and entirely eliminates the cost of all those repair
jobs which arise from unsuitable lubrication.
The right grade of “Castrol” in your car
will lubricate it perfectly.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors : BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMDNS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Two early National favorites failed at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Mnemar illus-
trated the folly of laying odds on leppers (.the books
demanded 6 to 4) by beating only two of the five
starters in the Windarra Hurdle. He fenced in a
slovenly fashion, and had no chance at the finish
with Gay Serenader (3’s; and Whyba. I leetstone
shaped a bit better in the Travancore Steeplechase,
but Haoma (3’s) outjumped him over the last mile
and had a 10-lengths’ lead at the judge’s box, Finn
Maccumhail, the only other horse backed, being four
lengths behind Fleetstone. Haoma carried 12st. 121 b.
and handled it like a little champion, but he has been
unlucky in big races, although he jumps like a cat.
The much-travelled Llanthony (5 to 2) ran away
with the 10-furlongs Deep Creek Handicap. Though
a disappointment in Sydney, the hardy Land of Song
gelding has earned his oats this season in Melbourne
and the Speck.
* * * *
On the last day of the Adelaide Birthday
Cup meeting, a woman had the odd experience of
finding herself cheered by an interested crowd when
she went to collect a £3 13s. dividend for second.
She happened to have made a mistake and got io
the “first horse” window. The cheering was for a
great dividend, All Tricks, winner of the Marryat-
ville Handicap, having paid £234 Bs. for £l. There
were cnly 14 ticket-holders, though doubtless in some
cases the “pound for an outsider” was made up by
subscription. It is a local record, except for the
amazing instance, some 40 years ago, when the
solitary ticket on D.O.D. at Morphettville scooped
all the £BOO in the machine. And that is not likely
ever to happen again. In those days the tickets for
each horse were in a kind of upright tray; when
the clerk reached up to take out one for an early
investor he unconsciously tipped that tray over, and
nobody thereafter knew that this number was in the
race at all. The crowd said many and various
things afterwards, but nothing could be done.
“Flicker”: A pal of mine who could not get out
to the races had ss. on All Tricks with a
barber who “lays ’em” as a sideline—or rather, I
suppose, barbers as a sideline. Going to collect on
the Monday, he was presented with a whole £5 5s. —
“we have a 20 to 1 limit,” Sweeney Todd explained.
There is talk of petitioning the S.A. Parliament to
license McShortodds ; anyone who asks for a signature
at one Adelaide house will get quite a reception.
“G.D.”: The double-event tote suggested
by one or two Bulletin contributors is an institu-
tion in the Transvaal. In December a dividend of
847 to 1 was paid ; a month later two workmen
collected £826 17s. for £l, and since then 1060 to 1
and 1369 to 1 have been gathered in—there was only
one speculator in each case. Is there any bookmaker
in captivity who would lay those odds on the day
of the races, or even a week before?
* * * *
The incident at the Wembley rodeo, when,
upon the breaking of a steer’s leg during a roping con-
test, “thousands of people rose in their places and
‘booed,’ and continued their protests during the remain-
der of the performance,” should act as a hint to the
Australian authorities. Exhibitions of the sort might
give a country a useful advt. in Southern Italy or
Spain, while in Nigeria or the Cameroons they would
be received with frantic applause: in modern Eng-
land they can only arouse disgust and a suspicion
that the civilisation of the nation responsible is in
a backward state. The buckjumping contests, for
which the Commonwealth is supplying at least one
official competitor, are almost certain to be fiaseoes.
Not one “outlaw” in 20 will buck persistently with-
out a flank, rope, even in its country of origin. In
Britain, where gentleness has been employed in
breaking-in horses for generations, the application
of this goad may very well create a riot. The point
of view of the natives is likely to be that they did
not abolish bear-baiting to clear the way for horse-
baiting.
• • * *
“Snow”: “Zwei-up” (B. 12/6/-24) not-
withstanding, a player with limited capital can get
plenty of chances to win good money at two-up,
and it isn’t necessary for him to let the ringmaster
know the extent of his silver. Provided he doesn t
take a turn with the “kip,” he can bet with the
dead-game sports round about him'. I have known
scores of instances where a man who started with
a coin or two has left the ring a big winner. As
for “Zwei-up’s” butcher who headed ’em 11 times
running and came away broke, he must have been
two ends and the middle of a mug. Years ago, at
one of the big Sydney “schools,” a run of a dozen
heads netted a mate of mine ft 165. I came away
with him and lidoed to find a hiding-place for
the bullion, for they were go-as-you-please places
in those days. Certainly the doors were closed for
a quarter of an hour after a good winner had left,
but even then the man who was well ahead of it
couldn’t afford risks.
“FY7”: “Nitric’s” yarn of the aggrieved
loser of a game of billiards who hurled the red at
his sarcastic opponent (B. 5/6/’2) recalls a similar
happen'n j in the Itoma (Q.) country. With 4 to
win, A had the red and his opponent’s ball neatly
jambed in the right-hand top pocket. He played a
hard cannon, hoping to go out by sinking one of
the others, but his own ball rebounded from the
others, ran along the wooden bac king rail, and
went to earth in the right-hand middle pocket. As
the first shock faded, B shook himself together and
administered a tremendous kick to the equally
astounded A, w’ho Was still stooping petrified over
the table, and then, as A was much the bigger, bolted
round the table, pursued by his now blasphemous
enemy. As he ran round the top, B grabbed the
still jambed red and white in one hand and, wheeling
round, landed his pursuer on the jaw. A wet t “out”
and stayed there long enough to give us all cause
for anxiety. Next day the pair, both jackerooing on
the same run, agreed to write the affair off as due
to whisky, and that ended it. All the same, opinions
were divided as to whether A’s awful fluke justified
the heavy reprisals. :
* * * *
Grime, the featherweight champion, didn’t
catch Digger Evans till the fifth lap of their race
at the Sydney Stadium. Then he unloaded a right
that sent the Digger down for “six.” Thrice Evans
was floored again, and he was being counted out when
the white flag went in ; Grime had previously been
counted out about eight times by the small crowd,
which disliked what it regarded as his flashness.
The young man protests that he doesn’t mean to be
flash —it’s just his unfortunate manner.
* * * *
A fat white man was pitted against a
lithe and wiry coon in the ring at the Cyolorama,
Melb., and everybody predicted a swift finish for
the paleface. But meat proved deceptive in this
case; despite his embonpoint the white showed him-
self an active and efficient exponent of stoush, and
early in round two got his right on to Mr. Coon’s
solar plexus. The block jumped two feet into the
air, and fell prone. When the “Out” sornled, the
dusky warrior lifted his head and looked round.
Discovering his opponent still in the ring, he lay
INHUMAN.
GERTIE: “That poor little boy who’s riding dad’s
horse!”
BERTIE: “What’s the matter with him?”
GERTIE: “Well, while you were away baching it
I heard dad say, ‘Now whack your boot
like — er—biases coming up the straight.’”
prone again. “Get up, you black swine 1” said one
of his seconds disgustedly. “Get up and be hit
anodder kick !” replied the fallen warrior, hot on
your life! Here 1 stay till dey remove dat mu-el.
And there he stayed.
* * * *
Professional sculling is in the boom again.
Billy McDevitt has beaten Darcy Hadfield, Mason and
Ceruti in a Maoriland race for the Australasian
championship. Hannan refused to take part, claiming
that, having defeated McDevitt, the distinction be-
longed to him; but the professional sculling leagues
of NS W. and M.L. decided against him. And
articles have been signed in Queensland for a race
involving the world’s title between Alf Felton, who
has done little boat-pulling since Barry beat him on
the Parramatta in 1920, and Jim Paddon, the holder.
Paddon is getting up in years, but if the helton
party wants to bet it can get a shade of odds tor
its money. #
The S’African cricketers, whose tour of
England has been singularly unfortunate, had a hor-
rible time at Birmingham in the first Test. Thinking
that the wicket would help his bowlers, Taylor, on
winning the toss, put the Englishmen m. The result
was a score of 438, to which Hobbs contributed 76,
Hendren 74, Woolley and Sutcliffe 64 each, and
Kilner 59. Then Gilligan and Tate rattled the
Afrikanders out for 30, made in 49 minutes, Gilligan
taking six for 7 and Tate 4 for 12. Sundries (11)
was top score. There has been nothing like it
in the history of international matches, for the
wicket was hard and fast, as was shown when
Taylor’s men, following on immediately, knocked up
274 for four wickets. Gilligan’s stunning feat
has probably settled the controversy as to who will
be invited to captain the team due in Australia next
summer.
Gilligan is 29. He got his blue at Cambridge in
1919, and captained Sussex in 1922 and 1923. Last
year he took 129 wickets at 15.01, and made 911
runs averaging 21.69, but for the Rest of England v.
Yorkshire (the champion county) he was bowled for a
duck and failed to get a wicket, 95 runs being hit
off his fast stuff. A good all-round athlete, he has
played golf for Goodwood, hockey for Wimbledon
and Sussex, and football for Pembroke College—
Rugby and British Association both.
* * * *
L. McManus, one of the seven pros, who
qualified for Sydney Sun’s £5OO golf tournament,
is only 18. A cub of Carnegie Clark’s, he finished
level with Popplewell in sixth place. The youngster
has a nice style and will trouble the best of them
in a year or two.
* * * *
“Pick”: A magazine Lee-Enfield rifle
owned by Fred Hutchins, of the Bergalia (N.S.W.)
club, has been playing tricks with the theory that
a perfect barrel is the first essential for successful
marksmanship. Hutchins dropped his gun among
the spokes of a timber jinker, and on rescuing it
found the barrel bent into a crescent. He straightened
it by belting the tube across a log. Hurrying to
the range with the damaged weapon, he made top
score. At the subsequent N.R.A. meeting at Liver-
pool, still using the distorted ironmongery, he won
over £2O in prizes.
* * * *
The Australians, who are busily practis-
ing for their Davis Cup engagements in America, still
have more than a month’s work ahead of them
before they engage China in New York. The winners
of this match go to Baltimore to face a team of
Mexicans on August 7, 8 and 9, and the survivors
will be pitted against the victors in the other half
of the American draw —Canada, Cuba, and Japan.
The Banzais, who have a bye, will look on at the
disc ussion—it will scare cly amount to an argu-
ment —between the Canucks uni the cij,ar-merchants,
and will then engage the winners at Montreal. Fol-
lows the match —probably between the Australians
and the Japs—for the right to tackle the stars of
Europe at Longwood on September 4. 5 and 6. The
challenge round is timed for a week later at the
Germanton Cricket Club’s ground in Philadelphia.
* * » *
“Singemoine”: The taking-back of Tildcn
to the amateur fold by the American
shepherds of “amateurism” was inevit-
able. There is so much money in
ter.nis these days that no country >n
possession of a drawing card can afford
to flout him. The U.S. tennis authori-
ties involved themselves from the
first in a mesh of illogicalities. They
claimed, for example, that to allow a
few men to devote the whole of their
energies to tennis would mean con-
demning those who played the game
as a pastime to permanent obscurity.
But English cricket amateurs —most
of whom are lilywhite—put up a good
game against the pros, year by year;
cnl the Australians, who are week-end
players to a man, periodically lick
England’s best XI —which incidentally
is never an all-professional one. In
short, it is not practice that produces
a Ranji or a Trumper, a Tilden or an
Anderson. For the U.S.A. to pro-
fessionalise a man for writing about
the game at which he excels would be
to embarrass thousands in Britain and
on the European continent who habitu-
ally contribue to daily papers, weeklies
and magazines on every known form of
sport. And if a player is to earn the
professional label for making money
out of his game with his pen, what
of the champion who gives his name,
for a ideration, to a racquet
or cricket-bat, or personally trades in
sporting goods on the strength of the
advertisement provided by his skill?
Tilden’s resolute attitude suggests the
means by which this British anachro-
nism—dating from the period when
“gentlemen” were not supposed to
earn money—may be swept away.. Let
more and more crack athletes insist
on their right to profit by their fleet-
ing gifts and the day should soon
come when it will be no more dishonor-
able to be a professional player
of games than it is to be
a professional singer, and when those
who choose to appear on tennis courts,
cricket-fields, etc., without payment
will be no more acclaimed than those
who give their services free to theatri-
cal promoters.
“15.30”: Britain has registered its third
win in the European section of the Davis Cup scrim-
mage—this time over the South Africans, by four
matches to cns. Raymond, the best player in the
Dominion, had the bad luck to get hurt, so Richard-
son took his place in the singles against Wheatley,
the latter capturing three straight sets; but Raymond,
now recovered, fought Gilbert to a strenuous finish,
and only went down after the fifth set had been
carried to B—6.8 —6. In the doubles Raymond and
Spence had the honor of knocking out the previously
undefeated Godfree and Woosnam by three sets to
love. Britain’s battle with France ought to provide
some bright tennis. The two youths Coehet and
Laeoste will probablv be Gaul’s first line of attack,
with Brugnon and Borotra in support, and Gilbert
and Wheatley won’t be engaging in a minuet with
the first two, at any rate. Laeoste is expected to
win both his singles engagements, and, if Coehet is
in form, he will also prove formidable. According
to the American Johnston, who met Laeoste in Paris
last vear, the lad is destined to become a world-
beater.
• * * *
In a rough game on the Sydney Show
Ground the Canadian Soccer players won the second
of their controversies with the Australians. Stobbard
scored the only goal—a smart 20 yards’ shot—and
there was no better man on the ground. But the
form in general was a long way below international
standard, although there was any amount of illegal
work with feet, fists and elbows for those who
delight in that kind of thing.
* * * *
Though a high wind bothered the specta-
tors, it made no difference to the vigor of the football
in Melbourne on Saturday. Richmond, at home to
Collingwood, exhibited superior—er—energy and owned
the surplus points at the finish —95 to the Magpies’
70. The Tigers are licking their new men into shape.
Carlton took a strong team to Geelong and had the
better of a rough and tiresome game till the last
10 minutes ; then the Seasiders put on three goaß,
and got the verdict by
66 to 51. Those last
minutes were played
in a bad light, and
only the players know
what they gave and
took. Out at Essen-
don the small local
forwards and rovers
made a holy show of
St. Hilda’s backs,
piling up 113 points
to 31. Stockdale was
away, injured, but his
club-mate, Irwin, ably
filled his place—lo
goals was Irwin’s con-
tribution. Fitzro.v,
still unbeaten, downed
Melbourne comfortably
—B7 points to 41.
SID WHITE,
captain of the
Norwood (S.A.)
team.
Parkin and Bacon were missing from the
English League team that met the Queensland
XIII, twice victorious over N. S. Wales, but the
result would have been the same had they played
As in Sydney the Englishmen began inipressively,
but failed to sustain their initial burst. Three points
to the bad at the interval, they were outplayed in
the second half, the Queenslanders putting on 8 points
to nil even after Frauenfelder, their full-back, had
been carried off insensible. At the end it was 25
to 10 in Bananaland’s favor, and a Brisbane crowd
of 40,000, who had paid £3326 15s. 3d. at the
gates, cheered the third success of a fine side, in
which there was only one Brisbane man (Aynsley)
—the others were from Toowoomba and Ipswich.
After the match Craig, Thompson, Frauenfelder
Gorman, Aynsley, Potter, Bennett (Queensland), and
Horder, Blinkhorn, Oxford, O’Connor, Latta and
Watt were picked to represent Australia against the
visitors at Sydney on June 23. Craig is captain and
Armbruster (Q.) —“Armbuster” to the wits of the
sporting press —first reserve.
* * » *
“Hamer”: The only pastimes which in-
terest Blinks are poker and “solo.” Mrs. Blinks,
on the other hand, is an enthusiast for outdoor
games, and sometimes he is obliged to take her to
a match, but the proceedings bore him stiff if there
isn’t a bar. He abominates all forms of athletics
and never reads the sporting press. Dallving too
long at the Sathrday-afternoon “solo” party, Blinks
missed the dinner which Mrs. B. had prepared for
him. In anticipation of the argument that would
begin immediately he got home, he made muzzy
inquiries about the day’s sport, and was told that
the Englishmen had played. The news came as a
delightful surprise—he saw at once an excuse that
would appeal to his sport-loving wife and temper the
wind to the shot lamb. As Mrs. Blinks confronted
him, demanding an explanation, Blinks hurriedly
spoke. “Went to the cricket match to-day—couldn’t
miss seeing the Englishmen.” Mrs. Blinks listened
for a moment to the howl of winter outside, “Cricket,
eh?” she said grimly. “Who made the biggest
score?” Blinks dug desperately into his memory io
find a name. “Trumper was splendid as usual,” he
said triumphantly. The relations between the .Blinks
pair are still as wintry as the weather we have
been having.
# * * *
Tfie Rugby League premiership in Sydney
is at an uncommonlv interesting stage. With five
matches played and three to go, South Sydney, Bal-
main, St; George and University have 7 points each,
Eastern Suburbs and Glebe following with 1 point
less. South drew with Balmain on Saturday after a
vigorous match in the mud; St. George severely
defeated Eastern Suburbs, 9 to nil; North (steadily
improving) downed Newtown, 20 to 10; and West,
with “Tedda” Courtney and his son in the forwards
(a unique event in League football), made an exhibi-
tion of Glebe, 29 to 11.
* * * *
“H. Hardupp”: Hero-worship amongst the
boy-footballers in Moore Park, Sydney, takes the
form of appropriating the names of League celebrities.
I came across a babbling Parliament of youngsters
between the jam-tin and twig that served for goal-
posts at one end of the ground. A dissatisfied urchin
was fading away with the bag of wind. “The silly
little cow won’t let us ’ave the ball —it’s ’is —unless
’e kin be ’Arold ’Order,” a forward explained. Then
an inspiration came to him. “Eh, ’Qrrie 1” he
shouted, “will you play if we let yer be ’Oward
’Allett an’ keep full-back?” As I departed I saw
him take up his position, satisfied with the glory of
being 'Oward ’Allett, even if he was a bit out of the
fun.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : After the visit of the
Springboks in 1922, the N.S.W. and M.L. Rugby
Unions had almost completed negotiations for a
visit from the French this 1924 season, when the
arrangements broke down, the English invitation to
the All Blacks being partly responsible. When
“Ossie” Merrett, manager of the Olympic team,
reached Paris, he re-opened the question, under
authority from the N.S.W. Union. Now it is cabled
that we shall see the Frenchmen here next year.
France has developed a very high standard of Rugby,
pace and brilliancy being outstanding features. French
teams have been well in line with the best British
sides for some years past. The 1905 All Blacks beat
Gaul by 38 to’ 8, and the fine 1919 team won all
four games against France, though it scored only 66
to 32 in the series. That M.L. side, by the way,
el ''"Tied up Britain and South Africa, losing to Aus-
tralia.
THE DEVIL’S THREE TROMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“N.S.W. Education Minister Bruntnell, who men-
tioned that he was for 20 years a member of the
Salvation Army, warned the young men of the
Mosjnan Presbyterian League against the powder,
paint and putf brigade’ with its ‘beguiling glad
and other temptations by which youth is surrounded.
My name is Bruntnell. Stalwart Salvo once,
Seductive sirens 1 would bid you ’ware 1
On powdered noses never waste your bunce
Or carmined cheeks or peroxided hair.
Sot these the girls for matrimonial stunts
Whose laughing eyes may heedless youth ensnare.
You may encounter fitter helpmates far
Where the poke bonnets are. y.t :: u
Shun stimulants. Abjure, my sons, the pot
With malted liquor foaming to the brim.
Forbear to dip your beaks in whisky hot.
Eschew the cocktail. Who assaults with vim,
Take it from me, the tiddley and the tot
Will find that in the end they’ll wallop him.
Yet neither painted lady you cajole
Nor yet the flowing bowl.
Woman and wine are bad, and Horse is worse.
Out that from out your programme, I implore.
Avoid tlie haunts where baffled punters curse
And tipsters specialise in equine lore,
And blatant, hoarse, perspiring men rehearse
Their readiness to wager six to four.
The Devil’s hooks are three —beware their spikes—
Tonics and tarts and Ikes.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
m
TOP
mmm
.yt US.* 1
- -T/J; ' t
%h*
l V>
I ”#•+* * Vv’
'V/-C
J
hir
SHELL
° PureV
SHELL
St SV'^
Petrol
ďf
LOOK FOR THE
Shell Disc
T'HE next time you ask for Shell—the
1 aromatic, non-pinking Spirit—look
for the new Shell Circular Sign which
will be found only at garages where
guaranteed pure Shell is obtainable.
This warning is for your protection, as
other brands of motor spirit are being
sold from some kerbside pumps as
Shell.
The new guarantee sign is attached
to the pump itself except in districts
where local by-laws prohibit signs on
kerbside pumps. In these districts the
sign is fixed on the wall of the garage.
If the Shell Guarantee Sign is
not on the pump nor garage wall\
demand your Shell in Tins.
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL. OIL CO. LIMITED I
/ ALL STATES & N.Z. u I
A Long Time- Investment
Every Dodge Brothers Sedan body is steel
built throughout—sills, pillars, panels, frames
and all.
This all-steel design—exclusively a Dodge
Brothers feature—possesses certain practical
advantages which recommend it most emphati-
cally to the closed-car buyer.
It reduces cost, assures a structural precision
which is particularly evident in the snug fit
of doors and windows, and results in a staunch-
ness of construction which guarantees to the
owner a long-time investment—and a long-
time satisfaction.
Dodge Qrothers,Detroit
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co Ltd Perth
Austral Motors Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty„ Ltd., Melbourne. *
19/6/’24.
THE INKY WAY.
Alf Carson, doyen of Groperland journalism—he
began his press career on the Geraldtorx Express
nearly 40 years ago—has finally quitted the editorial
lall ' TT of tli e Perth Western Mail. Birtwhistle, of
the West Australian, succeeds him—probably the
youngest editor of a metropolitan weekly in Aus-
tralia.
“The Deacon’’: Journalists don’t quit their jobs
until they must. The latest to go within six months
of throwing off his harness is Joseph White, who for
25 years poured out the dinkum oil to the N.S.AV.
southern districts through four newspapers. Hector
Lamond bought his interests half a year ago, and now
White has gone to sign Peter’s book at 52.
“Alwil”: Sisley Huddlestone is no longer the
Aimes representative in Paris as stated by “J.B.D ”
(R.P. 5/6/’24). He was replaced by Hubert Walter
some months ago. Huddlestcne was taken over from
the Westminster Gazette by Northcliffe in his last
phase, and was apparently not in tune with the new
regime. Hubert Walter has been with
the TiAfEs for many years.
George Neil Arnell, of the Melbourne printing firm
of Arnell and Jackson, who was 82 when he died
on May 1 and was regarded as the patriarch of the
punting business, left behind him one employee
who had been in his service for 53 years—old John
Kirkbnde—another with a 44 years’ record, and four
who had been with him between 20 and 35 years
Arnell directed by his will that the firm should be
formed into a co., in which each of these six ancient
henchmi n was to be handed shares.
A writer of many travel books—mostly for boys’
consumption—Alexander Macdonald, is back in Aiis-
As a youngster Macdonald tackled the
Klondike, came on to Australia in 1898, wandered
through out-of-the-way places in the Gulf country
and the islands, and once or twice thought he was
g'oing to get a million or two out of mines he
i stumbled over. Since then he has travelled into
lhibet, through Africa and about the Malay Penin-
sula, Ims been the friend of Jack London and acquired
a family. The latter he has brought to Australia as
an indication that he intends to anchor while he
sees what offers in the mining way.
“Lexo”: Hobart has seen a new paper make a
start and an old one go out in the one week. The
World, which succeeded the Daily Post, came out
tor the last time on May 31; the News, an evening
paper, made its first appearance on the preceding
day. The World and the Daily Post between them
kept the plant going since 1908. The Post was
started by A. J. Nettlefold, as a Liberal-Democratic
paper. Two years afterwards it was bought by the
Tasmanian A.L.P., then known as the T.W.P.L.,
with Jack Earle—afterwards Senator —as the chair-
• man of directors. They ran the show for eight
' years; and then the paper was sold to Labor Papers,
Ltd. The new owners hung on to it for six years,
despite regular losses. However, the last A.W.U.
convention made it plain to the directors that the
drain would have to stop, and efforts to sell having
failed, the end came on the last dav of May. Most
of the staff went over to the News, promoted by
J. E. Davidson, who now controls a chain of papeis
stretching from Broken Hill, through Port Pirie and
Adelaide, to the Derwent.
“J.8.D.”: T. P. O’Connor’s new Privy Councillor-
ship is a tribute to his popularity. Though he has
represented a division of Liverpool for just on 40
years, his principal supporters being angry Irish
exiles in the land of the cruel oppressor, he is liked
equally by Tory peers and extreme Laborites, being
a most accomplished exponent of the art of blarney.
A born journalist, he pioneered the tvpe of London
evening newspaper which produces a new edition with
every race result, and made a tremendous success first
of the Star and then of the Sun. He formed a habit
of selling one success and starting another, so that
when T.P.’s Weekly came on the market, the pur-
chasers insisted, as part of the contract, that he should
not found a journal colorably like it for 10 years.
In those days his mere name was enough to give any
publication a kick-off. He was the author of the
wittiest newspaper placard in history. The crucial
point in Sir Charles Russell’s cross-examination of
Pigott (whose forgeries, accepted as genuine by the
Times, half-ruined that paper) was the spelling of
the word hesitancy with an “e” in place of an “a”
by the witness. This mistake occurred in the forged
letters. The next day Pigott bolted to Paris, and
"J-P., then editor of the Star, came out with:
The Man Who Hesitetes is Lost!”
Cosmopolitan”: Harold Williams, the foreign ami
Dominions editor of the London Times, is a Maori-
laruler who left home 24 years ago and entered
journalism, after studying philology and philosophy
at Berlin and Munich Universities, as correspondent
ior the Times in South Germany. D. D. Braham, now
editor of the West Australian, was then Times
correspondent in Russia. When he was expelled from
the country for speaking too plainly on certain mat-
tfT'Z•. the paper ceased to be represented there, and
Williams gathered such Russian news as was obtain-
able from a group of Russian refugees at Stuttgart.
In 1904 he went to Russia for the Manchester Guard-
ian, and was an eye-witness of the “Bloody Sunday”
massacre in Petrograd and the street-fighting in Mos-
cow during the abortive 1904-05 revolution. With the
exception of a year in Constantinople Williams re-
mained m Russia as correspondent, first of the Morn-
*ni* later of the Daily Chronicle, up till
1918. After a journey to South Russia as correspond-
ent of the Times with Denikin’s anti-Bolshevik forces,,
he became a leader-writer oh the paper’s staff, and
took over the foreign editorship two years ago. He-
is an fine linguist, credited with a
knowledge of over 40 tongues. His “Russia of the
Russians, written before the war, attests his wide
knowledge and literary ability. Williams’s chief
assistant on the Dominions side of the Times is
franklin Petersen, of Melbourne, whom Northcliffe
engaged while here in 1922, largely, it is said, be-
cause of Petersen s personal acquaintance with condi-
tions in the -Mandated Territories.
“NOTHING IN IT.”
[For The Bulletin.]
I open my “B.” and I see
An article signed by “J.E.,”
A poem by David McKee
(And very nice, too, it mav be),
“Society” rhymes by “Syd" C.” ’
Some paragraphs signed “D.0.D.”
And “Simon,” “H. 5.,” and “T.P ”
“Te Pana,” “Machete,” “T.N.T.
“J.IL,” “X2X” and “L. Ree,”*
Aboriginal pars by “Sucre,”
A “Red Page” critique by “C. 8.”
And, minute by minute,
I skim and I skin it,
But fail to find anything
Int’resting in it—
There’s nothing that’s written by ME !
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. ' DR NIL
NEWS-VALUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Big Divorce Case” —two-column “story,” am .
newspaper. “Four were killed and 50 injured when
Separatists and Communists rioted in Vienna”—
three-line par., any newspaper.
The time is 1960 ; scene, the sub’s room of the Ray-
Cast, the chief sub-editor, and Dinks, 10,000 miles
away.
Reaching for the radiophone, the sub. extends his
lpwer. jaw,
“Hello, hello, that Chicago ? Give me War-zone 534 >
Hello, that you, Dinks? Chief sub. here. Are you
covering that war?
Eh? Good story? Sorry, sonny—just the figures,
nothing more.
What with this O’Brown divorce ease, Pearl Black’s
breach-of-promise win
And that front-page inquest story, you’ve no hope of
getting in.
Then there’s that debate in Perth between two rival
free-love cults—
Space is very tight to-night, boy ; nothing but the
bare results.”
N.S.W.
SYDNEY GORDON.


Commencing
June 20
B
T%
CSr?W
M
r\
\
u
V
i
W
* t. 'S? ?! ?■=.■
/
»M*M5
e..s*. v
av iihjx.
U l '
/
\
iriffiKE
Finishes
July 12
Sydney's Historic Bargain Event!
ELCOME NEWS!
Sydney’s Great Bargain Event eagerly awaited by thousands upon
thousands of thrifty shoppers has come again with its golden
money saving opportunities!
d
Men’s Hats
GENUINE 32/6 F. H. LEE
AMERICAN SOFT FELT
HATS, Pure Fur Felt, with
cut-edge brim. Dark, Mid,
or Light Grey, Slate. Steel,
or Green. Sizes, 6 Y2 to 7*4.
USUALLY 32/6
Red Spot Price • 11/9
dfd
Overcoats
1000 MEN’S SINGLE-
BREASTED RAGLAN
OVERCOATS, Reliable
English heavy - weight
Tweeds. Raglan Sleeves,
Full Belt, Step Collar, Ver-
tical Pockets.
USUALLY ’ 63/>
Red Spot Price - 39/5
ďf
Tennis Racquets
“GEM’ Superior rent - ash
frame, reinforced oval throat,
bound shoulders, double cen-
tre strung.
USUALLY 37/6
Red Spot Price 20/-
ď
All Wool Rugs
MURDOCH’S FAMOUS
PURE WOOL TRAVEL-
LING RUGS, in service-
able Check and Fancy de-
signs. Sizes, 60 x 72.
USUALLY ..... 257-
Red Spot Price - 20/3
1
Boys’ Suits
COTSWOLP STYLE, in
English and Australian
Woollen Tweeds. Knickers
with Plain Knees. Sizes,
4 to 12, fit boys 6 to 14
years.
USUALLY 35/-
Red Spot Price - 24/9
Thousands of similar Bargains.
Send for your copy of the
Bargain Book NOW.
Every line reduced at least 10 per cent
Stacks of goods clearing at HALF PRICE
EVERY BARGAIN GENUINE i Murdoch’s good name ensures this, but in addition
you have the further protection of Murdoch’s unfailing guarantee— Perfect satisfaction
or your money returned instantly and in full
Your Opportunity! High Grade
Suits to Measure —at generous
concessions in price!
No. 1 Special
A GENUINE “FOX” ALL-WOOL PURE
INDIGO CHEVIOT SERGE. Guaran-
teed —every inch of it. Faultlessly
fd
No. 2 Special
A RANGE OP WOOLLEN AND WOR-
STED SUITINGS of excellent quality.
All the latest weaves. Your choice
from a range of attractive colourings and neat patterns.
USUALLY
£6/6/- to £6/15/-
Red Spot Price,
£5-3
No. 3 Special
A SELECT ASSEMBLY OF
GRADE ALL-WOOL TWEEDS,
QUALITY WORSTEDS, AND
HIGH-
SUPER
FINE
TWILL SERGES. Many of
Tailored to your measure.
these are exclusive weaves.
Murdoch-
USUALLY
£7/7/-
Red Spot Price,
£5 - 13 - 5
CUT OUT AND SEND THIS COUPON l
DESK R.
Messrs. Murdoch*s in Park Sf., Ltd. •*
Sydney.
Dears Sirs, —
Please send me free of all cost a nice range of Suiting Pat*
terns at RED SPOT PRICES; also free measure-form outfit.
Name
Address
June 19, 1924.
POSTAGE PAIO TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing for these Bargains please address your letter to Desk
ď
fd
ďf
‘THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”
MURDOCH’S
Illustrated Bargain
Catalogue— FREE!
1
GUARANTEE.
As proof of genuine worth, each Suit is accom-
panied by a Printed Guarantee, which reads as
follows<
We guarantee this Suit against any flaws in the
material or workmanship; should anything appear
to you unsatisfactory we. will—
1. Make any necessary alteration.
2 Replace it with another Suit; pr
3. Refund the full purchase price.
( Signed) MURDOCH S.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service il la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
Tariff—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
m
m
m
m
m
m
fm
ZWi.
'M
w. W. GREMfif
GIINMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
r
Australian Representatives (Wholesale only) •
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
IK
*&*%
dfd
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion cl hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 4 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLfCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng.
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Lilac Time’’
Koval “Sally”
Host's Musing pictures
livou Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
MELIUHJKNE SHOWS l'<U{ CUMING WEEK
His Majesty's “Whirled into Happiness”
Royal “The Garden of Allah”
Princess s “Mr. Rattling Butler”
„ ING 8 • “The Skin Game”
Palace “Rain”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Koyt s Moving Pictures
iivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
«
ons id er i n g the melodious trappings of
‘Don Pasquale,” which was staged for one
performance at Melbourne Majesty s on
(Saturday, the wonder is that it wasn’t pre-
sented before. Though not so strong in
dazzling coloratura ehects as “Lucia” and
The Barber of Seville,” it is still a Toti
dal Monte vehicle, and its concerted numbers
notably the quartettes of the second act —
enable the three types of the male voices to
be heard with the soprano in some expressive
ensembles. The singing of the quartette was
brilliant on Saturday, and the packed house
couldn’t have asked for a liner combination
than Dal Monte, baritone Granforte and tenor
Borgioli, with an experienced buffo bass like
Azzolini contributing deep notes from his
end of the line. But the stout comedian
shone more in the dramatic rendering of
the name part. All the changes of feeling
peculiar to an elderly simpleton who is re-
penting his marriage with an extravagant
widow are well within the compass of his
mobile countenance. He demonstrated every
shade of emotion, from amorous expectancy
to bristling huffiness, his restless little legs
and ample figure giving him a touch of
grotesqueness in every mood. It was a strik-
ing bit of comic art—the sort of picture that
excites laughter and pity. Granforte was
almost equally significant as Dr. Malatesta.
He warbled his share of the score in his
usual convincing fashion, and one noted in
the grin of the intriguer a fleeting souvenir
of his Scarpia smile. Dino Borgioli might
have been less inflexible in his seriousness
as the lover, Ernesto, but his light tenor was
in excellent form, its clarity and sweetness
being conspicuous in the off-stage solo in the
darkness of the last scene. Toti dal Monte,
as Norina, was, of course, a triumph. The
wide-eyed artlessness of sleep-walking Amina,
which she had produced in Bellini’s old opera,
was here repeated as the “innocence” of a
guileful young widow, and its appropriateness
was palpable. As for her insouciant method
of taking the topmost stairs of song, and
then pitter-pattering down the scale again,
only to make a greater leap aloft, it was a
feat beyond words to describe. Truly nothing
“RAIN,” AT MELBOURNE PALACE.
Joe Horn, trader, of Pago Pago (John
Kirby); Ameena, his wife (Renee
Glynnc); Eily Malyon as Mrs. David-
son, the missionary’s wife.
is good enough to say about it, and criticism
throws in the towel. To-night, the last of
a memorable season, the Voice will again
astound the multitude in the engaging “.Bar-
ber of Seville.”
The romance of a barber who is mistaken for
a lord and carries his false identity into the
home of a hatter is revealed in the new musi-
**%i_ "Whirled into Happiness,” at
Melbourne Royal. The plot is conventional
m form, and its development is insipid, but
orchestra and dancing help it along to a
cheerful albeit protracted curtain—the show
needs to shed some of its melody and comic
business to enable suburbanites to reach
home before midnight. Frith’s antics with
a razor and a decanter might well be sent
to the concentrating mill. As a theatre-
usher who afterwards does a turn as an
impromptu valet, Frith delivers his jests
with expansive giggles, and rarely allows his
countenance to remain in shape. He is un-
questionably mirthful when he makes his im-
becility look natural to the part, but there
are other occasions _ when his extravagance
is tiring. Kitty Reidy, who appears as the
gin. of the hairdresser’s fancy, is not so pro-
mising as she used to be. Her voice seems
to have lost some of its tunefulness, and her
speaking tones are artificial in spots. As
the tonsorial artist who is subsequently de-
nounced as an impostor, Harold Pearce raises
a baritone that is always in trim. He hasn’t
the spanking masculinity of one who may be
expected to play his counterfeit nobility for
a i £ ls wor th i. rather he suggests a shy
soul brought up in refined surroundings, but
his heartfelt sorrow on discovery would
tempt many a maiden to forgive his duplicity.
Madge Elliott is a lissome siren of a French
cast of temperament, who dresses in ravish-
ing garments and dances like a dream. A
couple of years back the part would have
meant a heavy drain on her personality, but
now she does it with flying colors, the Gallic
impetuosity of some moments seeming only
to add another thrill to her loveliness. Cecil
Kellaway can be warmly commended for his
impersonation of Horridge, the hatter, who
casts his aspirates astern when scooting on
the _ switchback of nocturnal adventure.
Rosie Le Yarde and Nellie Payne are not
overloaded with opportunities, and Field
B isher is a masterly perruguier from Paris.
Bred McKay shows a lively leg as Madge
Elliott s i dancing partner, and Roger Barry
is the original Marquis Brancaster whose love
affair strays beyond recovery after beginning
auspiciously in the lobby of a theatre. The
chorus does great work, and the vivacity of
the octette, who appear in frocks shading
down from pale canary to orange, is some-
thing to remember. Next Saturday “Whirled
into Happiness” changes over to His
Majesty’s, and “The Garden of Allah” will
come in for a week before transferring to
the Ixing s.
*
F or the last nights of “The Skin Game,”
at Melbourne King’s, Eardley Turner is
playing the part of Hornblower, vacated last
week by Oscar Asche. There is more of the
earnest Sabbatarian in Turner’s conception
of the character, but in his quieter way he
is effective. Jessie Page, who was w'illcd
the part of Chloe on the departure of Doris
Champion, doesn’t make the most of her in-
heritance. The former crafty spy on a suffer-
ing sister s distress is hardly the type for
Mrs. Hornblower, jun. She never looks the
sort of lady who would offer herself to Dawker
to deaden his memory of a past frolic,
though it must be said that she speaks better
than Miss Champion, and in some dramatic
respects is more vigorous.
* * * S ]t
“Rain” continues heavily at Melbourne
t alace. . At the adjacent Princess’s the
weather is calmer, if the atmosphere is fre-
quently electrical. Large audiences are ap-
pearing to see “Mr. Battling” Heslop await-
ing massacre in the ring. Judging by his
appearance, the K.O. is travelling towards
him fast.
The Darling of New York” provides a
spectacle of high living and low thinking at
Hoyt s, Melbourne, this week. A few peeps
into Manhattan vice-haunts keep the story
on the hectic plane. “The Bad Man,” other-
wise Lopez, a bandit, is showing a streak of
unearthly goodness at the same house. A
somewhat plumper Mary Pickford, who has
discarded her childish ways, frowns and
coquettes as “Rosita” at the'Majestic. Flere
also is ‘Scars of Jealousy,” a tangled tale of
the mountains, wherein lynchers and a forest
hre change the course of events. There is
good ground for a peace conference half-way
through “Flaming Barriers” at the Melba,
but the audience declares for its whole sprat’s
worth of violence. The Britannia is raising
revenue with a week of “The Virginian.”
.A show with some Australians in it:—
Roving round the collection of prints and etchings
at the new Sackville Gallery, Melbourne, the eye
alights with pleasure on three brilliant drawings Dy
the ex-Gallery scholarship winner, Isaac Cohrn. “Lucy"
is an especially fine impression of a divinity under a
large shady hat, and the adjacent study of “Grace”
is full of subtle charm. Sid Long, late of Sydney,
is responsible for a deft plate in sepia, “The Gamp
in the Forest,” and his “Magpies” is a rare Aus-
tralian note in an otherwise foreign exhibition. Of
the many others one retains cheerful thoughts of
R. E. J. Bush’s “Cider Orchard,” Hanslip Fletcher’s
“Rheims Cathedral,” J. Moody’s “Ditching, Suf-
folk,” Hilda Cowham’s Ballet, Frank Gillett’s rich
“Marshmen,” George Rose’s “Greenstead Road,” E. L.
Lawrence’s “Marie de Medici’s Bridge at Chinon”'
and Cecil Leslie’s “Sleep of the Empress.” In the
last-named the vigil of a negro guard over the re-
cumbent royalty is set forth in red tones with
striking effect.
* * * •
And a one-man exhibition:—
The Melbourne Athenasum shelters some new efforts
in oil and water-color by William Rowell. Two
small impressions of grey seas are the best of the
water-colors, but his achievement varies consider-
ably in the heavier medium. There is a world of
difference, for instance, between the conventional
“Watering Place,” wherein there is no probl m iu
solve, and “Towards the Ranges.” in which he has
caught the light pouring through the trees on to
one of his favorite foregrounds. Striving for strong
effects, he has made the vista of timber look rather
flat in “Spr n o time” ; but “The River” is sincere, and
one can’t pass the “Grey Gum” without a long second
look. The study of the young man bent over a
’cello is stolid, if correct, and the color scheme of
No. 2 doesn’t recommend it; but “Olive,” previously
hung elsewhere, deserves another showing. In still
life he flashes his brightest palette in a study of
roses against pale-blue satin.
“RAIN,” AT MELBOURNE PALACE.
The Rev. Alfred Davidson (Jefferson Taite)
converts the naughty Sadie Thompson
(Barbara Hoffe), and loses his halo in
the process.
In the winding-up of Muriel Starr’s Syd-
ney season, which would have been more
successful if Irene Vanbrugh hadn’t been
appearing at the same time in better plays,
the oblivion that awaits “The Silent Wit-
ness ’ has been postponed for at least five
mghts. “The Silent Witness” is a Hearst-
newspaper drama, in which Reg Long, in the
character of a Middle-West college-boy, slugs
out Raymond Lawrence, who looks at least
211 b. heavier, _ and is arrested for murder,
Raymond having expired as convincingly as
lie could manage in the circumstances.
IS l> e convicted in the leisurely
L.S. manner, when his ma (Miss Starr) dis-
covers that his pa (Fra ik Harvey) wasn’t
really burnt to death 18 years before; and
the latter, now State Attorney, and intro-
duced to the consequence of the manceuvre,
demonstrates at the eleventh hour of the
eleventh day of the eleventh month of the
trial that Raymond’s decease was due to
the act of God. The first act is sinfully
poor; in the second, which is miles better,
Miss Starr and Harvey do some effective
W mi u thir revival is remembered it
will be for Jimmy Atholwood’s impersonation
of the old college gardener—a capital study
of the only interesting character in the play.
Ihe cast includes Ailsa Grahame, Georgia
Harvey, Leslie Victor, John Fernside and
Gerald Kay Souper.
. “The Man in' Dress Clothes” will display
his lone habiliments for the last time at
Sydney Opera House to-night. On Satur-
day Seymour Ilicks, with a cast of 75 to
snnnort hum will introduce Bruce Bairns-
faGier s “Old Bill, M.P.,” to a discerning
public. „
“Lilac Time” transfers its tunefulness to
Sydney Cn. to night, so that the decks at
Her Majesty’s may be cleared for the Grand
Opera season, which commences on Saturday
with “La BohCme.”
At Sydney Royal “Sally” will show for
another fortnight that you can’t keep a good
girl down. On Saturday, July 5, Josm Mel-
ville. and a reinforced company will give the
musical comedy “Good Morning, Dearie,”
a whirl.
Even the pleasant gentlemen who ply
their trade on the long-distance railways con-
thjlt Frrni Klint - a palmist and sleight-
of-hand merchant, now operating at the Syd-
ney Tivoli, starts a station or two beyond
where they get off. Arthur Prince ventri-
loquises with an uncanny realism in a new
turn, ‘The Love Affair of Yussuf Hassan.”
Ruth Astors impersonations are clever, but
she would be more acceptable if she cut out
the telephone-conversation turn—the poor
thing has been worked to death. Howard
Rogers character-study work is notably
good, and Bert Weston is a comedian with
a penchant for alcoholic humor, which is
mostly doubtful humor at its best.
“The Midnight Alarm” is disturbing the
peace at Sydney Lyceum and Lyric Winter-
garden, and a stout-hearted, brass-helmeted
valiant singes his eyebrows in rescuing a
damsel from premature cremation. Gloria
Swanson is also on both houses’ attendanco-
book, and to the disappointment of the sex
that used to need hairpins indulges in none
ot her customary gorgeous frocking, but
dodges about in masculine togs as the leader
ot a gang of Parisian roughs. At the Em-
press the little that is good in Rex Beach’s
Rig Brother is smothered by a heavy blan-
ket of maudlin sentiment. Its housemate
Not a Drum Was Heard,” is a dud. and
the scenario-writer has evidently picked nn
his legal knowledge from the “query” column
ot a Sunday newspaper. “The Woman of
l aris, foolishly semi-nude in spite of the
low temperatures, is making a belated visit
to the Strand. At Hoyt’s a young scribe
loses his head over a Central European dame
ot 03, to whom a rejuvenating gland has given
a young-widowish appearance. “Black
Oxen” is the film’s name. Also on Hoyt’s
bill is Hoot Gibson as a soft-headed nur-
veyor of pills.
Another Sydney exhibition :
Howard Ashton, who has been showing 50 oils and
a couple of pastels in Farmer’s Gallery during che
week, is a straight-goer in Art. He has no tricks
no brilliancies, and his vision, if not as broad as
it might be, is stolidly direct and free from modem
obliquities. With a sound training behind him he
takes a delight in sheer technique; he is not of
the school of skimped pigment and is at pains to
achieve the “quality of paint”—though this fact is
a little too insistent here and there when his effects
become so “thick” as to destroy the illusion of
penetrating light in foliage and shadow. Ashton in
his most characteristic mood gets his color in a
somewhat low key, but he strikes always a full
rich chord, which captivates with its mellowness
and harmony. And yet that he can handle lighter
and higher-keyed tones effectively is proved in one
or two of his Kosciusko scenes, his “Brown Hill
Creek Valley,” the charming midget “Quarry,” and
a couple of beach pieces. Throughout the achieve-
ment .is almost uniformly high—there is no notable
“tail” to the show —and the amazing thing is that
it is the work of an artist who is tangled up in the
soul-destroying machinery of evening journalism.
On Fri( ky, the 13th, Allan Wilkie gave his
1000th consecutive performance of Shaks-
peare s plays in Australasia. To commemo-
rate the occasion he produced “Cymbeline ”
which does not appear to have been done here
since Essie Jenyns was Imogen in the
’eighties. Wilkie’s great night occurred at
His Majesty s, Brisbane, and during the per-
formance Governor Nathan presented him
with a testimonial subscribed for by the
Brisbane citizens at the instance of the
Mayor. His Ex. headed the list. On Sundav
night the members of the company tendered
Wilkie and his wife (Miss Hunter-Watts) a
dinner at Lennon’s Hotel in honor of the
event. His Ex. was present at that function
also. ’Cymbeline” makes the 20th play of
the Bard’s that Wilkie has produced in the
Commonwealth and Maoriland.
“AREN'T WE ALL?” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Dion Boucicault, Irene Vanbrugh and
Reg Wykeham.
Gertrude Elliott, at Adelaide Royal, has
scored, artistic as well as financial success in
the dainty, though in many details hopelessly
unreal, “Smilin’ Through.” The Forbes-
Robertson lady, as the little Irish girl, gives
the lie to Time. Mollisou, Rowe and Mayne
Lynton have all the rest of the work, and
rise to it finely. The throw-back to the
costumes of 1864 is picturesque, and handker-
chiefs are in constant request among the audi-
ence, which therefore enjoys itself immenselv.
At the Prince of Wales’s “The O’Brien Girl”
runs unchanged for the second week, which
4? r el^, de . * s a Practical proof of success.
At West s is a modernised version of Rob
Roy s exploits, with much Highland scenery.
Wondergraph has H. B. Warner with Gloria
Swanson in a disinfected “Zaza,” and the
lork amuses with a quaint story of a quick
marriage for legacy-securing purposes.


ft
■*
V\\v \V
Mi
!|g^|gg©
w
ISSi
II «
?. | /'>
I
TN
H
* Fresh as the new moron hay~-
Sweet as the scent of clover.
Seek where you will or may,
better the whole World over’ —than
CIGARETTE?
Here is a good Cigarette
made from 16 different growths
of the finest Virginia leaf pro-
curable, ensuring a palatable
smoke right through. Prince
Charming Cigarettes represent
pre-War Value and Quality
a revelation nowadays.
also in so’in vacuum tins & in 100*
inboxes On sale everywhere.
CIGARETTES
XCvmtadmti Jv MOUSTAFA UJ.. 165. Mil Wo "- WJ ' E "* U ' L
Something Like
a Surplus.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society,
Limited.
The Actuary of the Society, Mr. G. F.
Diamond, A.1.A., advised the Board a lew
days ago that he had completed the Annual
Actuarial Investigation ot the Society s
affairs as at the .‘list December last.
A brief explanation may not be amiss.
Each year Policies are effected payable
some at death of the Assured, whether that
happens in a week or in 40 years’ time, others
payable on the anniversary of the birthday
of the Assured—lo, 20, 30, 40 years ahead.
Every prudent Life Office takes stock of
the liabilities of its Policy-holders periodi-
cally.
Some offices do it once in five years, others
make triennial investigations. The City
Mutual and a few other offices of standing,
whose figures are lai'ge enough to provide
against extraordinary contingencies occurring
in one particular year, make the investiga-
tion an annual matter.
It will, of course, be understood that year
by year the liabilities of Policies on the books
of a Life office become larger and larger.
Sufficient has to be put by to provide that
when each Policy matures ample funds will
be on hand to pay the member, or to pay
his representatives in the event of his death.
An Illustration.
By way of illustration, let us assume that
a Policy has been effected for £lOOO on a
life aged, say, 30 years, carrying an annual
premium of £24, and that Policy has been
in force 15 years.
The last Bonus Certificate received by the
Assured tells him that his Policy has grown
from £lOOO to over £l5OO with annual
bonuses, and if he died to-morrow his widow,
or his Executors, would receive that amount
at once.
That is the face liability of the Policy.
But he probably will not die—the average
man of 45 years will not die for another 23
or 24 years —consequently, instead of paying
£l5OO next day, the Society will have the use
of the premiums paid for the last 15 years
for probably a long time, and will in addition
he paid each year hy way of premium
on the Policy.
Still, it can be seen that a certain amount
must, for safety, have been accumulated dur-
ing the 15 years in order to be in a position
to ultimately pay the claim when it arises.
And this sum, call it the “Office Value,”
the “Book Value,” the “Reserve Value” or
the “Actuarial Value” (they all mean the
same), has to be computed by the Actuary.
In the case mentioned the Actuarial Value
would be in the vicinity of £4OO.
Of course, if the Policy has been only five
years in force, this Book Value, or Reserve
Value, would not require to be so large, be-
cause in that case the average Policy-holder,
then aged 35, would have an expectation of
over 30 years, and consequently the amount
necessary to have m hand would not be so
much. It would only be in the vicinity of
£lOO.
The Actuary takes into consideration that
the Society will earn on its funds a certain
rate of interest year by year.
The City Mutual estimates that it will
earn 3| per cent, on its three millions of
funds and resources.
Deducting from the present Actuarial value
of the liabilities the present Actuarial value
of the premiums to be paid by the members
spread over the term of their contracts, the
Actuary assesses the present Actuarial lia-
bility of the Society under its different
contracts.
A Large Surplus.
Estimated in this way, the Actuary reports'
to the Society that the total liability of the
City Mutual as at the 31st December last
amounted to £2,186,956, spread over 44,802
Policies, amounting to £11,267,000.
In other words, if this liability of
£2,187,000 is safely invested at 3£ per cent.,
and the Institution continues to be prudently
managed in the future as it has been in the
past, there would be ample funds in hand
to meet, as they became due. the Claims of
the Policy-holders on the Society’s funds
(including the bonuses to date of over
£1,100,000).
As the invested funds of the Society
onthe 31st of December last were £2,541,000,
there was therefore an available surplus for
distribution amongst the Policy-holders of
the very large sum of £354,000, a surplus
unparalleled in the world’s history of Life
Assurance.
Directors’ Cautious Policy.
Now the question arises, would it be wise
to distribute the whole of this immense sur-
plus amongst the Policy-holders V
Most other institutions do so.
In the case of what are called "Pro-
prietary” Companies, there is indeed every
inducement to do so.
The shareholders in these companies are
anxious to draw big dividends for one thing,
but in the case of a Mutual Life Office there
are no shareholders whatever to consider.
The whole of the profits belong to the
Policy-holders, and the Policy-holders alone.
If the whole of this available surplus of
£354,000 were paid out to the Policy-holders,
there would be added by way of reversionary
bonus to each member’s Policy an amount
in most cases two or three times as large as
the present record bonuses.
An ordinary Life Policy for £lOOO, upon
which a bonus of £32 10s. has been added,
would receive a bonus of considerably over
£7O for the one year.
But would that be a wise step? was the
question the Board had to face. What of
the future? Was not the absolute safety of
the Policy-holders’ money the one thing, and
the only thing that should guide them?
The experience of the past had to be con-
sidered.
Certainly another disastrous war was un-
likely, that was admitted. And a recurrence
of tiie dreaded plague of a few years ago,
which carried off so many healthy members,
was also a contingency of a remote nature.
But would it not be unreasonable to assume
that the high rates of interest now beiug
earned on all investments would not continue
indefinitely? And a wise thing for the Coun-
try if rates of interest were lowmred. Enter-
prise is checked by the prohibitive rates now
being paid for accommodation.
And, of course, there was also the possi-
bility of strenuous times ahead. They might
never arise. We may be, in Australia, merely
on the eve of greater things.
But if the Directors of a Life Assurance
Institution are alive to the serious respon-
sibilities of their trust, they will always take
the path of caution.
This does not imply a lack of confidence.
It connotes a sense of responsibility, and an
inflexible determination to play for safety
first, last and all the time.
An Ever-Growing Surplus.
The only difficulty that presents itself—
and, by the way, if one can use the expres-
sion, it is an extremely pleasant difficulty—
is the ever expanding annual increase in the
surplus that is available year by year.
Here are tl*e figures for the past seven
years:—
For the year
1917 there was a surplus of £53,935
1918 ~ •• „ 65,235
1919 „ „ „ 91,469
1920 „ „ „ 140.522
1921 ~ „ „ 190,386
1922 .. „ v 267,493
1923 ~ „ „ 354,013
The wonderful part of it all is that each
year for those seven years, and for the seven
years before them, and the seven years before
that, the Directors had not hoarded the
surplus. It has not been a growing
surplus starting with the untouched previous
years’ accumulations.
For the year 1917 over £51,000 out of the
£54,000 surplus was distributed in bonuses,
and the annual distribution has gone on since
then year by year, until in 1923 no less than
£147,000 was distributed amongst the Policy-
holders.
During the seven years under review nearly
£700,000 has been divided amongst the
Society’s members by way of cash bonuses.
The figures are wonderful.
One of these days, when matters finan-
cially and otherwise are more settled, the
Directors will vote a special bonus to the
Policy-holders. It must come to that. They
could, of course, strengthen the valuation
reserves by adopting a rate of interest which
would assume that the investments would
return only 21 per cent, or 3 per cent., and
this course would inevitably strengthen the
Society’s position. But. in addition to the
large surplus already disclosed, there are
hidden resources, such as under-valued assets,
amounting to £200,000 or thereabouts.
The present members need not fear that if
they interest their friends to become Policy-
holders their interest in this enormous sur-
plus will thereby be sacrificed.
It is a peculiar feature of Life Assurance
that the more healthy members that are en-
rolled at a reasonable cost, the less expen-
sive the workings of the Institution become,
and consequently the larger the distribution
that is available as the years go by.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Chairman.
May, 192%.


WHEN A MAN
PACKS-
THE FIRST THING
HE MAKES
SURE OF IS
HIS-
VELVET
SHAVING STICK
A “ Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light
winds,. stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubr
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All word-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills* now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
6ft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
df
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe.
“Up Stage” : Harry Roberts’s introduction
to New York is, I think, worth recording.
After doing one-night stands of “Quo Vadis”
from San Francisco to the East, he arrived
on the eve of a big “gambol” at the Lambs’
Club, to which all actors of any note resort
when in N’York. One of the cast being in-
disposed—he had to declaim some biblical
lines —Harry volunteered at short notice to
fill the gap, and made such an impression
that Belasco, who was there, engaged him on
the spot, being struck mainly with the
Roberts voice. That was how Harry came
to play the Papal Nuncio in Belasco’s “Du
Barry,” with Mrs. Leslie Carter as the gay
French lady.
“Royce Rolls”: Yes, the late Harry
Roberts was an admirable John Stofel in
“Struck Oil” (B. 12/6/’24) ; I think it was
his best part. He played rather prettily
in many roles, using his voice like a viol or
a lute, but as Maggie Moore’s German parent
in Williamson’s first money-spinner he was
quite first-class. Though it is years since
1 saw him in the old play, I have a vivid
memory of Stofel trying to shake off the
darkness from his mind and gazing at his
offspring with lack-lustre eyes. In this part
Harry had no chance to display his sac-
charine manner, which became an inveterate
habit in any impersonation approaching the
youthfully heroic.
“F.L.H.”: I first saw the late H. R.
Roberts in a piece entitled “The Golden
Giant” (it was by Clay Greene, of “Hans
the Boatman” fame), at Melbourne Royal, in
1894. Augustus Glover was in the lead, and
Roberts impersonated a mining-camp gam-
bler. Dick Stewart, jun., and the inexhaustible
John Forde were also in the cast. Maggie
Moore enlivened the thing with songs and
dances; one of her ditties. I remember, was
“Sunshine Will Come Again.” But the “Gol-
den Giant” has shed its glitter in the pro-
cess of 30 years. Roberts first showed in
Melbourne at the old Alexandra in 1890; the
play “Master and Man.”
“Mummer” sums up :—■
Oscar Asche in attacking the J.C.W. management
at Melbourne King’s Theatre on Friday night broke
one of the profession’s unwritten laws. The procedure
of centuries is based on the instructions of Hamlet:
“Let those that play your clowns speak no more than
is ';set down for them.” To establish a different
precedent would be to transform theatres into debat-
ing societies. There are performers in every company
with bitter grievances against their employers and
even bitterer ones against their fellow-mimes. Others
are liable to grow annoyed with unappreciative
audiences. The flagitious feature of Asche’s outburst
wap its premeditation. Various actors —the great
Irving among them —have voiced their grievances
from the stage and been forgiven, not only by bored
patrons but by the profession, because they sinned
in the heat of the moment. Asche let it be known
that he was going to drag the public into his row.
That the Firm responded by dragging the National
Anthem into it is an explanation, though not an
excuse.
“Rienzi”; Hornblower in “The Skin
Game” varies greatly in weight. Edmund
Gwenn, whom inveterate playgoers will re-
call for a fete hi m>- little part in tlie first
Australian production of “Sherlock Holmes,”
puts Galsworthy’s profiteer into the bantam
class, whereas Oscar Asche, who relinquished
the role in a cloud of language at Melbourne
King’s, was at least Bst. heavier. Now we
have Eardley Turner striking the happy
medium between Asche and Gwenn, and pre-
senting a Hornblower who can’t be mistaken
tor either the call-boy or a man who can
stand a traction-engine and 17 navvies, on
his chest. Eardley Turner, by the way,
didn’t slip into Asche’s shoes at short notice.
He has been understudying from the begin-
ning of the season with a view to taking over
when the big man tramped out.
“Pax”: The difference between Oscar
Asche and Oscar Wilde is that one is wilder.
“Santander”: The most useful small-
part man in the J.C.W. Opera Co. is Luigi
Cilia. During the long season just closed
at Melbourne Majesty’s he has appeared
almost every night, and one notices approv-
ingly that there is nothing stereotyped about
his acting or his singing: each little role
is a distinct etching in itself. The prowling
police-agent in “Tosca.” the pantaloon in
“Pagliacci,” Spalanzani’s assistant and the
jester in “The Tales of Hoffmann”—in these
parts and others there is some deft touch
of business that gives the character its
proper significance. I was impressed Jjy
Cilia’s importance at a rehearsal the other
day, when the huge stage-manager, Fari-
netti, parted the curtain at the smoke-o be-
tween acts and lustily shouted “Cheel-ah,
Cheel-ah!” Luigi was wanted for about five
minutes as a notary in the next spasm.
The rehearsal wouldn’t have been spoilt if
his bit had been left out for the time being,
but Farinetti was insistent. “We cannot
go on without Cilia.” was the substance of
his comment, as the dutiful little actor
emerged from the gloom in the stalls.
“A.P.”: “J.N,” (B. 5/6/’24) calls me to
order for omitting Emily Soldene from the
singers of “La Sonnambula,” and" asserts
that she performed the part at Lystef’s Opera
House in ’75 or ’76. It may be so, but I
cannot recall it. When Emily came to Mel-
bourne in Nov., 1877, she possessed a hefty
mezzo-soprano which was all right for
“Girofle-Girofla” and the like, but hopeless
for the music of Amina. She had a try at
the second act of “Trovatore,” but found
the notes' of Azucena unsuited to her. “J.N.”
may be thinking of the Sleep Song from
“Genevi&ve de Brabant” or some burlesque he
heard in his distant youth.
“F.A.”: Barney Barnard (B. 5/6/’24)
had a big name in Yankeeland when he
came here with the American Travesty Stars,
and it is a wonder Sydney didn’t take to him.
But perhaps Sydney was not so much to
blame for the freeze as the feminine portion
of the show, which, with the exception of
Celia Mavis (a Sydney girl with good looks
and a drawing-room soprano of fair quality),
was appalling. Towards the end of the sea-
son houses became so emaciated that free
NO NEED FOR ALARM.
“I think it would break poor mothers heart if she could see me
note. I promised her I would never be an actress.”
“I wouldn’t worry, dearie. She mightn’t think you had broken
your promise.”
passes were as plentiful as tracts in the
Domain. Barnard’s work was clean and
clever, and although he made no money in
Australia he always remembered it with kind-
ness as the country where he regained his
health.
“Norbell”: “D.F.” (B. 5/6/’24) refers to
Herbert Flemming as “an actor of the
Brough, days.” Flemming certainly was
Brough’s partner for a twelvemonth prior to
the latter’s death, but his association with
the Australian stage dates back further than
that. He began under William Hoskins at
Christchurch (MX.), and made his first
appearance in Sydney with Mrs. Scott-Sid-
dons at the Queen’s, York-street, in ’7B, the
play being “Our Boys,” and his part that
of Talbot Champneys. This was followed
by “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” with
Flemming as Lysander and Mrs. S.-S. as
Ariel. Flemming played 21 Shakspearean
parts in 18 nights with W. .T. Holloway and
Essie Jenyns at Ballarat. He made a hit
in “Captain Swift” when Haddon Cham-
bers’s play was first produced here. After
years with Williamson, Garner and Musgrove
lie went to England, and thence to India,
China, Egypt and S’Africa, acting in all
those countries. Then he brought Mel. B.
Spurr to Australia, and next the Brough-
Flemming combination was formed. Flem-
ming died suddenly in Melbourne on October
23, 190 S.
“CY”: I was in the company that played
“It Pays to Advertise”; it was headed by
Hale Hamilton and Myrtle Tannehill, his
wife. Donald Bowles was the rich man’s
soapy son, and others in the cast wei'e Nancy
Stewart and Mattie Browne. Hamilton is
now in the film game, by the way, and
Bowles is dead.
“Nero” : “The Mystery of a Hansom Cab”
(B. 5,/6/’24) was filmed at Melbourne in
1910; it was one of three jobs done by Billy
Lincoln for Johnson and Gibson, the others
being “It’s Never Too Late to Mend” and
“Called Back.” They were very cheaply pro-
duced (the cost per film was between £3OO
aud £400), and Johnson and Gibson must
have done well out of them, although they
were not first-class. How could they be'r
The interiors of “The Mystery” were taken
in one day at a little back-yard studio in St.
Kilda, and the exteriors at odd moments
during the rest of the week. About a fort-
night later the completed effort was shown
at the Glaciarium, where it ran for three
weeks. The photography was only fair, and
the acting might have been improved upon,
but the local “bits,” such as the Town Hall
clock, the Orient Hotel, the Melbourne Club,
the cab going over Prince’s Bridge, the mur-
der on St. Kilda-road and the old Esplanade
Hotel at St. Kilda, were considered enthral-
ling. I had rather a surfeit of the picture
myself, because I not only played in it, but
lectured on it, and it was rather trying to
watch oneself doing the wrong thing night
after night for three weeks.
“Westral” : I dispute “Thameside’s” asser-
tion (B. 22/5/’24) that “Coriolanus” is
“the least attractive of the Bard’s produc-
tions.” Osmond Tearle, once popular in the
English provinces, and father of Conway and
Godfrey Tearle, played it often, and pre-
sumably with profit. For years he imper-
sonated the noble Roman on the “fashion-
able night” (usually a Friday)-r-then an in-
stitution in many old provincial towns. In-
cidentally, the gentle Osmond, who had much
in common with Forbes-Robertson, made
more money out of “Virginius” than any
other actor of his day. I suppose that pom-
pous old tragedy is as dead now as the fame
of Billy Hughes.
“Dido”: Manders wrns a fine actor, con-
scious of the perfection of his physical
attributes and un-
able to disguise
that consciousness
from the vulgar
eye. He walked
our street like an
emperor, throwing
out his magnificent
torso like a pouter
pigeon, and taking
the air as a swan
takes water. This
particular Sunday
morning, when he
was exhaling im-
portance like a
South American
president, his legs
took him past Mrs.
Blank’s house. The
lady was weeding
out the spent roses
from her prolific
bushes, and, having
gathered a pile of
over-ripe blooms,
she threw them
over the front
fence, just as Man-
ders came within
the line of fire. He
was smothered in
rose petals, and
paused a moment
to shake them
from his clothes.
Mrs. Blank was profuse in her excuses.
“Pray, madame,” said the noble fellow, “do
not apologise. One is used to it. One is
quite used to it.”
“Casca” : John Colton and Clemence Ran-
dolph, who turned Somerset Maugham’s
story, “Miss Thompson,” into the play called
“Rain,” missed entirely the psychology of
Maugham’s study of the effects of weather,
propinquity, religious fervor, fleshly tempta-
tion and remorse upon an ill-assorted quin-
tette, marooned by a tropic oppression, which
breeds strange irritations and aberrations in
a sordid accommodation-house. The dram-
mer is unintelligible to anyone who has not
read the story, and a travesty to those who
have. Maugham’s Davidson was fanatic and
ascetic, immersed in a frantic spiritual pas-
sion to save a demirep’s soul, until the
spiritual was swept away in a flood of the
carnal. Colton and Randolph make him a
vulgar ecclesiastical bully. That sort of per-
son would not have killed himself: he would
mive bluffed it through, shouted down Sadie
when she tried to prove him venal as any
other male, and packed her off to San Fran-
clsco and the “pen”—or set her up in an
establishment, declaring all the time he did
it in the name of the Lord. Maugham left
the story quivering on the epic climax of
Davidson dead, and Sadie, cynic again
shrilling that all men were alike; Colton
and Randolph drag in a mushy ex-marine to
provide a happy-ever-after ending by making
an honest woman of Sadie. Perhaps so
subtle a study as Maugham’s could not be
made into a convincing stage-play. Only
America would commit literary murder trying
to do it.
THE POINT IN COMMON.
HIM : “I wonder why we always paint the
seasons as women.”
HER : “ Because, no matter what hind you
get you always want something else,
of course.”
“Up Stage”: In condemning Oscar Asche’s
lighting in “The Skin Game” “H.E.S.” (B.
6/5/’24) forgets the fourth wall. There
are no windows on the wall facing the audi-
ence (“H.E.S.” says there are, but he
couldn’t have taken his glasses with him) —
only a door in Chloe’s boudoir and a French
window, with curtains, in Hilchrist’s room.
Naturally, the light in each case comes
through the windows on the fourth wall, and
throws the shadows up-stage. The effect
may be weird to “H.E.S.” (I have heard
others call it wonderful), but all forms of
art must progress. Possibly “H.E.S.” still
hankers after the old “lights full up” when a
candle is lit in a room.
. “F.L.H.” : Maud Williamson came to Aus-
tralia in 1889, but not in support of Janet
Acliurch and Charles Charrington, as “Second
Murderer” says (B. 15/5/’24). Maud
started at Melbourne Royal in “The Points-
man,” with Clara Cowper, J. H. Clyndes,
Wm. Calvert, Alfred Bucklaw and T. 11.
Bolton. That was in May. The Achurch-
Charrington combination began in September
with “A Doll’s House,” at the Princess’s.
“S.T.S.”: Adair Fitz-Gerald, in his new
book, “The Story of the Savoy Opera,” men-
tions that when Sullivan first read the
libretto of “The Mikado” he expressed sur-
prise that the old class titles of Japan had
not been made use of; to which Gilbert re-
plied that he could not use “Samurais” with-
out using also an obvious rhyme which would
shock the public. At the dress rehearsal the
author insisted on cutting out the now famous
song of “the punishment fits the crime” on
the ground that it “would not go.” Luckily
for once he gave way to the protests of his
company.
“Enby”: Crowell, who runs the cinema
theatre in Hepburn (Vic.), has an ideal
daughter for a man in the show business.
Though only just turned 15, she operates
the biograph, runs a cleaning cloth over the
lighting apparatus and does a bit of bill-
sticking in the vestibule. On off nights she
plays the piano at the jazz hall lower down
the street. Ben Fuller will have to look to
his laurels.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : The manuscript of a
hitherto unknown, unacted and unpublished
play by Oscar Wilde has been discovered. It
has been bought by George Grossmith, who
reports that he has no doubt it is a genuine
work of Wilde’s and that the find is “a
literary event of some significance.”
THE ACTOR'S TRIUMPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hamlet you’ve played? A little thing!
• Such parts, my boy, are actor-proof.
The Village Priest, the Silver King—
The worst of these will hit the roof.
An infant crying in the night,
A stage beast roaring in his lair—
What means success in parts so light ?
! made a hit as Richard Hare.
Tea, laddie, in our old “East Lynne,”
The only part that actors shun
In all that tearful tale of sin,
Where no success was ever won,
By fate was mine. No ounce of fat,
As every actor is aware,
Unprofitable, stale and flat,
The thankless part of Richard Hare!
But, 10, I saved the tragedy!
Into that furtive, feeble part
1 put my personality,
A triumph of the actor’s art.
I played him in a breezy way.
The manager might curse and swear
My bold new reading wrecked the play—
I was the star as Richard Hare.
A cheap success is Hamlet, so
To play the Dane aspirants yearn ;
But it takes genius, you know,
For Rosencrantz or Guildenstern.
Some parts can play themselves; but few
Succeed in others, thin and bare.
Laddie, you’ll be an actor, too,
When you can shine as Richard Hare.
VICTORIA.
L. E.


SQUARE DEAL
>:
if
$3
/
Jt
S-
■XL
r
V
NOW
ON!
Astounding Reductions in Every
Dept
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
LEVIATHAN
MAIL-ORDER SERVICE —
Efficient and Accurate.
500 Dozen SHIRTS
at Square Deal Prices.
7/6 ZEPHYR SHIRTS
Are fitted with reinforced
necks, are absolutely fast
colors, in blue and black
Block Stripes and various
designs. Best make, fin-
ished with soft gauntlet cuffs.
At the price it would pay you to purchase at
least half a dozen of these shirts. They offer
exceptional value.
4111
14/6 COAT SWEATERS
Winter-weight All-Wool Coat
Sweaters. Closely knitted in
Clerical Grey, Lovat and
Mole. S6in. chest.
40in. chest, 1/- extra.
11/9
MEN’S SUITS.
At these Square Deal Prices it will pay you
to buy even for future wear.
80/- Fox’s “Confidence”
NAVY SERGE SUITS
Ready to Wear.
Men’s expertly-cut and
tailored All-Wool Sac Suits,
finished with good quality
linings and trimmings. ,
These suits are remarkable value and we have one
to fit every man.
63/-
SQUARE DEAL TAILORING
SAC SUITS, Tailored-to-Order, £4/19/6.
The cut, fit and make are guaranteed, and there is a fine
range of materials to select from We do not disguise, the
fact that this particular line of lailoied-to-Order ,
at such a low price, are partly machme-made.
OUR FAMOUS “QUALITY” SUIT,
Keen Y Square DEAL PRICE, £6/19/6.
£9/9/- “SUPER-QUALITY” SUITINGS.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, £B/8/-
These Suitings are made from Super Worsted Yarns of
fine texture, including all-wool selected Tweeds.
£lO/10/- BEST WORSTED SUITINGS.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, £9/9/-
The most fashionable imported Worsteds for present wear,
in L-ovats, light and dark Greys and Pin Point designs
Patterns, Special Self-measurement Chart and Tape
post free on request.
84- English Tweed Suits.
Superior cut and finish is evidenced in these
Ready-for-Service Suits, in All-Wool Tweeds,
smart shades. Finished with best quality linings and trimmings.
59/6
25/- Box Calf Derby or Balmoral Boots
Double welted soles, leather lined, thoroughly
well made with full round toe, in easy fittings.
Absolutely reliable and keenly priced.
2216
12/6 “Confidence” Berwick PYJAMAS
Only obtainable from the Leviathan,
fortable and hard-wearing Pyjama
each roomy and well sewn. Clearing
at an attractive Square Deal Price.
Corn-
Suits,
the lot
10/9
15/6 DOUBLE-WARP PYJAMAS.
Men’s Pyjamas in extra heavy Double Warp, warm
Winter material.
13111
12/6 Men’ s Confidence’ UNDERWEAR
{Only obtainable from The Leviathan.)
“Confidence” All-Wool Singlets or Pants in
good medium Winter weight. Singlets have
long or short sleeves as preferred. 36in.
chest or waist.
40in„ 11/9.
10/9
15/6 GOLDEN FLEECE UNDERWEAR
The ideal Winter Underwear, Pure Aus-
tralian Wool, Singlets or Pants. Singlets
have short or long sleeves as preferred. 36in.
13/9
Usually 38in., 16/9 40in.,!7/6
Square Deal Price. .. . 14/9 15/9
44in., 19/6
17/9
3 6 RIBBED CASHMERE SOCKS
All Wool, in shades of Navy, Nigger, Light
and Medium Grey, Fawn or Black.
3 pairs for 6/11.
2/9
19/6 MEN’S RIDING BREECHES.
Well made in thoroughly serviceable Fawn
and Olive Suede Drill with self strappings.
Sizes 3 to 7 and 4J to 7£.
16(11
OVERCOATS.
SQUARE DEAL SAVINGS.
57/6 English Fleecy Tweed
Overcoats.
39/6
Smartly-styled Single-breasted
Overcoats, warm and comfort-
able. Featuring full belt, let-m
pockets.
sleeves
and .patch
r T
67/6 Double-breasted Overcoats.
Here’s the Overcoat for you! Tailored in English Fleecy
Tweed in a Dark Grey and Brown Shade. Made with
full belt, set-in sleeves and patch pockets.
596
75/- ENGLISH MODEL COATS.
Double-breasted style, tailored in assorted fancy Tweeds,, fea-
turing half belt and inverted pleat.
’Phone 9840 (3 lines).
65
THE,
Cr. Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
PTY.
LTD.


A NEW EDISON
for the OPERA season
Edison snares the soul of Music
The research work of the great inventor has
achieved the impossible: his marvellous
instrument brings Grand Opera right into
every home.
Of course it does not give you what the eye
sees, but it does give you exactly what your
ear would hear. The New Edison offers
you the soul of Music—genuine, exquisite,
magnetic.
It is the only phonograph which is capable of
sustaining the test of direct comparison with
living artists. It has actually been publicly
so compared over 6000 times. No other maker
has ever conducted such tests; the travesty
would be too great.
Sixteen delightful period models to select
from—each is equipped to play all makes of
records.
Catalogues and Demonstrations from
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop. 5] Castlereagh
Street, Sydnev.
MELBOURNE : Wills and Paton Pty., Ltd ,
238 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: South Australian Phonograph
Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd
86-88 Queen Street.
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 653 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON: Wills and Co., Ltd 7
Quadrant. ’
Or your nearest dealer.
Wholesale only: Thomas A. Edison, Ltd.. 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
IFJMMI
omwiTiTj
«V»VXXC«S-
-sw'.raccvvC-
4m*
Vr-.
fyX»f,
W
windmills “BILLABONG” pumps
For those requiring a powerful mill the “BILLABONG" is a sound, silent, service-gmng
mill; it starts work in a light breeze and with its patent regulator the “BILLABONG” is
quite safe in a gale.
THE “BUSY-BEE” WINDMILL
The “BUSY B” is a sft. wheel Windmill which has been manufactured by us to meet the demand for
a small mill to pump water for household needs and uses about the Homestead.
The Workmanship and Materials
own manufactured goods famous
of both these Windmills are of the high standard which has made our
throughout. Australia as the high carat mark for quality of manufacture.
Particulars and Prices Post Free.
6311.
Bore Cylinder,
with Flush-
jointed, Screwed
Cap and Double
Leather Bucket.
5607 A.
Brass Bore Foot
Valve & Strainer.
5630.
Brass Check Valve,
A very efficient fullwav
valve, fitted with leather
face.
J OHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
Ty
g
n
391-4QS BOURKE ST. MEIR.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
5615.
’Stuffing: Box & Gland
Standard sizes, IJ,
I£, 2 inches.
5611.
Single Action.
5612.
Double Action.
Cupped Bucket
Leathers.
5301.
“Danks” All Brass
Pump,
w i ■t la Inspection
valve Covers. Our
own design. Acces-
sibility is the fea-
ture of this Pump.


Legal Notices.
tN THE SUPREME COURT of QUEENSLAND
1 TOWNSVILLE.
No. 45 of 1924.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction. °Plafntifi
BETWEEN MARIAN IRENE LANCASTER Flarntm
and JOHN LANCASTER Defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that Marian Irene Lancaster of
Cairns has commenced an actkn i if o 'j 3V ln Wr it :
Supreme Court of Queensland at Tov\ns\iue hy vviH
of that Court dated the twenty-third[ day of Ma>
1924 claiming a dissolution of mariiage and that n
you wish to defend the said action you should cause
an appearance to be entered for you m the said
Court at Townsville within two months of the date
of this publication AND that in default of your .o
doing the said Marian I»;nc Lancastei may by lea\e
of the Court or Judge proceed therein and judgment
may be given in your absence. oriTnims
CONNOLLY AND SUTHERS,
Solicitors, Denham Street Townsville,
Town Agents for V. TABART,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff, Cairns.
Dated this Sixth day of June, 1924.
JANE FRANCES MANLY Deceased.
RICHARD MANLY.
WILLIAM HENRY MANLY.
■nURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
a of the High Court of Justice in England dated
the 7th April 1924 and made in an action in the
Matter of the Estate of Jane Frances Manly deceased
(late of Edgbaston in the County of Warwick who
died cn the 16th November 1917) Hawkins v. Moore
(1923 M. 2535) whereby the following inquiries were
directed namely:— . , , ~ , , ~
(1) An Inquiry whether Richard Manly a brother
of the above-named Testatrix Jane Frances Manly had
any children living at the death of the Testatrix
and if so whether any such children are living or
dead and if living whether or not they have attained
the age of 21 years or being female have married
under that age and if dead whether or not they
attained that age or being female married under that
age and if so who are their respective legal personal
representatives. ,
(2) An Inquiry whether William Henry Manly
another brother of the Testatrix had any children
living at the death of the Testatrix and if so whether
any such children are living or dead and if living
whether or not they have attained the age of 21
years or being female have married under that age
and if dead whether or not they attained that age
or being female married under that age and if so
who are their respective legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiries are
on or before the 15th November 1924 to send by post
prepaid to George Alfred Herington Esquire a member
of the firm of Chalinder Herington & Pearch Solici-
tors of 64 Cambridge Road Hastings in the County
of Sussex England their full Christian and Sur-
Himes addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their Solici-
tor before Master Fughes-Onslow at the Chambers
of the Judge Room No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England on Friday- the 21st Noveniber
1924 at 11.30 o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the Claimant can be sent.
Dated this 14th day of Mav 1"2.<
H. HUGHES-ON SLOW,
Master.
FIELD ROSCOE & CO.,
36 Lincoln’s Irn Fields,
London, W.C.2.
Agents for
CHALINDER HERINGTON & PEARCH.
Solicitors. Hastings.
Before weaning baby
write for this book.
jßtftgers'
fond
§5
and
flow to u&eit’
JorSnfarUo
jrwalid&
andiktyed.
s alto i
tan. !
Benger’s Food can be given
as supplementary to the breast
without disagreement because
it modifies the fresh milk with
which it is prepared to the
child’s digestion.
Mothers who are nursing
should themselves take
ď
Food
Besides being dainty and delicious,
it pr motes a high state of bodily
nutrition and a full supply of
breast milk.
“ Bvg.rs Food and Hw to Use it,’'— A little
work of authority on the feeding of infanta,
invalids, and the aged, a most interesting and
informative booklet post ftee.
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd., 117 Pitt Sheet, SYDNEY.
ole Prop ietors and Manufacturers:
BENGEfi S FOCD ltd., MANUHEoTErt, England.
A. 11.
BOILER SCALING & RUST REMOVING
by the most efficient and economical
methods ever invented. The “SKATO-
SKALO” Patent Scaling Tools, Electric,
Petrol, Pneumatic. Write for particulars
to the Australian Agents: A. McARTHUR
and CO., 29-33 Clarence Street, Sydney. [2
(ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.)
THE NEW GUINEA OIL COMPANY, LIMITED
(Registered under the Papuan Ordinances, 1912/23.)
Directors :
J. C. M. SEE (Chairman), Merchant, Sussex Street, Sydney.
F A THORPE, Manager, A. Forsyth and Co., Ltd, 339 Kent Street, Sydney.
REGINALD E. REID, Civil Engineer and Surveyor. 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM VANSTONE, Grazier, Hotel Mansions, Dailinghurst.
(An additional Director to be appointed.)
Bankers :
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, SYDNEY AND PORT MORESBY.
Solicitors :
R. D. BERTIE, Port Moresby.
SLY* and RUSSELL, George Street, Sydney.
Geological Surveyors:
Messrs. R. S. and L. T. HAYNES (late of Anglo-Persian Oil Company, Ltd.).
Secretary and Office:
CHARLES G. HILL, A.C.1.5., Metropolitan Building, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Brokers:
F 0 FURNER & CO., Dalton House (Ist Floor), 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
The nominal capital of the Company (200,000 shares of £1 each) is divided as follows:
To Vendors, in full payment for the concession and work done thereon.. 50,000 fully paid.
For Public Subscription ,
In Reserve __L__
TOTAL, 200,000
The estimated cost of equipping and completing the first test well is Seventeen Thousands Pounds
(£17,000), and should payable oil be struck as anticipated, a further amount would be required lor
reservoirs, pipe lines, etc. ...
A first issue of 50,000 shares is now'offered for Public Subscription. , . ,
Shares are payable 2s. 6d. per share on application, 2s. (id. per share on allotment, and the balance
in calls not exceeding 2s. 6d. per share at intervals of not less than two months.
Allotment will be made when 25,000 shares have b-en applied for, as the proceeds therefrom will be
sufficient gMgkjf a situate in Papua of approximately 500 square miles, known
aS th The a hnmecfiate ol objeetive ld is to test the Hohoro Dome, of which Dr. Arthur Wade, the eminent Oil
'anticline is an elongated doniei... . the whole occurrence comparing almost exactl}
in tvpe, structure and age with the conditions present in the oilfields of Sumatra. ~^ h ®P. r^®" ce ° th °,
in the anticline is proved by numerous seepages of oil and gas alcnr the crest of the. anticline, so that
the only thing in doubt is the quantity of oil that is present at depth. Oil is got m commercial Ziiw
ties from sinfilar pinched anticlines in Sumatra... .1 can certainly recommend the Hohoro site for dulling
° f a it e is confidently°anticipated by the Company’s Geologists that oil will be struck at a depth of 400
a U. office o, the Company’s Broker,, with whom
early application for shares should be lodged.
fd
:'*o
ďf
GROWN IN EVERY
HABITABLE PART
OF THE GLOBE
BECAUSE THEY
ARE THE WORLD’S
BEST SEEDS.
HUNDREDS OF GOLD MEDALS. THOUSANDS OF OTHER AWARDS.
ORDER NOW FOR SPRING SHOWING.
SUTTON’S CHOICE STRAINS of FLOWER and VEGETABLE SEEDS
Catalogues available on request from J. B. MILLS & CO.. 9 Queen St.. Melbourne. Vic
All Orders to be Maikd direct to Dept. I
SO
S!
d
ďf
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
■3UYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free.
mm
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY,
d
Do uoußealise that
aCanadian Tripjs
within ijout means?
The cost of a trip across Canada via some of the
loveliest spots of the earth —The Rockies, the
Prairies, the Great Lakes Country—is, after all,
most moderate. It lies within the reach oi
thousands of Australians. At an exceedingly
small figure every comfort is provided—up-to-
date sleeping berths and accommodation, open-
top observation cars that double the joy of your
journey, excellent menus that help “good diges-
tion to wait on appetite, and health on both.”
For those to whom time is the first consideration
there is Canada’s Train de Luxe, the fastest
train across the Continent —
TRANS-CANADA LIMITED
Ninety hours Vancouver-Montreal. Eighty-four
hours thirty-five minutes Vancouver-Toronto.
Through tickets in connection with the Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail. Line via Vancouver,
8.C., and Union-San Francisco Line. Reserva-
tions made in sleeping cars, hotels and Atlantic
steamships.
Apply any office of the Union S.S.
Co. of N.Z., any Tourist Booking
agency, or J, Solater, Representa-
tive Canadian Pacific Railway Co.,
Union House', 247 George Street,
Sydney.
-v '*l',
(/M
t
V*
l/StoEP^OV*D
2
Amusements.
g \ i> s l'. \ a
t II l fc I T 11 E A T It E s.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: LILAC TIME.
ROYAL: SALLY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
■ ■ Lessees—Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove’s Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
MUSGIIOVE CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S.
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE GARDEN OF ALLAH.
KINCES.VS THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen’s.
PA LAC Ii TIIEAT It E. MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE DRAMATIC SENSATION OF THE CENTURY,
RAIN,
With BARBARA HOFFE.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Alxo SIDNEY.
BABY PEGGY in
THE DARLING OF NEW YORK.
ENID BENNETT in
THE BAD MAN.
Prices as usual.
IN’G’S TH EAT RE, MELBOURNE.
EARDLEY TURNER in
THE SKIN GAME.
|y| A.IES lIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
KENNETH HARLAN and COLLEEN MOORE in
APRIL SHOWERS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAKEAN
PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR:
Ayr, June 20 ; Townsville, June 21 to 28; Charters
Towel’s, June 30 to July 3.
Head Office: 178 CastlerengTi Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Miming Friends.
ITT ILL anyone knowing the address of
V\ JAMES ERNEST HAMILTON, re-
cently of Conquest Manufacturing Company,
Newtown, Sydney, communicate with Daven-
port and Mawby, Solicitors, Sydney.
GEORGE DWYER, formerly member
Queensland Police Force, whose last
oddress was Martintown, near Atherton,
North Queensland, is entitled to a share in
his father’s Estate. Anybody knowing his
whereabouts is asked to communicate with
PENDER & PENDER,
Solicitors, Ipswich, Q.
IF MRS. ELIZABETH LEVACK (maiden
surname Garrett), who was some time in
the employment of Miss Nona Watson, of
Glasgow, Scotland, now deceased, will com-
municate with Templeton & Granger, Solici-
tors, 157 West George Street, Glasgow, Scot-
land, she may hear of something to her
advantage.
DICK, Birthday Greetings.
BIDDIE and HENRY.
ďf
d
ďf
Every night
you need an
“American”
FLASHLIGHT
The safest and most con-
venient portable hand
light ever made.
Durable
Portable
Economical
National Carbon Co., Inc.
30 East 42d, Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.


/%
<5 V/*4
Can Yon
DRAW ?
Would you like to be able to make bold, free
sketches of people and scenes that surround
you every day?
Would you like to properly develop your talent
for black-and-white work ?
Would you be surprised to know that anyone
who can write can draw, if they only know
the right way?
The Weston Method
will enable you to learn without drudgery. It
will become a source of great pleasure; and,
above all, it teaches you to draw—NOT to
copy.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we
will forward Mr. Weston’s interesting book-
let, “There’s Money in the Pen.’’ which tells
all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
332 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m I
BRtTfSH
MADE
PcrScctiorv
RUBBER.
V.
:«F
JAZZ!
“I don’t know much about jazz and
all these new-fangled dances, sir, but I
suppose they give pleasure to some folk.
“There's nothing like merriment and
pleasure to keep harm, away and
lengthen life.
. “Everyone to their taste, for me it
is a real pleasure to serve Kensitas to
gentlemen like yourself, sir, and you
experience pleasure when smoking
Kensitas, because
you enjoy a really
good cigarette, and
“Kensitas cigar-
ettes are as good as
really good cigar-
ettes can be.”
yr
Kensitas
CfyaAe&eJ SvC
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA;
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
J. Wn & Sous, Lm, London.
Jk
Ike SUPER
Cigarette
aPr
The Spinet House
fish ms LONDON.
20 for 2/-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. L. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
If
ly«7>-iy^4
MOON
" fjhe Six Supreme 11
YOU EXPECT IT TO COST MORE!
I»THEN people see the New Moon Six for the first time they
w invariably assume its price to be from £lOO to £2OO more
than it really is.
This greater value that Moon offers is too big a buying oppor
tunity for you to overlook.
Examine this car as closely as your wariness bids—accept a
demonstration—you will then understand how and why Moon is
“THE SIX SUPREME.”
LITERATURE ON REQUEST. FINANCE ARRANGED.
Communicate with your Local Agent NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth
St., Adelaide
New South Wales:
Lockett's Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Bros.
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
Queensland:
Johnston's Motors Ltd,
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
St. George's Terrace
Perth
"If You Shun the
Commonplace
Buy a 'Moon’ "
rj
LI
s
rc
Ask Your Vet
If your veterinary surgeon has looked into
the advantages of SKF Ball-Bearing
Axles, he will tell you at once that they
ease the strain on the horses and allow
increased loads to be drawn with less
effort—and also that the BIG STRAIN
of starting is cut right out.
Read this extract from report of Messrs.
Kendall & Kelynack, Veterinary Surgeons,
regarding SIvF Ball-Bearing Axles:—-
“As. the heart and lungs , are the main
factors in. the working of the animal's
body, it is the saving of labor of these
organs that, will increase the useful life of
the animal; and : .:if..it can be proved—as
I am of the opinion the foregoing tests have proved—that the use of ball-bearing
nubs on horse-dra'wn vehicles have a tendency to lessen the strain on these
organs, then it behoves all users of the horse to instal the ball-bearing hubs.”
MAKE THE CHANGE NOW.
695 J
Substantial Reductions in Price of
SKF
BALL-BEARING AXLES.
The cost of conversion will, of course, be lower, and the increased haulage and the prolonga-
tion of your horses’ working life by the elimination of strain will result in distinct rninm
saving.
Write for Particulars and Prices.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: ffm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH :
(W.A.)
HOBART:
Unbehaun * Johnstone
, Ltd., 37 King Street.
Charles Davis, Ltd.
H-6a/Z3.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No . notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ' No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Alexander L.: You don’t drive your points
home. And the}' are not new points either.... Box
Camp: That sort of verse ought to sing; and yours
has the voice of a crow... .P.J.A.: It wants straight-
ening up and tidying Moses O. H.: Your argument
lies down too often by the way while you yarn
about nothing in particular... .Numb: But isn’t the
opposition to that deal based on the price that is
talked about ?... .Wing: Yes, but that’s not con-
clusive. Did the mother give the son anything in
return for his 40s. per week ? There have been
scores of such cases P.S.T.: The story of the
London W eeicly Telegraph is merely stupid.
American sheepowners have for years known the
value cf saltbush and have cultivated it L.E.W.:
Read the paper. The little yarn is tedious. .. .
5.E.8.: Terrible verse as far as it goes; but where
is the rest of it ?... . Quests: Mostly commonplace,
but with a hint of something better.... Margaret
H.: Too slight; and the color is wrong. ... J.M.8.:
Not quite. But proceed. .; .E.L. (Highgate) : The
verse has got far too many splinters in it....
M.8.P.; “Bush Road” gets out of step.... E.11.H.:
The verse humps badly and the idea is old Pvky:
You don’t make as much of it as you might".
Echo: “The Skirt” is the best, but it misses....
D.L.P. ; Doesn’t get anywhere near Bailiff; Almost.
. ... J.M.M.: Not up; but if that is your age keep
on and you’ll get there.. . .H.J.G. ; The melodrama
spoils it.... A.L.5.: The yarn is too long for its
slight interest... .8.H.H.: The facts that, the sun
rises and that it afterwards sets have ceased to
’ e exciting. .. .Pilgrim: Take the deformed thing
home. .. .1.G.5.: Rambles all over the place, but gets
to nothing... .A.S.A.: Those highly moral tags are
waste of ink... . J.C.S.: Doesn’t strike us where we
keep our millions A.R. (Roseville) : Not up
P. J.R.: It’s right off the target.... Peter M.: Can’t
find the improvement S.E.P.; Goes as heavily as
a lovesick tortoise....R.J.A.: Very wooden and
creaky at the joints Din Din: Even as a first
attempt it is hard to forgive C.S.A.: No yarn
there... .P.J.S. : You contrive to make it dull
jB.L.D. : All that preface is useless; and the tale
itself doesn’t amount to much L.H.A.: Not a
fresh line in it Ripponlea: “The Railway Gates”
strikes a strong note:—
Unimpressive to the Unobservant Eye,
But Significant to the Keen Intelligence *
They remain fast closed till the Train thunders by
Keeping their Important Vigilance.
Yon Tressels the street enhance,
Till oped. Mysteriously at first glance,
then we spy the man in the Box, perchance.
Open’d or Closed? Neither and Both!
For closed to the Public is the Train’s domain,
Till th swift train th’ distance doth
Swallow Then, mayhap, they are op’n’d to the
public again :
And incidentally closed to the Train.
So be it sagaciously supposed,
That they’re op’n’d, yet ever closed—
Opeing and closing eternally,
E en as th’ jaws of th’ noble horse are wont to be
But still they can
Show a lesson to Man !
For in business his mouth should genially royster,
Yet remain fast closed like th’ proverbial oyster. /
o.| V. Toe: The verse is only middling, and the
idea rather absurd W.C.G.: Doesn’t quite hang
together.... Boaz; Uninteresting matter and lumpy
verse... .C.H.C.: Not by a furlong or tw0.... 0.1.
(Perth): They must be brighter than that... .M;M.
(Ipswich): It has no resemblance to verse... .D.M.
(Moyhu) : The yarn is very wild. Write about some-
thing real. . . .1.E.; You can’t rhyme “guilty” with
“milky” without dislocating something.... Neil H.:
No earthly use. (P.S.—And we don’t believe Heaven
could do much with it either.) Thomas W.: The
verse doesn’t make us want to adopt you for our
Domestic Laureate J.P. (Christchurch): Horse-
play of that kind makes ,a poor yarn. .. .Zen Dee:
The verse is ragged and has no lift in it W.A.P.:
Not bad, but it is only imitative stuff. Hard to say
whether it shows promise or not. ... Winged-F.: The
verse is as rickety as the grammar, and the mirth
weighs, a ton R.F.F. : Not nearly well enough
done Augustus W.: “Mother Heart” is very tender:
i When you have got a mother be content,
Not all .on earth is thfs happiness intent.
A mother heart, a treasure hold;
It is more worth than all the gold.
When you were a baby sitting cn her lap.
Playfully your little hen Is she would clap;
She learned you praying to your God
That He will make you pure and good ;
When you were sick she tended you with care—
That she might lose you was her onlv -fear.
So help her when she' is feeble and old ;
Do not leave her lonely in the Told.
When time comes for her everlasting rest
You can tend her grave with flowers of the best.
... .H.E.M.Y .You can’t have a poet’s license... .I.F.
(Wanganui),: It is pretty weak, and we don’t know
any tonic that would help it.... Frank M.: “Death
Song” has noise, but no real interest.. .E.H. (Glebe):
Verse of that kind only poorly echoes a class of poor
stuff that years ago got far more notice thnfl it de-
served. . .Plodder: “Reverie” is too often out of step.
.. .Angela R.: “The Calm Nepean-” looks very young.
.... J.D.H.: It hasn’t much resemblance to a sonnet.
P.J.W.: Doesn’t move us. . .’.G.T.S.: Not much
rhyme or rhythm R.8.T.: Flickers feebly Bill-
kins: Stir up your characters and make , them move
around a bit.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORKESPONDENTS.
Takurua; Drawing bad; joke worse B.W.H :
A batch of blanks. .. .V.L.H.: Hardly worth it....
M.M.: Scratchy little futilities... .E.H.W.: That’s a
fascinating tree, anyhow L.D.: You are suffering
from fatty degeneration of the art.... J.R.U.: Not
up. .. .A.T.W.: Painfully stiff penwork. .. ,A.P.: Pen-
cil sketches useless for reproduction... ,N.J.: Awful.
J.F. : You have some original ideas about feet.
W.R.D.: No use drawing on that- microscopic
scale E.L.F.: Misses... .L.F.j Lines far too
scratchy W.G.K.: Try drawing from life for a
while... .J.H.: Very tangled humor... .F.N.: Have
another look at the lady’s hands. .. .Andrews: Not
up... .W.A.H.: Ringing the changes on the gags
won’t make the drawing any better R.G.S.: Did
you really ■ think that joke original?.. . .A.M.E. :
Drawing very wobbly in spots.
“The Rumpus” : He had joined the Salv’-
army and was giving his testimony in front
of the pub in which he had been so hilari-
ously drunk. “Thank God, I’m saved.” he
said. “I came to this town with a £lOO
cheque, and in a week it was all gone in
.that pub over there. Without a shilling left
I was kicked out like a dog by the boss. Do
you see him standing in the doorway over
there?” There was a dramatic pause, then
somebody said: “Yes.” “Well the
— !” shouted the saved one. “I've done
with the blankard!”


SPECIFY
INDENTED STEEL BARS
FOR ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE WORK
Architects:
Messrs.
ESPLIN & MOULD.
Contractors:
CONCRETE CON-
STRUCTIONS LTD.
ASTOR FLATS,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
A Reinforced Concrete Building
Reinforced throughout with our
PATENT INDENTED STEEL BARS.
K 1
■■ r
*1
■
riSK
•
‘V
First Section, New Building for
COMMERCIAL BANKING CO.
OF SYDNEY,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
Columns, Beams, Floor-slabs,
Reinforced with our
PATENT INDENTED STEEL BARS.
Architects:
Messrs.
KENT & MASSIE.
Contractors:
Messrs.
STUART BROS.
Architects:
Messrs.
H. E. ROSS & ROWE,
Sydney.
m gfl
»
rv
w
hr
mm
WOOL STORES FOR THE CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND
PRODUCE CO., LTD., Pyrmont.
PATENT INDENTED STEEL BARS.
Contractors:
Messrs. CONCRETE
CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Sydney.
OUR INDENTED
AUSTRALIA AND
STEEL REINFORCING BARS
ARE USED IN GOVERNMENT
NEW SOUTH WALES.
ARE ROLLED
WHEAT SILOS
ZZ
Write for Quotations, etc., to
SOLE AGENTS FOR INDENTED STEEL BARS:
William Adams and Company limited,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, NEWCASTLE & LAUNCESTON.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
FTETFoTITfe
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Kuild your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 33 sizes.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan's Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
m
"■I
LARGE
STOCK
SUPPLIES
may, at times, diminish general competition
for Cattle and Sheep at the Yards. But
there’s one factor which will give decided
help in increasing the demand for your
particular consignments.
Rail Your Fats to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The firm’s work constantly produces top
market values for clients.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
W'?
‘vo*
kvo*
G®
Williams’
Talc Powder
There is no skin so fine or deli-
cate that it does not respond
gratefully to the touch of
Williams’ Talc Powder.
Its exquisite perfumes give to
every user a rare, elusive but defi-
nite charm.
The Williams’ box has the hinged
cover. Easy open—easy close. You
won’t spill the powder nor let the
perfume evaporate if you use a box of
_ Williams’.
Williams
Talc Powder
Carnation
English Lilac:
(Williams’ Special)
Matinee
Carnation
Violet
Rose
Baby
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— AGENTS —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
5^5
m
WHITE LIQUID CLEANER
WHITES UEDE
CANVAS SHOES.
!»*S
Tour White Shoes will
Stay White this Summer
Whether Suede or Canvas, they’ll be fresh and
spotless for every occasion if you use Bostock’s
White Liquid Cleaner. Purest ingredients and
skilful mixing make it Milady’s Favourite.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD.
Box 91, Haymarket, Sydney. J
For Canvas,
Nubuck and
Suede
Leathers.
sn
i
V",
w
WHITE LIQUID CLEANER
ď
jtk
f
ď
42 INTEREST PAID ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS UP TO <£soo AND
3%°/. ON ANY EXCESS TO £ 1000
Cheque Recounts opened for individuals. firms, Companies or institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS AC.C.F.PTF.r>
DEPOSITS IN RURAL BANK LENT TO AGRICULTURAL AND
PASTORAL PRIMARY PRODUCERS ONLY
156 Branches and 512 Agencies in If.S.W.
Bl
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
lerious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
J he ™tural tome elements contained in HYPOL are, in themself
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition this
famous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil
which ts so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-formed
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence / &
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get oyic to-day
Sofd Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO Ptv
MELBOURNE '
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Russ”: The blind beggar, ostensibly sell-
ing matches in the street, was angry.
“What’s wrong?” asked a brother mendicant.
“Someun rung in a ‘spurious’ on yer?”
“Ugh!” grunted the modern Bartimasus,
‘worse than that. Some blighter went and
bought me only box of matches and now I’ve
got to go home for another.”
* * * *
“•T.A.": A party of shearers and their
assistants, to the number of 40, recently
started from Adelaide for Cordillo Downs,
SOO miles distant. Four large motor-cars
and a one-ton lorry were packed with the
passengers and their belongings. The jour-
ney—part of it across country—was ex-
pected to take eight days. The men are
under engagement to the Co-operative Stock
Owners’ Association, which has already sent
out SOO men this season.
* * * *
“D.D.”: Until lately America supplied the
crystals used in wireless detectors, and fancy
prices had to be paid for small fragments.
Recently, however, Australian crystals have
been tried with very satisfactory results. A
Ballarat experimenter, on seeing a large
lump of crystal in the office of a local mining-
manager, chipped off a piece and tried it on
his instruments, and the signals came in 50
per cent, louder than when he used the
imported crystal with a fancy name.
* * * *
“Dash Dotty”: A trial is being made at
Melbourne and Sydney to decide which sys-
tem of automatic-printing telegraphy—the
Murray or the Creed—is better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. With the Murray multi-
plex system eight messages are sent, practi-
cally at the one time, at a comparatively
slow rate of speed; with the Creed the mes-
sages are received at a fast rate on perforated
paper tape which is run through a printer
and transformed into plain English. In my
experience the Creed adapts itself better to
the vagaries of the line: the slightest contact
throws the Murray out of synchronism.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Are garnets in large quantities
of any commercial value? I know of a moun-
tain between the Musgrave and Coen, Cape
York Peninsula, which practically consists
of garnets. The red stones are set in the
mountain rock very much like pebbles in
cement. I once met a couple of men who
were coming back from this country in a
state of great excitement. They had their
pack-horses loaded with bags of garnets, and
reckoned they had found the greatest ruby
mine in the world, or out of it. All the
same, I suppose it would be possible for a
few rubies to be mixed up in that gigantic
heap.
* * * *
Machete” : It has long been alleged against
Odysseus Cookadacraydes that he is in the
habit of importing youthful compatriots from
the Isles of Grease. These gentry, like simi-
lar importees from China in days gone by,
are bound by secret contract to work off
the expenses occurred in importing them,
which means that they have to serve a longish
Period of probation at starvation rates.
Odysseus thus gets his labor so cheap that
his nerve, as displayed in his prices, has
been all the more astounding. However, the
trodden Hellene seems to have turned at
last; at a Melbourne meeting a few days ago
over 100 Greek restaurant employees re-
solved to join the union and claim award
rates. Now let’s watch the anguished
Odysseus help the cray establish new alti-
tude records!
* * * *
“Halcyon”: I can recall an old ’bus, once
known all over the Geelong district, that has
undergone more vicissitudes than the ancient
Bendigo vehicle which lately got into print.
Originally it had been an old family coach,
equipped with heraldic arms on the side door’
and was doubtless brought here by some
early-day settler of illustrious lineage. Bought
at an auction by a ’bus proprietor, the squat,
yellow chariot carried passengers from Gee-
long to Herne Hill for some years. The pro-
prietor (also the owner of “tea-gardens” at
Herne Hill) afterwards dismantled the
vehicle, and, placing it beside a bank of rose
and mignonette, called it a pagoda. When
the gardens failed he carted the ’bus, still
iaintly yellow, 14 miles to a seaside resort,
and sold it for a bathing-box.
* * * *
“Yardley ’: I have a mantelpiece of
Queensland cedar, embellished with mould-
ings and carvings. It has seen 30-odd years
of service, but it remains as sound and as
beautiful as when it was erected. Appa-
rently cedar-carving was once a flourishing
art in Australia: it is hard to understand
why it was ever discarded. I have an easy-
chair of the same timber. It is fashioned
and ornamented from an English design ; and
the work and artistry are striking. Next
to the easy-chair is a beech bentwood from
Austria. The one combines beauty with com-
fort and stability, the other is stark ugli-
ness; yet the gaunt jimcrack has completely
ousted the local article. Had the wood-
carvers craft continued to receive the en-
couragement which it deserved, we should
have no need to import utterly inferior sub-
stitutes.
* * * *
“Solomon”: It required the fighting
strength of the Vic. Full Court theothe?
day to decide that two bushels aren’t one
simple as the matter might seem. Plaintiff
was hired to pick hops at Myrtleford the
remuneration being 7d. per bushel. After
some days lie discovered that the “bushel”
basket m local use really contained twice
as much as its name implied, so that the
nominal 7d. was only 34d. Myrtleford is
only a one-pub place, but when the aggrieved
man sued for the other half of his stipend
no less than five honoraries, said to be all
hop-growers, were on the bench to uphold
the local custom,” and they smote the appli-
cant good and hard for £7 7s. costs. A re-
markable sort of Judge rejected the first
appeal, and it took three learned wigs in the
end to put the weights and measures of
Myrtleford on an honest basis.


STARTS THURSDAY, JUNE 19.
Gowmtf
10 PER CENT. O
For every £ spent at least 2/- is saved.
Boot Savings.
GOWING'S “AUSTRAL” BOOTS,
the longest wearing and most comfort-
able made. The uppers are specially
tanned to resist all conditions; the
soles are the longest wearing of all
sole leather. The heels are built of
all leather lifts, put on to stay on,
vamp runs full under heavy cap, not
cut oft and joined, thus securing pro-
tection for the toes. Counters, insole
and toe puffs are sole leather. Stitch-
ing is wax thread. Guaranteed for
four months. In Black or Tan. Sizes,
5 to 10.
Usual Price. .30/-
Less 10 per cent.
27
Overcoats.
MEN’S OVERCOATS, in popular
Raglan style of plain, smooth finish.
Dark Grey Coating. Excellent
material. Perfectly tailored. Has
vertical pockets, and is lined through-
out.
63/- Reduced to
60/
Less 10 per cent.. .
54/-
Shirt Savings.
WORKING SHIRTS of Heavyweight
Khaki Drill. A material that will
wash well and give the utmost service.
Have collar attached and two patch-
pockets, with flaps that button.
8/9 Reduced to 8/3
Less 10 per cent. . .
7/5
It will pay you to sec the Special
Bargains in Men's and Youths’ Ready-
to-Wear Suits. . The Boys’ Clothing
Dept, also offers many remarkable
savings.
During this Sale a definite reduction of AT LEAST 10 per
cent. (2/- in the £) is made on every article in Gowings’
immense stocks (one or two proprietary lines excepted), and
on thousands of lines the reductions are much greater.
SALE ENDS SATURDAY, JULY 12.
SAVE
on your
Suit-to-measure.
These Suits-to-Measure, though much reduced in the price
during the Sale, have the regular cut, style, finish and
high-grade materials of all Gowings’ Tailoring.
Every Suiting is reduced at least 10 per cent.
Usual Price.
£5/5/- ■
£6/6/- ■
£7/7/-
£B/8/- ■
£9/9/- ■
Less 10%
£4/14/6
£5/13/6
£6/12/3
£7/11/3
£B/10/-
Special Offer.
A £7/7/- Suit-to-measure for £6/5/6
HERE’S UNBEATABLE VALUE! Gowings’ offer a
Suit-to Measure of exceptionally fine quality, PURE
WOOL NAVY SERGE of Guaranteed color at a specially
reduced price. This Serge, which is our regular seven-
guinea line, has a soft Vicuna finish and will give excellent
service.
Usual Price ... £7/7/-
Reduced to £6/19/6
Less 10 per cent
£6 516
Orders, to obtain these prices, must be placed or posted
on or before Saturday, July 12, the last day °i Sale. A
full range of Patterns of any of these Suits, with belt
measurement forms, will be sent Free on request.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL GOODS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Coat Sweaters
MEN’S COAT SWEATERS, strongly
knitted with Y-fronts and patch
pockets. Correctly proportioned and
serviceable. In Grey, Navy and
Cream.
Slend. and
Men’s. O.S. Men’s. Ex. O.S.
Usual Price—
-14/6 15/6 16/6
Less 10 per cent.—
13/- 13/11 14/10
Underwear.
MEN’S ALL-WOOL UNDERWEAR,
Winter Weight, Gowings’ “Austral”
Brand. Guaranteed unshrinkable.
Vests, half sleeves.
Usual Price—
-36. 38. 40. 42.
11/6 12/6 13/- 13/6
Less 10 per cent.—
10/4 11/3 11/8 12/2
Pants to Match.
Usual Price—
-34. 36. 38. 40. 42.
13/- 13/- 13/6 14/- 15/-
Less 10 per cent.—
11/8 11/8 12/2 12/7 13/6
Trousers.
MEN’S FAWN SPECKLED GABAR-
DINE TROUSERS. Strong, good-
looking material, well tailored, with
side or cross and hip pockets. Suit-
able for either Riding or Ordinary
Wear.
20/- Reduced to
18/-
Less 10 per cent.
16/8
Sock Savings.
MEN’S BLACK CASHMERE
SOCKS, All-wool, serviceable, well-
made.
2/11 Reduced to 2/3
Less 10 per cent
21-
SEND FOR SPECIAL
SALE CIRCULAR.
POSTED FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
Gowing Bros. Ltd
486 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at 304 and 454 GEORGE STREET.
Everything listed in Gow-
ings’ Winter Catalogue is
subject to this 10 per cent.
Sale Discount, with the ex-
ception of one or two pro-
prietary lines. If you have
not received your copy, write
to-day, and it will be for-
warded you Free, by return
mail.


Tough^
REMEDY
CougnsXolds.
CROUP.
hooping cough
✓ HOAOStNESS.
enoNCHiTis
SORE THROAT
NFLUENZA
»NO o* M i o *»*CCyON\ or »n£
THROAT «nd LUNGS
/Good'
Quick
fd
D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
die most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
MAN
ď
NEWS
29/6
Pair
The
f
“MEXICAN” Riding Boot
Is patented under No. 4322, because it
has the new two-fold strapped tops,
which can buckle and fit closely around
any instep. Made of light, tho’ strong
Wallaby Skin—cut on riding pattern,
with S.S. Soles an d low Heels. All sizes.
Mail to Desk “ 5.8.” State size.
Pike Brothers
limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
XK
i
EureKa
Driving' Lamp
(DIETZ)
A reliable weatherproof kerosene-
wick Lamp, with ruby rear lens
and bracket. Price 13/6 each.
List of Benzine Lamps, Lanterns
and Irons on application.
LUX LIGHT 00. OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Makes old razors
shave like new
&
A sharp razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself,
yet how to keep it
sharp, with tough
beards, has always been
the great obstacle, for
the average man does
not know how to set or
sharpen a razor. The simple
yet expedient PERFORATED
HONE solves the question per-
manently ; it provides a life-
time of easy shaving for a
small outlay—only 5/-, or post
free 5/6. TRY THE PER-
FORATED HONE: if it does
not make your razor shave to your
satisfaction return it to us within 3t)
days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO.,
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
3]
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 84 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business,
BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION, 1924.
Intending visitors to London should communicate at once with the
OVERSEAS BUREAU FOR TRAVEL (Australian Dept.),
141 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
(Cable Address—“Smadaburo,” London), who will arrange:—
Accommodation in Hotels, Private Houses,
Furnished Flats, etc.,
Trips to Battlefields,
LONDON WILL BE FULL.
Continental and Provincial Tours,
Motor-car Hire —Sightseeing—Passports,
WRITE OR CABLE NOW.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE! Try the
HOTEL CECIL
Tariff from 16/- per day.
ď
‘SWAN’
■LAST-DROP
INK BOTTLE
For Self-filling and
Steel Pens.
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Specially intended for self-
filling pens, but just as useful
for general purposes. The
bottle is so designed that, no
matter how little ink is left,
the pen can take it up.
Dries Black for Ever.
Retail Price
filled with
Swan Ink,
2/- per bottle.
Swan Ifoz. Inlc.
1/3 per bottle.
MANUFACTURED BY MABIE, TODD & CO., LONDON.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Diamond Rings
of
Distinction and Quality.
For over eighty years Fairfax Si Roberts have been making Rings of all
types. Their long experience and exceptional cash-buying powers enable
them to give the utmost value to customers. The most favored designs
are followed, and specially assayed gold and pure platinum always used.
Four Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lB/18/-
Fancy Ring, set with
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold,
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£lO/10/-
n
. ■ j
• ''" *' i
Fine Diamond, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring, with two
small Diamonds at the
sides,
£B/8/-
Three Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum' and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
I BBSs
Choice Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring,
The Optical
requisite
Department, on the first floor, is equipped
for accurate service. Skilled refractionists
with every modern
in attendance.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
FAIRFM&ROBERTS L t . d
Z'b&Zb Hunter Street Sydney
Only one M.A. was gained at Perth
’Varsity this year. It went to Sister Mary
Bertrand, of the local Convent of Mercy. She
is the second woman in the Sandgroping
State to gain the distinction.
The churches of St. Philip and St. John
in Sydney were so named in memory of
Governors Phillip and (John) Hunter, while
St. David’s Church (now the Anglican cath-
edral) at Hobart shrines the memory of
David Collins, once Judge-Advocate of N. S.
Wales. The canonising was done respec-
tively by Governor King and Mr. Soreil,
Lieut.-Governor of Van Diemen’s Land.
“Geo. Rich” : There were only two poles
to be erected when the “Hello” Department
undertook to connect my house with the
telephone exchange; but the cost of that
trifling bit of work made a mess of the over-
seer’s estimates. The sinking was through
solid rock, and the second hole cost a fiver to
put down. By sinking the hole a yard or so
either one way or the other it could have been
sunk for a few shillings; but this would have
been contrary to regulations. And so the
money goes.
“Adamascus” : Bananaland Commissioner
for . Railways Davidson has recommended
against electrification of the Brisbane subur-
ban system. He says the population is not
yet sufficiently large to warrant the enormous
outlay involved. The service would be
greatly facilitated, but the profits would be
eaten up by heavy interest on capital. David-
son is supported by Clapp, of Victoria, who
says that he knows only one community
(Oakland, Alameda and Berkeley, in U.S.A.)
with a population of less than 250,000 which
has an electric-train system.
“Two Seas”: Colin Campbell Mackay, who
recently went west at the age of 94, did not
come to Queensland in 1847 with his parents
(B. 5/f>/’24). They were never in Australia.
The old pioneer followed his brothers, Pat-
rick, James and Hugh, after Patrick
had taken up Cannindah, on the Burnett
River, which was recently cut up for closer
settlement. Colin took up land near Rock-
hampton, and named his run Morinish, after
a property in the Isle of Mull, owned by his
brother George. He was a typical Highland
laird, and once after an argument with a
neighbor produced a pair of ancient duelling
pistols and wanted to settle the affair in
traditional style.
“Sixenate”: A definite ruling upon the
question of how long wife-maintenance is
payable, when a man seeks freedom from the
responsibility by instituting divorce proceed-
ings, was given the other day when, on an
appeal, Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.) laid it
down that a magistrate was wrong in holding
that maintenance had to be paid until the rule
nisi was made absolute; it need only be paid
until the decree is granted. But the magis-
trate’s idea was one that certainly prevailed
amongst the officials of the Children’s Court,
where the wife-maintenance law is admin-
istered ; and hundreds of men have paid up
to the time when the rule absolute gave
them complete freedom, without ever ques-
tioning their liability.
“Ex-Bnglisliman” : Will someone who really
understands the subject, and yet has no axe
to grind—obviously the combination may not
be easy to get—give me the exact “strength”
of the present position of Australian whisky?
We admittedly produce some of the finest
brandy in the world; why not the other and
more^ popular spirit? Men who should know
say “Yes, Australian whisky is quite all
right. That is to say, it will be, in 10 or 15
years, when it has had the necessary time to
mature. Meanwhile, better avoid it.” But
this sounds too much like the specious “Not
the kind of thing which will appeal to you”
with which vendors of imported goods have
always sought to put one off the “colonial”
article, from woollen cloth to pianos, and
very notably from claret in the distant past
to beer only, yesterday. So I am torn be-
tween a dislike of sending good money out
of the country and the dread of introducing
corrosive fluid to my interior. What about
it?
“Sierra” : Three years ago the barque Inver-
neill sailed right round the world before get-
ting to Bunbury (W.A.) from Sydney. But
even this record was eclipsed recently by the
Canadian ship Garthwray. In June, 1922,
the vessel sailed from Leith for Iquique; she
reached the Chilean port in December, 1923.
Ten weeks after leaving the Forth she stag-
gered into Montevideo minus her fore and
topmasts and jib-boom. There she refitted,
received a new captain and some fresh hands,
and started off for Cape Horn. Westerly
winds blocked her passage, sails were blown
awmy one by one and more spars lost, until
the captain in desperation put his barnacled
hooker before the wind for the 4000-mile run
to the Cape of Good Hope. In Capetown
several tons of shells were scraped off the
hull, and new spars and sails provided.
Another captain took charge, and she entered
on her last lap round the south of Australia
to South America, and finally dropped anchor
at Iquique 14 months after contract time. All
of which seems to indicate that, though the
sailing-ship still maintains a precarious exist-
ence, the sailing-ship sailor is becoming
extmet.
The office sleuth is pessimistic:—
An epidemic of show-case burglaries may be ex-
pected following on the recent Hotel Australia affair,
in connection with which no arrest has been made or
seems likely. The marvel is that these standing
incitements to crime, which are features of many big
hotels, have been neglected for so long. The last
attemnt on a grand scale was made at London Carl-
ton Hotel some half-dozen years ago ; but it was a
bungled job done by a couple of brainless amateurs.
The Sydney crime was carried through with professional
neatness and despatch. But it was childishly easy. The
speculations of the detectives needlessly complicated
the problem; it was assumed, for example, that the
malefactor had to leave at once with his booty. “How
the thief got away from the building is a mystery,
but it is likely that he manipulated the lock of one
of the doors and let himself out. He might have had
a skeleton key.” It is much more likely that he
walked up to his room (a second or third floor, say,
overlooking the street), dropped the parcel to a con-
federate below, and turned in. Night-watchmen
are creatures of habit, like the rest of us, and it is
a simple matter to time them on their rounds. Only
fear of the watchman’s approach apparently saved
Hardy Brothers’ case, which stands in the main hall.
There are but two ways of discouraging burglary, so
far as these jewellers’ windows in miniature are con-
cerned—to bolt and bar them by night, like street
shop windows, or to stock them with/paste.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Pares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular,. new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
EMPIRE
EXHIBITION
via
SAMOA - r HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO.
QUICKEST
OF
ANY
LINE.
SONOMA VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
City 2282 _
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONQBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 624-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. •• •• £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570,260
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. . £14,148,/54
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Tod jian ;
Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moqdie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock f tno’noo
Preference Shares .. .. • • 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,957
RAHTS DRAFTS
itain and Ireland, and other places.
ECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
insacts all other usual Banking business.
Kosciusko
Snow Carnival
Fixtures
June 20 ,to July 10
STATE HIGH SCHOOLS’ SKI
CLUB CARNIVAL.
July 10 to July 23
KOSCIUSKO ALPINE CLUB.
July 23 to August 15 —
SKI CLUB OF AUSTRALIA.
August 15 to August 24-
MILLIONS CLUB WEEK.
August 24 to September 16—
great public schools,
non-state high schools.
September 26 to October 7
TEACHERS’ FEDERATION.
Full Information at
government tourist
bureau,
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Shipping;, Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU by
NIAGARA, 3rd JULY; MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS :
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) JULY 3
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) JULY 31
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.)
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.),
JUNE 19
JULY 17
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply •
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE. .
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
w
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of 3£ to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
of the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES).
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE,
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.’
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
by the
Sailing
£9O,
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
m
si
■
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500
ULYSSES .. 14.500
/ENEAS .. 10,000
Tons.
ANCHISES .. 10,000
ASCANIUS .. 10,000
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. B6701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO . . 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £21 to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. B6701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
ItUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
* Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £8,000,000
- 4,050,000
- 6,000,000
£16,050,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert \V. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq
Tlie Hon. Reginald J. B 1
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
ack, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. FT. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Liondon Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
""""Cable remittances made to,"and drafts drawn on. Foreign' places DIKECT.
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable through on tjW\orld_
Foreign Bills
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailing's.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa every seven days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOll
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line o£ Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, E’remantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary*
borough. Bundaberg. Bowen and Cooktown,
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed tor single year 1923
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£2.103.220
£3,500,000
£53,000,000
£7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


Westclox
10
10
First on the job
To please your chief, try getting on the job a
few minutes ahead of time.
He will notice, never fear. His first mention
of it may come in the form of an increase in pay,
or a chance to step into the place ahead.
The fellow who is always ahead of time usually
has a good clock. More than likely it has the
name Westclox on the dial.
f estdox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/.;
Bi r d, 12/6; Pocket Ben , 9/6; Jack o 3 Lantern Luminous , 20 /-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
w
V/a
sf|
m
'//a
f yw l
liiM
ill* 1 )!
r7iinniiii»ii!iiJ^ni.;itii[iiiiiiiii„,,.T.'»i
i ,
HyuiiT
ran
uTiiunuy 1 * KtjjjmmjmimiuKun^^,-, 11 ,,,
iini**!!-
LL*M[(
111 I,
A Tin Should be in
Every Home
As an emergency dish there Is nothing quite as appe-
tizing and sure-to-be enjoyed as “ Rex ” Camp Pie. It
is always ready to serve instantly—always fresh, tasty,
and wholesome. But you should also serve
REX
Camp Pie
as regular fare. It is cheaper than fresh meat —and
just as wholesome. It saves all cooking, and there is
no waste.
TRY REX CAMP PIE SERVED HOT—lmmerse the tin
in boiling water for twenty minutes and it is ready.
Turns out in good shape, with a fine gravy that makes
it ever so good.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.,
Curers of the choice
REX HAMS & BACON
F.J.-39.
f
d
f
d
Everything
FOR
the Game.
Whatever your requirements in the field
of sport; be it Tennis, Golf or any other
outdoor or indoor game—it will be to
your advantage to inspect, before buying,
our large and comprehensive range, which
has been carefully selected from the
world’s leading makers.
TENNIS RACKETS.
ď
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon ..
AYRES’.
Sandown
Handicap " '
A 1
Champion
Matador
Central Strung
S.N.D. Model A
S.N.D. Model B
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon ....
BANCROFT’S.
The Winner
90/-
28/6
36/-
38/-
47/6
52/6
57/-
82/6
85/-
90/-
85/-
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke
85/-
SLAZENGER’S.
La Belle
Player
Renshaw
Demon
Whitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Lambert Chambers
I.
Patterson
J. O. Anderson ...
25/-
27/6
45/-
50/-
58/6
67/6
75/-
68/-
79/6
79/6
87/6
90/-
92/6
95/-
H. C. LEE’S.
Spartan
70A
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD'S BEST. Price 85/- each.
TENNIS BALLS.
Bach.
Barnet Glass Hard Court 2/4
Barnet Glass Flite, the new
seamless ball, equal to
any imported 2/5
Ayres’ Court 1/10
Ayres’ Champion 2/5
Doz.
27/-
28/6
21/-
28/6
Each. Doz.
Slazcnger’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin) 28/6
Dunlop’s Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/5 28/6
Dunlop’s Play Ball ]/. 10/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST, FREE ON REQUEST^
(P*
Xt
a» ,/
LT
VL
GOLF CLUBS.
We carry an Unrivalled selection of high-grade Golf Clubs and
Golfing Requisites. Illustrated Price List Post Free on request.
A PARTIAL LIST.
CANN & TAYLOR'S Reliable High-grade Clubs.—
Brassies 19/6. Drivers 18/6. Irons
A. G. SPALDING’S, well made and well balanced.—
Brassies 22/6. Drivers 21/-. Irons. .
A. PATRICK’S, effective and. well made, moderately priced.
Brassies 22/6. Drivers 21/-. Irons
J. & A. SIMPSON’S extremely effective Clubs.—
Brassies 25/-. Drivers 25/-. Irons.
17/6
18/6
16/6
22/6
7G
w
•jf
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


@ Q®®®®©®®®®®®®®'©®
iffy
iffy
iffy
Tgjp
iffy
fffp
iffy
f^p
iffy
Cjjttl
iffy
rgn
iffy
Tgp
iffy
rjp
vjjj
iffy
Tgp
i iffy
\jjp
I iffy
i fgp
r iffy
rgp
iffy
fjp
l iffy
I vE?
iffy
tgp
iffy
tgjp
iffy
v2P
iffy
fgp
iffy
Backache! Why?
Do you rise in the morning with a groan? Do you feel
that you are getting old? Having made up your mind that
you are a martyr, do you vent your ill-humor on the family?
After a while the pain and stiffness leave you and you forget
your troubles until the next morning, when the same dull pain
in the small of your back, the difficulty of bracing your nerves,
brings back all the dire forebodings of the day before.
This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim and
you are starting on a long journey towards ill-health and
infirmity. The kidneys are overtaxed with the work of cleans-
ing out the impurities from your blood. Each day there is an
accumulation of waste which must upset the body. It forms
Uric Acid and Uric Acid is the most insidious form of poison-
ing that can take place in your body. The number of ills
to which it leads is almost limitless and though middle age is
the most favorable season for their activity, even the youngest
child often suffers and sometimes dies from the different mani-
festations of Kidney Trouble.
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, but a reliable,
specially-prepared remedy, such as Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, is
the safeguard for your health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills stimulate your sluggish kidneys to
re-action and assist the work of removing impurities from
your blood, which the kidneys have been unable to accomplish
unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the kidneys that
are filtering the blood that the work is done automatically as
by a perfect machine. Your back straightens up, the pulling,
dragging feeling gradually leaves you; in the morning you can
leap from bed, feeling a glow of health and vigor and meet
life with a smiling face.
It is the duty of every man, not only to himself but to
the world at large, to keep his health in the proper condition
for his daily task; and for the victim of Kidney Trouble Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills give just the little boost his organs need to
make them his slave, instead of his being a slave to ill-health.
©
£&k
@
'££k
rjp
ng
/JPk
/ffk
©
/Jsk
fjn
©
/TTTk
fjgtl
©
\JJJJ;
©
/2Ck
VjTCI
/3Ek
rjp
/ffk
i3Ck
vS?
©
D» Sheldon’s
fd
»
CHOCOLATES
ď
XI
■
I n
lIHwl - : v. i§|||
m
i
%
n •:
|-»\ •!
I
m-
w
I
m
i
*
JST:
m
■ i
sjv-Ss
NS
; I
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
duuStttillaA
162-166 Pitt Street, and
Corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
The Pirates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EVENING lias laid her hand upon the
hills.
The light is dying where the water
winds
To deeper shadow ; and the lampshine spills,
Patterned with lattice, through the yellow
blinds
Upon a garden space of grass and bloom.
There is a movement as of swift, soft feet,
Half-felt, half-seen, within the lighted room—
Some gentleness of deeds that comes to
meet
The gentleness of night, whose steps scarce
stir
The small, dry grass-blades standing mouth
to ear,
And whispering over all the lawn of her
Whose name is benediction, rapture, fear.
And if he pause and tremble, where he waits,
The red rose trembles, too, above the gates.
The rose throws down a petal, scented, cool,
And it has kissed him, passing, on the lips.
The world’s great cup of sweets is tar too tun.
It bubbles all around him and it drips
Like dew of lavender about his; heart.
The light goes out; the garden black and
lost .
Glimmers again to twilight, save the part
That lies in shadow, where the vines have
crost , , ,
The arch to make a scented cave for dreams.
His ear has strained to hear the little
sound, , ,
His eye has caught the little light that gleams
From a low doorway; and the gravel
ground .
Beneath a heel makes music on las ear.
The bushes tremble— “ Francis, I am here!
Dark-hooded, like a sister of the night, _
But glimmering golden where her hair is
She glides out of the shadow ; and delight
Walks, trembling,- with her. “Margaret,
my queen!”....
“Not here, not here, beloved”.... I hey are
gone—•
Twin shadows under hedges of great gloom,
Twin wraiths across the sedge and rushes
—°u , . ,
Down to the water’s lip, where briar and
broom ,
Make capes of blackness; and beside their
feet
The river, like grey satin, shimmers far
The greater river of the west to meet,
Still as their fear and holding one white
star.
“Step softly, oh beloved! The kind nighty
Has neither eyes nor ears to mark our flight.”
He had no need of oars on that soft stream.
His arm about her, at the current’s sway
They passed the headland where the black
mills dream
Of great stones grinding bread in some far
day.
And as the darkness ripened, little fires
Of all the staxs danced with them; and
they spoke
In eager whispers, sighing their desires
As softly as the rippling waters broke
About the painted sides of their small craft.
“The dowager is calling,” Francis said.
“How Eleanor will miss me!” Then she
laught;
And he set kisses on her golden head.
But once a nightfowl through the darkness
cried;
And they sat fearful, hushed and wondering-
eyed.
* * * *
Silk Harry’s revels might have cost him dear.
Wines in blue beakers rimmed with silver
lips
Were on the board; and there was heavy
cheer
Of viands, with great talk of war and ships
And Spanish treasure taken in the raw,
Red roar of slaughter, -where adventure
drew
Fierce shouting crews beyond the march of
law.
Maps in spilt wine upon the white cloth
grew,
Like monstrous spider-webs; and one hacked
bread,
To show the fortress plans, with a great
knife
Hafted with red carbuncles. Overhead
The swinging candles guttered wax at
strife
With all the nouse that made the rafters
shake....
But the reeds whispered quiet to the lake.
Hard on the midnight, flushed with noise
and wine,:
The calling of the Indies and the sense
Of swords and d aggers making idle shine
And touching velvet legs in dull pretence,
Silk Harry rose , where gravy smirched the
board,
Threw down his cup and cried, “This on
my charge!
Come, pirates, ; we will sack the house and
hoard
Of yon grey snivelling Roundhead. To
the barge!”
The staggering revellers arose in might,
Holding each other, boasting, falling, loud
With blasphemy and laughter. Through the
night
Torchbearers lighted them. A motley crowd
Ran at their "heels, shouting for shouting’s
sake,
Down to the "barge that swayed upon the lake.
Beyond the .lake, the river, edged and bound
With wiMows and tall poplars, made a
sweep
Of fierce black water, with a gurgling sound
That told of strength and danger hidden
deep
Under the placid surface of the stream,
Then w.-asted its desire in shallow sand,
Pausing in reedy bays and bends to dream
How once it owned the flat and mellow
land,
Drowning it all in silt and clinging weed.
Thither the great barge came, one roar
and! light,
Staggering beneath a weight of wine and
greed—
A madness and a menace through the
night.
There bold Silk Harry death and law defied,
Nor cast one thought upon his next-week
bride.
Under the hood of willows by the bank
That bride, close-nestled in her lover's
arms,
Heard the long uproar; and her spirit sank.
Tormented darkness filled with wild alarms,
As all the river shone beneath the light
Of waving torches making streams of red
About them and around. In open sight,
Save for the drooping willows overhead,
They saw the barge draw near. The wave
it made
Set the boat rocking wildly. Neai'er yet,
With great, uneven sweeps, the vessel swayed ;
The willows dipped and sprayed the
shadows wet.
Fearing they lay, heart beating close to
heart—
The torches seemed to tear the boughs apart.
The barge went shouting on, nor paused, nor
stayed
Till in the shallows where the stream
ran wide.
Softly the lover held the trembling maid,
Soothed all her tears and called her queen
and bride;
And at the dawn he set two ells of sail,
And bore her westward to the shining sea.
I think they passed where all but love
shall fail,
Far down the elfin shores of fantasy.
The pirates stayed a week upon the shoal,
With all the roystering braves in hunger
pent;
Each mirthful neighbor cried, “Faith, save
my soul!
Old Roundhead Thomas should be well
content!”
But when the wine is out the wit is in ;
Silk Harry was well pleased to save his skin.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.
Tessa Decides.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BETWEEN Joe Allen and Tessa May
there had always been something of
an understanding. Some day they
would marry and settle down in Levuka, that
had seen most of their uneventful days.
Tessa was 18; a slender, pretty girl, with
dusky and liquid eyes and a waving bush
of hair she got from the island mother who
was little more than a vague memory to
her. She, her white father, her half-caste
stepmother and a haphazard tribe of child-
ren lived these days somewhat out of
Levuka. Dilapidated the house was, with
boards nailed clumsily across the broken
panes of windows; and through the cheer-
fully untidy rooms and the square box of a
kitchen the family hens and chickens paraded
at will. But on the front verandah a sem-
blance of orderliness reigned. The best
mats were spread there; there was a tappa-
covered couch and a grampphone that went
with a wheezy croak. From the wall looked
down a fearful and arresting collection of
family photographs and a lurid painting of
flowers and fruit that held pride of place.
Four days out of the seven Tessa and
Louisa, her stepmother, washed and ironed
—the lines at the side of the house were
almost always laden with drying clothes.
They ironed on the back verandah, sitting
native fashion on the floor. Tessa hated
the ironing, and the great basket seemed
never emptied of clothes. She sat sometimes
mutinous, her red mouth frankly sullen. Then
Louisa —her big arms and her full bosom
half bared for coolness, in a straining
chemise and a print petticoat—scolded
like the virago she could at times be.
There was more leisure in the evenings,
when through the sighing dusk the first
stars trembled into brightening silver. Joe
Allen dropped in often—a tall, thin-faced
boy, whose olive skin and dark eyes betrayed
the lingering tinge of the South in his blood.
The scent of honeysuckle and Tessa’s soft,
throaty laughter, the coral hibiscus that
hung its swaying blossoms by the shaky
verandah-steps, and Tessa cool and alluring
in the yet unlighted dusk—he thought
through the hot days of the evening hours
that had come to mean all these things for
him. He brought his banjo and thrummed
from it Hawaiian airs that had drifted to
Levuka, looking up into Tessa’s responsive
eyes till Louisa’s jolly, heartsome laughter
broke the amorous spell. But it was all
innocent enough as yet, boy and girl love
faltering into something deeper.
Len Meredith, artist, as yet unknown to
Fame, came here adventuring into their
pleasant idyll. He was new to the islands,
Len Meredith. Levuka broke on him first
out of a hazy morning with a swirl of mist
riding the rugged peaks that rise behind
the little drowsy town. By cutter he came
after a month in Suva. It had been what
remained of a lucky sweep-ticket that had
enabled him to throw his safe and stodgy
Sydney billet to the winds and realise a
dream of years—to laze and paint a golden
while in the islands. He landed, a lean
youth with a battered paint-box under one
arm and a pile of canvases that he would by
no means entrust to the care of any native.
Since the sun had broken momentarily
through the mists, and the canvases were
cumbersome on the hot road, his search for
lodging ended at the first hotel.
Eitheu -'LI” out of Levuka the road wan-
ders and curves, twisting along the lip of
the shore. Fijian towns border it between
stretches of lonelier land. And in the back-
ground are always the wooded peaks that
soar from Ovalau’s very heart. It was on
a morning of intense sunlight, of a sea an
unbelievable symphony of ardent color and
a sky along whose pale horizon piled clouds
barely drifted, that Len Meredith sat paint-
ing a little back from the intriguing road.
She was a friendly girl, Tessa, a sociable
soul, and not without a spice of curiosity.
She came quite frankly to look on his work.
He awaited the verdict not without a ner-
vousness that was always apparent in him
when the quality of his work was in ques-
tion. But the girl cried out with pleasure.
“Oh, but you’re a matai!” she said. “The
sea and the clouds and the trees! Me, I
didn’t think anyone could make a picture
like that of —just Levuka!”
It was not altogether to Len’s pleasure
that she sank down on the grass beside him.
He was in the mood to work; but he couldn’t
work with this purring, pretty girl watching
his brush hover across the canvas. Yet the
friendliness in her eyes flattered him —he
(Continued on newt page.)


Don?£ef/foi/semrk
fluin Your Hands
TO heal chafing, soreness, or that harsh, chapped
feeling of the skin caused by housework, Zam-Buk
is invaluable. This herbal balm soaks through the
pores, soothing and purifying the whole tissue, killing
and removing poisonous disease germs, and renewincr
the skin. &
There are soothing, healing, and germicidal virtues
in Zam-Buk, never found in ordinary fatty ointments and
salves. That is because Zam-Buk is a highly-con-
centrated medicinal preparation of unique herbal origin.
Zam-Buk is proved equally good for ending attacks of
eczema ulcers, ringworm, blood-poison or piles, it quickly
soothes and heals all cuts,
burns, chilblains, etc., and clears
the skin of pimples and blotches
amßuk
FREE BOXES!
fVt sutll gladly post to any reader
a sample box of Zam Buk for trial
purposes. Send to C. E Fulford
(Aust.) Ltd., Sydney, men-
tioning this paper. Write
your name and address
clearly.
_ JL
I s *
t
vs
Us
W
-<w».
a
k \/T, x X
\
Va
m
«
N
V,
miit-mr
\
X' . X \\ .
\/
A
X.77W
%
You Must Take PEPS
j\ T this time of the year the germs of colds,
sore throat and influenza are in the air
everywhere. Fastening on to the soft delicate
membrane of the breathing passages, these
germs multiply with amazing rapidity, causing
irritation, soreness and inflammation wherever
they go.
Peps provide an entirely new method of dealing with this
pen . Just as you breathe in the cold-germs, so you
breathe in the Peps medicine to exterminate them before they
can cause chest and lung mischief. Locked up in each
Peps tablet are
POWERFUL MEDICINAL FUMES.
. T, heSe fun ? es are re] eased as you dissolve a Peps tablet
m the mouth, and the healing, germicidal medicine instantly
circu ates through all the air-passages into the deepest recesses
ot the chest and lungs.
Peps reach vital spots which cannot possibly be reached
by ordinary “ cough-cures.” Peps soothe and thoroughly
disinfect the throat, they heal and strengthen sore inflamed
membrane, loosen and expel troublesome phlegm and make
the breathing easy.
Free from narcotics and all harmful drugs, Peps are also
the favorite remedy for children’s chest weakness.
Peps are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores at i!6 and ?/- per box
9r direct from C. E. Fulford (Aust.) Ltd. , Sydney. 31 , P '
a tr J, a2 sam P le of Peps Simply send post card to above address
and mentioning this paper. Please write your name and address clearly.
REPS
defend four T/iroafe C/iesf
got the tale of her morning’s doings, and the
sins of Thomas John, who had yet again
risen and departed unwashed to play, and
left the unfed fowls waiting at the kitclien-
door. “And he had the ironed clothes to
take back. Oh!” —she jumped to her feet—
“ Louisa will be wild—wild. There’s extra
ironing to-day. I'll have to go.”
Len Meredith, left alone again save for
an occasional interested native, finished his
morning’s work in peace.
Undoubtedly the spell of Fiji was falling
about his impressionable nature. There may
have been in him some touch of the poet.
To liis vision the country showed clear and
beautiful, a land of promise—glowing isles
lifting to the dawn.
Early and late he painted, these first
days. It was as if Levuka opened arms of
welcome; he grew used to a ring of dusky
spectators watching as he worked. Splen-
did-limbed Fijians and their bland-eyed
women, appreciative Indians, occasional
Chinese. He got sketches of many of them.
Men at work on the new wharf that was to
um, Levuka’s pride shrugged as he passed.
The artist fellow!” they commented, and
may have reckoned him a fool to go bur-
dened in the burning weather. But Levuka
accepted him; the friendly atmosphere sur-
rounded him; he began to find himself in
more social demand than was conducive to
his art’s progress. Always somewhat easily
swayed, he found it difficult to refuse when
he was swept into a whirl of pleasure-going.
There were cutter trips and picnic jaunts
that month of brilliant sunshine ? they
danced through the starred and lovely nights.
He met Adeline.
She was an amber-haired and soft-eyed
girl, Adeline. Somewhat indolent, a drowsy
girl, but she could be the liveliest, merriest
little creature in the world. She was to
typify for Len Meredith another phase of
Levuka, different from that which Tessa
imaged. That girl of the dappled road he
had seen something of as well—it was not
easy to forget her dark loveliness. Adeline
was white, like the girls with whom he had
danced in Sydney. There was nothing new
there. But Tessa—Tessa was at the very
heart of this new, unfamiliar, colorful life,
carefree and unheedful of the morrow—a
life that interested while it repelled him!
For on a swift dusking evening lie had
come first on her home. Slim, desired girl,
she stood beneath the flowering hibiscus
while a tall youth bent to her, holding half-
reluctant hands. Meredith would have
passed on, but she called out laughing to
him. Then young Allen scowled. The first
of many times.
The friendly, haphazard place fascinated
him, though another longer in Fiji would
have seen it merely typical. lie found
Louisa interesting. Big and bland, a very
tower of a woman, he saw only the amiable
side of her. He liked her jolly laughter,
the air of welcome she always showed,
whether one came upon her barefoot and
half-drenched over the tubs, as once in a
rapid sketch he had blocked her in; or
serene in the evenings in her silken wrapper
and her strapped and buckled shoes.
He got sympathy from Tessa. Untrained,
untaught as far as art was concerned, yet
in her there was some latent sense of beauty
that since his coming had stirred, awak-
ing. Without knowing why, she thrilled to
the power and color that glowed alive in his
work. For Len Meredith could paint. But
certainly not to everyone’s liking.
Louisa’s, for instance.
“Sceneries!” she said; and looked blankly
down on some of - them. “They’re very
pretty,” she said at last.
But they weren’t.
Adeline, too. She thought Len’s work
must be clever—she heard, people say so.
Lut he painted things one saw every day.
Dirty old natives, (inaided old Teca wash--
l?/?. her clothes ih the creek. Uninteresting
I ljians squatted at their meal by the road
m the noon break. A big woman ironing.
Unvately she thought painting didn’t matter
much, anyway. Even if he painted pretty
things—herself, for instance. But aloud
she said; “They are sweet!” Len turned his
sketches over nervously and quickly at that.
And Adeline asked him to have another cup
of tea.
There was a menace for him in that phase
of Levuka. The safe, the conventional life
it was narrow and self-satisfied. Adeline
would have drawn him into that groove.
He wanted inspiration, hours with congenial
spirits, winged words that set him afire to
Cl Adeline offered him afternoon tea.
Ihe affair had so grown that he swung
hesitant between the two girls—the fair and
J ie T ,. a . rk - H e .> D en Meredith, who had come
to hiji to paint <and paint only, to give to
art a more austere loyalty than he had ren-
dered her in the past! But it was character-
istic of the young man that girls—girls, that
is, in whom he took something of a senti-
mental interest—could usually twist him
about their pretty fingers. They couldn’t
help liking him nor he them. There was
in him some apparent lovable quality that
invariably attracted women. Too easily in-
fluenced he may have been, too much of an
egotist, a serious fool at times, but there
seemed always some girl or other eager to
sway for him his affairs. But he had met
no one at all before Hike Tessa. That life of
hers fascinated him. ; She was half and half;
she stood a dweller in the country between
—a queer, amazing, vivid life, it seemed to
him, though it conformed in many ways to
his own could he but have known. But the
outside unfamiliarity of it attracted.
He saw a native dance there one still and
moonlit night. On the verandah they sat—
Louisa with Thomas John leaning back
against her ample knees. They kept irre-
gular hours, Louisa’s children, though
already the younger remnant of the untidy
tribe had been hustled bedwards. Tessa, in
a frock of hibiscus-red, showed glimmering
excitement in her dark eyes—she seemed to
glow that night, Len thought. He looked
often at her. Joe Allen sat rather sulkily
on the verandah-steps. The scent of frangi-
panni was everywhere.
Fani danced and Rosana —two moon-faced
Lau girls. Joe played for them. Louisa
and Tessa kept time, beating their hands.
And quite suddenly Len Meredith didn’t like
the dancing at all—these heavy, expression-
less-faced women moving through intermin-
able mazes. He felt a longing to be away
from it all; for the first time liis surround-
ings jarred. He had wanted tropic color,
but he was sated of it to-night. The dance
went on—endlessly. He heard Tessa’s low
voice crooning monotonously in the unfami-
liar tongue. He thought then of Adeline’s
clear, disdainful gaze. “Half-castes!” she
would have said, shrugging.
The two girls sank to the floor, panting
and laughing, tired out at last. The music
waned. But Tessa sprang up. “Again,
Joe!” she cried, and put out the light. A
string of beads hanging from a photograph-
frame glinted in the moonlight flooding
through the raised shutters. Tessa caught
at them; she threw them about her pretty
throat. She slipped off her high-heeled
shoes and stood poised in a square of moon-
light. “Play, Joe, play!” she cried im-
patiently, and the boy began reluctantly an
island air. Tessa danced.
And again Len Meredith felt away from
them. This duslt-eyfed, pretty creature, she
was Fiji incarnate, and something else that
wasn’t Fiji at all. The old dances and the
old airs were part of her —-in her very soul.
To the swaying measure she gave a grace the
giggling native girls had failed to impart.
He remembered all at once her sympathy,
her quick understanding; looking on her
with different eyes, he saw her gliding feet
move to the music and the moonlight flow
about her. It was then for the first time
he saw her desirable; his eyes sought and
held hers, so that she paused in her dancing.
He forgot Adeline.
But Joe Allen let the music end on a
jarring note. He got tempestuously to his
feet; they saw his haggard eyes. “I’ll play
no more,” he said stormily, and flung out
into the silvered night.
There was a difference from that night.
Tessa grew shyer—it was somehow as if she
drew back considering and debating in her
own heart. She grew a little fretted-looking.
Louisa told her plainly she was a fool. “A
white man—take him if you can get him !”
was the gist of her advice. For that strange
withdrawal of hers—so untypical of her kind
made her to Len Meredith the more
appealing, the more attractive. She could,
if she had tried, have devised no surer
means of drawing him to her. For he was
young “a young fool,” ran the terse opinion
of Levuka in general. He was also, some-
what to his own surprise, by now headlong
m love—“with a half-native girl”—he
phrased it succinctly in his more reflective
moments. But there was something in the
tropic atmosphere that set one drifting. He
drifted.
Adeline grew somewhat cool. But as he
had been seeing less of her these last few
days, that mattered little. And, anyway,
what had there been between the girl and
liimslf but a lingering holding of hands, a
somewhat sentimental gazing into her hazel
eyes, a breathless moment when if he would
he might have kissed her? He reassured
his conscience. And the other had come so
swiftly on him—he had laughed easily at
that kind of thing before. “Tessa, Tessa,
i ossa” the world went to that rhythm these
days ! Or he thought it did. But undeni-
ably she held back. He said once, “Don’t
you care for me at all. Tessa?” She looked
doubtfully at him. half afraid. She shook
her head; but her hands in his trembled, and
her eyes betrayed her.
To herself she admitted that she was not
the Tessa she had been. Perplexed enough,
she knew that something had stirred to life
in her heart, awakening with the pass'on
that made her afraid. She knew well enough
row that she did love Len Meredith. Of
Joe Allen, whom she had imagined she loved,
she barely thought. Heritage of her white
ancestry it may have been, this undefinable
something that hurt. her heart. Some latent
nobility—it warred in her against the natu-
ral and primitive impulse to take what her
dark beauty had won. “Half-caste”—the
word hurt her like a knife. She looked long
and earnestly at her glowing reflection in
the cracked mirror. She put her head down
m her hands: . the tears came terribly.
. But a calm Tessa faced the clear morn-
ing. There was Joe—sullen, with stormy
flashes of temper—as he had been sine- the
moonlit night Tessa had danced. “Joe’s
wild all right! Louisa chuckled, watching
what was to her merely a comedy. Tessa
was sorry ; she was drawn to Joe at times
—like to like: there were tides akin to those
in her own that swept the boy’s passionate
nature. But he reproached her too much ;
she lost patience at last, and whirled about
on him, bitter-tongued. Rid of him, she
turned fretting again to her own problem.
Len came exultant with the noon. He
had bfeen painting all the morning, had gone
up into the hills at dawn. “Look!” he said,
and showed a canvas all morning color and
light. She looked at it in silence, and Len,
turning to her, saw wet eyes.
“Tessa, my dear!” he said, distressed, and
would have caught her to him. Bu> she
drew back, the fire in her breast leaped, con-
suming her own desires.
“Go back,” she said. “You’re better out
of Fiji, Len.”
He looked half amazed at her. She leaped
forward and kissed him without passion.
His arms went round her, but she slipped
from them. He said with a kind of hurt
wonder: “Don’t you love me at all. Tessa?”
She looked at him with direct eyes that
he could have sworn held truth and truth
only.
“No!” she said; and felt her heart leap
as she lied.
He said in sudden anger: “Then you’ve
only been amusing yourself—playing - with
my feelings! I thought you were different,
Tessa? ’
She said nothing.
“There’s someone else—that half-caste
Allen boy?”
She winced at the word. “Yes,” she said
unhesitatingly. “I love him—l suppose I’ll
marry him. Forgive me, Len,” she said, and
let her lips quiver to a smile.
~ 0(,c . 11 : v ™ough across his anger floated the
thought of Adeline’s amber-colored hair and
friendly hazel eyes.
“You fool, you fool!” Louisa cried bitterly
when she heard—“to lose your best chance!”
But lessa went in without a word and
sat down to her ironing. Louisa said no
more but she looked occasionally at the
quiet girl as one looks at a creature wholly
incomprehensible. 9
* * *
It was as well for Tessa that she was not
sat5 at Ad( :line’s pretty hands were to
strangle the genius that was her rival in
Len Meredith s soul.
A. SMITH.


fd
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
int WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Afjents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST, N. S. WALES.
wo
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOS'
EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
120 Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
ď
f
It
SHEFFIELD STEELS
FOR MOTOR CARS.
You can depend on them. They give long service with absolute
safety, and resist shock and strain.
An Eagle on a Globe” Motor-car Steels.
S.D. 21
S.D. 12
S.D. 16
High Tensile Chrome Vanadium Steel for Axles, Back
Axle Tubes, Swivel Arms, etc. Supplied heat -
Air-hardening Nickel Chrome Steel for Gears and
highly-stressed parts.
Special Nickel Steel (to case-harden) for Gear
Wheels, Gudgeon Fins, Shafts, etc.
STfc on High Tensile Nickel Chrome (oil-hardening) Steel tor
At\J grafts, Axles, Spindles, Differentials, and similar gears
which are always in mesh.
You can’t do better than specify “An Eagle on a Globe.”
Send your inquiries and ask especially for post-tree
booklet, “BALFOUR’S HINTS ON STEEL.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
c r ,i n . v 379-381 Kent Street
Melbourne 342-318 Swanston Street
Newcastle Pan l & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
Brisbane . . . John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Adelaide ... Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Hobart R Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
f
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariif
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — t think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo-
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
for
High Scores*’
/farjTXnnSLCSD <E5O553Sw*
T * £-£££&*
|?ca Rem>nst°!?. ILa
>L Trap Load n
Hard Hitting
and
Uniform
Remington. Trap Load
WHEN the game season is closed, then
come the days of real competition—
at the traps. Clay bird shooting is a tonic for
the nerves —splendid training for the eye.
Patterns even, shot after shot, whether you
fire a few loads or several hundred.
Send for 'Trapshooting
rules and regulations
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc,
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
El 5
ď
ate & heorhi
from ills—
ree jrom
m
X -.:
sms
vx^x;
m
m
m
m
4i»
CO
m
'}-XfV#XX-&i lSi?i
fe,:;
fixim-i
m.
(T>
Worth A Guinea a Box
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Return ing 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaiive)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
1
i
‘
■
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating; Set.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Eta.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
Jj. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
LONDON:
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
Francis Chapman Son & Deeltes, Australia House, Strand, London.


\
\
r /
wlinii I
'iMV
i WB- »
lllil
r\«
.u
::
,-f J
- c>
'/■>-' !
l
- > » > ? ,
\
k If
K J§L
m is;*;*
r /
11 M»: : : : : : : :
vwwi
<i f i
h r »
iihii
>:>***
:si»
WM
-,.
SS
mm
....
::
mmm
mm
mmmmm
:W:+:
m
S;1 K.
ffcj
THE
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED.
Mine Owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
fd
ď
3-
ft
a
0^
c>
PIG IRON Machine Cast: Specially Graded.
INGOTS Acid and Basic—for Heavy Forgings.
BLOOMS AND BILLETS Re-rolling, Forging, etc.
REINFORCING BARS. . iin. and upwards.
WIRE RODS Various Gauges.
BENZOL The Super Motor Spirit.
TAR Best Quality.
SOLVENT NAPHTHA. . Highly Efficient Rubber Solvent.
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA .... Excellent Soil Nourisher.
IRON & STEEL WORKS?
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
IRONSTONE QUARRIES:
IRON KNOB, S.A.
SILVER-LEAD MINE:
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
28 O’CONNELL ST.
ADELAIDE OFFICE:
28 FRANKLIN ST.
LONDON OFFICE:
3 GT. WINCHESTER ST.
Head Office
Equitable Buildinq, Collius St. Melbourne
IP
m&
1
□
□
