

ĥ
u
r Jmm\
jysi
. r '
V
Mr
10-
-'• \H
<r
II t V>
«
H
7
2k
£1
Li
U
m
mm,
'Wh /t
7\
i u?
H
L"'"
* ? ;
\N N '''
Don’t wish for a Kodak when some pleasing scene
or happy incident has made an appeal to you —always
take a Kodak and have no regrets.
Picture-making goes naturally with every hobby and
every sport —adds to your enjoyment of almost
everything you like to do most. Kodaks are priced
from 42/-; Box Brownies from 11/3.
Kodak’Service
FOR
KOMK&BRQWNIE Users
The words “Kodak Print” on the back of a snapshot
guarantee Developing and Printing of the very
highest quality, as perfected by a world-wide organisa-
tion —finished in the shortest possible time.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD..
379 George Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
“The Block,” 284 Collins
Melbourne.
37
e
' |g §
Street, Adelaide.
\'- v
672 Hay Street, Perth.
ibeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
Rockhampton; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
Wellington, N,Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2323.
Thursday, August 21, 1924.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library catalogue for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
Cl
w The New 6-Cylinder
20/40h.p.
(23.9 K.A.C. Rating).
Luxurious—Powerful—Dependable.
You could not wish for a finer Car than this
new “Cottin” production—every detail bears the
imprint of the master hand. It is most modern in design,
with a strength in every part that ensures long, efficient service under
all degrees of use. Brakes on All Four Wheels and Overhead Valves are two
of the many outstanding features.
Apply for Literature and Full Details Now.
Lawrence Morton (SL Co. Pty. Ltd.
Sole* Concessionnaires tor “Cottin-Desgrouttes” in Australasia.,
353 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 'Phone, Central 2956.
SYDNEY AGENT: Walter H. Smyth, York Chambers, Market Street.
LYSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
SSinSiiiiitl
mm
slSiillllli
ns
§063
mu
P OWER
lost in transit is a needless expense to the manufacturer, and
can be eliminated by installing a reliable transmission
medium,
MANGROYITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING,
by consistently passing on every ounce of power generated,
cuts down production costs to a minimum and results in a
general increase in the output.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Dlreotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), BYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: V/. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd.,Launceston & Hobart.
THE
k
5tS
h
SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER.
Directors :
Hon. P. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY.
H. M. STRACIIAN.
Chief Manager: E, H. WREFORD, Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Inspector and Manager Foreign Dept.: E. J, OSBORNE.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 139 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 27 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies;
E, H. Macartney; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
• State Manager: R. R. LOVE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 48 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 36 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2. Sub Branch: Australia House,
Strand.
Agents throughout the World.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Pkactitionek, etc.
17
nosqoh
SSi
Lor
The Red Page
The Old Bogatyr
“Better Anna Karenina and Vronsky a
thousand times than Natasha and that por-
poise of a Pierre. Better Vronsky than Tol-
stoi himself, in my mind,” writes D. H.
Lawrence in his “Fantasia of the Uncon-
scious.” “Better Vronsky’s final statement:
‘As a soldier I am still some good. As a
man I am a ruin’—better that than Tolstoi
and Tolstoyism and that beastly peasant
blouse the old man wore.”
A gentle old man working in the fields
and preaching abstinence and sentimental
idealism —this has long been the conventional
picture of the author of “War and Peace”
and “Anna Karenina.” But the published
reminiscences of Gorky, the intimate refer-
ences to Tolstoi in Tchekhov’s letters and
other recently published notes by various
friends and acquaintances should help to
dispel this old illusion. Gorky’s notes are
particularly valuable. He writes: “I had
long conversations with him; when he was
living at Gaspra, in the Crimea, I often went
to him and he liked coming to me; I have
studied his books lovingly; it seems to me
that I have the right to say what I think of
him, even if it be bold and differ widely
from the general opinion.”
To Gorky Tolstoi was “the old bogatyr,”
by no means the handsomest but the cunning-
est of all the gods. An old grey man, sitting
on a grey rock by the seashore, something
like a rock himself, he looked like a wizard
of immense power who could commune with
and almost control the elements. As a saint
he might be a ruin, but as a man he was
Titanic, genius. Gorky knew as well a
others that no man was more worthy tha'i
he of the name of genius, more complicated,
contradictory and great in everything
“Great, in some curious sense indefinable ,by
words, there is something in him which mad
me desire to cry aloud'to everyone: ‘Look
what a wonderful man is living on the
earth!’ ”
On his estate at Yasnaya Polyana al
kinds of people came to see him —professors
gipsies, peasants, artists, landowners —-ant
he could hold everyone under a spell by con
versation which was like a full orchestra
Far from being a gentle idealist, his words
at times shocked even the proletarian Gorky
by their saltiness. He rarely spoke to Gorky
on the stock subjects of universal forgive
ness, loving one’s neighbors, the Gospels anc
Buddhism. Gorky despised the “Tolstoyans’
and considered that Leo Nicolayevitch wel
understood their value. Once one of these
Tolstoyans was explaining eloquently how
happy his life had become and how pure his
soul after he had accepted Tolstoi’s teaching.
The old bogatyr just leaned over and said to
Gorky in a low voice “He’s lying all the
time, the rogue, but he does it to please me.”
It was impossible ever to deceive Tolstoi;
he knew everything. He was cAtainly a
formidable type of saint. He waged constant
warfare against his family, who respected
his works only for their commercial value.
Of his brother, whom he loved, he said that
he had none of the weaknesses necessary for
a writer, and of his son that he had all the
weaknesses but none of the gifts. His
opinions on woman were bitter. He regarded
her with implacable hostility, and loved to
punish her unless she was a Kitty or Natasha
Rostov —that is, a creature not too narrow.
“I will tell the truth about women,” ho
said, “when I have one foot in the grave.
I shall tell it, jump into my coffin, pull the
lid over me and say: ‘Do what you like
now!’ ”
Tolstoi dreaded, like Dostoevsky, “that
European fraud that is called civilisation.”
According to Gorky and Tchekhov, who both
thought that light must come to Russia not
from the East but from the West, Tolstoi
wished, consciously or unconsciously, “to
stretch himself like a vast mountain across
our nation’s path to Europe.” Neither
accepted his formal teaching, his doctrines of
non-activity and non-resistance to evil, his
fatalism and dogmas, and felt that he was
trying to force these things on them by the
glory of suffering; for Tolstoi wanted to
suffer, but only with the despotic intention of
increasing the influence of his religious ideas.
“He knows,” said Gorky, “that martyrs and
sufferers, with rare exceptions, are despots
and tyrants—he knowS everything.”
With his aristocratic bearing, his rich
humor and his startlingly frank speech, he
was not a bit like the saint of the popular
biographies. But Gorky had no desire to
see Tolstoi as a saint; he preferred him to
remain a sinner, close to the heart of the
all-sinful world, close to the heart of each
of us. “Poushkin and he—there is nothing
more sublime or dearer to us.” For despite
liis protests Tolstoi was from first to last an
artist, one of the greatest creative writers in
the world since Shakspeare. He never lost
liis interest in literature. “He spoke of all
writers as if they were his children, and he,
the father, knew all their faults, and —there
you are.” Balzac, Stendhal, Flaubert and
Maupassant he considered the greatest
writers of France. Hugo he dismissed as
“a noisy man” ; and though he appreciated
Maupassant he thought Tchekhov was bet-
ter. He has been condemned for his dis-
paragement of other great men—Shakspeare,
Napoleon, Beethoven, Dostoevsky, but he was
not always harsh and unsympathetic. “Ah,”
he whispered, as he watched Tchekhov on his.
lawn, “what a beautiful, magnificent man,
modest and quiet like a girl, and he walks
like a girl! He’s simply wonderful.” He
has Been admsed of jealousy towards his old
friend Turgenev, but no charge could be more
unjust. He used to speak with amazing-
beauty of the past, particularly of Turgenev.
On his death-bed Turgenev wrote his famous
letter to Tolstoi, praying him not to desert
the cause of Russian literature; but it was
only Tolstoi the writer that concerned Tur-
genev. Tolstoi said that when Turgenev
last saw him his friend cared for no one
except women. He wrote only when he was
in love, and he admitted that he was getting
too old for love-making. He had no deep'
feeling for Tolstoi, the man. The warm
personal affection was on the side of the
grim old prophet. Tolstoi had neither
jealousy nor vanity, but he realised his own
literary power. When any of his great works
were referred to, he would say impersonally:
“Yes, it is like the Iliad.” He accused
Gorky of being an. “inventor,” of touching up
and falsifying scenes and characters for
literary effect. But all writers, he said,
were inventors; and that was why art was
usually an arbitrary sham, harmful for
people. Then he added: “Romanticism comes
from the fear of looking straight into the
eyes of truth.”
Though Gorky and Tchekhov and other
writers have destroyed the image of the
saintly old man in the peasant blouse, they
have replaced it by a more vivid and potent
figure, the old Russian bogatyr who is the
cunningest of all the gods.
LOUIS HSSON.
Edward FitzGerald and Sir J. Davies
. One evening, towards the end of the
eighteen-nineties, a young man burst in upon
me and began reading quatrains which were
so beautiful that, in listening, I lost all sense
of time and place. The young man was
Lionel Lindsay; the quatrains were the trans-
lations by Fitz Gerald of the ruba’iyat ol
Omar Khayyam. In those days the Fitz-
Gerald poem had not yet achieved. —at least in
Australia—the universal popularity accordec
it by present-century readers. Indeed, it
remained so well hidden that Lionel’s dis-
covery of it in Queensland was accounted an
event of greatest importance.
Lionel Lindsay’s enjoyment thrilled me to
the marrow, and I shall never forget how the
lightning flashed from his eyes when he de-
livered old Omar’s defiance of the Creator ;
Oh Thou, who Man of baser Earth didst make,
And ev’n with Paradise devise the Snake:
For all the Sin wherewith the Face of Man
Is blacken’d, Man’s forgiveness give—and take!
The withering emphasis of the opening
“Thou” and the rising inflection on the last
word of the quatrain were equally magnifi-
cent.
“What a thought! ‘Man’s forgiveness give
and take!’ ”- —the remark burst from Lionel
immediately after his declamation. Another
intimate verse was the famous nineteenth:
I sometimes think thaj; never blows so red
Th.e Rose as where some buried Caesar bled ;
That every hyacinth the garden wears
Dropt in her lap from some once lovely Head.
But, returning to the ruba’i first quoted, I
wish to correct the statement, “Omar’s de-
fiance of the Creator,” because Omar has it
not. I have searched high and low, and can
find it only in Fitz Gerald. It has been ex-
plained that the quatrain is a composite one;
nevertheless learned Thebans have frothed at
the mouth in disputing the question of ifs
origin, and there have been many shrewd
knocks wasted in the controversy. As a re-
sult there are four verses set apart, being sup-
posed to carry attributable influence for the
quatrain of Fitz Gerald’s construction. With-
out any belief in the theory at all, I .shall
content myself by quoting that stanza which
perhaps goes nearest to proving what the pun-
dits desire:
The manager of the affairs of the dead and the living
art thou,
Thou art the keeper of this unstable heaven;
Though I am wicked, thou art my Master,
Who can sin, seeing that thou art* the Creator (? of
all).
Here at least we discover the relative idea
of fastening the responsibility for our mis-
deeds upon the Godhead; but it runs no
further. Man, in Omar, only impeaches his
Maker.
My own judgment is that our translator
lies under an obligation to Sir J. Davies,
whose “floruit” stands somewhere in the six-
teenth century ; and the particular poem I am
going to refer to is called “Nosce Teipsum.”
Not only lias Fitz Gerald employed the same
metre as Davies, but he has also adopted his
system. of middle capitals. The iteration,
and reiteration, of single words is common
likewise to both writers. For an example
of similarity in metre, middle capitals and re-
iteration, I quote the following quatrains.
First, Davies:
All in Himself, as in a glass, He sees,
And from Him, by Him, through Him, all things be;
His sight is not discursive, by degrees;
But seeing the Whole, each Single Part doth see.
Now Fitz Gerald:
Ah, make the most of what we yet may spend,
Before we too into the Dust descend
Dust into Dust, and under Dust to lie,
Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer, and—sans End!
So far the difference appears mostly in the
opposed philosophies; but we will now endea-
vor to show that Fitz Gerald took an idea from
Davies and exploited it with a reversed mean-
ing. The result is curious, because Fitz-
Gerald’s nineteenth century arraignment is
answered by Davies in his “Nosce Teipsum,”
April, 1599.
Fitz Gerald:
Ob Thou, who Man of baser Earth didst make,
And ev’n with Paradise devise the Snake;
For all the Sin wherewith the Face of Man
Is blacken’d, Man’s forgiveness give—and take!
Davies (in allusion to the soul) :
Yet is not God the author of her Sin,
Though author of her Being, and being there;
And if we dare to judge our Judge therein,
He can condemn us, and himself can clear.
Fitz Gerald wears Davies’s coat, turned inside
out.
Appended are a few quatrains by Davies
put here with the intention of showing how
very close the resemblance of style is between
the work of this author and that of Edward
Fitz Gerald:
Her nimble body, yet in time must move,
And not in instants through all places slide:
But she is nigh ! and far! beneatn! above!
In point of time which thought can not divide.
She’s sent as soon to China as to Spain,
And’ thence returns, as soon as She is sent,
She measures with one time and with one pain,
An ell of silk, and Heaven’s wide-spreading tent.
Thus these great clerks their, little wisdom show,
While with their doctrines they at hazard play;
Tossing their light opinions to and fro,
To mock the lewd; as learned in this as they I
For no crazed brain could ever yet propound,
Touching the Soul, so vain and fond a thought;
But some among these Masters have been found,
Which in their Schools the self-same things have
taught.
She, within lists, my ranging mind hath brought,
That now beyond myself I list not go;
Myself am centre of my circling thought,
Only Myself, I study, learn, and know.
Is it too much to say that Fitz Gerald was
(Continued on page S.)


w aae
S elect your Cricket Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
1
m
m
m
%
71 M
r
//
A'Hull-
Comparison of Value and Costs brings
every Cricketer to the conclusion that
Anthony Horderns’ is the place where it
pays to purchase Cricketing Material.
The Standard qualities are all of renowned
manufacture, and in inviting you to com-
pare quality and prices we have no fear
as to your decision.
HIGH-GRADE CRICKET BATS.
GUNN AND MOORE’S—
Special Star Bat ........ Price 57/6
Autograph Bat, extra specially-
selected Price 50/-
Autograph Bat, especially selected 45/-
Cannon Treble Spring .... Price 35/-
Autograph, size 6 Price 37/6
Cannon, size 6 Price 26/6
STUART SURRIDGE’S—
Special “Hordernian” .... Price 25/-
Nott’s Driver Price 36/-
Oval Driver Price 22/6
Standard Driver Price 28/6
County Driver Price 30/-
Rapid Driver Price 37/6
Rapid Driver, selected . . . Price 42/6
Rapid Driver, extra Special. Price 50/-
With Specially Bound Blades.
Prices 22/6, 27/6
College Price 27/6
Standard Driver, size 6 . . . Price 22/6
Standard Driver, size 5 . . . Price 21/-
SHAW AND SHREWSBURY’S—
Empire Match Price 32/6
Rattler Match . . .Price 30/-
Australian Match Price 38/6
Autograph Price 50/-
BUSSEY’S—
Demon Driver Price 42/-
GARDINER’S—
Special Match Bats Price 55/-
MacLaren Bats Price 50/-
Hercules Price 39/-
NICOLL’S—
Patent Automatic rubber-covered
handle Price 457-
Automatic Selected Price 32/6
“Triumph” . .' Price 257-
Scorer II Price 19/6
Harrow, with rubber grip. Price 32/6
SUMMERS BROWN’S (Autographed by
J. B. Hobbs) —
Force XXXX Price 507-
Force XXX Price 47/6
Force XX Price 40/-
ForceX Price 32/6
XX Dreadnought Price 40/-
DYE’S—
Special XXX Champion . . Price 40/-
SYKES’—
Gold Medal Bats Price 50/-
Yorkshire Driver Price 42/6
Special Driver Price 357-
Triumph . . Size 6, 25/6; Size 5, 21/-
WARSOP’S—
Imp. Conquerer ........ Price 42/6
Extra Special Price 457-
Superior Match Price 37/6
Superior Match—
Sizes .... 4. 5. 6.
Prices .. . 16/6 19/6 21/- ea.
Match: Sizes .... 4. 5. 6.
Prices ... 14/6 16/- 19/6 ea.
WISDEN’S—
Crawford Exceller, extra special.
Price 50/-
Crawford Exceller, selected. Price 45/-
AYRE’S—
Macartney Bats Price 50/-
SPALDING’S— 37/6, 40/-, 50/-, 55/-
DUKE AND SON’S—
The Warren Bardsley Autograph
Bat Price 52/6
RUSSELL’S—
XXX Regno . Price 55/-
XX Regno . . . Price 50/-
X Regno Price 42/6
Imported Cane and Rubber
Handle, full size, Practice Bats
Prices: 18/6, 19/6
CLAPSHAW AND CLEAVE’S—
All Cane—
SI7PS A
Prices . . . . 10/6 11/6 12/6 14/6
Single Cane—
Sizes .... 3. 4. 5. 6.
Prices .... 7/6 8/- 8/6 9/6
ODD’S—
All Cane Boys’ Bats—
Sizes .... 4.
Prices . . 11/6
MEAD’S ENGLISH BATS—
XXX
XX
X
Victory
Special Club
BATS RE-BLADED—
5. 6.
12/6 14/6
Price 55/-
Price 50/-
Price 45/-
Price 37/6
Price 32/6
Price 22/6, 26/6, 27/6 ea.
BATS RE-HANDLED—Price . 19/6 ea.
BATS OILED AND FACED—
Price
3/6 ea.
CRICKET BALLS, LEG GUARDS, STUMPS AND GLOVES.
CRICKET BALLS.
Duke’s Renowned Cricket Balls—
Match No. 4 Price 16/-
Picked Stamped P.Iv.D Price 16/9
English 6-seam Leather V.. Price 12/6
Wisden’s Match .. Price 15/-
Special Crown 6-seam Leather .. Price 10/6
Prince I Price 9/-
Prince 11. 6-seam Leather Price 8/-
Superior Practice 6-seam Leather Price 6/-
Boys’ 4%0z., Leather Price 5/-'
Stokes’ Australian-made “Special Victor”
Leather Match Ball (Guaranteed) Price 147-
Leather Balls Re-covered Price 8/-
LEG GUARDS.
White Canvas Batting Leg Guards—
Full Size, Extra Strong. Prices : 11/6, 13/6 pr.
Extra Large Price 15/6 pair
Boys’ Price 9/6 pair
Tan Leather—
Boys’ Price 11/6 pair
Men’s Prices: 14/6, 18/6 pair
Ventilated Price 16/6 pair
LEG GUARDS — Continued.
Chrome Price 25/- pair
Half Skeleton Price 20/- pair
Chrome Skeleton Price 20/6 pair
White Cape, Ex. Large. Prices: 30/-, 32/6 pair
White Cape, Skeleton Price 39/6 pair
STUMPS
Solid Brass Top, Iron shod, extra heavy Top,
with Bails. Set of six Price 15/6
Revolving Brass Top, Iron Shod, with Bails.
set of 6 Price 17/6
Brass Top, Iron Shod, full size. Set of 6. Price 13/6
Full size (plain). Set of 6. Prices : 4/9, 6/-, 8/6
BATTING AND WICKET-KEEPING
GLOVES.
Batting Gloves, Tan and White, padded.
Price 10/- pair
Batting Gloves, Black Spiked Gloves, as
used by Ist Grade Teams.. Price 10/6 pair
Batting Gloves, Tubular Rubber Backs.
Price 13/6 pair
Batting Bloves, Surrey Shield.. Price 6/6 pair
Tan Leather Giant Gauntlets, with
Thumb Stalls, Black Rubber Palms.
This is a Glove we can thoroughly
recommend Price 27/6 pair
Special Tan Chrome Finish Wicket-
keeping Gauntlets, Para Rubber
Palms, with Thumb Stalls, extra
large sizes Price 32/6 pair
Special White Snobuck Gauntlets,
extra large, Rubber Faced, as used
by Ist Grade Clubs Price 35/- pair
Tan Leather English Gauntlets—
Plain Prices : 30/-, 35/- pair
Rubber Faced Prices: 35/-, 37/6 pair
Tan Gauntlets, Rubber Palms—
Prices : 19/6, 24/- pair
Tan Gauntlets, Plain Palms—
Prices: 15/6, 20/-, .27/6 pair
Boys’ Gauntlets Prices: 10/-, 12/6 pair
Inner Gloves Price 4/3 pair
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440,


Mercantile Mutual Insurance Company, Limited
HEAD OFFICE:
Mercantile Mutual Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors:
A. E. JAQTJES, Chairman".
C. C. GALE
J. M. ATKINSON
Manager:
KELSO KING.
THEODORE J. MARKS
L. J. DAVIES
Secretary:
EDWARD GREGORY.
Melbourne Branch: 1 Queen Street.
Directors:
T’ANDAL ,T. ALCOCK
W. -I. S. EAVES
JAMES M. GILLESPIE
A. L. WETTENHALL
Local, Manager and Branch Superintendent: SELWYN KING.
Brisbane Branch: 377 Queen Street.
Directors:
WM. HAMILTON HART | ROBERT WILLIS TAYLOR
ALAN WALTER CAMPBELL.
Resident Secretary: J. G-. MILNE.
Townsville Branch.
Local Manager: J. R. Y. BARTLAM.
Cairns:
Chief Agents: ESTATE H. S. WILLIAMS, LTD.
Adelaide Branch: C/r King William and Pirie Streets.
Directors *
NAPIER K. BIRKS | NORMAN JACKSON
Resident Secretary: REGINALD E. JACOBS.
Tasmania:
Chief Representatives: ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY., LTD.
Perth:
Chief Representatives: 11. J. WIG MORE & CO., LTD.
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1924.
£ s. d.
LIABILITIES.
1024—June 30. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Capital Subscribed .. 404,147 0 0
Less Uncalled in Reserve 101,036 15 0
303,110 5 0
Tieserve Fund (including £56,950, being-
portion of increase in capital value of
freehold) 86,792 15 6
Contingent Fund .. .. .. .. 1,988 13 7
Profit and Loss .. .. .. . . 38,492 18 5
Sundry Creditors (including Unadjusted
Claims) .. ...
430.38! 12'
87,196 7
6
9
£517,581 0 3
ASSETS.
£517.581 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT for the year ended 30th June, 1924.
Dr.
1924 —June 30.
To Interim Dividend paid Shareholders, Ist February, 1924
~ Contribution*to Officers’ Provident Fund
„ Cost of Management, Fees, Commissions and other
Charges
„ Subscriptions to Fire Brigades and other Taxation ..
„ Losses
~ Balance
£ s. d.
15,155 10 3
500 0 0
115,941 10 11
16,726 6 5
157,300 18 1
38,492 18 5
£344,123 4 1
1924—June 30.
By Premiums, less Reinsurances and Returns
„ Interest and Rents
£ s. d.
326,785 14 5
17,337 9 8
£344,123 4 1
KELSO KING, Manager.
A. E. .JAQITES, Chairman..
We hereby certify that having compared the Balances with the amounts shown in the Books, examined all Vouchers and Securities, we find the
above Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account to be correct.
Sydney, 2 Jilt July, 192%.
ROBERT SOX. CRANE & GIBBONS, E.C.P.A 1
J. P. LARCOMBE and GOWARD \
CF.C.P.A.) (A.C.P.A .) J
Auditors.
The Forty-sixth Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders was held at
the Company’s Head Office on Thursday, 7th August, at which Mr. A. E.
Jaques presided.
Before moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet the
Chairman referred to the following matters: —
INCOME: The premiums received, after deducting reinsurances and
return premiums, amounted to £326,786, being a satisfactory increase com-
pared with previous years. The progress is gratifying because it has occurred
during a period when business generally has been affected by acute stringency
in the financial position of the Country, and because the improvement has
been general at Head Office and at each of the Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and in all classes of Insurance business undertaken. Com-
petition also continues to be keenly felt, there being now 93 Insurance
Companies competing in this and other States for any business offering.
The income from investments also shows a satisfactory gain.
EXPENDITURE shows a reduction in percentage to the premium income.
TAXATION, however, including compulsory contributions to Fire
Brigades, continues to increase, and with rates, has amounted to
£20,281 17s. 7d., representing more than six per cent, of the premium income.
A reduction in the burden of taxation is essentially necessary in the interests
of trade and commerce; the huge surplus disclosed by the Federal Treasurer
has made such a reduction possible.
LOSSES, paid and in process of adjustment at the close of the financial
year, have amounted to £157,300 18s. Id., and are much above the average
of this Company’s usual experience. I might here remark that the general
experience of Companies operating throughout the Commonwealth is even
less favorable than our own in this respect.
ASSETS: When addressing you at our last Annual Meeting I referred
to our Assets being of much greater value than they appeared in the Balance
Sheet. The Directors have recently obtained independent valuations of the
Company’s Freehold Land and Buildings by expert valuers. Messrs.
Richardson and Wrench and Hardie and Gorman made a joint valuation of
the Head Office Property ; Messrs. Sydney Arnold, Best and Co. valued the
Melbourne Property; and Messrs. Isles, Love and Co. the Brisbane Property.
The total values of the three properties amount to £249,875, being £85,275 in
excess of the values hitherto appearing in the Balance Sheet. The properties
are each corner blocks, admirably situated, and, in the opinion of the Board,
the values are decidedly conservative. We feel that you should be made-aware
of the position and will approve of a portion of the surplus being transferred
to the Reserve Fund.
OTHER INVESTMENTS: The Board also feel that you will be
interested in receiving the following particulars: —
£70,970 Commonwealth War Loan appear in the Balance Sheet at
£67,551 18s. Id., or, say, £95 3s. 7d. per cent.; £4651 2s. 9d. Government
Funded Stock, 3 per cent, and 3f per cent., are held at £2325 11s. Id.,
representing £5O per cent., or 10s. in the £ ; £l2OO, 4 per cent. Government
Stock held at £B4O, being £7O per cent.; £5OOO Queensland Government 6 per
cent. Debentures appear at £4287 10s., or, say, at £B5 15s. per cent.; and £5OOO
Queensland Government Inscribed Stock, per cent, at par. We also hold
City of Sydney Municipal Debentures, 4 per cent., due 1929, at £4500,
or £75 per cent.: and £5OOO Mort’s Dock and Engineering Company Deben-
tures, 61 per cent, at par. The latter are due this year, and will be renewed
at 7 per cent, there are other small lots of Debentures, amounting in the
aggregate to £677 10s.
THE EXCESS VALUE of these investments, together with the excess
value of the Freehold Properties, constitutes a further Substantial Reserve
available to meet any possible market fluctuations.
Certain States require Insurance Companies to lodge money with the
Treasurer before allowing them to operate, and to comply with those require-
ments £36,000 has been so deposited at various rates of interest. Advances on
Mortgages and Deposits with Banks appear at face values.
SECURITY : With the above information you will feel satisfied that the
Company s Funds are invested in Solid Securities that provide safety for the
Shareholders and abundant security for the Policy-holders; the latter have
also the backing of £lOl,OOO in Uncalled Capital,
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTIONS: A league has recently been launched
to urge preference being given to Australian-made goods and Australian
produce. While in complete sympathy with the objects of the League I
earnestly appeal to all interested in the prosperity of this Country to also
support Australian Institutions, and particularly Australian Insurance Com-
panies, whose earnings are retained in the Commonwealth and largely assist
its progress in building up its Industries; and still more particularly to our
own Shareholders to support our own Company by insuring with it and getting
others to do so also. The Company's further progress can be substantially
benefited by your influence.
Reports to hand indicate that the season so far is generally favorable to
the "Man on the Land”; the prospects, therefore, are highly encouraging for
our primary producers, manufacturers and all engaged in business; conse-
quently we are hopeful of experiencing another prosperous year.
Mr. J. M. Atkinson was granted leave of absence to visit Europe; the
vacancy has been filled by the temporary appointment of Mr. H. A. Crouch.
In conclusion I desire to express tiie Directors’ appreciation of the loyal
services given by the Staff, the Local Directors and the Agents throughout
the past year.


ĥ
9 PYJAMAS v
ħ
h
* fife:
SllPte
mm 11 -<.**>.’*’«'
i' i> 1 X * s
»<WKi
FOR MEN WHO DEMAN:
Smoke in “Osmanette”
Think in “Osmanette”
Sleep in “Osmanette”
Dream in “Osmanette”
You will find it the most comfortable
material you have worn, and Pyjamas
made of “Osmanette” are a real luxury
at a small cost.
Retailed at 12/6, 13/6, 14/6 per pair.
Look for the “Osmanette” label on every garment.
influenced by the above quatrain when writ-
ing :
Myself when young did eagerly frequent
Doctor and Saint, and heard great argument
About it and about: but evermore
Game out by the same door wherein I went.
With them the seed of Wisdom did I sow,
And with mine own hand wrought to make it grow ;
And this was all the Harvest that I reap’d-—-
“1 came like Water, and like Wind 1 go.”
Considering Davies as a poet alone, some of
his similes rank among the most beautiful in
the English language. Take, for example,
his comparison of the Soul with a river:
And as the moisture which the thirsty earth
Sucks from the sea, to fill her empty veins;
From out her womb at last doth take a birth,
And runs, a Nymph! along the grassy plains.
Again—
What is this knowledge but ttie sky-stol’n fire
For which the thief still chained in ice doth sit,
And which the poor rude Satyr did admire,
And needs would kiss, but burnt his lips with it.
To conclude we will quote Davies’s most
famous quatrain:
We that acquaint ourselves with every zone,
And pass both tropics, and behold both poles;
When we come home are to ourselves unknown
And unacquainted still with our own souls.
HUGH McCRAE.
Sweet Poison
Alice Jackson (It.P. 24/7/’24) said all the
approved things that are expected of a
thoroughly “good” enthusiast in the realm
of educational reform. When she tells me
that human differences are the result of
purely hereditary forces she is opening a
question that lias perplexed science for many
decades, and still remains a riddle. But the
present tendency in psychology is to push
heredity into the background in such con-
siderations. Much that was once considered
to be purely hereditary is now revealed to be
the result of suggestion upon the subcon-
scious mind of the child. Cone thinks that
pre-natal influence may be a greater force
even than post-natal influence. Who,
then, is to say what portion of that
seemingly certain heredity is really the result
of the thoughts and emotions of the expect-
ant mother? Psychology may he “lifting up
the light of science,” but the chief effect
of the psychology of the moment is to cast
doubts upon what were the scientific axioms
of yesterday.
But on one point there is considerable
certainty. Whatever is instinctive and heredi-
tary in the child is quite contrary to our
modern conceptions of sweet goodness. The
child comes to us a creature of nature; an
animal, with the instincts and desires of an
animal. At its birth it is nearer, embryo-
logically and psychologically, to the ape than
to -the man. Later on it develops the
instincts and desires of the pure savage;
still later, of the barbarian. Whatever of
"goodness” is there is imposed upon it by its
environment, usually very forcibly imposed,
and in the face of vociferous protestation.
Modern society .is distinctly unnatural. Its
chief function is to repress the natural, the
instinctive within us. This is true with
regard to property relationships, personal
relationships and sexual relationships. The
natural attitude of the child is inevitably
wicked from the view-point of society. It
must be altered. That was what the old
theologians dimly glimpsed when they
formulated their doctrine of “original sin.”
Natural desires were labelled “Satan,” and
all children were considered vicious. Then
came the discoverers of sweet goodness and
innocence in children. What they had really
found were their own colorless values
superimposed upon the mind of the child.
The process was essentially hypnotic, as
any true student of modern psychology
knows. Every influence with which these
women surrounded their little wards was
potent with suggestion that could not help
dominating the subconscious life of the child.
But was the result a fine manhood, or a
fine womanhood? Did it produce any great
thought, or art, or deeds even? Did it pro-
duce anything vital? It produced only nega-
tive “goodness,” which is less admirable
than positive wickedness. The kindergarten
can do more to devitalise a life than all the
whippings of Calvin could ever do.
That is what murders the young person-
ality—the pallid goodness of saccharine spin-
sters ; the soothing kindness of sentimental
dogmatists. The sweetest poison is the
most dangerous, and the moral toxin of these
teachers is a devitalising poison, doubly
dangerous because it appeals to that
figment of lovingkindness which the world
forever preaches but never observes. I said.
“Life is a struggle, and the child that is
prepared to look for kindness is badly
prepared and foredoomed to folly and filch-
ing.” Just because life is a struggle, a
rude clambering after the highest place, the
best training we can give the child is that
which teaches him to fight and to clamber.
We must teach him to expect that, and little
else. In the hard actuality of life he will
find plenty of color, and much to sharpen his
desire; but he will find little of kindness.
If he meets life’s problems devitalised by
the negative “goodness” instilled by teacher*
■of “original innocence,” folly is certain to
anark his life until he has unlearned what
they have taught him; and his portion will
be frequent and bitter filching. Unkindness
x V'fil have to teach him what the guardians
oli his childhood kindly lied about.
iPJato and Ai*istotle are sonoi’ous names
in swell discussions, but their methods of
tea Hws have very little application to the
pre «en£ problem. Does my critic realise that
the youths who were to be “happily
and beaifctifully harmonious” in their lives
were' the men of Athens, and not its
popujiacL? .For every one of these there were
six slavus, \about whom Plato had nothing
to say, and about whom he cared not at all.
It was th is ltpst of slaves who made possible
the “beat itififllly harmonious” lives of the
soft-robed Athenians. The Athenian had no
living to earn, no needful occupation upon
the succeSl; of which depended prosperity or
starvation. His only struggle was the mock-
struggle oi the arena, a comfortable substi-
tute for th« i struggle of life. Such is not the
case to-day,. The education that suited the
leisurely, sli ive-supported Athenian admirably
is just the port that will suit us abominably.
This oversight on the part of my castigator
is typical ol all this school of educationists.
They overlcfok the facts of life, and plan an
education to suit their own mild and soft-
hearted conceptions of what life should be.
But what psychology is it that “holds
aloft” Alice Jackson’s “light of science”?
Is it the old psychology so ardently clung to
by the moralists and so contemptuously
spurned by the moderns? Or is it the new
psychology that smells so nastily in the nos-
trils of the pure? If this new psychology is
proving anything, it is proving that the
minds of children are what the average “good
person” would call quagmires of sin and
filth : that the efforts we have made to mould
the child-mind after a pattern of goodness
are unbalancing the minds, upsetting the
nerves, affecting the body in sundry detri-
mental ways, and producing abnormality
after abnormality. It is not I; it is Alice
Jackson who has borrowed her values from
the Middle Ages. If she wishes to follow the
light of science (which she so loudly pro-
claims) she will have to reconstruct her
values of life, virtue and innocence. We
need men and women who are not afraid of
life and its struggle; who will not hide be-
hind false values and deny all that is harsh.
Let us teach the young to joy in the struggle,
the fight, the very harshness of life. Teach
them to light with brain and, when necessary,
with brawn; to fight because life itself is
a great fight, and to live it to the full one
must fight.
LWSTER WAY
Blue
Why is it. I wonder, that blue has stirred
the imagination more than any other color; at
least, so far as poetry is a record of the
mind’s impressions. Blue, I seem to have
read, is soothing, whereas red and green
are irritating. One would, therefore, rather
expect the mind to be stimulated into re-
sponse by these latter colors. But it may
be that this is not the psychic condition
most favorable to the production of imagina-
tive reactions. Do the soothing and lethargic
effects (if such there be) of blue really more
favor poetic effort?
Whatever the reason (and it may be
merely that it is the most intrinsically beau-
tiful color), certain it is that blue has the
widest appeal. It seized the fancy of our re-
mote British ancestors, who dyed themselvefe
in woad, while green and brown must have
been the prevailing colors in those arboreal
times. The Blue Bird stands for happiness;
and the decoration representing the first
prize in any competition, from a Derby to
a cattle show, is a blue ribbon. The color
was chosen for the Garter, for the ancient
English universities, and by the old Conser-
vative party, who beyond doubt considered
themselves the salt of the earth.
To turn to the poets, this is Keats’s idea:
Blue! ’Tis the light of Heaven, the domain
Of Cynthia, the wide palace of the sun,
The tent of Hesperus, and all his train;
The bosomer of clouds; gold, grey and dun.
Blue! ’Tis the life of waters—ocean
And all its vassal streams ; pools numberless
May rage, and foam, and fret, but never can
Subside, if not to dark-blue nativeness.
Blue! gentle cousin of the forest-green,
Married to green in all the sweetest flowers—
Forget-me-not, the blue-bell, and that queen
Of secrecy, the violet; what strange powers
Hast thou, as a mere shadow! But how great,
When in au eye thou ait alive with fate!
Mrs. Meynell Ims “November Blue" :—-
0 heavenly color, London town
Has blurred it from her skies;
And, hooded in an earthly brown,
Unheaven’d, the city lies.
No longer standard-like this hue
Above the broad road flies;
Nor does the narrow street the blue
W 7 ear, slender pennon-wise.
But when tlie gold and silver lamps
Color the London dew,
And, misted by the winter damps,
The shops shine bright anew-
Blue comes to earth, it walks the street,
It dyes the wide air through ;
A mimic sky about their feet,
The throng go crowned with blue.
Coming home, I find this by Zora Cross
I know there are blue flowers that haunt the mind
With perfume. Greybeard Winter loves to sing
Of violets that herald tardy Spring-
In skies of lapis-lazuli confined.
Autumn alone, when storms have made her blind,
Out of her tents of morning may not bring
One bluebell for a late remembering
Of Summer’s larkspur light and lupin wind.
But I have seen the blue of blue, my child.
And now I know —wherever blossoms grow—
Forget-me-not, in hues of Paradise,
Delphinium and loose lobelia wild,
And every flower born blue to toss and blow
Are but the spirit matrix of your eyes.
And. last, a sonnet, with a slightly philo-
sophic flavor, the title-poem of a recent book
of verse, by Charles Edgbaston:—
Blue as an English wood in early June.
Where bluebells massed insapphirine the sward !
Blue as a summer sky in afternoon
When from the fields the lazy cattle ford
The stream; and azure as the deepest sea
Unplumb’d and still! Blue as the richest glaze
On image tomb’d by Theban king’s decree!
Blue as the tall delphinium, or rays
From turquoise gleaming on the slender hand
Of her we love! Blue as the haze on hills,
When morning sunlight tinctures all the land,
And every valley with its magic fills!
All this is naught to that diviner hue
When all the blues of earth melt into Blue.
And I don’t know to which of these reactions
to the color I would award my own ribbon.
S. T. E.
Books, Loved and Lost
Again let me say I hate books.
I have at home, cluttering up space that
might be more worthily given to golf clubs,
spirituous liquors, ice-chests, manuscripts,
boot racks, wireless apparatus and my wife’s
hats, several enormous bookcases containing
all the knowledge in the -world and a few
novels. Every time I glance at these incubi
I shudder.
I have carefully read them all: scientific
works, books of art, poems, novels, histories,
biographies, and Australian products. I had
to. I know, or ought to know, all that is
of worth within their covers. I have dili-
gently marked portions of these books; and I
know where to turn when I want to refresh
my mind. But I also know that, with a few
exceptions, these bookshelves are morgues.
There, laid neatly row upon row, like corpses
on slabs, are the bodies of books that are
dead. Every one of the scientific books is
out of date, superseded by later knowledge,
which in a few years will also be out of date.
Nuisances like Einstein have come along and
upset all that I knew about the universe.
The electrons, with which I was tolerably
familiar, have suffered a rapid succession of
changes, until now I don’t know where or
what they are. All the old precise and com-
forting knowledge of science has been sup-
planted by new and discomforting discoveries.
All the history that I had read, and had con-
sidered safely embalmed in my mind, has
been altered and contradicted by all the
Wellses of the world. Heroes of my school-
boy youth have become villains, and Joan of
Arc wasn’t all she ought to have been. Con-
rad, whom I thought indestructible, has been
cruelly eaten into. Browning, my earli-
est delight, whom I loved so much that I
read right through “The Ring and the Book.”
has gone back on me; and I am already
begetting a sneaking admiration for Tenny-
son. And the Rubaiyat is of ap offensive
staleness. A sweet young thing once asked
me what I thought about Omar, and I was
tongue-tied. Yet the Book of Job, “The
Purple Cow,” “Ecclesiastes,” and a few son-
nets of Keats retain for me their incommuni-
cable pristine charm.
I now find that the sonnets of Sliakspeare
are, after all, better than the sonnets of
George Meredith. Schopenhauer and Niet-
zsche recede, and I recognise now that the
gloomy world that Ibsen built would never
have come into existence if Ibsen, or even
any of his characters, had played golf or
gone ski-ing. If in “Ghosts” the boy had
asked for his niblick instead of the sun, lie
would have lived happily ever after, and
probably become a scratch player-. As for
“The Doll’s House/’ it is quite out of date—
every modern house is a doll’s house;. Carlyle
was once a demi-god, but, after all, is he as
interesting as Wodehouse? “Richard Fev-
eril” delighted me, but now he is as
negligible as Sherlock Holmes ! And, glancing
curiously at a book that I have not opened
for a decade, I find that there isn’t really
very much in my collected verses. Still, Dos-
toieffsky and “The Double-bed Dialogues”
survive.
I have often asserted, in the guise of a
literary critic, that such and such a novel
is worth re-reading. I beg forgiveness. Every
book should be burnt the moment after it
is read. It has communicated its message:
it cannot reinforce it. The thrill that comes
from the perusal of a masterpiece, such as
Conrad’s “Youth” or “The Hunting of the
Snark,” or Yeats’s early poetry, or old Omar,
or the Song that Solomon did not write, or
the exposition of the Einstein theory, or a
book of etiquette—in the days of lush youth
—or Weininger’s theory of sex, or Bernard
O’Dowd’s “The Bush,” or Masefield’s story
of Gallipoli, or Wordsworth’s perfect sonnets,
or anything worthily written about atoms
or ants or stars, or “The Spoon River
Anthology,” or the Brontes, or “The Dark
Forest.” "or Wells’s “Kingdom of the Blind”
and the first of all his Iltonias, or the be-
ginnings of Kipling, or “The Science of
Golf” —that thrill, alack, like the breath-
catching wonder of your first immature love
affair —she is married now and shingles her
hair and takes an outsize in brassieres—is
something that never can be recaptured. The
fragrance in these masterpieces is fainter,
the coffee is cold, the bloom is off the grape,
the beer is flat.
So to read a cherished volume over
again is to pursue the impossible. Lift;
has used you for her deliberate pur-
poses; you cannot come fresh and avid
to the feast; your appetite is staled
by the cigars of middle-age; you have kissed
her before. 1 read Conrad's “Youth’’ in
youth: I couldn't read it again except to
see how it was done. And could I read
Kipling again? No ; I would see him crank-
ing up.
So, looking over the broad pageant of Eng-
lish and other literature, the only volumes
that still retain every atom of their charm
are Foster on auction bridge and a book —
any book —on golf.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Art in Paris and London
This year the Paris Salon (the united
Societe des Artistes Framjais and the
National) is the now familiar medley. Thou-
sands of “Pictures” —things that are stuck in
frames and hung on walls and meant to “go”
with the furniture. Every available bit of
wall space in that huge Grand Palais is
religiously covered. And in the enormous
central arena has sprouted up the yearly
forest of sculpture—of “statues.” Statues
in hundreds. Wandering through it one
has the depressing sensation of being in a
cemetery. Potted “art”-trees, carefully
pruned and trimmed, and placed at irregular
intervals, add to this effect. A standard
mediocrity, entirely lacking in any vitality,
qualifies this vast collection. Here and
there one is confronted by a piece of “strong”
work, preposterously bulgy and lumpy, strain-
ing in neo-Rodinian hysterics to be effective,
and achieving the inevitably ridiculous.
And then the miles of pictures. Again
the almost universal standard of mediocrity
—with here and there something a little more
alive, some tiny flare of vitality which escaped
the jury and got hung by accident. A few,
small landscapes, Farmer's “Nature Morte,”
and (yes!) my own “Chinese Coat.” Other-
wise you find nothing but “pictures,” politely
conceived and ingeniously executed —the sup-
ply for the demand.
But in spite of the general banality of the
Salon, rarely does it reach the standard of
tedious imbecility that characterises the
London Royal Academy. The vulgar clever-
ness of the Royal Academy, the cheap slick-
ness of Orpen, the oily pretentiousness of
Arnesby-Brown, the cult of deftness for its
own sake are hailed in Paris with undis-
guised contempt. Indeed, so strongly do
the younger Parisians react against the
“manniere Anglaise'’ that the Salon d’Au-
tomnc has begun to reveal a cult of clumsi-
ness for its own sake! Absorbent can-
vases and anything which hinders “oiliness”
or facility of execution are now all the rage.
But it is at this same Autumn Salon, amid
all its exaggerations and eccentricities and
posings, that one occasionally finds genuine
sincerity. Many an exhibitor there you find,
striving for more life, for more truth. Some-
times you choke a laugh in the throat when
suddenly you feel the inherent sincerity
behind a ludicrous result. You will find much
at the Salon d’Automne that is genuinely
laughable, more that is genuinely contempt-
ible ; but you will find there few “pictures,”
and very little cheap cleverness. And here
and there you will find uncompromising sin-
cerity.
COLIN COLAHAN.


h
Mill
rom
Milt?
toias
Policy behind
the Mill’s Hat is to
eliminate middleman
profit by distributing
the Mill’s productions
direct to local hatters and
mercers, thus giving the public
the advantage of the highest
grade of quality possible for the
money. Why then pay the price
for inferior headwear? Mill’s
Hats sell for less.
MILL’S Hats in every way gratify
your desire for good looks and wear.
ALL HATTERS AND
MERCERS.
Enjoy the Comfort, Style
and Economy of a Mill’s
>
S 3
1
£
V
25
r \
•ii
fwi
>CT#
%
Be
a i
cer
aw
Sold in many distinctive styles in
three distinct qualities.
211- 251- 32f6
Sensational
Announcement
“His
Master's
Voice”
Celebrity Records
are now Double-Sided
This is undoubtedly the most
wonderful offer ever made to
lovers of good music. Thanks
to the generous co-operation
of the artists concerned, “His
Master’s Voice’’ Records by
International Celebrity Artists
are, with a few exceptions,
now supplied in Double-sided
form. Now two Celebrity
Records can be purchased for the
sum as was previously paid for
same
one.
* His Master’s Voice” Instruments range in price from 1 1 guineas
to £94.
LI His Master's Voice
Li.
*Vf t**-.?
41
frr'y//
n.wi!i]
in
%>
_
*1
-c.
V
\
/J^rf’-uuJiSL
*"S
Lv
«u 7
o
»'*»
' W/. V
l
%-cJM
f k
m
0
PRICES OF DOUBLE-SIDED
CELEBRITY RECORDS.
Red Label, 10in., 7/6; 12in., 10/6.
Buff Label, 10in., 8/6; 12in., 12/-.
Pale Green, 12in., 13/6; Pale Blue, 12in., 15/6.
White, 12in., 18/-
Complete Lists and name of nearest
dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s Voice”
Eegd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.


The Most Power
The Most Economy
The Thousands Sold are Selling Thousands More
Because of the following Overland Advantages:
1. CORD TYRES are Standard Equipment.
2'. Overland Rear Axle is the Strongest in its Price Class.
3. Unusually large Braking Surface —one square inch to every 19lh.
of car weight.
If.. Disc Type Clutch operating in a bath of oil.
5. Overlands are fitted with Tillotson Non-Air-Valve Carburettor.
6. Overland is the only car with Patent Triplex Springs.
THE MOST AND BEST FOR THE MONEY.
SEE THE OVERLAND.
SIT IN THE OVERLAND.
TRY A SAMPLE OF OVERLAND PERFORMANCE.
ANY OF THE FOLLOWING DISTRIBUTORS WILL ARRANGE A DEMONSTRATION.
E. G. Eager & Sons, Ltd.,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q’land.
Adams Motors,
847 Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.
Neals Motors Pty., Limited,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Vic.
Overland South Australia,
Limited,
Adelaide, S.A.
Overland Sydney, Limited,
147-49 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.,
76-78 Murray Street,
Hobart, Tas.
Overlands First BECFIUSE Overlands Last


ĥ
8
mmsm
■■■
ft If 1 1 j■;
111
Complete plant icith
2i-h.p. Lister Junior
Petrol Engine.
The Ultimate Lighting Plant
WHEN a plant has proved itself more than ordinarily reliable over long periods, not just in one
instance, but in hundreds, when its life after even ten years’ service still appears indeterminate
—it can only be due to ignorance of its existence that anyone passes by the Lister-Lite.
Judging by the experience of many country home-owners throughout Australia, the Lister-Lite
is the plant they ultimately install whatever they started out with.
YOU can start right from the beginning—you can install a Lister-Lite. You can then have
that pride of ownership which comes from having the undisputed best in any line, in this case the
Light Plant de Luxe. One glance at the construction and finish of Lister engine and generator will
convince you—while its simplicity in design and unvarying efficiency in operation are a never-ending
delight.
Even were its first cost more than it is, a Lister-Lite would be “CHEAPEST IN THE LONG
RUN. As a matter of fact the initial outlay is not greater than for many other plants, and you have
the satisfaction of knowing your upkeep will be considerably less. There are many sizes and several
types of plant to choose from, but they all carry the Lister English-built hall-mark. Let us go into
the matter more fully with you.
Vkfer-m
BRITISH BUILT
ħ
Complete Plant, with
Standard 2-li.p. Engine.
For N.S.W.. . Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Q’land. . Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
For Vic A. P. Sutherland, South Melbourne.
For S.A Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., Adelaide.
For W.A.. . . Malloch Bros., Perth.
For N.Z Levin & Co., Wellington.
Standard ld-h.p. Kerosene Engine,
direct-coupled to 0.9-lc.w. Dynamo.
R. A. LISTER V G? LTP DURSLEY ENGLAND.


■lnoßake
STE«
THE
HOUSE
OF
STEEL
j'OI ; M)KI* A.ll. 1888.
3TJONEESS:
-§ ? g-«,
5:3 >
n a
’■< tnitl 1
ffiwSi
V. J
650.
409.
705.—Best Stainless Steel, Xylonite Square
Handle. Table, 19/-; Dessert, 17/- per
half-dozen.
650.—Best Stainles
Handle. Table,
half-dozen.
Steel. Oval Xylonite
6; Dessert, 25/- per
ll*.—Best Stainless Sleel, Muted White
Metal Handle. Table. 32/6; Dessert.
30/- per half-dozen.
-107. —Best Stainless Steel, highly finished
grained Xylonite Bevelled-edge Handle.
Octagon Bolster. Table, 37/6; Dessert.
35/- per half-dozen.
■lo9.—Best Stainless Steel. Grained Oval
Xylonite Handle. Hollow Bolster Table,
23/6; Dessert, 21/- per half-dozen.
Stainless Steel Dessert Knives, 16/6, 17/6,
18/6 half-dozen.
□ f Z ; O
==SG=C=©
2 3
in 5
E==E=*=)o
Xo. 70.—Stainless
Steel Carver and
Nicke 1-p 1 a t e d
Fork, grained Xy-
lonite Handle, 25/-
per pair
Poultry Carver and
Fork, same price.
Sharpening Steel to
match, 7/6 each.
W. .INO. BAKEK
CARVER A X I>
FORK, made with
Best Stag Handle.
Best Stainless
Steel Blade Carv-
ing Fork. Xickel-
plated. Patent
Guard. 32/6 per
pair, post free.
Old-style Steel Carver, Knife and Cork,
from 13/6 per pair.
Sheffield Plate Spoons and Forks. A full
range, Al, A.B.C. Quality.
All the above Post Free for Cash with
order.
Initials Engraved on Table Cutlery,
1/9 half-dozen.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON S
Fashionable Wristlet Lever
Gold Watches
This is a Lady’s Jewelled 9-ct. Gold Lever Watch,
with the fashionable Moire Silk Band and 9-ct.
Gold Fastening. It is exceptionally neat and a
Thoroughly Reliable Timekeeper
SPECIAL
PRICE
70/-
ĥ
ħ
PLAIN
or
FANCY
DIALS
, In Solid Silver Case - - 40/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
We also have a large selection of other shapes
to choose from, ranging in prices up to £l5
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
ESTABLISHED 1871
N.S.W. LTD.
Two Sydney
Establishments
{412 George Street, Strand Corner
'lB5-187 Pitt Street, near King Street
9
055
i
X
That "Well-
preserved
Look”
Depends so
much upon
the Hairl
Use Dr.
Mien’s Wal-
nut Stain
and E r a d i-
cate those
GREY HAIRS. You’ll be de-
lighted with the difference.
Permanent, Waterproof, Harm-
less! All Chemists,
SMS
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade Mark.
The best Waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. CanVaS of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine,
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
“GOUROGKEmLTD.
export co.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Comfort Tired Aching
Feet With Cuticara
When your feet are tired, hot and
burning bathe them with warm
water and Cuticura Soap and fol-
low by a gentle application of Cuti-
cura Ointment. Cuticura Talcum
dusted on the feet is cooling and
soothing.
Soap ls.,Talcum 1 s. 3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress “R.Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S.W."
JWfr Try our new Shaving Stick.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
X
THINK OF
SCHUTE
BELL & Clio.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I
m
m
m
VV-SSI N'vN
sV
i
i:i
(*lufrßeU
The Cigar of generous size
Supreme in flavor and
and weight,
aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars.
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY Sft T . re'il U clc°a ß r S factory
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Turning'.
I willed a deed that others feared
(In the hollow dark was a dreadful sound),
Rain fell at night; but the morning cleared
(And from Thursday to Friday the world
Avent round).
Winds blew my deed and made it seven
(In the waking dark was a trumpet’s
sound).
The four archangels strode from Heaven
(And from silence to silence the world
Avent round).
1 have spoken a word and breathed a breath
l In the leap of light is force and sound).
There are four swords crossed in the heart
of death
(And from soitoav to sweetness the world
goes round).
Fool, with the pride of a vaunting dream,
Shall a grain of sand make the sea less
deep ?
I thank all AA'inds for the things that seem
(And the world goes round from sleep to
sleep).
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
The Ravine.
Grey, clutching roots of vulturous banyan-
trees
Claw the precarious edges of the cliff:
Vinos —young and supple once, now old and
stiff
Asa new hawser—trail through billowy seas
Of undergrowth. Hardly less monstrous
these
Than the rock-python vanishing, as if
P,y magic some reptilian hieroglyph
Should slide back to forgotten centuries.
Never a root is reached by any ray
In this promiscuous gorge, where harsh light
calms
Twined growths in one deep shadow like
disgust:
And if a wind stoops from its upper way,
Only the matted heads of jungle-palms
Know the sweet tremor that love lends to
lust.
X. TERRITORY.
FREDERICK T. MACATNEY.
Storm on the Tasman Sea.
Driving rain and a wild south-easter;
Valkyrs riding the night rein-free.
Havoc searching the waste for victims.
Gloom and storm on the Tasman Sea.
Hushing ridges and yeasty hollows.
Frowning headlands and starless skies ;
Cliffs repulsing and waves besieging.
Foam and spindrift and battle-cries.
Landward plying with tattered fringes
Routed clouds with the winds in chase;
One lone light on the black horizon.
Seen and lost in a moment's space.
One lorn light on the black horizon
Telling men of a reeling ship.
Canvas riven and bulwarks broken.
Harried north by the tempest’s whip.
Lonesome swamps by the darkness hidden,
Stirred and flooded by wind and rain :
Waterfowl in their reed-beds huddled—■
Teal and gannet and swan and crane.
Spray-wraiths flying like sheeted spectres;
Sands, wind-harrowed, on beach and dune;
Seen at times through the scudding cloud-
wrack.
Westward sinking, a crescent moon.
Voices wailing and wrathful voices.
Trees that shudder and shriek and bend—
Suoli has been from the sea’s beginning,
Such shall be till the sea doth end.
Driving' rain and a wild south-easter,
Valkyrs riding the night rein-free,
Havoc searching the waste for victims.
Gloom and storm on the Tasman Sea.
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Memory.
When 1 once found it—
Wandering at random in pathless green
places,
Pushing well pleased through their slim-
armed embraces- —
All the sweet secrets of summer were round
it.
Round that white waterfall
Snowed with pale flowers from the branches
that crowned it.
Spray robes wide flinging.
Like a wet naiad elusive and cool
It slid from the granite and plunged to
the pool
Through the clear tresses of maidenhair
clinging
Close where the waterfall
Murmured in music—how happy its singing!
Before it and after
Fern above fern roofed a sleep-world
serene
Enchanted in shadowy silver and green,
Dreamily arching each traeeried rafter;
Only the waterfall
Waked, with a child's irresistible laughter.
And often it crosses
My soul like the lure of the hill-thrush’s
song,
And phantoms of fairy-winged fragrances
throng
From blossom drifts starring the dark of
the mosses
Near that lost waterfall!
Yet do I count it most precious of losses.
For nights without number
It comforts me back to the pathless green
places,
Far from humanity’s sorrowful faces,
From hopes that weigh heavy and wishes
that cumber;
And with the waterfall
I slip from my thoughts to the sheer pool of
slumber.
VICTOniA.
ELSIE COLW.


9
m
■
m
mii llllf
n
Jam
u
::
—i iiiiiiaiiM
n . i9n» i ■ n
:■
mm*
m
Us
\ .V* ",
» '
■
1
■
SIS
\
w^SSSS9^fB^
.
«n 1
V -»»'•' - ’T-cn


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei
Fol. 45.—N0. 2323.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 21, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
A PINE CHANCE FOR A LADY.
THE LADY (in the Divorce Court): “We’ve never got on very well, your Honor. And there’s another gentleman present who would be very glad if I’d come
and do his washing and mending and cooking.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ol
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : Australia House, Strand, YV.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly;
12 months, A 1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; S months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas; 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts t etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political. Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding’ two columns in length, or, say.
SOf'O words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. Ail communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sona'. applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tire Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin's” representative in London is
1,. St. C. Grondona, Anstralia Honse, Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can he ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
to Australia House. Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E. :E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British Australian and
New Zealander,” 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I;
F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch l Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and .
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, B.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and li2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book a,id News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong ICong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — JF. G. P. Pnera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. \Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. — L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C.1,.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji'
10oz. t Id. United Kingdom: to 10 oz. f lid.; each
additional J/oz., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. Ud.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l\oz. or part thereof s
Id. Elsewhere , 2oz. 3 Id.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 21, 1924.
THE TRIUMPH OF RED TAPE.
In the uninteresting debates on the Common-
wealth Bank Bill there was an inordinate
expenditure of sound and fury on the eternal
but in this case irrelevant subject of the Gov-
ernment employee and his rights. The bill
effects radical changes in the government
of the bank, places the note-issue under its
control, authorises it to increase its capital
to £20,000,000, and aims at transforming
it into a central bank; but none of these fea-
tures started such torrents of verbosity as
were produced by a private member’s pro-
posal that an Appeal Board should be
appointed for the benefit of dissatisfied
employees. There are already 2000 Common-
wealth Bank officers, and the votes they com-
mand and can influence are regarded with
deep respect, especially by Senators in the
larger States. That was oddly indicated
when a Victorian Labor Senator, moment-
arily forgetting the iniquities of the “capi-
talistic” banks, passionately declared that
their employees were far better off than the
downtrodden serfs in the Government insti-
tution. But it was a Nationalist Senator
from N. S. Wales who brought up the ques-
tion of the Appeal Board. Producing a copy
of an amendment which had been consider-
ately provided (it covered two pages of
Hansard), he moved that a Board should
be appointed, and that it should consist of
a Commonwealth public servant, an officer
of the bank nominated by the governor and
a member of the Commonwealth Bank
branch of the United Officers’ Association,
which is a registered trade union. He pro-
posed further that the Board should be autho-
rised to deal with all grievances except such
as are referable to the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court, and that it should be specifi-
cally empowered (1) to remove suspensions
imposed on the ground of wilful disobedience,
incompetency, drunkenness, or “disgraceful
conduct.. . .including conviction for a crimi-
nal offence”; (2) to require any person
deemed a material witness to attend and give
sworn evidence or pay a £2O fine; (3) to
secure the production of all documents rela-
tive to an appeal, even if they disclosed the
extent of Smith's overdraft or Brown and
Co.’s credit balance; and (4) to cancel any
transfer or promotion ordered by the gover-
nor and appoint “the appellant officer” itself.
* * * *
When the House '.recovered its ibreath
Massy Greene mildly remarked that one of
the powers enumerated had, in a thoughtless
moment, been conferred on the Public Service
Appeal Board. As a result, “a public servant
who had been convicted of stealing, and found
in possession of uncustomed goods which had
undoubtedly been looted from a vessel, took
his case to the Board, which restored him to
his position. I was Minister for Customs
at the time, but I could do nothing but re-
move the man to other work.” “We took
that power away in the 1922 bill,” interposed
the Minister for Home and Territories, “but
Senator Duncan would like to see it re-
vived.” And he invited the House to
imagine what sort of a bank it would
be if promotions, transfers and pun-
ishments were determined, not by the
management, as in all other banks, but by
a more or less ill-informed tribunal which
would necessarily have to be centralised (the
bank has scores of branches, many of them
thousands of miles from headquarters), and
on which two outsiders, one a union advo-
cate, would constitute a majority. But it
was reserved for Senator Lynch to make the
most pointed contribution to the discussion.
Said the Irishman from Westralia: —
Here is a body of men employed by a State instru-
mentality for whom special privileges are demanded.
This amendment is only part of an effort that lias
been made for a long time by certain public men to
place public servants on a higher plape than other
citizens of the Commonwealth. Why should we make
pets of these people simply because they are employed
in the bank? Do we not realise that the taxpayer
will have to foot the bill if the bank is not a
success? I want to put in a word for the tax-
payer, for the man who goes out into the interior
and who bears a much heavier burden of citizenship
than the employee in any of these public institutions.
Hon. Senators will be negligent of their duty if they
argue that privileges which cannot be given to all
shall be extended to a favored few. If I had my
way, there would be no pets in the community, for
pets can only be supported at the expense of some-
body else.
It required courage to speak in that fashion,
particularly as the speaker will have to face
his electors, of rvliom 25 p.c. at least are
Government employees and their womenfolk,
next year; but courage is a quality for which
Lynch is conspicuous among Commonwealth
politicians. And something of the sort had
to be said. This demand for another Appeal
Board (in a modified form it has been
complied with) is only one of a multitude
of claims that have lately been presented by
organised Government employees, some of
whom have resorted to extremely violent
language. During the last six months it has
been difficult to pick up a daily paper with-
out reading that the S.A. and N.S.W. civil
servants are insisting on the right to go to
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, the
W.A. Government manual laborers on the
44-hour week, the Queensland State em-
ployees on increased wages and salaries and
reduced working hours, and the Victorian
departmental officers on a superannuation
fund, “an independent tribunal to fix sala-
ries, hours and conditions,” and the registra-
tion of their union under the Commonwealth
Arbitration Act. In most of these cases
the demands have been accompanied by open
threats to poll a massed vote against the
party in office, or to wliite-ant the Govern-
ment if it can’t be immediately disposed of
at the ballot-box. Also, there have been
stop-work meetings at which inflammatory
speeches were made, and there have been
ugly strikes.
* * * *
The general body of taxpayers has grown
very tired of these incessant claims: for con-
cessions at their expense, and the sinister
language in which they are expressed. Their
sentiments would be revealed with telling
force if there were a party bold enough to
propose the segregation of the Government-
employee vote. The number of persons in
the Commonwealth and State services is suf-
ficient to return one member to the House of
Representatives, four Assembly-men in Vic-
toria and Westralia, perhaps five in Queens-
land and six in N. S. Wales, all on the one-
vote-one-value principle as embodied (with
modifications) in the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Act. Were such constituencies estab-
lished, together with elective Ministries,
which would be a safeguard against the buy-
ing and selling of Parliamentary votes, grave
menaces to our solvency and to the purity of
our institutions would be removed. The Gov-
ernment employee would then take his proper
placd in the political life of the community,
lie would be recognised as belonging to an
important interest, but not the most import-
ant interest, as it now threatens to become. His
case would be stated by representatives chosen
for their special knowledge and good repute,
and dealt with in an atmosphere free from
the atrocious Tammany tricks, intimidation
and bribery which go on at present, and
which all decent civil servants must utterly
detest; and he would be far more likely in
the long run to get a fair deal. The griev-
ances of the Government employees are
mostly due to the efforts of benevolent politi-
cians to make everyone happy by taking him
into the State service. As a result the de-
partments are sinfully overmanned, and since
there is only a certain amount of money to go
round, industrious officers of high character
and attainments, who scorn to employ politi-
cal influence or roll their logs as persistently
as the rather frequent young stenographer or
chair-wiper who has got himself appointed
secretary of the Premier’s department, are
scandalously underpaid. According to a re-
cent estimate there are 250,000 Government
employees in Australia, and the amount they
draw in wages and salaries is £60,000,000
p.a. There would be no loss of efficiency if
the number were reduced by 10 or perhaps 20
per cent., and portion of the saving could be
applied to the removal of real grievances.
“SERVANTS OF THE PUBLIC.”
Most party politicians are fulsomely insis-
tent on their status as “servants of the
public.” Servants they are, inasmuch as
they draw payment for the performance of
certain duties. But they cannot be dismissed
at short notice, and those who have secured
a firm grip on one of the great party
machines can hardly be dismissed at all.
They are able to raise their own wages, and
take all sorts of perquisites ranging from
foreign tours to free motor-cars, at the ex-
pense of their employers, the taxpayers. And
most of them accept secret commissions (in
the form of votes for jobs) with impunity,
though in private service similar conduct
would lay them open to criminal prosecu-
tion. Actually they are servants, not of
the nation that pays them, but of the party
that adopts them. They are standing proofs
of the impossibility of serving two masters.
The vast majority of them give allegiance,
not to the people (humorously described in
political orations as the Sovereign People),
but to some irresponsible dictator pulling
strings from a Trades Hall or anti-socialist
committee room.
* * * *
The effect of this arrangement is doubly
calamitous: it prevents the. big, necessary
things being done, and it causes hundreds
of small, superfluous, if not actually harm-
ful, “reforms” to be attempted. Defence is an
example of a national duty that tends to
be neglected; and it is worth noting that
wherever in the world Party is strong ( e.g .,
Britain and the U.S.A.) defence measures
are yielding to more politically profitable
schemes, while in Japan the navy and army
are formidable in proportion as party con-
trols _ are weak. It is extraordinarily hard
to stir a party to enthusiasm on the subject
of defence. The average citizen cannot see
a war coming till it is on top of him. Uni-
forms are never popular in democracies, and
an officer’s uniform, especially after a great
war, is an irritant to the thousands who
make no distinction between the splendid
men who fought in the line and those who
hectored and swaggered and amassed deco-
rations at bases. Drill interferes with sport
and pleasure—not a vital consideration in
poor countries, such as Japan, where the
masses cannot afford costly pastimes, but an
important factor in a high-wage country
like Australia, which is given up to those
things. Above all, adequate defence means
taxation, immediate and heavy. The com-
petent party boss never makes his appeal on
broad national lines: it is his business to
win adherence for the organisation on which
he depends for a living by studying sections.
Thus on an anti-defence ticket, straightout
or camouflaged, he can look for support to
local admirers of Russian internationalism
who disregard Moscow’s repudiation of paci-
fist doctrines; he can rely on the approval
of all the thoughtless young men who prefer
football or cricket to drill, and on all their
thoughtless elders who consider an extra Ul.
in the £ too big an insurance on the free-
dom of their country. By way of contrast
to his wary inaction here, and in other tac-
tically perilous directions (of these the pre-
ventable V.D. menace is a case in point)
he is furiously active against certain prac-
tices which do no great harm and which his
•spectacular assaults do not, in any event,
seriously threaten.
* * * *
Petty gambling affords priceless oppor-
tunities for exhibitions of righteousness
all over Australia. No politician has
a word to say against the racecourse
betting which takes place in almost
every part of every State, and which causes
the ruin of thousands year by year. The
infatuated punting vote is so big, and the
financial position of the nation’s professional
gamblers, its bookmakers, owners, jockeys,
etc., is so strong, that no Government, Labor
or anti-Labor, dares to even talk of making
racecourse betting illegal. Yet the un-
doubted uneasiness that many Australians—
and among them some of the best in the land
—feel on the subject of gambling has to be
recognised. So the pressing matter is dealt
with in Melbourne like this :—-
At a quarter to 9 o’clock last night constables in
a police motor-car drove to the front door of premises
occupied by Chinese in Little Bourke-street. Pushing
aside a man who was standing at another door, the
constables entered a large room in which were about
60 Chinese. The police were obliged to handcuff the
Chinese before taking them to the city watchhouse
in motor-cars and cabs. About 70 persons, including
the occupant of the premises, were arrested on various
gaming charges. Last week 30 Europeans and three
Chinese were arrested in a raid upon neighboring
premises occupied by Chinese. These men, it is
stated, were playing fan tan.
Gambling is ineradicable even amongst the
white races. In California, where racecourse
wagering is prohibited, betting “commis-
sioners” have been furnishing the odds on the
Presidential election- —“24 to 1 Coolidge
carries California,” “Even-money Johnson
carries San Francisco by 10,000,” “7 to 10
Coolidge does not carry Alameda County by
10,000,” and so on. In the case of' the
Chinese the habit has been ingrained for
thousands of years. The police have told the
politicians that all the raiding in the world
will not stop the playing of fan tan in
Chinese quarters. The only reason such
futilities are proceeded with is that Govern-
ments desire to throw sops to anti-gambling
and anti-drink fanatics without seriously
damaging the vested interests and votes that
are behind racing and “the Trade.” The
net result is a form of legislative stalemate.
The nation—an entity which is largely inar-
ticulate, since it cannot express itself in the
offices of the Party managers—desires
adequate defence; it would like to see
venereal disease tackled with the vigor
that was applied to small-pox half a century
ago; and it favors temperance in betting and
drink—virtues which are not fostered by
practically unlimited racing and by legisla-
tion designed to prevent patrons ' of hotel
restaurants having liquor with their dinners.
It is the Party system that stands in the way.
It is the Party system that at general elec-
tions produces 44 per cent, polls, a consider-
able proportion of the electors who partici-
pate being cranks or rogues. The 56 per cent,
who refrain from voting do so in many cases
because, being intelligent and honest men,
they have no wish to participate in the farce
of engaging servants who are predestined to
go for all orders of importance to the spokes-
men of irresponsible cliques.
It is not practical politics to talk of a
frontal attack on Party. But there are means
by which it might be undermined, and one
of them is the Elective Ministry and another
is the Recall. The Recall is such a logical
device, assuming it is desirable for M’s.P. to
be genuinely servants of the public, that a
non-party league of citizens which combined
to impose it on Parliament could hardly fail
to succeed in the end. Changes of heart are
liable to happen to any man. The phenomenon
of the one-time Bolshevistic Macdonald
turning into a typical Liberal Prime Minis-
ter, ’or of a Plertzog being transformed by
office from a Republican into an Empire
patriot, is as old as written history. The
more common alteration, however, is that
which was observed in Marcus Cato after
he became Censor. During his candidature
he promised to “destroy by knife and cautery
the hydra of luxury and effeminacy.” With-
in a few years he was a profiteer in marine
assurance, washing and the wood business,
and he ended his life a perfect Roman syba-
rite. Our legislatures are full of members
who are as indifferent to their promises and
to public opinion as Cato was. The Party
being behind them, they can afford to flout
the populace. The Recall wmuld encourage
some to attend to their obligations, and re-
move others who had failed to act honestly;
and in time it ought to diminish, if not
shatter, the power of the Party machines.
Once it showed signs of doing so the imbecile
Federal law which makes voting compulsory
would become superfluous. Most of the 56
per cent, who now shun the polls would do
their duty as citizens cheerfully in this re-
spect, secure in the knowledge that even if
they got a bad representative there was a
means available of getting rid of him.
SYDNEY’S INFLUENCE ON
MELBOURNE.
R. S. Ross moralises on a movement:—
Hitherto somewhat of an exultant foil to Sydney,
Melbourne to-day is trending strikingly Sydneywards
in its Yankeefication of mind and matter. It is not
an exhilarating spectacle. Always the attitude to the
deadening sin of overdone Uniformity must be the
attitude of fearing the Greeks when they bring gifts.
As with art so with cities —variety is the spice of
life and the pre-requisite of creativeness.
A year ago I returned from a stay in Sydney to
Melbourne’s quieter streets to heave an insurgent sigh
of relief. Sydney had come to seem a city of endless
swarmings—the busy bees taking flight hither and
thither to breathe awhile and then to it again. Com-
motion to the right, to the left, in front and behind
voluminous and thunderous —and oh, the wild charges
it made! The city appeared half in ruins, so
Herculean were the rebuilding enterprises. Seen
through the sweaty devastation, the shell-shocked
streets shrivelled suffocatingly. The motor ’buses and
the trams were engaged in mortal combat, and shaped
mystically like a plague of grasshoppers in battle
with a scourge of mosquitoes.
The Sunday newspapers—my God ! The Sunday
newspapers! If curiously adventurous you bought the
lot, their aditorial heaviness almost crushed you to
the gutter a physical and mental wreck. If later on
you staggered to the “Dom.” in search of rest and
peace nigh the magic of the trees, or by the poetic
waters, you found trees and waters alike terrible
with noises. Everywhere Sabbath calm was a tradi-
tion —it had been honeycombed with treacle and
brimstone. Everywhere sound and fury signifying
nothing but restlessness, morbidity, uglipess. Law-
rence in “Kangaroo”—that scintillating, iconoclas-
tic book little enough discussed because there is
apparently no imagination in us—novelises Sydney,
and with a clean, sharp knife slits so: “There was
all the time excitement—damn the consequences!’’
And: “In Sydney no majesty of authority at all.”
Ah, had he but tested Melbourne, how different the
caricature! Authority moved here then on Marcus
Superbus limbs. (True, Melbourne has her mysteries
no less renowned than her neighbors!)'
A year ago the critics said Melbourne was com-
paratively a city of gloom. It had reacted to war
conditions, but less grotesquely and more placidly.
It had not been Shaken Up. Now' that is all changed
or changing. Sydney has come to it. The motor-
’buses are making the trams look silly, and the
streets are alive with an activity in which one
appears to hear the ceaseless croakipg of the frogs
of the marshes. It all began with the tram strike.
What seemed a miracle was the multitude of motor-
cars soon lushing from circumference to centre and
back. After the strike fleets of motor-’buses rapidly
made their blatant appearance, and from outposts —
north, south, east and west —and all the ways
from them, they invaded Melbourne through its en-
virons, and altered the whole aspect of the city.
The flurried attempt of the Tramway Board to resist
the torpedoing of its dry bones is pathetic to the
point of sardonic homor. The Board ivould appear to
have buried under Yarra mud its corporate head
and neither seen nor heard the prolific suburban
infant populations crying in the night for the light
of Transport, with (until the strike) no language
but a cry. So nothing else could so much suggest
Sydney as the rush and tear of motor-’buses clanging
day and night to the changeless consternation of ye
olde inhabitants. Is it to be marvelled at that also to
be heard is the roar from Yallourn of an onrushing
ocean of electricity, every wave of which shall
float an industry?
On top of the misfortunes that never come singly
is the visitation called “the colored comic,” which,
part and parcel of one daily paper, will almost cer-
tainly “catch on” and compel all daily papers to give
a back-to-childhood public what it wants. For its
sins in starting this sinuous snowball Sydney miglu
justly be sentenced to chew its own sackcloth and
ashes. With a Labor Government in power, the day
of the Melbourne Sunday newspaper will not be long
delayed. Already the embargo on the Sunday selling
of propagandist literature has been cast into oblivion
amid the weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth
of the invulnerable unco’ guid.
All who see underneath the surface trace a
garishly gentle but persistent pressure upon old-
fashioned Melbourne life by the Sun newspaper,
which, bringing Sydneyside methods to bear in the
popularisation and “picturisation” of “news” and
“views,” is transforming a percentage of our men-
tality so efficiently that it is bound in time to affect
the lot. Melbourne will be as weak in its fuddled
mind as it has been in its locomotive legs. The
effort of the once mighty' Age to resist the inevit-
able is really heroic. That paper can be fancied as
gritting its false teeth and declaring that its rock is
Syme, and on that rock has it built its Temple of
Journalism unchanging and unchangeable. The
Argtjs. though of an ancient and fishlike smell in
editorial ideas, is yet renovating its columns to com-
pete with the stunts and screens of other papers.
Meanwhile, the Sux’j evening rival keeps well ahead


iii the flamboyant chase for circulation; but it is
to be expected that as the new appetite grows by
what it is fed upon, the day of the Sun and its
Sydney grimaces and gestures is triumphantly at
hand.
Taking a peep at politics, you may discern Sydney-
itis briskly germinating. The Legislature is slowly
but surely disrobing Dignity and displaying the
grosser nakednesses. The Lawson-Peacock mixture
laid the foundations with its much ado about nothing
but place and perks. The tendencies of Parliamentary
life are all towards keeping Talent hungering on the
doorstep. Individuality is giving way before Uni-
formity, which is mediocrity—the mean of a mass
psychology asserting itself arrogantly. That extra-
ordinary device for burlesquing democracy, and the
medley of “rounded up” interests functioning thereas
—to wit, the selection ballot —plainly is on the down-
ward, doomward drift to Sydneyised depths.
So Sydney strides the stage as invincible Colossus.
If one’s ironic generalisations are paralleled with
exceptions, what is that to Destiny? Sydney, its
blessings and virtues admitted and admired, is at
the heart of it slangy, sensational, slovenly and
smutty. What Melbourne is, let other than a
Melburnian dare to say.
That Sydney is capturing, has captured, Melbourne
is more philosophically revealed in the shadows cast
by the signs and symbols herein shown illustratively.
The retort that it is for Melbourne’s good—so slow
and stodgy, as once its Sundays, now at the feet
of Sport—may be conceded without tears if but
every remaining capital city was not also in the
grip of the octopus.
On the high horse hotfoot for a hell of their own
making both spreading cities ride on a frenzied
shovelling that is turning all things rotten upside
down. They stride in search of the new, yet disturb
nothing old. Institutionised red tape is left eter-
nally tied to the palsied fingers of ossification. Two
thousand years ahead H. G. Wells in “The Dream”
still sees them chieftains in the Age of Confusion.
But to-day Whitman’s “Great City” is neither Syd-
ney nor Melbourne, nor in consequence anywhere in
the land “God has girdled with the Sea.” For the
twain sought cohabitation rather than co-operation.
Sealed omnipotently to the rock of Sameness, they
make Australia anchor there too, God help us, every
one l
NEWCASTLE’S CHANCE.
When Major-General Lachlan Macquarie
paid his last visit to the North Coast
districts of N. S. Wales, at the latter
end of 1821 —Scotland Island, in Broken
Bay, Newcastle and Port Macquarie
were its only centres then —the labori-
ous construction of Port Hunter was
just about to begin with the commencement
of a breakwater connecting the Coal Island
(Nobby's) with Colliers’ Point (Fort
Scratcliley). It is most probable that his
Excellency and Major Morrissett, during
their voyage up the river to Wallis Plains
(Maitland) in the Commandant’s famous
barge—without, of course, on that occasion,
the triangles and the flagellator—discussed
the future of the Hunter Valley pretty fully
and completely. Each in his way was an
optimist—though the Major had distinctly
pessimistic views as to the reformative aspect
of penological administration —and each of
them was possessed of the highest belief and
faith in the destiny of Australia.
“Ah, my dear Major,” one can hear Mac-
quarie saying, as the galley-slaves rowed
them up past Bullock Island, “I foresee a
great port here at some future date —a noble
city crowning yonder grassy uplands, and the
establishment of most important industries.
We do not know what the giant Steam is
going to do in the world we live in, but we do
know that there is abundance of the giant’s
food in the coalbeds below this noble stream
upon whose bosom we are proceeding into
a fair and rich province, which will one day
be capable of feeding a vast population. Ah”
—he sighed regretfully—“what would I not
give to liavei a hand - in the building of that
city! Dear me—if I were looking forward
to Another five years of government, l would
set Mr. Greenway a-planning the moment
I reached Headquarters. Yes, yes—no man
may predict what a century will bring forth
here! I trust that God’s providence will
permit of my being in some measure aware
of it.”
“Over there, sir,” might have replied the
Commandant, anxious for a favorable view
»f the present, rather than a problematical
future —“over there, beyond the mangroves,
is Limeburners’ Bay, where w T e send our
refractory cases. If your Excellency would
like to inspect the kilns”
“No, no, Major—time is limited. I must
hasten back to Sydney to meet Sir Thomas
Brisbane. Well, well —a man sows for
another’s reaping. The will of God !”
* * * *
A hundred years have passed by, and the
port of Newcastle is not yet complete; and
through the fatuous perversity of man the
magnificent harbor 20 miles up the coast is
still pretty much as it was when the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Co. squatted there in
1826. But there has dawned for it, after
a century of vicissitude, the era which Gov-
ernor Macquarie may have dreamed of
when Major Morrissett took him up the
river in the last days of his administration.
On the desolate flats behind Port Waratah
the real beginnings of the future of New-
castle are taking shape; not slowly and hesi-
tantly, but nevertheless a little nervously, the
foundations of Australia’s great metal-manu-
facturing industries are being laid amid the
mangroves. Flaming redly in the heavens
at night is a beacon that seems to light the
way towards that future, and the rumbling
roar of the bloom mills, echoing amongst the
hills from the Steelworks when the city is
tucked up in bed, has a triumphant note in
it that seems to sing, “Oh yes, we have come
to stay—and this is only the beginning.”
Consider what has happened in 10 years.
In .1913, the Broken Hill Proprietary,
perceiving that the end of its silver
production was only a matter of a
few years, tu*ned its attention to steel,
and came to spy> out the land at the mouth
of the Hunter, where the coal is. Down in
South Australia, at Iron Ivnob. it already
bad a mountain of ore, and up here it built
blast furnaces and open-hearth furnaces, and
established .rolling-mills for the production of
steel essentials for a hundred industries. The
great; blast furnaces smelt the ore, and turn
it into hot metal and pig-iron, and in the
open-hearth plant the hot metal is refined into
steel. # The steel is cash into ingots—trifles
weighing tons and rolled titanically and
miraculously through the bloom mills, tlie rail
mills and the merchant mills into rails, fish-
plates, rods and bars —into the raw material
for these hundred subsidiary industries. In
the rod mill they make rolled rod which is
finally spun out into wire at the rate of
3000 feet a minute. And over in the steel
foundry they turn out 100 tons a week of mill
rolls, machine parts and steel castings. The
grimy and strenuous demons who juggle this
hot stuff draw in wages at present some
£25,000 a fortnight—and it is safe to assume
that the B.H.P. draws a bit also, and that
the Newcastle district gets its share.
Alongside the Steelworks are situated, on
land consisting of little drops of water and
little grains of sand, whose ordinary use is
to grow mangroves, bad smells and mos-
quitoes, the works of Hylands (Australia),
Ltd., which were established in 1918, and
specialise in wire. Wire-making began in
the following year, and they commenced to
weave wire-netting in May, 1921. The plant
turns out now 1000 tons of wire per week, but
has a capacity of 1500 tons. Of wire-netting
they are at present making 250 miles weekly,
but are able to make 100 miles more. Six
months ago 1200 men were employed in the
works, but low overseas prices and insuf-
ficient Protection slackened the output down
so that at the time of writing there are only
1000 on the pay-roll. This temporary check
has been somewhat mitigated by the dumping
duties, and things have taken a hopeful turn
for the better. At Rylands every bit of
material used is Australian, and so is every
employee.
Lysaglit’s (John Lysaght, Australia, Ltd.)
lies beyond Hyland's, and here 300 tons of
black sheets, galvanised plain sheets and cor-
rugated sheets are turned out weekly from
a plant as to which no expense has been
spared to make it modern and perfect in
every respect. It is equal to anything of
its kind in the world. Three new mills are
in course of erection, and when, they are in
going order the production will be increased
to between 500 and 600 tons weekly. Includ-
ing the cost of the workmen’s excellent cot-
tages situated close to the works, £500,000
has been put into Lysaglit’s.
Over at Waratah, close beside the main
Northern railway, is the third of the three
great industries which have been given birth
by the establishment of the Steel Works —
the Commonwealth Steel Industries, Ltd.,
whose specialty at present is wheels for rail-
way rolling-stock, though the output is not
wholly confined to that production. Like
Lysaght’s and Hyland’s, its plant and activi-
ties are too big to be viewed through the
medium of a few lines of type, and, like
them, it is an earnest of what a present-day
optimist of the Macquarie sort may hope
for. Nothing can be too great to expect in
the extension of industries subsidiary to the
8.11.P.’s great enterprise—nothing be too
sanguine to hope for the future of Newcastle,
in view of the success and efficiency of the
works already established there.
But there is a But. If coal-owners and
coal-miners play the game, there is nothing
that can hinder Newcastle’s chance from be-
coming a certainty. If they don’t, good
Governor Macquarie, looking on from over
there, may have very sufficient reason for
exasperation and disappointment. It is hard
to be made a liar after 100 years.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dry Wells and Slow Ships.
The large non-importance of a place without
Parliamentary votes to sell, in this land
where politics are one of the boundless
natural resources, was shown by some recent
happenings in the Northern Territory.
Wells are essential for keeping the liorth-
to-south road open, for, though water
can be dug up at a moderate depth
almost everywhere, surface fluid is scarce.
Considering that it is a pastoral land,
and that for want of a railway the flocks
and herds have to move entirely on hoof,
there were never enough wells, and when
one of these far-apart institutions on the
main road failed lately it became pretty
much like a case of the way to market being-
blocked and industry stopped. For five
years, it is alleged, it was shouted in the
deaf and distant ear of Melbourne that the
pumping apparatus was on its last legs, and
then the last leg gave out, and cattle arriving
there dry had to go on dry and mostly
perish. At another place it was expounded
for two years that salt water near the sur-
face was eating into' the casing of the bore,
and when it ate through, and the brine
dropped into the fresh supply below, there
was another death in the wells family.
Things were different up that way when the
place belonged to S.A., and sent two
members to the Adelaide Parliament, and
even furnished S.A. with a Premier once.
South Aus. spent little on the Possession com-
pared with the riches that, the Commonwealth
lias “blewed” there, because it had little to
spend, but it supplied more works and fewer
big officials. How life and motion have
petered out another recent episode went to
show. When the Douglas Mawson, of sev-
eral tons gross tonnage, vanished, more than
half the Commonwealth mercantile marine
along 1040 miles of coastline disappeared
also. In time Rumor, travelling on leaden
feet, alleged that the women who had been
on board were prisoners among the wildest
blacks in Australia, and a relief expedition
became necessary. With much delay -and,
apparently, with infinite labor, a schooner
with an auxiliary engine or oil-drum was
found or invented, and it set out on its way
so slowly that a week after leaving Darwin
it was still in view from the Darwin meat-
works. That represented to perfection the
pace of the northern Land of Promise under
Federal long-distance management. The fact
that the meatworks have been closed for
years, and have nothing to do now save ad-
mire the rare spectacle of a schooner pro-
pelled by an oil-drum, further illustrates the
pace. It might not be amiss if the BkucE-
Page Cabinet took its courage in one hand
and its bright originality in the other, and
gave the North two voting members, as it
had in old days, one for the Darwin half
and one for the Alice Springs half. Even
that trifle of representation would keep its
cause alive. The position wouldn’t be half
so absurd as that presented in N. S. Wales,
where an entire House, costing £20,000 a
year or so, has the Cabinet as its sole source
of appointment and its entire constituency—
say 13 constituents, or perhaps one-fifth of
a constituent per member. Territories with
full-blown local legislatures have been
created in the U.B. with less human material
than our Territory possesses, and have blos-
somed into full-grown States. It is not pro-
posed that Darwin should grow, either this
year or next, into another Rio de Janeiro or
Bahia, to say nothing of other tropical ports
where the white man, by connecting the
places up by railway and by using his cere-
brum and cerebellum in other ways, has pros-
pered remarkably. But there is no reason
why it shouldn’t set out in that direction and
keep moving.
The Alleged Folly of Preparedness.
Fenton, Labor M.H.R.: The policy of being pre-
pared for war led, in 1914, to the most awful
slaughter the world has ever known.
Brennan, Labor M.H.R.: Germany was the best-
prepared nation, and what was her fate?
Fenton : Germany had been preparing assiduously
for years, and the war for which she had been look-
ing came, and caused her defeat and humiliation.
This kind of talk is now fashionable among
Labor politicians, and there was an extensive
display of it during the debates on the
Defence Equipment Bill. Yet had the war
ended in the summer of 1918, when the Perth
Labor Conference was shouting lustily for
peace, Brennan and Fenton would have
liad to pipe a totally different tune. For at
that juncture the Germans had knocked out
the Russians and Roumanians; had taken
250,000 Italian prisoners in a single battle;
had destroyed one of the five British armies
and badly mauled another; had defeated the
French in a series of engagements, and were
preparing to cross the Marne. Their battle
lleet and merchant marine were almost in-
tact ; they xvere masters of the Baltic and
of the countries washed by it; Holland and
Denmark were at their mercy ; and they and
their allies were in occupation of Poland,
Lithuania, Esthonia, Latvia, Roumauia, Ser-
bia, Montenegro, vast districts in Old Russia,
most of Belgium, and parts of France, Italy,
Greece, Armenia, Georgia and Persia. In
short, they were victorious everywhere
except on the high seas when the Perth
Labor Conference got its tail down, and a
peace made then would have been an indis-
putable triumph for what Brennan and
Fenton are now arguing against. To say
that "the policy of being prepared for wai-
led to the awful slaughter” is the most mis-
leading of half-truths. The war arrived
because an ambitious nation, bent on con-
quest, willed it. And the ambitious nation
failed only because it left Britain and
America out of its calculations; but for that
1914 would have been a repetition of 1870 on
a grander scale. Belgium was not prepared
for war, and although it was an entirely
innocent party it suffered the horrors of in-
vasion for four years and four months. Swit-
zerland loas prepared, in the sense that Aus-
tralia should always be prepared (i.e.,
organised for a war of defence), and
although the Swiss had always to reckon
with the possibility that the Germans would
violate their neutrality in order to turn the
Franco-British right and therefore got
FoCH to plan a defensive campaign, their
little Republic escaped. Britain was pre-
pared for a naval war, very fortunately for
the Allies and for us all; but had she carried
the policy of preparedness to the extent of
organising a national army, as urged by Lord
Roberts, Germany, as many Englishmen and
still more Frenchmen believe, would never
have attacked. Even so, the British Empire
paid dearly in blood and treasure for having
to fight a splendidly-equipped enemy with
improvised armies. Captain Weight made
that painfully clear in his book “At the
Supreme War Council.” In the four months’
offensive on the Somme in 1916, 22,923 offi-
cers and 476,553 men, the flower of the race,
were lost for trifling gains. In the cam-
paigns of 1917 (Arras, Flanders and Cam-
brai), the casualties were 36,116 officers and
614,457 men. The victorious advance from
August S to November 11, 1918, cost us little
more than half that number (17.426 officers
and 340,745 men, to be exact), but by that
time the untried levies who had survived the
Somme and the Flanders mud were veterans
at the game of soldiering, and their generals
had learned their job of directing armies on
the Continental scale. According to Wright:
Our national armies fought for little more than
half the time that the far greater French national
armies, half as big again, fought on their own soil,
yet the final total of killed and missing suffered
by our forces in the war was little less than the
French total. And the German rate of loss must
have been far smaller than the Allied rate, if their
double front, far more restricted resources, far
smaller numbers, and far more numerous battles and
campaigns are taken into account. Such is the
advantage in human lives gained by previous pre-
paration, however wicked, and the price paid for
improvisation, however wonderful, in war.
The last sentence is pertinent to the attitude
of those Labor politicians xvlio admit the pos-
sibility of invasion, but assert that the Aus-
tralians are such natural soldiers that they
could defeat it without organisation or train-
ing.
♦
Immutable Mars.
“President of the Executive Council Cosgrave
said: ‘I have met Sir James Craig frequently. He
has always maintained the same attitude. In Ins
own words he “won’t budge an inch.” H<‘ has never
budged an inch—never made any practical contribu-
tion towards a solution.’ ” — Cable.
If the situation in Ireland does nothing else
it ought to convert pacifists here to the
painful but irrefutable truths that man is as
much a combative and an acquisitive animal
as ever he was. There is every reason why
the North and South of Ireland should agree.
Both races are white and speak the same
language. They have intermarried freely,
more especially of late years. They excel at
the same-sports: thus an Ulsterman lias as
good an eye for a horse, and is as useful
across country, as an inhabitant of Co.
Meath. They have fought side by side for
generations, and while doing so have seemed
to their Sassenach officers (men such as the
keenly observant author of “Honors Easy”)
capable of fraternising and even of develop-
ing a respect for one another. The issue that
divides them is a trifle: it has little, if any,
more real significance than the New State
movements which have been exercising the
minds of Australians, without engendering
any serious talk of bloodshed. Fermanagh
and Tyrone, and parts of other Ulster coun-
ties, want to be given the chance to vote as
to whether they will remain with Ulster or
join the Free State. It has been estimated
that there are 450.000 Free Staters in these
areas, which accounts, of course, for the
starkness of Sir James Craig. The Northern
Premier does not wish his little command to
lose the revenue, represented by the million
and a half acres whose owners are suspected
of a desire to secede —an invariable charac-
teristic of State Premiers in all secession
movements. But a far stronger factor is
racial pride, local patriotism, the spirit that
breeds war. If this spirit did not exist
Ulster could dispense with a permanent force
of 40,000 armed police and an English garri-
son of four battalions and an artillery unit,
while the Free State could do without its
army of 18,000 and its police force of 10,000
or thereabouts. If the spirit in question is
not banished there must be a clash, which at
the best will end in the death of many who
should have lived in amity with their neigh-
bors, and at the worst may produce a ruinous
civil war. It is not likely to be banished, be-
cause the emotions behind it are exploited
by Party politicians everywhere for the pur-
pose of retaining power. President Cos-
gkave cannot afford to forego what he has
described as “the rights” of his people, and
Premier Craig would be ruined politically if,
by budging an inch, he “betrayed Ulster.” In
case it is argued that Irishmen are tradition-
ally truculent, and that such uneconomic in-
dulgences in hatred and jealousy are incon-
ceivable outside Erin, it may be mentioned
that much the same situation exists amongst
the most kickable people now in the enjoy-
ment of self-government—-the Egyptians.
Bloodshed occurred last week as the outcome
of Egypt's ambition to dominate the Soudan,
and ft would take an optimist of remarkable
calibre to say that there will not be further
trouble before this matter is finally settled.
Everywhere in the world are people who,
rightly or wrongly, want something in the
possession of their neighbors. Always they
remain on speaking terms, and often on
terms of apparent friendship, with those
neighbors until the moment arrives when it
appears tactically advantageous to strike.
And always then the party that decides that
there is more to be got out of war than
peace does strike.
*
Northern Territory Land.
From a sheep-run in Western Queensland: —
I have not seen the text of the new Land Ordi-
nance for the Northern Territory, but, as far as one
can gather from the discussions in the House ot
Representatives, a very grave mistake of national
importance is being made.
The only part of the Territory of which I have
personal knowledge is that corner which embraces the
Barkly Tablelands, a belt of country approximately
300 miles long by 80 miles wide between Anthony’s
Lagoon and the Queensland border; and, as regards
this area, I feel very strongly that any scheme for
land settlement that does not first provide adequate
means of communication is a farce. How are
improvements economically possible when the material
has to be carted from Burketown or Booraloola,
which townships have a monthly or occasional steam ir
service, bad river harbors and heavy lighterage
charges, and whence there is a land transport of
two hundred miles?
The whole of the above area is “settled” at
present. At least, it is included in the huge leases
held by Brunette, Alexandria, Avon Downs and
other stations, and whether the present lessees are
allowed to renew their leases, or whether under the
new ordinance provision is made for subdivision into
smaller, but still huge, leases or even into selections,
the country must remain comparatively undeveloped
on account of the tremendous cost of transport and
lack of communications and of labor.
Any settlers who come in under such a scheme
as seems to be on the tapis must hope to make their
profit from the enhanced value of their properties
which will follow the railway that _ must sooner or
later be built.
There is no question of the suitability of this area
for closer settlement under sheep. To be conservative,
I put its carrying capacity at one sheep to five acres,
so that 40,000 acres should provide a good living.
The country is almost entirely open, well grassed
downs similar to the sheep-carrying downs of North-
ern and Central Queensland, for which there is such
a keen demand in 10,000- to 30,000-acre blocks, at
rentals of Id. to 3d. per acre, that no land of this
class remains unselected in Queensland within 100
miles of a railway.
I am sure the people of Australia do not realise
what is proposed under the new ordinance, or there
would be a great outcry against it. There are no
selectors on the tableland to voice the opinion of the
“small man,” and only a few Southerners and not
many Queenslanders know anything of its conditions.
The high price of sheep lands in Queensland has
pushed out a few enterprising land seekers into the
territory, who find
(1) There is no sheep country available for selec-
tion.
(2) Nor is there any likely to become available for
selection under an ordinance which appears to give
the present lessee the option of renewal of his lease
until 1965, with the right of private subdivision in
lieu of public selection.
(3) That in any case no provision has been made
for cheaper transport, without which settlement is
not an economic possibility.
Prom a commercial point of view only, it seems a
great blunder that land whose rental value, under
selection, is at the lowest estimate -Id. per acre
( £1 6s. Bd. per sq. mile) should be held under a
rental of Is. 6d. per square mile; from the national
standpoint that land which can settle 500 families
comfortably should be held by one or two persons is
a blunder of even greater magnitude.
Repudiation of leases already granted is not to
be thought ot; but the error having been made of
attempting to settle the country by granting huge
leases, and that policy having proved such a dismal
failure, why perpetuate it ? Not a single acre of
lan l suitable for closer settlement should be handed
back to the lessees when their title to it expires.
It should be used for closer settlement; and the pre-
lude to closer settlement is communication — a port
and a railway.
Cheap Leases in Perpetuity.
Several N. S. Wales citizens are said to be
bedridden as a result of injuries received in
the rush to apply for a Government home-
stead farm or Crown lease, or some other
estate of fancy tenure. This is alleged in
Tory and thick-headed circles to prove the
existence of a huge and genuine desire of
bona fide settlers to get on the soil, stay
there and rear families. It is also quoted as
showing that the struggling toiler should be
allowed to import his machinery from pro-
tected Yankeeland free of duty, instead of
having it made here. The Crown lease is
for 45 years, the rent is to be never more
than 1J per cent, of the value, the first year’s
rent may be remitted, and there are purchase
possibilities. The homestead farm is a per-
petual lease of no fixed size, the rent is never
more than 21 per cent., and the value can


Ti e Farmers & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ts!i a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS,
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums . . • • . . . . . . .. . ♦ • • £8849
Seventh year’s premiums. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £87,738
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
TSe Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
A
Managing Director,
be reappraised only four times in the first
century, and five times per century after-
wards ; five years’ rent may be remitted, and
the five years’ residence may be done else-
where. Also these prizes may be turned
into early cash by permission of the local
Land Board, and only when the circum-
stances are so interesting as to call for news-
paper space does the public get a look at
the inner workings of the business. In a
recent case, at Parkes, the land-liungerer,
Wakefield by name, who held the per-
petual lease, agreed to sell out to a town-
dweller in the agency line, one Michael
McGiiik, for £2 ss. per acre, that being pre-
sumably the value of any improvements he
had made, plus the estimated value of the
handsome present the State had made him
in its desire to promote genuine and per-
manent “primary producers” to get a move
on. The agent had a right to pass the con-
tract on to a nominee, and he resold to
Nicholls, another town resident, for £3 10s.
per acre. This meant that No. 1 would
transfer direct to No. 3, and one applica-
tion to the Land Board would suffice. The
second deal put another £I4OO or so on to
the nominal value of the present which the
State had made to the original lessee, and it
is uncertain whether the value was ex-
hausted even then, or whether there was
room for still another sale and another ad-
vance. Whether No. 1 (Wakefield) felt
wild about the price at which he had sold
to No. 2 (McGirk) on learning of the extra
amount the latter was to get from No. 3
(Niciiolls). and, if so, just how wild he
felt, would be a matter for medical inspec-
tion. A number of complications, which
are hard to follow, were introduced as to
the mode of payment, but they are of minor
importance, as the Land Board refused the
transfer, and blew the matter out. It found
that McGirr had bought not as a settler
but for the purposes of traffic, and as that
energetic agent had trafficked most promptly
the fact was obvious to the most oblivious
eye. It also found that the final buyer
hadn’t the means for such large dealings, and
that the tale of the pair was “absolutely
contradictory and unsatisfactory.” But it
had no authority to find that there was any-
thing wrong with the Act—that it is a
gamble, a lotteiy, a sinful and shameful
waste of the public resources, an aid to mon-
opoly, and not much aid to genuine settle-
ment, since in the rush of all sorts and
sundries for a prize the real settler stands
a poor chance unless he buys off the prize-
winner at the market figure. The Board,
sticking to its text, didn’t suggest either
that land agents should operate under
license, as in Victoria and some other States,
so that cases where the agent and the specu-
lator are too much mixed could be inquired
into by a competent Court if the proceeding
seemed worth while. Still it did its little
best.
Lamentations of the Prophet Prowse.
Prowse, M.H.R., is one of those who, in
their craze to push the Protectionist party
out of office, may ultimately pull Labor in.
Whereupon they won’t get Freetrade, but
they will get plenty of taxes and arbitration
awards, and probably a basic wage for the
farm-laborer, and some cheap resumption of
big estates. Then they will wonder why
they were so unwise as to pour boiling water
over themselves to annoy somebody else. The
other day Prowse complained that last year
the imports of this country exceeded the
exports (doubtless by reason of that iniqui-
tous tariff which, all the Prowses allege,
shuts out imports), and then thundered forth
this problem :
Why is it that, though Australian manufacturers
get so much Protection, there is unemployment in
Australia ?
Why, indeed V Prowse’s demand opened the
floodgates of interrogation; and broke up the
fountains of the great deep of philosophic
speculation. Some of the mental flotsam that
can be distinguished on a trackless sea of
query may be specified
Why is it that, though British manufacturers get
so much Freetrade, there were, by latest figures, well
over 14 million paupers, and their families when
they have any, in an isle just beyond the size of
Victoria?
Why is it that, while the Australian manufacturers
found work between 1912 and 1923 for 84,954 extra
people, and support for their families when they had
any, thus more than keeping pace with the growth
of population, the “primary industries” found work
for only an extra *O6l, thus wholly failing to keep
pace?
Why does it require so much money (say
£70,000,000 for “developmental” railways in the
period mentioned, a great deal for loss on same,
£53,000,000 for “resumption of land for settlement,”
wheat guarantee money and sundries) to produce
such minor results in the “primary” line?
Doesn’t anybody save the manufacturer get any
Protection—the sugar-grower, for instance?
Supposing the protected manufacturer (who in the
bright lexicon of the Prowses is the cause of un-
employment) hadn’t been around during the 11-year
period above alluded to, where would Prowse have
sent the new population? When the population in-
creases at the rate of 12 per cent, in a given period,
and the “primary” industries grow at the rate of
barely 14 per cent., it looks as if a very large
workhouse would have been necessary—the same as
in Freetrade Britain—if factory employment hadn’t
increased by 26 per cent, as some sort of counter-
balance.
Furthermore, seeing that Australia has Freetrade
over an area almost as large as Europe, and is the
only Freetrade continent that exists, and possibly the
only one which has ever existed, shouldn’t the dullest
creatures that prouse on thistles or other vegetable
substances in the boundless field of inquiry admit
that something has been done for the cause they
bray about ?
4
University Decentralisation.
“Graduate's” view of it:—
The question of University reform is misunder-
stood by many people. The advocates of “more
culture for the country” say, apparently, that, though
the country colleges might not have all the qualities
which one would wish for in such institutions, this
would not matter much, since Sydney is a poor
enough University, anyhow. In reality, Sydney com-
pares much more than favorably with the other Aus-
tralian and many American Universities and not un-
favorably with the newer Universities of England.
There is much true culture and much genuine love
of learning to be found among the students, and a
certain degree of that mueh-talked-of evanescence, the
University spirit. I know, for I spent six years there
recently and took courses (pass and honors) in more
than one faculty. Every person with any vision must
hope for the extension of University education to the
country, but it is idle to suppose that this can be
easily accomplished.
There are three practical suggestions: (1) A new
and independent University in the country; (2)
degrees for extra-murSl students, with or without
correspondence courses ; (3) some system of affiliated
colleges.
The first would be the best if—which seems
hardly likely—sufficient funds were available to
establish a University worthy of the name; an
“CCME ON THE LAND.”
“Dominion migration schemes in 1923 required only £35,000 for assisted passages, instead of the
estimated £200,000, while the committee was not called upon to spend a penny on other schemes. The
financial year ended March last, 1924, will show similar results. Not a single claim was received for
a contribution towards settlement, except for assisted passages.”— Cable.
Simple Simon went a-fishing
For to catch a whale.
“Gome on the land,” poor Simon said....
The fish just wagged its tail.
impoverished and second-rate' institution is only a
c-urse. There would also be the difficulty of deciding
which country town should be favored.
The second suggestion is open to the objection
pointed out by “Pollio,” that it fails entirely to
provide for “cultural contacts.” This is the most
serious defect of a University acting merely as an
examining body. As for “PollioV statement that
at present the professors after lectures “bolt from
the buildings halfway across Sydney to their homes”
and have no intercourse either with their students
or Avith each other, it is most unfair and grossly
untrue. I cannot myself help feeling a little ashamed
when I consider the many hours of my teachers’
time which I spent talking with them in their
rooms; that was quite apart from frequent chance
intercourse in the Union, in study circles and at
meetings and social gatherings at the University.
And, though a staff common-room is lacking, no one
who has seen the staff tables in the Refectory at
lunch-time or who has been to tea in the Union tea-
room could talk nonsense about there being no
companionship among the members of the teaching
staff. But the criticism is in any case really based
on a misunderstanding. The true “cultural contacts”
which a University should supply do not result from
discussions, intellectual or otherwise, between teachers
and students, but depend on intercourse among the
students themselves. Compulsory lectures (though
they are often quite good in spite of being com-
pulsory) could not be defended merely as an inade-
quate means of bringing students into contact with a
lecturer’s ideas by means of mechanical note-taking—
so that, as one University magazine said, “genius be-
comes an infinite capacity for taking notes.” The
real justification of compulsory lectures is that they
bring students together, and, having come together,
they are prone to argue on all subjects in Heaven
and Earth. The value of lectures, for students not
resident in the colleges, is obtained not so much in
the lecture-room as outside—in the discussions in the
cloisters and in the
Union between lec-
tures, in the talk at
lunch-time, in the
games on the oval
and in the corporate
activities of the
manifold societies,
groups and clubs
which exist within
the University. A
University degree
should mean some-
thing more than the
diploma of a corres-
pondence college.
The third possible
course is to establish
affiliated colleges in
the country. There
is something to be
said about this also.
The principal facul-
ties at Sydney are
Arts, Law, Medicine,
Science and Engi-
neering. Of these
Medicine could not
be taught effectively
in a country college,
because of the
absence of hospital
facilities on a large
scale. Science is
only of value when
it involves a careful
training in scientific
method, and this
necessitates consider-
able material for
experimental work in
~ variety of sub-
jects. The same difficulty of equipment applies in
the case of Engineering. This leaves Arts and Law.
A University degree is not necessary for entrance to
either branch of the legal profession. It may be
desirable, but it is questionable whether the Univer-
sity law course is of any great value for a solicitor.
As for barristers, they must live in Sydney in any
case. The country college could therefore include
only the faculty of Arts. To that extent there are
fexv sound arguments against the proposal. It would
be essential, however, that sufficient funds should be
provided for it to be securely established and ad-
equately staffed by competent teachers. The Bul-
letin says: “Sydney will supply the syllabus; exam-
ine ; grant or refuse degrees in accordance with the
merits of candidates.” But a number of related
colleges are almost certain to be jealous of each other
and of the central body. Anyone Avho is interested
should consider the University of Maoriland and
the real reason why there the examination papers
are (or until very recently were) all corrected in
England. The great disadvantage of one man exam-
ining students whom another has taught is that the
lecturer is apt to expound not his own ideas but
those which he thinks will most please the examiner;
and so, instead of being a University teacher, he
becomes an examination coach and tipster. This is
a danger which would destroy all true study of Arts
subjects.
• *
“Machete” : The other day, in Newcastle
(N.S.W.), a member of the Coal Trimmers’
Union was convicted of pilfering from a ship.
His mates held a stop-work meeting to talk
it over, while some 20 big steamers lay idle,
incurring demurrage and other charges, and
the crane-men and pin-men and others not
concerned in the dispute saw their wages
hung on the peg. The meeting decided to
abandon toil until their martyred brother
was released, and then went fishing. On
Wednesday a few more colliers had arrived
and the big railway yards at the Dyke were
so crammed with coal waggons that the be-
wildered shunters couldn’t find room to spit.
By mid-day mutterings came from the col-
lieries, which were beginning to put off
hands because there were no waggons to
fill with coal. Then some union potentate
arrived hurriedly from Sydney and induced
the diehards to start again. What was the
loss in wages sustained by the trimmers
themselves, who work in shifts all round the
clock, isn’t stated, and crane-men, miners
and others paid heavily for a joke they
had no hand in. Of course, the capi-
talist was also shot for a nice sum for vari-
ous shipping dues —all tending to put up the
price of Newcastle coal, cut down foreign
orders, and thus permanently reduce the earn-
ings of miners and other workmen. Mean-
while the martyr, cause of all the trouble,
remained in gaol, having been apparently
overlooked after the scrap started.
4 —-
Financial reform is seldom as violent as the
noise it makes in the distance. It took
months to fix up an agreement for the restric-
tion of borrowing, and for the appointment
of the Commonwealth as loan agent for the
States and, in consequence, as common guar-
antor. Now the agreement proves to be
mostly holes and exceptions. It isn’t certain
that all the States are in. It is quite uncer-
tain if those which are in will stay in. In
any case the agreement is only for one year.
It doesn’t apply to local borrowing for re-
newal purposes, and it doesn’t apply in any
strenuous fashion to foreign loans. The
position so far as N. S. Wales is concerned is
that it is to receive £3,000,000 out of the
£10,000,000 which the Commonwealth hopes
to get here, and is under a sort of obligation
not to cadge more than £6,500,000 in Lon-
don. Nowadays a “reforming” .Government
considers that the Ma State is straightening
up when she spends only 9J millions of Pos-
terity’s money per annum. Ma’s angle is still
about 45 degrees. Labor ex-Treasurer Lang,
by the way, said that “serious inroads” have
been made on N. S. Wales’s borrowing
“rights.” What exactly is a borrowing
“right” ?
—-—.—.—4 ——
“Bit” : Repat. has some queer ideas. Some
time ago, after having been called up for
medical examination, I was notified that my
pension would be discontinued from a cer-
tain date. Dissatisfied, I appealed, and, after
the usual delay and several interviews with
officials, I went before a Board of three
doctors, who recommended that my pension
should be re-instated. A week later I was
notified that the pension .would be payable
as from the next pension day. My first
payment after the renewal was for the
ordinary “fortnight in advance.” On my
inquiring why, seeing that my appeal had
been _ successful, I was not being paid for
the six months the Deparatment had taken to
deal with the matter, I was informed that
there was nothing to show that I Avas incapa-
citated during that period. No stick seems
to be too dirty to beat a damaged soldier with.
4 .
“Centurion” : “Flicker’s” defence of the
Spaniard (B. 31/7/’24) is full of holes.
Admittedly Britons have occasionally treated
natives badly, as in Australia and some of
the Pacific Islands, but that was entirely
individual wrong-doing, and not a settled
national policy, as was that of the Don in
the Americas, the Antilles and, indeed, Avher-
eA 7 er he set his foot. I cannot remember
any instance in English history Avhere tho
national policy was compulsory infliction of
an alien religion with the sword and the
auto-da-fe to back it. As to comparative
dates, tiie British entry into India Avas not
so much later than the Spaniards’ into
America. Yet the Briton pursued a dif-
ferent method to that of Cortez and Pizabro,
whose handfuls of mounted and armored
men dealt with “Flicker’s” “warlike and
highly organised people” as fire deals Avith
straw-bundles. Finally, the Spaniard never
built irrigation works in New Spain or Old.
In Mexico and Peru he left the wonderful
aqueducts of Aztec and Inca to crumble, as
he did the great engineering works in his own
land, which the Moors, who taught him all
the good there is in him, left behind them.


"For Ever Best/'
TOOHEY’S
Stag Lager
the Best Lager Made.
100 per cent. Pure.
h
“Warrego Riding Trousers
will not fade nor shrink,
15/6 pair, 3 pairs for 42/-
One of Peapes’ own excellent productions.
Correctly cut for riding. All seams strongly
sewn.
The material is a durable Brown Cotton
Gabardine, and the Trousers are finished in
stockman style, with cross pockets and loops
for belt.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state waist and inside leg measurements.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS,
George Street (Opposite Hunter
Street), Sydney.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J- USHER,
Managing Direcror.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of the many proposals for consolidat-
ing the non-Labor forces in Vic. Assembly
is that Willie Watt, Speaker of the Reps.,
should return to State politics and take
command. The idea is that he and Eggles-
ton should swap scats. As St. Kilda, which
Eggleston represents, is the centre of Bala-
clava, held by Watt, the exchange for the
purpose suggested is not regarded as pre-
senting any difficulty. Watt is supposed
to be averse from going to Canberra, and if
he returns to Vic. Parliament he might' as
well be a chieftain. Besides, he is a domi-
nating personality, and the House was never
so much in need of domination. Refer-
ences? Two previous terms as Premier
(1912-13 and 1913-14). Inducements? The
fierce joy of shifting liis old political enemy,
Prendergast, and then holding him at bay.
Emoluments? A cool £1950 a year for the
Premier out of the total appropriation of
£lO.OOO for eight salaried Ministers, thus
leaving £ll5O each for the other seven. Objec-
tive? Ministry of all the non-Labor talents
(that is to say, of such talents as are avail-
able). Already people are getting appalled
at the extravagance contemplated by the
Labor Government, and it is no wonder des-
perate expedients are being suggested.
A report comes from London that the vic-
tors and vanquished in the late dispute with
Germany have concluded an agreement by
virtue of which the loser is to recover its
fiscal and economic unity at the earliest pos-
sible date and get a loan of 800 million gold
marks, which the conquerors’ banks are in-
structed to “facilitate.” In return for these
tokens of appreciation the conquered party
has promised to be good. That is to say,
the crowd in office has so promised; the
other crowd, which is probably larger and
certainly fiercer, announces its intention of
being as bad as ever, if not worse.
A new lot of German signatures having been
added to an already extensive collection pre-
served on scraps of paper, the conference
dispersed.
Bruce as a political strategist:—
Thomson and Johnston, M’s.L.A., the Westralian
delegates to the Farmers’ Federal organisation, voted
against the Bruce-Page pact. On returning home
they sent a telegram to Stewart, M.H.R., congratu-
lating him on his resignation from the Ministry, and
complaining that the Cocky negotiators had exceeded
their powers in entering into an amended arrangement
with the Nationalists. Their attitude has been en-
dorsed by the annual conference of the W.A. Primary
Producers’ Association, which means that one of the
State organisations whose consent was demanded by the
Prime Minister as a condition precedent to his accept-
ance of the modified election agreement has turned
the thing down. In the circumstances, he will have
to decide between receding still further from his
original position and inviting Page, Gibson, Hill and
Atkinson (Wilson is an uncertain quantity) to leave
the Ministry. Bruce has been praised for his astute-
ness in manoeuvring the Farmers into a difficult
position. In reality his strategy has been foolish
and can only be serviceable to his enemies. Had he
left things alone the Agrarians, who like him, would
have stuck to his Ministry and shielded him against
Hughes, whom the3 r distrust. If he obliges them to with-
draw their support he will be unable to lead a Govern-
ment for any length of time, nor will the Nationalists
stand a thousand-to-one chance of winning the elec-
tion. In the meantime he will have to fight for the
leadership of the party against the experienced wire-
puller who started it, and he will very likely go
under.
In Glenelg (Vic.) on June 26 the late
W. E. Thomas (Labor) polled 3465 votes,
H. V. McLeod (Nationalist) 2555 and C. M.
Waters (Country party) 787 —an absolute
Labor majority of 123. In the course of
a month or so several hundred names were
added to the roll, and at the by-election last
week Bond, Thomas’s son-in-law, got 4065
votes and McLeod 3222; Labor majority,
543. There was no Cocky candidate. Some-
how these figures fail to fit in with the
Bruce-Page and daily-paper theory that
“united action” will beat Labor nominees.
It looks as though something more might be
needed—an attractive policy, for instance.
A country with home industries in the
nascent stage and an immense foreign in-
terest bill to meet ought to be selling a lot
more than it buys, but Australia’s imports
last year were worth £21,002,000 more
than the exports. And £1,890,000 of the
COMING HOME TO ROOST.
“Two of the leading embarrassments of the Prendergast Government, when it meets the House
shortly, will be the reinstatement of police strikers and the redistribution of seats problem.”
PRENDERGAST: “What are you two doing at the head of the queue ?”
THE EMBARRASSMENTS: “ Please, we’ve come home to roost?”
£140,569,000 lavished on foreign goods was
for socks and stockings. The Federal organ-
iser of the Textile Workers’ Union mentioned
the other day that “36 manufacturers in
the hosiery and knitting sections of the in-
dustry have closed down.” Visiting a Mel-
bourne knitting mill. Lister and Watkins,
M’s.H.R., were told that 500 employees had
been put off owing to lack of orders. Yet
Bowden, the sheeplike Minister for Defence,
confessed to a stunned House that £57,000
had been spent in 18 months on imported
woollen socks for the R.A.N. Australia
grows the wool and has the labor and the
machinery, but Australian socks are not
reckoned good enough for the Australian
Navy. This is what comes of shoving the
political fool of the family into the Ministry
of Defence, there to be dominated by brass-
hats with Foreign-Trade prejudices.
The Disunited party in Queensland
still clings to the stupid system of pre-selec-
tion by little coteries, mostly of the cold-
tea persuasion. James Davey, a mild-man-
nered master-baker, was chosen in this
fashion to tackle the Labor candidate in
Buranda, Huxham having left the constitu-
ency, and his job in the Ministry, for the
London Agency. Davey contested the South
Brisbane seat against Myles Aloysius Fer-
ricks in 1920, and his second attempt to
enter Parliament was equally unsuccessful.
In spite of the hullabaloo about the basic
wage and the working week, the Labor man,
Hanson, got the Government-employee vote,
and Huxliam’s last majority was only slightly
reduced.
In 1923-24 Australia imported £2,854,000
worth of unmanufactured tobacco, princi-
pally from its bad customer, Brother Jona-
than. If the country had a national policy
this item would disappear from the list of
imports ; but nobody seems to care. S’Africa,
with fewer opportunities, not only grows its
own weed, but exports a bit to Australia.
Professor Adams addressed the English-
Speaking Union in Sydney on the hackneyed
subject of Anglo-American solidarity. “The
races had their differences,” he said, “but
they were only family differences.” Well, yes.
But so was the row between Cain and Abel,
and the regrettable incident of Nero jumping
on his mother.
A neat little swindle on the public is being
slipped through the N.S.W. Parliament. All
over the State there are reserves and parks
in the control of trustees —mostly hangers-
on of some politician when they are not
themselves politicians—and the present
scheme is to give these trustees power to
sell “surplus lands.” Some of these “surplus
lands” are around Sydney harbor —parts of
the wretchedly small areas that have been
reserved to the public. If the measure goes
through the public is going to be gradually
robbed of these already insufficient recrea-
tion grounds. Of course, the bill does not
mention any specific reserves or parks; so
no politician thinks he is particularly in-
terested in tearing the thing to pieces. But
a few of them will presently be torn to pieces
themselves if they don’t get a move on.
It is impossible to quite disguise the fact
that Sydney University is insufficient for
2,225,000 people and 300,000 square miles of
territory. Also that it is a survival of bar-
barism to say that the country or provincial
town youth shall not enjoy the higher educa-
tion unless he leaves home and goes to live
in an expensive city, among the wine bars
and Flossies and “movies” and two-up em-
poriums. The position being reluctantly
admitted, it is proposed not to establish
two permanent seats of learning at such
places as Armidale and Wagga, but to send
lecturers from Sydney carpet-bagging round
the country. It is the half-hearted Austra-
lian way.
The abolition of selection ballots, which
has been advocated by many prominent
Speck Laborites at most of the annual
party conferences during the past 16 years,
lias just been decreed by the local A.L.P.
executive. The question of whether 29 to
15 constituted the required majority or
not was referred by the last annual confer-
ence to the incoming executive. The latter
has now decided that, though the majority
is not two-thirds of the 44, it is near enough
for all practical purposes, a third of a vote
being a fraction too small to be observable
by the average returning-officer. Which
means that the Speck Laborite will in
future be able to vote for the Labor candi-
dates of his own choice, instead of those
thrust on him by an infinitesimal and pos-
sibly dishonest minority. It is an encourag-
ing incident in the people’s fight for the re-
covery of its political liberties from the party
machines.
A S. M. Herald correspondent wrote last
week: —
It is the reading of all history that where marriage
is lightly regarded the nation is on a fair way to
disintegration.
Divorce had been lightly regarded in Rome
for centuries previous to the beginning of the
glorious Augustan era. On the other hand
divorce has been practically unknown since
the Middle Ages in Spain, Portugal, Greece
and Russia, which are not brilliant examples
of national progress. And it is a very one-
sided affair in Turkey and the rest of the
degenerate Asiatic States, in which women
have no rights as against their erring hus-
bands.
It having become a habit with every-
one who can think of anything to ask
for to wait upon the Victorian Labor Min-
istry and ask it, an embassy from “the Coun-
cil of the Spiritual Churches” called at the
Government offices to ask for the right to cele-
brate marriages. Tunnecliffe said he would
consider the application on its merits.
Whether it has any merits is doubtful. There
are countries in which .“churches” are main-
tained merely to enable the “minister” to run
a profitable marriage-shop. It is not sug-
gested that churches of that description are
included in the Spiritual Council, but if
civil marriage were made compulsory and
the religious ceremony optional, there would
be no necessity for these applications. Also,
all manner of complications would be
avoided.
Prom a speech delivered in the House by
Nelson, M.H.R. for the N.T. -
Thanks to people like Dr. Stefansson, the public
is now beginning to realise that the central part of
Australia is by no means an arid desert.
And the shame of it is that it is very largely
true. Thanks to a talkative and self-confi-
dent American gentleman who went briefly
into the Centre as part of a procession of
motor-cars, and to similar motor explorers,
we are beginning to know something about
the region where our own pioneers finished
the overland telegraph line 52 years ago—-a
land that has been prospected, surveyed,
bored, mapped, wild-catted, walked over,
biked over, ridden over, bullocked over, cen-
sused and meteorologically recorded by so
many. The Australian is assertive to the
verge of truculence over horse or football
matters; yet he is capable of a dog-like hero-
worship for imported poseurs in greater con-
cerns. Stefansson may therefore live in the
minds of many as an authority on Middle
Australia when David Lindsay is forgotten.
Brief mention in the daily papers:—
The Commonwealth has decided to consult the
other Dominions before it takes action respecting
the British preferential tariff.
The other Dominions don’t consult us about
what they will do ; but Australia was always
the mild boy of the class. The other day
the “chairman of the Australian Association
of British Manufacturers” appeared before the
two imported experts who are inquiring into
N.S.W. railways, to state that he objected to
a preference being given to Australian goods
on Australian railways. Only in a very
meek country does it seem worth while to do
things like that.
. “Cartot” : If the embargo on the importa-
tion of German dyestuffs is lifted, it will
mean the end of a number of small local dye-
manufacturing industries, which will never
be able to pay their way against German
competition. Although the fetich that Ger-
man dyes surpass all others fights hard, Aus-
tralian dyemakers have already succeeded in
turning out products which compare with
any in the world. Moreover, the dyemaking
industry is one which, in time of war, can
be converted at the shortest notice to the
manufacture of high explosives, toxic gases
and other munitions, and for that reason
alone deserves special encouragement.
In the brisk sparring that preceded the
Glenelg by-election, ex-Premier Lawson de-
scribed the Vic. Labor Government as the
greatest promiser he had known since he en-
tered politics. Premier Prendergast retorted
that as a manufacturer of rainbows his crowd
could never catch up to Lawson; and as a
hot parting shot he chuckled that Lawson
did not even redeem his promise to give him-
self the Speakerships
THE RESERVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The W.A. Primary Producers’ Association, at the
annual conference last week, passed a resolution, by
57 votes to 54, that the Country party should stand as
a separate party, and not enter into any alliance or
working arrangement with any other party. It
was subsequently decided by 54 votes to 27 that the
words ‘unless the occasion should arise’ should be
idded.”— S. M. Herald (14/8/’24).
I have a friend, Pete Potts by name,
Whose w'ays the wowsers reckoned warm;
His life, they moaned, was sin and shame.
You wouldn’t know him for the same
Since he decided to reform.
He chipped Commandments with a grin;
On cards and horses, tart and tid,
He spent his time and blewed his tin.
Few looked to see the peg go in,
Yet came a day on which it did.
♦
A very memorable day;
He set his teeth, he made his vow
From habits bad to break away.
I’ve heard a lot of people say
He’s quite another Peter now.
His elbow-joint he never bends
Unless he’s urged thereto by thirst
Or bidden to the bar by friends.
We take his word when he contends,
Were ’t otherwise, he’d perish first.
To see him punt upon a horse
These days there’s little likelihood.
The act would give him keen remorse
Save he should be upon the course
Or get a tip he counted good.
Cards he’s resigned without regret
In places where they’re not bespoke.
No pipe, cigar or cigarette
Between his lips is ever set
Excepting when he wants a smoke.
Of amorous quests no more he’s fain
And chasing Folly while it flies.
He boasts of being “on the chain”
And swears he won’t be off again
Until occasion arise.
His upper lip he keeps so stiff
I’m confident he won’t renege.
Withal, I sometimes wonder if
It made the angels smile or sniff
When Peter Potts put in the peg.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The French big-ring marbles champion it
always accompanied by his grandmother.
Eddie Biff, the American heavyweight pug,
insists on taking his little sister with him on
eill his world tours.
Glue nose, the Eskimo ping-pong world-
beater. invariably has his typist with hind.
Prof. Schnitzivitsch, the Czecho-Slovakian
open Ludo champion, is always accompanied
by his mother-in-law —his wife insists.
Abdul Dammit, the Turkish amateur Tiddly-
winks .champion, hadn’t heard of Hobbs untO
the other day-—now transportation will have
to be provided for his harem.
Alf Hiccups, the undefeated British beer-drinking welter,
refuses to travel without his two fondest barmaids.
THE VAGARIES OP SPORT.
“Hobbs, the cricketer, has refused to sail with the eighth Test team, unless he is accompanied by his wife.” — Cable.


ħ
h
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
or
MADE IN LONDON BY ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Forebridge”: “X.N.O.’s” destroyer that
rolled 70 degrees (B. 24/7/’24) reminds me
of an incident in my own experience. Early
in T 8 one of the Grand Fleet destroyer-
flotillas was proceeding through Pentland
Firth at 15 knots, some 20 boats steaming
along in single line ahead — i.e., “follow-my-
leader” fashion—2oo yards apart. Suddenly
from the fourth destroyer in the line came
the cry of “man overboard.” A young A. 8.,
clad in the usual oilskins and heavy sea-
boots, had been washed off the upper deck
by a treacherous sea. Imagine the surprise
of the officer of the watch on receiving a
signal a few minutes later from the third
boat in the line telling of the safe arrival
YOU MUST KEEP YOUR BALANCE.
“ Aren't those heels frightfully high ?”
“Oh, darling, not when you consider how low my froch is.”
of the castaway on the latter’s deck! There
was no human applicant for the Humane
.Society’s medal; a more than usually active
whirlpool had worked the miracle.
# * * *
“Topee”: I was looking at a shop-win-
dow in the crowded Haymarket (Sydney)
the other day, and suddenly it dawned upon
me that the shop was on the site of Daly’s
old Dog and Duck Hotel. This inn stood a
few feet back from the footpath, and up
to 45 years ago had a small picket-fence in
front. I remember passing the tavern when
a bullock-team was standing in front, and
Daly and his staff were trying to eject the
bullocky, who was hanging to the inside of
the fence. No. 2 police-station (then on
the triangular plot where Marcus Clark’s
building now stands) had to be communi-
cated with before the contumacious customer
could be detached and removed. A fortnight
later I was again passing the pub, and heard
sounds of disturbance; existence must have
been full of incident at the Dog and Duck.
This time it was a woodcarter who had been
refused further refreshment. I heard him
bellow an announcement that he would deli-
ver his goods if Daly wouldn’t, after which
he proceeded to fire his logs through the
bar-room window. He was about to com-
plete the invoice by adding his lashing chains
when he received the k.o. from the barman,
who dropped a bag of chaff on him from
the upper floor. They were fine strategists in
that house.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : At least one Melbourne
insurance co. has seized the opportunity and
turned the epidemic of lawlessness to financial
account by advertising its readiness to in-
sure nervous citizens against hold-up men.
And there are others that are making an
honest penny out of the general jumpiness.
The cabs outside suburban stations are doing
a much brisker business than in normal
times, and some of the motor-cars have
spruikers to impress on the public that
the best way to avoid lurking dangers is to
ride home. In one badly-lighted and popu-
lous suburb an ex-policeman announced his
readiness to act as escort from the station
for timorous liomegoers. His services were
in constant demand until one night he suc-
cumbed to the mixed drinks forced upon him
in his capacity of protector. The news that
lie had been found dead to the world with
every penny of his night’s earnings emptied
out of his pockets by the thieves he had ap-
pointed himself to keep at bay caused his
stock to slump heavily.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Here is another queer casualty
that happened in a two-seater flying squad-
ron in France. A machine manned by Aus-
tralians was attacked by German airmen
over Armentieres. Another Aussie flier came to
the rescue, and after emptying his machine-
guns came back for more ammunition.
Returning, he could see no sign of the other
machine. Over 24 hours later it was found
at St. Pol, 70 miles away. The pilot and obser-
ver had been killed by the same bullet;
it had gone through the pilot’s head and em-
bedded itself in the observer’s chest. The
petrol-tank was empty. The machine was
in balance when its occupants were killed,
and had flown itself until the engine gave
out, when it came to earth. It was among
Fate’s ironies that the observer had been
only a week in France, and was on his
first trip. Also, only one bullet had hit the
machine, whereas I have seen old hands
come home time after time with their wings
frayed by dozens of bullets, and themselves
without a scratch.
* * * *
“Xex” : Auckland recently invited Sydney’s
Zoo expert Le Souef to cross the Tasman and
give first-hand advice
on the making of its
new fauna-receptacle.
The Auckland Zoo,
though only in its in-
fancy, threatens to
rival Sydney’s. The
site chosen was at
the Western Springs,
once the source of the
city’s water supply,
and the water-loving
animals have the ad-
vantage of huge natu-
ral ponds, fed by
never-failing volcanic
streams. It is a stir-
ring sight to see
Jemina, the big ele-
phant, hosing herself.
The lion collection —
all native born —is
supposed to be the
finest in the world;
the beasts occupy a
large enclosure rich
in shady trees. There
is only one doubtful
point—the behavior of
the springs themselves,
for these volcanic
waters have a disturb-
ing habit of rising
overnight even in a
dry season, and the
contingency, however
remote, of a floating Zoo being distributed
over the adjacent hillsides is a trifle alarm-
ing.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : Talking of sentries’ challenges,
perhaps the most novel on record was one
that “Von” Stacey received on a dark night
at Meteren. It was during a time when the
Hun advance had flooded over all the Y.
Emmas, and the necessity of rushing up war
material caused shortages in various non-
military essentials, including matches —at
one time a single box had to suffice a whole
platoon for two days. Stacey (now prac-
tising law in Sydney) was commanding the
Ist Batt.; with the military preciseness de-
noted by his prefix, he made a point of visit-
ing the front-line posts every night. _ When
he reached our possie, old Sam, doing liis
turn as sentry, gave the correct challenge,
and received the answer “Friend.” “Advance,
friend, and give us a match,” pursued the
lone watcher.
* * * *
“Van Cat”: During the last six months
of the war the Diggers made a very wel-
come addition to their six bob by selling
Fritz souvenirs to the Yanks. At the Con.
Camp at Havre a roaring trade was also
done with the Base wallahs. An automatic-
pistol brought 100 francs, an Iron Cross
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT.
“Tommy, can you let me have three pounds? I want to” —
“Uh! There you go again. It’s nothing hut money—money-
money! When I’m gone you’ll he a beggar."
“Well, darling, I’ll be lots better off than some poor women who
have never had to do it before.”
SO, and so on down the scale till it came
to a set of German tunic-buttons, for which
a couple of frogs were demanded. Some of
our chaps were almost making the war pay
when the Armistice arrived. There was,
for instance, Tich, sft. and a bit, who had
nosed into a German dugout after the battle
of Hamel seeking loot. Striking a match,
he was horrified to discover 13 burly Saxons
in a corner; but before he could retreat all
13 upended their arms and chanted in unison
“Mercy, Kamarad!” .The spectacle of the
diminutive captor leading 13 six-foot prison-
ers to the rear was one of the select sights of
the war. Incidentally, Tich afterwards
sold to the Yanks eight watches, three auto-
matics, one Iron Cross and a host of sun-
dries.
* * * *
“Cold Shivers” : You can still get a lot of
excitement in Central Europe. Lately a dozen
army officers in uniform called at the Von-
tanta Alba monastery in Roumania, and were
invited to a meal. “Immediately after the
banquet they drew revolvers and ordered the
monks into the dungeons. They looted the
monastery of money, plate and vestments,
and then stripped and flogged the monks,
w'ho cursed them.”
It’s only natural, of course;
And if I was a priest I would
Until my very throat grew hoarse
Curse my assaulters hard and good ;
But just how did these poor monks curse—
By “Dash!” and “Blanky blank!” and “Hell!”
Or did they painfully rehearse
Such rites as go with book and bell?
I’d like to hear a holy monk
Explode in manner crisply terse
With “blank,” “dash,” “asterisk” and “skunk”
Sung in intensely blanky verse.
Yet, whilst those monks squirmed ’neath the thong,
Whatever way their cursings came —
By holy rite or language strong—
I bet the meaning was the same!
* * * «
“J.K.”: The most horrible bit of bud luck
that I ever saw attach itself to a man in
the witness-box arrived years ago in an
Adelaide inquiry into a collision between
the coasting steamer Bulimba and the tramp
boat Maritta. The pilot who was in charge
of the Maritta said that he heard the master
of the Bulimba (Jack Ilositter) give the
order to starboard, and that he clearly saw
the man at the wheel pull the wheel over to
starboard. Ilositter (who died at Thursday
Island a few years ago) was conducting his
own case. lie asked the pilot if he was
certain of what he had sworn. The witness
said he was. The skipper turned to the
Board with: “My ship lias no wheel she
steers with a tiller.” The pilot collapsed.
The Bulimba and Waroonga, sister ships,
were the only vessels I have seen steered
with a tiller controlling the hydraulic pres-
sure by which the steering gear is worked.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”: I agree that you couldn’t beat
Sydney for cheap meals 20-odd years ago
(B. 10/7/’24). I can even remember one
place in George-
street, near the old
Ilaymarket Post
Office, where a
three-course meal
was to be had for
3d. For 9d. other
restaurants offered
four courses, while
on Saturdays yon
took your girl to
dinner at Hart’s
Marine Cafe on the
Quay, and felt a
warm glow of ex-
travagance at pay-
ing a shilling for
three courses. The
old A.B.C. and Bau-
mann’s, in Pitt-
street, ran four
courses (with
music) for one and
six, but their
patrons were
mostly bloated aris-
tocrats like bank
managers and com-
pany directors. At
the other end of
the social and culi-
nary scale was a
joint run by an
Italian in Rowe-
street where every-
thing was priced
at Id., plate of peas
and chips, slice of
bread and butter,
cup of tea or coffee,
piece of fried fish,
or saveloy; eggs
fried or boiled were
a penny each. The
generation of to-
day can’t believe
that in those times
a man could feed
well and have a
pint of beer on 6d.
a day, but he
could. And we worked overtime as a regu-
lar thing for 6d. tea-money, and did well
enough to go to the outer at Kenso. on
Saturdays and lash up 18 pence.
* * * *
“Wing”: When Fritz was making his
push, we found an almost deserted country-
side around Vaire. But there were fowls
left in the farmyards, and one evening one
of our Fifth Divvy cooks formed himself into
a foraging expedition. At the fowlslied lie
came upon two Eighth Brigade chaps each
with a freshly-killed cockerel under his arm.
The cook was a man of resource; gesticulat-
ing he exclaimed : “No bon ! No bon !” “Do
these fowls belong to you, Monsieur?” asked
A REAL MARATHON CHAMPION.
SHE (returning from meeting) : “It's not
often I’m so outspolcen as I was this
afternoon.”
He ( startled ) : “ Goodness! Who outspoke
you ?”
the surprised pair. “Oui!” The marauders
put down their plunder and walked sheep-
ishly away. For a long time after that,
whenever a Fifth Divvy man met an Eighth
Brigader, he would jocularly inquire: “Do
these fowls belong to you, Monsieur?”
(Continued on page 16.)
CHOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gent., 24, good permanent position, tall, wishes to
meet young Lady, about 20, nice appearance, fond
dancing, view above. , Aon office.”
In the bright scheme of my romance
There is no thought of pans or pots;
I only want a girl to dance
With me. We’ll lightly blend our lots
And in our never-ending play
We’ll jazz life’s giddy hours away.
We’ll waltz round trouble when it comes,
High-kick at tradesmen and their bills,
While life for us in gladness strums
The melodies that joyance spills;
And when it comes to lunch or tea,
A two-step will suffice for me.
Let those seek cooks who want to eat,
A chambermaid can make a bed;
A lady with light, twinkling feet
Will be the lover I shall wed.
I want my wife to dance, that’s all—-
To dance whatever tune I call.
VICTORIA.
H. H.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£319 2 1
D. McLeod, Hol.voake .. .. .. 1 ® S
Bulletin Boys, No. 1 .. .. .. 1° “
£320 17 '
Contributions should be addressed to Tin
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
''TV
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes' Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
'■'“■‘Ww.^3s
For festive occasions
—Champagne Delbeck.
SPECIAL occasions of festivity are appropri-
ately graced by this right royal champagne.
Offer Champagne Delbeck, and Epicuros
himself could do no more. As supplied to the
Ancient Court of France, and to the Royal
Courts of Belgium, Spain and Sweden. Obtain-
able at leading hotels. If you have difficulty in
getting Delbeck write direct to the exclusive
agents.
Importers of Young’s Mountain Dew Whisky, Raynal
Cognacs, Guinness’s Stout, Liqueurs Vlahov and many
more of the spirits of the living.
GATTINO 8 CO. LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney.
“Sixenate”: The Victorian habit of giving
amateur justices the right, by weight of
numbers, to over-rule a stipendiary produces
some hilarious results. Too often it means
that when a man is popular in the quarters
that count it is as easy for him to avoid
the penalties for breaches of the minor laws
as it is hard for him to avoid them when
.lie lias no friends upon the Bench. Not
long since there was a betting prosecution
in a Melbourne police-court, at the close of
which the P.M. was moved to remark
severely that the defendant only escaped be-
cause a majority of the Bench favored acquit-
tal. And about a week ago a man who
was charged with exceeding the motor-car
speed-limit and the whisky safety-mark was
acquitted by the vote of seven J’s.P. in a
Bench of eleven, the P.M. being among the
minority. I happened to strike the celebra-
tion that followed. “A man would be a
mean hound,” one of the Shallows confided
to me, “if hg wasn’t prepared to give up a
morning to help a good chap like Blank
out of trouble.”
* •* # *
“Long ’Un”: September, 1917, found the
N.Z. Mounted Brigade camped on the beach
at Belah (Palestine) for a month’s rest be-
fore the storming of Beerslieba and Jerusa-
lem. The days were all sunshine, the break-
ers perfect, and our only hardship that the
rations were cruelly short. Thrice daily we
lined up at the cookhouse for our bit of
bacon or spoonful of -stew. One day four
gamblers, engrossed in a tardy opening jack-
pot, missed their noon meal. A complaint
was made to the Colonel, who came over
and taxed the cook with negligence. “Look
here, Brady,” he said, “when there’s so little
for so many men you must see that each
man gets his share.” “If they’re playin’
THE EYE OF WOMAN.
“And did you get the number of the car that killed Fido?”
"No, I hadn't time. But I can identify every garment that the
horrid woman had on.”
poker when I’m ready, it’s not my fault,
is it?” grumbled the cook. “What you
should do,” said the Old Man, “is to have
some pre-arranged signal for meals. Sing
out, man. or give them some understood
call.” “Spare me days!” spluttered the
aggrieved food-manipulator, “what do you
think a man is? A cook or a flamin’ cuckoo?”
* * * *
“I. R. Wynne” : After the Evacuation our
O.C. at Tel-el-Kebir caught the best-turned-
out-man-on-parade idea (B. 7/8/’24) from a
Tommy squadron near by and tried it on his
little lot. The first day it worked admirably,
the whole quota turning out in a way that
made the O.G.’s eyes glisten. Unfortunately
the next parade found one man so far ahead
that the S.M. took a tumble. The quota had
decided that to “spit and polish decently was
a fair enough thing, but they’d be blank well
blanked if they were going to spend all their
time off Iviwi-ing up for nothing.” Accord-
ingly they had tossed up as to who should get
off, and had all got to work on the winner’s
gear. The competition didn’t survive the
incident, or the exposure of it.
“N emo” : Did
anyone meet a
cooler Fritz than
this one ? It was
at an aerodrome at
Savy. Just about
dusk we sighted a
Hun machine com-
ing in to land. We
reckoned at once
he'd lost his way
and thought he was
behind his own
lines. We hur-
ried in to our
machines to inter-
cept him if he
should take off
again after realis-
ing his mistake.
Instead, after land-
ing, he taxied
straight up to the
hangars, shut off
his engine, and
climbed out. “Good
evening,” he said
pleasantly. “Any-
one got a cigarette
handy? Thanks. I’ll
make you a present
of the ’bus. I’m
fed up with this
war. Do you
mind wiring for a
suite of rooms at
Donington Hall for
me?”
“Centurion”: “Gouger” (B. 7/8/’24) re-
fers to the “wonderful sand-resisting mechan-
ism” of the Turkish rifle, which renders cloth
bolt- and breech-covers unnecessary. Jacko’s
rifle was, in fact, a German Mauser, made of
German steel in Germany. The Unspeakable
was as fond of using breech clonts for his
gun as we were; but the Mauser bolt, prac-
tically a solid cylinder of plain steel working
in a very simple bearing, was a bit less
likely to hold the sand than that of the Lee-
En field short rifle, with its steel bolt-cover.
Writer, who served with the Anzac Mounted
Division, has frequently seen cloth covers on
Turkish rifles, particularly when the owners
were coming in to surrender, as they did in
numbers at El Ar-isli. A frightful lot of tosh
is talked about the Turk’s wonderful soldierly
qualities. Beyond a capacity to live and
travel on what we would consider poor tucker
and his religious fanaticism, those qualities
amount to very little.
* * # *
“The Deacon” : Undoubtedly large numbers
of prisoners become R.C.’s for the period of
their incarceration,
but I question
whether it is be-
cause priests gen-
erally take more in-
terest in their
“patients” than the
usual run of sin-
sliifters (B.
24/7/’24). For
many years in the
earlier history of
Australia’s gaols
the warders were
mostly Irish and
R.C., and the y
might be expected
to look a trifle more
sympathetically on
fellow- worship-
pers at the same
altar. Old hands
knew this, and
traded on it. Also
the fact, in later
years, of R.C.’s be-
ing governors of big
gaols like Parra-
matta and Long
Bay would influ-
ence the creed of
their guests con-
siderably. And. of
course, it has helped to swell the R.C.
returns that the padre is usually a
good chap who often knows a bit about
racing and isn’t above passing his invalu-
able information along.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: There were other encour-
agements for the spick-and-span in the A.I.F.
besides the chance of dodging guard duty.
At the Sutton Veny camp the smartest-
turned-out men on certain parades were given
special leave and passed into a so-called
“model platoon.” which became ironically
known as the “leadswingers’ brigade.” The
title showed how far the design of the mili-
tary heads went astray : their “good soldiers”
were often the men who would go to any
trouble to avoid getting on draft to France,
for it was reckoned that members of the
model platoon, which was useful for cere-
rnonial occasions, had a certain immunity.
Meanwhile others, fearful of engendering a
suspicion that they were qualifying for the
despised unit, deliberately slacked. The ven-
ture helped to confirm the widely-held article
of belief among Diggers that the brightest
ornament of the parade-ground was likely
A WOMAN OF HER WORD.
OLD LOVER ( chidingly) : “You used to,say you wouldn’t marry the
best man living.”
NEW MATRON (sadly) : “Well, I didn’t.”
to bo a poor soldier in the field. I remember
the disgust of a platoon sergeant in France
when he inspected a badly-need reinforce-
ment of two men. “They might as well not
have given us any reinforcement at all,” he
commented bitterly—“these two blankards
wore in the model platoon.” Yet one of these
men got the M.M. later; the other poor chap
earned his halo on his second night in the
line.
* * * *
“Hamer” : One of the devices employed by
the Melbourne police after the Caulfield
murder-horror was the staging of a psycho-
logical drama designed to play upon the
nerves of a suspect against whom there was
no actual evidence. Past the place where
the man lived a car laden with police
looking prodigiously busy passed several
times a day; uniformed men stopped in his
sight to glance over and discuss the news-
boards displaying the headlines about the
murder; between whiles detectives issued
such statements as “It is looking very black
against a certain man.... He has not the
slightest inkling that we suspect him. .. .He
is walking about, oblivious of our net closing
about him.” It was an indirect application
of third-degree methods calculated to inflict
torture upon the man who knew himself to
be guilty, and to drive him into preparations
for bolting. But such methods have their
drawbacks. They are as liable to affect a man
who is not guilty as much as one who is
guilty.
* * * *
“Verri”: An Auckland woman, wife of
an ex-mariner, had an unusual experience
the other day. Nearly 20 years ago her
husband brought to her from one of his island
cruises a pair of weighty and enormous
shells. These lay beside the steps of her
home for several years, and one night dis-
appeared, evidently wheeled off in a barrow.
A few weeks ago the sometime owner at-
tended church in the evening, and listened
to an excellent sermon on “Restitution.”
Another member of the congregation must
have taken it to heart, too, for next morn-
ing the missing shells were back in their
places after a ten years’ absence, and one
of them had the word “Restitution” scrawled
across the smooth inside in lead-pencil. A
single wheelmark on the path suggested that
the exhibits had come back in the barrow
that removed them.
* * * *
“Picket”: Coming out of the vast brick
cathedral which overshadows Newcastle
(N.S.W.) on a recent Sunday morning, I
encountered a brigadier-general of the late
war whom I nearly had the honor of sending
to his account in the previous one. It was
outside Bloemfontein, when Christian de Wet
was making a name for himself as a guerilla
leader. The lonely Cossack Post on the
Thaba N Chu-road which was under my
direction as an “indelible” corporal was sud-
denly startled in the starry midnight by the
rapidly approaching hoof-beats of a gallop-
ing horse and a harsh and frequently re-
peated command to “Hands up!” Throwing
my carbine to my shoulder, I fired at the big
horseman looming dimly above the skyline of
the veldt, little doubting that the next
moment would reveal half a dozen of his
friends following in his dusky wake, intent
upon the scuppering of a British outpost. To
my astonishment the man fired at abruptly
reined in his horse, and yelled a startled
“My God!” It was merely Major H. 0. T.
Toddy, of the N.S.W. Carabineers, let us
say, returning from a pleasant evening at the
Bloemfontein Club, and full of sportiveness
and Vanderhum. The bullet knocked his hel-
met off, and cleared the brain it had so nar-
rowly missed scattering on the grass. A
chastened joker very handsomely testified
that the procedure of the picket had been
perfectly correct; and we recalled it all as
we smoked our pipes in the churchyard near
the mouth of our native river.
* * * *
“Shed Hand” : During the war-time sugar-
shortage supplies were imported from Java
to W.A. in dirty-looking sacks. A number of
these contained inferior brown sugar, which
became moist and exuded, making such a
mess of the whole shipment that every bag
had to be opened to see the quality of the
sugar inside. One firm in Perth sent a man
to the goods-shed to stitch a small square of
red cloth on every bag that had passed muster.
The carrier was a sturdy patriot, and, know-
ing nothing about the arrangement, became
inflamed at the sight of the tags. “Disloyal
propaganda!” he shouted. “I’ll have none
of their red-flag tricks on my lorry,” and
promptly tore the offending emblems off.
What the boss said had to be strained.
* * * *
“Herodot”: Not all Sydney beche-de-mer
is exported for the Chinese market (B.
7/S’/24) ; some of it finds its waytorestau
rant tables in the city. A cafe near the
Chinese quarter first added it to the memi
. regularly, and to-day it is possible to obtain
the stuff at half a dozen eating-houses. I
am told that the salty tang of the dish makes
it specially popular with drunks; some
even predict that it is destined to displace
the lobster and the cray in the regard of,
inked-up citizens. In that case an exten-
sive trepang industry may yet be developed
in Sydney, with the slug on every bill-of-
fare. But I incline to doubt it. A liking
for beclie-de-mer is an acquired disease, and
with many people it is not acquired easily.
HOW IT HAPPENED.
“Oh, I am so sorry to hear you had an
accident! Please tell me how it hap-
pened.”
“Well, I was listening to Bumpkins. I was
hanging to every word he was saying,
an’ then”
“And then?”
“And then his voice broke — haw-haw!”
AN EXCITING LIFE.
[FOR THE BUĹETIN.]
The palpitating Melbournite sets out for home at
night
With all his banknotes in his socks, his watch
pinned to his shirt.
With fearful looks he probes the shades that gather
left and right,
Ready to loose the yell for aid he bears “at the
alert,”
Hot knowing when he’ll hear “Bail up!” or suddenly
be mobbed,
For no one knows in Melbourne when he’s going
to be robbed.
Maybe you chance to lose j our way in some suburban
street
Where, when they light the street lamps up, the
darkness really starts.
You stop to put a question to the first man that you
meet,
And only hear his startled yell as, running, he
departs,
Or, desperate, he falls on you, and you are roughly
“jobbed” ;
For no cna knows in Melbourne when his turn is
to be robbed.
VICTORIA.
HAMER.
ETHYL CHLORIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, what are the words to that old sweet tune,
“Pierrot, pierrot, au elair de la lune”?
Runs through my dreaming the line of a song,
“Love me little, and love me long.’’
Sweetheart, about you the sunbeams are dancing!
How brightly your eyes smile, inviting, entrancing!
I wish I might know where the shadows all go,
Whispering gently and murmuring low.
Glimmering lights seem to flicker about,
Waver and die: the wind blows them out.
Lift me, oh lift me! Dear God, give me air!
“Hold him, Sister !... .Quickly there!”
VICTORIA.
BRIAN C. FITZPATRICK.


&
A
“Metrovick”
Electric Motors
BRITISH MADE.
Are simple and rugged
in construction and are
obtainable in all sizes,
A.C. or D.C.
ħ
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Newcastle, Brisbane and. Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Sa.fecy c uio
Detonators
Cartridg;**
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
13
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-5C3 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
Sydney,
Hamilton Street.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank oe Australia :
, —Dividends. y
Pref. Written
June, Profits. (4 p.c.) Ordinaries. Off. Reserves.
£ £ A. £
1915.. 109,394 84,694 Nil 25,000 9,576
1916.. 129.526 84,694 Nil 45,000 9,408
1917.. 693 84,694 Nil 50,000 9,407
National Bank of Tasmania purchased.
1918.. 145.773 84,694 Nil 60,000 10,486
1919.. 268 84,694 Nil 80.000 13,060
1920.-197,892 84,694 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659 ) i o 000
1921.. 772 84,694 15 p.ct=£ll, ol4 251,659 j ’
Premiums on new shares, £134,275 1 209
1922.. 080 84,694 15 p.c.= 37,773 211,001 j ’
Premiums on new shares, £14,934 I , jog
1923.. 234.418 84,694 15 p.c.= 52,081 10.000 (
Premiums on new shares, £158,051 j 4-J4 954
1924.. 542 84,694 15 p.e.= 57,732 10,000 J
Another big parcel of the 10s. ordinaries was
offered to both classes of shareholders m
December last—one for every two profs, or
ordinaries held—and was eagerly snapped up
at 100 p.c. premium. Though at that price
the scrip returns only 7 i p.c., proprietors
were alive to possibilities; so also w T as the
market, because at the time of issue the
ordinaries were bought at from 31s. to 335.
Lately they have been fetching around 28s.
The big draw is the prospect of better re-
turns in future, probably not by the lifting
of the div. rate above 15 p.c., but from
the rights proprietors have of adding to hold-
ings in the future at prices which will make
the 15 p.c. divs. more remunerative. The
C.B.A. is extraordinarily well conditioned to
pay good divs. on ordinaries provided nothing
serious happens in the securities branch,
because the bank has the use of £2,117,350
of pref. capital carrying only 4 p.c. p.a., and
any surplus earnings of these funds accrue
to ordinaries, and are available for reserves
and divs. Even when the latest lot of ordi-
naries are fully paid there will be only
£580,224 of them to feed. After striking
£lO,OOO off the book value of bank premises
and providing the pref. divs., for the past
12 months there was £169,848 of disclosed
profit left, equal to 29.3 p.c. on total ordi-
nary capital when fully called, but that
won’t be till towards the end of this year.
With the additional funds the bank is, there-
fore, visibly earning twice as much as the
15 p.c. divs. require; and probably it is
putting something in its private stocking to
protect its 14 millions of securities. Until a
little over two years ago profits were filling
the cracks which had disfigured the C.B.A.
since the crash in the ’nineties ; that accounted
for the large amounts written off and the
slenderness of reserves. Portion of the pre-
miums on new shares —£413,919 has flowed
in that way since 1920—extinguished the last
of the outstanding losses, and, taking into
account the unpaid premiums on the latest
issue, by the next balance visible reserves
should exceed a half-million.
The great progress made by the C.B.A. in
10 years is shown by the next table: —
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1915 .. £293,972 £i33,310 £51,268
1918 .. 352,477 154,399 52,304
1919 .. 405,071 170,558 64,245
1920 .. 481,757 202,479 76,387
1921 607,261 278,831 90,658
1922 . . 648.062 317,581 102,400
1923 .. 676.210 336.076 105.715
1924 .. 762,325 368,157 129,626
*i. css taxes and provision for contingencies.
The expansion of earnings has been much
greater than figures in the first column sug-
gest, because gross profits are shown less
taxes, which are cutting deeper into earn-
ings than in the earlier years of the table.
The next comparisons show how balance-
sheet groups have moved over two five-year
periods:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1919. 1924.
Notes .. .. £21,053 £71,517 £98,371
Bills, etc. . . 868,826 377,909 1,089,361
Free deposits . . 3,912,537 6,669,835 9,206,247
Fixed deposits . . 3,256,251 5,385,396 8,252,807
Old debts . . 56,601 Nil
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 3,975,199 3,997,750 7,280,614
Advances . . 5,171,696 9,733.568 13,915,878
Old bank assets.. 32,000 Nil
Premises .. 420,635 499,095 565,890
The balance-sheet total moved from
£9,5510.529 to £14.230,413 between 1914-19
and to £21,762,383 in the past five years.
Even allowing for the abnormal conditions of
the war period, the C.B.A. has made aston-
ishingly rapid progress. The biggest feature
of the 10-year period has been the replace-
ment of a deficit exceeding three-quarters of
a million by the reserves. These are
of course, still small in relation to paid
capital, but the management is now in a posi-
tion to develop them rapidly out of surplus
profits, and. perhaps, from premiums on new
share issues. If the growth of figures dur-
ing the past 12 months is maintained,
an invitation to shareholders to provide more
funds may be less distant than is generally
expected. ‘ When all calls and premiums are
in towards the end of this year, the C.B.A.
will have approximately £0 of the public s
money in its care for every £1 of its own
funds. Meanwhile, the lending connection
has been so expanded that at June 30 last
only a little more than 39 p.c. of all liabili-
ties was held in liquid form compared with
43 p.c. 12 months back. The management
cannot hope to lend much more unless share-
holders supply additional funds or unless de-
posits are substantially increased. At .Tune
30 approximately 11k millions of the pub-
lic's money was out on loan, and that lot had
the backing of advances with a book value
£13.915,878 and of premises written down
to £565,890. More than one-fifth of those
values couid disappear before the security
for any of the public's money would be in
doubt.
* * * *
The Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. senes. Reserves.
1915. . £37,001 13J p.c. =£28,162 £8,839 £53,797
1916.. 80,240 13b „ 28,162 2,083 50,880
191/.. 28,436 13i „ ~ 28,162 274 56,154
1918.. 30,168 13| „ „ 28,162 2.006 58,160
1919.. 27,752 13A „ „ 28,162 57,750
1920.. V 13 i „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £ 1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
and also one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 26,411 6 „ „ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 ~ ~ 25.345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ „ 25,345 61 10,859
Though Manly’s ferry co. is paying only 6
p.c. p.a., its scrip is still popular. Having
faith in its capacity to give better divs. later
on, buyers have for a long while been offering
up to Is. premium for the £1 shares paid to
15s. Latest disclosed profits, which were
only a few pounds more than was required
for the 6 p.c., do not appear to warrant the
market’s optimism, particularly as they were
considerably less than those for the previous
12 months. True earnings may, however,
be very different from those shown in the
published accounts, which have never dis-
closed how much the directors have periodi-
cally laid aside for depreciation and contin-
gencies. The market knows that the direc-
tors were habitual offenders in the past in
over-allowing for wastage of assets, because
on several occasions the storage of profits not
disclosed by the published accounts provided
liberal helpings of bonus scrip. The gen-
eral impression is that the management is
still providing very liberally for depreciation,
and a comparison of balance-sheet figures
supports that opinion :
1922. 1923. 1924.
Liquid assets .. £45,961 £43,143 £58,948
Liabilities . . . . 47,432 39,944 17,002
Excess liabilities. . £1,471 —-
Surplus assets . . £3,199 £41,946
Fixed assets .. £440,525 £442,694 £404,010
Though a final payment on the newest
steamer was made after the issue of the 1922
accounts, and though visible surplus profits
have been slender, in two years a small excess
of debt over and above liquid assets had been
replaced by a surplus of liquid assets of
almost £42,000. A little of that accumula-
tion was no doubt won by sending one of
the oldest packets to the knackers, but the
balance has been the storage of cash after
maintaining the fleet and equipment in tip-
top condition. After paying the latest div.,
in two years the liquid position had been
improved by £43,417, and as that is more than
half the cost of any of the steamers, the lay-
by is obviously fully providing for fleet-
replacements and renewals. The main point
to consider, however, is whether the heavy
writing-down of the book values of the fleet
has not been necessary in order to put the
co. on solid foundations again. In the 1920
reconstruction —that was at the top of the
boom in shipping values —the Manly fleet
was declared to be worth more than three
times book value, and bonus shares were
issued for the difference. The shrinkage in
construction costs overseas may have caused
the directors to revise their opinion of
the written-up values. Provided the co.
can retain its monopoly of the service,
which it should do if it behaves itself, the
main consideration in weighing the I\ J. and
Manly as an investment is its prospective
earning capacity after allowing adequately
for renewals and steamer replacements. So
far it appears to have earned 6 p.c. on the
greatly enlarged capital quite easily ; and all
going well it seems reasonable to expect
something better as the Manly district popu-
lation grows. Rut the investor cannot ex-
pect a repetition of the magnificent returns
won by shareholders who became interested
up to a dozen years ago.
The Port Jackson Investment and
Insurance Co., Ltd.: —
Dividends.
Pref. Ordinary Towards
June, Surplus. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1921 . . £14,857 £8448 £360 1 £5279 £11>729
Preliminary exes, written on, 1 0 )
1922 . . 11,572 8448 360 2764 8,965
1923 . . 15,405 8448 360 6597 2,368
Reserves.
1924 .. 14,560 8448 360 5752 3,384
This is the pup co. formed by the Manly
directors to undertake their fleet's various
insurance risks, formerly carried by the
parent concern. Fire, workmen’s compensa-
tion and public risk are not likely to bother
it much. Under the Navigation Act the
limit of public risk is fixed at £l2 per ton,
approximately £6OOO per steamer; conse-
quently funds would be liable for about only
£12.000 if two steamers had the misfortune to
collide. The big risk is the possibility of the
co. being called upon to salvage or even re-
place steamers concerned in such a disaster.
Here are details of underwriting since the
commencement: —
Interest
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Earnings.
1921.. £9,378 £7OB £6Ol £6,789
1922.. 8,873 801 3183 6,682
1923.. 9,348 223 2147 7,513
1924.. 9,933 340 3043 8,009
So far the co. has received £67.022 of pre-
miums, and the funds with which it started
and which it has accumulated have produced
£28.993 of interest. Claims have amounted
to only £2072 in four years, and expenses
£8974.* That has given the co. a surplus of
£1*5.470. and after paying 6 p.c. divs. re-
serves have been improved by £15,000-odd.
* * * *
Home Recreations, Ltd., formerly
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Deficit
Dividends N Reduce (Good-
Profits. Pret. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
60,000
1915.. 12.289.6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 4269 55,731
1916.. 8,858 6 „ ~3220 6 ~ „ 3,600 2038 53,693
1917.. 9,793 6 „ „ 3220 8 ~ „ 4,800 1773 51,920
Goodwill items added. £B7 . . 52,007
1918.. 9,988 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 1968 50,039
Goodwill item added, £5 . . 50.04 4
1919.. 13,470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.= 6,000 4100 45,944
Goodwill item added, £65 . . 46,009
1920.. 22,432 6 p.c.=3430 2b p.c.=12,000 7002 39,007
Co. reconstructed. Inner reserves re-
vealed, and capitalised with other
reserves £lO,OOO added to goodwill. . 70,157
1921. .16,365 8 p.c.=8872 8 p.c.= 5855 ( 52 2 69 835
Reconstruction exes, written off, £1316 ( “ ’
Added to goodwill items, £1133 70,968
1922.. 21.289 8 p.c.=9657 8 p.e.= 5.935 5697 65 271
1923.. 8 „ ~9820 8 ~ „ 5,935 7579 57,692
Added to goodwill items, £5238 62,930
1924.. 27,732 8p.c.=13,582 8 p.c.= 6,810 7340 55,590
The rapid expansion of business necessi-
tated the raising of considerable additional
capital during the year. The directors offered
shareholders 75.786 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
with participating Uglits to 10 p.c.. and the
issue was oversubscribed. Shareholders also
had the right to take up at par one new ordi-
nary share for every five prefs. allotted,
but' only 0468 of the 15,157 available
were subscribed. Altogether the new
issues brought in £85,2Q4, and the
management promptly found work for
every penny. Liabilities were reduced by
£23,292: they still amount to £121,105.
Among other movements £0875 net was added
to properties and plant during the 12 months,
£25,188 to stocks and £28,267 to book debts:
1921. 1923. 1924.
Paid capital .. .. £192,637 £199,883 £285,087
Liabilities . . . . 45,570 144,397 121,105
Freeholds and lease-
holds, etc 24,925 70,587 76,122
Plant, etc 13,236 18,478 22,818
Stocks ..' . . .. 67,880 69,251 94,439
Book debts . . . . 70,992 115,955 144,222
Shares in other cos., etc. 475 25,721 26,075
Odds and ends . . . . 923 2,922 4,766
The co. began only 10 years ago by amalga-
mating tw’o billiard-table manufacturing con-
cerns and a high-class furnishing business,
and it has made remarkable progress. At the
first balance (1015) paid capital w r as
£113.664 and only £7535 was owed outside.
Stocks were valued at £20,554, leases and
plant at £12.198 and book debts amounted to
£39.605. In nine years the balance-sheet
total has gone from £132,684 to £443.303.
Meanwhile gross profits from manufacturing
and trading have soared from £19.411 to
£69.355. Numerous side-lines have been added
to the business, in particular an Australian-
made music-machine, and branches and agen-
cies have been established in other States. I lur-
ing the current year the directors propose to
invade Maoriland. The co. has paid good
divs. consistently, and, though the rate is now
only 8 p.c., the return to early supporters is
very sweet on account of the allotments of
bonus scrip in the reconstruction. So far
good margins of surplus profit have been
left after paying divs., and last year’s net
earnings were £4925 more than 8 p.c. on
the enlarged capital will require. This is all
the better because one-half of the new funds
was not in until w T ell past the middle of the
financial year. Provided the public continues
to be in a position to buy luxuries on the
scale of recent times, there are prospects,
then, of better returns from Home Recrea-
tions.
Tlie feature of the prefs. as an investment
is the size of pref. capital in relation to ordi-
nary funds. In the 1920 reconstruction prefs.
were issued to the value of all tangible
assets, and ordinaries were represented
wholly by goodwill. The new cash-paid
ordinaries and accumulated surpluses have
made some difference, of course, but even
now the balance-sheet shows that £55,590 of
the £85,137 of ordinary capital is repre-
sented by intangibles. It is probable, though,
that the'book values of some assets are sub-
stantially less than their actual worth. The
participating rights of the prefs. ate their
principal attraction, and each pref. share
has the backing of not quite 235. of tangible
assets.
* * * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual
Building, Land and Investment Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves,
1914.. £3119 7 p.c. = £1793 £57 £7,611
1915. . 2924 7 ~ „ 1793 89 8,653
1916.. 2913 / „ 1793 424 9,349
1917.. 2812 7 ~ 1793 194 10,174
1918.. 2973 7 „ „ 1793 029 10,725
1919.. 3163 7 ~ „ 1793 224 11,871
1920.. ,3272 7 ~ ~ 2006 216 12.921
1921.. 3100 7 ’,, ~ 2218 2 13,801
1922.. 4162 7 ~ ~ 2379 15,584
1923.. 3631 8 „ „ 2806 16,409
1924.. 4333 8 „„ 3120 17,622
This little building co. increased its lendings
by almost £7OOO during the 12 months ended
June, and it handled the larger business
without extra cost. Net interest earnings were
£SOO' better, and as the return from proper-
ties was only slightly less, the net profit
improved by £7OO on the previous 12 months.
During the year £4300 more capital was
raised to enlarge the business. The New-
castle and County Mutual was one of the
cos. that went through the fires of the 'nine-
ties, and for a long time it had a big string
of unproductive properties on its hands. The
establishment of tliei B. 11. Prop, steelworks
and other industrial enterprises so revived
the coal city’s property values that the co.
was able to shake free of most of the burden
and invest the proceeds more profitably. In
10 years net returns have grown one-third
larger.
The next table shows movements over 14
years:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1922. 1923. 1924.
££££££
Deposits 16,133 25,451 19,095 20,103 17,865 18,617
Other lia-
bilities 2,710 4,649 10,305 3,021 12,454 12,550
Advances 34,941 54,507 64,718 68,098 78,359 85,231
Property 15,306 10,866 7,724 5,407 4,727 4,886
War Loan 1,000 1,000 1,000 350
The figures in the first line illustrate the
difficulty building cos. have experienced in
attracting cheap deposits against the competi-
tion of liigh-rate Government securities, etc.
At June 30 22 p.c. of advances were financed in
this way. compared with 30 p.c. two years
ago. The co. was doing a lot of business
on a bank overdraft (£12,000), and there
cannot be much profit on that lot. More-
over, dependence on temporary finance for
long-distance loans is not desirable. The
book values of advances and properties—
there are no liquid assets worth speaking of
—represent nearly £3 for every £1 of outside
debt, so values would have to slump badly
before creditors’ security would be in doubt.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1914.. £3368 11p.e.=£2200 £ll6B £17,766
1915.. 3366 11 „ „ 2200 1166 18,922
1916.. 3182 11 „ „ 2200 982 19,904
1917.. 3109 11 „ „ 2200 909 20,813
1918.. 3444 11 „ „ 2200 1244 22.057
1919.. 4152 11 „ „ 2200 1952 24,009
1920.. 3660 11 „ ~ 2200 1460 25,469
Transferred to capital, £5OOO 20,469
1921.. 4465 11 p.c. = 2750 1715 22,184
1922.. 5309 11 ~ „ 3333 1976 24,160
1923.. 5380 11 „ „ 3438 1942 26,102
1924.. 6790 12 „ „ 3750 2040 28,142
The book value, of estates in this little co.’s
care now exceeds £4,000,000. Progress was
for a long time very slow, but the co. has
extended its field in recent years. A branch
was established in Geelong in 1917 and
another in Melbourne four years later.
These moves have been so successful that,
though the Ballarat Trustees began 37 years
back, one-fourth of the present volume of
estates in trust has been harvested in the
past four years. Gross profits have ex-
panded from £BO3l to £17,861 in 10 years,
but exes, have advanced quicker: they
now take 67 p.c. of all earnings compared with
56 p.c. in 1914. The growth of exes, is no
doubt partly accounted for by the pioneering
work in the new fields; both branches are
still more or less in the development stage
and their businesses cannot be contributing
much to profits yet. Last year’s net profit
gave almost 19 p.c. on £31,250 of paid capi-
tal. which, by the way, is assisted by £28.142
of reserves; so there was a substantial lay-
by after the div. rate had been lifted a point
to 12 p.c. The co.’s own investments at
June 30 were: Public securities, £40,153:
cash, £3663: and premises and equipment
(cost £l2 906) written down to £11,576.
The £46,000-odd of Government securities
(Continued on page 19.)


LOOK AFTER YOUR ENEMIES— NEVER MIND YOUR FRIENDS.
is airangin loans to Germany anil treaties with Russia to enable them to re-establish their industries, the Overseas Dominions have begged in vain for preference, and over a million of the house population cry as vainly for work.”


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOB JULY.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Allen Taylor
Argus Building Society
Assurance & Thrift
Australian Federal and
General Life
Australian Forests
Australian Glass Manu-
facturers
Automobile Insurance of
Australia
Bank of New Zealand
Blue Check Omnibuses
Colonial Mutual Life
Coogee Ocean Pier
Co-operative Insurance of
Australia
Cotton Development and
Machinery
Edwards Dunlop
Electric Light & Power
Supply Corp.
Garratts, Ltd.
Gibson & Howes
Goldsbrough Mort
Jllawarra Blue Metal
Hotel Metropole
Loch Catherine Collier/
Manufacturers’ Mutual
Insurance
Marchants, Ltd.
Marcus Clark (Victoria)
Mark Foy’s
Max Wurcker
May Bros. & J. H. Jones
Melbourne Motor Services
Mclb.-Suburban ’Buses
Mt. Morgan
Nepean Sand & Gravel
New Companies
New Registrations
New Share Issues
Patience & Nicholson
People’s Prudential Assu-
rance
Prospectuses
Robert Harper
Singapore Hume Pipe
Swallow & Ariell
Walter Reid
On sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s, Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Office. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- per copy; or 22/C per annuir,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
# * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.-— Advt. 13
Pioneer Wood Pipe is the most practical conduit
the market offers. It will carry all sorts of fluids
safely without corroding. It is light, to handle, simple
to instal, cheap to buy, and incurs no upkeep. Pro-
gressive engineers now always investigate the suita-
bility of Pioneer Wood Pipe for the job in hand
before making specifications. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
Oil and Mining Companies.—Why waste thousands
in sinking on a “dud” ? I locate oil, minerals and
water with absolute certainty. Clark Kennedy,
Phillip Island, Victoria. — Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
“National” Vertical and Horizontal Gas Engines.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines, Traction Engines
and Road Rollers. “Foden” Steam Waggons.
“Multimix” Concrete Mixers and Road-making Mach-
inery. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Goldsbrough House, Sydney; Collins
House, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel requirements.— Advt.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining and
Smelting Company, Ltd.
(IN LIQUIDATION).
"P ENDERS will be received up to 5 p.m. on
1 MONDAY, 29th SEPTEMBER. 1924, for the
purchase of the CEMENTATION PLANT, with full
equipment, for treatment of Residues at MOONTA
MINES, with Freehold Land and Mineral Leases.
Inspection can he arranged.
Full particulars obtainable from:—
THE SECRETARY TO THE LIQUIDATORS,
Steamship Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Postal Address; Box 414 0.P.0., Adelaide.
No tender necessarily accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Liquidators and
marked “Cementation Tender.”
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Your 3
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered bv
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
TIIOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
XIIE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking- out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
r
v
YG
3 O ORDJtS OK
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
4
• Swift & Company Lt<l., Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident, Weikmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops. Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at J>.«>\vest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY ANI) EQUITABLY SETTLED. m
AGENTS IN AEE PRINCIPAL COUNTRI TOWNS.
SYDNEY 11. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POP 1 -', General Manager.
contributed only £1720 net to latest profits,
which is slightly less than 4 p.c. But funds
are so large in relation to paid capital that
even that poor return gives almost 8 p.c. on
paid capital.
* * *
Teddy Dyason’s Gold Producers’ Associa-
tion is beginning to wonder whether its days
of usefulness are not coming to an end.
The dollar-sternng exchange rate so recovered
in recent weeks that the value of gold tell
4s. per oz. (line). “If the present upward
movement of the dollar-sterling exchange con-
tinues,” the Association’s latest circular says,
“the premium on gold will fall below the
cost of realisation, which is very heavy on
account of the high charge of (555. p.c. made
by the bankers for transferring the proceeds
of sales from London to Australia.” This
levy is equal to 9d. per sovereign and 2s. per
oz. (fine), and if there is no reduction “it
may become unprofitable in the near future
to export gold.” #
Lake View and Star (W.A.) broadcasts
the good news in London that as a result
of reduced water costs and lower wages a
lot of low-grade ore hitherto discarded from
the tally of payable reserves can now be
re-included. A few months ago a quarter-
million tons worth 28s. 9d. were reported to
be in sight. Figurings by the co.’s consult-
ing-engineers show that Lake View and Star
has had 800,000 toils payable ore added by
the purchase of the old Ivanhoo mine.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is to be wound up
quickly. At an early date it will distribute
. bout Bs. per share out of the sale of its
liquid assets. This distribution will make
the total amount disbursed by the co. since
its formation at the latter end of 1897 more
than £2O per share.
* * * *
“O.B.” : Despite the praise heaped by Lon-
don directors on the Westralian Government
for the assistance rendered the gold-mining
industry, the exodus to Canada of of
the big cos. which made fortunes at Kal-
goorlie still continues. The luck of the
Associated co. in Ontario has made the
London controllers of other Golden Mile
cos. envious, and most of them have either
decided to go there or are casting longing
eyes in that direction. Ontario is boosting
its mineral resources in the London news-
papers, and has employed prominent mining
spruikers for the campaign.
-X- * * *
Empire Extended had bad luck with the
Salvation mine, Marvel Loch (W.A.), over
which it took an option last year. Driving ran
into a slide, which apparently cut out the
lode, and the option was abandoned. Sub-
sequently the owners, a party of working
miners, re-commenced development, and they
soon picked up the lost shoot. Their returns
since the Empire Extended left to seek new
dominions have totalled IOOOoz. from 900
tons, and a strong body of similar grade is
still ahead.
* * * #
North Kalgurli (W.A.) raked in a few
thousands from royalties during the past
financial year, but exes, absorbed practically
all income. The directors still have faith
in the co.’s Kalgoorlie mine, and they have
decided to push ahead there instead of join-
ing the rush of other English-owned West-
ralian gold-mining cos. to Canada. The
Board recently purchased from the British
Custodian 18.200 enemy-held paid-shares in
the co. for £346.
•* * * *
The Burbanks Oversight Co. got some good
assays from its Coolgardie show for a time,
and prospects seemed so bright that scrip
went to almost 20s. The battery, however,
failed to support the good opinions. Con-
currently with the issue of another batch
of glowing reports, an attempt is being made
to raise fresh capital in Adelaide, though
there is no evidence of an improvement in
the mining position. The co. cannot expect
the issue to be a success unless a favorable
report by an independent expert is provided.
* * * *
The position of the Brilliant Co. (W.A.)
is interesting. Recently it bought the Gnow’s
gold-mine and plant at Yalgoo on terms, and
to cheer up shareholders has been fossicking
for ore for the mill. It has scraped together
a few tons, and claims to have found more.
The next level, according to optimists, is
going to give the co. a big lift. But that is
very doubtful. When the mine was first
offered to the co. a cautious expert was sent
to inspect; he estimated that it would cost
£lO,OOO (including purchase money) to open
up and take out the ore down to the next
level, and that probably not more than £4OOO
would be won. This expert recommended
that the mine be not bought. The directors
resigned shortly after without taking any
action ; but a new crowd immediately com-
menced talking big about prospects, and they
paid a deposit on the show. Glowing reports
have been the order of the day ever since,
and they now claim th,at the mine will pay
for itself in quick time. Evidently the ven-
dors thought otherwise.
* * *• *
Lanarkshire (W.A.) has followed the lead
given by the Paringa and Goldert Butterfly
cos. and has abandoned its options on the
Broad Arrow field. Hard ground and dubious
prospects blasted mining hopes, and, in addi-
tion, not one of the cos. could work up any
market enthusiasm.
* * * *
“Cyanide”: The Perth crowd which has
put up a battery on the May Queen, South-
ern Cross (W.A.), is likely to discover that
the show is not easy. As a producer of ap-
proximately 200 tons soz. ore annually the
May Queen treated a small party of working
miners well, but the size of the gold-bearing-
formation does not warrant a plant. When
the sulphides and their complexities are
reached the new owners will begin to realise
why the old holders let the show go at what
seemed a low price.
* * * *
Prospecting work on Mt. Isa field (Q.) has
confirmed the early opinions that the Black
Star lode is about the best on the field. It
improved slightly in value to SOft., and a
big tonnage of payable ore seems assured.
The Black Rock lode has come into the
running as about the richest, but it does not
give promise of so large a tonnage as the
Star. The Proprietary, banking chiefly on
the Out-on-Her-Own, now has a likely winner
in the Ibus, which has the continuation of
the Black Star lode. Geologist Saint Smith,
who has been superintending operations for
Mt. Isa Mines, has completed a report for
that co.’s Board, and has made a number
of recommendations to guide future testing
prior to his return to las old post in the.
Mines Department. St. Smith says he is
thoroughly satisfied with prospecting down
to 100 ft. Altogether since March 2000 ft. of
sinking, crosscutting and driving has been
done. The job now is to equip several of
the shafts for sinking to about 300 ft. to
ascertain how the ore bodies behave there.
On present indications, he expects them to
go down well, and nothing has happened to
cause him to revise his early good opinion of
the field, which was based wholly on surface
indications. The outstanding feature of the
testing of the lodes so far has been that in
several thousands of assays put through at
Cloncurry scarcely a trace of other minerals
has been associated with the lead and silver.
* * * *
The Theodore Government’s policy of
nationalising the coal industry has badly
pinched good unionists in the Blair Athol
collieries: the operations of the State mines
at Baralaba and the Styx have meant ruina-
tion to that field. Of course, neither of the
State enterprises is working at a profit,
but a desperate effort is now being made
to put the Bowen State colliery on a payable
basis. Blair Athol collieries can mine so
much cheaper than the Styx and Baralaba
that, despite heavier freight charges, they
could secure the local market if the two
former had to trade on their own merits.
As it is, Blair Athol returns are beggarly
now; the pits turned out only 2493 tons
for June, and miners are lucky to get more
than two shifts per week.
* » * *
The value of Queensland’s output of metals
other than gold for the quarter ending June
was £242,389, an increase of £15,949 on the
figures for the same period of 1923. The in-
crease is healthier, because though £25,000
more copper was produced last year,
most of it was won at a loss.
Apart from copper the improvement was
£41,000-odd, and of this lode-tin (chiefly
Ilerberton) put on £13.700. Mt. Isa was
chiefly responsible for silver-lead bouncing up
£23,500. Amongst the returns are 56 tons
cobalt concentrates, worth £11,392, from Mt.
Cobalt.
* * * *■
Sapphire mining has brightened at Anakie
(Q.), following better prices and a change
in grading methods. Ernst Georg, formerly
with Rubin and Co., took up his duties as Gov-
ernment grader in June. There was much dis-
satisfaction With previous grading and buying,
and miners were holding back good-quality
stones. Consequently the official returns
bounded from £694 in' May to £3393 in June.
There have been no notable finds lately of new
gem-bearing gravels; the output is still from
well-worked patches, which are mostly well
manned; so that there is no inducement for
newcomers to try their luck on the field at
present.
* * * *
Adelong- Creek (N.S.W.) has at last dis-
carded its No. 1 dredge; the plant is too
small to get to the bottom in the deeper
ground now being worked. This throws
future work upon No. 2, which last year
shifted 299,800 c. yd. at a cost of 4.45 d. per
yd. There was no profit in that, but as No.
1 had a final flutter in 5.75 d. ground, with
working costs at 5.23 d., the loss for six
months was only £1412. No. 2 plant has
900 ft. of ground ahead, containing about a
million yards drift, which is said to show
better values. It needs to, if the machinery
man is to be kept off. A block of 25 acres
on the top boundary has to be bored. Maybe
the long-expected kick may come from there
instead of from the remaining patch near the
Estate’s fence.
* * * *
Sydney Collieries, Ltd., which was formed
12 months ago to take over the old Balmain
pit and its equipment at a price consider-
ably less than half original cost, has issued
its first lot of accounts. Since production
began in September last 35,550 tons coal
have been hauled, and output is now averag-
ing about 500 tons per day. The co. is at
present working a seam varying from s£t.
to 7ft. thick of “excellent quality and free
from impurities.” The eo. is faced with
considerable expense to improve ventilation,
but much of the work will be. in coal, which
will help.
* * * *
“Fertiliser”: It was during a spell-o in a
stope of one of N.S.W.’s few remaining pay-
able mines, and a prominent Government offi-
cial was dilating upon the theory of ore
deposition and the behavior of ore bodies.
After listening intently to the learned lec-
turer for some time, the old underground
boss chipped in: “Anyway, can you tell us
what manure to use?” “No.” promptly re-
plied the man of theories, “but I can toil
you where not to plant a promising mine,
and that is in Titt-street.”
* * * *
Low-grade wash met while opening up the
new paddock has cut down returns from
Cock’s Pioneer. Eldorado (Vic.) : 302,001)
c. yd. gave 12670 z. gold and 21 tons tin
oxide. The loss on the campaign was £4722,
and the bank now stands behind the mine
to the tune of £8406. Practically a new
mine has to be opened up. All the ground
(6,809,000 yd.) at the north end of Eldo-
rado Creek has been treated, and work will
in future be in deeper ground. The final
paddock north had to be left in a hurry on
account of floods; but it will be tackled later,
because good values show in the face. In
the new paddock only the first floor has had
attention, but the 70ft. run of wash can
new be tackled. Hugh Falconer believes that
while the 30ft. to 50ft. floors in this part
of the lead carry less gold, the general run
of the mine will average better than in the
old alluvial claims lower down. With no
mined ground and timber to work among,
he looks for a satisfactory spin once he gets
the nozzle properly going at 70ft.
■Jt * * *
Mining-men sat up when they heard that
Alan Bowler had induced pals to take up
19,000 10s. shares to try the South Long
Tunnel, Wallialla (Vic.). As a gambling
counter and a position block, the old show
stood by the market for many a day, but
none of the Long Tunnel famous runs of
gold got so far south in Cohen’s reef as to
give the mine other than a patchy career.
Now all eyes are on a dyke cut in Bowler’s
tunnel, and parallel to Cohen’s reef. New
ground will be tested, but outside runs of
stone at Wallialla have always been poor.
* * * *
Fred Tricks, of Melbourne, is reviving in-
terest in the Mt. Painter radium shows, 65
miles from Farina and 411 miles from Adel-
aide, in precipitous and waterless country. A
co. in 1000 shares of £lO each, of which 240
fully-paids go to the vendors and 500 are
offered for subscription at £2 down, is pro-
posed to tackle the proposition. Seven or
eight holes have been sunk, and it is claimed
that uranium ores have been uncovered. The
field’s inaccessibility and consequent trans-
port and labor difficulties are the big
problems.
* * * *
“X2X” : Prospecting for radio-active ores
has hardly ever been seriously attempted in
Australia and New Guinea, but it might
yield valuable results in the latter country.
There are a number of areas in which phos-
phorescent glows are to be seen at night-
time, and these can hardly be due to decom-
posing organic matter in which phosphorus
is present. In one instance the summit of
a mountain is bathed at times in a peculiar
light. More than likely these hitherto un-
explained emanations are due to deposits of
some radio-active mineral, either precious
radium itself or uranium. Certainly sites of
this nature are well worth examination.
* * * *
Associated Oil, Mt. Gambier (S.A.), is
the latest of the oil-seekers to claim to have
found indications of the real stuff. Three
independent analysts have tested samples,
and the verdict is: “Mineral oil, films and
globules, heavy non-saponifiable oil.” The
hole is at present down to 2110 ft., and the
directors propose to push to 3600 ft. or 4000 ft.
to test fully the present site—that is, if
funds are available. At June 30 £4352 cash
was in the till, but £6839 of calls were in
arrears and only £6563 more was callable
(£1023 had been paid in advance), and a lot
of that is in the names of shareholders who
had already defaulted. The Associated was
one of the pioneer drillers in the Mt. Gam-
bier district, but its search is now being
assisted by several other cos. which are test-
ing the locality.
* * * *
“Q.”: “Tethys” (B. 24/7/’24) was adrift
in his bearings on the Paritutu (M.L.) oil-
fields. The latter are two miles W'est of
New Plymouth, in the borough area, and
within half a mile of the wharves at Moturo i,
and within two miles of the G.P.O. The
field s.-e. of New Plymouth, at Tarata, is the
one now to be exploited by the Taranaki
Oil Fields Co. It is 17 miles distant by air-
line, and about 26 by road. Fourteen years
or so ago bores were sunk at Inglewood and
Norfolk-road, 15 miles south, but the Tarata
field hasn’t yet been tackled. Practically
all the work in the past was done west of
the town.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBEIC TRUSTEE,
.Wellington, i\ew Zealand.
V/7
1
SMOKE
EDGEWORTH
TOBACCO
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS (SL CO., Sydney.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service it la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
Mil
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Rowes” Caf§ and Hotel Proprietors,
Brishare.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Some September birthdays:—
G. D. Delprat, 68, on Ist; Prof. Le Gay Brereton
(Syd.), 53, on 2nd; Brig.-Gen. Brand, 51, and
Arthur W. Jose, of Sydney (formerly Times correspon-
dent), 61, on 4th; poet O. J. Dennis, 48, on 7th;
A. B. Piddington, K.C., 62, and Storkey, V.C., 33,
on 9tli; General Birdwood, 59, on 13th; Justice
N orthmore (W.A.), 59, and Bishop Prodsham
(formerly N.Q.), 61, on 14th; Lionel H. Sholl (S.A.),
80, and Speck’s Premier Lyons, 45, on 15th; Geo. A.
Gibbs (Melb. Bd. of Works), 62, on 17th; Justice
McArthur (Vic.), 63, on 18th; Prof. Nicholson
(Syd.), 49, and Chas. “Plevna” Ryan, 71, on 20th;
Philip Charley, 61, on 21st; Major-Gen. Brudenell
White, 48, on 23rd; Sam Hordern, 48, on 24th;
Billy Hughes, 60, on 25th ; Josiah Symon (ex-Federal
Senator), 78, and Chief Justice Murray (S.A.), 61,
on 27th; Brig.-Gen. Tom Griffiths, 59, Dr. J. S. C.
Llkington (Q.), 53, Donald Mackinnon (Australian
representative at Washington), 65, and his brother-in-
law Rupert Bunny, the painter, 60, on 29th; Brig.-
Gen. Grant (Q.), 54, on 30th.
All the State Premiers are Australian-
born; but Puller (Ma State) and Lyons
(Speck) are the only ones who run their
native States. Gunn (S. Aus.), the Ben-
iamin of the lot, who is in his 39th year, was
born in Vic. just a year after Theodore (Q.)
had come on the scene at Port Adelaide. Col-
lier (W.A.), born in Vic., is 51, Lyons is
close to 45, Fuller is in his 64th year, and
Prendergast (Vic.), born at Adelaide, lias
.lust passed 70.
“Sturt” : The Anglican squabble at Adel-
aide has been pushed one step further by an
appeal ot Canon Wise to the Primate of
Australia against his bishop. “And if neces-
sary,” the Canon tells the papers, “I shall
appeal to the Archbishop of Canterbury; and
if he also decides against me I shall iay my
appeal before the King.” The main trouble
at the moment is that the Bishop of Adel-
aide, who can neither restrain the suburban
vicar nor come to an agreement with him,
refuses to license a certain assistant to the
crowded Goodwood church. Formerly the
Bishop laid
"charges” against
Wise, bnt they
were dropped when
it was found impos-
sible to find a
j u dg e. competent
and willing to sit
on the case, who
was not already
openly committed
to one side or the
other of the ques-
tion. Both clerics
are good men, in
dead earnest, and
the position looks
very like a dead-
lock.
CANON WISE,
Adelaide’s ritual-
istic cleric.
James Bergen, who died the other day at
Parramatta, the town in which he was born,
set the woollen mills spinning at Granville
and put that industry on the map 40 years
ago. He had latterly devoted much time to
musical hobbies, and had published a number
of waltz tunes beloved of Suburbia.
The S.A. Labor Ministry is credited with
an idea of making Edwards, one of the three
Adelaide members, the next Agent-General.
Edwards is the richest man in the party—
he owns the Newmarket, one of Adelaide’s
best pubs.
E. E. Bond, the new Labor member for
Glenelg in the Vic. Assembly, is the baby
of the House. Downward is the oldest in
years and Peacock in service. Born at Pley-
wood 27 years ago, Bond took to teaching,
and was head of the State School at Con-
dali when his father-in-law, W. E. Thomas,
died. He threw up his job to stand for the
constituency, and cleared the ditch with 843
votes to spare. His opponent was H. V.
MacLeod, a Digger son of a former member.
Arthur M. Eedy, who has been elected a
senator of the Sydney Uni., was one of the
earliest pupils of Sydney High School and its
first dux. There were two promising young
men on the school’s small staff in those days
—J- G. Legge, who presently joined the
Defence Department and became a General;
and A. B. Piddington, who was for a few
minutes a High Court Judge. Eedy himself
became one of the late J. P. Garvan’s brilli-
ant young men, and nowadays is general
secretary and a director of the M.L.C. life-
insurance office.
“Hamer”: Jim Graliame’s verse-story of
“The Bush Parson” (B. 7/8/’24) recalls an
actual N. Queensland happening. The par-
son in that case was Eakin, of the Bush
Brotherhood, who, 12 miles out of Cooktown,
came across a
swaggie nearly “all
in.” Eakin got
down and made the
pedestrian climb
into the saddle;
but the horse so
strongly objected to
carrying Matilda
that the parson
undertook to hump
it himself, and told
the “traveller” to
ride on ahead and
get a rest. A friendly
bank manager,
catching up in a
buggy, saved the
parson some miles
of the tramp.
TUNNECLIFFE,
Victoria’s Labor
Chief Secretary.
Died at Jersey, Channel Islands, where
he had lived for some years in retirement,
Dr. Arthur B. Cox, fourth and youngest son
of Dr. Jim Cox descendant of that Capt.
William Cox who came to Sydney in 1800
and among other good deeds constructed the
first road over the Blue Mountains (1815).
The widow is a daughter of the late Alex-
ander Campbell, M.L.C., of Rosemount,
Woollalira. A sister of A. B. Cox is the wife
of the Earl of Lindsey, who, when Lord
Bertie, was A.D.C. to Governor Carrington.
An adventurous trades unionist was John
Dias, who has just died in Melbourne. He
was prominent in the original Shearers’
Union, and the limelight streamed on him in
the Queensland 1800 strike. Afterwards
Westralia and Broken Hill knew him. He
was one of the band who went away on the
Royal Tar to found a communistic paradise
in Paraguay. One of the earliest to be dis-
illusioned, he managed to get back to Aus-
tralia, and became sec. to the Vic. branch
of the Carpenters and Joiners, which he re-
presented in England at one conference. He
finished a hard-fighting life at 63.
The 25th anniversary of the arrival in
Australia of the Mother Provincial of Lewis-
ham Hospital (Sydney) was commemorated
on the 21st of this month by the laying
of the foundation-stone of a new chapel for
the Little Company of Mary. Forty years
ago Cardinal Moran brought these nursing
sisters to Australia. In August, 1899, Mother
Provincial Xavier arrived with wide nursing
experience in Europe, where she had been
Superior of Casa Leona Hospital, Malta.
Besides making Lewisham what it is to-day
she established hospitals at Ryde, Adelaide,
CM.L.) and Port Elizabeth
(S.’Africa), all of which claim Lewisham as
their Provincial House.
This month 70 years ago the first Maori-
land Government resigned office, James
Edward Fitzgerald being the Premier. Fitz-
gerald retired, temporarily, from politics in
1857 and sailed for England via Australia,
the voyage from M.L. to Sydney taking six
weeks. While in London he was offered the
Governorship of Queensland, but declined it.
He returned to M.L., re-entered the House of
Reps., became proprietor of that now
wealthy newspapei-, the Christchurch Press,
and lived on till August, 1896.
Warrnambool (Vie.) is mourning grazier
James Murray, .brother of John, who was
Premier of the State from 1909 till 1912.
Racing was his hobby, and some years ago
he. owned a number of horses, including the
steeplechaser Freedom. He was the last of
the family of James Murray, of Summer Hill,
Warrnambool.
Robert Darvall Barton, who died at his
Roseville (Sydney) home on Saturday, was
a member of a family that first squatted in
Western N. S. Wales half a century ago.
His own holding was near Wellington. Over
six feet high, and built of wire and whip-
cord, he excelled at most sports. He was a
popular member of the Australian Club,
which rocked with amusement when a Svd-
ney weekly identified him a few years ago
as the gentleman who was then harboring
ex-Sister Liguori.
The Fitzroy (Vic.) branch of the A.N.A.
proposes to mark permanently the spot in
George-street in that suburb where Alfred
Deakin, thrice Priminister, was born.
Died at the Old Men’s Home, in W.A., re-
cently, Edwin Willcocks, who had lived for
24 years in a little humpy by the causeway
over the Swan, at Perth. A Crimean veteran,
he was a fighter to the last, and, though the
authorities tried to get him out of his hut
years ago, he defied them until too ill to help
himself. His portrait hangs in the Perth
Art Gallery.
Australia’s oldest parson, Septimus Hun-
gerford, has only another 12 months to go
to register his century; and he has spent
94 of his years in Australia. He started
with the idea of chasing Costs, but while m
England on a family mission the Church
called him, and he studied for his orders
under Canon Boodle. (Alas, Boodle was
even then a power in the church!) The
veteran, still with a bright memory, is living
a peaceful old age at Cremorne (Sydney).
If things turn out auspiciously, quite a
number of people in W.A. may be forced into
the ranks of the idle rich. Two representa-
tives of the much-advertised Horrocks family
have left for England to fight their claim to
the £80,000,000 or so that has been- in Chan-
cery for so long. They financed their adven-
ture by selling shares. Investors of £lo
stand to make £lOOO if the expedition returns
with the bacon.
Australia breeds them hard. Some years
ago J. Moher lost a forearm by accident in
Westralia, but that didn’t interfere much
with his subsequent work at the Condong
Sugar Mill, Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), until
the other day he had all the fore part of his
arm torn off. Jambing the butts of the
arms together, he knocked off, and was driven
over long and rough roads to hospital. He
was quite conscious, and took it all in the
day’s work when the doctor told him there
were a couple of broken ribs, too.
Moved by union criticism, Dr. John Quick,
Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, gave some biography to show that he
was a practical man when it came to dealing
with the conditions of engine-drivers and
firpmen. In his early years he fired the fur-
naces of a Bendigo foundry, and afterwards
of a crushing battery; and, helping to form
the Bendigo Mining Engine-drivers’ Assoc.,
became its first president. Later he took
to journalism and polities, meanwhile study-
ing law and taking his LL.D.
Richard Butler, lately Speaker of the
Assembly in S.A., and formerly Premier, who
got his dismissal from the Barossa electors
at the last general elections, is going to Eng-
land, mainly with the idea of “studying the
question of markets for our primary produc-
tions.” On his last visit to London, in 1920,
he says, he found that Australian wines and
jams didn’t seem to be wanted, that Ameri-
can farmers got nearly double our price for
their wheat, and that all the choicest beef
in the shops was Argentine.
John Dennis and his wife, of North Fitz-
roy, had an unusual celebration the other
day, when their friends mustered to con-
gratulate them upon having completed 65
years of married life. The pair—89 and 84
respectively, and looking fit to add many
more years to their record —are Cornish folk,
but John has been in Australia since he was
22, and Mrs. Dennis arrived five years
earlier. Flis first idea was to seek gold, but
he set up an anvil on the fields instead, and
remained a farrier until an injury to his leg
made him decide that it was a fair thing to
give up work.
Another compliment from U.S.A. to Aus-
tralian scientists has received even less atten-
tion from the newspapers than the invita-
tion to Professor Hunter and Dr. Royle. Dr.
Colin Mackenzie, of Melbourne, founder of
the Australian Institute for Anatomical Re-
search and of the zoological collection of
Australian animals which was recently taken
over by the Commonwealth, left recently for
U.S.A., to lecture, by special invitation,
before the leading Universities. He expects
to be away nine months, and by that time
his audiences should know a deal more about
Australia than they do now. Dr. Mackenzie
used to lecture in the University of Mel-
bourne, but found when he came back from
service in war hospitals that his services
were no longer required there.
• The president-elect of the 1925 Science
Congress of Britain is Prof. Horace Lamb
who came to Adelaide to be its first Professor
ot Mathematics nearly 50 years ago. He
held that job for a decade, then retired to
Lngland, where he has earned all sorts of
honors in his line. His successor at Adel-
aide was the even better known Bragg.
Most lawyers would shy at the task
Aubrey Halloran, president of the N.tt.W
Historical Society, set himself 12 months
Starting with the Judge-Advocates,
Halloran lias recorded the life-stories of the
early legal celebrities of N. S. Wales. The
Historical Society
will publish his
work in its “Jour-
nal and Proceed-
ings.” II avi n g
culled the most in-
teresting c h a r a c-
ters from amongst
the solicitors and
barristers of long
ago, the legal his-
torian is now turn-
ing his attention
to the six Chief
Justices who occu-
pied the Supreme
Court Bench dur-
ing last century.
CAPTAIN JONES,
superintendent of
Commonwealth
flying operations
pilot on the
trip around
Australia.
W. P. Heathershaw, chief clerk, who will
succeed Dickson as permanent head of the
Vic. _ Chief Sec.’s Department, has been
climbing for 40 years—all of it, except 18
months as Treasury accountant, spent in the
department of which he will now be boss. A
brother of his is sec. of the Police Depart-
ment, and another is high in the Common-
wealth Treasury. Their father was a parson.
Capt. John Bone, Marine Superintendent
of the N.Z. Shipping Co., has retired, after
50 years’ service. His successor, Capt. W.
Olphert, commanded two armored yachts and
a mystery ship during the war, but was
overhauled by the Germaias in 1917 and in-
terned till the Armistice.
For the first time for 30 years Port Fairy
(Vic.) is represented by a Minister (Bailey)
in the Leg. Assembly. Bryan O’Loghlen was
the last one. Unlike Bailey he didn’t give
much personal attention to the constituency,
and it decided to forget him when Patterson,
under whom the baronet was Attorney-
General, got a dissolution in 1894.
Passed out at Temora (N.S.W.), at 89,
Alexander Ross, a well-known horse-breeder
of other days. Having spent most of his
life among stock, he was quick to detect the
presence of an outbreak of pleuro-pneumonia
in the South-West on one occasion years ago
when that disease was practically unknown,
and thus saved stockowners severe losses. In
recognition of this the Government of the
day paid him a substantial reward.
A product of the Victorian Crown Lav-
Department, Justice Mann must have noted
with satisfaction how well H. H. Gray, an-
other pupil of Guinness, shaped the other
day as counsel for Olga Muir, the vocalist,
in her successful claim against the Midnight
Frolics people. While working hard as a
clerk in the Law Department, Gray (who is
a son of the chief clerk of the Vic. Labor
Department and Registrar of the State Court
of Industrial Appeals) gained his B.A. and
LL.M. degrees, and then migrated to Sel-
borne Chambers.
“Urainao”: News of the healing of the
schism in the Wesleyan Church at Tonga
which originated during the Rev. Shirley
Baker’s stormy pontificate, when religion
and politics became mixed, comes along just
as the body of Shirley’s son has been ex-
humed at Oamaru (M.L.) and taken to
Tonga for burial in the family vault there.
The highly-esteemed Shirley, junior, died at
Oamaru a couple of years ago, and was
buried in the local cemetery. He had built
a quaint house of island architecture next the
railway station, and had lived there for
years. Now the residence has been enlarged
into a modern accommodation-house.
The estate of John Balfour, of Mulgrave
(Vic.), who died in 1890, is at last to be
cut up among the beneficiaries. Beyond a
few small legacies the lonely man left his
money to the nine children of a sister in
Ireland, but only five put in claims. Two
were known to be dead, and the problem of
the whereabouts of the other two has held
up a division for 34 years. Now an order
lias been made which will enable the five
claimants, only one of whom, William Red-
dell Bradshaw, is in Australia, to gather
their shares, while apparently the other two
shares will be held until further legal action
clears the position. The estate was only
£7OOO to begin with; but it has grown.
SHANGHAIED !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Laid out in a stinkin’ fo’c’s’le,
Rank with the breath of drunks
And the smell of damp straw beddin’
In the filthy Dago’s bunks.
I’d twelve months’ pay in my pocket,
But they cleaned me out last night;
A year’s hard toil on a blue-nosed barque
I’ve paid for a drunken fight.
And now I’m outward bound once more,
Maybe on the long sea-track,
Sick and sore, battered and bruised,
With only the rags on my back.
Knocked out cold by a crimping gang
As I reeled from a Limehouse den,
And sold, like a Gold Coast Seedi boy,
To a skipper for two pound ten.
I can hear them haulin’ the tow-line,
Urged on by the bo’sn’s boot;
And it’s me for a Yankee blood-ship
When the tug gives her farewell hoot.
Head buzzing from wounds and whisky—
O God, but a man’s a swine
When he turns from the cool, clean sea
To fightin’ and women and wine !
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


m
ra
1
D
Friends
O/c
s
U
*
S| \ ....
■■ ■BB
mp
■
7&* tmm ~P
Hi
H®
He Castles
sss*
Hi
fiscal?
mm
am
u
/Jim i
m
W. D.& H.OWijte* , ;f: j
Australia) Ltd., Sy&H-)'^ S\
MiliffrifiWiiiiiMfiirth
•c?


A
m
FOUR.
HORSE-
POWER
ENGINE
The Wade
Does the
Work of
Ten Men.
THE WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
Solo Australian Agents:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. AND AT
632 BOCRKE STREET, MELBOURNE. NEWCASTLE.
Agents for S. Australia: A. NOBLE & SON, Chesser Street, Adelaide.
FUMO
BRAND
PROTECT YOUR SUMMER FEED.
Exterminate Rabbits NOW, with
CALCIUM CYANIDE.
No rabbit can escape the deadfy potency of this remarkable
preparation. #
It is blown into the warren, hollow log or among rocks, like
dust. It gives off deadly fumes over 24 hours. Immediately a
rabbit moves, it meets its death.
S. M. Herald, 25/7/’24.
“Bathurst. —The Babbit Inspector, Mr. D. N.
Steele, has reported to the Bathurst P. P. Board that
there are few rabbits in the district, chiefly owing
to the success of exterminating the pest by means of
Calcium Cyanide.”
Get all particulars from the
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VlCTORlA.—Leighton, Simpson & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—S.A. Farmers' Co-op. Union, Lt«l., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND.—BuzacoIts (Q’land), Ltd.. Adelai<ie Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scarfs & Sandnvers, Ltd., Perth.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Rita”: No doubt it is bad form to re-
open the question of marsupial birth, but my apology
is that I want to give Abo. readers the very recent
statement of such a high anatomical authority as
Professor Wood Jones, of Adelaide University. The
question was recently raised in Adelaide, and the
Professor’s opinion on the subject was challenged
by several bushmen, who put up £lOO to go to charity
ON THE TRACK.
“Have you. seen a strayed fox-terrier dog about,
my boy?"
“Little black-and-white one?"
“res.”
“Wiv a stumpy tail an ’ sharp nose?"
“Yes."
“Ears stuck up?"
“You describe him exactly."
“I ain’t seen him, Mister, but I know the sort yer
mean."
if he could disprove their assertion that baby
’roo grew on the teat. To settle the matter, Jones
gave a practical demonstration in his rooms at the
’Varsity, and conclusively shewed that the youngster,
after being born in the ordinary way, scrambles
of its own volition from the root, of the mother’s
tail towards the pouch, the mother assisting with
her mouth. “It is a wonderful thing,” concluded
the Prof.—saying, of course, no more than Abo.
writers have said a hundred times in the last 30
years —-“that animals bom blind, as so many are,
possess a special organ of sense, known as the organ
of Jacobson and situated between the nose and the
roof of the mouth, which guides animals that can-
not see to the source of food. It is really a sense
midway between the functions of taste and smell.
Once the young gets to the nipple, one of the bush-
man’s greatest difficulties starts. As soon as the
mouth fastens around the bulbous end of the nipple,
the lips tightly contract until it is a • physical
impossibility to withdraw it without damage. As
the little animal grows bigger the lips gradually
open, and when it is sufficiently developed it drops
off the nipple and then suckles only at intervals.
There was never at any time, however, any fusion
between the lips of the young and the nipple around
which they closed. I have dissected specimens in
fine layers and have found no trace of any internal
connection between pouch and uterus. The former
is a pure skin pocket tethered only by the muscles
under the skin. It is no more attached to the
abdominal cavity of the mother than is the stomach
of a man to his overcoat pocket.”
* * * *
“Rathbeg” : Tell “Adelaide,” who asks (B.
12/6/’24) if anybody else knew a parrot to recognise
animals in a picture, that for 35 years we had a
king-lory which up till now’ we thought to be
singular in that respect. Some years ago we young-
sters had a drawing competition, each of us copy-
ing the cover of a Black Cat Magazine. The pussies
were fantastically dressed (mine, I remember, was
a Pierrot). Afterwards we hung them up in a row
on the wall, and later the lory w’as brought in and
placed on a table near. To our surprise, he scanned
the pictures with interest, and at last uttered a
shrill, astonished “meow.” He became quite excited
as he passed along the row, and “meowed ’ away for
some time. Tried again on other occasions, he
never failed to greet a pictured black cat with a
recognising “meow.” I do not think he'ever recog-
nised any other animal picture, except one of a
crested cockatoo, which always ruffled his temper.
* * * *
“Olive”: I think that an even rarer freak
than “Fordson’s” jewfish (B. 29/5/’24) was a heifer
calf owned by Bishop, of Allora (Q.). It was born
without eyes—not even a sign of where the optics
should have been—and was also without a tail.
As it was quite healthy, it was left running with
tlie mother, and it would follow her about all day
like an ordinary calf. If the little one got too
far away the old lady would low and wait till it
came up to her. It went to the butcher’s at
six months, though a good showman might, have
made a small fortune instead of veal out of it.
* * * *
I was interested in what
“D.M.1.” wrote of the old Manfred Downs shed on
the Flinders (Q.) and the heap of shear-blades lying
near the site; but on one or two points he is
slightly in error. Machines were put
in Manfred JOowns shed in 1890 when
J. Hugh Moor, a big-hearted, deter-
mined man, was manager. The board
held 49 shearers. Alf Jones, now a
retired engineer living in Sydney,
erected the plant. The shearing with
the new plant was most protracted,
lasting about four months. Of the 49
men who started only J. Hogan and
Dan Creed, two young Irishmen, had
previously used a machine. One by
one the men left, throwing up the job
in disgust, till only 17 of the 49 re-
mained. These were mostly slow,
determined learners who could not shear
by hand and coidd not get work else-
where. I specially remember Jim and
Jack Roper as two of them. By the
time shearing was half through at
Manfred, all the Flinders sheds had
cut out, and many shearers drifted
along. The machines were now work-
ing more smoothly, so the board
gradually filled up, and by cut-out it
was full again. Some of the returned
men were those who had left at the
commencement, and having cut out
other sheds had come back to Manfred
and taken the machines on again. In
all 120,000 sheep were put through. 1
happen to know, as it was my first
experience as a shed overseer (I had
just turned 21). As to the heap of
shear-blades, iron does not rust much
in the Gulf country, and the pile has
been there over 34 years—some of it
42 years. The original posts in the
shed were bloodwood, but the white
ants ate them, and the Bin. bore pipes
mentioned by “D.M.1.” were put, in
after the 1890 shearing.
* * * *
“Moe”: The biggest war
canoes constructed by the Pacific
islanders formerly came from Malaita,
in the Solomons; the largest would
carry close on a hundred men. The
outer surface was scraped and polished
until it was as smooth as glass ; along
the fop of the hull were bands of
inlaid pearlshell work of intricate design; at each
end was a high, curved structure, also decorated with
shell, and frequently garnished with a bleached and
grinning skull. The launching of one of these vessels
was usually made an occasion for prolonged feasting ;
before the white man and his law appeared the
craft was sometimes slid into the water over the
living bodies of prisoners taken in war. Contact
with civilisation, however, seems to have robbed the
Pacific islander of most of his skill, and canoe-
building has become almost a lost art.
“Pick”: In landing from great heights the
native-bear can give points to “Mapee’s” tree-
kangaroos (B. 31/7/’24). With a branch torn from
a tree at Mt. Cooper (N.S.W.) I once saw a bear
fall 400 ft. into a deep gully. Immediately the
forced descent began he separated himself from the
branch and spread out his stumpy legs after the
fashion of the flying-squirrel. In a perfectly hori-
zontal position the whole way, he volplaned without
any rush, and reached the earth some time later
titan the leafy bush that fell with him. Unlike
DONE TOO WELL.
BOSS: “ We’re not at all satisfied with the way you've been keep-
ing the accounts.”
CLEKK : “I’m sorry, sir—I thought the auditor said they were
well done.”
BOSS: “Done, sir! Yes, that’s just what, he does say—very well
done; in fact, thoroughly cooked.”
“Mapee’s” acrobats, he did not hit the ground with
a bump, but landed lightly, and at once ambled
off through the reeds over the creek. Dozens of
tinjes, too, I have seen bears come down with
trees felled by timbergetters, and, though the break-
ing limbs have crashed all around them, I have
never seen one apparently hurt.
* * * *
“Henry Pannikin” : Old Jim Carter, who
used to run a bit of a selection not far from my
uncle’s at Wardell (N.S.W.), bought a decent-looking-
bay mare at a sale. She was a busy sort of animal,
and in a short while had accounted for three sulkies,
two sets of harness, a break in old Jim’s leg, and
the collapse of the side of the pigsty when her
owner was loading porkers. A little later Carter met
McKenzie, the chap he bought her from. “Strike me
pink,” roared Jim, “that flamin’ mare you sold me
does nothin’ but bite, kick, clear out and smash
property! And you said, when I bought her that I
wouldn’t part with her fer a ’undred quid!” “Well,
that’s correct,” drawled McKenzie, “you won’t.”
* * * *
“Te Pana”: I-lori is a skilful navigator
of small canoes, but, if questioned, he will frankly
admit that the Maoris who first arrived in the
Shaky Isles had a good deal of assistance from their
gods. He will even tell you that his ancestors
would never have had a chance with the Pacific
surges but for the efficacy of their incantations. The
tradition still lingers that only by faith and the
due performance of the correct ritual was the
seemingly impossible accomplished. Hori is dumb
as to what has happened to the mana, for most
present-day Maoris are wretched sailors and dread
a sea voyage.
* * * *
“Mapee”; “Kiewa’s” reply to “Manxman”
(8.31;'7/’24) as to the best variety of eucalypts to
plant for durable timber in the King Country
(M.L.) won’t make the islander much wiser. The M.L.
State plantations are only a development of com-
paratively recent years, and although the officers in
charge of that, department would no doubt be able
to give valuable advice as to the growth of the
different kinds, time alone will test the durability
of the timbers. Although the Tas. blue-gum grows
to perfection in Canterbury and other parts of M.L.,
the timber has not been found particularly durable;
but that may be because the trees have not. yet
attained sufficient age. In 1905 I saw two fine
specimens of red stringybark growing near an old
deserted hut in the Northern Wairoa district—very
similar in soil and climate to the King Country. I
don’t know how long they had been planted, but
the larger had a girth of about 6ft. and a clean
barrel of perhaps 40ft. There had originally been
three trees, but about five years before one had
been cut by a near-by settler and used for posts
and rails to fence his garden. When 1 saw it, the
fence showed no sign of rot or weathering.
**» * *
“Deejaybee”: Until this year I was always
under the impression that it was not possible to find
snakes airing themselves in the cold months, but in
three weeks, a few.miles from Kerang (Vic.), I have
seen no fewer than three wrigglers doing it. The
weather has been really cold, and on each occasion
the worm has had enough of its lethargy absent to
move off under its own power. One was a brown;
the other two were tigers.
“Ento”: Re “Nugget” (B. 12/6/’24) and
Gill Guv (B. 10/7/’24), on bot-flies. I can see
no justification for thinking that text-books are in
error about the habits of these flies. Horses are
troubled with about four species of bots, each with
its respective habits, and two of them are in Aus-
tralia. Gastrophilus intestinalis, with its dark band
across the wing, lays eggs on the fore-legs, belly
and other parts of the body. This species is also
known as G. equi. The clear-winged G. nasalis
(erroneously called equi by Froggatt), and also
known as G. veterinvs,
deposits on the lip
and around the nos-
trils. G. pecorum
and G. hoemorrhoidalis
have not been found
in Australia, nor are
they likely to be;
nevertheless, the fact
of their existence in
the world must not
be lost sight of. If
both “Nugget” and
“Gill Guy” will ex-
amine closply the bot-
flies when next they
see them operating, I
am sure they will find
the habits are in
accordance with the
above information, and
that neither species
acts the libertine in
this respect. Whose
text-book had the two
been consulting when
they found the horse-
bot failed to live up
to its reputation? All
those I have seen are
unanimous upon the
subject. “Guy”
omitted from his list
the indigenous kan-
garoo-bot, and makes
no mention of the
camel-bot, which may
possibly also be here.
I am anxious to know
if the latter has been
introduced, and, if
not, why not? Does
any Abo. know about it?
“Kaituna” (M.L.) ; Can any of the Coun-
cil tell me how to get. phosphorus into worms for
fishing ? Many years ago I used to root clean,
creamy-looking -worms out of an old sod bank, and
when baiting the hook with them at night my fingers
were aglow as if smeared with damp matchheads.
Dropped in about 3ft. of water these worms shone
like an electric spark, and I could plainly see for
20in. all round the bait. It was amusing to watch
the eel caper round for a few moments, then grab
and off. They were the best bait on earth for
eeeling; but I don’t know if they were good for
fish, as there were none in the Waikato streams 50
years ago.
* * * *
“C.M.”: An incident on a neighbor’s farm
throws a sidelight on the character of the fox. A
small boy had set some rabbit-traps, and, on going
the round one morning, found a full-grown fox in
one of them. As he did not like to undertake the
THESE CATS.
MRS. MOUSEB : “They say she's leading a
double life.”
MRS. RATTER: “Yes, she heard somebody say
a cat has nine lives, and now she thinks
she’ll have eighteen.”
task of killing it, he pulled the trap up and carried
the fox home in his arms for his father to despatch.
1 would like to know if any member of the Council
has ever known a fox to take such treatment with-
out putting up a fight.
(Continued on page 24.)
A PASTORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As a matter of fact, four-fifths of the farmer’s
work is done for him by Nature.” —City payer.
1 read this gem in a city sheet
While bathing the bunions on my feet,
And it bucked me up and made me glad
To think what a bonzer job I had.
And I chuckled “Ha-ha!” and I chuckled “Ho-lio!”
As I wiggled an ingrowing nail from my toe.
It’s ho! for the farmer’s life happy and gay,
Crooning the dingoes and foxes away ;
Yodelling sweetly through exquisite heat,
Watching the take-all a-courting the wheat;
Fondling the rabbits and “dipping” the chooks,
Jazzing down meadows and drying the stooks;
Smoking his pipe while the wool grows apace,
Warts on his fingers and boils on his face;
Laughing like Hell as he flirts with the hoe,
Chipping tough thistles and maiming his toe;
Crutching fat hoggets and, drenched to the bone,
Spraying their tootsies with eau-de-Cologne;
Toying with pleuro and anthrax as well,
Singing light opera, smiling like Hell;
Doing a vaudeville turn with the plough—■
Trod on a copperhead sunning its brow!
Dining in state when the mortgagee calls,
Spuds a la Tophet and fricassee balls;
Straining his eyeballs far over the plain
Watching the beautiful, bounteous rain!
And I chuckle “110-ho!” and I chuckle “He-he!”
As I smoke FI or de Naves in the shade of a tree.
x.s.w.
STEPHEN SHERRY.


L
*
m
V
%
ran
§il
s
ST BY TEST
&
X
J?
X
«
\
3
MEGGITT LIMITED’S PURE LINSEED OIL MEAL, with a guaranteed oil content of 9 per cent., is
acknowledged the world over as the best single ingredient for all classes of stock, under all conditions.
This Pure Linseed Oil Meal is the base of all the well-known Stock Foods manufactured by Meggitt
Limited.
MEGGITTS STOCK FOODS are manufactured from the choicest ingredients obtainable on the
They are palatable, digestible and uniform, and are properly balanced and blended by experts.
Specially manufactured for Calves, Dairy Cows, Horses, Pigs and Poultry.
MEGGITT LIMITED’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS. This concentrate for sheep has become well and
favorably known throughout Australia. Composed of Meggitt Limited s Pure Linseed Oil Cake, cracked
into nut size—can be fed broadcast or in troughs. It is 100 per cent, pure, and contains no filler
of any description. Only two to three ounces per sheep per day required.
It is not the quantity of Food consumed by your animals
that counts, but the quantity digested and assimilated.
WHEN QUALITY CALLS—BUY MEGGITT’S.
Linseed Oil, Meal and Stock Foods.
e
UNSKO“iifAi
mi
rvEtWTT L*
NtGGITTs
jJNSffooilKfU
(Ml
nrxciTT c fc VW \
papramatta mr
( )/Ae boy on the boa
guarantees cjoalmj-
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Head Office: 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 4510 G.P.0.,
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Meggitt Limited, P.O. Box 380, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA:
F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Messrs. Corser and Co., Ltd., Maryborough.
Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns.
°/Ae Soy on the Sac,
guarantees qualify


i«m«3GH3maaBiawgGwgaHgBPiBi
ĥ
tt
KING GEORGE IV”WHISKY
Acknowledged
to be
'■555
THE SUPREME JUDGE OF MERC
ħ
h
REMEMBER THAT MALTHOID
is not a generic term for any old roofing,
but a proprietary name for the BEST
ROOFING and owned exclusively by the
MALTHOID manufacturers
The PARAFFINE COMPANIES Inc.
(D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager),
Original Manufacturers of
P AL B MATERIALS.
Oiiallis House,
Martin Place,
SI'DNEY.
MALTHOID ROOFING
“Bill R.” : If, as averred by various Abo.
writers, a ewe must smell her lamb to recognise it,
what sort of a nose-hunt would it mean to the bereft
mamma in a mixed-up flock of thousands? As a
matter of fact, the ewe seeks her wandered offspring
HE'D MET THE LAW BEFORE.
LAWYER: “I must know the whole truth if
lam to defend you. Have you told me
everything?”
EMBEZZIER: “Except where I hid the money.”
neither by sight nor by scent, but by hearing. When
a flock is widely spread a mother often strays to one
side and the lamb hundreds of yards away to the
other, and it is a common thing to see them, after a few
answering bleats, race off to meet again. In a driven
mob —always much mixed —a ewe industriously fuss-
ing hither and thither in search of -a lost youngster
may often be seen to turn back and select from the
babel of voices that of her own errant one. Why
do ewes and lambs continuously bleat, anyhow ?
“Pills”: “Milburn’s” par (B. 24/7/’24)
moves me to remark that it is time
someone laid by its heels the good old
myth that goanna oil can penetrate
glass. In my experience behind a
chemist’s counter I have been told
this fable many times, so 1 decided
to experiment. I got from a bush
friend a good sample of go. oil and
filled five different bottles. The first
I left open, the second 1 corked, the
third I corked and sealed with wax,
the fourth I fitted with a glass
stopper, the fifth was both stoppered
and sealed. A sixth portion of the
oil was placed in a glass capsule and
sealed in a blow-pipe flame. Each
container was carefully cleansed on
the outside and strips of paper were
placed round it. Twenty-four hours,
two days, a week, five days and two
weeks were the respective times which
were required to show signs of oil on
the paper bands. This experiment was
carried out two years ago, and I have
beside me now the sealed glass cap-
sule without the smallest trace of oil
on its surface. The fact which causes
many people to believe in its power
of penetration is that the oil “creeps”
up the walls of the bottle, and through
capillary action passes any stopper I
have yet seen and flows down the
outer wall. This phenomenon is
noticeable also with eocoanut oil. >t
also causes much trouble to the
P.M.G., since the battery solutions in
his telephone and telegraph depart-
ments are given to the same be-
havior.
* * *
“Billy Brolga”: Toll “Scapa
Floe” (B. 10/7/’24) that the weird
specimen which he found dining on
an earth-worm under a heap of
manure was probably an example of
the “blind snake” family. These
peculiar creatures, which are more worm than rep-
tile, live in the earth and are rarely seen on the sur-
face. They are quite harmless.
* * * *
“Osie”: I can supply “W.A.G.’s”. big
M.L. carrot from Hazelhurst (B. 24/7/’24) with
a mate. The other day Jonathan Bowering, of
Millicent (S.A.), unearthed a turnip. It was grown
in a vegetable patch, under ordinary conditions,
with no manure, and was not a heavyweight variety,
but an ordinary white table turnip. Its circum-
ference was 54 inches and its weight 281 b.
“F. Clinton”: A friend of mine recently
bought a couple of stretchers and mattresses in an
auction-room in town. When he got them home
llis wife had her suspicions. After eyeing them
over she told him what she thought of him. “They’re
alive with bugs, you blockhead —take them away.”
Argument was useless, so my friend deposited the
load in the yard close to an antheap. A day or
tw r o later he was tormented by the thought of the
waste of money involved, and decided to have another
look at them. They were covered with ants, which
were forcibly removing the lodgers into winter
storage. Inside a week the job was complete, and
his wife graciously installed the beds in the home.
* * * *
“Tough Mike” : Mention by “Jacky Roo”
(B. 24'/7/’24) of pink-eye lias set me wondering
Whether that was the affliction which has been
troubling a small herd of cattle for some time. One
after another almost every cow' was affected with a
temporary blindness, the eye turning blue. Up to
this time my remedy for sore eyes was the one
suggested by “J. Roo,” but a swaggie put me wise
to a method which, judging by the results in this
case, seems to be excellent. It consists simply in
pouring cold water over the brow' of the affected
eye; and there can be no doubt that the beasts
relish its application.
* * * *
“Landa” : Chance meals? While walking
along the beach at Broome’s Head, North Coast
(N.S.W.), early one morning recently I saw a
fish-hawk pick a sea-bream out of a school. The
hawk got his catch as far as the sands, and then lost
his grip of the wriggler. My grip was better than
his, and the bream w ; ent well for breakfast. What
are the experiences of the Council in this line?
“Alastor”: The abo. camp at Cairns
(N.Q.) is the first in my experience to keep ducks
and hens for home consumption. I questioned a
lubra as to the use made of them, and she replied in
the best of English: “They’re for the use- of the camp;
Black men and women have stomachs like w'hite
people.” One sturdy aboriginal informed me that
his wages were 17 shillings a day; another told me
he cut out a pound daily. The camp, a mile from
the Cairns post-office, is the best-constructed and hap-
piest-looking in my experience, and its culinary
comforts are unique, I think, in the history of the
Australian black man.
“C. Coral”: “Parama” assures “Bouragi”
(B. 3/7/’24) that the dugong has about passed out.
It may be so down the coast, but- there are still a
few left up here in the Straits. Even alongside
Thursday Island the boys go out and bag two or
three without great difficulty—providing they can
handle the “wap,” of course —and in Moon Passage,
in the Warrior Reef, big schools may generally be
seen at any time. The Torres Strait islander, by
the way, is taking porpoise-meat now as an addition
to his menu. But he still jibs at shark, unless it
be a young, tender one, or else done up in a curry.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A Maoriland lady at Lake-
Ohia is an eel-tamer, her family consisting of 20 of
the slippery tribe. She started on a shy eel
and induced it to come and take food from her hand.
This one spread abroad in the creek the new's of the
good thing it had struck, and 20 elongated friends
now look for her every evening. They wriggle right
out of the w'ater for their food, and permit them-
selves to be taken up and fondled. Though they
don’t turn up their tails at cooked meat, the stuff to
make them lick their chops is boiled rice.
“Ngatik”: Re “Te Pana’s” par. (B
31/7/’?4) on Gilbert Islanl canoes. A monster
ocean-going canoe can be seen in a large canoe-house
not far from the Government quarters at Abemama
Lagoon, but it is not now used. A quaint albino
native, a relative of the island king, is always ready
to show it off to the rare few who' visit the place.
Equally large canoes in the Fijis make the ocean trip
from Kadavu to Suva on gala occasions. These
actually sport a bridge.
* * * *
“M.Sc.”: The enlarged spleens of New
Guinea natives (B. 24/7/’24) is the strongest point
in the contention that malaria is an old endemic
disease up there. Sir Ronald Ross in his epoch-
■marking investigations tried to find a method cf
measuring the endemic rate of malaria other than
the obvious and very tedious one of examining
each individual’s blood for the parasites. In
Mauritius he examined 31,022 children, and found
that the enlargement of the spleen was a quick and
easily ascertained measure of the degree of infection,
the explanation being that the spleen in all malarial
subjects is the storehouse of the parasites. Ross
found that children in a country where malaria had
been rife for generations could be infected without
any disturbance of health other than the enlarged
spleen.
* * * *
, “Peter Whiffle”: In correcting “Ex-Dig”
and Bill Carson, “Barorni” (B. 10/7/’24) himself
makes a slip. It wasn’t Matthews, but Alt Clarke,
of Port Cygnet, who accompanied Jack Calder on
the ill-fated Waratah 15 years ago. As a matter
of fact, I doubt if there was any axeman named
Matthews performing in the Speck at that time.
T. Matthews was then a man of about 47, and had
not been wielding the Kelly for five or six years.
* * * *
“John Wellington”: Bunny is getting it
where he lives in the North Island of Maoriland as
a result of the furious doings of the Rabbit Boards.
But Cotton-tail hasn’t lost heart. Leave a pair of
him, and in three years, according to the expert of
the Department of Agriculture, the family may
amount to nearly 10,000,000. According to his esti-
mate (and he has been in the business for 30 years)
534 rabbits can be produced from one pair in a year.
The doe, breeding at the age of 15 weeks, produces
eight litters a year.
* * * #
“Gill Guy” : Just to be quite pleasant, we
all agree that any kind of taxation is a rufous cow;
but what would happen to a Government that taxed
landowners to the same extent as hundreds tax them-
selves bv letting rabbits get the pick of their pastures?
As a. result, on one of our biggest pastoral properties
in southern N.S.W., the manager fusses and splutters
in and out of town to cash his monthly cheque and
collect his rations in an old Ford, while the boss
rabbiter purrs around the landscape in a boshter
little Fiat.
* * * *
“Cartot” : For rapidity of growth the scor-
pion’s hook-shaped sting certainly stands on its own.
Some time ago a Sydney biologist put a large,
full-grown scorpion in a bottle, and in lashing its
tail about it broke off the sting. By next morning
a slight projection where the sting had been showed
that a new growth was already beginning, and there-
after it proceeded so rapidly that within 48 hours a
new sting, as large as the old one, had blossomed
forth. Apparently Nature has ordained that the scor-
pion may not for long be left helpless against its
natural enemies, of which it has mint.
GOOD RUM, THAT.
“Horn, this ain't nothin’ to what we get out
Thargomindah way. Why, I kept drunk
once for a fortnight on one nip.”
“ How’d per do it?”
“Just took a pint o’ water to liven it up
when I got dry.”
“Pat Buslrie” : Re the recent reference to
double-headers. A friend in the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) district has a pair of ducks that hate
hatched out at different times (1) a freak with two
necks and heads, and (2) a monstrosity with two
beaks on the one head and three eyes. Both the
creatures died a few hours after hatching and are
preserved in spirit.
THE SPECTRAL SWAGMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curlews all are wailing
Like souls in woeful plight;
Across the plains and ridges
Creeps on the pale moonlight;
The ghosts of Vanished swagmen
Are on the roads to-night.
A silent, weird procession
On road and route and track,
They trudge through moonlit spaces,
And shadow'-spaces black ;
And weary is each spectre
And burthened every back.
By river-bend and sandhill,
By ridges, mulga-crowned,
Down vistas of dead timber,
O'er pastures burnt and browned,
They troop, a silent legion
Whose footfalls make no sound.
Beside old camp-fires halting,
That once inspiring shone,
They seek in blackened embers
Bright visions dead and gone—
Fair dreams and glowing pictures—
Then sigh, and journey on.
Where silver moonshine glimmers
On gumtrees, grey and green,
While great-eyed owls in shadow
Their ruffled feathers preen,
Called ever, ever onward,
They go their ways unseen.
By farm and town and homestead,
By sleeping flock and herd,
Unknown of men they wander,
Unseen by beast and bird,
And by their noiseless footfalls
Nor dust nor leaf is stirred.
Though open doors invite them—
Fire-glow' and table-lamp—-
Forbidden is the comfort
Of roadside fire and camp ;
The ways they trod in lifetime
They must forever tramp.
Albeit their cold limbs moulder
To dust in sand or loam,
Since roofless, wall-less, hearthless,
They made the Wild their home,
In death, a restless legion,
They must for ever roam.
Where ibis take their slumber,
And where the black swans nest,
Northward and southward ever
And ever east and west,
Through fenced and fenceless regions
With tireless feet they quest.
WHEN A—HIC—FELLER NEEDS A — HIC-
FRIEND.
“My good man, it’s no use appealing to me to lift you
up—I couldn’t do it!”
Orright, ludy; then — hie —he li'le sport an’ come an’
— hie —sit down with me!”
With foreheads lined and shoulders
That burthened sorely sag,
Eyes fixed upon the distance,
Each bearing still his swag,
Through mulga, pine and saltbush,
Their wearied limbs they drag,
What see they in the distance
That (alls them to advance?
Some mirage bright and splendid,
Some long desired expanse
Of cool, thirst-quenching waters,
Some realm of rest, perchance.
When curlews all are wailing
Like souls in woeful plight,
And o’er the plains and ridges
Slow creeps the pale moonlight,
Doom calls the old-time swaginen
To walk the roads by night.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


‘Born 182 o —Still going Strong! \
W\s
:
I p
You can’t tell if a whisky
is mature by looking at it.
Pin your faith to “ Johnnie
Walker ” 5 insist upon it
always.
O
•» Til
O
Guaranteed same quality
all over the world
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.,
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland


mm
11
Ml
■ Hi
HI
.
-x,.. x :TV
WmSßi I
..x
• " • ,
m?4m
mm
.
tliililtli
Wig* I
ft
5^
*1
xY •:
■:Y
:\
\ Hal SHg I
■■ ■
■
i 5%T:
'V «Hr
„\.Yw Mi
- XX' ' -.'
' 1
V- XX.'
n
-W
r J*:J
■
.
.-*;•»
m 1
1
t-
II
ill
B
W:
J
■
mm
II
: 'v.
§fjig§
:l»f£
wmmm
Fit thorn & youil be satisfied /
MOTOR CYCLISTS.—Obtain from your agent a copy of
Motor Cycle Tyres, also reduced prices of “Railroad”
our Price List for the new DUNLOP CORD
Motor Cycle Covers.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z-


ver ybody Appreciates
TswaXaptifatifii
PLUM PUDDINGS
\ Obtainable
Grocers
L
<**•
si
*a
EXCLUSIVE
TAILORING
Business men rely a great deal on first
impressions when judging character,
because they know that clothes are an
expression of personality. Good clothes,
therefore, are a necessity to those who
come in contact with men of affairs.
Farmer’s Tailoring Department offers a
choice of the smartest fabrics, and its
staff of expert cutters is renowned for
meticulous care in style and finish.
FARMER’S
" The Store for Men. ”
A.
- x - ok>
//£■' '
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
The Alayoral Bruntons dished up their
quarterly banquet the other night and post-
scripted it with a sing-song in the lady’s
parlor —a cheery affair all round. Airs.
Brunton, who has a genius for creating a
friendly atmosphere, was in black velvet
banked on either side with beautiful blue
brocade. The parlor was blossomed over
with carnations and primroses, while in the
Council Chamber black china cats, with
colored neckties rakishly askew, blinked from
ambushes of golden wattle and daffodils in
the table centres. William Burrell served
a musical menu after the feasting, the
artists including Airs. Gregor Wood, Aliss
Cadell, Les Pauli and W. Davey —he sang
mostly the dear old songs of yesterday.
George Cuscaden, one of our medico-military
knights, brought a good-looking daughter as
understudy for her mother, and Dr. Kent
Hughes’s wife was there with her Councillor.
Both ladies trailed black chiffon velvet. City-
Surveyor Alorton’s other half made a colorful
splash in cherry velvet, but Alderman Bur-
ton’s daughter, Mrs. Elliott and Airs, Jeffries
took the raven note.
In “East of Suez,” at the Theatre Royal,
Aluriel Starr airs a whole trousseau of
beautiful frocks. She starts off in a henna-
colored jumper and ivory georgette banded
with henna. Then she steps on in a straight
up-and-down frock of almond-green cr§pe
strewn with embroideries of birds and butter-
flies which descends in a double pinny effect
over a black underdress. Thirdly come gold
tissue hangings, which start late at the upper
edge and conclude with a golden trail com-
piled from the side panel drapings. This
mermaid-like covering scintillates at the
waist-line with crystal beads. Her fourthly
is ivory georgette veiling a flesh-pink sheath,
and shimmered over with bead and colored
embroidery applied in bands. When she sat
at ease in this confection the short filmy
draperies make her look as though you are
naughtily glimpsing rosy tights. Another
briefly-skirted frock is of brown crepe carry-
ing gorgeous colored embroideries, and finally
there is a ravishing Alancliu coat. Alarjorie
Hardie as Sylvia Knox looks charming; first
in delicate embroideries of white georgette,
and then in immaculately-cut riding-coat and
-breeches.
A snap of Gent.-help Keppel Palmer, now
facing the appalling hardships of Centralia
with the Stradbrokes, is being circulated
among his Alelbourne intimates. It purports
to show the dapper little man as a bushie,
but suggests a gentle desperado who has de-
termined to carry out his brigandage in the
politest fashion. The enterprising help has
further daubed himself with local color by
accepting god-parental responsibilities to an
aboriginal babe christened at a mission
station.
The Gilbert Lodges have been living in the
Mandeville Hall paying-guestery, and Airs.
Gilbert signalised the passing of the big
Toorak mansion from hash-house to convent
school with an afternoon of bridge, tea and
song. The party surged all over the ground
floor, which had been dressed out with late
autumn blossoms, through which the golden
mottoes emblazoned among the florid mural
decorations left there by the original owner
—“East, West —Flame’s Best,” and so on—
seemed to peer out mockingly. Mrs. Lodgv
liung her graceful form in marocain of Tut-
tish pattern sashed with Egyptian red, and
tucked her head into brown velvet. Her
sister, Aliss Hornby Spiers, now visiting
Melbourne and the Lodges, had black braid
on her navy tailorings and autumn-tinted
floral effects on a pale brown toque. Lilian
Stott, just back from a course of European
training, lifted her soprano in song; and
Biddy Allen, besides accompanying her. in-
troduced some pleasing solos. All the Very
Nicest were there, of course—the Bridges
and Alaudsley dames, the Aliller. Herbert
Power, Charles Alills, Alfred Bright. Thir-
kell, Geoff Syme, George and Bowes Kelly,
and Arthur Alorris matrons, and Airs. Tre-
mearne and her sister; the Alisses Alartin,
who have sold Alandeville after residing there
for many years ; Airs. Eric Harrison, whose
paternal, grandfather once lived there —and
dozen ’nd dozens more.
The Allan Wilkies, at the Palace, have no
longer to rely on the schools for full houses —
Toorak and lesser Suburbia now go with keen
enthusiasm. The awakened flapper is won-
dering if, after all, the Middle Ages did not
provide a more alluring setting for feminine
charms, witli their colorful trailing draperies
and head-veilings, than the modern short
skirts and hair-bobs. Frediswyde Hunter-
Watts designs all her stage costumes. Oscar
Asclie provided more gorgeous frocking,
but it is doubtful if he got better
color effects.
By the way, it is not only the human side
of Melbourne that has acquired a taste for
Shakspeare. At “Cymbeline” the other night
a grey-and-white cat trotted on the stage,
took up a comfortable position near the foot-
lights, and with the air of a connoisseur
followed every movement of the players right
through one act.
The South Yarra branch of the Children's
Hospital Auxiliary will have its bank balance
agreeably weighted by a bridge flutter in
the big St. Kilda-road flattage, Brentwood —
a frightfully swish affair engineered by Mrs.
Skuthorpc, aided by Mrs. Billy Williams,
Mrs. Fred Ivcrouse and Edith Poolman. The
flat-dwellers rose to the charitable occasion
by throwing open their private parlors to
house the overflow of card tables from the
big dining-hall, and Mrs. Skutliorpe uncorked
cake and bohea in a marquee on the back
lawn. Actress Barbara Hoflfe, in the role of
chieftainess of a feminine brigand gang, was
tucked away behind a mixed-goods sales
stall, and Ainslie Williams, Pat Clarke and
Betty Mills helped to unload the raffle tickets
and flowers. Amongst the card-flutterers
were the Edward Miller, John Grice, Russell
Clarke, Alfred Chambers, Tliorold Grant,
Norman Falkiner, Consett Riddell, Guy
Madden, Norton Grimwade, Jack Menzies
and Jim Ainslie matrons, Eupliie Bell, Marie
de Bavay, Rose Menzies, and so on.
Martha Root, a N’Yark freelance pen-
woman and lecturer, has descended on Mel-
bourne to give it some of her ideas about
universal brotherhood and peace. The lady
aims at bringing about that delectable state
with one religion and one language—so you
see it is quite easy. She is a disciple of the
Bahai movement, whatever that may be —
something that is supposed to embrace the
highest aims of Christians, Jews, Tlieoso-
phists and others, though nothing is said of
the Shakers and Dukliobors. Incidentally,
she is a relation of the famous Amurriean
statesman, Elihu Root.
Ex-Mayoress Stein had a little party at
Menzies’ the other afternoon to cheer ex-
State member, Tom Ryan and his wife on
their world’s tour. Airs. Ryan, who was
handed a floral-decorated boomerang, wore
navy, red and brown stripes under a fur coat,
with silk flowers in the same colors hedging
in her red hat. Mrs. Stein’s feathered hat
flew above smartly cut black tailorings. In
the gathering were sighted the Weedon, Ben
Hoare, V. Robertson and Hillyard matrons,
Airs. Horatio Webb and her brother Fred
Esmelton, Alajor and Mrs. Forrest from Tas-
mania, and singer Pauline Bindley.
The P. C. Sawyers gladdened son Percy’s
21st birthday the other night with a jazz and
supper in the newly-opened reception parlors
at Oakleigh Hall, St. Ivilda, the one-time
home of ex-Priminister Fisher. Airs. Saw-
yer hostessed in black satin, while daughter
Alarjorie dimpled in blue georgette. Percy’s
elder brother had dashed over from the Speck
to wish him many happy returns, and among
those asked in were several of the host’s
brother insurance officers.
Dorothy Palliser, smiling here from a
Broothorn photo, is a clever little St. Kilda
girl who is preparing to cross the profes-
sional footlights. Since her schooldays at
Firbank sie
lias cherished
just such an
ambition, but,
instead of
rushing round
to the stage-
door to look
for a job with-
out any seri-
ous training,
she has put
herself under
Gaston Aler-
vale and Nor-
man Simpson.
After acquir-
ing the A B C.
of the drama
she hopes to
get her pro-
fessional ini-
tiation in the
m u s i c a 1-
comedy chorus
before going to something more" serious.
Dorothy was one of the stars in the revue
staged recently in the Prahran Town Hail
for the Alfred Hospital; and. incidentally,
the young lady side-tracks her studies one
day a week to give a hand at the “Boutique’ 1
connected with that institution.
The Australian Literature Society, which
continues to give much-needed help to local
playwrights, bagged the Railway Institute
Hall for its annual drama night, when a
packed house cheered the presentation of a
group of locally-manufactured plays. Mostyn
Wright showed an intimate knowledge of
stagecraft with a brightly constructed play-
let, “The Point of View”; our old friend
Karta’s “A Judge in Jeopardy” proved much
more robust than his former literary infants ;
Mrs. A. E. Barker got there with her clever
little play “The Song of the Sixties,” and
Mrs. Vernon Williams’s effort, “The Price,”
in which she stepped into thd leading lady’s
rble at the eleventh hour, also deserved a pat
on the back. Mostyn Wright did some good
acting in his own play; H. Gregory and
Ruby May starred in the second piece
and B. Collier achieved honors in the
third.
The bush pub isn’t what it was in the
roaring ’fifties. A would-be licensee in the
Backblocks the other day described herself in
the statutory application as a “gentlelady.”
And the Licensing Court presumably rec-
koned that that was no disqualification, for
it granted the transfer.
Outliving her husband about eight years,
Mrs. Ewen Cameron, of Kangaroo Ground,
went over the Divide a few days ago. While
her Ewen figured in the limelight for 40
years (1874-1914) as member for Evelyn
in the Assembly, whip under Gillies and Fat-
terson, Chairman of the Railway Committee
and Minister under Irvine and Bent, she
kept in the background on the little family
farm out beyond Eltliam. The death of her
son Allan, who was Liberal member for Dal-
liousie till December last, was the last hard
knock she received.
This Lafayette picture introduces you to
Gertrude Rennie, the Vic. Ambulance
Society’s lion. sec. For three years she has
been shouldering the heavy job of lion. see.
for the annual
ball. Both
she and her
sister Helen
are gifted with
a genius for
organisa-
tion, which
got its first
e x p r e s sion
during the
war. In addi-
tion to taking
their share in
various other
patriotic and
Red Cross
move ments
they ran tin*
Union .Tack
Rest Room
right through
those strenu-
ous years, and
raised £20,000
for the benefit of Billjim and cobbers. Hun-
dreds of returned men cherish grateful re-
collections of those club rooms, where rest,
amusement and refreshments were always
on hand. Gertrude Rennie’s energies have
now broken out in a new direction, for she
has lately taken to the Inky Way, and is
doing evening-paper work.
It has always been a favorite theory in
South Aus. that anything which delays the
express between Adelaide and Melbourne hap-
pens on the Vic. side of the border. But the
tradition was knocked flat last week. A
bridge in the hills behind Adelaide had been
removed soon after daylight on Sunday; and
the new one was to be in place by 10 that
night, when the express would come along.
It wasn’t. Nor was it in place till about that
hour next morning. This section of the line
does not carry a buffet, relying on the
dining-rooms at Murray Bridge; and a train-
load of Melbourne-bound passengers was left
outside the little township all night, hungry
and blasphemous, lamenting over appoint-
ments for next day—one was to get married—
and threatening a whole crop of actions for
damages.
The susceptibilities of the moneybags of
Melbourne have been shocked because the
last dance of the employees of the Common-
wealth Bank was held in the building. Pre-
viously the old German Turn Vercin housed
them, but as the bank supplies a social room
and has a roof garden, this year it was
decided that these offered a more suitable
venue. That the night-time frivolity might
endanger the treasure in the vaults is the
reason advanced for the outcry; but into
the shocked utterances can be read the idea
that it is a sacrilege to introduce the seduc-
tive jazz to even the fifth floor of a temple
of the great god Cash.
The educational sector of the English-Speak-
ing Union turned on a welcome at-home in
the Lyceum Club for Mrs. Pirie Beyer, the
Chautauqua enthusiast who has just reached
this city, where she will presently lecture.
It was a cold night and the roll-up was small,
but those who were there spent an agreeable
evening and found the visitor—she was a
Britisher befoi*e she became a Yankee by mar-
riage—very charming. Miss Gilman Jones
(headmistress of the Girls’ Grammar, an old
Girtonian), Mrs. Livingstone Booth and Miss
Kirkwood planned the affair, and among the
welcomers were Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Mrs.
Ernest Graham, Alice Michaelis, Nina Bagot
and Richard Gipps.
A young man who has missed having the
time of his life is Alain Gerbault, a 22-year-
old Frenchman who crossed from France to
the United States, all on his own, in a 10-ton
cutter. When he announced that he intended
to resume his voyage via the Panama Canal
to Australia, 700 women volunteered to
accompany him, regardless of the limited
space. The arrival of that harem, presum-
ably all young and beautiful, would have
been a vision.
The annual meeting of Collingwood’s
Creche and Kindergarten workers drew a
crowd to the top floor of the building the
other afternoon. Mayor Tonini filled the
chair, and after formal business the thing
developed into a tea party, with little Mrs.
Monty Grover as waitress-in-chief. Another
active toiler was Mrs. Lennox Spiers, who,
after being secretary for both sections, will
now concentrate on the creche side. Mrs.
James Angus, who is among the stout finan-
cial props of the institution, had got out of
a sick bed to be at the meeting—and in con-
sequence has been back on the sick list ever
since. The tea-drinking was brightened by
singer Bertha Gordon, reinforced by Mrs.
Teddy Dyson.
Lila Cowper, eldest daughter of the C. A.
Cowpers, of Too-Toorak, has just coo-eed
across seas that she intends matrimony
with a young lieutenant, Craedock Price,
who lately put in two years under the Aussie
naval flag. The courting was done aboard
the Diogenes, on the way to England. Lila
is a good-looking, popular damsel, and the
felicitations of her Melbourne pals will be
mixed with regrets that her marriage will
anchor her on the other side of the Equator.
Ada Moore, who for some years has been
driving a press pen, is going to link up
matrimonially with another well-known inky-
wayfarer, Jack McLaren, who has written
much about the South Seas and is known to
Bulletin readers as Jack McNorth. The
lady is the widow of the late Capt. E.
Moore, son of the late Notley Moore, of
Bendigo—he was killed in the war. She
has one young daughter and two sons. The
wedding will take place this month, after
which the pair will set out for an English
honeymoon aboard the Jervis Bay.
Returning after an absence of two de-
cades, entertainer Albert Whelan was so
keen to see his home city that he hopped
from the boat at Adelaide into the Mel-
bourne train; and it happened to be the
one which was held up for 14 hours. He
was roused at about 4 a.m. on the snail’s
arrival in Melbourne and dragged out in his
pyjamas to accept the greeting of friends
who had waited up all night to welcome him.
In the crush he saw some of the people lie
had left on the boat —the vessel had beaten
the train by several hours.
Some Adelaide gossip :
The Movie Ball committee was almost entirely
masculine, but called in the Moulden dame and Mrs.
Miller, and had others of the sex to run sweeS. and
balloon stalls—all for the General Hospital’s benefit.
There was fancy gress in plenty. Of the specialty
dancers honors rested with Maxine Tolley and
Bobbie Helpman in their Snowstorm whirl, and
with eight pupils of Nora Stewart for their gavotte.
The Bridges came for an hour or two (she in draped
satin of cyclamen mauve) and brought M. Patten
and Mrs. Knyvett, whose rose-pink scarf gave a dash
of color to her black frock.
At the Kindergarten Ball, the following evening,
cap and flower stalls were added to the money-raising
devices, and the J. P. Morice and McCoy matrons
did the honors as hostesses. The Glovers arrived at
8 o’clock (we keep early hours), and Lady Bridges,
in pink chiffon velvet, with Mr. Patten, came half
an hour later. Most of the younger dancing set
were there to help things along.
The week has given us the Blue and White Ball,
too, with a dozen or so St. Peter’s old boys as hosts,
and the Dudley Hayward, A. Grenfell Price and
Harcus matrons to act as hostesses. The last-men-
tioned took the decorations in hand, with half a
dozen of the young set to help her, and made the
Liberal Union’s new dance-room a blaze of color.
Lacrosseurs had their night out on the Wednesday.
It was a ball for the Vic. team —but, unfortunately,
most of them were still in the train on the other
side of the border. However, two were there, and
plenty of the young and smart to see that they had
a good time.
Another link with earlier days has snapped with
tin' death, at 86, of Miss Emily Nesbitt, who num-
bered Dickens among her intimate friends before she
came here to join a medico brother in ’76. She
bought a tricycle when she was a mere child of
65 and rode it till she was 80, carefully explaining
when she did give it up that it was because a
returned soldier needed it and not because she w r as
past propelling it.
The favored few- bidden to Percy Grainger’s recital
are not likely to forget the treat he gave them.
William Silver and George Pearce lent a hand with
the items intended for piano and orchestra and
adapted for piano only, and modern music of his
own and his contemporaries’ composing bulked larg-
est' in the programme. The public will have no
chance of hearing him till his return, two years
hence.
One of the Moulden dame’s dearest projects is a
refreshment kiosk for the benefit of patients, staff
and visitors in the grounds of the Adelaide Hospital.
The cost of it has been estimated at £2500, and
ex-Mayor Simpson has promised to foot the bill.


A. Saunders’ Cake Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand pierced, 40/-
With Handle, 42/-
A. Saunders’ mue or Henna-
sliaded China Biscuit Barrel,
Silver-plated Mounts, 21/-
ms.
■
■
A. Saunders’ 4-bottle Dinner
Cruet, Cut-glass Bottles, pure
Silver-plated Stand, 60/-
SILVER-PLATE TABLE APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Biscuit or Sand-
wich Trough, pure Silver-
plated, 15/6; A 1 quality, 20/=
With handle over centre, 20/-
ĥ
is ■
SPECIAL
VALUE,
£4/10/-
ħ
A. Saunders' Afternoon Tea Set, A 1 quality, pure Silverplated, Gadroon design.
All Orders by Mail Receive Our Special Attention
and Prompt Despatch. WE PAY POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER JEWELLER,
805-813 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, colored
English China Bowls with floral shoulders,
pure Silver-plated Mounts and Servers, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Hot. Water Jug,
Al quality, Silver-plated, en-
graved bands. In three sizes,
30/-, 35/-, 42/-
A. Saunders’ Honey Jar, pure Silver-
plated, English Floral China Jar,
25/-
MISS KITTY REIDY.
MISS JUNE ROBERTS.
The Popular and Charming Theatrical Stars.
Dainty Advocates of Mercolized Wax for the Skin.
PURE MERCOLIZED WAX.
A beautifully refined Face Cream which should always be used
before the application of powder, as it prevents clogging of the
pores. Protects the skin from sun, wind, sea and dust. Necessary
to all lovers of out-door life, and positively does not encourage the
growth of hair.
BARRI-AGAR.
Orange Blossom perfumed Face Powder, m beautifully soft and
clinging. In four colors: Rachel, Cream, Pink, White.
TAMMALITE.
A harmless preparation which is not a dye, but will restore grey
hairs to their natural color.
Obtainable from Reliable Chemists and Stores-
Mercolized Wax, 5/6 tin; Barri-Agar and Tammalite, 4/- per
package; or post free from
DEPT 89,
DEARBORN (Australia) LTD.,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TS
/
/&
' I
©•
-
*
«T\
• i .
s
•iM
W
15/6
at Murdoch's!
“MANUFACTURER TO WEARER” SPECIAL.
This splendid motor Dust Coat in robust quality Crash is thoughtfully
planned in design and reinforced in workmanship to ensure abundant
service. Murdoch tailored with open front or button to neck (as illus-
tration), with or without full belt; strong, capacious, vertical pockets.
Well sewn throughout. POST FREE TO YOUR DOOR
15/6
Best-quality Crash
19/6
In tough Linen Crash
27/6
Superb Value! Murdoch’s save you the Middleman’s profit!
When writing kindly address your letter to DESK R.
h
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


' Under
Royal
Warrant
ĥ
ToH.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
f?I
if
champagne
Heims
lTv ««r iOJ/w®I**' 1 **'
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
FRIDAY, 31st OCTOBER.
HALLOWE’EN SUPPER DANCE
Depicting the beautiful qualities of
Scottish traditions.
Tickets 30/-
must be procured from the Wentworth,
when a mystery hood will be presented
with each ticket.
HALLOWE’EN NOVELTIES AND MENU.
’Phone, City 9931.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation, etc., etc.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SILK OR
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Hats off to the Rotarians! The idea of
the boys’ club at Pyrmont is theirs, and the
members hope to raise the necessary £lO,OOO
during the Boys’ Week in September. Up
to the present the Rotary Club has contented
itself with giving outings to kiddies from
the hospitals and the congested areas, but
now it sets itself a task that will stand as
a memorial. An exhibition of boys’ hobbies
in the Town Hall will be one of the features
of a crowded .week for the youngsters;
and the grown-ups will get a bit of the fun
at the ball in the Palais Royal, which will
be chaperoned by Miss Fairfax in all her
pearls. Henry Braddon who, as one of the
genial club heads, skippered an outing of
small men to Manly the other week, had a
true compliment paid him when two of the
kiddies elected to stay with him to hear him
“talk some more” rather than join in the
treasure-hunt for sixpences and shillings hid-
den along the beach. Needless to say the
two listeners were Irish. An Irishman, what-
ever his dimensions, prizes a good yarn be-
fore rubies. Probably the knight had been
exercising some of the story-telling charm
that made his aunt the most widely-read
romance-weaver of her day.
Though those of us who golf at Moore
Park lack the social kick that comes from
slogging the small ball around the Rose Bay
links, nobody looked downcast about it the
other night at the Moore Park Golf Club
Ball. Sargent’s, in Market-street, was the
rallying place, and the brassie-swingers
proved equal to a neat bit of footwork. A
tendency on the part of some pairs to “do it
in sixteen,” and to regard others on the floor
as bunkers, was speedily repressed, and after
that all went merrily. Dr. Lee Brown was
president of the dance. Mrs. Pearson, who
had labored even as the bee over her secre-
tarial job, cheered herself with becoming
cherry-hued raiment: and Dorothy Smee, who
was treasurer, enfolded herself in silver lamg
as shining as though just minted.
The decorations for the Artists’ Ball
on the 29th will take us back to
childhood days. Nursery rhymes, held
aloft by kewpies, will transform the
outline of the galleries; each rhyme will be
illustrated by a different artist. A Noah’s
Ark 40 feet high will cover up the oi’gan,
and instead of Shem, Ham and Japheth will
be inhabited by three jazz bands (no doubt
the three offspring often sounded just like
that to Mrs. Noah when she was trying to
get her siesta). One of these bands will be
Lyn Smith’s, from “Good Morning, Dearie!”
And in the basement there will be a Mul-
berry-tree and a Kiss-in-the-Ring reserve.
It was in the stern fortress of the High-
land Society’s rooms in Phillip-street that
the National Council of Women held its half-
yearly conference during the cold blasts of
last week. Mrs. Downie, the Apple-
blossom Isle’s delegate, reported on the cam-
paign for better films; Mrs. Herbert, the
Voice from Queensland, spoke of the way
the women of the North were guarding the
interests of the mentally defective; and Dr.
Emma Buckley was all for abolishing the
maternity bonus. Dr. Mary Booth was the
proxy for Westralia. On Friday evening
the Women’s Club housed the restrained
gaiety of a reception to the visiting delegates.
But as one woman to another, don’t you
think they’d have spent a jollier night with
Little Nellie Kelly?
Three treasurers of Sydney institutions
we_re gladdened this week, the biggest amount
being paid over at the Paddington Women’s
Hospital by Mrs. Pitt Rivers. The Violet
matinee, in the organisation of which Rio
useful young woman carried a giant’s share,
made £1039. The girls who ran the Garden of
Allah Ball netted £305 for the C. of E.
homes and hostels; and a group of Sacred
Heart Hospice enthusiasts dropped £206 into
the till as the harvest of a cabaret afternoon.
Opera-goers have been counting on their
fingers the number of Australian girls with-
in call who might have saved the fiasco that
happened the other night when Scavizzi
failed to throw even one note into the third
musical episode of “Tales of Hoffmann”;
having an appalling cold she just croaked
her words in her speaking voice. An Italian
audience would have pulled the theatre down
had it been served so. The excuse was “no
understudy” ; but why wasn’t there one? In
a country which holds clever and experienced
singers like the Castles sisters, Stella Power,
Nellie Leach, Jean Drummond and a host of
others who have years of European study
and experience to their credit, it was utterly
inexcusable.
Musical Sydney is grieving over the news
of tenor Philip Wilson’s death. Philip was
for years one of our best-known - singing-
teachers. He had perfect enunciation and
the ability to pass the gift on to his students
—a tall, handsome fellow who specialised in
the literature of the very early English song-
makers. About four years ago he and his
Australian wife left Sydney at a call from
a very sick mother in London. His own end
came suddenly after an operation.
Last year when the Anglican Synod was
sitting there were so many mitres and
crooks hanging on the hatracks of the A.B.M.
lunchrooms in Castlereagh-street that the
ordinary man’s felt was crowded out. But
this wasn’t healthy for trade—the shepherd
is only a yearly visitor, whereas the sheep
(and the goats) come every day for a nibble.
So the clever women who run the tearooms
in the interests of the Australian Board of
Missions decided to shift to lai'ger premises,
and now they are established in the Blue
tearooms in Rowe-street, where is refresh-
ment for man and priest, even if two Synods
run at the one time.
Another ex-soldier claimed his bride at
St. Philip’s when Captain Claude Cameron,
M.C., of Turramurra, got the blessing of the
Church on his alliance with Aline Vindin, of
the same district. Claude’s father, Padre
Cameron, tied the knot, and the bride glowed
in ivory chiffon velvets that drew a train of
silver brocade. A mist of tulle veiling and
an armful of pink and white hyacinths were
other effects. Bride’s sister Wynne and
’groom’s sister Alison ’maided in shell-pink
velvet frocking and black lace hats. The
toasts were drunk at the Wentworth, where
the bride’s mother hostessed in old-gold bro-
cades, finished off with plumed brown mil-
linery.
Under Rabbi Cohen’s eye a recent tryst
was kept under the canopy of the Great
Synagogue by Leo Karp, of Lithgow, and
Ettie Barnett, of Coogee. The cake was cut
at the Marlborough.
Synchronising with the production of
“Miss Hook of Holland” two of the members
of the Mosman society responsible for the
show have announced their engagement.
Mary Hosking, the Buttercup of “Pina-
fore,” has promised Roy Nettheim, of Cre-
morne, to sign up with him on a near date.
Boys’ Week is every week with the lady
of the picture. She.is Florence Wallace,
and she weaves her magic spell over boys
from seven to 70 in her wireless rooms in
the Imperial Arcade. Boys and their radio
experiments make her world. Five years ago
she set up her sign, and one of her first cus-
tomers was young Jack Davis —the remark-
able youth of 16. who was sent by the Insti-
tute of Wireless to America with Mr. Maclur-
can a ,few
months ago.
When .Tack
first called at
her shop his
head reached
scarcely b e-
yond the level
of the coun-
ter, and his
first purchase
was an. ordi-
nary crystal
set, just like
the sets of
dozens of
other boys,
now nearly
men, who have
been helped to
the higher
wizardry b y
the keeper of
this wireless
shop. Before
Marconi called electrical engineering was
Miss Wallace’s love: she is the only
woman electrical-engineer with the Syd-
ney Technical School diploma, and the
only one who ever set up her own
workshop in the city and went out
superintending her own contracts. Now she
is the only woman member of the Wireless
Institute. She employs a number of girls
to wind coils: they do it much better, she
says, than the mere male person.
Five months ago Sheelagh, the third and
only unmarried daughter of the Mick
Meaghers, of Bathurst, left with her parents
for a trip to America. On board was “Ceb”
Barnes, only son of the owner of Canning
Downs (Q.) and the racehorse Rivoli. The
young people came to an understanding be-
fore San Francisco was reached, and at the
end of last month they were married there.
The ceremony occurred in St. Mary’s Cath-
edral, and Mayor Rolph sent a bouquet of
orchids and lilies of the valley.
Touching the unexpected discovery of
pearls in oysters and other bivalves, which
the warriors of the “Aboriginalities” column
have lately been talking about, at the dinner
in honor of visiting artists during the
Artists’ Week in Adelaide, Lionel Lindsay,
while trifling with an oyster patg, startled
himself and the company by finding a speci-
men of the jeweller’s goods with his teeth.
True, it wasn’t the quality of pearl to excite
Cleopatra’s envy, or the sort that ancient
kings threw into their winecups; but it was
the genuine goods, and Lionel carefully
pocketed it instead of tossing it into his
glass. A local verse-carpenter at the table,
inspired by a cocktail or two, produced this
impromptu:—
The artist came—-his soul expressed;
The public came —and did the rest.
They saw, admired and even bought.
Purse-strings were loosed as eye was caught.
Fortune pursues in joyous mood;
For lo! with his ambrosial food.
Lucky from toe to topmost curl,
Ev’n his oyster yields a pearl.
This is how John Banks smiled when he
heard that the Gallery had bought his
painting, “The
Boad to the
Beach,” no w
on view in
the It.A.S.
Show in the
Education Gal-
lery. John is
a Saturday-to-
Monday artist:
during the
week the busi-
ness world is
the jungle in
w hic h he
catches his
daily tiger-
steak. He is
the youngest
brother of
Banks Bros,
and Metcalfe,
insurance
brokers, and is
one of that old
Balmain family sired by tlie pioneer Captain
Banks who celebrated his 97th birthday a
few weeks ago. May Moore took the pic-
ture. _ . .
Julius Bradley, soil of conductor Joseph, is
back with mother and father after ten years
in Shanghai. His job is architecture in
the Imperial service; and a belated furlough
now gives him to Sydney for six months.
He went to London and picked up his parents,
and, after the three had surfeited on Wem-
bley, the German opera and a succession of
concerts, they voyaged home in company.
The Joseph Bradleys, incidentally, are about
the last family in Sydney to own a hansom
cab for private use. ,
A clever little comedy in three acts, “The
Shop Girl,” enticed France and Belgium into
St. James’s on Thursday. The good Cause
was the N.S.W. Belgian Benevolent Society,
and Consul-General Segaert not only pro-
duced the play, but also played a sort of
elderly Quinneys in whose antique shop Mar-
guerite Lamerand w T orked a startling change
of fortune. Two Segaert girls, Maria
Playoust and Louise Chautard handled small
parts capitally. As is usual in amateur pro-
ductions, the girls were better than the
men. Only the Shop Girl never stood still:
like all immature Duses she walked miles
during the evening.
Dorothy Mould, who through Essie Ack-
land’s sick-leave from the programme made
her first professional bow to concert-goers
on Saturday, is the only chick of the archi-
tectural Moulds of Mosman. Dorothy has
a mezzo voice of good range—it goes up and
up like the buildings father plans. The
Astor in Macquarie-street is of his designing.
The Vagabonds have just had a successful
run of four nights at St. James’s —the little
hall round the corner of Pliillip-street. The
Vagabonds’ productions are always comedies,
and this time the three-acter, “Her Hus-
band’s Wife,” by A. E. Thomas, was the
medium that sent each night’s audience home
with a cheerful view of life. The C. of E.
Homes, the Day Nurseries and the Sydney
Hospital benefited by three performances,
and the Vagabonds’ own small invalid boy
will feel like a Croesus when he receives
what Saturday’s house brings him. Balmain,
the small man’s suburb, rallied in hosts, and
the rows of seats trod upon each other’s
heels, a hundred extra chairs having been
juggled into position by a sympathetic care-
taker.
The Great Synagogue, which has classes
in Hebrew, the Torah and the Talmud, is
filling late learned headmaster M. A. Cohen’s
place with a young man distinguished as a
soldier as well as a scholar. Abraham Rotli-
field, an English-born Jew, stepped out of
the ’Varsity into the wax-, collected a lieu-
tenancy, two wounds and a bar to his Mili-
tary Cross, and finished up as observer in
the Royal Air Force. He is 33, his youth
being an additional recommendation. Jewry
treats its aged ministers well; but in Sydney
in the early days it forgot to insure its offi-
cers against old age, and is now carrying a
heavy burden of pensions.
A travelling Australian sent a whoop to
Sydney by the last English mail. He and
his wife had been “rubbing shoulders with
Royalty, with a consequent brushing up of
their intellects.” Which clears up any doubt
as to the seat of the human understanding.
The Kelso Kings are busy in the interests
of the Paddington and Woollahra Boy Scouts.
The grounds of Quambi, the Kelso t King
home, will be given over to a fete on Novem-
ber 15, the takings going towards building a
hall for the use of the bare-kneed brother-
hood of that district. The first meeting of
the committee was held at Quambi the other
day, when our Best Known promised their
gilded support.
Except that one of the male cast finished
off his Court costume with a pair of stained
brown boots, and that one poor girl had to
appear with a foot in plaster-of-paris, owing
to an accident at the dress rehearsal, there
was little wrong with the Roseville Musical
Society’s production of “The Country Girl.”
Aileen Bear, in spite of her bad foot,, carried
on pluckily, and Victor Kelly, as Barry—
George Lauri’s old part —made a hit. Alfred
Hill conducted, and the performers were
given ample encouragement to try again by
two crowded houses.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matthew Nathan and their Federal Exes, the
Forsters saw to it that the Show was well opened on
the 13th. Lady Forster wore cinnamon-brown mari-
ette with a brown satin hat; and Miss Carleton
was in grey brocaded marocain, t with a black hat.
Racegoers at Ascot in the afternoon were so
numerous that many were unable to get into the
stand enclosure. Among the smart frockers were
Mrs. Arnold Weinholt, in beige and brown Egyptian
marocain; Mrs. Charlie White (Stanthorpe), in black
and white; Mrs. O’Riordan (Sydney), in grey; Mrs.
Chandler, in navy georgette; Ceeile Waley (Sydney),
in sand-color; Grace Whatmore, in ivory marocain
over rose silk ; Mrs. Toweran Barton, in saxe-blue;
and Mrs. Drysdale (Barcaldine), in cream with an
Egyptian-red hat.
Government House Ball was one of the bright
Show-time festivities. The G.-G. and Lady Forster
were there, with Capt. Mulholland and Lieut. Sey-
mour ; and Capt. Turner and H. M. Saunders helped
Sir Matthew to receive the guests. Lady Forster
was in black and gold brocade with a gold band on
her hair. Yvonne Saltmarsh, Joyce Godsall, Helen
Crombie, Joyce Farmer and Hazel Heale were the
debs., and each wore a gift gold monogram brooch
from his local Ex.
Black lattice-work and wistaria formed the setting
of the Matrons’ Ball at Lennon's. Mrs. Gilbert Wil-
son and Mrs. J. T. Bell were among the busiest host-
esses. Sir Matthew arrived after 10 o’clock with
Mrs. Turner, Una Bell, Helen Rogerson and Susie
Spencer. The William Collins, Cecil O’Beirne, Whit-
tingham and Espie Dods matrons received the vice-
regal party.
State Commandant Major-General and Mrs. Bruche
had an at-home after the Gov.-Ceneral’s presentation
of medals at Victoria Barracks. Lady Forster was
in saxe-blue marocain, Miss Carleton in Oriental silk
with black capeline, and Mrs. Bruche in sand-color.
All the Exes, were present with their A.-D.-C.’s.
Lady Forster went bright and early to the Bush
Book Club’s headquarters and was handed a number
of children’s books, which she autographed. The
Firmin McKinnon, Ormonde Smith, Eyers, Francis
and Arnold Gibson matrons held out the welcoming
hand. Lady Forster also went to the council rooms
of the N.C.W. and lunched at the Women’s Club.
About 150 guests footed it at, the Whittinghams’
ball at their home, Mayfield. Sir Matthew, Com-
modore Wardle and a bouquet of officers were among
them. The hostess was in pink and silver, and
fluttered a pink ostrich-feather fan.
On the same day the Women’s Club had an at-
home for Lady Forster. Mrs. Theodore was with
her. President Highfield said the welcoming piece,
and Barbara Sisley, Mrs. Georgeson, Mabel Zillman
and Florence Micheli staged the musical and elocu-
tionary programme.
The Nudgee College Old Boys’ Ball was held in
the S. B. Tech. Hall in a setting of fern and wis-
taria, with rose color for the supper-room carried out
in sweet-pea. The Mayor and Mayoress and Marian
Oxley were there, also Mrs. Tom Ryan in black
velvet and silver.
The Girls’ Ball is always a sprightly feature of
Brisbane’s hectic week, and this year it was held in
Lennon’s new ballroom. Sir Matthew was there,
with Mrs. Turner, Jack Turner, A.D.C., Capt. Wardle
and many officers of the boats in port. Alice Haw-
thorn received the guests, and among the hostesses
were Una Bell, Edith North, Carlie Yaldwyji, Susie
Spencer and B. Cadell Garrick.
The J. M. Thompsons gave a large at-home at their
house, which was filled with fragrant Spring blos-
somry. Fairfaxes, Whittinghams, Lachlan Wilsons,
Claude Flemmings and Robert Chisholm were in the
crush.
The Amateur Turf Club had a big roll-up at
Albion Park. Mrs. Canning Downs Barnes was in
mole check, Mrs. Darcy Winten in mastic, and Mrs.
J. M. Thompson in pink and white.
The Centenary Ball was staged in the Trocadero,
Sir Matthew being there to shake hands with a
number of buds presented to him by Mrs. Ted Theo-
dore. Among these were Mary Galley, a Canadian.
The male section included Commodore Wardle and
others from the waiboats.
The Seamen’s Institute Ball was at Lennon’s, and
Sir Matthew was at it with Turner, A.D.C., and H.
M. Saunders. Lieut.-Commodore Mutton and his
wife and the Lefanus received his Ex.
Sir Matthew also attended the All Hallows garden-
party. Mothers Alban and Patrick received, the
Hibernian Band played, and there was quite a cohort
of archbishops in the train of Monsignor Cattaneo.
Mayor Barry gathered a vast concourse, including
most of the school kiddies of the town, in New Farm
Park for a garden-party. Among other things there
was an aboriginal corroboree, which was witnessed
by the F. K. Brodribbs, Readings, Hethringtons,
Muttons, Sligos and G. M. Dashes, and the Reay and
Forrest matrons. Their combined Exes, paid the
shivoo a brief visit.


RESCITS
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Specialwhisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
“QUALITY TELLS."
Python Skin Shoes.
Specially Selected Skins from Java.
These shoes represent the last word in
style and distinctiveness. They are
fashioned in neat designs that appeal to
the careful dresser —finished with care for
the smallest details. The skins were im-
ported by us direct and tanned by a special
process that preserves all the natural
lustre. Call and see them—or send for
a pair.
PRETTY STYLE with welted
soles and covered sports heel.
Wide one bar with special fasten-
ing buckle. Price 79/6.
NEAT LACE STYLE 75/-
COURT STYLE, with buckle 84/'-
ħ
WE PAY
POSTAGE
N.S.W.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.,
189 PITT STREET - - 135 KING STREET—SYDNEY
SPPRTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
* * # *
The most significant event at Saturday’s
V.R.G. meeting (it was held at Moonee Valley
owing to the alterations in progress at Flemington)
was Royal Charter’s victory at odds-on in the Three-
Year-Old Handicap, eight furlongs. The Comedy
King colt led from start to finish, and his per-
formance immensely impressed some good critics.
Others were more taken with the achievement of
Jimmy Wilson's Burrabadeen filly, Brimming ; though
conceding the winner 161 b., and obviously above her-
self, she put: in a good finishing run which landed
her in second place. Royal Charter is trained by
Holt for J. M. Niall, and another of Holt’s in
Easingwold, now a magnificent-looking six-year-old;
was made favorite for the six-furlongs Apprentices’
Handicap. It was a good thing spoilt by an indiffer-
ent start and early interference, as a result of
which the judge’s box arrived too soon for the flying
Westralian, although he finished within a length of
the winner, Charlecote (15’s). San Antonio (3’s)
showed temper at the start of the 10-furlongs August
Handicap, but ran away
from consistent Imputa-
tion and Lillirie in the
straight. Drongo, who
las an undoubted Mel-
ourne Cup chance with
Ist. 51b., was putting
In good work over the
inal furlong. Myownbay
(6 to 4 on) won the
Hurdle for the fortu-
nate T. M. Burke, who
bought him just before
the race; and Irish
Rufus (7 to 4) battling
out another desperate
steeplechase finish,
brought jov to other
members of a sport-
and fight-loving sept.
The game old chestnut
is owned by H. and M.
Bourke and trained by
AT. Burke.
F. J. MARSDEN,
who has Shrapnel
and other good
horses in his Rand-
wick string.
Bedonia failed miserably at Randwick on
August 2, but in the Three-year-old Handicap at Rose-
hill on Saturday, he gave a vastly different display.
With Pike on his back instead of the apprentice
who rode him at headquarters (the burden, 9st. 71b.,
was the same), the Limelight—Placidity chestnut hit
the front in the first furlong, and hadn t to be
extended to win by two lengths from Sweet Tress,
who was a length ahead of The White Diamond. Ihe
last-named, a hot favorite (Bedonia was at 4’s), would
have given a lot more trouble if he hadn’t lost his
forward position just when Bedonia was racing to the
front —the beautiful black colt was knocked back
among the rear division —but the winner’s perform-
ance was full of merit, seeing that he ran the seven
furlongs in lmin. 27sec. He so impressed the ltose-
hill handicapper that he was asked to give Lady
Valais 41b., Shrapnel 71b. and Rahiri 81b. in a mile
race at Rosehill next Saturday, but his connections
promptly—and very properly—put the pen through
his name. Janitor (7’s), a little Cooltrim gelding
with a, fine turn of speed, took the first division of
the Dundas Handicap, six furlongs, and Sunburst
(9 to 4) annexed the second division, thanks largely
to little Mul linger, who gets a lot more out of the
big fellow than more fashionable jockeys have done,
l’olycletan (s’s), looking in much better shape
than at Randwick, where he was backed too
soon, made a one-horse race of the 10-fur-
longs August Handicap, in which David gal-
loped surprisingly well considering his condition.
The old fellow has had a good rest since his tremen-
dous exertions last season, and there may be a
race or two in him yet. Le Whitton (12’s) did the
bookmakers a good turn in the Granville Stakes by
disposing of a paper certainty in Brown Rajah, who
would have been an actual certainty if he hadn’t
been so badly placed in the first half-mile. There is
good stuff in this English horse, but he evidently
needs a jockey who will start kicking him along as
soon as the barrier goes up. All Homo (3’s), who
was unlucky at Randwick. carried 9st. 71b. to victory
in the Parramatta Handicap, after making all the
running and staving off challenge after challenge.
He is quietly fancied for the Epsom Handicap, in
which he has 7st. 9lb.
* * * *
Adelaide Hunt Club still runs its point-to-
point steeplechase over a circular course in the open
country near the sea. Bir-el-abd, owned by Teesdale
Smith, the Master, won again, making three times
in the last four years. On the other two occasions
his owner rode him. but this time E. M. Luxmoore
had the mount. Sprod, on his own Countersign,
was second. The usual dinner rounded off the pro-
ceedings. at which Prime Minister Bruce had been
an interested spectator.
* * * *
“Curly” Wilsliur, the Canadian light-
weight, went the right way to make himself popular
in his argument with Bert Spargo at Melbourne
Stadium, but it was not the right way to beat a
cleverer and more experienced man. Spargo (9st.
31b.) was a pound heavier and immeasurably superior
in ringcraft. The visitor made the going brisk from
the start, but his tactics enabled Spargo to use a
merciless left where it would do most harm, and
from the sixth round onwards the Canadian counten-
ance was a picture no artist (other than a ring
artist) would paint. If Wilshur is champion of
Canada, Australia need have no fear of losing laurels
to that country. However, the lad has an interest-
ing left hook, together with an obvious willingness
to give his patrons the worth of their money, and
the Melbourne crowd has taken him to its heart.
* * * *
The return match between Harry Young
and George Tosh, at Sydney Stadium, confirmed the
suspicion that Tosh can’t take it. Young landed
solidly with straight lefts and right crosses, and the
Gilgandra welter, though game enough, was so
helpless in the third round —he had been down four
times—that the police-inspector said he had seen
enough. A numerous Gilgandra delegation accom-
panied Tosh to the scene of the disaster, and went
back poorer in pocket as well as chastened in spirit.
One member of the party backed the unfortunate
youth for £5OO at even money.
* * * *
Thus far this year Patterson and O’Hara
Wood have played 15 Davis Cup matches and won
the lot. Little Shimidzu gave Patterson a lot of
trouble at Providence, Rhode Island, but the six-
footer’s service finally prevailed (7 —5, 11—9,
6—4) ; and after O’Hara Wood had lost
two sets against Okamoto, who shaped pretty
well at Wimbledon, he overwhelmed the Japan-
ese in the fifth and last (6 —4, 2 —6, 6 —4,
2 —6, 6 —l). Harada took Shimidzu’s place in the
doubles, but the Australian pair never looked like
losing (7 —5, 6 —2, 6—4) ; and O’Hara Wood then
overcame “Shimmy” in straight sets (6 —1, 6— 4,
6 —2), a performance which his partner repeated at
Okamoto’s expense (7 —5, 6—l, 6-—4). Patterson is
reported to have been bothered at times by the
tough Shimidzu, particularly when the latter tackled
him at his weak point, his backhand, but Wood was
always the game little chap’s master. Wood’s fine
form in singles is particularly gratifying. He will
need to be at his best against Borotra, Cochet and
Lacoste.
* * * *
Although the racquet-wielders from Stan-
ford University are not quite in J. O. Anderson’s
class, they haye proved much too good for most of
the ’Varsity players they have met in the Common-
wealth. They have won both their matches against
Combined Universities, and their defeat of a team
which included Mclnnes, a member of the 1923
Davis Cup party, and Hone, the South Australian
giant, was highly creditable to the Californians. The
Australian score would have looked miserable but
for Mclnnes, who defeated Mertz in two sets and
Hinckley in three. Hone beat Mertz but lost to
Hinckley, and in the doubles he was of small assist-
ance to Mclnnes, the pair being conquered cn the
first day by de Back and Overfelt and on the second
day by Hinckley and Mertz. It is alleged that the
tail youth w'as out of form, but if that was the case
he had no business to play.
* * * »
“S. Onmm” : T am desolated at the report
that Susanne Lenglen may retire from the game
which she has made so popular as a leg-show. Thanks
to the movies and the illustrated press, there are
four Susannes in my neighborhood, and I have seen
seven in the course of a Sunday-afternoon stroll.
Tall or short, fat or lean, they all wear mauve
bandeaux, loose one-piece frocks ending just below
the knee and (of course) white “sneakers” and
stockings. And their court-movements are carefully
modelled on those of the famous original. A back-
kick with the right leg when serving, and a high-
kick with the left leg when volleying, are the
favorites, and a really smart girl can keep the
limb poised in the air for seconds while assuming
an air of intense absorption in the game. Like 90
per cent, of the flappers who pervade suburban
courts, our local Lenglens play abominably, but their
antics are a delight. In fact, if Susanne resigns in
favor of some more phlegmatic champion who will set
soberer fashions—Helen Wills, perhaps, with her
eyeshade and her business-like ways—a light will
go out of many a Sunday saunterer’s life.
* * * *
Some capital golf was witnessed during
the struggle for the S.A. title, which Legh Winser
didn’t defend this year, having gone on a visit to
England. Tom Cheadle, an old-time holder, came top
in the qualifying round, ahead of Digby Giles, who
lately won the Seaton championship ; but in match
play they were put out by Dr. Brian Swift and
“Solly” Hill, the old inter-State cricketer, lately back
from a long stay in London. Swift in a semi-final
only just beat Hambleton, A.-D.-C. to Governor
Bridges; but in the final, playing the game of his
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
“You can't be too careful starting out. I
found myself taking an awful stick
round this morning."
“Yes, I noticed him with you."
life, the doctor finished 4 up and 3 to play. In the
morning he went out in 37, a feat he repeated in
the afternoon. The luck of the game came out
strongly in two cases. Parsons could only tie for
eighth qualifying place with Gunson,. a veteran, yet
in playing off the tie he made easily, the best round of
the lot, Toogood, an Englishman living on the Mur-
ray, could do nothing right on the opening day,
but later romped away with the up-country cham-
pionship, in which Bill Whitty, the cricketer, was
third. The ladies’ championship was kept by the
holder, Mrs. Britten Jones, who beat Miss Lil Gordon,
the present Australian title-holder.
, * * . * *
The Australian Olympic team had a great
time at the Tailteann Games in Dublin. Charlton,
Henry, Christie and Stedman won eight Jwimming
events (the lot, in fact) ; Dick Eve outclassed his
opponents in the diving, and Winter in the hop, step
and jump; and Jim Willard and Bayley were the
finalists in the lawn-tennis singles, Willard winning
in straight sets. Also,. “Slip” Carr, showed that his
Paris form was all wrong by defeating Scholz, the
great American, in the 100 metres, run in 10 4-ssec.,
and finishing second to him in the 200 metres.
Broadbent, the cyclist, was another who distin-
guished himself —he collected three good races and
was beaten on the post in the fourth. The Murray
Bridge oarsmen \yerei licked in the fours and eights
by the bhovs from Derry, but after pulling in these
races W. H. Pfeiffer came out and won the sculls.
He r'owed 3J miles during the afternoon.
* * * *
The race for the world’s sculling* cham-
pionship on the Brisbane River was easy for Paddoii.
Over the first of the three miles Felton held his own,
but a mile is as far as Alf cares to travel, and once
the big man from Evans Head let himself go it
was all over bar the cheering and the lifting of
the £lOOO purse. The champion will: now meet
Major Goodsell, the best of the young brigade.
Goodsell’s public form is not such as to warrant a
rush to punt on him, but the*. • is no one else with
a chance of snatching the sprig of parsley from
Paddon’s brow.
* * * *
“Wink” : No one is keener on getting a
place in the Australian XI than W. M. Woodfull, the
Victorian stonewaller. In his suburban back yard he
has laid down a concrete pitch, and there, with the
patience characteristic of his displays in 1922-23
and ’23-24, he is engaged in learning new strokes,
recognising that his repertoire has hitherto been too
limited. Wallace, Victoria’s only fast bowler, and
Liddicutt, the best medium, often run out and fling
a few overs at him. This gives Woodfull excellent
practice, but it is not disinterested comradeship alto-
gether, for they too are of the number from whom
tne Australian team will be chosen. And even if the
trio miss inclusion in the XI, they may find “shops”
among the lucky 15 who will later tour England.
The N.S.W. Cricket Association, at this
week’s meeting, replaced its last year’s selection com-
mittee —C. G. Macartney, W. Bardsley and L. O.
Poidevin—with an entirely new trio • H. L. Collins,
R. B. Minnett and M. A. Noble. There were eight
candidates; Macartney was not among them, but
Bardsley and Poidevin went out on the second
ballot. This is the translation into action of the
grumbling that was widely heard last season about
the committee’s disinclination to give rising stars a
chance in inter-State cricket, which certainly contri-
buted to the indifferent showing made against Vic-
toria. The new committee will probably be found
to have a keener eye for the best material avail-
able; there is .ro one in thst Commonwealth who is
recognised as a better judge of cricket and cricketers,
or who keeps a sharper look-out for budding talent,
than the veteran Noble.
* * * *
Had tlie South Australians beaten the Vic-
torians in the concluding match at the Hobart carni-
val, the Westralians would have retained the honors
that have been theirs since 1921. For in that case
the premiership would have been decided on points,
and the Gropers, in the process of defeating sides
from all the other States except Victoria, had taken
the precaution to collect a hatful. But the leather-
chasers from Adelaide never looked like doing it, and
when the final bell tinkled the Victorians had won
the match and the premiership of the Commonwealth;
the former by 118 points to 65, and the latter with
the fine record of five matches and five wins. S.A.
had three successes, Tasmania two, N. S. Wales one
and Queensland none. Against the weak Bananaland
side the Westralians kicked 43 goals 19 behinds
(277 points) to 2 goals 1 behind (13 points), and
their star forward, Campbell, had 51 goals to his
credit when proceedings closed—an average of 10.2
per match. Unmerciful lickings were inflicted on
Queensland by all the strong States. The sorry
business was perhaps necessitated by the stupid
arrangement to let points decide the issue if two
sides finished level, as regards matches won and
lost; but it was a rotten return for the efforts of a
little band of Queensland enthusiasts to keep the
game going in discouraging circumstances.
Visitors from all the States are agreed that the
North Hobart Oval, from the spectators’ view-
point, is second to none in Australia. And there is
nothing to be desired in the way of convenient
toilet accommodation for players. The whole show
is municipally-owned, and the main pavilion was
pushed to completion in time for the carnival mainly
by the efforts of ex-Mayor Williams, Hobart’s lead-
ing Methodist and all-round publicist. Unhappily,
Williams w T as too ill to see the tournament opened,
and during its progress he died.
“Tren” : Australian football is so vigorous a game
nowadays that few players last a decade. Richmond,
however, have two brilliant exceptions. “Flipper’
Thorp became a Tiger 16 years ago, when they were
growling near the foot of the Association list, and
did much to assist them in their rise to the head of
the League table. As a fullback he has had no
equal in his own day, and, being as sure and con-
sistent now as ever, he was again between the posts
for Victoria in the inter-State games at Hobart.
Norm. Mclntosh, Richmond’s other representative •at
Hobart, played for South Fremantle for 10 years, and
since 1918 has bogged in baldheadrd when the Rich-
mond barrackers cried “Eat ’em alive.”
* * * *
The Rugby Union match that decided the
G.P.S. premiership was exciting enough for anything.
And although it was played at Hunter’s Hill, it
attracted nearly as litany onlookers as witnessed the
draw between South Sydney and Eastern Suburbs
on the Sydney Sports Ground. King’s School, the
only team that hadn’t lost a game, was expected to
win, and its supporters were in high feather when
King’s had 13 points on the board and St. Joseph’s
College 3. But in the second half the big St.
Joseph’s pack asserted itself to such purpose that
the other fifteen’s lead was steadily reduced and
eventually wiped out. King’s rallied splendidly, but
the College forwards were too strong and persistent,
and at the final whistle their side was 4 points to
the good—2o against 16. In the result King’s, St.
Joseph’s and Sydney Grammar tied for the premier-
ship with six wins and one loss apiece. A unique
position, and it would be a pity to disturb it by a
series of play-off matches, as has been suggested. -
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : The English professional
footballers ended their Maoriland tour in an atmo-
sphere of rumblings and sulphur. At Wellington
their manager referred bitterly to the savage barrack-
ing and unsportsmanlike behavior of the crowds,
especially “the squealing of the women, which is
dreadful.” Apart from the fact that the man who
looks for sportsmanship in professional sport is a
super-optimist, one would like to ask if the gentle-
man met with any Maoriland or Australian crowd
like that at Wigan, when the first Kangaroos played
there. A Sydney journalist who accompanied the
team has left it on record that Wigan spat so
copiously on the Australians as they came back to
their dressing-room that some of its guests had to
be scraped down and disinfected.
* * # *
“Past Grammar”; The Newcastle Council,
which controls the local Sports Ground, works on
a principle which the trustees of the Sydney Cricket
Ground might well imitate. „ As in Sydney, the
wealthy professional League has the use of the Sports
Ground, but there is a condition in its lease that
when a big match under another code is to be stage I
in Newcastle the Leaguers must stand aside. Thu?
the Canadian Soccer players had the advantage of the
big ground, as did the University and Glebe-Balmain
Rugby Union clubs when they played in Newcastle
lately. In fact, people in Newcastle are not con-
fronted with the spectacle of a body of professional
players shutting out every other game from the
best public arena in the city for a great part of the
year.
* * * *
“Eeng-Shtii”: British officers have hem
teaching Soccer to Dyak headhunters and Sakai tree-
dwellefs for a generation past, but it is only in the
last few years that the game has invaded Java. V hen
I was previously in the Netherlands Indies the Dutch-
man valued his rystdfel and his prestige too much to
risk either at anything wilder than tennis, with a
horde of native youngsters attending to preserve hi?
dignity from the necessity of bending: to-day he
gets thin and hot trying to wrest football cups from
his brown and yellow subjects. The other day in
Batavia I joined a vast concourse of people going to
see the cup finals. Trams, motor-cars and sadoes
streamed in interminable procession through Meester
Cornelis, with its stately avenues of trees, its old
colonial mansions like museums in dwindling num-
bers, and its new flocks of bungalow's of fearsome
German architecture. High-caste Javanese in neat,
figured headcloths and Eton jackets; Bombay mer-
chants with their shirts outside their trousers,
wealthy Chinamen with their Rolls Rovces full ot
fkrwer-like concubines and bald-headed children ; Arabs
with scimitar faces and Mecca turbans, and a rout ot
poor coolies and poorer half-castes on foot were all
converging towards the field. And presently a score
of different nationalities were barracking in Malay,
for the native team was winning. The British nan
taught them the game and they were beating the
Dutch at it. A dozen years ago the native would
pot have dared to approach a white man except on his
haunches ; here he was bowling his conquerors oter
in the mud. “Verst hriklcelijk!” muttered a Dutch-
man of the old school who stood beside me. He was
thinking 'of his young days when, armed with a
switch, he drove the men, women and children ot the
nearby kampongs out of their fields to labor in his
own plantation.
EARTH’S HOPE.
[FOR THEBULLETIN.]
“Signals will be made from the earth to Mars on
August 22, when the two planets will be nearer one
another than at any time since the end of the
eighteenth century.”
“Just think,” 1 came in time to hear the scientists
declare,
“There may be beings like ourselves across the ether
there
With infinitely keener brains and finer reasoning
powers
Than anything we have to show upon this orb of
ours.
“If life exists onf Mars, ’tis sure its upward slant
began
Long, rolling aeons ere the earth evolved its primal
man.
Our ancestors were jellyfish or crawling animals
When theirs, belike, were making laws and poems
and canals.
“We deem ourselves the heirs -Of all the ages, as
you know,
Yet there’s a possibility this signalling may show
The Martians as far ahead of this young world’s
grandees
As our intelligentsia of gibbering chimpanzees.
“Across the void, a hundred million miles and more
away,
Mentalities may be at work so massive—who can
say ?
That by compare, our Edisons, Marconis and the rest
As negligible ‘also-rans’ some day will be assessed.
“We may be fated soon to find —the chance is not
remote —-
A planetful of men like gods.” ’Twas on the
Manly boat
The scientist impressively his theories did spin.
But hereabouts a Manly man chipped vehemently in.
He took his pipe from out his mouth, across the
side he spat.
“Your Martians may have super-brains. I’m not
contesting that;
But should they ever come here when Olympiads
are being run
I’ll risk a bob or two on one terrestial champion.
“Despite the network of canals they have wherein
to swim,
Whate’er their thews or stature be, my money goes
on him.
Whate’er the fancy strokes upon their planet they
employ,
I won’t believe there’s one of ’em can stay a mile
with ‘Boy/ ”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Australia’s Best Humorous Verse
The Bulletin Reciter
The Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations. 1/- per volume.
No Australian home library is complete without these volumes,
containing the gems of Australian humor in verse.
Complete Catalogue of 150 Australian Novels obtainable free
from Publishers.
THAT BOOK YOU WANT
Commonsense Hand-railing—Hodgson Price 9/6
Practical Stone Masonry—Hodgson Price 7/10
Business Sian’s Guide to Insurance —A. Philpott Price 4/10
Cost Accounting— W. Ainsworth . Price 6/10
Guide for the Company Secretary—A. Coles Price 11/2
Hardwood Staining and Polishing—Hodgson Price 8/-
Practical Cabinet Maker—Hodgson Price 12/8
Motor-cycles and Side-cars —Page Price 15/8
Model Railways—H. Greenley. , Price 8/-
Saw Mills, Arrangement and Management—Bale Price 20/-
Woodworking Machinery—P. Bale Price 14/-
Art of Drawing in Lead Pencil—J. Salwey Price 16/8
Drawing for Art Students—A Seaby Price 16/-
Student’s Commercial Book-keeping—A. Fieldliouse Price, posted 9/-
Plating and Boiler-making—J. Horner I’rico, posted 10/8
Boiler Construction —W. Cruickshank Price, posted 16/-
Cost Accounting—Nicholson & Rohrbach Price 31/6
Marine Insurance —-Winter Price 25/-
Pattern Drawing for Sheet-Metal Workers —T. Newton.
Price, posted 6/4
Handbook of Projection for Motion Picture Managers.
, F. H. Richardson.... Price 45/9
Motion Picture Electricity—J. H. Hallberg Price 18/10
Australian Cotton, Its Growth and Consequence.
N. D. Healy Price 7/9
Henley’s 20th Century Home and Workshop Formulas Price 25/-
Screw Cutting—F. J. Camm Price 9/-
Model Electric Locomotives and Railways -H. Greenley Price 8/-
Practical Boat Building for Amateurs —j. D. Potter.— Price 4/9
W r oollen and Worsted Spinning—A. F. Barker Price 16/6
Strength of Materials—A. M0r1ey..... Price 16/9
Plumbing, Art or Craft of the Plumber’s Sanitary Appliances.
2 vols Price 16/-
Dykes’ Automobile Cyclopaedia Price, posted 31/6
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO., LTD,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Specialists in Fine Pearls
***ms&mk . , mam ,
Kb
Pearl
Necklaces
Brooches
Earrings
Studs, etc.
The firm has
a large and
varied collection
of Loose Pearls
from which
selection may
be made for the
gradual enlarge-
ment and im-
provement of
customers’ own
necklaces.
000
Fully illustrated
Watch or Ring:
Catalogue sent post
free to any address.
"W? ©r urn m on i & G
The Collins Street House tor Jewellery,
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne.
- ••
■»lWi
. ■ •
I 1
m
m
i
Mm,
A WAX Finish Denotes Refinement
THROUGH all their centuries the beautiful interiors
of famous European castles and palaces have known
no finish but wax. Perfectly preserved—the waxed
wood mellows and glows with the years. This same
beautiful finish can be easily duplicated on the floors,
woodwork and furniture of any Australasian home with
JOHNSON’S
Pasfc -Li Quid -Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
Johnson's Wax is the ideal finish and polish for all your
floors. It will make them beautiful-easy to care for—
they won't be slippery—and will not heel-print. And
Johnson's Polishing Wax is, by far, the most economical
finish for floors and linoleum. With waxed floors
expensive refinishing is never necessary, for walked-on
places can be easily and quickly rewaxed as worn spots
appear, without going over the entire floor.
The easy way to wax floors and linoleum is with a
Johnson Weighted Polishing Brush. It spreads the Wax
evenly —polishes the Floor easily—and is an ideal
floor duster.
PREPARED WAX
PREPAREDWAX
LIQUID
Polishes EvEHjnHiHq^riE?
FLOORS-LINOLEUM
WOODWORK
SHOES
<«
jc.JOHNSOH&SOH
m
Johnson’s Polishing Wax is manufactured in Australia—
by Australians. Insist upon your dealer supplying you with
Johnson’s Polishing Wax—there is no substitute. For sale
at leading stores. If you cannot purchase Johnson’s Wax
from your local dealer —write us, mentioning his name
and we will see that you are promptly supplied.
Manufactured by ASB-8
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Offices and Factory: Rosebery, N. S. W.


*?r
A Happy Good Nature.
“If everyone did a bit towards
making conditions better for
others less fortunate, there would
be more happy people, sir.
“I could have kept my discovery
of Kensitas to myself, sir, but I
wouldn’t have been happy.
“I simply have
to tell you that
Kensitas is the
only cigarette to
satisfy a gentle-
man of your dis-
criminating taste,
sir.”
yr
Kensitas
(Pronounced ‘Ken-see-tus’)
CcyaterfSeJ SiA"
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturer!:
J. Wix ii Sons, Ltd., London.
£5
FOR BEST BOY, £5
£5 FOR BEST GIRL
£5
(Judgment of Management to be final.)
TEN SHILLINGS for every additional
photo used.
14th CHILDREN’S PORTRAITS
COMPETITION.
FOR UNITED COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS’
ASSOCIATION’S NATIONAL ANNUAL,
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY.”
PHOTOS wanted from every State. Babyhood up
to fifteen years. Must have been taken during last
twelve months. BACK OF PHOTO must show NAME
OF CHILD AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF
SENDER. Unused photos returned, post paid. Photos
must reach Editor Australia To-day, Box 496
(J.P.0., Melbourne, by September 17, 1924.
h
ĥ
ħ
Makes old razors
shave like new
&
A sharp razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself,
yet how to keep it
sharp, with tough
beards, has always been
the great obstacle, for
the average man docs
not know how to set or
sharpen a razor. The simple
yet expedient PERFORATED
HONE solves the question per-
manently; it provides a life-
time of easy shaving for a
small outlay—only 5/-. or post
free 5/6. TRY THE PER-
FORATED HONE: if it does
not make your razor shave to your
satisfaction return it to us within 30
days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
5/-, or post free 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE CO,
Dept. 11 —4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
31
YA
/%
/
THOSE SHINGLES!
THAT VERANDAH!
THAT SHED!
THAT FENCE!
THAT FOWLHOUSE!
THAT GARDEN BORDER!
ETC., ETC., ETC.
DO IT WITH
h
The Perfected Stain that imparts to timber
the artistic effect and mellowness of age
that paint cannot give, and, at the same time,
absolutely protects from damp, white ant,
dry rot and borer.
Anyone can use it. Quicker drying than
paint, much more effective and cheaper.
Millions of feet of timber and thousands of
pounds saved annually by its use.
Stocked by—Anthony Hordern, Eassetter’s, II H. Groth, James Sandy Holdsworth
Macpherson, Major Bros., Williamson Croft, G. E. Crane & Sons, 1. W. Williams
Guaranteed Product of Major & Co., Hull, England.
"W. PLANT f£L CO. LTD., 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&
%
~Wi
r
u
■WOITES
W
When the clock gives
warning that it's time
to be “thinking of
bed,” let it also remind
you that WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS with Hot
Water , a Squeeze of
Lemon, and Sugar to
taste, constitutes a
most HEALTHFUL
and delightful finale
to the day’s activities.
mm a m? an
WOLFES
AR O M.A.TIC SCMJLIE ]D> AJVff
SCHNAPPS
Q 3/ossirtg to J/u/maidg
CALENDAR.
APRIL
S |M| T IWIT
’ 9J.5
MARCH
LIARY
4-1
fi
■ft
25
LY
JUNE
25
DECEMBER
jlO*£E
SE.PTEMBEI
*»
FROM JANUARY Ist TO DECEMBER 31st.
Each and every day. if necessary, the
“Cletrac” Tank Type Tractor is
always on the job—no stopping for
sore shoulders —and when it’s not
ploughing, harrowing, pulling loads,
reaping and binding, it’s using its
power pulley for threshing, pumping,
sawing, grinding feed, etc. In fact,
there are no idle moments tor tue-
trac,” and. above all, it runs economi-
cally on Kerosene. If you want to
keep ahead of your competitors you
cannot afford to he without
“Cletrac.”
Literature with pleasure post free from
TRACTION AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.,
383 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 469 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO., LTD.,
Light Square West,
ADELAIDE, S. AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO,
371-73 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
“Whip”: Cobb and Co. haven’t quite van-
ished from Queensland (B. 24/7/’24). The
last of their coaches is still running twice a
week from Yeulba to Surat, but it is due to
disappear about the middle of this month,
when a car will replace it. I agree with “Bill
Losler” that it ought to find a resting-place
in either the National Museum, Canberra, or
the State Museum in Brisbane.
Sydney gets, and Adelaide loses, Elliot
Monfries as Chief Clerk of the Postal Depart-
ment. He has had various send-offs in his
old home, in one of which Attorney-General
Denny made an unexpected appearance “as an
old officer of the Postal Department.” Mon-
fries has in his leisure been a wicketkeeper
and a lacrosse goalkeeper of inter-State form.
“Hamer” : One of Victoria’s most ancient
school-houses is going—the old bush academy
at Rockbank. It was built over 60 years
ago, by the efforts of settlers. One man gave
the land, another the stone, a third the mor-
tar, and all combined to do the work. Then
they clubbed together to get a schoolmaster
from Melbourne, and the place that is now
so frail that a wind may blow it down began
its educational activity.
“Adelaide” : The comic old firefloat at Port
Adelaide has at last extinguished itself amid
derisive laughter. Some time ago it was
reported that the boiler could not stand over
901 b. pressure; but nothing was done. A
few days ago there was a great flourmill fire
on the wharves. The conditions were ideal
for the firefloat, with a high tide only a few
yards from the blaze. But no sooner did
the pump get going than the boiler gave way,
and the leaking water put out its own fire
instead of that ashore.
“Carisbrook Jun.”: The cattle-kings seem
to be waking up to the benefits of radio-
telephony. Yesteys. the big N.T. firm, are
only waiting for the Fed. Government to erect
their plant on Wave Hill station. The
owners of Brunette Downs (N.T.) are also
advertising for an operator to take charge
on their station, and doubtless others will
soon fall into line. Westralia has taken the
lead in this respect, and quite a respectable
number of radio outfits are already on the
cattle-stations in West Kimberley.
“Zanthus” : What little experience Aus-
tralia has had of Spaniards seems to con-
firm “Flicker’s” estimate of them (B.
31/6/’24). At White Hills (Vic.) and other
spots near Bendigo a number of Spaniards
settled years ago to grow tomatoes and other
vegetables. It was poor ground, but even a
Chinese could not have given them points in
industry. As to the abos., the Spanish mis-
sion of New Norcia (W.A.), with its off-
shoots in the north-west of that State, has
done devoted and successful work among the
natives for nearly SO years.
“Akran”: “Wax-match” Bates was a Lis-
rnore (N.S.W.) property-owner in the early
days; his sobriquet was conferred upon him
by tenants who reckoned him the last word
in meanness. He owned a score of houses,
and every Monday morning would start on
his rent-collecting round at 8 o’clock. One
morning old Jim Cavander came out with his
dollar and a mouthful of complaints for
“Wax-match.” “Strike me pink, Mr Bates!”
he roared, “the cellar’s full of water.” “Well.”
growled “Wax-match,” “what d’yer expect for
five shillings a week —a cellar full of
whisky?”
The Maoriland Cabinet is showing signs
of wear and tear owing to ill-health and
advanced age. The latest to throw in his
portfolio (Lands) is D. 11. Guthrie, but he
will carry on as a supernumerary. A. D.
McLeod, a protege of the late Walter
Buchanan, has been ushered into the Min-
ister for Lands’ chair, not without some sour
reflections in the camp. R. Heaton Rhodes,
Minister for Defence since James Allen went
to London as Agent-General, is also a sick
man, but he won’t agree that the time is
ripe for a spell-oli from the Treasury benches.
“Pip Pip”: There is consternation at the
spread of the woman’s-riglits movement in
Lilly Bluck-street (Melbourne) and those
outlying regions to which Ah Pong and Loo
Fat have been driven by the encroachment
of white factories and warehouses. Usually
when the white man’s gambling places are
raided the complaints of wives are at the back
of the police activity. The placid Chow has
not hitherto been disturbed by his lady’s inter-
ference ; but the other day, when a Chinese
gaming-house was raided and a gang of
Celestials had to face the Court, it was
explained by the police that it was the
complaints of Chinese wives that had led to
proceedings being taken against the gamblers.
Ah Pong heard the news stoically; but it
was not his joss who suffered battery that
night.
“J.M.”: Died recently, in the Casino
(N.S.W.) Hospital, Johnny Brown, an abo.
who must have been well on to 80. Some
years ago lie was the terror of the Runney-
mede aboriginal home; then, following on a
series of services held at the camp
by a dusky missionary, Johnny “got religion”
and turned missionary himself. Although
unable to read or write he soon acquired
the greater part of the New Testament by
heart. Later on he began to preach to the
“white fellows” in the streets of Lismore,
Casino and Kyogle, passing round the hat
to defray his expenses of travelling to and
fro. Periodically he would load up his
old horse with his blanket and tucker bag
and start for the camps on the Upper
Clarence and Richmond, and at times he
went over the border to the Queensland
camps.
“Harold Hardnpp”: There arc still nearly
3700 registered barmaids in Victoria; as
these drop out men will fill their places at
the beer pumps. But the very slight reduc-
tion in the figures of this close corporation
from year to year would seem to indicate
that barmaids don’t die, or marry, or get
fed up and go to other States and callings.
Perhaps, however, there is another explana-
tion, the one given me by a lady who used
to serve behind a Sydney bar less than six
months ago. She confided that her present
name was something altogether different from
that by which she was known in N. S. Wales,
adding that a friend of hers who was getting
married had written to tell her that there
was a vacant name and a good job waiting in
Melbourne. At this rate the stock of regis-
tered barmaids is in no immediate danger of
being depleted.


■ . -
h
m
w
ws
JueviaTKaj*„
SHOW
4*=
TO
ORDER
New Spring Suitings
JUST TO HAND.
Write for Patterns, Special Self-Measurement Chart and Tape,
Post Free on Request.
the “QUALITY” SUIT
TAILORED TO ORDER
The “Quality” will appeal to men of
good taste, and it is extremely suitable
for wear all the year round. Even
though the price of Woollen Suitings
has increased considerably, we are still
offering materials of the same high
£7/17/6
quality as previously. The range includes finest All-Wool Australian
Tweeds, and specially imported English All-Wool Suitings, in every
latest design and color, including special Heavyweight Indigo Navy
Twills.
the “SUPER-QUALITY”
TAILORED TO ORDER
A suit that reflects genuine distinction—the superior cut, fit and finish setting
it apart from competition. Faultlessly tailored in medium-weight Worsted and
Scotch Tweeds of fine texture, in a magnificent range of shades in brown, grey
and navy. The finest lining and trimmings are used throughout.
£9
RIDING BREECHES
Riding Breeches, mounted-service style, with pockets,
loops, and lacing at knees. In very strong Olive or
Kliaki Suede Drill. Sizes 3to 7 and 4$ 19/0
to 7J
Ready to
Wear
’PHONE 9840 (3 LINES).
A.
Pty.
Ltd.
STOCKMEN’S RIDING
BOOTS.
Sturdily made to stand the
hardest wear. In Black or
Tan Yearling, with sewn
soles and no seams at
sides. An exceed-
ingly comfortable
riding boot ....
27/6
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage.
6.
/InS/ss
A*
f
>\WV
1
m
y^
t
<* tr>
>
rs'
Cr. Swanston and Bourke
Streets,
MELBOURNE.


2monflts petfed
skdbin& 'with
asingfe Made
sc,
O
J
e
2X££
r-vs
A V ' O
No. 101. MODEL *C” SET. Containing, self-stropping
“VALET” Auto Strop razor, 3 tested “VALET blades and a
leather strop. In black or maroon metal case, complete r 7l(~
as illustrated ------------ - Price /
Manufactured by The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., London,
England. Also at New York, Toronto, Paris and Milan.
The “Valet” gives you this
exceptional service —not only
the quantity but the quality.
Proper stropping is the secret. It takes just
twelve seconds to put a real “ barber s edge
on a “ VALET ” blade —all you have to do is to
work the razor backwards and forwards on its
own strop as shown in the picture. The
“VALET” is the only safety razor that can
be both sharpened and cleaned without even
removing the blade.
The “VALET” gives you the most comfortable,
velvety shave you ever had in your life and
leaves your face perfectly smooth and cool.
A single “VALET” Blade will give you a tenth
shave as good as the first and a fiftieth as
good as the tenth —two months’ perfect shaving
with one blade.
British made.
Of all dealers.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO M LTD., BROUGHTON HOUSE, 181 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Ruwolt Road-making
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE
Equipments
************
, -3s ■ '
m
i-4
fT
«:*•
V
‘■'•V'sfc
/,jm:
1 - '-- 7^>'j
.
-■*
WGSB»!*
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus Marsh
Road—Capacity 90 tons per day.
Some users of our Crushers and Plants:—Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (South Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumhah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; J. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St Albans Quarrying Co. (4);
E. J. Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool.
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS —SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO: —
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161.
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


NEW GUN
LONG-DISTANCE SHOOTING
34in. Barrel. 2$ Cartridges.
AUSTRALIA, more than any other country
in the world, requires a gun strong in the
breech, because our varying temperatures
generate such high pressures in explosives.
Having a long experience of sporting condi-
tions here, we have all our Guns made to
suit these requirements, and the latest addi-
tion to SPECIALLY-MADE MODELS is the
•Long-distance REINFORCED BREECH
Single-barrelled Gun. It has full choke,
finely-bored 34in. steel barrel, snap fore-end,
top lever, automatic eiector, half-pistol grip.
Weight, 71b. 6oz.
Price 75/-. Postage 4/- all over Australia.
GUN CARTRIDGES freshly loaded on the
premises give best results. Write for list.
Cfr.
GUN & CARTRIDGE MAKERS,
318 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Malt is allbnderful
Nourishes
That is
Why
h
ABBOTS LAGER 1
Is such a
Beneficial Beverage
INSECTIBANE
DEALS DEATH
• TO ALL
INSECT PESTS.
Per 1/- Tin.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Kenipy’
Royal “Good Morning, Deapie”
New Palace .’. “Climbing Mt. Everest”
Grand Opera House “Little Nellie Kelly”
Hoyt’s muni Picture*
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
I uller’s Theatre .... The World’s llest Vaudeville
snows FOR COMIVO WEEK
His Majesty's “A Night Out”
Royal Vaudeville
King's “East of Suez”
Palace .... Allan Wilkie Shnkspearenn Productions
Princess's “The Rise of Rosie O’Reilly”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
Some day Muriel Starr may supply herself
with a happy ending, and the feeling that
even if she is permitted to smile in the first
act she must finish in heartbreak will be
given a disappointment. Then a number
of her fervent followers will sadly declare
that as an actress she isn’t what she used to
he; for by this time it is a firmly-rooted
conviction that it wouldn’t be quite respect-
able for the lady to meet anything but a
gloomy end. In “East of Suez” the inevit-
able doom is met in an Oriental atmosphere
which is emphasised by some pretty stage
pictures and fixings in the Chinese style,
and by music wliich, quaint and charming
in places, commences in the overture like
a storm which has lost itself in the bush and
i. 5 awaking from a dream that it is a
cargo of tinware. Everybody knows that
Chinese music is like that, and is, therefore,
prepared for what follows. Immediately the
play opens Henry Anderson (Maurice
Tuohy) takes his bride to live slap-up against
a Buddhist temple in order (apart from
some requirements of the plot) that hire-
lings from Lilly Buck-street may be brought
in, wearing costumes that they might have
worn naturally had they (or their grand-
fathers) not come to Lilly Buck-street. It
suggests a grim determination to drag in
atmosphere, especially as a half-caste who
wanted to forget her Chinese origins would
probably object quite strongly to live near
such a reminder as a Chinese temple.
* • • •
Still, both as a spectacle and as a play, “East
of Suez” will give considerable satisfaction.
Henry Anderson, against the advice of his
friends, resolves to marry a half-caste woman
whom he believes to be the widow of an
American. When he introduces her to his
friend George Conway, the latter recognises
her as the girl he himself loved, but whom
he left to save his job and prospects. Put
"TALES OF HOFFMANN,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Alfred Maguenat
as the evil
Dr. Mirakel,
and Coppelius
the magician.
in the care of a Chinese mother, though
given an English education by her father,
she has become the bought wife of a Chinese
merchant. On her appeal to be given the
opportunity to break from the Chinese asso-
ciations she hates, and her threat to kill
herself if denied it, Conway refrains from
exposing her; so the marriage takes place.
But her tendency to easy deceit continues
while the play develops on her re-awakened
love for Conway, and the determination of
her Chinese lover, Lee Tai Chung, to get
her back. Finally she undermines the fidelity
of Conway to his friend Anderson. But the
liaison i rtures him, so he announces that
he is going away. Of course, she believes
that he has become engaged to another girl.
She, therefore, arranges that his letters
shall fall into Anderson’s hands. Her desire
is to force a situation in which her hus-
band will divorce her, and Conway, following
his code of honor, will marry her; but he
Wrings from her a revelation of her deceit
mul her passive participation in a plot to
kill lier husband, and, faced with disillusion-
ment as well as dishonor, suicides. Ander-
son furiously discards her; and the East
claims her completely.
* * * *,■
Muriel Starr is the half-Chinese lady,
Daisy, who tells lies because it seems the
most natural thing to do; and the manner
in which Eily Malyon portrayed the nurse
(really Daisy’s mother) supplied the main
humor of the play, without in any way weak-
ening the sinister intention of the part. As
Conway, Frank Harvey gave one of his usual
well-considered interpretations; Maurice
Tuohy (hitherto known chiefly in the less
complex drama) looked and acted like a man
who deserved a better fate as Anderson. The
rest of the cast did nothing to spoil the
work of the principals.
** * *
A week’s saturation in Sliakspeare con-
firms the opinion that the Allan Wilkie Co.,
now in Melbourne, is a vastly-improved com-
bination. There was a time when the critic,
setting good intention and large performances
against minor defects, had to be prepared
to condone weaknesses ; but little of that is
necessary now. “Cymbeline,” only added to
the repertoire during the recent Brisbane
season, was, in the circumstances, a finished
performance, showing fine dramatic possi-
bilities in a play that few readers like. In
“Hamlet” Miss Hunter-Watts gave pathos
to Ophelia, and in “The Winter’s Tale” sin-
offered a satisfactory performance in the dual
roles of Hermione and Perdita, the substitu-
tion of another as P'erdita, so that the meet-
ing of mother and daughter might take place
when the statue-mother came to life, being
excellently managed. In “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” Irene Webb, a Melbourne girl,
whose work is usually sound and marked by
intelligence, made the mistake of speaking
the lines of the lady who is despised in love
as if a blighted heart was something to laugh
about; but she fitted into the later scenes.
The co. did two bills on the day of that per-
formance, “As You Like It” being the after-
ii-pon venture; and Friday saw “Twelfth
Night,” with Wilkie as Malvolio, and Miss
Hunter-Watts distinguished as Olivia.
Saturday’s item was “Much Ado About No-
thing,” with “Macbeth,” “The Tempest” and
“ Julius Caisar” following ; then “The Comedy
of Errors,” “King Lear” and “The Merry
Wives.”
* * # *
Seven Shakspearean bills in one week is
a heavy ordeal, but the company has hung
out no flags of distress. As usual, Melbourne
audiences have shown the most liking for
the best-known plays; and, while full houses
have met some of the performances, there
was a falling off at others which deserved
better consideration —“The Winter’s Tale,”
for instance. A member of the co. who merits
a word for all-round good work is William
Lockhart. Miss Kiore King made a very
puckish Puck in the “Dream” as Autolycus :
Augustus (Gus before Sliakspeare called him)
Neville showed that his versatility can take
him beyond parts of dignity; and Wilkie has
borne the heat and burden of the plays
evenly and adequately.
At his first Melbourne recital, on Satur-
day night, the young polish pianist Miecz-
slaw Muntz thoroughly stirred a Town Hall
audience by his subtle artistry and interpre-
tative genius. He simply tells the composer’s
tale and sings the poet’s song with his piano
keys, and doesn’t involve them in musical
fireworks to show off his own technical skill.
The stream of melody that flows from his
fingers throbs to passion and brilliancy
without dashing into a i*oaring cataract of
noise, which the connoisseur knows to be
mere muscular force nine times out of ten.
But Muntz is young, and may yet acquire a
grouch against the world to prod his musical
outpourings to more furious expression. The
programme opened with the Bach minuet and
Bach-Busoni toccata, and then broke into
a Soul-moving bracket, beginning with the
Brahms E flat major and B flat minor inter-
mezzos, and ending with Debussy’s “Girl
with the Flaxen Hair” and “Doctor Gradus
ad Parnassum.” Cesar Franck’s Prelude,
Aria and Finale were sandwiched between
these. Another bracket included a Scriabine
prelude, Sauer’s “Musical Box” and Pou-
lene’s “Moto Perpetua,” which ends in a ter-
rifying discord, and leaves those not on inti-
mate terms with the thing wondering. _ Cut-
ting out the scheduled interval, the pianist
dashed into a charmingly-rendered Chopin
quartette. Then the house rose from its
entrancement and demanded more, and got it
in three encores. And even then it was only
nine-forty-five by the clock. Melbourne
music-lovers don’t often get such sweetness so
concentrated. A grand-opera co. can protract
an interval almost that long.
“Shake Your Feet,” a new dance, in-
vented by ingenious Minnie Everett, was
added to the attractions at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, last Saturday; but “Whirled into
Happiness” will cease to whirl on Friday
next in order that Winnie Collins may make
Iter first appearance in a new bill. She looks
just the lady with whom “A Night Out”
could be thoroughly enjoyed.
Rock Phillips is the busiest man at the
Melbourne New Princess’s at present. The
doors closed to the public at the end of last
week; but behind them Phillips is working
hard on properties to make “The Rise of
Rosie O’Reilly,” commencing on Saturday,
a notable event.
Melbourne Tivoli was so assured that
Albert Whelan would make a big hit that
it reintroduced him at a Friday matinge. Its
“TALES OF HOFFMANN ,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Nicklaus (Vera Bedford) and Hoffmann
(Dino Borgioli) in the prologue.
assurance was justified. Although he had
liis real triumph at night, Whelan was given
a great welcome-home by an unusually large
afternoon house, and his quiet artistry was
as satisfying as the run of a brewery to the
Thirstiest Man in Melbourne.
Added to the Melbourne Royal variety
bill is Baby Keir, a precocious infant who
sings, dances and tells old jokes—a clever
enough child. Weyman and Companion are
equilibrists with some neat variations on the
old lines; Estelle Rose’s character songs sit
on her as nicely as her gowns ; and another
good word is due to graceful Marie Burke
and her partner, Arthur Klein.
A little show in Melbourne: —
A collection of a dozen still-life studies at the
Decoration Galleries immortalises an occasion on
which young Carl Hampel raided the fruit and flower
market in a wonderfully good season, and afterwards
transferred the wealth of color to canvas. In this
first venture from landscape into still-life, the color
harmonies are well handled, some blue delphiniums
in a crystal bowl showing a rare delicacy, while in
practically all there is a skilful grouping of rich
effects. But if the artist will have backgrounds, he
should be less careless in handling them.
The brilliant trio, Cellini, Cimara and
Zacharewitscli, opened their Sydney season
in the Town Hall on Saturday. News of
their unexpectedly good work had spread
before them, and from the opening number
a crowded house listened with interest that
presently warmed into enthusiasm. Zachare-
witsch, the violinist, proved himself first.
Ilis tone is rich and suave, as mellow as
the instrument he plays. The Paganini Con-
certo as it issued from his bow cannot soon
be forgotten. His programme numbers in-
cluded Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Hymn to the
Sun,” Moffatt’s _ “The Farmer’s Wedding”
and a composition of his own filled with
the glamor of moonlight and midsummer
nights. In his little moments his music has
a cobwebby lightness, yet in the big num-
bers he has both strength and breadth _of
treatment. The tenor, Cellini, an engaging
person, seems to possess a limitless reper-
toire, and the greedy audience gave him
every opportunity to air it—he was never
let off with less than a double encore. “On
with the Motley,” from “II Pagliacci,” sung
in English, was one of his big successes, run
a close second by “Donna e Mobile,” followed
by other timeworn favorites. Cimara. at the
piano, has sympathetic fingers, which coax
the best out of his fellow-musicians. Dorothy
Mould’s rich mezzo-contralto was heard in
place of the sick Essie Ackland’s. Tier first
choice from Liza Lehmann’s “In a Persian
Garden” was melodious but colorless; the
encore, “Caro Mio Ben,” held more expres-
sion, and was beautifully phrased. Other
concerts will occur this Thursday and
Saturday.
❖ sk * *
Grand Opera is still strewing the stage
of Sydney Majesty’s with dead and dying.
This (Thursday) afternoon “Butterfly”
lives her little hour; to-night “Tosca” gets
herself so tangled in love’s knot that nothing
but death can uncoil her ; Friday “Hoffmann”
again recounts his love adventures to a set
of boon companions; and on Saturday after-
noon Melba, who has had two nurses look-
ing after her precious throat, one by day
and one by night, will, all going well, return
as Mimi in “La Bolifeme.”
“Kempy” still pursues his homely and
hilarious way at Sydney Cri.
At Sydney Royal “Good Morning, Dearie,”
sent up its 50 early in the week with a
beautiful leg-glance. The girls and the
frocks and the songs are guaranteed to flood
the gloomiest soul with sunshine.
At Sydney Palace Colonel Pottinger con-
tinues to personally conduct stay-at-home
travellers to the foot of Mount Everest, and
to give them glimpses of bleak and wind-
swept slopes where it is impossible to make
tea because water boils at such a perversely
low temperature.
Bransby Williams unfolds something very
refreshing in the way of character-studies at
Sydney Tivoli. His excellently-staged _ act
includes bits from Dickens and a bright
sketch of a provincial showman in persuasive
mood. ' His work is well done and proves a
welcome relief from the too-usual vaudeville
fare. Anna and Louis, the other newcomers,
offer some entertaining musical absurdities;
and Marie Kendall scores too easily with an
untuneful voice. The Hanlon brothers arc
still at their mystifying practices, and Lan-
dry and Julls twinkle as brightly as ever.
“The Silent Stranger,” lodging for a week
at Sydney Lyceum, is a post-office sleuth
who works the deaf-and-dumb dodge to grab
mail robbers; and “The Green Goddess
(the same address) introduces you to aij.
awe-inspiring Oriental potentate —and there
are Syrian hawkers in Redfern who could
do the job better. In between the pictures
the Mort’s Dock Male Choir provides a good
selection of songs. A pretty maiden at the
Globe goes bail for Richard Dix, and em-
ploys him about her farm. “Maytime,” at
the Empress, covers the love matches of
three generations. “You Can't Get Away
with It,” at the Lyric, doesn’t refer to the
canary in the Roman Garden, but has some-
thing to do with a moral that Betty Comp-
son is mixed up with. Hoyt’s show Norma
Talmadge intent on wiping out a French
garrison on the fringe of the Sahara; but a
secret-service man, disguised as a sheik,
spoils her amiable plans. Harold Lloyd is
still bruising his shins in a clamber up the
face of a skyscraper at the Crystal Palace.
** * *
The plucky Filippini grand-opera ven-
ture at Adelaide Prince of Wales has
proved a success. Only well-tried and
favorite plays were given, and the familiar
airs went well. Harold Gard and Vera
Thrush (Mrs. Gard) increased their reputa-
tion, the promoter sustained his, and his
Countess did great work with the conductor’s
baton. The remarkable dog Strongheart
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Albert Whelan, the Australian entertainer,
who returns, after 23 years, an inter-
national star. Rosie Lloyd, sister of the
late Marie of that ilk, inherits some of
the family sauciness.
is at the Yoi’k, but the biggest thrill
on the screen is mixed with laughs—Harold
Lloyd climbing a skyscraper front in “Safety
Last,” at West’s.
“Hamfat” : While the newly-arrived Albert
Whelan was going round the Melbourne
newspaper offices, a literary head said there
was no one available to “do” an interview,
but would the gentleman please write down
anything he wanted to appear about himself?
The same paper gives gushing columns to
minor music-hall incidents with the Jew-
nited States brand on them. But Whelan,
though he has been a headliner in London
vaudeville for the best part of 20 years, hap-
pens to be an Australian, and that makes
him so uninteresting.


THE
H .A. RT*P A R R
TRACTOR
5 Vt-wshb ’wmm
m
m
Wm
.
H m "
ms
I
■
B
m
W£t
mm
m
w P
. . ■’
fra
m
■ MBS
Ri
n
a
i
111
\
■
''
BSI
m
5
BP!
si
ssiiife
l
HI
H
m m
V
BUILT BY
HART-PARR COMPANY
Founders of the Tractor Industry
and Largest Exclusive Builders of
Kerosene Tractors in the World.
A Surplus-Powered
Kerosene Tractor
Built for the Farmer,
Not the expert.
SOONER or later the modern farmer must “tractorise” his
farm. And, when he buys, the wise farmer chooses
carefully after close investigation.
Increasing numbers of farmers are installing HART-PARR
Tractors after seeing them at work under the most difficult
conditions.
The following operations were successfully carried out by the
HART-PARR Tractor at the Hawkesbury College Demonstra-
tion:—Ploughing, Cultivating, Pumping, Chaffcutting and
Sawing.
THERE is no other tractor so simple for the farmer to
operate and so accessible for adjustment as the HART-
PARR. In less than five minutes you can get at any
working part of a HART-PARR and adjust it standing on
your feet, either on the platform or by the side of the motor.
You never have to lie on your back under a HART-PARR.
HART-PARR means lower cost, less time, better farming,
lighter labor, bigger rewards.
THE HART-PARR TRACTOR IS BUILT IN THREE SIZES:
‘Hart-Parr “20,” Hart-Parr “30,” and Hart-Parr “40.”
The HART-PARR Company issues to the purchaser of each one of its Tractors the following ironclad guarantee:—
We guarantee each Hart-Parr Engine to burn successfully all grades of kerosene permitted by law to be sold in Australia; that
it will burn kerosene under all conditions, regardless of weather, at all loads up to and including its rated Brake-Horsepower,
for the life of the Engine.
The above Guarantee, signed by the officials of the HART-PARR Company, is mailed to every purchaser of a HART-PARR
Tractor. It is binding for the life of the Tractor.
SURPLUS POWER.—To handle peak loads quickly, without
injury to motor.
SIMPLICITY.—For quick, easy operation—no expert needed.
ACCESSIBILITY.—For quick adjustments and replacements
—no loss of time.
STURDY CONSTRUCTION.—Assures long life and continu-
ous service.
KEROSENE BURNING.—Cuts fuel bills in half.
FRESH OIL LUBRICATION.—No burnt-out bearings—only
correct system for kerosene motors.
STEEL FRAME.—A perfect bed for motor operation.
STABILITY.—OIdest established Tractor concern —a reputa-
tion to sustain.
Further information and all particulars and specifications of the HART-PARR will be supplied
gladly by the undermentioned Australian Agents and Distributors:—-
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
37 Pitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset, Ltd.,
73-81 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros.,
50-54 William Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
T. Robinson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Spotswood.


ĥ
THE P. & c. STANDS BEHIND THE MAN ON THE LAND
CO-OPERATIVE BODIES HAVING AGENCY
AGREEMENTS WITH THE P. & C.
Tlie Farmer* & Graziers’ Co-
operative Grain, Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd., of X.S.W.
The Victorian' Producers’ Co-
operative Co., Ltd.
The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd.
The Queensland Primary Pro-
ducers’ Co-operative Agency,
Ltd.
The Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
The Tasmanian Orcliardists and
Producers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd.
The Port Huon Fruitgrowers’
Co-operative Association, Ltd
The Farmers’ Co-operative Auc-
tioneers, Ltd.
TIM linking itself with the most influential co-operative bodies in each State, the.P. & C. followed its policy of
11 " co-operation with the farmer.
Time and again the P. & C. has stood behind the man on the land, not only in prosperous times, but even more
so when times have been hard and his need was urgent, by means of loans and practical help that comes from
sympathetic understanding of his problems.
It is this policy of genuine co-operation and the farmers’ appreciation of the benefits that it provides that enabled
the company to create an Australian record during the past three years, by writing five million pounds of new
business.
THE PRODUCERS CITIZENS*
Co-operative Assurance Company of Australia Limited.
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
ST KILDA MELBDORNE
“Adelaide” : Albert Waxman Whelan, just
back home, should have a soft spot in his
heart for the City of Churches, for it was
here that he jumped into fame. Girard, the
American, who was to play Ichabod Bronson
in “The Belle of New York,” was taken dan-
gerously ill with an old throat trouble just
before the first night (not actually during
the performance, as legend sometimes has it
nowadays), and Whelan, then known only as
a good mimic, tackled the part at short
notice. He made a triumphant success, and
was acclaimed as an American wonder by
the daily-paper critics, who considered they
had been unfairly treated when the truth
came out. It only came out through the
real “lead” trying to take the stage a few
nights later. He was not equal to work:
WONDERFUL THING, NATURE!
ENTHUSIASTIC YOUNG ARTIST : “Oh uncle,
please don’t move while I make a sketch.
You frame the landscape just perfectly.”
whimsically and pathetically, he told the
audience “The pipes are frozen,” and retired
to bed, and shortly to West-terrace ceme-
tery. Thenceforward the part was Whelan’s
for good.
“Mancam”: I was a member of William
F. Hawtrey’s first “Message from Mars”
company in Australia and M.L., but I never
heard a whisper of the play having been
cribbed (B. 14/8/’24). Hawtrey told me that
Ganthony had hawked the play from mana-
ger to manager in London for Ilf years before
anyone would consider it, mainly owing to
Ganthony’s wretched handwriting. Then
W.F.’s brother, Charles Hawtrey, got hold
of it, saw the possibilities, put in all the
comedy—the original version was serious,
W. F. Hawtrey said—-and achieved a tre-
mendous success with it at the Avenue
Theatre, Northumberland-avenue. Charles
Hawtrey was Horace Parker, Arthur Wil-
liams the Tramp, and George S. Titlieradge
the Messenger.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: In the flood of “Pina-
fore” reminiscences Ernest Fitts has been
forgotten. Years ago Fitts did sterling work
for the Firm in Gilbert and Sullivan pro-
ductions. He left the stage when he found
that the Australian mummer who was ex-
pected to be handy when wanted was wanted
only at rare intervals, and returned to his old
profession of dentistry at Ivyneton (Vic.).
The local amateurs are on the eve of pro-
ducing “Pinafore,” and Fitts is to appear in
his old part of Dick Deadeye.
“Wai-hoi” : Nowadays no showman would
think of taking a co. to the Northern Terri-
tory, but a dramatic performance was given
there 85 years ago. The piece was written
by Stanley, who was in charge of the military
post at Port Essington, the scenery was
painted by the camp commandant (the drop
scene was an old ensign with plenty of holes
in it), and such feminine raiment as was
needed by the “actresses” was borrowed from
the ladies of the garrison. The Beagle arrived
at Essington when rehearsals were going
strong, and an hour or two before the curtain
was to roll up the Pelorus, with mails and
food supplies from Sydney (tucker was very
short), dropped her mudhook close by the
settlement, so there was a rush for front
seats. Stanley issued tickets inscribed “Vic-
toria Theatre, Port Essington, Aug. 24,
1839,” and Captain Stokes of the Beagle re-
cords that “the arrival of a ship on the very
day of the play caused a crowded and de-
lighted audience.” Can anyone put me on
to one of those tickets?
“Second Murderer” : When J. C. William-
son superintended a rehearsal he insisted on
having everything “as at night.” I recall a
dress rehearsal for the first Australian pro-
duction of “A Royal Divorce” at Melbourne
Princess’s. Everything went all right till
Julius Superfluous Knight strode on as
Napoleon in a neat sac suit and a boxer hat.
Then compliments passed between the two
emperors—Jimmy in the stalls and Julius on
the boards. “There’s no need for me to dress
for a rehearsal,” protested the star; “I’ve
played this part hundreds o’f times in Eng-
land.” But the boss insisted, and the rehear-
sal was held up while Julius went away and
climbed into a Napoleonic uniform. One
Snorkey, a young and unbrilliant mummer,
had a few lines to jerk in the last act. Arriv-
ing at the theatre after the costume incident
he strolled into the picture as a Bellerophon
tar dressed in his ordinary street clothes and
a travelling cap. Williamson made the most
of the opportunity with which Snorkey had
provided him, and there was a certain fierce
joy in liis fluent monologue concerning
slovenly impostors who called themselves
actors.
“Arrah” : The green flag of the Irish drama
is to be hoisted in Westralia by the indefati-
gable Allen Doone, Edna Iveeley and a com-
pany which has grown so used to being Irish
that it drops brogue into its breakfast por-
ridge when it is up for breakfast. Doone
has been delivering lush Irish sentiment in-
terspersed with tuneful melodies to the sort
of audience which sighs over Erin’s wrongs,
and cheers the downfall of its wicked English
enemies, and then observes the “Gorsave” for-
mality with a fervor which would do credit
to an Empire League gathering; but in 12
years this is his first incursion into W.A.
From a London first-nighter:—
Drury-lane struck a loser in “London Life,” which
has been withdrawn after a frosty month. The thing
was unworthy of Arnold Bennett and Edward Kno-
block, who wrote it. Its one striking scene was a
representation of “Tea on the Terrace” at the House
of Commons, but playgoers are not particularly inter-
ested in stage polities.
Marie Tempest has scored a success at last in “Mid-
summer Madness,” a combination of musical comedy
and ballad opera. There are only four characters, and
Marie is the mainstay of the show. The newspapers
praise her warmly, and well they might. Her per-
formance is really wonderful considering that she
hadn’t appeared in a musical play for 24 years.
J. M. Barrie is busy on rehearsals of his new play
“A Slice of Life.” The secret of its plot is jealously
guarded; the most elaborate precautions are taken
against inquisitive intruders. But one gossiper de-
clares that he managed to get a glimpse of Barrie
directing the stage operations “while smoking his curl
pipe, with a soft brown hat on the back of his head,
and his hands thrust into his trouser-pockets.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: There are mummers who
endured hard times in the early years of the
century, and who have contrived to forget the
names in which they then contracted debts.
I know at least half a dozen people whose
designations on contemporary theatre
bills are not the same as those they
wore 20 years ago. It gave me
considerable surprise to recognise the
latest addition to my list, because I thought
he had died with his name, which perished in
Auckland. A convenient death has relieved
many mummers from the embarrassments in
which unsuccessful ventures involved them.
An Amei’ican comedy co., after suffering an un-
deserved frost in Australia, sought a warmer
season in the East (which is really the
North), only to freeze at Hongkong. Yellow
fever came to the rescue, and isolation put a
screen between the co. and its creditors. It
must have amazed those creditors, who had
written off the debts when they heard that
some of the principals had died, to learn that
the deceased were giving remarkably lively
performances in America.
“Hamfat”: “Snow” is the technical thes-
pian term for a substance used by some
theatrical managers who want to avoid a
first-night frost; but it is dangerous stuff to
handle. Charlie McMahon, who was paying
a return visit to Wellington (M.L.) and
staging nightly revivals, made sure of a good
start by a liberal distribution of “snow,”
including among the beneficiaries a citizen
whose family had been regular once-a-week
attendants during the co.’s previous seasons.
Next night, going to see what the rival show
at the Opera House was like, I met the fav-
ored citizen, who was buying five front seats.
“I have to thank your people for this,” he
explained. “I’m a systematic man, and I
always allocate money for one theatre a week ;
but as your people are sending me compli-
taries I thought I’d see what this show was
like.” McMahon jumped on his hat three
times when I told him.
“T. 0.1.”: I met Luscombe Searelle (B.
7/S/’24) on his first landing in Australia.
HER MIGHT OUT.
“Motion-pictures are becoming the regular thing in the gaols.”
MAUD: “Hilo, Emma! Sorry I can’t slop. Just (goin ’ to the
pitchers with this gentleman.”
He came from Maoriland in a coal-boat, and
arrived at Neivcastle with a small company,
which included Tom Margets, a good vaude-
ville couple (names forgotten) and an Italian
with performing dogs and monkeys. The
theatre-—at least it was so called —was in
Watt-street, a weatherboard building with a
gallery. Searelle was the musical conduc-
tor ; he was only just out of his ’teens.
Later he developed as a vocalist and com-
poser, and he was also a dramatist in a
modest way.
“Mancam”: Touching Jack Sweeney’s
Malay, who spoke with an Irish accent (B.
7/S/’24), the late George Carey once put
up “Rob Roy” in Hobart. The course of the
play was interrupted by inarticulate growls
from a disgusted patron in the Iront row.
Finally he rose and addressed the Children
of the Mist. “Ma conscience,” he said, “I
kenned fine that Rab wis a bushranger; but
t uuv, a k en ] ie w is a bletherin’ Irishmon, for-
bye!”
"Orb”: Bert Levy (B. 7/8/’24) did his
black-and-white act on the Rickards circuit
in 1911. In 1900, before he went to the
U.S., he w T as on the staff of Bendigo Adver-
tiser, and in that year and town he gave a
“lightning-sketch” turn at a benefit in the
Royal Princess’s Theatre. That was probably
bis first appearance as an entertainer. Of
course his work had appeared in The Bul-
letin long before.
“Nakhoda”: In the way of stage realism I
have never seen anyone who could beat Ali
Babi, a Malay. Performing at Solo, Java,
before an audience rocking with laughter, he
spent most of the evening brushing imaginary
flies off a horrible sore on his leg. It was so
well painted that, while the comedian’s atten-
tion was momentarily deflected, I noticed a
real fly descend hopefully upon the gruesome
object.
“Topee” : I was surprised to see that refer-
ence to Arthur Garner (B. 7/8/’24) ; I
thought he had passed out years ago. He
must be quite 80, as he was an established
favorite when playing with G. W. Anson
and Edward Rigliton at Liverpool in the
“Enchanted Isle” burlesque in 1872. In
February, 1879, I called on him in Melbourne
when he arrived with his London Comedy
Co., which included his wife (Blanche Stam-
mers) and the Marshall brothers. They
opened the following month at the Princess’s
with “Our Friends” and “Betsy.”
“Hamfat”: In the cast of “The Rise of
Rosie O’Reilly” are the dancing McLeans.
Eddie was born in Sydney, and made his
first appearance in a J.O.W. panto, “Dick
Whittington” (Harry Shine was Dame), at
the age of eight. The following year his
sister, then four and a half years old, joined
him; and they appeared as the Little Dartos
in “Red Riding Hood.” They were subse-
quently in the original London production
of “Mary” and spread their fame all over
Europe. Incidentally, they finished a long
European tour at Hamburg on July 31, 1914,
and got away—a desperately close shave.
“A.P.”: That par. about Dampier’s fond-
ness for horses in stage work (B. 31/7/’24)
reminds me of a showman who owned a
motley collection of cliaff-eaters and an
old-time coach, useful in bushranging
dramas. One day lie walked into a rehearsal
and suggested that the play might be im-
proved by the introduction of a horse or two.
“No, sir,” replied the harried s.-m. “Look
here, Charley,” the boss protested, “there’s
four horses eating their flamin’ heads off in
the stable, and you won’t bring ’em on here.”
“Sorry, sir,” said the s.m., who took his posi-
tion seriously, “but this play is under my
supervision. And if that isn’t sufficient, there
are only two scenes in it —a bedroom and
a drawing-room. Do you want me to exhibit
one of your horses in bed, instead of the lead-
ing lady?”
“ J.F.H.”: Why not Sunday-evening play-
producing societies in Melbourne and Syd-
ney? We have half a dozen in London, and
dramatists of real talent have Leen thereby
dug up. “Havoc,” which ran five months at
the Haymarket, was first presented by one
of these societies, the Repertory Players,
and so was “The
Lure,” another re-
cent success. Ber-
nard Shaw’s first
play, “Widowers’
House s,” got its
chance in the same
way; so did Cicely
Hamilton’s “Diana
of Dobson’s” and
Houghton’s “Hindle
Wakes.” These Sun-
day-evening pla y-
producing societies
are now cultivated
by West End “entre-
preneurs” in quest of
winners, and if one
were established in
Sydney or Mel-
bourne even the com-
mercial managements
might discover it,
and possibly take a
chance with a native-
born playwright in
time.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Arnold Leslie Pearce,
who figured as respondent in Eileen Sparks’s
divorce case in Sydney a few days ago, came
to Australia as stage manager of the “Peg
o’ My Heart” co. Actually he was a Maori-
lander, 'but he had spent a good deal of his
life in America, and you could have cut his
twang with a corkscrew.
“Lud”: In an artfully-concocted dialogue
between Bernard Shaw and his American
biographer, Archibald Henderson—it appears
in the Fortnightly Review —G.B.S. gives
his view of the present state of the British
stage:—
Art and literature and morals were simply knocked
back half a century by the war... .It was impossible
to rake up stuff crude enough for these innocents
[soldiers on leave from the Front] and the squealing
flappers who came with them. .. .Instead of inaugu-
rating a new era the war let loose a new audience
which was 50 years behind the time. And until the
new audience catches up, say 50 years hence, it will
eat up all the capital available for the theatre,
leaving the highbrows more starved than ever.
Meanwhile Shaw is doing quite nicely, thank
you, with his “St. Joan” (some of the critics
pronounce, it his best, and others his worst,
play), which has been running since March.
“Cartot”: Mention of the demolition of
the women’s penitentiary at the Cascades,
Hobart (B. 24/7/’24), recalls that until a
few years ago visitors could see there the
heavy iron collar with which refractory
females were subdued. It was shaped like
an ordinary dog-collar, and fitted with a
clasp and padlock; the weight was about
101 b. Report says it was finally removed to
the mainland —I do not know if it is still
in existence. Among the “properties” of
that bad advertisement for both Britain
and Australia, the alleged convict-hulk Suc-
cess, is a replica of the hideous implement,
which is still being shown for the delec-
tation of gullible Americans.
“First Old Man”: That dapper little
actor and always acceptable artist, Leslie
Victor, made a few remarks to a Melbourne
Herald man the other day, and every stage-
struck youth would do well to paste them
in his hat:—
Audiences seldom study programmes. They will
know the names of the two leading players, of course,
but the rest will have no names but those they are
called by in the play-story... .What is easy (in
acting) will be pronounced highly skilled; what is
really difficult passes over unnoticed. If the charac-
ter is of a genial sort, he will be considered good ;
if unpleasant, unsympathetic... .What we fondly
imagine is technique to some may be only “tricks.”
Not very complimentary to Australian
theatregoers who patronise drama, but un-
fortunately true. The pitchers and musi-
cal-comedy have done their deadly work —
killed the interest in plays and players.
FOR THE GOOD OF THE RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pagan artist drew his dames
In their peculiar rSles,
Indulging in al fresco games
Without their camisoles.
They gambolled on the verdant lea
In graceful impropriety,
Or struck attractive attitudes,
Unblushing and untrammelled nudes.
He gathered up his drawings then,
And to a city went
Where holy are the common men,
And much in worship bent.
And there upon a certain day
He made a primitive display.
’Twas said things would go hard with him —
’Twas thought they’d tear him limb from limb.
The people came in two by two,
Next seemed inclined to rush.
By noon outside there was a queue,
At three there was a crush.
They said it was a godless show—
“So lewd and fleshly, don’t you know”—
Unfit to view by any race
But such as they, supreme in grace.
They bought the drawings by the score,
And gave a pretty price.
Dames w'ho could not exhibit more
Were not accounted nice;
But Godlyfellow for them pays
To move them from the vulgar gaze,
For fear the passions they’d provoke
Of wickeder and weaker folk.
VICTORIA.
E. D.


Amusements.
g\IIX IS vs CIII IS I TIIISAT It is S
J. C. WILUAMSON, LTD., present
HEIi MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: KEMPY.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE:
CLIMBING MT. EVEREST.
OICKAIi I) S’ TIVOLI THISAT It E S.
** Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
pULLEBS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
Jlt AND OPEItA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
« Proprietor, George Marlow.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty., Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED. and SAT.
LITTLE NELLIE KELLY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
I C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MEI.HOUKMS
'■ ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
Theatre royal, melkourne.
Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
IRENE FRANKLIN.
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
ING’S THEATRE, M E L B O U It N E.
MURIEL STARR in
EAST OF SUEZ.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh ,J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE RISE OF ROSIE O’REILLY.
THE LAST WORD IN MUSICAL COMEDY.
Plans at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
THE SONG OF 1 LOVE.
ANITA STEWART in
THE LOVE PIKER.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IKSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
DOUGLAS MACLEAN in
A MAN OF ACTION.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
TIIK ALLAN H'ILKIK SIIARSI’KAHEAN
IMiOII! n iONS
MELBOURNE SEASON.
PALACE THEATRE.
Head Office: 178 CastlerengTi Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
INFORMATION required as to the present
whereabouts or address of GEORGE
CLARKE, formerly of the A.1.F., Driver.
J. WOOLF, Solicitor,
Melbourne.
Agencies Wanted.
ALIVE FIRM of Indent and Distribut-
ing Agents, calling on all the principal
| towns in the State of Queensland, desire
' further Agencies of any kind on commission
! basis.
Manufacturers and Agents desiring to have
their lines pushed would do well to communi-
cate with us. giving particulars of lines and
, commission allowed.
| Excellent Bank and Business References
given.
Write, first instance:
JOHN DENNY,
Indent Agent and Share Broker,
Brunswick Street, Valley, Brisbane.
FOR SALE.
lARGE “FERRIER’S” WOOL PRESS,
1 for hand or power.
SKIN BURRING MACHINE.
WRINGING MACHINE.
SIX OREGON SKIN DOLLEYS.
All made by Humble & Son. and perfectly new.
OFFERS WANTED.
HUME STEEL, LIMITED,
Box (300 G.P.0., Melbourne.
4LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Od. weekly—-an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Riding Trousers
Ready 15/6
to wear
Months of mustering and general station
work is what these Belgian Saddle Twist
Riding Trousers will give. They’re built to
give it, and, without chafing or losing their
color. Stockman’s cut, with belt loops, side
or cross pockets ; easy to wash. In grey or
dark fawn. PRICE 15/6
Lowe’s
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
STORES ALL OVER TOWN.
EUGENE RIMMEE
LONDON and PARIS, LTD.,
Perfumers by appointment to H. 31. Queen Alexandra, to H.M. The King of Spain, and
H.M. The Dowager Queen of Holland.
fiLinir
(Jntentorf
UHAMMck
E.Rimmel is
tONDON
_ P«u
ROYAL SHAMROCK—a favorite
most delightful perfume.
and
BATH SALT TABLETS.
One tablet added to the water pro-
vides a softened and beautifully
perfumed water.
Makers also of the celebrated
LAVENDER WATER, TOILET
VINEGAR, etc.
ħ
EAU VELVETIS—for whitening the
skin. A soothing essence of absolute
purity.
Wholesale Agents:
LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.,
ADELAIDE ARTHUR GLOVER.
BRISBANE GREGORY & COLLINS.
MELBOURNE BALDWIN & SLATTERY PTY., LTD.
PERTH .. L. M. CULLEN & CO.
SYDNEY JONES & JOSEPH, LTD.
The
Super
CIGARETTE
Fine Old Virginia.
Cork-Tipped.Ovals.
20 for 2/-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
N. Z. Ij. & M. A. CO., LTD., Melbourne.
<3
Soothing
as an
Old Time
Melody
£425
IN CASH PRIZES
for users of
KUGGEf
359 CASH PRIZES
NO ENTRANCE FEE!
NO TINS, LABELS OR COUPONS'
THE makers of “Nugget” Boot Polish offer the fol-
lowing Cash Prizes for the best reasons —in not
more than 50 words —on “Why I use ‘Nugget’ Boot
Polish.”
First Prize - - - £l5O
Second Prize, £7O. Third Prize, £2O. Fourth Prize, £lO.
5 Prizes of £5 each. 50 Prizes of £1 each.
100 Prizes of 10/- each. 200 Prizes of 5 - each.
For each of the next 1000 best
essays they will send post free one of
their well-known 2/9 “Nugget” Outfits
WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO
There are no complicated conditions. All you have to do is this;
1. —Buy a tin of “Nugget” from your dealer and use it on your footwear.
2. —Write down on the back of a postcard— not more than 50 words-you?
reasons “Why I use ‘Nu&&et’ Boot Polish.”
3. —Put the name and address of the dealer from whom you bought your last
tin of “Nu&&et” at the bottom of your postcard and send in, to the address
below, not later than 18th October, 1924.
Cheques will be posted on 19th November, 1924-
The First Nine Winners’ Names will appear
in this Newspaper on 20th November, 1924-
A HINT TO COMPETITORS
The prizes will be awarded to those who &ive, in the opinion of the Judges, the best
reasons for usin& “Nu&&et.” Grammar and literary merit will not be taken into
account. Just your candid opinion in your own words. We already know that
millions of people use "Nu&&et” daily because it lasts longer than other polishes;
because it preserves the leather and fcives a quicker, brighter and more lasting shine.
But there must be many thousands who buy it for reasons other than these.
What are your reasons 1
POSTCARDS ONLY MUST BE USED
School children are eligible for this competition as well as adults; in fact everybody
and anybody who use “Nu£&et.” Tell your kiddies to enter. They may win a Cash
Prize that will pay for the iamily’s summer holiday. Why not?
The Judges in the Competition are :
WILLIAM E. ELSON, General Manager Nufcfcet Polish Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd
SYDNEY L. GORHAM, the Publicist,
J. HOWLETT ROSS, Journalist.
Their decision is to be final, and no correspondence
can be entered into re&ardin& the competition.
All postcards must be posted to the following
address not later than 18th October, 1924:
Nugget Polish Company of Australia KS:
Competition Department, WILLIAMSTOWN, Victoria.
Special Cash Bonuses for Nugget Dealers
A Cash Bonus of £5O will be awarded to the dealer whose name
appears on the Postcard of the First Prize-winner; £3O to the
dealer whose name appears on the Second; and £2O to the Third.
GUT OUT THIS ANNOUNCEMENT


tCCISTERK*
TRAD* MARK
Guaranteed.
• *?s
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEESM POLISH
haa a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Raker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
BEGIN THAT BANK
ACCOUNT
K
\
%
'\^ r OU never know when
that “ rainy day" will
come —the day you will be in
need of ready cash to tide you
over a difficulty. * * *
Begin now to prepare for such emergency
The knowledge that you have money in the
bank will inspire confidence, and foster
independence. * * * 41
Interest at I () up to £soo,and at 3'A% on anff excess to £lOOO
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF N.S.W.
Head Office 19-23 Martin Place
SYDNEY
THE Underwood Portable Type-
writer is made by the World s
largest typewriter manufacturer.
It is as perfect a portable as human
experience, skill and ingenuity can devise. Its mech-
anical features are the same as those that have made
the larger Underwood the Standard writing machine
of the World. The Underwood Portable is nonfolding,
is the lightest typewriter manufactured and is as com-
pact as a watch. For social and business correspon-
dence, for free-lance journalists, for writing of every
description it is unsurpassed. It is an Underwood—-
and it’s portable.
Tear off and mail the coupon to-day. It will bring
full particulars of this little machine and details
of cash and terms of payment.
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
70 Pitt Street Sydney
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.,
I would like to know how the
Underwood Portable will make my
writing a pleasure. This request
places me under no obligation.
(Bulletin, 21/8/'24)
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
BUSINESS
DATE
mam
HI
1
Sfie
VICTOR
PIANO
IS
—The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
Built to Last a Lifetime.
—Sold on EASY TERMS
and FULLY GUARANTEED.
—Unequalled at Its Price.
“A straw shows which
way the wind blows”
And so it is that the constantly increasing sales of Victor
Pianos indicate the wonderful Quality and Character
of this Piano.
The beauty of its Tone, its responsiveness of Touch and
its artistic appearance combine in making an instant
appeal.
But as the years go by your appreciation of the “Victor”
increases—the grandeur of its Tone grows upon you:
the obedience of its action (especially in repetition) gives
you a greater delight in playing, while its consistency of
staying in Tune over long periods is a feature that
emphasises the soundness of the “Victor” construction.
For the past forty years the “Victor” has faced every test
that climate and constant use could impose—its merits
are indisputable!
You will find the Victor Piano in Colleges, Convents,
Schools, Concert Halls, Studios and Homes doing yeoman
service in multiplying knowledge and happiness!
Make a point of getting full particulars of the “Victor”
before you buy your new piano.
Call and hear the Victor to-day!
CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST
FREE FOR THE ASKING.
h
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba, Lismore and Rockhampton.


ĥ
ħ
CAN YOU DRAW?
You may think you can’t, but really
you can, for if you can write you can
draw; the same principles apply in
each. With the thorough tuition you
receive from the Weston Course, there
is no reason why you should not in-
stantly dash off free, bold sketches
similar to the one above.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
takes you step by step from the rudiments of
sketching to the highest branches of art.
The lessons are simple, interesting and effi-
cient.
Remember, we teach to DRAW not to COPY.
Learp more about the Course 1 Post three
stamps with your name and address, and you
will receive a copy of Mr. Weston’s interest-
ing Booklet —“There's Money in the Pen” ;
it explains all about the Course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
345 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
THE
HOTEL WINDSOR
MELBOURNE.
Spacious Lounges, Smoking and Writing
Rooms. Suites De Luxe and Bedrooms with
Private Bath. Banquet and Reception Rooms
tor Private Functions. Hot and Cold Water
and Telephone in every Bedroom.
Accommodation for 400 Guests.
Overlooking Federal Parliament House, the
Treasury Buildings and Picturesque Gardens,
the Hotel Windsor is ideally situated. It is
within two minutes’ walk of the centre of the
Shopping Area and the Principal Theatres.
ROOM AND BREAKFAST ... From 13/6
EXCLUSIVE TARIFF From 18/6
Cables and Telegrams
“TELWINSOR,”
Melbourne.
Management:
B. C. JONES,
Late of Timaru,
New Zealand.
h
“the majesty
OF simplicity”
<IM
IN.
w n
m
i
OP I
RIPOUN
PAINT
READY
for use
PROTECTS
.AND
/ BEAUTIFIES
Write or telephone for Color-card, Booklet, etc., to
The Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd.,
379 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
AGENTS FOR VICTORIA.
Legal Notice.
TO ALBERT GEORGE SLAY-MAKER,
who is believed to have been born in
the County of Buckingham or Surrey, Eng-
land, brother of Thomas Walter Slaymaker,
deceased, and all children of the said Albert
George Slaymaker, and all persons claiming
by, through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
27th day of June, 1924, by a Judge of the
Supneme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of January,
1925, your claims to the estate of Thomas
Walter Slaymaker, deceased, who died at
Christchurch, in New Zealand, on the Ist
day of July, 192 J, intestate, failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto, disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
June, 1924.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
n
wggffi
THE
“LONGREACH”
STOCK SADDLE
FOR COMFORT
THE “LONGREACH” is one
of our high-grade Stock
Saddles, designed to be com-
fortable right from the jump.
The pads differ from the orthodox stock
kneepad, and are set high up, almost
level with the head of saddle and along
the rider’s thighs. It has a combined
flap and skirt sewn direct on to the seat,
giving a narrow, non-chafing grip.
First-class work and materials are put
into it, and the fittings included are
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel 4-bar stirrups.
£l5/10/
for cash
NSW
with order
Pigskin Seat, 5/-
extra. Freight paid
to any station on
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE OF SADDLERY.
There are No Better Whips than “K’burra” Whips.
Bft., 12-plait thong, 22/6; Handle, 16/6. Post Free.
Walther & Stevenson 39 5$Y D O N rn .St
z
BOSTOCKS
♦ Shoe Cream *
POLISHES—PRESERVES—PREVENTS CRACKS
BOSTOCK'S Shoe Cream —put up in collapsible
tubes —is the cleanest and most convenient polish
to use when travelling. Excellent for all Leathers.
In all shades.
Price 6d. per tube . Obtainable Everywhere .
. T I4-
/tf\
0#
<• ONADIAN PACIFIC
y
w
6
/
0
will
Through scenes of unbelievable magnificence
the steel trail of the Canadian Pacific Railway-
winds its beauteous way. The trail lies through
the Rockies—twenty-four hours’ journey by
express train to cross those mighty mountains!
Joyous hours these, travelling de luxe on the
Canadian Pacific—hours that unfold fresh bliss
with every twist and turn of the steel trail.
Those who are wise break the journey so that
they can see all the glories of the Rockies by
daylight.
SEND FOR FULL INFORMATION TO-DAY.
Railway, sleeping-car, hotel, even Atlantic Line
reservations may be all booked prior to your
departure. Full information and descriptive
booklets will be given you upon inquiring at
any office of Union S.S. Co. of N.Z., any Tour-
ist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Repre-
sentative Canadian-Pacific Railway Com-
pany, Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney.
ĥ
lama
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
12 a
.POST FREE
THE
PLUM
m
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A r o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. *' o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be relumed
unless stamps accompany.
M.D.C.: Fine writing will at times
unlock The Bulletin's door; but it is much easier
for a good idea to get admittance even though ; t
be dressed in rags. . . .Paratus: Things that ought to
be said; but there’s too much over-burden in your
mine... .L.8.L.: Sorry can’t find a place to tit it
into.... Humus: You dawdle too long over your job.
....Eve; Not without promise, but your apple isn't
ripe yet. .. .Q.L.R.: Very rugged stuff... .P.G.
(CJhatswood) : They fail pretty badly Haltro: No
good. .. .G. 8.; Regret to say that it hasn't a good
line Aruel: Only states the very obvious
W.M.8.L.; Well enough done, but only walks an
old, old way. . . .F.F.C.: You say you’re “off the
beaten track,” but it seems to us the same lane
with a few extra rocks thrown down.... Francis S.:
Too thin. .. .Plodder: Must go back. ...A.L.R.: That’s
the right spirit:—
Australia fair of nation fame,
Though youth as yet you be,
The time will come when put to shame
All else you’ll chance to see.
When vast and mighty grown as never
Grew a People free and true,
You’ll surely rank the grandest ever,
The World of Empires through.
No Colored race to mar the white
Of British purity,
Nor leave tradition old, though light,
To wreck futurity.
No tempter’s voice to breathe revolt,
Or unity discard,
Lest corruption rife severely jolt—
And progress sure retard.
. ...1.L.1.: Doesn't make much of a yarn. .. .Surave:
Not enough interest. .. .S.J.S.: The yarn doesn't con-
vince and the suicide ending is very lame....P.S.
(Sunnybank) : Makes heavy reading.... E.T. (Balla-
rat) : That waiting-room business has been better
done too often... .Thai wa: Gloomy little snuffle....
Jack AY.: Nothing like a yarn there. .. .0.D.G.:
AVe’ll try to find out ; but the verse is so poor that
it is hardly worth the search... .Yana: The verse
is not well enough done and the prose amounts to
very little. .. .E.P.D.: Misses, but there are many
who are further away from the bull’s-eye. . . . J.AV.AV.:
Not bad; it is a pity it only says the old things.
....May J.: Nothing there. .. .AV.F.B.: Not up....
Bellerive: Very realistic this one:—
Hogan cursed the council,
In frenzy wild did vow
To punch the sleeky rascal
AVho’d poundered he’s red cow.
He’s neighbor did advise him
To pay the usual fee,
When he blurted “Go to blazes.
Yon open field is free.”
“’Tis folly,” cried a Missus,
“A-kicking up a row;
Go and pay the piper,
Or they’ll auctioneer our cow.”
“I believe you’re right,” said Hogan,
“The law is on their side,
But I’d pay the beak a fiver
To tan the pounder’s hide.”
... .R. 5.8.; Idea not worth while. .. .No Name: The
story of the day you “stole bush lemons” would
make good stuff for a child’s album... .T.M. (Red
Hill): Old ideas in poorish verse.... Bertram I.:
Misses by as far as from here to the eleventh pub.
. ...R.S.M.: A poor yarn not well told. .. . Zarath:
On the way, but still some distance off. .. .E.J.8.:
Hammers out the commonplace very thin. . . .T.AV.D.:
Not enough in it and what there is doesn’t sound
real.... Sheila D.: No feeling or lift in them....
Elvira: Fearful and wonderful. .. .J.M.D.: Very poor.
... .C.C. (Alora) : Empty verse that staggers all
over the place. .. .V.R.D.: Moral rhymes hacked out
with a saw... . H.S.T.: Not fresh enough nor well
enough done.... Henry P.: The verse bumps and
wallows in gore... .E.L.M.; AVe don’t reprint....
John B.: The tame vikings strike too many padded
rocks.... V.H.AV.: Misses, but not by more than
the length of a few whiskers. . . .R.D.C.: Sorry, not
up... . Eric L.: The thin river gurgles oh and on.
. , w.C.-H.C.: The Idol is shattered too badly....
M.A.H.L.: Some distance away... .P.E.R.: Too weak
and thin. .. .William G.: You don't really make
those abstractions more impressive by shaking capital
letters all over them.... Black and White: Far be-
low standard.... J.J.M.; It straggles about without
getting to any point. . . .Alice F.: AVeak little flutter.
....Arno: The mirth is only for calves.... Sucre:
“Bill” is a gory person, but has little interest other-
wise. .. .A.E.G.: Your monkey isn’t exciting....
Harold P.: The ideas are father wooden, but the
verse could be much worse... . F.C.M.: Not enough
in it....AV.8. (Peak Hill): Rather sorrowful even
for first attempts... .A.E.AV:: Statements of that
kind are hardly likely to pass. .. .A.K.R.: There is
an idea, but you have made poor use of it. .. ..J.M.R ;
Those pious wishes work overtime for tens of thou-
sands of would-be writers. ... J.B. (Lofty): The
verse is very slight and clings hard to the common-
place ; the yarn doesn’t touch reality at any point.
... .L.O’L.; They don’t get near. .. . J.G.F.: “Sow”
isn’t a prize-winner. . . .N.T. ('Malvern) : Verses so
thin the wind whistles through them; yarn machine-
made. ... B.L.AA 7 .: Thank you ; but it is too much like
putting jam on our own plate.... Carson C.: Sin-
cerity is too precious to sacrifice for anything....
S.N.R.: Others got in ahead of y0u.... Raw Onion:
You’ve left out the pepper and salt, and only put in
the vinegar. And we’re really not very fond of
literary vinegar. .. .H.8.0’H.: Suppose The B. re-
ferred to “the Bolsheviks of Queensland,” would you
be either stupid or unfair enough to assume that
The B. implied that all Queenslanders were Bolshe-
viks?.... Amy C.: A bit too thin.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K. 8.: A fearsome mix-up... .Laura N.: He’s no sun-
downer—he’s a duke at least. And we don’t care
for dukes... .M.P.: The man who made that joke was
beheaded 592 a.c A.T.H.: Consult a doctor....
C.8.C.: Get in touch with a competent teacher . ...
H.AV.T.: Still in the wilderness. .. .H. 0.: It’s no
use dodging bad drawing with black masses... . R.S.P.:
R.I.P T.A.AV.; Unavailable J.R.T.D. : AVill
use one.... Mrs. E.: Impossible to judge from mere
copies. .. .D.E.F.; You must grow up first... .N.A.:
A painful effort... .V.D.: An upset inkpot could do
the same thing... .D.O’K.: As scratchy as an indus-
trious hen....M.M.: A long way off the track....
Will AY. Me.: Too likely to be misunderstood.
“Almac” : Stamps that excite the cupidity
of collectors may disappear from articles in
the post, hut it’s a hazardous practice. Sec-
tion 23 of the Post and Telegraph Act pro-
vides that “any person who with a fraudu-
lent intent removes from a postal article sent
by post any stamp affixed thereon shall be
liable to a penalty not less than £1 nor ex-
ceeding £5O. or to imprisonment, with or
without hard labor, for any term not exceed-
ing 12 months.”


Some of the
Masterpieces
from the famous
Red Boxes.
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
Passion-fruit Chocolate Creams
Reception Chocolate Creams
Creme de Menthe Chocolates
Coffee Cream Chocolates
Walnut Maple Chocolates
Bitter- sweet Chocolates
Centennial Chocolates
Chocolate Nougat
Chocolate Raisins
Every piece a Masterpiece
of the Confectioner’s Art.
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to any address in Australia.
Per V.P. Parcels Post, if desired.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
162-166 Pitt Street ,
and Cr. George & King Streets, Sydney.
Show Your Folks
How teeth become whiter when you fight film
Ask for this test
Someone in each family should
make this delightful test. It has
shown millions the way to prettier
teeth—to cleaner, safer teeth. To
homes the world over it is bringing
a new dental era. Let ten days show
how much it means to you and yours.
That cloud is film
That viscous film you feel on teeth
is what mars their beauty. Under
old brushing methods, much of it
clings and stays. It becomes dis-
coloured and forms dingy coats, to hide
the lustre of the teeth.
Film also holds food substance
which ferments and forms acid. It
holds the acid in contact with the
teeth to cause decay. Germs breed
by millions in it. They, with tartar,
are the chief cause of pyorrhea.
That's why few escaped tooth
troubles, despite their daily care
Modern science has found ways to
fight film. One disintegrates the film,
one removes it without harmful scour-
ing.
Protect the Enamel
Pepsodent disintegrates the film,
then removes it with an agent far
softer than enamel. Never use a
film combatant which contains
harsh grit.
tßmtt to AuttrmHa
PapsadaM
VKAOC ■mHHHMHMIHHHMB
The New-Day Dentifrice.
Now advised by leading dentists
the world over. Sold in two sizes.
Prices : 2/- and 1/3
r
1\
Clinical tests proved these methods
effective. A new-type tooth paste
has been created to apply them daily.
The name is Pepsodent.
Dentists the world over began to
advise it. Now careful people of
some fifty nations use this new-day
method.
Meets other needs
Pepsodent does other things which
research proved essential. It multi-
plies the tooth-protecting factors in
saliva.
Watch its effects. Send the form
for a io-Day Tube. Note how
clean the teeth feel after using. Mark
the absence of the viscous film. See
how teeth become whiter as the film-
coats disappear.
A few days will convince you of its
need. Cut out form now.
10-Day Tube Free
The Pepsodent Co. (Australia) Ltd.
Dept. 20,139 Clarence St., Sydney
Mail 10-Day Tube of Pepsodent to
The
NEW EDISON
Over 6000 tests ojf Direct Comparison have
proved no difference between artist and record*
And more than this! Not only has Mr. Edison perfected a phonograph that has amazed music critics by the astounding
rea ism of its Re-Creations! He has made each Edison phonograph an attractive and tasteful piece of furniture as
we . His designers have succeeded in putting the character and feeling of the best periods into every cabinet. An
inspection will repay every furniture-lover and demonstrate that whatever the decorative scheme of your home, there
is a cabinet which meets both your taste and your purse.
■wpiyi
•■>iau» tiimi
111
Hiiirt cimig
11111111111 l
mm
TlTlTlTiTlTiTj
if
»*.w
iv#v
5553
inei
Aiußi
Demonstrations
and
Catalogues at
SYDNEY—
The Edison Shop,
51 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE—
The Edison Shop,
238 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—
South Australian Phono-
graph Co., Ltd.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert
Place.
BRISBANE—
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.,
86-88 Queen Street.
PERTH—
Phonographs, Ltd.
1353 Hay Street.
LAUNCESTON—
Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
7 Quadrant.
Or your nearest Edison Dealer.
m
SQBfi
Wholesale only: THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED, 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


I
LARGE
STOCK
SUPPLIES
may, at times, diminish general competition
for Cattle and Sheep at the Yards. But
there’s one factor which will give decided
help in increasing the demand for your
particular consignments.
Rail Your Fats to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
The firm’s work constantly produces top
market values for clients.
POWER
Transmission
NCIRCLES
AU&TRM.IA
Tanned and processed under the most
improved methods of manufacture.
HARDIE’S LEATHER BELTING en-
sures the most dependable and
economical service in the efficient
transmission of power.
Only specially-selected bends are used in the
manufacture of HARDIE’S LEATHER
BELTING, with the result that there is no
stretching, and consequently no loss of
power through slippage.
Specialising in everything used in the trans-
mission of power, we can quote for all your
requirements at absolutely bedrock prices.
Write for Price Lists.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. C’n’r York & Wynyard Streets
MELBOURNE.. 581-83 Little Collins St.
ADELAIDE 30 Currie Street
HOBART 97 Collins Street
h
'VG'-f.
a\
v//m
*54
COllflßi
Before you Travel
mark all Linen with
CASH'S*® NAMES
and save yourself a lot of trouble
and possible loss. They beat Marking
Ink. Any Name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
" A Few Stitches and they’re on.”
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices : 12 doz. 716, 6 doz. 51-, 3 doz. 3/6
Write for Style Book to
J. 8c J. CASH ES:
85 Cubitt Street. Richmond. Melbourne
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL*
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day's use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint it will hold a (uptuie
firmly and comtorlably under all conditions
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to Ireep
it# and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price it within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
f)7 Queen Street, Melbourne
W&W2G.
mm
'London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BR/WMD
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
[?£
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery, and Automatic Working.
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
ħ
ymxrr
«3&r.
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle;
Melbourne; Brisbane;
Wellington ( N.Z.),
Auckland, Christchurch,
New Plymouth.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID —32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100. 150 and 200011*. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVIBUE, VICTORIA. ___
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Id eal 7
weeks’ Holiday
Trip to Singa-
pore, via pic-
turesque Java.
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Special arrange-
ments made for
m o t o r-t rips
through Java,
from Sourabaya
to Batavia and
vice versa.
A
a
v*
Ml
, . • -V ■
Special reduced
Through Fare
from Australia
to U.K. and
Continent b y
up-to-date Dutch
Mail Steamers,
via Java.
Through Fares
from Sydney:
To Genoa or
Marseilles,
Ist class,
£l3O/10/-
2nd class, £9l.
To Southamp-
ton, Ist class,
£l3B.
2nd class,
£95/10/-
Splendid 6000-ton Mail Steamers TASMAN and HOUTMAN.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
3IESSKS. JOHN SANDERSON & CO., 171 William Street, Melbourne.
JIESSRS. DALGETY & CO., Brisbane,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“I.on" : The super-tinker has arrived. He
lobbed into a West Queensland town the other
day with an aluminium bottom machined into
an old enamel saucepan without soldering.
Furthermore, he claimed that by, the same
process all leaky enamel Vessels can be bot-
tomed without a chip being taken off the in-
side, and, indeed, made better than new, be-
cause no chips can be stirred or scraped off.
Finally, his prices were no more than the
usual unkempt person charges for soldering
up a hole.
* * * #
“D 1135”: Big prices for sugar and high
wages have led to a noticeable speeding-up
in the methods employed at the raw-
sugar mills. Macknade, a G.S.R. mill and
one of the oldest on the Herbert River, is
a good illustration. Here they were once
satisfied to crush 12 tons per hour; nowa-
days a oft. Bin. nine-roll plant accounts for
405 tons in Bhr. and well over 6000 tons foi
the week, which begins at midnight Sunday
and finishes at 9 p.m. Saturday. And the
cane is crushed, not just pushed through the
mills. This ought to be a world’s record for
a mill of the size.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: The indignation exhibited by
those early Windsor (N.S.W.) folk against
a fellow-townsman who essayed to auction
his wife (B. 17/7/’24) was never manifested
over similar occurrences in Hobart in the
early part of last century. In proof of
which take the following interesting news
item, more commercial than social, from the
Hobart Town Gazette of March 22, 1817;
A Hibernian, whose finances were rather low,
brought his wife to the hammer this morning, and
although no way prepossessing in appearance, to the
amazement of all present she was sold and delivered
to a settler for one gallon of rum and 20 ewes.
From the variety of bidders, had there been any
more (wives?) in the market, the sale would have
been very brisk.
“Derf Cominor” “Ringer” (B. 24/7/’24)
says I look on the sunny side of a cane-
cutter’s life, and avers he cannot earn £1
per day. At the prevailing rate a cutter
would earn £1 by cutting a fraction over
2-1 tons per day; and I can place my hands
on dozens of hefty youngsters who can do
over 20 tons a week, given a decent patch.
On the Lower Buydekin there is a two-man
gang cutting 60 tons per week, and a three-
man gang doing 100 tons per week. If
“Ringer” reckons this up at 7s. 6d. per ton,
he will find some are making £l2 and more
per week. But I am not saying their work-
ing day is limited to eight hours.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: The Queensland cotton
farmer hasn’t money to burn, so he uses
liome-made contrivances if they will fit in
at all. Up in the Dawson Valley the
farmers have an ingenious arrangement, on
the principle of the Roman war chariot, for
cutting plants on areas from which the cot-
ton has been picked. A couple of sharp
scythe or other blades are fixed to a log.
one on each side, and a horse is hitched on.
About 12 acres can be cleared in a day, four
times as much as a strong man with a hoe
can manage. An implement-manufacturing
co. has. a special attachment for its mowing
machines which serves the same purpose.
“Double Disc”: “Ringer” (B. 24/7/'24)
must be singularly unfortunate in the class
of cane he cuts if at 10s. per ton he can’t
knock out a quid a day. I am not familiar
with D 1135 cane, but have had experience
with many of tlie other varieties, especially
Badilla. Amongst the C.S.R.’s Indian labor
in Fiji the man who cannot cut and load at
least two tons daily is considered a dud.
“Gnus” amongst the Indians easily account
for 31 tons in a day’s work. If the cane
has been burnt they will do more. I my-
self have cut and loaded 3 ] tons in 61 hours,
and I was not out breaking records. Cer-
tainly it was a plant crop of Badilla which
ran out to something like 70 tons to the acre.
And cutting plant cane and cutting ratoon
cane are two very different matters.
* * * *
“Bosso” : Mention of cheap meals that are
no more (B. 3/7/'24j reminds me that in
King-street, Sydney, during the late ’eighties,
one Holmes ran a food joint where three
coppers procured a meat-pie and a large
glass of milk. The establishment .never
lacked literary patrons, and I have often
seen Henry Lawson surrounding provender
in the back parlor. To keep down over-
head costs Holmes ran the place Avithout
any waitresses; if you wanted another pie
—and you generally did —it was necessary to
help yourself. Passing out the customer
would mention how many of Holmes’s special-
ties he had consumed, and put the cash down
for them. Some of the regular clients were
clerks, but it often struck me that they
couldn’t have had much training or experi-
ence in adding.
A DREAM OF HOLIDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘lt seems a pity that a married man cannot take
a holiday when he wants one,’ said Mr. C. Barnett,
solicitor, at the Melbourne City Court to-day.
Would 1 could take a holiday,
Leave each account outstanding still
And, in a jaunty sort of way,
Go skipping over dale and hill,
Casting my load of care behind—
A load of care who speaks her mind !
M ould I could keep each quid ! earn,
In idle wantonness to use—
For just a while have cash to burn
Without regard for kiddies’ shoes.
The laundry bill, hats, soaps and meats
And all the things the family eats;
My arm about some fair girl’s waist
Who is as careless of her kiss
As I of debts that I’ve effaced
Until I’ve had my day of bliss,
I’d spend my coin, sunn care, sans heed,
From household obligations freed.
Alas, the baker wants rny dough,
The butcher makes me meet his bill !
It is a pity that it's so.
But they would ask more pity still
If l should give, instead of pelf,
The yarn how l enjoyed myself.
victim;ia,
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


THe Last Word
in Windmill Construction
The “Billabong” Enclosed-gear Windmill
SOME DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
OF OUR NEW “BILLABONG”
Rain-proof
Dust-proof
Double Gears
All Working Parts Run
in Oil
Leak-proof Casement
Centred Lift
Ball-bearing Bed Plate
Postive Brake
Perfect Governing
Ball-bearing Thrust on Wind Wheel
Wind Wheel Powerful and Rigid
h
Here is the Windmill that will task the
severest critic to find a fault, or to say
anything but good of the design and
Engineering Achievement of the Enclosed-
Gear BILLABONG. It will prove very
profitable to the users of Windmill power,
as the first cost will be about the only
outlay needed, where an Enclosed-Gear
BILLABONG is installed. Weather influ-
ences cannot affect the working parts;
and with its unsurpassed oiling system,
friction and wear and tear is practically
nil. This new BILLABONG undoubtedly
supersedes all other attempts that have
been made to obtain the Best Windmill.
John DanKs (Q. Son
Pty.
Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Every Detail Correct
before leaving the factory
BEGINNING with the selection of raw
materials, and ending with the final
adjustments on the completed car, each
.Studebaker automobile receives 32,000
inspections before leaving the factory.
The result is a truly fine motor car.
Long after cars less finely built have out-
lived their usefulness, the Studebaker
continues to reveal the excellence of its
construction by giving reliable and eco-
nomical service day-in and day-out.
For 72 years vehicles bearing the Stude-
baker name have been known for their
long and unfailing service.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, South Bend, Ind., U. S. A.
Australasian Distributors:
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS LTD., 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
TURNER BROS., 396-400 Swanston Street, Melbourne
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGCY.,(Q’land) Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane
THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth
DUNCAN & FRASER LTD., 42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide
L. CORRICK, Corrick’s Central Garage, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston
ADAMS LTD., 152-154 High Street, Christchurch, New Zealand
6B&
C 3
i.
*
i
1L
■ i
Ml
\r
■Ja
the
Gauging
roundness
pistons
s
1
]>«**■
<?A
7
611
GB
Testing Stude-
baker springs
to ensure uni-
form strength
and resiliency.
Testing hardness of
wrist pins by means
of a sclerescope
Seating the connecting rod
bearings to the crankshaft—
to secure extra silence and
smoothness of operation.
STUPE B A K E R
TH K WORLD’S LA RGEST PRODUCER OF QUALITY MOTOR CARS


Good
Quick
Sure
W'eoKTnfts * ounces
PhAMBERIAIhJ
COUGH
REMEDY
Cougtis.Colds.
CROUP.
NVfiOOPINC COUCH
HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROAT
INFLUENZA
>nd ot»io of me
THROAT end LUNGS
Relieves ,
Hacking
Roughs 0
rSRITISH EVERY STITCH'I
\
C.B.
British
Every
Stitch.
Elegance—Style-
Graceful Deportment
YOUTHFUL charm and
freedom of movement
are natural gifts to the woman
who is correctly corsetted.
Your “C. 8.” is designed by
corsetieres who know how best
to impart those graceful long
figure lines so necessary for the
correct contour of the moment.
C.B.
CORSETS
British Every Stitch
conceal without appearing to con-
ceal. They give that natural un-
restricted freedom of movement
which leaves the wearer with the
certainty of being correctly corsetted.
Stocked by all up-to-date drapery
emporiums and stores at prices
ranging from 6/11 to 63/-.
Should you experience any difficulty
in obtaining the correct C.B. model,
write direct to
CHARLES BAYER & CO.. LTD.,
Macdonnell House, Pitt St., Sydney,
179-181,Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
for name of nearest agent.
‘BRITISH EVERY STITCH"!
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. •• •• •• " • BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
The clean, fresh taste of
this rich, creamy Emulsion
makes it as pleasant as it is
healthful. In the treat-
ment of Serious Chest
Complaints, Debility,
Wasting-Diseases,
“HYPOL” has achieved
remarkable results.
Very pleasant to take. Try it!
Substitutes are not as good or nearly as good.
Sold Everywhere. 2/6 Large Bottles
Felton Grimwade & Co. Pty Ltd.
Melbourne
MASTERS THE HAIR
Your hair will always look smart and tidy
when Anzora is used. It gives the hair
that glossy appearance so noticeable on men
who take a pride in turning out perfect.
Being clean, easy to use and delicately
perfumed it has become the recognised
hair controller for the man who cares.
Anzora Cream for greasy scalps and Anzora
Viola for dry scalps. Both are sold by chem-
ists, hairdressers, stores or from our agents.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Melbourne.... Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Adelaide . . . Arthur Glover.
Brisbane . ... Gregory & Collins.
Perth...... L. M. Cullen & Co.
1
'M
/
Manufactured by
ANZOR A PERFUMERY CO., LTD., Willesden Lane, London, ENGLAND.
APPETISING GROEL IN TEN MINUTES
IDEAL FOR INVALIDS
and children or those who want a quick, hot meal at supper or
breakfast. Rumford’s Groats is made from the plumpest ripe
grain, grown in Australia and specially treated.
INSIST ON RUMFORD’S. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO.. LTD., SYDNEY
Pi'
m.
'7ST
19
R
ir.'i.
S c*s
B 34
IS o gs
« ?*.J z
jf ;£T?P
«=>
. Jt rw*
il'll
o
Rumfords Groats
“Coot”: Include “Gang Warily” in the
list of quaintly-named houses. It belongs to
a villa in Brunswick (Vic.), and is appropri-
ate, the owner being a breeder of bulldogs.
“Coot”: Why can’t the State Savings
Banks let all depositors operate on their
accounts by cheque? In Victoria the
friendly societies are allowed to do so; and
if they, why not others? Frequently one lias
to wait over 20 minutes when withdrawing
a small amount —a wasteful delay which
would be avoided by the introduction of a
cheque system.
Probably the longest epitaph on stone in
Australia is to be found on a monument at
Mount Pleasant, near Bathurst. It is a
combination of biography, certificate of char-
acter and valedictory—“To the memory of
Major-General William Stewart, late Colonel
of H.M.’s 3rd Regiment (or Buffs), who
died on the Bth of April, 1854, at the
advanced age of 85 years”—and would run
into a quarter-column of The Bulletin.
“Knib”: Three days after his installation
as Deputy-Governor of Vic. I saw Leo Cus-
sen, Acting-C.J., who is 65, dodging a vicious
motor-car in Russell-street South. He be-
stirred himself in a way that would have made
a cricketer proud of the president (as he is)
of the M.C.C. It would have been awkward
if anything unpleasant had happened to his
Ex., with Stradbroke away in Centralia.
Still, there is always a dormant commission
ready for the next senior Judge—Schutt at
present.
“Adamascus”: Old C. J. Scrutton, the last
survivor of the Jardine expedition, mentioned
(B. 10/7/’24) as living in the N.T. and being
at 88 as hardy as the rest of them, recently
had a chance of showing his hardihood. The
residents up there depend on the Govern-
ment boats for their supplies, and a while
back the boats failed to turn up for over two
months. The Commonwealth and Queensland
Governments wasted more time arguing as to
whose fault it was, and meanwhile the resi-
dents, Scrutton included, with not a pound
of flour between them, were subsisting on
beef and water-lily seeds. Some men’s health
failed considerably, but Scrutton seemed un-
affected.
“Ellae” : Is there family ill-luck in certain
names (B. 24/7/’24) ? Well, the least super-
stitious English royalty might be excused for
refusing the dukedom of Clarence, or even
the throne itself if he were the second of his
name. “Seconds,” since earliest Saxon times,
have all had troubled and unhappy lives, and
nearly all died horrible deaths—that of
Edward 11. was so unbelievably savage that
few historians care to do more than hint at it.
Sudden death, battle and murder accounted for
the first three Dukes of Clarence; not one
has passed the title on to a son, and with the
sole exception of the one who became William
IV'. all died at a comparatively early age.
The hoodoo on “seconds” is not altogether
unknown in other countries; there was a
William 11. of Germany, for instance.
“De la Pluche”: A group of cousins who
did things in the early days were the Jen-
ningses and the Gellibrands. Of the latter,
one was the first Attorney-General of Tas.:
he went exploring and was killed by the
natives. There is a a river and a
mount named after him. A Jennings
branch migrated to the Western District of
Vic.; one of them, J.G., was manager of the
Melbourne branch of the National Bank and
later manager in S. Australia. His son was
C. B. Jennings, vice-captain of the 1912 Aus-
tralian XI. Another brother, R.G., is a
house-master at Geelong Grammar School.
He has a pretty pen, and has just finished a
novel dealing with an Australian public
school, which is to be published a few weeks
hence.
“P.X.”: Ten years ago banana-growing
began to be a business on the Tweed (North-
ern Rivers, N.S.W.), and soon the bouldered
sides of a hundred hills were being tickled
by young sons of some of the best-known
people in Australia. Then the sticky horror
known as bunchy-top arrived, and in some
districts there are only a few odd farms
that are free —and they don’t know why
Twenty years ago Chinese grew big crops of
bananas as far north as Cairns, in Queens-
land ; but sugar gradually pushed them out.
Now, however, with a good duty to help
them, and the coast railway promising to
keep steamship freights in check, there are
inquiries for banana land around Innisfail
and Cairns; and it is reckoned that the scrub
country between Ingham and Babinda could
easily supply half a dozen Australias with all
the vegetable sausage they could eat.
“F.L.H.”: Mention of Billings’s collection
of wild animals in Sydney in the ’fifties (B.
17/7/’24) brings to mind that he was con-
nected with the early attempt to form a zoo
in Melbourne. Dr. Black, F. M. Selwyn
and Captain Stoney were the prime movers,
and, having got 30 acres near the Yarra,
opposite the Botanical Gardens, they opened
negotiations with Billings, who was described
as proprietor of a travelling menagerie. That
was in May, 1858. He was engaged as
managing keeper, and lived in a tent, the
society promising him a more suitable abode
later. History is a bit hazy about him just
after that, and he probably returned to Syd-
ney. Edward Wilson, of the Aegus, was
the instigator of the removal of the “136
quadrupeds and 324 birds” to the present
Royal Park site in the early ’sixties. The
old place became the Friendly Societies’ Gar-
dens, and is now being built up as a sports
oval.
“Borom”: The bulk of the world’s supply
of eucalyptus oil, for both medicinal and in-
dustrial use, comes from Australia, but how
long it will continue to do so is problemati-
cal. Between the high cost of production
and the low prices ruling for the oil more
and more of the small distillers have been
squeezed out of business, and even the larger
firms have had none too rosy a time of late.
An even graver danger is the presence in
Australia of representatives of a S’African
co., which has an eye on the industry. These
agents have been touring eastern Australia,
inspecting eucalyptus forests, and collecting
data about the most suitable varieties of oil-
bearing trees. The most valued of these soon
reach the oil-producing stage. Were they
cultivated in Africa, with the low cost of
unskilled labor to help—nine-tenths of the
labor employed in eucalyptus oil distillation
is unskilled—it would be a poor look-out for
this country. And it is impossible to forget
that we already import wattle-bark from
South Africa for tanning.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - . LONDON
Via SUEZ.
FLEET.
♦OBAMA .. .
♦ORONSAY .
♦OTRANTO .
♦ORMONDE .
Tons.
. 20,500
. 20,500
. 20,500
. 14,853
Tons.
‘ORMUZ 14,588
ORVIETO ... 12,133
OSTERLEY .. 12,129
ORSOVA 12,036
*ORCADES 10,000 tons.
* First and Third Class only.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
First, ( Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
OF
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
ANY
LINE,
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
8.8, WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m.; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply; —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1 619 518
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1924.. £14’499’485
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. :
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. G. Shannon.
, Chief Inspector for N.S.WI: W. G. Hull.
lIIAD 01* I'ICR, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 150 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,500’000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,831,513
GRANTS DRAFTS on Auslralia - Kew z ea -
M iniiunnr i o land( Fiji Samoa> Great
ontain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS SLu'SS.S
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Also, Fremantle, W.A.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. 875,000
Paid up Capital £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. 750,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£1,625,000
875,000
£2,500,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted
Australian Mutual
87 Pitt St, Sydney Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds .. ..
Annual Income .. .. .. ..
£2.103.220
£3,500,000
£53,000,000
£7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager,
Shipping:.
, &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSION TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS
..(18,600 tons disp.) AUG. 28
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) SEPT. 25
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Ihe Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America; also
tne Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) SEPT. 11
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) OCT. 9
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM Ship CO UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOURS
ĥ
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of Si to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices.
nf Ur J f J n IST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
oi the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES)
„ THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN)
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE). '
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE,
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO.’
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane monthly.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
by the
Sailing
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
m
m %
m
wmm
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817,
4*
WALES.
- £6,000,000
- 4,050,000
- - - 6,000,000
Directors:
£16,050,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falldner,
The Hon. Reginald J
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Esq.
. Black, M.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidiey, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
_ general Manager: OSCAR LTWF<s
London Office—2o Tlireauneedle Street E C
States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World
Foreign Bills
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID UP £3,476,287 10
RFSFRVF PA PIT AI 2,700,000 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ------ 3,500,000 0
£9,676,287 10 0
TOTAL - -
Directors :
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER ML C „
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.; ’ oVSfwT?” 1 ' 1;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager il H MASSTF
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector ■ J R r)RVWTrp«rr
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3 LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other ni rt* nt
the World. 1 OI
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
ħ
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping- at Brisbane for’ Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, -Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns. '
Huddart Parker Li**
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. LtcL
Tours to Fiji.
BY S.S. SUVA.
This fast and favorite steamer, which is fitted with
wireless and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers, maintains a service every
four weeks from Melbourne and Sydney, calling at
Lautoka, Suva and Levuka.
The round trip from Melbourne occupies 26 days
and from Sydney about 15 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street]
Melbourne; or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE,
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
h
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars apply,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Managing Agents for Australasia.
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“NALDHAM.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., L,td.
Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Itlacklieatta Collieries, L,td., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOli
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S.N. Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish 'Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Roval Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S S Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Hain Line. Huddart, Parker,
Ltd. London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Mel-
bourne Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co. Queens-
land Agents for Sea Insurance Co., Ltd.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary,
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen a..d Cooktown
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF;
From 20/ > per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killaruey.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.—Returning 9.45 p.m.
TOURIST TRIPS TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Feuuies, Limited.
DEPENDABLE
MARINE ENGINES
Used by over seventy per cent of the leading boat
builders of the world as standard equipment in their
boats. American Bosch Magneto. All parts standard
and interchangeable.
$135,00 to
$1,550.00
f.o.b. Detroit.,
Mich.,U.S.A.
Spa
4 Cycle
4 Cylinder
3 to 50
Horsepower
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairlmnks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
KERMATH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Deiroit, Michigan, Uo S. A. Cable Address, K&rmath
All
snap
es
now
<&Made by Experts.
<€lS> h'ipes are shaped by skilled
artisan-; in London, from the
finest Briar root obtainable.
Thoroughly seasoned and matur-
ed, every pipe is faultless —sure
of appreciation by the most
critical smoker.
Note the very fine quality of
grain and excellent finish of these
“ pipes with a pedigree." They
emphasise satisfaction to smokers
everywhere.
Shape
No. 4159
Choose your shape now.
Sold everywhere
Trade enquiries invited to —
Box 765, G.P.0., Sydney.
Model 23-A Sporter .22 calibre Repeat-
ing Bolt Action. 23 inch round banel. Weight
6 lbs. Also made in following calibres with
25 inch round barrel: .25-20, and .32-20.
■r
c
Swift, Smooth
and Powerful
ĥ
FOR plugging pests, for sniping tin cans,
or for target work, you can’t beat the
Model 14 Savage. It possesses the clean,
graceful lines of a greyhound combined with
the tough lasting strength of a bulldog.
Then there is the Savage Model 23-A calibre
.22 Sporter that has created so much interest
all over the world. There is nothing quite like
it. Built along the same graceful lines as the
Savage bolt action high power. Can also be
obtained in calibres .25-20 and .32-20.
Whether it be the Model 14, or the Sporter,
or in fact any other Savage rifle, you will al-
ways be assured of complete satisfaction —of
extreme accuracy and thorough dependability.
Send us the name of your dealer and we will
forward you copy of our illustrated catalogue
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
P. O. Box 966 Sydney. N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
50 Church Street New York, U. S. A.
Model 14 Slide Action
Repeating. .22 Calibre,
takedown style, ham-
merless. 24 in. octagonal
barrel. Weight 5% lbs.
A 46
ħ
TENNIS
EVERYTHING FOR THE GAME.
fW
nT
/
We carry a large and comprehensive range of all Sports
Requisites and can equip you for any indoor or outdoor Sport.
TENNIS RACKETS.
M.S.
Special School Match 8/6
Special or Premier 21/-
Wonder 25/-
C. 8.8.
Practice 10/6
Special 13/6
Special Practice, concave throat., 18/6
Quadruple Centre, cork handle.. 25/-
Double Strung 27/6
HAYMARIvET.
Ordinary 30 /„
Extra Special 70/-
OXFORD CO.’S.
Ai 40/-
Britannic, concave throat 45/-
Oceanic, concave throat 55 /_
Titanic, concave throat 65/-
Cyclonic, concave throat 80 /_
BUSSEY’S.
Sandown or Standard 25/-
Conqueror 30 /«
Handicap '' ’ 32 /o
At ...‘ 35/-
Invincible 50 /-
SPALDING’S.
Greenwood 24/-
’Vantage 45/-
Tournament. 49 /q
Continental " 55 a
Gold Medal .. 67/6: Model E. . 85/-
Hackett Alexander 85/-
BAILY’S.
Black and White <7O/„
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon
90/-
AYRES’.
Sundown
Handicap
A 1
Champion
Matador
Central Strung
S.N.D. Model A
S.N.D. Model B
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon ....
BANCROFT’S.
The Winner
28/6
36/-
38/-
47/6
52/6
57/-
82/6
85/-
90/-
85/-
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke
85/-
SLAZENGER’S.
Ra Belle
Player
Renshaw
Demon
Whitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Rambert Chambers
I.
Patterson
J. O. Anderson
25/-
27/6
45/-
50/-
58/6
67/6
75/-
68/-
79/6
79/6
87/6
90/-
92/6
95/-
H. C. LEE’S.
Spartan
70/-
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD S BEST. Price 85/- each.
WE SPECIALISE IN RACKET REPAIRS.
TENNIS BALLS.
„ Each.
Barnet Glass Hard Court 2/4
Barnet Glass Flite, the new
seamless ball, equal to
any imported 2/4
Ayres’ Court 1 /10
Ayres’ Champion 2/4
Doz.
27/-
27/-
21/-
27/-
Each. Doz.
Slazengei-’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin) 27/-
Dunlop’s Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 15/.
Dunlop’s Champion 2/4 27/-
Dunlop’s Play Ball 1/. 10/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
GOLF
Sjrfcgfty
£
CLUBS
BY WORLD’S LEADING MAKERS.
W. Winton’s
D. Anderson’s
Cann and Taylor’s
T. Stewart’s
A. G. Spalding’s . .
A. Patrick’s
W, Gibson’s “Star Maxwell” Model
W. Gibson’s “Ijogan Genii” Model
W. Gibson’s
Auchterlonie’s Special ..
GOLF CLUB REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
When sending Articles for Repair, kindly
attach your name and address to same.
fl/icfc Simmons fcf
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches *, Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Be a Rexona Girl!
©
0
Q
£
C
±5
?/?o
■¥'
U
K
It Means
Health
and
i Beauty.
m “I am a user of Kexona Soap
Vaiul Kexona Ointment. I find
f Kexona Soap a great aid to my
skin, and 1 attribute my success
to Rexona Soap in winning the
prizei in the ‘Adelaide News’
Beauty Competition.”
Miss BUS SIR HO I/IO HI).
IX Phillis Street,
* Maylands. S.A.
Why Not Enjoy a
Good Complexion?
Ton cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you
wash your face, do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt,
but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion
fresh and free from blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant,
but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware. Many of them contain
tree alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve
the skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure
soap, but is medicated on the same principle as the famous Rexona Ointment,
which is famous throughout all
of Australasia as the Rapid
Healer. That is why Rexona
Soap really does for the
skin and face what cosmetics
are supposed to do. by ensuring
not only a clean face, but a pure
and healthy skin, and thus gives
you a clear complexion.
Rexona
Soap
•m
f h
1
> |M»
a
Westclox
A holiday hour
For an early hour in your garden when nature
is at her best, for a set of tennis to give the eggs
and bacon a more delicious flavor, for a bit of a
walk or whatever you like best to do, set your
Westclox for an hour earlier and make a holiday
of that hour.
You will feel better and your friends will com-
ment on how fit you are looking.
A Westclox will call punctually at any hour you
set. You’ll find the trade mark Westclox on the
dial and tag.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/•; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/•;
blue Bird, 12/6; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o’Lantem Luminous, 20/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-;
Black Bird Luminous, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY. LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
The Old Minnehaha.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
old Minnehaha,
I wonder where she bides.
With her long yards sweeping
O'er her stout wooden sides,
And her tall spars creeping
Their shadows on the tides?
The old Minnehaha—
I heard her bandsmen play
“The Star Spangled Banner”
In Honolulu Bay
When a sea-breeze freshened
At fall of tropic day;
When a red light glowered
On Manna Lou's crown,
And palm-groves echoed
A call to White and Brown
From soft ukuleles
In Honolulu town.
The old Minnehaha,
Where'er her bones may lie,
Her name brings back again
A dream that cannot die—
Music on the water
And magic in the sky!
The old Laughing Water
I know not where she bides,
With her long yards swinging
O’er her thick wooden sides;
With her day’s work over
And never winds nor tides !
The old Minnehaha,
Who had her youth and prime,
Perhaps is somewhere resting
Contented in the slime;
Life for ships and men is
A little flight in Time.
The old Laughing Water—
Her canvas glads no more
A brown woman waiting
Her sailor-man come o’er,
A white lover dreaming
By Honolulu’s shore.
The old Minnehaha,
I know not where she went,
Her black cannon gleaming,
Her white sails proudly bent,
And a starred flag- beaming*,
O’er Uncle Sam’s intent.
Rut the night tide falling
By our Pacific Sea
And a bugle calling
(What message may it be?)
Bring the old Minnehaha
Back, back again to me.
Victoria.
E. J. BBADY.
The Deceiver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H A OK ! Jack! Come on, get up! It’s
• I 0 o'clock!”
The woman lied unconsciously.
She had lied in the same manner and at the
some time each morning over the best part
of five yeai-s, and would probably go on
doing so far the remainder of her days. It
was only 5 o’clock, and the woman had just
got up. She was on her way to the kitchen
when she put her head in at her son’s door
and lied about the time. Not that she ex-
pected any good to accrue from the summons ;
in fact, she. knew that Jack had not heard
except in his sub-conscious mind. But even
that counted for something where the waking
of her son was concerned. Jack, who worked
at the mine down in the Elsinore Valley, had
to go on day-shift at 7 o’clock, and there
was a mile to walk. When the fire was
burning freely, and the oatmeal-pot bubbling,
the woman had another try.
“Oh, come on, Jack! I’ve called you a
dozen times already. You’ll be late this
morning. Bert Smith has gone. He’s there
by now. You’ll be late !”
Jack heard this time, grunted, pulled the
clothes higher about his shoulders, and turned
bis face to the wall. The woman went out
and put a lump of steak in the pan, cut
the crib, then returned for a final try. Grip-
ping the malingerer by the shoulder, she
shook him and held on until she knew he was
awake.
“You’ll be late all right this morning!”
she shouted into his ear. “The first whistle’s
gone.” With this final warning, which never
failed, she turned and abruptly left the room.
The first warning whistle blew half an
hour before starting-time. Jack did not be-
lieve it had gone; yet he didn’t know. Half-
turning to the wall again, he as quickly
changed his mind and scrambled out of bed.
Mis toilet was not extensive. A sleeveless
blue flannel, trousers and bowyangs, and he
was ready for the wash in the tin-dish on
the block outside the kitchen-door.
_ “I’m sick of this,” he growled as he dragged
hf.v dhair up to the table. “A man’s life’s
nob hisLown.”
“Mover mind,” said his mother gently,
hover.ing about the table. “It’s Christmas
Eve fto-mocrow. and you won’t go to work
again after to-day until after Boxing Day.”
“What's tine good of Christmas?” demanded
the toiler querulously. “The storekeeper’s
the only one who gets anything out of Christ-
inas here.”
“Well, the children enjoy it.”
“The children enjoy it! Strike me puce,
I should think they did!” exploded the man-
boy at the table. "Nothing to do but fill
themselves with tucker and stuff, and run
about! I haven't had a holiday in five
years!”
The woman noted the inflection of the
voice, but said nothing. There was nothing
she could say. She reached across the table
and placed another chunk of well-browned
steak on the half-empty plate. It was all
she could do. It was her caress—the sub-
stitute for the embrace she felt she dare not
bestow upon this great boy of hers whom
toil had moulded into a machine which
eschewed the gentler expressions of feeling
and regard. When his father died five years
ago he had gone, a boy of fifteen, into the
iaine, and had been the sole support of his
mother and brothers and sisters, four of
them, since. It was said of him that he
could take more .wash out of the face in an
eight-hour shift than any other man in the
mine, bar Carden, who was noted for his
prodigious powers.
"I been thinking about what you said about
asking the Ellises over here to dinner Christ-
mas," said the boy. ‘*l don’t see why 1
should have to feed all that crowd. Isn’t it
enough for me to feed ourselves?"
"I’m sure it is,” answered the woman
quietly, "and I’m only sorry your poor
father died. But I thought you'd like to have
someone here at Christmas.”
“Well, he did die, and I know it. and 1
don't want anyone here Christmas,” snapped
rite toiler brutally, pushing back his chair
and securing his skull-cap and letting him-
self out. If lie was aware of the face behind
the curtains, watching him disappear down
the track, he showed no sign as he swung
along, almost at the double, in an effort
to make up time.
Seated that afternoon in a rocking-chair in
the passage, the better to catch what bit
of breeze there was, mending a pair of
.lack’s socks, Mrs. Jones started at the sound
of the mine-whistle. Instinctively she knew
it was not for the knock-off. Somehow there
was something sinister in its wail, and as
she rushed to the eight-day clock on the
kitchen mantelpiece she experienced the sen-
sation which was passing through the breast
of every other woman in the Valley whose
husband or son was on day-shift. Somehow
or other the women never got used to the
whistle. Always it seemed to last just a
shade too long, and to a woman their hearts
fluttered, bird-like, until it ceased. For a
long whistle, repeated, was the accident-
whistle—the whistle which might leave any
one of them husband less or childless, with
little or no hope for the future.
The clock but confirmed Mrs. Jones’s fears.
It was only 2 o’clock. With the first stroke
of the hour the long-drawn-out wail ceased, to
repeat itself on the second stroke of 2.
Rushing hatless from the house, Mrs.
Jones was aware of other women making in
the direction of the mine. But she didn’t
stop. No one stopped. One and all they
flew, breathless, whimpering, to the pit’s
mouth, where bowyanged men cursed dis-
passionately as they waited to go to the
aid of their mates.
As soon as lie came to the surface it was
clear that Jack's case was hopeless. Para-
lysed down the entire right side, and blind.
the doctor held out but little hope for his
recovery.
But he did recover. Or. at least, he did
not die —if living blind and helpless as a
child can be called living. Only Mrs. Jones’s
hopes died. With four children and a help-
less boy-man on her hands, the future held
for her nothing but despair. Living before,
the day of Workers’ Compensation Acts, she
had little to hope for except the charity
of her neighbors. And it was that never-
failing charity, the charity of the man who
toils with his hands, that finally came to
her aid, and provided the wherewithal for
her to take up a boarding-house in the near-
by town.
From daylight to lamplight, and generally
for hours after, Mrs. Jones toiled to satisfy
and retain her lodgers. Unused to the ways
of men who dwell in towns, there was some-
thing pathetic in her efforts to cook and
serve her meals just so. Somehow the bread-
plate would insist on getting on the right-
hand side of the knife and fork, and the
serviettes never would stay put. And when
Mary, aged ten, dropped the soup she was
carrying to the table, her mother’s heart used
to sink under the weight of her worries and
responsibilities. But. she did not show it.
The woman in her was too great for that.
The wave of utter hopelessness and despair,
of sobs and silent prayers, was held at arm’s-
length until night-time, when none could set:
or know, except her cool pillow, which would
never tell.
In the daytime she sang and joked and
laughed, because of Jack —of Jack, who sat
like a skeleton at the feast, deprived of his
sight and of the cunning power of locomo-
tion. In the summer he sat in his chair on
the back verandah, where one or other of the
boarders would sometimes come and talk.
In the winter, when night came early, he
crouched in his chair in the corner near
tlie kitchen-stove, rumbling in his throat and
impotentl.v reviling the Power which had
deprived him of his manhood. To look at
him you would never have thought him blind.
To all outward seeming his eyes were per-
fect. There are many such. But the little
something which lets the light into the brain,
and to the soul, was missing, and to Jack
Jones the beautiful world was but a pall of
darkest velvet.
“What do I look like?” he would inquire
of his mother half a dozen times each day.
To which the reply was always the same.
“Don’t be silly, Jack! Haven’t I told you
a hundred times none would know there was
anything the matter with you unless they
were told.” Adding one day a piece of won-
derful news: “And, Jack, what do you think?
I’ve bought a ticket in Tattersall’s! I feel
sure I’m going to win something.”
Heaven knows what prompted the lie. Per-
haps some premonition of the catastrophic
future, and Mrs. Jones, like a good general,
was preparing her line of retreat,
For some time things had not been
going well. Unversed in even the home-
liest finance, Mrs. Jones had never
paused to consider the consequences of
feeding a thirty-shilling boarder on a
forty-shilling scale. Gradually she dropped
behind. The butcher, the baker, the grocer,
all the petty tradesmen of the town, who
had beguiled her into debt when matters
looked good, were pestering her for money,
driving her to distraction, and giving her
no chance to pull herself together. Her credit
was stopped. She could get nothing except
for cash. And often she had no cash. From
the best of food and plenty of it, her table
dwindled to butcher’s cast-offs and re-
hash. She lost her boarders. Among that,
belly-living tribe the word went round until
her house became taboo. On the day of the
final crash, when notice of sale was served
on her, she hastened to Jack with another
piece of wonderful news.
(Continued on next page.)


Why Kidney Disease Is so Serious!
“Every Picture
Tells a Stor?
The reason kidney disease is so serious is that it
comes on unnoticed, and often gains a firm hold of
the sufferer before he knows what is wrong with him.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills should be used
immediately there is any sign of Backache, Dizzy Spells,
Aching Pains in the Loins, Water Troubles, Gravel,
Rheumatic Pains, Sleeplessness, Irritability, Watery
Swellings in the Ankles or beneath the Eyes, Stiffness of
the Joints and Lumbago.
Doan’s Pills thoroughly cleanse the kidneys and
bladder, and assist them in their great work of filtering
the blood. But be careful to get the genuine Doan’s Pills.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney,
says: In common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago
I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was
troubled with pains across the small of my back and dizzy
feelings, besides having no energy for anything. One day my
attention was called to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and in
the hope that they might benefit me I got a bottle. After taking
them for a few days my health began to improve, and by the
time I had used six bottles I was completely cured. I am
grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have done me, and
hope many will profit by my experience and use this splendid
remedy. I never suffer with backache now, in fact, feel splendid
in every way.”
Six years later Mrs. Burrows says :—“I have had no reason
to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
cured me some years ago, and I am still well.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. W. J. Frappell, who lias been in' the employ of Messrs.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Sydney, for nearly thirty years, says:
“It gives me pleasure to testify to the curative value of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I had been suffering with an aching
back for a number of years, and at times it was very severe.
After trying many remedies without getting any ease whatever,
I was advised to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so,
and from the first few doses got relief, and after using three
bottles I was entirely free of backache. I am thoroughly cured,
and hope this statement will meet the eye of other sufferers and
be the means of them getting relief through the use of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
Twenty-two years later Mr. Frappell says:—“l am still
a great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me many years ago, and I find by taking this remedy now and
then that I am able to keep free from the torture of backache.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
! Jack! What did I tell you? I’ve
won the big prize in Tatt.’s. Here, feel the
paper.. My winning number’s on that. Oh,
Jack, isn’t it just wonderful! We’ll move
to a big house and have gardens and flowers
and things!”
f A n< * Jack said that it icas wonder-
iv’ f 1 fumbled the grocer’s account in his
blind hngers, Mrs. Jones wiped her eyes with
the corner of her apron and shook a warning
nnger at her pop-eyed children standing
round Jack's chair.
When it was all over and the tiny-souled
traders had taken their pound of flesh and
departed, Mrs. Jones did what many another
good woman had done before her—thanked
God for her two good hands, and prepared to
use them.
With infinite care Jack was removed to the
two small rooms his mother had secured
from an acquaintance in a dismal back
street.
“Jack, it’s just beautiful!” exclaimed Mrs.
Jones in tones of rapture, surveying the
mouldering walls. “Just to think that you
can t see it. There’s a wonderful parlor,
picture-rails and red plush chairs, and every-
thing ! And out through the window there
are lawns and flowers and shrubs. Every-
thing! Oh Jack, aren’t we lucky?”
Having, secured the privilege of washing
and cleaning for several of the townspeople,
Hrs. Jones acquainted Jack with the fact.
t i * iave , to be away from you a little now,
Jack. With all this money I have had to
join the Women’s Guild, the Foreign Missions
Society, and goodness knows what. But
you’ll be all right. Hannah will stay with
you and get anything you want. I’ll keep
some flowers always in the vase here near
your chair.”
And Hannah did stay. And the flowers
were always in the vase—faded and dead
flowers generally, but alive and ablaze with
color and beauty to the blind imagination of
Jack.
Sometimes Mrs. Jones would wilt un-
der the hopelessness of it all. Of what
use this pretence? What did it avail?
How much better off would Jack be
wlien the time came for her to leave
him? Would not the hardship be the
harder when there was none to carry on
the tragic farce? Would it not be better to
tell him now, to admit the deceit, and prepare
him for what lay before? It could not go
on forever. Sooner or later Jack must learn
of the. fraud.. Perhaps he would not dis-
cover it until after she was gone. And
what then would he think of her? Would he
understand her motives? Could he appreci-
ate the sentiment which had prompted the
first lie about the lottery ticket, and the in-
numerable lies since? How could he? A
mere male, and a boy in intellect at that,
how could he be expected to understand?
Rather would he load her memory with
obloquy. But in what way would it improve
matters to tell him now? What good pur-
pose could be served by further darkening
his life earlier than was necessary? Could
she bear to hear his voice and see his face
when she acquainted him of the deception?
Thus her thoughts flitted like a bee from
resolution to indecision, the while the
pathetic game of make-believe went on.
But it could not go on for ever. Strong
in the guardianship of her son, Mrs. Jones
was not strong in health. The reek and murk
of the tenement, aided and abetted by the
daily sap of her bodily strength at the wash-
tub, took its toll. Slowly her strength failed.
She missed days at work, only to be driven
back to it by the haunting eyes of her
children before she had recovered. When the
day came that she could work no more, and
only those similarly placed can understand
what that means, she placed her children into
the keeping of a visiting missioner, and
begged pen and ink of her landlady.
“I have got rheumatism in one of my feet,
Jack. I will be able to spend a whole day or
two with you,” she said, as, propped among
pillow's, she laboriously wrote her justi-
fication and farewell to her son.
“Give that into his hands after I have
gone, and then read it to him,” she directed
the landlady. “I don’t think I can bear to
watch him learn the truth before I go. If
only he wouldn’t look like that.”
Under the brightest sky a pauper’s funeral
is a melancholy affair. Even the parson’s
prayers sound only half true, as if it doesn’t
matter much about a pauper. It rained the
day they buried Mrs. Jones.
“Where on earth have I put that letter?”
asked the landlady of herself, back in the
room alone with Jack.
“It fell down at the back of the bed there,”
said Jack, staring fixedly through the broken
window at the slush pool which was a
yard.
The landlady stiffened. Pop-eyed, she
stared at Jack. After a moment’s hesitation,
wondering if she had heard aright, she
swiftly crossed the room and passed her hand
up and down before his eyes.
“It’s all right,” said Jack quietly. “I
can see. My sight came back nearly a
month ago. Give me the letter.”
“Oh Jack! Jack!” cried the landlady.
“Why didn’t you tell her? Why didn’t you
let her know before she died?”
“Gord Almighty!” snapped Jack, “I’d
rather have lost it again than spoilt it all for
her like that.”
G. L. THOMAS.
Yellow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | HE sign above Yoni Hoysha’s door-
way described him as “Japanese
Dealer,” but he was really noth-
ing more than a loafer. He would
sometimes spend a whole morning lean-
ing over the rail of the landing outside
his upstairs bedroom watching the movement
along the water-front. If anybody came into
his shop below (and this did not happen
often) he responded leisurely to the tinkle
of the little bell that stood on the counter,
slip-slopping down the rough stairway to a
side door, for there was no direct communi-
cation between the shop and the solitary
room above it.
The building was little more than a
two-storeyed shed, made of bamboo laths and
galvanised-iron; and because it stood on a
corner where the main street of Thursday
Island twists into the track through Jap-
town, Yoni had a good view of the boatsheds
that crowded down to the high-water mark.
Small craft came and went all day long, ply-
ing among glimpsed heaps of cork-studded
nets, spars and rigging, and oddments of tre-
pang and shelling gear—so much flotsam and
jetsam of the seas, which seemed to have
drifted into this byway of the tropics, to
be cast upon its casual shore. Yoni woke
of a morning to the liquid dipping noise
of oars, mingled with the creak of ropes
and the rattle of pulley-blocks, which are
pleasant sounds to hear across the calm of
a pearly morning. On getting up he could
see through window and doorway the tips
of masts. These grew thicker when the lug-
gers came in to lay up for “the wet,” just
as if they were part of the season’s extrava-
gant growth. While the hills across the
channel emerged sleepily from their blanket-
ing mists, clammy sails were hauled up to
dry, like birds stretching and shaking their
wings on first awaking. All this pleased
Yoni. He liked also the view toward the
town —the street with its thick trees in
the middle and at the sides, the two straight
palms half-way along the hill, and the white
steeple of the church higher up. He looked
that way often now, thinking of Suey, the
little fifteen-year-old daughter of Wing Lee
Ivee, the Chinaman who kept the store oppo-
site the jetty.
Suey was small and of a dainty shape,
with an exquisite miniature slightness, and
her rounded features had the lustre of a
straw-colored pearl. She was the eldest of
eight brothers and sisters, and under adjoin-
ing roofs were uncles and aunts, with a
swarm of cousins. At dusk all these child-
ren came out into the cool of the evening to
play; and, because the air was close indoors,
they were often allowed to romp about in the
roadway for an hour or two after dark. This,
notwithstanding the watchfulness with which
the Chinese guard their womenfolk, gave Suey
a chance, with quiet inborn wiliness, to slip
into the gloom of the great trees that over-
spread the street. She was the less likely
to be missed because she was older than the
others and rarely joined in their games. So
into the shadow she would steal, breathlessly
hurrying off in the direction of Yoni Hoy-
sha’s shop on the edge of Japtown, which at
night was a luring mystery of small sinister
lights and drowsy sounds.
One night she came to tell him that this
was the last time they would be together.
The explanation was simple. Suey was old
enough for marriage. She was to go to China
by the next boat as the bride of Fong Loo, the
fat silk-merchant who came to the island two
or three times a year, and from whom Suey’s
father would receive much money for the
bargain.
“How much?” asked Yoni, fierce and sul-
len, when Suey told him this.
“Oh, very much ! A—a hundred pounds.”
This was a mere guess, but Yoni’s tone had
frightened her into something like a self-
protective justification. It seemed a lot of
money to her, as it was indeed to Yoni also.
The vague hope that had prompted his ques-
tion vanished.
Perhaps Suey did not really love him. The
little fondling liberties he took with her
were almost ludicrous because of their timid
lasciviousness—a mere gloating over handled
bric-a-brac; yet he felt resentful because
he never met with any response but acqui-
escence, sleek and stiff, as if she were really
porcelain. He had impulses, but they
evaporated into a sort of idealism that was
half cowardice. He was an aesthete, was
Yoni Hoysha—no common fellow like his
countrymen who went out on the luggers
diving for pearl and groping for trdpang.
He would talk of the delicacy of gatherings
of five persons to sip ceremonial tea in the
Sukiya, and of the rite of listening to incense;
he could posture the nobility of the Ashi-
kaga Lords; he boasted knowledge of the
Kojiki, or Records of Ancient Matters, and
of the Court poetry. He himself had writ-
ten little Hokku verses; and his honorable
ancestors, father and son for many genera-
tions, had been actors of the No in the
palaces right up to the time of the Restora-
tion, when the feudal days of old Japan
ended. Then had his father taken a sword
—the very sword that hung on the iwall of
Yoni’s room! —and cut into his own bowels
in the correct manner of hara-kiri, for to do
it otherwise than in the proper way is a dis-
grace. So Yoni would run on, from one
thing to another, while Suey cared little for
all this, though she liked the way his eyes
flashed when he talked thus, and the fastidi-
ous droop of his little moustache, and also
the way his eyebrows went upwards in an
angle resembling those of the idealised types
of Orientals that are painted on vases.
But now a deep, vague sadness closed
round her as the time for parting drew near.
She dared not stay late. Something heavy
and choking seemed to rise in her breast
and spread to her throat and up to her
brain. Yoni set the lamp near the doorway
for her going, and then sank on his knees,
making strange sounds of sorrow with his
face in his hands. Suddenly he stood up,
clenching his fists tightly. He would keep
her, he cried —take her away—hide her.
Ah, yes! But where, how? He flung his
arms about, wrung his hands, quivered.
At this a poignant despair swept through
Suey. She darted across the room, and.
reaching up so that the wide sleeves fell
back from her slim arms, tore down from
the wall the sword of Yoni’s ancestors, and
came and held it flat across the palms of
her two hand* before him.
Yoni glared wildly down at it and at her.
Then he snatched the weapon savagely and
flung it into the shadows behind him.
For a long time she did not move. Them
tears began to trickle down her cheeks, and
slowly, with her arms held stiffly at her
sides like a doll’s, she turned away without
a sound, as if dominated by the ceremonial
obedience which has guided her race for cen-
turies, and the light tapping of her shoes
as she went down the steps died away like
the slow dripping of water from roof-edges
after rain.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.


* Ui
Up'
v
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTO.,
S?" 8 ' 8 "' 1 B “ HOIiMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Featherston Street, Wellineton.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J. Wildridge 8 Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
OH *
THe Brand for Quality and
Reliability in Tool Steels.
Aa Eagle on a Globe Brand
Double Extra Cast Steel.
Best Warranted Cast Steel
Warranted Cast Steel.
Selected and used regularly by all leading RAIL-
WAYS, SHIPBUILDING YARDS and ENGINEERS
throughout the world.
All general sizes stocked in TEMPER 2,3, 4 and 5.
For reliable service specify “An Eagle on a Globe”
Brand Tool Steels, when ordering.
We have other lines that will interest you; every
inquiry promptly dealt with.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
pvi? •« • • 379-381 Kent Street
343-348 Swanston Street
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE ~ Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
Remington.
Pen Knives
R 6434
Pearl
"sJTsX
JR6713
Stag
E 4
R 6554
Pearl
There is no gift
more useful
than a good pen-
knife.
To be sure it is
good, insist on a
Remington.
ask Your Dealer
h
REMINGTON ARMS
COMPANY, Inc.
D.D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686
Melbourne, Victoria
R 6519
Gun Metal
RG7069-27
Gold
RG7099-1
Gold
To look wellandbe well
to be really “fit”—at your best. In fact, as Nature
Intended—ls a desirable thing. If such Is not your
experience, you should know that to be really well is
Impossible If you allow yourself to suffer from any
digestive ailment. An unhealthy state or Irregular
action of the stomach, liver and bowels means lowered
vitality, depression of spirits and is the cause of many
ills. It is most unwise therefore to disregard or neglect
-any derangement of them. If you desire good appetite,
sound digestion, natural, healthy action of the stomach,
bowels, liver and kidneys,
you should take
Beecham’s Pills. This medicine used in accordance
with the directions, has a marked tonic effect upon
the digestive system and, by stimulating it to proper
activity, renews the general health in a very remarkable
and satisfactory manner.
: ::
MKSQBJid
::::::::
::::
w- a - k
:::::7rr.r .
fSsStiS&MM
:=if??=ssli=lii£i
::
:
“WORTH A GUINEA A BOX”
The best cartridges are
ELEY a? KYNOCH
They are loaded with
SMOKELESSODIAMOND
“E.C.” or SCHULTZE Powder
Obtainable throughout Australia
AMMUNITION HOUSE
277 jCLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
NOB
SCOTTISH HOUSE
90 WILLIAM STREET
MELBOURNE
Nobel Industries Limited are Exhibitors at the British Empire Exhibition.
Prestige
mwm. s
111*-.
ur
KL
sc
The highest development of sparking
plug design, and construction is
represented by the name
LODGE
Correct design, highest quality material
and a high standard of workmanship,
together have produced the plug that has
considerably the largest sale in the world
of all British-made plugs.
Made in different models to suit all makes of
engines and obtainable from all accessory dealers,
garages and stores. Just mention name of
engine when buying.
Every part of every model of the
Lodge plug is entirely British made.
LODGE PLUGS LTD.
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
LODGE PLUGS
STAND N ° 103
MOTOR SECTION
fes.
BRITISH
EMPI RE
EXHIBITION
WEMBLEY
April -Oct 1924
Illustration shows metric single point (model
TS3) for American engines screwed metric.
» Price 5/6.
Packed in sealed metal box.
WOLFF’S
PIP
m
eiiii
The
Finest
Pencil
in the
World
w
mi
■4'\
% i
r
m
r*r
j
BRITISH
MADE
THE MAKE
WITH MERIT


y 7 0
\
\
s
3
p
9
DEWAR’S
Whisky
The Spirit of Reputation
Reputation is the Universal Bank of
Character; everyone and everything has
a debit or credit balance there. The
appreciation of others, which merit
always earns, goes on the credit side.
That being so, it is almost superfluous
to add that
DEWAR’S
position is very healthy!
