

Appointment to the Prince of Walesj
■ > - ■ - — 1 1 '"'* ' 'Z ~T V o ('f
ass{
«?
3
ux
Ik
x'.
3?
as**,
-a.
r~D
Range of Models and Prices—All English Bodies.
15-30 -h.p. Tourer, £515 19-6 -h.p. Tourer, £B7O
15-30 -h.p. Saloon, £715 19-6 -h.p. Saloon, £l2OO
15-30-h.p. Chassis, £4OO 19-6 -h.p. Chassis, £6BO
/
:s
C- 1/
LC
J'v-/
4
->v,
///ii
"" i
// i
</
20-70 -h.p. Sports Model, £985
«e 3
V.
vv;
CG3SS
\\
l :
2
V. •/* e
U) -
Ir=n
\
J
m
1,1(11
(1(1
III!
illll
&
«
faff
Hajof Reppcscntativ^or
Crossley Motors It
Phone
William
2004. 87 William Sydney syd
And at
114 Victoria Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
187 Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
Agents:
Waugh & Josephson, BRISBANE.
Denny Bros., PERTH.
The Bulletin
Vol. 45.—N0. 2318.
Thursday, July 17, 1924*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1924 is now ready, and will be for-
warded post free to any address with full
terms and particulars on application tn
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD
428 George Street, Sydney. ’’
KrZSErJEB fUSASSAS
SHHHp¥ ISWWR'
B
*
m
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING
is celebrated for the powerful grip ou the pulleys, which
eliminates power theft. It operates with complete success
under the most adverse service conditions, invariably giving
greater service and satisfaction. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
OHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co.. Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. P. Mann, 212 Madras St., Christchurch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: T. Kean, Kalimna Chambers, Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
VICTORIA; W. Tolley, 20 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA: W. and G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and
Hobart.
Boiler Scaling and
R.tist Removing
by the most efficient and economical methods
ever invented. The “SKATOSICALO” Patent
Scaling Tools, Electric, Petrol, Pneumatic.
Write for particulars to the Australian
Agents: A. McARTHUR & CO., 29-33
Clarence Street, Sydney. [1
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
;
4
•rl
The Super
CIGARETTE
Fine Old
Virginia,
Oval,
Cork-Tipped,
20 for 2/-
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney.
X, Z. L. & M. A. CO., LiTD.j Melbourne.
a&j.HumnoNDo^
The Perfect Pencil
Sheer merit made the
KOH-I-NOOR the premier
pencil over 30 years
ago. It still retains
that proud
position.
&
V
it
Q
it.
it
From all
Stationers, etc.
L & C. HARDTMUTH,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Agent for Australia: J. MACDOUGALL,
G.P.O. Bo* No. 165, SYDNEY.
Factory Czecho - Slovakia.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
IDEAL FOR OUT-OF-DOORS
EASY TO CARRY
LIGHT AND COMPACT
FULL RICH TONE
MADE IN FOUR STYLES:
Junior £6-6-0 No. 1 £7-7-0
No. 2 £9-9-0 No. 3 £l3-13-0
Obtainable from all Phonograph
Dealers or from
King & King Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane
Nicholson & Co. Ltd , George St., Sydney
Suttons Pty. Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne
Nicholson’s Ltd. - - Barrack St., Perth
Savery’s Pianos Limited, Rundle St.. Adelaide
Wills & Coy., The Quadrant, Launceston, T.
* sAa££ AateJHa&lc
HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of Imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
GO
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Romantic Realism.
Talking about creative work in the terms
of formulas is a not very profitable business,
yet it is often necessary. Formulas are use-
ful to the critic as named and charted spots
m an illimitable sea. It is a question
whether they are equally useful to the writer.
They very often lead him astray, tempting
him to steer his drifting bark on a course
that proves to be the wrong ohe for him,
though it is not likely that .much damage is
done in the long run. At the worst he re-
imuns dallying in alien waters before setting
out to discover his own individual world.
y\ ould George Moore, for instance, have
written ‘The Mummer’s Wife” and the rest
of his early novels if it had not been for a
theory of realism that was strongly held in
the Paris of his time? Certainly he would
have conceived and carried them out differ-
y * One of the most personal writers
alive, he had to force his talent into a purely
objective mould, and the result was not
often happy. He found his style when he
* ree from his formula. Yet the formula
itself was not quite a futile thing, for it
helped to prune the English novel of a good
deal of its vagueness and sentimentality. The
average novel, at any rate. Indeed, its use-
fulness was most apparent in the work of
the average writer. One of the best examples
of the realistic novel in English is “Liza of
Lambeth,’ by Somerset Maugham, who has
never proved himself anything more than a
clever craftsman, shaping his rather common-
product with a little more neatness and
skill than his competitors.
No mere formula is satisfying for long
and it was inevitable that there would be i
reaction against realism, in spite of the fact
that it had extended the scope of the novel
For it quite definitely did that. It was ai
achievement, for instance, to make a servant-
girl like Esther Waters an important figure
and to probe the deeps of her inarticulate
mind. The kitchen had hitherto only sup-
plied comic figures to fiction, or types as fixed
as those of foreigners in Punch drawings.
Yet looking at the long list of realistic novels,
from the first Gissing to the last Arnold
Bennett, it does not seem strange that a
younger generation began*to revolt. Life
was not like that. There was a little more
wonder and strangeness in it somewhere, or
people would not go on living and writing.
Besides, wasn’t it the business of the writer
to transmute the world of the newspaper
and police-court record, instead of merely re-
producing it?
The romance of swords and haberdashery
was dead, and no one wanted to revive it
A fresh impulse had to come from some other
quarter. It did come when Conrad began
writing his tales of unknown seas, using a
bridge of familiar detail to connect his very
•strange world with that of everyday experi-
ence, and seeming to combine realism and
romance ima new way. To a younger genera-
tion of writers, looking for a new formula,
what could be more attractive? It seemed
like making the best of both worlds. Thus
it is Conrad's influence that is paramount in
the novel to-day, though he has few direct
imitators.
Romantic realism is the new formula ; or,
if you like, there can be* an interchange of
adjective and noun. But while Conrad never
exploited the unfamiliarity of his background
we find modern writers looking for tlie ele-
ment of strangeness to give piquancy to
theirs. It isn’t always a successful method;
sometimes the mechanism shows painfully.
I-tawreuce in his “Lost Girl” brings in an
exotic circus-troupe to lend color to the drab
texture of life in a Midland town, and actu-
ally achieves his purpose; but Rebecca West.
in_ “The Judge,” tries a similar thing and
fails. Apparently unaware that she has
touched with real magic the life of a young
girl in Edinburgh, she uses spurious South
American romance in an attempt to give in-
terest to her rather wooden hero, and the
effect is false. In a dozen other recent
Hovels the same sort of thing can be found.
The flavor of some definitely romantic world
is deliberately introduced in order to give the
life of the book a touch of wildness and
strafigeness. Generally the purpose is too
transparent, and it irritates. All the time
we read we are conscious of artifice.
To reveal the wonder and strangeness of
life-y-that is the purpose of all imaginative
writing, of course. But it can’t be done by
following out any formula ; it is a matter o'
the writer’s individual vision. He has to
distil the magic that transmutes life fron
within himself, as the spider spins its web
and his work must have an inner unity to be
convincing. If its substance is common
place, any attempt to redeem the balance bv
strange imports from Peru or Jamaica wii
not improve it. Romantic associations are
easy to collect, as has been proved to tin
P ol £t nf boredom by the neo-Georgian poets
m England. A man, for instance, slips upor
a piece of orange-peel in the street, and at
once has a vision of the orange-groves out-
mde Lishon, or of galleys filled with golden
fruit being ferried across the blue waters
from Sicily. When the spring has been
touched a complete, ready-made world comes
into being, and the spring is as accessible as
a public telephone.
But it is an unsatisfactory thing to use,
and soon becomes tedious. WTiat we look
tor in a writer is not the presentation of a
ready-made world, however romantic, but a
Iresh vision of the one around us. To be
able to give that is the hall-mark of a writ-
er s quality. Conrad’s importance, for in-
stance, does not lie in the strangeness of his
background, but in his power of investing the
actions of ordinary human figures with signi-
ficance, and making them loom like tremen-
dous shapes on the skyline. That is to say,
his novels are bathed in an atmosphere of
poetry. And if the new formula is an im-
provement on the old rigid one of realism, it
lies just in this-—that it has allowed poetry
to creep back into the novel. There is no
need to define poetry in this connection.
Everyone knows when it is present in a piece
of work, and when it is not; and it was the
lack of it that made most of the old realistic
novels seem brittle and sapless, in spite of
the honesty that lay behind them.
VANCE PALBCER.
Odette
The irruption of the female of the species
fls a traveller in the outer places, and in the
ways that lead through lands of political and
industrial unrest, has familiarised the world
of letters with such names as Rosita Forbes,
Dorothy Mills and Claire Sheridan. Less
familiar is the name of Odette Keun, an en-
gaging miss, whose latest book, My Adven-
tures in Bolshevik Russia, has been pub-
lished by the Bodley Head. A note from the
publishers says : “The book was originally
written and published in French under the
title ‘Sous Lenine.’ The author, on the re-
presentation of the English publishers, some-
what reluctantly consented to make the Eng-
lish translation herself, and then only on
condition that her English was carefully
revised by them. Instead, however, of mak-
ing a verbal translation the author has virtu-
ally re-written the book in English, and,
though her English may not be quite classic,
it is so vigorous and picturesque that the
publishers feel that to tamper with it in any
way would be to mar its elfect and individu-
ality.” Which goes some way towards
indicating the personality and the individual-
ity of Odette; but only some of the way. To
appreciate Odette you have to go all the
way.
The book opens with a vilification of the
British military police system in Constan-
tinople. The author is always vehement, at
times strident and seldom very judicial.
Quite obviously she is one of a class familiar
enough to those who soldiered in that
ethnological hotch-potch which is called the
Near East. -She describes herself as
of Dutch origin, daughter of a charge
d'affaires of the Netherlands Legation,
where she was born 35 years ago, and where
her father died. She can be written down
as one of those stormy petrels, scorning alle-
giance to any nation, constantly dabbling in
the things forbidden by military law for the
most obvious of reasons, hedging themselves
about with mistrust and doubt, creating a
“spy” atmosphere and the notoriety that im-
plies, and then yelling lustily when war-
time regulations are applied to truss them up
or to move them on. An avowed socialist,
she states her case ivith all the aplomb and
assurance that is necessary. She frankly
admits she was born to set the world right.
And so to Russia in a continuing scream
of maledictions, picturesque descriptions and
some fair words for a naval officer or tw r o
whose benevolences helped to speed the part-
ing guests. Then Sebastopol and the tcheka
and a new 7 flurry of abuse—but this time
against Russia and things Russian.
Her whole attitude on Russia is 'a sus-
tained imprecation of Sovietism and the
Soviet system. With a flair for description
that is at times remarkable, she pillories the
ineptitude and impotence of the authorities,
the brutalities of the tchekas, the unvarnished
animalism of the masses, the collapse of
everything worth wdiile in the scheme of civil-
isation, and the utter nothingness that is
offered in its stead. In a way it constitutes
one of the most effective indictments of the
present-day Russia that has yet issued from
the publishing-houses. But the reservation
already made—that Odette, while interesting,
is anything but judicial—must be insisted
upon. The hectic flurry of her attack pales
a little as you read, and you can identify in
the repercussion of her sufferings the same
mentality, the same robust hatreds, the same
capacity for screaming at things that she
directed against Maxwell and his British
military police in Constantinople. So we
follow her from Sebastopol to Kliarkoff—-
“that very town of which Lloyd George de-
manded to know 7, at the Genoa Conference,
if it was the name of a general”—and on to
Moscow and her final “escape” from Russia.
A socialist, she saves herself with the reflec-
tion that W estern socialism has nothing in
common with the barbaric Slavonic madness
that has made of it an influence for break-
ing down rather than building up. Because
of it she has to take her bath in public with
some more or less indifferent males and
females contemplating the process, soil herself
with contaminating bestialities, submit to the
supreme indignity of being regarded as a
British spy, bow to the inquisitions of the
tcheka, and become one of the tavanshtchi
—wffiich, being interpreted, means comrades.
Nothing in the book is better told than
the contest between the Soviet organisations
and the peasants when the latter, finding they
were not well enough equipped to resist
armed force, went on strike and refused to
produce. This phase of the failure of Com-
munism is remarkably well presented.
Equally well told is the story of the destruc-
tion of the proletariat; for in considering
Russia it is too often concluded that it was
only the bourgeoisie and the intelligentsia
that were destroyed. Gorki was the first to
make tins aspect of the Russian horror plain,
and. Odette embellishes it. Of course, she is
dealing with the'time antecedent to the opera-
tion of the decrees of 1921. in which Lenin
by implication, admitted the failure of the
Communists’ plans, and watered down the
forcible alienation of land and the iniquitous
laws governing “requisition.” Out of it
all she has contrived a book that is some-
thing more than a mere contribution to the
literature of Russia since September, 1917
Historically, there is not in it much that is
new, not much that has not been written
over and under and round about by a score
of other observers: but as an intimate study
of the conditions that the revolution has pro-
duced the case is presented as it lias not
been presented before. And that is because
of the mentality of Odette, her psychology
and the queer combination, including the
suspicion of viciousness and immorality with
which she succeeds in surrounding herself
that goes to make up her personality. It is
when she is juggling with her premises—
spinning them round, tossing them up and
catching them, joking about them, enthusing
over them, denouncing them, covering them
with her bitternesses and her hatreds and
(.Continued on page 8.)


sdfsdf
Farming Requisites of Invincible Quality
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
XT 120.—“Wiard” Patent Steel Beam Swivel
Plough, rigged with coulter and adjustable
Clevis, Sin. to Bin. deep, Bin. to 12in. wide;
weight, 1 1 81b.
Price £9/15/-
Extra Cast Shares. Price .... Local, 4/3
American 6/6
ar
XT 19.—Canton Guard Lever Harrows.
Two Sections, with Bar. 50-teeth
Price
60-teeth, including long bar—
Price £lO
XT 62.—“Wiard” Pony Plough, wood
beam, weight 401 b., ploughs 3in. to sin.
deep, 6in. to Bin. wide; with wheel only.
Price 77/6
Extra Shares. Price 1/5
?v
*
XT 12.—The Star Disc Harrow; 3ft. wide, 6
discs; 1 6in. size of discs—
Price ; •
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 1 bin. size
of discs, 3021 b. net weight—
Price £lB/10/-
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 1 2 discs, 1 6in. size of
discs, 3691 b. net weight—
Price
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners
I included.
Superior Quality and Lower Prices
are the features of Agricultural
Implements at Anthony Horderns’.
The quality assures you reliable
service, and the prices exceptional
economy. Compare these offer-
ings—you will be convinced of the
splendid value they represent.
asdf
XT 1 04.—Buffalo Portable Forges, with
Geared Hand Blowers. Size of firepan,
1 Sin.; height to top of firepan, 32in.;
44in. over all; dia. fan case, 1 2in.
Price £lO/17/6
EMPIRE CULTIVATOR.
XT 2 I.—Empire American All-Steel 5-tine
Cultivator, with three extra tines; weight 901 b.
Price £4/10/-
EXTRA ATTACHMENT FOR EMPIRE
CULTIVATOR.
Extension Arms to convert into 7-tine—-
Price 10/- pair
Hilling Mould Boards, very useful in corn, peas,
potatoes, or other similar crops requiring hill-
ing up. Price 20/- pair
Points for Cultivators, 1 Hin., 2in., 3in.
Price 1/3 each
Sweeps for Duck Feet—
-10 12 14 in.
1/9 2/- 2/3 each
Price
m
mmmmm
,, s
XT 75.—The Eclair or Vermorel Knapsack
Spraying Pump—holds about 3 4 gallons. It
will treat from to 5 acres per day, delivering
from 35 to 70 gallons of solution per acre,
according to the aperture of the jet or nozzle
employed. Packed, 221 b. Price, £3/17/6
Plombe Acid Proof. Price ...... £4/17/6
Brass Alloy. Price £4/5/-
XT 245.— “Wiard” Gang Plough, for
Orchard and Vineyard Cultivation. With
Chilled Mouldboards, Sloping Landsides
and Cutter Points. Three-gang weighs
3001 b. Has three Bin. (No. 212)
bottoms. Price £lB/7/6
.
XT 15.— Emperor Hay Rake, manufac-
tured by the Plough Company.
All Emperor Rakes have Combination
attachment for one or two horses. The
teeth, being flattened and chisel-pointed,
will not dig, take up least dust, offer little
resistance, and reduce the draft. Bft.
wide, 24 teeth. Price ... . £l5/10/-
XT 65. — “Wiard” All-Steel Road or
Contractor’s Plough, weight 2OQib. (as
illustration, but without top braces). Very
substantial Plough, and heavy enough for
ordinary road or contractor s work when
used with two or four horses.
Price
Extra Steel Sh ares, wrouerht .... 42/6
XT 182a.—Chaff Cutter, E. H.
Bentall & Co.—
C.D.Z.—Rising mouth B^in. wide.
Cuts four lengths, fin., fin., fin. and
fin. Price £l3 10, -
Weight, 2cwt. lqr.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


rttiSSwriti
''ill
rp ccr’i'
A. SIX- Built by Hudson
Essex Quality Now Costs Less Than Ever Before
And with this lower price you get all the fa-
mous reliability of the former Essex, with a
6-cylinder motor built on the principle of the
Hudson Suoer-Six.
The qualities of economy, inexpensive main-
tenance and long life, for which Essex is cele-
brated, are continued and improved in the
new car,
Greater fuel, oil and tire mileage are obtained.
Replacement parts are astonishingly low.
Little attention is needed to keep it in first
class condition. Maintenance is simple and
inexpensive.
With performance smoothness like the Hudson
Super-Six it has also the same type clutch, the
same axles, the same provisions for long life
and easy care for all working parts.
Note how handling is simplified. Starts at the
touch of your toe. Steers easily as a bicycle.
Its low center of gravity makes safe and com-
fortable driving on all roads at all speeds.
Of course the new Essex is built by Hudson —-
the sixth largest producer of cars in the world.
Thus, back of it stands 14 years of notably
successful manufacturing experience and
financial stability.
Either the open touring, or the closed car com-
forts of the coach, gives value, we believe, not
equalled in this field.
The Coach
fHE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
MOTORS, LIMITED
2fi Flinders Street, Adelaide, 5.A
MOTORCARS, LIMITED,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
H 0 HEATHORN & CO.. LTD
Hobart Tasmania
WEST KALIAN .VIOTOKS, LTD.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth, W.A.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NEALS' MOTORS PTY., LTI).,
68-60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
: FC 105)


"55=.
3
/
Extraordinary!
SALE BARGAINS
for MEN.
SAC SUITS for 55/-
David Jones’ famous ‘‘Orient” Sac Suits in all-wool
I weeds. Plain dark grey, also grey and fawn diagonal
and herringbone designs. Usually, 63/-. Sale Fiice. 55/
Less 2j • in tk- £ for Cash.
GABARDINE RAINCOAT, 70/-
Men’s Raincoats of fine English Wool Gabardine in fawn
shade. Check lined throughout with Raglan shoulders
and belted all round. Usually 80/-. Now reduced to 70/-
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash.
DAVID JONES’
FOR SERVICE-OPPOSITE G.P.0., SYDNEY
when she is creating special hells for those
who have earned her enmity, that she creates
the atmosphere that gives to the book the
distinction it possesses.
ARTHUR C. MORGAN.
Horace and His Models
When Horace wrote the poem celebrat-
ing his escape from the falling tree, he took
conventional license to imagine himself de-
spatched to the regions of the blest, there
to hear Sappho “complaining on /Eolian
lyre of her own native island’s daughters,”
and Alcaeus sounding fuller note of sea-
faring, exile and war.
Sappho, certainly, had nothing Horace
could convey into his tongue, except her
stanza, which he handles rather mechani-
cally. That poetry was for no man to
touch, though certainly in our poverty we
must be grateful to Catullus for preserving
to us something of the color and antiplional
music of the nuptial song to the evening
star. Horace, least of all men, could tunc
himself to such clear and delicate spirit
of song; whereas he found in Alcaeus a
miscellany of high politics and conventional
moralising over the wine, with mythologi-
cal exemplifications.
Alcaeus, Sappho’s slightly elder contem-
porary, was once considered at least her
equal (as Horace certainly thought), if not
her superior, and it is yet an evidence of
such once-generai opinion that the two keep
pace together in the recent papyrus dis-
coveries. But every scrap that turns up
makes clearer and more definite the inferi-
ority of Alcaeus to Sappho as a poet, while
at the same time it becomes evident how
he supplied the lack of inspiration and
intensity by deliberate highly-conscious
mastery of style, and how much in this
region he could teach his Roman follower.
It is a curious happening. That marvel-
lous power which the Horatian ode, at its
best, reveals, of arranging the words with
such economy within the strict metrical
scheme that they not only make up a
cunning mosaic but, by their doubly felici-
tous position in the sense-pattern and the
sound-sequence, develop to the fullest their
latent energies—this, which Nietzsche con-
fesses to have been his first and deepest
lesson in style, he, in common with the
world, regarded as a virtue peculiar to
Horace. But when, in 1913, it was first
possible to pass judgment on something like
a poem or two by Alcaeus, instead of mere
odd fragments, the impression was: “This
is Horatian, too Horatian, in conception,
spirit and tone, and above all in style; no
trace of any personal prompting to write,
no trace of any exterior purpose in writing;
a mere theme, conventionally developed, for
the pleasure that poet and audience find in
his elaborate skill in disposing words.”
We cannot say for certain how far the
disciple is here indebted to the master, or
whether he improved on him —I think he did,
when I re-read the marvellous stanzas that
tell how the wild doves covered him over
with leaves when as a child he was lost and
fell asleep in the Apulian woods. But in
one respect he certainly did, and one can
hardly rate his achievement too high. That
was the reconstruction of the Alcaic stanza.
Horace perceived that this metrical form, as
practised by Alcaeus himself, had one serious
uefect —the third line was inclined to sag
and the movement of the whole small sys-
tem failed of unity and continuity. Not at
once —nothing of the kind is ever done at
once—but after experiment he discovered
that, by giving weight to the three central
syllables of the third line and, where pos-
sible, separating them from the three preced-
ing and the three following (“Ad arma, ces-
santes, ad anna,” or, in Tennyson’s imita-
tion, “God-gifted organ-voice of England”),
he could make that line at once pillar and
pivot of the stanza: a pillar to support its
massive structure, a pivot for its stately on-
ward swing.
This stanza, thus new-informed from with-
in, served Horace as a noble vehicle for that
high imperial patriotism which was the best
thing in him. On patriotic poetry we
rightly look askance. Milton goes just far
enough in that direction; Wordsworth, mak-
ing Milton liis model, too far; so that the
famous sonnet on the flood of British free-
dom can be turned, without addition, sub-
traction or alteration, into a Prussian mani-
festo. From such we will stand patriotic
verse if they have given us proof of other
things. But Horace had something new to
celebrate, something quite new in the world.
Not nationalism, not the praises of Italy,
nor imperialism as we have come to know it;
but an empire that was verily a world-peace
— imperium Romanum, pax Romana. With
many another one of that terra habitabilis
which had been, for two generations and
more, drenched in blood and racked with war
from immemorial East to ultimate West, he
had yearned for a surcease of horrors, and
almost despaired of the world. But now —
it is the theme of his latest ode —the Batin
name, the might and fame of Italy, have
waxed great; the majesty of the empire
stretches from the sun’s uprising to liis
setting, and that means peace. Cer-
tainly, since iEschylus ended his last
and greatest work on a hymn of Athens
as the outpost of Heaven, the chosen sanc-
tuary of that god whose will is justice and
that other who lends justice his armed hand,
none, until Horace, had found a theme
approaching his, however distant. Where
this Roman spirit is infused into a mytholo-
gical theme—as, for instance, the war of
gods and giants—there Horace is again suc-
cessful ; there, too, sometimes, as sometimes
in the purely Roman odes, he is able to carry
a composition satisfactorily through—a
matter in which he so often fails, whether
his scale be large or small. For the rest,
fashion has changed, and the Horace to
whose translation public, semi-public and
private gentlemen loved to devote the even-
ing of their days presents another face. The
country poems are still irresistible. But the
love-poems died long ago, and the urbane
gentleman and man of the world is out of
date. An over-drench of Omar has destroyed
our gusto for that convivial philosophy.
It was not merely the Lesbian lyre that
Horace claimed to have brought into Latium,
but also the Parian iamb. There he had
another master of whose work and spirit he
absorbed arid imitated only one side, and
that not the best —a poet the practically
total Joss of whose poetry must remain oim
of our sorest grievances against time and
chance, Archilochus. “A henchman of
the war-god and skilled in the charm
of the Muses” so he describes him-
self, but further as a master (here Horace
speaks) of the lampoon: “One thing I
understand right well, him that does me
wrong to repay with revilings.”. .Alas, there
is nothing of him but tantalising scraps,
among which one may single out the wonder-
ful lines that take us up to a high place
in Paros and show us the whole .Ego an,
white-capped, with the great cloud “signal
of storm” flaring up to northward from the
sea-cliffs of Gyrae, or —a rare thing in early
Greek poetry as we know it —those that give
us the girlish beauty of the bride Neobule
who was denied to him: —
She there took her delight to hold a branch
Of myrtle and a rosebud, and her hair
Shadow’d her shoulders. .. .
hair bedew’d with myrrh,
And bosom such as even eld had loved
—we know, too, what foul things he laid to
her charge and that of her family when she
was refused him. The Greeks counted him
among their greatest, though Pindar men-
tions him only to shake his head over that
foulmouthedness. There is passion in lnm
and violence, along with perfect discipline
and clear sharpness of utterance, a quality
swift and bright such as we associate with
the word Aegean. The connoisseur may
dream over his remains, but dreaming is
not knowledge: the place that knew him is
now a shining vacancy. In 30 years of dis-
covery nothing has been added to his scanty
legacy. But there are still some 15 boxes
from Oxyrhynchus to bo opened ; lot us take
heart of grace—perhaps we shall yet know
something of the Isles of Greece.
CHRIS BRENNAN.
An Epic of the North
E. .T. Brady, author of The Land oj
the Sun (Arnold), is a poet, and hence a
seer; and he also possesses a glittering
lode of Celtic eloquence. Hear him on a
section of Australia’s far north : —•
This is the country for young men.
Go north! Go north! .
There is nothing better in the world for tropical
agriculture than the lands of the Lower Tullv.
To-day this vast scrub area is almost virgin of
settlement.
To-morrow it will ring with the sounds of human
effort. . ,
To-day it is a wild, beautiful hothouse of Nature,
through which painted pigeons call and gorgeous
butterflies drift lazily.
To-morrow it will be a land of tilth and clearings,
with children shouting at their; play in new school-
grounds, with wheels rattling along new roads and
motor-cars honking through new villages.
As the years go by—-noiselessly as the moon-moths
and butterflies in their flight —patches of scrubland
will grow less and less in number, as field is added
to field. White beech, cedar, maple, crowsfoot elm,
rosewood —valuable commercial timber of these jungles
will go out in long trains and be freighted south-
ward. Where stinging-trees and lawyer-vines grow
spitefully, black-jointed sugarcane will draw its sac-
charine from air and soil in Nature’s laboratory.
Most of the book is like that. Brady is one
of those fortunate beings who never grow
old mentally, never lose the capacity for
lyric admiration. There is an enchanting
description of a steamer trip along the Bar-
rier (“The northern sea is a sea of pearls,
as the northern land is a land of gold.’’), and
he comes to Cairns. In Cairns he. is pre-
sented to a millionaire with “a quaint sim-
plicity and a fixed belief that any man of
ci saving and fortunate disposition might be-
come a millionaire in North Queensland.’
On to Millaa Millaa, Atherton, Herberton
in a spate of enthusiasm that never abates.
The Tableland discloses that in the fine air of
the authentic North sectarianism cannot live.
Terence O’Grady (a stage Hibernian whose
jargon is about the only inartistic thing in
the book) produces his friend, Mr. Walters,
of Ulster, and the latter discourses with
charm and profundity on the timbers of the
locality:—
“Do you know there are many houses in this dis-
trict built entirely of silky oak or cedar?”
“Rather a waste,” I ventured.
“No! No! No!” exclaimed Mr. Walters, raising a
transparent hand. “No waste, to my way of think-
ing ■ rather a good thing. Why should we reserve
cedar for coffins when we of the Tableland may have
it for walls during life'?”
“Ah!” he resumed. “When I go into one of these
virgin forests, as I very often do, it is not only the
natural beauty of the living trees that appeals to me,
but I think of that undying beauty _ with which a
great artist, a great woodworker, may invest the mere
plank or block which comes to him a dead., thing
waiting for new life Red cedar was the first
cabinet wood used in Australia. Much of oui
old colonial furniture is cedar. The white cedar
is a frequent tree in these northern jungles; it
gives you a pleasing, wavy grain and ought to be
used more for veneers. These cedars all take a
beautiful polish, and the wood lives for ever!”
All the men are splendid, and all the
women good and lovely—in the North. They
cannot help it: —
Had I been a weakling the North would have made
me - strong. Had I been poor 1 know doubly well
that, with honest attempt, the North would have
enriched me. Go north where the sun rises in the
hush of dawn over the Barrier Reef like a golden
god of old • where the moon floods shores and hills
of an enchanted littoral with the perfection of tropic
night. Go north and hear the silken rustle of the
palm-trees! Go north and hear the wild geese
honking under velvet night skies powdered with
stars!
With a sigh the reviewer closes “The Land
of the gun” and shuts out these glamorous
pictures. If he were only young a drab
city suburb in an eastern State would not
hold him for another day!
J. B. D.
Alice Meynell
There are poets who will never become
popular in the general sense, hut whose work
is eagerly looked for by a discriminating
few. In this class is Alice Meynell, whose
death a year ago removed the greatest
woman poet of our day. As Alice Thomp-
son she published in 1875 “Preludes,” a
small volume of verse illustrated by her
sister, Lady Butler, whose “Roll-call” placed
her in the front rank of battle-painters.
After that a small and select audience lis-
tened for the sweet voice, her “silence-
bounded singing,” which made itself hoard
only now and again. Five more slender
volumes of verse came, and when, after her
death, these were gathered in a complete
edition (1928) they numbered only 123
poems and tilled hut 144 pages.
Ruskin and Rossetti were amongst her
earliest admirers. The former, as became
the great champion of girlhood, regarded her
“Letter from a Girl to Her Own Old Age”
as “perfectly heavenly,” while Rossetti
thought her “Renouncement” was one of the
three best sonnets ever written by women,
an estimate endorsed by Alfred Noyes, who
says that the three greatest sonnets by
women are “Renouncement,” "Thoughts in
Separation” and “The Neophyte.” Alice
Meynell wrote them all.
I must not think of thee; and tired, yet strong,
I shun the thought that lurks in all delight—
The thought of thee —and in the blue Heaven’s height
And in the sweetest passage of a song.
O just beyond the fairest thoughts that throng
This breast, the thought of thee waits, hidden yet
bright;
But it must never, never come in sight;
1 must stop short of thee the whole day long.
But when sleep comes to close each difficult day,
When night gives pause to the long watch I keep,
And all my bonds I needs must loose apart,
Must doff my will as raiment laid away—
With the first dream that comes with the first sleep
I run, I run, I am gathered to thy heart.
For many years Mrs. Meynell confined
her work mainly to essays, and she gave
the world her “Rhythm of Life” (1893),
“The Children,” “Childhood” and “The
Color of Life” (1896) and “The Spirit of
the riace” (3SOS). In 1914 these were all
out of print, and there appeared her “Col-
lected Essays.” -Meredith, writing of her
essays, said, “I can fancy Matthew Arnold
saying ‘She can write,’ and Carlyle ‘That
woman thinks.’ ” J. C. Squire said she was
the only woman who had achieved greatness
as an essayist. In a later volume, “Hearts
of Controversy” (1917), “she makes us
swing our compasses afresh, and makes us
revise our estimates of certain great names.”
Her vindication of Tennyson will not be
popular; she is severe in her judgments of
Jane Austen and of Swinburne; she admires
the Brontes, especially Charlotte; and
Dickens, she thought, “made savage sport
of women” with his vulgar early-Victorian
derision of child-bearing. Other essays scat-
tered in English and American magazines
still await collection.
But it is as a poet that Alice Meynell
will be remembered. Alfred Noyes affirms
that her work places hers amongst the “im-
perishable names,” and on the death of
Tennyson Coventry Patmore urged that the
new laureate should be a woman, and that
woman Alice Meynell. But her poems are
largely religious; she presents the Catholic
view with delicate perception and the vision
of a mystic. She had no sterner critic than
herself, and she gave very little to the world.
Her poem, “To Silence,” explains why:—
Not, Silence, for thine idleness I raise
My silence-bounded singing in thy praise,
But for thy moulding of my Mozart’s tune,
Thy hold upon the bird that sings the moon.
Thy secret is the song that is to be;
Music had never stature but for thee.
She was in truth the shepherdess of her
thoughts
She walks, the lady of my delight,
A shepherdess of sheep.
Her flocks are thoughts. She keeps them white ;
She guards them from the steep.
She feeds them on the fragrant height,
And folds them in for sleep.
Aud the third verse in the same simple
Saxon:—-
She holds her little thoughts in sight,
Though gay they run and leap.
She is so circumspect and right;
She has her soul to keep.
She walks, the lady of my delight,
A shepherdess of sheep.
The writer whose name is most closely
linked with hers is Francis Thompson—no
relation, by the way. Her husband, Wilfred
Meynell, befriended him, bore with him in
his dark days and never let him sink again
to the depths; as Katherine Tynan after-
wards told us, there was “but one man, and
one woman, and one family of children for
him in the whole world —all the rest were
moving shadow shapes that come and go.”
In 1007 Ivensal Green Cemetery received his
remains; and not far from his vault, with
its inscription, “Look for me in the nur-
series of Heaven,” I found the last resting-
place of his and our benefactress.
MARY YEO.
A Satchel of Books
Rare Luck, by W. Pett Ridge (Methuen’s). A
pleasant, if slightly drawn-out, story of a speculative
London youth who has barely grasped the coat-tails
of Fortune when they escape from him for ever. He
finds happiness in his old job with a typical Pett
Ridge girl.
L’Angleterre D’Aujourd’liui, par Andre Siegfried
(G. Gres). An exposition of post-war England for
the benefit chiefly of those Frenchmen whose sources
of information on the subject are usually Anglo-
phobe. Rarely has a book appeared about England,
written by a Frenchman and published in France,
that contained so few r blemishes —though the author
does refer to “shop stewarts” throughout.
Anissia, revised by Tolstoy (Geoffrey Bles). It
has been said that Tolstoy wrote this strange book,
as Barrie is said to have written “The Little
Visiters.” However that may be, it is clearly an
authentic picture of a Russian peasant’s life under
Czarism, and the effect is to create a suspicion that
the murderers of Ekaterinburg will be able to put
up some sort of a defence on Judgment Day.
The JEneid of Virgil in English Verse, by Arthur
S. Way (Macmillan). Dr. Way is a remarkable com
bination of scholar, poet and orthodox text-book
compiler. Much of his translation follows the original
so closely that it would make an effective “crib.”
For example:—
Ipsi transtra novant flamuisque ambesa reponunt
Robora navigiis, aptant remosque rudentisque,
Exigui numero, sed bello vivida virtus.
Which he renders: —
For themselves they renew the thwarts and the
planks flame-eaten restore
To the galleys; they fit to the spars the tackle,
they shape the oar.
Few are they by tale, but their hearts are thrilled
with the spirit of war.
This volume contains Books IV, V and VI, and is
part of a work which is to comprise the rest of
the Books and the Eclogues.
Gordon Lowe on Lawn Tennis (Hutchinson). The
young and ambitious player of the game will derive
a lot of instruction from this book. It is full of
shrewd hints on stroke-production, practice, tactics
and match-play, and contains many interesting refer-
ences to the methods of men who have attained
front rank. He talks a lot on the importance of
the service, the neglect of which, he declares, is
mainly responsible for Britain’s failure to produce a
star. He also draws attention to the almost universal
indifference to the lob-volley, which one or two
Europeans execute with great cleverness, but which
is rarely seen on English courts. Incidentally, Lowe,
who came to Australia with the British Davis Cup
team that scored the sensational win in Melbourne
in 1912, repeats the erroneous statement that Patter-
son is a pupil of Norman Brookes.


"A BUSINESS CAN BEST BE JUDGED BY ITS GROWTH”
ML
gjlfll
i Kliilli!
‘ ■
850.000
m
B§|
:r . .
Mi
M
m
m
4
w
□
□
g
□
ADDING - BOOK-KEEPING - CALCULATING MACHINES
Over 850,000 Burroughs Machines
have been sold from 1895 to 1924 !
The name Burroughs in Aus-
tralia means the service of re-
presentatives with many years
of experience in this field ; not
a general office appliance firm,
but a company concentrating
all its efforts on supplying Aus-
tralian Business with the bene-
fits of Burroughs Methods ; a
house whose interest in a sale
does not close with the delivery
of the machine, but insists that
every investor in Burroughs
equipment shall continuously
receive the maximum return
from his investment.
\rw m m * m jr xm m & # m
BURROUGHS machines are the product of a Com-
-1 pany which is the largest of its kind in the world,
with a capital of £6, 000,000, factories in England, Canada
and the United States, and offices in the principal cities
of the world.
The name Burroughs means an economy which has
commended itself to the owners of more than 850,000
machines all over the world. The following figures show
the phenomenal growth of Burroughs sales during the
last ten years :
statistical records.
The Burroughs has been established in Australia for
twenty-five years. During that time over 5000 machines
have been sold.
Sole importers of Burroughs Machines *
IRA L. & A. G BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide. Perth. Hobart Rockhampton.
Brisbane. Auckland. Dunedin. Christchurch. Wellington.


For Every Woolgrower
in the Commonwealth
THERE IS A SUITABLE
Iwcpefo “Quality”
\ Shearing Plant.
The demand for Cooper Shearing Machinery has become
’V so widespread and insistent, and our production,
in consequence, has reached such immense
proportions, that we are able to provide
a range of Shearing Machinery
which has not elsewhere been
\ attained.
Here are illus-
trated various
Outfits that have
been constructed
to meet the
special needs of
Australian Wool-
growers, who ni
nothing but the
best would
satisfy.
\ COOPER BERT-DRIVEN
OVERHEAD GEAR.
COOPER
Has
“BIG GUN” OUTFIT.
3-b.h.p. Engine.
COOPER
“LITTLE WONDER”
3-STAND OUTFIT.
COOPER “IDEAL”
1-STAND OUTFIT.
Whether it be for
the largest sta-
tion, or for the
mixed farm with
but a few sheep,
there is a suitable
COOPER
HIGH-QUALITY
SHEARING
PLANT.
Shearing Machinery
has earned an unrivalled repu
tation for reliability and efficiency.
Belt-driven Machines for Shed installa- \
tion—“Big Gun” 2-Stand Outfit with Heavy-
duty 3-h.p. Engine, popular “Little Wonder
2-Stand Plant, and “Ideal” I-Stand Outfit —alike reflect
the high standard of Cooper products.
FOR QUALITY, PRICE, SERVICE—COOPERS
For full information and prices of Cooper Shearing Machinery, Oil Engines, Pumpers, Sheep Jetters,
etc., write to any of the undermentioned:—
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney 350 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Clark & Fauset, Ltd., BRISBANE, Q.; N.Z. Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., HUGHENDEN, ROCKHAMPTON,
TOWNSVILLE, Q.; The Australasian Implement &H. F. Co., ADELAIDE, S.A.; Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd.,
PERTH, W.A.; Northern Motors Pty., Ltd., LAUNCESTON & HOBART, TAS.


Highest Grade
m
I
si
“United” Paint Preserves and
Beautifies the Surface at Lowest
Cost and is .
Made in Australia
Obtainable
from leading
Oil, Color and Hardware
Stores throughout Australia.
Every component of the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is guaranteed to be perfect and interchangeable
B.S.A. Fittings Bicycles
For dependable and trouble-free service
OR thoroughly dependable service under all conditions
nothing can equal a bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings, and
with each succeeding year the intrinsic good quality of
such a bicycle becomes more and more apparent.
Every component of the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is made by
skilful workmen using only the finest materials. It is tested
and gauged at various stages of manufacture, and on completion
carries a full guarantee of perfection and interchangeability.
You will ensure for yourself many of trouble-free
cycling if you order your new bicycle to be built with B.S.A.
Fittings.
Ride a B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle for business or pleasure
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Write to-day for Free Illustrated Booklet , obtainable from B.S.A. Agents,
or B.S.A. AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE—
D. Y. RENNIE, AUSTRALIAN BUILDINjS,
MELBOURNE.
sdf
&
'J
Specify the EADIE COASTER h U 3 for your bicycle.
Your new Shot Gun—Be sure it's a B.S.A.


sdf
Cuticura
Soap
and
Ointment
Promote
Hair
Health
Shampoo
regularly with
CuticuraSoap
and keep your
scalp clean
and healthy.
Before sham-
pooing touch
spots of dan-
druffanditch-
ing, if any,
with Cuticura
Ointment.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: *‘R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Try our new Shaving; Stick.
AMERICAN
►H LIGHTS
Darkness
Safe _ I
i*
FLASHLIGHTS
make
m
National Carbon Co.,
30 East 42d Street
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
PORTABLE
CONVENIENT
ECONOMICAL
c Made in
oManij Styles
s
rHORLICKSI
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
V Jamieson St., Sydney, N S W,. /.
v, In 4 sizes of all Chemists //z
S 3
and
Stores.
/W.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILKG
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
*
X.'
» #
UfL 4
6 *
tv_*'anra
isa M
9
tmm
No More
Grey Hairs!
This wonder-
ful Stain acts
like magic
—renews your
YOUTH by
transforming
—p e r m a-
nently and
harmlessly—your ageing Urey
Hair to that most desirable Glossy
Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
waterproof. All Chemists.
53«
MEXICAN
IWAINUT STAIN I
You Cannot Afford to Experiment!
asdf
Every stockowner knows this—careful attention to
stock is most essential.
The Denyer Triple Crush
Emasculator
is the most up-to-date on the market, due to its scientific construction —hand
forged from best steel heavily nickeled. Reliable and durable. Saves time and
money, and eliminates every possible danger of Hemorrhage. Don’t use inferior
emasculators—get the Denyer Triple Crush for best results.
Price, 60/- Send for free catalogue to-day.
DENYERS,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, Sydney
DISTINCTIVE DIAMOND RINGS
OF SURPASSING VALUE.
Fairfax & Roberts have been makers of fine jewellery for over
eighty years. They buy the diamonds direct from famous
cutters, and employ pure platinum and specially assayed gold
for the settings. Their wonderful values are well known.
Emerald and Fine
Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18et.
Gold Ring-,
£22/10/-
™'!
Fine Sapphire and
Choice Diamonds, set
in Platinum and 18ct.
Gold Ring,
3 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO/10/-
Fine Diamond, with
Small Diamonds on
each side, set in
All-Platinum Ring,
£75.
4 Fine Diamonds, set
in All-Platinum Ring,
TE3O.
3 Selected Diamonds
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold Ring,
The Optical Department, on the first floor, is equipped with every modern
scientific requisite.
Plain figures. Cash only.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
1 Fairfax&Roberts L T f
/ ZbkZb Hunter Street Sydney
w.
ROLLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
i Limestone
Coal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing; Machinery
Stone Breakers, Elevators, Screens.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
500 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
4JYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brinqs to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Pair i resehtation Case
25/*PostFree
Ar
s ° c
C v
s:
Guaranteed sKept
in order for two years free.
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNE
l
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Reunion.
The room is full with blue tobacco smoke;
A hundred sombre men are gathered here.
An endless roll of sound, as if each spoke
Not words but drumbeats, overcomes the
, ear.
A hundred comrades of a dead campaign
Out of their living graves that men call
jobs
Have on this night been mustered once
again—
Chill ghosts of war, the while a death-
drum sobs.
This little shell-shocked one, with vacant
stare,
Rocks in his seat and laughs with febrile
glee,
Talking with smoke-limned pals beside his
chair —
Comrades his sane companions cannot see.
To-night they think of war—a brief release
From the reality of this, our peace.
N.S.W.
SYDNEY GORDON.
The Old Address.
“ ‘Cabaner!’ said George Moore, ‘the world knows
not the names of those who scorn the world.’ ”
Up the hill when the night comes on,
Slow through the drifting rain,
Turn up here and turn round there;
And a door in a dismal lane
Opens upon the homely lair
Of the men who have lived in vain.
Once we hunted with glazing hearts
Utopias fair and fleet,
But some got weary, some grew old,
Some boast of their defeat;
Some scorn the very hand that lifts
The morsel that they eat.
Some scorn the world with a mouthy scorn,
Some sit and stare and stare —
Men of intellect, men of love
Who knew the world once fair.
We tried and failed and take the count
With a bitter, cool despair.
We sinned by projects that never paid—
This we have learned of late:
The man that’s true to a profitless art
Must dare his brother’s hate.
In uncomplaining disrepute
We drink and growl and wait.
And sometimes all the crowd gets drunk;
And sometimes somebody sings *
Old songs of the times when faith was young
And broken boots had wings,
When hope was aflame with enormous light
Like the flame that a comet flings.
We shall grow great by the power of hate!
Men humorously glum,
Men debonair or reticent,
Men garrulous or dumb
Tell o’er their rosaries of loss
And wait for death to come.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Thriftless Way.
“Where have you been wandering
Since the break of day,
Golden moments squandering
On the spendthrift’s way?
Time you’ll have for pondering
When you find the cupboard bare,
And you’re old and grey.”
Roaming hills and valleys.
I’ve been Nature’s guest;
Leafy aisles and alleys
Gave rne of their best;
Tinder oaks' and sallies
I have lain me down at times
And gathered spirit-rest.
“You have been a wanderer
Down that thriftless way.
Where the fool and squanderer
Speed and dream and stray,
Each to be a ponderer,
Musing over wasted hours.
When he’s old and grey.”
Golden fortune scorning,
As a dreamer should.
One with youth and morning—
Light of foot and mood,
Heedless of all warning—-
I shall go the rover’s way
While the roving’s good.
N.S.W.
ROFERIC QUINN
Songs o’ Dawn and Dusk.
Come little petal, rose and white—
Bye-o! Bye-o!
Snuggle close to brother Night
Down where the prancing steeds alight,
Starry-reined and black and bright,
To bear you away to Bye-o!
Sleep little bird with golden crest —
Llush*a! Hush-a !
There comes a day a strange blue quest
Will carry you from the mother nest;
So, my pretty, sleep now....rest-
Hush-a! Ilush-a!
* * *
Wake!, little petal, white and rose—
Open ! Open !
The sun is up and the skylark goes
To tell all earth he knows, knows. Icnoirs
Where the sweetest flower in the whole world
grows!
Waken, sweet, and blossom !
Come, my bird, with crest of gold
Fl.v-o! Fly-o!
Here’s a score all newly rolled,
A gay young song no bird yet trolled—
Break, my heart, for you are old!
Fly, sweet, fly-o!
VICTORIA.
L. LUCAS.


Every day, two or three small glasses of
Penfolds should he taken, for Penfblds is ffiod
well wine and has a special food value,
it is rich in Vitamines and assists the gastric
juices to act in a healthy manner."
THE WINE
OF
HEALTH


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 45. —No. 2315.
THURSDAY, JULY 17, 1924.
Pbice 6d.
THE POLITICAL STAKES.
“Yes, boy, it would be a clean enough game if it weren’t for the ruffians that live on it.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and .published by William MacLeod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Qeorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melboukn/j Of kick : 154-162 Flinders Street.
London Office : Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.
FUHLISIIED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to a ny address in Austiialasia. weekly;
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas; 12 months. £1 10s.; 6
■months, 16s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
.all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
■publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
.expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” co umn
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
■or Sketches ithose dealing with Australian subjects
■and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
■SO'-O words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. A l communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
•no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
■of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in London is
1,. St. C- Grondona, Australia House. Strand.
W.C.2. Copies of “The Bulletin” can lie ob-
tained from him or the seller at the entrance
Also from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson
and Sons. Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London,
E.C.4; E. T. Hole, llolerlh Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street. N. Michigan Boulevarde: Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling's
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, California;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Fran-
cisco.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 6’J6 Peddei• Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Ferera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. I Barker. Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— L. St. C. Grondona, Australia House;
Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street, Ludgate
Circus, E.C. 4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland I(ay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10nz., Id. United Kingdom: 4 to 10 oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id.; All Sea Route: 160 z.. lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
jffie'ifexxlleiMi. \
THURSDAY, JULY 17, 1924. \
LOSING THE WAR WITH CRIME.
For some years past the Australian public
has had cause to feel uneasy about its police.
There have been strikes and threats of strikes
in bodies which morally are so many armies
in the face of the nation’s enemies. The
tally of unsolved murders and robberies
grows alarmingly in all the States; and
where an affair of the sort is cleared up the
methods employed are often disgraceful, as
in a recent Perth case, in which the detec-
tives admitted to using “third degree” methods
on the accused. Several policemen have
been convicted recently of blackmail, robbery
and other serious offences, and strong cases
have been made out against others. There
are many more symptoms that the morale of
a considerable proportion of the force in the
larger States is poor; and as Napoleon
observed of armies in the field, “the import-
ance of the moral to the material factor is
as three to one.” Most citizens Avhose
houses have been burgled, or who have been
robbed otherwise, will agree as to the wooden
lassitude and lack of initiative and imagina-
tion displayed by the average policeman. If
the known practitioners in the class of crime
under review can show an alibi, and if the
goods have not been pawned, the onus of
identifying the thief falls on the latter’s vie-
tun: the police virtually wash their hands
of the matter. As a climax to these and
other disquieting symptoms, a report by
Inspector-General Mitchell was tabled in
the Ah S. Wales Assembly last week, showing
that “the force was nearly 100 short of its
authorised strength,” and almost simultane-
ously the Victorian police authorities warned
Melbourne, residents not to frequent certain
streets at night, and to carry firearms or
loaded sticks for self-protection.
Two paragraphs from the Mitchell report
were suggestive:—
During the year 1235 persons applied for appoint-
ment to the police service, but onlv 209 were suc-
cessful.
Offences against the person, against property with
violence, and against property without violence had
exceeded in number those of the previous year by
169, the total being 15,237 as against 15,068.
Under all headings the total number of cases was
104,519, being an increase of 7530.
In the desperate third and fourth years of
the World War, when the man-shortage
problem was acute in Britain, two overdue
discoveries were made: that there were too
many able-bodied warrior clerks in London
and at the bases, and that, in the words of
one of the new business Generals, “80 per
cent, of the work of the Army Service,
Motor Transport and others corps of the
sort could be done equally well by women.”
Australia’s police army is suffering from
similarly out-of-date conventions. Police-
men are still chosen, as Bow-street, runners
used to be, for brawn and speed rather than
for brains. It was necessary for the Bow-
street runner to be an athlete: he had to
catch criminals in the literal sense of the
word. But the tradition of the tall, meaty
policeman can only be justified nowadays on
the principle that induced the father of
Frederick the Great to collect giant Guards-
men. The supply of six-footers or there-
abouts, eager to engage in police duties as
a life job, is severely limited in any British
community, and meanwhile the demands on
the services of those who are secured increase
with every fresh social and political develop-
ment. The growth of the motor-owning
habit offers new traffic problems, and has
not only produced a new and popular offence
but has also revolutionised methods of com-
mitting the old crimes. Racing-—and par-
ticularly pony-racing—requires to be heavily
policed, and in States like N. S. Wales this
form of gambling threatens to become a daily
pastime. While squads of police are em-
ployed protecting gamblers on racecourses,
other squads are detailed to raid fan-tan and
two-up schools. The crowds that surround
Communist orators must be officially
watched; and at least 20 uniformed men are
needed every Sunday to keep the peace at
a gathering in Sydney Domain where evangel-
ism by insult is practised. In addition, the
police are employed on all sorts of futile jobs
—on the compilation of electoral rolls, on the
licensing of dogs, on the summonsing of
speeding motorists, and ’bus proprietors who
overcrowd their vehicles—and on many jobs
which are both futile and unsavory. In
the second category comes the practice of
using police officers as pimps in establish-
ments suspected of' sly-grog selling or illegal
gaming—a duty in which the policeman is
expected by his superiors to lie, according to
the sworn evidence of a Sydney expert at
such work, and in which, as a N. S. Wales
Supreme Court Judge pointed out last week,
the policeman becomes particep-s criminis
with the lawbreaker. Few things appear
more grotesque to a city business man who
has occasion to visit a police headquarters
than the spectacle offered there of immense
uniformed men looming over typewriters;
and if the caller comes from a populous resi-
dential suburb containing one policeman to
the square mile or more, he is likely to be
stirred to blasphemy as well as derision.
Here is one of the basic reasons why tax-
payers are being invited to go abroad at
night armed, and why they are likely to be
driven before long to imitate some of the
revolutionary countries of Europe and orga-
nise party police ( ordner ) in defence of
their lives and properties.
* * * *
It must be appreciated, as a preliminary
to any reform worth its salt, that police
forces are in much the same position as
armies on active service. There are hack-
area jobs as well as front-line ones in every
police force. During the late war, and
especially after the first 18 months, the
authorities would have smiled at the idea of
reserving the important staff billets for those
who had been soldiers, all their professional
lives. Men were employed in some of the
technical services regardless of age, soldierly
appearance or experience, or any other quali-
ties but expert knowledge. The same
authorities at about this time realised
the wastefulness of the peace-time habit of
keeping picked physical specimens at office-
work, and thousands of youthful athletes
were put on draft and their places filled by
women. Sydney, Melbourne-and the other
big Australian cities are still employing their
storm-troops on work that was done for the
A.I.F. at Horseferry-road by girls and physi-
cal rejects; and they are still allowing the
staff work of the offensive against crime to
be performed by policemen whose chief quali-
fication is that they were originally rankers.
This has other disadvantages besides the
obvious one. The last thing a detective
should look like is a policeman, and under
the present system he never looks like any-
thing else. If results are to be got in crime-
detection men of brains must be encouraged,
irrespective of age, physique or past service;
and if results are to be got in crime-preven-
tion more hefty guardians of the peace of
the old Bow-street runner type must he
drafted to districts that are now the profit-
able hunting-grounds of dangerous male-
factors. These ends can only be achieved by
putting a w r edge between what may be called
the fighting policeman, the executive or
thinking policeman and a third class, whose
members may be under the control of the
police chiefs, but who will perform duties,
such as issuing dog and motor licenses and
revising electoral rolls, that might be directed
as effectively by any other Civil Service de-
partment. Not till changes are instituted
on such lines will the battalions of lawless-
ness begin to fall back. The morale- of the
enemies of the State is as high as that of
some sections of the police forces is low
just now, and the explanation is the same
in both cases: we are trying to fight the
battle of civilisation with weapons of the
flintlock era.
IDEALISM AND THE CROWD.
When the idealist succeeds in getting his
voice heard in the marketplace he usually
stirs up in the crowd a feeling that has no
relationship to his own. The language of
idealism is the language of daily use; but
all the finer shades of thought are lost for
those to whom thinking is a strange art.
Thus Christianity, setting up new standards
of life which were utterly simple yet based
upon a complicated philosophical view of
life, was instantly adopted by a crowd who
made it as hard, mechanical and illogical as
anything it had set out to reform. Similarly
Epicureanism, one of the simplest and most
beautiful of human creeds, was instantly
made gross by application to the desires of
those who were themselves gross. Pleasure,
the only good, had been conceived as the
joy of the finest sestlieticism and obtainable
only by simple living and a generous outlook
upon the world; but almost before its case
was stated it had become the mental refuge
of those to whom a greed of physical enjoy-
ment was the only idea of pleasure possible.
Again, the earnest, gentle Puritans of Eng-
land were almost immediately joined by
puritanical persons who snuffled about reli-
gion to gain ends that were neither moral
nor religious. The same story may be read
all along the human record. Sometimes it is
indicated sharply and plainly ; sometimes it
must be sought in a tangle of events to
which it forms the key. A fierce desire to
make the slaves free led to the Civil War
in America; but the idealism which was its
mainspring had ceased to exert its force long
before the issue of the conflict was decided.
Or take the idealism of the modern Labor
movement. Nothing could be much farther
from the theory of life on which that splendid
movement is based than the actual practice
of those in charge of its affairs; yet such
practice is probably not much worse than
the motive which causes the majority of
Labor votes to be recorded. In theory the
movement is altogether in line with the
Christian ethics of self-sacrifice; in practice
the majority of those who suppoi’t it seek
only personal gain. The idealists are few;
the people incapable of anything like true
idealism are many.
* * * *
This truth causes much misunderstanding
and leads to many of the world’s difficulties.
Before 1914 all the socialistic elements in
Germany w r ere theoretically opposed to war.
The idea of the general anti-war strike,
when at the first blast of the trumpet every
worker was to down tools until peace was
restored, actually came from Germany itself.
But such a policy was far too idealistic for
the mass of those wdio were supposed to sup-
port it; and when it was opposed by the
plain suggestion of conquest, with great
opportunities of national plunder, it went by
the board. There was some opposition to the
war among German idealists, but numerically
the opponents were so few that their voices
were almost unheard. When Russia went
to . war with the Turks, with the avowed
object of saving the Christian populations of
the Balkans from massacre, no European
nation believed in the sincerity of her action,
just as no one seriously believes that Britain
originally looted India to save the people of
that country from the misrule of their native
princes; yet in each case there was an ele-
ment of idealism in the first move of the
game. The fact is that the idealist is a
particularly useful person to the astute
string-pulling statesman. His arguments can
generally supply the latter with a motive
for something which the general sentiment
might reprobate and an excuse for the failures
which might otherwise look like the results of
mere blundering incapacity. But danger be-
comes real when an idealistic view of things
is made an excuse for not doing the things
which are obviously necessary for national
safety. When an alleged faith in the good-
will of nations, which have never shown any
sign of goodwill, is made an excuse for leav-
ing coasts and frontiers unguarded, the posi-
tion becomes critical;, yet this has often
happened when a showy politician in power
has been anxious to please the electors by
a reduction of expenditure, and has used
the extravagant idealism of other men as a
means of evading his practical duty. Admit-
tedly, idealism pure and simple triumphs
over strange obstacles and often finds a sword
ready to its hand in time of crisis; but the
exploitation of idealism is one of the chief
of political sins.
* * * »
On the question of race exclusiveness,
which the banging of the door by the United
States, upon the Japanese has thrown into
the limelight, the present confusion of
ideas may greatly puzzle the future
historian. The Japanese have lifted the
matter officially to a high moral plane.
Young men have committed suicide
in protest against a racial indignity:
throngs of people professing to be humiliated
have gone in solemn pilgrimage to their
national shrines; and statesmen have with
infinite dignity urged patience and regretted
the fall of the Americans from their broad
humanitarian principles. But it is very
much to be doubted whether these things re-
present the feelings of the Japanese majo-
rity. The man who climbed the fence and
cut down the United States flag is much more
likely to. represent the public feeling, which
can see in the exclusion only a direct insult
levelled at the brown man by the white. To
determine the exact amount of idealism and
of opportunism in the American action would
be difficult. But far more important for
us is the relation of the Australian mind
to our own doctrine of White Australia.
Practically every man in George-street or
Collins-street, if. asked the question, would
assert that purity of race is a desirable
thing, and only by alien exclusion can purity
be. maintained. Behind race purity our best
thinkers see race idealism, the preservation
of the million-and-one indefinable things that
have grown up with Europeans from their
prehistoric cradle —the loves, the tender-
nesses,. the prides, the aspirations that nmke
us white men, regardless of our skins. The
strength or weakness of White Australia lies
in the extent to which that feeling reaches
our fellow-countrymen. We cannot maintain
our doctrine merely by hate of brown or
black, nor. by some vague notion that the
Eurasian is a disaster to both sides of his
parentage; still less can we maintain it by
a mere dread that an Asiatic mi glut come and
put the white man out of a job. The idea
that the cheaper worker must be excluded
from competition is only a temporary one;
f or the moment he ceases to be a cheaper
worker the objection breaks down. White
Australia must be defended on the highest
o , ni .4 s ? r ri °f a 4 /H 10 claim that brown
and black men are inferior may not always
hold . the claim that they caimo y t ac f re t f ie
feelings that we as a race possess, though
they live with us for a thousand years, is
sound and unassailable. It offers no insult
to those excluded, sets up no barrier of pride
or hate, bases itself on no mere question of
economics. We are entitled to declare that
we hold this continent for the development
and evolution of those ideals which through
all stress and difficulties made life possible
to a hundred generations of our ancestors,
To confuse that with other issues is to
weaken our case; to stand by it and feel it
in our blood is to maintain respect and honor
even with those of outside races who have
no part in our unwritten traditions. Once,
the people as a whole feel it our white ideal-
ism is safe.
LIBERTY.
According to Goethe the only individual
■who enjoys Liberty is he who fights and con-
quers anew the enemies of Freedom as they
arise. Liberty is always in danger. In the
past the autocrat, the Czar, the military con-
queror have been regarded as its deadliest
foes. Churches and ecclesiastics have at
times done their utmost to drive Liberty
into the wilderness. The capitalistic class
in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
placed grievous bonds on the limbs of so-
called freemen, and to-day the labor unions
and certain cliques of Puritans pursue a
policy inimical to Freedom. In political life
Lloyd George, in England, and William
Morris Hughes, in Australia, taking advan-
tage of the abnormal state brought about by
the war, contrived to concentrate the power
of the Administration in their own hands
and in those of their private secretaries, with
a result that can only be described as the
essence of bureaucratic tyranny. No Ameri-
can President ever presumed more on his
position that did Lloyd George, and the
public vomit that cast him forth was a per-
fectly natural and well-justified upheaval.
The world is drifting, we are often told,
into Socialism and thence into Communism.
But no State, whether Socialist or Commu-
nist, will ever escape the “iron law of oli-
garchy.” Inevitably power drifts into the
hands of the few, temporarily if not perma-
nently. Plato’s republic depended for its
stability on a class of guardians who even
decided matters and preliminaries concerned
with the procreation of Platonic infants.
The same feature prevailed in the Oneida
community. E. S. llaynes, in “Enemies of
Liberty,” says: “I once met the son of the
man who founded this community, and he
told me he was born as the result of an appli-
cation by his father and mother to the offi-
cial tribunal to be allowed to have a child.
This tribunal was a pure oligarchy, and had
power to separate the parents directly preg-
nancy occurred.” The community shared out
all women and all property until some sort
of revolution occurred, and it has ended in
being one of the largest chain-making con-
cerns in the United States, though marriage
and property have now become recognised
as necessary evils. But we need not look
to the Communist village or the so-called
Communist State for examples of the sup-
pression of Liberty. In quite a number of
countries to-day it is gravely proposed that
legislation shall be put through (in some
cases it has been put through) to decide what
a man shall drink and whether he shall be
allowed to smoke or not, while there are
towns in Australia where boys may not play
cricket in the park on Sunday and men may
not read a magazine in the School of Arts
reading-room.
The persecution of bathers is a feature in
certain Anglo-Saxon communities. Up till
30 years ago it was unnecessary for young
fellows at the Great Public Schools of Eng-
land to wear clothes when bathing in the
Thames, and “there was no question of in-
decency until boatloads of women with opera-
glasses were moored against the bank oppo-
site the bathing-place known as ‘Athens/
A loud outcry was then raised, and the
Thames Conservancy has since ordained that
all male bathers are to wear what is
known as University costume, being a
dress which covers the entire trunk.” Prudes,
however, denounce even this costume as
improper, and propose that men should wear
skirts “to be firmly attached to the knee.”
It seems hard to believe to-day, but is yet
quite true, that before 1900 a magistrate
fined a woman who smoked cigarettes in
public, and any woman who walked about
in male costume ran a similar risk. George
Ives, in his “Continued Extension of Crimi-
nal Law,” quotes the remark of a female
J.P. who in 1921 advocated the flogging of
any man found with a prostitute. Ives com-
ments thereon: “This sort of thing may go
on until the youth of this country all become
criminals and until the law is a hated oppres-
sion.”
If the advanced Socialist school is to be
believed, the world is being ruined by Capi-
talism, and there is only one remedy—Exter-
minate the Capitalist. But if the orthodox
Conservative is to be trusted, Bolshevism
and Communism are the real curses, and
the hanging of Trotsky and his disciples
is imperatively necessary for the welfare of
society. Neither of these zealots has any
respect for Liberty, which has to be con-
served and guarded in spite of them. In
America millions of decent people believe
that society is being ruined by intoxicating
liquor, and “Down with Drink!” has become
the slogan, and a very popular one with cer-
tain worthy people who believe that virtue
consists mainly in running to earth some
weak and erring fellow-mortal. Meantime
one notes that the murder-roll in the United
States for 1921 was 9.3 per 100,000 of the
population, while in beer-drinking England
and Wales the murder-rate in 1901 was 0.5
per 100.000, and in 1921 had slumped to
0.23. Small wonder that the brilliant Kath-
arine Fullerton Gerould, most charming
of American essayists, recently wrote, After
a visit to the British dominions, that she
was compelled to admit that Liberty and the
spirit of George Washington were appa-
rently much more respected in Canada than
in the land of her nativity. “In the Eastern


States,” writes A. P. Herbert, “you have
a whole population openly deriding what
they regard as a foolish law, and gleefully
grasping every chance to commit an offence
against it; old gentlemen taking to cock-
tails like naughty children; old ladies dis-
tilling whisky in the basement because it is
wicked; and Quakers gathering on Sunday
mornings after church to discuss new ways
of getting IT.”
The professional politician is, I am afraid,
usually an enemy of Liberty. The breath
of his nostrils is party, and where party
is intensely dominant Freedom dies. The
influx of women into our legislatures lias
not so far amended matters, for their prin-
cipal obsession appears to be that by an on-
slaught on beer and cigarettes we shall
attain to the Kingdom. It is nursery des-
potism over again. Haynes caustically re-
marks : “Election agents tell me that nothing
appeals to the spinster vote so forcibly as
conscription of the men who have remained
indifferent to her charms, and there is no
doubt that the lives of many married women
would be blighted if divorce cases were not
fully reported.” Woman, the serf of ages,
does not understand what Liberty is. And
when so many men are bitten by the fad of
setting up a servile State as an aid to Free-
dom, we cannot wonder at madame’s atti-
tude. Liberty is indeed in danger, not from
kings, aristocrats or even super-capitalists,
but from Reformers, Puritans, Feminists,
would-be Bolshies, and from the wild enthusi-
asts who want to ride on rainbows into the
Gulf of Communism.
P. AIEEY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Opportunities for the Selection-ballot
Crooks.
Addressing a Pleasant Sunday-afternoon
meeting in Sydney Domain, Willis, boss of
the Sydney Labor executive, said that until
“those who were out to clean up the move-
ment” asserted themselves at the 1923
A.L.P. conference, “practically the whole
of the metropolitan members were dominated
by a certain clique”; and “when people
walked past Macdonell House (the head-
quarters of political unionism in N. S.
Wales) they held their nostrils and turned
their heads away.” Sydney Worker, the
Macdonell House organ, maintains on the
other hand that the movement is in a
worse condition than when the cleaners-up
took control, inasmuch as it is “being sys-
tematically corrupted” by devices more sinis-
ter than even selection-ballot boxes with
sliding panels. The Worker’s descrip-
tion of Labor pre-selections, which the re-
form crowd hasn’t even tried to abolish, is
striking:—
These ballots are mismanaged or faked all over
the State. Some Leagues are packed ; others are
by trickery disfranchised. Union tickets are forged
for the purposes of impersonation. Bribery is ram-
pant. Fraud and corruption are as common as shak-
ing hands and “How d’ye do?”
Referring to the Cootamundra selection-
ballot the first of its kind since the move-
ment was purified, J. J. G. McGirk
has alleged in the Legislative Assembly that
"two Chinamen and 300 dead men voted at
Junee.” Of the 1922 Sydney ballot, at
which he topped the poll, he asserted that
"forged union tickets —printers’, waitresses’
and bottle-blowers’—were used all over the
city, for me as well as other candidates (I
was 300 miles away and couldn’t stop it)”;
moreover, “500 wharf-laborers’ buttons
were stolen from the residence of one of the
candidates and employed against him, and
that is why he is not in this House to-day.”
To which P. F. Loughlin, the gentleman’s
colleague in the Storey and Dooley Minis-
tries and now deputy-leader of the Labor
party, replied that “McGIRR left the Labor
party because the Sydney Electoral Council
had asked him to give evidence regarding that
ballot, and investigation would have dis-
closed that over 400 unemployed had been
supplied with ‘crook’ tickets and sent round
the electorate in motor-cars impersonating
voters on his behalf.” The Ministerial atti-
tude to _ these artless revelations is one of
smiling inaction, underlying which is a fatu-
ous belief that the Labor party is thereby
defeating itself. It doesn’t seem to have
dawned on the Nationalist intelligence that
the ruffian who votes corruptly at Labor bal-
lots is capable of voting corruptly at general
elections, and might even be spurred on to
greater efforts by the promise of richer re-
wards (a Government billet, perhaps), or by
the assurance of his Labor newspaper that
Nationalists and Progressives stand for a
system of robbery. No doubt it would be
difficult to introduce faked ballot-boxes at a
general election, or to smuggle in bogus vot-
ing papers, as was done recently in the
Itailwaymen’s Union, or to rival the achieve-
ment of those furtive humorists who con-
ferred the A.W.U. franchise on large num-
bers of mythical shearers in undiscoverable
pastoral centres like Bongo and Bagadang.
But impersonation is possible, and under
Proportional Representation, with its big
five- and three-member electorates, the oppor-
tunities are immeasurably greater than were
those of the municipal employees who were
caught in the act at the last Sydney City
Council election, and of the impostors who
voted by post for an affair at Daylesford
(Vic.), and gave the Socialist Hail, Mel-
bourne, as their address. The N. S. Wales
Electoral Act, as amended by the late Labor
Government, permits any elector to vote out-
side the polling area for which he is enrolled.
Taking the metropolitan area alone, there are
39 polling-places in Ryde, 34 in St. George,
29 in Eastern Suburbs, 28 in Botany, 28 in
North Shore, 23 in Balmain, 20 in Western
Suburbs and 16 in Sydney, all five-member
constituencies. In addition, there are nearly
a hundred suburban polling-places in Cum-
berland and Parramatta, three-member con-
stituencies, containing some farmers and
fruitgrowers. Armed with a list of electors
to be impersonated, an enterprising criminal
in a motor-car might easily vote at 50 polling
booths between 8 a.m. and S p.m. In the
course of three years many thousands of
adult persons come to Sydney, stay a few
months or a few weeks (long enough to
qualify for enrolment), and then depart for
places unknown. The Act provides that the
names of such birds of passage are not to
be removed from the rolls, even when objec-
tions are lodged, “unless and until it is
proved that the elector has left the
electoral district” —which might con-
tain 79,000 persons, spread over 19
suburbs, as in Ryde. There would be a
remote chance of checkmating impostors were
voters restricted to the polling areas for
which they are enrolled, but the chance is
inconceivably remote when a person who
says he lives in Narrabeen may demand a
ballot-paper in North Sydney, 15 miles away.
An elector’s right containing a photograph
and a thumbprint would be a safeguard in
such a case; a signed declaration that the
applicant is really Bill Smithers, of Narra-
been, and that he hasn’t voted anywhere else,
is none. In March, 1922, there were 38,752
absent votes, and a few hundred corruptly
recorded might turn the next election. In
their own party interests the Nationalists
ought to make it as hard as possible for the
selection-ballot crook to practise his knavish
tricks on an ampler stage, but if they don’t
abolish absent voting and disqualify the fly-
by-night elector who can’t be found at his
alleged place of residence they will make it
easy.
—_—4
Kicking Away the Ladder.
A familiar figure in the world of fashion
is the lady who, having obtained a so'cial
objective by the aid of staunch old friends,
immediately drops them for new acquaint-
ances of a less utilitarian mien. . Most of
our successful artists may be seen performing
this immemorial evolution in the current
issue of Art in Australia. The oppor-
tunity was provided by a symposium to which
they were invited to contribute their views
on the desirability or otherwise of a tariff on
pictures. With very few exceptions they
agreed that such assistance was morally and
culturally as well as economically wrong.
The objectors divide into two groups: those
who have lived practically all their
artistic lives in Australia, and those
wlio have returned from London to
benefit by the market which has grown up
here. In unashamed opposition is fine old
Julian Ashton, who has the advantage
over most of these converts to Freetrade
of remembering when the art market of Aus-
tralia was unprotected. “Twenty-five years
ago,” he remarks, “under Freetrade, the
largest yearly sale of the Society of Artists
was £200”; and Australia was being deluged
by “the sweepings of English and Continental
studios.” Those were the days when Lord
Rosebery coined his epigram about Austra-
lian city-dwellers being a race of people who
“sat on 50-guinea ottomans gazing at 50-shil-
ling oleographs,” and when craftsmen as effi-
cient as John Longstaff and Arthur
Streeton had to expatriate themselves to
earn a living. Came the tariff. It was, and
is, a poor thing enough (a maximum of 20
per cent, on oils and water-colors), but it
suffices to exclude the worst of the rubbish
that had been flooding the local market for
so long, and to draw attention by repercus-
sion to the merits of Australian painters.
Instead of cavilling at the instrument that
did so much to put them in their present
assured positions, these people would be more
gracefully employed supporting it in the in-
terests of the less fortunate. There are young
artists coming on who need the help which
is represented by the discouragement of “the
sweepings of English and Continental
studios” as badly as our Lindsays and
Gruners did 10 and 20 years ago. And
while the successes are about it they might
also put in a word for their unprotected
brethren in other branches of art. Australia,
like Italy and Greece, was intended by
Nature to be a sculptor’s country. Sculptures,
however, enter the Commonwealth free —as
“building materials”! Some results are an
inrush of trash (bought freely by misguided
bookmakers under the delusion that it is
work of deathless value), and the perma-
nent exile in London of Australia’s, and
the Empire’s, greatest sculptor, in the person
of Bertram Mackennal. And, finally, there
are the imaginative writers who are required
to meet the competition of syndicated British
and American work that sells here at £5 for
75,000 words. The opinions of painters who
have established themselves locally are likely
to be listened to by the politicians on special-
ist issues such as these—which makes it all
the more disastrous that so many of our
{esthetic leaders should have taken to the
economic jargon of the shrewd indentor of
Brummagem “art novelties.”
4
Educational Remnants.
“Country Ped” reviews his work:—
The other day I read a note written by an ex-
pupil of mine, a girl who left school four years ago,
and I was amazed at the crudeness of it. In fact, it
made me downhearted to think that a pupil of mine
should exhibit such a poor knowledge of the two
subjects of composition and spelling, subjects that 1
had fondly hoped I had thoroughly taught her. ’ She
was not a brilliant pupil, just f.a.q., yet surely she
should have known the correct use of “to,” “too,”
“two.” But these three little words were used quite in-
discriminately, while others, if not mis-spelled, were
misapplied atrociously, like “threw” for “through.” The
only gleam about the note was the decent handwrit-
ing, and I deserve little credit for that, because she
was naturally a good writer.
Pondering over the matter I began to discover that
I had not taught—actually taught—her these two
subjects at all. She was given a composition lesson
once a month. She wrote a couple of essays twice a
week, 12 to 16 lines. I corrected them, and passed
them back with suitable comments. An hour, a whole
hour, is allowed on the official timetable for spelling.
I taught her some arithmetic, algebra and geometry—
six hours per week. I believe she • was chasing the
highest common factor when she left. I gave her
some grammar and phonic lessons, too, about two
hours a week. You wouldn’t think so if you heard
her speak. She also had two threequarter-hour les-
sons per week on drawing—even to such problems
as “A two-inch cube stands on the horizontal plane,
and is inclined at an angle of 60 degrees to the
vertical plane. Draw the plan and elevation.” Any-
one would imagine that I was instructing architectural
draughtsmen’s cadets. She was taught reading, and
the appreciation of good literature ; at least, that was
my intention, and the intention of the framers of the
curriculum. I saw her reading a novelette a while
ago. Good literature! About two hours a week
were devoted to the geography of Australia, the
Empire and the World ; and an hour and a. half were
spent in studying (mostly listening to me) British
and Australian history. The Births, Deaths and
Marriages column, with a suicide and murder case
thrown in, comprise her daily study of the news of
the world. Writing, of course; practically every
lesson means writing, and half an hour a week is
allotted to a formal lesson to keep up the standard.
And nature study, and agriculture, and gardening. 1
don’t know how much she remembers about capil-
larity, and drainage systems, and the different varieties
of wheat, but evidently the nature lessons took hold.
Not long ago I saw her chase three screaming com-
panions with a young live snake about six inches
long held between her fingers. She had some
singing lessons, too, very elementary, but no sew-
ing, no cooking. They’re not in my line, though
there is no earthly reason why the Education De-
partment should not advance the same facilities in
this direction to country children as to city
girls. This girl had to pick them up at home,
and she is a good cook, but an indifferent seamstress.
But she is going to marry a farmer one of these
fine days—as she was destined to from the first.
Whom else would she meet?
So I find I did not teach her the subjects 1
thought I had. I skimmed them —what else could I
do? And lam still skimming them. There are only
25 hours a week allotted to school work, and look
at the number of subjects that have to be crammed
in! Is it any wonder that each and all are
skimped? Our leading educationists frame curricu-
lums, apparently, for future clerks, surveyors, archi-
tects, biologists, scientific agriculturists, lawyers
and doctors. The tradesman, domestic worker,
farmer, grocer, draper, fireman, porter and laborer are
left out. They aim high for the tiny minority—
and neglect the great majority. When will they
frame curriculums for the things that are? Under a
simple utilitarian curriculum the leading lights would
shine forth just as they do now, and just as they did
when the plain “three R’s” were taught. And they
would get their chance, too. But so would the
others; they would learn something then that would
be of value to them. All this girl and her sisters
needed, and need, is to learn to add, subtract, multi-
ply and divide compound quantities in common use,
to keep simple household accounts, to read, to write,
and to compose good letters. As mail-order ser-
vices are now a feature of country life, lessons in
drapery orders and grocery orders are necessary.
Geography and history are needed for cultural pur-
poses. Mainly she wanted lessons in cooking, sew-
ing, millinery, personal hygiene and domestic science
generally—and these she never got. And if I was
framing a curriculum for country schools I would
add dancing—ballroom dancing. Why not? Danc-
ing is the staple country amusement; at the balls
and dances life-partners are met. But save me from
teaching it.
4
The Disease of Discontent.
A PASSING wave of enthusiasm can always
be created in the public mind by announcing
that some Government or private philanthro-
pist has allocated a sum for the investiga-
tion of disease. It is becoming evident that
an even greater need is an expert investiga-
tion of modern methods of government.
Phthisis, cancer and the like may kill indi-
viduals, but misgovernment threatens the
life of civilisation. Communism can boast
no more brilliant apostle than Bertrand
Russell. He went to prison foi his pacifist
principles during the war, and was the first
eminent Englishman to publish his faith in
Bolshevism. An idealist if ever there was
one, yet his latest work (“Icarus”) contains
this disillusioned cry: “Men’s collective pas-
sions are mainly evil, for the strongest of
them are hatred and rivalry directed towards
other groups.” Accept this proposition (and
who in his senses will deny it?), and it
follows that peace can only be achieved in
the social sphere, as in that of international-
ism, by an elaborate system of balances.
This does not imply the abolition of capital-
ism any more than the peace of the world
is to be served by the elimination of Bri-
tain’s naval power or of America’s money
power. The principle involved is com-
pounded partly of equity, partly of expedi-
ency and partly of moral forces which change
as the world changes. It is a melancholy
thought that the thousands who died for
self-determination were sacrificed for a
dream: the era of the small independent
State which flourished when Italy was a
maze of pocket kingdoms and principalities
has vanished. No desirable little country
can stand alone in these days of growing
populations and diminishing food supplies.
Simultaneously, and at bottom for the same
reason, the day of the small independent
political party has come. Scientific research,
new inventions —everything that is included
in the advance of education —have created
new national needs, and with them the obli-
gation of combining nationally to satisfy
those needs; and it is education that is con-
tinually creating new parties. When there
were only two articulate sections —Tories
and Whigs, and later Conservatives and
Liberals —the two-party system of govern-
ment to which we still cling, as small hand-
fuls of doctrinaires in Ireland and elsewhere
cling to self-determination, worked fairly
well. But since those days education has
advanced enormously, while our methods of
government have stood still. Every class
in every civilised community is now fully
articulate, and we are attempting to serve
their needs with a device which was designed
for England in a century when politics were
a close preserve for the very rich. It is the
inelasticity of the political machines that is
chiefly responsible for the readiness of all
sorts and conditions of citizens to awake and
arise and throw off their (largely imagi-
nary) chains at the behest of any energetic
and ambitious adventurer who takes it into
his head to call on them. No longer have
Governments to fear as a rule only the
lowest stratum of society. The Jack Cades
of to-day are negligible compared with
the well-fed, cigar-smoking strike leader
who issues the ukase that may hold
up a transport service, and so mean
the deaths of hundreds. And most
countries have acquired what may be
called the revolutionary in spats—an arro-
gant reactionary who demonstrates his devo-
tion to legality by defying the laws. The
Royalists of France and Germany, the
Ivlansmen and Legionaries of the U.S.A., the
British Fascists and many more are tarred
with the same brush, inasmuch as they are
all potential criminals; but their teeth might
be drawn if there were only some means of
giving them adequate representation in Par-
liament. The present-day Parliament really
represents hardly anybody but the profes-
sional politicians. How to adjust it to an
altered world, breathe new life into it to
such purpose that it shall stand at least as
high in the estimation of the nation as the
House of Commons did in its prime a cen-
tury ago, is a task worthy of the world’s
best minds, for on it the 'existence of the
world, as we know it, may presently depend.
Sport and War.
In these days of intensive pacifist propa-
ganda, any proposition that tends to discount
military training requires to be sifted with
care. A specimen is the following opinioii
fathered recently by Conan Doyle, who, as
one of the official war historians, may be
listened to by many:—
Our combative spirit and aggressive quickness, due
to sport, gave us the attacking fire and helped
especially in bayonet work. But it was to our allies
of France that the chief advantage came. I believe
that Carpentier the boxer did more to win the war
for France than any other man save the actual
generals or politicians. It was a great day for the
French when English sports—boxing, Rugby football
and others —came across to them. England has
taught Europe much, but nothing of more value than
this.
This complacent variant on the idiocy, un-
fairly attributed to Wellington, about
Waterloo having been “won on the playing-
fields of Eton,” is about as unhistorical as
any patriotic boast could be. English troops
have never been eminent for “combative
spirit and aggressive quickness”: rather,
they are “stickers.” But the French have
always possessed those qualities (known as
elan, or “the French fury”), and they dis-
played them no more in the last than in
previous wars. Quatre Bras and Waterloo
afford a very good object-lesson on the martial
methods of the two races. Ney’s horse dashed
repeatedly at the British and Belgian infan-
try at Quatre Bras: the Belgians bolted, but
the British stood fast. This was repeated
next day at Waterloo, when from 11 a.m. till
the appearance of the relieving Prussians the
French attacked and the English stood. The
only counter-attack was made by the Scots
Greys. During most of the World War the
British shock troops (barring a few picked
regiments, such as the Guards) were drawn
from the overseas Dominions. And there was
little difference between the Canadians, who
go in for football and boxing but little, and
the Maorilanders, who specialise in those
pastimes. By almost universal consent the
most dashing and effective attackers in all
the French armies were the black Senegalese
troops, 95 per cent, of whom had never seen
a football or a boxing-glove till they left
home. And herein lies another lesson which,
bitter and disillusioning though it may be,
should be learnt by any nation that means
to see warfare in its right perspective. One of
the battle assets of the Senegalese was their
ruthlessness—their total lack of what the
English call “sportsmanship.” The British
are handicapped by tlieir attachment to the
conventions of sport. The modern Sydney
should have blown the ancient Emden out
of the water without casualties. But Cap-
tain GloSS'op was an English sportsman, and
he let the Germans make a fight of it. Mag-
nificent in its way, but not war as it came to
be waged later by all the belligerents, includ-
ing the English—-tlieir belated recognition
that only the shadowiest affiliation exists be-
tween war and sport! Open-air pastimes
are useful militarily to the extent that they
make the soldier fit and keep his mind occu-
pied when out of the line or off the drill-
ground. But the real preparation for war
is a highly technical affair that can only be
done effectively under the supervision of ex-
perts. And the further chemical warfare is
developed the more technical the training for
it must become, and the more “unsporting”
the battle principles instilled by the instruc-
tors.
A Counsel of Misery and Despair.
The annual prize for melancholy should go
to F. B. S. Falkiner, president of the N. S.
Wales Sheepbreeders’ Association, who dis-
coursed at the Sydney sheep show about the
advisability of handing back the more vacant
parts of our heritage to Britain, and to
that extent giving up the ghost. Said the
Man Without Hope :
The position was so serious, and they, as a nation,
were carrying such a heavy load of war debt and
loss of men, that it was worth while to ask England 1 ,
which had the men and the money, to take over some
of these empty spaces, and work them up as Crown
Colonies, sending out her men and her money, and
giving them cheap land as an inducement to come,
and when these present empty spaces were peopled
they could then take them, when they arrived at a
certain state of progress, into the Commonwealth.
According to the report there arose no roar
of “Cocktail,” but instead some of the as-
sembly remarked placidly “Hear, hear.” Yet
apart from other considerations, the pro-
posal to loaf on the Old Man in London for
some more money is surely discreditable, if
not shameful. The latest printed figures (to
March, 1923) declared that the average taxa-
tion in scarred and harassed Britain was
£l7 2s. per inhabitant for the year. Our
figures (to June, 1923) set our taxes (State
and Federal) down at £l2 3s. 7d. for the
year. In addition, local rates payable
by the tenant, and equal to 15s. or more in
the £1 of rental value, are quite common in
England, though they are not here. Even a
sheep, let alone a lunch party of sheep-
breeders, might hesitate about asking aid
from an aged parent in these circumstances.
Between applications for loans and applica-
tions, or proposed applications, for straight-
out alms, a doubt arises at times whether the
Australian deserves his reputation for sturdy
independence of soul. Speaking of empty
spaces, even the most low-spirited owner of
jumbucks ought to admit that some little is
being done, and that little points the way for
more. Last year Queensland gained 17,391
new inhabitants who were not Brisbane popu-
lation ; in other words, it acquired 17,391
new space-fillers. The other five States com-
bined collected only 15,060 new inhabitants
who were not metropolitan settlers. But.
then, Queensland has railways striking inland
from Maryborough, Rockhampton, Towns-
ville, Cairiis and Cooktown, so there is some
life and development away from the capital
and its suburbs: and the same or better
results would probably follow in other States
under similar conditions. There is plenty of
time to commit suicide after the manner
proposed by the boss of the Sheepbreeders
when everything else has been tried and
failed.
Cheap Humanitarianism and Dear
Bread.
The practice of sticking a party label on
every imaginable issue, and then defending
or assailing it with the fervor of a religious
bigot, is growing to a tiresome extent in
Australia. The latest manifestation is the
presentment of night-baking as detestable to


“AFTER ALL, THERE’S ONLY OXE ‘AUSTRALIA,’
The Australia
SYDNEY IN THE SPRING.
Sydney in August and September is unique—but “The Australia” is unique
in its appeal in every season of the year.
The individuality of this great hotel in its atmosphere, appointments, service and
cuisine has long been established and appreciated—likewise its satisfactory moderation
of tariff.
Reservations should be made now for the Spring Meeting, commencing 4th October.
COMFORT AND SERVICE AT MODERATE RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 13/6; Luncheon or Dinner, from 4/-;
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, from 2/6.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
“THE AUSTRALIA” The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
the proletariat. Said Sydney Worker
recently:—
The Baking Combine demanded night baking, and
the Boss-controlled “Nationalist” Government of
N.SAV. complied with that demand.... The Federal
Government should lose no time in requesting the
Government of New South Wales to drop its reaction-
ary measure and step into line with the other coun-
tries of the world on this very important matter.
A generalisation frequently heard from the
wild men of the day-baking movement is that
“no country which has once been without
night-baking lias gone back to it.” Actu-
ally, most of the countries of the European
Gontinent, including the few in which night-
baking lias been prohibited by law, originally
went in for day-baking and graduated to the
other system by the economic route. Canada
adopted day-baking during the war, and so
to a great extent did Britain. The cause was
the same in both countries: the decision of
the authorities to persuade the people to
eat less bread —a consummation which was
achieved by legislating so that there should
be nothing but day-baked, and hence stale,
bread on sale. Canada has now reverted to
night-baking and all the bigger bakeries in
England and Wales have done the same. The
class question only enters legitimately into
night-baking to the extent that some em-
ployees in bakeries would rather not work
at night, other things being equal—just as in
the case of railway workers, members of ships’
crews, persons employed in sanitary services,
journalists, doctors and thousands of others.
For the rest the people that are going to be
hit hardest by day-baking are the poor, and
the poorer they are the severer the blow
must he. One factor that keeps the price
of bread down is the practice in many large
establishments of combining cake- and pastry-
making and the production of small-goods
with bread-baking. This means that the
ovens can be kept hot right round the clock,
and economies achieved by which the pur-
ehaser benefits. Rightly or wrongly, and
whatever their politics may be, people will
not buy stale bread if they can help it, and
they refuse to touch stale small-goods at any
price. Where day-baking is enforced by law
the rich tend to revert to home-made bread:
this feature was witnessed in England even
during the servant-shortage occasioned by the
war. Pastry- and small-goods shops are
almost exclusively patronised by the poor
and near-poor, and many of them are owned
by struggling members of these classes. Some
certain effects of the introduction of day-
baking must be, then, to ruin numbers of
these establishments; to send up prices in
the remainder; to throw a horde of carters
out of work; to deprive the poor of some of
the culinary delicacies available to them at
a reasonable figure; and, of course, to in-
crease the price of bread. The rich are
indifferent to increases in the price of bread.
When it was decided in Melbourne, owing
to flour reaching £l3 a ton, to lift the price
of the 41b. loaf by Id. as from the 10th inst.,
there were no protests from Toorak. The
indignation meetings were all called by Labor
organisations, and the objections were voiced
by working people—mostly women. The
exasperation at the results of day-baking will
inevitably occur amongst the same section:
they will be butchered to make a political
agitator's holiday.
• ♦
A Rash Pact for which No Reason Can
Be Assigned.
Within the next few days the Bruck-
Page election agreement will be finally dealt
with by the Nationalist and Agrarian organ-
isations, delegates to which are now gather-
ing in Melbourne. Unless its authors are
prepared to drop the clauses designed to give
sitting members who support the Government
a monopoly of their seats in the House of
Reps., and to prevent the electors from de-
ciding between one allied group and the
other in constituencies where both have num-
erous followers, the thing should be rejected
as useless and dangerous. Useless, because
it will certainly not be respected by the rank
and file of at least one party, whose irrita-
tion may drive them into supporting the
Labor candidate or not voting at all. Dan-
gerous, because it implies that the rights of
constituencies and of individuals with legi-
timate Parliamentary ambitions are less im-
portant than the aggrandisement of the
machine. Hitherto both Ministerial groups
have professed to abominate machine politics.
The Coekies have abandoned pre-selections,
and have gained thereby in prestige and
votes. But the pact proposes a method of
pre-selection as bad in principle as the aver-
age Labor pre-selection is rotten in practice.
If ratified without amendment it will estab-
lish a coalesced machine with powers almost
as monstrous as those of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. executive, which is now authorised
to exact a signed and undated resignation
from the candidate for a party nomination,
and to present it at any stage of liis Parlia-
mentary career, even if he happens to be
Premier. The one argument in favor of rati-
fication is that unless there is a liard-and-
fast arrangement between the Nationalists
and the Coekies seats may be lost to Labor-
socialism. If there was anything in this
the Labor party should have profited enor-
mously by the division between Nationalists
and_ Coekies at the Victorian, South Aus-
tralian, Westralian and Queensland State
elections; actually its offensive against the
t armers was a conspicuous failure. Practi-
cally all its recent gains have been made
in metropolitan and country-town elec-
torates which the Coekies didn’t con-
test. No agreement with the Agrarians
will make these districts safe for Bruce.
If his party is to come again it will have
to be Nationalist in fact and not merely in
name. The public has no further use for
the kind of “Nationalism” professed by
Hughes and his imitators, but there are
many signs that it would welcome a party
inspired by the genuine Nationalism of the
early Commonwealth days—the tine Austra-
lianism of which Kingston and Deakin
were exponents.
«
In the Douglas libel-suit in England the
plaintiff admitted the truth of the charges
against him. His answer was that his crime
had been committed a quarter of a century
before, and _ that lie had since reformed. A
jury gave him £lOOO and costs. In the Rofe
case, which ended in Sydney on Monday
with a verdict for the defendant newspaper,
the plaintiff insisted that he had never
sinned. In the words of the Judge, “that
was the vital point.” If he had been willing
to own up to the events of 30 years ago,
and to condone them by pointing to his maliy
good works in the interim, he could hardly
have escaped a favorable verdict and heavy
damages. The position is, then, that any
amount of old mud may be dug up and flung
at the type of citizen who cares more for
liis honor than for hard cash ; who may be
innocent and unable to prove it, but in any
event is not going to admit guilt at any
THE LOGIC OF CENTRALIZATION.
“The possession of a university degree, apart from the training that lies behind it, is so poor a
thing that country students might better do without it;- Sydney [?] Senate.
THE BOY: “You might give us that piece of bread, Mister.”
THE DON: “No, no, my lad! Aren't you aware that no bread is better than half a loaf?”
price. On the other hand it is extremely
dangerous to make any reference to the past
lapses of one who, like Lord Alfred Doug-
las, is indifferent to the opinion of the com-
munity* and by no means averse to filling
his depleted coffers at the expense of those
who are sufficiently rash to drag up his past.
Such is the present state of the law, and
its effects are to put a premium on cynical
had citizenship and make the man who, for
whatever reason, refuses to eat dirt, a safe
cockshy for yellow journalism to the day of
his death. It is as unsatisfactory from the
standpoint of society, which is based on the
principle that there must be an end to human
punishment, as from that of the press, which
requires reliable rules in regard to the right
of comment.
On a Melbourne pony racecourse the other
afternoon a young man walked up to a book-
maker, and, without any parley, bashed him
on the jaw. Strangers to the parties won-
dered why the recipient of the blow took it
without any show of resentment, but there
were onlookers who knew. The offender had
been arrested on a charge of vagrancy, and
had indicated the bookie as his visible means
of support. Rashly refusing to confirm it,
the penciller was punched, and further hid-
ings will doubtless be forthcoming if lie
proves intractable in future. The episode
affords a piquant postscript to the complaints
of the police regarding the weakness of the
Victorian vagrancy laws. Under the pre-
sent mouldy Act an idle or disorderly person
who consorts with known scoundrels has
only to produce evidence that he has been
employed for some time —and it is almost
invariably on the racecourse —to be safe
from magisterial attention. A while back
the Lawson Government proposed to adopt
the law, prevalent in Maoriland and else-
where, that places on any person caught in
the company of criminals the onus of prov-
ing that liis pursuits are lawful. This pro-
vision, however, was so hammered in Parlia-
ment that it is practically worthless for the
purpose of any offensive against the spielers
and other ruffians who openly defy the new
police in Bourke-street. Last week Robin-
son, Peacock’s then Attorney-General, drew
pointed attention to the state of affairs, and
courageously suggested that the plunder-
world had some definite but mysterious con-
tact with hangers-on of the Labor party.
Naturally the statement extorted howls of
protest from Labor politicians, but the sting
lay in the measure of truth it contained.
♦
“Northerner” on “the sorrow of the bush”:
I know the “low-spirited witness” (15. 10/7/’24)
who used the phrase “sorrow of the bush” before the
N. S. Wales New States Commission. He is a
cheerful .old customer normally, yet life lms scattered
few rosebuds in his path. Forty-odd years ago he
pioneered a property in the Tamworth district, and
was doing fairly well when the war began. His
two sons and two farmhands enlisted. In the first
year in which he tried to run the place practically
single-handed he lost 800 acres of wheat by rain
which set in ten days before harvest time. Next
year there was a drought, and the wheat hardly rose
above his boots. Another drought came next year.
Then he got a contract to deliver lucerne hay in
Queensland at £7 a ton. The N.S.W. Government
commandeered the stuff at £3 a ton, less freight
charges, and when he cairn* to Sydney to protest the
only satisfaction he could get was the spectacle
of the privileged coat-tails of the subsequently for-
getful (ieokgesox passing into the office of Daw
Mali., then Minister for Justice. These and kindred
experiences satisfied him that there was something
in the complaint about Sydney centralisation being
a curse to the man out back. Since the war he-
lms interested himself in the affairs of the soldier
settler of the north-west of N. S. Wales, and that
has added to liis distrust of the all-for-Svdney
policy. The truth is the help-the-country move-
ment, if it is to develop into anything of worth, will
have to come largely from the city. The city needs
the farmer more on the whole than he needs the
city, as the inhabitants of Petrograd, Moscow and
the other Russian industrial centres have discovered
of late years.
4»
“Aerial” : I agree with “Dash Dotty”
(B. 19/6/’24) that the slightest variation of
any kind throws the ticklish Murray tele-
graph out of adjustment. But the Creed
is us bad. The departmental test mentioned
by “Dash D.” is not so much to decide
which is the better as to discover which is
not the worse. A month or so ago a hat-
ful of wind blew most of the inter-State
lines ovei*, a common occurrence where main-
tenance costs are cut to nil and the poles
mostly attended to by white ants. All day
the business was “punched up" in antici-
pation of the lines “coming right.” At about
7 p.m. a couple of Melbourne-Sydney cir-
cuits were patched up and, wondering how
the flickering Creed would act, we started
to feed the miles of punched tape to the
transmitters. Zip! 30 feet of it gone. “0.K."
from the distant end. Another 30ft. disap-
peared and monotonously the sounders tapped
out “0.K.” as the tape streamed through.
Our reception was equally good. All staffs
got away to time. If that was the usual
performance there would be no argument
against machine telegraphy. But both
systems take turns —a day without frequent
stoppages is unknown. Neither can be, de-
pended on from minute to minute. There-
fore both are failures. Allegedly machine
telegraphy gives greater line-capacity. But
recently-collected figures show that the sav-
ing in line-wire is more than offset by cost,
upkeep and operation of the short-lived
machines. In my opinion hand-worked
duplex lines are the best medium for tele-
graph business. Bad lines are “worked
through,” errors are picked out at route
(not adjusted that night or the following
day as when the machines are on the job),
and business carried on expeditiously and
accurately under conditions that would put
the Creed and the Murray out of commission.
<y
“Centurion” : “Chant - Pagan’s” plea for
the brave and courteous Spaniard (B. 3/7/’24)
overlooks one or two of that romantic indi-
vidual’s defects. He never laid a hand on
a country but to blast it, extirpate most of
its population and rear up a brood of mon-
grels in their place. liis sloth is so in-
grained that the only Spanish word known
right round the world is his excuse for dodg-
ing work —“Manana.” He has a liking,
“Chant Pagan” says, for the English. For
the extent of this and his gratitude for aid
in trouble I refer his champion to Wel-
lington’s despatches, and further call atten-
tion to the hospitality openly extended to the
Hun and his submarines by the Spanish
people in the Big War. Even good manners
and politeness fail to over-ride these and
other shortcomings.
——
Correspondence between Tasmania’s Attor-
ney-General Ogilvie and Police-Magistrate
Turner in regard to a £lOO line imposed on
a local bookmaker by the said P.M. resulted
in the suspension of the latter, the Minister
holding that a sentence itr one of the P.M.’s
letters conveyed a suggestion that he (the
A.-G.) was too sympathetic towards gambling
law-breakers. This, it was urged, amounted
to something like insubordination or mutiny
or striking a superior officer. So the P.M.
was stood down, pending an inquiry by the
proper (Public Service) tribunal, a Judg*'
presiding. For a fortnight or so the suspen-
sion of the P.M. was the chief topic of con-
versation in all parts of the State, and it
was pretty generally agreed, and especially
among the departmental officers, by whom the
P.M. is regarded as a strong and trusty
leader 1 , that the Attorney-General was due
for a fall. But, alas for the island’s hopes
of a little midwinter excitement,- Premier
Lyons returned to Hobart, and Mr. Turner
found that the passage in his letter to which
Mr. Ogilvie took exception was not meant
in a personal sense, but that as Mr. Ogilvie
had taken it that way Mr. Turner would
have much pleasure in withdrawing the
offending passage if Mr. Ogilvie would be
so kind as to permit Mr. Turner to do so.
Whereupon Mr. Ogilvte said the legal equi-
valent of “righto,” and Mr. Turner is now
back on the bench and lining drunks and
motor-hogs as heretofore.
—.— + ——.
The Argus summoned up the ancient Ghost
of Apathy (“Many Liberal electors were
too indifferent to go to the polling-booth”)
to explain the reverse lately suffered by
anti-Labor in Victoria; and so did National-
ist papers in other States. It is time this
cozening spectre was laid for good. Three
things induce electors to vote for a party in
large numbers: —
(1) A Cause.
(2) Acceptable candidates, meaning men who are
either reputable or who have not been found out,
and who have fairly attractive platform personalities.
(3) Unity—which is usually the outcome of the
presence of the other two.
Where there is no cause that inspires,
and where candidates are old and tired
or discredited, the tendency of many
electors of all political shades is to
vote against the party in power.
Wilson, Lloyd George, W. M. Hughes.
Smuts —all were found wanting and treated
accordingly, on the broad principle that their
successors might, probably would, be bad,
but could hardly be worse. That is what
has happened to Nationalism in Victoria:
it is what threatens in N. S. Wales, where
futile men and dead ideas rule the roost; and
if the party survives in the Federal sphere
it will only be because the Charlton sec-
tion too feeble to dislodge anything.


New Zealand Public Trust
Office.
Value of Assets and Funds under
Administration on 31st March, 1924,
£32,404,724.
Administers ail classes of estates of
deceased persons, trusts and agencies.
Accepts money for investment, either in the
Common Fund of the Public Trust Office
with State guarantee of principal and inter-
est, or in Trustee securities earning highest
current rate of interest.
Re-seals in New Zealand Grants of Admin-
istration to executors and administrators out-
side New Zealand, and undertakes agency
work on behalf of such executors and
administrators.
The Office possesses a full staff of qualified
Barristers, Solicitors and Accountants.
Branches and Agencies in 100 cities and
towns throughout the Dominion.
Apply to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
Wellington, New Zealand.
• >m
H
m
m
m
EDGEWORTH
Extra
High-grade
Smoking Tobacco
Will not bite the Tongue.
Australian Agents: R. TOWNS (Sb CO., Sydney.
[i
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR .7. USIIER.
Managing Director.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bargaining for some sort of a non-Labor
Government has been going on for weeks
in Vic. politics. Premier Peacock, with the
sanction of his remnant of a party, offered
the Cocky crowd four salaried and two
honorary jobs in a composite Cabinet of
12, but the Agrarian organisation ordered
Allan to refuse unless the Premiership was
attached. Not being willing to eat a whole
peck of dirt, Peacock and his party spurned
the stipulation, and asked Cockydom to have
another think. The death of W. E. Thomas,
Labor member for Glen el g, had the effect
of adding a day to the week’s Parliamentary
adjournment already secured. Alternatives
to a coalition are a straightout Cocky Cabinet
and a Cocky-Lib. arrangement commanding
18 votes. But if squabbling continues
among the three sections on the Speaker’s
right there can be only one result—Prender-
gast as Premier.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Surely Matthew Charlton is sometimes ashamed
of the tactics pursued by boisterous members of
his party. The other day a fusillade by Anstey
against the Commonwealth Bank Bill was followed
by attempts to delay the measure by frivolous inter-
ruption in committee. Blakeley, the irritating young
man who represents the Darling (N.S.W.) and is
always discovering some “scandal” or other, may
have been serious in tabling an amendment to post-
pone the proclamation of the Act until January 1,
1927, but his air of mock solemnity was suspicious.
A protest by Treasurer Page against the “flippant”
behavior of the Opposition aroused a lot of bogus
indignation and insistent .demands for a withdrawal,
and Bayley, Deputy-Chairman of Committees, was soon
involved in answering points of order. An idiotic
scene ended in Mahony forgetting his ordinary good
humor to challenge one of Barley’s rulings, and
Mahony lost the division, as he fully expected to do,
without deriving any more satisfaction than the poor
pleasure of making the Chair look somewhat foolish.
The restraining hand of Cnarlton will soon be re-
moved for a while—he is going to Europe as
delegate to the League of Nations—and one wonders
how the party will conduct itself under the control
of a comedian like Anstey.
In the battle of wits at the opening of
Vic. Assembly Premier Alee Peacock came
off best. Swiftly getting through the first
stage of the address-in-reply debate, he
whisked through a bill for a month’s supply,
and then trailed his coat on the floor by
moving that the House adjourn for a week.
That was Labor’s opportunity, as Premh-r-
-gast thought. Urged on by 25 of his 27
followers, lie at once shaped up to the dis-
integrated atoms on the other side, and tried
to flail 30 of them while he coaxed the other
four to vote with the Opposition. Why
adjourn for a week, he screamed, when to-
morrow would do? But the House wouldn't
have his to-morrow. The Cookies and
the five “rebel” Libs, kept tlieir places, and
the Prendergast phalanx—units of which had
been very unruly—suffered one more defeat.
The S.A. Labor Government protests that
it “has officially no knowledge” of the in-
tended introduction of a bill to license book-
makers, “nor has any member of the Gov-
ernment indicated whether he will support
or oppose such a proposal.” The measure
has been drafted, anyway, by Villeneuve
.Smith, K.C., and will be introduced, accord-
ing to present plans, by A. A. Edwards,
Labor M.L.A. for Adelaide. In the mean-
time it will doubtless be referred to Labor’s
friend Wren.
The S. M. Herald has printed two cheer-
ing articles to the effect that the centre of
Australia is no desert. One of them was
brightened by water-views, almost as good
as some which appeared in The Bulletin
over a dozen years ago, when the agreement
for the construction of the South-North
railway was not long signed, and the paper
was urging that this great national work
should get a move on. In the lexicon of the
orthodox newspaper the centre of Australia
is a chameleon. When it is only a matter
of being warmhearted and patriotic in a
non-committal way tlxe centre is a garden
of delight, but when the railway is men-
tioned it becomes a howling waste. The
census man went into no details about the
herds of wild camels and donkeys which, the
Herald authority alleges, rove and flourish
between Oodnadatta and the Macdonnell
Ranges. But he said, in a matter-of-fact
way:—
With a freight bill amounting to something like
2s. 9d. per mile for goods carried inland, and a
postal service by which a letter from one of the
southern States, say to Newcastle Waters, may take
longer than one from Melbourne to the northern
parts of Norway, there is little hope of progress.
THE GIRL THEY’LL LEAVE BEHIND THEM.
“Federal Labor-leader Charlton has accepted the Government’s invitation" to accompany Attorney-
General Littleton Groom to the League of Nations Conference at Geneva.”
Australia is for once to have surplus sugar
for export. The amount is estimated at
from 50,000 to 70,000 tons, and it is reckoned
that, considering the great distance it has
to go and the present price of the nigger
article, the loss will be 110 per ton. That
is the usual disastrous result of sending food
to the artisans who work for us in Europe in-
stead of having them here.
The usual lament rises concerning the
Vic. voters who didn’t go to the poll. Com-
pulsory voting in itself is no real remedy.
When it was a new device in Queensland it
brought 8814 voters per 10,000 to the poll
(1915), but by 1920 they had decided that
the gun wasn’t loaded, and the proportion
went down to 7993. Many stay away
because they dislike all the candidates. If
they could say so by voting against them
all—voting for a new poll with all the
present batch of applicants shut opt—-they
would no longer be people who were denied
expression for their feelings, and eompul-
sory voting would become reasonable.
“Road Knight”: On the Western
(N.S.W.) railway line the other day there
-were seven of us iu a compartment, and four
were deadheads. This free-fare curse operates
to the detriment of the ordinary or mug
taxpayer in divers directions: it encourages
politicians and their heelers to use the rail-
ways needlessly to the discomfort of busi-
ness men and others, who pay for their
tickets; it deprives the rank and file of
travellers of the attention of porters, etc.,
who concentrate on pass-holders owing to a
natural fear that the latter are persons of
influence in the service; and it robs the
railways of revenue, with the double result
that taxes rise and efficiency diminishes.
However, the swindle is a great old game
for our legislative czars, and no considers
tions either of public business or of private
decency are likely to persuade them to reform
it out of existence.
X'lie Speck’s ex Commissioner of Railways,
\y. Smith, who sued the Government for
£3OOO damages for wrongful dismissal has
agreed to accept £1450, including £250 for
the lawyers. The total’cost to the Govern-
merit is not disclosed, but £2500 will not leave
much change. The proceedings have been be-
fore the Courts for six months. Smith’s law-
f fi «ite partial-
* aie Charges wfilch led to their clients
dismissal, and the Government’s ditto always
promising the Court to get the particulars, if
possible. When the Labor Government took
office it also took over the job of defending
the Treasury against the ex-Commissioner’s
claim, but as the case developed it became
clear that to comply with requirements in
the matter of particulars would entail heavy
expense in time and money—more, in fact,
than the case was worth. So negotiations
were set on foot, and the fight was declared
off.
A grower of currants' and raisins said re-
cently that he was paying one of his pickers
four times as much as he was making him-
self. One of the best-known orchardists in
Westralia has grubbed up half his fruit-trees
and put down grass instead —“can’t pay
the wages,” he explained. The sick and
sorry condition of the fruit industry is
largely due to the tendency of Arbitration
Judges to allow the casual laborer employed
for two or three months enough to keep him
for twelve. This tendency—fatal to indus-
tries working on a small margin or none at
all —has been arrested in Queensland, where
the State Arbitration Court has refused to
grant the sugar-workers increased wages
and reduced hours. It was shown that
some ean emitters wore earning £2O a week
(the average in ten districts ranged from
£3 Os. 4d. to £2 Is. lOd. per day), but an
increase of 2s. per ton in the cutting rate
was sought, alternatively to the fixing of a
wage based on the alleged prosperity of the
industry and representing a substantial
advance on existing seasonal earnings. The
Court rejected all the claims, remarking that
the industry wasn’t excessively prosperous,
even though a few growers were doing ex-
tremely well.
“The Industrial Conference of Unions
affiliated with the Labor Council” met the
other day in Sydney to decide that Labor-
leader Lang should be expelled, and a few
other trifles. One delegate proposed that every
person who wasn’t working should receive the
full basic wage, and there wasn’t one person
in the crowd with sufficient presence of mind
to remark that there is not. and never was,
and is never likely to be enough money in
the world to pay everybody for not working,
and that the meeting shouldn’t be a dribbling
baby. The proposal was carried unanimously.
Victoria’s surplus for 3923-24 was
£.210,000, or £147,000 more than McPhairson,
the then Treasurer, estimated in October.
He got out of the Composite Ministry because
he could not agree to proposed additional
expenditure, such as money for bush nurses,
for which no provision had been made; but
results have shown that he was pessimistic
—or it may be that he foresaw Lawson’s down-
fall. The Railway Department’s contribu-
tion to the surplus was £25,000 —a trifle on.
a turnover of £12,025,000, but welcome never-
theless. It. has to go to a sinking fund under
a law passed last. year.
“Amazed”: Is there a Government in the
world (bar Russia's, mayhap) that would per-
mit its public buildings to be used for the
propaganda work of the Communists? There
is; and the proof of it is at Miller’s Point
(Sydney). At the entrance to the post-office
and Commonwealth Savings Bank, opposite
Argyle-place, affixed to the outer wall, right
under the Commonwealth notifications, is a
glass case in which are displayed a copy of
the Workers’ Weekly, "the official o’-enn
of the Communist party,” and a fly-leaf calling
a meeting of “the Australian Labor party
(Darling Harbor branch).” Now, who worked
the oracle? Did lie read the Communist
sheet? And is the Department prepared to
give the S. M. Herald similar facilities for
advertising itself and its creed at the G.P.0.,
and the Catholic- Press at Surry Hills?
Joe Cook, the elderly politician who was
appointed High Commissioner because he
wanted a rest, has boon threatened with libel
actions by London fruit-brokers for com-
menting on their methods of buying Austra-
lian oranges. Years ago a Westralian Agent-
General tried to promote the sale of jarrah
paving-blocks by damaging the reputation of
a rival commodity, and the resulting litiga-
tion was expensive. About the same time
the Groperland Minister of Mines (he is
now in the House of Reps.) indulged in an
attack on one of his wardens, and again the
State had to foot a heavy bill. Being exempt
from responsibility for their Parliamentary
utterances, politicians get into the habit of
saying whatever comes into their minds. It
is apt to be a costly habit for the country.
Apparently the well-meant efforts of Ram-
say Macdonald to get on friendly terms with
the Soviet people make little progress. No
one insisted on the Bolsheviks becoming
civilised, but they were urged to try to look
less savage for just long enough to let some
negotiations go through. London Tele-
graph summarised the position by saying
that “the Bolsheviks want a large loan with-
out giving any guarantee that the safety of
persons or property will be recognised,” and
the capitalist is chary about dealing with a
party who reserves the right to hit him hard
on the nose and explore his pockets after-
wards.
Celestial diplomats have lost none of their
astuteness. Despite China’s weakness a map
of the Empire to-day covers much the
same ground as it did in the time of mighty
Kien Lung. She has got Shantung hack
from Japan and Wei-Hai-Wei from Britain :
and while the Japanese have the job of ad-
ministering Manchuria, China colonises it.
Her latest victory is over Soviet Russia,
which has agreed to disgorge Mongolia, re-
nounce the Russian concessions in China,
hand over Russian nationals to the Chinese
courts and allocate the remainder of the
Boxer indemnity to a fund for the education
of the Chinese people. The Foreign Secre-
tary who engineered this was the Western-
educated Christian, Dr. Wellington Ivoo, last
week elected Premier at Peking as a reward.
So little did Russian Communists like the
deal that they threw a bomb at his house
and killed or injured most of his servants.
NO VIOLETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Recently the Labor movement had sunk to such a
low ebb that people held their noses while they
walked past Maedonell House. Sydney Metropolitan
Labor members were dominated by a clique; they
had to do as they were told, or this clique, with its
sliding pan els and extra ballot slips, would have
ended their political life.”— A.L.P. President Willis.
Gfasp your snout ’twixt thumb and finger, brother,
and .forbear to linger
Near the place where Labor’s statesman do their
biz ;
Though the stench is metaphoric, as it were, or
allegoric,
Its a caution and a terror —that it is!
Huge disintegrating mammals it suggests, like putrid
camels
Or inexorably decomposing whales.
You could cut the smell asunder with a knife. One
wouldn’t wonder
If it threw a passing tramcar off the rails.
Better hurry past it lest you may succumb
7'o the “hum” I
Here they sit, beside their nectars, just a bunch of
snide directors
Whose native talent naturally dips
into those nefarious channels symbolised by sliding
panels
And suspiciously superfluous ballot slips.
Tis Maedonell House, be jabers. ’Tis emphatically
Labor’s
Palace, temple, fortress, citadel unique;
Tis the stately tabernacle where the people’s tribunes
tackle
A diversity of problems—get the reek?
To surroundings more salubrious better come.
Phew, the “hum” l
N.SAV.
PIPAUDS.


\ONE££
m
%
K
Pioneer Leather Belting
is the standard high-grade belting that has been
specified for a large proportion of the most
important drives in Australian industrial and
manufacturing plants for the past 64 years.
WHERE TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES AND
QUOTATIONS —
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: 3. & R. E. Madder Pty.,
Etd., 516 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ftd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Etd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horaee Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monebel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
3afecy c u»»
Detonator*
Cartridge*
HAD FI ELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
have the Largest and Best Equipped Steel F oundry
and Works in the Commonwealth for production of
CRUSHING MACHINERY and
WEARING PARTS FOR MINES.
Enquiry invited for Rough or Machined Forgings of Large Size.
MELBOURNE:
312 Flinders St
SYDNEY:
Mitchell Rd., Alexandria.
PERTH:
West Guilford.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
i 960. . £406,428 £218,526 £77,735 £67,969 £42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 ,107,788
1914.. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171,757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 160,840 14,340 332,742
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923 . .1.042,210 481,770 164,880 1,817 393,743
Last year was the Colonial Mutual’s jubilee
year, and the Ordinary department celebrated
the event by producing a million of income
for the first time. It has taken this office
a long while to develop its Ordinary busi-
ness to that mark: the half-million milestone
was passed nearly 14 years back. Another
Melbourne life office only four years older has
an Ordinary income nearly four times
larger, and has almost trebled its figures of
only 10 years back. Before the Colonial
Mutual had reached its 30th year, it had lost
much of its early vigor; it had made the
usual number of bad investments in the
boomtime of the early ’nineties, and it had
the bad luck to have them repeatedly re-
called. New-business getting had therefore
slowed down ; so as the old contracts drifted
into the claims department, insufficient new
premium-payers were attracted to make much
impression on income. When efforts were
made to rejuvenate the society, it had the
misfortune to be assailed by ex-employees,
who had laid charges of fraud, dishonesty and
incapacity against the management. Though
Vic. Government inspectors found that these
charges were not in the least justified and
that the society was in every respect sound,
the attacks seriously impeded efforts to win
new business in sufficient quantities and at
reasonable cost. Lately the society has been
steadily developing new business; neverthe-
less, last year’s assurances were £400,000
less than in 1912, and the contrast is more
marked because the average per policy
written last year was £313 compared witli
£237 11 years back. Comparisons of the
volume of new business are given in the
next table :
1880 .. £823,210 1 1917 .. £1,937,242
1890 .. 1,880,800 I 1918 .. 1,654,400
1900 .. 610,638 I 1919 .. 2,207,923
1905 .. 922,401 | 1920 .. 2,482,385
1910 .. 2,598,247 I 1921 .. 2,578,774
1912 .. 3,227,737 I 1922 .. 2,317,665
1915 . . 1,298,248 I 1923 . . 2,516,327
The effect the younger policies have had is
strikingly shown by the ratio of claims to
total income: 1910, 59.8 p.c.; 1915, 51.6 p.c.;
1922, 46 p.c.; 1923, 46.2 p.c.
Another feature of the enlarged business
is the lessened costs rate: —
Expenses ’Compared with Total Income.
1905 ..£2l 17 10 p.c. i 1917 ..£l6 6 4 p.c.
1910 . . 20 16 4 „ | 1918 .. 15 0 4 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 ~ | 1919 .. 16 8 6 „
1913 .. 25 5 8 „ I 1920 .. 16 8 10 „
1914 .. 19 19 3 „ 1921 .. 17 5 1 „
1915 .. 14 19 7 „ 1922 .. 15 17 1 „
1916 .. 15 7 0 „ 1923 .. 15 16 5
The latest accounts show a substantial im-
provement on the figures for 1922. Allow-
ing 7 p.c. as the cost of renewals, and charg-
ing the balance against first premiums, last
year’s new business costs were 108 p.c. com-
pared with 123 p.c. for the previous 12
months. Taking another accepted method of
distributing costs —allowing that new busi-
ness is 10 times more expensive than old —■
the renewals rate last year was 9.5 p.c. and
the new business cost 95 p.c., compared with
10.3 p.c. and 103 p.c. respectively for the
previous year, and 12.1 p.c. and 121 p.c. for
1914. Another important factor besides the
larger business and watchful management is
helping to reduce the expense rate. For
the first half of its life the Colonial Mutual
worked on low premium rates; they were
revised in 1899, but were still “very mod-
erate and below those of most other cos.”;
and the scale was increased to the “average
level of competing offices” only six years
ago. The volume of business written since
premiums were increased confirms the state-
ment frequently made by the “Wild Cat”
that the insuring public is not much con-
cerned with variations in premium rates,
but is generally impressed by the size of
bonuses which are distributed. As a rule it
* refers to pay the “excessive price,” of which
s > much has been spoken lately, and in
tne end receive the extra profits which the
societies are thus able to show in the form
of additional assurance. So far the higher
premiums have not affected the Colonial
Mutual to any extent; the proportion of new
business to old assurances is still not large,
but as the business under the new tables
grows, and provided management charges
can be kept down, expense rates should de-
cline and bonuses become larger.
Meanwhile interest-earning is improving
and helping to enlarge surpluses. The fol-
lowing calculations are returns on average
funds after charging taxes payable on in-
vestment income:—
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 .. £3 17 11 p.c. 1918 .. £4 13 10 p.c.
1910 . . 4 3 10 „ 1919 . . 4 16 0 „
1914 .. 4 9 10 ~ 1920 .. 4 17 9 „
1915 . . 4 9 11 „ 1921 . . 5 0 5 „
1916 . . 4 10 5 „ 1922 . . 5 2 6 „
1917 .. 4 10 11 „ 1923 .. 5 2 11 „
The increased average return is producing
£37,000 more per annum than that of six
years ago would have done. This and other
improvements, coupled with a mortality rate
which is slightly less than three-fourths of
the actuary’s estimate, has permitted the
Colonial Mutual to disclose a record profit
for the past year and to increase its bonus
allotments. The estimated liability at Decem-
ber 31 last, under 75,500 policies assuring
201 millions, was £5,948,002, and that was
£301,988 less than funds accumulated. Policy-
holders aged 80 and over who have been
paying into the office for 35 years or more
are being released from further contributions,
and reversionary bonuses on all participating
policies have been increased from 10s. to £1
throughout according to the life of policies.
This takes the bonuses to £2 per £lOO of
assurance five years in force, and in propor-
tion until £6 is credited to policies 45 years
in force. While the affairs of the Ordinary
branch have thus steadily improved, the In-
dustrial department has made rapid progress.
That section of the business will be reviewed
next week.
* * * *
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Mav, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1914. . £17,094 10 p.c. =£13,021 £4073 £28,458
1915.. 18,968 10 „ „ 15,000 3968 32,426
1916.. 17,337 10 „ 15,000 2337 34,763
1917.. 12,976 9 „ „ 13,500 34,239
1918.. 12,563 8 ~ ~ 12,000 563 34,802
1919.. 22,614 13 „ ~19,500 3114 37,916
1920.. 17,812 10 „ „ 15,000 2812 40,728
1921.. 17,622 10 „ „ 15,000 2622 43,350
1922.. 17,708 10 „ „ 15,000 2708 46.058
1923.. 17,018 10 „ „ 15,000 2018 48,076
1924.. 16,106 10 „ „ 15,000 1106 49,182
Since it began in 1906 Allen Taylor’s co.
has paid 10 p.c. consistently—at first on
£60,000 of paid capital, and for the past 10
years on £150.000. In two of the 18 years
the div. rate did drop a point or two, but a
bit extra was distributed at the first oppor-
tunity to level up the average. The policy
has been to show as profit very little more
than the div. called for. In the last two sets
of accounts, for instance, the “net profit”
has been only £lB and £lO6 more than the
div. payments, and no information is given
as to tbe amounts struck off earnings—for
depreciation, etc. But in addition to the
profits treated by the directors as distribut-
able, there are others visible which are not
included in the published balance-sheets.
From the beginning a special reserve fund
account, invested outside the business and
shown separately, has been steadily accumu-
lated, and the major portion of the earnings
of these investments are credited direct to
the fund. It now totals a round £43,000,
and for the past 12 months £lOOO was added,
compared with £2OOO for 1923 and £2500 for
1922. In the introductory table this invest-
ment fund is included with reserves and the
annual additions are reckoned as profits. The
co. is visibly not doing nearly so well as it
used to —particularly considering the size
of reserves—and, of course, the 10 p.c. tos
shareholders is not worth as much as it for-
merly was. Ten years back State-construc-
tion booms, financed by large borrowings,
were assisting cos. like Allen Taylor’s, and
though there has been revived activity in tbe
past couple of years disclosed profits have
not responded. Possibly the co. is doing
better than it says: as operations for the
past 12 months have increased trade accounts
from £28,829 to £45.404, the management
may have been providing against contingen-
cies. They admit that financial difficulties
—not their own, apparently—“hampered the
business generally.”
To carry the larger book debts and big
stock liabilities at May 31 last were
of record dimensions. Here are comparisons
going back 10 years:—
1914. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Liabilities .. £37,386 £55,372 £77,247 £93,532
Country mills, etc. 35,590 66,229 66,491 67,378
City wharves, free-
holds, mills, plant,
etc 6,000 14,500 17,607 17,107
Vessels .. .. 31,183 19,666 19,060 18,560
Book debts, etc. .. 62,018 38,873 38,343 55,611
Cash, investments,
etc. .. .. 40,320 50,076 51,508 54,124
Stocks . . .. 41,504 69,586 89,815 87,435
The £93,532 of debts at the balancing date
were made up of £69,734 owing to sundry
creditors, £12.000 overdraft in respect of a
property purchase, £3126 overdraft on work-
ing account, and £8672 of suspense accounts.
On the other side, however, were fixed de-
posits, War Loan, municipal debentures and
shares in other cos.—the investments of the
reserve fund —with a book value of £43,000.
Stocks, book debts and odds-and-ends of cash
assets totalled £154,170 —more than £3 for
every £1 of debt not covered by outside liquid
investments. When the final div. had been
extracted, the books showed a surplus of
liquid assets (including stocks and book
debts) equal to 12s. 9d. per £1 share, with
13s. Bd. more per share in properties, mills,
vessels and equipment—all in good order and
the book values protected by “the necessary
depreciation allowances.”
* * * *
Manufacturers’ Mutual Insurance,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Donations
Divi- Bonus to to Ch.
dends. Policy- of Manu- Re-
April, Profit. 10 p.c. holders, factures. serves.
1915 .. £5,431 £155 £2,530 £lO £2,570
1916 . . 7,363 172 4,593 100 5,068
1917 ... 10,791 198 6,832 150 8,679
1918 . . 12,635 228 7,107 200 13,779
1919 . . 11,630 261 5,247 300 19,601
1920 .. 16,156 403 7,109 350 27,895
1921 . . 26,317 451 10,125 400 43,236
1922 . . 24,578 473 15,219 1000 51.122
1923 .. 27,647 498 17,589 1000 59,682
1924 .. 30,202 509 16,874 1500 71,001
The performances of this little insurance co.
—paid capital is only £5095 —are a splendid
example of what can be achieved by co-
operation and good management. In 1914 a
number of N. 8. Wales members of the
Chamber of Manufactures were got together
to pool their insurances, and early success
had a snowball effect in succeeding years.
The introductory table gives one view of re-
sults ; the next helps to explain how they
were won:—
Loss Expense
Net Ex- Ratio. Ratio.*
Premiums. Claims, penses.* p.c. p.c.
1915 . . £6,854 £619 £857 8.0 12.5
1916 . . 11,023 2,291 1,342 20.8 12.1
1917 . . 16,487 3,722 2,072 22.5 12.6
1918 . . 23,870 8,703 3,000 36.4 12.6
• 1919 . . 26,472 11,602 3,211 44.0 12.1
1920 . . 36,447 15,434 5,058 42.3 13.9
1921 . . 64,595 32,930 6,041 50.9 9.3
1922 . . 70,065 39,130 7,246 55.8 10.3
1923 . . 73,760 40,067 9.208 54.3 12.5
1924 . . 80,354 44,856 10,698 55.8 13.3
* Apart from income-taxes.
Premiums were expanded a good deal by the
increase in wages when war conditions sent
commodity values soaring: the co.’s principal
line is workmen’s compensation insurance,
and premiums are assessed on the amounts
paid in wages. On the other hand, the
growth of income for the past two years—
particularly 1922—was affected by a small
decline in rates of pay and also by the in-
dustrial depression which curtailed the wages-
sheets; so the recent enlargement of the in-
surance turnover was really more creditable
than the figures indicate. Incidentally, the
management in recent years has increased its
retentions, the large reserves which have accu-
mulated warranting the co. carrying a larger
proportion of risks —except, of course, in
marine business. The next table shows the
extent of re-insurances :
Gross Re- Net
Premiums, insurances. Premiums.
1922 .. £80,201 £10,136 £70,065
1923 .. 88,235 14,475 73,760
1924 . . 93,320 12,966 80,354
An interesting feature of the underwriting
table w r as the steady climb of the claims
rate as the benefits provided by policies
became more widely known by employees;
however, for several years the loss ratios
have been very steady, and 55 p.c. seems to
be the approximate normal. Ordinarily a
claims rate of that size would not give a big
profit margin after paying all exes.; but it
is in savings of costs that this office reaps
its harvests. Excluding only taxes, costs for
tbe past 12 months worked out at only 13.3
p.c. of net premium income. Slightly less
than three-tenths of net premiums, therefore,
become available for divs., bonuses, reserves
and taxes. Interest earnings are now help-
ing profits materially: the past year’s
£30,202 of surplus was made up of £24,800
from underwriting and £5402 from invest-
ments, the annual interest receipts now ex-
ceeding paid capital.
From the beginning 10 p.c. has been paid
regularly on capital, but that takes, only a
few hundreds annually. Altogether in divs.,
bonuses to policy-holders and votes to the
Chamber of Manufactures over £lOO,OOO
has been distributed in 10 years. Meanwhile
the lay-by has been substantial: besides
£32,142 lying at reserve for unexpired risks
(that is exactly 40 p.c. of net premiums,
which is the customary reservation), £38,859
more had been accumulated when latest
distributions had been made. These reserves
to some extent compensate for the small
capital though as it is a co-operative busi-
ness the size of capital does not matter as
it would in a proprietary office carrying out-
side risks. The £71,000 which has accumu-
lated is a very handy stocking into which the
management can dip if it has the misfortune
to be hit by disaster. The balance-sheet at
April 30 totalled £127,198 of best-class assets.
Public securities and cash accounted for
£107,57(5; book debts amounted to £13,742 :
and motor-cars and office equipment which
had cost £1833 had been written down to
£6lB. A new entry is a property invest-
ment : £5262 had been paid as a deposit on
premises for the co.’s headquarters, and, inci-
dentally, also for the parent Chamber.
* * * *
Gibson and Howes, Ltd., who own sugar-
plantations and refineries at Bundaberg
(Q.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. £48,747 20 p.c. = £42,000 £6747 £25,088
1922.. 50,196 20 ~ „ 42,000 8196 33,284
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 3,284
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9153 12,437
These names of Gibson and Howes have been
associated with the Queensland sugar indus-
try for two generations: the Gibsons com-
menced cane-planting on the Brisbane River
in 1869. The sons of the original partners
now control the business. The present co.
took over in 1904, but the public w:as in-
vited to become interested only last year,
when the shares were listed on three stock
exchanges. The co.’s interests are all in
the Bundaberg district. It owns the Bin-
gera plantation—Booo acres on the Burnett
River, equipped with irrigation plant and
connected by railway with the Bundaberg
refinery and the Government railway system.
In addition to its own cane the co. purchases
the crops of over 300 growers for treatment
at its Bundaberg refinery, which has a capa-
city of 15,000 tons sugar per season. After
a bad run in 1919-20, owing to a severe
drought, the co. struck a good patch, and 20
p.c. divs. were paid in the two following
years. Operations last season were also
affected by droughty conditions, and as crops
were smaller and raw sugar fell £3 6s. Bd.
to £27 per ton, profits were £22,000 smaller
than in the previous year. Nevertheless, they
were sufficient to give 8 p.c. on the £240,000
of capital and leave £9153 for reserves. The
£240,000 of paid capital includes £30,000 of
scrip issued to shareholders last year out of
accumulated profits as some compensation for
the absence of divs. in 1919 and 1920,
The next table gives balance-sheet figures
for the past three years:—-
1921 1922. 1923.
Paid capital .. . . £210,000 £210,000 £240,000
Liabilities . . . . 16,205 43,112 30,602
Freeholds, machinery
and plant .. .. 162,031 167,042 190,327
Stocks .. . . 30,851 33,743 48,641
War Loan . . . . 16,000 16,000 10,000
Debtors, cash, etc. .. 65,211 80.111 46,706
The position is snug: at December 31 there
were stocks, book debts, War Loan and cash
for £105,347 against £30,602 of outside debt.
In addition to the £12.437 of reserves shown
by the introductory table there are large in-
ternal accumulations: freeholds (including
the 8000 acres with a nine-miles front to the
Burnett), buildings, machinery and plant,
tramways, etc., have been written down to
£190,327, but the factory and its equipment
alone were valued at £223,000 by the Gov-
ernment Valuer in 1922, and considerable
extensions and improvements have since been
made. Further additions are now in hand
to increase crushing capacity and improve:
manufacturing efficiency. The co. houses its;
staff at nominal rents, and it has been prac-
tically free from labor troubles. Gibson and
Howes, Ltd., appears to be well equipped for
earning good average divs. for £240,000 of
capital, and a bit more when seasons and
market prices are favorable. Just at present
the outlook is particularly bright; recent
rains have made the crop prospects for 1924
promising.
* * * *
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
millers, preservers, manufacturers of biscuits
and other foodstuffs :
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1914. . £27,727 9 p.c. = £14.749 £12,978 £107,389
1915.. 33,105 9 „ „ 16,523 16,582 123,962
1916.. 11,545 74 „ „ 14,594 120,913
1917.. 16,072 8 „ „ 15,832 240 121,153
1918.. 29,663 10 „ ~21.426 8,237 129,390
1919.. 28,637 10 „ ~ 22.525 6,112 135,502
1920.. 27,938 10 „ ~ 22,812 5,126 140,628
1921.. 5,009 74 „ ~19,018 129,619
1922.. 11,844 6 „ „ 17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ ~20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in .. 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 .. 94,893
1924.. 33,896 8 p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105.138
For more than 30 years the present Swallow
and Ariell Co. had regularly issued a freak
balance-sheet. The “original purchase” item
had remained unaltered at £148.500, and
all writings down of buildings, plant, etc.,
had been struck off the book values of addi-
tions the co. itself had made. Provided suffi-
cient had been allowed for depreciation of
all assets throughout the period, the aggre-
gate balance-sheet figures would have been
satisfactory, though it was misleading to show
the block of assets taken over at the begin-
ning as having suffered no loss of values
whatever: some of the machinery and plant
should have been depreciated out of exist-
ence several times. During the past 12
months the directors decided to re-value
assets and remodel the balance-sheet so
that the position would be more clearly
stated.” Sydney Arnold, Best and Co.
valued the freehold properties, and Johnson
and Sons the machinery and plant. The
former group, with additions since the valua-
tion, now appear at £149,630, find the latter


NOW ON SALE.
“Wild Cat” Monthly
FOR JUNE.
Financial Reviews and Other Information
useful to Investors, etc.
Aerated Bread
Arthur Rickard Extended
Australian Medical and
General Assurance.
Bagot’s Exec. & Trustee
Bank of Australasia
Bank of N. S. Wales
Bushells, Ltd.
Castle Salt
Citizens and Graziers’
Assurance
Co-operative Wool and
Produce.
Country Producers’ Sell-
ing Co.
Dental & Medical Supply
“Echo” Reproductions
English Electric of Aus.
Foster’s Australian Fibres
Goeben Wheels
Gordon & Gotch
Guarantee & Finance Co.
Life Assurance Amalga-
mations
Life Insurance Co. of
Australia
Metters, Ltd.
Myer’s (Aus.), Ltd.
National Bank of Aus-
tralasia
New Share Issues
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
N.Z. Trustee & Agen;y
Pacific Insurance
Primary Producers’ Bank
Prospectuses
Provident Life Assurance
Registrations
Seymour Gravel and
Concrete
Sign-Ads.
Shortland Islands Plan-
tations
Sun Newspapers
Victoria Glasin Pty.
Ori sale at Bookstalls in all States and New
Zealand; at Swain’s. Pitt Street, Sydney,
and The Bulletin Oflice. Orders may be
placed through any newsagent.
Price, 2/- iter copy; or 22/G per annum,
post free.
Twenty-five thousand Wilton Patent Furnaces are
now working throughout the world, using up slack
coal, coke-breeze, peat and lignite—thereby saving
thousands. They can be installed to any type of
boiler. Write to the Furnace and Power Plant Con-
struction Co., Ltd., Metropolitan Buildings, Hunter
Street, Sydney, who will install and design all classes
of industrial and metallurgical heating furnaces.
—Advt.
* * * *
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact, everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros.. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
As a clean conduit Pioneer Wood Pipe is un-
rivalled. It discharges the water as pure as it
leaves the source, no rust, no corrosion defiles it, and
the smooth interior bore of the pipe allows no foot-
hold for organic choking growths. With this point
in mind the Launceston City Council, who are
carrying out a purification of their city water sup-
ply, have placed a contract with the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., for the supply and installation
of 4586 ft. 24in. diameter 'Wood Stave Pipe. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.-— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colijson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The new British-made “NATIONAL” Vertical
Single Line Suction Gas Engines being installed at.
Bathurst, Parkes and Dubbo, N.S.W., for generating
electric energy aggregate 1300 horse-power. The fuel
for these engines at Bathurst and Parkes will be
from local timber and at Dubbo from coke manu-
factured at the local gasworks. The sole agents,
Arthur Leplastrier and Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, advise that alter-
nators direct coupled to these engines may be paral-
leled. The maximum cyclical variation of the larger
units should not exceed 1 in 1485, which is impossible
of accomplishment with any other type of engine
excepting high-speed steam engines, the fuel costs of
which, however, are excessive.— Advt.
* * * *
Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., having established large
engineering works and iron foundries at Regents
Park, N.S.W., for the manufacture of their well-
known water-tube boilers, smokeless mechanical
stokers, electric cranes, etc., also undertake the
design and manufacture of cast-iron and structural-
steel reauirements. — Advt.
* * * *
A high-class line of Italian Microscopes, known as
the “Roristka,” pronounced by eminent authorities to
be equal to the best German instruments, are now
being offered by Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, who have been appointed
sole Australian agents. Inquiries will be promptly
responded to. — Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH PROPRIETARY LIMITED
has been registered in Australia as part of the policy of
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE EMPIRE,
which is being pursued by the Directors of
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Railways
Harbors
Docks
Waterways
Water Power
Irrigation
Water Supply.
Bridges,
etc., etc.
Melbourne:
395 Collins Street
(National Mutual Building:),
Telephones: Central 7091-2.
Cables: “Arwhitcoy.”
London:
Sir W. G. Armstrong:,
Whitworth & Co.. Ltd.,
8 Great George Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.
Sydney:
Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagli Street.
Telephone: B-1507.
Cables: “Hytlrocivil.”
THE LATEST.
Hidden Valley, via Pine Creek, N.T.
June 6, 1924.
The “Curvilinear” Tables are giving entire satisfaction.
S. R. WEST, Mgr.
rhe above were bought by the Commonwealth Government after full investigation
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees:
Guthridge Limited, Camperdown, Sydney.
at. £11?),128. These figures fully support the
totals which the previous balance-sheets had
claimed ; but the directors do not say whether
the net entries are the figures reached by
the valuers. If they are, then no doubt
they include a large sum from the apprecia-
tion of property values in recent years, and
the fact that there has been no surplus on
former book values must be taken to mean
either (1) that previously machinery and
plant had not been adequately depreciated,
or (2) that until the property appreciation
of recent years old book values were in
excess of their current values. However, as
the directors do not go into details,, these
aspects of the re-arrangement cannot be
satisfactorily examined. There had previ-
ously been an unknown amount of goodwill
included with fixed assets: the latest accounts
say that “goodwill of £40,000 has this year
been written off the reserve fund.” It would
be interesting to know whether £40,000 was
the full amount paid for goodwill in the
£148,500 purchase price in 1888. But what-
ever was paid for goodwill in those bad old
boom days it was obvious that for many
years the business was over-capitalised. For
10 years to 1909, for instance, the co. could
squeeze out average divs. of only If p.c. p.a.
For the period covered by the introductory
table, and with reserves accumulated in the
years of tiny divs., the co. has made a good
recovery in profit earning; that is, of course,
if sufficient allowance was made for
wastage of assets prior to disclosing sur-
pluses. Though profits have once more got
into the 30 thousands, they are relatively not
so good as the earnings of nine and 10 years
ago. In 1915 paid capital was £189,398;
it is now £300,000. Latest profits, however,
have returned almost 11.3 p.c. on capital, so
there has been a substantial lay-by after dis-
tributing . 8 p.c. The return on total funds,
though, is not large; on capital and the
£105,138 of reserves it is 8.3 p.c. In the
comparisons which follow it has been
assumed that goodwill has been £40,000
throughout, and that amount has been de-
ducted from the book values of fixed assets:
1914. 1922. 1923. 1924.
Capital .. £174,688 £290,160 £290,393 £300,000
Overdraft . . 36,161 56,645 50,256 45,335
Mortgages, etc. 11,000 17,000 17,000 17,000
Other debts . . 47,949 56,575 74,494 48,405
Fixed assets. . 205,972 316,280 306,803 326,773
Stocks .. 90,307 121,397 149,152 108,211
Book debts . . 50,759 76,332 82,349 92,732
Cash, etc. . . 355 1,353 1,139 981
During the past 10 years a lot of money has
gone into factories. Another feature of the
comparisons is that stocks have become
much smaller than in recent years, though
meantime book debts have expanded.
Since 1914 outlay on fixed assets and
funds required to carry customers have
taken all the new capital and accu-
mulated profits, besides increasing out-
side liabilities from £95,100 to £110,740.
After extracting the past year’s final div.
there were liquid assets for approximately
£190,000 to set against the £110,740 of debts,
giving a liquid surplus of £79,260, equal to
ss. 3d. per £1 share. There is 21s. 9d. more
in the book value of property and other fac-
tory assets, but, of course, as the co.’s earlier
performances showed, profit-earning is the
thing that counts. One-third of the capital,
by the way, is in 6 p.c. participating prefs.
With preferential security and rights to
cumulative divs. of 6 p.c., and also to follow
ordinaries point for point, this scrip at recent
market prices of around 235. is attractive in
view of the better earnings.
* * * »
The Mt. Lyell crowd has been very back-
ward in giving information about the sale of
its Electrolytic Zinc shares. It originally
held 109,000 8 p.c. prefs., but cut out of them
in 1922. It also owned 213,965 deferred
shares; these and the prefs. having been the
consideration received for the sale to Collins
House of the rights over the Mt. Kead-
Ilercules-Primrose group, which the timid
Lyell crowd neglected to develop after Lind-
say Tulloch passed away. Now the mines
are a second string to the Risdon bow, but it
is a slow process getting Gepp to work them.
Concentrates are easy to handle compared
with the complex Read-Rosebery ores. Some
day, though, an irate Parliament may tell
E.Z. to get to work seriously, or else give
others a chance. The point the market wants
cleared up with respect to Lyell’s holding is
how many of the 213,965 deferreds its own
shareholders took up at 16s. per share, and
how many were left for others, who those
others were, and what was the price they
paid.
* * * *
The long-contemplated Mt. Elliott-Hamp-
den deal is to mature. It would have come
off years ago had the copper market not gone
sick. Collins House has a feeling that if
Mt. Isa shapes properly, there may be such a
hustle in the Northern State that people
who hold mineral shows will be compelled
to work or lose them. Mt. Oxide (which is
in the deal) is a plum, but wants a rail-
way. Hampden is a has-been and the Elliott
group has nothing better than 3 p.c. ore.
If Isa makes good at depth, it will get a
railway, possibly instead of Mt. Oxide, unless
the. latter puts up cash or guarantees traffic.
Mt. Cuthbert, Cloncurry (Q.), having
reached its last gasp—only 3d. per share is
callable—the bank, bond-holders and first-
mortgage debenture-holders have agreed to
throw the derelict on to the market. When
the co. shut down in 1920, in its string of
seven mines it had estimated ore reserves
of 193,500 tons containing 13,245 tons cop-
per. The old Cuthbert mine had 37,000 tons
of 6 p.c. ore, the Kalkadoon 30,000 tons of
10 p.c. and the Orphan 38,000 tons of 8
p.c. Mines and plant have been kept in
good order in the hope that the copper market
would recover and that new capital would
be forthcoming to make a fresh start. But
the world’s markets are supplied with cheap
copper, and the outlook for Australian mines
is at the _ moment hopeless. Nevertheless,
Cuthbert informs prospective bidders that
smelting and mining plants which cost “over
£100,000” are in good condition and fit for
“economic mining.” As a further inducement:
The ore bodies are large and persistent in depth so
far as followed (the lowest level is 400 ft.), and the
nature and blend of the ores from the various mines
make a self-fluxing proposition, and no extraneous
flux is required.
Tenders close on August 14.
* * * *
More gold was_ produced in Westralia dur-
ing the first half of this year than for the
first six montns oi-laLd. Winnings by the re-
organised plants of the Sons of Gwalia and
Lake View and Star, and increased yields
from parts of the Murchison and Yilgarn
fields, accounted for the improvement. To
date the State has produced £152,529,478
worth.
« • • •
Westralia has another gold find for Adel-
aide to gamble on. The discovery is about
160 miles noi’th of Leonora, and less than
half that east of Mt. Sir Samuel. Pros-
pects are promising, but so far insufficient
work has been done to determine the size
or permanency of the reefs. Meanwhile,
the surrounding country has been pegged for
miles, and large sums are being impudently
asked for blocks which have nothing in sight
and on which no pick has been used. The
customary invasion by hard-up cos. has
already begun. That well-known migratory
pair, Golden Butterfly and Hansel Mundy,
have led the way, followed by Tarcoola
Blocks, Ives Prop, and others. Other down-
and-out cos. are hurriedly placing reserve or
forfeited shares, preparatory to making a
bid in the gamble.
The old Mainland Consols, Cue (W.A.),
is to be given another trial. This mine
yielded rich returns in the early days, and
was at one time thought to be a big thing.
But values declined at a comparatively
shallow depth, and operations ceased. The
new crowd are banking on the shoot improv-
ing again at depth, but they are governed
more by their own optimism than by sound
geological evidence.
* * • *
Two Adelaide cos., King of Creation and
Empire Extended, a while back ventured into
the White Horseshoe and Salvation mines
respectively, but neither . went far enough.
These shows are south of Southern Cross.
Since the cos. abandoned their options good
finds have been made in both. The White
Horseshoe now has 10ft. of 2oz. ore exposed,
while 400 tons of ounce stuff were recently
raised from the Salvation.
• « • •
N. S. Wales Government Geologist E. C.
Andrews has issued a supplement to his
comprehensive “Geology of the Broken Hill
District” in which he sums up the chances
of that area giving anything impressive out-
side its one big lode. Excepting the B.H.
lode and the Pinnacles, he says,
the ore deposits of the district are too small to
warrant the attention of large cos., or, indeed, the
attention of other than small working parties. These
remarks are intended to be applied only to the
Broken Hill “shield’’ proper, an area of 2000 sq.
miles. Beyond this area tin, wolfram, copper and
gold deposits of commercial importance may be
expected. This area is in decided nehd of a detailed
geological survey, and until this is done it cannot
rightly be said that the Broken Hill field has no
expectation of containing other great mineral deposits.
*** *
Vimy Ridge’s second crushing of 150 tons
produced 760 z. of £4 gold. The attempt to
raise £5OO in 10 p.c. debentures was only par-
tially successful. From the jump this N.S.W.
South Coast show has been under-capital-
ised : the directors had only £3250 at the
beginning to carry out development and to
erect plant, so that there was no margin for
miscalculations. These occurred, and recent
attempts to get hold of more capital were
prompted by the urgent need of a rock-
breaker and cyanide plant. Manager Mac-
kenzie now has 10-head at work on three
shifts. The ore, though not free-milling,
is not fractious. A minimum of 1000 tons
of ioz. stuff a month is expected to be handled
for some time.
* * * #
Hawkins Hill, alias Marshall’s Hill End
(N.S.W.), is attracting a little market atten-
tion again. Manager E. R. Cock is sinking
the Star of the Peace shaft 50ft. below the
900 ft. level, in order to get at a block of
ground supposed to contain the right stuff.
But one block of ore won’t restore the lost
glory of Hill End.
T. Warrick is the latest to set out to exam-
ine the Mt. Clear View mines, near Cape
River (N.Q.). He is directing operations
for a syndicate which took over the option
held by Mines Investigation, Ltd. The first
work will be to sink the main underlie to
the junction of the lodes, and also to push
south at 158 ft., as C. LI. Wray recommended
to the foriper option-holders. Clear View
has so far tantalised: large, good-looking for-
mations have been opened up, and work done
last year suggested that they should live
strong down to at least 300 ft. But values
have been erratic; it has been difficult to
decide whether the all-over average is pay-
able. Prospecting in the underlie from the
mainshaft showed about 10ft. of formation
early last year, and 33ft. of it appeared to
be good quartz. The show has lately been
exempted from labor conditions to permit the
new crowd in E. D. Miles’s Charters Towers
office to prepare a campaign.
* * * *
Gympie goldfield (Q.) is now a back-num-
ber. July 8 saw the last of the old Scot-
tish Gympie, whose machinery and plant
then passed under the hammer—just a year
after Glasgie decided to call a halt. Between
1895-1902 108 s. per share was paid on 30,000
shares; then a reconstruction increased the
register to 600,000 shares, but only 11s. 3d.
per share was paid on that lot. The boom
year was 1901, when 455. per share was dis-
tributed. Nowadays vegetable gardens impu-
dently nose up against the old dumps. Gym-
pie’s long suit nowadays is dairying and
fruit-growing.
* * * #
Tewantin Petroleum has gone to registra-
tion in Melbourne with a nominal capital of
£50,000 to take over the interests of the
Queensland Coastal Oil Concessions. The
50,000 10s. shares offered were oversubscribed.
The co. acquires rights over 10,000 acres, and
the purchase includes a complete percussion
drilling plant. No. 5 bore is down 300 ft.,
and the new co. proposes to shut off the
water to that depth and continue the hole
to 700 ft. Another well four miles away
was said to show 2.6 p.c. of free oil, and
Dr. Jensen, who was the Coastal Oil’s
adviser, is said to be “very hopeful that
payable oil wil'l be struck at between 500 ft.
and 700 ft.”
* # * *
At the Carlisle (Bendigo) the spurs at
1264 ft. have for some weeks barely paid ex-
penses. Grade has been half an ounce, but
the tonnage has been small. The two or
three flat spurs above the level, which in a
few months gave sufficient profit to pay off
plant and back-debts amounting to about
£7OOO, have been shown by rises to the north
and south to have a limited value-carrying
extent. The chief hope is that other good
spurs may be found lower down, and a west
crosscut is now going out at 22ft. below the
1264 ft. level, and should teil the tale in a few
weeks. If this crosscut fails to open up
a rich spur the outlook is blue. On the
other hand, a favorable result might be added
to by the short extension of an existing
crosscut at the 1327 ft. level, 40ft. below.
Even then the prospect of early divs. would
not be bright, as the expensive problem of
the rising water must soon be tackled.
* * * *
Bux is out with a prospectus for a pup
float to acquire its Nos. 1 and 2 Borneo con-
cessions, covering an area of about 40,000
acres. Capital is to be £250,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 62,500 go to prospector R.
M. Boyd, who allots 12,500 to underwriters
of the 100,000 ordinary shares offered for
subscription. Then 50,000 shares are to go
to Bux holders as consideration for rights
in the country they are handing over. Boyd
holds Dutch residential rights, and it _is
stated that he is entitled to hold exploitation
rights to mining areas under the Dutch East
Indies law. Therefore he will be the medium
between the Australian investor and the
Dutch authorities, provided that the People’s
Council and the Netherlands Upper Chamber
are willing to let an Australian concern test
the country, and, if successful, wrnrk it.
Geologist H. S. Lyne and Boyd both recom-
mend the venture, but nothing will be clear
until the Hague has nodded approval. A
new crowd gives the float tone: it includes
Tom Birkbeck, Alex. Campbell and his son,
Val Saddler, jun., and Walker Fowler,
formerly engineer-in-chief of the Speck’s rail-
ways, but now on the Silverton Tram Board.
* * * *
Australian-owmed Eastern Gold (Malaya),
N. which holds options in Siam, is issuing
another 200 shares paid to £4. This will
make 700 £lO contribs. altogether, each called
to £4. E. L. Miles, who held the options,
has left for Siam to superintend development.
» * # *
Leona (Tas.) hopes to commence tin-win-
ning by about the end of this month. The
110-h.p. suction-gas engine is ready for work,
the electric generator is expected daily and
a new pontoon is almost completed. The
testing of the ground is declared to have been
thoroughly satisfactory. Previous attempts
were almost entirely confined to the upper
drifts, but the newcomers talk of the lower
drifts “averaging 31b.” per yd. for a depth
of 13ft. and also of Bft. of the material above
giving a pound average. The plant will soon
settle all doubts.
Samples taken from a depth of 40ft. near
Lake Boga (Vie.) have been pronounced to
contain genuine crude petroleum by the
chemist of the Vic. Mines Department, who
has suggested a geological examination by
the State geologists.


JUST HIS WEIGHT.
“The Melbourne police are excelling themselves in the arrest of Chinese opium-smokers and gamblers. Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police advises citizens to carry revolvers and loaded sticks to protect themselves against the organised gangs of highway robbers and gunmen.”
JOHN HOP: “Don’t worry me about your highway robberies can’t you see I’m busy?”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. ..£315
The Nondescripts, Teralba, per T.
D. Mutch
Exchange
Frank H. Daley, Terrigal
£316
5 6
6 0
10 0
12 0
13 6
Contributions should be addressed to Tite
Bulletin Oflice, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
IS
Wh
mm
*8
t it!
Wm
am
1
tIF "*
PP*
mini
m
SB
Real Warmth and Comfort
The pure, fine, soft Australian wool used in Peapes’
“Warrigal” Rugs makes them ideal travelling
companions, or most acceptable as extra bedspreads
on Winter nights.
From the newest productions for the present
season may be quoted:—
“Warrigal” Rugs, all pure wool, full size
80in. x 90in., neatly designed in reversible check
patterns of light and dark Grey, Brown 7ZI
and Fawn
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ OUTFITTERS.
George Street (opp. Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
The original Pilsener Lager brewed
from Bohemian Malt and Hops,
Holsten Pilsener Lager
is the finest imported
Guaranteed free from all chemicals
Sold in first-class hotels by the glass 01
bottle. See that you get the true lager.
Obtainable from the distributors
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39-41 York Street, Sydney,
Or their Queensland Agents:—
GREY, HOOPER & GRIFFITHS, Perry House, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Skipper”: The “best turned-out sailor”
competition wherein it was so hard to separate
the leading pair (B. 26/6/’24) reminds me
QUITE NATURAL HISTORY.
“It wouldn’t make any difference to her—you men surely
don’t believe that fine feathers make fine birds.”
“No; but lots of us know that fine birds can get fine
feathers.”
of a Gretna Green race which formed the
star item of a brigade sports-meeting behind
the lines. A special prize was allotted for
the best-dressed “lady.” Several Diggers had
provided themselves with outfits from de-
serted houses in the forward zone, and com-
petition was keen. The judges—a colonel, a
major and a padre—eliminated all but
Smithers, Darky and Pongo. Darky went
out for not shaving close enough, but Bongo
and Smithers were the real thing, from high-
heeled shoes and silk stockings to face
powder and lipstick. A dead heat seemed in-
evitable until the colonel ordered a kit inspec-
tion. Then Pongo was discovered to be mas-
querading in his football shorts.
* * * *
“Van Cat”: A general complaint with
Aussies on active service was that they had
no news to put in their letters. Shells and
things like that became so common that they
were not considered important enough to men-
tion. Correspondence began to be a severe
task—except with the base wallah, who com-
posed epistles that made one’s hair stand on
end. A frequent sight in the trenches was a
Digger, brow furrowed, pencil poised in the
air, waiting vainly to catch an inspiration.
An introduction that was a good deal quoted
was composed by an Aussie writing to his
Blighty tart: “Dear Kid, I hope this finds
you as it leaves me at present. I pm in the
hospital all covered over with scabies.”
* * * *
“P.P.”: Yes, times have changed. The
other day in Sydney I was hailed from a
motor-car by a shearer of my acquaintance
and invited to have a farewell drink before
he started the engine. Over the parting
glass I learnt that my friend and his three
companions were partners in the motor-car,
which was to take them out to the Darling.
They had a long chain of stations whiting for
them there. Among the luggage stowed on
the car was a gramophone; they carried a
patent tent apparatus to fit to the car, and
a cooking-stove, with “steamers” for veget-
ables and puddings. The ghosts of old-time
shearers will stare as that carload of up-to-
date sheep-barbers whizzes by on the roads
they used to plod so wearily.
• # * ¥
“Der Jong” : Though I saw only one mili-
tary execution in South Africa, I can sup-
port “Sierra’s” assertion (B. 3/7/’24) that
the final revolver was not always used. Ilie
victim in this case had been caught in a
British officer’s uniform, a few days after De
Wet fell on a sleeping Yeomanry camp on
Christmas Eve, 1901. This man was shot
still wearing the uniform, blindfolded and
sitting in a chair. The puff of dust that flew
from the chest of his tunic when the bullets
struck, and the queer bagging out of the
garment as they passed out behind, were
the items of the show which struck me as
unexpected.
* * * ■ *
“H M.” • An elderly bachelor friend of
mine, call him Mcßiffkins, who has retired on
a comfortable income of about £6OO per
annum, fills in time by attending meetings
held in support of all sorts of causes. He
is always ready to lend a hand at an unem-
ployed demonstration, and at a recent gather-
ing brought on himself a blast of opprobrium
from a stout citizen by his refusal of work
as an odd-jobs man at 30 bob a week and
keep. Sometimes his “hear-hears” round oh
R.C. demands for subsidies for denomina-
tional schools; he is lavish of applause
at Orange demonstrations in favor or
curtailing the power of Rome; and even
feminist gatherings have been heartened
by his cheers. But at a recent meeting
to discuss the high cost of living an em-
barrassed silence fell on the gathering for a
moment or two when Mcßiffkins rose to
second a resolution “That we, the mothers
of the race, who bring into the world the
children who are to be the future men and
women of this country” Yet, from either
the absence of all sense of humor m the
mothers of the race or the presence ot
abundant tact and savoir faire, it is a solemn
fact that nobody laughed.
“Harry J.” : In the rest-huts
near Delville Wood in 1916 our
slumber was roughly broken by
one of Fritz’s big _ long-distance
disturbances whizzing down into
the mud alongside us. A second
later came a rumpus like a thun-
derstorm, the hut heaved up on one
side, and after some shuddering
vibrations settled down again in
time to receive a shower of muck
on the roof. Some big holes
were torn in the upper part of
our humpy, but nobody had suf-
fered more than a fright, which
we concealed under a series of
derisive remarks. The talk had
died down again when “W-what
was it?” came from one of the
reinforcements who had joined
us that morning. “Only a dud, ’
replied an old hand. There was
silence for about two minutes;
then a voice, shaky but intensely
earnest, was heard again. “Can
yer get invalided to Australia
with shellshock off a dud?” it
inquired.
“FY7”: The aeroplane promises to solve a
lot of the problems of the open spaces. A
lorry driver at Winton (N.-W.Q.) was badly
hurt the other day, and the nearest doctor
was summoned from Longreach, 110 miles
away. Hopping into a D.H.4, the medico
reached Winton in 55 minutes and operated
successfully. After lunch he flipped back to
Longreach, where he landed in plenty of
time for afternoon-tea. Twenty years ago
that trip would have taken 20 hours each
way in dry weather, under the best of con-
ditions, and the deuce knows how long in
wet.
* *
“E.D.”: An old Yic. middle-weight tells
me this story. One evening his wife, re-
sponding to a knock on the door, found a fine
lady on the mat, and waiting in the street
a carriage and pair. The well-dressed
madame opened out with. “You are Mrs.
Stoush, aren’t you? Yes, then I have a com-
mission for your husband.” Told that Mr.
Stoush was not at home, the lady continued:
“Well, you might tell him to call when he
returns. He is a professional pugilist, is he
not?” Mrs. Stoush replied proudly that her
Bill was ex-middleweight champion of the
State. “Then,” said the caller, “I want him
to call round some time to-morrow and beat
my husband, and he can charge it to me at
his usual rates.” Bill, being as peaceful a
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“Still living at the Boomerang?”
“Oh, no; I’ve got a flat of my own.”
“How swish! Do I know the beggar?”
pug as ever swung an upper-cut, declined the
commission. Whereupon, no doubt, the
grand dame went about declaring contemptu-
ously: “The fact is the working classes don't
want work.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: In a recent case before the
N.S.W. Supreme Court mention was made
of a police-constable who asked the occu-
pants of some premises “Whose parrot is
this?” and was surprised to be assured by
the bird itself: “I’m Mrs. Clark’s cocky!”
The bird had been carefully taught the
phrase as a precaution against its possible
theft. I know of people who for a similar
reason taught their prize talker to say, “I’ve
been stolen ; these people are thieves.” There
were no untoward consequences as long as
the owners remained in the district where
they were well known ; but later they gave
up their home, and took the parrot with
them to a city boarding-house. Thereafter
they had surprising adventures, and in some
eases had to allay the suspicions of police-
men who had been brought in by sniffing
landladies. The slanderous bird had its neck
wrung eventually.
* * * *
“Crabwapper” : As my brother and I dis-
mantled the old scaffold at Melbourne Gaol
and erected the new one at Coburg, I think
I know something about the old trap-door
which, according to “I Arty” (B. 3/7/’24).
came into possession of a warder who had
it sawn up for distribution among souvenir-
hunters. The officer in question merely re-
ceived about enough wood to boil a billy of
water; the rest of the trap-door is now rot-
ting at Pentridge. Melbourne’s first hanging,
by the way, was not on the scaffold lately
dismantled, which was only erected in 18(55.
There may have been 173 hangings in Vic-
toria, but only 106 took place at Melbourne
Gaol, and not all of these on the scaffold
that has been scrapped.
* * * *
“D.D.”: While a six-year-old boy was
under X-ray examination in Christchurch
(M.L.) Hospital the other day it was
found that his heart was on the side
opposite to where hearts usually reside,
and that his stomach was reversed.
The youngster is healthy and strong,
and all his other organs are normal.
The officiating medico said he had never seen
such a thing before. But it was not unique.
Ernest Hector Abbott, an employee of the
Mount Lyell Co. (Tas.), 25 years of age,
about a dozen years ago died in Queenstown
Hospital. A post-mortem by Dr. Hamilton
showed that there was a complete reversal of
all internal organs. The heart was on the
right side and the liver on the left side. The
stomach was completely reversed. The large
blood A'essels ran down the opposite side to
where they are commonly found. The intes-
tines were reversed, the coecum and appendix
being on the left side. The termination of the
bowels was down the right side, and the
spleen on the left side. Yet in this case, too,
the functions of the body were all perfectly
natural.
“X.N.0.”: Let me peg out my claim to
fame. We know who won the first V.C., and
who was the first Australian V.C.. and there
are many claimants t<>
have been the last to
leave Gallipoli, and
someone tired the last
shot in the Big Scrap.
But I was the first to
capture a Turk. He was
the only one avail-
able, being the whole
strength of the Turk-
ish garrison at
Mowi 1 a, on th e
Arabian coast, near
the entrance to the
Gulf of Akaba. Some-
one got an idea that
the Turks were mass-
ing at Mowila for a
dash across to Egypt,
and the destroyer of
which I was No. 1
was sent to investi-
gate. The only Turk
we found was the
local John Hop, who
lived in the stone
“fortress,” with sev-
eral wives. He came
down with the Sheik
to greet us on the
beach, and I had his
evil-looking scimitar
and some other musi-
cal-comedy brigand
trappings removed,
and himself placed in
charge of the boat-
keepers. The inter-
preter said the Sheik
was quite pleased
about it, as the repre-
sentative of the Sul-
tan wasn’t at all
popular. I found his
wives—half a dozen of
them weeping bit-
terly in the “fortress,”
and was very glad
they didn’t embrace
me when I promised
that their bread-winner would not be hurt.
I let him go when we’d finished our inspec-
tion. That was on November 4, T 4. Can
anyone antedate me?
“Adelaide”: An unusually plucky act on
the part of one Croft, of Wolseley (S.A.),
has been noted by the Railways Department
which employs him. He saw a small boy on
the rails in front of a shunting engine, dashed
in and threw the child into safety on the
platform, and saved his own life only by
hopping on to the cow-catcher. The inherited
English dread of drowning has made Aus-
tralia keep most of its life-saving rewards
for those who fetch people out of water,
often at no risk worth mentioning to them-
selves, and it is about time dry-land acts of
rescue which are often far braver got their
turn for notice.
MAN’S PRIVILEGE.
WILLIE : “You know, dearest, it really was
your fault.”
EAU-DE-NILLY : “ That's no reason, if you
are a gentleman, why you shouldn’t
apologise.”
SHOUT PRAYER COMPOSED WHILE TRAVELLING
CITYWARDS IN A SECOND-CLASS COMPARTMENT
CONTAINING TEN LARGE ADULTS, HALF-A-
DOZEN ASSORTED CHILDREN, ONE HUNDRED-
WEIGHT OF MIXED LUGGAGE, AND THE RUINS
OF SEVERAL TREES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
May bunyips on those vandals sup
Who to the bushland stray
To tear its dewy glories up
And cart the scraps away,
And with their greedy pillage flood
The overflowing train
Until it seems that Birnam Wood
Is travelling again!
Drooped like the plumes upon a hearse,
Limp as a draggled fur,
The wilting wattle seems to curse
Its senseless ravisher.
The bloom whose glory once enriched
Some cool, sequestered track,
Like common merchandise is pitched
Pell-mell into the rack.
Dragged from soft rain and open sky,
The wind’s clasp and release,
Just that its battered lees may die
Upon some mantelpiece!
What have these boughs of forest birth
To do with pots of delf?
The spray upon the tree is worth
Ten thousand on the shelf!
Oh, may there rise some seer divine
Who’ll teach us to enjoy,
So we at Beauty’s op6n shrine
May worship, not destroy!
And, civilised, no longer spill
Her cup, nor harry down
The splendor of the hush to All
The garbage-tins of town!
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


AN OLD TRICK GOES WRONG.


V
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
20forF6
MADE IN LONDON BYARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.
“M.G.S.”: Now that nations, instead of
merely kings and princes, go to war, war
has lost much of its old amenity. In the
aristocratic struggles of the past, isolation
between the ruling castes would have been
regarded as a greater disaster than losing
a battle. One can’t imagine Sterne making
his “Sentimental Journey” through Germany
and Austria during the late war; and to the
civilian of to-day, bred in the savage tradi-
tions of 1914, Sterne’s account of liis pass-
port difficulties in Paris sound like fantastic
nonsense:—
When I got home to my hotel, La Fleur told me
I had been inquired after by the Lieutenant de Police.
... .1 had left London with so much precipitation
that it never entered my mind that we were at war
with France, and had reached Dover before the idea
presented itself. So, hearing the Count de had
hired the packet, I begged he would take me in
his suite. The Count had some little knowledge of
MERELY OTHERS.
“I had my first lesson in driving a car yesterday .”
“Did you run across anyone you knew ?”
“No; I bumped several, but they were all strangers.”
me, so made little or no difficulty, only said his
inclination to serve me could reach no further than
Calais, as he was to return by way of Brussels to
Paris; however, when I had once passed there. 1
might get to Paris without interruption; but that
in Paris I must make friends and shift for myself.
How Sterne discovered a fellow-love for the
works of Shakspeare in the Count de B ,
got his passport and continued his journey to
Italy is a pretty story; but the strange thing
to us to-day is that, being an enemy subject,
he should have got a passport in wartime at
all.. The sentimental tourists of the last
war composed their diaries behind the barbed-
wire of Rulileben.
* * * *
“Herodot”: The Melbourne warder who
disposed of the trap from the dismantled
scaffold in the gloomy old Russell-street Gaol
(B. 3/7/’24) had a forerunner in the same
prison a few years ago who, after every
execution, sold pieces of the rope alleged to
have been employed in the hanging. He used
THE DEMORALISING MOTOR-GAR.
THE GIRL. : “Oh, don’t some people get offensive when they own
a car ?”
THE MAN: “Well, some certainly do get a habit of running other
people down.”
to dispose of his grisly souvenirs in the bar
of a near-by hotel, the demand being invaii-
ably brisk and the prices good. Most of his
customers were collectors with morbid tastes,
but there were among them some of the super-
stitious beings who believe that certain lucsy
properties are attached to a fragment of the
rope with which a criminal has been
scragged. I wouldn’t like to swear that this
warder’s relics were always genuine, the rope
being the hangman’s perquisite.
* * * #
“X.N.0.”: I read with interest “Anaf’s”
story (B. 3/7/’24) about locating a bees’
nest by releasing two of the honey-makers at
different points and then following their lines
of direction. I used the same principle for
a different purpose in ’OB. At the time I
was sub. (and, incidentally, navigator) of a
destroyer. We were coming
down from the Orkneys to
Portland, and I forgot one
morning to wind the deck
watch, and so had no chro-
nometer for sun-observations.
We were out of sight of land,
and I'd have been badly
souped if the skipper had
found out. But he didn’t:
so I re-wound the watch and
set it by the wardroom clock,
and proceeded to take sights.
The result placed us in the
middle of Yorkshire, so the
skipper decided to return the
deck-watcli as defective and
get another. But we did
want to know where we were,
and I solved the problem
thus. Early in the after-
noon we sighted a ship mak-
ing towards the English
coast. Course was altered,
and we passed close under
her stern. I took a bearing
of her masts when they came
in line, and, reading “New-
castle” on her stern, guessed
I had a bearing of that port.
As luck would have it, I was
able to do exactly the same
with another Newcastle-bound craft about
two hours later. The two bearings gave me
a position which afterwards proved to be
absolutely correct.
* X- * *
“Wessel”: This month will see the begin-
ning of a 15-years’ job by the hydrographic
branch of the Australian Navy—the complete
survey of the Great Barrier Beef and of the
adjacent coasts and islands, including those
extensions of the reef which nearly block
Torres Strait. H.M.A.S. Geranium will be
on the job. probably with a seaplane to
help her, while H.M.S. Herald will take the
Torres Strait end. When the Reef is finished
with, there is material for another 50 years’
work on the other sections of the Common-
wealth coast. For some of them the latest
information available is given by the charts
of the late Matthew Flinders.
“Wallabeena”: “Machete’s” par. (B.
26/G/’24) re the camera ghoul’s disgusting
habit of prowling around police-courts and
places where pri-
soners under escort
may be snapped
reminds me that in
London, on the fre-
quent occasions
when the Austra-
lian Military
Police IRQ. in
Warwick - square
was found in-
adequate to hold
the day’s haul of
derelict Diggers, it
was the custom to
march the surplus,
handcuffed in pairs,
around the crowded
streets from one
civilian police-
station to another
until sufficient cell
accommodation had
been found to
absorb them all.
The escort, heavily
armed, w T as pro-
vided by the Anzac
Provost Corps.
Residents in War-
wick-square were
afforded the daily
entertainment of
watching the Aus-
tralian occupants
of No. 39 being
marched up and
down the public
thoroughfare for
exercise, and on
two occasions I
have seen a camera
aimed from a win-
dow at this doleful
parade, of which I
had the misfortune
to be a member.
The fact that the
public exhibition of
military prisoners
is expressly forbidden by King’s Regs, and
the Defence Act did not trouble the Caesars
of the Provost Corps in the slightest.
* * * *
“Pink Tape”: The guileful ways of John
Chinaman were in evidence at the Sydney
Central when an old Celestial named Ah
Gow identified a younger one, charged with
being a prohibited immigrant, as his Aus-
tralian-born son Charlie, a native of the
Mundarlo district. Doubt was thrown upon
the testimony by the police recalling that
19 years ago Ah Gow had identified a totally
different Chinaman as the same son; but
the magistrate inclined to the belief that the
accused man was the real Charlie, the former
one being a “ring-in.” After all these
years nothing is likely to be done to export:
the pseudo Charlie All Gow, even if he can
be found. Thus, despite all anti-immigra-
tion laws, does Australia continue to get its
splashes of yellow.
* * * *
“Amico” : The reason for commutation of
the death sentence put forward (though not
in court) by the foreman of an Adelaide jury
(B. 3/7/’24) is not original. When a bill
to abolish capital punishment was before the
Queensland Upper House some years ago, it
was supported by one member, a prominent
doctor, on the ground that the infliction of
the death penalty had the effect of launching
into eternity souls embittered against human
society. Being free from the traipmels of
the flesh, these spirits would be able to exer-
cise, he contended, powers of retaliation
against people on this earthly plane. But
even with that threat behind it the bill did
not pass.
* * * #
“Centurion”: Senator Wilson’s official rat-
catcher to the City of London (B. 3/7/’24)
was a pale shadow of the official potentates
who did their bit in the war in the same
direction. A regular branch of the A.S.C.
was organised for service at home and abroad,
with C.O.’s, O.C.’s, adjutants, etc. The estab-
lishment included dogs and cats, as well as
auxiliary units, including, of course, a
mechanical one for repairing old traps and
inventing new ones. There was even a small
chemical branch. This special service brigade
was freely mentioned for distinguished ser-
vice in the much-censored English journals
of those days. It was estimated when the
organisation was formed that the rats were
doing tens of thousands of pounds’ worth
of damage daily in England alone, for they
increased like flies when the regular checks
were neglected or abandoned under war
stress.
* * * *
“Sierra” says a word for the windjammer:
In his thanksgiving for steam, “Bay Webb’’ (B.
10/7/’24) is unfair to the “tea ships” and to the
men who sailed them. The Ariel—a notoriously
eranky ship—was seven j'ears old when she dis-
appeared. The Caliph was lost on her first voyage,
probably through depending on her auxiliary steam
power. The average life of the composite tea ships
was well over 20 years. Some of them, including
the hardest driven one of the lot, are afloat to-day.
The “gold-seekers’ ships” were even more durable.
Highly-tried as they were, very few of the great
wooden clippers of the ’fifties, which smashed records
to Melbourne and circled the globe in under the half
year, foundered at sea. I saw the Marco Polo and
the Red Jacket in their extreme old age. The
water-logged Donald Mackay lumped timber for a
living. The Lightning and the James Baines were
burned in port. The hulks of the later iron clippers
are scattered amongst the ports of the world. Many
of them retired with over 40 years’ service to their
credit. The British Ambassador —the squarest-i'igged
ship ever launched—is still earning her crust as
the motor-ship Dabeja, after 55 years of it. The
record of steam is not nearly so good. What about
the 7-knot steam coffins of the ’eighties and ’nineties
-—-tramps of Kipling’s "Bolivar” brand? They
only lived until they met their first big blow, and
their crews went down without even the satisfaction
of putting up a fight against the elements. The
modern “liner” is an almost perfect fabric, and, like
the sailing-ship, she has reached the height of her
perfection on the eve of her extinction. The oil-
burning, quadruple-expansion greyhound will shortly
be ousted from the seas by the more economical
motor-ship.
* * * *
“Coot” on native place-names:—
Re the name “Canberra” (B. 3;'7/’24). In the
Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney, is a letter from
Lieut. J. J. Moore, dated 1526, in which he applies
to purchase 1000 acres at “Canberry.” This is the
first known mention in writing of the name. Thomas
Livingstone Mitchell, Surveyor-General, is reputed
to have authorised the change to “Canberra.” He had
almost a passion for changing names. One of his
circular memos, to his staff (5/9/’29) ran: —
In order to establish uniformity in the spelling an-1
pronunciation of native names, as well as to avoid
the printing of long names, which are by no means
desirable on maps, I have to request that you will
be particular in spelling such names with as few
letters as possible, observing the following rules: (!)
That where G begins a syllable it is never to be
followed by 11. (2) That the vowel uis always to
be used instead of the diphthong 00, excepting in
the last syllable where the accent is upon it. (3)
That no name is to terminate with H. (4) That
two R’s are to follow the accent syllable only, and
no other. By avoiding thus consonants and diphthongs
names to which some have been given 14 letters
may be written in nine, as Gulongula for Ghoolong-
hoolah, Beraweree for Bherrahwherree, Brulee for
Bhroulhee, Culapatambo for Coulahpatamboh, and
many other words, in which there are letters as
superfluous as gum-trees on the hills.
Unfortunately the Lands Department hasn’t always
been able to induce other departments and the public
NONE FOR HER.
HIM : “Is the pleasure of this dance to he
mine?”
HER : “Yes — exclusively.”
to follow its short cuts; with the result that in
scores of cases there are three or four ways of
spelling a native name in use —Onepar, Onepah and
Wompah, for instance. And even then the scarce
local inhabitant mostly calls it Wumper.
BILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bills come dripping in all day,
Some old, some up to date;
Through our defences ever they
Contrive to percolate.
They litter up the front-door mat
For meat and bread and pills,
For trousers and for Johnnie’s hat;
They’re long and thin, they’re short and fat —
They’re all-shaped bills, bills, bills.
They get mixed up with poems bright,
With pars and sketches, too ;
And on their backs I often write
My Stock Exchange review.
Upon the lawn I find them spread,
Advertisements of ills.
And on the paths where’er I tread
I find a veritable bed
Of crisp new bills, bills, bills.
1 listen for the postman’s knock
Oft with an anxious ear;
Or run to meet him half a block—
The cheque I hold so dear
I am expecting by this mail.
My hope he ne’er fulfils,
The little cheque will always fail;
Per contra I will get a bale
Of beastly bills, bills, bills. ‘
There is the bill imperious,
With grimness all its own,
The bill that rather makes a fuss,
Addressed in legal tone;
The meeker bill that begs and pleads,
Or sob-stuff sadly spills—
The same, though, every missive reads;
To one in dire financial needs
They’re only bills, bills, bills.
There is the bill for five-and-six,
The bill for twenty pound;
They’re all alike if you have nix—•
I dumbly pass them round.
The wife she mutely heaves a sigh,
The sight her spirit chills;
I sigh, too, as I put them by—-
If sighs would pay them, bless you, I
Would owe no bills, bills, bills.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
THE FALLING MARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Changes in the neck-line are unmistakable, the
latest being the elongated Y, reaching to the low
belt line.”— Fashion item in Sydney Sun.
Maude’s silhouette is straight and plain,
Her skirt’s exiguous and slim;
The “sardine shape’s” the vogue again,
The “boyish form” makes her like him ;
Vanished are Maude’s enticing curves,
Her stream-line’s getting on my nerves.
But “flaring” frocks and “bouffant” skirts,
Or skin-tight sheaths her form commends ;
Maude’s Plimsoll-mark’s the thing that hurts —-
I don’t know where she starts or ends!
To-day a breast-high waist one sees;
Next week it’s down below her knees.
And now to add tcf my dismay
Her neck-line’s changing with the moon ;
It’s down about her waist to-day,
’Twill reach her ankles pretty soon.
Maude’s such a dashed contortionist,
An ostrich would be easier kissed.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


<***.
. ' '; v
«»*
Si
~k>
m
m
%
I Hi
■ - \
J : '
:
; H
4#l
* /
s*!
' This Hotel has been renovated throughout,
and now ranks with the .finest in Australia.
Perfection of service, comfort and home-
like atmosphere are the leading features at the
CARLTON
Wedding Breakfasts Special Luncheons,
Dinners and Afternoon Teas catered for.
Private Dining-rooms and spacious Drawing-
room for all social functions.
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.,
and Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“HOCAR,” Sydney.
Telephone: 116141—10 lines.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Archdeacon Collick, after about 30 years’
service on the W.A. goldfields, has left for
the coast. The people of the fields, of all
creeds and no creeds, subscribed £350, but,
knowing their man, gave him only £2OO in
cash, reserving the rest to go towards fur-
nishing his new rectory at Fremantle. The
last time Collick received a purse of sov-
ereigns (it was to allow him to take a much-
needed holiday) he Avas found tw T o days later
at home, mid offered no explanation of why he
hadn’t gone away. It leaked out later that
he had discovered a couple of his flock in
trouble —and bang Avent the lot! From the
outset Collick was beloved of the blacks
throughout the goldfields, and an embarrass-
ing testimonial thereto was the fearsome
number of piccaninnies whose parents had
bestowed the good padre’s name upon them.
IF. R. BARSTOW, Sergcant-at-Arms, helps
to open the new Vic. Parliament.
Bob McGregor, tvho, after a tenure of 30
years, lost the Ballarat East Assembly seat at
the recent Vic. general election by eight
A'otes, has applied for a recount. So eager
were a number of his friends to put him in
that they succeeded in throwing him out by
failing to mark the figure 3 against the name
of one of the candidates. The question the
Qualifications Committee has to decide is
this : As there were only three candidates and
the first and second preferences were indi-
cated, is it not a fair assumption that the
No. 3 vote was intended for the unmarked
candidate, and, if so, should not the votes be
allowed*? An affirmative answer will mean
a victory for McGregor.
There was a blend of sport and religion
in John Hunter Mclntosh, the Bathurst
(N.S.W.) solicitor who, in 1883, joined the
firm his father had started long before.
Right up into his advanced years he rode at
picnic races, and he had also ridden in big
events at Randwick ; on the other side, lie was
chancellor of the Bathurst Anglican Diocese
and a big light in Church matters. He was
68 when he died the other day. There was
a still closer union of church and turf in John
Penman, who lives at Ilomebush, Sydney.
In his boyhood—he is now 75 —he rode horses
to victory at Yamba (Q.), and at the open-
ing of the Wallsend Racing Club won the big
event on “the Larnbton mare.” Sporting
men reckoned a good jockey had gone wrong
when Penman became the Methodist Church's
ReV. John. Although that finished his racing
career he lias all his life preserved his love
for horses and has ridden the best.
Westralia still has a few public servants
who were appointed by Downing-street while
the place was Swan River Colony. The
latest to seek re-
tirement is Regis-
trar of Titles Adol-
phus Y. Glyde, who
was given a curly
jar r a h walking-
stick and smoker’s
outfit by his fellow-
officers the other
day. He has spent
the whole of his
long service in the
Land Titles Office.
J. M. DUNN,
organist and choir-
master at St.
Peter's Cathedral
Adelaide.
H. I. Cohen, K.C., has had his ambition
to be Vic. Attorney-(General gratified; more,
there was a meeting of the Executive Coun-
cil for the special purpose of appointing him
the day Arthur Robinson’s resignation was
accepted. It is the first time for 20 years
that a practising barrister has been given tin?
job. Iceberg Irvine was the last of that
status to hold it.
“The Deacon”: James Joseph Dalton,
eldest son of old pioneer James Dalton, of
Orange (N.S.W.), who went out in Sydney
the other day, had crowded law, business,
politics and sport into a life that ended at
64. When completing his education in Ire-
land he had as classmates the brothers Red-
mond, John and Willie. They afterwards
married the Dalton sisters, and their
entry into Irish politics drew in the
young Austral-Irish barrister, who was
twice elected a member of the House
of Commons. About the time of the
belated conversion of Cardinal Moran to
Home Rule Dalton returned to Australia
and was in the thick of the Redmond dele-
gation. He practised law for a time, then
went to live in Orange to keep an eye on
the Dalton business, of which he was a direc-
tor. In R.C. circles the name of Dalton his
always been prominent. Old Father Dalton,
the Jesuit, was a part of the scenery for
generations round about Riverview " Col-
lege, and his name has been perpetuated by
the Dalton memorial chapel there. Tom
Dalton (cousin) was always a persona grata
at the Cathedral during the O’Haran regime:
he was decorated by Leo XIII. with a
Knight Commandership of St. Gregory, and
is the sole holder of that ecclesiastical bauble
in N.S.W. The Cardinal secured it for him on
account of donations to the Cathedral Fund,
the endowment of the Dalton Ward and other
munificence to the hospital of the Nursing
Sisters at Lewisham.
Ex-Federal politician Agar Wynne cele-
brated the other day the jubilee of his admis-
sion to practice as a solicitor, though he does
not chase Costs nowadays, finding his pas-
toral interests more interesting. Wynne was
one of the most companionable men the Vic.
and Federal Parliaments have known. He
narrowly missed the State Premiership six
years ago, but the illness of the honorary
Whip (since defeated in his constituency)
spoiled the little plan to oust Lawson. ■
After drawing a comfortable pension for
just on 20 years, William McLean, a former
Vic. Government Statist, flitted to the Be-
yond the other day. He succeeded Hayter
at the end of last century after a term as
accountant in the Education Department.
Like a sensible man McLean, on retiring, got
away from the city to Upper Beaconsfield,
and had almost reached the 81st milepost
when the end came.
All brands of religion in Hamilton (Vic.)
did honor a few days ago to the local G.0.M.,
Monsignor Shanahan—“the Dane” as they
affectionately call him. He came to Vic-
toria shortly after entering the priesthood in
Ireland, in ’64, and has been at Hamilton
for 40 years, during most of which he has
been president of the public hospital. At ST
the cheery veteran is the oldest priest on
active service in Australia.
Died at Kirribilli, Sydney, the other day,
Mrs. Edwin E. Boulton, whose husband was
an officer in the Ccpimercial Bank of Sydney
for over 50 years. Mrs. Boulton’s grand-
father, missionary Lancelot E.ThrelkeM, came
to N.S.W. from the Cold Country over a cen-
tury ago, and in 1825 established a mission at
Lake Macquarie, where he remained until
1841. Later he was appointed minister of
the Mariners’ Church (The Bethel) at Mil-
ler’s Point, where he died. Mrs. Boulton’s
father was Geo. A. Lloyd, M.L.C., who is
best remembered as one of three men who
founded the A.M.P. Official-Assignee Charlie
Lloyd is now the sole survivor of the family
of 11, among whom Mrs. Boulton was the
youngest girl.
Dr. Barry Thomson, the fashionable Mel-
bourne medico, is mourning the loss of his
dad, John Barry Thomson, who has passed
out at Baynton ( Vic.), aged 88. The patri-
arch, who derived his first two names from
the ship John Barry, on which he was born
in 1837, was the son of the man who built
the first church at Canberra. Later Thom-
son, sen., became manager of Avoca station
(Vic.) for the late William Stawell. The
son also took to squatting, and at the time
of his death he held, in addition to the
Baynton property, one or two other stations
in Victoria. The old pioneer, who was
highly esteemed by the abos. of the Avoca
district, was once corroboree-ed in Kyneton
by a whole tribe, which came long distances
to pay him this honor.
Herman Levy, son of a Ballarat council-
lor, after annexing the M.A. and LL.M. at
Melbourne Uni., went to Oxford to top off
his knowledge of constitutional and inter-
national law, and two years of hard work
have brought him the 8.C.L., with prospects
of further honors. At present he is leaving
no tome unturned to get a grip of League
of Nations problems, and when he returns to
the Commonwealth next year, after being
called to the English Bar, he should be a
welcome addition to our small squad of
authorities on a thorny subject. The young
man, who won Justice McArthur’s oratory
prize while at Ormond College, Melbourne,
was in the Wadham College boat in the last
inter-collegiate-eights week at Oxford.
Joined the heavenly choir, John .T. Bailey,
Melbourne musician, at 64. Resident of Bal-
larat for many years, he was organist at
Christ Church Pro-Cathedral. - As a choir-
master he ranked high and steered a number
of bodies to first place in competitions. The
Geelong Musical Society was one of them.
Sown his last acre, John Jones, of the
Wyalong district (N.S.W.), one of the shrewd-
est wheat men in the State. For many years
he managed Wyalong No. 2 station, owned
by the late Tom Knox, of Dalgety’s. There
he founded the first angora-goat stud in
N.S.W., and exported high-priced animals to
all parts of the world, including S’Africa and
the Argentine.
The Sisters of Charity held a meeting at
the headquarters of their Order in Sydney
recently to elect a successor to the late
Superior-General, Mother Mary Berchmans.
Their choice fell upon Mary Canice Bruton,
a good Australian, daughter of that J. J.
Bruton who was sub-collector of Customs
along the Murray River in pre-Federation
days. Most of her education, appropriately
enough, was achieved at St. Vincent’s Coi-
lege, Potts Point, which was founded by her
aunt, Mother Mary Ursula Bruton.
M. M. Middleton, just superannuated from
the Engineer-in-Chief’s Department in S.A.,
learned the business in the family iron foun-
dry at Birmingham, and later at Oastle-
maine (Vic.), where he joined his father as a
mining-engineer. Later still, with the Lahglands
and Munro and Co. he had wide experience,
especially in the construction of the Prince’s
Bridge over the Yarra. In 1888 he moved
over to Adelaide, designed much of the ma-
chinery for the Broken Hill mines, became
chief draughtsman of the B. 11. Proprietary,
and (finding the Barrier climate bad for his
health) entered S.A. Public Service, where
for the past 25 years he has had a hand in
all the big water schemes going, doing useful
work also as instructor in engineering at the
Adelaide School of Mines.
Mrs. Amy McWliinney, who died in Mel-
bourne the other day, was a daughter of
Justice Iverferd, who, before he went on the
Supreme Court Bench in ’B6, was in seven
Governments, and from July, ’74, till August,
’75, was Premier.
At any rate, Prendergast, leader of the Labor
party of 28 in Vic. Assembly, won’t be able
to taunt ex-Premier Lawson with having been
defeated for the Speakership. Elmslie, then
Opposition leader, nominated Prendergast for
the chair in 1917, and he scored only 14 Labor
votes. The rest of the House plumped for
Mackey.
L. L. Politzer is a Melbourne man who has
done something for Australian art in a very
practical way. As proprietor of a Bohemian
caf6 next to the Age office years ago he had
a scheme for encouraging Melbourne artists,
and, at the same time, indulging in a little
shrewd speculation. Leason, Virgil, Cole-
man, George Macdonald, Dennis, Dyson,
Hugh McCrae and other lights used to grant
L. L. POLITZER.
their patronage, “Polly's” charges for the
art customers being one picture per fortnight
in exchange for two meals a day. Following
up his love for profitable art, he has just
opened the Sackville Gallery in Exhibition-
street, where he is catering for those whose
output is not great enough to fill the gal-
leries now available.
They all do it. Shortly after Col. Pope
was appointed Railway Commissioner in
Westralia he drew two sharp teeth from the
employees’ unions, viz., Backsliall, then sec.
of the Loco. Drivers, Firemen and Cleaners’,
and Plunkett, then president of the W.A.A.K.
of R.E. These he placed on the salaried
staff, beyond the voice of the wages men.
Lately, however, the larger of the two unions
effected reprisals by annexing Bill Edwards
from the Commissioner’s office, and appoint-
ing him assistant-sec.
“The Deacon”: Penrith (N.S.W.) lost a
“character” when Dr. Charles Frederick
Acland went out the other day. Graduating
about the time of the Boer disturbance, In*
did _ some fine work among the troops in
Africa, and, staying on afterwards, soon built
up an important practice. He came back
to Australia some years ago, but after a
while things went awry, and when he dropped
out of the BALA, he found the skids well
greased under him. A little matter of arrears
of liis wife’s maintenance saw him a guest
at Long Bay during the height of the ’flu
epidemic, and his skill and devotion were
gladly availed of. The tragedy closed when
he was just over 50.
“Gallery”: William Watson, the urbane
philosopher who watches the party game with
a satirical eye while representing Fremantle
in the House of Reps., has found a con-
genial pal in J. M. Fowler, whom a thought-
less constituency rejected at the last election.
The pair may often be seen strolling together
in earnest converse, and those who have had
a peep into the minds of the pair know they
are not concerned with the football premier-
ship. Fowler is a serious Scot who has swal-
lowed two or three libraries, and still is
no more book-sodden than Watson. Fowler
will make a'big . effort to get back into his
corner seat on the next appeal to the coun-
try, and brother Watson hopes that he him-
self will be returned jrjst for the pleasure of
having a companionable intellect beside him.
“Two Seas”: Add to “G.B.L/s” list (B.
i>/7/‘~4) of those who were the first to win
V.C.’s the name of Jack Bisdee —he was
the first Tasmanian to earn the distinction.
It was during the Boer War; arid with it
went an annuity of £52 provided by a
Life Assurance office. Jack was then the
youngest member of one of the oldest graz-
ing, clans in the Speck.
“John Wellington”: It; has never been
clear why Admiral Jellicoe so quietly took
over the job of Governor of Maoriland almost
directly after the close of the war. Maybe
his personality revolted at the shoutings' of
some of his colleagues who knew just how
they and the bo’s’n’s mate could have won
the war at sea in a week or two, if only they
had the boss serang. At any rate, now
that Jellicoe is packing up to return to Lou-
don, it will be interesting to learn what has
been (or may be) fixed for him by way of
another appointment; for, despite rumors
that he will retire into private life, it is not
consistent with his vigor that the last has
been heard of him publicly. If M.L. thought
that, it would refuse to part with him. His
stock is high in Australia's big suburb.
THE POMMY BRIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
X often wonder what she thinks,
'that pink-cheeked pommy bride
Who cast her lot with Digger Smith’s
Across the other side,
And left the Old World’s, olden ways
To seek a foreign strand,
And snapped' the silken bonds of home
To settle on the land.
For Digger Smith was groomed and neat
Ac ross the other side;
His fame Avas blazoned near and far,
He was a nation’s pride;
His hair was sleek, his boots were shined,
Ilis clothes were good to see.
But now his hair is lank and dull,
And he wears dungaree.
Their household goods are all home-made;
She keeps them spick and span,
And dishes up their scanty meals
In makeshift pot and pan.
“The time will fly,” she bravely says
(Her soul for home athirst),
“Till we’ve enough to take a trip”—
They all say that at first.
Will she grow gaunt as some I know,
Old wives of pioneers,
With lines of care or grim despair
That mark the passing years?
Or dull and fat and slow of foot
As those that don’t repent,
With treble chin and swelling bust,
Twin signs of great content ?
Who knows ? Their troubles, anyway,
When to the town they go ;
His badge is burnished bright as gold,
His rugged cheeks aglow.
The spring-cart wheels run in and out
That makes it rock and sway,
But at his side he has his bride—
The world is his to-day.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


A
Kingly Drink
with a
Kingly Title.
RING
GEORGE IV
Scotch WhisKy
THE
One of the principal brands of
D ISTILLERS c OMPANY
JL IMITED,


Ask Your Dealer for Latest
Quotations and Particulars of
KEENER
[S
{'Zz
m
'mZZ,
■ZZZ
'em
I WSMt.
W
W. W. GREfIH«f
6UNMAKERS, BIRMINGHA
Australian Representative! (Wholesale only):
W. P. THOMPSON & CO, PTY*
LTD.,
405-7 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Macnaught Shoes for Men
39,6
C.D.E. FITTINGS,
HALF SIZES.
The Latest Shapes and Designs
You will find that Macnaught Shoes
look better, wear much longer and give
far better service than ordinary shoes.
Vriees are very reasonable.
WING CAP SHOES
Very neat and attractive—
similar in design to a Brogue
Shoe, but much lighter. A
new Macnaught departure.
Tn Black Box Calf.. 39/0
Tan Calf 42/6
Stealing Patent Calf.. 45/-
Your order by mail will
receive immediate attention.
Macnaught Shoe Stores Ltd.
189 PITT STkEET—I3S KING STREET, SYDNEY.
dsdf
The Best GOAL
OF THE SEASON
for Superior
I’OLO Stieks,
Balls and
'Players’
General
Equipment,
is our shop
at 371 George
Street (near
King Street),
Sydney.
Everything for
Horse and
Player stocked
in great assort-
ment.
We have also
a Branch
Shop in
Brisbane
<Q->.
434 Queen
Street.
JOHN BRUSH (and Butler’s),
POLO SPECIALISTS,
Mail your name and address TO-DAY and \vc
will post, vou FREE copv of our SEASON 1924
BOOKLET OF LATEST RULES AND POLO
■ EQUIPMENT PRICES. —-— 1
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Tarago”: I have never looked for any
demonstration of affection in the domestic cow, but
—well, judge for yourself. My neighbor’s eldest
boy milked Rosie morning and night, and there
appeared to be nothing but a business understanding
between them until one evening dad produced a set
of boxing gloves and invited the lad to a set-to out
in the open. The cow was unconcernedly feeding
near by when the bout started, but it had been
in progress only about a minute when Rosie woke up
to the fact that her batman was in some kind of
trouble. With a roar she charged straight at dad,
and heaved him through the fence. He remonstrated
with her and tried to drive her off, but the indig-
nant old lady stood there shaking her head and
demonstrating as plainly as a cow could that she’d
break his dam’ neck if he attempted to come through
to the lad again.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Morob,” on the scaring of
devils or spirits of the dead by fires in New Guinea
(B. 26/6/’24), recalls that the Binandele people of
the n.-e. coast of Papua have a less troublesome
method of holding off spooks. The demons
or ghosts are known to have a great regard for
spikes. The native, therefore, carries various tri-
dent-like ornaments, which he fixes to the poles of
his house, where they look like cubist lightning-
conductors, and one or two are stuck on poles ai
the entrances to the village. I never could find out
exactly whether the spirits avoided the neighborhood
of these pointed sticks from fear or veneration ; but
I’ve often wondered if any connection lies between
these spikes and the trident horns and barbed tail
with which our own forefathers endued the Deuce.
* * * *
“AdoL”: The most friendly bird with the
lonely prospectors of this locality (Lower Gulf of
Carpentaria) is the common wagtail. Wherever I
have pitched my camp, be it in the forests, on the
river banks, in the ranges or away out in arid coun-
try, one or more of these cheery little fellows have
come to share my isolation and help to brighten
things with their merry “Sweet—pretty—creature.” By
day they ceaselessly catch flies, and, dark or moon-
light, they work late into the night thinning the
mosquitoes. Even the carbide light has no terror
for them, and they fly to and fro near the flame
dealing it out to the insects. Another most cheerful
denizen of the northern bush is the small black-and-
white magpie—a great destroyer of snakes, centi-
pedes and ticks. The • flute-like melodies of this
wonderful musician never fail to soften the heart of
the most hardened bush wanderer. But perhaps the real
Melba of all our songsters is the reed-warbler. These
magnificent singers abound all along the palm-groved
perennial streams of the Gulf country, and, like a
set alarm-clock, they are the first of all the birds to
usher in the day with their melody at the first streak
of dawn.
“Mimax” : Let me butt into the
argument about the visibility of shells,
etc., in flight by submitting that in cer-
tain circumstances any normal-speed pro-
jectile can be followed by the naked
eye. I do not include high-velocity
bullets for lack of evidence, though the
rule probably holds for them also. All
that is required is (1) that the observer
be as nearly in line with the projectile’s
flight as possible, and (2) that his line
of sight be not obstructed by either
smoke or gas. Smoke, of course, acts as
a screen. Hot gas from the muzzle of
the weapon deflects the line of sight by
refraction, and the observer’s line of
sight is not where he thinks it is. Per-
sonally I have seen many a shell leave a
big gun and fade away; shells have even
been photographed in flight. One has
merely to stand behind the gun and far
enough behind it for the shell to be well
away before the smoke gets in the line
of vision. Many times spotting on the rifle-
range I have seen the .303 bullet rise
and fall. It is easily seen at the longer
ranges provided one has a wide field
telescope and has it well supported rather
behind the shooter. The point that will
surprise most people is that the ordinary
.22 bullet can easily be seen by the fire’r
if smokeless powder is used, and a Maxim
or other good silencer is fitted. On a
clear day the bullet is always visible if
fired at a clear sky or light cloud back-
ground. I have frequently corrected my
wind allowance on bullet flight when
shooting birds in trees at 50yds. or so.
I have seen the bullet miss, and been
able to judge by how much. It is very
difficult to judge elevation, though. A
silencer completely eliminates smoke, and
the hot expanding gas is not noticeable.
* * *
“Geo. Rich”: Permit me to
throw a choice porker on the Council
scales. Slaughtered at Albany (W.A.)
lately, he measured 7ft. in length, and a
ham turned the scale at 561 b. The head weighed 601 b.
* * * *
“H.E.R.” : My next-door neighbor proudly
handed me her little girl’s home-exercise book for
perusal, and the first item of her latest effort at
“words and meanings” read:—
Ignoramus—A cross between an iguana and a
ram, which is a male sheep.
* * * *
“Police Patrol”: Re “Herodot’s” swarm of
bees which settled on a drunk (B. 19/6/’24). I
now take the Good Book in my right hand and swear
that a swarm of about three quarts settled on the
chin of an experimenter at Buchan (Vic.). This
was brought about by the man trapping the queen
as she was leaving the hive, slightly clipping her
wings and placing her on his chin. All the swarm
then settled around her Majesty, and as the camera
was already rigged, the decorated gent, was photo-
graphed with the cluster hanging on. In the picture
he appears as though he had a well-trimmed black
ziff. Any Abo.-liar disbelieving this can get it
verified on forwarding sixpence for a p.c. photo-
graph to Tom Prankerd, of Buchan. He’s the man
who had the bee beard.
YES, AND THEBE ARE ONE-DAY SAINTS.
EMPLOYER (to. applicant for a position who has handed in testi-
monials from two ministers ) : “We don’t work on Sundays.
Haven’t you a reference from someone who sees you on
week days?”
“Chafford” : Despite “Herodot’s” assertions
(B. 19/6/’24), goanna fat does possess valuable medi-
cinal properties. By experiment I found that it
acted as a solvent of urates. Although the cause of
rheumatism is not definitely known, the uric acid
theory of its causation has many adherents; therefore
as a remeay for this malady goanna fat must be
valuable. The composition of the adipose tissue of
any animal varies considerably with any difference in
the diet of the animal. And a certain foodstuff of
the goanna gives to its fat its unique properties; but
precisely what this foodstuff is I have been unable
to determine. Perhaps the fallacy of the University
experiments, quoted by “Herodot,” lies in the fact
that the goannas were not fed upon their fresh native
food: in each case my subjects were caught in the
bush and experimented upon immediately.
* * * *
“E. Cymru” : Tell Centre” (B. 12/6/’24)
that the magpie is not the only good Australian
with a friendly spirit. A wild peewit in my school-
days grew so tame that he would take food from
our hands. Perched on the head of my mother, he
would take a full share in the morning grub-hunt
among the cabbages. Unfortunately, he extended
the same easy confidence to the next-door cat —and
never recovered.
* * * *
“Inver G.” : There is a peculiar courtliness
about the Maori rangatira, even when he is dressed
in a dirty blanket. Years ago, when pottering about
a lagoon on a sheep station in the Wairarapa, I
came upon a Maori eel-pot, made of supple-jack and
moored with flax. I pulled it up and pinched the
eels, of which there were enough and to spare. A
few days later the boss and I rode over to the
neighboring pah to arrange for shearers to come and
barber our jumbucks. While the boss was making
terms with Hone, I sat on my horse and held his, and
felt none too comfortable because a cadet on the'
station had told me that my crime had been dis-
covered. While I waited I saw a tall, stately Maori,
wrapped in a feather mat and picturesquely tattooed,
slowly approaching me. It was Kahu (Hawk), chief
of the tribe. As he strode majestically nearer, his
face inscrutably set, whole cadenzas of funk gal-
loped up and down my spine. “Tenakoe,” said he,
holding out his hand and fixing me with a pene-
trating eye, “how do you do?” I shook his hand
limply and returned his salute in a tone which
would have convicted me before any jury. “You
are fond of eels?” he went on. “Good. We have
some excellent ones about here. Please make use
of them.” Then he continued his slow and stately
walk beyond me to the river, and I wiped the sweat
from a very puzzled brow.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : What rot about koalas not
drinking water, as duly sworn in recent pars ! When 1
was a nipper in Bananaland we had a pet native-bear
that used to push a saucer off a wide-necked jug and
swipe up all the cow-fluid therein. Just to surprise
him, we filled the jug with, water one day-—and he
saw it out to the bottom.
* * * *
“VL7”: “Pedro” (B. 8/5/’24) is quite
right in saying there is no / in Maori. “Ngatik”
(B. 19/6/’24) is also right in saying it is often
sounded. The explanation is “pidgin.” Maori child-
ren for many generations have heard mispronuncia-
tion, and they get the habit. There is no lin Maori;
but we have Lake Waihola. Perhaps the best illus-
tration is Monowai, which is a combination of Maori
and Greek. There is very little pure Maori spoken
nowadays, even in Maoriland, unless far from the
tourist routes —well into the Waikato or Taranaki.
The corruption is very noticeable to anyone returning
to Maoriland after a long absence. He would possibly
hear The Bulletin called “ka pai te puka puka” in-
stead of “te puka puka whai mana” (a good book).
A N.S.W. racing man, after holidays in Maoriland,
named a colt “Tinarque,” which turned out to be
meant for “tena koe.” By the way, there is no such
word as “Ngatik” in Maori. No word ends in a
consonant. A similar corruption occurs in Wakatipu
—the final uis very seldom sounded, even by Maoris.
It is faint in any case, but in pure Maori it is there.
* * * *
“Mag”: Dilating on artesian flows,
“FY7” (B. 29/5/’24) overlooks the fact that Dr.
Jack’s theory of the
bibulous sandstone
(Blythesdale bray stone)
intake, outcropping at
Blythesdale, and north
of Roma and Yeulba
(Q.), has been proved
a fallacy. According to
Dr. Jensen this brav-
stone is bibulous only
in the weathered zone.
In drilling to a deptn
a hard impervious lime
sandstone is struck,
which makes the in-
take theory untenable.
Besides Professor Gre-
gory’s plutonic theory
there is one advanced
by the American geo-
logist Myram Fuller,
that artesian liquid is
“fossil water,” en-
tombed with sandstone
sediments at the time
of deposition. Any-
way, whether the sup-
plies are plutonic, fos-
sil or meteoric (rain),
the fact remains that
the bores of N. S.
Wales and Queensland
have decreased 3 per
cent, per annum since
1914 ; therefore it will
not be a great many years before they lose their
hydrostatic pressure.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Billy the Dane,” who put in the
greater part of a long lifetime fossicking for gold in
the Kiandra (N.S.W.) gullies, could probably have
earned an easier crust by exhibiting the trained jew-
lizards that he kept as his only companions. They
lived in the crevices of his, mud hut, and regularly
emerged to welcome him when he turned home from
gully-raking. He fed them liberally, and every
evening put them through their performances. Their
clumsy waltzing around the table-rim, hurdling over
knives, walking on their forefeet, and various other
tricks displayed an intelligence not in keeping with
their sober and sleepy aspect. Beyond the pastime
and amusement that the old Dane derived from his
long and patient teaching, he sometimes benefited
to the extent of many beers when he entertained a
gathering at the pub with his jew-lizard circus. And
many a worse entertainment has been paid for.
* * * *
“Tough Mike” : I can to some extent back
up “Mary Scott’s” statement (B. 19/6/’24) about
cows leaving their tails behind them, by pointing
out that on one occasion, when my dog was rounding
up the herd, he came away from the heels of one
with half her tail in his mouth. That was nearly
two years ago, and up till now Strawberry hasn’t
shown much inclination to provide herself with a
QUITE SAFE.
SWAGGY : “Hi suppose if Hi was to arst
’im for a job there wouldn't be any ’arm
in it, would there?”
PUBKEEPER : “Norrabit. ’E’s got all the
labor he wants.”
complete new brush. While on the subject of tails,
has any Abo. ever seen a cow with her tail caught
tightly in her own horns? Such an incident hap-
pened recently, and seeing that the cow was unable
to pull her own tail off 1 helped her out of a dis-
tressing situation.
BARNEY’S TOAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sit down, light up, and let us think
Of other days, old friend—
Of Barney Drew and Barney’s house
Beside that Lachlan bend
Where all day long tall river-gums
Beneath a cloudless sky,
Like sentinels, beheld driftwood
And drifting leaves go by.
Fine man he was, fine mate his wife,
Fine girls his daughters tall*
And full-and-plenty was the rule
Of Barney’s house for all.
Good folk they were; one meets but once
Or twice its like in life,
That home so cheered by merry girls,
So warmed by man and wife.
’Twas they that did not spare themselves
From rise to set of sun,
And they that knew the way to laugh
And sing when work was done ;
Upon the world since then, old friend,
New moods, new modes have come;
’Tis work, all work, with many folk,
And jazz, all jazz, with some.
When frost came creeping through the dark
And chilled the air and earth,
Lamps lit, ’twas Barney’s way to sit
Beside his log-piled hearth
And tell droll yarns, or pass the hours
With pipe and book away;
Or, maybe, if friends grouped around,
To fill his glass and say:
“ ’Tis drinking time, and here’s a toast—
Rise all, and drink it up—
‘May no man in this land of ours
E’er want for bite and sup;
A FAIR DEAL.
“Look here, mister, my mother says she found a fly
in the cake you sold her yesterday.”
“I’m so sorry. But she shan’t lose by it—tell her to
send the fly back and I’ll give her a currant
in place of it.”
And here’s to pastures green with grass
And acres rich with grain ;
And here’s to Him who warms the soil,
And Him who sends the rain!’ ”
Though Barney and his wife are dead—
God give them slumber sweet! —
And Barney’s girls are mothers now,
To-night let us repeat,
Though times have changed, and other modes
And moods have come to men,
The toast that Barney used to give
And drink it once again.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Ask for
Abbots
lager
THE BEST YET
CALCIUM CYANIDE
For Rabbit Destruction.
BRAND
MANUFACTURERS’ REPRESENTATIVES FOR AUSTRALIA:
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., 7-11 Market Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM
VlCTORlA.—Leighton, Simpson & Co., 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND. —Huzacotts tQ’land), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.—Harris, Scari'e & Sandovers, Ltd., I’erth.
CALCIUM CYANIDE does not allow the rabbits am' possible loop-
hole of escape. ‘ 1
Blown into the warren, hollow-log, or among rocks, it gives off deadly
iumes for over 24 hours. Every time a rabbit moves, freshly-generated
gas meets it, killing INSTANTLY.
All openings are made visible.
The Minister for Agriculture says:—
“CALCIUM CYANIDE can be transported, handled and applied
for the purposes of rabbit destruction with almost complete safety.”
It is economical, non-explosive, non-inflammable, simple and easy to apply.
“Jo C.”: Talking of botflies, which kill
more horses than the average man realises (a dry,
hard cough and staggers are the chief symptoms),
let me give an effective cure. A good double handful
ot tansy covered in a saucepan with water, which is
simmered down to a pint, then strained and squeezed
through muslin, will make the required dose. When
the plant is growing at its best for the year the
leaves can be picked and bagged, as dry leaves are
as good as green. First starve the nag for 24 hours,
then drench with one pint of new milk followed at
half-hour intervals by one pint of tansy tea and
one pint of raw linseed-oil. The following is an
extract from Dr. Chase’s Medical Book (Memorial
Edition, p. 668) :
A friend took from the stomach of a dead horse
about a gill of bots and brougnt them to my office
to experiment upon. I tried every heard-of remedy.
Most had no effect; a few affected them slightly, but
sage tea more than anything else —that killed them
in 15 hours. I put some into nitric acid, but it had
no more effect on them than water—the third day
they were as lively as when put in. A bunch of
tansy was growing by my office. I took a handful,
bruised it, added a little water, squeezed out the
juice and put some bots into it. They were dead
in one minute. Since then I have had it given to
every horse. I have never known it to fail.
* * * #
“Pat Bushie” : Tell “Tarago” (B. 19/6/’24)
that the wild magpie attacks a tame one only be-
cause he regards the pet as an outcast and an out-
law. I have had ample proof of this in my own
back yard during the past couple of weeks. A
fortnight ago two wild magpies turned up and
fraternised with my Jacko, staying with him till the
HE KNEW HIS STRENGTH.
“You have no excuse for stopping out until this absurd
hour!”
“Haven’t I, m’dear? Watcher—hie — s’pose I been standin’
at th’ corner thinkin ’ ’bout for pasht two hours?”
evening, when they flew off. They paid three
friendly visits, and then on their fourth call they
tried to coax my old pal away. Jacko simply
talked to them in bird and human language; where-
upon they set to and gave him a dreadful thrashing.
I rushed to the rescue, but he was badly knocked
about, and although I tended his wounds he died
during the night.
“Bad Australian”: Tell “Fana” (B.
19/6’24) that coca leaves were not “largely respon-
sible for wiping out the Peruvian Indians,” simply
because they haven't been wiped out. The Cholos,
with some comebacks and whatnots, comprise the
greater part of the population of Peru (and Bolivia),
the majority of these
being full-blooded In-
dians. The jPeruvian
and Bolivian Indians
(Quichuas and Ayma-
ras) have used coca as
part of their daily
ration for centuries,
and coca chewing is as
common in Upper
Peru and Bolivia as
tea drinking in Aus-
tralia. The dried
leaves are sold at
every wayback store in
the same way that tea
is in this country, and
every Indian on the
Great Tableland carries
a supply in a small
bag suspended from
his neck. I have often
seen Quichua Indians
travel 40 or 50 miles
a day on nothing more
than a few quids c.f
coca. an occasional
drink of water, and a
handful of parched
maize or coarse bis-
cuit, just as their fore-
fathers did when the
Children of the Sun
ruled the land. The
use of coca does not
seem to affect the
general health of the
Indians, and, as many
of them live to a ripe
old age, it would appear
that the action of the
leaf, when used in its
natural state, is vastly
different from that of
the preparation known
as cocaine. The only
“wiping out” of In-
dians I ever saw or
heard of in South America (apart from military
operations) was accomplished through the agency of
the white man’s eaua, pisco, crude alcohol, viruela
(small-pox), and the old afeccion del miernbro of the
Conquistadores (V.D.).
“Eclji”: The pommy hasn’t got it all on
his own. We have a youth here (Mount Isa, Q.)
who had never left Sydney till a few weeks ago.
Told to water the horse, he took a bucket and
drenched the astonished animal. He was next in-
structed to wet Dobbin’s feed. After scratching
his head, he got a half kerosene-tin and put each
hoof in turn in water.
* * * *
“Machete”: “W.B.’s” par on fish diet as
a flavoring agency for pork and domestic ducks
(B. 26/6/’24) is a reminder that wild duck from
coastal areas also acquire a fishy flavor which is
quite absent from the birds shot on inland waters.
This is very noticeable in duck and magpie geese
shot in the coastal swamps of N. Queensland. Indeed,
a black duck that has been long in salt water
becomes almost as rank as a sea curlew, a fowl
demanding a strong stomach from anyone game to
dine on him. Inland too, in dry seasons, when
lagoons are low and full of mud, wild ducks acquire
the muddy flavor of the weed in a marked degree.
* ■*
“Tui Mataka” (Friendly
Islands) : “Te Pana” (B. 27/3/’24)
is quite correct when he says the
octopus is on the menu of the
Tongan—as it is with ail South
Sea Islanders—but “Te Pana’s”
methods of catching the horror are
unknown in these parts. The
method used here is that employed
bv the present generation’s fore-
fathers w r hen they arrived in the
dim and distant past. The in-
strument used is similar to a
child’s toy aeroplane. It is com-
posed of a conical, quartz-like
stone with a stringer attached.
This is dropped in the octopus’s
feeding-ground. The action of the
tide and current causes the ap-
paratus to revolve, and the atten-
tion of the fish is attracted to it.
He is a notoriously curious
creature and without discretion.
When he sights the bait he imme-
diately grabs it—and is hoisted
into the canoe. The “feka” (octo-
pus) is a delicacy with the Ton-
gans, and is therefore not an
everyday item on the menu. By
the way, a native will not feed
feka to his dog. It causes a
disease very similar to mange, and
the animal loses the use of its
legs.
“Manxman”: Will some Abo. expert be
kind enough to advise me which are the best eucalypts
to plant for durable timber in a climate similar to
that of Gippsland or the Speck? I am trying to
establish some of the species here in the King
Country (Maoriland), but may procure useless stuff
through lack of knowledge.
“Dune” : I was crossing a paddock on my
way to work with an axe in my hand when I spotted
a big goanna hanging half-way out of a hole in
an old tree. I made a wild swing with the axe, but
because of his quick ducking I only sliced off the
major portion of both jaws. Two months later,
THE NEW-CHUMS—AT THE WATERHOLE.
passing the same tree, I saw his lordship at the toot
apparently quite well, with the damage healed up.
My supposition is that he was well filled with eggs
and bones, and this sustained him during the healing-
period. By the way, has anyone noticed the go.’s
method of disposing of a big bone? I saw one begin
by quarter-swallowing a mutton bone. Then brute
force had to be resorted to. He got alongside a
stump and began to push the bone down. A full
15 minutes was occupied in the operation, but the
snack was eventually disposed of, and he waddled
away more like a well-filled silk stocking than a
goanna.
* * * *
“Skeeter”: I want my lady sheep-dog to
become acquainted with my neighbor’s gentleman
sheep-dog, who is a noted worker, but on being
introduced she completely ignores him. She is, by
the way, on very familiar terms with a blue cattle-
dog, a resident of the place. Can any Abo. explain
why she will not know one of her own set; or has
anyone heard of a similar case?
* * * *
“Billo C.”: The native currant mentioned
by “Veronal” (B. 19/6/’24) is not like the berry
with the same name found in odd spots in the
Mount Lofty ranges of S. Aus., though it is prob-
ably a different variety of the same plant. The
shrub grows in rough, healthy localities and is from
two to three feet high. When ripe, the berries are
dark red —almost black-—and form in dense clusters
on the under side of the branches. Raw, they have
a non-committal taste, but the jam or jelly is
delicious—--much like the English red-currant confec-
tion, though with a flavor of its own, having a touch
of the “woodiness” associated with claret and passion-
fruit. The color is not pale amber, as in “Veronal’s”
jelly, but a rich, dark red. Unfortunately the
advancing tide of grazing and cultivation of the
land is slowly destroying the bushes; few new ones
get a chance to propagate, and the methods of
foraging picnickers in September, when the berries
ripen, don’t tend to their preservation. The day is
not far off when we shall be struggling with the
artificial cultivation of them as rarities in our
gardens, and, luce most native plants, they will prob-
ably rebel against the treatment.
“O. Ren”: “Herodot’s” drunk upon whom
the swarming bees settled (B. 19/6/’24) need have
had no fear of stinging. The swarming bee is quite
inoffensive unless unusually irritated. He does not
appear to be deprived of the power to insert the
sting, but rather to be reluctant to use it. Maeter-
linck grew quite effusive about it:—
... .on this day man can approach them, can
divide the glittering curtain they form as they
round and round in songful circles; he can take
them up in his hand, and gather them as he would
a bunch of grapes; for to-day, in their gladness,
possessing nothing, but full of faith in the future,
they will submit to everything and injure no one,
provided only they be not separated from the queen
who bears that future within her*
The fact that the bees hovered around for hours
suggests that the drunk must have eloped with the
queen, or sat on her, or something.
* * * *
“Nicanor”: A lady living in a Sydney
suburb has a pet spider she thinks is a tarantula.
The beastie is eight or nine years old, and is fed
practically every nignt, the meal consisting of a
couple of flies passed up on the end of a hatpin.
Which reminds me of a story told by a guest staying
at a boarding-house at Bundanoon some years ago.
He was about to stoush a huge spider on his bed-
room wall, when the host called out, “Here, don’t
kill those things—they eat the bugs!”
* * * *
“W.W.”: Speck Senator J. B. Hayes, a
sturdily unimaginative person by repute, tells how
the publican at Flinders Island, desirous of supply-
ing a visiting Parliamentary party with acceptable
fodder, took his gun and went in pursuit of a
gobbler from among the big droves of tame turkeys
that roam and thrive amazingly all over the settled
parts of the island. Aiming at the crimson war-
flag of a male bird he glimpsed in some bushes, he
pulled the trigger. To his surprise he found he
had shot three fine birds. On the way home with his
half-hundredweight burden he fell in with a neigh-
bor, who was taking three turkeys to the hotel as
a gift. The neighbor had met with a precisely simi-
lar accident. Hayes says the six birds all proved
delicious. What he does not vouch for, however, is
the local story that, though the two shots were fired
within a few hundred yards of each other, neither
of the shootists heard his friendly rival’s report.
Thus both must have fired at the same time.
“Assie West”: A friend of mine a few
days ago gave his little daughtei* a box of animal
picture-blocks. She had successfully named and
spelled each animal till she reached “O stands for
Ox.” She studied this intently for a while, then
said scornfully: “Daddy, just look—this silly block
says o-x spells ‘cow’! ”
“Zanthus” : Over two centuries ago Mande-
ville drew a parallel between human communities
and the commonwealths established by the bees. But he
was most concerned to make his work a scathing
satire on human affairs, and for that reason his
“Fable of the Bees” is less interesting than that
fantastic story, “The Ants of Timothy Thummel, ’
by Arpad Ferenczy. Ants have gone a great deal
farther than man has yet succeeded in doing. When
allowance is made for the difference in the size of
the builders, London and New York, both in architec-
ture and in social organisation, are the work of
beginners by comparison with some of the great
ant-cities. Ants have their domestic animals, their
milch cows, their pets and their cultivated plants.
They have learnt the use of tools, as in the case of
that Australian species which employs the larva;
as a living shuttle and sews leaves together with
the thread which the larvae can produce, though the
adult ants cannot. No other creatures, except man,
have brought the art of war to the perfection shown
by the ants, who fight regular campaigns and employ
all the arts of strategy. They even have their
artillery and poison-gas in the case of those species;
which squirt formic acid at their enemies. As far
back as 1440 HCneas Sylvius, afterwards Pope
Pius 11., described a great ant battle fought round
a pear-tree near Bologna. Not only do ants have
their fungus gardens in their nests, but they carry
down leaves to serve as manure for their fungus beds.
Ants have even learned the secret of intoxication,
and sometimes pay dearly for it. E. Jacobsen, a
Dutch scientist, found in Java a bug (Ptilocerm
ochraeus) frequenting the trail of a common ant.
This bug secretes a narcotic substance on its hairs.
The ant sucks this off and becomes “paralytic.” As
soon as it is well under the influence the bug pierces it
and sucks it dry. Ants, too, are the only “lower
animals” that have emulated man by enslaving their
own species. Some species, such as the Amazon
ants, cannot even feed themselves, and perish of
TIME FOR ACTION .
SON OF TAXI-DRIVER; “I wonder what dad
would do in a case like this!”
starvation in the presence of food if there are no
slave ants at hand to feed them. But perhaps the
most remarkable feat of the ants, and one which man
has not yet emulated, is that of turning certain
members of the community into living honey-pots.
The honey-pots sit still, and the workers feed them
with honey till their “crop” becomes enormously
distended. Later this honey is disgorged and serves;
as food for the community. Probably it was they
who suggested certain things to the Communists.
FATHER SHAVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When father shaves there must be peace
And silence all around;
All boyish antics then must cease—
We “mustn’t make a sound.”
Mum goes on tiptoes round the place;
Of late she never braves
The terror of a lathered face,
When father shaves.
Her grievances she dare not shout
As sometimes she would do;
When father gets his razor out
The cat must never mew ;
Puss thickens out her tail, and she
A refuge wildly craves,
And through the fence goes angrily
When father shaves.
And if the razor proves to be
Too blunt, it’s time to quit;
Dad turns on Mum and asks if she
Has carved her corns with it.
He fairly ramps about the floor,
And petulantly raves—
We all get well outside the door
When father shaves.
There’s call for sticking-plaster then, .
And much lint must be got,
And father spanks the baby when
It whimpers in its cot.
The fear it makes one’s heart stand still;
Great danger has been braved,
And glad we are we’re living still
When father’s shaved.
Mum does not like dad’s whiskers long—
They’re thick and wiry, too—■
But says that there are reasons strong
Why she should change her view.
’Twould spare us many a furious tiff,
And trouble would be saved
If father grew a mighty ziff
And never shaved.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Sole Australian A?
COMMONWEALTH AGRICULT' I “
Branches *
QUEENSLAND: Bowen Street (off Ann Street),
BRISBANE.
Box 1036 G.P.0., ’Phone, Cent. 7591.
NEW SOUTH WALES: 114 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Box 2664 G.P.O. ’Phone, M 3764
Sole Agents in West Australia: WESTRALIAN
Box 674 G.P.O. Head Office: Richards Built s i
AUSTRALIA’S MAGNIFICENT AQRICULTRAL FUTURE
WINNING THE WRONGLY OUTLAWED AREAS
TRACTOR’S MULTIPLICATION OF THE NATION’S WEALTH
(BY A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.)
' •
The industrial revolution of the mineteenth century transformed England into a thriving workshop of
nation beyond the dreams of all preceding history. The agricultural revolution of the twentieth centur
the progress of the primary production of the world. The coming of the tractor not only makes the can
campaign, as regards intensive cultivation, a simple matter of taking the tractor into partnership, it malt
of Australian agricultural cultivation regions which hitherto have been neglected as potential contributors to
The wonderful story, detailed and pictured below, of the triumph of the tractor on the misnamed waste
drive home to producers everywhere the incalculable part that the new element in farming achievement
advance of Australia as a great producing nation.
“WE MUST GO FORWARD AS ONE GREAT UNITED PEOPLE TO CARRY OUT THE POLICY OF SECURITY OF AUSTRALIAN DEVELOPMENT AND ADVANCE)
Sentiments similar to these flashed
through my mind as, surrounded by
hundreds of thousands of acres, I
stood on virgin land a few miles from
Keith (S.A.), on the overland line to
Victoria. As far as the eye could see
—-and beyond—there were miles upon
miles of this class of country, covered
mostly with yacca, mallee, and the
rubbish of the bush.
A companion had pointed out the
old trail which led to the border and
on to the Victorian goldfields. The
ruts were still there, though nearly
obliterated by the growth of years.
Along this trail in the ’forties and
onwards had passed many weary
hearts. With tired bullocks and heavy
drays their movements were slow and
cumbrous. Their progress of a day
could be accomplished in an hour now.
Standing in these old ruts I won-
dered if we, as a nation, were fulfill-
ing the obligations imposed upon us
by our pioneering forefathers. They
were men of conviction, men with un-
limited courage, who tramped hun-
dreds of miles in search of success,
suffered innumerable hardships,
watered the earth with the sweat of
their brows, made rough places smooth
by the tread of feet, and many, broken
in body and spirit, laid down their
lives in the development of our con-
tinent.
A Wronged Region.
Give a dog a bad name and it will
stick. This is exactly what has hap-
pened to miles upon miles of country
in this district. It was inhospitable,
barren; it was a wilderness, a desert:
a vast waste, good for neither man
nor beast. And down through the
years that followed, years ringing
with the tramp of men, the shouting
of teamsters, the yapping of dogs,
until with the coming of better and
more direct means of communication
they were lost in the passing of time
and the unbroken silence of the desert
prevailed again, the name has stuck —
a desert. To this day it remains, but
from a few small patches that have
been cleared I saw products of this
desert soil —pears, apples, grapes and
vegetables in profusion.
Mr. Saxon, a well-known identity
of the district, had come down from
Bordertown. He, too, was standing
on the trail along which years ago liis
father had passed as a member of the
gold escort between the two States.
Then there was Mr. James Moseley,
son of Mr. J. G. Moseley (of Parlia-
mentary fame), son of the late Mr.
Henry Jackson Moseley. What a
tremendous uplift it would have been
to Henry Jackson Moseley as he
toiled across this desert land in search
of gold had he known that in years
to come a grandson of his would
own these very acres, and, by trans-
forming the wilderness into a fertile
country in search of the golden fleece,
play his part in the development of
the State.
Giant Transformation.
Chug, chug, chug came the sound of
a motor quite near. Turning, I saw
something resembling a periscope
coming our way, but no sign of the
motor. Then a swaying and bending
of bushes. A few seconds later,
through a break, I caught my first
glimpse of a sturdy tractor pulling
two 6-furrow disc ploughs. Long,
deep, even furrows were in its wake;
bushes, yacca. scrub, had gone down
before it like humans before a rain of
bullets. As the tractor came abreast
wc saw the nature of the work it was
doing. Bushes, roots, yacca, mallee,
were ruthlessly uprooted from their
habitation of centuries, and left to
rot on neighboring furrows. Some
roots, too deep, thicker than a man’s
thigh, were cut as if by a razor. No
scratching business this, but real hard
work, clearing, breaking up, and
ploughing, to a depth averaging ten
inches, and all in one operation. Some
places we measured went twelve. A
second later the tractor pulled up
after a 6| miles’ trip. With the engine
still running the driver slipped
off his seat for “a bit of tucker.”
Shortly, the usual “refreshments” for
the CASE, a glance over, “all set,”
and away it started on another 64
miles’ pull. Soon it was out of sight.
Twice that day the 22-40 pulled up
at the camp. Usually three trips are
done, but on this occasion interested
spectators prevented the third.
5000-Acre Paddock.
There is a fair-sized job ahead of it,
clearing and ploughing in a five-
thousand acre paddock. That fin-
ished, then over the fence into an-
other of seven thousand. A lighting
equipment attached to the outfit
allows it to run three shifts a day,
an 80- to 90-horse job !
I stood back and watched a group
of practical farmers —men grown old
on the land, men who had, so to
speak, been wedded to horses, gazing
in admiration in the wake of the
tractor and the uprooted, falling
scrub.
“Wonderful !” “Marvellous!”
“Would never have believed it if I
hadn’t seen it,” were wrung from the
lips of men who, as a class, are not
usually communicative. And the
ladies who, in the afternoon, carefully
picked their way and stumbled over
the furrowed land, were equally ex-
pressive. My request to the driver —
a still younger Moseley—for his
opinion, brought forth an enthusiastic
reply, though brief. “Bonny, she’ll
do me!” And the tone of his voice, the
sparkle in his eyes, convinced me that
here was something which would go
a mighty long way towards solving
the vexed question of how to keep
our boys on the farm. Yes! and the
girls, too. But I must leave this
aspect for awhile.
“What’s it costing?” asked a farmer
who had travelled close on 40 miles
to see how the job was being done.
A very reasonable question that;
Hailing Mr. James Moseley we put
the question.
The Petrol Pioneer.
“She’s panning out a gallon an acre
—a little under 2s. for fuel. You can
see for yourself how she’s doing the
work.” And picking up a fair-size
root which had been cut as clean as
a knife cuts a carrot, “Look at this!”
We did, nodded our heads in silent
appreciation, and marvelled afresh.
Mr. Moseley volunteered a few re-
marks concerning his objective. He
intends leaving the ploughed land just
as it is until 1926. By that time the
sun, wind and rain will have done
CHURNING UP SEAS OF LAND TOO LONG LISTLESS IN IDLENESS.
Case Tractor at work clearing and ploughing. Note depth of furrows.
LIBERATING AUSTRALIAN FOR PRODUCTION’S PURPOSE.
The Case Tractor clearing and pulling 12-[?] plough on virgin land at Keith, S.A.
their work. Then he will cultivate,
plant Bokhara and lucerne, and event-
ually run sheep.
“There are,” he said, 1,000,000
acres lying idle between here and the
Victorian border, and much of it is
better than this. In fact there are
2,000,000 acres right away to Robe,
and from Robe r ’
of it could be v 1
can be done, an r
near the surfae r
it’s only 6ft. do"
Mr. Moseley r -
saltbush count:' 1
drought, and de?


s for Case Tractors:
*AL SERVICE ENGINEERS LTD.
VICTORIA: Corner King and Flinders Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Box 2049 G.P.O. ’Phone, Cent. 2124.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 53-57 Morphett Street,
ADELAIDE,
Also Graves Street, KADINA.
•'‘VRMERS, LTD., 569 Wellington Street, PERTH.
! * Currie Street, Adelaide.
’Phone, Cent. 6870
»
am-driven industry, enriching the
is creating in turn a new era in
&g into effect of an increased yield
possible the adding to the areas
e sum total of Australian wealth,
rderland of the State will further
destined to take in the agricultural
X.” —Australia’s Prime Minister (Mr. S. Mi. Bruee).
FOR PRODUCTION’S PURPOSE.
plough on virgin land at Keith, S.A.
and much
up. I believe it.
f e is water fairly
found about here
forced out of the
11 1914 through
to make a fresh
start in the “desert.” For a few years
he tried wheatgrowing, but was un-
successful. In February of 1918 he
planted 100 acres with oats. To the
astonishment of his friends it proved
successful. Since then he has put in
quantities aggregating 3000 acres, as
sheep fodder.
In 1914 this country only carried
1500 sheep, but last year on Venara
(the name of Mr. Moseley’s home-
stead) 10,000 sheep were shorn.
A Sheepman’s Confidence.
Mr. Moseley holds a big area of this
country hitherto considered almost
waste land and capable of only carry-
ing one sheep to 20 acres. When the
ground the tractor is now clearing is
planted it will be able to carry some-
where around another 10,000 sheep,
and don’t forget this is in the desert!
Mr. Moseley considers that when
sown in 1926 with oats and Bokhara
clover, this country will carry one
sheep to two acres with increasing-
values in later years, and according
to weight of super, applied. Mr.
Moseley states he has proved these
figures by experiment on smaller
areas, which he has worked up by
horse teams at more than double the
cost, and considers that in 1926 this
land will be worth £3 per acre.
Later I asked an experienced farmer
what he thought it would cost to do
with horses what was being done by
the tractor.
“It’s a job for 25 to 30 horses, and
I reckon it would cost somewhere be-
tween forty and fifty shillings an acre.
But look at the time that’s being
saved. Don’t ask me to calculate that
into money.”
I decided I would not, but I brought
up the question of the price of a trac-
tor and its probable life.
“Look here,” said my farmer
acquaintance, waving his hand over
the scrub, “it don’t count. It’s only
got to do this here paddock and it’s
paid for itself times over.”
This was logic. Moreover, it is
business. If an article pays for itself
“times over,” argument as to whether
it should last five, ten, twenty, or fifty
years doesn’t amount to a bootlace.
£4,000,000 Wasted.
But touching the question of value.
We were taught at school that “gold
was a precious metal.” In later
years we learned from experience it
was not only precious, but it was
mighty scarce, mighty hard to get.
Paper money may be very well in its
way, but there is nothing like the pos-
session of gold coin of the realm to
instil into human beings the blessed
spirit of independence. There’s some-
thing about the feel of gold that con-
veys a deeper sense of security than
does a bundle of notes.
We are told that the days of
miracles have passed into antiquity.
But supposing that by some magical
process every man, woman and child
in South Australia (and let us assume
that the population is 600,000) could
receive an annuity of £6 13s. 4d. per
head how many golden sovereigns
would be required to foot the bill ?
£4,000,000"! And that is what it is
costing the farmers of this State to
feed their horses every year!
“Staggering!” you say. But wait!
Let us apply it to the Common-
wealth. It has been estimated that a
million and a half horses are engaged
in farming operations, and the annual
cost of feeding them is put at
£30,000.000. Now if this sum could
be divided among the total popula-
tion —to be generous say 6,000,000
it would mean a “fiver” for every man,
woman and child !
Appalling, isn’t it!
Just one other illustration in sov-
ereigns.
To feed their horses during the past
five years has cost the farmers of this
country so many millions of sov-
ereigns that if they were placed in a
direct line, face to face, and standing
on edge, they would stretch from the
Adelaide G.P.O. to the Victorian
bor<Jer! . 1
Can you realise it? Millions and
miles of sovereigns wasted! Mean-
while Prime Ministers, Governors,
Premiers, business men and financial
men were exhorting us to increase pro-
duction, to reduce costs by every
means in our power.
The Producer’s Opportunity.
Are we doing it? In a few isolated
cases, perhaps; as a nation, no. But
one great section—the primary pro-
ducers —have it within their power to
start right away. They owe it to
their families, to themselves; and be-
cause every man, woman and child
depends for daily bread upon farmers,
they owe it to the nation. They hold
a great stewardship in trust, and in
these days of fierce competition it is
their bounden duty to save some of
the millions now wasted in feeding
horses.
“How?” you ask.
By doing what Mr. Moseley and
hundreds of others are doing—using
mechanical power in place of horses,
and if we can save a half, a quarter,
or even a fifth or a tenth of the
amounts I have quoted shall we not
be playing a tremendous part in the
development and advancement of our
country ?
We have, as it were, to take the
bull by the horns. To plead igno-
rance, oftentimes described as bliss, is
a hindrance, a bar to progress. YVe
have to recognise, whether we want to
or not, that this is an age of change,
an age which has led to the most
marvellous discoveries the world has
ever seen. There are lookers-on in
plenty who say they see most of the
game. Rarely do they take a hand.
Anybody can play the part of a looker-
on, anybody can pull down, only a
few can build. The world to-day
needs better things; needs construc-
tive, not destructive, criticism. Any-
body can be destructive —but mighty
few constructive. The world wants
men with big minds —not the men
who sit back and sneer at the other
fellow; who devise ways and means to
destroy what somebody else has done.
Little minds and prejudice go to-
gether.- They achieve paltry deeds, and
end in stultifying progress.
And Responsibility.
We want men whose visions are
nation-wide, who can think big things
and do them. Men who can make an
oasis of the desert, a fertile land of
the wilderness. It can be done; is
being done. But much remains.
Pioneers we have had —all honor to
them —pioneers still we have. A hether
they achieve success for themselves or
whether they fail does not matter.
They have, at least, done something to-
wards the nation’s advancement.
The time is fast approaching when
we shall be compelled to take advan-
tage of modern improvements if, as a
nation, we desire to maintain our posi-
tion in the wheat markets of the
world. Mechanical power will help
us, will do away with much of this
waste. The Commonwealth Agricul-
tural Service Engineers; Limited,
better known as C.A.S.E., Ltd., with
its power farming machinery, is per-
forming a national work, is contribut-
ing to our national wealth, our
national happiness, our national secu-
rity, all tending towards the consum-
mation of that great idea—“ Advance
Australia.”
THE GREATER VALUE IN
CASE TRACTORS.
At the Drawbar.
Every CASE tractor has a generous
supply of reserve, or surplus power.
This makes it possible to maintain a
uniform depth of ploughing when go-
ing up ordinary grades and through
hard spots. No part of any hard work
need be skimped.
Power is transmitted from engine
to both rear wheels through simple
enclosed spur gears. This efficient
transmission delivers the maximum
power at the drawbar, resulting in
greater economy and usefulness of
the tractor.
Proper weight distribution, wide
tyres and a variety of the most effec-
tive lugs and grouters make it possible
for the farmer to use his tractor under
uncommon conditions, as well as for
all kinds of regular field work.
The low centre of gravity and com-
pact design of these tractors and their
high ground clearance add greatly to
their usefulness in hilly fields, over
rough ground, and in land clearing.
A CASE tractor will not “hang up”
when crossing obstructions or ditches.
When lining up to belt-driven
machines, working in close quarters,
turning sharp corners, or operating
road machinery, CASE tractors are
easy to handle, and do not tire the
operator.
The traction speeds have been cal-
culated to make these tractors most
efficient for all the different kinds of
drawbar work a tractor may be called
upon to do.
The drawbar is of convenient height
for the hitching of tools, implements
and waggons. It is attached forward
of the rear axle, and is of the swing-
ing type. The drawbar can be locked
in any position desired.
At Belt Work.
The Essential features in CASE
tractors that make them especially
well adapted to all kinds of belt work
are: —
Exceptional economy on all loads
—light as w T ell as heavy belt work:
unfailing dependability: uniform
speed obtained by a close regu-
lating governor; pully location
that permits of quick lining up
and backing into belt.
CASE tractors are noted for re-
markable fuel economy. In public
tests they have shown over SO per
cent, better than the average of other
tractors. The economy is equally good,
and the work is equally satisfactory
whether on light loads such as grind-
ing feed or on heavy threshing jobs.
An effective ball type governor, en-
closed and running in oil, maintains
uniform speed of motor under belt
loads which are seldom constant. All
belt-driven machines are most efficient
when driven steadily at the right speed.
The belt pulley is mounted directly
on an extension of the engine crank-
shaft, so that no power is lost through
gears. Wide bearings are provided on
both sides of pulley, which will safely
carry the heaviest-drive belt strain.
Belt work is often the most im-
portant and profitable farm work. A
tractor that lacks power or is other-
wise not well adapted to all kinds of
belt work is worth less than two-
as much as a tractor well suited
for the work.
At Special Work.
In almost every prosperous farming
community there are an endless num-
ber of operations which can be per-
formed most conveniently and economi-
cally with a good tractor.
Cultivation of wet fields often pre-
sents a difficult problem. It is almost
impossible to do timely work with
animal power, because many opera-
tions are necessary at times when the
ground is almost entirely under water.
CASE tractors, with suitable extension
rims, have completely solved this
problem for many of the most success-
ful farmers.
Many acres of unused bush land
have been put under the plough and
turned into valuable farm land by the
use of CASE tractors.
In hauling off logs and trees, pull-
ing stumps, operating portable saw-
mills and drawing heavy bush clearing
ploughs, CASE tractors have demon-
strated unusual economy and adap-
tability.
CASE tractors have been used to
great advantage for many other kinds
of useful special work, such as putting-
marsh land under cultivation, building-
fences, ditching and draining, moving
buildings intact, removing boulders
and other obstructions from fields, and
also for all kinds of unusual belt work.
Any belt job that can be done with
any tractor can be done better with a
CASE.
THE IMMENSE POWER AND SPREAD OF THE MODERN FARMING WAY.
Case Tractor, a one-man outfit with 12-furrow plough.


CIMRLES
HEIDSIECI6
Vintage 1914
GMfIPM
RE PLUS ULTRA j
sdfasdf
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT i COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
UNIQUE WEDDING GIFTS.
The Company invites inspection op an incomparable stock op useful
and up-to-date Novelties at reasonable Rates, including articles
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR WEDDING GIFTS AND PRESENTATION PURPOSES.
SILVER AND
ELECTRO-
PLATED
WARE,
FINE
CUT-GLASS
WARE,
ETC.
»VVAVS«ZV»Ss
yp
Sterling Silver Butter Dish and Knife,
Fine Quality, Frosted Glass Lining.
In Leather Case, £3 :7: 6.
GOLD AND
IVORY GOODS,
FINE
CHINA,
TORTOISESHELL,
LEATHER GOODS,
ETC.
Full particulars and Booklet for warded on application.
WILLIAM FARMER &C? LT?
Jewellers.Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Nothing in Any Way Equals
in
IB
m
WINTER SEASON
Dine and Dance, 7 till 12; Sat., till 1.
Mon., Tues., Wed. and Fri., 15/6.
Slippers from 9.30, 10/6.
_ Winner de luxe, till 12, 21/-
Sat., Dinner Revellion, till 1 a.m., 25/-
Supper, Thur., 9.30, 12/6; Sat., 15/6.
AMBASSADORS’ SUPERB ORCHESTRA,
7 TILE 9.
HALT ON’S FAMED HAVANA HAND
9 TIDE 12.
Saturdays, 9 till 1.
ENJOY AN EVENING OF READ
DISTINCTION.
Euncheons, 5/-, or ala carte. Equals
London’s best at half a guinea.
(Orchestra 1 till 2.30.)
Afternoon Teas of real charm. Two hours’
delight with Havana Band.
Entertain your friends at The Ambassadors,
winch provides the greatest luxury, distinction
and satisfaction. For Reservations see Miss
Barker, in Palm Court; or ’phene M 3666, The
Ambassadors, Sydney.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
kayses
ILKGLOVES
Butterfly” brought another prima-donna,
Augusta Concato, to the fore. The little
lady who chose the primrose path instead of
fathers blessing sustained her ups and
downs in a succession of ravishing kims, the
one in the second act being a lyric in blues
and mauves. The wedding garment, of
course, was white, with hosts of silver but-
terflies in flight upon it, while the blue em-
broideries on the one in the first act brought
to mind the little poem from the French that
Madeleine Rossitter used to recite so wist-
fully. Melba, who enfolded her shimmer-
ing white frocking in a wrap of Persian red
and gold brocade, threw a posy to the lady
from the E. J. Taits’ box, and the rain of
flowers began; in fact, by the end of the
second act the stage carpenter had appa-
rently got busy and knocked together a floral
archway out of the first tributes, and from
under it the lady bowed her acknowledg-
ments at the second curtain. With Melba
sat Seymour Hicks’s lady, in graceful lilac
georgettes; tenor Borgioli’s wife and Prince
Obolensky were others in the same pen. In
the opposite reserve sat Mrs. Tony Hordern,
all black velvet and ermine, with a bunch of
Osbornes. The Admiralty House viee-regals
were circle front-seaters.
Time was when the French community
rounded off the Glorious Fourteenth with a
gathering in the Oxford-street hall. To this
rather Dickensian trysting-place all France
came. Wool-buyers’ daughters in Paris crea-
tions enjoyed the evening none the less
because of the merriment of the youngster
in her shabby skirt and blouse who danced
the evening through with a sailor friend or
brother. In between the very rich and the
quite poor ranged all the degrees. It was
brotherhood and equality for at least this
one night in memory of the Bastille. It was
France. But this year the French Union
willed it otherwise; the official celebra-
tions of the evening took the form of a
dinner-dance at the Ambassadors; and, of
course, no matter how representative this
was of the French commercial colony, the
price of the cards kept away the hard-up,
and Demos took a night off.
As a party, nothing could have been better.
There were good food, good music, cham-
pagne and pretty women beautifully dressed.
There were the French colors, on the offi-
cial tables beautifully expressed in red roses,
white sweet-pea and blue pansies: there were
Australian and French flags intertwined;
there was the Marseillaise sung vividly. New
Consul-General Louis Netterment (he is a
bachelor, too) made his first public speech
on the trading relations between France
and Australia; and polite Alphonse Even
was quite unmovable on the subject of the
Ruhr occupation. Attorney-General Bavin
made the longest speech of the evening. Miss
Soubeiran scintillated among the heads. The
Belgian Consular Segaerts and the banking
Spitzer couple were others of the mighty.
Vice-Consul Tanquerey brought his bride;
and one-time Labor-member Roy Macdonald
squired his almost brand-new French wife.
Dainty Mrs. Step smiled on her tall hus-
band’s arm; and the brown eyes of Mollie
Dingle and the wistful charm of Louise Chau-
tard were outstanding among the younger set.
As against 60 last year over 300 turned
up last week to the meeting which lays the
foundation for Shore Grammar’s annual
fete. The school grounds surged with
mothers and sisters, all drinking tea on the
wintry green between chapel and school in
preparation for the presentation to Lady de
Chair. Headmaster Robson and his lady
took the vice-reine under their wing indoors
and administered hot tea to her before her
ordeal of shaking bauds with the whole 300.
Sydney will really have to institute a Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Governors.
When she saw the rally to her call, Mrs.
Robson must have felt like the hostess in
the nursery verse who, having invited a
neighbor’s children to her party, received the
contents of a tightly-packed ’bus in reply.
Lady de Chair, who was in handsome brown,
embellished presently by a presentation clus-
ter of blue lupins and white hyacinths, was
supported by sparkling Mrs. Douglas Grant.
In introducing the business her Ex. made
one of her happy speeches; and after that it
was decided to hold the fete in the school
grounds on September 27. As usual, indefati-
gable Mx*s. Donald Esplin will watch the
treasury, and Miss Rhodes will be the sec-
retary.
Friday, August 1, is ear-marked for the
Maggie Moore matinee at Her Majesty’s. It
is a testimonial to the actress’s popularity not
only with the public but also with the profes-
sion. The meeting at the Australia the other
afternoon was crowded. Nellie Stewart and
daughter Nancye were present, and Norman
Campbell, now turned journalist, came with
liis actress wife. Everybody wants to help,
and the stars range from Nellie Stewart to
just-bcginning-to-scintillate Josie Melville.
Ihe nearly-professional Mrs. Pitt Rivers is
appearing in something not as yet specified;
wholesome Lizette Parkes will make one of
her all-too-rare Sydney appearances; and
Lightnin’ Bill Jones O’Hara will be on the
programme too. Maggie herself will give a
scene from “Struck Oil,” the play she immor-
talised.
The Polo Ball committee is at peace with
the world. The net results of the Palais
revels are something over £1240; and this
smooth-sounding sum will duly tinkle into the
treasury of the Seaside Home committee of
the Country Women’s Association.
Blue bowls spilling over with i*oses and
japonica, and the mellow glow of fire and
tail-branched candlesticks reflected in the
polished surfaces of innumerable old pieces,
made a colorful atmosphere for the magic
bow of Elise Steele on Saturday. Mrs.
V\ alter Swinson staged the party for the
young Australian at her flat in Turramurra,
so the reception-rooms were crowded with
North Shore liners asi well as town visitors.
Ease, whose f rocking glowed like a ruby, played
with as much power as Daisy Kennedy, but
without the sometimes aggressive force of that
vivid creature. The two studied with the
same master, and the consequent superficial
likeness between their work was intensified
on Saturday by Elise playing many of the
numbers. Daisy had made familiar. There is
a fine singing quality 7 in her work that the
more vigorous artist often shattered in her
pursuit of big tone, and she wove a magic
carpet of sound which transported her
listeners from China to Spain, half
over Europe and back to Ireland. Mrs.
Swinson’s satin-smooth, steel-strong touch
produced alike the thunders of Rachmanin-
off and the silken swish of Chopin. There
were such mundane accessories to the after-
noon as a sprinkling of men and a wonderful
tea. Gladys Teece, in sky-after-rain blues,
supplied her friend’s accompaniments.
At Lady De Chair’s request teacher
Roland Foster took Ethel Osborn to Gov-
ernment House to sing to Melba, who was
most enthusiastic about her voice and its
possibilities, and promised £lOO towards a
fund towards sending the girl to Italy
to prepare for an operatic career. The
voice, she says,, is all right; it is repertoire,
style and acting that she now requires.
Miss Osborn is to attend all the remaining
opera . performances, and Signor Scliiavoni
will give her some coaching. Dame Nellie
hopes that 10 or 12 people will come for-
ward and follow her lead with £lOO each.
At least £l5OO will be required to do the
thing properly.
May Moore’s camera made this record of
a clever little girl the other day. Her name
i s Beatrice
Gerdes, and
she is the first
woman i n
Australia to
qualify as an
Associate of
the Incorpo-
rated Insur-
ance Insti-
tute. This
entailed passr
ing an exami-
nation in six
subjects, with
honors in at
least two. Six
years ago the
D ru mmoyne
girl started
her business
career in the
A.M.P., and
sheer interest
in her job
and hunger to know more about it induced*
her to take the examination. In another
year or two she intends to write the thesis
that will make her a Fellow of the Institute.
Another glaring example of the shiftlessness
of these Australians!
There was a great flutter of feathers at
the Wentworth the other evening when the
Loretto Convent ex-students foregathered
for their annual night-out. As usual, Ur.
Dan Kelly’s wife was president of the com-
mittee, and wore her shingled head and clear
complexion above palest lilac georgettes,
bringing accessories in the form of an old-
fashioned posy and her surgeon husband.
Aunt Miss Coffee was also in the family
party, in black drapings. Kitty Curtis and
Mrs. Rogers divided the duties of secretary,
and Flo Lynch, who looked after the cash-
box, wore frocking of mingled old rose and
gold.
Of the small and intimate order was the
dance for the Barnardo Homes held at the
Cavalier the other night. Mrs. Gilbert Nobbs,
aided and abetted by Ur. Chapman’s wife and
Mrs. Osborne England, engineered the frivol,
which was so happy that it wouldn’t break
up at the appointed hour, but re-engaged the
orchestra to keep on Barney Googlying and
Last Night on the Back Porching for nearly
two hours longer. What those who had
made a wild rush for the last ferry said when
they learned they had been defrauded of
oodles of fun is best left to the imagination.
There was a wedding of A.I.F. as well
as merely social interest at St. James’s
last week, when Helen Osborne, of Turra-
murra, married Alan Macpherson, M.C., who
earned two titles as a gunner in France—he
was both Major and “the Horse King.” He
earned the first by service in the field and
the second by good work with an animal
belonging to a sporting British general. The
new Mrs. Macpherson, who is a sister of
Mrs. Ronnie Osborne, met her Alan for the
first time at the Osborne marriage, when he
figured as best man and she as chief brides-
maid. Major Synnot, another sth Brigade
original, was best man at last week’s func-
tion, and Mrs. Clive Dangar’s Patsy, who is
a cousin of the bride, made a fascinating
little bridesmaid. The newly-weds leave
shortly for Queensland, where he has com-
mercialised his eye for a horse: he owns a
station from which he exports the noble
animal to India and elsewhere.
The Clarence Bridges had a wedding in
the family one night last week, when son
Wallace laid his share of the family fleeces
at the feet of Pearl Dobell, of Manly. The
adventure into Matrimony started from St.
James’s, the bride wearing a slender sheath
frock of ivory satin crepe, its marabout-
edged train cut in one with the dress and
forming a perfectly flat panel back. An outsize
tulle veil was moored to the dark head by a
sparkling diadem and knots of lilies of the
valley. A sheath of white hyacinths and the
groom’s gift, a strung of pearls, added to the
effulgence. Sister May bridesmaided in
three shades of yellow georgette, and Dr.
Reggie Bridge supported his brother. The
cake-cutting at the Wentworth was hostessed
by another of the bride’s sisters, Mrs. Illing-
worth Hill. •
Norman Cowper, whose father used to be
a partner in the Allen, Allen and Hemsley
law firm, and -who is himself learning the
speedy and sure way of garnering six-and-
eightpence in the same office, has just offered
his career to the care of Hugh McCrae’s
daughter Huntley-—she’s the one who does
the pottery.
Roy Heuston, after 12 years in the Cus-
toms, has resigned to marry Music. At pre-
sent he is studying with pianist Lawrence
Godfrey Smith; for many years he was the
deputy-organist at St. Andrew’s and a pupil
of Joseph Massey. As a souvenir of past
harmony he was presented by his fellow-
officers with an illustrated history of the
operas and a vocal score of the great works.
Young Maorilander Lynch, whose sculp-
tured “Satyr” is the outstanding feature in
the show of the Younger Artists at the
Hordern Gallery, is beginning to taste the
flavor of success. He is being rushed from
one gathering to another looking like a shy
gazelle rather than a cub lion. Melba called
him to 52 Macleay-street the other day, and
gave him a few commissions—including one in
which grand-daughter Pamela will be the
subject. In one thing, at any rate, Sculp-;
ture has an advantage over the other arts —
no hostess wants you to mess up her polished
floors or Persian rugs by showing how you
do it.
The Red Cross Society has appointed
Major A. C. Barry, who was one of the
Heads in the War Chest Club in London, to
look into the matter of the out-of-work sol-
dier. His job is to place the unemployed
Digger in work suited to his abilities (and
perhaps injuries), and as this necessitates
the covering of the entire city and suburbs
for the interviewing of employers, the Red
Cross is calling for the use of cars and volun-
teer drivers to help Major Barry carry on.
Offers will be gladly recorded by Mr. Steel
at Rose Hall. William 1607.
Robert Loraine, playing now in Hammer-
smith in Congreve’s “Way of the World,”
has a link with Sydney in Stella George,
just returned after two years’ travel. The
Neutral Bay girl is Robert’s cousin. It
will be remembered that in the long ago he
was engaged to Marie Lohr. She demanded
that he choose between herself and flying;
and he refused to give up his wings. Marie
is now married to Yal Prinsep and Robert
to a charming English girl, so everybody’s
happy. Incidentally, Robert is considered
the greatest Cyrano de Bergerac London has
ever seen.
Emboldened by the success of his recent
Sydney show, Lloyd Rees will open an ex-
hibition of his work at Exton’s in Brisbane
on the 21st. At the same time Wal Taylor
will give the northern capital a glimpse of
his best bindings.
That Arthur Baker Clack who is exhibit-
ing _at the Royal Academy with the Aus-
tralian group has already won his spurs in
Paris. The honor of being elected to the jury
of the Paris Salon was this year conferred
on him; and last year he became a societaire
of the Paris Autumn Salon. The Clacks
are a S. Australian family, and it was at
Way College Arthur was educated. He had
tried his hand at farm work, mining, tutor-
ing and journalism before he decided that art
was his mistress, and pursued the lady to
Paris. He has been 17 years in France, and
lived in Etaples until that bit of Picardy
was raked by German bombs; then he moved
on. The Diggers knew him, for he often
visited their bases, and in 1917 painted a
set of cloths for one of the concert parties
of the Fourth Division. Lately lie has
been attracting attention by his exhibits with
the younger and more daring group of paint-
ers. His virtue as a colorist can be guessed
from the fact that one of his buyers is Sir
Michael Sadler, Chancellor of the University
of Leeds, who is reputed to have the finest
selection of Ganguins in Europe.
At the earnest solicitation of this Letter,
on a recent morning, May Moore took a few
minutes’rest from making other people’s photo-
graphs to have
this picture
made of her-
self. The Juno-
esque Maori-
lander was the
first woman
photographer
in Sydney to
build up a suc-
cessful busi-
ness, and a
good deal of
this was ow-
ing to her
fame having
gone before
her from her
studio in Wel-
lington. May
started out in
life as an ar-
tist, with pho-
tography for a
hobby. She
painted miniatures and had a strong inclina-
tion towards portrait painting. Among her
sitters she numbered the Chief Justice Stout
family, and several of Premier Joe Ward’s
offspring. Then it began to be whispered
that the artist girl was a genius with the
camera, and people who couldn’t afford por-
traits clamored to be photographed, until
gradually the easel was pushed into the back-
ground. Followed the conquest of Sydney;
and now. scarcely an artist or actor who
comes to the city leaves without a packet of
May Moore’s for reproduction. The entire
May Moore studio is carried on by women,
and a year or two ago the progressive lady
had the kindly thought of making her staff
shareholders in the business, which she
generously says they have done as much as
she to build up. Gardening—her home is
at Pittwater—and miniature painting are her
relaxations.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sir Matthew attended the ’Varsity Dramatic
Society’s production of A. A. Milne’s “The Roman-
tic Age” in the Elite. With him went Mrs. Levien,
from Sydney; Mrs. Tulley, whose pretty daughter
became Mrs. Mort the other day; Mrs. Leonard
Turner, Vere Noyes anl Martin Snelling, with
A.-D.-C. Turner to take care of them all. The
audience bristled with Professors, and Archbishop
Sharp was there; also the Thynnes, McGregors,
Lowsons, Unmacks and Lloyd Williamses. Sir
Matthew gave a dinner at Government House prior to
the play.
To celebrate the arrival in Brisbane of the second
edition of her novel, “The Wild Moth,” Mrs. M.
Forrest gathered a party of friends and critics at
luncheon at the Hotel Carlton on July 9. Tile
guests included editors, newspaper managers and
a representative of the house of Cassel; with Firinin
McKinnon, of the Co crier (who proposed the toast
of the author and her book), C. E. Sligo, of the
Daily Mail, C. J. Dobbie, M. L. Reading and his
wife, the Felsteads, Meyers, Norman Whites, Beryl
Dinsdale, Alice Gore-Jones, Winnie Moore and C.-
V. Hives.
Despite heavy rain, the exhibits at the Authors
and Artists’ Evening in the Wattle Cafe were not
all water-colors. Some good black-and-white work
was shown, and Professor Stable presided over a
company which included the Cumbrae Stewarts,
Grierson Browns, Emily Buleock, Dr. Robinson,
artists Hartt and Ashton Murphy, Phoebe Kirwan and
Mrs. C. A. Macfarlane. Mrs. Green and Walla
Goodwin were among those who showed pictures.
The very large audience which greeted the open-
ing of “Aren’t We All?” by the Vanbrugh-Bouci-
cault co. included Col. and Mrs. Thynne, the Perrys,
Hawthorns, McNabs, Cecil Palmers, Willises, Feezes,
Wallis Hoares and other society lights.
The Albert Hall staged Frank Hutchens’s recital
here. Eunice Cochrane, in pale gold, and Mabel
Zillman, in rose brocade, helped, against a back-
ground of palm and other foliage.
Our State-school system has had another advt. —
it has been adopted for the Northern Territory,
just as in 1914 it was adopted in Papua. At
present there are schools at Port Moresby, Tahira
and Samarai, with specially-selected Queensland
teachers, working to the syllabus in use in Queens-
land. Both the Northern Territory and the Papuan
schools will be-under the control of the Bananaland
Education Dept., and will be inspected annually by
one of its officers.


HARDY BROS. LTD.
j ewellers
m
Silver-plated, Coffee Pot; Sugar Basin with Tongs: Cream Jug;
and Tray, with Six White China Coffee Cups and Saucers, and
Silver-plated Bean-end Spoons. Length of Tray 16 inches:
Cofee Pot holds 1 pint £l7 : 0 : 0
A Dainty Coffee Service
JHE Coffee Service illustrated above is of
finest British manufacture throughout, with
cups and saucers of daintiest white china
and other pieces in Hardy’s well-known high-
quality Silver Plate. Its handsome appearance
and unequalled quality combine in making this
useful set particularly attractive value.
Selections! forwarded on. approval anywhere in
Australia. Five per cent Discount allowed for cash.
HAEDY BKOSJJD
"The House of Exclusive Jeweller"
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298-300 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
LONDON.
116-118 Queen St
BRISBANE.
w
r
1„ ..cfc»nie lor 120
thoM coop«"» wo
wil« .»«•' »•“*
,üb«crip*>»* fo ' h *
weH-bnown bumotowo
jouroot. IK.
Show" (publiobed >“
loaioo) for 13*^2
post
7& \ \ \\ , .A
TP V \ W CoYfk
pfcltfeS '
&
LONDON’S BEST HUMOROUS ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY-”PASSING SHOW”—WILL BE SENT
YOU POST FREE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE COUPONS ENCLOSED IN EVERY PACKET.
ifouUimh
foo — —*
ifijtu took
PASSING
SHOW
VIR.OINIA
CIGARETTES'
20A I^6
MADE IN LONDON
i by
CARRERAS, LTD. (Est. 1788),
55, Piccadilly, LONDON/ W.
RADIO
THE FUTURE HOME ENTERTAINER
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Cordially Invite You to
Free Practical Demonstrations
In Listening-in and the Construction of and Erection of
RADIO RECEIVING SETS
at the
EXHIBITION HALL
in their
PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSE
386 GEORGE STREET
(Between King Street and G.P.0.)
on each
MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY
from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
and
FRIDAY EVENINGS
from 7.30 p.m. to 9 p.m.
We will also be pleased to give courteous attention and advice freely
at any time at our RADIO DEPT.
BUSINESS HOURS:
Monday to Thursday
Friday
Saturday
8.40 a.m. to 6 p.m.
8.40 a.m. to 9 p.m.
8.40 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Country clients are assured of a prompt reply to all their
inquiries.
<2T) urabestos
The WUNDERLICH
jfsbestes Cement Sheets & Slates
Ideal Walls for
Farm Building or
Home.
You will obtain permanent
satisfaction from the use of
Durabestos (Asbestos-Cement)
Building Sheets for the Walls
of your new structure, whether
it, be Farm Building or Home.
These Sheets are made from two
fireproof, indestructible, hydrau-
lically compressed materials —
Asbestos Fibre and Portland
Cement. Supplied in many
handy sizes, which transport
compactly and cheaply, Dura-
bestos Sheets enable you to
build your Walls quickly, and
at remarkably moderate cost.
Write to as for samples , prices and
full particulars.
l/i
* )
$4 BCS
mm
m
vj" ' 5=23
mm
m
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY
PERTH
NEWCASTLE
BRISBANE
xnvaoH
smanoaaaK
ADELAIDE
LAUNCESTOX


SHIRTS
made-to-order
in the new and smartest fabrics.
A s . part of Farmer’s specialised
Tailoring Service, shirts are
made to measure from quality
materials, in the styles accepted by
discriminating men as the smartest.
The perfect fit of these shirts ensures
not only distinctive appearance, but
also utmost comfort and service.
m
-J
You are requested to write or call for patterns and particulars.
FARMER’S—Box 497, g.p.o.
RAISINS
Ms
7091.
Stemmed-CUaried
,and Seeded-Ready
for Us©
Obtainable
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
The vice-regal pen yawned emptily on the last
two Grand National days, blit the committee
box had a cheery filling on both occasions. No
one appeared to be best-dressed on the Wednes-
day when fur-coats were out in their thou-
sands on both grandstand and hill. Primin-
ister I*.race's wife swept the terrace languidly
ii: a brown fur cape over black, and had a
blue lining on her hatbrim. Vice-Admiral
Hall Thompson, who has taken to racing
with enthusiasm, was there with his wife
and daughter Valerie. The latter is
a wonderful time in the Melbourne whirl
in this her first season. Veteran Byron
Moore's popular wife smiled over the soft
grey fur which topped her black dress: Mrs.
Philip Bussell moved round in a trim black
coat collared and cuffed with sable and an
inky lid. ami Mrs. Alan Currie suggested
the Nut-brown Maid with a whole rig in
two shades of that color. Mrs. Henry Bosen-
thal. wearing black and Tuttisli embroider-
mgs. convoyed Mrs. Bupert Bovd. Mrs
Vincent, whose husband is one of Geelong's
horsey heads, was up for the event, uphol-
stered in all brown with pheasant’s pluma<™
flying aloft.
On Saturday the apache hankies tired the
eye with their monotony—nearly every second
woman had wreathed one round her throat
and chest. The frocking provided a study
in contrasts, the Overdressed colliding
violently wjth many of the Best Gilded in
too simple tailorings and pull-on felt hats,
such as the English illustrateds show that
the feminine uppali circles sport at country
meetings. Singer Charles Hackett took much
of the limelight as he trotted down to the
ring with his wife, who was cloaked from
neck to ankle in mink fur. “A thousand-
guinea Riviera coat!” gasped one of on-
newly-returned enviously. Mrs. Bussell
Gabb was another envied wearer of a liang-
the-cost fur garment. Mrs. Bertie Army--
tage. who as Bon Watson was one of the
smartest of our smart-setters of the ’nine-
ties, was seen with daughter Mary by
the bookies’ stand. Mrs. B. Cowper and
sister Laura Nynlasy were there, both
warmly furred. Mrs. Philip Bussell and
her sister, Ella Guthrie, sported twin black
coats, one furred with brown, the other with
grey. The Dick Casey, William Leonard
and Byron Moore matrons were in the com-
mittee reserve with Mollic Carter. Mrs.
Robert Benton, who is preparing for her re-
turn to Singapore, had her breathless moment
when cousin Claude Grice steered his favo-
rite, Fleetstone, first past the post in the
C. N. Steeple after a ncck-and-neck race.
The vice-regal Stradbrokes had a jolly
party for their eight-year-old boy, Chris-
topher, on Thursday afternoon. Brother
Peter wangled a half-holiday from Grim-
wade House, all Very Best infants whose
years run in single figures had been beckoned
in. and their Exes, and daughter Helena
joined in such ancient games as hunt the
slipper with more ardor than some of the
guests. During the afternoon Lady Strau-
broke poured tea for the grown-ups, most of
whom had come as convoys.
Hester Phillimore, who came from Eng-
land with the State Governor and his wife
and jettisoned her title of Lady-in-Waiting
soon after landing, is preparing to pay a
visit to the Jellicoes in Maoriland before
steaming back to the Eog.
The breathless brevity of the actual open-
ing of the State Parliament was in comical
contrast to all the official ceremonial which
preceded it. Governor Stradbroke read alornl
a short par., and all was over —all, that is,
but the tea, at which Council-President
r rank Clarke and his decorative little wife
rv ere hosts. The pasteboard broadcasted for
the event intimated that the guests were
beckoned to meet the State vice-regal pair,
hut tlie social tone was heavily diluted by
lhe presence of several babes in arms. One
infant while sucking a comforter seemed to
glare furiously at Health-Minister Stanley
A r gyle, w ho has been warning mothers
against the dangers of the germ-gathering
rubber. Mrs. Clarke was in navy tailorings
vested with rosy-patterned silk, and she wore
[V’ r ravishing smile under what looked like
me Blue Bird of Happiness nestling on her
fair head. The Countess Stradbroke wrapped
her slimness in brown cloth warmed at the
neck and wrists with beaver fur. She was
hefmeted in a shimmer of coppery gold,
fashioned like an inverted billycan. Angli-
can Archbish. Lees dazzled the eye with his
gown ot scarlet and white, which veiled his
less-distinguished purple vestments. Hester
Phillimore, who attended the vice-regal lady,
was fur-coated and hatted in brown, and
perched in off-hand fashion on a table-edge,
dangling a gold-tissue jazz slipper on one
flesh-silked foot. Jack Kiddle and head-
master Franklin were high peaks in the
crowded room. The latter convoyed a sister-
in-law who lately came- from China with a
lmby son for a year’s stay, her husband,
George Franklin, having steered for Cal-
cutta, where he is to be general manager for
India of the Union Assurance Co. of Canton.
Arthur Robinson, who has stepped off his
Ministerial perch, was there with his dame.
The Peacock's laugh rang out with its usual
cheeriness, and his wife managed to smile
cheerfully, although both of them must have
been wondering what the first Parliamentary
sitting would bring forth. The Labor mem-
bers were all grinning broadly in anticipation
of being called in to govern the State.
Stefansson has set a fashion in the ex-
ploration of what some insist on calling “our
waste spaces.” A parly of Society folk is
leaving Adelaide for Central Australia as
ibis letter goes to press. Lady Stradbroke
will meet her Governor husband at Alice
Springs, and Mrs. Jimmy Burns travelled
from Sydney to join the caravan, which has
been organised by Freda Sternberg.
The St. Kilda Mayoral Ball kept the chills
out of the local hall on a night when the
thermometer established a new record for
the State. The city Mayoral Bruntons sup-
ported Mayor Allen and his Mayoress daugh-
ter Merle at the saluting-post, the latter
all a shimmer of silver with a backwash of
red georgette, while Mrs. Brunton flashed
a diamente glitter from black satin. Town
Clerk Fred Chamberlain, who is famed for
his decorative skill, used wattle-blossom and
gum-leaves to achieve a delightful suggestion
of a bush scene in the hall. Blue and white
electric bulbs glittered among the vegetation
on the ceiling, and a central burst of
blossom and lighting came out of a mist of
blue. In the supper-room scarlet poinset-
tias shone hectically amid masses of green-
ery. Seated at the official board with the
Mayoral chieftains were the Arthur Robin-
sons (she in flame color and silver entangle-
ments) and Fred Eggleston and his wife,
the latter garnishing jade green with silver,
And there were Mayoral bunnyskins from
as far afield as Bendigo'.
The Jack Winter Irvings’ eldest daugh-
ter, Margaret, one iff! Melbourne’s most
decorative flappers, has accepted the half-
hoop of prospective matrimony from Bruce.
Mead, a young Englishman whose parents
live in South Kensington. The finger of
suspicion has been pointed at the pair by
all the other young things for some time past.
Another prospective claimant for a mar-
riage license is the Be Fegelys’ son and
heir, who has persuaded a popular Denili-
quin damsel, Laura Nolly, to be the other
party in the claim. Her dad looks after the
E., S. and A. Bank in that Riverina town.
The mother of the bridegroom-elect was a
Carre-Riddell before she married her Belgian
baron. She is also a gifted pianiste, and
has launched several successful compositions
on the market. The De Fegelys, by the
way, lately left Melbourne to settle on an
Ararat acreage.
The girl with the dreamy smile, here
snapped by Broothorn, is Louise Gargure-
vitch, the Melbourne pianiste, who gave a
recital in the Assembly Ilall the other day,
following her
return from a
course of in-
tensive musi-
cal training
in London
and Paris.
Before leaving
London she
wo n mu c h
favor a b 1 e
comment from
the critics
with a recital
in the Wig-
more Hall, and
her Assembly
lid l perform-
ance demon-
strated that
the tempera-
mental beauty
of her playing
has not been
submerged un-
tier her newer technique. The little Auburn
girl first came into notice as a child-pupil
at the Marshall Hall Con., and she was to
have started her musical career in earnest
as a scholarship-winner when trouble with
her hands threatened to end it altogether.
jShe philosophically turned to teaching, and
directly her refractory fingers regained their
agility she prepared afresh for the concert
platform, though without abandoning her
teaching work-while in the Old World she
attended a special course of teachers’ classes
at the Royal Academy of Music. Louise
Gargurevitch is the youngest of a family of
seven—a brother is secretary to the Vic.
Amateur Turf Club—and at one time she
studied under old friend Benno Scherek.
A snappy little afternoon tea gladdened
('coking's the other afternoon, when Mrs.
Teddy 1 >yson had a gathering to welcome
sister Kitty Russell-Jackson back. The host
ess. in black pleatings with colored beads
spilling over the side, and a droopy little
hat which masked all but her winning smile,
received in the lounge alongside sister Kitty,
who looked out from snowy astrachan and
another droopy lid which had a furry edge
to its whiteness. Both needed a few more
fingers to circle the posies showered on them,
and a few were unloaded on their mother,
Mrs. Boyes, who stood by. Mrs. Quinnell
intersected the teacake and ice-cream courses
with some welcoming words.
Petite, bright-haired Gippsland bride
Kathleen Ryan, whom Tim Rollason took
back to Ceylon last week on the Mooltan,
will not enter the isle as an utter stranger,
ior great-great-grandfather Major-General
Barnes was Governor there just a century
ago_ —1824-114—after previous service as
Adjutant-General to Wellington at Waterloo,
It was he, too. who was responsible for the
founding of the London Army and Navy
Club, where so many Aussie officers were
wont to congregate.
The Eye and Ear Hospital Canteen Fund
got its initial lift from the big card-partv
in His Majesty's foyer the other afternoon.
It had been worked up by the Robins and
Tallis matrons, but Efiie Ball acted as locum
for the latter at the affair itself. The ladies’
dressing-room and near-by corridor had to
))c hurriedly' roped in to accommodate the
rush of players. Cake and pekoe—contri-
buted by Aggie Brenaip—were dispensed by
Mrs. Ted Dyson and sister Kitty Jackson,
and handed round by sweet young things:
and Mrs, Clarence Marriott and Mrs. Jack
Bellair headed another group that vended
flowers, chocolates and raffle-tickets. Mana-
ger George Smith, who gave a hand wherever
help Was palled fox', was responsible for a
sing-song, in which Kathleen Fanning, Nora
McManus and R. Swallow lifted rival voices.
Doctors wives were conspicuous for their
number among the card-flutterers.
Mrs, Roystone. Mavey unpacked at Men-
airs last week for ten brief days in this
city—the strenuous business of transferring
to a new Darling Point fiat will draw her
back to Sydney earlier than was intended-.
She gave greeting to her Melbourne women
friends Over the teacups at her hotel the
day after her arrival, tlxe writing-room being
roped in for the event. The hostess furred
herself cosily above three-decker brown
tailorings, and swathed lier head becomingly
in blue brocade. The Groom lady was there,
very thrilled, of course, by her prospective
trip aci'oss-seas with her husband to the
League of Nations, daughter Jessie, who
was_ with hei', being just one degree more
excited at the delicious prospect. The pair
have, now rushed across to Sydney to have
a peep at the elder Groom daughter. Mrs.
Sinclair, before steaming off. The Clarkson
dame, over from the Ma State, enjoyed a
chat with her Melbourne pals, Mrs. Agar
Wynne revelled in her very first social frivol
since her recent, long illness, and the Albert
Miller widow, Mrs. John Garner, Mrs. Louis
Nelkin, Mrs. Goulburn-Brooke and daughter
Dorothy. Mrs. Bowes Kelly and her sister
Mrs. Millar, Mrs. Alfred Taylor, Laura
Nyulasy and dozens of others of the Best
Known helped to swell the flood of cheery
chatter that accompanied the rattle of the
teacups.
The Leo Cussens have just said “Blcs3
you. children” to their fifth son. Alan, and
Madge Kennedy, youngest daughter of Dr.
.T. T. Kennedy, who flies his brass-plate at
Cobram.
While the party wirepullers of the freshly-
elected Assembly were deep in their plots,
the news arrived of the sudden death of W. E.
Thomas, Labor member for Glenelg (Port-
land). He was a good-looking person, and
had personality that counted. In his youn-
ger days he was at Broken Hill, but latterly
did farming at Heywood, and owned lime-
kilns at Portland. For a while he was a
local chieftain in the Salv’army, and his
style of address in the House was always
rather evangelistic.
Mention of the Salvation Army recalls
that a lieut.-col. at headquarters here is a
son of the wealthy biscuit-making Arnott, of
Sydney. He was down at the wharf the
other day to see another of the family off to a
British university. His thirst is for medi-
cine.
The Meets. had Carlyon's dance floor on
Friday night for their annual frivol. These
ebullient young students make a practice of
being merry and bright in the presence of
the skeletons which they invariably drag
along to their feasts and mingle with the
decorations. It’s rather a nice idea, that of
sending gruesome thrills down the spine of
the squeamish outsider—the pork butchers
could develop it rather well at their annual
hop if they really wanted to. A. group of
College headlights shone at the tables top-
ping the room, among them Prof. Osborne
and his medical wife (who bodiced a white
skirt with black and silver), and Drs. Wil-
son, Wawn, Norman McArthur, Hume Turn-
hull and theirs.
The Palace Theatre was packed on Satur-
day night for tiie new Hugh Wal'd play
"The \Vheelr It was a race-night crowd,
but dozens of the Best People punctuated
the front stalls and circle. Leading lade
Barbara Hoffe first appears in tt frock
of rosy Jersey silk which falls to the ankles
and wraps her willowy form with artistic
effect, it shows the new flared flounce, which
contrives to look clinging without being so.
Then after a neat riding-habit of the latest
cut, her beauty shines out above black silky
curtainings, washed with Oriental color at
the wide sleeve ends. Eily Mai yon makes her
bow ill a black evening frock carved opt of
one piece of material, and a jet band circles
her head. She afterwards faces the bombard-
ment in black riding-breeches and top-coat.
Mrs. J, J. Brenan and Mrs, Hugh Ward, jilib,
sat together in one box. while. Jack McConias
and his dark-eyed wife were in another with
the Cecil Fiskens. Mrs. Keep and her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Johnston, were iii the stalls; the
latter wearing a mandarin robe mode over
as a theatre wrap.
George Benson. Who is to hold a show of
water-colors at the Sackvi lie. Gallery next
week, was feeding a gun on the French
front when the Australian War MusdUiri
fished hint Otit
to h<•i ji 111
putting sOto' 1
of. ouf martial
hist df Y (in
canvas: After
his rC t it.i 1 n
li om 1* It t*
settled down
to black-and-
white, but did
some , flitting
with bis did
love, water-
color, on a
caravan expe-
dition with
Harold Her-
bert. The two
painters mean-
dered through
the Danch-
nongs and saw
sunrises an d
twilights and
vistas of purple valley that would make even
a pony bookmaker dream of Higher Things.
Some memories of that tour will be visible
at the Saekville. This picture of the popu-
lar. “Benno” was taken by Peg Clarke in
the everyday wear of six years back.
Melbourne's bright little songbird Wilma
Berkeley, who is to take Melba’s place in
the coming by-and-bye—at any rate, Melba
herself told a Town Hall audience so—has
completed two years of French and English
training, and now finds herself at the Milan
Conservatorium. She is still under the wing
of her original voice-trainer, Auntie Ada
Casey. According to the Italian experts,
Wilma’s voice is not only beautiful i and
sonorous but most unusual in the richness
of the lower register, which is as pure and
full as the top section. The maestros are
predicting a great future for the girl, who,
they say, warbles with passion and pathos,
and is further equipped with the histrionic
sense that a grand-opera artist needs.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
The ’Varsity Women’s Sports Club staged its bail
in an Elder Hall bedizened with fruit blossom and
flaunting tulips, Iceland poppies and trailing aspara-
gus-fern beset with blue and white paper flowers.
Mrs. Frank Harcus t was responsible for that,' part
of the revel, and others on the committee were the
Moulden, Arthur Rymill and T. G. Osborne matrons,
with a dozen or so students to give a hand.
Stefansson has drawn packed houses to the Town
Hall, the audiences including a far greater sprink-
ling of Society than is usual at lectures. The
Bridges have been among his attendants, she more
frequently than he. In between whiles Stefansson
has been paying various calls—on the Polar-bears
at the Zoo, on Hcvsen and his pictures, and on
Wilkins’s mother at Parkside. One of the things
the explorer is never tired of telling us is that •ve
don’t know half as much of Wilkins’s work as we
should, and are not one per cent, proud enough of him.
The Women’s Club the.other evening gave a
party and a black opal pendant to Charlotte Grivell.
There was music, with a song or two from Charlotte
herself, and a warmly worded speech by the Club's
president, Miss Meithkc.
Selma, once the town house of the dosiah Symons
and for some time let as flats, is to change its
vocation again and become a school for girls. The
new purchaser is Mrs. Hines, who proposes to move
Riverside, lock, stock and barrel, from its present,
quarters at, Medindie.
Adelaide is wondering whatever it did before it
acquired its own orchestra. Each successive concert
finds the accommodation of the Town Hall a trifle
more strained than the one before. The star item
of Saturday’s programme was Tschaikovsky’s Symphony
No. 6, excellently rendered. The orchestra owes a
good deal of its success to having Sylvia Whitington
as its leader.
Freda Sternberg was hostess at, the Lyceum Club
the other afternoon, when the guest of honor was
Mrs. H. K. Wilcox (her husband is Stefansson’s sec-
retary), and the feminine journalists of the village
were bidden to meet her. She will he domiciled in
North Adelaide while the rest of the party is away
comparing the country north of Oodnadatta with the
Arctic Circle.


u
32T
m
&
IX
A. Saunders’ Lady's Oct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, jewelled lever movement,
£3/10/-
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £O/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
Wm
MtlfllM
■llll
■
wwmi
WMf/iW
mmm
mm
B
few
AW
V s
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Lever, £3.
Higher grades, £3/10/-, £4,
£4/10/-
Imperial Waltham or Elgin Lever,
£4/10/-; Extra Jeweiled. £5,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-. £7/10/,
£B/10/-, £lO.
11
w
92
15
KaCF*S
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Square Cushion-shape
Nickel Lever Watch, £2/10/-; Silver Case,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5.
Oct. Gold Case. £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO. I Net . Gold, £l2/10/, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS,
SPECIALIST IN WATCHES
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALTY WATCH
Gold-filled Hunting Keyless f-plate lever
1
GUARANTEED 10 YEARS,
and Backed by Our Recommendation.
A PERFECT TIMEKEEPER.
£2/10/-
THIS WATCH STANDS
ALONE FOR VALUE.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER - - JEWELLER - - OPTICIAN,
805-815 GEORGE STREET <ops*. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Watch, Silk
Ribbon Wristlet, Gold Mounts and Buckle,
' £2/15/-
Otlier shapes and styles, £4/10/-, £5,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
/
■s
\
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade
Open-face, Lever Watch, f-plate
non-maghetid time spring, 30/-
Extra Jewelled, 40/-, 50/-
M
3*
&
;m | llll!lllllllllllllllllllliiiiii;i'i'iiiiiihiw. i s
A
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Wristlet
Watch, lever movement, 30/-
Solid Silver Case, £2.
Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-, £3.
Universally Known and Universally Used
•>*<.
WV
%
: :
, ■
V' -'.j
;
m
11
The Sunshine Header Harvester
“It’s difficult to win a reputation,
but more difficult still to keep it.”
Sunshine Headers’ high reputation has never been
assailed. Note a few of the reasons why:—
• %
It will take the most tangled or thistly crops.
It is the ideal wheat, oats and barley getter.
Has entirely eliminated any waste of grain.
Light in draught but strong in construction.
Prompt service in spare parts and duplicates.
A boy can work it.
In short it speIIs—RELIABILITY, EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY.
H. V. McKAY
Pty., Ltd.
Sunshine
Harvester
Works,
SUNSHINE
Branches and Agencies:
27-39 George Street West,
Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
664 Bourke Street West,
Melbourne.
York & St. John Streets,
Launceston.
Catalogues gratis on
application.


Gnis/oc ra /zc Pioneers
22*
■■
r
ir
a
GPftfi.
m*
a *&
7/i
imli
GM&iltWj:
PI
ft*.
wm
V:M
m
• «»
■smmww
ah
H
1
i
Mi,
II
LI
:v
Captain Macarthur
ilmJsj §
SHF' U^Ji
:
M
uajKg.SLa3ra
sc
im
m
IrSte
HARDY’S WINES OF TIN TAR A
CAPT. JOHN MACARTHUR was one of the earliest pioneers of the Colony of New South Wales, and during the regime of Governor
Phillip established a small flock of merino sheep at Parramatta.
From this small beginning the production of wool has reached its present amazing proportions, and at the present time it is clearly
proved to be the strongest asset Australia possesses.
The establishment of Hardy’s vineyards in 1853 places them among the earliest, and Champion Reserve Port is the quintessence of
quality resulting from these years of experience and maturity.


WAKEFIELD
sdf
RECORD OF RECORDS—
ALL PLACES IN ALL EVENTS IN
TOURIST TROPHY RACES.
Isle of Man, June 23-27, 1924.
SENIOR T.T. JUNIOR T.T.
SIDE CAR EVENT LIGHTWEIGHT EVENT
ULTRA LIGHTWEIGHT EVENT.
This is the ninth time in succession (every occasion) that the Senior T.T., and the fourth
time the Junior T.T. have been won on “Castrol.” On each occasion also the winning machine
in the Side Car event has been "CastroF'-lubricated.
THESE SUCCESSES WERE ACHIEVED ON REGULAR GRADES OF
“CASTROL”—OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING GARAGES.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNERALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Ceraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney..
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There have been some great steeplechases
in Melbourne this winter, and the Grand National
race was magnificent. Chrysostom was the early leader,
but, with more than half the three-mile journey to
be traversed, Haoma joined him in front and out-
jumped him at every fence. Then was seen the
inspiriting spectacle of a little horse with 12st. 41b.
trying to break up the field. Fleetstone and Tar-
moola were the pursuers, Chrysostom dropping back
(his G. N. Hurdle experience had spoilt his fencing),
but over the last
obstacle the South
Australian was well
clear of Fleetstone, the
others being out of it.
Haoma shot to the
rails as they entered
the straight, but Fleet-
Mcne, admirably rid-
den by his amateur
owner, Grice (a Dig-
ger, wounded at Villers-
Bretotmeux), was
travelling a shade
faster on the outside,
and at the end of a
grand struggle the
gift horse had his head
in front. An amateur
hadn’t ridden the
National winner since
1892. Fleetstone was
favorite at s’s ; Haoma
was 6 to 1, and Berri-
bee, the indifferent
third, 13 to 2. The
time was 6min. 12sec.,
a record for the race.
H. E. CON-
NOLLY, ouncr-
trainer of Jack-
staff, winner of
the Grand
National Hurdle.
Ted Morley, who (very appropriately)
represents Barwon in Vie. Assembly, admits that
there is no chance for his Tote Bill in the new
House. It had only 15 friends in the last Chamber,
and there are even fewer in the present one.
•* * * *
The last three Saturday meetings in Syd-
ney have been bookmakers’ benefits. Sentinclla, a
speedy customer from Maoriland, was the only favorite
to get home at Canterbury Park, and McShortodds
took no risks with him, demanding sto 4 on. There
was hardly a shilling for Double Escape in the
Hurdle, Dighton Boy in the first division of the
Maiden Juvenile. Royan in the third division, or
Galahad in the Welter, and in each of the other five
races the penoillers showed a profit. Sentinella will
win better races than the Park Stakes, in which
imported Murky Knight carried top weight, and
Royan shaped like a youngster with a future. He
is a half-brother (by Highfield) to the great Rivoli
and is in the same stable.
* * * *
“Simple Simon”: I was about to put a
pound on Lazy Boy for the Jim Jam Stakes “down
the line” when a bright lad advised me not to be
silly. “’Ere,” he said, “give us y’ quid an’ 111
stick it on Babylon. I can getcher ten’s. ’E’s an
abserloot cert.” He sounded so convincing and looked
so honest, considering his surroundings, that I
entrusted him with the note, being careful, however,
to keep him in sight. There was no cause for
anxiety in that respect, and when Babylon finished
the length of a cricket pitch ahead of the next best
I waited joyfully for my winnings. The obliging
young man came over with a “roll.” Before I
could suggest his keeping a couple for himself, he
peeled off ten for his own pocket and handed me
back my original investment. “’Struth, you’re a
mug,” he said. “Y’ woulder lorst that quid on’y
for me.”
* * * *
“H. Ilardupp”: It was in a decrepit Maori-
land hamlet that I saw the roughest bit of justice
in my recollection. On the eve of the race meeting
the decadent place remembered it had once been a
real town, and did itself well; but some of the
visiting sports went a bit over the odds. The
jockey who was to ride the favorite for the big
event used an axe on a man with whom he had
quarrelled, and a serious charge was preferred
against him. The Court assembled in the* morning,
looking none the better for a wild night, and was
about to commit the accused for trial when the owner
of the favorite intervened. “What’s the use of all
this?” he demanded. “Mac, there, admits what lie
did, but if you lock him up my horse is goin’ to be
scratched. 1 won’t have any other boy ’'monkeying
with it.” The Court gasped a little, but realised that
the seriousness of the position justified the uncon-
ventional interruption. Then it saw a way out.
“Will an adjournment do?” it asked. “If so, Mac
can have bail.” “Bail be jiggered!” said Mac’s
employer. “How’s a boy to keep his mind on the
race when a charge like this is hangin’ over him ?
No, settle it ’ere and now. If the fine’s two quid
I’ll pay it for him, and get it over.” The charge
was reduced to one of common assault and the fine
was two quid.
* * * #
The Australian athletes had a discouraging
time at Paris during the first week of the Olympic
Games. E. W. Carr won two heats of the 200
metres but failed in the semi-final; Boyd and
Norman were outclassed in the middle-distance flat
races and Duigan in the decathlon; Dr. Honner
fared badly over hurdles and in the long jump (he
was evidently far below his best Australian form),
and Austen was among those disqualified by the
alleged heel-and-toe experts who judged the 10,000-
metres walk. The Sydney man could never have
beaten Frigerio, the great Italian, who won in 46min.
49sec. (Imin. 17 l-ssec. better than his Antwerp
time four years ago), but he might have got a
Place. The tide turned on Saturday, when A. W.
Winter, the Manly (N.S.W.) fireman, overcame all
rivals, and established a world’s record, by covering
51ft. ljin. in the hop, step and jump. Then came
the cheering news that Charlton and Beaurepaire
had qualified for the final of the 1500-metres swim;
that Jim Willard had eliminated Raymond, the
South African (conqueror of Watscn Washburn at
Wimbledon) in the tennis ; that J. M. Bayley, Eve,
the diver, and Bull, the sculler, had won heats; and
that Dempsey, the boy cyclist, had beaten the French
champion in a trial match. The outstanding per-
former at the Games is Paavo Nurmi, the Finn,
who has improved on his Antwerp achievements by
taking the 1500 metres in 3min. 63 3-ssec., the
5000 metres in 14min. 31 l-ssec (each a world’s
record) and the 10,000-metres cross-country in
32min. 54 4-ssoc., besides leading his team to
victory in the 3000-metres relay. Ritola likewise
won the 3000-metres steeplechase for Finland and
Stenroos the Marathon. The British have also done
splendidly by winning the 100 metres with Abrahams,
the 400 with Liddell (in the great time of 47 3-ssec.)
and the 800 with Lowe.
“Schnorrer”; Harold Maurice Abrahams, who has
added an athletic gleam to the star of Israel by
winning the 100 metres at Paris, is the youngest of
four athletic brothers. The eldest, S. S." Abrahams,
now Attorney-General in Zanzibar, was a great long-
jumper in his day, and was the second Jew to gain
his “blue” at Cambridge. Adolphe, now assistant-
physician at Westminster Hospital, also represented
Cambridge as a sprinter, and won races from 50
yards to six miles ; but Lionel, reckoned the fleetest
of the four in his school days, did not train on.
The . Abrahams boys must be descendants of Naphtali,
son of Israel. When Jacob wanted news of Egypt,
Naphtali was sent to get it. He did his Marathon
and returned by sundown.
“ A - 0 -” : If international sport does nothing else
it teaches that world whose only university is the
daily paper modern geography and history. It is
doubtful if one adult Australian in a hundred knew
a thing about Finland—the five-year-old republic that
sits on the top of Europe, with its tail almost in
the Arctic Circle—till Nurmi and his colleagues
gave it the advt. of a lifetime at the Olympic Games.
And sport on the grand scale teaches other lessons.
For a country with a population of less than 31, mil-
lions to provide the winners of all the long-distance
events, against the pick of the world’s runners, seems
to support, if not prove, Stefansson’s theory that
man does best physically where Nature forces him to
extend himself. The admiration complex enters into
the matter, of course. Running is to Finland what
cricket was, and tennis is, to Australia-*-a sport at
which the proficient are idolised and richly rewarded.
But the climate must have some share in the busi-
ness. Who ever heard of a bevy of distance runners
emerging from, say, Java, which has nearly 10 times
the population of Finland,?
* •» * *
Billy Shade is one of the nicest Ameri-
cans who ever came this way, but he is not the boxer
he was. The much lighter Merv Williams hit him
with everything but the chairs and the timekeeper s
watch at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
and was a decisive winner w'hen the final bell
clanged. A neat straight left was Shade’s undoing.
In the tenth round he w T as staggering across the
ring, and in the thirteenth he seemed on the verge
of a knockout, but he made a desperate effort and
it was Williams who was hanging cn at the bell.
After that the Queensland middleweight clinched
at every opportunity, but he had established such a
great lead that lie could not lose, except by a
knockout, and that the Californian was unable to
deliver. Williams proved himself a much better man
than the Stadium people gave him credit for being
a while ago, when they kept him waiting for matches.
“P. Pawnticket”: My neighbor at the Stadium was
barracking for Bruiser, and yelled with delight every
time Bruiser scored, which was seldom. In the fifth
round Bruiser stopped a wicked jolt with his jaw.
“For ’Eaven’s sake keep on your feet,” shouted my
neighbor. “Remember the missus, Bruiser!” The
cry revived the groggy pug., who not only lasted
the round out but bogged in to such purpose in the
next few cantos that his opponents towel came
in. “Ain’t ’e a beaut!” screamed the man in the
next seat. “1 knoo that reminder about his missus
w'ould rouse him.” “What’s the matter with her?” I
asked, scenting a story. “In hospital, perhaps?”
My neighbor paused to give another cheer for the
victor. “She’d ’ave belted sin out of ’im to-night
if he’d lost,” he answered.
* * * *
Fierce was the football at South Mel-
bourne on Saturday, when the local team, a muscular
and willing lot, con-
quered Essendon by 62
points to 49. Even
fiercer was the scrim-
mage at Geelong, where
the Seasiders downed
Fitzroy by 3 points,
the winning goal being
kicked as the bell rang.
’Roy and South are
now level for first
place, with ’Don half
a game in arrear. Col-
lingwood broke their
long sequence of losses
by running away from
Melbourne in the last
quarter, ending with 76
to 53: and Carlton
trounced St. Hilda by
99 to 56, after a scuffle
in which the players
did much as they
thought fit and of
which the less said the
better.
DAN MINOGUE,
captain of the
Richmond team.
The All Blacks were swift to improve on
their opening exhibition in Sydney. In their second
match they routed a Metropolitan XV by 38 to 5;
in their third they scored 21 to 5 against N. S.
Wales after being six tries to nil at the interval.
Their passing, so patchy on July 5, was perfect on
Saturday, and they would have amassed a cricket
score in the first half could they have dug up a
goal-kicker. They are weak in this department, and
Nepia, as full-back, was decidedly inferior to Noth-
ling. The Cornstalks rallied gallantly in the
second half, and the game was always fast and
entertaining, disappointing as the result was to
most of the 22,000 onlookers.
“Centurion”: Unless your forwards make the
game, your back men are in vain. Completely
beaten forward in scrum, line, loose and ruck, the
Welshmen could neither keep the opposition off their
own speedy backs or prevent the Maoriland back
machine getting into action. Munro and his mate
conclusively proved that two men can get the ball
from three, provided they know their job. Their
success was the pivot of the M.L. victory. There
was not a visible weakness in the Black forwards;
and of the newcomers in the backs, Dailey, at half,
and Svenson, on the wing, both outshone their
predecessors of the first game. Though a centre
three-quarter, Svenson ran for the line like a
born winger, scoring two fine tries and putting
Cooke over with a brilliant in-pass to Brown. The
Blue pack included a passenger or two, though the
opposition was certainly deadly. The backs natu-
rally never got moving, and there was distinct weak-
ness on the part of one or two of the “insides,” by
which the Blacks profited. The goal-kicking on
both sides was horrible.
* * * *
“Snow”: “Centurion’s” mention of A. E.
Toby (B. 26/6/’24), who, although cnly a middle-
weight, was chosen as N.S.W. full-back against
the All Blacks, calls to mind Frank Roberts, who
occupied the same position for Glebe in the palmy
days of Union Rugby. Frank was probably the
lightest full-back that ever played district football.
He was only a nine-stoner, but his tackling was a
revelation. There were some hefty forwards in those
days, and until they got to know him they each
made the mistake of crashing straight into aie
featherweight, thinking to bullock him out of the
way, but it was nearly always the charging forward
who want down. Roberts was also an accurate line
kick ; in short, a potent factor in many of the vic-
tories scored by the famous old Reds.
* * » *
Fielding their strongest side (it included
Bacon and Hurcombe), the English Leaguers were
outplayed at Brisbane by an Australian team com-
posed of ten Queenslanders and three Cornstalks. At
the end of another rough game in which O’Connor,
the N.S.W. forward, had a collar-bone broken and
Gallagher (Eng.) and Bennett (Aus.) were sent off
for fighting, the Aussies owned 21 points to 11.
Each XIII got three tries —Oxford, Paten and,
Armbruster for Australia: and Parkin and Evans (2)
for England; but Australia kicked six goals against
England’s one. Latta, the fair-haired Balmain
(N.S.W. f forward, returned with a trophy presented
by a Brisbane firm to “the best player on the
ground.” “Snowy” has had a great football season,
yet there were Svdney critics who urged that lie
should be dropped by the selectors on the ground
that he was too old. The victim of decrepitude is , 27.
“S. Gumm”: There is something about professional
Rugby that makes for hooliganism both on the
field and off. After the first match between England
and Australia the victorious Woodbines were hooted on
returning to their dressing-room and blows were ainvd
at the referee. This in the members’ stand at the
Sydney Cricket Ground, a place where one doesn t
expect to encounter that squealing nuisance, the
sport who has lost his tin. There was an even
uglier demonstration after the third match at Bris-
bane, and it isn’t pleasant to reflect on what would
have happened to Parkin, the English captain, if
he hadn’t been protected by the police. These League
tours do no good. It seems impossible for an
international match to be played without sickening
brag in the newspapers about what one team intends
doing to the other and unmanly whining from the
beaten side after the event. And the “game” itself
is mostly a dreary exhibition of tripping, elbowing,
wrestling’, punching and kicking the man instead of
the ball; a monotonous display of man-handling by
ill-tempered masses of meat in an atmosphere made
hideous by the hooting hoodlum behind the pickets.
It was a bad day for sport in N. S. Wales when the
League code was introduced. However, there are
obvious signs that the unadifying business, with its
pony-racing traditions and standards, is losing its
hold on the Sydney public.
* * * »
‘‘Pas*: Grammar”: Please tell “Hamer”
(”• 3/7/ 24) that Temora’s hold on the Maher Foot-
ball Cup, won recently from Cootamundra, was as
fleeting as the glory that was Holman and the
grandeur that was Greg. McGirr. When Temora
rushed back, as “Hamer” tells, to chase the glowing
hours with frothing beers, emissaries of “Coota.”
pursued them with challenges. Full of valor and
vainglory, Temora rushed again to battle. To-day
Temora is one with Nineveh and Tyre, and “Coota”
guards again its precious goblet.
* * * *
Canada’s 4-to-l defeat of Australia in the
British Association game at Adelaide leaves each
country with two wins and 8 goals to its credit —
the other contest was drawn. Yet another game will
be played at Sydney, not because there is any public-
clamor for it, but because the Soccer people need an-
other substantial “gate.” Of course it will be called a
“Test” match, and the teams will play for the
mythical ashes.” These expressions, like the
touring business generally, are overdone.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A strong local committee has
been formed to boost the old and neglected oval -,t
Kensington, three miles from Adelaide G.P.O. It is
about the same size as the Adelaide Oval, and 35
years ago was something of a rival to it, having
the first “banked” cycle-track in South Aus., and
taking the first inter-State football matches when
S.A. Cricket Association declined to have them
damaging its turf. New grounds nearer in have
hit it hard since then, but the district is now well
populated and its time seems to have come again.
The local cricket club has been admitted to A
grade, being assigned a slice out of the large (and
rather monotonously successful) East Torrens district,
and if it can do the same with football—at the
expense of Norwood—the way is easy.
* * * ’ •
“D. Fly”: Why the Sydney Water Board
should have refused the offer of local fly-fishers to
pay for the right to angle in the Cataract Dam is a
mystery. There would be no pollution worth men-
tioning. It is impossible to isolate these huge areas
of water, and in London, where a population of close
on seven millions is now being supplied, the attempt
has not been made in three centuries. The New
River is practically unguarded in such a congested
part of England as Enfield. Pollution is much more
likely to occur in Sydney’s reservoirs if they are left
unfished than if this means is taken of thinning down
the superfluous trout population. Two effects are
seen where fish are allowed to multiply unchecked
in fresh-water lakes: they become diseased and they
deteriorate in size and weight. The dam might
be made more remunerative than many hundreds of
water-meters by a .judicious issue of guinea or half-
guinea tickets, entitling the purchaser to take so
many fish with specified lures. And if exploited >u
this way it would help to boom Sydney as a tourist
resort.
* * * *
Our Davis Cup team is getting a lot of
practice without adding greatly to its stack of
trophies in the U.S. O’Hara Wood failed to annex
the Nassau County tournament, though the best
of the opposition is about twentieth on the American
ranking list. Patterson also lost in Chicago, but
as he is said to be engaged in filling up the holes
in his game, the defeat isn’t of much significance.
The man who is plugging away with the idea of
getting fit for battle, if called upon, is the ex-
Victorian, Schlesinger. In the clay-court argument
at St. Louis he put up a great fight against the
Massachusetts champion, Chapin, revealing, according
to Tilden, “the best tennis yet seen in the tourna-
ment.” If Schlesinger’s stroke equipment were equal
to his pertinacity, he would be a world-beater. His
trouble is that he hasn’t any other gun but a
vigorous forehand drive.
“15-30”: There are varying opinions about the
wisdom of having Norman Brookes join in the hunt
for the Davis Cup, but I know one member of the
present team who will view Brookes’s decision with
mixed feelings. The veteran is far from being an
ideal partner in doubles. His air of gliding about
like an inspector of an icevvorks is not more dis-
turbing to his pal than his aspect of tacit criticism,
if the other should break down. Dunlop made a
great accomplice for Norman, because he was not
only a fine stroke-merchant, but possessed a radiant
good humor which was unaffected by the Brookes
personality. I am among those who regard the
Brookes imperturbability, the “ominous cold grey
eyes under the old golf cap” and other triumphant
aspects which have been enlarged upon by every
tennis writer, as a little theatrical, and calculated
to depress rather than invigorate some of the cheery
first-flighters with whom lie has played. One there-
fore doesn’t like the idea of a Brookes-AVood or
Brookes-Patterscn alliance in the doubles matches
in the U.S. On paper both combinations look strong,
but Brookes hasn’t played with Patterson or AVood
for many months, and the time at his disposal for
practice isn’t long enough to ensure his fitting in
successfully with either. If he must plunge into
the game again at his age, he might try his hand
at singles. On his recent Wimbledon form he is as
good as Patterson and is probably superior to
Wood. He is inferior to both in stamina, but he
went five hard sets at Wimbledon against a man who
is ranked about fourth among American champions,
and that should qualify him to face Tilden or John-
ston with the prospect of doing as well as any of
his countrymen. In fact, I am reckless enough to
suggest that he is still mighty enopgh to make either
champion feel a little uneasy. They have fairly got
the measure of Patterson and AVood, but they never
know what the ancient has up his sleeve.
* * * *
“Centurion”: It seems that Suzanne Leng-
len’s retirement from the AVimbledon tournament
was due to a “liver” following on jaundice. Any-
one who has ever been in Suzanne’s plight, either as
an aftermath of malaria or jaundice, will now
understand and condone the damsel’s exhibitions of
bad temoer. Hitherto, the lavman was prone to
ascribe these outbursts to the Gallic temperament, plus
hysteria. Suzanne’s steadiness in many' a hard tennis
battle was all against the hysteria theory, as the
outsider understm Is it. Golf with a liver is Hades;
tennis under similar affliction must be Jehannum.
OVER THE ODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Complaints having been made that bookmakers
have been refusing, sometimes with insolence, to
accept ‘ten shilling wagers or five shillings each way.’
the V.R.C. carpeted three offenders last week. Two
were fined £lO and the third £25.”
Portly, bejewelled, in screaming checks arrayed
And glossiest linen, loud the odds he brayed.
Timorous I sought a modest bet to place
On Balaam’s Ass for the ensuing race,
Straight-out a dollar, and the same a place.
He laughed contemptuously and turned avvay;
He would not lay.
He eyed distastefully my half a quid ;
So might some gourmet, to a banquet bid,
Glare if tire covers raised exposed to view
Nought but potato pie and Irish stew ;
He glowered, as a taxi-man might do,
Offered a zack for fare. With gall beset
He would not bet.
He spurned my mite. I deem it deadly hard
The least financial sport should be debarred
From doing his bit t’ improve the equine breed.
I waved my note at him. He would not heed,
Just muttered something about chicken feed.
“Five bob each way on Balaam’s Ass,” I said.
He shook his head.
Blacker his frown, sourer his visage grew;
No elephant that’s proffered a eaehou,
No judge of dry champagne and crusted port
ChaUenged to blow the froth from off a quart
Could have achieved a more derisive snort.
For ten poor bob, his mobile chiv revealed,
He would not field.
Good on yer, V.R.C.! Just teach them straight
’Twixt rich and poor they mayn’t discriminate.
Impress on pui-se-proud, supercilious Mo.
Though wads of tenners in his bag may go
He mustn’t scorn the humblest punter’s dough;
To turn his snout up at the smallest bet
He won’t be let.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The pistons of a motor engine must
fit to tke tkousandtk part of an »
inck, and require a film of oil as fine as
a spider s wek. Tkis tkm film of oil
must ke capakle of witkstandmg enor-
mous keat and tke frictional pressure of
metal surfaces moving at tremendous
speeds. And it must ke akle to do tkis
tkrougkout tke entire operation of tke
motor; not merely part of tke time.
Tke weaving of a spiders wek
calls for tke most patient care. So
does tke preparation of lubricating
oils, and “Skell" take,- particular care
to ensure tkeir lukricating oils are
durakle enougk under all conditions
for tke most exacting service. & jz?
The British Imperial Oil Company Limited
Distributors of
Shell Motor Spirit and
L 3
SHELL LUBRICATING OIL
DAY IN AND DAY □UT
Day in and day out, in all parts of the world,
Dodge Brothers Motor Car serves its owner®
faithfully and at low cost.
This is because Dodge Brothers have consist
ently built their product more staunchly thar
strict manufacturing practice requires.
Employing only the finest materials, they have
insisted upon an exceptional margin of excess
strength in every part that takes a major strain.
Do Dee Brothers. Detroit
E
i
SVaymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide. Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Austral Motors, Ltd., Brisbane. Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
17/7/’24
adsf
“Pollio”: Where does “Horsemarine” (B.
26/6/’24) get his information from? Grant
in his journal says specifically that he nameu
Cape Liptrap after “my friend, John Lip-
trap, Esquire, of London.” John Liptrap
was one of a well-known firm of brewers
of that day, and his beers were colloquially
named after their maker, just as Bass’s
were in later days.
“Shed Hand”: For years I watched large
quantities of axes, wedges and files being-
railed to the Italian woodchoppers at Kurra-
wang (W.A.), and came to the conclusion
that the recipients must eat hardware with
their macaroni. But when I found out they
were on a long-standing agreement with the
firewood co. to be supplied with tools and
necessaries of life at pre-war prices, 1
understood —many a poor devil of a fossicker
must be glad to buy supplies through them.
We’ve got something to learn from Italy
besides opera-singing.
Mrs. Lance Rawson corroborates
“J.H.M.A.’s” veteran (B. 26/6/’24)
“J.H.M.A.’s” informant was right about the
York-street (Sydney) stocks. They were still to be
seen in the early ’fifties, though then very dilapidated.
I remember my mother telling me that drunks were
fastened up in them, but 1 never saw that sight
myself.
“Alastor”: A Chinese medicine-man in a
N.Q. town has a cure for rheumatism, the
inner secret of which was recently discovered
by a detective on a search for opium. Ah
Fat fills a two-gallon jar with sham-sliu, a
Chinese wine, and then deposits in the liquid
a live domesticated cat —fleas, hair and all.
Six months are then allowed for the liquid
to extract all the medicinal properties out
of Tabitha, and when the process is com-
plete a sure cure for rheumatism is the re-
sult. The Celestial medico swears that)
it has never been known to fail in his own
countlee.
“Henry Pannikin”: The best mimic in his
own line I ever met was a Digger who gave
imitations of a shell just about to get in
its work. He often had a whole company
ducking on the way to the trenches. At a
concert at Berteaucourt, he was one of the
performers. The Taubes had been across the
town droping bombs for weeks, and every-
one was a bit shifty. Just as the chap had
finished singing, something started screeching,
and in a moment half the audience were
under boxes and seats. I scrambled along
with others under an old porch in the build-
ing and waited for the explosion. It never
came. But almost every man who heard it
would have sworn it was a dud shell from
the enemy’s guns.
A prize exhibit of the Sydney Industrial
Blind Institute is a 15-year-old girl named
Joyce Frew. Joyce was deputed to show
her mastery of Braille at a recent func-
tion, and, with her fingers spinning over
the characters, she read, impromptu, a chap-
ter from a book as rapidly and clearly as
a sight-whole person might read a column
from a newspaper. Charles Hedger, the
Institute’s manager, who has toured the
world and seen the inside of many institu-
tions for the blind, considers her the best
Braille reader he has known.
A. D. McLeod, who has just taken over
Guthrie’s portfolio as M.L. Minister of
Lands, is a rugged product of the Shivery
Isles. Educated in the Baekblocks, he has
spent nearly all his time sheep-farming, and
mixes practical knowledge with sound com-
monsense. Guthrie, the retiring man, has
not had good health of late. He had the
job of supervising the expenditure of nearly
30 millions on returned-soldier farms; and
though very few could have done it better,
it took a lot out of him,
“Harry Stottle” : The latest about monkey-
glands is a proposal threatening Australia s
wool industry. Dr. Voronoff, of thyroid
fame, has been monkeying about with sheep
in Algeria, lie grafted thyroid glands from
monkeys on to 16-year-old rams, whereupon
these ancient jumbucks not only grew heavy
fleeces but showed “every other sign ol
youth.” Voronoff therefore proposes, by simi-
lar operations in conjunction with a eugenic
organisation of these “other signs,” to raise
a breed of sheep in French North Africa
which will “render France entirely indepen-
dent of Australia for her wool.” The special
qualities which sheep at present do not
possess for this purpose are not stated.
“Adelaide” : Touching the statues of pub-
lic men in State capitals (B. 5/6/24).
We have in Adelaide the only statue of C. 6.
Kingston. It is a good likeness, but unfor-
tunately the great democrat has been shown
in Court dress, this detail having been in-
sisted on; by then Chief Justice Way,
chairman of the statue committee. AN aj
himself is shortly to be seen outside the
University, of which he was Chancellor.
Thomas Elder and AV. W. Hughes are just
inside its grounds; but the rest of our
statues are royalties or worthies of old time,
such as Light, MacDouall Stuart and Sturt.
An odd omission is E. T. Smith. Odd,
because he was so popular that in 1913 there
was a businesslike attempt to erect a statue
to him while he still lived, and only his own
determined opposition stopped it. The infer-
ence was obvious that it would be done as
soon as he was gone. But he died in 1919,
and nobody has made a move in the matter
since.
“Hasliouse”: It is not only in Russia that
the intelligentsia are being victimised.
Before the war —and even for some time
after it—l could get conveyance from
Macleay-street to a Sydney theatre for 2s.
6d. —and no blasphemy from the driver to
follow. A taxi co. charged me 7s. 6d. for the
journey the other night. The fee demanded
a few days later by a horse-cab driver from
King’s Cross to my home—about quarter ot
a mile —was 3s. On wet nights, when they
are most needed, many of the cabbies take
their insanitary rattle-traps home, thus
leaving citizens who don’t own cars an
alternative between pneumonia and the
taxi-bandits. The horse-cabs of Sydney are
dying fast, partly from natural causes, partly
from suicide in the form of dirty and un-
comfortable interiors. No new ones are
being built, and most of the present owners
will soon be dead by the look of them. AN hen
the last passes away I anticipate that the
taxi-fares will make another upward move,
and that stormy evenings will become to the
once pleasure-seeking middle-class man what
•winter is to the bear.


John Hunter’s Footwear
is unequalled in
Quality, Value & Price Moderation
Postage: N.S.W. 9d.,
Inter-State 1/2.
After nearly half a century’s search for
better methods in the manufacture of Foot-
wear, JOHN HUNTER’S have established
a reputation for value-giving unrivalled in
the Commonwealth. These offerings have
been selected to convince you of this.
Compare the prices and study the quality
and worth of each.
MAIL ORDERS—-If it is not convenient for
you to shop in person, send your order by
Mail. You can rely upon John Hunter's to
despatch your order promptly and correctly.
ww:v/2?
{if-;. >yC'*.
...•v '.<r,7
ll».. -> >•?’.< •;*-
riw^sar^
.l&
. sSj -
Ifa*#
gsaigys:
ffKefcjSF
teaskM. # 1 ’
4
BY
L*;sj
e
%
J?
N2S9—MEN’S COSY
HIGH BACK CHECK
FELT SLIPPERS with
sewn leather soles. Sizes
5 to 10. Hid
PRICE I/O
Postage 9d., Inter-State 1/2.
N26O—LADIES’ CHECK
FELT SLIPPERS, with
collar and pom. Pump
soles. Top piece heels.
p ric e 5/6
Postage 6d., Inter-State Bd.
N26I—MEN’S NEAT
CHECK FELT SLIPPERS
with light leather soles for
bedroom wear. Sizes 5
PRICE 5/11
Postage 9d., Inter-State 1/2.
N262—MEN’S CHECK
FELT BUCKLE BOOTS
with sewn leather soles.
Wonderfully warm slip-
pers. Sizes 5 to 10. oill
PRICE ©/It
Postage 9d., Inter-State 1/2.
FREE CATALOGUE—Write for our big
free Catalogue, it is beautifully and faith-
fully illustrated. It is absolutely post FREE.
N 605—LADIES’ SUPERIOR NIGGER
BROWN SUEDE ONE-BAR SHOES,
neatly perforated, with leather Cuban
Heels and sewn soles. These shoes are
worthy of the House of Hunter. They
are decidedly Stylish and quite in Har-
mony with the vogue of to-
day. If you cannot shop in
person, send your order by
Mail. PRICE. .
1311
df
Z&&SSS&
OK
Sydney’s Recognised
Boot Value -
MEN’S BOX HIDE DERBY
LACE BOOTS, as illustrated.
They are made on the most com-
fortable last, have tough, supple
uppers and soft leather linings.
The soles are all solid leather and
are GENUINE FAIRSTITCHED.
These boots are made
in our own factory.
Obtainable with or
without toe caps.
11l
Postage 1/-, Inter-State 1/8.
John Hunter & Son Limited
George and Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches at Oxford Street, Bondi Junction, Paddington, Redfern, Leichhardt,
Rozelle, Newtown, Balmain, Rockdale, Burwood, and Parramatta. Also all
over the State and in Queensland.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service A la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
w
"'ION
ssz
Tariff-—Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
‘Rowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
Onoto
SELF-FILLING SAFETY
Pen
Whenever you see
a Pillar Box think
of an Onoto.
You can
Onoto
Dress
hang an
over a
Shirt
—or pack it in your linen and it will not leak.
The self-filling safety Onoto only gives ink when you’want it. Foil
control the ink flow, you shut it off by a twist of the finger and thumb.
The Onoto fills itself by an original method. It is the best type of
self-filling safety pen on the market. It holds more ink than other pens.
Thomas de La Rue & Co., ltd.,
!10 Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Representative!!: NORMAN BAKER k LONGIIURST fcTD.
Sydney, Melbourne k Wellington (N. 2.).
Onotolnk
Best for all Pens
LENNON’S
BRISBANE.
Queensland’s Premier Hotel.
In the heart of the Commercial
centre of Brisbane.
Opposite Supreme Law Courts.
Its Luxurious Lounges are the
rendezvous of the Social Life of
the City.
Hot and Cold Water in every Bedroom.
Tariff from 23/- per day inclusive.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera Season
Criterion “Ivempy”
Royal .. “Good Morning, Dearie ’
New Palace “The Dover Road”
Grand Opera House “Old Bill, M.P.”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
Fuller’s Theatre The World’s Best Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s “Whirled into Happiness”
Royal Vaudeville
Princess’s “Mr. Battling Butler ’
Palace “The Wheel”
King’s “The Garden of Allah”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Tivoli Musgrove Celebrity Vaudeville
•
Is’t best to watch the fading flower,
And see Time twist our dreams awry;
Or, like you, flutter through an hour,
And, ere its colors dim, to die,
Butterfly, Butterfly?
* * * *
All the world loves “Butterfly,” so in a
week destitute of other first-nights, Puccini’s
work drew an overpowering house to Sydney
Majesty’s, and the fourth prima donna of
the company, Augusta Concato, was assured
of a wave of sympathy from her first flutter
across the boards. Augusta, apart from
being an anatomical outsize for the Japanese
heroine, does well enough; her acting in her
dramatic moments was notable, her moments
with the unresponsive infant very tender,
and her difficult interview with the Ameri-
can Consul carried through with charm and
dignity. But her strong soprano holds none
of the light and shade of her acting. Her
rendering of “One Fine Day” grows pallid
in the memory of the Amy Castles render-
ing of it. The never very satisfactory Car-
men Tornari was cast as Suzuki, Butterfly’s
attendant and confidant. The best that can
be said for her is that she got through with-
out disaster. Anita Roma, Pinkerton’s
American bride, made her distressful entry
in an effective fashion from a background
of garden shown through the window where
Butterfly keeps her woeful vigil. Luigi
Ceresol was a tuneful and, after his first
appearance, a likeable chap, as American
Consul Sharpless. Antonio Laffi and Luigi
Cilia made melodic interruptions in the
bungalow tragedy. Nino Piccaluga, as the
naval lieutenant, was musically at his best
so far this season—his dramatic tenor has
enough sweetness in it to warrant the'lady’s
leaving home for him, and he cut quite a
nice figure in the naval outfit. The orches-
tra could have put the soft pedal on with
advantage. After all, an audience goes to
an opera principally to hear the singing.
On Friday “Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci”
hold the fort.
SjC v
At Sydney Royal “Good Morning, Dearie,”
is trilling and tripping its way into the glow
of public approbation with great rapidity.
Josie Melville is a study in dainty alluring-
ness, and the Australian Sunshine Ballet is
a radiant vision of whirling limbs.
“Old Bill, M.P.,” is in the fourth week
of his cheery philosophy at Sydney Opera
House.
“THE BARBER OF SEVILLEAT.” AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
Rosina (Toti dal Monte) and Figaro
(Edmondo Grandini).
The magic of Carter and the prophetic
art of Evelyn Maxwell will be on tap for
only two more nights at Sydney Palace.
At Sydney Tivoli most of the male enter-
tainers jabber like young rooks: the excep-
tion is “General” Ed. Lavine, who does some
remarkable juggling feats while preserving
the austere silence of a Trappist monk. Tex
McLeod makes a piece of rope do nearly
everything except talk, pattering himself the
while like a running brook. Jock McKay
continues his desperate struggle to be Scotch
and amusing; some of his jests have as much
sparkle as a plate of burgoo. Carr Lynn
shows himself a mimic of quality, and there
is nothing better on the programme than
Grace Cristie’s dancing. On the musical
side George Castles and Torzillo the harpist
are right at the top of the class.
* *s= * *
• filer's Theatre, Sydney, Claude Dam-
pier s All Trumps” is a whirl of whimsi-
cality and melody and changing colors.
Lorna and Lance are a brace of clever kids;
ana Elmer bounce like new tennis-balls;
1 hil Bransby exudes Cockney humor, and
Howard and Wyndham tread mad and merry
measures.
. Broadway After Dark,” at the Lyceum,
is keeping Sydney out of bed, although it is
or only middling quality. The minor attrac-
tion at the same address throws the spot-
"j?ht on a sensational young letter-carrier.
Captain Fly-by-Night” is billeted at the
Lync, and his task is to squirm out of an
astounding number of tight corners without
loss of time. ‘‘This Freedom” has flown
heavily from the Crystal Palace, and “Where
the North Begins” fills the vacant space. A
wolf-dog supplies most of the thrills. At
the Lmpress the experience of Shirley Mason
proves a warning to those who pour too
much of their feelings into a love-letter. “Boy
or Mine ’ gets the seat of his pants dusted at
Hoyt s, and the moral, almost obscured by
the sob stuff, is. the old ’un that boys will be
boys. The Globe harbors another crook who
meets his Waterloo in a hotel rouseabout;
and the cruise of the Speejacks, the tiny
vessel that took Dale Collins away from Aus-
tralia, is also being shown.
** * *
_ Bernard Fagan’s “The Wheel,” staged at
Melbourne Palace on Saturday, is not a
bad piece of writing, and, granting the high
character of the two lovers, their behavior
is theoretically correct. The first scene, where-
in the lady, the wife of a Colonel in India,
discovers that her beauteous young captain
is leaving the regiment because his feelings
for her are not consistent with his duty to
her husband, is quiet and convincing. Later
on they are beleaguered in a frontier fight
with every prospect of being massacred by
the tribesmen outside; and when, in such
circumstances she lets down her back hair
for the presumable purpose of attempting a
Glory Quayle contact, yet only murmurs in-
distinctly to his immaculate professions of
love, the pale climak is offensive to popular
notions of impropriety. The kiss deferred
maketh the mob sick. One is entitled to
feel sorry for Barbara Hoffe, who struggles
bravely to capture a part that emotionally
eludes her. It is a trying rBle for a moderate
talent, and only an actress of exceptional
magnetism and bewitching personal attri-
butes could undertake it with any success.
Maurice Tuohy handles the captain with
a discretion which is occasionally shaded
down to a moody reticence, but "he looks
the sort of fellow to warm the wandering
glance of a lady owning a colonel 20 years
her senior. Victor Fitzherbert’s colonel is
an agreeable officer who tempers the parade-
ground brusqueness with the tone fof a
father-confessor. Carl Lawson is a love-
sick Irish lieutenant, and Thomas Oakshott.
as a warrior of equal rank, furnishes an
acceptable enlargement of his johnny style.
George Willoughby presents a tempting tar-
get to snipers in some of the hottest moments
of the fray, and Frank Dunn is a fussy and
inquisitive English M.P., provided with a
domestic brake in the person of Eily Malyon.
But Eily isn’t of much more significance
than the punkah-wallah and the ayah who
help in fixing the locality of the show'. Nor
has Jefferson Taite his previous opportuni-
ties. His acting loses the spice of strife
when he appears as a lama, either lost in
holy meditation or discoursing gravely on
the Wheel which gives the play its name.
He is almost as immobile as the chubby brass
Buddha which looks down with an unalter-
able simper from the dais of Act 11.
Plump and useful John Kirby, lately the
frowsy American philosopher in “Rain” at
Melbourne Palace, has replaced George Wil-
loughby in “Battling Butler” at the Prin-
cess’s ; and the business proceeds without
any marked difference.
** ❖ *
Cunningham and Clements have been added
to the Whirl of ‘Happiness at Melbourne
Majesty’s. They are American dance special-
ists who, wdiizzing round and round,
achieve great effects with their intoxicating
speed. The amber-headed nymph of the
combination has feet of thistledown, and her
agile accomplice learnt his art on hot bricks.
And this page mustn’t forget to mention
that Maggie Jarvis is proving an unexpected
compliment to her stage father’s taste in
daughters. Though her voice isn't especially
robust, she uses it nicely and has a sweet
manner.
Brother Antoine continues his mood of
heavy meditation in “The Garden of Allah”
at Melbourne King’s. Seemingly life to
him is only one damn think after another.
Charles Haekett’s tenor has been in such
demand at Melbourne Town Hall that addi-
tional concerts have been listed for to-night
and Saturday (matinee). On Saturday night
a new combination opens in the same hall at
popular prices. The topliners are Lenghi
MELBOURNE THEATRE ROYAL—J. C.
WILLIAMSON’S VAUDEVILLE.
Branchy Williams, Diclcens impersonator, as
himself; as Dan’l Peggotty, the Penny
Showman, Montague Tigg and Uriah
Heep.
Cellini (tenor) and Zacharewitsch (violin-
ist), but Pietro Cimara (pianist and accom-
panist) and Essie Ackland (contralto) will
also have something to say.
Melbourne Royal audiences continue to be
impressed by. Bransby Williams, who is now
doing the Chinaman in Sax Rohmer’s sketch,
“Orange Blossoms,” and has hung up Small-
weed, of “Bleak House,” in his gallery of
Dickens portraits. Various other artists re-
main as they were last week, and the orches-
tra is still throttled down to a modest pianis-
simo when the programme wants cheering up.
Melbourne Tivoli bill is so crammed with
sketch-artists and songsters that one yearns
for a sword-swallower or an elephant jug-
gling marbles. On Saturday a new pair,
Ward and Long, came in with another musi-
cal turn—and yet not always musical, especi-
ally when the lady was talking. She did
Rachmaninoff's Prelude on the piano, while
her male partner, after pretending to be a
whimsical fellah with a monocle, warbled
two or three tunes reverently. It is a very
passable turn, but a few handsprings and a
double somersault would improve it im-
mensely.
** * *
Hoyt s (Melbourne) claim to have another
“Sheik” in “The bon of the Sahara,” but
neither is as good as the other ought to be.
Hoyt’s other masterpiece, “The Storm
Daughter,” is full of waves and strays, and
some parts are as wet as a bootlegger’s cup-
board ; but when the romance goes ashore on
a desert island a Prohibitionist couldn’t ask
for anything drier. At the Majestic “Live
and Let Live” is the slogan of a new thriller
of vast domestic concern, while Johnny Hines
hops, skips and jumps in amorous and other
circumstances as “Conductor 1492.” “Love,
Life and Laughter,” with Betty Balfour in
charge, is housed at the Britannia. At the
Melba, Alice Calhoun is showing intense
interest in “The Man Next Door.”
In “The Dover Road,” presented by the Mel-
bourne Repertory, A. A. Milne plays with
the idea of a rich eccentric beguiling run-
away couples into his home for the pur-
pose of letting them think hard. The
fact that the runaway husband in one case
finds his wife disporting with a prospective
adulterer under the same roof offers the
author a chance to indulge in Gallic whim-
sicalities, but he gracefully sidesteps the
moral issue, and produces a comedy that
wouldn’t bring a blush to a curate’s cheek.
Latimer, who stands as Propriety’s sentinel
on the road to elopement, was urbanely taken
by Helton Daniell. Russell GoUriay, as
Leonard, who is flitting with Anne (Edith
Bell) to the south of France, was a capital
expounder of sentiments that go rather well
with a monocle and spats. William Hol-
man's callowness as Nicholas suggested that
he was years away from the Divorce Court,
and there was no hint of a giddy intention
about Eustasia, acted somewhat flapperishly
by Elspeth Robertson. Charles Row, as
Dominic, combined the aloofness of a duca*
flunkey with the assurance of a confidential
clerk, and two tall young gentlemen and a
couple of plump maids lined up as Latimer’s
ceremonious staff. In Harold Chapin’s cur-
tain-raiser, “Augustus in Search of a Father,”
Stanley Smith, as the night-watchman, was
the hit of the evening. He skilfully simu-
lated the tone of peevish amiability, whereas
there was always a touch of amateurish pre-
tence about Norman Simpson’s Augustus and
Harold Harwood’s policeman.
A little show of water-colors:—
A number of low-toned and fairly pleasing water-
colors bearing the signature of Carlyle Jackson are
on view at Melbourne Athenseum. Jackson is a
conscientious painter who is trying to get the better
of his medium; but sometimes the color beats him
by drying rapidly, and he is then guilty of sharp
edges, for which all the good work elsewhere is
insufficient atonement. Again there is sometimes a
forced contrast between light and shadow whicli
almost alters the identity of the object he is de-
picting. His largest picture, “Morning Light,’ 1
Heidelberg, for which he asks 35 guineas, would be
quite an achievement but for the covering of the
haystack, which, through the emphasis aforesaid,
looks more like a block of stone than a square of
weather-beaten canvas. In other examples of his
art he just misses full marks through fuddling a
tree (No. 30) or water effect (No. 33) ; on the
other hand he produces some convincing skies, and
in No. 19 he is responsible for a little panoramic
study in which the misty blues and purples are
expertly handled.
* * -h *
From an Adelaide critic: —
A pleasant and unpretentious one-woman show >s
that of Florence Lake at the Society of Arts in
Adelaide. She was in England lately with Maude
Priest, but sees Dartmoor and the neighboring coast
with different eyes. The other lady excelled in
rolling moor and heather, this one in water and
thatched cottages. Some of her work has an un-
finished look; but at her best—as in one old house,
on which the Art Gallery has cast an approving
eye—she gets a solid, old-fashioned, brown-tinge kind
of effect which recalls the English painters of the
early nineteenth century.
** * *
The successful Hugh Ward season at
Adelaide Prince of Wales’s has ended, and
the big theatre should now contrive to remain
in regular work. Robert Greig is at the
Theatre Royal with the brisk “Officer 6GU,”
in which Sydney Stirling once played “oppo-
site” Niblo and more than held his own.
Prices at both houses have taken a commend-
able pre-war aspect. Fred Bluett is cheerful
at the Majestic, which has a quite unusual
turn in Tom Te Puni, the Maori comedian.
The most striking picture in sight is at the
York, “Anna Christie,” powerful and gloomy,
but “intense.” Wondergraph has Rex
Beach’s “Big Brother,” on the unwearying
“THE BARBER OF SEVILLE,” AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
Dr. Bartolo (Gaetano Azzolini ) and music-
master Basilio (Umberto Di Lelio) exc-
changing notes on the behavior of Rosina.
American theory that a crook is the best of
heroes when once he has started to Turn
to the Right. At West’s, Douglas MacLeau
does some brisk lighting, and C. Chaplin
some agreeable foolishness by way of con-
trast.


On Every Chandler]
Without Extra Cost
The Traffic Transmission
AT the automobile shows many manu-
L facturers have exhibited cars on which
were offered certain new developments
involving brakes, tires, etc.
Some were accepted as undoubted im-
provements. Others are the subject of
sharp controversy.
In many cases these improvements were
offered as “optional”. That is, you paid
extra to obtain them. In others, it was
found necessary to cover their additional
cost with an advance in list price.
But the biggest, most important, most
fundamental advance of all was offered on
only one car, as an integral part of that car
—and at no extra cost to the purchaser.
This was the Traffic Transmission.
Embodying a totally newprinciple.it rep
resents the solution of the gear shifting
problem. There is nothing new to learn.
You move the gear lever and clutch exactly
as before. But the results are amazing.
You cannot clash gears. You cannot fail
in any attempted speed change, even when
racing down hill.
The speed and surety with which you
change to second gear gives you a positive
brake on the steepest grades. You can make
instant use of the motor’s equalized brak
ing power to stop short without skidding,
With no fumbling to change gears, you
park with ease and dispatch.
Small w onder that the Chandler is nation-
ally regarded as the easiest and safest of all
cars to handle! It is the only car which
combines the Traffic Transmission with the
Pikes Peak Motor
This phenomenal power plant made Chandler the
national stock car performance champion. In high
gear mastery of hills and in flawlessly smooth, swift
acceleration, it knows no peer
Phone for demonstration! Make a point of getting
behind the wheef in one of the new smart, hand-
some, low-priced sedans. You never drove a car that
handled and performed like the Chandler!
(The Traffic Transmit
sion is built complelt
in the Chandler plant
under Campbell patents'
1
EJ
•V'
S22SSS2E
■
n
Marcus Clark fi C 9 K
244 Castlcrcagti S* Sydney.
•,.,1
tnn?
Four-Door Sedan *-795
T H E
Y E A FC
C A FL
O F
THE
Agents throughout the Commonwealth:
Victoria:
Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd.
20 26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
Hobsons, Ltd.,
284 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
S. Australia:
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.
125 Gurrie Street,
ADELAIDE.
W. Australia:
Sharpen & Riches,
1001 Hay Street,
PERTH.
Tasmania:
Williamsons Motors, Ltd.
Collins Street,
HOBART.


VELVET
SHAVING STICK
“The
Pleasure is
all Yours. ,i
''
F 7 >s -
: v>
J. KITCHEN &. SONS Pty. Ltd.
An “Alston” Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to liirtit
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and cheaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubr*
ration and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
IVe manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
6ft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole atteiXion
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston’’ Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
n
.
m
mmm
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Conn
pensation, etc., etc.
Poverty
Point
CARLYON'S
HOTEL
AT KILDA MELBOURNE
"Xorbell”: At the Hotel Australia, Sydney,
last Thursday, E. J. Tait, the head and front
<d .1. O. W., Ltd., presided at a conclave
of citizens anxious to make a success of
.Maggie _ Moore’s jubilee benefit at Her
Majesty’s on August 1. Dame Nellie sent
£5O for a box, and E.J. read a sheaf of
sympathetic letters. On the chairman’s right
hand sat Mrs. Brough, and on his left Nellie
Stewart. Mrs. Brough made her first appear-
ance in Australia as the Queen of the
Fairies in “lolanthe,” and Nellie Stewart
was the Phyllis on that occasion. And that
was just on 40 years ago.
"Old Pupil”: Gladys Moncrieff was dis-
covered by Malcolm Fardon, now head-
masterl of the West End school at Towns-
ville (Q.). Himself a musician, Fardon
went beyond the namby-pamby book of songs
provided by the Queensland Government for
school use, and coached his pupils in vari-
ous classical and operatic compositions, help-
ing them to stage "Pinafore,” “Pirates of
Penzacjce” and “The Gondoliers.” Gladys
took pirincip'al-boy parts at the age of 12.
At Faidon’s instance (he was first assistant
then) her parents sent her to a teacher of
singing, and later, when Georgiana, Countess
of Dudley, visited Brisbane (the Moncrieffs
claim ,a distant relationship), Melba pre-
dicted a future for the northern girl, to whom
the Dudley dame introduced her. The rest
is tolerably well known.
NONE OF YOUR EVENING-DRESS
FOR TIER!
“less is a bit of a prude, isn’t shc?”
“Terrible! She refuses to appear except
in tights.”
“Adelaide” : Tlxe recent week of Ken Duf-
field’s musical comedy at Adelaide Royal,
heavily supported by local society, and with
a cast entirely amateur except for Edwin
Brett and William Greene, has had its
accounts audited. The takings were £3200,
including £3OO made by the sale of flowers
and sweets. The expenses were just about
half that, and £lO3O is divided between three
charities. Also, all parties concerned had a
week of enjoyable excitement, following on
two months of hard training.
“JR.K.D.N.”: Oscar Asche got off a nasty
one as he made his exit from Melbourne. “I
know what kind of plays I’m going to give
Australia when I return." lie said, "but I
am not going to tell. The ideas would pro-
bably be stolen." With this dark saying the
big man concluded his remarks and left the
reporter wondering.
“Yarra Ben” : It was like old times to sit
in front at the new Williamson vaudeville
show at Melbourne Royal. All the perform-
ers, intent on getting on good terms with an
Australian audience, gave off, at not very
long intervals, wliat used to be described as
‘‘local allusions.” Thus one would refer to the
Mutual Store, another to Bourke-street, and
Little Bourke was mentioned three or four
times. But with all their assiduous gagging
the absolute prime joke that has stood the
test of years was missed. No one spoke of
Footscray.
“Gina”: “Orb” suggests (B. 20/0/’24) that
Oscar Wilde’s real name was O’Flaherty.
My mother, a Wilde, claimed Oscar as her
uncle, and there is no O’Flaherty mentioned
in the family records.
“Rienzi”: Bransby Williams, now imper-
sonating Dickens characters at Melbourne
Royal, spent some of his youth as a “light-
ning-sketcher” in the halls. There was a
drawing of Gladstone which he used to turn
upside down with the remark, “Now I’ll
make you ‘Dizzy.’ ” Disraeli’s profile was
discernible in the lines of Gladstone’s shoul-
der and huge collar, and it always brought
a roar of applause. Williams was one night
exhibiting some of his efforts in a London
bar when a gentleman with a fringe and a
large cigar complimented him on his work.
He didn’t take much notice of the bouquet
until somebody told him that the stranger
was Phil May.
"Santander”: The influx of half-baked
virtuosos from Bessarabia, the Ukraine and
other greasy portions of Europe continues
unabated; but Britain seems to have stopped
exporting any of her first-class artists. 1
haven’t heard a prominent English-speaking
pianist from abroad since Harold Bauer, and
it seems an age since the gentle Leonard
Borwiek fingered a Steinway in Australia.
Yet all the Spifflovitches and Munchabun-
skys who have followed can’t efface the
memories of those two. The intellectual
quality of Bauer was not the whole of his
fascination. There was a strong masculine
sincerity about his playing, and his tone was
always beautiful. Berwick appealed in a
more delicate, more elfish way—he was an
artist in the poetic and meditative moods—
but he was a more convincing interpreter
than some of the geniuses whom Bolshevism
has turned loose on a paralysed world. I’m
so sick of these lads who try to improvise
a Rubinstein personality at the keyboard
that I’d welcome any moderate performer
who boldly proclaimed his birthplace as
Seven Dials. At least his nationality would
be some guarantee of honesty. He would
know his business, and would have no tricks.
"Philip Up”: Percy Marmont, a popular
leading man in American movie plays of the
moment, is an Englishman. And though
Australia lags behiud woefully in the busi-
ness of picture production, it was in Sydney
that Marmont first acted for the camera.
That was seven years ago, when he was
the light comedian of “Fair and Warmer”
and “.V Little Bit of Fluff.” The picture
was “The Monk and the Woman.” a screen
version of the Fuller thriller which had a
record run at Sydney Opera House, and
Marmont was the monk.
“Alwyn” : In 1825 Mr. Reielienberg. music-
master to the 40th Regiment, composed a set
of Australian quadrilles* and offered them
for sale at Os.; but a day’s notice was re-
quired to give the seller time to copy the
manuscript. Early the following year Band-
master Kavanagh, of the 3rd Regiment, com-
posed the “Currency Lads,” followed by an
Australian march dedicated to Governor Dar-
ling, and “Hail, Australia!” to Colonel
Stewart. Later, in honor of Governor Bris-
bane, he composed “The Trumpet Sounds
Australia’s Fame.” Kavanagh’s compositions
were all for sale at Sydney’s first music-shop,
opened in 1824 at 93 George-street, by Robert
Campbell. James Pearson was the piano-
tuner at the time. In January, 1826, the
second music-shop opened at 70 George-street.
J. Wood being the proprietor.
“C. Ockney” : The author of “A Message
from Mars” (B. 3/7/’24) laid down his
pen for good in England three months ago.
Richard Ganthony, though he came of a
family closely connected with the theatre —
his brother Robert and his sister Nellie are,
and have been for many years, first-class
entertainers at the piano—had a hard fight
to gain recognition as a playwright. The
“Message” was hawked round for years
before Charles Ilawtrey got hold of it—and
he refused it on a first reading. What hap-
pened after its production at the Avenue.
London, is now history. It has been played
all over the habitable globe. No such luck
attended any of Ganthony’s other pieces,
and he wrote many.
“Simon”: Gerald Griffin, who toured Aus-
tralia and Maoriland as Ireland’s Sweetest
Singer (so called because he was an Ameri-
can), has joined the British National Opera
Co. At latest, he was uplifting his sugary
tenor at Liverpool in “Pagliacci.” Sydney
knew Gerald in plays of the Allen Doom;
description—plays in which the fearless
Wexford or Wicklow bhoy hurls maledic-
tions at the landlords in the accents of Potts-
ville, Pa., and sings “Bridget Gilhooley,
Acushla” through his nose.
“Second Murderer”: Because I wrote that
Fred England has sung Dick Deadeye to
every Josephine Australia has known—an
obvious bit of complimentary hyperbole—
“F.LH.” gravely assures me (B. 3/7/’24)
that several others have sung the part as well.
Lord help us, there have been truck-loads of
’em. By the way. one of the earliest Aus-
tralian casts of “Pinafore” —in 1878 it was
—included Docie Stewart as Josephine; Dick
Stewart, jun., Captain Concoran; Richard
Stewart, sen., Sir Joseph P'orter; Maggie
Stewart, Little Buttercup; and Nellie
Stewart as Ralph Rackstraw, the tenor role.
“First Old Man”: Have actors got brains?
A leg-pulling mummer of the late Oscar
Asche co. protested that he possessed none—-
and he was only playing lago. What he
obviously meant was that, though he might
have his share of intellect, lie was not per-
mitted to exercise it in regard to acting when
the all-wise “producer” was around. Apropos ,
the producer of “London Life” (B. 3/7/’24)
had time to inform an interviewer that “one
of his hardest tasks”—-only one of the labors
of Hercules —was “teaching his actors to
act.” And “his” actors included Ilenry
Ainley, Henry Vibart, Lilian Braithwaite
and Graham Browne.
“N.C.” on theatrical realism :
Someone complained in The Bulletin lately of the
“weird lighting” used in “The Skin Game,” staged
in Melbourne by Oscar Asche. He pointed out that
all the shadows in one scene fell towards the win-
ENCOURAGEMENT.
THE ARTIST : “That picture on the easel is the hast
I’ve ever done.”
HIS FRIEND: “Umph! Well, don't let that dishearten
you.”
dows instead of front, them. Thereupon another
actor-scribe declared that the .lights which caused
these phenomena were supposed to come through the
windows of “the fourth wall,” and consequently the
seemingly aberrant shadows were quite in order.
Robert Brough once put on a comedy which had the
same interior scene for its three acts, the room
being viewed from a different “fourth wall” each
time. The piano was down stage with its hack to
the audience in one scene, and up at the back with
its keyboard exposed in the next, and so on. This
was puzzling and irritating to the audience and
didn’t help the' action of the play in the slightest.
But from the very nature of the case the whole
machinery of the stage is unreal. The greatest
actor-producer-dramatist of them all knew that when
he wrote:—
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts
Think when we talk of horses that you see them.
The modern producer, straining after bizarre effects
and photographic realism, is apt to handicap the
players rather heavily. All the “laws” of dramatic
art and stagecraft are only rules of thumb to help
him make the actual and the artificial harmonise.
When he forgets that his actors and actresses are
merely “making believe,” his tricks of the trade
stultify the play they are expected to embellish.
“Thersites”: Johnnie Coleman also had
an experience at the South Australian Hotel
(B. 10/7/’24). While boarding there he
forgot all about a matinee performance in
which lie was to take part. The back of the
Adelaide Royal faces the back of the pub,
and Johnny’s absence was only noticed five
minutes before he was due on the stage. A
frantic s.-m. ran across to the hotel and
found Johnny in bed. But the little com-
edian was not a bit rattled. He dashed to
the theatre just in time to make his entrance
in pyjamas. “Yes,” said Johnnie Coleman
afterwards, “the audience thought my cos-
tume dashed funny, but what would they
have thought if the s.m. had found me in
the bath?”
“Nella” : W. J. Wilson, the scenic artist
referred to by “T. 0.1.” (B. 10/7/’24), had
two actor sons. One was Carden Wilson,
the mimic, who died ten years ago; the
other, Frank Hawthorne, is still going
strong after 30 years or so of greasepaint-
ing, mostly with the Firm.
“Maucam” : “Ancient Prompter’s” yarn of
the mummer who couldn’t remember the
name he , was wearing in “Virginias” (B.
10/7/’24) reminds me that George Rignold
was notoriously uncertain of his stage label
in bellowdrama. As the hero in “True as
Steel,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, he had to
send an important message. “Go,” said
G.R., “go at once and tell them that I”-
There he stuck, and in a hurried aside he
demanded of Tommy Cosgrove, “What the
devil’s my name?” In a flash came the
answer “George Rignold!” Of course the
old man fluffed on all right, but he had a few
new names to call Cosgrove when he got off.
“Second Murderer”: Talking aboui
doubles, I once saw Jimmy South play four
parts in “The Silver King” without any
other change of makeup or costume than a
slight alteration of headgear. In a grey
belitopper he was Elijah Coombe, in a black
one he was Dan’l Jaikes, when he sported
a tam-o’-shanter he was the sozzled railway
passenger, and a smoking-cap transformed
him into Mr. Parkyn. Of course the audi-
ence—it was at Albion Park (N.S.W.) —was
a bit puzzled, but it yvasn’t nearly as confused
as the old man himself. When he had reached
the third act I heard him, off-stage, appeal-
ing pathetically to the heroine: “YVhat am
I now, Flossie?” “Yon’s a damn fool,” sin-
explained tartly.
“Te Pana”: The old shows gave value
for the 35., 2s. and Is. demanded at the
doors. In the late ’eighties a touring co.
put on “Rob Roy” in Napier (M.L.).
Apologising for the incompleteness of his
notice, the man from the local paper ex-
plained that “the performance was still pro-
ceeding when we went to press.” In those
days the first edition hopped oil’ at 4 a.m.
“Harnfat”: An assertion that
the chorus-gent, is to be eliminated
from J.C.W. productions, as a re-
sult of the arbitration award grant-
ing him £5 15s. a week, hits
drawn a denial from tin*
Firm. I suppose it is unkind
to say so, but production costs
might be reduced with benefit to
the public as well as to manage-
ments. At one time the musicians,
supernumeraries, ushers, subordi-
nate stage-hands and, in some cases,
small-part performers did not ex-
pect to get full-time wages for the
trifling work they did at the theatre
at night. Even now many of these
persons are otherwise engaged in
the daytime; yet, as the law
stands, every canvasser who goes
to the playhouse for six nights a
week (and perhaps one matinee)
to say “Me lud, the carriage
waits,” is entitled to £6, while £5
15s. has to be paid to the tailor
or photographer’s assistant who
sings “Ha, ha, ha, ha, you are,
you are!” when the leading female
protests that she isn’t coquettish.
So long as this burden is laid on
managements the public can’t ex-
pect to gel: good theatrical fare at moderate
prices.
“Topee”: The just-dead Captain Paul Boy-
ton, who floated across the English Channel
before Webb swam it (B. 3/7/’24), was
certainly more than 73 at the end. It was
in 1874 that I saw him. in my boyhood,
doing the star turn at a Dublin hall, and he
must have been in the thirties then. In the
daytime he exhibited on the Liffey. It was
only a few months after his paddle across
the Channel that Matt Webb performed his
great feat. The latter, whom I knew well,
would never allow anyone to belittle Boy-
ton's trip, which he pronounced to be not
only “no picnic,” but an invaluable current
guide to himself later.
“Codger”: I wall always maintain that
Charles Reade was one of the best dramatic
authors that ever put pen to paper. He
got to the point quickly’, and kept things
moving, which is what one wants in a play,
no matter what the new school may say. The
first line in “it’s Never Too Late to Mend”
is spoken by a shady and unsober solicitor,
Peter Crawley, whose character it defines
in a flash. “Another year gone by,” he hic-
coughs, “and I am not struck off the rolls.”
Could anything be more whimsical or more
concise? Reade’s novels are still read, and
great stuff they are ; but his plays seem ! to
have faded out —more’s the pity. Mostly
melodramatic, certainly; but, then, life is
mostly melodrama.
“Ibsenshaw”: I don’t wonder at A. A.
Milne’s “Dover Road” failing to set the
Seine on fire (B. 3/7/’24). The story of the
eloping couples is much too tamely conducted
by the British dramatist to suit the Parisian
taste, _ and Milne’s bright dialogue, good as
it is, is not French. They manage this sort
of stage intrigue more spicily in France.
Curious, by the way, to note what a run
there is on “The Dover Road” in Australia
at the moment. The Melbourne Reper-
tory has just staged it; Grogan McMahon is
putting it up in Sydney; and when he has
finished the Players do it again.
UP AND DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“°h, a glorious life is the actor’s life,”
Sail) the leading man to me.
“Six months ago myself and wife
Were the stars in a company.
‘Featured,’ we were, where’er we went -
The ‘big |oise’ —yea, a ‘shout’ ;
But the show went bung and our cash is spent,
For since then we’ve been ‘out.’
‘Resting,’ ha, ha! and no ‘shop’ in sight—
Two stars of yesterday!
But it’s ail in the game and I won’t recite
To you a mournful lay.
It’s a glorious life and I try to smile
Through the lengthy no-work spell;
When you’re in this biz you’re in Heaven for a while,
But a devil of a time in Hell!”
$
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.
COUNTERPOINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She sang of England’s lakes and hills,
Of forest glades and limpid rills,
“Would 1 were there!” she glumped (with trills),
“Would I were there!”
Then, as I heard her torture scales,
And yowl again for Albion’s vales,
I yelled: “It’s leagues from New South Wales —
Would that you were!”
N.S.TV.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


LEVIATHAN
I
\ih
ill
- *
m.
mn
ii m
I it
£7/17/6 Indigo Blue
To Order for
OUR AMAZING SQUARE DEAL OFFER.
—'The famous “Quality” Suit, in Genuine
lrnligo Blue Twills, all wool, in light and
medium weights, made from super 2-ply . ,
Worsted Yarns ; faultlessly tailored in the latest styles, and finished with the best
quality linings and trimmings.
SPECIAL SELF-MEASUREMENT CHART & TAPE.
Post Free on Request.
ORDER BY POST —WE PAY CARRIAGE.
’Phone 9840 (?> lines).
THE
LCVUfTtMN
“■ PTY.i-TD.
Cr. Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne
SkWABt
PfcAV
Tailoring
Offer.
Post Coupon For
Patterns To-day!
Twill Suitings
£6/19/6
MAIL IT NOW!
The Leviathan Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Swanston & llourke Streets;,
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly send me patterns of your
£6/19/6 Square Deal Suitings.
-NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin 17, 7 '24.
*o4+
♦0440
JT
♦044044044-044'
Electric Irons sacrificed at
Gemtine
OOLD
TIME
Here is the most amazing Sale Value ever offeree!
in Australia. We are making a sensational
offer of 750 ELECTRIC IRONS as a Sale Special
for all our customers. They are regular 39/6
value, and all who order immediately can get,
them for 19/6 each. TALK OK VALUE! ANI)
BARGAINS! THIS IS THE BEST EVER!
They are equal to any Electric Iron on the
market, and are best American manufac-
ture. They are beautifully nickel-plated
in finish, and each is complete with 3
yards of flexible wire.
USUALLY 39/6.
SALE PRICK, 19/fS.
WHEN ORDERING.
If a plug is required, state
whether 2-pin wall plug or adap-
tor. Pin plug is 1/3 extra;
adaptor, 9d. extra.
19/6
This Wonderful Value Iron Guaranteed Three Years.
Nock and Kirby’s sell these Irons in -perfect order, with the guarantee for three years against
any mechanical defect whatsoever, not including damage arising from ill-usage, or by using on
circuits of higher than 240 voltage, as stamped on the iron. All Mail Orders add 2/3 for Freight
or Postage.
asdf
12in. ELECTRIC BOWLS,
19/6 each.
ELECTRIC BOWLS (as illustrated), best quality
throughout, beautiful ornamental ••pattern, glazed finish, and
complete with oxidised chains and canopies. This howl is
particularly suited for Dining-room or Sitting-room.
Usually 26/-
SALE PRICE 10/O
Mail Orders Must Include Cost.
asdf
Ruwolt Road-making Equipments
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
A
n
A
m
r *•
Wm
v--— ——.
warn
•r
: !
A Ruwolt Portable Crushing and Screening and Storage Plant on the Geelong to Bacchus .Marsh
Road—Capacity 00 tons per day .
Some users of our Crushers and Plants:—Tasmanian Government Railways, South Gippsland Quarries, City of Essendon (2),
Victorian Portland Cement Co., State Electrical Commissioners of Victoria, Shire of Dandenong, Local Government Department of
South Australia, Morning Star Gold Mines, Council of Tatiara (South Aus.), Gloucester Shire Council (N.S.W.), Municipality of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.); T. Moran, Footscray; J. Madden, Bacchus Marsh; H. Moran, Melton; St. Albans Quarrying Co. (4);
E. J. Carrol Pty., Ltd., City of Coburg; Mr. Matews, of Newport; Shire of Barrabool.
WE SHALL BE GLAD TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS—SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONES: J 2161.
TELEGRAMS AND CABLES: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
THE MID-NORTH ELECTRICITY
COMPANY, LIMITED
Incorporated under The Companies Act 1 892 South Australia.
CAPITAL : £75,000, divided into 75,000 Shires of £1 each
50,000 shares to be issued for public subscription,
payable as follows: 5/- per share on applica-
tion, 5/- per share on allotment, and balance
by calls not exceeding 5/- per share at
intervals of not less than one month, if
required, at the discretion of the Directors.
25,000 shares to be held in reserve.
75,000
OBJECTS:
1. To carry on in the Town of Clare, and in the
districts of Clare, Upper Wakefield, Saddleworth
and Gilbert, or any parts thereof or elsewhere in
South Australia, the business of an Electric-supply
company in all its branches, and in particular the
supply of electrical energy for light, heat and
power.
2. To carry on the business of electrical and
mechanical engineers and manufacturers of, and
dealers in, all parts and things required for, or used
in connection with, the generating, distribution
and supply of electricity.
3. To establish and maintain ice, cold storage and
refrigerating plants, and to carry on the business
of ice manufacturers and distributors.
DIRECTORS:
JASPER CLYATT COLEBATCH, Esq., Saddleworth.
JOSEPH WALTER KELLY, Esq., Riverton.
BENIAMIN HENRY ROBERTS, Esq., Auburn.
ERNEST WILLIAM CASTINE, Esq., Watervale.
HENRY JOSEPH PENNO, Esq., Adelaide.
CONSULTING ENGINEER:
D. EARDLEY McLAREN, Esq., M.I.E.E. (Lond.), M.I.E. (Aust.),
Managing Director of Newton, McLaren, Ltd., Leigh Street, Adelaide,
Electrical Engineers.
BANKERS •
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, Adelaide.
SOLICITORS •
POVEY & WATERHOUSE, Albion House, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
AUDITOR:
J. CHURCHILL SMITH, Ware Chambers, King William Street; Adelaide.
SECRETARY:
B. L. SEEKAMP, Industrial Building, King William Street, Adelaide.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Industrial Building, King William Street, Adelaide.
, ; ,;-4
/> '
PROMOTION:
No cash consideration is to be paid, nor are there
any free shares to be issued to any person, either as
Promoter or Vendor. This is a unique feature in
company formation, and ensures to the shareholders
the conservation of the capital solely for the purpose
of the Company’s undertaking.
CONSIDER THE PROFITS
Earned by all reputable Electric Supply Companies,
then you will understand why £1 shares in the
capital of THIS COMPANY
are recognised as GILT-EGED INVESTMENTS by
Both LARGE and SMALL INVESTORS.
THE COMPANY HAS SECURED
1. THE ABSOLUTE MONOPOLY for twenty year,
in Clare, Water vale, Auburn, Saddle worth, River-
ton and other districts in South Australia.
2. SUFFICIENT CONSUMERS TO GUARANTEE
DIVIDENDS equal to those paid by leading
Electric Supply Companies.
3. THE SERVICES OF MESSRS. NEWTON,
McLAREN, LTD., as Consulting Engineers.
4. AN UNDERWRITING CONTRACT, which
absolutely ensures the subscription of the entire
capital.
5. A DIRECTORATE, COMPRISING KEEN
BUSINESS MEN (all of whom have manifested
their confidence by taking up large parcels of
6. FUTURE NEGOTIABILITY. The Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Company have
been framed in accordance with the requirements
of the Stock Exchange, and application to have
the shares listed will be made at an early date.
Mr. D. EARDLEY McLAREN, M.I.E.E. (Lond.), M.I.E. (Aust),
Managing Director Messrs. Newton, McLaren, Ltd., writes:—
“The results of exhaustive investigations into this proposition
enable me to recommend it as a sound proposition both
technically and commercially.”
Over Half the Capital Already Subscribed
Only a Limited Number of Shares Now Available,
Although the Articles of Association allow for calls of 5/- per share
per month until fully paid, it is not expected that the FIRST CALL
WILL BE MADE UNTIL Ist DECEMBER, 1 924. Further, the Directors
DO NOT ANTICIPATE A FINAL CALL.
Why Pay Excessive Premiums Later when
You Can Get in Now at Par?
FILL IN THIS FORM AND POST DIRECT TO:—
ALBERT F. GORMAN,
Underwriter and Investment Broker,
8, 9 and 10 Industrial Building, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 511. Telegraphic Address: Namrog, Adelaide.
FROM WHOM COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND ALL
INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Mid-North Electricity Company, Limited, Adelaide.
To the Directors,
Gentlemen,—l hereby apply for shares in
the capital of the abovementioned Company. I enclose the sum of
£ being the Application Fee of 5/- for each share,
and I further agree to accept the Company’s allotment to me of that
or any less number and to pay the Allotment Fee of 5/- per share one
month from date of allotment. I also agree to pay the balance of 10/-
per share at the rate of 5/- per share at intervals of not less than one
month, if required. I authorise the Company to register me as the
proprietor of the shares which may be so allotted and agree to be bound
by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 1924.
Name in full Occupation
(State whether Mrs. or Miss).
Address Signature
Make all cheques payable to A. F. Gorman or the Company, and cross
“Not negotiable.”
GOVERNMENT BONDS ACCEPTED IN LIEU OF CASH.


Amusements.
§'" * J 4 Y’S CJI It l«' THISATIt IS S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
CRITERION: KEMPY.
ROYAL: GOOD MORNING, DEARIE.
NEW PALACE: THE DOVER ROAD.
DICK A Kl»S’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
Sole Direction—Musgrove's Theatres Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
musgrove celebrity
VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
G ItANI) _ OPERA HOUSE. SYDNEY.
Proprietor, George Marlow.
J. Ward Theatres Ptr Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WED' & SAT
SEYMOUR HICKS in OLD BILL, M.P.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
pCILBRS’ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY DAY AT 2.30 AND 8.
THE WORLD’S BEST VAUDEVILLE.
Plans at Theatre.
I C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELISOU RN ]-
ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
WHIRLED INTO HAPPINESS.
ING’S THEATRE, .M E L HOUR N E.
MURIEL STARR in
THE GARDEN OF ALLAH.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. Williamson (Vaudeville), Ltd.
MELBOURNE’S NEW HOME OF VAUDEVILLE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8.
BRANSBY WILLIAMS.
And Ten Great Acts. Superior Presentation.
DKINCESS’S THEATRE. M EI.BOURNE
1 Proprietors: Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
MR. BATTLING BUTLER.
A MUSICAL COMEDY PACKED WITH
DELIGHTFUL SURPRISES.
Plans at Glen's.
* mu -a it u A 1 U Kj, 11ir.lil>OU
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD PRESENTS
THE LONDON DRAMATIC FURORE,
THE WHEEL.
With BARBARA HOFFE.
Plans at Glen’s.
H
OYT’S
THEATRES. MELBOURNE
Also. SYDNEY.
BERT LYTELL in
SON OF THE SAHARA.
PRISCILLA DEAN in
STORM DAUGHTER.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IKSIIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
HARRISON FORD and ETHEL SHANNON in
MAYTIME.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
■TTIIK ALLAN WILKIE S lIA K S PEA REA N
PRODUCTIONS
ND TOUR: Maryborough, July 18:
’own Hall, July 19 to 26; Warwick,
29
QUEENS!./
Toowoomba 1
July 28 and
Head (Mfice: 178 Castlereagn Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager; J. V. De Batyn.
Tenders.
To Machinery Merchants, Mine Managers
and Others.
RE THE ADELONG CREEK DREDGING COMPANY
NO LIABILITY.
RENDERS are invited for the purchase of No. 1
Dredge of the above-named Company, on the
Works at Tumblong, New South Wales, and will be
received at the Offices of Messrs. Chalmers & Hancock,
331 Collins Street, Melbourne, until noon on
THURSDAY, 31st JULY, 1924.
The usual 10% conditions will apply. The highest
or any other Tender not necessarily accepted.
Full particulars may be obtained at the Offices of
Messrs. Chalmers & Hancock, Public Accountants,
331 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Signed) A. J. HANCOCK,
Manager.
____ Missing Friends.
'T'HE relatives or next-of-kin of KATE or
1 KATHERINE POWER, formerly KATE AHEARN,
of County Limerick, Ireland, but later of George
Street, Redfern, Sydney, who was married to George
Patrick Power, of George Street, Redfern, Sydney,
butcher, on the sixteenth day of August, 1878, are
to communicate with Frank A. Davenport
and Mawby, Solicitors, Ocean House, 34 Martin
Place, Sydney.
INFORMATION wanted of PIERCE LAWLESS, who,
34 years ago, left Townsland of Toor, Parish of
liilcash, co. Tipperary, Ireland. Himself and one
MICHAEL MADDEN, aged between 60 and 60, last
heard of 14 years ago: he then resided about Perth
and Fremantle, Western Australia. Anyone knowing
his present whereabouts will kindly communicate
with his brother, WILLIAM LAWLESS, 350 South
Oak, Casper, Wyoming, U.S.A.
Albert ernest devereux,
formerly of Port Cygnet, Tasmania, is
requested to communicate with the under-
signed, from whom he will learn something
to his advantage. The undersigned will also
be pleased to hear from any person being
able to furnish information concerning the
whereabouts of the said Albert Ernest
Devereux. DOYLE & KERR, Solicitors.
“The Exchange,” Market Square, Geelong’
OSS.—IF CHARLES BEAUMONT
ROSS, formerly of Richmond (brother
of the late James Ross), will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO-
LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
JULY-SEPTEMBER NUMBER NOW READY.
An excellent production —crisp and bright. Profusely illustrated.
Instructive and interesting articles on Birds in Relation to Agriculture; Museums
of the Past; the Sand Bubbler Crab; Figures from Burmali; Stoats and Weasels;
Fishes and Movies.
ON SALE AT MUSEUM AND BOOKSTALLS.
ONE SHILLING.
11l
1907-1924
MOON is the fastest growing Automobile Company in
the World To-day—a fact which proves conclusively
that the public have awakened to the soundness of the
Moon principle of building cars solely with specialized
“ proven ” units.
MOON production to-day is Fourteen Times Greater than
it was Four Years Ago.
Your first ride will reveal a kind of motoring you imagined
money never could buy.
Literature on Request. Finance Arranged.
Communicate with your Local Agent NOW
South Australia:
Murray Turner Ltd.
123-5 Waymouth
St., Adelaide
New South Wales:
Lockett’s Motors Ltd.
56 Parramatta Road
Sydney
Victoria and Tasmania:
Finlay Bros.
322-4 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne
If you shun the Commonplace —
Buy a Moon
Queensland:
Johnston's Motors Ltd.
Stanley Street
South Brisbane
West Australia:
Era Motors Co.
334 Beaufort Street
Perth
:
asdf
asdf
If any illustration appearing in Tuff
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
ChaiJis House, 3 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Booking Office for
JENOLAN CAVES.
RAIL AND MOTOR TOURS:
3 days £4/77-
Extra days. .18/- per day
MOTOR ALL THE WAY:—
3 days £5/12/-
An ideal holiday
at minimum cost.
Full information at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU,
Challis House, 3 Martin Place,
Sydney.
The Metal Craftsman
With a COMOX Oxy-Acetylene Welding and
Cutting Outfit the metal craftsman of to-day
is performing miracles.
COMOX Service Engineers are frequently find-
ing new applications of Oxy-Acetylene Welding
and Cutting for industrial uses.
Everywhere COMOX is improving products,
making work easier, saving time and money.
COMOX Service Engineers will tell you how
advantageously COMOX can be applied in your
plant, especially if you will consider the econo-
mical working of COMOX “Low Pressure”
system, as illustrated below.
Full information gladly supplied on applica-
tion to any of the following addresses :
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AGENTS :
BRISBANE: Queensland Oxygen
Ltd., Newstead Terrace, Newstead.
LAUNCESTON : Harrison Bros.
& Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd.,
Murray Street.
MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart,
362 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE : The Western Oxygen
Co. Ltd., Bellingham Street, Tor-
rensville.
SUVA, FIJI: Brown & Joskc.
li
m
in
i
m
■
m
WWW
*
WiM


VALUED FRIENDS
“Real friends once made never change,
sir. Friends are rare and very valu-
able.
“They’re like Kensitas, sir, always
the same and never depreciate.
“That’s why people always stick to
Kensitas when once they try them.
“They have dis-
covered that Ken-
sitas are ‘as good
as good cigarettes
can be.’ ”
yr
I[o**
Kensitas
(Pronounced “Ken-see-tus”)
CiqaAje£&S SVi
STANDARD SIZE VIRGINIA:
20 for 1/6
50 for 3/9; 100 for 7/6
Of all High-class Tobacconists.
Manufacturers:
1. Wix & Sons, Ltd., London.
/%
iL, ' v
VS'
7*
DRAW r
Would you like to be able to make
bold, free sketches of people and scenes
that surround you every day?
Would you like to properly develop
your talent for black-and-white work?
Would you be surprised to know that
anyone who can write can draw, if
they only know the right way?
THE WESTON METHOD
will enable you to learn without drud-
gery. It will become a source of great
pleasure; and, above all, it teaches to
draw—NOT to copy.
Send three stamps to cover postage,
and we will forward Mr. Weston’s
interesting booklet, “There’s Money in
the Pen,” which tells all about the
course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
337 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
>•
Ebb
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PIIN PC RUBBER
If tiny illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
.Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PROSPECTUS
of
Melbourne-Suburban
’Buses Limited.
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - - - £lOO,OOO
Divided into 100,000 shares of £1 each.
35,000 Shares which are now offered to the public, payable 6/- per
share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, and the
balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share per month if
and as required.
2,500 Shares which will be issued as fully paid up to Charles Fitz-
herbert Howson for the promotion of the Company.
62,500 Shares which will be held in reserve for issue as required.
100,000
Provisional Directors:
ANTONIO SAN MIGUEL, Esq.. Manager, 480 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Dr. SAMUEL HUGH MARRON, Dentist, 41 Spring Street, Melbourne.
PRUNED KAY, Esq., Engineer, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CECIL WOODS LEPLASTRIER, Esq., Patent Attorney, 17 Queen Street, Melbourne.
(One other to be appointed.)
THE ENGLISH. SCOTTISH &
Bankers:
AUSTRALIAN
Melbourne.
BANK, LTD., 403 Collins Street
Solicitors:
Messieurs MADDOCK, JAMIESON & LONIE, 136-138 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Auditors:
Messieurs EDWIN V. NIXON & CO., 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Secretary:
CHARLES FITZHERBERT HOWSON, 430 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Registered Office:
430 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Telephone, Central 3331.
Objects of the Company.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of running a fleet of passenger Motor
Buses between Melbourne and the Eastern Suburbs, along selected routes that are not at
present supplied with this kind of transport. As opportunity offers, and new routes art
justified, the Company will extend its business as to include' other selected routes.
At the present time it is demonstrated daily that the trains and trams to the Eastern
Suburbs are quite inadequate to cope with the traffic, more particularly at “peak” periods,
and, as the population increases—as it will and must ever increase—this inadequacy will
become more and more marked.
The trains are now run at such short intervals that it is almost impossible to
increase the .number without the possibility of runningl serious risks, and the same may
almost be said of the trams. Both the trains and the trams are at “peak” periods shock-
ingly overcrowded, which makes for the discomfort of those who are fortunate enough to
get on board. The only means left to cope with the position, and thereby relieve the
congestion and overcrowding, is the use of Motor ’Buses, which afford a comfortable and
speedy means by which the travelling public can get to their destination.
Experience in other parts of the world has demonstrated the fact that Motor ’Buses
have become a public necessity and a popular means of transportation.
In Melbourne it is submitted’ that one of the best means of assisting to relieve the
ever-increasing traffic difficulties is by the use of Motor ’Buses to carry the travelling
public to and from the city.
In addition to assisting to relieve the traffic difficulties, Motor ’Buses overcome the
danger that now exists to tram travellers, more particularly elderly persons and children,
through having to cross from the footpath to the centre of the street in order to get on
and off trams, because the Motor ’Buses stop at the kerb to set down and pick up
passengers.
Another benefit that the Motor ’Bus exercises over present means of transportation
is that, in the event of a breakdown in mechanism, one vehicle only goes out of commis-
sion, without dislocating the whole service, and such a vehicle can easily and speedily be
replaced by another.
Motor ’Buses are admittedly the quietest and surest method of transport.
The Denby, a Chassis of world-wide reputation, is to be used, equipped with Hotchkiss
body.
Estimated Revenue and Expenditure.
An estimate of Revenue and Expenditure has been made, and while on the one hand
the Revenue has been based on a conservative scale, the Expenditure, on the other, ha
been based on a liberal scale. It is estimated that each of the 18 ’buses will make on
week days 26 single trips per day, and on Sundays 22 single trips per day, and that an
average of 14 passengers will be carried on each trip—the distance from Melbourne to
the Suburban terminus of the selected routes being in each case about eight miles.
On the above estimate the gross Revenue
would amount to
Estimated returns from advertising
The estimated expenditure is as follows:
Petrol, oil and greases
Tyres
Insurance (including £lOOO 3rd Party Risk
Registration
Drivers’ Licenses
Renewals (spare parts only)
Wages and Salaries (providing for Drivers,
Conductors, Inspectors, Mechanics,
Cleaners, Clerks and all administrative
staff)
Rent
Depreciation ..
Printing and Stationery
Uniforms
Water, light and power
Directors’ fees . .
Unforeseen Expenditure
£68,722 15
Balance nett profit
Less Income Tax
59.223 10 0
£9.499 5 0
949 IS 6
Leaving available for dividend £8,549 6 6
This latter sum represents 22|%, available for dividend when the Shares applied for
have been fully paid up.
Prospectus and all information may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Oflic
Call, Write or ’Phone.
This is not a Prospectus as required bp Section 88 of the Pom panics Act 19 Jo , but i
full Prospectus lias been duly filed for registration with the Registrar-General of Victoria
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. ivill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.J.Y.: Dear sir, perhaps it is not your
matter that the papers find unbearable; it may be
that you are too diifuse and deadly du11....F. A.
(Brisbane) : Your carelessness makes you often un-
intelligible. .. .E.H.8.: Too much of it can be got
out of any encyclopaedia... .597: That’s better....
D.D.D.; Rather over-done.... Cec Lee: There’s no
sincerity about it; wherefore there’s no magnetism
about it.... Alice M.: Game to print it? No. And
glad that we are not game... .Aboriginal: The yam
is poor and the verse that tries to carry it has too
many corns on its feet....La Jeunesse: In form it is
a bad sonnet; but the excellent matter almost lifts
it. .. .Moydalgan: The request to your love to fly
away to an island lacks freshness in idea and hand-
ling. .. .F.C.M.: Wanted better treatment; and this
paper has an idea that you can supply it. .. .P.A.M.:
Prose with a rhyme here and there... .8.J.A.: The
verse falls far short.... Paradoxon: You borrow a
poor bit of verse as a heading and follow it with
lines of your own of the same quality... .C.E.H.: The
last stanza spoils it. Get to work... .Percy J.: The
verse is very uneven, the matter commonplace, the
grammar uncertain of itself... .G.W.K.: There is
feeling in it, but the lines want more attention....
T.V.T.: “The Auctioneer” hasn’t enough interest....
Geo. B.; Your verse is too shadowy. .. .James K.:
Not much thrill in that... . Senojo: The “Wreath”
doesn’t quite,manage it... .1.L.1.: “Jack” is not the
goods for this barrow 5.K.8.: You have an idea.
See if you can’t make better use of it. .. .Inglenook:
Says the obvious things in poor verse... .Puddick:
Heaven knows what it all means.. . .Audax: It needed
more 5ki11.... Mary G.: Album verse of a weak kind.
. ...Knarf E.; The verse is too rough to carry that
idea... .R.E.S.: Doesn’t make much of a yarn....
J.M.8.; A long way 0ff.... Stan H.: Merely makes a
not very brilliant remark and goes on repeating it
in poor verse... .H.8.C.: Even blank verse is the
better for meaning something. .. .M.A.P.: Poor as the
hound of Lazarus.... G.W.W.: A sonnet must be
better than that... .8.J.A.: Verse no good; prose
incident too slight Michael O.; Too thin and
obvious... .Philip L.: A small lover’s quarrel has to
be very well handled to be acceptable.... Margaret
M.: Merely a repetition of commonplaces... .C.E.P.:
None of them striking enough... .V.K. (Forbes) ; You
don’t make much of it G.B. (South Yarra) : Not
worth telling.,. .W.G.C.: It walks very lamely....
E. ; Doesn’t say anything fresh... .O’D.: “Baton”
yarn isn’t quite strong enough to carry itself... .
R.A.JI.: Very lumpy C.L. (Maldon): You contrive
to make them dull and dreary... .P.S.M.: It doesn’t
get anywhere near. .. .Philip S.: You don’t appear to
have much idea of rhythm or rhyme... .L.L.A.: Says
nothing in a great many words Edna: Loose
commonplaces strung together in bad verse
F. : Both fail badly. ... Lucy C.: Send it to a
Sunday School magazine. .. .A. D.L.: The poorest sort
of verse Monmak: That’s the style. Let the gore
stream:—
Enter the villian with a big knife
Says to the herione “Woulds’t be my wife?”
She shuddered, ahd fainted, and threw a fit.
With evil smile his features are lit.
He rapped three times on the old oaken door,
And a stairway opens under the floor.
Up walks a parson with cassock and bands,
Before God ready to join their hands.
“Art thou willing,” he says to the tart,
“To give this gentleman thy hand and heart?”
“What!” she cried. “Yon base coot;
If I were stronger, I’d give him the boot.”
Cassock and bands down on the floor
And the hero planted one on the jaw.
The villian went down with a sickening thud
And the floor was red with his life’s blood.
... .H.R.C.; The verse isn’t well enough made....
A.E.G.; The “Night Out” doesn’t appeal to u 5....
M.W.; Too vague. But there is an article to be
written on the dopes that are available to women—-
often to their ruin. .. .H.N.S.: Dreary stuff.... .Bill
Posters; The verse is hideous; the prose rambles on
and loses itself in the desert. .. .G.A. (Howard) :
They are pretty crude. Write something real; don’t
merely try to imitate an artificial drawing-room song.
.... Elma B. • Not quite bright enough for a shocking
example.... M.M. (Casino): Thanks for one thing at
least. You write about red poppies without mention-
ing graves.. . .M.A.P.: The verse bumps and wobbles
and forces words to rhyme against their wi11....
J.K.J.: Absurdly wild.... Top Flat: A dreary narra-
tive!. .. .Roy M.; Ghost yarns are generally poor stuff,
but yours takes an out-size in poverty... .C.F. (Ross-
ville) : Sorry, but it misses... .Majela B.: The ring
yarn is altogether unconvincing... .Margaret M.: Not
for u5....A.8. (Abbotsford): “The Earth” is a big
subject, but you tackle it boldly:—
She’s Warm around the tropic zone,
Her Wings are Ever froze;
Round and Round Herself she turns,
as Round the sun she goes,
the Moon gives light to Her at Night,
the sun Her light by day ;
How great Would be the catastrophe
if she paused on Her Way.
Herself she Circles once a day
and once a. year the sun,
But Who can tell How many times
She’s Round Her orbits spun.
I know Not How or When She first begun,
Nor do I know if e’er Her task be done ;
But Water is to Earth and Clay and stone
What Blood is to the gristle, flesh and bone,
and from Her bowels the Riches that We Win
May be the vital force that drives Her from
Within,
and may someday—-for Who Can tell ?
Enfeeble her and less her Speedy Spin.
. .. .Queanbeyan: According to the “Statesman’s Year-
Book” there were in 1922-23, slightly over 12,000,000
horned cattle in the British 151e5—7,016,000 in
Britain, 4,326,294 in the Irish Free State and
830,331 in Northern Ireland. In the Commonwealth
there were something over 141 millions. .. .Flick:
That dog’s an old friend. .. .Windsor: He has passed
on, and the subject has gone with him.... W.S.K.H.:
Thanks, but so much of it merely repeats what has
been said very often.... Tere: Quite nicely done ;
but the subject has been handled till it is frayed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.P.: Too suggestive of the conventional fashion-
plate drawing. But there’s promise.,. .P.O’F.: ,'n
the kindergarten class.. . .J.R.T.D.: You’ve made a
hopeless mess of George.... N.E.: Linework too
anaemic. .. .A.M.T.: You should handle such an old
joke with more respect. .. .C.C.: The worst of the
week... .A.E.; The faintest glimmer of improvement.
, ...E.V.F.: Flat treatment of ancient gag....M.T.:
Your bull looks like a horned poodle.. . .0.W.E.:
Clean off the target... .J.F.: “Prohibited” pro-
hibited. • • -T.8.: Treatment too jumbled.., .Andrews:
Both rl is£.... F.L.D.; An amazing effort -.. . R.M :
You can not draw... .H.W.T.: All off the target....
M.L.: A pitiful example of misdirected energy.


“SUPER-SENTINEL”
STEAM WAGGONS
The Outcome of Over 16 Years’ Experience Building
Under-type Steam Waggons and of Over 4 Years’
Road Tests.
FUEL COSTS id. to id. per TON MILE.
SUPER-SENTINEL
FEATURES:
Lowest Running
Costs.
Slow Running
Engine.
No Gear Box.
r ' m
msz mm
\ ■
ft
U
:■ : &.v
1 mSk
Super-Sentinel” Steam Waggon.
FEATURES:
Lowest Maintenance
Costs.
No Clutch.
Three independent
SUPER-SENTINEL” CARDINAL FEATURES
RELIABILITY.
DURABILITY.
ECONOMY
POWER.
Numerous Repeat Orders from Satisfied Customers.
Full Particulars from
WILLIAM ADAMS S COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward & Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St.
ADELAIDE:
Cr. Morphett & Waymouth Sts.
NEWCASTLE:
53 King St.
N-Z. Reps.: Messrs. ANDERSONS, Ltd., Christchurch-
Tasmanian Reps.: Messrs. SEFTON & HAY, Hobart.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
librolird
W eather board
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie's
Austrahan-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in S 3 sizes.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
A.M.P. B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
9k,
lit
9 S
m
mm
im
mm
Fr.WWSOW ,
w 4
Wool on the Scales
and its weight, like its handling and all other par-
ticulars, will be lound correct. It is in the wool
stores of
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers. LTD.
Accuracy throughout and top market results charac-
terise the firm’s work.
Consign Wool: Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd., Sydney or Brisbane.
NEWS
MAN
29/6
Pair
The
MEXICAN” Riding Boot
Is patented under No. 4322, because it
nas the new two-fold strapped tops,
which can buckle and fit closely around
\Y/ y n n i? teP M . Made °f light, tho* strong
wallaby Skin — cut on riding pattern,
wlt hS.S. Soles and low Heels. All sizes.
Mail to Desk “ 5.8.” State size .
Pike Brothers
limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
m
i)
m
EureKa
Driving Lamp
(DIETZ)
A reliable weatherproof kerosene-
wick Lamp, with ruby rear lens
and bracket. _ Price 13/0 each,
last, of Benzine Lamps, Lanterns
and Irons on application.
LUX LIGHT 00. OF VICTORIA,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II Tou are troubled with the complaint, write ua and
n * en ° you our catalogue, fully describing our
patent air cushion appliance.
Inis appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
nrst day s use. ft is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold • tuptuic
urmly and comfortably under all conditions
1 o prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to Iteep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable foi
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street. Melbourne
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— AGENTS—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street. SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
<*-
□
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can*
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
lerious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselves,
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
famous preparation contains 50% of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh forming,
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
asdf
asdf
Food
Trade Mark.
Milk at night.
Milk is known as a food of especial
benefit to all. Yet to many it proves
difficult of digestion: more so when
taken at night. This is because the milk
forms into indigestible curds when it
meets the natural acid of the stomach.
If the bed-time milk whether for
child, invalid or athlete is made into
Benger’s Food, this formation of tough
milk curd is avoided.
Two tablespoonfuls of Benger’s with
a pint of fresh milk becomes a pint of
delicious food cream, pleasing to the
taste, soothing to the stomach, sleep-
inducing, and highly nutritive.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists , etc,, everywhere.
Write for our free booklets.
Benger’s Food, Ltd.,ll7 Pitt St., Sydnev
Sole Proprietors and Manufaclurtrs : BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, England.
SUNDAY TOURIST HARBOR TRIP
From Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6. Children 6d. Viewing finest Harbor Scenery, including
Middle Harbor and Killarney.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE TO BALMORAL
From No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m. —Return ing 9.45 p.n,.
TOURIST TRIPS-
-TUESDAY3 AND THURSDAYS
From Fort Macquarie 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
Music by Members of late State Orchestra on all these trips.
Telephone: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Limited.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coot” : Over 80 women are licensed estate-
agents in Victoria.
* * * *
“Cobba-Cobba” : The pre-war boom in the
sandalwood industry of the Peninsula, when
the Chinese merchants of Thursday Island
and Cooktown financed outfits, has fizzled
out; except for an odd sandalwood hunter
or two, with a few pack-horses and a small
outfit of native workers, the industry is hung
up. What little is being obtained is packed
to Coen, thence sent by team to Stewart
liiver, thence to Hongkong by way of Flin-
ders or Thursday Island. Handling and
overhead charges leave little profit for the
getter.
* » * #
“Sturt” : Adelaide begins to see some use
at last for the wide strip reserved originally
as a road between City and Port—the middle,
now planted, is supposed to have been
planned for a canal. The x’oad on one side
has been left as a kind of backwater, the
other taking all th*e traffic, now much con-
gested. All the local corporations interested,
with the A.A.A. and the Roads Association,
have joined in asking the Government to
realise an idea of H. G. Wells, and fit up
the unused side for light, swift traffic only,
leaving the existing road for horse traffic and
trollies.
* * * *
“M.D.” : It is hard to picture a book which
cost its original purchaser fourpence fetch-
ing £2700; but that sum was actually given
at the most recent sale of the Britwell Court
Library (England) for the only known copy
of the first edition (1502) of Henry Con-
stable’s “Diana.” Shakspeare’s “Rape of
Lucrece,” one of the five known copies of the
7tli . edition (1632), was a good second at
£lB6O. Both treasures fell to Rosenbach
and Co., a ll American syndicate, with appa-
rently illimitable funds; of the £430,000
which this library has realised to date, a
little over half has come from them.
* * * *
“Corso” : I was serving behind a city coun-
ter when a lady customer purchased an
article for 3s. and paid with a pound-note.
About half an hour later she dashed into the
shop and, brandishing her umbrella, accused
me of cheating her. "I gave you a pound-
note and you only gave me 16s. change,” she
declared excitedly, spreading the silver on the
counter for me to count. Being of a pacific,
disposition and also wholesomely apprehen-
sive of a bash over the head from the Ama-
zon’s brolly, I handed over a shilling. With
a self-satisfied toss of her head she bounced
out of the shop, leaving the 16s. on the coun-
ter. That was 12 months ago, and she hasn’t
come back for it yet.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: “Making antique fur-
niture” was his reply to my question about
what lie was doing. In the course of fur-
tlier conversation I learned that there has
grown up in Australia a demand for
"antiques ’ ; and at least one enterprising
furniture manufacturer, blending business
Avith patriotism, is taking steps to meet the
want. Customers mostly belong to the cult
which believes that, because some very old
things show magnificent workmanship, every
old thing must be a prize. I doubt if thev
deserve much sympathy. On the subject of
the honesty or the business I venture no
comment except that it should be just as
honest ro sell a table made yesterday as 106
years old as to describe as “new laid” an
(, g'g which came into being several weeks ago.
And our grocer, who is a churchwarden, does
that.
* * * *
“Bandicoot”: Australia is rapidly losing
Chinese custom. In 1921-22 Long Duck
bought oxer half a million pounds’ worth of
our goods. In 1922-23 he found that he
wanted less than £300,000 worth. According
to Coney Pang, a Melbourne merchant, the
cause is superior Yankee salesmanship. More-
over, freights are higher between Melbourne
and Canton than they are between New
\ ork and (’anton ; and there are no refrigera-
tor facilities on the ships trading between
Australia and China. Louey Pang says
Australia could sell China £10,000,000 worth
of goods a year within the next five years
if she went the proper way about it.’ He
wants the Federal Government to appoint,
not commissioners, but business men to three
or four of the great southern cities to control
the marketing of Australian goods and to fix
the selling prices to enable us to compete
with the Yanks. “And when I talk of this
to Federal Ministers,” says Louey Pang, in
that perfect English which he has acquired
by a 30 years’ residence in Australia, “they
are very nice to me indeed. They agree with
me and promise me everything' I ask, but
they never do anything.”
* * * *
“A. 11.” : After reading the depressing story
about tobacco share-farming (B. 22/5/’24)
I ought to be ready to throw in the sponge,
but I am not. The “Man in the Business”
looks into the causes of failure and finds,
for instance, that drought was guilty in his
first year. If the paddock had been irrigated
the crop would have been saved. But tlie
cost of irrigating was prohibitive. To give
an acre one foot of water costs roughly
£1 55.; to do it twice (whiffii is sufficient)
costs £2 10s. _ Surely that is not much to
win £lOO. His next trouble' was a curing
barn. Luckily for the share man, the owner
must provide all sheds and implements. He
proves that, even if next year is a good one,
the net return per acre for the three years is
£5. I know a man who has about 13 acres
of tobacco ground. Two years ago he took
£7OO worth of tobacco off it.: last year -
the drought year—-his crop was worth £9OO.
This year—the worst on record —he expects
£3OO or £4OO. Total over three years, £l9OO
Costs for three years, £4OO. Average net
per annum, £5OO. If the “Man in the Busi-
ness” lias more tobacco next year than he can
put in his shed, let him bulk in the paddock
on poles and flooring-boards, cover it with
galvanised-iron. and all will be well Many
growers do this in N. S. Wales and it is
finite successful. Aided by the Government
experts and those from the B.A.T. growers
are rapidly improving the quality of their
tobacco. In fact, cigarettes made'from Aus-
tralian leaf taken to America last year were
pronounced the equal of any Virginian pro-
duction —very high praise and very en-
couraging.


Wasted Boiler Capacity, Heat Loss and Heat Insulation
Saved by CAREY COVERINGS
Hot surfaces lose heat, and lost heat means wasted fuel—wasted power—wasted boiler capacity
' unnecessary overhead charges. The lost heat, from bare or improperly insulated steam pipes and
boilers, means often from 15 per cent, to 25 per. cent, of the entire boiler capacity. To reduce
these enormous losses a non-conductor of heat must be applied to these hot surfaces. Carey Coverings
have been successfully used for 50 years, during which time the hundred and one conditions- —higher
steam pressure requiring fire-proof materials —hot water and cold lines —vibrating lines, calling for
coverings of high tensile strength—pipes exposed to moisture and requiring waterproof coverings—
have been studiously investigated and have resulted in coverings giving the highest insulating values
consistent with strength, durability and cost.
Illustrating Broken Joint Method of Applying Pipe Covering.
4?
m w
N
%
CAREY IMPERVO,
For Sweating Cold-water Pipes.
is composed of alternate layers of fine wool felt and waterproof paraffin
paper, and has an inner lining of paraffin paper. It is more satisfactory
than the plain wool felt covering. It is recommended for use on cold
lines passing through warm, humid rooms, to prevent the constant annoying-
sweating of such pipes. It is also used to perfection for insulating cold-
water and ice-water pipes, in factories, etc., where it is desired to keep the
water at as low a temperature as possible.
STEAM PIPES
AND BOILER
COVERINGS
WILL PAY FOR
THEIR INSTAL-
LATION IN SIX
MONTHS.
Carey Coverings have been
specially designed for Super-
heated Steam Pipes, High Pres-
sures, Saturated Steam Pipes,
Exhaust Steam Pipes, Medium-
pressure Steam Pipes, Heating-
system Pipes, Feed-water Pipes,
Underground Pipes, Out door
Exposed Pipes, Vibratory
Pipes, Ice-water Pipes, to pre-
vent sweating, to prevent freez-
ing, boilers, smoke beeching,
fittings and for warm-air ducts.
For all inquiries as to cost, use,
etc., apply to Sole Agents for
Australia:—
Illustrating Method of Insulating Fittings, Flanges, etc.
mm
M.
CAREY 85% MAGNESIA,
For High-pressure Steam Pipes.
These coverings are composed of 85% Carbonate of Magnesia and
15% Fibrous Asbestos. It is very light in weight, fireproof,
extremely durable, not subject to deterioration, will not injure
piping, and has a very high heat insulation value. Magnesia
coverings have been the standard of the Navy Department for over
SO years. More of it has been used in stationary power plants, in
marine work, and on locomotives in the form of lagging than all
other high-pressure coverings combined.
ALLIED ENGINEERING LIMITED,
59 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
20 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ATKTNS & CO., LTD., 88 CURRIE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
TRADE MARK
FOX
PICKS
and SHUTTLES
„ FOX .
(Oest of Snglan d Highest Quality
CLOTHS
FANCY WORSTEDS • FLANNEIS • SAXONIES • BOTANY SERGES • CHEVIOTS TWEEDS AND
FOX’S IMPROVED PUTTEES
As the good Fox Cloth
woven the Shuttle
drags its thread back-
wards and forwards, over
and under threads running the
length of the piece. It travels
over 43 miles in making a suit
length, and every single crossing
of the threads is known as a
“pick.”
Yet if the cloth is good, every
inch of yarn must be perfect, and
every “pick” exactly according
to the cloth design.
Fox skill has made FOX reputa-
tion, which is backed by this
guarantee:
Fox’s Cloths are all pure wool,
and will not shrink or fade by
land, sea or air.
Insist on having them.
FOX BROS. & CO. Ltd.
Wellington, Somerset
England
You can recognise the good
FOX Cloths by the Trade Mark
stamped in gold every 84ms. on
the reverse of the cloth.
M
Hi
i .
ia»m
mKm
m
am
i
LZI
Obtainable Men’s
Stores Everywhere
PARIS
CARTERS
NO METAL CAN TOUCH YOU
Easy on your legs and
easy on vour pocketbook
PRESIDENT SUSPENDER CO. LTD.
50 York Street, Sydney 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne


asdf
J!P"coxTrNTs" * ouxers.
COUGH
Colloids.
G^fjUP.
HOOPING COUCH.
HOARSENESS.
BRONCHITIS.
SORE THROAT.
INFLUENZA
AND OTHtO AfFICTIONS OF THE
THROAT nndLUNGS
aggoga
Drives
The SecretofEasy Shaving
£
Do you want quick,
easy, pleasant shavjs?
Do you want to keep
your face in the pink
of condition, free from
pimples, . ingrowing
hairs or cuts? Then
set your razor on a
PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
Try the Perforated Hone.
If it doesn’t make your razor shave to
satisfaction, return it to us within 30
days and you get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants at
■5/-, or post tree 5/6, from
THE PERFORATED HONE C 0
Dept. 11—4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
[l
A ROYAL
SMOKE
[actual SIZI
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Q.N.
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dihectors— James Milne, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London. Melbourne, Sydney, and 85 Branches in Queensland, also
representation through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and
the World, this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general
banking business.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
CeJ* v *ed FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
£?SSS»jS
• ISISTERia
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Lonprliurst
60 York Street, Sydney.
df
'House fiofd
Mints
BY THE LADY WITH THE DUSTER
. 2—How to Kill Insects in Furniture
HE tiny insects which bore tiny holes in
your furniture and lay their e£&s therein
can be deterred from their- activities by°
the constant use of “Poliflor” on the unpol-
ished as well as on the polished surfaces and
on all Joints and Cracks. A little paraffin or turpen-
tine should be applied now and a&ain, particularly o
round the joints.
“Poliflor” is made in Australia by the Nugget Polish
Company, and is as £ood for Furniture, Floors, Lino-
leum, etc., as “Nu&&et" is for footwear. Buy a tin
and try it!
The New Sanitary WAX for
FLOORS,LINOLEUMano FURNITURE
Made by the
NUGGET POLISH CO. OF AUST. PTY. LTD.
Sold everywhere at 1/- per tin
For Power Transmission
Saving the Lost Power in Transmission
If you paid for the power actually delivered
to your machines, instead of the power
generated, you would be amazed at the reduc-
tion in your power bill and other upkeep
costs.
This energy lost between the motor and the
driven machine is largely absorbed by plain
linesliaft bearings. Every bearing of the
ordinary sleeve type develops a certain
amount of friction and often causes trouble
even when properly lubricated and running
under the most favorable conditions.
When lubrication is faulty, however, due to
the entrance of dust or dirt, or when binding
strains are set up through shaft deflexion,
the losses from these factors increase out of
all proportion to the power delivered.
With SKF Ball-bearing Hangers and Plummer Blocks
the shaft rides almost frictionless, not only when
well aligned, but under conditions of mis-alignment.
The inner race tilts with the shaft like a, ball-and-
socket joint, and the bearing cannot bind, heat,
stick or run hot.
SKF Hangers and Plummer Blocks reduce this power
loss approximately 60 per cent., thereby releasing
15 to 35 per cent, of the generated power for pro-
ductive work. In nearly seven thousand plants the
world over this fact has been com lusively demon-
strated and proved.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing' Centres also at: —
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., 15?
Waymouth Street.
BERTH: Unbeliaiin & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
377-391 Murray Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
sd
“Granny” Bennett, of Leichhardt (Syd-
ney), has had another birthday, her loom,
and in spite of a fall a year and a half ago,
which cost her the sight of one eye, she
keeps a keen interest in life. She has spent
all but 11 years of her life in N.S.W. (she
was born in Scotland) and practised as a
Mrs. Gamp, as far back as the early ’fifties.
The first collection of wild animals in
Australia was thrown open to the public
in the ’fifties by one Billings, proprietor of
the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel, Botany; admis
sion, one shilling. Billings later removed
the collection to Watson’s Bay, where he
also kept a pub. On his death his wife
poisoned the animals because the Govern-
ment wouldn’t take them over.
“A.P.”: The recent passing out of Mrs.
W. H. Williams, of Melbourne, revives
memories of her late husband, who was one
of the earliest Inky Wayfarers in the city.
He. also possessed a good tenor voice, and old
Philharmonic programmes show him in lead-
ing roles of “The Messiah” and other ora-
torios in 1861 and thereabouts. The deceased
lady came to Melbourne in the ’fifties, her
father being Dr. Floranee, a Government
official.
“Percy Pawnticket”: In Litligow
(N.S.W.) the owner of two exactly similar
houses charges a shilling extra for the ten-
ement which is so built that it gets an hour's
more sun daily than the other. But the
queerest rent-extra I ever came across was
levied upon the third house in a terrace of
seven in Darlinghurst. From a back window
a peep through a break in the surrounding
brick and mortar gave a view of the G.P.O.
clock; the benefit of having the correct time
for nothing was assessed at sixpence per
week to the tenant.
“Jesmond”: Talking of naval pioneers.
At Itliyll, Phillip Island (Vic.), there is a
cairn over what is reputedly the oldest well
in the State, it having been sunk to replenish
the casks of the Lady Nelson when she en-
tered Western Port under Lieut. James
Grant in March, 1801. The inscription re-
cords further visits by British and French
expeditions up till 1826, including that of
Lieut. James Murray (Dec., 1801) ; also
the establishment of a temporary British
settlement in Dec., 1826. Incidentally, the
islanders believe that this settlement was
the first established in Victoria. Is that so?
“Uramao” (M.L.) : A recent par. mention-
ing the association of Maorilander Dr. Ormond
with the first Apostolic Delegate, as secre-
tary, recalls that, when Cerretti visited the
thermal regions under Ormond’s pilotage, the
Maoris of the R.C. persuasion and others pre-
pared a great reception. One dusky old
warrior, who looked as if he had devoured
many of the enemy in his day, delivered a
great oration, in which lie referred to Cerretti
as “the eye of the Pope.” His address, rich
in Maori grandiloquence, ended with: “Stay
with us, oh father; stay with us; and if
there are any holes in the fences of our souls,
you shall mend them !”
The Mitchell Library in Sydney has
bought in England the Journal of William
Bradley, First Lieutenant of 11.M.5. Sirius.
Bradley was a keen professional sailor, who
did valuable work in the beginning of things,
and Bradley’s Head still bears his name. But
of course the journal won’t be printed. The
Mitchell hasn’t the funds and the Govern-
ment Printer is too busy recording the wit
and wisdom of Parliament. Still, there is
no reason why the trustees of the Mitchell
should not have a few copies of the Brad-
ley—also the Macquarie and Bowes —papers
typed, so that they might be available for
country students.
“Kakanui” : Anthony Turnwald, of Oliaupo
(M.L.), who died recently, had put in 60
of his 87 years in the Shivery Isles, and in
the old days was a warrior of note, having
been one of Von Tempsky’s Forest Rangers,
the men who beat Hori at his own bush fight-
ing. He was one of the first pakehas in the
King Country, and when To Kooti made a
break north to join the Waikato Maoris
Turnwald was able, through his friendliness
with the natives generally, to give informa-
tion to the Armed Constabulary outpost at
Kihikihi which resulted in blocking Te
Kooti’s path. This probably altered the
course of M.L. history: the Waikatos were
disaffected at the time, and had Te Kooti
got through a general rising could hardly
have been prevented.
“Poppin”: Windsor (N.S.W.) has the
distinction of being the first place in
Australia where an attempt was made
to ascertain the market price of a
“missus.” It is recorded that in 1811
a man took his wife, with her own con-
sent, into the highway, with a halter round
her neck, and put her up to auction ; the
highest bid, £l6, was accepted. But when
the story of the auction got about, public
opinion was outraged and the Law took a
hand. The disbeliever in the sanctity of
the marriage tie was brought to trial and
sentenced to 60 lashes and hard labor in
irons for three months. Forty years or
more later, however, in the early days of the
gold diggings, there are traditions of similar
occurrences.
“The Deacon”: Twenty-five years ago
when there was a boom in gems and “Sonny”
Kitchener was king of Sapphire Town
(C.Q.), with its wild and very mixed popu-
lation, there came to the place a Redemptorist
priest to carry on an R.C. mission. The
father achieved some success, but with one
wild sheep of his flock he had no results
whatever —Paddy the Possum stubbornly
refused to give up the delights of Kitchener’s
home-brew for the intangible benefits offered
by the good father. So Mahomet came to
the mountain. Paddy, sitting with the other
goats of Queensland in the deep dust of the
wayside, saw the approach of the enemy,
but grabbed his bottle the tighter. Pleading
and threats alike proving futile, the Redemp-
torist grabbed the beer-container and
smashed it. Then Paddy arose in his wrath
and announced his intention of proceeding
by summons for wanton destruction of pro-
perty. Quietly rounding up in turn every
good Orangeman in the locality, he separated
each one from the price of a summons.
Later on, in the course of a hilarious drunk,
he disclosed his perfidy. “Summons me good
priest, is it?” said he. “Bring the curse of
me old mother on me? Not Pathrick!” and,
veiling out at the top of his voice, “To Hell
wid King Billy and the Battle of the Boyne
and the Walls of Derry!” he lockstitched
down to the mission.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates. First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
SAN FRANCISCO,
NEW YORK,
LONDON
SONOMA—SIERRA—VENTURA.
10,000 Tons 17 Knots Twin Screw.
QUICKEST
SAILINGS
EVERY
THREE WEEKS.
LINE.
ANY
Oceanic Steamship Company,
City 2282 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO .
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR sails EVERY TUESDAY, 10
p.m. ; passengers due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m. ;
passengers due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/3/10
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. ~ .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,570.265
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1923.. £14,148,754 !
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N- Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; Duncan Carson ;
H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
Cliie/ Inspector jor N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (2G4 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. ~ ..£529,988
Preference Shares . . .. . . 1,500,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 3,000,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2.246,957
BRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS %
transacts all other usual Banking business.
♦>
The SUPER
CIGARETTE
Made from Pure
GOLDEN VIRGINIA
The Coolness and Sweetness
in Smokinq are enhanced
by the OVAL Shape & CORK TIP
20 for 2/-
Shipping-, Sits.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line.
The “All Red Route” to United Kingdom
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji), Honolulu and Vancouver.
SPECIAL WINTER EXCURSION TO HONOLULU by
MAKURA, 31st JULY.
Passengers booked to Canadian and U.S.A. Inland Points and to United Kingdom.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA (13,000 tons disp.) JULY 31
NIAGARA (18,600 tons disp.) AUG. 28
Union Royal Mail Line.
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America: also
the Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (11,350 tons disp.) JULY 17
TAHITI (13,000 tons disp.) AUG. 14
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE—ADELAIDE.
ISLAND TOU RS
sg
5
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
Trips of to 5 Weeks.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
HUKXS. FIJI Ll* & CO., JjTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
Book your Passage Overseas under Our Auspices
°i u ; TOURiST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT offer you the choice
ot the following routes to England:—
Via SUEZ CANAL.
„ AMERICA (CANADA AND UNITED STATES)
» THE EAST (JAVA, CHINA AND JAPAN).
„ SOUTH AFRICA (THE CAPE).
Also Attractive Tours to—
JAVA (the Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by the
magnificent steamers “MARELLA” or “MONTORO ” Sailing
from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane montblv.
8 weeks’ trip from Melbourne for £96, First-
class Return.
7 weeks’ trip from Sydney and Brisbane, £9O,
First-class Return.
Other Special Round Eastern Tours.
Call or write for particulars:—
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne or Adelaide.
\V
*•?*!
The BLUE FUNNEL LINE
SALOON PASSENGERS ONLY.
To ENGLAND, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
NESTOR .. 14,500 I ANCHISES .. 10,000
ULYSSES . . 14,500 | ASCANIUS .. 10,000
7ENEAS .. 10,000 |
Fares, from £92 to England, and from
£62 to South Africa.
' AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
P. & O. via THE GAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANALD
BARRABOOL
BALLARAT .
BARADINE .
BENDIGO
Tons.
11,100
11.100
11,100
11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAII STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
RUNIC . 12,500 tons
SL h\ IC 12.500 tons
.MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
Southampton, Hull and London,
via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine.
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISXOCI.ES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
I)ALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1813,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
w,
£6.000,000
4,050,000
6,000,000
£16.050,000
Directors:
Tliomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falki ner,
lhe Hon. Reginald J
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Esq.
. Black, M.J
Auditors: W. H. Palmer. Esq.; S. E. Lnidley, Esq.
Head
_ General Manaoer: OSC'AR PINT'S
ad OlSice —George Mre:t. Sydney. London OfHee—29 Threauiieedle Street pe
400 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, p a nua and I onrJon
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. p d Lon don.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign nm
negotiated and collerted. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the World. ° 9
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACE A V BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outpcrts).
♦Brisbane, Mackav, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parkei Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailing:)
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—-From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every fortnight. Between Melbourne
ana, Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
THE FAVORITE PASSENGER AND MAIL
SERVICE TO JAPAN.
CALLING AT BRISBANE.
THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,
MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MONTHLY SAILINGS THEREAFTER.
Ample Passenger accommodation in all Classes.
Return Tickets available by E. and A. Line.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
porta duly vised.
For all particulars applv,
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS 1 OR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Hlackheath Collieries, Ltd.. and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Brisbane, Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown
Australian Mutual
tTmSXim Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1923 £2.103.220
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,500,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £53,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,865,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.


fiie
\ycwl Wald aSie'
Sydney’s Most Popular Style
Murdoch’s “Nail Curl
TYLE —and Economy.
Both factors strikingly apparent in this latest
Murdoch Australian-made Hat. In attractiveness
and service qualities it attains the very pinnacle
of perfection at the price.
Direct to you from the Mills. 21/- VALUE FOR 16/6
DESCRIPTION.
MURDOCH’S NEW “NAIL CURL” SOFT FELT.—The shape that
has come to stay. Made from Pure Fur Felt of excellent quality. The brim
is flat, and the silk-bound edge brim is slightly curled up at the edge
m
only. Your choice from the most popular tones of Slate,
Steel, Grey, Drab and Myrtle Green. Neat band with loose
side bows. Sizes 6| to
16/6
This smart “Nail Curl” design may also be ,
obtained in superior quality at
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When ordering kindly state size and color desired,
and address your letter to DESK R.
In Park St., Ltd., Sydney
‘The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.’
m
m
A
\Z
W
4
f
&
A
m
m
CIGARETTES
ff&anufaclured by dfttoustafa, Ltd., 165, Picca.'il'y, London, W.l, England
The
Cheerio Smoke
is the
Jvincz CkaAmmq
Cigarette It is
made from 16 different
growths of finest Virginia
leaf ; is absolutely free
from dust and grit, and
is clean right through.
also in 50* in vacuum titis & in 100 5
in boxes. On sale everywhere.
TENNIS
EVERYTHING FOR THE GAME.
m,
m
&
7/
Jjot im*r
M
We carry a large and comprehensive range of all Sports
Requisites and can equip you for any indoor or outdoor Sport.
TENNIS RACKETS.
M.S.
Special School Match .
Special or Premier ...
Conqueror
8/6
21/-
25/-
C. 8.8.
Practice 10/6
l3/6
Special Practice, concave throat.. 18/6
Quadruple Centre, cork handle.. 25/-
Douhic Strung 27/6
HAYMARKET.
Ordinary
Extra Special .’
OXFORD CO.’S.
A 1
Itritannic, concave throat ...
Oceanic, concave throat
Titanic, concave throat
Cyclonic, concave throat
BUSSEY’S.
Samlown or Standard
Conqueror t "
Handicap
A 1
Invincible ""
30/-
70/-
40/-
45/-
55/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
30/-
32/6
85/-
50/-
SPABDINO’S.
(ireenwood
’\'antage
Tournament
Continental
6old Medal .. 67/6; Model E*.’.
Hackett Alexander
24/-
45/-
49/6
55/-
85/-
85/-
BAILY’S.
Black and White
70/-
DAVIS’.
Riseley Hexagon 90/-
AYRES’
San down
Handicap
A 1
Champion
Matador
Central Strung
S.N.I). Model A
S.N.D. Model B
PROSSER’S.
Improved Phenomenon 90/-
BANCROFT’S.
Tlie Winner 85/-
THOS. E. WILSON’S.
Super Stroke 85/-
SLAZENGER’S.
La Belle
Player
Kenslmw
Demon
Whitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Lambert Chambers
I.
Patterson
J. O. Anderson
H. C. LEE’S.
Spartan 70/-
25/-
27/6
45/-
50/-
58/6
67/6
75/-
68/-
79/6
79/6
87/6
90/-
92/6
95/-
28/6
86/-
38/-
47/6
52/6
57/-
82/6
85/-
The LEE MONOGRAM
Famous Slotted Throat Tennis Racket.
THE WORLD’S BEST. Price 85/- each.
WE SPECIALISE IN RACKET REPAIRS.
TENNIS BALLS.
Barnet Glass Hard Court
Barnet Glass Fllte, tile new
seamless ball, equal to
any imported
Ayres’ Court
Ayres’ Champion
Each. Doz.
Slazenger’s Champion (packed
three in airtight tin)..... 28/6
Dunlop’s Regulation (un-
covered) 1/4 .15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/5 28/6
Dunlop’s Play Ball 1/- 10/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS LIST, FREE ON REQUEST.
GOLF
£
CLUBS
BY WORLD’S LEADING MAKERS.
W. Winton’s
1). Anderson’s
Cann and Taylor’s
T. Stewart’s
A, G. Spalding’s . .
A. Pdtrick^
W. Gibson’s “Star Maxwell” Model
W. Gibson’s “Logan Genii” Model
W. Gibson’s
Auchterlonie’s Special
GOLF CLUB REPAIR WORK A SPECIALTY.
When sending Articles for Repair, kindly
attach your name and address to same.
flficft Simmons
The World’s Greatest Sports Store,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


02
ST)
r
H.
□[
uc
St.
€
c~
Are You Satisfied with
Your Looks?
Why Not Become a Rexona Girl ?
Rexona and Rexona Soap are the Rexona Girl’s aids to beauty. With their assist-
ance she rids her skin of blemishes and pimples, keeps her hair and scalp in such
perfect condition that she is the envy of all her friends. But the Rexona Girl is not
selfish—she does not keep the secret to herself, but wishes all fhe world to rejoice
with her. Over 5000 girls have written to the Company the glad news that they are
Rexona Girls, and find the Rexona Products the most wonderful
aids to health and beauty.
Miss I.
Vando. a
beautiful
Rexona
Girl.
“I have always
used REXONA
SOAP, and 1 con-
sider it most
excellent for the
skin and hair.”
Miss 1. VAN DO,
523 George St.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
They say that Rexona
Soap keeps their skin
and hair healthy and
beautiful, and should be,
used by every Kiri who
values lier good looks.
They say they are always
finding new uses for
It ex on a, t lie It ap i d
Healer, and many of
their letters contain a
photograph which shows
by its beauty that these
users are getting the
best results in health and
happiness. Are you satis-
fied with your looks?
Why not become a Rexona
Girl, too?
Rexona Soap
W
u
(Si
w.
ft**''
i o'-
ft
E\JJ
pa c '
'i'/Hi
1
A FULL POUND
or
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
75
&
EVERY WEEK for a YEAR to me
successful holder of a CERTIFICATE.
A NEW DEPARTURE.
HILLIER S CHOCOLAIES are now packed in 1 lb. RED
METAL BOXES at 4/- per lb.
A new departure must be advertised. This is our Novel
Advertisement.
Once during every month for the NEXT TWELVE MONTHS,
an order will be secretly placed in one of these New Metal
Boxes which will entitle the holder to a FULL POUND BOX of
HILLIER’S CHOCOLATES FREE EVERY WEEK for 12
MONTHS.
You have the same chance of winning this free offer if you order
by Mail or purchase direct from our two Stores.
The offer will continue for one whole Year from Ist July, 1924,
to Ist July, 1925.
In 1914 the House of Hillier set a standard for Chocolates, since
when both prices and quality have remained unaltered.
4/-
per lb.
In Red Metal (lib. to 51b.) Boxes
I
POSTAGE EXTRA, viz.:—
asdf
TWO STORES:
162-166 Pitt Street, and Cr. George and King Streets, Sydney.
Nowhere.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GAIN, if I might live my life again,
I would take other passages and
brood
In untamed lands with simple folk and rude,
Careless of fate, free from the luring pen !
Careless of policies, but loving men—
The craftsman ardor or the mating mood—
I’d chase the leaping deer along the wood,
Love the grey road as loves his bush the
wren.
Visions and heart-disturbances and fays
In fancy give what times withhold from
me!
For when I look into my soul I smile
rivers ’mid tall palms, blue, secret bays,
Small, sea-girt towns of careless industry
And little vessels plying isle to isle.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Magnolia Stellata.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
rPHE fine drizzle thickened suddenly into
loud white rain, and Deering glanced
about him for shelter. For nearly
two hours he had been tramping round and
round the wet paths of the deserted Gardens,
oblivious of everything but his own black pas-
sions. Now he felt hot and tired, and
turned thankfully to the relief of a seat under
some thick-leafed foreign tree that protected
it like a roof.
Too late he noticed there was another occu-
pant, a quiet, grey-haired man with both
nands clasped on his stick, and eyes resting
wearily on the rain-jewelled flowers before
them. The bench faced a bed of magnolias
in blossom, exotically beautiful in this early
spring that was almost winter. Deering
stirred uneasily, and cursed under his breath.
If he had been a woman, he thought, he
would have burst into hysterical tears just
then.
Magnolias, her flowers! The larger
shrubs, decorated tvitli rose- and cream-
colored goblets and mitres, were further back,
and before them were the lower growths of
Magnolia stellata, her favorites, with their
small, radiated blossoms." Why had fate led
him here? He almost believed in fate; cer-
tainly believed in nothing else.
The elderly man beside him sat in languid
immobility. Deering forgot his presence, and
his memories flowed back into their accus-
tomed channel with a little added bitterness
and pain from those waxen flowers that con-
fronted him like eyes. He had always
thought them rather uncanny, those starry,
twisted whorls, and wondered a little why
Magsie was so infatuated with them. Of
course they were.her name-flowers- —her ugly
little pet-name did not come from Margaret
_ —-and she loved to follow up suggestions like
'that. , Besides, whatever she admired was
right, was sacred. On her last birthday he
had bought her half a dozen plants. They
were coaxing them to grow in the shade-house
when he received that disquieting news from
the cocoanut plantation. Of course he had
to go by the first boat. Even now, looking-
back on all that had happened since, he saw
no reason why he should not have left her.
»She would not; come with him. She hated
the tropics, and loved Sydney, where she
had her home and heaps of friends. And it
was only for three months.
“They’ll be over before you know it,” she
comforted him ; “and when you come back the
magnolias will be out.”
But the three months had stretched to six,
and when came back the forsaken mag-
nolias in the shade-house were dead for want
of water, and Magsie had gone. “Cleared
off with . an artist-chap—-the good-looking
one, their old charwoman told him, almost
visibly smacking her lips over the scandal.
I hat was all he had known for a long time.
Overhead a blackbird burst into sudden,
low-trilled ecstasy, joyous as only a blackbird
m the rain can be. The grey-liaired man
fitted his head, and even Deering looked up.
Some portion of his brain took idle note of
the happy song, just as it might have done
were he on his way to the scaffold. That
was how all beauty reached him nowadays.
His right hand, almost always in his pocket,
caressed the glass-stoppered bottle that had
come to be the centre of his existence.
He listened, while the bird sank silverly
in a gush of pure happiness; and hatred
swept over linn and through him in a fierce,
corroding flood. There was nothing left for
him but hatred, hatred and justice. He
would not use the word “revenge,” it smacked
of melodrama. It was justice, simple jus-
tice, he was going to administer to that
thrice-damned “artist-clmp” when he had
hunted him down. His fingers curled evilly
round the ridged facets of the blue-glass
flask. No merciful revolver-shot for him,
no clean blow or knife-thrust. The bottle
held sulphuric acid.
Deering knew it branded him the lowest
kmd of blackguard, and he hugged the
thought. Even hardened criminals shrank
from the vitriol-thrower. But what else
save some of the incredible tortures of the
Middle Ages, was bad enough for Russell
Morrow, who had stolen Magsie and aban-
doned her? Magsie was dead —bevond his
anger or forgiveness. The detectives had
discovered that much for him. They had
traced the fleeing couple from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, to Maoriland, and back to Melbourne
where Magsie was buried; and where her
husband had followed her. crazy with hatred
with the vitriol ready for her betrayer. But in
Melbourne Morrow had vanished into thin air.
“Magnolia stellata!” It was the grey-
haired man who spoke, as a sighing wind
swept through the rain, scattering diamond
drops and pink-and-white petals. Here and
there a whole blossom fell untarnished on the
uarth, already carpeted with waxen, twisted
stars. “It has quite a different fragrance
from the others.”
Deering could not perceive it. but he
assented, adding perfunctorily: “They make
a great show.”
“Yes, and they are very sweet. I come
here every day,” the stranger said, “and
always to Magnolia stellata. It was mv
girl’s favorite.”
“That’s strange; it was my wife’s favorite
also.” said Deering. and marvelled at himself
that he should speak of her at all.
“She is dead, too?” asked the other. His
voice was pleasant and cultured, and just now
warm with sympathy.
“Yes,” said Deering curtly. He wanted no
sympathy. lie was cold to every emotion
but hate. That burned in him, burned like
vitriol. There was enough in the llask to
drench that devil’s eyes with flame and flood
bis face and neck. He did not know exactly
what would happen, but he always pictured a
faint smoke rising from the acid eaten flesh
as the brute screamed and writhed, begging
for death, at his feet. Ah, when lie had found
Morrow!
The lovely little hills and hollows of tin*
Gardens were veiled with shaken curtains of
rain. Gums and wattles wore coppery-pink
new foliage on their branch tips. Trees
from the four corners of the world, in
spires and plumes, and drooping rounded
masses, in a hundred shades of spring-
time bud and catkin, shimmered through a
mist of crystal beads. There was no sign
of any human being, and the air was full
of water-sounds. Near at hand they
dripped and pattered and gurgled; farther
off they merged in one long-drawn liusli-sh-
all ! that was almost like soft laughter.
Deering fingered the poison-bottle, and
lashed himself with thorns, thoughts of
Magsie in another man’s arms; Magsie with
her white, white skin that made the little
auburn rings that curled about her neck
look red as blood in contrast.
“Was your daughter dark or fair?”
Abruptly he broke the silence, and again it
seemed to him as if his tongue spoke of its
own volition.
“Fair, very fair. But she was not my
daughter. She was” —there was an almost
imperceptible hesitation—“my wife. You
think me an old man? I’m only 38. But
I’m not long out of hospital. I had rather
a dreadful illness after Magsie died.”
And Deering knew. He knew now why
Fate had led him to the bench that faced
Magnolia stellata. All the colors of the Gar-
dens turned to flaming scarlet and swept him
round in whirling wheels that checked his
very breathing. He believed it was only the
faithful touch of the rigid bottle clenched in
his right hand that saved him from dying in
that moment.
“Dear God,” he prayed, “keep me calm—
calm—calm! Don’t let me bungle now
my time has come!” And as other men in
other crises, he saw no irony in such a prayer,
and drew strength from it.
< The grey-haired man appeared not to notice
his involuntary, ugly smile of triumph : and
indeed lie had himself quickly in hand, lie felt
completely cool and master of the situation.
“You paint, don’t you?” he asked.
The other’s face contracted slightly. “I
used to,” he said quietly.
Deering took out his cigarette-case. “Arc
you by any chance Russell Morrow?”
“Yes,” without surprise at the recognition.
Of course, he had a certain reputation, and
would be known by sight to many.
“And so—your —wife died,” Deering said
deliberately, and his voice held just the right-
degree of respectful interest. “Was she ill
long?” He really wished for details. It
was here the detectives had failed, and he
had only guessed at the usual end of such a
story—desertion, degradation, possibly suicide.
“No, not long.” Morrow’s voice—damn
him and curse him ! —was shaken with what
seemed genuine grief. “You see, she had a
baby, and it killed her.”
Deering was stabbed with a pang of jeal-
ousy that almost made him cry aloud in phy-
sical anguish.
Again in just the right voice he murmured
a sympathetic “Ah!” and, after a decent
pause, added: “Have a cigarette?”
The silver case had been given him by his
wife on the first anniversary of their wedding
day, and it had his name in full, “Hugh Deer-
ing,” on the cover. He held it before Mor-
row’s eyes for a moment or two, then flicked
the catch open, and showed the inside of the
lid, where there was graven above a date:
“From Magsie.”
Morrow said not a word. He stared as
if fascinated at the case, while his hand
hovered a little uncertainly around it.
“Ah, Ceritos!” Morrow remarked as he
drew his first breath. “ Her favorites, like
the Stellatas. llow strange !”
Deering’s heart leapt, aghast at this mon-
strous insolence; then it steadied. This was
the moment. Very coolly he stood up and
took the bottle from his pocket. Daily,
almost hourly attention had seen to it that
while the glass stopper did its duty it should
not set hard and fail him in his need. He
raised his hand.
And then Fate interrupted. It had seemed
that they had the Gardens to themselves, but
at that moment round the corner came voices
and steps, a macintoslied nurse taking her
three. macintoslied young charges for their
morning w r alk. Deering. callous and reckless
as lie was, had no mind that his hideous
“justice” should be witnessed by little child-
ren. He dropped his hand again.
Morrow was also on his feet. “It’s time
I was getting back,” he said unconcernedly.
Whether he was really unafraid or whether
this was consummate acting Deering could
not guess. But he could afford to wait, even
to gloat a little. The children were still
within sight and hearing.
“We are requested not to pick the public’s
flowers, but I suppose there's no harm in
taking a fallen one,” said Morrow. “There
are generally plenty on the ground.” He
stooped, and, with the same uncertain hover-
ing motion as when he had taken the cigar-
ette, he chose a starry blossom from the wet
soil and put it in his breast-pocket. Hardly
knowing why, Deering also picked up a fallen
flower and carefully put it away. He had a
dim idea that the two men who had loved
Magsie were saluting and measuring swords
like duellists. But let not his enemy think
he could escape by any ruse or boldness!
He thrust his left arm through Morrow’s
right and held him firmly. In his other hand
the vitriol was ready.
“I’m going the same way as you.” he said
grimly.
Morrow made no resistance to the grasp
that impelled him along a sheltered path-
way leading to the corner gate. He took ft
almost as if he had expected it. Deering led
him on in silence, and had a child seen him
then it would have run shrieking from the
mnrder in his face.
“Since you’re going the same way,” said
Morrow, pleasantly courteous, “perhaps you
wouldn’t mind putting me on a red tram.
I can manage pretty well by myself, as a
(Continued on next page.)


Drive Away Those WINTER
ACHES and PAINS
Rub ZAM-BUK In!
ZAM-BUK has for a whole generation been recognised as Australia’s most successful
cure for skin troubles. How many of its regular users know that this great herbal
healer is far better than any poisonous liniment for relieving the sharp twinges
of rheumatism, sciatica and lumbago ?
Zam-Buk will be found equally good for aching backs, stiff joints, sore muscles, cold
in the head and chest, neuralgia and sore throat.
Rubbed well into the affected parts, Zam-Buk’s powerful soothing essences soak right
down to the seat of the trouble, moving pain, soreness, congestion and inflammation in
a wonderful way. At the same time Zam-Buk strengthens the skin and tissues—
enabling them to resist cold and damp better during the Winter months.
For a cold in the head, try rubbing a little Zam-Buk between the palms of
both hands and inhaling the pleasant medicinal balsams as they evaporate. This
loosens stuffiness in the nose, clears the head and relieves soreness, tightness and
wheeziness about the chest. Try Zam-Buk for yourself to-day!
RHEUMATIC PAINS BANISHED —Mrs. L. Lyons. Hope Street, Brisbane, writes “For driving out the
pains of rheumatism I have found Zam-Buk remarkably beneficial. I melted the balm into liquid state,
then rubbed it well into my arms and shoulders where the deep-seated pains were. Zam-Buk seemed to
penetrate through the skin into the joints, and it was not long* before 1 experienced pronounced ease.
Through keeping on with Zam-Buk I was quite rid of my old standing complaint.
found Zam-Buk equally beneficial when I was troubled with sore throat. The initation and soreness
soon disappeared when my neck was massaged with the balm.
1/6 and 3/6
per bos
everywhere.
am
Zamrßak
Seats
Joints
amlMmdes
“My daughter also used Zam-Buk to cure an attack
of neuralgia.”
RACKED \yiTH SCIATIC PAINS.
“For five years,” says Mrs. N. Archer, of 222 Bourke Street,
Darlinghurst, N.S.W., “I was a victim of sciatica in the hips. The
pain was excruciating and my sufferings dreadful. Medical treat-
ment brought no improvement and 1 almost despaired of ever
being cured. ,
“On a friend’s advice I had a hot salt hath and afterwains
used Zam-Buk —thoroughly massaging the joints and all parts
where the pain was. Continued Zam-Buk treatment brought daily
improvement until I was completely cured.”
Besides its great value in
removing rheumatism and other
deep-seated pains, Zam-Buk may
be applied with every assurance
of benefit in cases of eczema,
ringworm, abscesses, festered,
inflamed and poisoned wounds,
sore, chapped hands, chilblains,
piles, cuts, burns, scalds, etc.
A Iso Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap at Ij- per tablet; 2/10 per
box of three. Same price from
C. E. Fulford (Aust.), Ltd.,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
BETTER THAN ANY POISONOUS LINIMENT
rule, but twice I’ve got on the wrong tram.”
Then, as Deering stood still, stricken with
dawning comprehension for the first time,
Morrow turned and faced his captor.
“Hadn’t you noticed that lam blind?”
Something snapped in Deering’s brain,
something that hurt terribly and then left
a dreary, empty peace. Blind ! Poor beggar
—oh, poor beggar !
“No,” he said quietly, “I hadn’t noticed.”
Gently he took his arm again. “I’ll see you
safely on your tram.”
ELSIE COLE.
Euthanasia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BARNES listened to his death-sentence
with numbed mind. Until the very
last words had been uttered he had
refused to face the fact that there was no
hope. The whole proceedings had seemed un-
real. The crowded court was a blurred pic-
ture which he had regarded once or twice
without getting any impression but that of
a drably-painted scene with stippled faces
staring out from an undefined background.
The only definite figure had been that of the
Judge. The Judge, sitting there with his
black cap on his head, and the mental strain
showing in his guarded, careful enunciation
which aimed to disguise the emotion he felt,
epitomised a monstrous yet absurd mum-
mery. He seemed like a child reading a
lesson from a book.
“You are to this extent fortunate,” the
Judge had said : “the Legislature has now de-
cided that when justice demands, in the public
interest and as a warning to others, that
the extreme penalty shall be exacted from
those who, like yourself, have stained their
hands with the blood of others, the sentence
shall be carried out in the most merciful man-
ner that humanity has been able to devise. A
month ago the sentence would have been
that you should be hanged by the neck until
you were dead ; the penalty now is that you
shall die in your cell, painlessly, whilst you
sleep. Justice requires the forfeiture of
your life, but it shows you mercy in its
method. Some day you will go to sleep _in
your cell, and you will never wake again.
And may the Lord have mercy on your soul!”
In the midst of this discourse a voice,
heated by anger, had cried: “Hanging is too
good for him !” As he stumbled away with
his escort he had felt a sense of triumph
against this stranger whose wish that he
should be hanged was not to be gratified.
Unwilling still to face the inevitableness
of death, holding to frantic hopes that some-
thing must happen to save him. he nursed
yet another strange triumph. If he was to
die his death would be no more than a eutha-
nasia, a quiet passing-away whilst he slept,
instead of the violent and hideous process
of death by hanging, a ceremony that made
him shudder every time he thought of it.
He had earned this boon for himself.. Dur-
ing the months in which the fear of the dis-
covery of his crime had hung over him, it
was his letters and articles in the press,
under a score of names and from a score of
addresses, which had given birth to the agi-
tation for gas instead of the gallows in capi-
tal cases. Societies had passed resolutions
and legislators had acted on them; and no-
body had guessed that the main agent m
the agitation had had a personal motive. He
laughed inwardly in the mirthless manner
of a man who, although doomed, feels that
he has in some sense cheated a vengeful
society.
The prison officials showed him considera-
tion ; and, refusing still to recognise that
death was beside him, waiting to claim him,
Barnes let the hours slip by, showing no
apprehension, and feeling little or no discom-
fort. His sentence had yet to be confirmed
by the Executive, and meanwhile he shut
from his mind the thought of dying. He
read, he talked —only irritable when the
clergyman endeavored to force upon him a
contemplation of his imminent end —and
enjoyed his meals. Only sometimes, when
it was dark, the image of death hammered
suddenly into his brain, bringing an appal-
ling panic. Then he would try to drown
his ghastly vision in others. He pictured
the gaol on fire, the frantic release of pri-
soners, with himself slipping away in the
confusion, stealing swiftly along side streets
and creeping on board some vessel which
would take him safely away. A recollection
of the Japanese earthquake gave him relief.
He longed for a calamity of the sort, and
pictured it bringing him freedom, and at
the same time misery and destruction to the
society whose laws had condemned him. So
did he place screens between his mental
eyes and the grave.
Many days passed like this; and then fear
rushed upon him suddenly. It came to
him in a flash that by this time the Execu-
tive must have considered his case. He
asked questions, and the replies seemed eva-
sive. He fancied he could see an alteration
in the manner of the officials. They appeared
to him pitying, almost apologetic.
A dreadful thought smote him: according
to the new order the painless death would
come to the condemned man when he was
not suspecting it. Of course, they would not
tell him that his sentence had been con-
firmed.
Terror swamped his heart. He had to face
realities now. The seconds were numbered
between the present—the bright, living pre-
sent —and the black end. In a paroxysm of
sweating dread he threw himself on the floor
and raged in his despair.
When his cell-door opened to release him
for exercise he sprang up with a feeling of
reprieve. Out in the open at least they
could not force death upon him: he was safe
for his hour. The blue sky assumed a new
meaning, tie had never noticed its loveli-
ness as now when he was looking at it may-
be for the last time. The last time!
When the warder ordered him back to his
cell a mad panic came to him. He resisted,
but in a moment was trussed and helpless.
“What’s the matter with you, man?” de-
manded the warder.
“I know! Dammit, I know! You mean
to do me to death—you murderers! I want
some more of the sunshine first!”
“There’s nothing going to happen to you
to-day,” said the warder, his voice softened
by a contemptuous pity.
“To-morrow?” demanded the murderer
eagerly.
“No —nor to-morrow.” The locks clanked
and immediately Karnes knew that the other
had lied. He - had employed a Jesuitical
subterfuge. Death could easily be inter-
terpreted as “nothing” by one who favored
straw-splittings.
His terror became desperate. He paced
the floor madly, threw himself against the
door, and cried wildly to be allowed out. For
a moment —only a moment! He made a
frantic effort to calm himself. He sat down
and opened a book. But he could not read
a word. His heart thundered painfully; his
mind was concerned with death —not with the
pages before him.
It might come upon him at any moment
now. Trying to wrest resignation out of his
panic he told himself that it would come
swiftly and painlessly. He might be sitting
reading there, and, whilst he read, a drowsi-
ness as of sleep would settle on him ; and soon
he would be dead. A clammy sweat covered
him. Death ! He could not face it!
All day he walked and sat, alternately
taking up a book and throwing it down,
throbbing with apprehension of the horror
that was so near. He began to curse him-
self —curse himself for what he had once
thought his cleverness. To hang, and to
know when one was to hang, was not so bad,
after all. It was possible to brace oneself
for that sort of ordeal. If they would only
pour the gas in upon him at once and get it
over No (with a quick, panicky correc-
tion of his thought), to-morrow! If he only
knew that he could live till to : morrow! But
this idea that Death might steal upon him at
any moment, or delay for days, was a long-
drawn-out frenzy of apprehension.
“I don’t know what they’re doing with
you,” said the warder, when he brought his
food. “I can’t tell you. There’s no de-
cision yet.”
Lying! Barnes knew he was lying.
Night came, and found the prisoner ex-
hausted, yet painfully awake, and with his
terror growing. He was obsessed by a feel-
ing that eyes were upon him secretly, watch-
ing for a chance to drench him with poison.
They had said it would not hurt. Might they
not be lying there, too? Might he not awake
suffocating, with the gas full on, to battle
in anguish for life?
He explored liis cell walls and floor inch by
inch, looking for crevices through which the
stuff might be sent to him, but found nothing.
They were hiding their secret well.
If only his heart would cease that frantic
throbbing that made every beat an agony—
that made, too, every beat seem to tick off
one of the few remaining seconds of life!
Sitting on his stool, refusing to lie on his
bunk for fear of sleep, he found drowsiness
stealing upon him, and sprang up in terror.
A moment before he had been painfully wide
awake. This, surely, was the gas of death.
A quick stride took him to the cell door, but
there was nothing unusual there. The eerie
stillness prevailed. With heart thumping
he tramped round and round ; found himself
drowsing as he walked, and shook himself
awake again.
“When I go to sleep they’ll kill me. When
I go to sleep they’ll kill me,” his mind kept
repeating.
He awoke lying face downwards on his
stretcher. Sheer exhaustion must have
dropped him there.
There was a strange oppression in the
atmosphere. Panting, he staggered to his
feet. His terrified hammering at the door
brought a warder.
“Cut the gas off! Let me live another
hour ! Only another hour ! Cut it oft ! he
screamed.
“What’s wrong?”
“The gas—the death-gas!
“There’s no death-gas.”
“I can feel it—l’m stifling. Its filling
the air!” he shrieked.
“It’s an oppressive night—that s all.
The warder left him beating at his door,
and shouting for mercy.
Sounds outside checked him. The door
clanked open and two warders and the prison
doctor came in.
“Take this,” said the doctor, soothingly.
“You’re all right.. You can take my word
that nothing will be done to you to-night.
You’ll see to-morrow all right. But you want
to sleep.” .
The assurance, and the tone m which 1.
was given, calmed him; hut he was hardly
alone before his terror returned.
Lying, lying, lying, all of them! Yes;
“You want to sleep”—a lie!
He wouldn’t sleep! He would not! lie
forgot his own crime as he called them
“murderers.” They were cold-bloodedly con-
spiring to kill him; but, if he tramped the
floor all night, he would cheat them, and
again go out and see the blue sky from the
exercise yard. He tried to kill his terror with
a desperate plan of perpetual wakefulness,
taking his sleep only in the exercise yard.
Sheer weariness made him sit on Ins stool;
and in spite of himself he nodded. The im-
pact of his body with the floor brought back
consciousness. .
Ah! It had come, really, this time. He
rose, and as he opened his mouth to shout
his terror, a flood of something that was
thicker than air—almost liquid in its quality
—flooded into his throat. He groaned speech-
lessly, struggling again to lift the monstrous
weight of his body, and with an agonising
effort gained his feet, and stood, swaying and
staggering, but erect. He moved towards the
cell door, closing his mouth and nostrils to
shut out the gas. The waves of it were
striking against his face. Then the anguish
of repressed breathing became too intense; he
opened his mouth and with a smothered
scream crashed to the floor.
* * * *
“Plaving in view,” said the official minute
given to the press for publication that even-
ing, “the recent strong expression of opinion
both in Parliament and in the press, which
plainly indicates the public aversion to capi-
tal punishment, the Executive, after careful
consideration, extending over several meet-
ings, of the case of Samuel Adamston Barnes,
now under sentence of death for the murder
of his wife and children, has decided that the
death penalty shall not be carried out. The
death sentence has been commuted into one of
penal servitude for life.”
* * * *
“It was a queer case,” said the prison
doctor. “Heart failure 'was the direct cause,
but there were some symptoms of suffocation
also. The man was mortally afraid of dying:
in fact, in my opinion, he frightened himself
to death.”
HAMER.


mm
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
S
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
2?" 8 r d re ,"i B ~ H ? l ‘ MiES * CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Featlierston Street, Wellington.
\ ictormn Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST, N. S. WALES
tfccr
w
Mg!#
The ATCO MOTOR MOWER
THE MOST EFFICIENT MOWER ON EARTH.
We have been appointed sole Victorian and Tas-
manian Agents for the above renowned English
Mowers. Specially suitable for Golf, Tennis and
Bowling Clubs. We have full stocks of
Machines and Duplicates. Printed matter sup-
plied with pleasure on application.
D. & W. Chandler Limited, Hardware Merchants
*2O Johnston Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Better to use “Ultra-Capital”
High-Speed Tool Holder Steel
(in ready-hardened lengths).
ff»A»t
MAM
CAFITAi.
“° S J : ® trenuous use makes but little impression on the keen cutting-edge, which
lenShf nf and is READY TO GRIND. Ready hardened
in pvpi-v n ITAD Tool Steel are appreciated by careful engineers
°t industry, because of their long and satisfactory service. Send
just a max order that you may be able to judge for yourself the further advantage
of using the high quality guaranteed by the world-famous brand.
“ULTRA-CAPITAL.”
Why not put “Ultra-Capital” to the test?
\\\\
1
Ask for “Balfour’s
Hints on Steel,”
Post Free,
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.. Sheffield,
w Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
MFTBOiTRvr 379-381 Kent Street
NEWCAsttf 342-348 Swanston Street
BKISBANF E Paui & Gray. Ltd., Scott Street
AOTIATnF Keid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
HOHARX . Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
HOBART R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street
Also at FKEMAN TLE and KALGOORLIE.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite tin lon Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
j * r ?, m and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
t 0 The Manages.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed . think op
S'
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Guo.
If you hav«
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Something
New!
v£*~Z
ca. *sg!am&£"friY cn
Heavy Duck LoAft
MUMIC CXlOUht
Special
Loads!
Game Loads
In ‘'Nitro Club” Cartridges
CORRECT LOAD for whatever game you are
**■ g° in S to shoot —the proper amount of powder and
shot and the right shot size.
With these loads you may be certain of quick, hard
hitting cartridges for Duck, Goose, Grouse, Quail, Snipe,
Doves, Rabbit, etc. No guesswork—Remington guaran-
tees each load to be the best for the purpose.
If your dealer does not yet stock these loads, write us.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
LISTEN IN
rOR SOUND ADVICE
TAKE
BEECHAM’S PILLS
THEY RADIATE GOOD HEALTH
AND
ENSURE A PERFECT COMPLEXION
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prise Medals.
sdf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
Soft lead pencil.
Works» Olrmirtgham, Englandi
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
OMPSON 8
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
astlemaine, Victoria.
asdf
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIBBIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED,
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple expansion Q.K. Forced
Lubricating engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
ENG/NES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd
THE EAST:
McAlister St Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Jas. Haydon.
r
Francis
LONDON:
Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London


7V' : ; ... ■ \ ... ?>
Guaranteed same quality
all over the world
Born 182 o —-
r
Still going Strong l
Safety First
say
o
and you are not only
safe but satisfied
O
Bottled in Bond under
Government Supervision
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.;
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
Kilmarnock, Scotland
